143 ENTRIES Mutton Chops a la Monte Carlo.—Cut up twelve chops from a loin of mutton, flatten them lightly, and trim neatly. Season with salt and pepper, and dip them in oiled butter, and then into breadcrumbs. Broil the chops over a moderate fire, and dish them en couronne or in a circular form. Garnish the centre of the dish with a puree of French beans, cooked in salted water, drained and passed through a fine hair sieve; season to taste; add a small pat of batter and a spoonful of hechamel sauce, and warm up. Mutton, Roulades of.—Remove the fillet from a loin of mutton; trim away all skin and fat. Flatten the fillet with a cutlet bat, and cut it lengthways into slices as thin as possible. Divide these into neat pieces three inches long, sprinkle each with pepper, salt, and finely chopped parsley; roll them up tightly; dip into beaten egg, and then breadcrumbs mixed with an equal quantity of flour, and highly seasoned with pepper and salt. Place the roulade on a skewer (three or four on each skewer), and cook them in one ounce of butter in a frying-pan. Noisettes a la Rossini.—Roast a fowl, and mince it rather coarsely. Make a good sauce with the butter, good stock, a little flour, and the yolk of an egg. When this is nearly cold, mix the chicken in it, and season with salt and pepper. Cut some caul of a pig into rounds about four inches in diameter; in the middle of each of these rounds put a small quantity of the chicken preparation; fold the skin well over, making it quite round in shape. Beat two eggs up, salt and pepper them, roll the noisettes in, and then into fine breadcrumbs. Throw them into boiling fat for about five minutes, and serve very hot. Serve dished in pyramids and garnish with parsley. Ox-tail, Haricot of.—Divide the ox-tail at the joints, which are indicated by a semi-transparent spot on the sinews which connect the joints; parboil them in water for ten minutes, and trim away all asperities, so as to give the pieces a smooth, rounded appearance. Put them in a stewpan, with carrot, celery, faggot of parsley, an onion stuck with six cloves, a bit of mace, twelve peppercorns, a spoonful of salt, and two quarts of water. Boil very gently for two hours, and when the pieces have become