187 n^n SAVOURIES pan with the boiUng butter, and cook it over the fire till thick ; then stir in off the fire the juice of half a lemon, add to this half a pint of liquefied aspic jelly, and then stir in the minced oysters very lightly and a gill of cream ; turn out on a plate, and place on ice till cold and firm. When it is so, shape it into round balls of equal size, about the size of Tangerine oranges; smooth them over with a knife dipped into hot water, and place on ice; or mould them in ball moulds. Have ready some stiff aspic jelly flavoured with a few drops of chili vinegar and when it is in a semi-liquefied state and beginning to set, dip each oyster ball into it. This is best done by running a thread through each ball and dipping into the jelly, or lining ball moulds with aspic and filling in with the oyster mixture. Some should be coloured red, green, yellow and white, and arranged in a pile like cannon shot; shred celery, sippets of lemon, and chopped aspic as garnish. Oysters a la Cardinal; Huitres a la Cardinal (Jones Brothers), Take some oyster moulds, and line them with a very clear fish aspic, mixed with chervil and tarragon picked small. Place in each mould a fine poached oyster, finish to fill up the mould with a puree of lobster of a deep red colour and aspic ; place on ice to set; then turn out and serve up on a border, and garnish the centre with a shrimp salad. Oysters served on Ice; Huitres glaces {E. Farker).—Take a thick, clear block of ice weighing about ten pounds. With a red-hot iron mark out a space, leaving a wall of ten inches. Melt out the centre from this, empty out the water and fill the space with oysters. Place on a flat dish, garnish with sliced lemon and bunches of fresh parsley. Prawns in Jelly; Aspic de Crevettes.—Divide a pint of aspic jelly into three. First lay three boiled crayfish, backs downwards, into a mould which has been well soaked in cold water. Pour over these a third of the jelly, and when set lay in a dozen large, skinned prawns in rows. Pour more jelly over these ; when set put in another dozen of prawns and the remainder of the jelly. Turn out carefully when quite cold. Garnish with little mounds of skinned shrimps, and tufts of parsley between each. Salmon, Kippered,—Wash the salmon carefully and then