20 THE housewife's KEFEREB gas cookers. Two wire frying baskets are necessary, and stewpans that will fit them. Daw's-Tatent Drying Rack is a most usetul contrivance for drying crockery. It is designed with the intention of superseding the wiping-cloth, and apart from the considera- tion of the expense of clean cloths, it is welcome as alto- gether abolishing any possibility of the use of dirty rags. It is made to hold china and glass, from the largest dish in the dinner service, to the smallest liqueur glass. It is a rack five feet high, occupying a square foot of ground, but is capable of drying one hundred pieces. The drainer is so ar- ranged that one piece cannot drip on another. I like this system of draining instead of wiping. If plenty of clean water is handy, the wiping-cloth, when clean, is useless, and when dirty, as is often the case, simply undoes the work. In the usual old drying racks, the dishes and plates are sluiced well in cold water in the sinks, and put into the racks pell-mell, but this invention not only allows each piece its own niche, but allows the cups and glasses to be treated in the same way. It effects a great saving of time and obviates the risk of breakages. It is very cheap, which is also a great recommendation. Dickson's Reversible Toaster and Griller is also a very advantageous article, as it will hold food of any thickness, for the holder can be placed at any distance from the fire for slow or quick cooking; and when fixed before the fire the surface can be changed without removing the toaster. The dripping is caught in the pan, as it moves backwards and forwards with the holder, and is always under it. It is made in separate parts and can be readily cleaned. The Desideratum Strainer is a little article which cooks will find very useful for draining vegetables, especially cabbages, spinach, French beans, etc., which so often are sent to table imperfectly drained. This strainer cannot be too highly commended to housekeepers, who will certainly admire the compact and ornamental shape into which it presses cabbage or spinach for the table. Most iron- mongers sell it. The Safety Oyster Holdfast is an appliance which quite predudes the possibility of accident to the person using it.