118 THE housewife's KEFEKEE Shrimp Vol-au-vents; Petits Vol-au-veuts de Crevettes {French Recipe).—Take a quart of shrimps, pick them from their shells, and put them in a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter and a dessertspoonful of Vienna flour. Then stew them, and constantly shake them; but care must be taken not to allow the butter and flour to get brown. Next add, drop by drop, a gill of milk, and after a tablespoonful of butter in little bits ; add a little pepper, and a trifle of salt. Then keep tossing the shrimps, and put at the same time a tablespoonful of thick cream, and then fill up the little vol-au-vent cases, which should be kept very hot in the oven. Skate k la Milanese.—Take some fillets of skate, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry them in butter. Dish en couronne, and pour round them a sauce made of a small onion, three mushrooms, and a bouquet garni; chop them all up together and fry them for a few minutes; add two wineglassfuls of vin de grave ; reduce ; then add half a pint of brown sauce, boil up, skim and pour round fish. Soles a la Bacclms.—Take some soles and divide them into two fillets only; roll each fillet over a long-shaped potato, so that when rolled the fillet just laps over; boil them in a little lemon, salt, and fish liquor, and when done, leave them to get cold; then take out the potatoes and fill the fish with iced anchovy cream. The soles should look like small barrels. Have some very stifl* red aspic jelly, cut it into very thin strips, and arrange 9,t one end three rows and the same at the other end, to give the eflect of a barrel. Garnish with chopped aspic and chervil leaves. Soles a la Dauphin.—Take eight fillets of soles; shape them a little narrow at one end, and before cooking them, bend them into a shape resembling a dolphin. Mash them with lobster cream into which aspic has been mixed and coloured with lobster coral. Put a little spot of truffle for each eye, and place a lump of uncrushed lobster coral just above where the nostrils would be, and cut a little piece of the lobster tail and put on at the end and at the sides for fins. Ha^ve ready a pyramid mound of white aspic jelly made with fish stock ; stand the dolphins up against it, the heads downwards; fill in between them with green salad. The