SWEETS 207 Lemon Tartlets.—Reduce to powder half a pound of savoy biscuits, sift and add three-quarters of a pound of powdered sugar; grate and add the rind of two lemons and the juice strained. Add now three-quarters of a pound of melted butter, a little cream, six eggs, and a small nutmeg grated ; put in patty-pans lined with puff paste as before directed, and sift a little powdered sugar over them. This will make a large quantity. Little Indian Gems [Mrs. Grace Johnstone, Anglo-Indian). —Boil one pint of milk, and mix three ounces of fine Florador into a thin paste with a little milk. As the milk in the pan comes to the boil stir in the Florador, taking care it does not get lumpy; boil for about five or six minutes, till the mixture is quite thick. Now add two ounces of castor sugar, stir well, keep it on the fire one minute; remove, and mix with it about three ounces of desiccated cocoanut (unsweet- ened). Well grease a dish, and pour the mixture on to it. Let the dish be a good size, and the mixture nearly an inch thick ; set it on ice. When quite cold stamp out in rounds about the size of a top of a wineglass; chop finely some good, richly coloured guava jelly; heap it in the middle of each round, that it may look like a little heap of garnets. Put half a pint of stiffly whipped cream into a forcing bag and tube, and surround each heap of jelly with the cream ; then sprinkle the cream with very finely chopped pistachios. Macedoine of Fruits.—Take some strawberries, rasp- berries, red and white currants, cherries, grapes, apricots,and peaches cut in quarters, the juice of pineapples, melon, and bananas. Free them from their stalks, then put them into a rich syrup flavoured with maraschino and brandy. Colour the syrup with a little cochineal and arrange on the dish so that the colours harmonise prettily. Whipped cream should be served with it. This is for summer; in the winter it must be composed of oranges, Tangerine oranges, brandy, cherries, apples, pears, bananas, and grapes. Maple Cream.—Mix two pounds of maple sugar, one- fourth of a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and a cup of water, and boil till a little of the syrup will form a soft ball when tried in water. Set it away in the kettle till almost cold, and then work it with the paddle till it becomes creamy