5 THE KITCHEN All knives, forks, spoons, cutlet-cutters, skewers, etc., should be kept in the kitchen-table drawer. The kitchen utensils should always be kept scrupulously clean and in perfect order, for there must always be a certain un- pleasant smell if pans and other culinary utensils are put away without first washing them. With a servant who does her duty this would be avoided, as she would put boiling water (without soda) into the saucepans, and leave them to soak until she was ready to clean them. All this would minimise labour, as it prevents grease, etc., adhering to the sides of the pans. A chopping-board should always be scrubbed before putting away: it is better to use salt than sand or soap, and it is best to scrub with a hard brush and then rinse the board, first in hot and then in cold water. The oven should be occasionally limewashed ; it keeps it sweet, and the oven can be looked into more clearly. The scullery must now be noticed. This, of course, should lead out of the kitchen and should have a large sink with hot and cold water laid on. Where the sink is flush with the wall—which is so often the case in small houses—a piece of oil-cloth nailed all along at the back prevents the wall getting splashed; though where it can be aflbrded it is best to have it tiled to about two and a half feet in height and the same in width, or some cement might be put on to form a small slope, so that the drips from the taps or any splashings roll off into the sink. There is an appliance called the " Kensington," which I am sure every house- holder will be glad to know of, and which one should insist upon having fixed in the house before one becomes a tenant. It is for the collection and easy removal of grease from sinks, and so contrived that it is impossible for the foul air from the drains to enter the house through these waste-pipes. They are made for outside and inside use. The Langford Fat Trap, another useful contrivance, is a well-glazed and very strong trap, made in two pieces, so that the direction of the inlet and outlet can be varied to suit every possible case. Its object is to prevent grease from passing into the drain until it has become so far decomposed that it falls in clots towards the bottom of the trap, in which state it will be washed through the drains without adhering to them. The scullery table should also have a sloping back to