146 THE HOUSEWIFE^S KEFEKEE roll it in breadcrumbs, and put it into a buttered tin pan with a little dripping, turning it over now and then till it is baked. It can be served with sauce or without. No. 2. Mince cold meat almost into a paste, with an anchovy, a tiny scrap of parsley and a goodish lump of butter (Italians use oil), then add some salt, red pepper, and the juice of a lemon. This makes delicious sandwiches. Pork a TAllemande; Schweinscarre mit Kirschensauce; Carre de Pore a TAllemande.—Boil till tender a loin of pork, cutting off all superfluous fat. Koast it with the trimmings in the oven, and three onions, a couple of sliced carrots, salt and pepper; it must be continually basted. Care must be taken that it should not colour, and therefore some stock should occasionally be added, after which it should be taken up, and put on a deep dish; strew over the top some fine brown breadcrumbs and sprinkle over with oiled butter, then strew again with brown breadcrumbs into which pounded cinnamon should have been sprinkled. Twenty minutes before serving the carve should be put into a moderate oven and baked a light brown ; a thick cherry imree should be served with it. Pork, Loin of, a TEspagnole.—This is prepared and dressed in the same manner as la Portugaise, but, when ready for dressing, sprinkle the meat with sweet herbs chopped, wrap it in bay leaves, add the juice of two Seville oranges to the wine, which must be strained, and bake it in an oven. Poularde a la Royale.—Bone the fowl and stuff it with sweetbread, liver, and mushrooms well seasoned and made into a ragoHt. Sew up the fowl ; cover it with thin slices of lard or bacon, and either tie paper over it and roast it, or put it to braise ; if roasted, take off the lard and paper before serving, to brown it. Send it up on a puree of chestnuts. A turkey poult may be dressed in the same way. Cluails a la Rosalie.—Bone some quails and fillet them into kite-like shapes; squeeze some lemon over them with a little salt, put buttered paper over them and cook them in the oven for about ten minutes, then place them between two plates with weights on the top to press them. Leave them so for two or three hours; then mask the under side with pate de foie gras, and the upper side with a rich chaud-