BREAKFASTS 229 give curious glances at the letters on his plate, and no one to object to the matutinal pipe. At breakfast it is now general in country houses where there are many guests for each to have a tiny milk jug, butter dish, and sugar basin placed in front of him. Fern pots made in beaten silver are much used; the milk jugs, in the shape of an ordinary milk can, made in silver, are very novel. But perhaps I am wandering a little from the subject of The Housewife's Keferee ; yet as I consider the dining-room so very closely allied to the cuisine, I feel I must have a little say on the subject, before giving a few breakfast dishes. So few English cooks can make a good breakfast omelette that scrambled " eggs, with or without chopped ham, mush- rooms, or tomatoes make a very good substitute. They require but a few minutes to cook, but the various substances added must be separately cooked first. Minced tongue, ham, or truffles, can be stirred into the frying-pan, if finely chopped, but mushrooms and tomatoes must be stewed or fried first to soften them. Heating a little cream, and mixing it with eggs, forms a favourite variety. Any remains of fish left from the previous evening's dinner make capital little breakfast dishes, such as kedgeree, scallops, fish cakes, and balls. Grills of every description require but little time and make most palatable dishes. These grills can be changed ad infinitum by adding different condiments, such as curry powder, some Worcester sauce, Hoe's sauce piquante, or a teaspoonful of brandy with a lump of butter. In making a dry grill, but a small quantity of butter is used; the pieces should be first warmed through and then well covered by the mixture, after which they can be cooked in the frying-pan, and some more mixture poured over them, or done on the gridiron. No game should be grilled; a salmi is the only way in which they should be rechauffed; but as they take too much time for the early breakfast they are best eaten cold. Fillets of sole a VOrientale is a delicious dish. Dip some fillets in egg and flour, and fry them in salad oil, then roll and allow to get cool: then cover them with a sauce made with a gill of fresh cream, adding two teaspoonfuls of essence of anchovy; well mix, and then add, drop by drop, the juice of half a lemon and two teaspoonfuls of essence of anchovy.