234 THE housewife's EEFEREE water; add some sugar, and pour in some boiling milk with one hand slowly, and beat it to a froth with the other. Coffee.—How rare it is to get a. really good cup of coffee in England, which seems so strange, for it is so very easy and simple to make. The best mixture is half Java and half Mocha. The great secret is it should always be freshly ground, and if possible freshly roasted. The berries should not be too finely ground, and they should be put into the oven to heat for five or six minutes, which helps to bring out the flavour. Allow half an ounce of coffee or one table- spoonful to each person, with half a pint of water; the water should be poured^ on very gradually. Never boil coffee, but pour the boiling water on it in the same manner as for tea. The celebrated Mrs. Penfeather gives the following recipe for making coffee. Let the coffee be half Mocha and Java, the berries should be freshly roasted and freshly ground ; do not let them be too finely ground. To make a quart, take a quart of water with a large tablespoonf ul of the best condensed milk, and a small pinch of salt, and bring the milk and water to boiling point; as soon as it begins to bubble add four large tablespoonfuls of ground coffee ; let it catch the bubble, but do not allow it to boil. Instantly shut down the lid, put the pan on a cool part of the stove, and let the contents settle." The discovery of coffee is very curious. It was towards the end of the fifteenth century a poor Arab was travelling through Abyssinia, and finding himself weak f and weary from fatigue, he stopped near a grove. Then, being in want of fuel to cook his rice, he cut down a tree which was covered with dead berries. His meal being cooked and eaten, the traveller discovered that he had burned berries that were very fragrant. He collected a number of these, and on crushing them he found the aroma increased; then, by some accident, he let fall some of the ground substance into his water can, in which was a scanty supply of almost putrid water; but to his astonishment the water was instantly purified. He drank some of it and found it fresh and agreeable, and after drinking it the traveller had so far recovered his strength as to be able to resume his journey. The Arab gathered as many berries as he could, and when he arrived at Arden, in Arabia, he informed the Mufti of his