199 SWEETS Cocoanut Pudding, Cold.—Melt over a slow fire two ounces of fresh butter and four ounces sifted sugar. Pour out after boiling two minutes, and add two ounces of desic- cated cocoanut, one ounce of finely shred citron, the grated rind of half a lemon and four eggs. Beat all these well together and then add the strained juice of the half lemon, put the mixture into a mould and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour ; turn out and leave to get cold, then ice it over and ornament it with different coloured fondants and grated pistachio nuts. Cocoa Cannelons.—Mix three ounces of Cadbury's Cocoa (which is the best for cooking purposes as well as to drink) with four ounces of castor sugar and a dessertspoonful of flour, and add the whisked white of an egg to make a paste. Take pieces the size of a walnut and roll them out very thinly; place them on a buttered tin and bake in a moderate oven for thirteen minutes. While they are hot turn them over a ruler to shape them, and slip them on to a sieve to dry. Coffee Auflauf; KafFee Anflauf.—Mix together six ounces of flour, ten ounces of sugar, a pinch of salt, two ounces of butter, half a pint of strong coffee, and half a pint of cream : stir this quickly over the fire till it boils; then add in the whites and yolks of eggs and bake as in fruit auflauf given later. Compote of Chestnuts.—Boil twenty chestnuts in a pint of milk with a gill of water. When tender, skin and pound them. Put four ounces of white sugar into a small sauce- pan with half a teacupful of water. Boil till it is a syrup, then put it over the chestnuts in the mortar, and pound them to a smooth paste, whip up half a pint of cream, and place it in the centre of the compote dish. Place a coarse wire sieve over it, and rub the pounded chestnuts through the sieve on to the cream, keeping it high in the centre. Boil three oranges in water for half an hour : put the rind, juice, and pulp into a pan ; add the same weight of sugar with a spoonful of maraschino. Boil for ten minutes ; when cold, put it round the chestnut compote, and serve. Compote of Guavas.—Pare and halve some not quite ripe guavas, scoop out the insides, wash them, and slightly boil them; weigh the fruit before it is boiled and an equal