152 THE housewife's EEFEKEE Tongues, Sheeps', with Cucumbers; Hammelzungen mit Gurken; Langues de Mouton aux Concombres.— Peel several large gherkins, quarter them lengthways, take away the inside kernels, and cut the other part into squares; blanch these, and cool them in cold water; then pour off, and add four ounces of butter; steam them over a brisk fire, frequently shaking the pan. Let them steam till the superfluous liquor is reduced, and in the meantime prepare a bechamel sauce and mix with the gherkins. The tongues should be boiled, then cut up, and covered with a warm glaze, and served on the gherkins. Tripe a la Lucca; Trippa alia Lucchese.—Cut the tripe into strips, having pressed it well with a cloth to get out any water remaining in it. Put it into a saucepan to cook with butter, salt, and a little chopped onion. Let it cook for about half an hour and then sprinkle generously over it grated Parmesan, with more butter, pepper, and a little cinnamon; stir it well and leave it to cook for a few minutes longer. Tripe, Glasgow.—Cut well-cleaned tripe into strips, roll them and tie with a thread; then put a marrow bone with the tripe into a stone jar with a close-fitting lid. Add sufficient water to cover the tripe and place the jar in a pan of boil- iag water, and let it boil eight to ten hours, and when the meat is removed from the fire season it and set it away in a cool place; the liquor will then jelly. This makes a nice luncheon dish. Truffles with Champagne.—After having selected the best truffles, and washed and cleaned them from the sand which is apt to accumulate in their cavities, trim a stewpan with slices of bacon ; put the truffles into it with a bunch of parsley and green onions, well seasoned with thyme, bay leaves, cloves, basil, etc.; moisten with a spoonful of good consomme, two glasses of champagne, some salt and pepper, and if you have a goodipdelee from fowls, put in some of it, fat and liquid together; set them to boil gently for one hour. Let this cool in the stewpan after tossing those which are at the bottom up to the top, to give them an equal flavour. When you wish to serve up, warm them again, and drain them in a very clean serviette. Serve them