THE housewife's REFEREE 108 like eggs with two tablespoons and poach them in boiling water. Haddock, Salt, Stuffed.—Get a good-sized salted and smoked haddock; trim it neatly, and stuff it with the mixture given below; then tie it round with tape (string cuts it), shape it nicely; put it in the oven to bake, and baste with melted butter, in which a little curry powder has been mixed. Serve with a garnish of chopped parsley, and slices of tomato and lemon. This can be eaten with a pillau, rice, or with mashed potatoes. Stuffing for Haddock.—Boil four eggs hard, shell them, chop them fine. Cut up an onion in thin rings; fry—in two ounces of butter with twelve cloves—a delicate brown; add a tablespoonful of curry powder; stir, then add the chopped eggs, the seeds of five cardamoms, a few leaves of tarragon, one bay leaf, two beads of garlic—chop these very fine—one tablespoonful of tomato conserve, a little salt to taste, and the grated peel of a small lemon. Fry till very nearly dry, but not quite so, and stuff the fish. Haddocks en Pyramide ; Merlins en Pyramide.—Take a dried haddock, flake the meat off, and pass it through a wire sieve. Have some fried croiUons ready, about three inches in diameter and a quarter of an inch thick. Make a puree of this tammied haddock with a little cayenne pepper and butter. Spread each croitton with this mixture, and place on it an oyster, seasoned with one drop of lemon juice and cayenne. Then take some more of the haddock puree and completely cover the oyster, and pile it up to the shape of a pyramid. Pour a little melted butter over each and cook for three and a half minutes in the oven; sprinkle lobster coral over all, and stick in a small watercress leaf or a spray of chervil in each. Herring Roes and Oysters.—Cut some pieces of bread three inches long, one inch wide, and half an inch deep; hollow out the centre and fry quite crisp. Fill with soft bloater roes with three oysters on each, which must be sauted in butter for a couple of minutes; add a squeeze of lemon, a sprink- ling of cayenne, and serve very hot. Herrings a la Yarmouth; Harengs a la Yarmouth.—Clean and wipe four fresh herrings ; cut off their heads and tails.