59 THE LAUNDEY a cloth, taking care to iron them before they are quite dry or else they will not be smooth. Gall soap preserves the colour. Pocket Handkerchiefs.—Thevse should be washed in a hot soap lather, after the usual soaking in cold water, and then rinsed in cold water into which the blue bag has been very lightly squeezed; dry them either by hanging them out or rolling them tightly in a cloth, then hold the two parallel corners in each hand, pull the handkerchief into shape, fold it in half, right side out, taking care that the sides correspond exactly, sprinkle them with water and roll them in a clean cloth ready for ironing. Flannels.—Flannels should always be washed with jellied soap, prepared as I have described in machine washing. When flannels have been washed before, half a pound of soap will be sufiicient; but if new, double that quantity must be used. Two tubs of water are necessary ; into one the soap liquid must be poured till the water is a thick lather. Each article should be taken separately, steeped and shaken well in the lather, and rubbed lightly all over ; then each article should be wrung out of the soapy water and rinsed in the other pan filled with hot water, after which it must be taken out and passed through the Avringer, or wrung tightly with the hands, and rolled in a clean cloth ; after which it must be taken from the cloth, shaken well, and hung before the fire to dry, and whilst drying, the flannels should be shaken and stretched occasionally to prevent shrinking. Whenever the water becomes cold or dirty, it should be changed and more soap jelly added, as the good colour of the flannels depends much on this. After drying, the articles should be folded and pressed with a moderately hot iron. Combinations and jerse3^s do not require ironing; but should be folded straight and passed through the mangle twice. To wash coloured flannels of brilliant shades, a wineglass of vinegar should be added to each water to preserve the colour. Hanging out to dry.—In hanging linen the thickest part of the article should hang down, as it will take the longer to dry ; the pegs should be arranged so that the weight of