159 SAVOUBIES water with a handful of salt in it; let it boil rather quickly and skim it. From twenty to thirty minutes should be enough to do them ; but as soon as they are tender take them out of the water, or they will be spoilt. While they are boiling toast a round of a quartern loaf about half an inch thick brown on both sides ; lay it in the middle of the dish with the asparagus over it; serve with them melted butter in which you have beaten up the yolk of an egg, but separately in a boat, or else oiled butter. In France, asparagus is much liked cold as salad, and eaten with the following sauce:—Vinegar, one tablespoonful; oil, two; quarter of a teaspoonful of salt; half that of pepper. Mix well together, and add a little minced parsley. Where asparagus dishes are used, it is not necessary to send up the toast. Asperges, Moule a Creme d'.—Take about a pound of the flesh of a chicken, pass it through a mincing machine and pound in a mortar with four ounces of butter, two whole eggs and a gill of cold white sauce. Season to taste, and pass through a wire sieve. Then work the force-meat in a basin with a wooden spoon, adding gradually half a pint of double cream; pound, also, a handful of asparagus (spruce), previously cooked with a few leaves of spinach; pass the puree through a hair sieve and mix it with half of the force-meat. Having buttered the asparagus mould, place in each cavity at the bottom a head of cooked asparagus, then half fill the mould with some of the green force-meat, and finish the filling up with the white force-meat. Beets, Stewed.—Parboil, pare, and cut the beets in slices, then put into a saucepan, with half the quantity of small onions parboiled, a tiny shred of red pepper pod, two or three slices of okra, a shred of basil and parsley, a shred of celery, salt to taste, a lump of sugar, and a piece of butter. Cook in rich cream or white stock, and, just before serving, stir in a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Brussels Sprouts, Fried.—When boiled and drained fry them in butter for a few minutes, sprinkle with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. Carrots a la Poulette.—When the carrots are scraped, washed, and scalded, cut them into slices; boil them till