THE housewife's KEFEKEE 126 should consist of a " lump " rather larger than an orange). Eoll it out to a quarter of an inch in thickness, in the shape and size of a tea-plate. Turn the pastry over when rolled out, so that the floury side shall come in- side the pasty. Chip two of the potatoes in irregular bits on to the middle of the pasty ; place a layer of the chopped steak over them ; then chip one potato over that; sprinkle in some salt, moisten the edges all round, and fold the paste over till the edges meet, press them together, the shape then represents a half moon. The oven should be fairly hot, and it will take an hour to bake. It should be allowed to " soak " well. Beef-steak Rolled and Stuffed.—Take about two pounds of steak, and a couple of ounces of tongue, four ounces of suet, the grated rind of a lemon, a bouquet of garlic, six ounces of breadcrumbs, one dozen oysters, and two eggs. Cut the steak rather thin, and lay on a stufling made of the materials above named. Koll up the steak and skewer it to- gether, and stew till tender, and serve brown sauce flavoured with Ghoorka sauce, which is to be bought from most grocers. Boeuf a la Mode a la Sunbeam.—Braise a good-sized piece of beef in the ordinary way. When it is cooked, let it get cold; then cut it up in equal-sized slices. Take two plain moulds (oval ones) one larger than the other : the smaller one having a fancy device on the top, such as an animal. Line the device with a mayonnaise aspic, and fill the inside with a Russian salad. Both moulds should be decorated with small carrots and onions. Clarify the liquor in which the beef has been braised, and to which a little gelatine has been added, and fill up the moulds with it and the beef slices, which should be arranged in circular rows. When the moulds are full they should remain on ice, till the jelly is perfectly set; then turn them out and put the smaller one on the top of the other, with a wreath of endive and whipped aspic, at distances at the base. Boeuf a la Sutton, Filets de.—Take two pounds of the fillet of beef, cut it into neat round slices; lard them, and slit them nearly in half. Make a farce of horse-radish sauce and macaroni, and place some of this mixture into