THE housewife's KEFEBEE m they have soaked and placed in a basket. Pour away the dirty water, and fill the tub with hot water. The articles should then be put into the pan, and each one rubbed separately with soap. Loose cuffs should be doubled and both edges rubbed at once, to save time. Borax soap should be used if possible. After the clothes have been rubbed they should be put into a bag kept for the purpose and tied round with a piece of tape, a small opening being made so that they may keep under the water while boiling. Before they are put into the copper half a packet of Californian Borax soap powder should be dissolved in the water. Whilst boiling, the things should be stirred occasionally with the copper stick. When the clothes have boiled for ten or fifteen minutes they should be taken out, placed in a basket and allowed to drain, then rinsed in cold water, and afterwards passed one by one through blued water. A square of blue should be placed in a flannel bag and tied firmly round the top, but not in a knot; great care must be taken in rinsing the clothes in the blue water, so that it does not settle in patches, and they should be wrung out and laid on a dish. The articles must now be dried; of course in the country they should be dried out of doors, but for those living in towns they should be put on a clean clothes horse before the fire. As soon as they are all dry they should be starched. While the hands are still clean from the wash, take two ounces of starch and borax, and pour over them without stirring fully half a pint of cold water. Mix all together, taking care the borax is thoroughly dissolved or it will leave shiny patches on the collars and cuffs, and keep a little borax water by your side to add to the starch should it get too thick. This amount is sufficient for one dozen collars and six pairs of cuffs. The articles must be dipped, one at a time, into the basin of starch and well rubbed between the hands, so that the starch gets well into them. Then they must be wrapped in a clean cloth, laying them very straight, and allowed to remain in a cool place all night. " Before commencing to iron next day, an ironing blanket must be spread on the table, and a clean sheet over it, and fastened firmly down. The iron-holder should have a middle lining of leather and the irons must be hot. Have a clean, old handkerchief beside you, and pass it backwards