132 THE housewife's REFEREE pan, cut the remains of the paste into thin strips, and lay them across the chicken ; lay Devonshire cream on the top. When baked, turn them out of the tins and arrange prettily on a dish. Cockscombs a la Dresden; Hahnenkamme; Cretes de coq {German).—Cut off the outside tips of the cockscombs, place them on the fire in cold water, but so that it only gets luke-warm; they should be frequently stirred round with the hand and slightly pressed through the fingers, so that the blood is all squeezed out till they become white. Now put them into fresh water, place them again on the fire, and when the water begins to get hot rub each cocks- comb over with salt to remove the outside skin; then put them into luke-warm water for a few hours, which should occasionally be changed. Then boil them till tender in fat stock seasoned with salt and lemon juice. Corn Rolls.—Take the chopped meat of a good-sized boiled fowl, six hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, half a pound each of raisins and olives stoned and chopped, and the pressed juice from a dozen sweet red peppers boiled soft. Mix with these ingredients (except the eggs) one pound of dried Indian corn boiled soft; season with salt and stir over the fire for fifteen minutes, and then stir in the chopped eggs. Meantime lay smooth the soft inner husks of corn, and tear some strips for tying ; lay upon two of the husks as much of the tomato paste as they will contain; wrap them about it, and tie each roll with the stripped husks ; drop these rolls into boiling salted water, and boil them for an hour. When the tomatoes are done, tie them with red and yellow ribbons in place of the strips; and serve them piled upon a napkin laid on a hot dish. Salad should be eaten with them. Cornish Dish.—Take some streaky bacon, cut it into slices a quarter of an inch thick, put them into a very hot frying- pan and brown delicately on both sides. The rind is not cut off, but must be notched here and there to prevent its shrivelling. When the bacon is cooked put in some cold, boiled potatoes. Chop these till quite fine, season with pepper and salt, and when perfectly hot through pile them up in the centre of the dish, with the slices of bacon round.