168 THE housewife's KBFEREE Marrow Toast.—Take a large shin bone and split it, taking out the marrow in one piece. Cut the marrow into slices nearly an inch thick and set aside. Mix in a hot dish a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, the same of lemon juice, half a teaspoonful of salt, a grain of cayenne, and several drops of onion juice. Have in the oven some squares of toast, crisp and browned evenly. Boil the marrow quickly for a minute and a half in a quart of salted water, drain thoroughly when done, and mix it with the seasoning in the hot dish ; spread on the toast and serve mry hot. Mushrooms, to cook {Mrs. H. Reeve).—Button mushrooms nearly of a size are the best. Put them in a stewpan with butter, fine herbs, and chibbals—i.e., onions no larger than a pea. Warm for a few minutes, add a little flour and broth enough to moisten the whole; stew till no sauce remains. Then make a liaison with the yolk of an egg and a squeeze of lemon, into which stir the mushrooms. Fry a round slice of bread, if the centre is to be garnished, and dress on that. Mushroom Croustade a TEspagnole; Groustades de Champignons a I'Espagnole.—Line some oval tartlet pans with very short paste, butter them well to keep them from burning, and place in each a piece of stale bread to preserve the hollows whilst baking. Cut up some button mushrooms into dice, about one dessertspoonful for each croustade. Warm the mushrooms in some Espagnole sauce flavoured with a little marsala, and keep warm till wanted, when the croustades should be filled and sent to table at once. Mushroom Hash; Hachis aux Champignons {Br. M. C. Cooke).—Take two dozen mushrooms; dry, and put them in a pan with a piece of butter. As soon as the butter has melted, stir in a tablespoonful of flour, two glasses of beef gravy, salt, pepper, and a bay leaf. Cook till nearly reduced by one half, and then pour it over hashed mutton. Mix well, and serve with small crusts of fried bread. Mushrooms a la Delmonico; Champignons a la Delmonico. —Chop an onion finely, fry it in butter to a pale brown colour, stir carefully, and then add a quarter of a pound of