85 SOUP MAKING Cooks may say, " This is all extra trouble " ; but it is no trouble, and only takes two or three minutes longer than their usual rough fashion, and certainly the sauce repays this extra outlay of time, for unless some care be taken, a successful result is impossible. SOUP MAKING I CONSIDER that a portion of cooked meat makes soup more highly flavoured than when raw meat only is used. The lean shin of beef, knuckle of veal, and gristle, etc., are the best things for the foundation; but meat trimmings, and odds and ends, give the strength and flavour. A variety of ingredients is necessary in making the best soup; but fat should never find its way into the stock-pot. One of the essential things to remember is that the great art of soup making is to keep the flavours equal, and not allow any particular one to predominate. Salt is always best added just before taking up the soup, as it is apt to harden meat, and confine the juices and soluble substance. In soup making the stock should be always made the day before it is required, the meat and bones should be simmered for quite eight hours, and then strained through a hair sieve into a basin, so that the fat can be skimmed off next day, when it can be returned to the stock-pot, or digester, with the addition of the flavourings, which must consist of sliced vegetables, such as onions, carrots, turnips, leeks, remains of sauces, peppercorns, and different herbs tied in bunches. In making clear soup great care must be taken, as the generality of cooks are so fond of boiling fast, not under- standing, or else refusing to understand, what simmering is. And they are idle over the skimming, which is another necessity; for unless it is simmered and constantly skimmed the soup will never be clear. After the vegetables and condiments have been put in, it must be again boiled, then simmered for about two hours, and cleared. If a delicate consomme is required, beat up the whites of a couple of eggs with a teacupful of cold water, and put them with the crushed shells of the eggs into the stock.