THE housewife's EEFEEEE 144 quite tender, take them up on a dish, and set them aside. Strain the stock into a stewpan, remove all grease from its surface, stir in four ounces of brown thickening; add about half a pound of shaped carrots, the same of turnips and eight middle-sized onions; season with pepper and salt. Allow the whole to boil very gently until the vegetables are done, and then remove them carefuly into a stewpan already containing the pieces of ox-tail. Skim the sauce; boil it down if too thin; add a lump of sugar; strain it to the ox-tail, etc. Allow the haricot to simmer for ten minutes over the fire, and serve neatly in its dish. Perdreaux aux Choux.—To make this, truss a brace of partridges as fowls are trussed for boiling, mince about a quarter of a pound of fat bacon, put it into a saucepan on the fire, and when it is quite hot put in the birds and toss them in this till well coloured all over; meanwhile blanch a small cabbage or a savoy in salted water, drain it, squeeze all the water from it, chop it up and put it into the saucepan with the birds; add pepper and salt to taste, a bundle of sweet herbs, and two or three pork sausages, moisten with a little stock, and let the whole simmer for two hours. Kemove the bundle of herbs, and serve with the cabbage, and the sausages, each cut in two, round the birds. Pig, Roasted.—Half a pint of melted butter, two ounces of fresh butter, three-quarters of a pint or one pint of sage and onion force-meat. When the pig is well cleaned, make a force-meat according to previous directions, or a veal stuffing force-meat, if preferred. Sew it up, with a strong thread. Truss it as a hare is trussed, with its forelegs skewered back and its hind legs forward. Dry it well and rub it with a little flour, set it before a clear, brisk fire, with a dripping pan underneath it to catch the gravy. Baste it with a little pure olive oil, or with its own gravy, rubbing it occasionally (when you do not use oil) with iDutter. When it is done, which it should be in from one and a half to two hours, cut off the head, and split it into halves. Divide the pig with a very sharp knife, down the centre, lay the backs together, put the ears on each side, and the halves of the head at each end of the dish. Pour a little of the gravy of the pig mixed with thin melted butter and a squeeze of lemon juice over it ; send some of