THE HOUSEWlFE^S KEFEMEJ 190 ten minutes, then make some bechamel sauce: make it hot, add two yolks of eggs, a piece of butter, two tablespoonf uls of cream and the horseradish vinegar; whisk all well together and stir over fire, as if for custard to set the eggs, but not boil; strain and put in a stewpan and make it hot by putting the stewpan into another which contains boiling water. No. 2. Put four tablespoonf uls of vinegar in a stewpan on the fire with a quarter of an ounce of mignonette pepper and a quarter of an ounce of salt; reduce to one tablespoon- ful, strain into another stewpan, and add four tablespoon- fuls of water, eight yolks of eggs, and a quarter of a pound of butter. Stir with a wire whisk. No. 3. For meat or fish. Put six spoonfuls of water, and four of vinegar into a saucepan; warm, and thicken it with the yolks of two eggs. Make it quite hot, but do not boil it, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and strain it through a sieve. Grill Sauce.—One tablespoonful of cream, one of vinegar, one teaspoonful of mustard, one of Harvey's sauce, a little cayenne and salt; warm in a saucepan, and pour over the grill. Horseradish Sauce for cold meat or game.—Mix well together one ounce of grated horseradish, half an ounce of salt, one tablespoonful of made mustard, and three dessert- spoonfuls of moist sugar, the same quantity of vinegar and milk or cream, to make it of the consistence of good cream , or thicker if preferred. Iced Champagne Sauce.—Break into a saucepan one egg, one tablespoonful of cream, a little sugar, and a tumblerful of champagne. Place round the saucepan outside broken ice and freezing salt; whip all the ingredients as quickly as possible. This sauce is equally good warm, with hot sweets ; only it must be whipped on the stove while it heats, instead of on ice. Indian Sauce.—Take eight ounces of sour apples, pared and cored, eight ounces of tomatoes, the same of salt, brown sugar, and stoned raisins each, four ounces of cayenne, the same of powdered ginger, two ounces of garlic, two ounces of shallots, three quarts of vinegar, and one ounce of lemon