FISH 119 base should be composed of prawns, on the top of the jelly mound a coronet of prawns should be made by sticking them into the jelly. Place little white china shells round the dish and fill them with mayonnaise sauce sprinkled with coral. In between the china shells cut cucumber in thin corrugated slices and folded up like a leaf; place small radishes cut like rosebuds inside. Soles a la Menuisiere.—Cut the fins off a sole, and with a knife make four incisions across it on each side; then rub well into it half a tablespoonful of salt and chopped onions ; dip it in flour and broil over a slow fire. Have ready two ounces of fresh butter, mixed with the juice of a lemon and a little cayenne pepper, which rub over the sole, previously laid in a very hot dish without a napkin. Turn the fish over once or twice that it may be well covered. Put it into the oven for a minute and serve very hot. Sole a la Normande.—Take a large sole, and free the bones entirely from the flesh. Season the sole with pepper and salt, and moisten it with sauterne; whilst the sole is cooking make a white sauce, of which the stock should be the water in which mussels have been boiled. The sole must be put in the oven just five minutes before serving, and should be dished on an oval silver dish, well buttered and daintily powdered with finely minced and blanched onions. The garnish should consist of some of the mussels, oysters, mushrooms, fried smelts, and fried sippets of bread. Sole a la Tirhoot.—Take some fillets of sole, dip them into egg and flour, and fry them in salad oil; then roll and allow them to get quite cold. Then cover them with the following sauce :—Add to a gill of good cream the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, rubbed smooth, with a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce; when well mixed with the cream add gradually a tablespoonful of a lemon. Sole a rUtopia, Filets de.—Take a pair of fair-sized soles, fillet them and skin them and cut them into narrow, kite-shaped pieces, about five inches long, and put them into buttered paper; then take their bones, and put them in a saucepan with some milk, peppercorns, salt, an onion, and a good dessertspoonful of anchovy sauce; boil for about half an hour; strain and pour this fish stock into one of the