3 THE KITCHEN A table so covered needs no scrubbing, and is impervious to hot kettles." I saw a very convenient apparatus at a friend's house—a lift from the cellars to the kitchen. It was a country house, where, of course, there were under- ground cellars in which all meat and food were kept during the hot weather. It was thus constructed: there was a closet at one side of the kitchen, and an opening was made through the floor, the size of the closet; within the closet were a series of shelves, fitted to upright pieces. The whole hung on pulleys placed in the top; at each side of the closet cords passed from the side pieces up over the pulleys, which were long enough to reach down to the bottom of the cellar when the shelves were in position above the kitchen floor; and at the ends of these cords were attached heavy weights. My friends made it from a description they had read. With regard to the range, which is the most important point in the kitchen, there are now so many very first-rate ones that it is difficult to choose between them ; but for myself, I consider the best are the Eagle and the Thorncliffe. They both combine every necessary requirement, and though they are rather expensive in the first instance, they are the most economical in the end, as they both consume ever3^hing and anything ; but my preference is given to the Eagle : it has many advantages and suits every house, as with it a small or large fire may be kept up as required; the fierce draught of the fire can be stopped and the con- sumption of fuel is very small. An open bright fire can also be obtained, requiring no alteration or regulation of dampers. Before the cooking of the day is commenced, or after it is finished, by a very simple arrangement the range can at once be altered from a close to an open fire. A loop is pulled and the range opens, pushed and it closes, and the fire can be changed from an open to a close one in two seconds. Another great advantage is that the size of the fire can be increased or diminished at pleasure. For instance, if the range is required for roasting in front of the fire (as well as for oven and hot-plate cooking), the grating is covered, until a fire sufficiently large is obtained; but when used for heating the ovens, hot plates, or boilers (and not for roasting in front), the grating is raised so that the fire is brought up close to the hot plate. A very small fire in this position is quite sufficient for cooking on any