THE housewife's REFEEEE 186 some hard white of egg into kite shapes, and arrange as a trefoil in the middle. Sprinkle a very little lobster coral over all. Mount in aspic, en couronne^ with a small lettuce placed in the middle, which has been soaked in mayonnaise sauce. Lobster, Scallops of, a la Norvegienne; Coquilles de Homard a la Norvegienne.—Line some shell-shaped moulds with a fine Julienne, composed of truffles, gherkins, mush- rooms, and white of egg, mixed with a little fish jelly. Place in the centre of each mould a nice escallop of lobster, then fill the coquille with a lobster cream mixed with aspic jelly. Place them on ice for twenty minutes. Turn out on a dish, in the centre of which place a very firm lobster cream. Lobster Timbale a la Vitellius; Timbale de Homard a la Vitellius.—Pound the meat of a lobster with the coral, four sardines, four anchovies, and three hard-boiled eggs all together in a mortar, and add a desert spoonful of olive oil. When this is smooth, rub it through a tammy, and place on ice. When cold stamp it into the shape of lobster cutlets, inserting small pieces of the claw at each end. Line a plain mould with savoury aspic to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, put some of the cutlets at the bottom of the mould, cover with a little aspic, then stand the cutlets in a wreath round the mould and set with jelly. Take a dozen prawns, a teaspoonful of capers, two hard-boiled eggs, and some sliced anchovies; cut them up in pieces, fill up the centre of the mould with them, and pour over some red mayonnaise sauce in which some aspic has been mixed. Put on ice, and when ready turn out on a dish, and garnish with whipped aspic, truffles, and beetroot. Oysters a TAmbrosia; Huitres a I'Ambrosie.—Take three dozen oysters, beard them, and cut them into dice (very small dice); make some white sauce by taking some of the oyster liquor and the beards of the oysters and passing through a sieve; put this with a little cayenne and a gill of milk into a basin, then put an ounce of butter into a stewpan to cook over the fire; take a tablespoonful of flour and mix it into a paste with a little of the oyster liquor, and then add the strained liquor to it; pour into the sauce-