139 BNTKl^ES corns, salt to taste, one dessertspoonful of made mustard, one of red currant jelly, one of chili vinegar, one of claret, and one of Tuscany sauce. Mix all together, boil till thick; then add the meat and stew, and serve within a potato wall. Indian Chicken Cutlets.—Parboil a nice plump chicken, take off all the flesh, remove the skin and sinews, beat it well up with a chopper, mix with it a teacup of finely grated breadcrumbs, a small onion chopped up very fine, the grated peel of half a lemon, a little parsley, tarragon, and chervil (also chopped). Nepaul pepper to taste, or a little chopped green chilli, a saltspoon of salt; bind the mixture with a well-beaten egg, shape into nice-sized cutlets, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry in boiling butter a delicate golden brown. Serve with crisped parsley and fried sippets of bread. An ordinary tasty brown or tomato sauce goes well with them, if liked. These cutlets can also be made quite plain, with only pepper and salt; and they can also be poached instead of fried, and served with a delicate white sauce. This dish is very much appreciated by Anglo-Indians. Some people like it made with rabbit instead of chicken. Indian Venison Chops.—Cut a nice loin of venison into chops, trim neatly, and rub them well over with the juice of green ginger. Make a savoury batter thus :—Well beat an egg, mix with it a tablespoonful of flour that has been made about the consistence of cream, with a little milk; add to it a dessertspoonful of very finely chopped onion, two heads of garlic chopped, two chillies chopped, and about a saltspoonful of mixed ground spice ; salt to taste. Dip the chops in this, and fry in butter a golden brown. Serve on a dish, paper neatly, and decorate with fried green parsley. The decoration is purely English, for it is not served thus in India. Italian Chicken.—Cut up a fowl, and cook it in a stewpan with a little butter and salad oil till light brown ; then add six tomatoes, three chillies chopped very fine, and two table- spoonfuls of good gravy. Cook slowly for two hours, keep- ing the stewpan tightly covered, adding a very little garlic. Jambonneaux a I'Espagnole {Noel).—Pound up a truffle with ateaspoonful of some kind of force-meat, and one of Sauce Espagnole, and pass through a sieve. Butter the moulds.