78 THE housewife's REFEEEE and hard on the outside and sodden and tasteless on the inside. The Italian fritto misto is worth eating, and any- one can test its deliciousness at Prevaliti's, the Cafe Koma, and the Hotel de Florence. In Italy a batter is always prepared to dip the meat in and then it is cooked to a turn. In frying, the first requisite is to have a clear, bright fire (not a fierce one), and to see that the fr}dng-pan is perfectly clean. Frying is immersing in very hot fat and it is most necessary that the fat should cover that which is being fried. I prefer a stewpan to a frying- pan, as the fat can be deeper. The pan should be hot enough to fry a piece of light brown bread the instant it is thrown in ; whilst the fat is hissing, nothing should be put in till it leaves off and smokes. In frying fish, the fish must be thoroughly dried and well floured. An egg, yolk and white, must be well beaten up and breadcrumbs, dry and fine, passed through a sieve. Flour the fish, brush it well over with the beaten egg with a paste brush, and cover it with breadcrumbs; when the fat is properly boiling (which is easily ascertained by putting one drop of cold water into it, and if it makes much hissing the fat boils) then quickly immerse the fish into it and a very short time serves to cook it. Fat crackles when it is first put on the fire because there is generally water in it. This water sinks and becomes converted into steam, and these bubbles of steam escaping up through the fat make the hissings. When anything is fried which has to be egg-and-bread- crumbed it should be done about two hours before, and fried meat should be constantly turned and shaken during the process. When parsley is fried, it should be quite dry; in frying rissoles, croquettes, etc., a wire basket should be used, and everything fried should be drained directly it is taken out of the fat on a wire sieve, or what is still better, blotting paper; but except in very large families, that is considered too expensive to use daily. All frying drip- ping and butter should be clarified before they are used : this may be done by placing the dripping in a saucepan on the fire, and when it boils pouring it into a basin in which half a pint of cold water has been previously placed, and stir up well together for a few minutes. When cold, cut round the edge with a knife and remove the cake of dripping, scrape off all