237 THE WINE CELLAR circulates through it. The windows should be closed before sunrise in the morning, and kept closed and shaded through- out the day. A peck of fresh lime placed in an open box will dry a damp cellar. Wines, spirits, and beer should not be kept in the same cellar, as the latter are kept best in a temperature under 50° Fahr., and the former in a temperature from 50° to 65° Ventilation is most necessary, but draughts should be avoided. Sudden variations of temperature are extremely injurious. It is a good plan in hot weather to water the floor daily, and in winter have gas burning, and the temperature may then be raised to any required degree. A damp cellar reduces the strength of spirits, and a dry one their volume or quantity. When spirits are required to be mellowed and matured speedily, a damp cellar is best, and the smaller the cask, the quicker it will mature. Whiskies should not be kept after eight years, as then they have reached the zenith of perfection. Good brands of brandies may gain in delicacy and flavour if kept fifty years. After delivery, all wines, whether in bulk or bottle, require rest. Port wine is very sensitive to atmospheric changes, and should never be removed in frosty weather. Sweet wines require a lower temperature than dry wines, but for all alike a dry cellar is most necessary, if only for the preservation of the cork alone. Champagnes should be taken out of the cases and their straw envelopes, and buried in a cool, dry place, lying so that the liquid shall be always on the cork. Yizetelly, in his " History of Champagne," says, that champagne of fine quality should never be mixed with ice ; neither should it be placed below a temperature of 50°, as the natural lightness of the wine is such as not to admit of its being diluted without utterly spoiling it; and, at the best, excessive cold destroys alike the fragrant bouquet and its delicate vinous flavour. Wine Decanting.—It is best always to decant wine through a strainer, and for port always use fine cambric in the strainer, which should always be taken out and hung up to keep it fresh, or it would get musty and impart a bad flavour to the wine. To ice wines and cups it is only necessary to put the