167 SAVOURIES of a small tin box will answer). Have ready a small half- bowlful of rich game or meat chopped fine. A mixture of meats is best, and must be well cooked and well chopped. Beat into it one whole egg, and one tablespoonful of grated cheese. In the centre of each capellita of dough put half a teaspoonful of meat; gather it up bag fashion with the left hand, and with the right give the dough a twist so as to enclose the meat safely. Then flatten at the edge like the brim of a hat, and leave it on the moulding board till all the dough has been used. Then take some well-seasoned and rich soup just coming to the boil, drop in the cup- shaped macaroni carefully one by one, so that the twisted parts are uppermost and the flat rims downwards. They must not jump about or touch each other in the cooking. Twenty minutes ought to cook the dough. If required cold, let them cool in the dish in which they are cooked, and if hot, let them be heated. Macaroni a la Creme Aigre.—Take a pound of macaroni and boil in salt and water, and let it boil for twenty minutes, pour off* the water and cool with cold water; have ready eight ounces of butter which has been fried, with a tablespoonful of flour of a light colour, add a pint of sour cream, boil it up and mix, whilst continually shaking it add eight ounces of grated Parmesan cheese and season with pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg. Macaroni a la Napolitaine.—Take about one pound of trimmings of beef, as much fat bacon, all cut into dice, an onion cut in dice, then thrown into cold water and squeezed dry in a cloth, add a clove of garlic; then put the whole into a saucepan and let it remain on the fire, stirring it occasionally till the onion is almost melted away, and add parsley, marjoram, thyme, pepper, and salt. Take a piece of tomato pulp (procured only at Dr. Luggo's, Idol Lane, E.G.), cut it in pieces the size of a pea, put in the pieces a few at a time, always stirring the contents of the saucepan. When sufficient tomato pulp or conserva has been put in moisten with water a spoonful at a time. Let the whole simmer for ten minutes, then strain, remove superfluous fat, and dress the macaroni with it, and plenty of Parmesan cheese.