THE DAIRY 31 useful where fresh butter is required daily. The milk bowls should be of brown ware lined with yellow glaze, and the cream crocks should be of the same ware. Zinc pails are now generally used; the old-fashioned wooden ones are hardly ever seen except in primitive villages which have not marched up to date ; but the best are white wood with steel hoops and lined with white china-ware. Wooden bowls should be kept in plenty. Butter boards for shaping the butter should be a foot long, half an inch thick, and eleven inches wide; besides these there should be a long board ^bout five feet long, on which to lay the butter when it is made up. Of course, I am only now speaking of what is requisite for quite a small dairy. Other necessaries are wooden spatulas, box prints for the pats (often there is one small print with the family crest on for the dining-room use). There are very pretty designs to be had in butter prints; a swan is a very favourite one, and so is a stem of wheat. The scrubbing brushes should be kept separately, one for the use of the churn, one for the shelves and one for the brick floor. A broom to sweep ceiling and walls, house-flannel, and scouring cloths of course; a mop is also a necessity to mop the floor with, two very large wooden spoons, a cream-pot, a hair sieve^ strainers of hair and of cloth, skimmers to skim the cream off the milk—these are best made of enamel ware—and one or two large washing tubs in which every dairy requisite should be thoroughly washed, as everything that has been used should be cleaned at once and every utensil well scrubbed with sand, soda, and boiling water; the pails should be washed out after each time of using and set to dry every time. They must be rinsed out with cold water, except in winter, when tepid water should be used. The cows' teats should be bathed to cleanse them from all dirt or gritty substances. A very excellent article I once read on the subject of the dairy, in mentioning the sus- ceptibility of milk and butter, said that they will take any disagreeable flavour or strong odour, even at some distance off*, and that no cigar or pipe should be allowed inside a dairy, nor an oil lamp. The straining cloths must be washed in hot and then cold water, and always dried out of doors. Indeed, unless the strictest cleanliness is enforced, the results of the