103 SOUP MAKING it to three quarts of beef stock, that has been boiled with vegetables, and a small piece of bacon. Flavour according to taste with fresh tomatoes previously stewed in a little butter ; season with a little ketchup, cayenne, white pepper, and salt. Boil the soup and skim it; when ready to dish up, add the squeeze of a lemon. When fresh tomatoes are not to be had, substitute preserved ones. Turtle Soup {Dried Turtle),—Soak one pound of the turtle for three or four days in cold water, changing the water constantly. Then it must be put into three quarts of good and ivell-Jlavoured stock; add leeks, carrots, turnips, a dessertspoonful of turtle herbs (which can be bought already prepared), peppercorns, and salt. The soup should simmer gently for twelve hours, adding a little stock from time to time, when the turtle should be found quite tender. Now strain it and, when cold and all the fat taken off, clarify it with white of eggs and raw meat in the usual mode. It must then boil up and simmer for about two hours, when it should be strained through a fine table-napkin. Cut some of the turtle into small pieces and serve in your soup ; a slice of green fat should be added, which can always be bought at the stores and larger Italian warehouses. Before serving, a little cayenne, some lemon juice, and a glass of sherry should be added. Vegetable Marrow Soup.—Four young vegetable marrows, or more if very small; half a pint of cream, salt and white pepper to taste, two quarts of white stock. Pare and slice the marrows, and put them in the stock boiling. When done almost to a mash, press them through a sieve, and at the moment of serving, add the boiling cream and seasoning. Time, one hour. Seasonable in summer. Victoria Soup.—Wash half a pound of pearl barley, and put this into a stewpan with three pints of good white veal stock, and simmer it very gently over a slow fire for an hour and a half, by which time the barley will be nearly dissolved; put a third of it into a small soup pot, and the remainder through a sieve, then add to it the whole barley. Add half a pint of cream, season with a little salt, stir it over the fire until hot, and serve. Watercress Soup.—To one pint and a half, or quart, of