THE housewife's KEFBKEE 68 yellow, and quite a different shape to the rest. The greenish Nuremburg hock glasses are very much to the fore just now; but though the shapes are lovely, I do not quite care for their sombre tints. For sorbet glasses the colouring is perfect. Salviati's Venetian glass, which is fashioned in all sorts of quaint shapes, has been very much used; but I think it is less so now, except for sweetmeat dishes. Champagne glasses of crackled gold glass are among the novelties, but they will not take in the best society; exquisite jewelled glass is very much in vogue, also glass with gold monogram and crest on it. The old-fashioned, double-diamond, cut glass now used is a worthy rival of the old specimens one meets with now and again; but it is impossible to go on describing the fads and fashions of the present moment, as they are changed as often as ladies' dress fashions. To my own taste there is nothing better than very thin glass of classical shape, with just the crest or monogram, or else the old-fashioned, diamond, cut glass— those just mentioned in the quaint old shapes of a hundred years ago. The great thing at the present time is variety; at most houses where there is much entertaining change is the order of the day, and, coming after the stereotyped table decorations of yore, it is really a great charm. The electric light is much used, now that it can be so easily adapted to every kind of lamp or candle, as by the new method of supplying the fin de Steele light it is not necessary to have any wires at all, and therefore no marks are left on the cloth. For myself, I think there is nothing like wax candles for lighting a dinner table, with shades on them to match, or contrast with, the floral arrangements ; the sides of the dining-room should also be well lighted by candles in sconces fixed high against the wall, or by care- fully shaded lamps on side tables. Napery should always be of the best, and the table-cloth laid with as few creases as possible. The monogram worked at the corners, and the serviettes to match, always look well. White linen is superseding coloured napery, which delights me; for though often lovely effects are produced with crumpled up silk and brocades, yet one has often seen tawdry, tinselling things placed down the centre of the table, which have quite spoilt its harmony.