110 THE housewife's EEFEHEil three eggs, one at a time; then six oysters which have been blanched and cut into halves or quai-ters; and next stir in a gill of whipped cream, and the whites of the eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Pour the mixture in a well- buttered mould ; cover with paper, and steam for thirty-five minutes. Serve with white sauce or cucumber sauce round it. Mackerel, Fried {French Recipe),—After the fish have been emptied and washed extremely clean, cut off the heads and tails, split the bodies quite open and take out the backbones j wipe the mackerel very dry, dust fine salt and pepper (or cayenne) over them, flour them well, fry them a fine brown in boiling lard; drain them thoroughly, and serve them with the following sauce:—Dissolve in a small saucepan one and a half ounce of butter, smoothly mixed with a teaspoonful of flour, some salt, pepper, or cayenne; shake these over a gentle fire until they are lightly coloured; then add by slow degrees nearly half a pint of good broth or gravy, and the juice of one large lemon ; boil the sauce for two minutes and serve it very hot; or, instead of this, add a large teaspoonful of strong made mustard, and a dessertspoonful of chili vinegar, and some thick melted butter, and serve it with the fish. A spoon- ful of Harvey's sauce, or of mushroom ketchup, can be mixed with this last at pleasure. Mackerel Bones, Grilled.—Take the bones of a boiled mackerel, dust them with salt and cayenne pepper, and broil over a quick fire till crisp, but not l3urnt. Serve with hot toast and butter; a mackerel bone for each guest. Mussels a la Provencale.—Wash the mussels several times, changing the water; put them to dry in a saucepan over a hot fire till the shells open. Take off one valve of the shell only. Put into a saucepan half a glass of oil, parsley, cloves, mushrooms, truffles, half a clove of garlic, all chopped very fine ; put on the fire; moisten with a glass of chablis, a spoonful of broth, and half the quantity of liquor from the mussels. Boil this sauce, and when it is nearly reduced to half, add the mussels with a spoonful of gravy; let the whole boil a few minutes, then add a spoon- ful of lemon juice, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and serve.