THE HOtJSEWIFE^S KEI'EREE 100 Peasant Soup.—Chop cabbage, carrots, onion, and celery; boss them in butter a pale brown, add a little stock and simmer very gently for three hours ; now add some water in which haricot beans or lentils have been cooked, simmer another half-hour, now add some very finely chopped sorrel and lettuce; let it all come to a boil, and pour it into the tureen over some fried sippets. Pease Brose.—Take two ounces of ground pease, a pinch of salt and one and one-half gill of boiling water. Put the pease and salt into a bowl, stir in gradually the boiling water. Boil this for five minutes and serve hot. Pescatore, Consomm^ al.—Take some small fish moulds, and butter them well, and fill them with lobster quendle ; steam them and then turn them out, and serve them in good clear soup. Ploughboy Soup.—Take a couple of onions, two carrots, two small turnips, a head of celery, one leek, two lettuces, some winter cabbage, a bottle of preserved French beans and six potatoes. The onions and leek must be minced and fried, with some fat bacon chopped small, till of a nice colour; then add the other vegetables chopped except the lettuces and potatoes, then boil the latter and add half a pound of tongue and also some stock. Let all boil up for about half an hour, and then add the chopped potatoes, and when they are nearly cooked shred in the lettuces and a little parsley; remove the tongue and serve up the soup. Polish Soup.—Fry an onion in butter, and mix in two tablespoonfuls of flour, and fry for two minutes, adding gradually two quarts of broth. Stir till it boils, then let it stand by the side of the fire and add a raw chicken, and let all simmer. When the chicken is cooked, skim the soup, pass it through a sieve and let it boil up again. Have ready some carrots, parsley, and celery, cut up in lengths half an inch long and a quarter-inch wide, and cook them in a little thin stock. Then, just before serving, mix in these vegetables, and thicken the soup with sour cream mixed with the yolks of three eggs; pass through a sieve; then chop a little fennel finely and scatter it in. Pot-au-Feu.—Put in a saucepan six pounds of beef (bones