ENTRIES 129 and fry a nice golden brown colour. Serve crisped parsley with them as garnish. Chicken a I'ltalienne ; Polio alia Italiana {Italian).—Cut up a fowl and cook it in a saucepan with a little butter and salad oil till brown; then add six tomatoes, three chillies chopped very fine, a very little garlic, and two tablespoonfuls of very good gravy. Cook slowly for two hours, keeping the stewpan tightly closed. Serve very hot. Chicken, Blanquette of.—Put half a pint of white sauce in a stewpan, with six tablespoonfuls of broth, or milk ; let it boil; having cut up about one pound of the remains of any kind of poultry, put it in the sauce, warm it, and add two spoonfuls of liaison to it. Season with a little salt, pepper, and the juice of half a lemon ; stir, and serve. Do not let it boil, or it will curdle, and be unsightly and unpalatable. A little cooked ham or tongue is good in it, also oysters ; serve with bread sippets round, and a little chopped parsley sprinkled over. Chicken en Surprise.—Take a chicken, remove the skin from the breast and take away all the meat, removing any gristle there may be, and place it in a mortar. Have by your side half a pint of good cream, and begin by pouring half the quantity of it over the fowl; pound well to- gether for a few minutes, and then rub it through a clean wire sieve. When passed, put it back into the mortar and pour on gradually the remainder of the cream, stirring it round so that they blend together perfectly, add a little salt and dust of cayenne pepper. Fill a mould with this mixture, and twist a bit of buttered paper rovind the top, then fold a sheet of paper several times, place it in the stewpan, put in boiling water halfway up the mould, and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Turn this out, and mix with it half a pint of pale aspic jelly. Have some bright red aspic, and a pretty jelly mould, pour a little of the red aspic into the mould, to the depth of an inch. When this is cool, put in the chicken and more aspic mixture, place on ice, and when properly stiff turn out, and garnish the top with a wreath of chervil leaves; serve chopped aspic in little mounds round the base alternately with little moulds of salad. 9