THE housewife's BEFEKEE 74 A top-side of beef can be divided into two, one half roasted or stewed, the other half put into salt and boiled ; the remains of salt beef make a good potato pie. Besides the more expensive joints, there are many inferior parts which, if properly cooked, make very appetising dishes where economy is an object, and these are especially liked by country servants. Sheep's head and pluck, pig's fry, ox- cheek stew or pie, bullock's heart, sheep's heart, liver, tripe, etc. Of course they require nice cooking. The cheapest food becomes wasteful if not eaten, and care should be taken to ascertain which of these dishes are liked before having them cooked. The cheapest roasting joint is the top-side ; the principal thing is to rather under-cook it, otherwise it will be dry and stringy. More and richer gravy runs from this joint than from any other. The next most economical joint is the middle rib. One of the best ways to cook this, where only a small joint is required, is to cut the joint in half, salt the ends and roast the chine. One rib is rather an uncom- fortable joint to cut, hence it is a good plan to take out the bone and roll it, and put the bone into the stockpot. A rib rolled and tied round in a cloth, salted or pickled, makes also a pretty little boiling joint; but it should not be cut till it is cold, and then a silver skewer should be run through it. For boiling, the silver-side is perhaps the cheapest, as there is little or no bone. A loin of mutton is very useful in a small family. It will either make two little joints, or else one half can be divided into chops, and the half which cannot be jointed can be kept to roast, or it may be boned and served up with a thick brown sauce. A neck of mutton can be divided so as to form several dishes—cutlets, Don Pedro pie, Irish stew, haricot mutton boiled mutton, curry, Scotch broth, mutton pies, etc. The scrag end makes a very good Irish stew, and it can be eaten boiled with caper sauce. A leg of mutton can be divided into three parts—the knuckle end for boiling ; the middle part which makes a capital steak; and the thick end which can be either roasted as it is, or what is better, boned, stuffed and rolled. The basis of all cookery consists of roasting, boiling,