155 ENTRIES Veal, Knuckle of, en Eagout.—Take a knuckle of veal, one head of celery, one bunch of savoury herbs, one onion, one blade and a half of mace, four or five young carrots, two dessertspoonfuls of ketchup, two of tomato sauce, juice of half a lemon, a piece of butter, a little flour, pepper and salt, and one glass of white wine. Cut the meat from the veal into slices, season them with pepper and salt, and fry them lightly. Chop the bone, and put it into the bottom of a stewpan with the head of celery, savoury herbs, carrots, and one and a half blades of mace. Put in the slices of veal, pour in a pint of water, and set it over a moderate fire, to simmer slowly for about two hours. Then take out the veal, strain the gravy through a hair sieve; add a piece of butter rolled in flour, the ketchup, sauce, lemon juice and wine. Boil it for a few minutes; then put in the slices of meat and the vegetables, and when hot serve it quickly. Veal Olive Pie.—Cut the remains of a dressed fillet of veal into thin slices and cover these with pieces of bacon, spread force-meat upon them and roll them firmly. Place in a pie dish piled high in the middle and intersperse among them about a dozen force-meat balls the size of marbles, the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, cut into halves, and a few stewed mushrooms. Pour over a good, highly flavoured, thick gravy flavoured with lemon juice. Line the edges of a pie dish, cover it in the usual way and bake in a good oven for an hour, or an hour and a half. Veal Olives.—Scrape half a pound of uncooked veal and one ounce of lean ham; clean and pound one anchovy ; mix well together and season with the tenth part of a nutmeg grated, a quarter of a grain of cayenne, a saltspoonful of white pepper, a saltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a dessertspoonful of Oswego flour, one ounce of veal suet finely chopped, and a well- beaten egg. Cut some slices of veal oflf the fillet as thin as possible, and trim them into pieces four and a half inches long and three inches wide (six will be required); roll these flat with, the rolling pin ; have the same number of pieces of fat bacon, cut so thin that they are almost transparent ; divide the force-meat into six parts, roll one part in each piece of veal^ £|,nd over th^t the bacon, bind them round