SWEETS 215 and pour while hot into the dish. Let it stand until quite cold, and turn out. If preferred, the sponge cakes, after being sliced, may be soaked in a little sherry or raisin wine. After being turned out, the pudding will be improved by being surrounded with custard as described in the recipe on each packet. Strawberry Fritters.—Mix a tablespoonful of salad oil with a little flour and the grated peel of half a lemon. Whisk the whites of three eggs ; stir them in, and add only sujQ&cient white wine to make a very thick batter ; then mix in some fine ripe strawberries, and drop the mixture from a spoon about the size of a walnut into a pan of boiling fritter with a strawberry in each fritter. When done take them carefully out, drain them on a sieve and serve, with sifted sugar over them. Strawberry Short Cake.—Beat thoroughly the yolks and whites of three eggs; add a cup three-quarters full of castor sugar, and the juice of a lemon. Beat again and add a teaspoonful of boiling water; continue beating, adding slowly a cup of flour well dried and sifted. Beat quickly and pour into jelly cake tins. Bake for ten or fifteen minutes, and when done spread with well-sweetened strawberries, and put two cakes together; serve with whipped cream when cold. Strawberry Sponge.—Soak half an ounce of leaf gelatine in half a pint of water for a couple of hours; put into a saucepan the thin rind of half a lemon and the strained juice of a pound of strawberries ; add five ounces of loaf sugar, and stir over the fire till it has boiled up for five minutes. Strain when cold, but not set. Whip up with a whisk till it becomes quite light and frothy ; then put it into a damped mould, and turn out. A little cochineal improves the colour. Sucre a la creme {Canadian).—To every pound of maple sugar, allow one pint of fresh cream; break the sugar into small pieces, and put it with the cream into a white-lined saucepan. Put the latter on a fresh fire, and boil the cream and sugar together for an hour; stir constantly in one direction. When the boiling is over take the saucepan ofl* the fire, and continue the stirring until the mixture cools