THE fiOUSEWliFE^S REI^EHEfi 158 cooked) the size of the flutes of small asparagus moulds, stand them upright and line the mould with a coating of white aspic, fill up the mould with a mayonnaise in which a little aspic has been added, so that it can stand firm when served; place round a dish and garnish in centre with a salad of artichoke bottoms. Asparagus Cream; Creme d'Asperges.—This dish can only be made in one of Jones Brothers' artistic moulds. Cook two bundles of green asparagus; when ready, separate the heads and pass through a fine sieve mixing in two table- spoonfuls of veloute sauce thinned down. Prepare the white part of the asparagus the same way. Pound up, and pass through a sieve two breasts of fowls ; divide into two equal portions, and into one of these slowly mix the green puree with the addition of a gill of whipped cream; then with the second portion, add the white puree and the same quantity of cream. Butter the mould, and place in half the green puree to fill one-quarter of the contents. Mix the remainder with half the white portion (thus giving a neutral tint), with which fill the mould to three-quarters; afterwards pour in the rest of the white portion. Steam this prepara- tion in a pan for half an hour without allowing it to boil. Withdraw from the mould, and serve up the entree with sufficient asparagus heads to garnish the centre. Asparagus Peas.—Take a bundle of green asparagus; when cut, it should produce a pint and a half of peas; clear the points and stalks of small leaves; break the asparagus and cut it in pieces a quarter of an inch long; if very large, slit the asparagus in two. Boil the peas in an untinned two-quart stewpan full of salted boiling water (four ounces of salt to a quart of water); when done, drain on a cloth; put the peas in a stewpan with two gills of melted butter, one teaspoonful of pounded sugar, and one pinch of salt; thicken with two yolks of eggs, one ounce of butter, and half a gill of cream; toss over the fire till the butter is melted, put in a dish and serve. Asparagus, To boil.—Scrape the stalks clean, wash them in cold water, tie them up in bundles of about twenty-five each, cut off the stalks even at the bottom about four inches from the green part; put them into a stewpan of boiling