FISH 111 Another way is, having well washed and scraped their shells, drain them and dry them in a stewpan upon a good fire. Then take them out of their shells one by one, picking off the beards, and put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter, parsley, and scallions shred small. Shake them over the fire, and put a little flour, moistening them with broth. When the sauce is consumed, put in the yolks of three eggs beat up with cream. Thicken over the fire, and add afterwards a dash of lemon or vinegar. Mussels anx fines herbes.—Open the mussels and detach them from the shells ; then arrange each mussel in half a shell, and arrange them in a pie dish ; keeping them level and steady in a laj^er of salt. Sprinkle them with finely chopped onions, shallots, mushrooms, parsley, and chervil, and then with breadcrumbs; then pour a little oiled butter over, and bake in the oven for eight minutes. Oysters a la Normande.—Butter the oyster moulds and decorate them with trufiles and lobster coral chopped very finely, fill up with a souffle of whitings flavoured with oyster essence. Poach them and turn out, and serve up on a border, the centre of which garnish with oysters previously poached and fried a la Yilleroy and serve with sauce Normande. Express moulds mast be used for these. Oysters, Devilled, a la Creole.—Place a layer of oysters in a shallow baking pan, spread with breadcrumbs, bits of mustard, butter, and vinegar ; season with salt and pepper, put in the pan in alternate layers ; put breadcrumbs and butter on the top. Squeeze over a little lemon juice and bake. Oyster Kromeskies a la Royale ; Kromeskies d'huitres a la Royale.—Blanch a dozen oysters, remove the beards and cut into small pieces. Have ready half a pound of cooked chicken (or veal), which has been finely minced, two mushrooms, and a small slice of lean bacon; add the oysters and pound all together. Then mix one ounce of butter and one ounce of flour together in a stewpan, and add sufficient milk to make a thick paste. Stir till it leaves the sides of the pan, and turn on to a plate to cool; add the oysters, etc., to this paste; season with a little