DESSEET 231 Kidney in Bacon.—Cut six thin slices of bacon about six or eight inches long. Mix up a teaspoonful each of chopped onion and parsley, with an ounce of breadcrumbs ; add a pinch of nutmeg, pepper, and grated lemon rind. Sprinkle the bacon with it, put a kidney on each slice and roll it round them, tie with a piece of string and bake in a hot oven, or heat in a frying-pan for a few minutes. Serve very hot. Petits Morceaux a ravir.—Take some croHtons and cut them of an octagonal shape; fry them a pale brown, and sprinkle each with a little Nepaul pepper; have ready to place on each croUton some pieces of tongue the same size as the croHtons; put in the oven on a small plate, with a tiny bit of butter and a few drops of claret, and let them get thoroughly hot. Have ready some poached eggs nicely trimmed, place a piece of tongue, and then an egg on the top of each croHtoriy and serve quickly. This is also very good with bloater paste spread on the croitton^ and then placing an egg on the top of it. Tossed Shrimps.—Put a little butter into a frying-pan and add two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley. Take half a pint of shelled shrimps, dip them into flour with which pepper, salt, and a dash of cayenne should previously have been mixed; then throw the shrimps into the frying-pan, shake them about till they have absorbed all the fat, and serve very hot, with buttered toast. I have only given these few dishes, because space will not allow me to give more; besides, there are so many excellent little books published on breakfast dishes alone, which will give a greater variety than I can do here. Wyvern's and Mrs. Allen's are most excellent and easily followed. DESSERT Pretty Dessert Dishes can be made by cutting a melon in half and filling with tutti frutti cream. Oranges may be divided in halves, the pulp taken out and the skins filled with orange ice; and banana skins can be used in the same way for filling with banana cream, the skins being held in position by a bow of ribbon or gold cord.