125 ENTRIES sharply all round. Glaze it with some good aspic jelly. Have ready some good aspic, and before it is quite cold stir into it with a small whisk half a tin of vegetable macedoine, and whisk so that the vegetables are well scattered in it; then line a square baking tin about the size for a half quartern loaf with some of it, and when set, put in the beef and then fill in with more of the macedoine jelly. Stand on ice till set, then turn out and serve with chopped aspic all round and aspic formed into devices on the top. Beef Heart Roasted.—Soak it over night, and then wash and clean it very well. Take out all the white thick skin, and fill it with stuffing of a savoury description, having a larger proportion of marjoram than usual; make a strong gravy, and serve it up with currant jelly sauce. It should not be spitted, but hung from an upright jack; the better way is to bake it for four or five hours in a slow oven, and either lard it profusely, or baste it frequently with butter. Its appearance and flavour may be much improved by dividing it in half, covering it with slices of fat bacon ; laying the force-meat over it, rolling it round and dressing it in either way as above. The other half will make excel- lent beef a la mode. It is a good plan to dress beef heart in this way a day before roasting or baking a hare, as when cold, and hashed together, they can scarcely be dis- tinguished from each other. When there is no hare, hash the heart the same way by cutting it in slices, warming it in gravy, with a glass of port wine and melted currant jelly. Beef Olives with Anchovy Force-meat.—Cut some slices of fresh meat, or from an under-done cooked joint. Make a force-meat as follows :—One hard-boiled egg, three an- chovies washed and boned, a little parsley and lemon peel, all chopped fine; a heaped tablespoonful of grated bread- crumbs, the same of chopped suet; bind with an egg. Spread a layer of the force-meat on each slice of beef; roll it up, and wrap the beef in a thin slice of fat bacon, and stew gently. Serve with gravy and baked tomatoes. "Beef "PeLSty (Cornish Dish).—Take half a pound of beef- steak, mince it rather small; season well with pepper and salt. Take six moderate-sized potatoes, peel them. Make some ordinary puff pastry, which divide in half (each half