USEFUL ADJUNCTS TO THE KITCHEN 25 The water must boil up to the screw, indicated in the apparatus ; and it takes five hours to make the best and strongest consommes. It is made in various size?, holding from one pound of meat upwards. The Clueen's Boiler.—This is a most delightful pudding- boiler, consisting of the usual white earthenware basin, to the top of which fits a tin cover, which fastens on to it tightly by two spring wire hoops, thus preventing the use of a pudding-cloth, and through which water cannot possibly enter; it has a handle by which it is lifted in and out of the saucepan. These basins are made in different sizes. The directions given by the Atmospheric China Co., in New Bond Street, where they can be procured (though all iron- mongers and stores keep them), are to fill the basins in the usual mode, and to place a sheet of greased paper over the top to avoid sticking. If the pudding has to be kept in the basin, which is often the fate of plum-puddings, a well- fitting piece of butter-muslin should be twice folded over each, so that the contents may not come in contact with the tin. The Perfect Strainer.—This strainer, brought out by Perry & Co., of Wolverhampton, is made of perforated porcelain encased in tin, and is a great improvement on the metal ones. It is cleanly in use and not subject to corro- sion like an all-metal strainer; it is made in two grades with fine and coarse perforations, and will outwear two or three of the old kind. The Shield Chimney Cowl and Ventilator is the best one for smoking chimneys; it is one of the most effective and economical in the market, is absolutely noiseless, and there is no obstruction to the sweep's brush. The steel spindle works in oil, and is entirely protected from soot and dirt. They are made in zinc and galvanised iron, fireproof. The hot cover lift called *'The Cook's Friend," is a simple little invention to prevent the cook burning her fingers in taking hold of a hot saucepan ; it is merely a kind of fork with a hooked end of bent wire, which is placed under the strap handle of a saucepan cover, drawn tight, and then the lid can be lifted without trouble. When a cover is fitted with „ a knob as with kettles, the lifter is reversed,