232 THE housewife's EEFEREE To make Ice Cream.—These are best made from fresh uncooked cream ; but then the cream should he chilled before freezing as it is more quickly frozen. Many persons consider the cream should be cooked before freezing, as they maintain it gives it greater body and richness. When the cream is cooked, it is best placed in a gourmet boiler, and that placed inside a saucepan of water. The cream should be constantly stirred till the water boils in the saucepan, when it should be removed from the fire, and the sugar and flavour added and stirred till the sugar is dissolved, when it should stand for a few minutes; strain, and cool when it is ready to freeze. If fruit juices are used to flavour with, they should be mixed with the sugar and stirred till a clear syrup is obtained, and stirred into the cream just before freezing. Sometimes the fruit itself, such as pineapple, peach, and apricot, is worked into the cream by cutting it into dice-like shapes, and lightly mixed with the sugar and then mixed into the frozen cream. Strawberries, rasp- berries, and currants must be mashed and sugared, and mixed without beating into the frozen cream. All directions for freezing are given with the freezers, so it is not necessary to enter into that part of the manipulation here. For evening use the cream should be cooked in the morning, and frozen by the middle of the day, as it takes several hours to harden and ripen; for this purpose all the brine should be emptied away, and fresh ice and salt should be added and placed over the top covered with a blanket which has been well wetted with the brine. It should be left for a couple of hours, and then the freezer should be opened again, the cream scraped down and beaten again, and packed down with fresh ice and salt, keeping the blanket wet with brine. To mould cream, fill the mould solidly in every part, tightly heap it a little above the brim, and press the cover down hard, bind with a buttered cloth or greased paper over the top and the point; and bury it in the ice and salt. To turn out, wash the mould with cold water to remove the salt mixture and wipe the mould dry; lift off the cover, and turn the mould over on a plate, and if the room is warm it will slip off the cream in a few seconds. Warm water should never be used to turn out creams or ices.