THE housewife's EEFEKEE 202 Devonshire White Pot.—Take a pint of cream, and strain four eggs into it. Put in a little salt and a little grated nutmeg, and season freely with sugar. Take a penny loaf of white bread sliced very thin, and put it into a dish. The cream and eggs being put to it, then take a handful of raisins and a little sweet butter and bake it. Diplomatic Pudding.—Decorate a mould with chopped pistachio nuts and desiccated cocoanut, set in clear jelly and put on ice. Make a custard with the yolks of four eggs^ one pint of milk, sugar to taste, and a few drops of some flavouring essence. Stir into this custard when cold two ounces of sponge-cake crumbs, two ounces of dried cherries, two ounces of ratafias, and the same of angelica and citron cut up very finely, one gill of whipped cream, and half an ounce of isinglass dissolved in a gill of water. Mix well, and pour into the mould, and put on ice to set. Fairy Toast.—Toast slices of stale sponge cake, and cut them into pieces two inches square; put half a tumblerful of apple or any light-coloured jelly into a basin, and whip it slowly and continuously till very light; then mix in care- fully the beaten white of one egg. Spread this over the squares of toast, and place a preserved cherry in the centre of each square. Serve cold with cream. Fig Pudding.—Take three-quarters of a pound of bread- crumbs, and six ounces of finely chopped suet (Hugon's Atora " beef-suet is highly recommended) • mix together; add half a pound of chopped figs, three ounces of moist sugar, two eggs beaten, and half a cup of milk. Boil five hours. French Apple Pudding.—Peel and core some large apples, and cut them into quarters. Put the peels and cores in a stewpan and cover them with water, and let them stew for half an hour ; strain, and pour over the sliced apples enough juice to cover them. Add a piece of lemon peel, two cloves, and sugar to taste. Boil until reduced to pulp. Pour out into a basin and stir in two well-beaten eggs to a quart of pulp, and an ounce of fresh butter. Butter a pie dish, put in the apple, strew thickly on the top with breadcrumbs, and add little pieces of butter. Brown nicely in the oven and serve either hot or cold. Send to table