176 THE housewife's REFEKEE through a sieve, take some beetroot, chop it very fine and pass it through a sieve. Make some mayonnaise sauce in which half a pint of aspic jelly has been melted, divide it into three parts, and mix one part with each of the three mixtures. To the green mixture add a little green colouring to the mayonnaise, and a little carmine to that used with the beetroot. Have ready a round mould and pour in first some of the red puree, then the white, then the green, and then white again and place on ice. The mould must be placed on ice with each different layer, to get firm before another layer is added. Salad Barbe de Capucine.—Take fresh harbedeCapucine, washed, picked, and pressed dry ; oil, salt, pepper, vinegar, a dozen fresh violets, three saltspoonfuls of orris root rubbed up with salad oil. Salad, Plain Vegetable.—Boil separately equal quantities of young carrots, cauliflower, French beans, peas, asparagus tops, and potatoes, and half the quantity of young turnips. Drain them thoroughly, cut up the carrots, turnips, potatoes, and cauliflowers; place all in a salad bowl, and dress with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, or, if preferred, a mayonnaise sauce. Salad, Potato (Hot).—Boil and mash six potatoes, season with a teaspoonful of salt, half a tea spoonful of pepper, a tablespoonful of butter, and nine tablespoonfuls of milk. Boil hard six eggs, chop the whites fine, mash the yolks, and season with a teaspoonful of mustard (French), four teaspoonfuls of vinegar, and half a tablespoonful of butter or oil. Mix the whites and yolks together, then put the potatoes and eggs in layers, the last being potatoes, spread butter thickly over the top and brown in a hot oven. Salad, Sardine.—Drain the oil from a small box of sardines, laying them afterwards on brown paper so that no trace may remain of the oil. Bemove the skin and bones, and pour a little lemon juice over them, lay them on a bed of lettuce, pour a plain French dressing over them, and garnish with two hard-boiled eggs which have been chopped fine. Salad, Tomato, a la Ben-trovato.—Chop up some tomatoes,