SWEETS 197 Bird's Nest.—Take a bird's nest mould (a quart size), and put in some liquefied wine jelly, coloured green, and stand it on ice, turn out when cold, and fill the inside with cream eggs, made either in egg moulds, or if there are no egg moulds handy, good-shaped eggshells may be used, thus : Cut off a top at the broad end of the egg, rinse the shell out with cold water after emptying it, and fill it with ivory cream; or pierce a hole at one end of the egg, and let the contents out, aud then fill it with the cream. Ivory cream is made with good double cream, into which is stirred one ounce of gelatine soaked in sherry or brandy, and dissolved over a gentle fire, and then poured into the egg moulds, and after being set, placed in the nests, and the dish decorated with foliage and flowers. Biscuits a la Creme.—Take the whites of eight eggs, beat them to snow, mix with them ten ounces of powdered and sifted sugar, a spoonful of orange-flower water, and a quart of very thick cream, whipped as thickly as possible. Stir this with one hand, whilst Avith the other dredge in six ounces of dried flour. Bake as small biscuits. Bisqiiet Glace.—Take the juice from a can of pineapple, sweeten to taste, colour pink with cochineal, add one tea- spoonful of gelatine dissolved in a little of the pineapple juice, and a teaspoonful of boiling water, add the beaten white of an egg. Freeze this first and line a melon mould with it an inch thick, and pack in ice. For the filling, whip one pint of rich cream that has been sweetened and flavoured with vanilla or wine, add the beaten whites of two eggs, freeze, and then fill the mould ; pack in ice and salt for two hours. Boules de Noel.—Take some mincemeat, divide it into equal portions, make them into balls, and roll them in a mixture of egg, ratafia crumbs, castor sugar, and crushed almonds; fry till of a pale brown colour in lard. Arrange them piled up in an entree dish, and scatter castor sugar over them. Serve hot brandy with them. Brioches Varies aux Confitures.—Make a batter as for brioche^ butter some madelaine tins, fill them half-full of hrioche, put in a spoonful of preserve ; then add more brioche, dust with sugar, and bake. Serve hot, sprinkled with stoned raisins.