120 THE HOUSEWlFE^S KEFBBEE French china fireproof pans; lay the fillets into it and squeeze the juice of a lemon over all and put in the oven till quite cooked, when they must be taken out of the stock and their papers, and be allowed to get cold. In the meantime let the stock they have been cooked in get cold also. Melt some butter in a saucepan, and mix some flour and milk together; pour the boiling butter over it and then add the fish stock, and half a pint of cream and half a pint of pale aspic cream ; let all boil up, and when thickened, strain. Colour one half a pretty pink with cochineal, and leave the other white. When nearly cold, mask four of the fillets with the white, and four with the pink sauce and put them on ice till quite stiff. Make a pillar with milk and gelatine (half a pint of milk to two and a half ounces of white leaf gelatine); it should be formed narrow at the top and put into the refrigerator, and when it is cold and firm, cover it all over with cress, and then place the fillets alternately round. Ornament the fillets with designs in trufile, and run pale aspic jelly between each. Place aspic all round the base and sprinkle lobster coral lightly over the aspic. On the top place a bed of aspic jelly, and on that arrange a small basket made in a basket mould of gelatine and milk and stick it on with gelatine; fill the basket with some of the macedoine vegetables that are sold in bottles, sprinkle a little cut aspic here and there, and garnish with chervil sprays; also decorate the base here and there with a chervil leaf. Soles au Gratin.—Cut ofi* the fins of a fine fresh sole, and make an incision in the back; then butter a stewpan and put into it a teaspoonful of finely chopped onions and a wine-glassful of white wine ; then place the sole in the pan, cover it with six spoonfuls of cullis and sprinkle fine breadcrumbs over it, and stick a few small pieces of butter about it. Put it now into a moderate oven, for twenty minutes or half an hour ; remove it carefully from the stew- pan and keep it hot while you make the following sauce:— Put into the saucepan four spoonfuls of stock, let it boil five minutes, stirring it all the time; add the juice of a lemon, a teaspoonful of chopped mushrooms, one of minced parsley, one ^of essence of anchovy, a little sugar and cayenne pepper; beat all together, and pour it round the