THE housewife's REFEEEE 128 about a tablespoonful—boil up, and add a teaspoonful of Madeira whilst boiling. Brazilian Stew.—Take three or four pounds of lean beef, cut it into neat pieces, and put it into a stewpan with two carrots, two turnips, and two onions, cut up in small pieces. Add a bouquet of herbs, a little pepper and salt, and one gill of vinegar, or a little more if that is not enough to almost cover the contents of the stewpan. Cover the stew- pan, shut the lid down tightly and let it simmer gently for about four hours. Bubble and Squeak.—Cut fresh pork in strips, and fry a nice brown; pour off half the fat (which keep to thicken with flour and gravy). Put in the pan with cold boiled potatoes and cabbage, well mashed together. This should turn out whole, and be served in the middle of the dish, with pork and gravy around it. Calf's Brains in Cases au Gratin.—The brains after being cleansed, boiled, and cut into small collops, must be added to some well-seasoned allemande, bechamel, ravigotte, or maitre d'hotel sauce, previously made hot; mix them gently in this, and with the preparation fill some paper cases, strew fried breadcrumbs upon the tops; push in the oven for a few minutes; dish up the cases on a napkin with fried parsley, and serve hot. Note.—Ham, tongue, truflles, mushrooms, or any kind of pickles may be added in small quantities. Calf's Brains on Toast.—Beat three eggs light; add salt, pepper, and parsley. Take some brains after they have been soaked for a quarter of an hour, and drop them into boiling water, into which a little salt and vinegar has been put. The brains should be boiled hard for ten minutes, and then thrown into iced cold water. When well cooled, break them up, and stir in the eggs and seasoning. Have ready two ounces of butter in a frying-pan, pour in the mixture, and stir rapidly for two minutes until it looks like stirred eggs. Have ready six or eight rounds of fried bread, and heap the brains on them. Calf's Head Fritters.—Cut some slices from cold calf's head, and mask them with tomato sauce; dip them in batter