THE housewife's BEFEREE 204 represent anemones. Fish are made in little fish moulds of ivory cream with silver foil paper mixed in artistically, then turned out and placed in the jelly. The mould filled with clear pale jelly. The whole should be garnished with little shells of pale jelly, and sprays of maidenhair fern. Greengage Mould.—Remove the stalks from one pint of greengages; then simmer them with about a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar. Dissolve a quarter of an ounce of isinglassine into two tablespoonfuls of boiling water, stir into the fruit, and pour the whole into a mould. Honore of Green Gooseberries {E. Garth).—Make a stifi* paste with flour, butter, eggs, and water ; roll it out and cut it into a round, and place on a baking sheet. Then for the choux paste, put half a pint of water into a stewpan with four ounces of butter and two ounces of castor sugar; let it boil, then mix in five ounces of fine sifted flour, stir well together and stand on the stove, and when cool mix in, one by one, three whole eggs, and a few drops of vanilla essence; put the mixture in a forcing bag with plain pipe, and force it out in a roll round the paste; on another baking sheet press out some balls about the size of large walnuts ; bake in a moderate oven; then stick the balls with white of egg quite close together on the roll of paste; place in the centre some nicely stewed gooseberries, and over them a layer of whipped cream flavoured with vanilla. Ice a TAmericaine ; Glace a TAmericaine {Gentlewoman). —E<emove the stones from a quart of damsons; crack some of the stones and pound the kernels; then pour a quart of boiling water on the fruit, and add half a pound of castor sugar and the pounded kernels; bring up the colour with a little carmine; pass through a sieve; add a wineglassf ul of Kirsch liquor, and pour it into a mould, with a cavity in the centre, and freeze. Pound one pound of Barcelona nuts with a few almonds or walnuts; whip up a pint of sweetened cream flavoured with noyeau; stir in lightly the nuts and a quarter of an ounce of dissolved isinglass : turn out the mould of ice, pile the cream in the centre, and place it in the ice case till wanted. Ice Cream {New Orleans Recipe).—Tdike six cream cheeses and the cream that comes with them ; two tins of condensed