58 THE housewife's EEFEREE spoonfuls of ammonia to every gallon of water. They must be covered whilst soaking, and when the dirt has been loosened from the wool, the blankets must be moved up and down in the water to thoroughly clean them. They must then be taken from the suds and put into fresh suds and worked up and down again. They should not be rubbed much, but very dirty places may be scrubbed with a small scrubbing brush; after this the blankets must be thoroughly wrung through a wringer, which has been screwed up rather loosely, and rinsed in three waters. The blankets must be wrung lightly through the wringer as before from one rinsing water to the other. Then the blanket should be wrung in the same way out of the rinsing water into a clothes basket, and then carefully hung on the line to drip; it should not be hung in the strong sun, else it will shrink and harden. Counterpanes.—Counterpanes should be soaked in a great quantity of strong soapsuds in luke-warm water and then removed to a tub of warmer suds, where any very dirty marks may be rubbed out. Then the counterpanes should be removed to a boiler of cold water in which two or three tablespoonfuls of kerosene and a pint of jellied soap have been mixed. They then should be brought to boiling point, and boiled for a couple of minutes in the suds, afterwards being removed into clean, cold, rinsing water. They must then be wrung from this water into a second, and then into a third water, which should be delicately blued, and then they must be hung out where the sun will bleach them, and if they are at all of a yellow colour, let them be left on the grass for two or three days. Washing Woollens.—Wash flannels and woollens in cold, soft water with a little borax in it; the temperature of the water should be the same as the surrounding air; after washing they should be squeezed and pressed till clean. To Wash Stockings.—All stockings, especially coloured ones, should be washed by hand and quiclily dried. Silk Handkerchiefs.—Wash them in luke-warm water and rinse two or three times in clear, cold water, without any blue. Wring them out, fold and roll them tightly in