35 THE DAIRY cold water, renewing the water several times after kneading the butter well in it with the hand. Never let milk stand more than twenty-four hours before skimming. Three or four days' cream should be kept in a cream crock, in some cool place before churning; but every time fresh cream is added the whole should be well stirred. Thick cream from pan-setting must be diluted with skim milk before churning, otherwise it will not churn into gran- ular form, but will come into a large compact mass, which cannot be freed from butter-milk without spoiling the grain and flavour by overworking. When salting press the salt in with a ladle; but do not give the ladle a wiping motion as it injures the grain. To sweeten rancid butter, break it up into small pieces, put it into a basin containing new milk, leave it for an hour, then pour off the milk and wash it in salted water. If not sweet, work in a saltspoonful of borax to half a pound of butter ; then place and leave it for a couple of hours in the milk bath. On Churns The New Era Disc Churn is a very rapid churn. At present it is not much known, but will, I think, be very popular in time. It consists of an oval box with a circular bottom; in- side is a plain disc of wood, which is made to revolve at great speed by a multiplying gear. Over the disc is placed a hood. Cream being of a sticky nature adheres to the disc, which, being revolved at great speed, dashes the cream into the hood and against the sides of the churn. This aerates the cream, and when the churn is opened at the top all bad gases escape at once, instead of being re-churned into the butter. When the cream gets quite thick and the butter globules are almost ready to break, a little water is added and a few turns of the handle are given. The buttermilk is turned off and the churn is then filled with cold water half-way between the top of the disc and the axle. About two minutes' fast churning both ways is given, the water is then thrown off and the butter grains are ready for brining, which is conducted on the same principle as the washing. The head is removed and swilled out with cold water, the churn is filled up with cold water and the butter is takea