THE HOUSEWIFE^S BEFEREB 54 the machine (each machine has instructions with it of how many articles it will hold), strew some of the soap jelly amongst the clothes, cover with hot water and turn the machine for about twenty minutes to half-an-hour. Then the clothes can be taken out and passed through the wringer, when they are put into the copper and boiled for about twenty minutes, and then thrown into the rinsing tubs as in hand-washing. Soda should not be used for coloured goods, a little salt should be put into the water with them. Shirt fronts, collars, cuffs, and skirts should be dipped in starch whilst dry. Thin muslins and laces are dipped in starch whilst dry, and then clapped with the hands till in the right condition to iron. Unbleached cottons, etc., follow the white clothes through the same waters, but must never be washed with them, as they discharge a portion of their colour, and so discolour the white clothes. A spoonful of ox-gall to a gallon of water will set the colours of most things soaked in it previous to washing. Vinegar in the rinsing water for pink or green calicoes will whiten them. Pearlash for purples and blues. Crimson is the most difficult colour to wash : a good plan is to put in a little bran in a saucepan and let it come to boiling point, then pour the water off the bran, and when it is cool use it to wash the crimson article. Before the wash begins all the bed linen and underclothing should be placed by themselves, the table linen and tea towels put into another pile, the flannels in another, and all the coloured clothes put aside to wash last. Ironing.—For this purpose a thick blanket about one and a half yard square must be laid on a deal table, over which place a clean calico cloth. Then spread the article to be ironed very smoothly on the cloth, steady it with the left hand, and pass the hot iron quickly and firmly over it without making any creases; it must be then folded and hung up on the clothes horse to dry. A small board covered with flannel should be used for shirt fronts, and a larger board tapering at one end for skirts. Embroidery should be ironed on the wrong side in