THE housewife's KEFEKEE 218 two ounces of butter, a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, half an ounce of ground sweet almonds, and a couple of ground bitter almonds, the grated rind of half a lemon, and the juice of the same strained. Add one sponge cake rubbed fine and sifted, a dust of nutmeg, a little cream and two well-beaten eggs ; when this is well mixed, put in tartlet tins lined with pufF paste, and bake in a moderate oven. A thin slice of almond may be put in the centre of each. White Nougat.—Blanch a pound of almonds and chop. Pour four ounces of white honey in a new cup, set the cup in a kettle of water,'and boil until it will roll into a ball; to this add an ounce of castor sugar, and the stiffly beaten white of an egg; cook till stiff, and stir in the almonds. Take from the fire, and pour in a little tray lined with paper; press down firmly and let stay till cold. Then cut into thick, small, square blocks, and dust with powdered sugar which has been flavoured with vanilla and dried. White Puddings {Scotch),—To two parts of Hugon's " Atora " beef suet, the same of oatmeal previously toasted before the fire (eight ounces of each is a good proportion), add an eighth of an ounce of salt, and the same of ground black pepper. Mix these ingredients thoroughly with water, and tie hard up in a cloth. Boil slowly for an hour and a half in an open saucepan; keep it always under water, which must be boiling when the pudding is put in. Zambaglione.—Dissolve one and a half ounces of sugar in two sherry glassfuls of Madeira, stir into this the yolks of four eggs. Put a vessel containing this mixture in a bain- marie and whisk it till it is frothy, flavour with Maraschino or other liqueur and serve in glasses. This can be eaten hot or cold. In Italy it is generally preferred luke-warm. CAKES AND CONFECTIONS " Oh, Heavens ! what stuff is here ? "—Shakespeare. Angel Cake.—Beat the whites of eleven eggs, add one and a half tumblers of sugar which has been sifted three times, add then two teaspoonfuls of vanilla essence, a tumblerful of Vienna flour which has been sifted five times,