ENTRIES 135 in ice for two hours. When it is ready to be turned out, the inner mould must be taken out by pouring hot water into it and instantly removing it, and then quickly putting the mould on ice again, after which, dip the mould in hot water, and turn out. The centre of the mould should be filled with salad a la russe, and the outside decorated with chopped aspic and little round cherry tomatoes placed at equal distances. Cutlets, Hyderabad.—Parboil a nice joint, remove all bone, skin, and sinew ; pound the flesh in a mortar, mix with it a small cupful of fine breadcrumbs that have been passed through a sieve, two packets of Edwards's tomato soup, one dessertspoonful of best mild curry powder, an onion, and one clove of garlic (chopped very fine); add salt to tavste, bind the mixture with two well-beaten eggs, form them into cutlet shape, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry a nice colour; drain, on a sieve before the fire, of all super- fluous fat. Dish neatly on a stand of mashed potatoes, and decorate with green parsley. Tomato sauce may be served with these cutlets, but most people prefer them as they are. Cutlets with Curry Mixture.—Prepare some rather thick veal cutlets, cut each cutlet nearly through horizontally, lay in between the flabs of the cutlets a layer of curry mixture, and fasten the edges of the meat closely over the mixture. Egg and breadcrumb the cutlets, fry and serve round a pyramid of curry rice. The curry mixture is made of one teaspoonful of curry powder, one of curry paste, one of finely chopped gherkins, one red chilly finely chopped, and enough butter to mix all into a stiff* paste. Dolma.—Mince mutton with onions and rice; with this stuff" cucumbers, gourds, or vegetable marrows. Mix some broth with the yolk of an egg and lemon juice; pour this over the Dolmas for sauce. Dominoes a la Don Caesar {Drogan).—Prepare a stiff'force^ meat with the breast of a fowl, two yolks of eggs, and a gill and a half of cream. Take one third of the force-meat and a quarter-pound of truffles ; pound, and pass through a sieve and season. Lay this preparation on a buttered baking sheet in a thin layer, place it in an oven for a few minutes