THE housewife's BEFEEEE 106 Crayfish a la Bordelaise.—Fry the crayfish in their shells a nice brown in butter. Cut some carrots and onions into small dice, add some parsley and a bay leaf, some thyme, and stew in sauterne. Add the crayfish, and allow to boil for a quarter of an hour; thicken with fresh butter, and season with a little cayenne pepper. Crayfish a la Parisienne ; Ecrevisses a la Parisienne.— {Noel).—Butter the moulds, and line them with salmon force-meat, put in the interior some sliced crayfish tails mixed with a little allemande sauce ; fill up the moulds with the force-meat and poach; serve up with a cardinal sauce and a ragout a la Normande. Eel a la Tartare; Anguille a la Tartare.—Take a freshly killed eel, tie a piece of string tightly below the head and skin the fish. Clean it, and scald it in boiling water for three minutes, so that the second skin comes off easily. Remove all the fins, cut the fish in pieces, and boil it gently in stock for twenty minutes; then let it cool, and dry it in a cloth. Beat up two eggs with a few drops of oil and a few drops of water ; dip the pieces of fish into this; then breadcrumb and fry brown; serve with tartare sauce made with the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs chopped with some shallot, parsley, and chervil; pound them well together, stirring into them some good salad oil, and add vinegar, mustard, salt, and pepper to taste. Eels a la Bourguignonne; Meurette a la Bourguignonne. —Cut up two small eels, slice an onion finely and put in three cloves of garlic, a leek, thyme, bay leaf, pepper- corns, and three cloves; put these in a gourmet boiler, or Trench earthenware saucepan, with a pint of light claret; then put in the fish and a little salt, and let all stew for ten minutes, and thicken with some fiour and butter; stew again for three or four minutes, and stir in a little melted butter very gradually. When this has all amalga- mated with the stew, dish up the fish on toast, having rubbed the toast with a soupc^on of garlic; strain the same over the fish and serve as hot as possible. Eels An Vin Blanc, Matelote of.—Take two good-sized eels, skin and chop ithem in the usual way, mince some small onions, and some mushrooms, and melt some butter