ENTRfeS 137 with liquid aspic (cold), to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and decorate it with fancy designs in truffle, dipping each piece into liquid acid to make it adhere. Cut some truffles into squares like a draughtboard, very thin; also make some white cream aspic and cut into squares the same size; arrange these alternately round the mould like a draughtboard; but before doing this mask the mould with aspic. Fill the mould entirely with pate de foie gras, and then put on ice. When quite cold and firm, turn it out by dipping it into hot water for a second or two, and garnish with chopped aspic and cherry tomatoes. Foie Gras, Escalopes de, a la Bute (Corblet).—Take two large, raw goose livers weighing one pound and a half each. Make a good mire 2^oix with white wine : let it get cold. Prepare some paste with flour and water, cut the paste in two, make it flat, and put on half the quantity of mire poix, placing the liver in the centre. Put the rest of the mire poix on the top, then cover the liver with the paste and put them in the oven for about half or three-quarters of an hour. When they are cooked, put them in a cold place for one day. Remove the paste and mire poix covering, clean the foie gras with a small brush oiled, and cut them into neat slices, allowing one to each person. Dish on fond of aspic jelly, dress the foie gras as if it were entree and garnish with cut aspic jelly. Foie Gras Fritters.—Have ready some good batter, which should be made some hours previously, then have a frying- pan of boiling fat, and some pieces of foie gras about half an inch thick, and two inches by one and a half in size, seasoned with salt, lemon juice, and a dust of cayenne. Dip each piece of the foie gras into the batter, then into the boiling fat; turn them over lightly with a fork, and when fried crisp, and of a light colour, drain and dish them up on a napkin. Fricandellans {Indian).—Mince the lean of cold lamb very fine. Soak the crumb of a large slice of bread in milk, mash it, and mix with the minced meat a beaten egg, some chopped parsley and thyme, a little grated lemon-peel, pepper, and salt. Make them into little flat cakes and fry in butter. Serve dry, or with a rich gravy.