FISH 109 but do not wash them. Make three incisions slantwise on either side of each fish; rub them all over with a mixture of mustard mixed in tarragon vinegar, a clove of garlic scraped fine, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Place the fish in a china baking-dish with two ounces of butter broken over them, and a glass of claret, and set in the oven for ten minutes; turn the fish, baste them with their own liquor, and sprinkle over a handful of bread- crumbs, and replace in oven for ten minutes, and serve. Lobster Baskets; Corbeilles d'homard.—Take some hard- boiled eggs and cut them into halves longways ; take out the yolks and pound them in a mortar with the flesh of a hen lobster; when well mixed fill the eggs with the mix- ture. Take some of the feelers and put them across to look like a basket handle. Garnish with small salad and aspic. Oysters can be dressed the same way, substituting parsley stalks for the lobster feelers. Lobster en Beignets.—Divide a lobster into as nice pieces as possible, and dip each into good frying batter ; adding to it a little cayenne pepper, and a few drops of essence of anchovies. Fry quickly and serve very hot. Lobster Nests; Nids d'homard {Mrs. M7Zer).—Make some puff paste with six ounces of flour and six ounces of butter; line some nest moulds with this, filling them with rice and baking them a light golden colour. When cooked remove the rice, brush the tops of the nests over with white of egg, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. Pound some lobster in a mortar with a little butter, pepper, salt, and lobster coral; and shape this mixture into little eggs. Chop up fine a little more lobster, and stir over the fire in some good white sauce till quite hot; half fill the little nests with this sauce, and lay in the lobster eggs, allowing five or six to each nest. Serve very hot. Lobster Souffle; Souffle d'homard.—Put an ounce of butter into a stewpan, with two ounces of Vienna flour; mix well, and add gradually a gill of milk ; stir until perfectly smooth and thick, when remove from the fire and season with pepper, nutmeg, and salt. Take half a pound of cooked whiting, pass it through a sieve, and add this to the sauce. Pound well in a mortar, and add the yolks of