83 FLAl^^ COOKING spoonfuls of salt to the gallon, and a small quantity of soda. The fire should be sufiicient to let the saucepan boil up quickly from the moment the vegetables are im- mersed, and they should be well drained from their ablution water, and only put into the pot when the water is quite boiling, which process must be kept going, the vegetables being constantly pushed down to keep them covered; but there should be no lid on the saucepan, as that ruins the colour and appearance. As soon as they are cooked, which is when they are quite tender, and have not begun to fall to pieces or to mash, turn them out and drain them ; * and those vegetables which require it must be pressed. The medicinal value of vegetables is great. Celery is said to be very beneficial to the nervous system, and to be a cure for rheumatism and neuralgia. Spinach has a direct effect upon the kidneys, and tomatoes act upon the liver; asparagus purifies the blood; beans nourish and strengthen; beets and turnips are excellent appetisers, and onions are much recommended for insomnia; all housekeepers should therefore provide plenty of vegetables for the table, as it signifies health in the family. In cook- ing cauliflower, asparagus, stringed beans, and any other vegetable which may sometimes have a slightly bitter flavour, it is well to put a lump of loaf sugar into the water. Vegetables should never be cut after they have been sliced. Potatoes take half an hour to boil, unless small, when they take rather less; peas and asparagus twenty to twenty-five minutes; cabbage and cauliflower twenty-five to thirty minutes; carrots and turnips forty-five minutes when young, but an hour in winter; beets one hour in summer, and one to two in winter ] onions, medium size, one hour. To make sauces well is a great thing, and yet how few cooks really take the trouble to make them properly! They hurry over them, and consequently send up to table a sort of paperhangers' paste, or a thin butter-and-water mixture. To make good sauce takes a little time, but not very long, and as sauces and gravies constitute the perfection of entries, even for a simple mince or hash, it is very necessary to make them properly. In the first place, cooks often roll butter and flour * See drainers in first part of the book.