USEFUL ADJUNCTS TO THE KITCHEN 23 are broken into a tumbler and this cover be placed over it, a few sharp shakes up and down will beat them perfectly. These covers are also useful to place over a cup of tea, and keep it warm, and have the merit of allowing it to be carried about without spilling. Marston's Fish-kettle Strainer is a great improvement on the usual one. It consists of a corrugated plate made to fit any ordinary fish-kettle; its transverse grooves, which run to the edge on either side, permit the water to drain ofi" perfectly, and the fish can thus be made to slide off on to a dish by merely tilting the strainer. The Lucky Kettle is one of the best kettles ever manu- factured, and on its merits should take the place of the usual domestic kettle. The opening for filling it is at the rear of the handle, which causes it to be very easily filled, and prevents all chance of scalding the hand by issuing vapour; the handle is of a tripod shape, which renders it absolutely steady whilst the water is being poured out. The Plate and Dish-Washing Machine is a great help in very large households, for it washes and rinses plates and dishes quickly, without fear of breakages and chipping. These machines, by removing the brush, can be used as ordinary washing sinks, which is another item in their favour, and they can also be fitted into any sinks or troughs without alteration; but they are only advisable in large families, to save the labour of servants. The Electric Whisk ought to find a place in every well- regulated kitchen, as it is a first-rate article for making mayonnaise and other thick sauces as well as for whisking purposes generally. It is composed of corrugated blades turned alternately inwards and outwards, thus enabling them to rub and incorporate the ingredients to be mixed in a superior manner to those in general use. The Signal Egg Saucepan is a novel vessel for cooking eggs, of which three or six can be cooked at a time; the eggs are placed in the holders and barely covered with water, which is so legulated as to generate sufficient steam to sound the whistle in the cover at the exact time the eggs are done. This is most effective.