225 CAKES AND CONFECTIONS till the paste gets thick and firm. Roll it out, and cut into small rounds with pastry moulds, and bake in a brisk oven in buttered tins, or on oiled paper. Scones.—No. 1. Take half a pound of flour, half a tea- spoonful of sugar, half a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, one-quarter of an ounce of cream of tartar, and a pinch of salt. Mix these thoroughly, taking care there are no lumps in the soda or tartar. Add half an ounce of butter; rub it well into the flour; make a hole in the centre, and pour in a gill of sour milk (butter-milk slightly sour is preferable). Mix quickly and lightly but do not knead it. Place the dough on a floured board, roll out to a quarter of an inch thick, cut into small rounds, and place on a hot griddle, when they should begin to rise at once. Turn them once or twice, and draw back to a cooler part of the griddle when nearly done. Ten minutes is sufficient time. No. 2. Put a pound of dry flour into a basin, and add to it one heaped tablespoonful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, free from all lumps, and a large pinch of salt. Then mix all well together, and with a knife stir in by degrees enough butter-milk to make a soft but not too wet dough. Turn this out on the baking- board ; take a third of the dough, and roll it out on the board, which must be previously well-floured to about half an inch in thickness, cut into four pieces, and bake on a hot griddle, turning the cakes when risen and of a pale brown colour on the one side. They must be baked moderately quickly, but on neither a slow nor a fierce fire. They should rise to fully double their thickness. Schlirze-Bendel {German).—Take half a pound of sugar, four eggs, a good-sized piece of butter, some rose water (or rum), and as much flour as will make a paste. Roll out rather thin, and cut into long, narrow strips, and shape into knots or bows. Fry in plenty of hot fat, after which, roll in sugar and powdered cinnamon. Shortbread.—Take three-quarters of a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of ground rice, half a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a pinch of salt. Rub the butter and flour well together, then add the sugar, salt, and rice. Knead it thoroughly with the hand, and cut it 15