166 THE housewife's REFEKEE dish; sprinkle each layer with grated Parmesan cheese and« melted butter. Let it gratiner and serve in the same dish. Ham and Savoury Custard.—Prepare some cro'dtons and put on little slices of ham the same size and shape as the croutons and keep them hot. Make a custard with the yolks of two eggs and the white of one, with a gill of pale stock, pepper, and salt, and pour it into little cups or small gallipots, set them in a pan of boiling water, and keep boiling for fifteen minutes. When quite firm turn out and place one on each croiiton^ the custard flavoured well with shallot is an improvement many people think. Indian Cheese Savoury {Mrs. Grace Johnson).—Well mix two tablespoonfuls of Coombe's Eureka flour with enough milk to make it the consistency of cream, add the yolks of four eggs well beaten, three ounces of Parmesan cheese, some chopped parsley, and one chopped green chilly ; salt to taste. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff" froth, mix it with the rest gradually, pour it into a well-greased souffle dish, and bake in the oven till set and of a nice golden brown colour. Send it to table directly, as it falls when cool. Leeky Pie.—Cut up a dozen leeks, put them to boil with enough water to cover them. When boiled strain off* the water, season with salt and pepper to taste, put them in a pudding-dish, pour over one half-pint of buttermilk and a beaten egg. Cover with ordinary paste and bake. Macaroni a la Capellita {Italian). The macaroni used by the natives is in irregularly shaped chips, and is cooked in beef stock with the addition of cheese or tomatoes. An onion is browned in the fryiug-pan to impart to the macaroni that sowp^on of flavour which is scarcely per- ceptible. Take one pint of flour and two well-beaten eggs, mix these together with the measure of one-half an egg-shell full of cold water, the shell cut across the middle as near as possible; sprinkle in a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. The dough should be dry and stiff". Roll out thin, almost as thin as the blade of a knife. From this dough cut out pieces a little larger than a five-shilling piece (the top