THE housewife's REFEREE 92 meal and dripping into a bowl, stir in gradually the boiling water; add the salt, pepper, and onion. Boil for ten minutes. Fish Broth.—Fry an onion with butter and oil in equal parts; a carrot, some celery, and a little parsley, all well pounded. Put into this mixture any suitable fish ; adding salt to taste. Let the fish brown a little, then put in some tomatoes cut in pieces, dried mushrooms cut up fine ; a*nd by degrees pour in as much boiling water as required for the soup. When the fish is thoroughly cooked, and almost in shreds, take the saucepan off the fire, and let it cool a little ; then strain the broth, and pass through a sieve the re- mains of the fish, etc., in the saucepan; put this into the strained broth, and put it on to the fire to boil another half hour. Add toasted bread cut in dice, and serve grated Parmesan cheese with the soup. Fish Soup a la Faysanne.—Take any kind of fish, wash it well and set it on the fire with enough cold water to cover it; add a small stick of celery, an onion or two, a few sprigs of parsley, a bay leaf, six cloves, and a spray of ginger; cover close and leave to simmer for an hour; then add sufiicient water for the quantity of soup required. Let all boil up together; add a cup of cream, and salt and white pepper to taste. Fry as many eggs in butter as there are people at table; lay them in the tureen, pour over the soup, and serve with small fried sippets of bread. This soup may be made brown by leaving out the cream, and using black pepper; and adding browning made in a stewpan with butter, sliced onion, and flour. Fish Soup a la Florentine.—Take three pounds of fresh grey mullet, sprinkle a little salt over; then put six ounces of olive oil in a stewpan with one pound and four ounces of finely chopped onions, and sufficient salt; put on the fire till the onions are partly browned, then add a handful of washed parsley and the same of mint, both chopped fine, and fry them a little together with the onions; then add a pint of the best wine-vinegar and two or three pints of hot or cold water, and boil it for twenty or thirty minutes ; then pass the liquor through a sieve into another saucepan, and place the fish in it; let it simmer till the fish is done; then