6 THE housewife's REFEREE prevent grease or dirt marking the wall, or should be backed with oil-cloth. There should be a board or galvanised mat to stand in front of the sink, a dish and plate rack on the wall, and over, or close by, the sink a couple of shelves on which to keep pans and basins. One shelf should be kept entirely for the basins. The saucepan rack should also be kept there. Only fish-kettles and gridirons should be kept in the scullery. On the scullery door there should be a roller with a round towel on it, and a small horse or rail on which to hang the kitchen cloths and rubbers, unless there is a regular airer. All clean cloths should be kept in a drawer in the kitchen-dresser. It seems almost superfluous to give a list of the necessary kitchen utensils here, as Store Books and Ironmongers' lists give such full accounts of them. However, I will describe a few of the pans which I use myself and enumerate a few useful patent articles which I consider very valuable adjuncts to the kitchen in every way, and not so well known as they deserve to be. Frying-pans are best made of steel or of fireproof china. There are four kinds of frying-pans:—the flat-bottomed one which is generally used; the omelet pan, the bottom of which is round; the German frying-pan, with several cavities made to hold an egg in each; and the Danish, made with seven small compartments for producing small omelets and pancakes at the same time. The number of frying-pans depends, of course, upon the size of the establish- ment. I always use the seamless steel pans. I find them rust proof, if kept clean, and they do not break like the ordi- nary iron ones. They can be cleaned without any sand or corrosive matter; it is only necessary after using them to place them into hot water and clean with a cloth, then dry, and finally wipe with a cloth that has been dipped into coarse flour, which is quite sufficient to bring back their usual bright- ness. A great advantage of steel pans is that when the inside is worn they can be re-tinned at a very trifling cost. Aluminium saucepans are charming to use ; they are so light to handle and heat so quickly—if anything, too quickly —but they must never be washed with soda or they turn black; they only require rinsing and wiping with a cloth and they look like silver. I have three of them in use and like them immensely.