THE housewife's REFEREE 124 ENTREES HOT AND COLD " For I no dishes place before my guests At random ; but, while all things compound, I regulate the whole, and will divide The whole as best may suit in fours or fives. And will consult each separate division And satisfy each party.— Greeli Comedy by Damoxenus. Ash Jow {Indian recipe).—Barley one pound, meat two pounds, onions half-pound, nineteen grains each of garlic and cloves. Boil the barley three successive times in a small quantity of water, the fourth time, add a little more than on the former occasions and continue boiling. Cut some meat in pieces and mix with one tablespoonful of curry powder and dress it. When the meat is tender, strain the gravy and add the meat to the boiled barley. Now put into a clean saucepan, with some ghee, the sliced onions, garlic, and a little spice; let the onions brown, and then add the barley, meat and gravy; the whole should be covered and should remain about five minutes on the fire, shaking and repeating the same process three successive times. Bear's Paws.—Wash the bear's paws, wipe, salt, and put them into a basin ; cover them with cooked marinade, and let them macerate for two or three days. Spread a stewpan with trimmings of bacon and ham and sliced vegetables; place the paws over them, and moisten with a mixture of thin marinade and broth (half and half). Cover them with thin layers of bacon, and boil them for seven or eight hours on a slow fire; adding broth as the stock reduces. When the paws are tender, leave them till nearly cold. Drain, wipe, and divide each of them in four pieces lengthwise; sprinkle over cayenne pepper; roll them in melted lard and breadcrumbs, and broil them for half an hour over a slow fire ; then dish them up. Pour on the bottom of the dish some piquant sauce flavoured with two tablespoonfuls of red-currant jelly. Beef, Aspic of, a la Britaniere.—Have a nice piece of brisket of beef nicely stewed and pressed. It should be about eight inches long and five wide; cut it very neatly and