SWEETS 195 quired. Lay at the bottom of a dish in a thick layer. Stir together cream, milk, and eggs, with a little sugar over the fire. Let the mixture thicken, but it must not reach boiling point. When thick take it oft' the fire, let it cool a little, and then pour it over the apples. Whip some more cream with sugar, lemon juice, etc., such as is always used for trifles, and heap it high over the custard. Banana Fritters {Oriental).—Peel some large bananas (not too ripe), cut them lengthwise in thick slices, make a smooth, thin batter with well-beaten flour and eggs and a small pinch of salt. Have ready some very hot butter in a frying-pan, dip the slices in the batter, and drop them immediately into the butter, fry them brown on both sides, and serve hot with sugar and cinnamon over them. Banana Salad.—Cut half-a-dozen bananas in slices; also half-a-dozen oranges; mix them well together; over all squeeze the juice of a lemon, and sprinkle well with castor sugar. Banana Sponge.—Soak one ounce of gelatine in a pint of cold water, add the juice of one lemon, and half a pint of castor sugar; set over the fire till dissolved; it must not boil. Strain through a wire sieve, and let it get cold. Take three bananas, whip them to a fine cream with an egg beater, whip as stiflly as possible the whites of two eggs, add to them the banana pulp and beat again till well mixed; now put in the gelatine if cold, and add it to the rest a little at a time, beating all the while with an egg-beater. It takes about a quarter of an hour. Set in a cool place till wanted, and serve custard sauce with it. Bananas and Cream.^—Slice bananas quite thin, dust with sugar, and serve with beaten cream. It is improved by the addition of strawberries. Bananas an Rhum.—Peel six large bananas cut in halves, place into a basin, and sprinkle over them a little Scotch whiskey and a little chopped lemon peel. Sprinkle castor sugar over this, and let them remain in an hour. Dip each piece in frying butter, and fry till a golden colour. Hemove them from the pan, drain and dust them over with icing sugar and put in the oven to glaze ; when done sprinkle