THE housewife's EEFEREE 212 wineglassful of rum and strain through a jelly bag. De- corate the top of a mould with thin inch pieces of pine, pour in the jelly, and let it stand in a cool place till firmly set. Note.—If not sufficiently coloured add a few drops of burnt sugar. Pineapple Pancake.—Beat two eggs well together with a dessertspoonful of rose water, two of rice flour, two of castor sugar, and then add a gill of cream. Put into a stewpan a piece of butter, the size of a bantam's egg, and when boiling pour in the batter so as to cover the pan thinly; fry a light brown; then take it and drain well; have ready some long slices of pineapple, and roll one in each pancake. Take the whites of two eggs, a teaspoonful of castor sugar, and a teaspoonful of rose water; beat for twenty minutes with a knife, and divide it into two parts and fry separately, but be careful not to turn it, so that it leaves the pan like a handful of snow; lay these across the pancakes. This quantity will make four cakes and two snowballs. Pistachio Cream.—Whip a pint of thick cream till it is stiff; add to it a quarter of a pound of pounded blanched pistachio kernels, a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, and half an ounce of isinglass dissolved in a gill of water. When all the ingredients are mixed, add a little green colouring, but mix it in well; then pour the cream into a mould. Ponding a 1'Alsace.—Make a nice paste with flour and water as for a usual boiled pudding; work it in to the shape of a large dumpling ; lay it in a saucepan; cover with boiling water; place on it half a pound of French plums, and a quarter of a pound of moist sugar ; sprinkle on it some desiccated cocoanut and some citron cut finely. Cover the pan and cook slowly for two and a half hours. Serve the dumpling with the plums in it, and the sauce round. Prince of Wales's Pudding.—One pound of apples stewed with a little sugar rubbed through a sieve, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and a quarter of a pound of pounded sugar, beat together to a cream. Take four eggs ; separate the whites from the yolks; beat both separately till very light ; mix one tablespoonful of flour with three of cream, the grating and juice of one lemon; mix all the ingredients