192 THE housewife's REFEREE chervil, a piece of butter the size of a pigeon's egg, and serve. Remoulade Sauce.—Take parsley, chives, capers, anchovies, and a head of garlic, and mince them all together; add a little mustard and salt, stir into salad oil, and beat till the sauce is quite thick. Sauce, Robert.—Dissolve a piece of butter the size of a walnut in a saucepan, and fry in it two moderate-sized onions finely chopped. When they are lightly coloured, pour over them a wineglassful of vinegar, and simmer for four minutes. Stir into it a tablespoonful of flour, half a pint of stock, a few drops of bovril or Liebig's extract, a sprinkling of pepper, and a saltspoonful of salt. Stir the sauce over the fire for twenty minutes, add a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup, one of Worcester sauce, the same of essence of anchovy; finally add a spoonful of port wine. Soubise Sauce or Puree.—Put some onions to soak for ten minutes in boiling water. Peel them, cut them in halves or quarters, put them into a small saucepan with a lump of fresh butter; simmer very slowly together until the onions are quite cooked; add salt to taste, thicken with flour, or flour and fine breadcrumbs, and add cream or milk. Pass through a sieve and serve with anything liked. Must be quite thick and smooth; some people like a pinch of sugar added. Tartare Sauce a la Francaise.—No. 1. Take some bechamel sauce, stir it into the yolks of two eggs, a little salt, pepper, and one grate of nutmeg. Mix well, then add drop by drop some salad oil until the sauce is quite thick; flavour with a few drops of tarragon, and add a little finely chopped chervil, tarragon, and shallot. No. 2. Take the yolks of two eggs and stir them slightly. Add a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, and a tablespoonful of French vinegar. Pour in, drop by drop, a gill of salad oil. When all is well mixed stir in a teaspoonful of ready-made mustard or tarragon vinegar. Take a small bunch of parsley and put into a small sauce- pan of boiling water for two seconds. Dry it thoroughly, and then chop it finely. Also chop up finely a few capers or gherkins, put into the sauce, and mix well.