213 SWEETS together. The whites of eggs must be added last. Have a ptidding dish lined with puff paste ; pour the pudding into the dish and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour or a little longer. The pudding should be well risen and nicely browned on the top. Punch's Pudding.—Take a pint of cream, and boil for a quarter of an hour with sugar and a little lemon peel to tasfce. Mix a small spoonful of flour with some butter, and stir over the fire a few minutes; then add the cream to it and beat up three eggs, a dessertspoonful of brandy, the same of Marsala, and pub into the mixture; pour into a mould stuck round with dried cherries, and boil it. Serve with fruit sauce. Pyramids {copyright).—Get some ball moulds and fill them with different-coloured jellies—blue, green, pink, white, black, red, brown, yellow, and orange. Arrange them on a border of frozen cream. Each ball must be of a different flavour. Raspberry Sponge.—Soak one ounce of gelatine in half a pint of cold water for fifteen minutes; then add a pint of boiling water. When cool, add half a pound of sugar, half a pint of raspberry juice, the juice of two lemons, and the whites of two eggs. Whisk it for half an hour, and pour into a mould. Roches de Poires a la Gaillard {Caterer).—'Fw.t into a stewpan four yolks of eggs, with six ounces of castor sugar; work well with a wooden spoon, and dilute the mixture with a pint of milk flavoured with vanilla ; stir over the fire till it thickens, without letting it boil. Add three boiled and mashed pears, and rub through a hair sieve. Add half a glass of liqueur, and set to freeze. When properly frozen, take a spoon, and mould some of the ice into the shape of a pear; cut it open with a knife, introduce into the centre a little apricot jam, mixed up with a few dried currants to imitate the pips, and attach a piece of angelica to imitate the stalk. Make a pistachio cream ice; rub it through the sieve to imitate moss, and dish the pears on it. Rothe Griitze.—Take equal quantities of raspberries and currants; pick the latter from their stems and put them