209 SWEETS pour, over the fruit, either maraschino, eura9ao or brandy, a wineglassful, and let it stand half an liour. Beat one pint of double cream to frothy stir it into the custard when nearly cold, put in the fruit, and stir the mixture rapidly for five minutes. Kinse a mould in cold water; put in the pudding, and place it in a pan surrounded by rough ice ; stir till it begins to set, so as to prevent the fruit sinking to the bottom. Let it remain till quite firm ; then turn it on to a glass dish, and serve immediately. Note.—The quantity given is sufiicient to serve to a party of twelve or fourteen. Ifeun-Loth Pudding.—Take four and a half ounces of fiour and four and a half ounces of castor sugar, and stir in half a pint of milk. Melt four and a half ounces of butter in a stewpan and half a pint of milk. When the butter is melted and the milk is hot, stir in the milk, flour, and sugar. Stir over the fire till it boils and thickens; then turn it out to cool. Stir in the yolks of nine eggs, four and a half ounces of pounded almonds, and the nine whites beaten to a stiff froth. Stir all together; butter a mould, and pour in the mixture; boil for one and a half hours. The water must never be allowed to stop boiling. White wine sauce; must be served with it. Iforthumberland Pudding.—To three eggs add their weight in fiour, butter, and sugar; beat the butter and sugar together to a cream, then add the eggs, one at a time, and beat for five minutes between each egg; afterwards mix in lightly the flour with two tablespoonfuls of brandy and half a pint of sweet cream. Butter the inside of a mould, dredge it wdth pounded sugar, and ornament with dried cherries and angelica cut in the shape of leaves; pour in the pudding, and tie a cloth over the top of the mould; put it into a pan with boiling water, taking care that the water does not boil into the pudding. Boil it for one hour, and serve with a custard or wine sauce. Orange Cream.—Boil the rind of a Seville orange very tender; beat it fine in a mortar; add to it a spoonful of the best brandy, the juice of a Seville orange, four ounces of loaf sugar, and the yolks of four eggs. Beat all together for ten minutes \ then, by degrees, pour in one pint of boiling 14