THE LAUNDRY 55 order that the work may be raised. The irons should be scrupulously clean, and smooth, and rubbed with beeswax and salt. They should always be wiped with a handker- chief before using. Starching.—Allow a teaspoonful of good starch to each shirt and collar, use just enough cold water to wet the starch. Stir till it is free from lumps, and add a little more, and stir it again. Add for each shirt a piece of sperm or white wax as big as a pea, and a quarter of a spoonful of clean salt to three spoonfuls of starch and a teaspoonful of glycerine, pour on boiling water, stirring slowly all the time, boil hard for fifteen minutes without scorching, skim and strain whilst hot; to do this, dip the strainer in cold water while the starch is in the bag, and squeeze it immediately, before it becomes hot. Wet the shirt fronts, collars, and cuffs in hot water, wring them dry, and starch them whilst damp ; rub the starch well in and wring in a dry towel and remove all starch left on the outside, spread out evenly, rub down with a dry cloth and roll tightly together. Let them lie two or three hours and then iron, and the shirts will have a perfect gloss on them. It may be interesting to know that starching originated in 1564, when Madame Van der Plasse came with her husband from Flanders to London for their greater safety," and there professed herself a starcher. The whiteness of the " Dutch linen," as it was called, soon attracted attention, and the ladies sent their ruffs to be starched, which she did so excellently that it became a saying that if any one sent her a ruff made of spiders' web, she would be able to starch it. Fashionable dames actually took lessons of her in the art of starching, for which they paid a premium of four or five pounds, and for the secret of seething starch a further sum of twenty shillings. Clear Starching.—^Miss L. Smith, the instructress of Forsyth College Laundry Class, says that this branch of laundry work is the most difficult, and I think her directions will be best to follow ; therefore I will quote them in these pages. The first thing to be done is to collect collars, cuffs, and shirts, put them into luke-warm water and rub the collars, wristbands, and all dirty parts vath a little soap, and let them soak all night. The next morning the articles should be wrung out of the water in which