THE housewife's EEFEREB 88 been mixed with a couple of tablespoonfuls of Parmesan, and moistened with a gill of cream, and thicken the soup with this ; but it must not boil. Brlinoise Soup.—^Take some young carrots, small turnips, and some small onions ; cut them into dice, and blanch them in boiling water for five minutes; then put them into a stewpan, and cover them with two quarts of good brown stock, or white stock. Season with salt or pepper, and let the whole boil gently for about an hour. Calf's Tail Soup.—Have two tails, cut them into pieces about one inch long, put them into a stewpan with two quarts of water and half a pint of stock; boil up slowly, and simmer gently for an hour and a half ; skim off all fat. Take out the pieces of tail, put them into a basin, cover it over and place it in the oven to keep hot. Thicken the soup as follows :—Beat the yolks of the fresh eggs, and stir in, add a teaspoonful of salt, the strained juice of half a lemon, a small wineglassful of madeira or good sherry, and a quarter of a pint of good fresh cream; put the pieces of tail into the tureen, pour the soup over, and send it to table at once. Calf's Tail Soup a la Eichelieu. Fotage aux Queues de Veau a la Richelieu.—Cut up two calves' tails into pieces one and a half inch long, place these in a stewpan with a carrot, an onion stock, four cloves, a couple of celery sticks, parsley, bay-leaf, thyme, and four shallots; pour on two quarts of stock and boil very gently for about an hour and a half. The pieces of tail being now done, must be strained from the stock and set aside, whilst the stock must be placed in a stewpan with six ounces of white thickening, stirred over the fire till it boils, and then removed to side of fire to throw up the grease, which must be skimmed. Next, strain it into the saucepan again, and put in the pieces of calf's tail, and a few quenelles of force-meat. Just five minutes before it is to be served, stir gently into it a liaison of four yolks of eggs, a gill of cream, a glass of sherry, and a dust of nutmeg; a small teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoon- ful of white pepper, and an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese. Stir all over the fire for five minutes and serve. Celery Soup.—Boil some celery heads in water with a