71 FLORAL DEOOEATIONS FLORAL DECORATIONS. " Bring hither the pinke and purple columbine, With gilliflowers; Bring coronations and sops in wine, Worne of paramours." Spenser. The Shepherd's Calendar {April, 1579). For tlie actual decoration of the dinner-table, flowers are always used. These of course vary, according to the season and means of the family; but there are very few people who do not have some little floral decoration. The tiny ferns, threepence or even twopence each, sold in their small pots and placed in white china or artistic pots, are always obtainable, and give a cheerful and pretty effect; and with care these little plants will last an immense time. For every night arrangements, little glass bowls and baskets are the most useful, and always look fresh and pretty. Many persons possess old silver wine-coolers and stands, which come in very useful for floral decoration. The latter being quite low, a bowl of flowers may be placed in them, with a few fronds of fern gracefully arranged over the edge; or the stands may be mossed, and the flowers and ferns stuck in this. Wet moss does not hurt gold or silver plate, but sand often scratches it. For a change, a coloured centre- cloth could be used, and the honhonnieres and silver fruit spoons placed on it, with a small palm or bowl of flowers in each corner. One of the prettiest decorations for a table for fourteen or sixteen is a pale yellow silk (surah for preference) pufled down the centre of the table; the candelabra placed on it; also silver honhonnieres, but no fruit. There should be light sprays of asparagus fern to edge the silk, and small bouquets of (not more than three of small blooms) safrano roses with their beautiful tinted leaves laid lightly in the puffs of the silk ; one rose for each gentleman, and two for each lady. The sweets to be red and yellow. Yellow is undoubtedly the most becoming shade for a dining-room decoration; it lights up well, and if the furni- ture is of dark wood it is by far the most effective colour. Next comes pink, and, indeed, few dinner-tables are more