ON ENTERTAINING 67 Every dish should, of course, be cooked perfectly, and look appetising. The wine should be sans reproche, and cham- pagne given throughout dinner as soon as the entrees are served. One servant to wait on three is necessary for a well- appointed dinner. Cold dishes are very much on the in- crease. Desserts have grown smaller by degrees and beautifully less ; therefore it is amusing to come upon a description of what they used to be long years ago. I read of a table described in the year 1709. " The whole, when ranged in its proper order, looked like a very beautiful winter-piece. There were several pyramids of candied sweetmeats that hung like icicles, with fruits scattered up and down, hidden in an artificial kind of frost. At the same time there were great quantities of cream beaten up into a snow, and near them, little plates of sugar-plums disposed like so many heaps of hailstones, with a multitude of congelations in jellies of various kinds." At desserts up to date the fruit is seldom put on the table ; just a couple of dishes, with the fruits in season, handed round, or arrayed in mixed fashion; but all the year round one dish should be either grapes or pine- apple. The arrangement and floral decoration of the table are great features, and pretty glass, china, napery, and cutlery are now moderate in price and within the com- pass of nearly every one's purse, so that there is no excuse for a badly appointed table service. There are persons who consider beauty is obtained by the use of odd pieces of china and glass; but I do not quite agree, though I rather like to see different plates for each course. I remember that at one house where I dined the soup plates were of Worcester ware; the fish, hexagon-shaped, cream colour, with the crest on ; the third course all comic hunting subjects; the next old Chelsea; then crown Derby; after that a series of hand- painted animals, and finishing with groups of subjects in red Autotype Company's colourings, and so on ; but I cannot recollect all. This fashion may be to a certain extent an economy, as it would be needless to buy a whole service, when a grand smash takes place. The dinner glass should always match, with the exception of the Hock glasses, which are generally old gold or pale