60 THE HOUSEWIFE^S REFEKEE the article banging is evenly distributed, otherwise the garment may be torn or pulled out of shape. To Wash Black Silk Stockings.—Wash in strong salt water, then dry them, and wash again in another solution, finishing in clean water. Scorched Linen.—If the scorch is not too bad, dipping the article in soapsuds and hanging it in the sun for some hours will be likely to remove it. Scorched spots that are very bad can be restored by repeated dipping in a saturated solution of borax. The saturated solution consists of as much crystal as the water will dissolve; if the borax stands undisturbed in the bottom of the bottle, the full- strength solution is there. Repeated dippings and ex- posures to sun or fire-light will generally remove almost Ziopeless cases. Another way is to peel and slice onions and extract the juice by pounding and squeezing; and add to the juice half an ounce of fine white soap cut small, two ounces of fullers' earth, one half-pint of vinegar; boil all together, and when cool spread on the linen and let dry, Wash the articles as usual, boiling well. To Shrink Flannel.—Pour hot (not boiling) water on it, allow it to soak for some time; then take it out of the water to drip. If it can be mangled it should be run through, but it must not be left to get dry without. It should never be wrung out with the hands or ironed. If folded smoothly before pouring the water on it, and care is taken in the hanging of it out, it will not crease at all. To Make Gum-Starch.—Pound two ounces of fine white gum arabic to powder, put it into a jug and pour on it a pint of boiling, water, according to the tenacity required; cover the jug and let it remain for the night. Next day pour the liquid carefully from the dregs into a clean bottle, cork it, and keep it for use. A tablespoonful of this stirred into a pint of starch will give a fine gloss to collars, cuffs, and shirt fronts. To Wash Woollen Socks.—Have ready a bowl of warm soapsuds, into which press and squeeze the socks gently till they look clean. Then they can be rinsed in other light suds and hung up to dry without wringing.