93 SOUP MAKING take it out and extract all the bones; cut the fish in pieces and put them in the tureen. Pass the liquor again through a cloth into a stewpan; then put into a basin the yolks of three or four eggs, the juice of one or two lemons, half a teacupful of water coloured with two drachms of saffron; beat up all together, and add it gradually to the liquor. Set on a moderate fire for ten or fifteen minutes, stirring it all the time with a wooden spoon, and without letting it boil. Then pour it over the fish, sprinkle a little cinnamon, and a pinch of cayenne pepper, and serve. Florenza Soup.—Put three pints of white stock in a stewpan to boil; mix the yolks of three eggs and a gill of cream together in a basin; pour them into the stock with a little salt, and stir till the eggs are cooked. Then draw off the fire, and add two ounces of cooked macaroni cut up in pieces half an inch long, one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, and a tiny dust of cayenne. The soup must not boil after the cheese is in. Galles, Soup de.—Take a pig's head, set aside the cheeks (which may be cured), partly boil the rest; then cut up the meat into neat square pieces, and put the bones to stew in three quarts of second stock, well flavoured with vege- tables, herbs, pepper, and salt; then strain and set by to cool. The next day take off all the fat from the stock; heat it in a stewpan; thicken with flour and butter, and add the pieces of meat with force-meat and egg-balls. The meat should be first simmered in the stock for a quarter of an hour before the force-meat balls are added, and the egg-balls should only be put in just before sending to table. Make the force-meat balls of finely chopped suet, bread- crumbs, a little veal and ham, or tongue, finely-chopped sweet herbs, pepper, and salt; bind all together with a little yolk of egg ; make up into small balls with a sprinkle of flour, and boil them well for a few minutes before putting in the soup. For the egg-balls, take the yolks of two hard- boiled eggs, and half the yolk of a raw egg. Mix together ; rub through a wire sieve; make it into a paste, with a sprinkle of flour; form into small balls, and boil two or three minutes in water. Flavour the soup with a little mushroom ketchup or Old English Sauce, a squeeze of lemon and a little sherry or Marsala.