203 SWEETS with it a plain baked custard, made with four eggs to a quart of new milk, sweetened and flavoured to taste. Fromage a la Princesse.—Take a pint of cream, three- quarters of a pint of milk, a pinch of salt, some grated lemon rind, a little cinnamon and three ounces of castor sugar. Boil till reduced by one-half. Take off the fire, and when luke-warm stir in some rennet; strain, and stand it over some hot cinders. When it has curdled, turn it out into a small wicker basket that all the watery part may run out, and serve with fresh cream and vanilla sugar. Fruit Glace.—Boil one pint of granulated sugar and one cup of water till brittle. Have oranges peeled and divided into quarters; carefully dip each piece in a portion of the syrup, and set in a cool place to dry. Do not stir the syrup. Pineapples, bananas, etc., can be prepared in the same way. GaufFres (Jula).—Place eight ounces of flour, four ounces of powdered sugar and a pinch of salt in a basin; then add the yolks of eight eggs, a pounded stick of vanilla, and a glass of curagao. Mix these well together gradually adding a pint of whipped cream just before using the batter, add the whipped whites of the eggs, and mix them in lightly so as to incorporate them with it. These must be baked in irons made for the purpose, and which must be moistened with clarified butter. Fill one side of the irons with some of the batter, handling it gently with a spoon ; close the irons, and then turn them upside down that the batter may run into the opposite side, and set them over a fire. The irons must be carefully heated, and the superfluous heat be allowed to go off before filling them. When done shake vanilla sugar over them. Gelee Danoise.—Take half a pint of claret, and a quarter of a pint of canary sack, a tablespoonful of brandy, a quarter of a pint of cherry syrup, two ounces of castor sugar, the juice and peel of one lemon, and one ounce of gelatine which has been soaked in a gill of cold water. Mix these ingredients well, boil and strain into a mould. Place on ice, and turn out. Gelee de la Mer a la Brighton.—Take a tall plain mould and decorate the bottom and sides with angelica cut into the shape of stalks and leaves and crystallised cherries, to