THE WINE CELLAR 239 Wines.—The great epicure Baron Busse always gave the following order for wines to be handed during dinner :— After the Soup, Madeira and Yermouth. With the Fish, Burgundies: eithei* Beaune, Voluay, or Pommard. Clarets: either Mouton, Bothschild, Scoville, Larose, Pichon-Longueville, Clos d'Estournel or Monrose. Between the Entrees and the Game, Iced Punch, Chateau Yquem, or Rhine wine, and only slightly iced. With the Roasts and Dressed Vegetables, Burgundies: Komance, Conti, Clos Yougeot or Chambertin. Clarets : Chateau Lafitte, Margaux, Latour, or Hautbrion. With the Sweets, Sherry. During Dessert, Sweet wines such as Malmsey, Muscatel, or Tokay. The Baron also prescribes well-iced, dry, and sweet champagne during the whole of the dinner. After this Chateau Lafitte, and next comes Chateau Marguax, which are A considered the best red wines of the world, and the pride of the Me doc. Claret once in bottle and well corked goes on improving up to a certain limit, but great care must be taken in de- canting it without shaking. In all pantries there should be a small basket, in which the wine bottle can rest whilst it is being decanted ; but should there not be one at hand, the bottle should be carefully lifted from a horizontal to an upright position some four hours previous to its being drunk. The side of the bottle which has laid uppermost should be marked and, in decanting, the wine poured out from that side, as it is sure to be free from crust. Claret is better for a little warmth, and it is a good plan to place the wine where it may feel the fire. It is also a good plan to warm the decanter before pouring in the wine, to prevent a shock of contact with the cold glass. Clos Yougeot is considered the king of all French wines. The Clos Yougeot vineyards are not large, and in ages past this vintage was reserved for the joint use of the Pope, the Duke of Burgundy, and the Abbot of Citeaux ; and it is a historical fact that Pope Gregory XI., being discontented with his share one year, when the vintage was especially choice, presented to the Abbot of Citeaux cf the day