THE housewife's REFEEEE 116 lump of butter, a dash of cayenne, and a little veloute sauce; when fine pass it through a sieve, and add enough whipped cream to make the mixture soft and light. Coat some small moulds with aspic jelly; when set, fill them with the cream. Cover with aspic and leave till firm. When turned out, dish them round a thinly-si iced cucumber salad. Salmon Fritters, Beignets de Saumon.—Take some cold salmon, and with a fork pull it into flakes. Sprinkle over some salt, pepper, and chopped parsley, with just a dust of cayenne pepper. Make a batter the consistency of thick cream, into which dip each piece of salmon when boiling. Fry a nice brown; drain, and serve up garnished with cucumber. Salmon Puddings; Boudins de Saumon.—Take some cold boiled salmon from the skin, pound it with a lump of butter then pass it through a sieve, add about half the quantity of breadcrumbs soaked in milk and squeezed out, add pepper, salt, and eggs ; the yolks should be worked in first, then the whites whisked to a froth; butter some small moulds, fill three parts full with the mixture, and steam in a saucepan of boiling water. Salmon Puddings ala Romaine ; Boudins de Saumon a la Eomaine {Hot).—Line a mould with salmon force-meat, then put in the centre a salpicon composed of prawns, truffles, and mushrooms cut up into dice, and mixed with allemande sauce. Fill up the mould with the force-meat and poach ; and dish up on a quenelle border and pour over cardinal sauce. Salmon Pudding, Boudins de Saumon a la Romaine {Gold). —Line the mould with aspic jelly; put in a layer of chaud- froid sauce, half a lobster, and half a tomato. Garnish with a salpicon of lobster and anchovies, mixed in a mayonnaise of aspic jelly and cream. Cover with chaudfroid sauce. Salmon Roll.—Take some salmon, remove the bones, and cut it fine ; salt, pepper, parsley, thyme, a teaspoonful of butter, the juice of a lemon, an egg, and add one third as many breadcrumbs as fish. Mould it into a roll; smear with the yolk of an egg ; dust with fine breadcrumbs; cover