THE housewife's KEFEtlEE 98 carrots, two hours ; celery, one hour; turnips, half-hour ; shallots, quarter-hour. Mullagatawny {Salt Fish\ Grace Johnstone,—Cut up an onion into thin rings, fry it in two ounces of butter, with twenty-four cloves, a delicate brown \ add one tablespoonful of curry powder, stir, and fry a minute ; then pour in three pints of good fish stock; cut up two Yarmouth bloaters into nice-sized pieces, put them into the soup; add two cloves of garlic chopped, the seeds of twelve cardamoms, three bay leaves, a few leaves of tarragon and chervil, four tomatoes, if in season, and if not, two tablespoonfuls of tomato conserve; let it simmer gently for an hour : just before serving add a tablespoonful of tamarinds pulped in warm water; strain and serve. If required, thicken. Pea flour is the best to thicken it with ; ordinary flour deadens the flavour. Serve with rice, as before. This is a most appetising and delicious soup. Mushroom Soup.—Take some knuckle of beef, break up the bones and cut the meat into large pieces, allow to each pound a little less than a quart of milk, season with salt and pepper. Boil till the meat falls to pieces, then strain into a clean stewpan. Have ready a quart of mushrooms peeled with their stalks removed, and put them into the soup with a quarter pound of butter divided into pieces and rolled in flour; boil till the mushrooms are tender, add a little mushroom ketchup and keep the cover well closed. Onion Soup.—Take four or five large onions, peel, and boil them in milk and water till tender, changing the water three times in the boiling, then beat them in a marble mortar to a pulp, rub them through a hair sieve and put them into good gravy, fry a few slices of veal and lean bacon, beat them in a mortar as fine as force-meat, and put into your kettle with the gravy and onions, then boil them; mix a spoonful of flour with a little water and put it into the soup to keep it from running ; strain it through a cullender, and season it to your taste; put into your dish a little spinach stewed in butter, and a little crisp bread; serve it up hot. Oyster Soup.—Scald, drain, and beard four dozen oysters, reserving their liquor in a pan; put four ounces of butter