104 THE housewife's EEFEEEE mutton broth add half a pound of potatoes, which have been boiled and mashed ; season the latter with pepper and salt, and add thereto the leaves of three or four bunches of watercress. The stalks should be chopped finely and put into the soup. Toast sippets should be sent to table with it. FISH " From the sands of the sea, where the tide ebbs and flows, I'll make for fish."—Tempest. Bouillabaisse.—For eight or ten persons, take six pounds of different kinds of fish—sole, haddock, bass, mackerel, etc. Twenty or thirty little-necked clams, six onions cut in quarters, two tomatoes strained through a sieve, two dried bay leaves, two slices of lemon, a little dried orange peel, four cloves, salt and pepper to taste, a little saffron, a pinch of chopped parsley, one pint of white wine ; put all in a large saucepan. After having cut in pieces the fish, the onions, laurel and lemon and orange peel and cloves are tied up in a little muslin bag; add half a pint of salad oil and water enough to cover the whole. Let it boil hard for forty minutes, cut slices of bread for each person, toast and place on a platter; pour on the fish and sauce, and serve at once. Brill a la Duglere ; Barbue a la Duglere {Bardel).—Cut a brill into four or six pieces and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Have some fine round tomatoes, dip in boiling water, remove the skin and chop in small pieces; also chop some parsley fine. Melt a large lump of butter in a stewpan, add the tomato and parsley, place the slices of brill on the melted butter, tomato, and parsley, and pour some more of the same over them. Cover the stewpan as tightly as possi- ble, and place it on a hot plate, and heat up the cover with red hot cinders; stew thus from twenty to thirty minutes, according to the size of the brill. Warm the dish and take out the brill, arranging the pieces to their natural shape. Pour the sauce over it, which should be thick (reduce it over a rapid fire if too thin). Serve very hot. Lemon and red pepper may be served round with it.