SOUP MAKING 91 been allowed to come just to the boil. If milk, use also a tablespoonful of butter. Crecy or Puree of Carrots.—Procure five or six large carrots as red as possible, which will scrape, then shave them into very thin slices, taking off all the exterior red, but not using the centre. Then peel and slice a large onion, a turnip, and a quarter of a pound of lean ham, a few sprigs of parsley and two bay leaves, put them into a stewpan with four ounces of butter, fry the whole of a light yellowish colour, then add the carrots with one pint of water and let them stew until perfectly tender. Mix in two ounces of flour quite smoothly, and add five pints of stock ; season with a little salt and sugar, and stir upon the fire until boiling a quarter of an hour, when pass it through a tammy, warm up, and serve. 'No cream, however, must be added. This soup ought to be of a red colour. Boiled rice, or fried croittons may be served in it. Cucumber Soup.—Peel a cucumber, and let it steep for a little while in cold water, then lay it in a pan with two ounces of butter, half a teaspoonful of sugar, one onion and a gill of water. These proportions are for one pound of cucumber. Stew till perfectly tender, then press all through a sieve, replace it in the pan and add one pint of milk to one pound of cucumber. Put in a dessertspoonful of corn- flour to the milk and mix it smoothly before putting the cucumber to it, and let the whole boil for a few minutes, vjatching it the whole time. It is ready when it is of the consistency of good cream. Esmeralda Soup.—Take a teacupful of barley, and one of whole groats, and put them into three pints of water; and after bringing to the boil, let all simmer slowly for two hours and a half. Then add a teacupful of Patna rice, and let all cook till the grains are soft. Hub all through a tammy sieve, and after add to it white stock sufficient to make the necessary quantity. Season to taste ; and when taken from the fire, stir in the whisked yolks of two or three eggs. Fat Brose.—Two ounces of oatmeal, one and a half of dripping, two gills of boiling water, a pinch of salt, a pinch of pepper, and one onion, mixed and boiled. Put the oat-