EULES AND HINTS FOPv THE KITCHEN 17 white. In lamb and veal the lean should be pale, evenly- tinted and free from mottling; while the fat in both should be very white and nearly translucent. In pork, a thin rind is a great merit. Salt meat is more difficult to select than fresh meat, and one must be guided by the extreme hardness and toughness, and the shrivelling of the meat, as sometimes the meat has been bad when salted, and then it looks paler than it ought to be, and is often slightly greenish in colour, with a peculiar odour. In buying poultry, choose a male. You can tell a bird's age by the size of its feet and leg joints. If the legs appear covered with thick scales, the bird is of the grandfather order. The feet should be flexible and the eyes brilliant. When a bird is plucked the flesh should be very elastic. Thin necks and violet thighs in a fowl are signs of age and toughness. The same violet tinge appears in turkeys. Geese and ducks' ages can be told by their beaks, as, when young, they can be easily broken. For hares and rabbits, look at the claws and ears; if the claws are sharp and the ear tears easily, the animal is young. In purchasing fish, freshness is the necessary desideratum. The chief points to notice are fulness of the eye, pinkness of the gills, and brightness of the skin. In plaice and flounders, the spots on the skin are bright orange when the fish is fresh, but are dull if stale. Fish, if in good condition, will keep firm under pressure of the finger, and the smell, though fishy, is not unpleasant; but this cannot be depended on, as the use of ice may cause deception on that point. In purchasing cod, the freshness may be known by the bluish tinge of the flesh, and the slightly iridescent hue of the part cut. If the flesh be yellow, do not buy it. Flat fish should be selected by their thickness. Plaice is very often sold to the uninitiated for brill or turbot; but the former may be known by the red spots on the back, whilst the others have none. Lobsters and crabs should be chosen by their weight in proportion to their size, and the width of their tails. An old lobster, well crusted with lime, will be heavy, but there will not be much meat in it. 2