THE housewife's REFEKEE 94 Giblet Soup.—Having well washed and picked four sets, parboil, then simmer them gently in two quarts of good stock till quite tender. Put into a stewpan a quarter of a pound of butter, a few shallots and onions, a bunch of lemon thyme, knotted and sweet marjoram, a very little basil, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, some parsley, and one pint of good stock; let this simmer gently on a stove for an hour ; then thicken with flour or white roux^ and add this to the stock, in which the giblets have been cooking ; put in a pint of Madeira, let it boil a few minutes, then strain it; but put back some of the pieces of giblet. Squeeze into the tureen a small Seville orange; add a little sugar and cayenne. Gravy Soup, Clear.—Time seven hours. Eight pounds of beef, three quarts of water, two teaspoonfuls of salt, half a large teaspoonful of peppercorns, six cloves, two blades of mace, a bunch of savoury herbs, two carrots, one head of celery, half an ounce of sugar, one dessertspoonful of soy, two of Harvey's sauce, and a little vermicelli. Cut off four or five pounds of the meat from the shin of beef, and divide the knuckle, that the whole may lie closely in the stewpan. Pour in three quarts of water, and when it has been brought slowly to boil, skim it well, and add an ounce and a half of salt, the peppercorns, six cloves, two blades of mace, a bunch of herbs, two carrots, and a head of celery cut into pieces; and three turnips in about one hour after. Put it over the fire and allow the whole to boil very slowly, until the beef is done to rags and the vegetables tender. Strain the soup and let it stand till the next day; then skim ofi" the fat, and when thoroughly heated, add a little walnut ketchup, and send it to table with toasted bread cut into dice, with- out the crust. This soup can be varied by adding vermicelli, vegetables, etc., and the sediment can be used for hashes or gravies. Green-Pea Soup.—Make a little good gravy from a knuckle of veal and part of a neck of mutton; take half a peck of young green peas, boil and beat them to a pulp in a marble mortar; then add a little of the gravy, and strain through a hair sieve to take out all the pulp; put all together with a little salt, whole pepper, and a quarter of a pound of butter, let it have a boil; then