PLAIN COOKING 77 When boiling a leg of mutton, it should be put into fast boiling water and allowed to boil five minutes to make the outside hard and prevent the juices escaping. Then sufficient cold water should be added to reduce the temperature, it should be brought gently to the boil; when it is on the point of boiling it must be skimmed most carefully, drawn to the side of the stove and allowed to simmer slowly. The saucepan should be just large enough to hold the joint easily, and the meat only just covered with water. It takes from fifteen to twenty minutes to each pound of meat, after the water has boiled. Puddings should be plunged into plenty of boiling water and kept boiling till quickly done. Salt meat should be put into cold water, which should be brought up slowly to simmering point. All white fish should be placed in boiling water and then allowed to simmer gently, and the water carefully skimmed. Pork, ham, and bacon should be boiled in cold water, and brought slowly to simmering point. All large white fish must be put into cold water (with a tablespoonful of salt to every half-gallon of water), and brought gradually to boiling point and then allowed to simmer. The white side of the fish should be rubbed with lemon before putting into the water, and then kept uppermost. All scum must be skimmed off. White fish cooks more quickly than meat. Small fish should be put into warm water, salmon and trout into boiling water, which will take the water off the boil when they must be let simmer till done. Ordinary- sized fish are cooked within a few minutes from the time the water boils. Turkeys, fowls, rabbits, etc., should be placed in warm water and then simmered. Vegetables require boiling fast, meat only simmering. Frying.—The French unquestionably take the palm in roasting, but the Italians are the most accomplished friers: and any one who has travelled in Italy and tasted even in the humble trattoria there the delicate frittura will acknowledge that the art of frying in England is very much under the mark. Yet English cooks prefer frying, and if possible they will use the frying-pan instead of the gridiron for steaks, chops, and kidneys, which when fried are black