THE housewife's REFEREE 82 cut into strips of equal length and thickness according to the sizes required. For poultry and game they should be two inches long by a quarter of an inch broad; but for fillets of beef and loins of veal, two inches long and the third of an inch square. Put one of these lardoons into the larding-needle, then pass it through the meat, taking up as much of the flesh as will hold the lardoon firmly, letting the lardoons project about half an inch, which must be done as straight as possible and at equal distances. There are two ways of larding, first super- ficially only, in which the point of the needle is brought out about one inch from where it was put in, and pulled very gently through. A finger should be kept on the projecting part of the lardoon, so that it does not break off. Another way is to lard so that the lardoons are cut long enough to go right through the meat, leaving about a quarter of an inch at top and bottom. It is well to lay the lardoons on ice before putting them into the needle. Vegetable cooking is very often defective beyond any other. Cooks are not careful enough to see whether the water really boils, and not what the generality of cooks call boiling, which makes all the difference in the cooking. Vegetables require, as a rule, to be cooked quickly and thoroughly, and to be eaten as soon as possible when the cooking is completed. It is a desideratum, of course, that all vegetables that require to be cooked, should be as fresh as possible. They should be well washed, except those that can be safely used without washing, as allowing vegetables to remain soaking in water for a long time tends to injure them. They must be clean, for the removal of dirt and grit are not the sole reasons for washing; it is necessary to get rid of earwigs, caterpillars, and slugs. Spinach may be washed in tepid water more quickly and more completely than in cold. Cauliflowers and cabbage are the happy hunting-grounds for vermin, and should be thrown into a bowl with a lump of salt and plenty of cold water, and if necessary a little hot water, and then when the vegetables are thrown in the occupants will soon wriggle out. A great thing in cooking green vegetables is to send them to table with a fresh and beautiful colour, and for this there should be put into the water two table-