SWEETS 205 milk, four cups of powdered sugar, fifteen eggs, whites and yolks, beaten separately; add one quart of cold water ; beat all together. Flavour with vanilla and add the whites last. Freeze. Iced Maraschino Souffle.—Take ten yolks of fresh eggs and the whites of five, two ounces of castor sugar, a table- spoonful of maraschino syrup, and a few drops of brandy. Put these into a stewpan and whip them together; then put the pan into a larger one containing boiling water, and continue whipping till the mixture is tepid. Kemove the pan from the boiling water and continue whipping for about twenty to twenty-five minutes till the mixture is stiff, cold, light, and frothy; then add half a pint of whipped sweetened cream. Afterwards pour the mixture into the souffle dish with a band of paper round standing two and a half inches above the edges of the case; place it in the ice and let it freeze for about five hours. When firm remove the paper carefully and place it on the dish it is to be served on, and ornament with some pink, stiffly whipped cream, in which shredded pistachio kernels have been sprinkled. Sometimes an iced fruit macedoine is sent to table with it. In and Out Pudding.—Take one-half pound of flour, one- half pound of suet (by preference Hugon's ^'Atora " beef- suet), half a teaspoonful of salt, one-quarter of a teaspoon- ful of pepper. Mix with a little milk, and stir in four apples finely cut up. Boil for two hours. Jelly Cake.—Beat one egg thoroughly, add four ounces of sifted sugar, half an ounce of butter, five ounces of flour, and a little milk; to this put a quarter of an ounce of carbonate of soda dissolved in milk, and last of all, half an ounce of cream of tartar, also dissolved in a little milk. Pour the mixture into shallow round tins well-buttered, and bake in a quick oven. "When cold pile the cakes one on the top of the other, with any sort of preserve between each. The top of the cake should be iced. Junket.—One pint of milk, two dessertspoonfuls of brandy or Scotch whisky, one dessertspoonful of prepared rennet (Crosse & Blackwell's), whipped cream or Devon- shire cream, grated nutmeg or glaced cherries. Make the milk hot, put it in a dish with brandy or whisky, sugar, and