154 THE housewife's REFEEEE Veal Cutlets.—Cut from a leg of veal the cutlets of a neat size and shape, and beat them flat; strew over them a little black pepper and salt. Beat up an egg with a little minced parsley and shallot; dip the cutlets into this, and then into breadcrumbs, and fry them a good brown. Serve with shallot gravy or sauce piquante. Veal Cutlets a rHindostan.—Prepare and cook veal cutlets in the ordinary way. Dish them en couronne^ and fill in the centre with the following sauce :—Have some good stock ready; boil some onions in butter; pass them through a sieve; then add to them one tablespoonful of curry paste, a teaspoonful of chutney, a dessertspoonful of desiccated cocoanut, a few drops of the strained juice of a lemon, a tablespoonful of flour, and some butter. Boil all together till thick and place inside the cutlets and serve. Veal Cutlets a la Morny.—Take about two pounds of veal cutlet, and cut into rounds the size of a five-shilling piece. Lard with quarter-inch strips of fat bacon. Put the cutlets into a stewpan, with three-quarters of a pint of sauce a la Morny, with buttered paper. Close the lid, and place over the fire till the cutlets are done; then drain and press them between two dishes; then warm them up, and arrange in a circle, pouring the Morny sauce on to the cutlets. Serve tomatoes in the centre, with grated Par- mesan over. Morny sauce is ma.de with white sauce, and grated Parmesan and gruyere cheese in it. Veal, Fricandelle of.—Take the remains of cold veal or any other meat, breadcrumbs, half an ounce of butter, one egg, half a pint of gravy, seasoning, pepper and salt to taste. Chop some veal or any other cold meat, fat and lean together; season it with pepper and salt to taste; put grated breadcrumbs to it in proportion to the quantity of meat, about a teacupful generally sufiices; add one ounce of butter, one egg, and a little good gravy. Mix these ingredients well together, and press them firmly into a basin or mould which must be previously buttered; boil it for half an hour, turn it out of the mould, and send it to table with a little brown gravy over it.