THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 166 Attachment of Muscles.—Muscles common to the phalanges are the m. extensor longus et brevis, digitorum pedis, interossei, inserted into their dorsal surfaces; into their plantar surfaces are inserted the m. flexor longus digitorum pedis, into the third phalanges, the m. flexor brevis into the second, and the m. lumbricales into the first. The mus- cles proper to the great toe are the m. flexor longus et brevis, abductor pollicis and extensor longus pollicis pedis. Ossa Sessamoidea Have derived their name from their form: they are small bones, placed in certain articulations of the toes and fingers. Their number, size and situation vary in different individuals, but seem to bear a proportion to the developement of the muscular system. The sesamoid bones, at the articulation of the first phalanx of the great toe with the metatarsal bone, are seldom wanting; they are not only for the purpose of giving attachment to muscles, but also to encrease their power of action. The sesamoid bones have been supposed to be formed in consequence of pressure ; but this stimulus does not seem to be necessary to their developement, as they are frequently found in the foetus a few months after con- ception. Practical Remarks. The bones of the foot are but little liable to fracture in consequence of their conformation, their mode of articulation with each other, and their structure ; indeed, all those circumstances which have already been stated as tending to prevent fracture of the bones of the hand, apply equally to the bones of the foot, if we except the os calcis; while this bone, from the manner in which it projects backwards, to receive the insertion of the extensor muscles, is liable to solution of continuity, either from the sudden contraction of the gastrocnemii muscle, or the application of external violence. It is much more frequent, however, for the tendo Achillis to be ruptured, than for the bone to give way when influenced by the inordinate action of the muscles. Fracture of the Os Calcis. Although the os calcis is, of all the bones of the tarsus, the most likely to be fractured, still, the dimensions of the bone in every direction