100 THE OSSEOUS SySTEM, and defend the org’ans situated within its interior, and at the same time offers extended surfaces for the attachment of nu- merous muscles and lig’aments, which assist in closing’ in its openings, and preventing thereby the displacement of its vis- cera. To understand the relative position of the separate bones entering into the composition of the pelvis, and their processes, which have been mentioned in the description of each bone, this part should be studied most carefully as a whole. It may be divided, for the purpose of facilitating the description, into four regions: an anterior, two lateral, and a posterior region. In the anterior region may be observed externally the rami of the ischia and pubes; diverging, as they descend, towards the tuberosities of the ischium, and leaving a large opening from the pelvis, but which, in the re- cent subject, is filled up by the deep fascia of the perineum, and the organs of generation. The upper part of this open- ing is called the arch of the pubes. It is formed by the sym- physis pubis, which is visible in the central line. Immedi- ately under the symphysis, and through this arch, the urethra passes. On each side of the symphysis, and extending downwards in the course of the rami of the pubes, is situated the foramen obturatorium, occupied, in the recent subject, by ligamentous tissue: and a little further outwards, on each side, may be observed the cotyloid cavity which receives the round head of the femur. In each of the lateral regioTis are seen, externally, the dorsum ilii above, and sacro-seiatic notch below: the latter of which is filled up by ligaments, muscles, nerves, and vessels, in the living subject, so as to prevent the protrusion of the pelvic viscera. In the posterior region, outwardly, may be observed -the sacrum; its ridge in the centre of its four pairs of foramina ; and at the lower part the spinal canal: but the spinal marrow is here protected during life by a firm ligamentous matter which closes the canal, and is termed the sacro coccygeal ligament. The os coccygis is also seen in tliis region, taking a direction rather forwards.