DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 55 oblic|[uely upwards and outwards to a point midway between the superior spinous process of the ilium and pubes, where it is lost by passing’ into the abdomen through the internal ring-. The space between the two rings is termed the inguinal canal. In the female subject, this canal is better defined; first, because of its greater extent in consequence of the great breadth of the pelvis; and, secondly, because there is no cremaster muscle; but in both subjects it presents the following distinct boundaries. Above, by the free edges of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, as they are passing from the outer third of Poupart’s ligament to be inserted tendinous into the pubes. Below, by Poupart’s ligament. Anteriorly, by the tendon of the external oblique mus- cle ; and. Posteriorly, by the pubic portion of the fascia transver- salis, which is passing down, behind Poupart’s ligament upon the thigh to form the anterior layer of the sheath of the vessels. As has been mentioned, this canal is occu- pied by the spermatic cord in the male, which should now, in this course of the dissection, be more minutely examined; and it will be found to be completely surrounded by muscular fibres; anteriorly by the cremaster, and pos- teriorly by fibres of the transversalis muscle; so that it is, in fact, running through a muscular canal. The space between the two rings measures from two to three inches, which is therefore the length of the inguinal canal. The internal ring should next be examined, which will be found just as the external,—not to be a hole through a mem- brane, but an aperture left by the division of the fascia transversalis into two portions 5 nor can this aperture be distinctly seen, until a small delicate fascia, which pro- ceeds from the edges of the ring to the cord, be cut through; and then the cord itself may be seen passing into the abdomen through the internal ring, and getting between the fascia transversalis and peritoneum, is lost to E 2