PAUTS ESSENTIAL TO THE SKELETON. 270 foot inverted, with tlie great toe on tlie injured side resting on the hall of the opposite one. From the depth at which the head of the bone is placed, it is with difficulty felt resting on the pyriform muscle. This dislocation is, in every respect, the most difficult to discover; but the points to be observed are, the loss of motion of the joint, accompanied hy but slight shortening of the limb, not more than to half an inch, and by inversion of the foot. With respect to the modes of reduction of the dislocations of the hip-joint, it should be remembered by the surgeon, that his sole opposing force is muscle; and, therefore, that it is quite essential for him to understand the position of these organs under the different luxations of this joint, that his judgment may decide on the best means of placing them under those circumstances, in which they can offer the least opposition to his efforts in reduction ; at the same time recollecting the necessity of tlie perfectly fixed state of the pelvis. Having perfectly fixed the pelvis and relaxed the muscles of the hip- joint, the next object is to apply a sufficient extending force to reduce the limb ; upon this subject there is some discrepency of opinion, as to the most advantageous situation for its application; some authors as- serting that the inferior extremity of the femur is the best, being then applied to the dislocated bone itself; while others recommend its appli- cation to the ancle-joint, in order to remove it as far as possible from the opposing muscles, added to which, advantage may be gained from the increased length of the lever. The benefit resulting from this latter practice is frequently manifested, by surgeons succeeding to reduce dis- locations of the humerus, by making extension from the wrist, after the application of the force to the bone itself has failed. Articulation of the Knee; or, Femoro Tibial Articulation., Class Diarthrosis.—Subdivision Ginglytnus. This is one of the most complicated joints in the body, and is produced by the union of the following" bones:—The condyles of the femur, the superior extremity of the tibia, and the posterior surface of the patella, being" covered in their recent state by articular cartilage, adapt themselves for the performance of the varied functions of this joint. These cartilaginous surfaces are covered by synovial membrane, to facilitate motion; and the following" ligaments serve to prevent lateral movement, while they admit of flexion and extension. The ligaments of the knee-joint may be divided into two