DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMV OK MUSCLES.: 99 This muscle rests upon the rectus capitis anticus major and long-us colli muscles, and its anterior surface is covered by the middle constrictor of the pharynx. The m. constrictor pharyngis medius.—This muscle,arises from the superior part of the cornua of the os hyoides, reaching* as far anteriorly as the appendix ; it also arises from the thyro hyoid lig’araent, its superior fibres pass up- wards with g*reat obliquity to be inserted into the cuneiform, process of the occipital bone, while the rest of its fibres pass more inwards, to meet corresponding* fibres of the muscle on the opposite side, and form a rapha, covering the posterior surface of the superior constrictor. The lower part of this muscle posteriorly is covered by the last described muscle, while above it covers the inferior fibres of the constrictor pharyngis superior. The m. constrictor pharyngis superior.—This muscle arises above from the cuneiform process of the occipital bone, anterior to the insertion of the middle constrictor, in front of the foramen magnum; it also arises from the pte- rygoid process of the sphenoid bone, from the superior and inferior maxillary bones behind the dentes sapientise, being here connected with the buccinator muscle, and from the sides of the base of the tongue, between the stylo and hyo glossus muscles. The fibres proceed in a transverse direction, to be inserted by interlacing with those of the opposite side, and form a rapha in the middle of its posterior surface. The largest part of this muscle posteriorly is covered by the middle constrictor; anteriorly it is covered by the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal, and is bounded by the openings of the nares, eustachian tubes, and glottis. Use of these muscles. The whole of the fibres serve to contract the pharynx, but that part of the muscle only contracts which is stimulated by the presence of the food: the middle constrictor also raises the os hyoides, and the larynx thereby shortening the canal, and at the same time drawing the tongue upwards and backwards, assists in closing the ,glottis; the inferior constrictor raises the larynx, and draws the oeso- phagus upwards. The m. stylo pharyngeusf^'Wivs muscle arises, by a thin