THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 122 is broad and concave above, where it is covered by muscles; while the lower third becomes contracted, and is placed im- mediately under tlie skin, where it may be readily distinguished in the living subject. Of the three angles, which separate the described surfaces from each other, the external is the most projecting, especially in its middle part, and gives at- tachment to the interosseous hgament. The anterior angle is more obtuse, and particularly so above, where it gives at- tachment to the deep flexor muscle common to the fingers ; while below it is sharper, for the origin of the pronator quad- ratus. The posterior angle commences immediately below the triangular surface of the olecranon: it is at first very marked, but below is lost imperceptibly in the substance of the bone, which there becomes rounded. Above, it gives at- tachment to the intermuscular tendon, which affords a common origin to the flexor and extensor carpi ulnaris, and the flexor profundus digitorura muscles. The inferior or carpal extremity of the ulna, is much smaller than the superior; is rounded in form, but rendered irregular on its inner side by a projecting conical process, which is termed the styloid, the extremity of which gives at- tachment to the internal lateral hgament of the radio carpal articulation. The outer part of the inferior extremity is round, and is named the head of the ulna: inferiorly, it is covered with cartilage, where it is contiguous with the interarticular carti- lage of the wrist-joint, which separates it from the cuneiform bone. Externally, it also forms an articular surface to be connected with the radius, forming the inferior radio-ulnar articulation. Anteriorly, the head of the ulna is rough, for the attachment of ligament. Posteriorly, a deep groove sepa- rates the styloid process from the outer portion of the head, for the passage of the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris muscle. The ulna is articulated with the liumerus, these two bones nearly completing the elbow-joint; the radius having but little office in the functions of that articulation. It is also connected above with the