J76 descriptive anatomy of muscles. skin of a darker colour than of other parts of the body, being; continuous above (as the subject is now placed) with the skin of the scrotum; below, being much thinner, surrounds the anus; and, laterally, extends on the buttocks and thighs. In the centre, reaching from ,the anterior part of the anus, a dense and distinct line may be seen, which passes along the perinaeum, scrotum, and under surface of the penis; this is termed the raphe, and divides the perinaeum into symmetrical halves. The integuments may next be removed by making an incision along the raphe, from the scrotum to the anus; and by dissecting the skin of each side outwards, and turning the flap towards the thigh, the sphincter ani muscle will be exposed, and the superficial fascia of the perinaeum. The m. sphincter ani—surrounds the anus, and is of an elliptical form; it arises by tendinous fibres from the extremity of the os coccygis; soon becomes fleshy ; its fibres separate, pass around the sides of the extremity of the rectum, and unite at the front part of the bowel, to be inserted into the condensed cellular membrane and raphe of the perinaeum; uniting with some of the fibres of the transversus perinaei and accelerator urinae. In the erect posture of the body, its inferior surface is covered by the skin of the perinaeum; its upper with the levator ani, and superficial fascia; while, anteriorly, it unites with the accelerator urinae, and transversus perinaei muscles. Use.—To close the anus, and to draw the bulb of the urethra down- wards and forwards; it is a muscle of the mixed class. Above this muscle is found a condensed layer of cellular membrane, termed the fascia superficialis perinaei; and which is connected laterally, to the rami of the ischia and pubes; and, above, continuous with the superficial fascia of the scrotum and abdomen. The exact attachments of this fascia are most important, and should therefore be most accurately understood; as the direction of extravasated urine, and of matter in abscesses of the perinaeum, is regulated by it. By minute examination, it will be found along the whole