PARTS ESSENTIAL TO THE SKELETON, 212 where it is almost fluid ; it has, therefore, so little compressi- bility, as to allow the free motions of the vertebrae upon one another, as if they moved upon a pivot; and, at the same time, diminishes concussion under the violent motions of the spine. It is closely attached, at its edge, to the bodies of the vertebrae ; and is so elastie, that man loses somewhat of his height, towards evening, from the pressure to which this substance is subjected in an erect posture during the day. Its strength is such, its attachment so perfect, and its resist- ance so great, that it will allow even bone to give way rather than yield itself to the application of force. Its anterior surface is in contact with the common anterior vertebral ligament, with which it is firmly connected; laterally, with the interartieular hgaraent of the ribs; and posteriorly, with the common posterior vertebral ligament. In old age, this structure becomes dry and shrivelled, so as to diminish the height of the person ; and it also, in a great measure, loses its flexibility. The combined flexibility and elasticity of this structure admits, at the same time, both the variety of motion and strength of the spinal column. Mode of Connection of the Arches of the Vertebroe. The bony arches of the vertebrae do not form articulations with each other, but are connected by means of a very- elastic ligamento-cartilaginous structure, which fills up the spaces between them, and alloAvs of extensive motion be- tween one arch and another. The first of these ligaments is found betw'^een the second and third cervical vertebrae, and the last between the fifth lumbar and the first bone of tlie sacrum. It is divided into a right and left portion by some intervening cellular membrane, but united at an angle pos- teriorly near the base of the spinous processes. In the foetus this ligament is separated into two distinct portions, which probably do not unite until the ossification of the spinous processes has been perfected. It diflers from all other liga-