descriptive anatomy of muscles. 105 the first dissected, as the muscles above the scapula cannot be e.xposed until they are removed. The m. trapezius,—This muscle arises aponeurotic from the middle of the superior transverse arch and protuberance of the os occipitis, from the lig-amentum nuchse, and from the spinous process of the seventh cervical, and all the dorsal vertebrae; from these different orig-ins the superior fibres pass downwards and outwards, to be inserted into the outer third of the clavicle; the middle fibres pass transversely out- wards, to be inserted into the spine of the scapula ; and the inferior fibres pass upwards, reaching- as far as the acromion process, into which they are inserted. This is the most superficial muscle of the posterior part of the trunk, and is consequently covered by skin, being* firmly connected to it by a dense fascia: it covers on the back the complexus, splenius, levator seapuloe, rhomboidei, and part of the latissimus dorsi muscles; on the scapula it covers the supra and infra spinati, and along* the spine has its tendinous insertion connected with the origin of the deltoid. In the whole length of its origin it is connected with its fellow; the clavicular insertion of this muscle is also connected with the deltoid muscle, as on the spine of the scapula. Use.—When the whole, of the muscle acts, it draws the clavicle and scapula backwards, the superior fibres raise the clavicle and scapula upwards as well as backwards, the middle fibres approximate the sca- pulae, and the inferior fibres draw the scapulae downwards. The sca- pulae being fixed, tbe trapezii extend the head; or, if only one muscle acts, it draws it to one side. The m. rhomboideus major.—This muscle arises, by apo- neurosis, from the lateral part of the extremities of the spi- nous processes of the five superior dorsal vertebrae; and from the interspinal ligaments, it soon becomes broad and fleshy, and passes in a direction downwards and outwards, to be inserted into that portion of the posterior costa of the scapula below the spine, sometimes reaching to the inferior angle. The rhomboideus major muscle is covered partly by the trapezius and partly by the latissimus dorsi; a small