ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. 277 the patient in the horizontal position, with the injured leg extended, and the thigh flexed ; and then, by forcing the patella either inwards or outwards, according to the direction of the luxation, it is easily reduced. These means should be employed as soon after the accident as possible, and bandages subsequently used, to keep the bone in its natural posi* tion; from which it would otherwise be easily again displaced by mus- cular action alone. Dislocations of the tibia,—The tibia may be thrown from the articular surfaces of the condyles of the femur in four directions; but in conse- quence of the large surfaces of bone which are in contact for the formation of this joint, luxation is but rarely complete, and never without being accompanied with very extensive laceration of soft parts, unless, indeed, it be the result of protracted disease. But whatever may be the cause of displacement, the deformity is so great as at once to indicate the nature of the injury. The tibia may be thrown forwards, backwards, or laterally, to either side of the knee. Dislocation forwards.—In this luxation the head of the tibia is thrown before the condyles of the femur, which are thrust deeply into the pop- liteal region, so as to compress the popliteal artery. The leg is short- ened, this effect being produced by the laceration of the crucial, lateral, and posterior ligaments; the extensor muscles of the foot, as well as the popliteus, must inevitably be stretched almost to laceration. Dislocation backwards.—In this case the head of the tibia rests in the popliteal space; the leg is projected forwards by the pressure of the condyles of the femur upon the tubercle of the tibia; and the tendinous insertion of the extensor muscles of the thigh into the patella is torn through, leaving a depression above. Such is the account of this acci- dent as given by Sir Astley Cooper, with whom some surgeons differ as to the position of the leg, whether it be inordinately extended, or per- manently flexed ; hut as Sir Astley Cooper’s description is derived from the history of a case furnished to him by an able and zealous professional man, under whose care the subject of the accident was placed, 1 shall esteem the account as positive, and not to be refuted by theoretical reasoning. In the lateral dislocations, the projecting deformity sufficiently points out whether the luxation be inwards or outwards; in the first case the tibia is so thrown inwards, as to receive the external condyle on its outer articulatory surface, and the tibia projects on the inner side of tlie joint. Appearances precisely similar, excepting in situation, occur in the displacement of the tibia outwards. The semilunar cartilages are sometimes partially displaced by the pressure of the femur, in consequence of relaxation of the ligaments of T 2