244 PARTS ESSENTIAL TO THE SKELETON. insertion of the brachialis internus muscle; it then takete an oblique direction downwards and outwards, passes across from one bone to the other, and is inserted into the tubercle of the radius, immediately below the insertion of the biceps; and as it crosses from its origin to its insertion, it forms an opening between it and the interosseous ligament, through which pass vessels and nerves. This ligament separates the superficial from the deep set of muscles of the fore arm, and is anterior to the interosseous ligament. The interosseous ligament begins to arise immediately below the tubercle of the radius, and passes from the inner sharp edge of the radius to the outer edge of the ulna. It is not one uninterrupted extension of ligament, but consists of a great many flattened fasciculi, which are separated from each other, leaving- openings for the transmission of vessels and nerves: it extends as far inferiorly as to the connexion of the radius with the ulna. Its two lateral edges are firmly connected with the periosteum of the two bones to which they are attached. Its anterior face above gives attachment to the deep flexor muscle of the fingers, and to the proper flexor of the thumb; its lower fourth is covered by the pro- nator quadratus muscle. On the posterior surface of this ligament may be seen some fibres, which pass from the ulna to the radius, and which, consequently, cross the usual direc- tion of the fibrous texture of the interosseous ligament, thus tending very much to strengthen it. This ligament is co- vered posteriorly by the supmator radii brevis, and extensor muscles of the fingers and wrist. There has been already mentioned one opening above, which is between the interos- seous and the oblique ligaments, and which allows the pas- sage of the interosseal vessels; but below there is another, of an oval form, just above the pronator quadratus muscle, extending through the ligament itself, and giving exit to the anterior interosseous vessels. The use of the interosseous ligament appears to be rather for the attachment of muscle than for the firm connection of the radius and ulna, which are so strongly bound together at each extremity as scarcely,