descriptive anatomy of articulations. 237 side of the glenoid cavity, near to the insertion of the subscapularis, so as to allow the head of the humerus to pass through it into the axilla. The diagnostic marks of this accident are sufficiently obvious, to prevent any mistake as to its nature. The dislocated arm is longer than the other : and if you examine the direction of the upper arm, you find, that instead of the shaft of the bone leading you upwards to the glenoid cavity of the scapula, it is directed deeply into the axilla ; the elbow is separated from the side, the roundness of the shoulder is lost, and the acromion projects itself, and immediately under it an empty space may be felt, which is, in fact, the glenoid cavity: the head of the humerus may be found in the axilla, and the patient is unable to bring his hand to his head. Secondly, dislocation forioards under the pectoral muscle.—The spi- nati and subscapularis muscles are put upon the stretch, much to the same extent as in the last dislocation ; the teretes are somewhat ex- tended, the pectoralis major is relaxed, while the latissimus dorsi is put upon the stretch. The capsular ligament is torn through, as in the last described accident.. In this accident, the head of the humerus is directed towards the centre of the clavicle, and may be felt behind the pectoral muscle, opposite to ' the third rib, resting upon the serratus magnus muscle: the elbow is separated from the side, as in the preceding case, but is carried rather further backwards. The patient has the power of moving the arm slightly backwards; but any attempt to bring the arm forward produces considerable pain. Thirdly, dislocation backwards, or upon the dorsum scapulce.—In this accident, the subscapularis must be necessarily torn through. The spi- nati, with the teres major, are relaxed, while the teres minor remains much in its natural state as to its degree of extension, although its di- rection be somewhat changed. The deltoid and coraco brachialis mus- cles are relaxed, while the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi are in a state of extension. The capsular ligament is torn through. When the dislocation is backwards and outwards, the head of the bone may be felt immediately below the spine of the scapula; the elbow is carried from the side, but with a slight direction forwards : the arm is somewhat lengthened. Fourthly, partial dislocation forwards,wherethe head of the bone rests on the edge of the glenoid cavity.—Here the subscapularis is found but little altered from its natural state. The spinati muscles are slightly extended. The anterior fibres of the deltoid are relaxed, while its pos- terior fibres are stretched. 7’he teretes are extended, and the pectoralis major is relaxed, excepting a few of its inferior fibres, while the latis- simus dorsi is put upon the stretch. It is not indispensable to the