130 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. extensor digitorum, extensor carpi ulnaris, and anconeus; in front by the brachialis internus and tendon of the biceps. Use.—To roll the radius outwards, and supine the hand. The m. extensor frimi internodii pollicis.—This muscle is by most anatomists termed the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, but having- already, when treating- on osteolog-y, given the reasons why the thumb should be considered as wanting a metacarpal bone and possessing three phalanges, it will be consistent with my views to describe this muscle as the extensor to the first phalanx of the thumb. It arises tendinous from a small spine situated on the back part of the ulna, immediately below the origin of the supinator radii brevis; fleshy from the interosseous ligament, and also fleshy from the radius, immediately below the insertion of the supinator radii brevis ; from these origins the muscle forms a considerable belly which passes obliquely downwards and outwards to the inferior extremity of the radius, within about an inch of which it forms a tendon ; that tendon proceeds through the outer groove on the back part of the radius, with the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii, being tied down by the posterior annular ligament, and lubricated by a bursa mucosa ; on emanating from this groove, the tendon splits into two or three portions to be inserted into the outer part of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb, into the os trapezium, and. is also usually connected with the abductor pollicis. The anterior surface of this muscle is in contact with the ulna, interosseous ligament, and radius, and below this with the tendons of the extensor radialis longior, and brevior; posteriorly, it is covered by the e.x- tensor longus digitorum, extensor carpi ulnaris, and extensor tertii internodii with which it is united. Use,—To carry the thumb backwards, and also abduct it, from which circumstance, it is by many anatomists termed the abductor longus pollicis. It contributes in some measure to supine the hand. The m. extensor secundi internodii pollicis-^rises fleshy