bones of the trunk. 85 also produce symptoms warranting such an operation. In a case of simple fracture of the sternum, a bandage should be applied round the chest, with a degree of pressure sufficient to prevent the action of the intercostal muscles ; and the patient should be placed in a position, with the head and pelvis raised ; in this manner the sternum is removed, as it were, from the influence of muscles. It is almost invariably light to abstract blood from the arm: at any rate, the antiphlogistic regimen is essential. The Ribs. The ribs consist of a succession of long- slender bones, which form the sides and great part of the posterior boundaries of the thorax. They are twenty-four in number; twelve of which are placed on each side. They are attached, by their posterior extremities, to the twelve dorsal vertebrae, Ante- riorly, they form a junction with the sternum, by means of an inten ening cartilage: whilst below, they are attached to each other by a similar structure. The difference observable in their anterior articulation, distinguishes the ribs into two classes, the true and false ribs. The true ribs, comprising the seven superior, are connected successively with the three portions of the sternum; into the articulatory cavities of which bone their cartilages are received, and thus form more parti- cularly the walls of the thorax. The five inferior, or false ribs, may be considered as forming a part of the abdominal parietes, as they defend the viscera in the upper part of that cavity. They are not continued forwards, as far as the sternum, but terminate by each joining its cartilage to that of the rib immediately above: the two last are to be excepted, which, from having their extremities unattached, and merely tipped with cartilage, have received the name of floating ribs. The length of the ribs increases successively from the first to the seventh, and then gradually diminishes to the twelfth: the first is placed horizontally, while the others are more or less inclined downwards from the vertebral column. They all diverge in passing from the spine, and converg-e in passing- to the sternum. No two ribs on the same side are alike ; but.