THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 152 thigh upvvarils upon llie pelvis, so that tlie limb is placed at an angle of 30o from the horizontal line of the trunk. By this position, the liga- inentum patellae, as well as the extensor muscles, are relaxed, and the upper portion of the fractured patella may readily be drawn down to the lower, which is connected with the tibia. A bandage should then be rolled on the thigh, so as to support, and at the same time diminish the irritability of the muscles; and this bandage should be passed from the thigh to the leg in the form of the figure of 8, behind the knee-joint, so as to cross one another in the ham for several turns, and thus embrace the sides of the patella ; it may then be continued to the foot as a com- mon roller, thus preventing partial compression. A circular strap should then be buckled on above, and another below the fractured patella, and these made to approximate by straps passing from the one to the other, by which means the fractured portions are maintained in a state of coaptation. A long hollowed splint should pass from the buttock to the heel, so as to prevent any motion of the limb. There is a difference of opinion, whether or not the patella is capable of ossific consolidation, or only of being united by ligamentous tissue. There seems to be no just reason for believing otherwise, than that the patella is as capable of reparation by bone as the rest of the osseous system ; and, indeed, this is proved by the experiments of Sir Astley Cooper, who found that in longitudinal fractures, or even in transverse ones, where the broken portions were not separated from each other, that ossific consolidation occurred ; so that it may be said, that the frequent failure in producing immediate reunion occurs from the difficulty in keeping the broken por- tions in apposition, and not from any peculiarity in the structure of the patella. Fractures of Tibia and Fibula.—Although there is such analogy be- tween the bones of the leg and of the fore-arm, as to structure, yet there is this difference with respect to their fractures, that it most frequently happens, with respect to the leg, that both bones are broken, while in the fore-arm, it more usually happens that one only is fractured; the cause of this difference it may be well to mention, as it depends upon the different mode of their articulations. In the arm, the radius is most frequently fractured alone, because in a fall upon the hand, with which it is articulated, it receives the whole weight of the body, and commu- nicates the impulse to the humerus and not to the ulna; while by a fall on the feet from any considerable height, the tibia in a like manner receiving the whole weight of the body, gives way to the application of so great a force, which force continuing to operate, the fibula, now having lost the support of the tibia, is subsequently broken. They may, however, as happens to the bones of the fore-arm, be both broken at the same time, and parallel to each other, by a force applied directly on the part of the bones fractured, as when a heavy weight passes over