77 BONES OF THE TRUNK. arteries and veins. The articulatory processes are placed rather behind the transverse ; the superior are directed back- wards, upwards, and rather inwards ; the inferior forwards, downwards, and outwards. The spinous process is short, projects backwards, with a slight obliquity downwards, and, like the transverse processes, terminates in a bifid extremity— thus aflbrding an increased surface for the attachment of muscles. A cervical vertebra may be easily known, by any one of these peculiarities: but the grand distinction, by which it may immediately be recognized, is the vertebral foramen in its transverse process. Amongst the seven cervical vertebrae, we find three differing from the rest so as to require a particular description. These are the first, the second, and the seventh. The two former should be minutely examined, since, by their connexion with the occipital bone and with each other, they allow of the motion which takes place between the head and the spine, and regulate its extent. The first cervical vertebra, usually called the atlas, forms an exception to the general description of these bones, as we can neither recognize body nor spinous process. It consists merely of a bony ring, forming the verte- bral hole. The internal circumference of this ring is rendered still more concave anteriorly, by being furnished with an ar- ticulatory surface to receive the dentiform process of the vertebra below. Behind this hollow the bone is marked on each side by the attachment of the transverse hgament, which passing behind the dentiform process confines it to its situa- tion. This ligament may thus be said to divide the ring into two compartments, the anterior of which is the smaller, and lodges the dentiform process; the posterior is continuous with the circumference of the foramen magnum, and transmits the spinal marrow. The upper surface of the ring presents two articulatory concavities, converging anteriorly, and corres- ponding with the condyles of the os occipitis, which they receive. The bone is rough both before and behind these cavities, to give attachment to ligaments which connect it with the occipital. Only a slight motion, backwards and