165 bones of the extremities. The ■posterior or first phalanges of the toes are longer than the others, and present a body and two extremities. The posterior extremity is furnished with a semilunar con- cave articulatory surface, which receives the head of the metatarsal bones; and on their planter surface a sulcus is seeii, which is directed from behind to before, covered with cartilage, and lodges the flexor tendons of the toes. The lateral parts of this e.xtremity are each formed with a tubercle, to srive attachment to the lateral ligaments. Their anterior extremity presents two articular apophyses or condyles, which are separated from each other more inferiorly than superiorly by a sulcus. They are connected with the posterior extremity of the second phalanges. The bodies of the first phalanges form a convexity from behind to before on their dorsal sur- face, a concavity from behind to before on their plantar surface, and are contracted in the middle. The middle or second phalanges, of which there are but four, the great toe not having one, are very short, being nearly square. Their dorsal surface is concave from behind to before, and convex transversely. Their plantar surface is also concave from behind to before. Their posterior ex- tremity presents an articular depression, divided into two parts by a middle projection, which is directed from above to below, and is articulated with the anterior extremity of the first phalanx. The anterior extremity presents an articular surface, exactly corresponding to the description of that of the first phalanx. The extreme or third phalanges are very small, excepting that of the great toe, which is of considerable size. Their figure is pyramidal; their superior and inferior surfaces are concave from behind to before, and are roughened for the attachment of tendons. Their posterior extremity is fur- nished with an articular cavity, similar to the posterior arti- culatory surfaces of the second phalanges. Their anterior extremity is rounded and scabrous, more especially on the dorsal surface, for the attachment of the condensed tissue which secretes the nail. M 2