52 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. will be found, that the tendinous part of the one musdc corresponds to the fleshy part of another, so as to preserve an equal thickness and power throughout. They all tend, also, to draw down the ribs, and to diminish therefore the capacity of the chest in a direction which may be readily comprehended by attention to the origin and insertion of each muscle. Until of late years, such an account as I have already given finished the description of the abdominal parietes. It was left to Sir Astley Cooper to discover a structure, which, in a pathological point of view, is of the greatest possible importance; as hernia, before this discovery, could but have been imperfectly understood. In the year 1801, on the failure of an operation for hernia performed by one of the ablest surgeons of the metropolis,—who considered that he had returned the protruded intestine into the abdomen, but notwithstanding which the patient died under a con- tinuation of the symptoms of hernia,—it was found, upon a post mortem examination, that, although the intestine had been pushed behind the transversalis muscle, it still remained external to the abdominal cavity. It was this circumstance which led to the discovery of a structure _ which had not hitherto been understood by anatomists. Sir Astley Cooper, whilst making a careful examination of the abdominal parietes, upon raising the transversalis muscle . from what he supposed to be the peritoneum, discovered that a fibrous tissue was interposed, lining the whole of the inner surface of this muscle. To this structure he gave the name of fascia transversalis. The importance of this fascia may be inferred, from its forming a passage to the spermatic cord, and thus becoming implicated in inguinal hernia ; and from its passing down upon the thigh, thereby being equally- involved in femoral hernia. But before entering into the minute account of this important fascia, so that all its various relations may be comprehended, it will be well to bring to the student’s recollection the great and open space which is left between the cavity of the abdomen and the