THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 120 extensor dioitoruni communis. On the outer side of the in- ferior extremity of tlie radius, between the first and second described grooves, is situated the process which is termed the styloid, and which gives attachment to the external lateral ligament of the w'rist-joint. On the inner side an articulatory surface is found, with a concavity passing from before to be- hind, which serves to receive the lower extremity of the ulna: it is termed the smaller scaphoid cavity of the radius. The inferior extremity of the bone forms the larger articulatory surface, which has its long axis from side to side, its con- concavity from before to beliind, and is called the greater scaphoid cavity. It is covered with cartilage, and divided into two unequal portions by a ridge, which passes from be- fore backwards. The outer part articulates with the os sea- phoides, and the inner with the lunar bone, for the formation of the wrist-joint. The radius is connected above, with the humerus ; below, with the scaphoid and lunar bones ; and on its inner side, by a double articulation, with the ulna. Muscles attached to the radius are eiglit: four of which, employed in the radio-ulnar articulation, are inserted into that hone, viz.:—the m. supinator radii longus and brevis, pronator radii teres, and pronator quadratus, and one muscle of the elbow-joint, the biceps: whilst the three which arise from it are muscles of the fingers, viz.:—the flexor sublimis digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, and extensor primi internodii. The Ulna. This is the longer of the two bones of the fore arm: it is situated on the inner side, is larger above than it is below, and is divided, like the radius, into a body and two extremities. The superior, or humeral extremity, which is the largest part of the bone, is very irregular in its form, and composed principally of two large processes, and two articulatory sur- faces. The larger of the processes is termed the olecranon : it forms the superior and posterior portion of the bone, and