DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 106 portion being- seen between these muscles, and the inferior part of the base of the scapula. Use.—To draw- the scapula backwards, and at the same time the in- ferior angle upwards, which directs the anterior angle and glenoid cavity forward. The m. rhomboideus minor.—This muscle arises from the sides of the apices of the sixth and seventh cervical ver- tebrae, and from the termination of the ligamentum nuchae; its fibres then pass downwards to be inserted into the pos- terior costa of the scapula, above the spine. This muscle is inserted immediately below the levator scapulae ; in other respects it is situated the same as the rhomboideus major, the two being sometimes described as one muscle. Use.—To draw the scapula obliquely upwards and inwards. The two muscles which fix the scapula above, are the omo hyoideus and the levator scapulae; the origin and insertion of the former has already been described, having been clas- sified with those muscles which serve to fix the os hyoides; but as it does also assist in raising the scapula, it is necessary now to name it, without however recapitulating its origin and insertion. ^ The m. levator scapulae.—^This muscle arises by five dis- tinct tendinous origins from the transverse processes of the five superior cervical vertebrae, but more frequently only from the three superior; these tendinous origins pass down- wards, and soon become distinct fleshy bundles, which unite below, forming one muscle, to be imerted fleshy into the posterior part of the superior angle of the scapula. The five origins of this muscle are anteriorly covered by the sterno cleido raastoideus, more deeply by the scalenus me- dius muscle, posteriorly by the trapezius and splenius capitis, and still deeper by the splenius colli: the insertion of the levator scapulae has the origin of the omo hyoideus in front of it, the rhomboideus minor behind it, the supra spinatus below it, and is covered by the trapezius. Usc^—To draw the scapula upwards and slightly forwards, or, if the scapula be fixed, it inclines the neck to its side. The three muscles attaching the scapula to the anterior