GENERAL ANATOMY OF ARTICULATIONS. 201 consolidate into one continuous mass, to the actual obliteration of suture. This last process always commences from the internal surface, which may be proved by the examination of skulls at certain periods of life, at which the sutures may still be traced on the exterior, although all vestige of them is lost internally. On the other hand, under disease, the sutures may become extended, as may be seen in hydrocephalus and the synchon- droses of the pelvis; or also found to yield and become elon- gated, under difficult and protracted parturition, A mphiarthrosis. The amphiarthrosis, or mixed articulation, resembles sy- narthrosis in the manner by which the bones are united, and diarthrosis from the greater extent of motion which is allowed. Fibro-cartilage is the structure employed to effect the union, and the joint thus formed is under the influence of muscular action. The bodies of the vertebrae are connected to each other by this class of articulation, and the motion thus allowed has been already mentioned, when speaking of fibro-cartilage. The connecting structure gradually loses its elasticity as age advances, but the joint is but little liable to become oblite- rated by a natural process. After some unconsolidated frac- tures, a species of amphiarthrodial joint is produced, from the fractured extremities of a bone being reunited by an inter- mediate substance, of a flexible and tenacious texture, which allows them to move one upon the other: such a structure is frequently produced after fractures of the patella, neck of the femur, and olecranon. Indeed, wherever mechanical or constitutional circumstances interfere with the reunion of bone, either a supernumerary amphiarthrodial or diarthrodial arti- culation is the consequence. Practical Remarks. I can scarcely be expected, wliile treating' of anatomy, to enter fully into ^ic detail of the diseases to which joints arc liable, having already mentioned the peculiar alfections of each structure which cuter into