BONKS OF THE HEAD. 47 a superior and an inferior surface, an anterior, posterior, and two lateral edg-es. f^rom the superior surface, situated ante- riorly, there ascends a triang-ular lamina of bone, named the ci'ista gain, which is compact In its structure, and terminates in a point or apex : its base is attached to the horizontal plate of the bone, while the apex gives attachment to the falx major. The fore part of the crista, which is vertical, is grooved, and by its junction at this point with the frontal bone usually com- pletes the foramen coecum. From the under surface of the cribriform or horizontal plate, there passes downwards the nasal lamella, having a base in common with the crista galli : it usually does not pass downwards vertically into the nose, but with an obliquity, so as to divide that cavity unequally. This nasal lamella is not of so compact a structure as the crista galli; but its edges are thicker than the rest of the bone, for its attachment with other bones and cartilages of the nose. The lateral edges of the cribriform plate give attachment to numerous cells of an unequal size, which open into each other and into the cavity of the nose : they are termed the ethmoidal cells, and are divided into the anterior and posterior. The anterior are covered by the ossa unguis, and the posterior by thin laminae which form a part of the bony orbit, from which circumstance they are named the orhitar processes. On the upper edges of these processes two notches may be observed, which serve for the completion of the two internal orbitar foramina by their junction with the frontal bone: their cir- cumference is rough for their attachment to other bones forming the orbit. Below, and to the inner side of the orbitar plates, are found two thin processes of bone, being irregular in their form, but twisted upon themselves so as to produce a convex internal surface towards the nasal lamella, and a con- cave outer one enlarging the cavity of the nose: the upper edge only is attached to the ethmoid bone, the lower hanging pendulous into the nose. These two bones are termed the ossa turhinata, or spongiosa, but are to be considered as pro- cesses of the ethmoid bone. Consequently, all those parts of the ethmoid bone communicating with the cavity of the