132 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. ridg’e ; these are slig'htly concave from before to behind, and receive tlie metacarpal bones of the fourth and fifth fing’ers. 1 he apex, upper, or cubital surface, forms an acute ang^le, which is covered with cartilag'e,to form an articulation with the os lunare; this junction being produced by the unciform bone wedging itself in between the magnum and cuneiform bones. Its radial, or outer surface, is slightly convex; partly covered with cartilage, to connect it with the os magnum, and partly rough for the attachment of ligament. Its inner, or ulnar surface, presents an articulatory face, which is concave from below upwards, for its junction with the cuneiform bone. The dorsal surface of this bone, which is non-articular, is convex, and roughened for the attachment of ligaments. The pjalmar surface is less than the dorsal, and is peculiar in having projecting forwards from it the hook-like process, from which the bone is sometimes named. This process is slightly curved, presenting a concavity towards the thumb, and a convexity inwards. It advances considerably into the palm of the hand, and gives a firm origin to the strong liga- ment which ties down the tendons of the w rist and fingers. Jlttachment of Muscles.— Part of the flexor brevis pollicis. The flexor brevis, and abductor minimi digili, arise from the unciform bone. Practical Remarks. Such is the description of the individual bones entering into the com- position of the carpus: they are, however, so connected with each other, and with other bones, that they ought rather to be considered in the light of a compound whole, than as parts possessing individual uses; or in other words, they present, when taken collectively, an excellent illus- tration of that division of bones whicb we have already distinguished by the term “ irregular.” With little or no motion between themselves, they form, by their union with each other, a strong bony arch, which, whilst it imparts great strength, affords protection to important struc- tures, and moreover presents an extensive, though an irregular, articu- latory surface, to admit of the varied movements of the hand upon the radius. In appreciating the use of the carpal bones, taken collectively, it may perhaps be objected that the os trapezium offers an exception, inasmuch as that bone forms a direct articulation with the thumb, and