BONES OF THE EXTREMITIES. 125 rotatory motion. The arm has also a rounded appearance, as if tumefied, in consequence of the protrusion of the muscles from the interosseous space. In this accident there is but very little shortening of the limb. Treatment.—Place the hand between supination and pronation, and slightly directed towards the ulna; semiflex the fore-arm, and then, while making gentle extension and counter-extension, push back the protruded muscles between the bones, keeping them in that situation by placing a well adjusted pad on tbe fore and back part of the arm, reaching from the elbow to the wrist: over these apply splints, which are to be retained by three or four pieces of tape—not a bandage, as it would tend to thrust the broken bones towards each other, and again diminish the interosseous space. Then place the fore arm in a sling, and allow the hand to hang down, so that a constant extension of the limb may be kept up, which very materially assists in retaining the fractured ends of the hones in their proper situation. The principal point is to preserve the natural extent of the interosseous space ; for if this be diminished, the rotatory motion of the radius must be imperfect. The treatment when only one of the bones is broken, differs in no respect from that recommended for fractures of both bones; excepting, perhaps, it may be considered worthy of notice, that in fracture of the lower part of the radius, the hand should be bent more inwards towards the ulna, and permanently retained in that position during the progress of cure. The Hand. The bones of the hand form the last division of the upper extremity, and comprehend all the parts from the joint of the wrist to the points of the fingers. It presents a convexity posteriorly, to give strength, and a concavity before, for the purpose of enabling it to grasp substances. The hand is capable of a considerable extent of motion, in flexion and extension, but of a slight degree in a lateral direction. The bones of the hand are subdivided into those of the carpus, metacarpus, and phalanges. The Carpus. Ihe superior part of the hand is formed of eight small bones, disposed in tw o rows, each consisting of four bones: