DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 1 13 muscles: from these origins the fibres converge towards the inferior part of the neck of the scapula, pass through the acromial notch, where it becomes tendinous, adhering to the capsular ligament which it strengthens 3 it is then inserted into the middle depression, on the upper part of the greater tubercle of the os humeri. The upper posterior surface of this muscle is covered by the trapezius and deltoid, below by the latissimus dorsi, and in the intermediate space by fascia and common integument; the anterior surface is in contact with the dorsum of the scapula, and the capsular ligament; at the neck of the bone, it is furnished with a bursa. Its anterior edge is connected below with the origin of the teres major, and above with the teres minor through the medium of tendon; its posterior edge corresponds with the insertion of the rhomboideus major. Use.—To assist in supporting the arm when raised by the action of the other muscles, to rotate the arm outwards, and to give strength to the capsular ligament. The m. teres minor—arises from a slightly depressed surface between the two ridges of the anterior costa of the scapula, from its aponeurotic covering, and from the inter- muscular ligament; its fleshy fibres pass upwards and outwards, adhere firmly to the capsular ligament, and are inserted tendinous below the m. infra spinatus, into the inferior and outer depression, on the greater tubercle of the os humeri. The origin of the teres minor is placed between the teres major which is below it, and the long head of the triceps which is above it; the infra spinatus being behind, and the subscapularis in front. The body of the muscle runs along the under edge of the infra spinatus, and is only covered by fascia and common integuments ; its insertion lies under the deltoid, so as to be concealed by it. This muscle passes to its point of insertion behind the long head of the triceps, which separates it from the teres major; it also serves to strengthen the capsular ligament. i