39 BONES OF THE HEAD. the descending- legs ; but these are also described as wing-s, being- named the pterygoid processes, although they much more resemble, both in situation and appearance, the legs of the animal to which the form of the bone is compared. As each of these parts presents numerous processes and de- pressions, I shall separately describe them. The body forms the centre of the external surface of the bone, and offers an anterior edge, a posterior surface, and an inferior stirface, the superior surface not being described until speaking of the internal part of the bone. The anterior edge is serrated for its attachment with the ethmoid bone ; immediately posterior to which edge are seen small cellular cavities, which complete the posterior ethmoidal cells by their junction with the ethmoid bone. The posterior surface is rough for its articulation with the occipital bone. The inferior surface of the bone presents, in its median line, a projecting process of bone termed the azygos process; which is produced by the junction of two thin plates of bone, termed the ossa triangularia, which cover the sphenoidal sinuses. This process projects upwards so as to divide the sinuses into two unequal parts, and downwards to form a part of the septum of the nose, by being received into the vomer. Late- rally, the body of the bone is connected with the alae and the legs. The two extending wings, or alee majores, stretch outwards to form the lateral boundaries of the bone, offering numerous irregularities for the attachment and lodgement of important parts, rendering their description essential. Upon the anterior and larger part of each wing we observe two smooth surfaces, separated by a middle ridge, to which the name of processes are given. The external surface is hollowed, forming a part of the temporal fossa, and is therefore termed the temporal process: the inner surface is also slightly hollowed, forms the outer part of the bony orbit, and is called the orbitar pro~ cess: and the middle ridge is rough, for its attachment to the malar bone, and is denominated the malar process. Behind this is a groove for the passage of a nerve from the segond