73 BONES OF THE HEAD. ino- relative position :—Tlio anterior convex part, which is termed the bridge of the nose, is formed by the ossa nasi, tlie nasal processes of the superior maxillary bones, and by the ossa ung’uis: the roof of the nose, by the under surface of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone: the floor, by the palatine processes of the superior maxillary and palate bones : while the bony septum is produced by the nasal lamella of the ethmoid bone, the vomer, the azygos process of the sphenoid bone, and by the nasal spine, assisted by the union of the palatine processes of the superior maxillary and palate bones. The cavity of the nose is rendered irregular by the inferior turbinated bones. This large cavity is divided into three chambers:—a superior, middle, and inferior. The superior chamber is contained entirely in the ethmoid bone, being situated between its cribriform plate and turbi- nated portion. This chamber has opening into it the posterior ethmoidal and sphenoidal sinuses. The middle chamber includes that portion bounded above by the superior turbinated bone, and below by the inferior, and into which open the frontal and anterior ethmoidal sinuses, by a common foramen: and also the antrum highmorianum. The inferior chamber is placed below the inferior turbi- nated bone, between it and the palatine processes of the superior maxillary and palatine bones. The ductus ad nasum terminates in this cavity, immediately underneath the inferior turbinated bone. An anterior opening, common to the three chambers, forms what is generally called the nostril; while it terminates be- hind, also, by a common opening into the upper part of the pharynx. The whole of the interior of the nose, as well as the sinuses communicating with it, are lined by the pituitary membrane. It is to be remembered that the nose is a double organ, and that therefore the parts described are found on each side of the septum. The practical remarks connected with tliis organ will be better under- stood, when its relative position with the pharynx and the soft parts entering into its composition has been described.