236 PARTS ESSENTIAL TO TOE SKELETON. upwards, when the head of the humerus becomes depressed towards the inferior part of the capsular lig-ament, as before described. In the rotatory motions, the head of the humerus turns upon its own axis in the g-lenoid cavity, and is directed either from behind to before, or from before backwards, as the ro- tation may be either inwards or outwards. In circumduction, the head of the humerus successively occupies the various situations which have been described as concomitant with the other motions of the articulation; and the whole of the upper extremity, during- the evolution, forms a cone, the base of which is at the hand, and the apex at the shoulder-joint. Practical Remarks. In dislocations of the os humeri, all the muscles which arise from the scapula, and are inserted into that bone, must be more or less affected in its displacement; and it may be luxated in four directions: three, in which the head of the hone is completely thrown from the glenoid cavity, and one, where it rests upon its edge, to the outer side of the coracoid process of the scapula. I shall therefore describe the state of the capsular ligament, and the muscles of the shoulder-joint, under each particular form of displacement. First, downwards and imcards into the axilla, which is the most common direction of displacement, in consequence of the capsular ligament being thinnest at that point, and therefore more liable to be lacerated. In this accident, all those muscles which arise from the upper part of the sca- pula, and are inserted into the os humeri, must be more or less put upon the stretch, as the points of attachment of these muscles are rendered more distant from one another. It is clear, therefore, that the two spi- nati, the subscapularis, the coraco brachialis and the teres minor, must he extended ; more particularly the subscapularis, not merely from the separation of its two points of attachment, but also from the pressure of the head of the os humeri, which is frequently so great as to cause the laceration of that muscle. The elbow, in this accident, being removed to a considerable distance from the side, the teres major, with the pos- terior fibres of the deltoid muscle, are relaxed ; while the anterior fibres of the latter muscle are extended. The pectoralis major, and the latis- simus dorsi, are but slightly affected ; but are still to be kept in view, with regard to the reduction of the bone, as they would otherwise form a very considerable opposing force. In this accident, the capsular ligament is torn through on the inner