I 30-1 ANATOMY OF’HAIRS. The particular use of hair in the animal econom}', is not clearly ascertained, particularly in man, where it does not, as in animals, contribute so much to the warmth of the body. It has a particular attraction for moisture, which swells and leng’thens it. It is among- the most indestructable parts of the body, and powerfully resists putrefaction. Alkalies soften and dissolve it; hence the advantag’e g’ained by first softening- the beard by the use of soap, in shaving-. The appendag-es of the skin, the hairs, and nails, although different formations, appear to be modifications of the same siibstance as the cuticle; on being burnt, they each emit the same odour ; the hoofs and horns of animals, the feathers of birds, are alike in this respect, and leave the same re- siduum of phosphate of lime. Human hair when burnt, leaves the hydro chlorate of soda, the carbonate, sulphate, and phosphate of lime, and a small quantity of oxyde of manganese. In white hair phosphate of magnesia, and in black hair a considerable quantity of silica are found; while in the red and light-coloured hair, sulphur is detected. It has been conjectured, that the hair is an excretory to the superabundant phosphate of lime in circulation: and to strengthen this conjecture, it has been remarked, that the urine of quadrupeds abounds less in phosphoric salts, than human urine. The hair is supposed by some to have a power of erection in extreme fear; but this does not appear to depend on any thing beyond the contraction of the occipito frontalis, which draws the scalp and hairs along with it. In quadrupeds, also, the effect appears to be produced by particular mus- cular action ; and not upon a spontaneous motion inherent in the hairs themselves. Various accounts have been given of the hair of the head turning white in the course of a single night; there has been, no doubt, much exaggeration in the history of these facts; nevertheless, many of them are so well attested, that there can be little doubt that the hair will turn white, more particularly in young people, in the course of a few