155 BONES OF THE EXTREMITIES. and forms a superior projecting- prominence, which is ad- mitted between the malleoli of the tibia and fibula, to com- pose the ancle-joint. Immediately beneath this bone is placed the calcis, which reaches no further forwards than the astra- g-alus, but projects considerably backwards to form the heel; these two bones are so connected with each other, that the astragalus is directed anteriorly to the inner side, while the calcis faces forwards to the outer edge of the foot; to the former is articulated the scaphoid, or navicular bone; and to the latter, the os cuboides. The navicular bone is so short as not to reach to the metatarsal bones; while, on the contrary, the cuboid bone does extend from the calcis to the metatarsal bones of the little toe and toe next to it; so that the space between the navicular and the three inner metatarsal bones is filled up by the three cuneiform bones. These tarsal bones, when thus connected, form an arch, the convexity of which is facing upwards on the dorsum of the foot, from before to behind, as well as from side to side; while, in the sole of the foot, a concavity is maintained in the same direction. The Astragalus. This bone is divided into its body, neck, and head. The body, above, presents a large articular surface, which is convex from before to behind, and slightly concave from side to side, for its attachment to the tibia, being broader an- teriorly towards the neck of the bone than it is posteriorly, so as to admit of lateral motion of the foot during its extension. The inner surface of the body of the astragalus is divided, above, into an articular, and below, into a rough non-articular surface: the former, which is articulated with the internal malleolus, is large and rounded in front, and forms an acute termination posteriorly. The non-articular surface below, gives attachment to strong tarsal ligaments. The external surface of the body forms a larger articular face than the inner, to be connected with the outer malleolus: