54 THE 08SE0US SYSTEM. an irregularly curved line, divided into compartments for the insertion of eight teeth, which portion of the bone is called the alveolar process. The upper part of the body presents a plain, somewhat concave surface, which forms the lower part of the orbit, and is called the orhitar process ; upon this process may be observed posteriorly a groove which soon be- comes a canal, and terminates as the infra-orbitar foramen upon the body of the bone, through which passes a branch of the second division of the fifth pair of nerves. The form of the orbitar process is triangular, its inner edge being rough for its attachment to the lacrymal, ethmoid, and palate bones within the orbit, while its outer margin forms a part of the spheno-maxillary fissure. Anteriorly, and on the inner side of the orbitar process, a portion of bone passing upwards to be connected with the os frontis; and forming the lateral parts of the nose, is called the nasal process. It presents a base, attaching it to the body of the maxillary bone; an apex roughened, to connect it with the frontal bone ; an external convex surface, and an internal surface, concave, to enlarge the nasal cavity. Upon this cavity we observe a ridge of bone, running from before to behind, to lodge the inferior turbinated bone; an anterior thin edge, to connect it with the nasal bones; and a posterior edge, forming a deep sulcus, completed into the ductus ad nasum by the lacrymal and inferior turbinated bones. Upon the outer side of the orbitar process is seen a rough triangular projection, termed the malar process, from its giving connexion to that bone. Im- mediately behind this process is seen a depression, for the passage of the temporal muscle. Projecting horizontally in- wards, from the body of the bone, is the palatine process. It is concave both above and below, to enlarge the cavities of the nose and mouth; rough behind, for its attachment to the palate bone, and rough on its inner edge, to join with its fellow. By this junction a projecting spine is formed into the nose, called the nasal spine, and wliich extends sufficiently for- wards to produce the internal boundary of a sulcus, between it and the root of the nasal process. Tliis sulcus, in the