descriptive anatomy of muscles. 232 to the belief that it was intended as a means of self-preserva- tion. Progressive motion through the medium of the water IS performed by throwing the body prone upon its surface, so as to produce the greatest extent of resistance; at the same time keeping the head above the water in order to be able to breathe freely; and then, by sudden and alternate flexions and extensions of the limbs in such a direction as to drive the water backwards, the body is propelled forwards, and, by expert swimmers, with considerable facility and quickness. Although the exertion is great, yet, by a judi- cious economy of the muscular power, and by gentle respira- tion, this action maybe for a length of time maintained; and a distance of three or four miles passed through this resisting medium. Practical Remarks. Connected with tlie lower extremity ; this part, as in others where it is necessary to describe extent of surface, should, for the facility of description, be divided into different regions. The region of the hip, is bounded above by the pelvis, and below by an horizontal line drawn around the upper part of the thigh, upon a level with the perineum. The superior part of this region, posteriorly, is called the buttock, and comprehends the projection formed by the large glutaei muscles ; anteriorly, this i-egion is comprehended between an imaginary line drawn from the anterior and superior spinous pro- cess of the ilium to the pubes, above; and the line forming the inferior boundary of this region just mentioned, below; laterally and exter- nally, this region is bounded between the spinous process of the ilium above, and the trochanter major below. The pupil should observe in the healthy subject the symmetrical form of this region, and remark particularly the exact correspondence of the two sides; any deviation from which, is a general indication of disease or accident. Beginning in the posterior part of this region—the fulness of either buttock may be increased or diminished from its natural form; the former will occur in abscesses, and during the acute stage of diseases of the hip-joint; the lattei*, in dislocations, and from the wasting of the muscles in various diseases. The anterior part of this region is of considerable importance, being the seat of hernia, aneurism, abscess, and glandular tumours ; each of which disease is accompanied by alteration in the natural form of the part, and are treated of when speaking- of the particular organs con- i