THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 56 Tliis bone forms the greatest part of the floor and lateral walls of the nose. It also forms the whole of the antrum hiffhmorianum communi- eating with the nasal cavity, and enters into the composition of the orbit and the lachrymal apparatus. It forms the larger portion of the bony palate, and, by receiving the upper teeth, becomes a part of the organ for mastication. The Practical Points Connected with the superior maxillary bones are numerous in pro- portion to the many offices these bones assist in performing, but more particularly as connected with the diseases of the mucous membrane lining the antrum highmorianum ; which cavity being in such close connexion with the eye, forming its upper boundary, the nose having an opening into it on the inner side, and the mouth below, each of these parts become soon secondarily affected: therefore, in cases of suppuration, the matter should be very early evacuated. This is effected by extracting the last molar tooth but one, the fang of which usually penetrates the cavity; or, should it not do so, a pointed instrument should be pushed into it, and the pus let out. The opening should he made sufficiently large, to admit readily of the cavity being injected ; and if the drawing of one tooth he not sufficient to effect this, two or even more should be extracted. Polypi frequently form in the antrum ; and in aggravated cases the form of the face is sometimes most hideously altered, and the function of the neighbouring organs destroyed. This happens when the polypus is of a malignant character; therefore as soon as the surgeon ascertains such a tendency, a trephine should be applied on the body of the maxillary bone, and the disease removed. It should be held in mind that diseased teeth are frequently the exciting cause of diseased antrum, and that the removal of a tooth at an early period might prevent all the baneful effects described. The Ossa Palati Are situated in the palate, immediately behind the palatine processes of the superior maxillary bones, and they together form the bony palate: they also extend, so as to form a part of the cavity of the nose and orbit. They are extremely irregular in their form, but are divided into four distinct parts :—their body or palatine process, their nasal process, their orhitar process, and lastly, their pterygoid process: each part by its name implying its use and its situation.