articulations of the lower extremities. 285 that in the latter case the synovial cavity is laid open by the laceration of the skin, and the articular surfaces of bone are exposed. Even in these accidents it is now proved by experience, that amputation is not the necessary resort; for if there be youth and constitution, the piesei- vation of the limb should be attempted in every case where there is not a division of any large blood-vessel, or any extraordinary degree of laceration of the soft parts; and it may very frequently be effected by strict attention to the unfavourable symptoms that supervene, and the judicious application of remedies to overcome them. With respect to the reduction of these dislocations, whether simple or compound, the means should be employed as soon as possible after the accident; and in all cases the leg should be flexed, which relaxes the opponent muscles, and the foot supported by splints. Articulations of the Bones of the Tarsus. The bones of the tarsus are, at those points in which they come in contact, covered with cartilage and sjmovial mem- brane; and their attachments are strengthened by strong ligaments, which may be distinguished on the plantar, dorsal,, external and internal regions of the foot. Articulation of the astragalus with the os calcis.—^These two bones are articulated by two cartilaginous surfaces, which are covered by synovial membrane, and maintained in their situation by an interosseous, a posterior, and an external lateral ligament. Tbe interosseous ligament is formed of strong thick fibres, which are situated between the astragalus and os calcis, being attached to the fossae which separate the articular surfaces on each of those bones. This ligament is thicker on the outer than on the inner side. The posterior ligament arises from the back part of the astragalus, and directs itself obliquely inwards to be in- serted into the corresponing part of the os calcis; it is con- nected with the groove which is formed in the os calcis for the passage of the flexor tendon of the great toe. The external ligament forms a rounded fasciculus, the