DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 59 the protruded intestine; as it has, in escaping- from the inguinal canal, become covered by the cremaster muscle. The intestine being exposed, the stricture,—which is situ- ated as in the other species of hernia at the internal ring’,— is to be divided. Why, therefore, is now the question, should not the tendon of the external oblique muscle be split up, and the inguinal canal exposed 1 The answer is, that, as the hernia protrudes and falls into the scrotum, the weight of intestine, and probably also the action of the transversalis and cremaster muscles, draw the internal ring downwards and inwards so near to the external as to render it unnecessary to open the inguinal canal; indeed, this canal is obliterated by the proximity of the two rings. The situa- tion of the epigastric artery, in relation to the stricture, is the same in both herniae ; and, consequently, the direction of the incision to divide the stricture is similar in each. Such are the circumstances usually concomitant with in- guinal herniae; hut the protrusion of part of the intestinal canal through the abdominal rings, are sometimes occurring under varieties which complicate the disease, both in relation to diagnosis and operation. For instance, it does sometimes occur, that the tunica vaginalis is not closed at the internal ring, but that the cavity between the tunica vaginalis testis and reflexa remains open to the cavity of the peritoneum; in which case, a portion of intestine may slip down into the scrotum, within the vaginal cavity, and without bringing with it any other hernial sac. This species of hernia is termed congenital; but perhaps, improperly, as it is the tendency to, rather than the disease itself, which is to be considered congenital. There are also encysted herniae; varieties of situation with respect to the spermatic cord; herniae which are complicated with hydrocele; diseased testicle; varicocele; and other diseases, which may render the diagnosis difficult. Hernia, therefore, is a subject which requires the greatest attention of the student; and the mind of the surgeon should be particularly directed to the earliest symptoms which pointed out a deviation from health.