THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM, 40 division of the fifth pair. The posterior part of the ala major passes backwards in a wedg-e-likeform,to be admitted between the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal bone, under the name of the spinous process; projecting’ downward, from which is a little process termed the styloid process, g-iving- origin to the m. circumflexus palati. The outer edge of the wing forms a semilunar serrated edge for its attach- ment to the squamous portion of the temporal bone: but it should be observed, that the anterior part of this edge is over- lapped by the temporal bone, while the posterior part, in its turn, overlaps the temporal. By which arrangement great mechanical strength is given to their union. The internal edge of the ala major is connected with the body of the bone, and forms anteriorly a part of the foramen lacerum orbitale superius. The last processes to be observed on the exterior of the sphenoid bone are the legs, commonly called the pterygoid processes; although the term is erroneously apphed, when we describe the bone as resembling the form of a bat. These processes come off from the junction of the body with the wings, and pass downwards perpendicularly from the base of the skull: they each consist of two plates, an external and an internal, joined together anteriorly, but separated behind, so as to form a hollow between them, called the pterygoid fossa, the concavity of which faces,backwards : this fossa is filled up by the origin of the pterygoideus internus muscle. At their lower part the plates cease to be joined anteriorly, and rather diverge from each other to their termination : the space thus left between them is, however, filled up by the palatine bone. The external plate of the pterygoid process is the shorter and the broader, presenting an external surface, giving origin to part of the pterygoideus externus muscle, and an internal surface for the formation of the fossa. The internal plate is long and narrow, terminating in a slender curved projection called the processus hamulus, over which plays the tendon of the circumflexus palati muscle: its external surface corresponds to the fossa ; its internal surface forms