200 PARTS ESSENTIAL TO THE SKELETON. Schindylesis is the Insertion of a plate of one bone into the groove of another. The junction of the sphenoid with the Vomer exemplifies this species of articulation. Gomphosis is where a conical portion of bone is implanted into a cavity, corresponding in shape: the only instance of this is afforded by the reception of the teeth into their alveolar sockets. We may here observe, that in all these species of synarthrodial articulation, the intervening cartilage is ex- tremely thin, being hardly distinguishable from membrane: they are likewise all destitute of ligament. They constitute the most solid and immoveable form of union. Synchondrosis is the term applied to those joints where the union is effected by a strong and thick portion of cartilage, which presents a larger surface externally than internally, and allows the greatest degree of yielding of which this class is capable. Examples of this are found in the sacro-iliac and pubic S3mchondrosis. The different portions of the same bone in the young subject are also connected in this manner. The term symphysis is frequently used to denote the union of the pelvic bones. Although we have described the synarthrodial joints as destitute of positive motion, yet the degree of yielding and contortion which they allow, differs materially at different periods of life, and under different healthy and diseased alterations which take place in the body. We may here remark that by the term yielding, we signify that kind of motion which is produced by accidental mechanical pres- sure, and totally independent of the action of the voluntary muscles ; for we shall find no muscles so situated as to pro- duce a change of situation between any two bones con- nected by this class of articulation. The synarthrodial joints have a greater and more constant tendency than any of the others, to become firmer and less pliant as age advances. Thus, in the newly-born infant, the bones of the head are widely separated from each other, being merely connected by membrane : they gradually approximate for the devclopcmcnt of suture; and, at later periods of life.