78 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. wards, is allowed between these two bones. The inferior articulatory processes are flat, placed horizontally, and face downwards and slig-htly inwards. The transverse processes are very large, but do not bifurcate at their extremities: a very slight projection occupies the place of the spinous process. The second cervical vertebra, or dentata, is immediately distinguished by its strong and compact tooth-like projection, called the dentiform, or odontoid process, which, rising up- wards from the body of the bone, is received into the hollow of the atlas anteriorly to the transverse ligament, where it is allowed to rotate. Its surface is smooth before to articulate with the vertebra ; smooth also behind to articulate with the ligament. Its extremity is rough, for the attachment of ligaments connecting it with the edges of the foramen mag- num. The superior articulatory processes are flat, and face upwards and outwards, corresponding with the inferior of the atlas, and allowing an extensive rotatory sliding motion be- tween these bones. The transverse processes are small, and point downwards. The spinous process is large and strong. The spinal hole is triangular. The superior notches are placed behind the articulatory processes, and are very shghtly marked. The inferior are situated, as in the other vertebrae, between the articulatory processes and body of the bone. All the lateral horizontal motions of the head are efFected between these two vertebrae, during which the dentiform process ro- tates in the cavity of the atlas, and the articulatory processes of the two bones slide the one upon the other. To allow of this motion, the atlas and vertebra dentata are not connected with each other by intervertebral substance. The seventh cervical vertebra differs from the rest, by ap- proaching somewhat in its form to those of the dorsal region, and may be considered as a sort of link between the two divisions, which it unites. Thus we find its body larger and more rounded. Neither the transverse nor spinous process are bifid, whilst the latter is lengthened and inclined somewhat downwards. The grand characteristic, however, still remain.s,