BONES OF THE EXTREMITIES. 145 the femur, which they resemble somewhat in form, the internal one being- oval from behind to before, and deeper than the external one, whicli is nearly circular. These two articulatory cavities are separated from each other by a spine in the centre, and by a roug-hened cavity behind and before. The spine is bifid, and has a pit placed between its projecting- points; their summits are covered with the eartilag-e of the articular cavities of the tibia. Tlie roug-hened cavities, anterior and posterior to the spine, g-ive attachment to the lig-aments of the semilunar cartilag-es, and to the crucial lig-aments. The circumference of the head of the tibia, below the arti- culatory surfaces, is roug-h for the attachment of the ligaments of the knee-joint, and presents an anterior, a posterior, and two lateral regions. The anterior region is flattened and triangular, having a smooth surface for the ligament of the patella to play over it. The two lateral boundaries of the head form what are termed the tuberosities of the tibia; the internal one is larger than the external, and upon it may be observed, at the posterior part, an impression to receive the insertion of the m. semimembranosus. The external tube- rosity forms the greater part of a circle than the internal one, although of a smaller circle ; and upon its posterior part is situated a small, convex, rounded, articular surface, facing downwards, backwards, and slightly outwards, for the attach- ment of the fibula. The tuberosities on either side, just pos- terior to the long axis of the head of the tibia, are marked for the attachment of the lateral ligaments of the knee-joint. The body of the tibia begins immediately below the head of the bone : it diminishes in size as it passes downwards, as far as the junction of the middle with its lower third; and at that point it increases again in size, to enlarge itself into its lower extremity. The body is of a triangular form, and presents an internal, an external, and a posterior face ; an anterior, an internal, and an external angle. The internal face is smooth and convex in all its length, excepting just at at its upper part, where it is broadest; and there it is somewhat roughened, concave, and is covered by L