DKSCRIiniVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. l‘J3 backwards to the ischiatic notch ; and also from that portion of the dorsum between this ridge and the acetabulum; it forms a thin triangular muscle, its fibres converging towards a tendon arising more from its external than its internal surface, and which is inserted into the upper anterior part of the trochanter major ; posteriorly being blended with the tendon of the gluteus medius. d'he insertion of this muscle is usually furnished with a bursa mucosa. It is entirely covered by the gluteus medius; it lies upon the lower part of the dorsum of the ilium, the capsular ligament of the hip-joint, and the ten- dinous origin of the rectus femoris. Use.—The same as the preceding muscle, except in being more powerful as a rotator of the thigh-bone inwards. The m. pyriformis—is a muscle arising from within the pelvis by distinct tendinous and fleshy origins from the second, third, and fourth pieces of the sacrum, just on the outer side of the anterior sacral foramina; it is also partly connected with the posterior sacro sciatic ligament: from these origins it proceeds outwards, leaves the pelvis by passing through the ischiatic notch, and immediately forms a tendon, which passes to be inserted into the upper and anterior part of the fossa situated on the inner side of the trochanter major. The fibres of the fleshy origin of this muscle, are sometimcis separated by branches of the lumbar plexus passing to form the sciatic nerve. The posterior surface of the pyriformis covers the sacrum, and gluteus maxim us; anteriorly, it is covered by the rec- tum, lumbar nerves, and internal iliac vessels ; it is bounded above, by the gluteus medius; below, by the superior geminus—between which two muscles its tendon is inserted, being however somewhat connected with the tendon of the gluteus by a small bursa mucosa. Use,—This muscle is a rotator of the thigh outwards, at the same time slightly drawing the femur upwards; and when the thigh has been first flexed, it abducts it. o