THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 142 Jlttachmcnt of Muscles.—Tlie gluteus, medius, et minimus are in- serted into the trochanter major: from the posterior part of which process a rough line marks tlie insertion of the m. gluteus maximus. Into the deep pit upon the inner and back part of the trochanter ma,jor is inserted the m. pyriformis, geminus, superior and inferior, obturator externus and internus : and into the line between the trochanters, the m. quadratus femoris. Into the fore part of the trochanter minor are inserted the m. psoas magnus and iliacus internus: into a rough line, passing from the trochanter minor, is inserted the pectinseus: these three last muscles being flexors of the hip-joint. Into the whole lengtli of the inner edge of the linea aspera, the three heads of the m. triceps adductor femoris are inserted. The upper and fore part of the shaft of the bone gives origin to the m. cruraeus, while the m. vasti arise on cither side from the linea aspera: this line also posteriorly, in its lower third, gives origin to the short head of the m. biceps, flexor, cruris. From both condyles the m. gastrocnemius externus arises; and from the external condyle also the m. popliteus and plantaris. Thus it may be observed, that the thigh-bone receives the insertion of all the mus- cles of the hip-joint, and gives origin to some of those of the knee and ancle. Practical Remarks. Notwithstanding the great strength of this bone, still, as may be said of every cylindrical bone, it is liable to fracture in any part of its extent, either at the point of immediate application of a force, or it may give way in its centre, from a fall on the condyles ; in which case the upper part of the bone forms the point d’appui, and the natural curvature of the bone has a tendency to be increased beyond its power of extension, and it necessarily yields. In consequence of the nu- merous muscles which are attached to this bone, it is obvious that the fractured extremities must vary in their direction, depending upon the influence of muscular power, and the precise point at which the femur is fractured; therefore we will consider individually those particular parts of the bone, which, when fractured, invariably take a certain direction. Fracture of the Neck—(Vide Fig. 1., Plate IX).—It is unnecessary for me to offer any remarks upon the different opinions which surgical writers have entertained, concerning the union or non-union of this fracture. The diagnosis is always sufliciently distinct to point out the nature of the injury: first, this accident only occurs at an advanced period of life; the limb is shortened and everted ; slight extension brings it to its natural length ; and rotatory motion during extension