DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 63 has already been described as forming' the immediate anterior abdominal parietes, and dividing' into two portions—the external attached to Poupart’s ligament, the internal passing into the thigh, and covering the crural vessels. This last portion, in its descent, is extended inwards beyond the f^emoral vein as far as Gimbernat’s ligament, to which it is attached. The second membrane is called the fascia iliaca, and is situated in the iliac fossa ; commencing at the inner labium of the crista of the ilium, and extending downwards towards the crural arch, covering the iliacus and psoas muscles. It thus lies immediately behind the peritoneum, and consequently forms the posterior abdominal parietes. Having reached the line between the spinous processes of the ilium and pubis, the fascia iliaca terminates on the outer side by being inserted into the external half of Poupart’s ligament, in common with the corresponding portion of fascia transversalis; while on the inner, it des- cends into the thigh behind the femoral vessels, and thus constitutes the posterior layer of their sheath. It is also attached, in common with the fascia transversalis, to Gim- bernat’s ligament; and the sheath is completed by the junction of the two membranes on either side of the vessels. By this arrangement it will be understood, that the outer half of the crural arch is perfectly secured by the junction, or common attachment to Poupart’s ligament, of the two membranes derived from the anterior and posterior surfaces of the abdomen; while on the inner half, an elliptical opening is left communicating with the thigh, and occupied by the vessels together with the same membranes, descending before and behind them, forming their sheath. It is this sheath, which is seen through the cresentic opening of the fascia lata,' partly overlapped by its external edge and lost to view below, where the two portions of the aponeurosis join. In shape it resembles a funnel, being wide above where it emerges from under Poupart’s ligament, and be- coming suddenly contracted around its contents as they descend into the thigh. This contraction is particularly