DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 101 quencc of the comparative smallness of the vessels of this region; if the incision be carried deeper, the pharynx is laid open, which is indicated by the How of mucous from the wound, and sometimes also saliva, if the excretory duct of a salivary gland be divided ; if the wound of this region be extended outwards, the cutting instrument would pass into the digastric triangle, which is comprehended between the symphysis of the lower jaw, the mastoid process of the temporal bone, and the junction of the digastric tendon with the os hyoides; in which space the facial vein, submaxillary gland, facial artery, and lingual-nerve, are in danger of being wounded. These occurrences would be rendered obvious by a flow of venous blood, of saliva, of arterial blood, and a paralysis of the tongue. In either' case, or in a complication of them, the object of the surgeon would be to stop severe haemorrhage, to bring the divided parts into close adaptation with sutures, and by the position of the head, to secure the parts from the disturbances of motion. This is effected by bringing the head forwards, drawing the chin towards the sternum, and carefully securing it with bandages in that position. A wound into the upper part of the middle third of the neck, may divide, besides the muscles, the superior thyroideal artery, which would be indicated by haemorrhage; it may open the pharynx, by cutting through the thyro hyoideal ligament, which would be evinced by the escape of the contents of that organ ; below this, it may open the larynx by the division of the thyroid cartilage, shown by the escape of air; still, however, with the retention of voice : if at the lower part of the middle third the larynx be opened by an incision between the thyroid and cri- coid cartilages, at the same time wounding the thyroid gland, this accident would be obvious, from the frequent and forcible expulsion of air, blood, and frothy mucous though the wound, but unattended with voice, in consequence of the opening being below the vocal chords. The wound may also extend so far backwards as to open the pharynx, which would be shewn by the escape of saliva and mucous. The treat- ment in these accidents is the same as in wounds of the upper region. Wounds of the inferior third would divide the trachaea, the oeso- phagus, and as happen, in most instances, the jugular vein and carotid artery, from their greater proximity to the anterior surface of this division of the neck : if the incision be made very deeply, the par vagum may also be divided. These parts may indeed be wounded by a deep incision in the middle division ; but from their greater depth, and the protection afforded them by the firm cartilages of the larynx, they are in that situation less liable to injury. In division of the tra- chaca and oesophagus only, the divided parts are to be brought into close adaptation, and treated as before. When the large blood-vessels