BONES OF niE EXTREMITIES. lOT The use of the clavicles is to afford, through their articulation with the sternum, a fulcrum for the extensive motions of the upper extremi- ties, and also to prevent the scapulae from approaching' each other, and falling upon the thorax : they also afford attachment to several muscles, and protection to the subclavian vessels. Muscles attached to the clavicles are the m. pectoralis major, del- toides, and subclavius, beneath ; and the trapezius, sterno-mastoideus, and sterno-hyoideus, above. Practical Remarks. There are many circumstances which render the clavicle liable to fracture, such as its length preponderating so much beyond its thick- ness; its being so little protected by soft parts: and, perhaps most of all, the manner in which it is placed between the scapula and sternum. From the joint influence of these circumstances, a fall upon the point of the shoulder, by driving the clavicle with great force against the sternum, causes the former bone to give way in its middle part. In this accident the diagnostic marks are easy of detection, and inva- riable in their appearance. The external or scapular portion is that which is always displaced, being drawn downwards by the weightof the extremity to which it is attached, and leaving the inner or sternal por- tion in its natural situation. (Vide Plate VI, Fig. 3.) At first sight it is the inner portion which attracts attention, as it appears to protrude in consequence of the skin being drawn forcibly over its free extremity, by the descent of the outer portion of the bone. The patient loses the power of raising the hand on the injured side to the head; and if he at- tempt it, he only bends the fore arm, in consequence of the humerus having lost its fulcrum. The injured upper extremity approximates to the chest, whilst the width of shoulder is lost. Under these circum- stances the surgeon should trace the clavicle along its whole extent, to discover the precise situation and direction of the fracture ; and then, by raising and supporting the elbow, the scapula may be brought up to the sternal portion of the fractured bone, and crepitus felt. Treatment.—Place a large firm pad in the axilla, raise the elbow, so as to elevate the outer portion of the bone to the inner, and keep it in that situation by a short, sling. In the next place, wind a long ban- dage round the chest, including in the folds the ivhole length of the up- per arm of the injured limb ; thus, you will keep the elbow close to the side, whilst the pad in the axilla will force the shoulder outwards, and prevent its tendency to fall upon the thorax. In comminuted fractures of the clavicle, and in cases where the fracture extends with great obliquity, it may happen that the broken