TUB 0SSK0U8 SYSTEM, 62 boundary of what is called the coronoid process. This ob- lique ridg-e may be said to divide, unequally, the external surface of the horizontal plate into an anterior and posterior portion. In describing' the former, we disting-uish the upper edg-e, wliich constitutes a part of the alveolar process. In the latter, we notice its base, proceeding'backwards to form, by its junction with the ascending' plate, the angle: while passing for wards, continuously with the lower edge of the anterior portion of the horizontal plate and body of the jaw, it com- pletes the proper base of the bone. The internal surface of the horizontal plate has a very close resemblance to the ex- ternal one; being, like it, divided into an anterior and posterior portion by a similar oblique ridge, but which proceeds to the posterior maxillary foramen instead of to the coronoid pro- cess, as the external ridge does. This ridge gives origin to the muscle mylo-hyoideus. The ascending plate divides itself into two processes supe- riorly, and presents a semilunar edge between the two, which has its concavity turned upwards: inferiorly, it is bounded by the horizontal plate and angle of the jaw: posteriorly, it forms an obtuse edge, which passes upwards, and terminates by producing the neck and condyloid process. The anterior edge is sharp, and forms the coronoid process: it presents an external surface, roughened for the attachment of the masseter muscle; and an internal one, which gives insertion to the pterygoideus internus. The coronoid process extends perpendicularly upwards, becoming pointed towards its extremity, which, when the jaws are closed, is received behind the zygomatic arch. Its posterior edge is thin, its anterior rather more rounded: it is flattened laterally. This process is completely surrounded by the insertion of the temporal muscle, which also extends along its anterior edge as far as the horizontal plate of the bone. The condyloid process passes upwards and a little back- wards, and is attached to the ascending plate by a contracted portion of bone called the cervix; on the inner side of