148 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. Use. The tibia assists in forming four articulations, viz.;—the knee, the ancle, and the superior and inferior tibio-fibular articulations; besides giving attachment to numerous muscles. Attachment of Muscles.—I’hrough the medium of the ligamentum pa- telliB, the rectus cruralis and two vasti muscles are inserted into the anterior tuberosity; into tbe posterior part of the internal tuberosity, the m. semimembranosus; into the upper part of tbe inner face of the body, the m. sartorius gracilis and semitendinosus are inserted. To the outer face are attached the m. tibialis anticus, and extensor longus digi- torum ; and the popliteus, soleus, tibialis posticus, and flexor longus digitorum, are attached to the posterior face of the tibia. The Patella. This bone may be considered as the larg'est sesamoid bone in the body, being* suspended between the tendon of the extensor triceps cruris and the lig*amentum patellae. It bears also considerable analogy to the olecranon; the only dif- ference being that the olecranon is attached by bone to the ulna, wliile the patella is fixed to the tibia by tendon only. The patella is irregularly triangular, and is so situated at the anterior part of the knee-joint, as to have its base above, and its apex below. It also presents an anterior and a pos- terior surface. Its anterior surface is convex, rough and striated, as if marked by the fibres of the tendon of the extensor muscles. It is also perforated with foramina for the passage of blood vessels. Its posterior surface is smooth and covered with cartilage, but is divided into two distinct articulatory surfaces by a middle convex ridge; these surfaces corresponding to the condyles of the femur, the external one bemg the larger and rounded, by which the right patella may be known from the left. The circumference of the patella is rough, for the at- tachment of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint. The base, or superior edge, is flattened, and has inserted into it the extensor tendon.