280 GENERAL ANATOMY OF THE SKIN, axilla ; probably depending- on the secretions of these parts to defend them from friction. Its colour also varies from the influx of blood into its vessels; this is particularly obvious about the face and neck, as is evinced by blushing-, and the various tints produced by morbid affections. There are •still further varieties of colour, characteristic of the diff’erent races of mankind: these varieties are white, in the Euro- pean ; black,in the African Negro: and there are intermediate shades, as copper-colour, tawny, &c.: in these varieties, the colour of the hair g-enerally corresponds with that of the skin. A vast variety of hypotheses have been advanced re- specting- the structure of the skin; on the most minute examination, it is divisible into three distinct structures,— the cutis, rete raucosum, and cuticle; each of which we shall describe separately. The Cutis. The cutis is placed between the rete mucosum, which is on its external, and the cellular membrane, which is attached to its internal surface; its external surface presents a white mass, of a uniform dense consistence, composed of nu- merous fibres, crossing- each other in every possible direc- tion so as to form a compact solid substance ; this compact texture of fibres, which has not inaptly been compared to felt, becomes looser on its internal surface, where the fibres are long-er; and beginning- to form cells, gradually enlarge until they are blended and confounded with the cellular membrane. On the quantity and density of this compact structure, depends the degree of strength, elasticity, and various thicknesses of the skin in man, and other animals. This structure of the cutis may readily be examined in any one of the different species of tanned leather in common use. (Vide Plate II. Fig. 7.) The external surface of the cutis presents innumerable minute sulci, or fossae, which cross each other in a variety of directions, giving it a net-like appearance of uneven meshes ; these sulci generally assume a direction corres- ponding to the habitual motion of individual parts. Between