157 BONES OF THE EXTREMITIES. The Os Calais. This is the longest bone of the foot, and constitutes the base of support for all the other bones of the tarsus : it is of a very irregular form, and presents a superior, an inferior, an external, an internal, an anterior, and a posterior surface. The superior surface presents, rather anterior to its centre, two articular surfaces, which are separated from each other by a deep sulcus, the direction and form of which correspond with the under surface of the astragalus. Behind these arti- cular surfaces is situated the upper part of the great pro- jecting protuberance, forming the heel, which on this aspect presents a surface concave from before to behind, and convex from side to side. Anteriorly to the outer side of the smaller articular surface, but immediately in front of the larger one, the bone is roughened for the attachment of the superior calco cuboidal ligament, and origin of the m. extensor digitorum communis. The inferior surface of the calcis is smaller than the su- perior, and presents an irregular concavity from behind to before, assisting to form the longitudinal arch of the foot. On its posterior part are placed two tuberosities ; the larger one on the inner side, and the smaller on the outer: they give attachment to the m. adductor pollicis, flexor brevis digi- torum communis, and the abductor minimi digiti. The anterior surface is formed entirely of an articular face, w'hlch is somewhat triangular, and concave from above to below, to be connected with the cuboid bone. The posterior surface is convex from above to below, as well as from side to side ; presents, above, a smooth flattened triangular surface, pointing out the position of a bursa, be- tween the bone and the tendo-achillis; below, it is rough for the firm attachment of the tendons. 'fhe external surface, which is flat and much larger pos- teriorly than it is anteriorly, is marked in its middle, im- mediately below its posterior and sufierior articular surface.