BONES OF THE TRUNK. 103 wanting'; but, in the recent subject, this larg'C notch is di- vided into two distinct foramina by the sacro-ischiatic lig'a- ments. These foramina serve for the transmission of various vessels, nerves and muscles which constitute the soft paries of the cavity of the pelvis. Practical Remarks. From the manner in which the bones of the pelvis are covered by the soft parts, they are so protected from external violence as to be seldom fractured: but the accident, when it does occur, is one of great danger, from the attendant injury to the viscera contained within the cavity formed by their union. Fracture 6f these bones is usually produced by the passage of some very heavy weight over the pelvis, or by a fall from a considerable height; and in both of these cases, there is generally such a contusion of the soft parts covering the bones as greatly to en- hance the danger. The ossa pubis and ossa ischia are so protected by the lower extremities, as to be less liable than the ilia to solution of con- tinuity ; but, as may be seen in Plate F', the whole of them may be frac- tured, and even at the same time. The drawing of this plate was taken from a preparation in the Museum of Guy’s Hospital. From the immo- bility of the broken parts upon each other, the diagnosis in this form of injury is frequently difficult; but the most ready mode of discovering a fracture of the ilium, is to place the palm of one hand with considerable force upon the dorsum, and with the other to grasp the crista of the bone at its upper part; when, on moving it inwards and outwards al- ternately, an indistinct crepitation may sometimes be felt. Such, how- ever, is the immobility of these bones, and so thickly are they covered with muscle, that even when fractured we often fail to produce a cre- pitus. If fracture of the pubes be suspected, press your fingers upon the symphysis, then move the crista as before ; when, if a fracture exist, a crepitus may be] distinguished: and should the ischium be the sup- posed scat of injury, one hand is to be pressed firmly against the tube- rosity, and the crista moved, as in the other cases, to detect the precise point of the separation. If, however, in consequence of the great tume- faction, these examinations should prove unsatisfactory, the inability of the patient to move the pelvis in the least degree, without e.xperiencing considerable pain, will assist us in forming a diagnosis ; and the pain, in such cases, is usually described as a grating sensation. In the treatment, the point for consideration is not, as in fractures of bones in general, the means to be employed to keep the bones in apposi- tion ; for, as has already been noticed, they have little or no tendency to