DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. The m. transversalis colli—has tlie appearance of arising' from the insertions of the longissimus dorsi, as the cervi- calis ascendens does from the sacro lumbalis; but by dissection it will be found to arise on the inner side of the tendons of that muscle, from the transverse processes of the five superior dorsal vertebrae, by distinct fleshy and tendinous slips, and passes upwards to be inserted tendi- nous into the transverse processes of the five inferior cervical vertebrae. The belly of this muscle lies between tbe cervicali? ascendens, which is situated on its outer side, and the trachelo mastoideus on its inner. Use.—To bend the neck to one side, and direct it obliquely backwards. f The m. trachelo mastoideus—is a slender flattened muscle, which arises, partly tendinous and partly fleshy, from the transverse processes of the five inferior cervical and the two or three superior dorsal vertebrae. The fleshy fibres ascend vertically in the neck, and soon form one fleshy belly, which is directed outwards to be inserted tendinous into the posterior part of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. This muscle is placed on the inner side of the transversalis colli, which partly covers its origin, and on the outer side of the complexes. It covers at its upper part, in its passage to the mastoid process, the obliqui capitis and the origin of the posterior belly of the digastricus. It is covered by the splenius and levator scapulae. Use.—To keep tbe head erect when both muscles act, and to draw it backwards, or to one side, if one only is in action. ' The m. complexus—arises by tendinous and fleshy fibres from the transverse and articular processes of the four or five inferior cervical, and from the transverse processes of the seven superior dorsal vertebrae, gaining a fleshy fas- ciculus from the spinous process of the first dorsal vertebra; from these origins it soon forms one large fleshy muscle, which passes upwards, slightly converging towards the mus-