no DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. dorsal fibres, and its upper edge the lumbar and costal fibres of the muscle. This tendon is connected with the tendon of the teres major; and a small bursa is usually found be- tween them. The upper half of the posterior surface of this muscle is covered by the trapezius, the lower half is immediately sub-cutaneous ; the anterior surface is in contact with the serratus posticus inferior, sacro-lumbalis, longissimus dorsi, spinalis dorsi, obliquus abdominis externus, ribs, and in- ferior angle of the scapula. The tendon of this muscle passes under and behind the coraco brachialis muscle, between it and the bone, to be inserted in common with the tendon of the teres major, which reaches, however, rather below it, and is on a plane posterior to it. Use.—To direct the arm backwards, and slightly rotate the limb inwards; as a muscle of inspiration, it has the power of elevating the ribs when the upper extremities are raised and fixed above the head ; in this position they are capable of raising the whole body. The superior extremity may now be separated from the trunk in the progress of the dissection of the remaining seven muscles of the shoulder-joint; but before they are exam- ined, it is necessary to describe the fascia which covers the whole of the extremity immediately under the skin. This aponeurosis of the upper extremity surrounds all the muscles, and has between it and the skin the sub-cutaneous nerves and veins. It is derived from the spine of the scapula and infra spinatus muscle posteriorly, it is thin and ill defined in passing over the deltoid muscle, below which it becomes stronger from an addition of fibres given off from the insertion of the deltoid; internally it is continued from the cellular membrane of the axilla, strengthened by fibres from the tendons of the pectoralis, latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles. As it descends it adheres to the lateral ridges of the humerus, forming intermuscular tendons, which on the inner side reach from the insertion of the coraco brachialis to the internal condyle; and on the outer, from the insertion of the deltoid to the outer condyle. By this