ANATOMY OF HAIRS. 303 front than on the back part of the body, and on tire anterior than on the internal parts of the arms, thighs, and legs; on the backs of the hands, and back part of the bodies of the third phalanges of the fingers and toes. There is, however, a great difference in the abundance of hair in separate individuals ; while some have the hair so abundant, not only in the above-enumerated situations, but generally over the body, excepting only a small portion of the face, palms of the hands, and soles of the feet; others are as free as the female from such growths. Besides the above situations, short hairs of a peculiar character form the eye- lashes, others the eye-brows ; others are situated in the nostrils, and on the inside of the tragus and antitragus of the external ear. There is also a peculiar, fine, colourless, downy hair, which is found on infants at their birth ; this generally comes away during the first month, giving place to newly-formed hairs; in others, it remains many months ; and, in some instances, does not appear ever to come off. Fine downy hair of this last description, is commonly seen on the arms and necks of young children, and interspersed generally among the other hairs of the body in the adult. Wlien the cuticle comes away from putrefaction, it separates this fine hair with it; while those of larger structure remain in the cutis. The colour of the hair in the same individual is generally alike, or nearly so, in all the different parts of the body; they are not however developed in all parts at the same time. The colour also varies at different ages. In the foetus, the hairs are generally of one size and colour 5 after birth they grow faster on the head, while in other parts they appear only at the age of puberty. The colour becomes stronger and darker with increasing age ; in old age they again turn white, and secrete a colourless oil; their bulbs appear to dry away, and they drop off in abundance; this change, constituting baldness, is often hereditary, and will commence as early as twenty years of age.