ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. 287 cuboid bone. This lig-ament covers the synovial membrane, and is covered by the peroneus tertius muscle. The inferior ligament is very thick and extensive: it is composed of two sets of fibres, the superficial and the deep. The superficial ligament is the strong-est of the tarsal lig-a- ments: it is attached, behind, to the posterior and inferior part of the os calcis; arid anteriorly, in part to the tuberosity on the inferior surface of the cuboid bone, and also to the e.xtremities of the metatarsal bones of the little toe and toe next to it. The deep ligament has the same attachment to the os calcis and the os euboides as the preceding hgament, but is above it, and separated from it by a layer of fat. Articulation between the os naviculare and os euboides.— These two bones are connected together by two strong liga- ments ; one being situated on the dorsal region of the foot, and the other on the plantar. The dorsal ligament is of a square shape: its fibres take a transverse course from the navicular to the cuboid bone. The plantar ligament is composed of stronger fibres, and passes from the inferior and external parts of the navicular to the cuboid bone. Articulation of the cuboid with the external cuneiform bone.—These tw'o bones present articular surfaces, which are in contact, and are covered by synovial membrane ; they are maintained more firmly in their situations by a dorsal and &.plantar ligament, which pass from the superior and infe- rior surfaces of one bone to the other, covering the synovial capsule. Articulation of the navicular with the cuneiform bones.— The anterior face of the navicular bone presents three sur- faces for the junction of the three cuneiform bones, which are all covered with cartilage and synovial membrane. Three dorsal and three plantar ligaments also enter into the formation of this union. The dorsal ligaments pass from the superior and anterior surface of the navicular, to be attached to each of the cuneiform bones. The plantar liga- ments take precisely the same course, but are situated in the sole of the foot.