181 SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. and from the patholog-ical fact of its tendency to take the ulcerative rather than the adhesive inflammation. The func- tion of synovia is to diminish the friction of the parts, and consequently to facilitate the motion of bones upon each other. Practical Remarks. One of the most frequent effects of inflammation of the synovial mem- branes, is the abundant secretion of its fluid, distending the joint and producing the disease which is termed hydrops articuli. This disease is sometimes attended with pain; at other times, a considerable accumu- lation may take place, with little or no inconvenience to the patient. It depends upon the circumstance whether it be a diseased action of the arteries or of the absorbents. In the first case, swelling and pain are invariable symptoms, while in the second, there being no increased action of the arteries, but a disease of the absorbents only, the accumu- lation occurs without suflfering. Similar symptoms attend the accumu- lation of fluid in the large serous cavities, as the pleura and peritoneum. The treatment of hydrops articuli must be regulated by the knowledge of these facts:—if there be pain accompanying the disease, thus pointing out that it is the arterial system which is at fault, local bleeding, cold applications, and rest should be enjoined, before any stimulating appli- cations are used ; but if, on the contrary, the disease established itself insidiously, the patient suffering no inconvenience beyond stiffness of the joint, then blisters, tartar, emetic ointment, and such medicines and means as stimulate the absorbents, should immediately be had recourse to. But although, as has been mentioned, the synovial capsules both in structure and diseases in many respects resemble the serous membranes, yet it should be observed that inflammation of the synovial membranes produces a change in them, seldom if ever found in the pleura or peri- toneum, namely, that of converting them into a thickened pulpy mass, which in some measure fills up the interior of tlie synovial sac. I shall however, refer my readers to Mr. Brodie’sbook on diseases of the joints, for a more detailed account of this morbid change. Specific inflamma- tion, as rheumatism, frequently affects the synovial system. When synovial membranes are wounded they are capable of reuniting. Even new synovial membrane are sometimes formed, both in cases of unreduced dislocations and non-united fractures ; in the first, they seem to be produced by the remnants of the former membrane becoming united with the surrounding cellular tissue; and in the second, by the periosteum ; in both cases a viscid fluid, more or less like synovia, is secreted by them. In chronic inflammation the pulpy prolongations, as described by N 2