AUTICDLATIONS OF THE PELVIS. 2()3 and its posterior to the obturator intern us, and part of tlie levator ani muscles. Motions of the Pelvis. The motions of the pelvis may be considered as twofold. First, as a whole, upon the vertebral column, and on the ossa femoris; and, secondly, with regard to the motions between the separate bones entering into its composition: but it is only to the latter that I shall call the attention of my readers at present, 'fhe degree of motion between any two of the bones entering into the formation of the pelvis is but very slight in the natural state; unless, Indeed, we except the articulation between the sacrum and the os coccygis, which does allow of motion backwards and forwards. But this articulation still comes under the fair denomination of an immoveable joint, in contradistinction to those, which, being under the influence of the will, are moved, consequently, by the action of voluntary muscles, while this joint cannot be acted upon except by some compression, such as the ex- pulsion of the foetus, which pushes this bone backwards, or pressure from without, which gives it the contrary direction. The sacro iliac symphysis, and the junction of the pubes, w ill also sometimes admit of a slight degree of motion between them, from continued pressure during protracted parturition. Practical Remarks. Under any circumstance, however, the bones of the pelvis are so firmly connected as to preclude the possibility of dislocation, unless, indeed, such be the result of disease and subsequent ulceration. When these bones are exposed to the greatest external violence, we find them rather fractured than separated from each other at their articulatory surfaces. Should such an accident, however, by any possible degree of violence occur, the same means would be employed as in fracture of these bones,—the application of a broad bandage, so as to keep the parts in their relative position ; and at the same time passing a catheter into the bladder, to ascertain whether or not injury be done to the urethra, with strict attention to the antiphlogistic treatment, form the best mode of managing these injuries. i-