PARTS ESSENTIAL TO THE SKELETON. 264 Articulations of the Lower Extremities. Articulation of the Femur with the Bones of the Pelvis. Class Diarthrosia,—Subdivision Enarthrodia. The ilio femoral articulation is produced by the union of the head of the femur with the cotyloid cavity of the os in- nominatum ; but this cavity is not, with respect to the bone only, of sufficient depth to receive the whole of the head of the femur ; for, in a recent state, we find it much more capa- cious than in a dried bone, from the addition of a fibro- lig-amentous substance investing- its circumference; by the assistance of which it so completely surrounds the head of the femur, as to allow of the motions of the hip-joint, without permitting- the separation of one bone from the other—an effect which takes place in the various motions of the shoulder. The surfaces of both the ball and socket of this joint are every where covered with cartilag-e, excepting- the points of attachment of the lig-amentum teres. The following- lig-aments serve to streng-then this articulation: the capsular, the inter articular (or ligamentum teres), and the cotyloid ligament, all of them being lined by the synovial membrane. Capsular ligament.—This ligament, which is the strongest and thickest in the body, surrounds the whole of the joint. It arises from the circumference of the acetabulum, and pro- ceeds in a direction outwards and backwards, to be attached to the base of the neck of the femur, extending outwards to the pit of the trochanter major, and downwards to the tro- chanter minor; in the intermediate space it is connected with the linea quadrata. It is much less loose than the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint, being formed equally for strength as for extent of motion, but in other respects it is analogous to it. Its thickness is very Considerable, particu- larly before and above, where it is strengthened by an acces- sory ligament, which passes from the anterior and inferior spine of the ilium, to the fore part of the capsular ligament.