DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF ARTICULATIONS. 219 Practical Reniarks. The number and breadth of the attachments of these bones,—their firm union by ligament,—the strength of their muscles,—the very in- considerable degree of motion which exists between any two of them,— and lastly, the obliquity of their articular processes, especially in the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae, render dislocation of them, at least in those regions, impossible without fracture; and I much doubt whether dislo- cation even of the cervical vertebras ever occurs without fracture, either through their bodies or their articular processes, although J3oyer men- tions cases of dislocation of the atlas from the vertebra dentata, and has even described the means to be employed for reduction. The effects of such an accident, whether with or without fracture, would produce precisely the same injury to the spinal marrow, and symptoms of greater or less importance, according to the part of the spinal column that is injured. Death is the immediate consequence, if the injury be above the third cervical vertebra, the necessary paralysis of the parts to which the phrenic and intercostal nerves are distributed, causing respiration instantly to cease. If the injury be sustained below the fourth cervical vertebra, the diaphragm is still capable of action, and dissolution is protracted ; the symptoms, in fact, are less violent in proportion as the injury to the spinal marrow is farther removed from the brain; but death is the inevitable consequence, and that in every case, at no very distant period. Indeed, the diagnosis and prognosis are the same as have been described in speaking of fractures of the vertebrae. Articulation of the Ribs with the Bodies of the Dorsal Vertebree. Class Diarthroeis.—Subdivision Ginglimus. In the osteolog’ical description of the dorsal vertebrae, all excepting- the first, tenth, eleventh and twelfth, are said to have a half articular surface on the upper and lower part of their bodies, for the head of a rib, which is furnished with two corresponding- half articular surfaces, separated from each other by a small perpendicular ridg-e: each surface is covered by cartilag-e. They are surrounded by a synovial membrane; and the following- particular lig-aments connect them firmly to the vertebrae. Anterior ligament of the head of the rib.—This ligament