116 DliSCRimVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. The m. biceps cubiti—arises by two heads from the scapula; the longer one by a thin tendon from the summit of the articular cavity, being continuous with the glenoid ligament; from thence, becoming contracted as it descends, the tendon passes through the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint, is continued along the bicipital groove, after which it forms a thick fleshy belly. The shorter head arises tendinous from the outer side of the coracoid process of the scapula, in common with the coraco brachialis muscle; it almost immediately becomes fleshy, passing down to the middle of the arm, where it is intimately con- nected with the long head, forming one muscle which, just above the elbow, terminates in a strong flat tendon, which passes below the elbow to be inserted into the tubercle of the radius, having a large bursa between them. Below the elbow, previous to its insertion, it sends off an aponeurotic expansion which covers the fore arm anteriorly, and prin- cipally forms the common fascia. The long head of the biceps is covered by the deltoid and capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint, which must be opened before it can be exposed, and in which it is covered by a reflection of the synovial mernbrane; Avhile within the groove it lies ‘between the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi. The short head is also concealed by the deltoid and pec- toralis major; the belly of the muscle is covered by the fascia and skin of the arm, and covers the coraco brachialis and brachialis internus muscles. The tendon continues superficially situated as it passes over the elbow; and it descends between the supinator radii longus on the outer side, and the pronator radii teres on the inner, to reach its point of insertion. Use.—Principally to supine the hand ; and although usually de- scribed as a flexor to the elbow-joint, it cannot assist in this motion until the bra-chialis internus has first brought the fore arm to an angle with the humerus ; therefore this muscle might rather be considered as belonging to the radio-ulna articulation. Its long head tends to Strengthen and support the shoulder-joint. The m. brachialis internus—arises by a tendinous and