lt>8 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES, the sternum to the junction of tlie eartilag’es with the ribs before, and from the angle of the ribs to the transverse processes of the vertebrec behind. 1 he external surface of the internal intercostal muscles is covered by the preceding, as far as the cartilages of the ribs, and in their interspaces by the pectorales and abdominal muscles ; the internal surface is lined by the pleura. Use.—To elevate the ribs in conjunction with the external intercostal muscles. The decussation of these muscles, and the oblique direction of their fibres, serve to approximate the ribs more completely than if their fibres had passed perpendicularly; for this oblique direction allows of a greater length of muscular fibre, while their decussation balances a consequent loss of power, and at the same time maintains a perpendicular elevation of the ribs. The m. triangularis sterni—is situated within the cavity of the chest, upon the posterior surface of the sternum; it arises tendinous and fleshy from the ensiform cartilage, and the edge of the lower half of the middle pair of the sternum; from thence it ascends, passing obliquely outwards, to be inserted tendinous into the cartilages of the third, fourth, fifth, and sometimes sixth ribs, corresponding precisely wdth the origin of the peetoralis minor, to which it is an anta- gonist in respiration. This muscle is covered by the sternum, cartilages of the last four true ribs, internal intercostal muscles, and internal mammary artery ;, it rests upon the pleura. Use.—To draw the ribs inwards and downward, it thus diminishes the capacity of the thorax in expiration. The diaphragma —■ or transverse septum between the thorax and the abdomen, is composed of twm fleshy portions with an intervening tendinous expansion. Its figure is cir- cular, convex upon its upper surface, projecting into the chest; concave below, forming the upper boundary, and enlarging the cavity of the abdomen. Its direction is from above to below, and from before to behind ; so as to render the posterior vertical dimensions of the chest much more capacious than the anterior. The anterior portion, or larger muscle, principally forms the partition between the two