parts essential to the skeleton. lig-aments is strong-; but, at the same time, they are suffici- ently loose to admit of the scapula performing- several of its motions without the clavicle, which may on this account re- main stationary : they also serve, under very violent exercise, or in case of a blow, to prevent an immoderate depression of the scapula; for their streng-th is such as to resist violence, even to that deg-ree which causes the fracture of the clavicle. Ligaments proper to the Scapula. There are two ligaments proper to the scapula: the anterior, or acromio coracoid; and the posterior, or coracoid. The anterior, or acromio coracoid ligament, is triangular; it arises by its base from the outer side of the coracoid pro- cess, and is inserted by its apex into the inner side of the acromion. It is attached to the whole length of the external edge of the coracoid process, from which it sometimes passes in two fasciculi to the posterior edge of the acromion; but the space between the two is filled up by condensed cellular membrane. The anterior edge of this ligament gives oflT a strong fascia, which is attached to the under part of the del- toid muscle, and to the tendons of the supra and infra spinati. Its superior surface is covered by the clavicle and deltoid muscle ; the inferior surface covers the supra spinatus. This ligament, passing from the acromion to the coracoid process, forms an arch over the head of the os humeri, which is usually said to assist in preventing dislocation of the os humeri up- wards. This dislocation, however, is rendered impossible by the proximity of the acromion and coracoid processes, unless one or other of these processes be fractured; so that this ligament seems rather useful in extending the surface for the origin of muscle, than in preventing dislocation. The posterior, or coracoid ligament, arises from tlie supe- rior costa of the scapula, passes over the semilunar notch, which it forms into a foramen, and is attached to the root of the coracoid process: it is broader posteriorly than anteriorly.