BONES OF THE EXTREMITIES. 163 of the bone, and forms a larg^e, rounded, smooth, articular surface, vvhich is articulated with the first phalanx of the great toe. On the inferior surface of the head are placed two small articular depressions, separated from each other hy a slight projection of bone, which lodge the two sesamoid bones proper to the first tarso-phalangeal articulation. The circumference of the head is rough, for the attachment of the capsular ligament, and the sides are furnished with two small tubercles, to which are attached the lateral ligaments of the joint. The metatarsal hone of the second toe is the longest of the whole, and passes backwards into the tarsal region, be- tween the internal and external cuneiform bones, to be con- nected with the middle cuneiform bone. Its tarsal extremity presents a posterior concave articular surface, to be joined wdth the middle cuneiform bone. Late- rally and externally, two articular surfaces are placed ; a pos- terior one, by which it is joined to the external cuneiform bone ; and an anterior one, which connects it with the meta- tarsal bone of the third toe. Internally, the head presents one flat surface, for its junction with the internal cuneiform bone. The body of this bone offers nothing remarkable. The anterior extremity, or head, presents an articular sur- face, more extensive above than either below or laterally, and is articulated with the first phalanx of the second toe; the cir- cumference of the head is rough, and furnished superiorly with a deep sulcus for the attachment of the capsular ligament. The metatarsal bone of the third toe is the next in length of the bones of the metatarsus. Its tarsal extremity presents a flattened surface, which is directed with some slight obli- quity from within to without, to be connected with the ex- ternal euneiform bone. It is joined internally with the metatarsal bone of the second toe, and externally with the metatarsal bone of the fourth toe. The body and head of this bone resemble so much the description of the last, as to require no further explanation.