257 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF ARTICULATIONS, combined motions of all the bones of the hand, we shall dis- cover how admirably it is adapted for the facility with which it is able to perform the various motions necessary for its peculiar uses. Practical Remarks. Dislocations to which the JFrist-Joint is liable. It sometimes happens, that the convex surfaces of the three first bones of the carpus are separated from the concave surfaces of the radius and interarticular cartilage; and it is possible for the carpus to be thrown either backwards, forwards, externally or internally ; but, from the for- mation of the wrist-joint, the dislocation backwards is the most fre- 4^uent; the convex articular surfaces of the three first bones of the carpus sloping in that direction. Dislocation backwards.—This accident usually occurs from a fall upon the back of the hand while the hand is flexed; the force being then applied to the anterior extremities of the metacarpal bones, the carpus is tilted over the posterior surface of the radius, and a deformity imme- diately produced; which, with the consequent shortening and permanent flexion of the hand, render the nature of the accident at once sufiiciently apparent. The posterior ligament of the wrist is necessarily torn through, and the lateral ligaments may have some of their anterior fibres ruptured. Dislocation forwards.—This accident, which but rarely occurs, is usually produced by a fall on the palm of the hand during extension, and the carpus is driven before the radius: the hand is painfully ex- tended and shortened, and the deformity considerable, but not so obvious as in the last described accident, particularly as the dislocation is scarcely ever complete, and the cavity of the hand renders its detection more difficult. In this dislocation the anterior ligament is torn through, and the lateral ligament is placed under the same circumstances as in the last described accident. In ihc lateral dislocations, the displacement can never be complete ; but a projection of the carpus on the inner or outer side, is a sufficient diagnostic mark of the nature of the injury. The degree of laceration of the anterior, posterior and lateral ligaments, is in proportion to the extent of displacement. In any of the dislocations of the wrist-joint, if the case be recent, reduction is easily accomplished by slight exten- sion of the hand; therefore no time should be lost in reducing the bones to their natural situation, not allowing time for a fixed contrac- tion of the muscles. Dislocations of the carpus.—From what has already been said of the motions and general functions of these bones, their displacement from 3