170 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM, frequently on the opposite side to whicli the injury had been re- ceived. These various symptoms may arise either from bone pressing" upon the brain, from extravasation of blood, or from the formation of matter. If from the first cause, the symptoms will come on immedi- ately after the accident; and upon examination, if the finger be steadily pressed upon the part, irregularity of the bone may be detected ; and the more firmly you press, the more distinctly will you feel the edge of the fractured bone. This circumstance is mentioned, as swelling of the scalp communicates a feeling as if the bone were depressed ; but in this case, if the pressure be made firmly, the sensation of depression imme- diately ceases. If extravasation be the cause, the symptoms, as enu- merated, come on gradually after the accident; sometimes hours and even days elapse before they are fully developed, depending upon the size of the vessel which is ruptured. And lastly, when matter forms, days and even weeks may supervene before the accession of the symp- toms, and they are always preceded by inflammatory action, by sickness and rigors. With these symptoms, which too frequently but insidiously progress, unattended with pain, the surgeon is led most attentively to examine the scalp over the seat of the injury, where a puffy appearance will sometimes point out the situation of the mischief. If there happen to have been a wound, the formation of matter may be more clearly defined; as now, however healthy its appearance might have been be- fore, it puts on an unhealthy aspect; the granulations become glossy, and the discharge thin and ichorus. Treatment of Coneussion and Compression. In both concussion and compression, as soon as reaction has taken place, large quantities of blood should be taken from the jugular vein or temporal artery; the quantity, however, must depend upon the pow- ers of the patient. A dose of calomel should be immediately given ; which if the patient cannot swallow, should be passed into the fauces, mixed up with butter; and in an hour after, small doses of the sulphate of magnesia should be administered; a sinapism should be applied to the soles of the feet; the head should be shaved ; and if the symptoms be not relieved by cold applications, a blister should be applied to the scalp. If all these means fail, under what circumstances are we to trephine? If there be a wound communicating with the bones of the skull, accompanied with fracture and depression: In such cases, although no untoward symptoms have yet arisen, we are recommended immedi- ately to trephine ; but of tlie propriety of tliis step there seems to me some doubt. We should rather be led to judge of the necessity for the immediate application of the trephine by the degree of depression, and by the part of the skull injured ; for as the quantity of diploe differs so