THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM, 140 nock ot the bone, where attached to the sliaft, expands itsell’ so as to produce two processes: the upper and outer one, termed tlie trochanter major, projects upwards, so as, in some measure, to rise above the neck, and is directed slightly backwards. It presents a convex external surface, divided into a smooth upper and a roug-h lower half; the upper smooth sur- face marking- the situation of a bursa for-the insertion of the m, g-luteus medius et minimus. Internally the trochanter major is hollowed by a deep fossa, for the attachment of the rotator muscles of the thig-h outwards. Posteriorly the trochanter major terminates by a rough line, which is directed down- wards, backwards and inwards, and terminates in a rounded tubercle denominated the trochanter minor. This rough line receives the insertion of the m. quadratus femoris, and attachment to the capsular ligament, is called the linea qua- drata. The trochanter minor is rounded, faces inwards and downwards, and appears equally to terminate the inferior line of the neck of the bone as it does the linea quadrata. It is hollowed anteriorly, for the insertion of the m. psoas magnus and iliacus internus ; while it is roughened poste- riorly, forming a part of the linea aspera. The body or shaft forms the longest portion of the bone, and is situated between the trochanters and condyles: it presents an anterior smooth convex surface, over which passes the extensor muscles of the knee-joint. The sides of the shaft of the bone are flattened for the attachment of the vasti muscles, and are bounded by an acute edge on the inner, and an obtuse edge on the outer side, which pass backwards, to meet in a single line to form a part of the linea aspera, which is situated on the posterior part of the bone. The posterior surface is concave from above to below, for the lodgement of the flexor muscles of the knee- joint, and is distinctly divided into a superior, middle, and inferior third. The superior third is somewhat flattened, and presents two lines proceeding from the trochanters: these lines meet in the middle third, and form, with the angles of the sides of the bone, the linea aspera. When in the lower