DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 142 I’he first three of these muscles mentioned as abductors, have been before described as extensors of the arm ; in that motion being- in co-operation with the adductors. In dislocation of the head of the humerus downwards and backwards upon the venter of the scapula, the subscapularis muscle is frequently lacerated. The motion inwards, or adduction, is performed by the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi; this motion being- rendered more perfect by the action of the trapezius, rhom- boidei, and pectoralis minor, uniting- to draw the scapula with the arm in the inward direction. In dislocation of the head of the humerus into the axilla, these muscles are put upon the stretch by the consequent abduction of the arm. Rotation outwards is performed by the supra spinatus, infra spinatus, teres minor, posterior fibres of the deltoid, and coraco brachialis. Rotation inwards is performed by the action of the sub- scapularis, teres major, and clavicular portion of the deltoid. Circumduction is described by the motion of the arm forming- a cone, the ape^c of which is at the shoulder-joint, and the base at the extremity of the fingers; it is pro- duced by the combined operation of all the muscles of the shoulder-joint in succession. The articulation of the elbow forming a ginlymus joint, its motions are in two directions only: which, being less varied than in enarthrodial articulations, is effected by a less numerous arrangement of muscles. These motions are flexion and extension. In flexion of the fore arm, both the radius and ulna move upon the humerus ; and this motion is principally performed by the biceps, and brachialis internus muscles, as the flexors; the triceps and anconeus, as the extensors; three of which are inserted into the ulna. Indeed, I think it will be found upon a strict and attentive examination of the elbow-joint, either in reference to the articulation of the bones, to the attachment of the ligaments, or, to the function of its