GENERAL ANATOMY OF THE SKIN. 281 these sulci or fossae the surface of the cutis projects in corresponding’ eminences, which are ag’ain subdivided by minuter eminences, of a somewhat vermicular character, on the g^eneral surface of the body (J^ide PlateW. Pig. 3.), but arranged in parallel structures on the palms of the hands, and soles of the feet; and more particularly apparent on the extremities of the fingers and toes. (Vide Plate II. Fig. 1 and 4.) These minuter divisions are, perhaps, the true papillae of the skin, and the particular surface in which the sense of touch resides, and through which the perspirable pores pass; they are found particularly sensible at the extremities of the fingers and toes; in the former of which they are ren- dered more sensible, as organs of touch, from their habitual use; they are also exquisitely sensible on the lips, where they are arranged in such a manner that their apices are directed forwards ; so that when the lip is drawn backwards, the sensation is increased by a larger surface of each papilla being exposed to contact. A similar arrangement of the papillcB is found in the skin of the glans penis, where they are all turned towards the extremity of the urethra; so that when the prepuce is drawn backwards, the papillae are subjected to friction, and their sensibility increased. The papillae over the whole surface of the body possess a similar sense of touch, but differing in degree, according to the frequency of exertion ; we have more or less a proof of this supposition from the circumstance, that exquisite sen- sibility may be acquired in different parts of the body under habitual exertion, when the upper extremities are disabled. The skin, besides this organization, possesses secreting structures of three kinds:— First, the perspiratory pores; these are situated by the sides of the papillae, and may be seen with the assistance of a common lens, having the appearance as if the cutis had been punctured with a needle; through which openings the perspiration may be seen to collect in minute globules.