13-1 DESCRIPl’lVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. ulnar side of the same tendon, and radial side of the flexor tendon of the middle finger; and the others in the same manner, so as to be attached to two tendons. From these attachments they proceed diverging to the metacarpo phalangeal articulations, and there become thin and ten- dinous, pass behind the first phalanx of each finger, and are inserted into the root of the first phalanx, and by a tendinous expansion which is common to these muscles, the extensor digitorum communis, and corresponding interossei, into the back part of all the phalanges of the fingers. These small muscles are covered by the tendons of the flexor sublimis digitorum, deep palmar vessels and nerves, and posteriorly they lie upon the interossei. Use.—To assist in flexing the first phalanx of the fingers, and when the tendons of the flexor perforatus are fixed, they can extend the first and middle phalanges. When they act in common with their corres- ponding interosseous muscle, they can adduct and abduct their re- spective fingers. The muscles proper to the thumb are eight in number: three flexors, three extensors, an abductor and an adductor. Four of these have already been described, as they arise from the fore arm, viz., the flexor longus pollicis, or flexor tertii internodii, and the three extensors of the thumb ; there are only left, therefore, in the palmar region two other flexors, the abductor, and the adductor niuscles to be given. These muscles are covered by a thin aponeurosis. The m. abductor pollicis—is somewhat of a triangular form arising by a broad tendinous and fleshy origin, from the anterior surface of the os scaphoides and trapezium, from a corresponding part of the ligamentum carpi annulare, and it is connected with the extensor primi internodii; from these attachments the muscle forms a thick belly, which passes outwards to be inserted, tendinous into the radial side of the base of the second phalanx, sending off an aponeu- rotic expansion, which assists in covering the dorsal surface of the thumb. This muscle is superficially situated, being only covered