170 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. Its under surface is irregularly concave, and inclined for- wards, its greatest concavity being over the liver; it is lined by peritoneum, and corresponds to the upper surfaces of the liver, stomach, spleen, pancreas, duodenum, kidneys, and capsulm renales. Use.—The diaphragm is the principal muscle of inspiration, and increases the capacity of the chest inferiorly, by having its convexity brought to a plane during its contraction ; when it relaxes from this state, it is again forced upwards into the thorax by the pressure of the abdominal muscles, and the viscera underneath it. The oesophagus may be compressed by the contraction of the diaphragm, as it passes through its fleshy substance; while the aorta, vena cava, and other important organs, are protected from pressure by the arrangement of its tendinous fibres. Various phenomena arise from the action of this muscle upon the contents of the thoracic and abdominal cavities:—with respect to the lungs, sighing, yawning, coughing, laughing, sneezing, hiccough, and speaking ; and in reference to the abdominal viscera, its motions contribute to the expulsion of the foetus, urine, and faeces; and in consequence of its connection with the organs of digestion, and the chilopoetic viscera, it may assist in the performance of their functions. The m. quadratus lumborum.—This muscle has already been named as one of those which are connected with the lateral aspects of the spine ; but its origin and insertion was not described at the same time as the other muscles of that region, in consequence of its being situated within the abdominal cavity; but it may now be given consistently both with its function as a muscle of respiration, and with its situation. It arises tendinous and fleshy from the posterior third of the middle labium of the ilium, and from the ilio lumbar ligament; from these origins the fleshy fibres ascend, to be inserted into the internal surface of the posterior half of the last rib, and into the transverse processes of the four su- perior lumbar, and the last dorsal vertebrae. This muscle is placed between the diaphragm, which is anterior to, and partly covers it; and the sacro lumbalis, which is behind it: it is inclosed between the anterior and middle lamina of the fascia lumborum. The psoas magnus muscle, and the kidney are also anterior to it.