BONES OF THE HEAD. 29 to prevent lateral motion. A rough line marks the circum- ference of the condyles, for the attachment of the capsular and lateral ligaments connecting this bone with tlie atlas. Behind each condyle is a fossa, filled with fat, from which open the posterior condyloid foramina, givipg transmis- sion to veins passing- from the exterior of the cranium to the sinuses of the brain. To the outer side of die condyles we find an irregular projecting portion of bone, rough on the external surface, for the attachment of the m. rectus capitis lateralis, and marked within by a deep sulcus, which lodges the termination of the lateral sinus: its edges are rough, to connect it with the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; and anteriorly it is hollowed out into a notch, which forms part of the foramen lacemm basis cranii. To the inner side of this notch, and immediately before the condyles, are the anterior condyloid foramina, for the transmission of the lingual nerves. The fourth, or cuneiform portion of the occipital bone projects forwards from the foramen magnum, and seems produced by the junction of the lateral pieces. It is, as its name imphes, of a wedge-like shape ; its narrowest portion being situated anteriorly, where it is connected with the sphenoid bone. The posterior boundary of this process is concave, forming the anterior part of the foramen magnum : the anterior boundary, for its union with the sphenoid bone, is rough. Laterally it presents irregular edges, where it joins with the petrous portions of the temporal bones; and here a partial groove may be seen, completed by the temporal bone, for lodging the inferior petrosal sinuses. The internal sur- face of the bone is smooth, and slightly hollowed, to receive the medulla oblongata: the exterior is rough, giving in- sertion to the m. recti capitis antici majores et minores : an- teriorly to which are attached also the superior and middle constrictors of the pharynx, of which cavity tliis bone forms the upper boundary. The junction of these four portions of the occipital bone with each other, forms that large opening called the foramen