PARTS ESSENTIAL TO THE SKELETON. 19G Diarthrosis. This is the most moveable articulation of the whole, and connects all the bones of the extremities to each other, as well as the extremities themselves to the trunk. In a diar- throdial joint, the articulatory surface of each bone is covered by cartilage ; it is lined by synovial membrane, and the whole strengthened, more or less, by ligament. It is in some joints of this class that the interarticular cartilages occur. Diar- throsis is subdivided into four species, characterized by the shape of the articulatory surfaces of the bones, and the consequent motion which the joint allows. These are enar- throsis, arthrodia, ginglimus, and trochoides. Enarthrosis is where the rounded head of the one bone is received into a corresponding cavity in the other, rendering it capable not only of motion in every possible direction, but of rotation on its own axis. This is, therefore, the most moveable of all articulations. Numerous specimens are to be met with, differing from each other according as the cavity is deep or shallow: the former is well illustrated by the hip, the latter by the shoulder-joint. The degree of motion is regulated, not so much by the depth of the socket as by the adaptation of the ligaments and the surrounding muscles. Arthrodia is formed by the approximation of two plane, or nearly plane articulatory surfaces, covered by cartilage and synovial membrane: this constitutes the most immoveable joint belonging to this class, as the bones are only allowed to glide slightly one upon the other. An assemblage of con- tiguous small bones are generally united in this manner, and produce a combined rather than an individual motion: take for example the carpus and tarsus. It is difficult to draw a line of distinction betw^een the true arthrodial and the most shallow forms of the enarthrodial joints, Ginglimus.—In this species we observe a convexity of one bone received into a corresponding concavity in the other. Both articulatory surfaces are lengthened laterally; and tlie sides of the joints are so secured by processes of bone, or