BONES OF THE EXTREMITIES. 167 are so nearly equal, that it is a rare occurrence to meet with the accident; but Boyer recites examples of these cases, both from the action of mus- cles, and from falling on the foot from a considerable height. The nature of the accident may be known by swelling and pain following a fall on the sole of the foot, the pain being much increased by motion ; the inability to walk or move the foot, and by a crepitus being percep- tible if the projection of the calcis be moved upon the body of the bone;. Separation of the fractured portions is not very readily ascertained, in consequence of the thickness of the integuments of the foot. The treatment of this accident consists in extending the foot and flexing the knee, by which position of the limb, the tendo Achillis is completely relaxed: indeed, the treatment is much the same as in rup- ture of the tendo Achillis, excepting that some pressure is required from behind to before, to keep the fractured portions in more complete apposition. 7’he other bones of the tarsus are only liable to comminutive fracture, and the same may be said of the bones of the metatarsus and phalanges. Observations upon the general Treatment of Fraetures, In the treatment of all fractures of the long bones, two great points are to be attended to :—First, to bring the fractured portions in contact; and, secondly, to retain them there. It is frequently a matter of very great difficuly to answer the first intention, in consequence of the action of muscles ; it is therefore essential to relax as much as possible the muscles attached to the fractured bone, which is effected by semiflexing the joints of which the injured bone forms a part. It should be remem- bered, however, there are some deviations from this general rule : as in fractures of the olecranon and patella, in which cases it requires per- manent extension of the limbs, to produce relaxation of the muscles influencing the fractured bones. There are also other circumstances which are to be considered by the surgeon before any general rule of treatment can be laid down: such as the class of bone subjected to the accident, bearing in mind that the flat bones when fractured are but little influenced by muscles, and that the danger which ensues is depending upon the degree of injury done to the important organs contained in the cavities formed by this class of bones: as in the head and pelvis: and that the object of the surgeon is to avoid any subsequent ill effects, by strict attention to the antiphlo- gistic regimen and perfect rest. The short bones are, as has been before remarked, but little liable to fracture, in consequence of their form and spongy texture; and that, when broken, the soft parts have usually suffered so much from con- tusion, that the surgeon’s attention is more directed first to subdue the