74 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. sometimes bifurcates so as to bo connected with both lips at its insertion. The m. zygomatici minores, are sometimes wanting; when present they arise on the inner side of the last de- scribed muscles from tbe malar bone; and passing down in the same direction, are inserted by joining with the fibres of the orbicularis oris and levatores labii snperioris. Use.—The zyg'omatici raise tlie corners of the mouth backwards and outwards, and thus produce the expression of joy and laughter. Beneath the zygomatici, and covered by a considerable quantity of fat, are placed The m. huccinatores ; these muscles are thin and square, forming the muscular part of the cheek, and occupy the lateral space between the superior and inferior maxillary bones ; they arise posteriorly from a ridge between the last molar tooth and the coronoid process of the lower jaw ; also from the upper jaw between the last dens molaris and the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone, from which they partly arise, as well as from the pterygoid process of the palate bone; in this situation being connected with the superior constrictor of the pharynx. From these origins their fleshy fibres pass forwards to be inserted into the angle of the mouth ; at the point of inser- tion decussating, so that the upper fibres pass to the lower lip, and the under ones to the upper, interlacing with the orbicularis oris. The cutaneous surface of these muscles is covered by the zygomatici muscles and fat, and traversed by the excretory duct of the parotid gland, which obliquely perforates it opposite to the third molar tooth. The internal surface of these muscles is lined by the mucous membrane of the mouth. Use.—To draw the corners'of the mouth backwards, and to assist in the process of mastication, by compressing the cheeks and keeping the food between the teeth ; and further, in blowing wind instruments, they economise the air which is contained within the mouth. The last set of muscles to be described as moderators to