147 BONES OF THE EXTREMITIES. below, it becomes more acute. Tlie superior third gives at- tachment in part to the popliteus muscle, and internal lateral lio-ament of the knee-joint; to the rest of its extent, the com- mon flexor of the toes is attached. The external angle is the sharpest of the three, and gives attachment to the interosseous ligament. The inferior or tarsal extremity, is smaller than the supe- rior ; but, Uke it, is furnished with an articular surface. This portion of the bone is somewhat quadrilateral, and has dis- tinguished upon it, therefore, an anterior, a posterior, an external, and an internal aspect. Anteriorly, it presents a roughened transverse line, to which is attached ligamentous fibres to strengthen the ancle-joint. Posteriorly, it is very similar in form, and in the same manner roughened; it is furnished with a groove, which is directed from above to below, for the passage of the tendon of the flexor proprius pollicis. Internally, the inferior extremity projects downwards, be- yond the rest of the base, and forms a large protuberance, which is termed the malleolus internus. This process is convex and scabrous on its inner surface, to give attachment to ligament: on its outer, or fibular face, it is concave from before to behind, and covered with cartilage to be connected with the astragalus. Anteriorly, it is sharp and rough, for the connexion of ligament. Posteriorly, it is grooved, for the passage of the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle. The outer, or fibular aspect of the tarsal extremity of the tibia, presents a triangular articular surface, which is concave from before to behind, and forms, by its junction with the fibula, the inferior tibio-fibular articulation. This surface is placed in a line posterior to the articular surface, for the su- perior articulation of the fibula. The articular surface for the astragalus, which forms the inferior extremity of the tibia, is of a square form, concave from behind to before, and deeper on its inner than its outer side: it is covered with cartilage continuous with that w'hich lines the fibular aspect of the malleolus internus.