30 GENERAL ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. arise, as well as upon the bone into which they are inserted, both being’ moveable, producing’ therefore a loss of power. Secondly.—From the insertion of many of the muscles being" nearer to the fulcrum than to the resistance, which induces the necessity for greater force, and precisely in the proportion as the insertion of the muscle is near to the fulcrum and distant from the weight. Thirdly.—The oblique insertion of some of the muscles, both as reg-ards their attachment to bone and to tendon, produces a disadvantag-e in their action. Fourthly.—The resistance which muscles have to over- come from antagonist muscles, as well as to oppose the weig’ht of the body to be moved. And, P’ifthly.—There is a power of muscles to be expended in overcoming the resistance offered to them, owing to the friction of the surrounding parts. Having now contemplated the disadvantages in appli- cation of the force of muscles upon mechanical principles, it is proper that we should point out some circumstances which are evidently favourable to the purpose of assisting muscular action. In the examples already given of the loss of power, it will be easily shewn, that there are equivalent advantages gained by each adjustment. One of the most unfavourable circumstances to the action of the muscles which is mentioned, is, its insertion being nearer to the fulcrum than to the resistance; which, in the instance of the flexion of the fore arm, is calculated as a loss of fifteen parts out of twenty of the force employed. But it seems a law of the animal economy, that muscular power should be sacrificed for convenience; for if this muscle had been so placed as to require the least power to move the resistance, the muscle would have been placed on the fore arm, and the tendon attached above; but this would have destroyed the symmetry of the limb, and produced a general inconvenience which would have more than counter- balanced the advantage derived from economizing muscular power. And, further, by this arrangement a positive ad-