126 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. a foramen. Tliis muscle is only covered by the integuments and aponeurosis. Its origin is bounded in front by the bra- chialis internus; behind, by the triceps; above, by the deltoid; and below, by the extensor carpi radialis longior : as it passes over the joint, it lies upon the extensores carpi radialis longior and brevior; it then descends along the radius, be- tween the flexor carpi radialis, which is anterior to it, and the extensor carpi radialis longior, which is posterior; and at its insertion the tendon is crossed by the extensors of the thumb. In the lower third of the arm, its tendon forms a guide to the radial artery, which is placed just on its ulna side, between it and the flexor carpi radialis. Use.—To roll the radius outwards from the ulna, and to turn the hand sujiine ; it also assists the flexors of the elbow-joint in bending' the fore arm on the humerus ; but is nevertheless classified as a muscle of the radio-ulnar articulations. The m. extensor carpi radialis longior—arises from the lower part of the external ridge of the os humeri, between the origins of the supinator radii longus and the extensor carpi radialis brevior; it forms a short thick fleshy belly, which passes over the outer side of the elbow-joint, proceeds downwards upon the back part of the radius, at the middle of which it becomes tendinous. The tendon continues down- wards to the inferior and back part of the radius, where it passes through a sulcus, crosses the carpus to be inserted into a small tubercle in the posterior face of the metacarpal bone of the fore finger. The humeral attachment of this muscle is placed between the brachialis internus in front, the triceps behind, the supi- nator radii longus above, and the extensor carpi radialis brevior below; on the outer side of the elbow it lies upon the extensor carpi radialis brevior and the supinator radii brevis, being covered by the supinator radii longus; it passes down the fore arm, still covered by this muscle, until it reaches the inferior extremity of the radius, where it passes underneath the extensor tendons of the thumb and dorsal annular ligament to gain its insertion.