98 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. femoral extremity, with an articulatory surface, wliich forms the anterior and inner one fifth of the acetabulum: in the for- mation of which, it is connected above with the ilium, and below with the ischium. At the point of junction with the latter, there is produced a deep sulcus between the two, so as to render the acetabulum much shallower at this point. This notch is situated at the under and fore part of the acetabu- lum, close to the obturator foramen, and is itself completed into a foramen by the cotyloid ligament. Proceeding in- wards from the body, towards the opposite pubes, is situated the horizontal plate of the bone, forming a considerable por- tion of the brim of the pelvis. This plate presents a poste- rior and an anterior ridge, with an intervening flattened sur- face : the posterior ridge constitutes that portion of the linea ilio-pectinea w'hich stretches from the junction of this bone with the ilium to the spinous process, to assist in the forma- tion of which it terminates. The pubic fifth of this ridge has Gimbernat’s ligament attached to it. The anterior ridge, extending from the body to the under part of the spinous pro- cess, forms the upper boundary of the obturator foramen, and gives attachment to the m. obturator externus. The flat- tened surface between the two ridges forms a posterior boun- dary, to what is called the crural arch ; through w^hich arch, muscles, vessels, and nerves, pass from the pelvis to the thigh. Midway between the anterior and superior spinous process of the ilium and the symphysis of the pubes, and be- hind Poupart’s ligament, we find, upon the flattened surface just described, a groove or hollow, along which passes the femoral artery: it is at this point that pressure may be effec- tually made to arrest the flow of blood through that vessel. The spinous process already alluded to, is that small projec- tion of bone, produced by the termination of the two ridges of the horizontal plate : it projects rather anteriorly, so as to be readily felt in the living subject. It is of importance to be w ell acquainted with the situation of this process, as it affords us considerable assistance in discriminating' certain varieties of hernia. That rough portion of the bone, extending down-