THE SKELETON IN GENERAL, 304 rather tend to increase the extent of motion of the shoulder- joint, than to give it streng'th; hut yet the easy mobility of the whole apparatus prevents its readily receiving injury from external violence. The scapula is further to be considered as useful, both from its arched form and situation, in de- fending posteriorly the organs of the thorax from injury. The os humeri is not perfectly cylindrical, but has ridges which serve to give strength to the bone, and attachment to its muscles. In all classes of animals the humerus is single, and it may be said to be shorter accordingly as the metacarpus is lengthened. The elbow-joint is formed of a number of eminences and depressions of bone, which are so perfectly adapted to each other, as to prevent any motion but in the direction of flexion and extension. The humerus, ulna, and radius, all assist in forming the elbow-joint; but the radius, it is to be remem- bered, moves upon the humerus, for the performance of a function independent of this articulation, and which produces the pronation and supination of the hand. This joint is so strongly and firmly secured, as rarely to be dislocated without fracture. The fore arm is composed of two bones, which are sepa- rated from each other in their middle, although they are connected at each extremity, the interspace being filled up by muscles. The radius, which is articulated with the carpus, turns upon the ulna, and carries consequently the hand with it in the motions of pronation and supination,—the former of which motions is much more frequent than the latter. The hand, which is composed of the carpus, metacarpus, and phalanges, is continuous with the general axis of the arm. Its numerous bones and articulations admit of such a degree of motion, as to render it the most perfect prehensive organ; at the same time that it is enabled, from the quantity of elastic structure which enters into its composition, to ob- viate the effects of violence from concussion upon the other bones of the upper extremity. The wrist-joint, which is pro- duced by the articulation of the upper row of the carpus with