GENERAL ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 36 ramifications of the arteries may be traced. The synovial capsules of tendons being”, in org^anization and function similar to the articular capsules, they are liable to the same morbid chang^es, both from age and disease. In old age they become firmer, less flexible, and secrete less synovia than during youth ; hence the stiffness of the motions of the lingers and joints of old people. The successive develop- ment of these membranes in the human body is not well understood: according to some, they exist in a greater number during infancy; and become enlarged, and run into one another, in old age. Practical Remarks. The synovial capsules of the tendons are liable to inflammation; and although perhaps less so than the serous membranes lining the large cavities, yet, as in them, inflammation encreases and alters their natural secretion, producing frequently an accumulation similar to hydrops articuli, hut which in this situation is termed ganglion. The bursa between the ligamentum patellae and tibia, and tbe synovial capsules connected with the tendons about the wrist, are particularly liable to this disease. These tumours contain a viscid fluid of a yellowish red colour, consisting of a considerable quantity of albumen. The cause of their formation is generally unknown, although at times it may be traced to pressure: hence the frequent occurrence of ganglion of the bursa below the knee of house-maids. On the increase of the synovial fluid and consequent enlargement of the bursa interfering with the motions of the tendon, it is the object of the surgeon to promote the absorption of the fluid; and in many cases this object may be gained by blisters and pressure; but in others, where the synovial capsule is very much thickened, and the fluid itself inspissated, these local means will not avail, and puncture or setons are recommended: but as far however as my experience leads me to judge, I should be cautious with this mode of procedure, as I have several times seen the very worst effects follow this treatment; and I should always reprobate it when the ganglion is situated in the neighbourhood of a large joint. I have frequently known the dispersion of the fluid, by bursting the sac with a sharp blow, produce at once a radical cure. Chronic inflammation of the bursae does sometimes produce ulcera- tion: sometimes the formation of cartilaginous bodies within the sac— a disease very similar to the formation of loose cavtilage within the