19 BONES OF THE HEAD. <Hviiled into superior and inferior. The former are attached to the sides of the chest, and are composed of the bones of the shoulder, arm, fore-arm, and hand: while tlm inferior extremities, which are placed immediately under the pelvis, and g-ive support to the rest of the body, are subdivided into the bones of the thigh, leg, and foot. The Head. By the head is meant all the spheroidal portion of the skeleton, which is placed above the first cervical vertebra, and necessarily comprehends the bones of the cranium and face. The cranium consists of several bones, which, in conjunction, form a vaulted basin for the purpose of de- fending' the brain and its membranes. This bony cavity is invariably of a capacity in proportion to its contents, and is necessarily variable in its size. The roundness of the cranium renders it better fitted to protect as well as to support the vital org-an it contains, and is produced by the equal pressure of the brain upon the bones during- its developement: this roundness, however, is prevented in the lateral inferior reg'ions of the skull by the g-reater hardness of the temporal bones, as well as by the action of the temporal muscles, v\^iich have a great power in producing this effect; for the skull does not acquire its flatness until the muscles are sufficiently strong- to produce it: hence the skulls of infants are much rounder than in after- life. The advantages derived from this lateral flatness, are an extended sphere of vision, and a more favourable position for the external organs of hearing. The convex vertex of the cranium is quite smooth, and is covered by the pericranium, a thin aponeurotic expansion> and skin ; while the external surface of the base is irregular, affording eminences and depressions for the attachment of the bones of the face anteriorly, and for muscles posteriorly. The internal surface of the cranium offers no greater irregu- arities than to correspond with the uneven superficies of the