PARTS ESSENTIAL TO THE SKELETON, 242 muscle lias orig-in. All muscles which arise from the condyles of the os humeri are necessarily relaxed, excepting the supinator radii brevis, which has some of its fibres torn through. The fore arm, in this acci- dent, maintains a semiflexed position; and no forceless than that which is capable of reducing the dislocated bones will produce extension. The best diagnostic mark of this accident is the change of position of the olecranon, which is found thrown up above the external condyle; in- stead of being, as is its natural position, upon a level with it. The dislocation of both bones laterally, can take place either to the inner or outer side; but in consequence of the great extent and irregu- larity of the articular surfaces, it is never complete: this luxation is of rare occurrence in comparison with the last mentioned accident. The state of the muscles, and of the capsular ligament, are under the same circumstances as in the dislocation backwards, with this unimportant difference: that the muscular fibres have an obliquity either outwards or inwards, depending on the direction of the dislocated bones. The dislocations of the head of the radius, which are generally enumerated amongst the accidents of the elbow-joint, may be more properly considered as injuries incident to the superior radio ulnar articulation. Radio Ulnar Articulations. The radius and the ulna are connected along- their whole course by lig-aments ; which, according- to their relative situ- ations, may be divided into those of the superior, middle and inferior articulations. The Superior Radio Ulnar Articulation. Class Diarthrosis.—Subdivision Trochoides. The upper extremity of the ulna is furnished with a de- pression, which is named the smaller sig-moid cavity, for the purpose of receiving- the head of the radius. Both the car- tilag-e and synovial membrane which enter into the compo- sition of this joint, are continuous with that of the elbow. This articulation forms a lateral hing-e, admitting- of the supination and pronation of the hand, but is not affected