132 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. ^ The m. extensor indicis—arises by fleshy and aponeurotic" fibres from the posterior surface of the ulna, just on the inner side of the tertii internodii muscle, also from the interosseous lig-ament; it increases in size as it descends towards the hand, and immediately above the lower extremity of the radius it forms a slender tendon, which passes through the same groove with the tendons of the extensor digitorum, being united by one synovial membrane ; arriving on the back of the hand, it passes to the index finger on the outer side of the slip of tendon from the extensor digitorum communis, and is inserted with it into the second' and third phalanges. This muscle is covered by the extensor carpi ulnaris, and extensor digitorum communis, and it lies upon the ulna, interosseous ligament, the extensor tertii internodii, and radius and carpus. Use.—To assist the tendon of the extensor digitorum to extend the fore finger; or, to act without the assistance of that muscle, as in pointing the fore finger. The dissection of the palm of the hand may now proceed; but it is necessary to remark, that the insertion of several of the muscles already described are not proper to the hand, but yet, lying deeply under the palmar fascia, their final insertions cannot be examined, until the parts we are now about to describe are first dissected. Upon removing the skin from the palm of the hand, we shall find it thicker than on other parts of the body, excepting the sole of the foot, in consequence of the pressure to which it ds con- stantly exposed. Immediately under the skin is found a strong aponeurotic expansion, which is termed the fascia palmaris, and upon it lies posteriorly a small cutaneous muscle. The m. palmaris hrevis—arises by thin separated fasciculi from the inner side of the anterior surface of the annular ligament, proceeds outwards in a transverse direction across the upper part of the palm of the hand, to be inserted into the skin which covers the ball of the thumb. The skin covers the anterior surface of this muscle; and