THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 64 Practical Remarks. Tlic numerous functions in which this bone has an important share, necessarily render its diseases of great pathological interest. From its moveable articulation with the temporal bones, it is liable to the diseases and accidents incident to joints. The formation, growth and decay of the teeth, subject this bone to diseases, which have, in some cases, ren- dered the extirpation of one half of the bone necessary. (Vide Dublin Hospital Reports, VoLIIl.) This bone is more frequently fractured than any other bone of the facethe accident is generally produced by very severe blows, and may take place in any part of its surface; but each part presents its peculiarity of displacement, from the action of muscles upon it. For instance : when the condyle is detached by frac- ture through the cervix, the detached portion is drawn forwards and inwards, by tbe action of the peterygoideus externus muscle : this por- tion of the bone being so small as to prevent any force being applied to replace it, it is necessary to bring the whole of the bone into the same direction which the fractured portion has assumed, to produce union. (Vide Fig. 1. Plate I.) In fractures through the ascending process, but Jittle displacement ensues, in consequence of the extent of attachment of the pterygoideus internus on the inner side, and of the masseter mus- cle on the outer. (Vide Fig. 2. Plate I.) Fractures through the horizontal plate :—In this accident, the fractured portion attached to the chin, is dra^vn downwards and backwards by the muscles connecting the lower jaw with the os hyoides ; and if, in this fracture, a portion of the bone be detached, the deformity is greater, from its being more com- pletely under the influence of these muscles. (Vide Fig. Plate I.) In such accidents the fractured portions are to be kept in apposition, by connecting a tooth of each fractured portion with wire, and by keeping the mouth closed ; making the upper jaw thus act as a splint. This bone is liable to exostosis; which sometimes ac- quires a size so considerable, as to interfere with the functions of the bone, and to render its removal necessary. Exfoliation of this bone frequently occurs, from the irritation produced by diseased teeth. The Os Hyoides, So named from its resemblance to the Greek letter v. It is placed horizontally on the fore part of the neck, between the base of the tong’ue and larynx, and opposite to the space between the third and fourth cervical vertebra). This bone forms no part of the skeleton, being- merely fixed to the