DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 102 are (livideil, the sudden and great loss of blood lias generally destroyed life before surgical aid could be attained ; but should not life be extinct, may not such accidents offer fair opportunity for the trial of transfusion of blood, as the best chance of restoring the patient. It may be well here to remark, that in operations of tlie anterior region of the neck, the anterior edges of the sterno cleido mastoidei form a general direction to the course of the common and external carotid arteries. Again, with regard to operations of this region, there is no part of tlie bodyin which position is of gi'cater importance, as the ele- vation or depression of the head and lower jaw alter materially th'e re- lative position of the larynx and os hyoides. This may be'exemplified by the measurement of the elevation and depression of the thyroid car- tilage and os hyoides in various subjects, and should be observed with regard to each individual subjected to operation. The lateral regions of the neck are comprehended in an irregular triangle, the base of which is formed by the middle third of the clavicle, the apex immediately below the mastoid process of the temporal bone, anteriorily bounded by the posterior edge of the sterno cleido mastoi- deus, and posteriorly by the anterior edge of the trapezius. The whole of this space is covered by the platysma myoides muscle, which is necessary to mention, from its relation to the operation of bleeding’ in the external jugular vein. The external jugular vein lies immediately under the platysma myoides upon the sterno cleido mastoideus; the opening of this vein differs from bleeding elsewhere, as we necessarily puncture it tlirough muscular fibre, the contraction of which the surgeon has to contend against. Having described the platysma myoides, and its relation to the external jugular vein, we will now proceed to the subdivision of this lateral region into two spaces, each of them of a triangular form. The lowest of these two spaces is bounded in front by the posterior edge of the sterno cleido mastoideus and external jugular vein; below, by the clavicle; above, by the omo hyoideus, and behind, the triangle terminates, where the omo hyoideus crosses behind the trapezius muscle. This space is rendered of great consequence, from the numerous parts and important surgical operations connected with it. It is within this triangle that a ligature may be placed around the subclavian artery for axillary aneurism, an operation rendered difficult from the smallness and depth of the space, which includes on the inner side of the artery the scalenus anticus muscle; on the outer side, the nerves joining to form the axillary plexus; and in front the subclavian vein traversing the lower portion of the artery immediately above the clavicle. The experienced anatomist readily avoids these difficulties, by making the outer edge of the scalenus muscle his guide