208 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. of its long’th downwards, being- in this situation placed immediately behind'the peroneus long-us. The second head arises from the oblique line, on the posterior surface of the tibia, which is seen immediately below the insertion of the popliteus muscle, and from the middle third of the inner edg-e of that bone; from these origins the fleshy fibres pass downwards, converging as they.^ descend, and uniting, form a large belly, which extends nearly to the ancle-joint, is inserted by uniting with the tendon of the gastrocnemius to form the tendo Achillis. The posterior surface of the soleus is covered by the gastrocnemius, plantaris, and fascia of the leg ; its anterior surface is also covered by a fascia, which separates the three superficial from the deep muscles of this region. Between the two origins of this muscle, are placed the posterior tibial artery and nerve. Use.—The same as the two preceding- muscles, forming together the tendon Achillis, which is broader above than below, and is separated to a considerable distance from the tibia and fibula, in consequence of the projection backwards of the tuberosity of the calcis. These muscles should now be cut through, and reflected towards their attachments, when the fascia which separates them from the deep layer will be exposed. The knowledge of the precise situation of this fascia is of importance, as it forms the readiest guide in the operation for securing the posterior tibial, and tibular arteries. The deep-seated layer of musgles in the posterior region of the leg, and which are anterior to the above-named fascia, are the tibialis posticus, flexor longus digitorum, and flexor longus pollieis. The m. tibialis posticus—arises by a broad fleshy origin, disposed in two distinct bundles of fibres ; one from the outer and back part of the fibula: the other, which is the largerof the two, from the oblique line on the back part of the tibia, the anterior tibial vessels' passing betw'een the bifurcation ; it also arises fleshy from the whole length of the interosseous ligament, occupying the greater part of its