230 . PARTS ESSENTIAL TO THE SKELETON. Thirdly, forwards.—It is in this motion that tlie clavicle is most liable to be luxated backwards at its sternal extremity; but in consequence of the strength of the posterior and inter- clavicular ligaments, which are put upon the stretch, this accident is prevented; the anterior ligament is necessarily relaxed, but the rhomboid or costo-clavicular hgament re- mains in its natural state. Fourthly, backwards.—In this motion the scapular ex- tremity of the clavicle is drawn backwards, while its sternal extremity is thrust forward, and stretches the anterior sterno- clavicular ligament. If at this moment the shoulder were violently thrust still farther backward, the sternal extremity of the clavicle might be dislocated forward; but the rarity of this accident is dependant upon the strength of the inter- clavicular and posterior ligaments, which are put upon the stretch. Lastly.—With respect to circumduction, it is a quick suc- cession of all these motions ; during which, the hgaments adapt themselves with rapidity to their alternate states of re- laxation and extension. Practical Remarks. The clavicle may either he dislocated from the sternum, or from the acromion process of the scapula ; but fracture of this bone much more frequently happens than displacement of its articulatory surfaces. The dislocation of its sternal extremity may occur in three directions; either forwards, backwards, or upwards: but dislocation downwards cannot happen, in consequence of the attachment of the interarticular cartilage to the first rib. It is the dislocation forwards which is most frequent, and generally occurs from the application of force upon the shoulder, when the arm is carried to its fullest extent backwards,—a direction in which it is most capable of being moved : at this time, the sternal extremity of the clavicle is thrust forcibly against the anterior ligament, which may give way, and the articular surface of the clavicle pass on the upper and fore part of the sternum. It is not, however, the strength of the anterior ligament only, which prevents the frequent occurrence of this accident, but also the attachment of the m. sterno cleido mastoideus. The diag- nosis in this accident is very easy, in consequence of the superficial situation of the bone affected. The extremity of the clavicle is readily