198 ■ PARTS ESSENTIAL TO THE SKELETON. duccd from the non-union of fractures, or from unreduced dislocations ; in the former case giving’ rise to a supernume- rary, in the latter to a supplementary joint. The failure of union in fractured bones arises either from a want of proper adjustment in the first instance, from improper motion, or from constitutional causes; preventing the usual process which nature sets up to produce union: the frac- tured extremities then become moulded upon each other; and, by the constant friction which is kept up, their respective contiguous surfaces are rendered perfectly smooth, and ca- pable of gliding one upon the other almost as readily as if they were covered by articular cartilage. They are further surrounded by a fibro-cartilaginous capsule, produced from the periosteum, the internal surface of which secretes a fluid resembling synovia. Wherever the irregularity of the frac- ture prevents the bones from coming in contact with each other, the interspace is filled up by portions of the same kind of fibro-cartilage as envelopes the exterior of the joint; but these become gradually absorbed, as the friction grinds down the inequalities of the fractured surfaces, and enables them to adapt themselves more completely to each other. Thus the articulation becomes more perfect from motion and use. Supplementary articulations are found to succeed unre- duced dislocations ; instances of which most frequently occur in the hip and shoulder-joints. Under these circumstances the head of the dislocated bone, by its pressure, produces absorption of the intervening soft parts covering the bone on which it had been thrown; and, as soon as they are in contact, an alteration takes place in both : the articular cartilage of the one becoming absorbed, and a recipient cavity produced in the other. The head of the bone also becomes flattened, and the new-formed cavity is shallow in proportion. No new articular cartilage becomes deposited in this process, but the contiguous surfaces assume an altered character, being ren- dered perfectly smooth and hard, as in the former instance presenting an appearance resembling porcelain. A new and very complete capsular ligament is produced, which is lined