DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES, 73 outer one passes into the lip only, intermixed with the orbicularis and levatores ang-uli oris. The distinctness of the two fasiculi has led some anatomists to describe each as a separate muscle. l/^e.—Their individual use is to raise the upper lip and aloe of the nose, producing the expression of contempt; but they arc more fre- quently used as moderators to the orbicularis oris. The m. depressores labii superioris alarumque nasi, are small muscles situated behind the lips, and are not exposed until the mucous membrane of the mouth is removed from the upper jaw : they arise from the superior maxillary bones from a small fossa just above the alveolar processes of the incisor teeth ; they pass upward towards the posterior reg’ion of the wing- of the nose, into which they are partly inserted ; the rest of their fibres intermixing- with the last described muscles and the orbicularis oris. Use.—To depress the wing of the nose and upper lip, and assist in closing the nares. The m. levatores anguli oris, arise from the depression below the infra orbitar foramen on the superior maxillary bone, being- covered by the external or malar orig-ins of the levatores labii superioris alarumque nasi; they pass down- wards and outwards to be inserted by interlacing- with the fibres of the orbicularis oris, and those muscles forming the angles of the mouth. Use.—To raise the corners of the mouth upwards and inwards. The m. zygomatici, are two small pairs of muscles em- beded in a considerable quantity of fat, and extending across >the cheek to the angles of the mouth. The m. zygomatici majores, are situated externally and posteriorly to the zygomatici minores ; they arise near the posterior angle of the malar bones, pass downwards and inwards crossing the buccinatorcs, from which however they are separated by a considerable quantity of fat, and are inserted into the corners of the mouth, uniting with the orbicularis oris, and its lateral moderators; each muscle