123 bones of the extremities. radius, which it receives in forming the superior radio-ulnar articu- lation; and below, it forms the inferior radio-ulnar articulation, by being received by the radius. It has no connexion with the wrist-joint, being separated from it by the upper surface of the interarticular car- tilage. Attachment of Muscles.—Fifteen muscles are attached to the ulna. Three of the elbow-joint are inserted into it;—the brachialis internus, the anconeus, and the triceps. Of the radio-ulnar articulations, three muscles arise from the ulna:—the m. supinator radii brevis, the m. pro- nator radii teres, and the m. pronator quadratus. Of the wrist-joint, the muscles arising from the ulna are—the m. flexor carpi ulnaris and radialis, and the extensor carpi ulnaris. Of the fingers, the m. flexor communis sublimis et profundus, digitorum, extensor primi secundi et tertii, internodii pollicis, and indicator. Practical Re^narks. Fractures of the Fore-Arm.—Of the two hones, the radius is much more frequently broken, in consequence of its being attached to the hand, and placed in a direct line with the humerus; from which circum- stance, in a fall, the hand being naturally put forward, the whole weight of the body is communicated to the radius, this bone is driven forcibly against the humerus, and not unfrequently gives way at its middle part. Pain, a loss of power in effecting the motions of pronation and supination of the hand, and a crepitus which may be readily felt in pro- ducing these rotatory motions, form the diagnostic marks of the nature of the accident. Under these circumstances, the position of the frac- tured portions is such as to form a salient angle inwards, towards the ulna—a disposition of parts produced by the action of the pronator muscles: (Vide a. Fig. 1., Plate VIII.) and therefore rendering the space between the two bones of the fore-arm much less, and projecting the muscles from between them. When the radius is fractured through its neck, the diagnosis is more difiicult, in consequence of the thick covering this part of the bone receives from numerous muscles; and the nature of the accident is further obscured by the difficulty in producing crepitus. This difficulty occurs from the position of the fractured por- tions of the bone, the inferior being drawn upwards, inwards, and for- wards, by the action of the biceps muscle, while the head and fractured neck of the bone, are drawn slightly outwards by the supinator radii brevis. (Vide b. Fig. 1., Plate VIII.) In fractures of the radius, the hand is constantly proned. Fractures of the Ulna.—The ulna is less liable to fracture than the radius, from circumstances already mentioned. The accident usually occurs from the application of a force applied immediately upon the