GENERAL ANATOMY OF THE SKIN. 285 There is considerable difficulty in separating" the cuticle from the rete mucosum, in consequence of its firm adhesion ; and in those preparations which are even most successful, portions of it will be seen adhering" to the raised cuticle. The process of putrefaction seems to g"o on more readily in this structure than either in the cuticle or cutis, which occasions the ready separation of the cuticle, and probably explains the reason why, in this separation, the rete mucosum is not discernable, but merely a mucous deposit adhering' both to the surface of the cutis and cuticle. These surfaces have, therefore, been described as separate layers ; while the colouring matter, which is well known to exist, has been assigned to the space between them ; thus giving rise to the supposition, that rete mucosum is formed of three separate layers of membrane. As the seat of colour, the rete mucosum has an undeniable existence; and it is clear, that the cuticle possesses a semi- transparency, through which this colour is more or less dis- cernable. The black colour of Negroes depends on the black colour of the rete mucosum, seen through the cuticle; in Europeans, also, various shades of colour are found,generally according with the colour of the hair, and eyes; these various shades may be observed in the different gradations between a fair and brunette’s complexion; the former, generally with light blue; the latter, with dark eyes, and jet black hair. It is generally said, that the rete mucosum is wanting in the Albino, and in white animals of other species. It does not however, accord with the usual operations of nature, to have any structure entirely wanting: it may exist in a colourless state, and in a very small quantity; still smaller than in the European, where it is evidently less than in the Neerro. O Five principal shades have been enumerated as charac- teristic of the several races of mankind. In the Caucasian, white; in the Mongolian, yellow; in the .Ethiopian, jet black; in the American, copper colour; in the,Malayan, tawny, or resembling dark mahogany.