DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 199 Nevertheless I consider the adoption of tliis plan prefer- able, in order that the muscles of different joints should not be confounded with each other. The muscles of the knee-joint are ten in number; six flexors, and four extensors. The flexors are situated prin- cipally on the back part of the thig-h ; the extensors on the fore part: and they are more or less separated from each other by processes of the fascia lata. Before these muscles can be traced to their insertions into the tibia and fibula, the fascia of the leg must be described. This fascia is a continuation of the fascia lata of the thigh, commencing from its attachment to the bones of the leg ; it is strengthened by fibres from the tendons of the extensors of the knee-joint in front, from the biceps externally, from the flexors and inner hamstring internally, and from the poplitaeus posteriorly j it proceeds downwards towards the ancle, adhering firmly to the bones of the leg, and forms an aponeurotic covering, confining all the muscles on the an- terior part of the leg; while, posteriorly, it separates them into a superficial and deep layer by a strong portion which dips between them; while external to the posterior muscles, it forms but a comparatively thin investment. At the upper part of the leg, this fascia is strongest, and becomes thinner as it descends, until it reaches the malleoli, where its strength again increases by the addition of some tendinous fibres, which form with it the annular ligament. The deep posterior portion of this fascia cannot be seen until the extensors of the ancle-joint have been dissected. The external fascia of the leg must be removed, to pro- ceed with the dissection of the muscles of the knee-joint. The four extensors of the knee-joint, are the rectus, crurmus, and two vasti. The m. rectus femoris—arises by a strong tendon from the anterior and inferior spinous process of the ilium, and also from the dorsum of the bone, just at the edge of the acetabulum, being there connected with the capsular liga- ment of the hip-joint; from these two tendinous origins it