THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 92 leng-th of the bone; but terminates at the upper part of the inferior third of tlie sacrum, exposing- the sacral canal, which is of a triangular form, and in the recent subject is closed in by the posterior sacro-coccygeal ligament. This canal is for the purpose of lodging the spinal marrow, and is continuous with that of the lumbar vertebrae. There proceeds from this canal, posteriorly, four pairs of foramina, to transmit small nerves from the spinal chord. Upon the posterior surface the notches are seen, which form the fifth pair of foramina by the junction of the os coccygis. These notches are, in this as- pect, marked by two projections of bone, which are some- times called the cornua of the sacrum. The lateral or iliac edges of this bone, present two large unequal triangular surfaces, which are connected with cor- responding surfaces of the ossa ilia by an intervening cartilage. Below these articular portions the edges are irregular and rough, for the attachment of the sacro-sciatic ligaments, and terminate in the small notches which have been described as forming, by their connexion with the coccyx, the inferior sacral foramina. Connexion.—The sacrum is connected above, with the last lumbar vertebra; laterally, with the ossa innominata; and below, with the os coccygis. Use.—To form the posterior part of the pelvis, to support the spine, to lodge and protect the spinal marrow, and to give attachment to muscles. Muscles attached to the sacrum are the m. multifidi spinse, longissimi et latissimi dorsi, sacro-lumbales, glutei maximi, pyriformes, coccj-gei, and the obliqui interni abdominis. Practical Remarks. In consequence of the deep situation of this bone, and its spongy texture, it is but little liable to fracture : such an accident, however, does now and then occur from the application of some great force, as the passage of a carriage-wheel over the bone, or a fall from a consider- able height: and it happens, from the degree of violence necessary to produce the fracture, that it is usually attended with comminution. There are no muscles attached to this bone, which tend to displace the