BONES OF THE HEAD. 25 the temporalcs, corrugatores supercilii, orbiculares palpebrarum, and occipito-fron tails. Points of Practical Importance connected zoith the Frontal Bone. The frontal eminences are not to be considered as merely the points at which ossification commenced, but from their projecting form, and necessarily additional quantity of bony matter, as affording an additional defence to tlie anterior part of the brain. Frontal prozninences, which mark the situation of the frontal sinuses, do not offer the same dangerous symptoms from depression, in conse- quence of fracture, because of the separation of the lamina? in this situation. Bleeding at the nose, and extravasation of air, are the diagnostic marks of this accident. A mucous membrane lining the frontal sinus, renders this part liable to disease incident to the mem- brane. Thinness of the orbitar process leaves the brain dangerously accessible to a sharp instrument entering the orbit. The projection of the frontal spine in the interior middle line of the bone, and the con- tinued groove for lodging the superior longitudinal sinus, excepting under unavoidable circumstances, unfit this part of the bone for the application of the trephine. The Ossa Parietalia Are two bones completely proper to the cranium, and forming- its vertex, in shape of an irreg-ular square, and when connected form an arch with its convexity placed externally, and its concavity internally. There may be distinguished upon each of these bones the following parts:—an external and an internal surface, four edges and four angles, as well as certain eminences and depressions. The external surface of the bone is C07tvex, more espe- cially in the centre, where a prominence marks the com- mencement of ossification; immediately below the prominence is situated an arched ridge, crossing from before to beliind, from which radiated lines pass down, converging towards the inferior edge, marking the attachment of the temporal muscle. The four edges of this bone are the superior or sagittal edge, which is serrated, and assists to form the suture common to both. By the side of this edge, near the centre, a foramen is formed, which transmits a vein, passing to the superior longitudinal sinus. The anterior or coronal edge.