286 GENERAL ANATOMY OF THE SKIN. ' The Epidermis, or Cuticle, Forms the external surface of the skin; it is a semi-trans- parent insensible membrane, and seems destined principally for the purpose of protecting" the more sentient parts under- neath from the action of the air. A vast variety of hypotheses have been formed respecting the structure of the cuticle; but upon minute examination, the following appearances present themselves. It every where partakes of the true form of the skin underneath, dipping into its interstices and minute fossae, in precise con- formity with the fossae and wrinkles which are adapted to the mobility of the skin. In a like manner to the cutis, the cuticle differs in its thickness and structure in different parts of the body. In the soles of the feet, and in the palms of the hands it is arranged in rugae parallel to each other, and which take various directions according to the form of each part; on the tips of the fingers and toes, the rugae are nearly parallel with the convexity of the termination of the nails, taking the circular direction of the ends of the fingers ; by this arrange- ment, a centre of circles is produced nearly opposite to the roots of the nails, having one or two perfectly concentric turns; after which, they incline towards the sides of the fingers: below these concentric turns, the rugae are again nearly parallel with the joint of the phalanges, while in the palms of the hands they assume various directions. The rugae are studded at various distances on their projecting surfaces with perspirable pores. (Vide Plate II. Fig. 1.) On the tips of the fingers, where the sense of touch particularly resides, small projecting papillae are frequently seen between the rugae, being about one third of their breadth, and on which no pores are perceptible : whether these shield the sentient extremities of the nerves of the sense of touch in any particular manner, is a mere subject of conjecture; but they are not met with in any other situation. (Vide Plate II. Fig. 4.)