DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 227 the two latter muscles being thus capable of performing either flexion or extension, when the limb is placed in certain positions by the other muscles. The ancle-joint is capable of flexion and extension, and a slight inflexion outwards and inwards. These latter motions only occur in just reference to the ancle-joint, when the foot is extended, in which position the smaller portion of the articular surface of the astragalus is admitted between the malleoli, and allows of this motion. When the bones of the leg rest on the astragalus at a right angle, or during flexion of the foot, then the larger part of the astragalus is fixed between the malleoli, and the- rotatory motion communicated to the foot depends upon the motions of the knee and hip ; and wholly to the latter, when the knee is extended. The flexors of the ancle-joint, are the tibialis antieus, and peroneus tertius, as proper to the joint; assisted, however, by the extensor longus digitorum, and extensor pollieis. The extensors are the gastrocnemius, soleus, plantaris, tibialis posticus, peroneus longus and brevis; assisted by the flexor longus digitorum, and flexor longus pollieis. Inflexion inwards — tibialis posticus, extensor pollieis, flexor longus pollieis, flexor longus digitorum. Inflexion outwards—peroneus longus, brevis, and tertius; assisted by the extensor longus digitorum. Motions of the bones of the tarsus and metatarsus are extremely limited, being chiefly confined to the elasticity of their cartilaginous surfaces, and can scarcely be said to depend upon the contraction of muscles, although tendons are so inserted into and interwoven on their surfaces, that their chief action on the bones of the foot depend on the preservation of the strong arches which support the weight of the body; at the same time giving to the foot its great elasticity. The motions of the toes are much more limited than of the fingers, which no doubt depend, in a great measure, upon their disuse, as well as the manner in which the foot