60 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM, anterior of which passes upwards, to the lacrymal plate of the os unguis, and completes the ductus ad nasum. The posterior process is larger, becomes curved downwards, and is attached to the lower edge of the opening of the maxillary antrum, which it thus partly closes. The bone becomes narrower towards each extremity, but terminates in a much more acute point behind than before. Th,e turbinated bone is connected by its superior edge only: the anterior part of which is attached to the ridge on the inner surface of the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, and to the un- guis : the posterior part is fixed to a similar ridge on the nasal plate of the palate bone. The rest of the bone is un- attached, and projects into the nasal cavity. The use of this hone is, to form an extended surface for the attach- ment of the lining membrane of the nose, and to assist in closing the entrance of the antrum highmorianum. It also assists in forming the ductus ad nasum, and divides the middle from the inferior chambers of the nose. Practical Remarks. Tlie principal pathological facts connected with this bone refer to its texture, which is so delicate, that, in disease, it readily exfoliates. In the removal, also, of polypi, or any extraneous bodies from the nasal cavities, great caution must be had not to injure it. In fistula lachry- malis, as a palliative remedy, a small probe is sometimes passed up the ductus ad nasum, which opens immediately behind this bone into the lower chamber of the nose : its situation, therefore, should be carefully examined. The Os Maxillare Inferius Is a single moveable bone, situated immediately below the upper jaw, forming the lower boundary to the face. It is somewhat of the figure of a horse’s shoe, or the Greek letter u ; and to facilitate its description, it may be divided into its body, or chin; its horizontal plate; and its ascending ramVrS, terminating in the condyloid and coronoid processes. Both the external and internal surface of this bone offer many lines