144 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES, tJie triceps and anconeus,—both of them inserted into the ulna. This is an additional proof, that the biceps is not to be considered as a flexor of the elbow, as it has no anta- g’onist muscle in that use. It should here be observed, as a circumstance of consi- derable surgical importance, that as the long head of the triceps acts in carrying the humerus backwards, as well as in extension of the fore arm ; it is necessary to flex the humerus in dislocations of the ulna backwards, to lessen the action of the triceps on the ulna. What is termed pronation and supination of the hand, are positions produced by the rotatory motion of the radius upon the ulna; the hand being articulated with the radius, and moving with that bone. These rotations are produced by the following muscles: pronators—pronator radii teres, and the pronator quadratus, principally, assisted however by the palmaris longus, and flexor carpi ulnaris ; the two last act most powerfully when the wrist-joint is extended: supinators—the supinator radii longus, supinator radii brevis, the extensors proper to the thumb, and the biceps brachii. The muscles of the thumb acting with the greatest force when the thumb is directed into the palm of the hand, and the biceps at such a time when forcible supination is required, attended with flexion of the fore arm ; and the action of this muscle is further in- creased by flexion of the humerus. The only rotatory motion of which the ulna is capable, is in common with, but not upon, the humerus. The wrist-joint is capable of being flexed, or extended, and allows the motion of the hand either towards the radius or ulna. The flexors are, the flexor carpi radialis, flexor carpi ulnaris, palmaris longus, flexor sublimis et profundus digi- torum, and the flexor tertii internodii pollicis. The first three are to be considered as the principal flexors of the wrist-joint; and the others only as acting secondarily when tbeir contraction is continued beyond flexion of the fingers.