PARTS ESSENTIAL TO THE SKELETON. 276 outwards than inwards, in consequence of the attachments of the anterior crucial lig'ament. Whenever, therefore, latera motion can be performed by the knee-joint, that limb is under circumstances least capable to resist accidents, or to support the weight of the body, which, therefore, is thrown entirely upon the other extended extremity, as we find to be the case in the act of walking. Practical Remarks. Dislocations of the Knee, Dislocations of the Patella.—I'his bone being’ situated on the anterior part of the knee-joint is much exposed to external violence, and is pro- portionably liable to injury; amongst other accidents, it is subject to dislocation, which may take place either outwards or inwards. The dislocation outwards is the most frequent; it is, however, scarcely ever complete, unless it he from a very relaxed state of the ligaments, produced by some prior disease; but is usually thrown upon the external condyle, there forming a tumour, attended with loss of motion of the joint, which circumstances sufficiently point out the nature of the injury. This accident is frequently produced by a blow on the inner side of the patella when the foot is everted, or it may he caused merely by the action of the extensor muscles of the leg ; and in this case it most fre- quently occurs to such persons who have their knees directed very much inwards. If the dislocation he complete, the articular surfaces of the patella are thrown upon the external surface of the condyle, and.its inner edge is placed anteriorly, which cannot take place without partial laceration of the ligamentum patellae; unless, as I have before remarked, the accident be subsequent to the relaxation of the ligaments of the knee-joint from disease. Dislocation inwards.—The appearances and symptoms differ in no respect from those of the preceding injury, excepting that the projection is situated internally instead of externally. The dislocations upwards and downwards, which are spoken of by some surgeons, do not appear to me to deserve such appellation; but ather to be spoken of as either laceration of the ligamentum patellje, when the bone is drawn upwards by the action of the extensor muscles, or as rupture of the tendon of the extensor muscles, when the patella is forced below its natural position. The mode of reduction, when the patella is thrown either outwards or inwards, must at once be obvious to every surgeon ; his object would be to place his only opposing force, the extensor muscles of the leg, in the greatest state of relaxation, which may be easily performed by laying