71 BONES OF THE HEAD. several foramina, for allowing- the passage of blood-vessels, nerves, and absorbents, to and from the eye and its ap- pendages. At the posterior part two are placed — the oftic and lacerated foramina, which have already been particularly described in speaking of the base of the skull. Above the orbit is situated the supra-orhitar foramen: allow- ing the passage of a branch of the first division of the fifth pair of nerves to supply the parts about the eye-brow, upper fid, and inner canthus of the eye. From the floor passes out the infra-orbitar foramen; which gives passage to a branch of the second division of the fifth pair, supplying sensation to the parts about the face. From the inner side, two small foramina lead into the interior of the skull: they are situated in that part of the transverse suture formed by the union of the ethmoid and frontal bones: the anterior one transmits a twig of the first division of the fifth pair of nerves, and a branch of the ophthalmic artery, which pass through some of the anterior foramina of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone into the nose. This distribution explains the watering of the eyes upon any pungent substance being applied to the nose. The posterior foramen admits only a branch of the artery which goes to supply the dura mater. These foramina are named the foramina obitalia interna, an- teriora and posteriora. On the outer side of the orbit is placed the foramen lacerum orbitale inferius, or spheno- maxillary fissure ; which is bounded above, by the sphenoid bone; below, by the superior maxillary 5 anteriorly, by the malar; and posteriorly, by the palate bone. It leads from the spheno-maxillary fossa, and admits the infra-orbitar nerve and artery, which pass through the floor of the orbit, and infra-orbitar foramen, to the face. The malar foramen also sometimes opens into the orbit. Practical Remarks. Exostoses sometimes grow from the orbitar processes of the bones forming the orbits, and destroy vision by pressure on tlie eye-ball. This disease may be mistaken for some malignant affection of the eye itself; but the diagnosis may be formed by close examination, before the