110 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM, whilst the coracoulal notch is that extreme point of the fossa subscapularis, placed between the base of the coracoid pro- cess and edge of the glenoid cavity. The semilunar, or proper notch of the scapula, is situated between the superior costa and root of the coracoid process; the notch being formed in the recent subject into a foramen, by a ligament. The superior dorsal artery of the scapula passes above this ligament, whilst its corresponding nerve passes beneath it and through the foramen. The anterior costa is surmounted by an articulatory surface, which is termed the glenoid cavity. It is of an oval form, su- perficial, and larger below than above. Its great diameter is vertical, and it is slightly inchned outwards. The glenoid ca- vity is surrounded by a fibro-cartilaginous structure in the recent subject, which renders it deeper ; and the upper part gives attachment to the long head of the biceps. This cavity is connected with the body of the scapula by a contracted portion of the bone, which is termed the neck. It is to be remembered that the true neck is only that portion of bone between the glenoid cavity and base of the coracoid pro- cess ; it is the portion which is roughened for the attachment of the capsular ligament, and not, as is sometimes described, the part posterior to the coracoid process, including the pro- per or posterior notch. The scapula is connected with the sternum and os hemeri. The use of the scapula is, with the assistance of the clavicle, to serve as a fulcrum for the upper extremity ; and, from its extent of motion, to present under every directiou of the arm, a convenient socket for the head of the os humeri to move in. The scapula also defends the poste- rior part of the thorax and its contents from external injury. Muscles attached to the scapula are seventeen in number; and it may assist the memory to state, that seventeen distinct parts of the bone have already been described. Of the seventeen muscles six are inserted into the scapula, whilst eleven arise from it. Those inserted into it are m. levator scapulifi, into the superior angle; rhomboideus major, mi- nor, and serratus anticus, into the whole length of its base or posterior costa : pectoralis minor into the caracoid process; and, lastly, the tra-