DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 11-1 Use.—11 cooperates with the infraspinatus in drawing the humerus downwards and backwards, and rotating tlie head of the bone outwards. The m. subscapularis—arises from the whole of the fossa subscapularis and the costse of the scapula; its fibres, . separated into strong’ fasciculi by intermuscular tendons, form a triang’ular fleshy belly, converg-ing’ towards the cora- coid notch, through which it passes. It is inserted by a strong tendon intimately connected with the capsular liga- ment, passing through it to be inserted within the capsular ligament into the lesser tubercle of the os humeri. The anterior surface of this muscle is covered by the serratus raagnus 5 posteriorly, it is in contact with the whole of the interior surface or venter of the scapula; below, it is in contact with the origin of the teres major; its outer edge forms the upper and posterior boundary of the axilla^ and is crossed by the axillary artery, and plexus of nerves ; it is covered in front of its insertion by the coraco brachialis, deltoid and short head of the biceps muscles. Use.—The subscapularis adducts the humerus, draws it downwards, and rotates the head of the bone inwards; and, with the three last- described muscles, strengthens the capsular ligament. The m. teres major—arises from a triangular rough surface, situated upon the posterior face of the inferior angle of the scapula, and that portion of the bone left uncovered by the infra spinatus and teres minor; the muscle assumes a round lengthened form: its fibres ascend upwards and inwards, towards the arm, to be inserted, by a broad thin tendon, united with that of the latissimus dorsi, into the inner and posterior edge of the bicipital groove of the os humeri. The origin of this muscle is below but slightly connected with the infra spinatus; it is covered by the latissimus dorsi, where that muscle crosses the inferior angle of the scapula ; ’above its origin is situated the teres minor; the belly of the muscle is placed in front of the long head of the triceps, separated by it from the teres minor, which is