DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF ARTICULATIONS, 209 quite essential to every medical practitioner, in order that he may be enabled to point out the best mode of reduction, by relaxing- those muscles which are put upon the stretch. Nor are frequent opportuni- ties of observing these accidents necessary for the acquisition of such knowledge, because accurate observation of the ordinary functions of the muscles will enable the practitioner to perceive their unnatural state under dislocation. In proceeding to reduction it should be borne in mind, that the action of muscles will present the only obstacle in a case of recent displacement. Thus, in reducing the dislocation of the jaw, the object is by force to depress the condyloid process below the zygoma, and by pressing it backwards, cause the posterior fibres of the masseter and temporal muscles to draw it into the glenoid cavity. In the subsequent treatment of this case, where we have reason to suspect the laceration of muscular fibre, the jaw should be kept closed as much as possible, to afford the best chance for their perfect reunion. Displacement of the lower jaw, as has been already observed, some- times happens only on one side; but the mode of reduction, and the ulterior treatment, do not differ from the plan laid down in cases where both sides are dislocated. The difference between the two accidents is so strikingly obvious to the most cursory observer, as to render it quite unnecessary for me to make any remarks on the diagnostic symptoms. Articulations of the Vertebral Column. From the number of bones which enter into the formation of the spine, its lig-aments must necessarily be numerous and complicated. They may, however, to facilitate their descrip- tion, be divided into two distinct sets: those which are com- mon to all the vertebrae, and those which only appertain to particular bones of the column, I shall first describe the ligaments common to the articulations of the spine. Articulations common to the Vertehree. All the vertebrae are connected by ligaments at their bodies, at their articular, transverse, spinous processes, and also at their bony arches. The articulation of the bodies of the i>