275 ARTICULATIONS OF THK LOWER EXTREMITIES. extensor muscles, from whence we began the description. There is also a portion of the synovial membrane which passes from the tibia, like a chord, to the femur, between its con- dyles, and which is called the mucous ligament; it is com- posed of a number of little fimbriated processes, which receive the ramifications of the articular arteries. Motions of the Knee-Joint. The articulation of the femur with the tibia forms a com- plete hinge-joint, which is anteriorly protected by the patella. With respect to the motions of this joint, it is capable of flexion, extension, and some slight degree of lateral motion, during the flexed position of the leg. When the limb is flexed, the leg is capable of being carried very far back, so as to form an acute angle with the thigh; during which mo- tion, the semilunar cartilages are drawn backwards by the action of the semimembranosus muscle; and the patella, as the femur and the tibia recede from each other, remains sta- tionaiy, so as to protect the knee-joint, which would other- wise have been much exposed in this action. This extensive motion of flexion is allowed, in consequence of the larger articular surfaces of the condyles of the femur, upon which the tibia moves, being placed posteriorly. In extension, the leg cannot be carried further forwards than to the straight line, during which action no lateral motion can take place in the knee-joint; and from the condyles of the femur being pressed against the origin of the gastrocnemii, greater sta- bility is given to the limb. The motions of the limb during the extension of the knee, are effected by the hip-joint; but in flexion, the tibia and femur move upon each other. During slig-ht flexion, such as takes place in progression, we arc capable, from the degree of lateral motion which under these circumstances the joint enjoys, to direct our steps, by a rotatory motion of the tibia on the femur, in a lateral di- rection ; but this can take place to a much further extent