84 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM, articulating' surface, for the perfect attachment of the carti- lag'es of the first rib, and for half of the second. The inferior edge is roug-h, for its connexion with the second piece. An- teriorly this portion of the sternum is flattened: posteriorly it is concave, to enlarg-e the upper part of the chest, for the passage of the oesophagus and trachea. The middle piece is nearly of the same thickness and breadth throughout its whole length: it forms by far the most considerable portion of the sternum. Its superior edge is attached to the upper piece. Inferiorly it is connected with the lower portion ; and laterally it offers, on each side, a half articulatory surface for the second rib; a whole one for the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ; and half a one for the seventh. The inferior piece is usually found cartilaginous at its extremity, which is termed the ensiform cartilage. It is smaller than either of the others, and presents but half an articulating surface on each side, for the attachment of part of the cartilage of the seventh rib. The use of the sternum is to assist in forming the thorax, and to defend the heart and lungs. It forms a medium of attachment for the ribs, acts as a fulcrum for the clavicles to roll on, and gives attachment to several muscles. Attachment of Muscles to the sternum are the m. pectorales majores, steino-mastoidei, sterno-hyoidei, sterno-thyroidei, suhclavius sterno- costalis, diaphragma, the recti abdominis, and intercostales interni. Practical Remarks. The degree of motion which the sternum enjoys, from the elasticity of the cartilages of the ribs to which it is connected, secures it from the frequent occurrence of fracture. Nevertheless, this accident does some- times occur, from the application of a concentrated force; and an effusion of blood into the surrounding parts is the consequence. But little displacement of the fractured portions of the bone occurs, in con- sequence of the elasticity of the cartilages of the ribs. If the bone be comminuted, and driven inwards, it may interfere with respiration, and render it necessary to remove the fractured portion with a trephine. (Fide Plate II., Fig. 2.) Suppuration subsequent to this accident might