136 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES, rJie m. adductor pollicis—arises by a broad origin from a slight concavity on the anterior part of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger, between two of the interossei muscles ; from these orig’ins it passes transversely outwards, anterior to the metacarpal bone of the fore finger, its fibres converging as it proceeds is inserted tendinous into the inner side of the root of the second phalanx and inner sesamoid bone. This muscle is concealed by the flexor profundus and lumbricales ; posteriorly it is bounded by the two first inter- ossei, abductor indicis, and skin; its outer edge runs along the inner edge of the flexor secundi internodii, or brevis pollicis. Use.—To draw the thumb towards the fingers. Of the two muscles proper to the index finger the ex- tensor has been already described, as arising from the fore arm ; but the origin and insertion of the one situated within the palm of the hand, has yet to be given. The m. abductor indicis—arises tendinous and fleshy from the os trapezium, from the inner side of the lower half of the first phalanx of the thumb, and from the metacarpal bone of the fore finger; its fibres extend obliquely down- wards and inwards, and terminate in a thin tendon which passes over the metacarpo phalangeal articulation, to be inserted into the outer side of the root of the first phalanx of the fore finger. This muscle is superficially situated posteriorly; anteriorly it is covered by the adductor pollicis: these two muscles being separated from each other by the radial artery. Use.—To abduct the fore finger, or to assist in adducting the thumb; it maybe considered as a posterior interosseous muscle to the fore finger. The three muscles proper to the little finger are placed within the palm of the hand, and are therefore now to be described. The m. abductor minimi digiti—arises principally ten- dinous from the os pisiforme, and fleshy from the llgamentum carpi annulare; the belly of this muscle is large and flat-