89 BONES OF THE TRUNK. pass from their spinal articulations. Their cartilages, on the contrary, converge as they pas.s forwards and upwards, being brought almost in contact with each other, where they reach the sides of the sternum. Thus if we draw three lines from the top to the bottom of the thoracic cavity, one through the bony extremities of the ribs, another through their heads, and a third through the sternal extremities of their cartilages: the first line will be found the longest, the second shorter than the first, and the last shortest of all. This circumstance refers more particularly to the seven true ribs. The peculiar motion of the ribs during respiration, and the manner in which this motion tends to increase and diminish alternately the capacity of the thorax, will be fully described in taking a review of the skeleton in general. The mvfcles attached to the ribs are the ni. levatores costarum, inter- costales externi et interni, sterno-costalis, diaphragma, quadrati lum- borum, scaleni antici, niedii et postici, sterno-thyroidei, sterno-hyoidei, subclavii, pectorales niajores et minores, latissimi dorsi, serrati majores antici, serrati postici, superiores et inferiores, sacro-lumbales, accessorii ad sacro-lumbales, longissimi dorsi, cervicales descendentes, obliqui ex- terni, interni, transversales, and the recti abdominis. Practical Remarks, The oblique position of the ribs, and their cartilaginous attachment to the sternum, defend them a good deal from fracture: but some of them are more liable to such an accident than others, particularly the middle ribs, which are neither so much protected by the upper ex- tremity as those situated above, nor so flexible as those below. The ribs are generally fractured near their centre; and the accident may occur either from a blow applied immediately upon the fractured spot, or from the body being forcibly pressed against some unyielding surface, as the ground or a wall. The position of the fractured portions will depend upon the mode in which the force may be applied : if produced by a concentrated force, as by a blow from a hammer, the rib has a tendency to become straightened; the fracture commences internally, and we have formed a salient angle inwards, or towards the lungs. (Vide Plate III.) If, on the contrary, the sternum is forcibly driven inwards, we have the curvature of the ribs increased to such an extent, that the exterior surface of one or more of them gives way, and the salient angle is produced outwards. (Vide Plate IV.) The