THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. (5 Depressions of Bone. Bones have likewise depressions or cavities, which arc disting-uished into articular and non-articular: the latter arc found to be either confined to the external surface of the bone only, or to extend deeply into its substance. In the former instance the bone is particularly adapted for the at- tachment of muscle, as by such depressions it presents a larger surface; whilst in the latter case, they serve for the formation of cavities. Of the non-articular depressions it is now my purpose to treat, leaving the articular depressions, with their corresponding eminences, to be described when speaking of articulations. The non-articular depressions are divided into those on the exterior, and those within the bones. Those external to bone, are divided into three kinds:—First, those of insertion ; secondly, of reception; and thirdly, of facilitating motion. Those of the first kind give attachment either to the aponeu- rotic insertion or origin of muscles; and, from the concavity, offer the advantage of enlarging the surface of the bone, and thereby of multiplying the points of attachment of the mus- cle without increasing the bone itself. The pterygoid and digastric fossae are examples of this class. Secondly, the cavities of reception, are those which serve to receive an organ, to lodge and protect it; and these are principally found upon the flat bones, as on the bones of the skull and pelvis. These cavities sometimes form the whole of one surface of the bone, and at others are insulated de- pressions. The venter of the ilium is an example of the first, while the depression on the outer side of the orbit, for the lacrymal gland, illustrates the latter variety. Thirdly, the cavities for facilitatmg motion, are generally found at the extremities of the long- bones: tliey are fissures, more or less deep, in which the tendons glide to pass to their insertions. They are lined with cartilage, and formed into complete foramina by ligaments which tie down the tendons in their passage through the grooves.