THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 4 Form of the Bones. Witli rcg'ard to the geometrical figure of bones, they are divided into three classes, 'Y\\q long bones are those in which the dimensions of length considerably exceed those of breadth and thickness: others, in which the length and breadth are nearly in equal proportions, are termed the flat or broad bones: whilst those whose length, breadth and thickness are nearly equal, are distinguished as the short bones. There is, however, a fourth class, in wliich no one of these dimensions sufficiently prevails to entitle them to any class in the above arrangement. These are termed the mixed bones. Bones of the first class are situated in parts of the body where extensive motion is required—the limbs are composed of such bones. The second class, or the flat bones, have nearly all of them concave and convex surfaces, destined to protect important organs, for which their curved form admi- rably adapts them, by giving them a power to resist external violence. The third class is found in parts of the body where rapidity of motion is required, combined w-ith great strength: such bones, therefore, are found composing the carpus, tar- sus and spine. The single bones of the skeleton are symmetrical in their form, and have their sides uniform ; while those bones that exist in pairs are invariably alike. The short bones have not any great uniformity in their external configuration, as they are modified according to the general purpose of that assem- blage of bones, of which they individually form a part: thus we find the different uses of the carpus, metacarpus, and spine, determine also the variety in the external form of the small bones that compose them. All the bones present on their external surface irregulari- ties, which may be termed eminences, and these again are denominated either epiphyses or apophyses: the former are bony parts of a secondary formation, and will therefore be more particularly described when speaking of the dcvelope- ment of bones: while the latter, or apophyses, are processes