THE COMPOSITION OF JOINTS. 179 sary to the formation of a new joint, excepting- articular cartilage ; for, although cartilage may be formed during this process of reparation, it is only of the temporary class, which is yet destined to be converted into bone. When the articular cartilage of a joint is destroyed, anchylosis usually follows. The permanent cartilages of the first class are more shighly organized, and are not unfrequently found converted into bone which we have frequent opportunities of seeing in the cartilages of the larynx and trachaea ; and under these circumstances they become liable to the diseases of bone, as necrosis and exfoliation. We should, how- ever, observe, that the permanent cartilage of the nose, eye and ear, are not liable to this ossific change; but they ought to be considered as belonging to fibro-cartilaginous tissue, of which I shall hereafter speak. Accidental formation of cartilage sometimes occurs in different structures of the body, and these have always a tendency to become ossified. Synovial Membrane. This structure enters into the composition of all moveable joints, and is for the puipose of secreting- a fluid to lubricate their surfaces ; but as its use is to obviate the effects of fric- tion, it is also found where tendon or muscle are passing- over bones. These membranes form closed cavities without any external opening-, accurately adapting- themselves, by the attachment of their outer surface, to the parts which they are destined to lubricate ; while its internal secreting- surface forms the interior of the joint, and hmits its extent; for of those which belong- to muscles and tendons, I shall not speak, until describing- those structures. The structures of these membranes seems to be a modification of the common cel- lular tissue, rendered dense, transparent, and extensible. It is very vascular, and although neither nerves or absorbents have been traced to it, their existence cannot be doubted. In many of the joints it has a tendency to form folds, projecting- into the general cavity, and containing small globules of fat between its layers, which, being of a reddish colour, have by some been Incorrectly considered of a glandular structure : they seem, however, to be nothing more than formations of fat, for the purpose of adapting more perfectly to each other the parts which constitute the joint.