descriptive anatomy of articulations. 207 upon the root of the zygomatic arch, the angles of the jaw are thrown backwards, and the coronoid processes arc thus depressed. 'I'he interarticular cartilage, in consequence of the limited size of the inferior synovial cavity, is always in contact with the condyloid process of the lower jaw. The lii>aments also undergo an alteration, with respect to the states of relaxation and extension. The external ligament is rendered tense in proportion to the depression of the jaw ; and the upper synovial cavity is drawn forwards, which move- ment its laxity allows; but the membrane between the inferior surface of the cartilage and the lower jaw, remains stationary, as the cartilage and condyloid process move together, in con- sequence of the firm attachment of the lower part of the ligament. The stylo-maxillary ligament is relaxed. The internal lateral ligament is but very slightly affected - by the depression of the jaw. When the jaw is elevated, the condyloid process recedes into the glenoid cavity; and having arrived there, the superior surface turns upon its own axis until the teeth are brought into apposition, when the motion is completed. The position of the ligaments is changed precisely to the reverse of their state in the former motion: viz., the external lateral ligament is relaxed, the stylo-maxillary is extended, the internal lateral does not change its position, and the superior synovial mem- brane becomes again relaxed. When the jaw is drawn forwards there is no motion of the hinge, but the whole jaw moves horizontally in advance, so that the condyle and the angle pass simultaneously forwards. In this motion all the ligaments are put upon the stretch, excepting the inferior part of the synovial membrane, which is kept in its relative position, with respect to the interarticular cartilage and condyloid process, by the attachment of the external pterygoid muscle, which is inserted into them both, and keep them in situ. The motion of the jaw backwards seems to be nothing more than replacing it after it has been drawn forwards by