102 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. Parts formed by the Union of the Bones of the Pelvis, First:—The acetabula, or cotyloid fossce. The propor- tions in which the bones forming* the ossa innominata consti- tute these cavities, as well as their relative position, have already been detailed; but it still remains for me to g*ive some account of their g*eneral conformation. Each aceta- bulum is of considerable depth, to receive the head of the femur: its interior is covered with cartilag-e, excepting* at its inner and lower part, where the ligamentum teres is implanted into the bone itself. The acetabulum has a direction for- wards, downwards, and outwards, and its circumference is roughened for the attachment of the capsular ligament: its lip in the recent subject is rendered more prominent, and con- sequently the cavity itself deeper, by a fibro-cartilaginous tis- sue, termed the cotyloid ligament, which passes round the cup, and at the interior and under part, where it stretches from the body of the ischium to the pubes, converts the notch formed by these two bones into a foramen. This foramen allows of the transmission of blood-vessels into the interior of the joint, whilst a slight groove leads from this notch to the obturator foramen, shewing the direction of the vessel. The foramina obturatoria are produced by the junction of two of the bones of the pelvis—the ischium and pubes. They are large oval foramina, bounded above, by the horizontal plate of the pubes; below, by the ischium; before, by the rami of the pubes and ischium; and, posteriorly, by tire ace- tabulum. They are filled up by ligament and muscles, leav- ing only a small opening for the passage of the obturator ves- sels and nerves. The Ischiatic notches are two large irregular apertures, leading from the interior of the pelvis, and are directed back- wards and outwards. They are bounded by the ilium above and before; by the ischium in front and below; and posteri- orly above, by the lower portion of the sacrum ; and beneath, by the os coccygis. In the skeleton, the inferior boundary is