descriptive anatomy op articulations. 217 The g-eneral motions of the vertebral column are those of Jlexion, extension, lateral inclination, circumduction, and rotation. The most extensive motion of which the spine is capable, is jlexion; for although the degree of motion be- tween any two vertebrae is extremely limited, still, as that motion is multiphed by the number of vertebree, the flexibility of the whole column becomes very considerable. The lower extremities being- fixed, the abdominal muscles draw the ribs forwards and downw^ards, and the whole trunk is bent, so as to form a parabofic curve. In this action the common an- terior ligament is relaxed, the fore part of the intervertebral substances is compressed, w'hile their posterior edges are stretched ; and the common posterior ligament of the verte- brae, together with the interspinous ligaments, are in a state of extension. In extension, the figaments are placed precisely in the re- verse state to that which they assumed in flexion; those which were extended being in their turn relaxed, while the common anterior vertebral is now put upon the stretch: this motion is more confined than that of flexion, in consequence of the spinous processes of the dorsal vertebrae being soon brought into apposition, in which state no farther extension is possible. In the lateral inclination, the intervertebral substances are pompressed on that side to which the body is bent; the other ligaments are scarcely altered from their natural state; as the motion, being restricted by the resistance which is offered by the ribs, and the transverse processes of the ver- tebrae, is too inconsiderable to affect them. Circumduction is produced by the succession of the other motions, so that the ligaments undergo the changes peculiar to each motion, as rapidly as it occurs. Tlie rotatory motion of the spine is very limited in all the vertebrae, but more particularly in the dorsal, in conse- quence of their attachment to the ribs. In this motion the intervertebral substance is contorted, as are likewise all the ligaments.