52 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. is termed the inferior orbitar process; by this union forming the anterior boundary of the spheno-maxillary fissure. The concave line, running from the one cornu to the otlier, forms the external brim to the orbit; from which passes backward a triangular concave process of bone, forming a part of the orbit, and denominated the internal orbitar process: this is connected above with the orbitar process of the frontal bone, and below with the sphenoid. The external or facial surface of the bone is convex and smooth, forming an anterior right angle, and a posterior acute one. The anterior angle is rough, for its connexion with the malar process of the superior maxillary bone; while the posterior one forms the zygomatic process, and connects it with the temporal bone: completing, by their junction, the zygomatic arch. The inferior edge of the facial surface is straight and slightly rough, for the attachment of the mas- seter muscle. The posterior or temporal surface is concave, and smooth above, for the passage of the temporal muscle; and somewhat rough below, for the origin of the masseter. There is only one complete foramen in this bone, called the malar: it passes from the orbital through to the facial surface, and transmits a branch of the second division of the fifth pair of nerves, together with a branch of the internal maxillary artery. This bone likewise forms the anterior extremity of the spheno-maxillary fissure. Connexion.—The malar bone is connected, by its superior orbitar process, to the frontal bone, forming a part of the transverse suture; by its internal orbitar process, to the sphenoid bone; by its inferior orbitar process, and anterior angle, to the superior maxillary bone; and by its posterior acute angle, to the temporal bone. The Attachment of Muscles io tbe malar bones are the zygoinatici and masseter: the orbicularis palpebrarum in front, and the temporal mus- cle behind, cover portions of these hones without being connected to them.