140 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. It is covered posteriorly by the tendon of the extensor communis digitorum. Use.—To extend and draw the middle finger towards the ring finger. The m, posterior annularis—arises from the bases of the metacarpal bones of the ring" and little fingers, and is inserted into the ulnar side of the ring finger. It is covered posteriorly by the common extensor tendons, and anteriorly lies upon the interosseous muscle of the little finger. Use.—To draw the ring finger towards the little finger. The origins of most of these muscles are traversed by branches of arteries from the deep palmar arch. Having given the origin and insertion of each muscle of the upper extremity, individually, it is important to consider the combined actions of the muscles of each joint, producing the extensive and various motions of the limb. It may be well to recall to the recollection of the reader, that the upper extremity is principally connected to the body through the medium of those muscles which arise from the trunk, and are inserted into the clavicle and scapula; and that these muscles have the further office of fixing those bones before the arm can perform any powerful motion, while a point d'appui is always maintained by the attachment of the clavicles between the scapula and sternum. The shoulder is fixed by the equal action of seven muscles ; two of which have already been described as serving to raise the scapula, three to carry it backwards, and two forwards. By the separate action of these sets of muscles the sca- pula is either raised, drawn backwards or forwards, at the same time carrying the whole arm with it, and thereby increasing its field of motion. Independently of these direct movements, various combinations arise between the different sets of muscles, according to the varying points of direction in the movements of the scapula forwards, upwards, back- wards and downwards: for instance, in reaching a book from a shelf above the head and in front of you, the