DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 164 the motions of the body forwards, backwards, or to either side. When the body is bent forwards, the muscles of the lower extremities first act upon the pelvis, so as to form a fulcrum for the spinal column. The column itself is bent forwards by the rectus capitis anticus major, and minor, the long-us colli, pectorales, serrati magni, abdominal muscles, and the psoae; but it is to be remembered, that all these muscles do - not immediately act upon the spinal column. For instance, the recti muscles of the head will only tend to flex the cervical region of the spine, after they have drawn the head to the full extent of their action forwards ; while the longus colli, being- only connected with the bones of the spine, act directly upon them. Again, the pectorales and serrati do not act upon the spine, until the ribs and upper extremities are first fixed by other muscles; in the same manner the abdominal muscles require the pelvis and ribs to combine in forming a fixed point, before they can act upon the spine; while the psose again act directly upon the column, w'hen the pelvis forms a fixed point. To these muscles might be added several others ; as, for instance, those placed between the sternum and os hyoides: but I shall not enumerate them in the general action of the spine, as their motions are very remote, although not wholly unconnected with it. The spine is drawn backwards principally by the sacro lumbales, longissimi dorsi, spinales dorsi, semi-spinales dorsi, and multifidi spinae ; assisted by the trapezii, rhomboidei, latissimi dorsi, and serrati postici 5 the latter muscles acting through the medium of the upper extremities and ribs. It is essential to remember, that in the motions of the spine either forwards or backwards, the muscles in both regions are in reciprocal action. When the body is bent forwards, the posterior muscles act as antagonists, and modify the extent of action in the flexors ; when the spine is bent back- tVards, then the flexors have a reciprocal action as anta- gonists to the extensors. The extensors of the spine are larger and more numerous than the fle.xors, having* to