DESCRimVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 153 into the transverse processes of the three or four superior cervical vertebra) by distinct tendons. The orig-in of this muscle is covered by the trapezius, rhomboidei, and serratus posticus superior. The occipital insertion of this muscle is covered partly l)y the sterno cleido rnastoideus, partly by the trapezius; the remaining- portion being' seen between them and the cervical insertion. The cervical insertion is covered by the same muscles as its orig-in, and its tendons placed immediately behind the cervicalis ascendens and the levator scapulae. Use This muscle assists in keeping the head and cervical vertebrae erect, and to draw them backwards, either obliquely or directly as one or both muscles act. The splenius should now be carefully removed to expose the muscles of the fifth layer of the bade, which are situated on the upper part of the spine, and consequently covered by this muscle. This layer consists of the cervicalis ascendens, transversalis colli, trachelo rnastoideus, and complexus; and are placed in the above order, beg-inning- from the outer side and proceeding towards the inner or spinous processes. The m. cervioalis ascendens, or more commonly called descendens—seems as if it were a continuation of the sacro lumbalis muscle, being directly continuous with its tendinous insertions, but is described as separately arising by distinct tendons from the upper edge of the four or five superior ribs; it soon forms thin fleshy fasciculi, which ascend, to be inserted by distinct tendons into the transverse processes of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae. The origin of this muscle is placed between the in- sertions of the sacro lumbalis on its outer side, and the longissimus dorsi on the inner, is covered by the rhomboi- deus ; its insertion is placed between the splenius colli and levator scapulae, and is the same, as far as refers to its attachment, as the origin of the scalenus anticus. Use.—To turn the neck obliquely if one acts, or to steady the neck, and consequently the head, if they both act.