DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF ARTICULATIONS, 223 union appears to be produced by anterior and posterior liga- mentous fibres, similar to those which connect the true ribs to the sternum, but they are not so strong. Ligamentum arcuatum arises from the apices of the transverse processes of the two upper lumbar vertebrae, and passes upwards and outwards to be attached to the acute edge of the last rib throughout its whole extent. Articulation of the Bones of the Sternum. Besides the ligaments which have been described as pass- ing from the cartilages of the ribs to the sternum, there are proper ligaments connecting the three bones of the sternum, which principally pass in a longitudinal direction upon its anterior and posterior surfaces, and cover those ligaments which attach the cartilages of the ribs to the sternum. They may be termed the proper, anterior, and posterior ligaments of the sternum. Practical Remarks. From the numerous ligaments which connect the ribs to the vertebrae, and the improbability that sufficient force should ever be applied to one rib to produce dislocation, it is an accident that seldom occurs. Should it happen, however, that the head of a rib were detached from the ver- tebrae by any violence, the same symptoms would present themselves as in cases of fracture, and would require the same mode of treatment. For my own part, I do not believe in the possibility of dislocation of the rib from the vertebrae, unless there has been some prior disease, which has partly destroyed its ligamentous connexions; on the contrary, 1 am disposed to conclude, that a rib sustaining such a degree of vio- lence as might be supposed capable of dislocating it, would he invariably fractured at its neck. Such I find to be the case in experiments upon the dead body; for though the rib be subjected to the application of force, by means of an instrument best calculated to detach its head from the articulation, yet it is always broken. The cartilages are sometimes separated from the bodies of the ribs, and from the sternum ; but this is more frequently the result of distortion of the spine, and consequent gradual displacement, than of any sudden violence.