150 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM, Tlie •posterior face is less twisted than the other two, and is more convex. It is roug-hencd above for the orig’in of the soleus muscle, and below it gives attachment to the flexor longus pollicis. About the middle of the bone on this aspect the foramen is seen for the nutritious artery, which is directed from above to below. The external angle proceeds from the outer side of the head of the fibula, downwards and backwards in a twisted direction, so as to separate the external from the posterior face of the bone, and assist in giving attachment to the muscles on each aspect, viz.—behind, to the soleus and flexor proprius pollicis; and externally, to the peronei muscles. The internal angle, which is most acute in its centre, forms the point of junction between the internal and posterior faces of the bone, and assists in giving attachment to the muscles of each region, and also to the interosseous ligament. The anterior angle, which proceeds downwards from the fore part of the head of the fibula, between the external and internal faces, forms the acutest angle of the three : the outer edge of this angle has the peronei muscles attached to it, and its inner edge the extensor communis digitorum and peroneus tertius. It should, moreover, be observed, that the body of the fibula sometimes presents more angles than have here been described ; but they will be found only as irregularities upon the faces of the bone, depending on the size and strength of the muscles attached to it. The inferior extremity, or malleolus externus of the fibula, is the largest part of the bone, and descends below the internal malleolus of the tibia. It is of an oblong form, flattened, and terminates by a projecting point. Its external surface is convex and rough, lying immediately underneath the skin, forming what is termed the outer ancle : the inner or tibio- tarsal surface presents an articular face, concave from be- hind forwards, which connects it with the astragalus; and immediately above this is seen a rough depression, which . attaches this bone to the tibia ; the anterior edge of the mal- leolus externus is thin and rough, while the posterior forms