DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 169 cavities. It arises from the posterior surface of the ensiform cartilag-e of the sternum, from the cartilag*es of the six or seven inferior ribs, and from the ligamentum arcuatum; from these attachments its fibres converge, and are inserted into a tendinous centre, which is termed the cordiform tendon of the diaphragm. The lesser muscle, or abdominal portion of the diaphragm, arises tendinous on each side of the bodies of the four superior lumbar vertebrie, forming what are termed the crurae of the diaphragm, of which the right is the larger and longer. These crurae are at first separated from each other, leaving- a narrow triangular aperture through which the aorta, vena azygos, and thoracic duct pass. The fibres of the lesser muscle then unite, decussate, again separate, and lastly, converge to be inserted into the cordiform tendon; leaving an elliptical opening between the points of decus- sation and insertion, for the passage of the oesophagus and par vagum. The central, or cordiform tendon, is notched behind towards the vertebral column, and pointed anteriorly, so as more or less to resemble the form of a heart, from which it is has gained its name. Its fibres are of a tendinous lustre, and are more dense and distinct upon the upper than on the lower surface. A little to the right of its centre, and near the vertebral column, is an irregular triangular opening, through which the vena cava inferior passes, accompanied with filaments of the phrenic nerve. The four anterior fifths of the circumference of this tendon gives insertion to the larger muscle of the diaphragm, and the posterior fifth to the smaller muscle. The upper convex surface of the diaphragm is covered by the pleura on each side, and by the pericardium in the centre, to which it is strongly attached ; it also supports the base of the lungs. Its circumference anteriorly, is bounded by the triangularis sterni; laterally, by the internal inter- costal muscles; and posteriorly, by the aorta, psoas, and quadratus lumborum muscles.