THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM, 38 The Practical Points Connected with the temporal bones are numerous, as we should be led to suppose when considering the important organs connected with them; as, for instance, the organ of hearing; rendering these bones therefore subject to the diseases of mucous membranes, and of the arti- culations of the small bones of the ear. In the treatment of these diseases I cannot refrain pointing out, as a caution, the close vicinity of the brain. Fracture of these bones is usually indicated by bleeding from the ear. Their connexion with the lower jaw renders them also liable to the diseases and injuries of their connecting articulation; and when the lower jaw is dislocated, the position of the condyle should be remem- bered under the zygomatic arch, the posterior tubercle of which assists in forming the glenoid cavity. From the proximity of numerous important parts to these bones, as the parotid gland, arteries and nerves, sinuses of the brain and numerous muscles, the physiology and anatomy of the temporal bones should be particularly studied. The covering which these bones receive from the temporal muscles, tends much to protect them from fracture ; hut when this accident does take place, owing to the brittle and compact structure of the squamous portion, the bone is generally so comminuted as to allow of the removal of the broken pieces by the forceps and Key’s saw, thereby rendering the application of the trephine unnecessary. The Os Sphenoides. This bone is excessively irreg’ular in its form, so much so as to render it difficult to describe its figure. It has been thought to resemble, and has therefore been compared to the form of a bat, w^ith its body, wrings, and legs. It has derived its name from the manner in which it is wedged into the base of the skull. It presents an irregular external convex surface, offering numerous eminences and depressions; and an internal con- ceive one, more or less flattened or hollow, to receive the under surface of the middle lobes of the brain. ITie external surface, at first view, offers three principal parts: the middle part, or body, the two extending wings, and