INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. XXVll pearcd to me requisite, for the purpose of showing how the continual waste, or wear and tear of tlie body, is supplied and repaired, by. the assimilation of the various substances collectively termed food. We are now to trace the nutritive part of this aliment from the stomach and intestines, into the vital system, or, as it is commonly called, the circulation. The nutriment having been taken by the laeteals from the intestines, passes through a membrane called the mesent^r'^, and in this state, if examined shortly after an animal has taken food, it is found to consist of a white opaque fluid resembling milk. It passes from the mesentery to a large canal called the thoracic duct, which, originating from the loins, extends along the spinal column, and through the chest, terminating at the junction of the internal jugular, with the subclavian vein. The direction of the fluid in its passage to the thoracic duct is uniform, there being a certain valvular apparatus, which presents an insuperable resistance to any retrograde movement. It is thus conveyed into the blood to be circulated with it, and to contribute to the sup- port, accretion, and reproduction of every part of the body. We find, therefore, that the constituent parts of animal bodies, though so different in many particulars, are all formed from one common element, into which they are capable of being resolved ; nor can this homogeneity excite surprise, when we consider that it is from the blood that ^ery struc- ture in the body, from the firmest to the most limpid, must derive its supplies. The blood itself, however, is composed of several distinct constituents, as may be demonstrated from the separation which takes place in any portion which has been drawn from the living body. To the circulation of the blood, we cannot advert without being reminded of the great and immortal name of Harvey, who, in 1628, first comprehended and demonstrated that important function which had baffled the philosophic inquiries of his predecessors, ancient and modern, constantly stimu- lated as they must have been, by a phenomena so remarkable