THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 44 side, are found the foramina spinosa, which are small, and are named from their situation. They give passage to the middle artery of the dura mater, a branch from the internal maxillary of the external carotid artery. All these foramina pierce the bone, and therefore might be described as well on the external as on the internal surface: but there are two foramina proper to the external surface—the foramina ptery- goidea—commencing before, from the spheno-maxillary fossa, and terminating posteriorly at the foramina lacera basis cranil anteriora. They transmit a branch of the second division of the fifth pair, which divides into two at the posterior opening of these foramina: one branch goes upwards into the skull through the foramina lacera basis cranii anteriora, and the other downwards into the carotid canal: and both of these openings are close to the foramina pterygoidea. I have men- tioned these nerves only for the purpose of pointing out the exact position of the foramina. There are also to be observed openings of the sphenoidal sinuses, anterior to the processus azygos, on the external surface of the body of the sphenoid bone. The foramina common to the sphenoid and other bones are the foramina lacera basis cranii anteriora, formed by the junction of the body of the sphenoid with the extremity of the petrous portions of the temporal bones; through which pass, as before described, a reflected branch of the second division of the fifth pair of nerves, and a small artery to the dura mater. The foramina spheno-palatina are produced by the junction of the roots of the pterygoid processes of the sphenoid w'ith the neck of the nasal plate of the palate bones, immediately below their orbitar processes : they transmit the lateral nasal branch of the second division of the fifth pair of nerves into the nose, leading from the spheno-maxUlary fossa, and also an accompanying branch of the internal maxillary artery. The foramina pterygo-palatina, which run sufficiently far, rather to deserve the name of canals, proceed downwards from the spheno-maxillary fossa. They are formed at first by the two bones from which they have acquired their name, and afterwards by the maxillary and palate bones, and terminate in