220 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. and fleshy from the under surface of the os cuboides, from the tendinous sheath which lines the sulcus, in wliich the tendon of the peroneus longus passes, and from the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe ; from these origins, it forms a fleshy belly, which passes forwards to be inserted by tendinous fibres into the lower and outer edge of the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. The inferior surface rests upon the abductor minimi digiti; its upper surface is covered by the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and the outer plantar interosseous muscle. Use.—To flex the first phalanx of the little toe. These muscles being removed, the muscles of the fourth layer are exposed, consisting of the interossei, and the in- sertion of the tendon of the peroneus longus. The m. interossei pedis—are disposed in a similar man- ner to those of the hand, being extensors to the toes, and are arranged—four upon the dorsum, and three upon the plantar region of the foot; the three latter of which we have now to describe. The m. interossei plantaris.^ or inferiores—are three in number, and are situated in the spaces between the meta- tarsal bones. The first of these, beginning on the inner side, is The m. adductor medii, vel tertii digiti—arises from the inner side of the metatarsal bone of the middle, and from the outer side of the root of the metatarsal bone of the second toe ; it then forms a fleshy belly, which fills up the space between the two bones, and is inserted into the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the third or middle toe. The anterior tibial artery passes through the fibres of this muscle to gain the planter region of the foot. Use,—Td adduct the third or middle toe. The m. adductor quarti digiti—arises from the inner side of the metatarsal bone of the fourth toe, and also from the root of the third, and passes forwards to be inserted, into the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the fourth toe. The use of this muscle is implied by its name.