FIBRO-CARTILAGINOUS TISSUE. 193 separate them; but by maceration the three .structures are rendered perceptible. The fibro-cartilag-inous tissue possesses but little vascu- larity in the healthy state; althoug-h under inflammation, in which it participates in common with contiguous surfaces, we find it injected with red blood. Nerves nor absorbents have not as yet been traced to it. Practical Remarks. This tissue seems to possess but few of the vital properties, and in a healthy state it has neither sensibility or animal contractility: the former, however, developes itself under inflammation. Even those phenomena of life which it docs possess, are remarkable for the slowness of their, developemcnt: the extreme difficulty of reunion after division, and the rareness of idiopathic disease affecting fibro- cartilage, fully proves this position. In thoracic and abdominal aneu- rism, it is not uncommon to find the bodies of the vertebrae partially or wholly destroyed, without a corresponding change of the intervertebral substance. In fact, it maybe said, that there is no structure in the human body so little liable to disease as this tissue. In some situations in the human body, fibro-cartilage has a tendency to become bone at certain periods of life, as may be observed in the stylo and thyro- hyoideal ligaments ; even the sesamoid bones, strictly speaking, are of this nature. This phenomenon has induced some physiologists to di- vide fibro-cartilages into two classes: namely, permanent and temporary. Accidental formations of fibro-cartilage sometimes occur after frac- tures, instead of the production of that temporal cartilage which is necessarily converted into bone ; thus producing a supernumerary am- phiarthrodial articulation. In old age this tissue gradually loses its elasticity, and hardens so as to be rendered less yielding and flexible, and consequently more prone to suffer from external injury. * Ossification never occurs in the fibro-cartilages of the ear, eye-lids, or nose. o