THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 124 fractured part, and most frequently at its lower extremity, in consequence of the bone there being' smaller and less defended by soft parts. By passing the fingers along the internal surface of the bone, an irregularity will be felt at the point of fracture, in consequence of the lower portion of the fractured bone being drawn outwards, towards the radius, by the pronator quadratus muscle. (Fide a. Fig. 2., Plate VIII.) The su- perior portion of the ulna remains fixed. Fractures of the Olecranon.—Occasionally the olecranon is separated from the ulna, and it is said sometimes to occur from the inordinate action of the triceps muscle ; but it must more frequently happen from a fall upon the point of the elbow. When this accident occurs, the olecranon is drawn upwards above the condyles of the humerus, by the action of the triceps muscle, so that a hollow is found at the posterior part of the elbow-joint, instead of the prominence which this process forms when in its natural position. The degree of separation of the fractured olecranon from the ulna, being increased and diminished by flexion and extension of the elbow-joint, is a further diagnostic mark, and renders the nature of the accident sufficiently obvious. However, when the fracture has occurred from any great degree of violence, the contusion and swelling may render the diagnosis more difficult. But these concomitant circumstances should not perplex the surgeon, as the treatment should be immediately directed against the inflammation, as if the fracture did not exist, until it be sufficiently subdued to discover the extent of injury. The treatment to be followed in fracture of the olecranon, (of which I shall now treat, as it differs from that followed in all the other accidents to the bones of the fore-arm), consists in placing the fore-arm in a per- fectly extended position; and by gradually drawing down the triceps muscle, the fractured olecranon may be brought into contact with the upper part of the ulna : it may be retained in this situation by a stellate bandage passing above and below the elbow, and should be continued along the whole length of the humerus, so as to diminish the irritability of the muscles. The anterior hollow of the elbow should be filled with lint, and a long splint should be applied over it, to maintain the extended position of the limb, which is essential to the reparation of the bone. Fracture of both Bones of the Fore-Jirm—When this accident happens, it usually occurs either from a heavy weight passing over the arm, or from a violent blow; and in either case the bones are usually fractured on the same level. A fall can hardly produce fracture of both bones at once, as the radius receives the whole weight of the body. The diagnosis in this accident may be formed from the following in- dications .-—pain, loss of motion, particularly as to pronation and supi- nation of the hand, and by a crepitus being perceptible in producing