GENERAL ANATOMY OF THE SKIN, 28T The appearance of the cuticle on the backs of the fingers, is very different from that above described; the rugae, instead of being disposed in parallel directions, are broken into innumerable small portions, the surfaces of which have a vermicular appearance, variously contorted. On the back of the hand, the arrangement of the rugm is not so distinct, being crossed by innumerable wrinkles adapted to the elasticity. of the skin; which rug®, meeting in various directions, divide the surface into minute angular portions. By a microscopic examination, the same structure, as de- scribed above, appears to appertain to the skin generally, but is rendered less apparent by the cuticle being more loose on those parts which have most motion. It is apparent on the backs of the fingers, and more especially over the joints of the phalanges. The manner in which the papill® are arranged in the diamond-shape on the back of the hand, is represented in the proportion of one inch to one-eighth of an inch in Plate II. Fig. 2 ; but not being sufl&ciently dis- tinct, it is enlarged in Fig. 5. In the formation of new cuticle, we may gain a very fair idea of its structure, and original growth; at the same time proving that it is not, as is described by Leuwenhoeck, formed in scales, A thin transparent layer is first perceived, which becomes thickened by a succeeding layer formed underneath it; these layers continue to be deposited upon the surface of the rete mucosum, until they have acquired a thickness corresponding to the pressure to which each part of the body is subjected. From this structure it results, that the under surface of the cuticle, however thick the cuticle may be, exactly corresponds in structure with the external sur- face, This conformation is evinced by those preparations of thickened cuticle taken from the heel, or any other part of the body exposed to great pressure. In these may be ob- served, on the under surface, furrows or depressions, corres- ponding with the elevated rug® on the upper; and the perspiratory pores may be more distinctly seen from the processes of the cuticle, which pass with them into the cutis.