DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 82 cleido mastoidei, this fascia proceeds downwards upon the chest, and becomes connected with the superficial cervical fascia. The m. sterno cleido mastoideus,—This muscle is exposed by the removal of the deep cervical fascia. It is a thick fleshy muscle, about two inches in breadth, situated in the anterior and lateral parts of the neck, which it divides into an anterior and posterior region. This muscle arises by two dis- tinct portions ; the inner origin is thick and tendinous, arising from the upper and anterior part of the sternum, passes upwards and backwards, and meets the outer origin, which arises aponeurotic from the upper part of the sternal ex- tremity of the clavicle,—a space being left between these two origins of a greater or less extent in different subjects, which is filled up with cellular membrane. The muscle then proceeds upwards and backwards to be inserted superiorly by thick aponeurotic fibres into the mastoid process of the temporal bone, and the external third of the superior trans- verse ridge of the occiput. The sterno cleido mastoideus is covered by the deep cervical fascia and the platysma rnyoides i inferiorly it lies upon the sterno hyoid and thyroid muscles, and the sheath of the carotid artery and internal jugular vein; it crosses over the omo hyoideus, separated by it from the scalenus antieus muscle; and at its insertion it is immediately in contact, posteriorly, with the trachaelo mastoideus, and an- teriorly with the parotid gland. Use.—To rotate the head in co-operation with other muscles; the sterno cleido mastoid of the left side, co-operates with the platisma myoides of the right, in performing the rotatory motion to the right; and vice versa. It also assists in violent inspiration, and is therefore to be considered as an antagonist to those muscles which depress the sternum. Its directions of action are downwards towards the sternum, and inwards towards the mesian line. The muscles which are next to be dissected in the an- terior region of th« neck, are those which fix the os hyoides ; they form a fixed point for the action of the muscles placed