8 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. of the body, only, in containing a portion of earthy matter. But tliis fibrou.s and earthy matter, which are observable in every bone, are not to be considered as constituting two different tissues, but rather as two constituents of one and the same tissue. The density of the osseous system, its great characteristic, is not found to be the same in all bones, nor even in the dif- ferent parts of one and the same bone. It is with regard to the different density of their tissue, that the different parts of bones are distinguished into the compact or cortical, spongy or areolated, and cancellated. These three textures are well exemplified in the long bones, which are compact in their bodies, spongy at their extremities, and cancellated in their interior. In the flat bones the two surfaces consist of the compact substance, whilst these two compact laminae are separated from each other by a middle layer of spongy struc- ture, which is termed the diploe, and is generally in propor- tion to the thickness of the bone. The short bones are found to be of a spongy texture, principally surrounded by a thin lamina of compact bone. The disposition of the fibres differs in different bones: in the long'bones they run in lines parallel to each other, form- ing laminae: in the flat bones they radiate, and in the short or irregular bones they are internately interwoven with each other: all which peculiarities remain more or less apparent through every period of hfe. It may also be observed, that these fibres have a greater tendency to increase in length than in breadth, and more especially at the earlier periods of life. Notwithstanding the hardness and solidity of bones, they nevertheless possess a degree of elasticity, which may be considered as answering an important purpose in the nnimal economy; for tins elasticity tends to prevent fracture, and injurious pressure upon important viscera, from e.xternal injury: and further, enables a bone to resume its natural situation when displaced by the pressure of a tumour, as is seen in cases of polypus nasi.