PARTS ESSENTIAL TO THE SKELETON. 232 mluction is completed, in keeping the bone in its situation; tlierefore, particular attention should be paid to the application of the bandages; for should the bone remain unreduced, the motions of the whole extremity are impeded, and the patient remains for life more or less disabled. Articulation of the Humerus with the Scapula. Class Diarthrosis.—Subdivision Enarthrodia. The bones which enter into the composition of the shoulder- joint are the scapula and the humerus ; the head of the latter being- received into the g-lenoid cavity of the former, and there retained in its situation by ligaments. This articulation is usually classed as arthrodial; but the depth of the glenoid cavity when furnished with its ligament, the form of the head of the humerus, and the arrangement of all its ligaments, render the joint more similar to a ball and socket than a plani- form articulation. On examining the glenoid cavity of the scapula in the recent state, we find it rendered deeper by a fibro-cartilaginous substance, which surrounds its edge, and is attached to the tendon of the long head of the biceps mus- cle ; this is called the glenoid ligament; it assists in retaining the head of the humerus in its situation, and also gives extent of surface for the attachment of the synovial membrane. Before I enter upon a description of the ligaments, I would direct the attention of the student to the peculiar con- struction of this joint, which excels all others of the body by its extent and variety of motion. This superiority arises in a considerable degree from the action of the numerous muscles inserted into the scapula, which is thus endow'ed with a mo- bility peculiar to itself. It is also owing- to the form of the articulatory surfaces of that bone and the os humeri, which are most effectually adapted to the above purposes; the ligaments also are suflSciently loose to allow full play to the bones while under the influence of the muscles; which com- bined circumstances render this joint so particularly liable to dislocation. Thus we find that anatomy, physiology, and