28 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM, ridge, called the occipital spine. This spine bisects the in- ferior arched ridge at right angles, and is most prominent at the lower part. On either side of the tubercle, and between the arches, the bone is rough for the attachment of muscles, which are connected in the following order:—To the upper transverse ridge are attached the m. occipito-frontalis, the m. trapezii, and part of the m. sterno-cleido-mastoidei. The space between tbe arches is occupied by the m. splenii and m. complexi; while into the inferior are inserted the m. recti capitis postici majores, and m. obliqui capitis superiores. Im- mediately above the foramen magnum, and on either side of the spine, are two slight pits, which receive the insertions of the m. recti capitis postici minores. The internal surface of this upper portion of the occipital bone presents a concavity, divided, into four compartments by a perpendicular and an horizontal groove, which bisect each other at right angles. At the point where they cross is situated an internal occipital tubercle, below which the ver- tical groove generally forms only a spine, continued down to the foramen magnum, which is termed the internal occipital spine; it gives attachment to the falx minor. To the groove above the tubercle is attached the falx major, and within it is lodged the superior longitudinal sinus ; while the lateral grooves give connection to the tentorium, and receive the lateral sinuses in their cavities. Above the tentorium, and consequently above the lateral grooves, the posterior lobes of the cerebrum are situated; and, in the concave compart- ments below, the cerebellum is lodged. The whole circum- ference of this portion of the bone is serrated to form the lambdoidal suture, frequently presenting irregularities from the presence of ossa triquetra. The lateral parts or condyloid portions of the occipital bone, are, externally, irregularly convex; internally, irregu- larly concave. On their convex surface are seen the projecting processes called condyles, which articulate with the atlas. They have their long axis, from before to behind ; converge anteriorly; and have their inner edges deeper than their outer,