LECTURES ON ANATOMY. XXX valves, during the action of the ventricle, to be prevented from acting upon the auricle during- their contractions. Hence it is clear, tliat the two auricles and the two ventricles must operate in unison,—their action must be synchronous. By the propulsive force of the ventricles, such an impetus is given to the blood as to produce distension and momentary vilera- tion in the arteries—a phenomenon which is commonly and aptly termed pulsation ; but in the veins the blood flows in an even and equable current—the momentum originating in the heart being expended ere it can reach them. Thus the circulation may be regarded as including two consentaneous and co-operative systems—the venous and the arterial; the one serving to build and repair the body, w^hile the other supplies the materials. It may be proper to inquire into the means by which the various and very different parts which constitute the human frame, are all produced from one homogeneous fluid. This wonderful result will be traced to the extremities of the arteries, where it is effected by what are called the functions of exhalation and secretion. The fluids are produced by exhalation, where arteries terminate upon any surface by open mouths, under an arrang-ement so peculiar, as to allow the separation of certain of the constituent parts, without the intervention of any organ, the separation taking place from the vessels themselves. On the other hand, the secreted fluids are produced by a mechanism much more complicated, w'hich effects in them an infinitely greater difference from the blood itself. For instance, if we examine the bile or the saliva, we discover in either of those fluids very different properties from those possessed by the blood; while the fluids produced by exhalation bear a strong resemblance to that which blood would become, if deprived of its red par- ticles. To elaborate the change in one case, a substance called a gland is provided, into which arteries ramify, and in which, originate a new set of vessels, termed excretory ducts, for the conveyance of the fluid to some organ in subservience to a peculiar function ; in the other case, the exhaled fluid is usually returned into the circulation by the process of absorp-