16 GENEKAf. ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. consider the various muscles employed in running, speaking, &c. The power exercised by the muscles when in action is enormous, so great as sometimes to break the bones to which they are attached: the force is necessarily always in proportion to the number of fibres in action. The extent of muscular contraction is generally in proportion to the length of the muscular fibres, and is increased when nothing is opposed to it, as becomes evident in cases of fractures. The extent to which muscles are said to have the power of con- tracting themselves, is computed by physiologists to be to a fourth of their length of those which serve for the animal functions ; while the involuntary, or those of the vegetative life, contract to one third: but it is doubtful if much reli- ance can be placed upon this observation. The chief and prime cause of muscular contraction, is a vital principle, which gives to the muscle that peculiar power, by which its whole economy is regulated. There is, however, a necessary condition for the muscular system to render it susceptible to the stimuli which produces its contraction ; it must, in fact, be participating in the general circulation of the blood, and be connected with the centres of the nervous system; and if there be any circumstance which removes it from these influences, or in any way produces an interruption to these communications, there is always, sooner or later, a cessation of its action. Bruises, or injury to the surrounding cellular tissue of muscles, w'ill also diminish, and sometimes deprive them of their con- tractile power. Muscle in a state of relaxation is placed under pre- cisely the reverse circumstances to those attending its state of contraction; the belly becomes soft, the bowed direction of its fibres is lost, its transverse wrinkles disap- pear, its extremities no longer tend to approximate, and the whole muscle is quiescent. With respect to this state of relaxation, a question arises, whether it be merely a cessation of action, or, that there is an active power ne- cessary to restore them to their natural passive situation;