DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF ARTICULATIONS. 231 felt and seen in its new situation; the shoulder seems to fall upon the chest, and the patient loses the power of raising his arm, from the loss of its fulcrum. When the dislocation occurs backimrds, it is produced by the scapula being thrust violently forwards, by which force the sternal extremity of tlie clavicle is thrown behind the upper part of the sternum. This accident is of a much more serious nature than the last described, as all the sterno-elavicular ligaments, and even the costo-clavicular, must he torn through to admit of this displacement; it is therefore, as may be supposed, of but rare occurrence. This accident may produce most serious symptoms, from the bone pressing upon the trachea, oeso- phagus, and vessels of the neck, as has been described by Petit and Sir Astley Cooper, rendering it necessary, in some cases, to saw off the extremity of the bone,—an operation which has been performed by Air. Davy, a surgeon in Suffolk. The dislocation upwards is effected by a sudden and violent depression of the shoulder, which allows the extremity of the clavicle to pass above the upper bone of the sternum, and to approach the clavicle of the op- posite side, necessarily diminishing the space between them, and relaxing the interclavicular ligament. The diagnostic marks of these displace- ments are sufficiently conspicuous, from the circumstances alluded to in the dislocation forwards. The mode of reduction of a dislocated clavicle is similar to the means used in fracture of that bone : by placing a pad in the axilla, and by making a lever of the humerus, the shoulder is carried outwards ; and the scapula should be fixed with a direction either backwards, forwards, or upwards, depending on the position of the dislocated clavicle. Dislocation of the scapular extremity of the clavicle is less frequent than that of the sternal extremity, but it does occur in two directions, so that the clavicle may either be thrown above or below the acromion process of the scapula. The displacement upwards is the most frequent, in consequence probably of the form of the articulatory surfaces ; it is produced by a fall on the point of the shoulder, which is driven down- wards, so that the clavicle, losing its attachment to it, slides on the upper surface of the acromion. In this dislocation the superior and inferior acromio clavicular, as well as the coraco clavicular ligaments, are torn through. The nature of the accident is easily understood, not only from the superficial situation of the parts, but also from the loss of motion of the extremity; for the patient has great intolerance to any mo- tion of the arm, as it calls into action the deltoid and trapezius muscles, which move the dislocated bones, and consequently produce great pain. This dislocation is reduced in the same manner as described in luxations of the sternal extremity, but there is more difficulty after the