TOE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 12 of bones:—llie periosteum, medullary membrane, blood- vessels, nerves, and absorbents. The membranous covering' which is common to the whole osseous system, is g'enerally, but not in all situations, termed periosteum,—for on the bones of the skull it receives the name of pericranium. The natural colour of this membrane, whether under the name of periosteum or pericranium, is white; and the numerous small vessels which ramify upon it, are afterwards distributed to the bone itself. Nerves, as well as absorbents, may also be traced upon the periosteum: although in a healthy state it appears to be insensible. The habitual production of os- seous matter, after the bones have attained their perfect gTOwth, takes place by laminae, in the same manner as in their orig'inal formation, by a deposition from the periosteum. This mode of formation of bone from the periosteum may be very satisfactorily shewn, by feeding' an animal with food mixed with madder. After a certain time, the bones are so impregnated with the madder as to be coloured by it. On leaving off the madder, the bone is observed to resume its natural appearance from without to within, which arises from a fresh deposition of bone from the periosteum. The colour- ing of the bone, according' to Mr. Rutherford, is the result of a chemical affinity existing between the colouring matter of the vegetable and the earthy particles of the bone. It has also been shewn, by an experiment made by Mr. Hunter, who, on surrounding a bone with a ring, found that it gradually made its way towards the medullary canal of the bone: fresh depositions having taken place without, wliilst absorption was going on in the interior. The medullary membrane, wliich is highly vascular, con- tains the marrow, and serves as an internal periosteum to the bone it lines. The blood-vessels of the bones are very numerous, and are sufficiently large to admit injection, so as not only to prove their existence, but even to indicate their minute course. They differ much in size, and are distinguished into those which first ramify on the e.xternal periosteum, and then penetrate the