THE 0S8E0US SYSTEM. (58 leading- out of the spheno-maxillary fossa. Behind these, and situated to their outer side, are found the foramina ovalia, wliich open on the external base of the skull, posterior to the pteryg-oid processes of the sphenoid bone, and to the inner side of the glenoid cavity, immediately in front of a groove which lodges the eustachian tube: they transmit the third division of the fifth pair of nerves, destined to supply the tongue, lower jaw, and the muscles of mastication. The forami7ia spinosa, at the extreme points of the spinous pro- cesses of the sphenoid bone, open externally between the foramina ovalia and the styloid process of that bone. They allow of the passage of the middle meningeal artery of the dura mater. At the extremity of the petrous portion of the temporal bones, between them and the sella tursiea, is seen an irregular opening for the passage of the carotid artery into the interior of the skull, called the carotid canal; which also allows the transmission of connecting branches between the sympathetic and the cerebral nerves. In the recent sub- ject, a considerable quantity of cartilijge separates this canal from a distinct fissure, which, in the skeleton, extends be- tween the petrous portions of the temporal bones and the cuneiform process of the occipital: they are termed fora- mina lacera basis cranii anteriora. They are more obvious on the external than on the internal surface of the skuU, and have opening into them the terminations of the pterygoid canals. They transmit the pterygoid nerves, and also a branch of an artery to the dura mater. A groove, passing from this lacerated foramen, leads to the foramen innomi- natam, situated upon the anterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. This foramen leads to the canal of Fallopius, and gives passage to a branch of the peterygoid nerve. All the parts hitherto mentioned are an- terior to the articulation of the head with the spine. The posterior division comprehends all that portion of the base of the skull behind the posterior clinoid processes, and superior ridge of the petrous bones. The processes of tins compartment have been sufficiently described, when speaking