descriptive anatomy of muscles. 1G2 Use.—To bend tlie neck, and assist in inspiration with the anterior muscle; but it also assists iu drawing the vertebral column a little backwards. The m. scalenus posticus—arises tendinous from the posterior part of the transverse processes of the fifth and sixth, and sometimes from the fourth cervical vertebra ; from these orig’ins the muscle descends behind the former, and passes to be inserted into the obtuse edg-e of the second rib, between its tubercle and ang-le. It is sometimes separated from the scalenus medius by some branches of the inferior cervical nerves; but more frequently the fibres of the two muscles are only distinct from each other at their insertions. This muscle is bounded posteriorly by the transversalis colli and splenius. Use.—To raise the second rib during inspiration, and to extend the neck laterally. Continuing- downwards from the vertebral attachment of the rectus capitis lateralis to the sacrum, and situated be- tween the transverse processes, are found muscles which are named, from their position, the intertransversales, and are subdivided into those of the neck, the back, and the loins. The m. intertransversales cervicis—\x\ consequence of the bifid termination of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, are divided into an anterior and a posterior layer, proceeding- from the first to the last vertebra of the neck : the attachment of the rectus capitis lateralis is continuous with these muscles. Use.—To curve the spine laterally to the side on which they are in action. The m. intertransversales dorsi—are much less distinct than in the cervical region, are usually larger in the lower dorsal vertebrae than the upper, as if they arose fleshy from the five or six inferior, to be inserted tendinous into the five or six; upper vertebrae of the neck. Use.—To draw, in some slight degree, the transverse processes of the vertebrEC of the back towards each other. The m. intertransversales lumborum—are intermediate in size, between those of the cervical and dorsal regions ; are