58 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. process of the palate bone is hollow and cellular, covering-, and indeed enlarging- the posterior ethmoidal cells. The last process to be described is the pterygoid process, which passes outwards, backwards, and slightly downwards, from the posterior point of attachment of the horizontal pala- tine with the ascending nasal process. It is of a triangular form, and the apex of the triangle is admitted between the anterior part of the pterygoid processes of the sphenoid and the tuberosity of the maxillary bones. The posterior surface of this process produces two grooves, which are occupied by corresponding eminences on the anterior part of the pterygoid processes. This bone possesses no proper foramina, and the two which are common to it, and to the sphenoid and maxillary bones, have been already described. Connexion.—It is connected to its fellow, by the inner edge of the palatine plate ; to the superior maxillary bone, by the anterior edge of the same plate, and by its ascending nasal and orbitar processes. The orbitar process also connects it with the ethmoid bone, by the posterior edge of its nasal plate, as well as by its pterygoid process, to the sphenoid bone: the ridge on the inner surface of the nasal plate con- nects it to the inferior turbinated bone : and lastly, by its nasal spine, produced by the union of the two palatine processes, it is joined to the vomer. The Muscles attached to the ossa palati are the m. pterygoidei externi and interni, buccinatores, constrictor pharyngis superior, circumflexus palati, and azygos uvulee. Use,—Assists in forming the mouth, nose and orbit, and it also com- pletes the posterior ethmoidal cells. Practical Remarks. \ , The palatine plates of these hones, as well as the superior maxillary hones, are sometimes unnaturally separated from each otlier in malfor- mation. They are liable to exfoliation from syphilitic affections of the soft palate ; and their delicate structure should also be remembered in the removal of polypi.