274 GENERAL ANATOMY OF CELLULAR MEMBRANE. appears to indulge his imagination, under the assurance, that while -nothing is certainly known, one conjecture has as fair a chance of belief as another. Whether we consider the adipose membrane distinct or not from the cellular membrane, wherever fat is secreted blood-vessels may be easily injected. The terminations of absorbents in this structure, have not been demonstrated; but from the quick absorption of adeps, under various circumstances, their existence cannot be doubted. The evidence of the existence of nerves in the adeps, is also a matter of doubt. Adeps is secreted in different parts of the body; it is found abundant under the skin; a mass of fat is situated in the orbit, and between the muscles of the cheeks; the back of the neck contains a greater quantity than its front part; both the external and internal surfaces of the chest are furnished with fat, as may be seen around the heart, between the pectoral muscles, and around the mammae. In the abdomen, it is seated around the kidnies ; in the substance of the mesentery, and omenta, within the pelvis ; and around the pubes. On the extremities this tissue is abundant, in the bending of the joints, and in those parts subjected to pressure, as on the buttocks, and soles of the feet. The accumulation of adeps, takes place in different parts of the body at various periods of life. In the foetus, after the fourth month of uterine gestation, it begins to accu- mulate under the skin, where it is deposited in minute rounded masses; and is then absent from nearly all those parts where it is accumulated at the adult period. In the adult, it is found in the abdomen, around the kidneys, mesentery, and omentum. In old age, this substance is nearly absorbed, leaving first the external surface of the body; but still remains around the viscera of the abdomen, around the heart, in the cavities of the bones, and substance of the muscles. There are certain situations in the body in which fat is