86 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. as a general description, we distinguish on each the following parts:—A head, a neck, a tubercle, an angle, a body, and an extremity. I he head forms the posterior or vertebral ex- tremity of the bone; is somewhat spread out; and on it we observe two articulatory surfaces, divided by a ridge. These surfaces are received into the articulatory cavities on the bodies of the two dorsal vertebrae, between which each rib is placed; while the inter articular ridge corresponds to the intervertebral substance, with which it is connected by liga- ment. Anteriorly to the head, the rib becomes contracted and somewhat rounded, forming what is called the neck. This part is about an inch in length, roughened for the attach- ment of ligaments, and extending downwards and outwards, terminates in a little rounded eminence, situated at the back part of the bone, called the tubercle: this tubercle has a convex articulatory surface, to be received into a corre- sponding cavity, situated on the transverse process of the lower of the two vertebrae with which the head is connected. Both the neck and the circumference of the tubercle are rough, for the attachment of ligament and tendon. The re- maining portion of the rib is called the body, which, after passing for a short distance in the same direction as the neck, turns suddenly forwards, and thus produces a very consider- able curve, which is called the angle ; the position and shape of which are different in each rib. Beyond the angle, the body is found to pass forwards, with a gentle curv^e, tow ards the sternum, at a short distance from which it terminates in what is called the extremity. The body becomes flattened immediately after leaving tbe tubercle, and presents two smooth surfaces: the external, convex; and the internal, concave, for the purpose of enlarging the thoracic cavity. Its superior edge is rounded, and smooth; its inferior, sharp, and grooved internally, to receive the intercostal artery, veins, and nerve. This groove commences at the tubercle 5 and, becoming gradually less distinct, is lost about the middle of the bone. Both the edges give attachment to the intercostal muscles. The extremity of the rib is slightly e.^panded, of a