THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 26 also serrated, forms, with the frontal bone, the coronal suture: the posterior or lambcloidal edg’e being’ in a similar manner connected with the occipital bone. The inferior or squamous edg-e differs from the others in being- grooved, and is over- lapped by the temporal bone. The four angles are, the anterior and superior, or frontal angle ; the anterior and inferior, or sphenoidal angle, which is the most lengthened of the four; the posterior andi superior, or occipital angle ; the posterior and inferior, or mastoidal angle. The whole of the external surface of the bone is smooth excepting at the edges. On the inner concave surface, deep furrows are formed by the vessels of the dura mater ; and at the anterior and inferior angle there is a canal for the middle artery of the dura mater or meningeal: there are several small holes leading to the diploe. Generally the lateral sinuses make a depression at the posterior and inferior angle of the bone: also a depression, which, by conjunction of this bone with its fellow, forms a groove, is seen at the superior edge, and lodges the superior longitudinal sinus. Sinuosities, for the lodgement of the prominent parts of the brain, present themselves on this surface. Connexion.—The ossaparietaha are the thinnest of thebones of the head, but have every where the diploe. They sue joined in front, to the os frontis, by the coronal suture; at their in- ferior angle, to the sphenoid bone, by part of the suture of this name; at their lower edge, to the ossa temporum, by the squamous suture; posteriorly, to the os occipitis, by the lambdoidal suture ; and above, to one another, by the sagittal suture. At the time of birth these two bones are separated from each other, and the opening is called the bregma: the pulsation of the brain may be felt here tlirough the mem- branes. Use.—The parietal bones form the superior, middle, and lateral parts of the skull, and are destined therefore to protect the superior parts of brain from injury, and to lodge a part of the longitudinal and lateral sinuses.