99 BONES OF THE TRUNK. wards from the spinous process to the descending- ramus, is termed the symphysis, or point of junction between this bone and its fellow on the opposite side. The anterior and poste- rior surfaces of the bone at this part, give attachment to the lio-aments which streno-then this articulation. The descend- W O ing 7'anms is that portion of the bone which extends from the symphysis downwards, to meet the ascending- ramus of the ischium ; thus completing- the periphery of the obturator fo- ramen: whilst the junction of the ossa pubis and their de- scending- rami, form what is called the arch of the pubes. Connexioji.—The pubes is attached by its body within the acetabulum to the ilium above, and to the ischium below : it is also connected by its descending- ramus again with the is- chium ; and by this junction the foramen obturatorium is formed. The proportions in which the ossa innominata form the acetabula are as follow:—The ilium rather less than the superior two fifths ; the ischium rather more than the inferior and posterior two fifths, which is not only the largest but the deepest part of the acetabulum ; and the remaining anterior one fifth is completed by the pubes. It is within this cavity that the three bones composing it are connected with the fe- mur by enarthrosis. Jlttachment of Muscles.—To the ossa innominata are attached the m. obliqui externi et interni, transversales, recti et pyramidales abdominis, psom parvi, iliaci, levatores ani, obturatores externi et interni, coccyg-ei, quadrati lumborum, longissimi dorsi, sacro-lumbales, latissimi dorsi, tensores vaginae femoris, sartorii, glutei maximi, medii et minimi, recti femoris, gemini, quadrati femoris, bicipites flexores cruris, semi- tendinosi, semimembranosi, transversi perinaei, transversi perinaei alteri, erectores penis vel clitoridis, tricipites, adductores, femoris, graciles et pectinei. General description of the Pelvis. I shall now describe the principal anatomical points to be considered with respect to the pelvis, taken as a whole. When articulated it forms a basin, well calculated to sustain