115 bones of the extremities. on its inner side, which is much more projecting than the outer one, but serves a similar purpose in giving attachment to muscles and ligaments. The os humeri is connected above with the scapula, and below with the radius and ulna, entering into the composition of the shoulder and elbow-joints: indeed, it may be consi- dered to assist also in forming the superior radio-ulnar articu- lation, as none of the motions of that joint can take place without the radius rolling on the external condyle. Tlie muscles attached to the humerus are those of the shoulder-joint, whkh are inserted into it, and several of the muscles of the elbow, wrist, and fingers, which have their origin from it, amounting in all, to twenty-four. Beginning at the upper extremity of the bone, there are inserted into the greater tubercle three muscles, viz. the m. supra-spina- tus, infra-spinatus, and teres minor: into the lesser tubercle, one only, the sub-scapularis. Into the edges of the bicipital groove, three mus- cles: one, the pectoralis major, into the outer, or anterior edge, and two into the inner edge, viz. the latissimus dorsi and teres major. The whole of the posterior part of the hone is covered by the triceps muscle, and two of its heads arise from the humerus itself: the second begins to be attached immediately below the outer and back part of the greater tubercle, extending downwards in connexion with the line reaching from that process to the external condyle. The third head arises just where the internal ridge of the bicipital groove is lost in the substance of the hone. About the middle of the bone, on its outer side, is inserted the deltoid muscle, and just to the inner side of this, the coraco-brachi- alis. The junction of the middle with the lower third of the bone anteriorly gives origin to the brachialis internus. The internal condyle gives origin to the pronator radii teres of the radio-ulnar articulations, to the flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus and flexor carpi ulnaris of the wrist-joint, and to the flexor sublimis perforates and flexor longus pollicis muscles of the fingers. The external condyle has arising from it the m. anconeus of the elbow joint, the supinator radii longus and brevis of the radio-ulnar articulations, the extensor-carpi radialis longior and hrevior, and the extensor carpi ulnaris of the wrist-joint, and, lastly, the exten- sor digitorum communis of the fingers. Practical Remarks. The humerus may he fractured in any part of its length; hut in con- sequence of the diversified actions of the muscles attached to it, the po- sition of the displaced portions of the bone will vary according to the situation of the fracture. It therefore becomes highly important to