I lf» THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. sliort time observed to form; whicli, uniting' witl» each other as well as with the injured parts, form a medium of union for the detached portions; indeed, this process is observed to take place, even when the fractured parts are not brought into actual contact with each other, provided no solid substance intervenes. After reproduction of a part of a bone has been effected, the medullary cavity of that bone is found to be divided by a solid partition into two cavities, presenting an ; appearance as if the bone had originally consisted of two i pieces. But after injury this process of reproduction does not always take place,—the failure depending upon either mechanical or constitutional causes, or both; such as a ca- chetic habit, or want of apposition and rest of parts. Gene- rally, however, it may be considered that there is no solid in the body which has equally the power of reproduction as bone ; for, in solution of continuity, it soon repairs itself by a substance entirely resembUng the original bone, not only in its form and texture, but also in its chemical composition. Accidental Ossification. There are certain of the soft structures of the body, which | are liable to accidental or unnatural depositions of bony mat- ter, as the dura mater, pericardium, and even muscle. It ■ generally happens, however, that the proportions of the | animal and earthy parts are not the same as in original hone. > These deposits being sometimes as hard and polished as the ; enamel of the teeth, at other times soft and cretaceous, re- « sembling moistened chalk. The former are most common on ' serous membranes, whilst the latter are not unfrequently met ' with in abscess of the lungs, in the uterus and ovaria. ' Diseases of Bone. The bones, as well as the softer parts of the human body, are liable to disease; and, like other parts, are susceptible of inllammation, and of the usual consequences of that pro- cess, whether it arise spontaneously or be caused by external violence. When they sustain a solution of continuity, the j