DESCUimVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 72 the mouth situated on the cheek, and three pairs below in connexion with the lower lip. Those above are the m. corapressores narium, levatores and depressores labii superioris alarumque nasi, and the levatoris anguli oris. Those by the side, the m. buccinatores and zygomatici. And, those below, the m. levatores and depressores labii inferioris, and the depressores anguli oris. Before describing* the origin and insertion of these mus- cles, it is right to point out the reciprocal action of the upper lip, and moveable parts of the nose, in the function of respiration; and we shall find, that three out of the four pairs of the muscles situated above the upper lip, produce a change of position in the cartilages of the nose and give motion to the lip simultaneously; and therefore may be considered as equally belonging to the nose and mouth. The musculi compressores narium, although usually de- scribed as proper to the nose, are common to the nose and mouth; and hence must be classed as moderators to the orbicularis oris. They arise above from the dorsum of the nose, being there connected with some fibres of the occipito frontales ; they then diverge, pass downwards and outwards on the sides of the nose, and are inserted by being con- nected with the fibres of the levatores and depressores labii, superioris alarumque nasi, and cartilages of the nose. Use.—To moderate the actions of the occipito frontalis and orbicu- laris oris ; they are made to dilate or compress the nares, according to the preponderating action of the levatores, or depressores labii, supe- rioris alarumque nasi. The m. levatores labii superioris alarumque nasi, arise by two portions from the superior maxillary bones; one from the nasal process, the other from the anterior part of the bone between the inferior ridge of the orbit and the infra orbitar foramen ; extending as far outwards as the malar bone. From these points of origin the fibres pass downwards in two fasiculi, which converge: the inner fasciculus passes to be inserted into the ala nasi and upper lip; while the