BONES OF THE EXTREMITIES, I 2 U7 confined to the chest by a ban(la<fe, including' the extremity from the shoulder to the elbow. Four splints ought also to be applied to the arm, in order to prevent displacement by the action of the muscles. (Vide Fig. 2. Plate VII.') When the fracture occurs in the space between the insertion of the la- tissinnis dorsi, pectoralis major, and teres major, and the attachment of the deltoid muscle, the position of the fractured portions is very differ- ent from that accident last described. In this case, the lower part of the bone is drawn upwards and outwards by the action of the deltoid, so as to form a perceptible tumour on the outer side of the arm ; and the deformity is Increased, if the fracture be oblique, by the action of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi, which draw the upper portion of the bone inwards. (Vide b. Fig. 3, Plate VII.) Extension and counter-extension having been made to adapt the frac- tured surfaces, they are to be retained in apposition by splints and bandages, and by confining the arm close to the trunk, so as to relax those muscles which have a tendency to displace the fractured surfaces of the bone. If the humerus be broken below the deltoid muscle, at the flat portion of the bone, but little deformity follows, in consequence of the extent of attachment of the brachialis muscle on the fore part, and the triceps be- hind, which, by their combined action serve as a kind of splint to the bone. (Vide c. Fig. 3. Plate VII.) Nevertheless, should the bone, even in this situation, be broken with great obliquity, a greater degree of displacement occurs than when the fracture is transverse: but in both cases the lower fractured portion of bone is drawn slightly for- ward. This accident is often mistaken for dislocation of the radius and ulna, in consequence of the deformity being nearly the same in both ; but the diagnosis is rendered clear, by making extension, when all the signs of dislocation immediately disappear. The treatment in this accident is to bend the fore arm to a right angle, and to maintain it in that situation by pasteboard splints ; at the same time keeping the elbow-joint constantly moistened with evaporating lotions. The condyles of the humerus are sometimes separated from the rest of the bone: this accident most frequently happens to the internal con- dyle, from its great projection of tubercle, and the little protection afforded it by soft parts. (Vide d. Fig. 3. Plate VII.) It usually occurs at an early age. From the condyle being drawn backwards, it appears as if the ulna were the bone displaced : but the nature of the injury may be distinguished, by the ulnar resuming its natural situation on extension being made, and also by a crepitus, which is very readily detected. The treatment consists in applying a roller around the joints, in bending the fore arm, and maintaining the broken portion of the bone in its natural