94 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. of the soft palate, and the muscles which move the soft palate. It will facilitate the dissection of the muscles of these parts, to bear in mind, that the constrictor isthmi faucium, palato pharyngcus, and azygos uvulae, are common to the fauces and velum pendulum palati, and that the circumflexus and levator palati are proper to the soft palate. The m. constrictor isthmi faucium, or glosso staphylinus— arises, by thin and slender fibres, from the sides of the root of the tongue ; it ascends in the form of an arch in front of the tonsil; and in the middle line, at the posterior edge of the palatine processes of the palate bones it joins with its fellow, and with the palato pharyngeus muscle, to form the velum pendulum palati, sending fibres down into the uvula. This muscle below is bounded by the tongue, above by the I soft palate, on its outer side by the insertions of the circum- flexus and levator palati, and on its inner by its fellow: both its surfaces are covered by mucous membrane, and it has the tonsil situated immediately behind it. Use.—To draw the soft palate towards the tongue, and consequently contracts the opening of the fauces ; and when the soft palate is fixed hy the tensores palati, then the constrictor isthmi faucium raises the tongue. The m. palato pharyngeus, or pharyngo staphylinus—arises from the lateral parietes of the pharynx, in common with the superior and middle constrictors, where they are connected with the thyroid cartilage; from this origin the fibres pass upward behind the tonsil, forming the posterior pillar of the fauces ; it then directs itself inwards towards the posterior edge of the palatine vault; dividing however into two layers, and admitting the tendon of the tensor palati betw^een them, the muscle then joins its fellow of the opposite side, the constrictor isthmi faucium, and uvula, completing the velum palati. The situation of the muscle is sufficiently described in speaking of its attachments. Use.—To lower the velum pendulum palati, or to raise and shorten the pharynx : it acts principally in deglutition.