DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 165 support the greater weight of the head and viscera in front, and to counterbalance the preponderating direction of the body forwards. The lateral directions of the spine are immediately pro- duced by the recti capitis laterales, the scaleni, the inter- transversales, and quadrat! lumborum; assisted, however, by the flexors and extensors, when they act on one side only. The oblique insertion of the tendons adds considerable strength, as well as variety, in the directions of the lateral motions of the spinal column. When the hand is grasping any fixed body firmly, the lateral motions of the spine are also assisted by the muscles of the upper extremity. The rotatory motions of the spine are inconsiderable, and are even doubted by some physiologists ; but in the lumbar region, the construction of the articular processes evidently admits of a slight rotatory motion, and may occur from the combined and successive action of the muscles of this part. Practical Remarks. Reflecting upon the construction of the vertebral column, and the various actions of its muscles in supporting the weight of the body, it is evident, that any deviation from the natural perpendicular direction of the spine would at once derange the natural position of the muscles, cause pressure on the spinal marrow, and consequent morbid action in the system. Contortions of the spine most frequently occur from disease of the bone. In scrofula and rickets, their structure is softened and rendered less capable of supporting their superincumbent weight; the hones tlien yield according to the extent of the disease, throwing the body out of its natural position. The muscles of the two sides of the spine, in consequence, do not act equally; which tends materially to increase the contortion, by their constant endeavour to maintain the central line of gravity: a second curve is thus produced in an opposite direction to the primary deviation. These circumstances point out to the surgeon the necessity of his earliest attention, in diseases of the spine, to coun- teract their baneful effects : the symptoms of which seem naturally to indicate the propriety of using every means of improving the general health, of diminishing the superincumbent weight; and, from his knowledge of the physiology and functions of muscles, of making them,