63 BONES OF THE HEAD. which there is a depression, for the insertion of the ptery- goideus externus muscle. The condyle itself, or extremity of the process, is convex and of an oval shape, having its greatest length from side to side. It is, also, more covered anteriorly with cartilage than posteriorly, so as to be capable of motion upon the articulatory surface, at the root of the zygomatic process of the temporal bone. It is received into the fossa condyloidea, or anterior depression of the glenoid cavity in the temporal bone, to which it is connected by a moveable articulation. The foramina of this bone consist of two pairs, viz.:—the posterior and anterior maxillary. The posterior maxillary foramina are situated on the inner surface of the ascending plates, and allow the entrance of the dental nerves and arteries. They are protected by a projecting process of bone, which gives attachment to the internal temporo-maxillary ligament. The anterior maxillary or mental foramina,oxe situated on the external surface of the bone, at the junction of the body with the horizontal plates : they allow the exit of the same nerves and blood-vessels mentioned above. These foramina are connected on each side by an intervening canal, which also extends as far as the symphysis. Small openings are found, leading from it to the sockets of the teeth. This canal is termed the canalis mentalis. The only bones with which the lower jaw is connected are the temporal on each side, as already described. The muscles attached to this bone are the m. temporales inasseteres, pterygoidei interni et externi, depressores labii inferioris, depressores anguli oris, levatores labii inferioris, buccinatores, digastrici, mylo- hyoidei, genio-hyoidei, genio-hyoglossi, and constrictores pharyngis superiores. Tlie platysma myoides also passes over the bone on each side, and is partly attached to it. The inferior maxillary bone contains the sixteen lower teeth, and forms the moveable organ for mastication. It also forms the lower boundaries of the mouth, and gives origin to several of the muscles of the tongue, larynx, and pharynx: thus assisting in the functions of speech, swallowing, etc.