DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 131 from the back part of the ulna, below its middle, and beneath the orig'in of the last described muscle 5 from the interosseous lig'ament, and from a considerable portion of the posterior surface of the lower third of the radius: it then .forms a shorter and thinner belly than the preceding’ muscle ; but taking- the same direction, forms a slender tendon at the outer side of the lower extremity of the radius, passes throug’h the same groove, but continuing further is inserted into the posterior part of the second phalanx of the thumb, sometimes reaching to the base of the third. Its relative situation is much the same as that of the ex- tensor primi internodii; but it covers in part the second as well as the first phalanx of the thumb. Use.—To extend the second on the first phalanx, and to assist in the abduction of the thumb, and in the supination of the hand. The m. tertii internodii pollicis—arises from the posterior surface of the ulna about the point of junction of its superior with its middle third, and also from a small portion of the interosseous ligament. It is then directed downwards and outwards, partly covers the origins of thfe extensor primi and secundii internodii, and forming a slender tendon at the lower part of the radius, passes through a groove of its own, which is placed between that for the extensors of the wrist, and the one for the common extensor tendons of the fingers, and the tendon of the extensor indicis. The tendon of the extensor tertii internodii then passes on the inner and posterior part of the first phalanx, reaches the second, where it is connected with the tendon of the secundi inter- nodii muscle, and is inserted into the root of the third or extreme phalanx of the thumb. This muscle lies upon the extensor primi and secundi internodii, upon the radius and ulna, upon the two radial extensors of the wrist, and upon the three phalanges of the thumb. It is covered by the extensor digitorum, extensor carpi ulnaris, and extensor indicis muscles. Use.—It extends the third phalanx of the thumb upon the second, and in other respects assists in the action of the two muscles preceding it.