234 PARTS ESSENTIAL TO THE SKELETON, This lig-ament, then, appears to be of as much service in giving- attachment to the synovial membrane, which com- pletely lines it, as in preventing the dislocation of the head of the os humeri. Of the four muscles which are inserted into the capsular ligament, the tendon of the subscapularis is most completely blended with it, so that it is not practica- ble to separate them without laceration. This tendon seems even to pierce the capsule, in order to gain its insertion into the smaller tubercle of the humerus. The glenoid ligament is composed of fibro-cartilaginous tissue, and forms a rim around the articulatory surface of the scapula, which it renders deeper. It derives its fibrous texture from the tendon of the long head of the biceps, which is not only attached to the upper edge of the glenoid cavity, but bifurcates and passes down on either side, to form in part the glenoid ligament. Its cartilaginous texture is produced by a continuation of the permanent or articular cartilage of the scapula. This ligament is triangular in form 5 its base being attached to the circumference of the glenoid cavity, and its apex forms a thin free edge. Synovial membrane.—This membrane lines the glenoid cavity, passes over the glenoid ligament, to which it is attached upon its internal and external surfaces; extends as far back upon the neck of the scapula as the origin of the capsular ligament, which it completely lines; then passes partly under the tendinous insertions of the spinati muscles, covers the cartilaginous head of the os humeri, prolongs itself into the bicipital groove, forming a cul de sac, so as to prevent the escape of synovia, by enveloping the tendon of the biceps; then extends itself, by passing inwards, to give a lining to the insertion of the subscapularis muscle. Thus it retains the characteristic of all synovial membranes, form- ing a complete cavity without an external opening. The use of this membrane is to secrete synovia for lubricating the joint; and this secretion being always proportioned to the mobility of the articulation, the quantity in this instance is very considerable.