48 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. nose, including' the cells, are covered by a continuation of the pituitary membrane. Connexion.—li\\e anterior and lateral edges of the cribri- form plate of the ethmoid bone, are connected with the os frontis by interposition between its orbitar plates, forming the ethmoidal suture; which suture is completed at the posterior border of the horizontal plate by its junction with the sphenoid bone. The under edge of the orbitar plates is connected with the orbitar processes of the superior maxillary bones ; anterior to which connexion is that of the ossa unguis, covering in the anterior ethmoidal cells : while behind the junction of the ethmoid bone with the superior maxillary, a small portion of the palate bone becomes attached within the orbit. Lastly, the nasal plate is attached to the vomer inferiorly, and ante- riorly to the nasal bones. Use.—The ethmoid bone serves the purpose of supporting the anterior lobes of the brain, and of protecting and transmitting the first pair or olfactory nerves; it assists also in forming the orbit, the bony cavity and septum of the nose, and enlarges the surface for the attachment of the pituitary membrane. This bone has no muscles connected with it. Practical Points. The ethmoid bone is particularly liable to exfoliation from its peculiar texture, and is frequently involved in the diseases incident to the lining membrane of the nose: hence, in ozoena and syphilis, the destruction of parts of this bone often follows. Polypi being usually fixed to the superior turbinated bones, a knowledge of their delicate structure should render the surgeon particularly careful in their extraction. Severe and extensive fracture of the ossa nasi does not offer so favourable a prognosis as might be supposed, when we consider the injury the ethmoid bone is liable to sustain, and its proximity to the brain. Malignant tumours, situated within the ethmoidal cells, will equally affect the eye and nose. The Bones of the Face Form the under and fore part of the head, comprising all that portion below the os frontis, and anterior to the pterygoid