BONES OF THE TRUNK. 79 viz., tlie vertebral foramen, which here transmits, not the vertebral artery, but its corresponding- vein. The artery passes before the transverse process of this vertebra, which it some- times slig-htly g-rooves. The Dorsal, or Thoracic Veretebrce, Are twelve in number. They form the posterior boundary of the cavity of the thorax, and support the ribs. A g-eneral description of them offers the following-distinguishing-marks:— They are much larger in every direction than the cervical. The body has its long diameter from before to behind; is 'prominent anteriorly ; and somewhat concave from above to below: its superior and inferior surfaces are flattened. On each side of the body, just anterior to its junction with the arch, we observe tw^o half articulatory surfaces: one at the upper edge and one at the lower. Tliese, by joining with corresponding surfaces on the vertebrae above and below, form the articulatory cavities for receiving the heads of the ribs : so that the head of each rib is received between two vertebrae, to both of which it is articulated. The arch is strong, and almost entirely occupied by the processes which arise from it: it is smaller than in the cervical vertebrae, and the spinal foramen is consequently reduced in size, and rounded. The transverse processes are strong, projecting horizontally out- w'ards and backwards; they are deeply marked by the attach- ment of muscle and ligament, and on the anterior surface of their extremities is an articulatory depression for receiving the tubercle of that rib, the head of which is coimected with the superior cavity on the side of the body. The transverse processes increase in length, and have a tendency to incline downwards from the first to the seventh, below which they again become shorter and more horizontal. The processes of the eleventh and tw^elfth are particularly small, and do not ar- ticulate with the ribs. The articulatory processes of the dorsal vertebrae are placed vertically; the superior directed