PHYSIOLOGY OF THE BONES. 11 already formed, but also by the lengthening- of the bone at its extremities. The increase of the flat bones takes place much in the same manner, by a successive addition of osseous substance at the edges of the bone, as is seen in the bones of the cranium, and by the convcrtion into bone of the epiphyses which cover their marg-ins, as maybe observed in the scapula and bones of the pelvis. In thickness all bones increase from the periosteum. Although the bones grow in breadth, as well as in length, they are found to increase more rapidly at their extremities than at their circumference. It is further found, that bones attain their perfect formation in the same order as they fol- lowed in their growth; and that, therefore, those parts of a bone which first began to ossify are the first to be completed. The cylindrical bones, with a few exceptions, form and per- fect themselves sooner than the flat bones,—and these, again, sooner than the short bones. It is, moreover, a remarkable fact, that the bones which begin to ossify first, are also those that are soonest repaired after an injury. After the bones have ceased to grow, which is not till after the epiphyses have disappeared, they undergo certain changes, the most remarkable of which is their decrease. This de- crease is effected by an absorption of the interior of the bone, and hence it is that the medullary canal of the long bones, and the internal cancellated structure of the flat and short bones, are constantly increasing,—and hence, also, the reason why the skeleton of an aged is much lighter than that of a young subject. The articular surfaces of the bones of the inferior members, and of the vertebrae, become, in old age, enlarged and flat- tened, as if, from the continued pressure of the weight of the body, they had at last yielded. The same cause produces a similar effect upon the neck of the femur, which, in advanced life, is always found so depressed as to form a right angle with the shaft of the bone, whilst, at an earlier period, it rises and projects at an angle of 40". The following tissues belong essentially to the organization