157 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. Use.—To rotate the atlas, ami with it tlie head upon the vertebra dentata, assisted by the splenius of the same side, and the sterno cleido mustoideus of the opposite. I The ?n. semi-spinalis eolli—is not seen until the complexus is either raised or turned outwards. It arises by six tendons from the transverse processes of the six superior dorsal vertebras; it ascends, passing obliquely inwards under the complexus, to be inserted into all the spinous processes of the cervical vertebrcB, excepting the first and the last. Such are the attachments usually assigned by anatomists ; but these are rendered difficult to dissect from their intimate union with other muscles. This muscle is placed between the complexus and spinous processes of the vertebrae, to which it is attached; it is covered by the complexus, tendons of the longissimus dorsi, and in its middle part by the serratus superior. Use.—To extend the neck, and to give it an oblique direction to either side, according to the action of either muscle. The m. semi-spinalis dorsi—arises tendinous and fleshy from the transverse processes of the seventh, eighth, and ninth dorsal vertebrae, passes vertically upwards to be in- serted by distinct tendons into the spinous processes of the five superior dorsal, and the two inferior cervical vertebrae. The origin of this muscle is placed on the outer side of the insertions of the spinalis dorsi, and its upper attachments are on the inner side of the lower part of the semi-spinalis colli.. This muscle is covered by the longissimus dorsi. Use.—To extend the spine either directly or obliquely backwards, depending on the action of one or both these muscles. The seventh and last layer of the muscles of the back, consists of the multifidi spinae, the interspinales, and the intertransversales. The m. multifidi spince—extend from the sacrum to the second cervical vertebra, forming a chain of small muscles situated between the transverse and spinous processes. They pass upwards in an oblique direction, and gradually