124 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. with them a complete canal, partly bony and partly fibrous. This canal is lubricated with synovia, and affords free motion to these tendons. It is composed of extremely short, dense, interlacing' fibro cartilag'e, of a pearly hue, and firmly attached to the ridg'es of the interior surface of the pha- lang-es. It commences by fibres g'iven off from the inferior metacarpal lig'ament, are strong-est and thickest opposite the middle of the first and second phalang-es, and thinnest over the articulations, and terminate by an interlacement with the tendons of the flexor profundus, at their insertions in the third phalang-es. Use.—To bend the last, or ungual phalanx, on the second ; if its contraction be still maintained, it will tend to bend the second on the first, and at last even produce flexion of the wrist joint. The m. Jlexor tertii internodii; or, longus pollicis manus. —This muscle arises fleshy from the whole of the fore part of the radius situated between the insertion of the biceps into the tubercle above, and the attachment of the pronator quadratus within two inches of the lower extremity of the bone below, and from the outer side of the interosseous ligament; it has also a tendinons origin from the internal condyle, which, passing from the radial origin to the condyle, separates the superficial from the deep layer of muscles. The belly of this muscle has its fibres passing obliquely downwards to terminate in a tendon on its anterior surface, which tendon proceeds downwards, passes behind the annular ligament, then between the two origins of the flexor brevis pollicis and the two sesamoid bones, it reaches its insertion on the anterior part of the base of the extreme phalanx of the thumb. This muscle lies to the outer side of the flexor profundus, covered by the flexor sublimis; its slip from the internal con- dyle, as has been already mentioned, separating them. Its tendon at the loAver part of the arm covers the pronator quadratus, then passes under the annular ligament, ar>d is concealed by the muscles of the thumb, and cannot be traced