DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 107 part of the trunk, are the pectoralis minor, serratus mag-nus, and subclavius. The m. pectoralis minor.—^This muscle arises, tendinous and fleshy, from the external surface of the third, fourth, and fifth ribs ; the fibres then converge, pass upwards and out- wards, to be inserted into the inner side of the apex of the coracoid process of the scapula. This muscle is covered by the pectoralis major, while on the chest; but in passing from the thorax to the coracoid process it is covered by the deltoid muscle, and at its insertion into this process it has the subclavius to its inner side, and the coraco brachialis muscle on its outer. Use.—To draw the coracoid process and scapula downwards and for- wards upon the chest; hut when the scapula is fixed, it then becomes a muscle of inspiration, by raising the ribs, and acting as an antagonist to the sterno costalis muscle. The m. subclavius.—This muscle arises tendinous from the cartilage of the first rib, where it is connected with the sternum; from this origin it passes outwards and slightly upwards, along the inferior surface of the clavicle, as far as the coracoid process, into which it is inserted, as well as into the conoid ligament, which connects the clavicle with that process. This muscle is surrounded by the fascia cervicalis profunda, and is situated between the sternum and scapula ; it is bounded above by the omo hyoideus, below by the pec- toralis minor, a considerable space being between the two, in which the subclavian artery and vein may be seen. An- teriorily it is covered by the pectoralis major, and posterior to it, are placed the subclavian artery, vein, and axillary plexus. Use.—To draw the scapula and clavicle downwards upon the chest; or if the shoulder be fixed, it raises the first rib and sternum, assisting in inspiration. The m. serratus magnus.—^This muscle arises by nine dis- tinct digitations, from the nine superior ribs: they form the muscle into distinct fasciculi, which pass backwards to be inserted into the internal margin of the base, or posterior costa of the scapula, from the superior to the inferior angle, to