THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. "136 situated a small tubercle for tlie attachment of the lateral lig’arnents. Their inferior extremity is terminated by two small condyles, separated from each other by a shallow g-roove: these condyles present a larger anterior than posterior articular surface, and are connected Avith their corresponding middle phalanges. The bodies, or middle parts of these bones, are concave on their palmar surface, and lodge the tendons of the flexor muscles of the fingers. Their dorsal sv.rface is convex, and is covered by the extensor tendons: on each side are placed the digital arteries and nerves, and fibrous sheaths, which are attached to the tendons of the flexor and extensor muscles. The upper phalanx of the thumb differs, however, somewhat from this description, in having its superior ex- tremity less than any of the other corresponding bones, and being, indeed, smaller than at its inferior end; its superior articular surface also differs in being concave from before to behind, and convex from side to side, for its articulation with the os trapezium. Indeed, this bone is described by most anatomists as the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and that the thumb has only two phalanges ; but the motion which this bone enjoys, when contrasted with the fixed position of the metacarpal bones, the consideration of its ligaments, and the insertion of the muscles into it, which are destined to move the thumb,—all these circumstances sufficiently shew the propriety of classing it amongst the phalanges, rather than the metacarpal bones. The Middle Phalanges Differ but little from each other, excepting’ in length; that of the middle finger being the longest, and of the little finger, the shortest and thinnest. Their superior extremity presents two small concave articular surfaces, separated from each other by a slight ridge, which prolongs itself into a process upon the dorsal surface and overlaps their articulation Avith the first phalanx. This extremity is rough on each side for the attachment of lateral ligaments, to strengthen their junction.