THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 138 The abductor and adductor muscles proper to the tliumb are inserted, through the medium of the ossa sesamoidea, into tlie joint hetween the first and second phalanges. The Muscles proper to the Fore-Finger are two:—the m. extensor indicis into the dorsal surface of the two last phalanges; and the ab- ductor indicis into the outer and back part of the first hone of the fore- finger. The JMvsclcs proper to the Little Finger are three;—the m. flexor brevis minimi digiti, and abductor minimi digiti, into the root of the first phalanx ; and the adductor minimi digiti into the metacarpal bone supporting this finger. Practical Remarks. The fractures to which the bones of the hand are liable, may be con- sidered as they may occur either to the carpus, metacarpus, or phalanges. Fractures of the Bones of the Carpus.—This division of the hand is composed, as has already been described, of eight small bones, which are so closely articulated with one another, each presenting so small a surface and so spongy a texture, as rarely to admit of fracture, unless indeed it be occasioned by the application of some very heavy weight, when comminuted fracture of several of the bones may take place, at- tended consequently with considerable injury to the soft parts, so as frequently to render amputation necessary. A gun shot wound, or the application of any concentrated force upon one of the bones of the carpus only, might produce solution of its continuity, in which case the treat- ment would consist of removing the comminuted pieces of bone, and poulticing as in common cases of gun-shot wound. Fractures of the Bones of the Metacarpus.—These bones are more liable to fracture than those of the carpus, in consequence of their greater comparative length, as well as of their compacter structure. It is an accident which does not unfrequently occur to pugilists. When a meta- carpal bone is fractured, the broken extremities of the bone are drawn slightly forwards into the palm of the hand, by the interossei muscles. The treatment consists in placing a ball in the injured hand, and drawing the fingers tightly over its surface, and retaining them in that position by bandages ; the hand at the same time being kept at rest in a sling. Fractures of the Phalanges.—From the manner in which these bones are articulated at the extremity of the hand, they are liable to fracture only from the immediate application of any force upon them ; and there- fore considerable contusion of the soft parts is a necessary concomitant. The fractured extremities of the bones are drawn forwards and slightly outwards, by tbe action of the flexor muscles; the deformity of the finger, the unnatural mobility of the bone, and crepitation, render the nature of the accident obvious. The treatment consists in extending the finger, in