307 THE SKELETON IN GENERAL. the body. The weight is thence transmitted to the thigh- bone by its neck at an angle, which, together with the width of the pelvis, serves to separate the thigh-bones widely from each other, and thus leave sufl&cient space for the ex- ternal organs of excretion and generation. From the point of attachment of the neck to the shaft, the thigh-bone is directed downwards with an obliquity, so as to bring its infe- rior extremity immediately under the pelvis towards the cen- tral line of gravity, so that the two bones of this joint ap- pro.ximate and form a firm base of support, as well as render progressive motion both more secure and direct. The thigh- bone is remarkable for its projections, which not only serve to strengthen the bone, but also assist the action of muscles by altering the angle of their attachment. The anterior curvature of the femur tends also to encrease its power of resistance. The lower extremity of the os femoris is expanded into two protuberances or condyles, which form two large articu- latory surfaces for the tibia, and are so separated behind as to admit the popliteal vessels and nerves between them, and thus offers them protection from injury. From what has been said of the obliquity of the thigh- bones inwards, it is clear that the two condyles, which are intended to come in contact with the upper surface of the tibia on the same level, cannot be precisely of equal lengthy unless indeed the leg had a corresponding obliquity ; we therefore find the internal condyle the longer of the two. The leg, below the knee, is composed of two bones, which must necessarily give greater strength than the same sub- stance in a single bone could have done : they are furnished with spines or edges, which render them better capable to resist injury. The two bones of the leg are separated from each other like the bones of the fore arm, and the interspace filled up by ligament; but they diflPer essentially from the bones of the fore arm, which admit of a rotatory motion upon each other, while the bones of the leg are much more firmly connected, to offer a more perfect support to the body.