BONES OF THE TRUNK. 95 this portion of the bone there passes upwards its large ex- panded surface, which terminates above in a semilunar edge, termed the crista. It is roughened, and forms three distinct lines, which are named the labia—oxi external labium, giving partly attachment to the m, obliquus abdominis externus: a middle one, from which arises the m. obliquus abdominis in- ternus: and an internal one, for the origin of the transversalis abdominis. This crista terminates anteriorly and above in the anterior and superior spinous process, which is the most projecting part of the bone: it gives origin to the m. sar- torius, tensor vaginae femoris, and attachment to Poupart’s ligament. About an inch below this, is situated the ante- rior and inferior spinous process: it gives attachment to a part of the m. rectus femoris. The crista terminates poste- riorly in hke manner as it does anteriorly, in two processes, viz.:—The posterior and superior, and the posterior and inferior spinotLS processes. The sacro-iliac ligaments are here attached, uniting the ilium to the sacrum. The ex- panded portion of this bone presents an external irregularly convex surface, termed the dorsum ; and an internal concave one, denominated the venter. Upon the dorsum, asperities are seen, which give attachment to the three glutei muscles. A semilunar line is produced by some of these asperities, extending from the anterior and superior spinous process backwards to the sciatic notch, for the origin of the gluteus minimus. The internal concave surface is divided into two unequal portions by a ridge ; anterior to which the bone is regularly concave, for the attachment of the ihac muscle, and has already been denominated the venter: whde, posterior to this ridge, is seen a large, irregular, and rough superficies, presenting, below, a beak-like articulatory surface, which, through the medium of an intervening cartilage, connects it with the sacrum: and, above, strong irregularities, for the attachment of those hgaments which strengthen this articu- lation. From the anterior part of the sacro-iliac symphysis, and passing forwards to where the ilium is connected with the pubes, is a distinct line, termed the linea ilio-pectinea;