288 GENERAL ANATOMY OK THE SKIN, (Vide Plate IT. Fig. 6.) In the cut edges of these thickened portions of cuticle, the perspiratory pores may be seen to take a perpendicular direction through its substance 5 which circumstance further proves, that the layers of cuticle are not deposited in scales. No blood-vessels, nerves, or absorbents have been traced to the cuticle ; hence it has been considered as an inorgan- ized substance ; but the vitality it possesses is apparent, from the important functions it assists in, from its growth, and from its death and separation when injured, like other struc- tures in the body. In fact, it is diflficult to believe that any part can be inorganized as long as it performs the func- tions for which it was constructed. To this vitality we may refer the remarkable property of the cuticle which it pos- sesses, of allowing the exhalents to transpire various fluids through its pores; which property is immediately suspended when the cuticle is raised from the surface of the skin underneath. The serum of a blister is confined by the cuticle, notwithstanding considerable pressure, as in blisters of the feet from walking. Physiologists have assigned various reasons for this phenomenon; namely, that the cuticle, when detached, breaks away portions of the cutis, which close its pores ; again, that the cuticle, being elastic, closes its pores by contraction in its detached state; and further, that the pores, passing in an oblique direction, are thereby closed by the distention of the blister: actual ex- amination does not corroborate either of these conjectures ; the pores of the raised cuticle do not appear to be closed by detached portions, nor does the surface of the cutis exhibit any such lacerations; the cuticle is by no means so elastic as the cutis, and its pores pass in a perpendicular direction. One fact is worth a thousand conjectures: the cuticle, when detached by a blister, loses its vitality, and with it the power of function. The skin, independent of its forming a suitable covering to the body, has important functions to perform, intimately connected with the animal economy. Its function as an