284 GENERAL ANATOMY OF THE SKIN. \ tween it and the cuticle. The difficulty which attends the dissection and demonstration of this membrane, has given rise to various conjectures respecting its nature and par- ticular structure. Hence the great variety of opinions between those physiologists who describe the rete mu- cosum as being composed of three distinct layers ; while there are others of equal eminence, who deny its existence altogether. According to the result of my own investiga- tion, the following structure appears to be demonstrable.— To shew the rete mucosum, a piece of healthy black skin, just removed from the body after an operation, should be immersed in boiling hot water, and then thrown into alcohol. The cuticle may now be carefully pealed off*, leaving the rete mucosum on the surface of the cutis ; and when this has been done, its structure is visible (Vide Plate W.Fig. 8.), and appears to be composed of a net-work of veins, assum- ing a peculiar inosculation, differing from that of arteries. It is characterized by frequent, short, anastamosing branches, uniting nearly at right angles, or rather forming figures in which right angles predominate; while, on the contrary, arterial inosculations form figures, in which acute angles predominate; and these are seen, in the minute injections of the arterial distribution, on the surface of the cutis. (Vide PlateW. Fig.^.^ The venous structure is situated immediately underneath the cuticle, and exterior to the minute arterial distribution on the surface of the cutis ; and appears to be the true seat of colour of the skin. There are two preparations in which this structure is very successfully demonstrated; the one may be seen in the Museum of the ^ College of Surgeons, and the other at Guy’s Hospital; the represen- tation, Plate II. Fig. 8, is taken from the latter, magnified in the proportion of one inch to one-eighth of an inch. This structure appears to be much thicker in the Negro than in the European, and the vessels themselves much larger. In the preparation above alluded to, in the College of Surgeons, it is so thick at one portion, as very much to resemble the rete mucosum of the cetacei.