32 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. the zygomatic process. The upper edg'e of tliis process is somewhat rough for the attachment of the strong aponeurosis of the temporal muscle, and the lower edge has arising from it a part of the masseter muscle. From the under part of the bone, below, and between the other two processes, the third process projects, pointing downwards, and from its form is denominated the styloid process: it is various in its length in different subjects; and is sometimes found, in advanced age, to be of such a length as to be connected by bone to the os hyoides. Three muscles have their origin from this process, and are partly named from it:—The stylo-glossus, stylo-hyoideus, and stylo-pharyngeus: a ligament of the os hyoides is also attached to it, a portion of which extends to the angle of the jaw. This process in youth is principally cartilage, and at the adult period is frequently not entirely ossified. These are the three principal processes of the temporal bone: but there are still two others, which, as they are in- variably present, should be mentioned. Round the root of the styloid process, but more particularly anteriorly, there is a remarkable rising of bone which is called the vaginal pro- cess : it is rough and gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw. The fifth process is the auditory, which is irregular, and assists in giving a firm attachment to the cartilages of the ear, as well as to the external lateral ligament of the tempero maxillary articulation: it reaches from the anterior part of the mastoid to the root of the zygomatic process, and forms the lower part of the rim of the meatus auditorius externus. Five depressions, or fosses, are observable on the external surface of each temporal bone. A considerable fossa is found immediately on the inner side of the mastoid process, from which the digastric muscle arises; hence it is termed the fossa digastrica. Also anterior to the root of the zygomatic process, the fossa temporalis is situated, which depression marks the position and even the direction of the fibres of the temporal muscle: it is this