DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 53 tliig-h: a space bounded behind by the pubes and ilium, and in front by Poupart’s ligament; in which latter situ- ation it is so occupied by muscles, arteries, veins, nerves, absorbents, and fasciae, passing from the abdomen to the thigh, as, under ordinary circumstances, to prevent the descent of the abdominal viscera. With these preliminary , remarks, I may now proceed to the account given by Sir Astley Cooper of the fascia transversalis. It may be said to proceed above from tlie common origin of the diaphragm and transversalis muscle, in which situation, and as it proceeds laterally, it is so attenuated as to be scarcely distinguishable from the common cellular membrane 5 but as it descends between the transversalis muscle and .peri- toneum, towards Poupart’s ligament, it assumes the distinct fibrous tissue ; and in the iliac region, midway between the spinous process of the ilium and pubes, it divides itself into two portions—an outer or iliac, an inner or pubic portion; and these portions so separating as to produce a space termed the internal ring. The iliac portion, which is the stronger, is firmly attached to the inner labium of the crista ilii, and terminating by being inseparably connected with Poupart’s ligament in such a manner as to present a con- cave edge facing towards the pubes, and forming the outer margin of the internal ring. (Vide Plate I. 1, 1.) The pubic or inner portion, which is thin, less distinct, and on a plane posterior to the other, passes downwards, leaving an edge concave outwards to form the inner margin of the ring (Vide Plate I. 2, 2, 2, 2.) and is continued downwards behind Poupart’s ligament into the thigh, where it forms the anterior layer of the sheath of the femoral vessels, and may be traced as far as where the femoral artery penetrates the tendon of the adductor magnus. The pubic portion of the fascia transversalis, before it passes Poupart’s ligament, is firmly connected with the united tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles; and being situated imme- diately behind the external ring, assists in shutting out that opening from the abdominal cavity.