BONES OF THE HEAD, 27 Attachment of Muscles.—Only one muscle is attached to the parietal bone, the temporal; the tendon of the occipito-frontalis passes over it. Practical Remarks. The application of the trephine should be avoided upon the two inferior angles of these bones : upon the anterior and inferior, in conse- quence of the situation of the middle meningeal artery of the dura mater; whilst the proximity of the lateral sinus to the posterior and inferior angle, would render its application there dangerous. The superior longitudinal sinus must also be avoided; and indeed the variety in the thickness of the bone, in its different parts, would imply the neces- sity for great caution in the application of the trephine on every part of this bone. The Os Occipitis. This bone forms the posterior paries of the cranium, and also a portion of the base. It derives its name from its situ- ation ; and, hke the other bones of the skull, presents an external convex and an internal concave surface. Its figure is rhomboidal, having the upper angle slightly rounded; the two lateral angles are obtuse, w'hile the lower one projects forwards, forming a part of the base of the skull, and is con- nected with the sphenoid bone. The occipital bone is, at birth, divided into four distinct portions: the upper of these is the largest, comprising all that part of the bone situated above the foramen magnum: its shape is triangular. The two lateral portions are sym- metrical, and are situated at the side of the great foramen, and constitute the condyles. The fourth piece forms the anterior part of the bone, completes the foramen, and pro- jects forwards to form the cuneiform process. The description of the bone is facilitated, by giving a distinct anatomical ac- count of each of these parts separately. The occipital, or upper portion, presents an external con- vex surface, on which we observe two transverse arched ridges—a superior and an inferior. In the centre of the su- perior is a prominence, called the tubercle of the occipital bone ; and extending downwards from the tubercle, in the median line, as far as the foramen magnum, w'e find a sharp