186 PARTS ESSENTIAL TO THE SKELETON, them into seven classes, as it is clearly seen they somewhat differ from each other in their form, situation, structure, and use. In the first class, I shall describe the capsular ligaments, which are found belonging to some of the moveable joints: they have their edges attached around the articular margins of the two bones which they serve to connect; they thus en- close the articular cartilages, and are lined internally by the synovial capsule. These ligaments are strong and fibrous, in proportion to the degree of motion enjoyed by the joint which they enclose, and obtain further stability in particular parts, either by their additional thickness, or by the passage of muscle or tendon over their surface, where greater strength is required. There are only two perfect capsular ligaments in the body, one belonging to the hip, and the other to the shoulder-joint. The second class comprehends those which run in bands over joints, and are named according to their situation, with respect to the articulation, anterior, posterior, or lateral. Several of these generally belong to one joint, and are loosely connected with each other by irregular fibres, so as to form an imperfect capsule: we have specimens of such in the knee and ancle-joints. Some of the ligaments of this class, in passing to their insertion, wind around a bone in the form of a ring, and in this manner unite a neighbouring bone; this may be seen in the coronary ligament of the radius, and the ligament proper to the atlas. The third class is found in those immoveable joints, where the union between the bones is established by means of one intervening cartilage, and consists of short strong fibres, passing in an irregular manner from one bone to another, so arranged, indeed, as to be best adapted to furnish strength and prevent motion. Instances of this class are found in the sacro-iliac and pubic symphysis. The fourth class are those which exist within joints, or, more properly speaking, between the articular surfaces of the bones, and consequently nearer to the centre of motion. They