DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 207 upper half, where it is furnished with a bursa mucosa, and being' firmly implanted into the lower half. Tlie external orig-in of this muscle is covered by the pop- litmus ; the internal orig-in, by the semimembranosus ; the triangular intervening- space lodges the poplitmal vessels, the posterior tibial nerve, and the plantaris muscle; the anterior surface of each head is furnished with a small bursa between them and the condyles of the femur. The belly of the muscle is superficial, forms a large portion of the calf of the leg, and its anterior surface, which is most aponeu- rotic, rests on the solseus muscle. Use.—To extend the ancle-joint, by raising the heel and throwing the weight of the body upon the toes; its two heads strengthen the Articulation of the knee-joint, by preventing the condyles of the feinur slipping backwards off the tibia. The m. plantaris—is the third muscle that is attached to the external condyle of the femur; from the upper part of which it arises, also from the posterior ligament of Winslow, and from the tendinous origin of the outer head of the gastrocnemius ; from these origins it soon forms a short fleshy belly of about three inches in length, which descends obliquely inwards, to terminate in a long, thin tendon, just below the union of the two heads of the gas- trocnemius ; this tendon passes downwards between the gastrocnemius and soleus, and at the lower third of the leg- passes out from between them, parallel and adhering to the inner side of the tendo Achillis, with which it is inserted into the tuberosity of the os calcis. This muscle is covered by the gastrocnemius and fascia of the leg; anteriorly, it lies upon the external condyle of the femur, the posterior ligament of Winslow, the poplitaeal vessels, and the poplitaeus and soleus muscles. Use.—It assists in extending the anfclc-joint; it is not, however, to be found in all subjects. The m. soleus, or gastrocnemius internus—arises by apo- neurotic fibres from the posterior part of the head of the fibula, from the outer angle of that bone, and from two thirds