Ill BONES OF THE EXTREMITIES. peziu.s into the acromion and spinous processes. The eleven arising from it are, first, the m. omo hyoideus, from the superior costa close to the notch ; from the under part of the spine and acromion process, the deltoides; from the three fossae, the supra and infra spinati, and the subscapularis ; the teretes and long head of the triceps, from the ante- rior costa: the coraco-hrachialis and short head of the biceps, from the coracoid process, the long head ot the biceps from the ape.\ or upper part of the glenoid cavity; and, lastly, the latissimus dorsi, in its passage over the inferior angle of the scapula, derives a small part of its origin from that portion of the bone. Practical Remarks. The scapula is a bone but little liable to fracture, as well from its situa- tion as from its mobility. Nevertheless, under aggravated circumstances, fracture of this bone is occasionally met with ; and more particularly in certain parts of it, from their greater comparative exposure: as, for instance, the acromion, inferior angle, superior angle, and coracoid pro- cess. Fractures, too, either longitudinal or transverse, may happen through the dorsum of the bone. Fracture of the acromion may be rea- dily discovered, as the fractured portions are much displaced by the ac- tion of muscles. In this accident the roundness of the shoulder is lost, hy the weight of the upper extremity and the action of the deltoid mus- cle drawingthe point of the acromion downwards ; while the trapezius and levator scapula:, have a tendency to draw the scapula, and the re- maining portion of the acromion, upwards and slightly backwards. The position of the two fractured portions may be seen in Fig. 1. Plate VI. When the inferior angle of the scapula is separated from the rest of the bone, the deformity which occurs renders the nature of the acci- dent sufficiently obvious to be easily detected. The detached portion is drawn forwards by the inferior fibres of the serratus major anticus, and by the teres major, while the rest of the bone remains in its natural po- sition: but the most conclusive diagnostic mark of this accident is, that, if the scapula be moved, the detached angle remains perfectly sta- tionary. (Vide a. Fig. 2. Plate VI.) If the coracoid process be broken off, its extremity is drawn downwards by the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles, and forwards by the pectoralis minor. The posi- tion of a fractured coracoid process is shewn in Plate VI. Fig. 2. b. In the transverse fractures through the dorsum scapulae, there is also slight derangement of parts. If the fracture extend completely across the bone, the displacement is produced by the action of the serratus ma- jor anticus, which being strongest at its lower part, draws the inferior portion of the scapula forwards : so that by passing the fingeralong the