93 BONES OF THE TRUNK. broken portions; and the dangers and difficulties to contend with are, the injuries inflicted upon the parts within the pelvis, and the tendency there is to suppuration, in consequence of the quantity of loose cellular membrane situated in that cavity. There is generally a great diffi- culty in forming a correct diagnosis, from the quantity of soft parts which cover the bone: but the leading features pointing out the nature of the accident are paralysis of the lower extremities, the incapacity of the patient to move the pelvis without excessive pain, and a sensation of grating of one bone against another. The treatment consists, first, in passing a catheter into the bladder, lest the urethra or bladder should be injured; and in applying a broad strap around the pelvis, so as to orevent any motion of the bones. Bleeding, low diet, and a strict observance of the horizontal posture are to be strictly enjoined. The Os Coccygis Is situated immediately below the sacrum, but does not form a continuous surface, being directed more forwards than the axis of that bone. Like the sacrum, in early age it is divided into four or five small bones, the upper one of which is the largest, but they diminish in size to the fifth: they are all wider than they are long, offering small lateral protube- brances, somewhat similar to the transverse processes of the sacrum. The upper portion, or base, presents a middle part, the body, which is articulated with the apex of the os sacrum; and two cornua laterally, which, passing upwards, convert the notches of the saenun into the fifth pair of sacral foramina. The fifth bone, if there be one, is small and rounded, having a direction rather upwards as well as forwards. The os coc- cygis is concave anteriorly, and convex posteriorly : the con- vex surface being somewhat roughened, for the attachment of the coccygeal ligament; whilst its lateral edges give attach- ment to the sacro-sciatic ligaments, and to the coccygeal muscles. Tliis bone forms no part of the canal for the spinal marrow. Connexion.—Only with the sacrum. Use.—To form the posterior and inferior part of the pelvis, and to support the rectum. The sacrum and os coccygis are sometimes termed