DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF ARTICULATIONS. 241 humerus, so as to allow, in the most perfect state of flexion, the fore arm to form a very acute angle with the humerus: indeed, it becomes almost parallel with it, which is admitted by the coronoid process of the ulna dipping into the pit on the fore part of the humerus. The anterior surface of the external condyle is covered with articular cartilage, that the radius may enjoy the same extent of flexion as the ulna. During’ extension, the radius and the ulna move from be- fore backwards on the condyles of the humerus, and the full extent of this motion is completed, when the arm is brought to nearly a straight line; for extension cannot be carried beyond this, in consequence of the olecranon striking against the back part of the humerus. In the performance of this motion, the radius is separated from the external condyle of the humerus ; so that in the perfect state of extension these two bones are not in contact, but the radius is pressed tirmly into the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna; and its rotatory motion in this state is rendered much less perfect, in conse- quence of its having lost its support from the humerus. Practical Remarks. The radius and the ulna may be dislocated from the humerus either backwards or laterally: forwards they cannot be thrown without frac- ture of the olecranon ; so that luxation in that direction is only to be considered as a secondary accident. In the dislocation of both bones backwards, the radius and ulna are thrown upward behind the condyles of the humerus, and the coronoid process of the ulna occupies the fossa situated at the posterior part of the humerus, while the radius rests above the external condyle. The capsular ligament is torn through anteriorly; the internal lateral liga- ment is relaxed, and the external lateral is liable to have its anterior fibres lacerated. The coronary ligament suffers no change but in posi- tion, being drawn with the dislocated bones upwards and backwards. The biceps is considerably extended, but not to the same degree as the brachialis internus, in consequence of the more elevated situation of the coronoid process of the ulna, into which this muscle is inserted. The triceps muscle is relaxed, from the approximation of its points of attach- ment; and the anconeus, although it must necessarily be relaxed, is in danger of having some of its fibres lacerated by the forcible projection of the head of the radius above the external condyle, from which this R