GKNKRAL ANATOMY OF ARTICULATIONS. 1!J7 strong' bands of lig’ament, as only to allow of motion in a backward and forward direction; or, as it is generally termed, of flexion and extension. This articulation enjoys consider- able extent of motion, but it is limited as to direction. Ex- amples are met witli in the elbow, knee, and ancle. Trochoides is when a projecting process of bone is received into an articulatory cavity, formed partly by bone and partly by hgament, where it performs a rotatory motion on its own axis; as we see the dentiform process of the second vertical vertebra rolling within the atlas, or the neck of the radius confined by the coronary ligament. Thus it will be seen that although similar structures are employed in the formation of all diarthrodial joints, yet they vary in a most remarkable degree, as regards their solidity and the extent and direction of their motion ; and this differ- ence is to be ascribed entirely to the shape of the articulatory surfaces of the bones, and the manner in which the different structures above mentioned are adjusted in their union. The solidity of these articulations, and their power of re- sisting injury, is always in an inverse proportion to their mobiUty. While speaking of the stability of articulations, we should not neglect to observe, that the muscles which sur- round them afford perhaps a stronger means of defence, and a more efficient power to restrain undue motion, than the ligaments themselves: in fact, a certain balance will be found to exist amongst the muscles, which pass from one bone to the other, over the different surfaces of a joint; so that when those on the one side have drawn the bone in their direction to a certain extent, the antagonizers on the opposite surface exert themselves to prevent a continuation of the same mo- tion. It sometimes happens, however, that under some extraordinary muscular exertion, exercised in a particular direction, this counter-resistance is lost or overcome; and thus bones may occasionally be dislocated by the action of the muscles which move them. These remarks are more particularly applicable to the ball and socket-joints. Accidental diarthrodial articulations are sometimes pro- o 2