203 GENERAL ANATOMY OF ARTICULATIONS. upon tlie extent of injury as above mentioned, together with the state of constitution and previous habits of the patient. It is by attention to these circumstances that the surgeon is enabled to judge whether or not the patient has strength enough to sustain the attempt at reparation, or whether it be adviseable to remove the limb ; the object of the surgeon being, first, to place the life of his patient in security; secondly, to save the limb if possible; and thirdly, to produce anchylosis, with such a position of limb as may render it best fitted to perform its natural func- tions. After all our attempts, it sometimes happens that anchylosis is not complete, so that some degree of motion is yet allowed in the joint. If the articulation, under these ciacumstances, be one destined to receive the weight of the body, as in those of the lower extremities, and more especially the knee, it becomes constantly subjected to concussion, fol- lowed by frequent attacks of inflammation, which, by exhausting the strength and undermining the constitution of the patient, may yet render amputation necessary. I have myself been obliged to amputate a limb under these circumstances. Loose cartilaginous bodies are not unfrequently found within the cavities of joints. They are most frequently found in the knee-joint; but occasionally occur in the carpal and temporo-maxillary articulations. There are a variety of opinions with respect to the formation of these bodies; but they are probably the result of a specific inflammation of the synovial membrane, producing a deposit which naturally assumes the character of the neighbouring cartilage, but diflfers from it in having a tendency to become ossified. As long as these bodies remain at- tached to the synovial membrane, they produce little or no inconve- nience ; but as soon as from any cause they become separated, they then interfere with the functions of the joint, and render their removal neces- sary. The danger attendant upon the opening of a joint should lead the surgeon to consider duly the state and constitution of his patient, before he attempts the operation, which should be performed as follows. The loose body being directed by the operator to the situation most favourable for its removal, namely, on the inner side of the patella, should be retained there by the thumb and fore-finger of the operator, while an assistant draws the skin tightly over tlie patella. An incision should then be made directly on to the body, and of a size sufficient to admit of its extraction. The skin is then allowed to recover its former situation, and thus the wound into the capsule becomes effectually closed. A splint should then be placed behind the knee, so as to retain it in an extended position, and the usual precautions for preventing inflamma- tion adopted and continued until the wound is entirely healed.