PARTS ESSENTIAL TO THE SKELETON. 170 for the cartilag’e to be converted into bone, immediately these vessels circulate the red particles of the _^blood, and they be- come visible. The ramifications of nerves and absorbents are also too small to be perceptible, but the existence of both cannot be doubted as essential to the growth and develope- ment of the system; indeed, the diseases to which it is liable, prove they enter into its composition. The chemical analysis of cartilag'e resembles bone in being composed of animal matter and phosphate of lime; but it is in the proportions of these two substances that they differ. According to Sir Humphrey Davy, cartilage consists of 44* 5 albumen; 55- water; and -5 of phosphate of lime. Cartilage is usually found disposed in a layer ; very thin in proportion to its length and breadth, and is covered by a fibrous membrane called perichondrium, excepting some of the articular cartilages, which on the one surface is con- nected with bone, and on the other with synovial membrane. Cartilages are divided into two distinct classes, the temporary and permanent. The temporary cartilages are found most abundant at the earliest periods of life, and diminish by their conversion into bone as the osseous system becomes developed; which, when completed, the temporary cartilages disappear. This class of the cartilaginous system is to be considered as essential to the production of bone ; whether for its original formation, for its reparation after injury, or for its accidental growth. The permanent cartilages, on the contrary, in health do not vary in number during the different epochs of life; not being, like the temporary, convertible into bone ; but they maintain all their physical properties, for the purpose of assisting in the performance of the functions of those organs of which they form a part, subjected only to the changes common to all structures in the advancement to old age. Permanent cartilage is found in three situations in the animal economy:—First, when it forms distinct organs, as the trachaea and larynx ; secondly, where it enters into the