THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM, 90 nature of the accident may be ascertained by placing the finger on the suspected rib, near to tlie spine, and tracing it to the sternum. When you arrive at the fractured point, either the depression or promi- nence of the bone will be discernible; whilst, at the same time, a crepitus may be felt. Or you may place the whole palm of the hand over the suspected part, and desire the patient to attempt a full inspira- tion, when a crepitus will also be distinguished. The treatment consists in passing a broad girth, with a buckle and straps, tightly round the chest, so as to keep the ribs stationary during respiration, which, until union be effected, must be carried on by the diaphragm. If the salient angle produced have a direction outwards, a compress of wetted linen should be applied over the part fractured : but if, on the contrary, it be directed inwards, two compresses should be forcibly applied at each extremity of the fractured rib, so as to produce a ten- dency to press outwards the displaced portions at the seat of fracture. When the ribs are fractured on both sides of the chest, and opposite to each other, the bandage ought never to be applied. In such a case we must trust to bleeding and the antiphlogistic regimen only. If emphysema follow fracture of the ribs, pressure may first be tried to prevent the further accumulation of air in the cellular membrane : if this should not avail, small openings ought to be made in the tumour by means of a lancet. Dislocation of the ribs seems scarcely possible, from the numerous and strong ligaments which connect them with the vertebrae,—unless indeed it be from disease. Mr. Webster, of St. Albans, however, in examining a patient who died of fever, found the seventh rib dislocated, and its head anchylosed on the fore part of the spinal column. Third Division of the Trunk. The Pelvis. The pelvis is a cavity of an irreg'ular figure, composed of four bones: the sacrum and os coccygis, which form its posterior, and the ossa innominata, which complete its lateral and anterior boundaries. With respect to its general con- formation, it is somewhat in the form of a basin, which is broader from side to side than from before to behind ; whilst its perpendicular dimensions preponderate laterally. The