DESCRimVE ANATOMY OF AimCUTATlONS. 2-47 sliould be led to suppose that the dislocation forwards happened more frequently than that backwards; but the reverse is found to he the case: for as these accidents occur from violent and inordinate force in the mo- tions of pronation and supination ; the former being so much more ex- tensive than the latter, tends to throw the head of the radius behind the ulna; Avhile the comparatively less extensive motion of supination, rarely produces a luxation forwards. When the radius is dislocated backwards, the nature of the accident may he learnt by feeling on the outer side of the arm, an inch below the external condyle, when a depression is felt instead of the natural pro- jection produced by the head of the bone, which is found placed on the hack part of the olecranon. The hand is in this accident proned, and cannot be brought to its natural state. The mode of reduction is ob- vious from the position of the injured limb, viz., that the fixed position of pronation is to be overcome; which may be eftected by semiflexing the forearm, for the purpose of relaxing the biceps muscle; by pro- ducing a forcible motion of supination, and at the same time pushing the head of the radius forwards and inwards, towards the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna: the natural position of the two bones is thus usually readily restored; unless, Indeed, the dislocation has been allowed to re- main unreduced for a considerable time. In the displacement forwards, which is an accident of very rare oc- currence, the great distinction is the fixed, supined position of the arm ; and the tumour formed by the head of the radius, being on the fore in- stead of the back part of the ulna, as in the last described injury. The means to be employed for the reduction are, to prone the hand, and to push the head of the radius backwards. The after-treatment of these accidents consists in applying compresses with rollers, so adjusted as to press particularly on the head of the radius, and to prevent the recur- rence of displacement, which is So liable to happen, in consequence of the annular ligament being torn through ; neither should any motion be allowed for some time, as the ligaments are slow in their reparative powers. The ulna is also sometimes luxated from the inferior extremity of the radius; for although the radius moves upon the ulna at the inferior radio ulnar articulation, still it is to be considered as the extremity of the ulna, which escapes from the lesser scaphoid cavity of the radius, rather than a displacement of the radius itself. The inferior extremity of the ulna may be dislocated either forwards or backwards from the radius; the displacement backwards is most frequent, as it is pro- duced by an excessive pronalion of the liand—a motion much more frequently exerted than supination, which has a tendency to produce tlic dislocation forwards.