1 DliSCRIPTlVE ANA.TOMY 0I<’ MUSCLES, llie third phalanx, precisely in the same manner, lias its Hexor and extensor, termed the tertii internodii. The first phalanx of each finger differs from that of the thumb, in being connected with a metacarpal instead of a carpal bone, and having no other motion upon it, than the phalanges enjoy upon each other; namely, flexion and ex- tension, and some slight degree of abduction and adduction. Flexion of the first phalanges of all the fingers, is pro- duced by the lumbricales; of the second, by the flexor sublimis perforatus ; and of the third, by the flexor profundus perforans. Extension of each phalanx of all the fingers, is produced by the extensor, digitorum communis and interossei; the latter muscle also acting as their abductor and adductor. The first phalanx of the fore finger, has however a con- siderable motion towards the thumb by the action of the abductor indicis, a muscle proper to that hone, unless it he considered, as some anatomists are inclined to believe, one of the interossei muscles. The first phalanx of the little finger has also a motion from three muscles proper to it, independent of the muscles common to the other fingers ; but it does not enjoy a greater variety, although an independent motion. Practical Remarks. With respect to the fractures and dislocations of the bones of the upper extremity, I have already treated of them in my description of the bones and ligaments. The axilla is a large space bounded in front by the pcctoralis major, behind by the latissimus dorsi and teres major, above by the shoulder-joint, below by the free edges of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi, on the outer side by the arm, and on the inner by the serratus magnus covering the thorax. This space is filled up by a large portion of cellular membrane, by absorbent glands, and by the axillary artery, vein and nerves. Operations are frequently re- quired in this cavity, from the formation of abscesses in the 4;ellular membrane, diseases of the glands, and from diseases and injury to the vessels. It is necessary, in these operations, whether opening an abscess or extirpating a diseased gland, to direct the knife towards the