85 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. orig-in is deeply seated behind the clavicle, and is covered by the platysma myoides and the trapezius, then by the sterno cleido mastoideus: it crosses the scaleni muscles, the cervical nerves, the carotid sheath, the thyroid g-land, and at its insertion is situated to the outer side of the sterno hyoid muscle: it receives a complete covering from the deep cervical fascia. Use.—To lower the os hyoides, and direct it outwards and back- wards, and also to assist in attaching the scapula to the trunk. The last and fifth muscle which serves to fix the os hyoides, is The m. stylo hyoideus—which arises by a short tendon from the base of the styloid process of the temporal bone, connected to it by a small bursa; it then passes downwards and forwards, in its course bifurcating so as to admit the tendon of the digastric muscle to pass through it; its fibres again unite to be inserted into the anterior part of the body of the os hyoides. This muscle is at first covered by the posterior belly of the digastricus; it crosses the carotid artery, jugular vein and lingual nerve; having on its inner side the stylo glossus and stylo pharyngeus muscles, and at its insertion lying upon the hyo glossus. Use.—To draw the os hyoides upwards and backwards, to act as an antagonist to the muscles just described, and to assist in fixing the bone. We may next proceed to those muscles which depress the lower jaw, and which are situated between the inferior max- illary bone and the os hyoides. This course of description is in exact consonance with the anatomical and physiological consideration of function. The muscles situated between the lower jaw and os hyoides are four on either side of the median line, and are for the purpose of depressing the inferior maxillary bone when the os hyoides is fixed, or to raise that bone in the process of deglutition when the mouth is closed. The m. digastricus, or biventer maxillce.—This is the first muscle which presents itself to view. As its name implies, it