GENERAL ANATOMY OF MUSCLES, 9 do not enter the minutest parts of a muscle as a cord, but that the neurilema ceases, and that the soft medullary part of the nerve alone enters into its composition. The cellular mem- brane is supposed by some physiologists capable of becom- ino* a medium of communication between the nerve and the muscular fibre, without the direct entrance of the nerve itself into the muscle: and, again, there are authors who believe that the nerves, in whichever of these modes they may reach the muscle, are not distributed to all of its fibres, but only to a few; which, being stimulated to contract from the influence of the nerve, produce by their action the stimulus of contrac- tion to the rest of the fibres in the direct line of continuity, so that only a part of a muscle need be in a state of contrac- tion. Reil had yet another hypothesis:—that a nerve was capable of extending its influence to some distance from its termination, by what he termed its “ nervous atmosphere. That there should be so many opinions proves only the difficulty of arriving- at precise conclusions ^ a difficulty arising principally from the minuteness of the structure upon which the vital properties of the muscular system depend. That it is the nerves, however, which induce the contractile state of muscle, is negatively proved by the experiment of dividing the trunk of a nerve in its passage to a muscle, when its voluntary power of contraction ceases, although it may yet be stimulated to action by mechanical or chemical agents. It may be observed, that the greatest part of the cerebral system of nerves are distributed to the muscles, and that they bear generally a proportionable size to the muscle upon which they ramify. If a muscle is destined to assist in the performance of more than one function, it is supplied with nerves from more than one source; a circumstance beautifully illustrated by the physiological and philosophical discoveries of Mr. C. Bell, to whose scientific attainments too high a tribute of respect cannot be paid. Chemical Analysis. The muscles have been already described as having several