67 BONES OF THE HEAD. and, laterally, by the squamous portions of the temporal and alsD majores of the sphenoid bones. Several processes, which have already been described as belonging’ to the in- ternal surface of these bones, are here observable. This division receives the middle lobes of the cerebrum, lodg’ed in two deep concavities, situated on each side of the sella tur- sica. As the foramina of this division transmit important nerves, it is of consequence to describe them more particu- larly, while taking’ this collective view of the base of the skull. In the first place we notice the foramtna optica, situated at the roots of the anterior clinoid processes, and leading’ into the inner and back part of the orbit, directly above the foramina lacera orbitalia superlora. They trans- mit the optic nerves, and the ophthalmic arteries, which enter the orbit above, and to the inner side of the several nerves which pass throug’h the lacerated foramina. Below, and extending- considerably outwards, are found the foramina lacera orbitalia superiora, which enter the orbit in a direc- tion forwards and inwards, and transmit the third, fourth, first division of the fifth, and sixth pair of nerves; all of which are for the purpose of giving- motion and sensation to the eye-ball and its appendag-es. The ophthalmic veins also pass backwards throug’h these foramina, to empty them- selves into the cavernous sinuses. The next pair of foramina, which are only separated from the last described by a very small septum of bone, are the foramina rotunda. They proceed downwards and forwards, and terminate in the sphe- no-maxillary fossa,—a cavity which is bounded, before, by the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone and orbit; on the inner side, by the spheno-palatine foramen leading- into the nose; below, by the commencement of the palato-maxil- lary canal; behind, by the roots of the pteryg’oid processes and the pteryg’oid foramen: and, externally, by a larg-c space between it and the zyg’omatic arch. The foramina rotunda allow the passag-e of the second division of the fifth pair of nerves, the distribution of the branches of which is easily understood, by referring- to the opening’s just described as