DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 81 clavian vein, being- situated between the superficial and deep faseias of the neck. Use. This muscle assists in depressing- the lower lip and corners of the mouth, wringles the skin of the neck transversely, assists in de- pressing the lower jaw, and may be said in some measure to assist also in the motions of the head. On removing the platysma myoides muscle, the fascia cervicalis profunda should now be traced to its attachments. It forms a dense aponeurotic expansion, and proceeds as a continuation of the ligamentum nuchm around the neck. Above it is attached to the lower jaw, being connected there with the pterygoideus internus muscle, and passing downwards and backwards to the styloid process of the temporal bone, forming the stylo maxillary ligament, which separates the subrnaxillary from the parotid gland. It proceeds from this point forwards to the anterior edges of the sterno cleido ' mastoideus, and there becomes connected with the super- ficial cervical fascia; it then continues forwards to the mesian line ; in its course above, giving a covering to the subrnaxillary gland and muscles, between the os hyoides and lower jaw 5 below, to the larynx and trachma; and sends off processes to the muscles in the neighbourhood of the larynx, which pass deeply between them, so as to form sheaths around them ; it then descends connected laterally with the anterior edges of the sterno cleido mastoidei to the sternum, where it divides into two layers; the anterior, being subcutaneous, to be connected with the superficial fascia ; while the deep one, which had invested the omo hyoideus muscle, passes to surround the m. subclavius, from the anterior edge of which it passes to the corocoid process of the scapula, and to the anterior surfaces of the two superior ribs ; being in this situation so firm as to have received the name of costo coracoid ligament. This ligament is highly important from giving a covering to the subclavian artery and vein, in the space precisely corresponding to the divi- sion between the sternal and clavicular portions of the m. pectoralis major. From the posterior edges of the sterno G