LECTURES ON ANATOMY. XX component org’ans, but considers in detail the dill’eient con- stituents of each part, of even one and the same organ. The object of comparative anatomy is to compare the construction of one organ in the human subject, with those of the lower animals. The pathological, or morbid anatomy of the human sub- ject, cannot be treated separately, but should rather be con- nected with both general and special anatomy. However, since what rs called the vital or living principle, its developement and modifications, as also its diseases, ex- ercise great influence upon the structure and texture of the various systems and organs of the human body, it is obvious that some general physiological and pathological observa- tions must necessarily be added to the lectures on anatomy. But before I proceed in this lecture to the consideration of the general anatomy of the human body, it will be better first to premise an explanation of the various technical terms which are made use of in designating the different parts of the w'hole body, and which are as follow : tissues, systems, organs, functions, and organismus. These I shall separately describe. First.—Tissue, which is intended to signify a certain ar- rangement in the elementary particles, of any portion of an organized substance, so as to give it a peculiar texture. And hence, all those parts of an organized body in which the same arrangement is found, are said to belong to the same tissue: as, for instance, the osseous, cellular, &e. &e.: the one being easily distinguished from the other. Second.—A system means an assemblage of parts, which, although various in their individual arrangement, are still identical in their texture, and in most systems, are each in direct continuity. Third.—Organs are the assemblages of parts, which, al- thoug’h various both in their structure and tissue, nevertheless cooperate to efiect some particular purpose; as all the differ- ent parts of the liver cooperate in the formation of the bile. Fourth.—Function Consists of the action of several different