DKSCRIP’1'1 VK ANATOiVlY OF ARTICULATIONS. in ihiit respect, to need its support; it docs, however, assist in prevent- in'f the radius from being dislocated from the ulna. O Inferior Radio Ulnar Articulation. At the inferior extremity, the radius receives the ulna in a concave articular surface, which is covered with cartilage and synovial membrane, the two bones being retained in their situation by some anterior and posterior ligamentous fibres, which pass transversely from one bone to the other, and strengthen the synovial capsule. There is also an in- terarticular cartilag'e, extending from the inner edge of the radius, and insinuates itself between the ulna and the bones of the carpus, which assist to complete this articulation. This cartilage I shall now proceed to describe. The inter articular cartilage is a production from the cartilaginous surface of the scaphoid cavity of the radius, proceeds from it obliquely inwards, and is placed transversely between the inferior extremity of the ulna and cuneiform bone; thus preventing the extremity of the ulna from com- ing in contact with the bones of the carpus, and dividing the synovial cavity of the wrist from that of the inferior radio ulnar articulation. The external edge of this cartilage is connected with the lower and inner edge of the radius, while its internal edge is free, with relation to bone, being only attached to the styloid process of the ulna through the medium of the inter- nal lateral ligament of the wrist-joint. Its superior surface is opposed to the inferior extremity of the ulna: its inferior surface is in the same plane with the scaphoidal cavity of the radius, and opposed to the cuneiform bone of the first range of the carpus. During the motions of pronation and supination of the hand, the interarticular cartilage is pressed against the styloid process of the ulna, and thus forms the fixed point for the motions of the radius. Synovial membrane.—This membrane is situated between and reflected over the surfaces of the outer and lower R 2 ex-