37 BONES OF THE HEAD. The external are the foramen auditivum externum, foramen stylo-mastoideum, foramen glasseri, foramen caroticum, and foramen eustachii. The internal are the foramen auditivum internum, foramen innominatum, aquseductus cochleae, aqueeduetus vestibuli, and the internal opening of the carotid canal, which is in part common to the temporal and sphenoid bones. The common foi'amina are the foramina lacera basis cranii anterius et posterius, and the foramen mastoideum, which is sometimes however proper to the temporal bone; it is for the transmission of small veins from the exterior to the lateral sinus. Connexion.—The temporal bone is joined by the upper and middle part of its thin serrated squamous edge to the parietal bone, while the anterior edge of the squamous plate connects it with the ala major of the sphenoid bone; at its mastoid process, by the additamentum suturae lambdoidalis, it is joined to the occipital bone; and by the anterior extremity of the zygomatic process, to the malar bone. The petrous portion, in forming its part of the internal base, is connected anteriorly with the sphenoid and posteriorly with the occipital bone, while the apex is indirectly connected with the body of the sphenoid bone by cartilage: and lastly, by the glenoid cavity the temporal bone is articulated to the lower jaw. Attachment of A/«sc/es.—The m. sterno-mastoid, splenius capitis, and trachelo-mastoideus, are inserted into the mastoid process. The mas- seter is attached to the zigoma, the temporalis to the temporal fossa, to the digastric fossa the digastricus: the stylo-glossus, stylo-hyoideus, and stylo-pharyngeus to the styloid process, and lastly, to the apex of the petrous portion the levator palati, and tensor tyrryjani are connected. Use.—The temporal hones assist the other bones of the cranium in protecting the brain, and by the peculiar manner in which they are joined to the sphenoid and parietal hones, they offer every defence against injury from external violence; they form also foramina for the transmission of vessels and nerves, and produce, with the lower jaw, the temporo-maxillary articulation ; by their junction with the malar bones a portion of the face is produced ; and lastly, they contain the organ of hearing.