INyRODUCTORY LECTURE. XXxi tion. Thus it would appear, that the great clHference between the two processes is, that the one is very simple and the other extremely complicated. Thus the abundant supplies, fur- nished to every part of the body, are derived from the rami- hcations of the arteries throug'h two distinct processes. We find that e.xhalant vessels are constantly pouring- out fluids; as, for instance, those within the cavity of the peri- toneum, and those which supply synovia for lubricating- the joints. This latter fluid would be constantly accumulating- witliin the cavity of the articulations, were it not for another operation which is in constant progress; its tendency being to maintain an exact proportion between the fluid secreted and the fluid removed, and thus to prevent distension in the secreting’ cavities of the body. If we inquire into the origin of this the absorbent system, and into the purposes for which it is adapted, we shall find that the absorbents, while they act as the constructors of the body, reject what is superfluous or w^ould be injurious, and take up that which is proper for its nutriment or advantage. Like the arteries, these vessels are found diverging into ramifications, arising from all the mu- cous and serous membranes, and also from the cellular mem- brane. They anastomose also like arteries, and form large trunks, which do not pass at once into the thoracic duct, but subdivide and enter into an interjacent apparatus, called ab- sorbent glands. The vessels into which they thus subdivide are called vasa inferentia; and those wdiich pass out from the same gland are denominated vasa efferentia: the former have the superiority in number, the latter in capacity. On examining the structure of these vessels, we find their pa- rietes thin and diaphanous, composed of tw-o coats; the inner coat forming folds, which are termed valves, and which resist any retrograde motion to a degree exceeding the apparent firmness of their substance. They have the power of taking up the fluids that come in contact wuth their orifices, and of conveying them into the circulating blood: this function, termed absorption or inhalation, must exist wherever such vessels occur. It is also to be remarked that the absorbents