THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 36 of the portio mollis and the portio dura ; the former passing to the labyrinth of the internal oar, while the latter takes its course through the canal of Fallopius, and passes out of the foramen stylo-mastoideum as'the facial nerve. The inferior edge of this surface forms a groove for the inferior petrosal sinus, which takes its course from before to behind, and ter- minates in the foramen lacerum basis cranii, which is only partly formed by the temporal bone, but completed by the junction of this bone with the occipital. There are also two small foramina seen on this surface of the bones: the first is placed immediately behind the foramen auditivum internum; it is leading from the vestibule of the internal ear, and is termed the aquceductus vestibuli. The other is rather to be described as being situated upon the inferior broad face of the bone, between the fossa jugularis and the carotid canal, being a passage from the cochlea, and is denominated the aqucaductus cochleae. These passages are supposed to be for the purpose of allowing- the fluid, contained within the internal ear, to flow into the interior of the skull, when im- pressed by any violent sounds. The acute upper edge has, running from before to behind along its anterior half, a groove for the lodgement of the superior petrosal sinus, which leads downwards and backw-ards to terminate in the lateral sinus immediately above the fossa jugularis; while, on the posterior surface of this acute edge, there are seen unequal convexities, marking the situation of the semicircular canals. The base of the triangle is attached to the squamous part of the tem- poral bone ; but immediately behind this junction is to be observed a deep sulcus for the lateral sinus, w hich forms the internal surface of the mamillary process. The apex of the triangle passes forw'^ards to the sphenoid bone, and is rough in the recent subject, having cartilage connected with it. The foramina of the temporal bone are to be divided into those which are proper, and those wdiich are common to the temporal and other bones of the head. The proper foramina are ten in number; five on the ex- ternal surface, and five on the internal surface of the bone.