DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 89 deeper seated than the posterior, or zygomatic fibres, as they are directed to the coronoid process. Use.—To draw tlie lower jaw upwards and backwards, and to press the teeth of the two jaws together. If the posterior fibres of this muscle alone act, they have, in a slight degree, the power to depress the lower jaw, and open the mouth; which being completed, places the anterior fibres in the best possible position to close the mouth again, both by depressing the head, and elevating the jaw. The m. masseter—arises from the two anterior thirds of the inferior edge of the zygoma. The posterior fibres of this muscle are aponeurotic, pass in a direction from above down- wards, and from behind forwards, forming a strong external tendinous surface to this portion. The anterior fibres are fleshy, passing from before backwards towards the lower jaw, are the most internally situated, so that the fibres of these two origins decussate and pass to be inserted into the base of the lower jaw, in a space between its angle and the origin of the depressor anguli oris. The external surface of the masseter is covered partl^^ by the parotid gland, and is traversed by its excretory duct; it is also covered by the platysma myoides, branches of the fascial nerve, and temporal artery: its internal surface covers the ramus of the lower jaw, the insertion of the temporal muscle and the buccinator, from which it is separated by a large quantity of fat. Use.—When both of its layers act, to raise the lower jaw, which it efiects to a great advantage, from the obliquity and decussation of its fibres; but when they act separately, the jaw is drawn alternately backwards and forwards, so as to grind the teeth together: it is, there- fore, one of the most important muscles in mastication. The best mode of exposing the pterygoid muscles, is to saw through the neck of the lower jaw, and through the base, just at the anterior edge of the masseter muscle, and thus to remove the whole of the ascending ramus. The m.pterygoideus internus—arises, strong and tendinous, from the fossa between the external and internal roots of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone, and from the pterygoid process of the os palati; it then becomes fleshy, and passes obliquely downwards from behind to before, to be inserted