PARTS ESSENTIAL TO THE SKELETON. 284 The tibia may be thrown inwards, outwards, forwards, or backwards. The dislocation of the head of the astragalus inwards is the most com- mon ; and in this accident the sole of the foot being’ turned outwards, its inner edge only rests upon the ground; the internal malleolus is depressed, and occupies a space on the inner side of the astragalus below its articular surface; the fibula is broken about two inches above the joint, and the lower portion is drawn by the tibia across the astragalus; the external malleolus remains in its natural situation. If this accident be produced by a person jumping from a considerable height, that por- tion of the tibia which is connected to the fibula by tbe anterior and posterior ligaments is liable to be broken off. Dislocation of the astragalus outwards.—This accident is attended with comminution of bone, and considerable injury to soft parts ; and in every respect offers a less favourable prognosis than the preceding luxation. The sole of the foot is turned inwards, resting on the outer edge; the malleolus internus is broken off the shaft of the tibia; and the fibula, at its lower extremity, is usually fractured. But it is said sometimes to happen, that the ligaments connecting the fibula to the tarsus are ruptured ; and, in that case, the bone remains whole. The external malleolus projects forcibly on the outer side of the foot, so as to threaten the laceration of the skin. Dislocation of the astragalus backwards is produced by the tibia passing forwards oft' the articular surface of the astragalus, and resting upon the navicular bone ; the consequences are great shortening of the foot between the lower part of the leg and extremity of the toes, together with elongation of the heel; the foot is extended and fixed in this posi- tion, admitting of no motion ; the fibula is broken, its ligaments of course remain whole; but some of the posterior fibres of the deltoid ligament are ruptured. This dislocation is sometimes only partial; one half of the articular surface of the tibia resting upon the astra- galus, while the anterior half projects forward over the navicular bone ; the foot is extended, and the fibula broken ; but it may be at once dis- tinguished from the complete luxation, by the shortening of the foot and elongation of the heel being infinitely less than in the preceding ac- cident. Dislocation of the astragalus forwards.—This is an accident of ex- tremely rare occurrence, for it appears never to have fallen under the observation of any author who has written upon the subject of dislo- cation ; but should it occur, the lengthened state of the anterior part of the foot, with the shortening of the heel, would at once be sufficient diagnostic marks to point out the nature of the injury. Luxations in- cident to the ancle-joint, may occur in the compound as well as in the simple state; and the grand distinction between the two accidents is,