INTRODUCTORY LECTURE, XXXVll partment; as essential, indeed, as mathematical science to the navigiitor. Should you, as most of you probably may in the course of your practice, be summoned to give evidence in a court of justice, when the learned judges on the bench look to you for the illustration! of the case before them, and the life or death of the accused rests solely on the evidence which you may present,—consider what an awful responsi- bility is vested in you. The council retained, take care to supply themselves with all the anatomical knowledge which the case may require, and your professional reputation may be materially affected by your replies. Medical men are perhaps more liable to be depreciated in public estimation by forensic evidence, than by any other contingency. Questions are put by counsel, which require a most minute knowledge of anatomy and pathology, to answer satisfactorily; and the hesitation which must inevi- tably accompany an imperfect knowledge of those sciences, must produce a most unfavourable impression on all present; an impression detrimental to the future prospects of the wit- ness. Agitation, embarrassment, constitutional timidity, can scarcely be alleged in extenuation on behalf of the member of a profession, in which presence of mind is an essential re- quisite ; and even the diffidence that so often attends real talents and acquirements, will be but too often illiberally misrepresented. That the path to eminence is rugged, and the ascent steep, I freely admit; if such difficulties did not intervene, there would be little merit in attaining the summit; yet the way is open ; the path, though rugged, is clearly to be traced ; and as to what may depend on confidence in the guide who is to eonduct you, I pledge myself that you shall not be deceived. Thoug-h I stand here as your instructor, it were my prouder boast to be regarded as your fellow-labourer. I would wish you to look on me only as one who has toiled through the journey, and is about to recommence it with you, only that he may facilitate your progress. Whenever, therefore, you may do me the honour. Gentlemen, of soliciting my assistance.