106 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. cation I have adopted as to their function, is the obturator externus muscle, being' one of the rotators outwards of the thigh; but in consequence of its deep situation, covered posteriorly by the quadratus femoris, anteriorly by the adductor longus, brevis, and pectinaeus muscles, it may be more convenient not to examine the origin of it, until the adductor triceps femoris has been dissected and removed: however, it may be well to expose the posterior view of this muscle at this period of the dissection, by cutting through the quadratus femoris and reflecting it towards its attachments. ‘The subject is again to be turned upon the back, to dis- sect the adductor muscle of the hip-joint. The m. triceps adductor femoris—is composed of three distinct origins, which pass from the pelvis to the femur. The m. adductor longus—is the anterior of the three ; it arises by a short strong tendon from the pubes, in a space between its spinous process and symphisis; it soon becomes fleshy, and passes downwards, backwards, and outwards, to be inserted by a narrow tendon into the linea aspera in the middle third of the femur. , The origin of this muscle is placed between the peetineus and gracilis, and anterior to the adductor brevis; its inser- tion is posterior to the vastus internus, separated from it by the fascia lata, and anterior to the adductor magnus ; it has, where attached to the femur, above it, the insertion of the adductor brevis ; below it, the adductor magnus; it is co- vered in front by the fascia lata, sartorius muscle, and femoral vessels. The m. adductor brevis—arises tendinous and fleshy from the pubes, between the symphisis and obturator foramen; from thence it descends outwards and backwards to be inserted into the linea aspera, between the insertion of the peetineus and the adductor longus, occupying the upper third of the body of the femur. It is covered anteriorly by the adductor longus, and pec- tineus; it lies upon the adductor magnus and obturator