238 PARTS ESSENTIAL TO THE SKELETON. occurrence of this accident that the capsular ligament should be torn through. When speaking of the fractures of the os humeri, I mentioned those accidents which have symptoms in any way analogous with dislocation; but, as a general rule, it may be remembered, that in fracture, the injured bone is always capable of being moved, even in directions not natural to the bone ; while in dislocations it is fixed, and not capable of motion, unless a force be used suflicient to return the luxated bone into its natural situation. With respect to the modes of reduction, mere mechanical rules will be of little avail, unless the surgeon possesses sufficient experience to warrant him in exercising his own discretion in the means to be applied for the purpose, which must vary according to circumstances in every particular case. The following, however, may be considered as general points to be'^ttended to : the means of fixing the socket for the reception of the displaced head of the bone; the relaxation of the muscles, the unnatural tension of which constitutes the principal opposing force; the direction in which the extension is to be made ; and the best mechanical mode of applying the extending power. Articulation of the Humerus with the Radius and Ulna. Class Diarthrosis.—Subdivision Ginglimus. The elbow-joint is composed of the condyles of the humerus above, and of the heads of the radius and ulna below; the rounded extremities of the former being- received into cor- responding- cavities in the two latter, the surfaces of which are completely covered with cartilag-e. This union forms a complete hing-e-joint; but the radius also enjoys rotatory motion, which produces pronation and supination of the hand: this is effected by the head of the radius receiving but a small rounded portion of the external condyle of the humerus above, while the inner half of the circumference of its head is received into the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, both these portions being covered with cartilage. This mode of articulation allows the radius to turn upon its own axis. Four ligaments concur in the formation of the elbow-joint: an anterior, a posterior, an external and an internal lateral ligament,- all of which are lined by synovial membrane.