DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 95 The m. azygos uvulce, or* levator uvulai, or palaio sta- phalinus—is a Small elong-ated muscle, which arises from the extremity of the nasal spine of the palate bones, and from the tendons of the tensores palati; its fibres being also connected with the palato pharyngeus, passes dowm the whole length of the uvula, to be inserted into its tip. This muscle is not always single, but sometimes forms two distinct lateral fasiculi. Ute.—To raise the uvula, make it shorter, and curve it forward. The muscles which act upon this muscular curtain, so as to render it capable of preventing the food passing in any other direction than into the pharynx, are the tensor and levator palati. The m. circumjlexus palati, tensor palati, or pterygo sta- phylinus—arises, principally tendinous, from the extremity of the spinous process of the sphenoid bone, posterior to the foramen spinosum, and also from the fibro cartilaginous tissue of the eustachian tube; it then takes its course down- wards, forwards and slightly inwards, along the posterior edge of the pterygoideus internus muscle, as far as the extremity of the internal pterygoid lamella of the sphenoid bone, and there it becomes tendinous, alters its course, winding around the hamillary process of that bone, and being furnished there with a bursa mucosa, it is then reflected upwards and in- w'ards, and spreads itself into a broad tendinous expansion, to be inserted into the velum pendulum palati; its fibres emerging with those of the palato pharyngeus and superior constrictor of the pharynx. This muscle is situated in front, and below the eustachian tube, immediately behind the foramen spinosum, and con- sequently the spheno spinal artery, which passes through that foramen to the dura mater. Use.—To draw the soft palate very slightly downwards, but prin- cipally to stretch it, by drawing it outwards. The m. levator palati mollis, or petro staphylinus—arises from the anterior extremity of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and from the eustachian tube ; from these