DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 141 action would be performed principally, so far as regards the scapula, by the two muscles above, and the two in front. The shoulder-joint is formed by the attachment of the humerus to the scapula—a joint possessing the most ex- tensive motion of any in the body; hence the necessity of its numerous muscles. The humerus moves upon the scapula in every direction ; but its principal movements are, forwards and upwards, downwards and backwards, outwards^ inwards, and rotatory; and, by the combination of all these motions, circumduction. Each of these individual motions is performed by a parti- cular set of muscles; while infinite varieties are formed by their multiplied combinations. The motion forwards and upwards, or extension of the humerus, is performed by the acromial and clavicular fibres of the deltoid, supra spinatus, infra spinatus, eoraco brachialis, subscapularis, pectorahs major (by its clavicular portion), assisted by the biceps, a muscle of the elbow-joint. It is the deltoid, supra spinatus, coraco brachialis, and the clavicular portion of the pectorahs major, which first raise the humerus; while the infra spinatus, subscapularis and biceps unite to fix it in a raised position. All these extensors of the shoulder-joint, must necessa- rily be put upon the stretch in the dislocation of the head of the humerus into the axilla. The motion backwards and downwards, or flexion of the humerus, is performed by the posterior fibres of the deltoid, teres major, teres minor, latissimus dorsi, and by the long’ head of the triceps,—a muscle of the elbow-joint. In dislocation of the head of the humerus into the axilla, the deltoid and long head of the triceps will be put upon the stretch, the teretes relaxed, while the latissimus is but little altered from its quiescent position. The motion outwards, or abduction of the arm, is per- formed by the deltoid, supra spinatus, and infra spinatus, assisted, when carried from the side, by the subscapularis.