DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 1G3 otherwise precisely similar to them; the fifth or lower one is attached to the lateral portion of the sacrum, and sacro lumbar lig-araent. Use.—To draw the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae to- wards each other. From the foregoing- description of muscles of the spine, witli their multiplied attachments, we perceive, that the motions of the spinal column are calculated to combine great strength with considerable variety of action. The inflections are, forwards, backw'ards, and laterally, together ■with intermediate modifications ; in all of which the opposite muscles act as antagonists. For instance, in bending the body forwards, numerous muscles act in producing that motion; while at the same time, other muscles are called, equally into action to prevent the column turning to either side, thereby fixing and supporting the bones. Again, in pre- serving the equilibrium of the body in all its motions, a vast number of muscles are called into action, merely to preserve its eliquibrium; hence there is almost an inconceivable variety in the combined actions of the muscles of the spinal column, all of which are more or less assisted, or are in connection with those of the trunk. Before motion in any one part of the spinal column can take place, another portion must be fixed by a certain set of muscles, which are termed the fixors, and form a fulcrum of support for those muscles which are called, into action as the motors of the part destined to be moved. The motions of the spine may be considered with regard to its action generally, and to the actions of its particular regions. Under the first consideration we may observe, that the erect position of the body is maintained by the simultaneous action of all those muscles which have been described as connected with the spine, on its anterior, posterior, and lateral regions; assisted also by the muscles of the ab- domen, pelvis, and extremities. The principal deviations from the erect position are, in