DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 173 ation of abscess; hence the necessity of confining the motions of the ribs as much as possible, in all cases of severe injury. When wounds penetrate the chest, there is danger of injuring the lungs, the heart, the large vessels, and even the oesophagus. These will be indicated by the passage of air, and small quantity of blood through the wound, accompanied with emphysema of the surrounding parts, of profuse haemorrhage, if the heart or large vessels be wounded, or even of the passage of the contents of the oesophagus, when injury extends to that part. The occurrence of emphysema more frequently follows fracture of the ribs and narrow stabs, than of more extensive wounds; because in the latter cases the air has a free exit, and is not forced into the cellular membrane of the surrounding parts. When an accumulation of air takes place between the pleura costalis and pulmonalis, the lung is not so capable of receiving air in each succeeding inspiration, which pro- duces dyspnoea. It is doubtful, however, from experiments which have been made upon the subject, whether the admission of air necessarily produces a collapse of the lungs. Some authors recommend wounds into the chest to be left open, until such time as the wound of the lung has healed; so that the air may pass through it: and if there be any obstruction to its passage, and the difficulty of breathing increases to any alarming degree, the original wound of the parietes to be enlarged ; or even a second opening to be made into the pleura. When the accumulation of air takes place externally in the cellular membrane, scarifications and friction are the best means of relieving the symptoms produced, and are almost always efficient. Should the lungs be wounded deeply, as indicated by the flow of blood from the wound, or its escape from coughing, the patient can only be saved by repeated blood-lettings, which must be carried to the utmost extent discretion could warrant. Should extraneous bodies be lodged in the cavity of the chest, the opportunity should not be lost, if fainting should occur, of attempting their removal, even by enlarging the wound when it is necessary. Protrusion of a portion of the lung may happen, though it is but of very rare occurrence; there are, however, cases on record in which mortifica- tion of the protruded part took place, and extirpation was resorted to with success ; in others, the parts remaining healthy have been returned into the cavity of the chest, with an equally favourable result. Empyema, or collection of pus within the chest, sometimes follows wounds of these parts, and is indicated by symptoms of the formation of matter, as in other parts of the body. If the abscess forms within the substance of the lungs, it is usually discharged ihrough the bronchiae; but it may open itself into the cavity of the pleura, and