DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF ARTICULATIONS. 211 dlaphrag'in, so as to add rnuch to its strength in the most moveable parts of the vertebral column. Common posterior vertebral ligament.—This ligament is usually described as arising from the lower part of the second cervical vertebra; but that portion which, by some anatomists, is called the perpendicular ligament of the denti- form process, is in fact the commencement of the common posterior vertebral. It takes origin, therefore, from the upper and fore part of the foramen magnum, and the concavity of the basilary process of the occipital bone, descending from thence within the vertebral canal on the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebree, to the sacrum. It first passes behind the odontoid process, and extends laterally in its passage over the posterior surface of the intervertebral sub- stance. None but minute vessels can be traced to it, nor is its structure so fibrous as that of the common anterior liga- ment. In the cervical and dorsal regions, it is thicker than in the lumbar. The posterior surface of this ligament is in contact with the dura mater, covering’ the spinal marrow, to which it is connected by loose cellular membrane. The ante- rior surface is attached to the bodies of the vertebrae and to the inteirertebral substance, and is very firmly connected with the latter. Its lateral edges are parallel to the sinus venosus. This ligament prevents the spine from being bent too much forward. Intervertebral substance.—The structure of this sub- stance partakes of the nature of ligament and cartilage; it occupies the spaces between the bodies of all the vertebrae, corresponds in shape with the bodies of those which it con- nects, and, like them, differs in the different reg’ions, gradually increasing in density, and separating the vertebrae more widely as it approaches the sacrum. In the cervical and lumbar regions, this substance is found thicker anteriorly than posteriorly; whle, in the back, it is thinner anteriorly; thus accommodating itself to the natural curvitures of the spine. It is composed of oblique concentric lamellae, which are stronger in the external circumference than in the centre,