PHYSIOLOGY OF THE BONES. 13 substance of the bone, and into such as, without first ramlfy- ing-, penetrate at once into the medullary canal, and, spreading' themselves upon the lining membrane, pass through its sub- stance, and anastomose with the vessels of the compact struc- ture. The veins which accompany the arteries, communicate very freely with the medullary cavities of the spongy structure of the bone. Although nerves cannot actually be traced into bone, the pain incident to bones in disease sufficiently indicate their presence; and although, therefore, we have not, from our sensations, any conscientiousness of an osseous system, until some disease or accidental injury take place in it, yet the bones are really as capable as any structure in the body of warning us promptly, through the medium of the nerves, of injury in- flicted upon them by motion or weight. Absorbents cannot be demonstrated passing into bones, but the phenomena attending exfohation and other diseases, suffici- ently indicate their existence in that system. It may be observed, in conclusion, that the osseous system generally undergoes certain changes at the different periods of life. It is found more spongy and soft during infancy, only resembling a fibrous tissue, in which there may be ob- served the incipient deposition of earthy matter. As regards their external form, bones are generally found to have a more rounded shape during the earlier than the more advanced periods of life: their eminences and depressions are less marked, and their surfaces have, in general, a more uniform appearance. In early life their great flexibility is an important quality; for it is owing to this quality that external violence produces but a comparatively slight and transitory effect on the bones of a young person. Composition of Bone. Bone consists of animal and of earthy particles, which, according to some physiologists, are supplied by two distinct sets of vessels: the former, or animal particles, being se- creted by the blood-vessels which supply the internal or