141 BONES OF THE EXTREMITIES. third they ag^in separate, to terminate in the two condyles. At the junction of the upper with the middle tliird, on this surface of the bone, a foramen is seen for the transmission of tlie nutritious artery, the direction of w^hich is from below upwards: and at the junction of the middle with the lower \ third, the inner crus of the linea aspera presents a groove, marking the situation -where the femoral becomes popliteal artery. The inferior extremity of the bone is expanded, forming two large articulatory surfaces, which are termed the external and internal condyles. These articulatory surfaces meet anteriorly, to form a pulley-like articulatory depression for the patella; this surface being covered with cartilage con- tinuous with the two condyles. Inferiorly the condyles diverge; the external presenting a rounded articulatory surface, convex from behind to before, and slightly from side to side, -with its outer more prominent than its inner edge. The internal condyle is necessarily longer than the external, from the obliquity with which the bone descends to come in contact with the tibia: it is more contracted and convex from side to side than the outer condyle, and has a longer axis from before to behind. The articular cartilage, which covers the condyles, projects further posteriorly than anteriorly. A deep cleft separates the two condyles from each other poste- riorly, to lodge and protect the popliteal vessels and nerves. The non-articular or lateral surfaces on the two condyles are flattened and rough for the attachment of ligaments, also allow'ing the vasti muscles to pass over them, to be inserted into the patella, A tubercle is seen posterior to the central axis of the condyles, for the attachment of the lateral liga- ments ; and behind the tubercle, upon the inner condyle, is a pit, for the tendon of the adductor magnus muscle; and on the outer condyle, a fossa which lodges the m. popliteus,when the knee is flexed. 1 he inferior extremity of the bone is perforated by a number of vessels passing into the interior. Ihis bone assists in forming the hip and knee-joints.