143 BONES OF THE EXTREMITIES. produces crepitation. The only accident for which this can be mistaken, is dislocation upon the pubes; but the circumstance of the one being unnaturally fi.xed, while the other is capable of inordinate motion, will lead to a just knowledge of the injury. From the experience I have had upon this subject, I feel I cannot do better than recommend the practice adopted by Sir Astley Cooper, as laid down in his work on fractures and dislocations. The Trochanter Major (Vide Fig, 2., Plate JX.) is sometimes de- tached from the shaft of the bone;—an accident which it is difficult to detect, in consequence of the small size of the separated portion, and from its not producing any alteration in the direction or length of the limb; the fractured portion of bone being drawn up by the action of them.gluteus medius and minimus, a consider.able separation frequently occurs. In consequence of these two muscles being wholly inserted into the trochanter major, the adaptation of the fractured extremity is diffi- cult both to produce and to maintain ; and can only be accomplished by the abduction of the injured limb, in addition to the other ordinary means. I have had an opportunity of witnessing this accident, and experienced all the difficulties I have described. Fractures immediately below the Trochanter Minor.—(Vide Fig. 3., Plate IX.)—This accident differs from all other fractures of the thigh, excepting that last described, from the greater displacement occurring in the upper than the lower portion of the bone, in consequence of the insertion of the m. psoas magnus and iliacus internus the upper fractured extremity is drawn forwards, so as to form a tumour in the groin, which deformity can only be obviated by bending the pelvis upon the thigh, so that the patient must be placed in bed nearly in a sitting posture. Fracture in the Middle of the Shaft.—(Vide Fig. 4., Plate IX.)— When this portion of the bone is fractured, a shortening of the limb in- variably takes place, which is produced by the action of those muscles which are attached to the whole length of the thigh-bone. The most usual position of the fractured extremities is, for the lower portion to be drawn upwards and inwards by the adductor muscles, while the upper is thrown outwards, forming in this situation a perceptible protuberance produced by the action of the m. gluteus maximus. This is not, how- ever, the invariable direction; for if the fracture occurs midway between the insertion of the m. gluteus maximus and the external condyle, the m. vastus externus will draw both portions in such a direction as to form a salient angle outwards, in which case very little shortening occurs. Transverse Fracture immediately above the Condyles.—(Vide Fig, .I,, Plate IX.)—In this case, the m. gastrocnemius externus plantaris and popliteus, draw downwards and backwards the inferior portion of the