41 BONES OF THE HEAD. the })Osterior part of the inner wall of the cavity of the nose. At the anterior part of the pterygoid process, where the two plates are joined, we find, above, a slight concavity forming the posterior boundary of the spheno-maxillary fossa, a space between the sphenoid and maxillary bones, in wliich is lodged the superior maxillary nerve prior to its division. Extending downwards from this is a groove forming a part of the pterygo- palatine canal, and leading through the palato maxiUary fora- men to the roof of the mouth. On either side, and below this groove, the bone is rough for its attachment to die os palati. Lastly, the root of the pterygoid proces is traversed by the pterygoid canal, extending from before to behind, which allows of the transmission of a branch of the second division of the fifth pair of nerves. We now proceed to speak of the internal surface of the sphenoid bone, which presents, besides the internal view of the body and wings, which have already been noticed as regards their exterior, also a third process, or rather a pair of processes, not yet spoken of, viz., the alee minores. Thus, in giving a general description of the sphenoid bone, we might say that it consisted of a body and the two alae majores com- mon to both its surfaces; of die pterygoid processes proper to the external; and the alae minores, proper to the internal surface. The internal surface of the sphenoid bone is irre- gularly concave, and supports the middle lobes of the brain. On the body we observe a considerable hollow, called the sella tursica, from its resemblance to a Turkish saddle,—or fossa pituitaria, for lodging the pituitary gland of the brain, '^rhis fossa is bounded anteriorly by two small projecting pro- cesses of bone, termed the anterior clinoid processes: they are produced by portions of the roots of the aloe minores, and between them is situated a rounded ridge of bone, called the processus olivaris ,* from which are seen to pass two diverg- ing grooves, which lead to the foramina optica, and mark the course of the optic nerves after they have formed their junc- tion. Behind, the fossa pituitaria is bounded by the posterior clinoid processes, which project but slightly from an inter-