THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM, 94 the false vertebrae; and the great distinction between them and the true vertebrae is, that they do not assist in the motions of the spinal column. The muscles connected with this bone are the m. glutei maximi, coc- cygei, levatores ani, and sphincter ani. Practical Remarks. This bone is less liable to fracture than even the sacrum, for it is equally if not more deeply seated : whilst, from the motion it enjoys, it rather yields to the application of force than breaks. Fracture, nevertheless, occasionally happens from a fall on the buttock: the nature of the accident is indicated by a severe pain in the coccygeal region, and may be ascer- tained by examination per rectum : the pain is much increased by any attempt to walk, in consequence of the fibres of the gluteus maximus dis- placing the fractured portions. No kind of apparatus can be applied to assist the reunion of this bone. Rest, poultices, and the antiphlogistic regimen are to be strictly employed, to prevent the occurrence of suppuration. The Ossa Innominata Are two larg'e irreg’ularly-formed bones, constituting- the fore part and sides of the pelvis, and the lower part of the abdomen. In the adult, each of them presents an extended surface, inseparable but by violent and arbitrary division: while, on the contrary, during the foetal period of life, they are each naturally divided into the ilium, ischium, and pubes ; and are connected with each other through the medium of an intervening cartilage, which subsequently becomes per- manently ossified. They are further united in the formation of the acetabulum. The os ilium, or hip-bone, is the largest, and highest in situation of the three bones which form the os innominatum. It is divided into two distinct parts: its thick portion, or body, entering into the composition of the acetabulum: and its thin expanded portion, forming the lateral boundary of the pelvis. The body forms the anterior and lower portion of the ilium, and presents an articulatory surface, which pro- duces rather less than two fifths of the acetabulum: from