113 BONES OF THE EXTREMITIES. lig’aments, to form the shoulder-joint. Immediately around this articulatory surface, the bone is rough, for the attachment of the capsular lig'ament; and it is this point joining- the head of the bone to the body, or shaft, which is to be consi- dered the true anatomical neck. Just below the neck, on the upper anterior and outer part of the body of the humerus, is situated the greater tubercle, which is furnished with an outer, middle, and internal surface, for the attachment of three of the muscles of the shoulder-joint. To the inner side of this process we observe a smaller, which is termed the lesser tu- bercle, and which g-ives attachment to one muscle only. Be- tween these two tubercles there is a deep sulcus, or groove, which is lined with cartilage, and receives the tendon of the long head of the biceps. This groove necessarily possesses two edges, both of which are rough, for the insertion of mus- cle. The body, or shaft, extends from the head of the humerus to its condyles, and forms by far the greatest part of the length of the bone ; if divided into thirds, the upper third will be found rounded, the middle third twisted, and the lower one flattened. It may also be observed, that the upper third is smooth posteriorly, allowing the triceps muscle to pass over it, but without being at- tached to it; while anteriorly on this portion of the- bone two lines may be seen proceeding from the outer and in- ner tubercles, to terminate at the condyles. The groove for lodging the tendon of the biceps, is also situated on this part of the bone. The middle third presents a con- torted appearance, as if the head of the bone and the con- dyles had been twisted in opposite directions half round, so as to produce this singular effect. Two rough surfaces are seen on this portion of the bone for the attachment of muscle: an outer one for the insertion of the deltoid, and an inner one for the insertion of the coraco-brachialis. A foramen for the nutritious artery is also found in this region, the direction of which is from above to below. The lower third of the hu- merus is flattened, and increases in breadth as it descends to i