268 PARTS ESSENTIAL TO THE SKELETON. succession of all the motions of which the hip-joint is capable; and, as mig-ht be supposed from the structure of the joint, is limited to a considerably less extent than that in the shoulder. The lig-aments and muscles adapt themselves to each motion as rapidly as they occur. Practical Remarks. Dislocations of the Hip-Joint, Having ascertained the motions of which this joint is capable, we may easily understand the different directions in which the head of the thigh- bone may he thrown from the acetabulum. First, upwards and backwards upon the dorsum ilii. Secondly, downwards and forwards into the foramen ovale. Thirdly, backwards into the ischiatic notch. Fourthly, forwards upon the pubes. Dislocation upwards and backwards on the dorsum ilii.—This is the most frequent luxation of the thigh-bone; and although in many respects it offers the same diagnostic marks as the other dislocations, yet there are some peculiar circumstances which render the nature of the accident at once obvious; and its most prominent characteristic is, the great de- gree of shortening of the limb, its rotation inwards, so as to bring the trochanter major much nearer to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium; the foot, on the injured side, rests upon the tarsus of the opposite one, and the knee is partly flexed, and in-advance of the other. The roundness of the hip is lost, in consequence of the ascent of the head of the thigh-bone upon the dorsum of the ilium, and the consequent re- laxation of the glutei muscles ; the pyriformis is somewhat relaxed, but the obturatores gemini and quadratus muscles are stretched. The psoas and iliacus are put upon the stretch, in consequence of their being drawn over the body of the pubes; but tbe other muscles arising from the pelvis, and inserted into the bones of the lower extremity, below the trochanter major, on account of the approximation of their points of attachment, are relaxed. The capsular ligament is torn through, so as to admit of the escape of the head of the bone, and the ligamentum teres is also lacerated. The accidents with which this dislocation may be confounded are, the luxation of the head of the thigh-bone into the ischiatic notch, and the fracture of its neck; from the first it may be distinguished by the great degree of shortening, which causes the toe of the injured side to cross the tarsus of the opposite foot; while in dislocation into the ischi- atic notch, the toe, on the dislocated side, is only directed to the ball of the great toe on the other. From fracture of the cervix femoris it is