24 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. is a hole called the foramen caecum ; in this a small process of the falx is situated, and the superior long'itudinal sinus begins there; this hole is sometimes formed partly by the crista galli of the ethmoid bone, so as to render the foramen common to the two bones. The os frontis is composed of two tables and an interposed diploe; it is nearly equally dense throughout, excepting at the orbitar plates, which are rendered thin by the pressure of the brain on one side, and the globe of the eye on the other. In that part above the superciliary ridges, where the frontal tuberosities are described, the frontal sinuses are situated: they are formed by a separation of the external from the internal plate, and the absence of diploe; they are divided by a bony partition, but generally not into equal sized cavi- ties : the partition is by no means always perfect. The frontal sinuses open into the middle chamber of the nose. Connexion.—The upper circular part of the os frcmtis is joined to the ossa parietalia, from one temple to the other by the c6ronal suture: from the termination of the coronal su- ture to the external angular process, it is connected with the sphenoid by the sphenoidal suture ; at the external canthi, its external angular processes are joined by the transverse su- ture to the ossa malarum, to which it adheres one third way down on the outside of the orbits, whence to the bottom of these cavities, and a little upon their internal sides, the orbi- tar processes are connected with the sphenoid bone by the same suture. On the inside of the orbit, the ethmoid and the unguis are joined to the orbitar plate of the frontal bone. The transverse suture afterwards joins the frontal bone to the nasal processes of the superior maxiUary bone, and to the nasal bones; and lastly, its nasal process is connected with the ethmoid bone. Use.—Serves to defend and support tlie anterior lobes of the brain ; assists in forming the bony part of the organs of vision and smell. In the foetus it is not perfectly ossified; the superciliary holes are not formed, nor are the frontal sinuses. Jlttachment of Muscles.—The muscles attached to the frontal bone are