THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 88 attain their maximum: which enables us to disting^uish tliat particular bone. In tlie two or three superior ribs the angle is hardly to be recognized at all, it is so involved in the general curve of the rib: the same remark also applies to those below the ninth. The eleventh and twelfth ribs, are distinguished by having whole articulatory surfaces on their heads, to correspond with the two lower dorsal vertebrae; but as they do not articulate with the transverse processes of the corresponding vertebrae, they are destitute of tubercles : their extremities are likewise unconnected. The curve formed by the bodies of the ribs will be found gradually to diminish, from the first to the last; and the tubercles will be seen to face in a more downward direction in the same ratio. Having thus given a description of the several ribs, and mentioned the pecuUarities of each, we may next take a view of the cavity formed by them: by the sternum, before, and by the dorsal vertebrae, behind. This cavity is of a conical shape ; having its apex above, and its base below: a form which will at once indicate the differences which must exist in each bone, in order, by their combination, to produce it. Thus we find the curve of the ribs diminishes, while their length increases, from above to below. It is true, that, after the seventh, they again become shorter; but this does not interfere with the general contour of the cone; for, as their curve still continues to decrease, the only effect produced by their diminution in length is, that they terminate sooner, and thus leave the fore part of the cavity defective below; just as if an oblique section had been made of the cone, from above to below, towards the spine. The direction, also, of the two surfaces in the different ribs, the situation of the angles, the obliquity of the cartilages, and all the other variations already described, will be found contributory to the production of a conical cavity, and to the adaptation of that cavity to the different degrees of motion, and alterations in size and shape, which it is destined to undergo during respiration. It is worthy of remark that the ribs do not run in lines parallel with each other, but have a tendency to diverge as they