DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 233 ncctccl witli the disease. One disease of particular surgical importance connected with the muscles of the hip-joint, may now with propriety be mentioned. Between the tendinous insertion of the psoas and iliacus, and the trochanter minor, the bursa mucosa there situated will occasion- ally secrete an inordinate quantity of synovia, which projects forwards into the thigh, presenting a tumour, which may be mistaken for abscess or femoral hernia; in such cases a just diagnosis can only be formed by strict attention to the previous symptoms, and history of the case. Considerable surgical importance is also attached to a familiar know- ledge of the form of the external surface of this region, where the situation of the trochanter major, its distance from the anterior and superior spinous process of the ilium, and its capability of rotation outwards or inwards, severally indicate the nature of dislocations and diseases of the hip-joint. The perineal surface of the anterior portion of this region, is the seat of extravasation of urine, when the urethra has given way between the two fasciae of the perinaeum. The surgical operations connected with the arteries of this part of the body, will be mentioned when treating of the blood-vessels generally. The femoral region comprehends the whole of the thigh, between the line before mentioned and the knee. With respect to the skin, it is found softer and thinner on the inner than on the outer and back part of the thigh. Beneath the skin, and between it and the fascia upon the upper and anterior part of the femoral region, is situated several small absorbent glands, which are the frequent seats of inflammation and abscess, requiring the evacuation of their contents; but even in this simple operation, the situation of these abscesses renders it of import- ance, as they may be confounded with hernia;—a circumstance I have twice known to occur, and with fatal consequences. The number of nerves and veins which pervade this region of the lower extremity, between the skin and fascia, render superficial wounds of this part important, from the consequent degree of pain and haemovrhage which follows. The fascia lata of the thigh, from its little tendency to ulcerate, forms a strong barrier to the escape of matter, and conse- quently produces a corresponding constitutional irritation; to obviate which, early openings should be made, unless connected with the lumbar region, when much caution is necessary. The evacuation of the matter in relation to the two bags formed by the fascia lata on the posterior and anterior part of the thigh, requires the same precaution as was noticed when speaking of abscess under the fascia of the arm. In the circular amputation of the thigh, the first incision should be made through the skin only, in order to allow the skin to be retracted readily on the surface of the fascia lata. I may also, in speaking of the