THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. ] 12 posterior costa, an irregularity of surface may be felt. (Fide Plate Vim Fig. 1. i.) When fractures through the dorsum are vertical in theii direction, but very sliglit derangement occurs, in consequence of botli the external and internal surfaces of the scapula being so com- pletely covered by muscles. {Vide Plate VI. Fig. \. c.) Jn all cases of fracture of the scapula, great attention should be paid to the constitu- tional as well as to the local treatment, as the principal danger arises from the contusion of the soft parts necessarily attendant on a degree of violence sufficient to produce a fracture. Bleeding, purging, and the antiphlogistic regimen are to be strictly adhered to, to prevent the in- flammation terminating in abscess, and, probably, subsequent exfolia- tion of bone. When the dorsum of the bone is fractured, the arm ought to be fixed to the side of the thorax by a long roller passed round the chest, enclosing the arm from the shoulder to the elbow, much in the same manner as the bandage directed to be applied in fracture of the ribs. But when the fracture is at the inferior angle, the arm is to be drawn across the fore part of the chest, and confined there, so as to bring the scapula towards the detached angle, which is itself too small to be acted upon. In fractures of the acromion, the head of the humerus is to be forced upwards, and retained there so as to form a splint to the acromion. This may be accomplished by applying a bandage round the trunk and arm, and afterwards carrying it from the elbow to the shoulder for several turns, till it produces an effect similar to that of a short sling. This bandage must be worn for six weeks at least, as the acromion requires a considerable time for its consolidation. Lastly, in fractured coracoid process, the object is to relax the fibres of the coraco-brachialis biceps, and pectoralis minor; which is to be done by bringing the humerus for- ward, the scapula inwards, and bending tbe fore arm to a right angle, and fixing the whole in this position by bandages. The Os Humeri. The humerus is the largest bone of the upper e.xtremity, situated between the scapula above, and the radius and ulna below. It is cylindrical in form, and is divided into its body and two extremities. The upper extremity or head of the bone presents an arti- culatory surface, which forms about the tliird part of a sphere, and is directed upwards, backwards, and inwards, towards the glenoid cavity of the scapula, with which it is connected by