PARTS ESSENTIAL TO THE SKELETON. 208 the ptoryg'oicl muscles; for in the natural position we find no muscles capable of g’iving’ it motion in that direction. I he lateral motion is produced by the condyle of the jaw being- carried outwards on the one side, and inwards on the other. This motion is of limited extent, as it is soon opposed by the vag-inal process of the temporal, and the spinous pro- cess of the sphenoid bone; but some advance may take place of the jaw on one side; in which case, the condyloid process, on that side, passes forwards on the root of the zyg-omatic pro- cess ; while, on the other, it acts in the g-lenoid cavity as the centre of motion ; and it is by inordinate degrees of motion in this direction, that dislocation on one side sometimes occurs. Practical Remarks. There is but one direction in which the lower jaw can be dislocated : in this case, the condyloid process is thrown forwards and downwards under the zygomatic arch; this displacement is produced by strong muscular action, while the jaw is in a state of complete depression. The mouth is, by the advance of the condyloid process under the zygomatic arch, mechanically kept open, so that the ligaments are much in the same state as in the natural depression of the jaw; unless, from the great degree of violence which has been exercised in producing the injury, the extension be so great as to cause the laceration of the external lateral ligament and superior synovial membrane. I have never obtained an opportunity of examining the parts by dis- section after this accident, except by producing the dislocation post mortem, when the muscles are found in the following state. The tem- poral muscle is subjected to a great degree of extension ; and I should think in the living subject, in whom there would be a strong counter- acting muscular power, that its posterior fibres would be frequently ruptured from the advance of the coronold process, into which it is inserted. The masseter muscle, in consequence of the decussation of its fibres, is, with respect to its anterior and posterior edges, placed under exactly different circumstances; the anterior being relaxed, and the posterior forcibly and painfully extended. The pterygoideus internus is in a complete state of relaxation, the two bony attachments of the muscle being brought closer together. The external pterygoid muscle is also relaxed, in consequence of the condyloid process of the lower jaw being thrown nearer to the sphenoid hone, from which this muscle arises. A perfect knowledge of the situation of museles under dislocation, is