180 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. side. This lig-ament forms, therefore, a deep-seated fascia behind the muscles of the perinaeum, in the same manner as the superficial fascia does in front of them. Below, it forms a concave edge, which surrounds the upper surface of the rectum, reaching from the tuberosity of the ischium on one side to the other, at which points it is attached to the super- ficial fascia ; its upper edge is also concave, surrounding the under surface of the membranous part of the urethra, leaving a space between it and the triangular ligament for the passage of that canal. There are yet two portions in connection with this ligament, which claim particular atten- tion ; these are given off from the point of junction between the triangular ligament and perinaeal fascia, forming the passage for the urethra. The anterior, or perinaeal lamina, proceeds along the bulb of the urethra, gives it support, and that peculiar glistening appearance it presents on dissection; it gradually loses itself by becoming more and more atten- uated upon the corpora cavernosa. The posterior pelvic lamina passes backwards, surrounds the membranous part of the urethra, and covers the prostate gland, lining at the same time the inner surface of the levator ani; is continued as far as the spinous process of the ischium, where it is lost in the pelvic fascia. Above the membranous part of the urethra, it attaches the bladder to the pubes, and is there named the anterior ligament of the bladder. The knowledge of the deep fascia of the perinoeum is essential from the circumstance, that when the urethra is ruptured on its pelvic side, urine is extravasated into the cellular membrane within the pelvis ; and extravasation of even a small quantity in this situation, is highly dangerous, from its proximity to the peritonaeum ; inflammation of which frequently occurs after operations and accidental ruptures of the urethra, causing, from its insidious progress, the most unexpected fatal terminations. Openings in the urethra on the anterior or perinaeal side of this fascia, causes extrava- sation, attended with abscess, which shews itself in the perinaeum, scrotum, and above the pubes. For the reasons