DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 174 produce such difficulty of breathing, from its pressure on the lungs, as to render the operation of paracentesis thoracis necessary. The presence of matter within the cavity of the pleura, is known by the dull sound on tapping the chest with the lingers, as well as by the necessity which the patient has to lie on the diseased side, which relieves the lungs from the pressure of the matter ; such symptoms being corrobo- rated, of course, by the previous history of the patient’s symptoms. When matter forms between the pleura costalis and the intercostal muscles, the pleura becomes considerably thickened, so as to form a barrier to its infernal direction, and a fluctuating tumour is therefore felt externally ; usually however, unattended with discoloration of the skin. These abscesses should be opened as soon as fluctuation is dis- covered, to prevent its further extent, and the possibility of its escaping inwards. The openings should be made as much as possible in the most dependent direction, when the action of the lungs during respira- tion is sufficient to promote the discharge of the matter, in conjunction with the contraction of the cavity of the abscess. If this disease be attended with caries of the ribs, the cure is always difficult and protracted. Abscesses sometimes form behind the sternum in the anterior mediastinum, producing, besides those symptoms common to the formation of matter, pressure of the lungs, attended with difficulty of breathing; and displacement of the heart, with irre- gularity of the pulse; such cases have been occasionally mistaken for aneurism; but a proper diagnosis may be formed from a careful at- tention to previous symptoms, and from a minute examination of the tumour itself, under various positions of the body. These abscesses have been relieved, either by being opened between the cartilages of the ribs, or by a portion of the sternum being removed with a trephine. A case of this kind came under Sir Astley Cooper’s notice, in which the patient, who was a surgeon, was considered by others, and himself believed to be dying of aneurism of the arch of the aorta; as the tumour had a motion corresponding with the pulsa- tion of the heart; Sir Astley Cooper, upon examination, discovered the nature of the case ; and gave instant relief, both to the body and mind of the patient, simply by puncturing the abscess with a lancet. Remarks upon fractures of the bones of the chest have already been given, when treating on osteology.