ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. 271 sets: those which are external, and those which are internal. The latter, however, it must be remembered, are without the synovial cavity, althoug-h nearer to the centre of motion than the former class. The external llg-aments of the knee-joint are, an anterior, or ligamentum patellm; a posterior, or the lig-ament of Winslow; two external, and one internal lateral lig-aments. The ligament of the patella is, in fact, nothing- more than a continuation of the tendons of the e.xtensor muscles of the leg-, which completely envelop the patella, becoming- at- tached to its inferior edg-e or apex, and passing- from it to the tubercle of the tibia; anteriorly, it is covered only by skin, and by a prolong-ation of the fascia lata ; its posterior surface is in contact with fat and the synovial membrane of the joint, and below a bursa is formed between it and the tibia; its edg-es are in contact with the tendinous insertion of the vasti, and with that portion of the synovial membrane which gains the name of the alae ligaments. The fibres of this lig-ament pass from above to below in parallel lines, which are strengthened by cross bands. It is generally about two inches in length, and is sufficiently strong to counter- balance the action of the extensor muscles. The long external lateral ligament is posterior to the centre of motion, so as not to be put upon the stretch under the various actions of the joint. It is composed of vertical fibres, which descend from the external condyle of the femur to be attached to the head of the fibula; it is covered in a great part of its extent by the tendon of the biceps muscle, and its inner surface is applied to the external semilunar cartilag-e, and to the synovial membrane. The inferior articular vessels pass between this ligament and the bone. The origin of the external lateral ligament from the femur, is above and behind the origin of the popliteus muscle. The short external lateral ligament, which appears to be an accessory to the other, is placed posteriorly to it, and running in a parallel line, passes from the outer side and posterior part of the external condyle, downwards, to the