198 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. tlie fibres converg’e from these orig’ins, passing obliquely outwards and backwards towards a groove situated between the tuberosity of the ischium and the acetabulum ; here they form a tendon, which winds around the neck of the femur, adhering to the capsular ligament, and is ultimately inserted into the lower part of the digital fossa, on the inner side of the trochanter major. Anteriorly the origin of the obturator externus is covered by the triceps, pectinaeus, and obturator vessels; posteriorly, it is attached to the obturator foramen, and ligament; its tendon is covered, anteriorly, by the hip-joint; posteriorly, by the quadratus femoris; and is bounded, above, by the geminus inferior muscle. Use.—To rotate the thigh outwards; and when the glutaei abduct tlie lower extreniity,to support the hip-joint, and to assist in again adducting the limb. The fourteenth and last muscle of the hip-joint is— . The m. tensor vagince femoris—which is placed at the upper and outer part of the the thigh. It arises by a narrow tendinous origin from the outer part of the superior and anterior spinous process of the ilium; being narrow above, it becomes broader as it descends obliquely backwards, to be inserted into the fascia lata, about three inches below the trochanter major. This muscle is concealed by the fascia lata of the thigh, being completely enclosed between tw'o layers; the origin of the muscle is betw^een the sartorius, which is anterior to it, and the glutaeus medius, which is behind it; its insertion is anterior to the insertion of the glutaeus maximus. Use.—To stretch the fascia lata; and, if still in a state of action, to rotate the thigh inwards ; it also assists in the abduction of the limb. I have thus given the muscles belonging to the function of the hip-joint, in order that the student might connect their use and relation to each other 5 but some difficulty will arise in this progress of dissection, from the insertions of several of these muscles being concealed by some of those which belong to the knee-joint.