general anatomy of articulations. 195 bones may be connected by a fewer or greater number of the other tissues, according to the office which the joint has to perform. Generally speaking, a joint is*the more perfect, and enjoys a greater variety and extent of motion, in proportion to the number of these structures included in its formation. Thus, in the most perfect and moveable articulations, we recognise bone, for the purpose of affording firmness; cartilage, to give. elasticity; synovial membrane, to obviate friction ; and ligaments, to bind the whole together and prevent dislocation. On the other hand, in those joints where no positive motion is allowed, we find that the bones are merely conneeted by an intervening* cartilage, either with or without ligament. These observations will naturally suggest the division of the articulatory system into two kinds,—the moveable and the immoveable. The former is best exemplified in the ex- tremities ; while the latter is employed in the junction of such flat bones as enter into the composition of osseous cavities, as the head and the pelvis. As, however, the human body furnishes instances of every possible gradation, between the highly moveable and that which is possessed of scarcely a perceptible yielding, we generally add a third kind of joint, as a connecting link between the two, and partaking of the nature of both: we shall therefore distinguish three species of articulation:—the diarthrosis, or moveable, the synarthrosis, or immoveable, and the amphiarthrosis, which is of an inter- mediate or mixed character. The first of these generally includes in its formation all the tissues which have been enumerated as belonging to joints ; the second is furnished with only a limited number; while, in the third, the union of the bones is generally accomplished by means of fibro-cartilage. This correspondence between the different species, and their respective structures, will not be found to hold good in every instance, as it is liable to ex- ceptions, which will be noticed when speaking of the joints individually. We shall now proceed to particularize the three divisions.