BONES OF THE EXTREMITIES. 169 joints, when inllainniation becomes so violent that the surgeon sees that anchylosis must necessarily occur, the joint should he placed in such a position as to render the limb as useful as possible. Under these cir- cumstances, for instance, if the elbow-joint be the one affected, the fore- arm should be semiflexed ; by which position the patient will be after- wards able to feed himself. In the knee-joint the leg should be very slightly flexed upon the thigh, by which method he is better able to direct the foot, and the limb is rendered more manageable in the sitting posture. In the ancle-joint we should endeavour to procure a union with the foot perfectly flat, whereby the patient will afterwards enjoy very considerable use of the limb. Fractures of the Flat Bones. Injunes of the Head.—In simple fractures of the cranium, little is required of the surgeon, as the danger and importance of the accident arises from the probability of injury to the important and vital parts they inclose: hence the necessity of strict attention to the antiphlogistic regimen and rest. The consequence of a severe blow on the head is either concussion or compression. In concussion the brain is merely shaken, and is neither lacerated or compressed upon, and may be ascertained by the following symptoms:— The patient appears stunned, his pulse weak and fluttering, the face pale, and the extremities cold—such occurs immmediately after the accident; but in a short time reaction commences, and a new form of symptoms presents itself. The patient now remains in a half comatose state, with his senses weakened but not lost; his power of volition sus- pended but not destroyed. If he be addressed loudly by his name, he is capable of giving a rational answer; and when thus roused, his pulse is found to rise from its natural number to a hundred and twenty; the pupils of the eyes, in simple concussion, have a natural appearance, and are capable of being stimulated by light: nausea, and even vomiting, are frequently concomitant symptoms. It is undecided whether con- cussion be produced by venous congestion on the brain; but thus can hardly be considered to be the case, as it is known that vomiting fre- quently restores the sense of the patient, which must necessarily have a tendency to increase the flow of blood to the head. Of Compression.—Compression, which not unfrequently follows con- cussion, is known by the patient being quite comatose, and volition being totally lost. The pulse is small, hard, and generally irregular, sometimes even intermitting: the pupils are dilated, the retina being no longer sensible to light; it however sometimes happens that one pupil will be contracted whilst the other is dilated. The breathing is sterto- rous. When the injury is very severe, hemiplegia is produced, and most