33 BONES OF THE HEAD. depression which forms the posterior boundary of the zygo- matic arch. Between the auditory, vaginal, and zygomatic processes, there is found a large cavity divided into two dis- tinct fossae by a fissure termed the fissura glasseri: the an- terior is lined with cartilage and receives the condyle of the lower jaw, and is denominated, therefore, the fossa condy- loidea, the long axis of which is from side to side, corres- ponding to the form of the condyloid process of the lower jaw. The posterior fossa lodges a considerable portion of the parotid gland, and is termed the fossa parotidea. The close attachment of the parotid gland to the lower jaw, sufficiently explains how its secretion is influenced by the motions of that bone. These fossae are separated from each other, not only by the fissura glasseri, but also by the attachment of the capsular ligament of the temporo-maxillary articulation. The fifth fossa is the fossa jugularis: it is placed immedi- ately on the inner side of the styloid process, whence begins the internal jugular vein from the termination of the lateral sinus. The particular use of these depressions is sufficiently ex- plained in the description given of each of them. The foramina, which are usually found upon the external surface of the temporal bone, are five in number, and are proper to it; but besides these are to be borne in memory the notches which are formed into foramina, common to the temporal and other bones, to which it is connected, as the foramen laeerum basis cranii anterius, et posterius, and the canalis caroticus. The five foramina proper to the temporal bone, are, first, the foramen auditivum externum, which is situated betw'een the mastoid and zygomatic processes, immediately above the auditory: this foramen leads from the external ear to the cavity of the tympanum, it gives attachment to the cartilages of the ear, and conveys sound to the bones in the cavity of the tympanum. It is frequently termed the meatus auditivus externus. The second foramen is situated between the styloid and D