GENERAL ANATOMY OF MUSCLES, 35 The Synovial Capsules of Tendons. These capsules are found connected with the tendons of the muscles wherever they are exposed to friction, and what- ever may be the structure over which they pass; hence they are placed between tendon and bone, tendon and lig-ament, between two tendons, and further, between tendon and cartilage. The number of these membranes, whieh are termed bursae mucosae, is said to amount to upwards of one hundred and forty. These bursae are of different sizes in different parts of the body, and are said to be larger in children than in adults : their figure also varies; they some- times form round vesicles, conneeted on one side with the I tendon whose motion they are destined to facilitate, and on the other with the structure over whieh the tendon glides; at other times they form lengthened vaginal sheaths, lining- canals, through which tendons pass, and, proceeding from one large synovial capsule, divide into as many sheaths as there are tendons and canals. This mode of arrangement 1 may be observed at the wrist and ancle-joints, for the tendons of the toes and fingers. The superior oblique muscle of the eye, and the tensor palati, offer another variety I of bursa mucosa facilitating the motion of tendons over cartilage. These bursae resemble very much the synovial capsules of joints, and bear the same resemblance to the j large serous cavities, in producing a closed sac without any external opening; their organization seems to be similar to the rest of. the serous tissue, as if formed of condensed cellular membranes; their blood-vessels may be demon- strated, although absorbents and nerves cannot be traced to ] them. The secretion from these capsules of the tendons is ’ viscid, and in its physical properties very much resembles ! the white of an egg: its chemibal analysis has the same results as that of the synovia of the articular capsules. There are also within these bursae small masses of fat, with j fringes, prolonging themselves into the cavity, but covered by the membrane of the bursa ; and upon which the small II