30 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. magnum; which is, consequently, bounded before by the cuneiform, behind by the occipital, and laterally by the con- dyloid portions. The foramina, which we have already- noticed, should now be described collectively: they consist of two pair and a single one 'proper to the occipital bone, and one pair common to it and the temporal bone. The proper are the foramen magnum, and the anterior and posterior condyloid foramina. The foramen magnum trans- mits the spinal marrow with its membranes and vessels, and allows the entrance of the vertebral arteries and accessory nerves. The anterior condyloid foramina are important, from giving transmission to the lingual nerves: the posterior merely allow the passage of small veins, and are occasionally wanting, in which case the veins pass through the foramen magnum. The pair of foramina common to this bone and the temporal are the foramina lacera basis cranii, giving exit to the internal jugular veins, the pneumo-gastric, glosso- pharyngeal and accessory nerves. These foramina are some- times divided into two by a thin lamina of bone. This bone is amongst the thickest of the cranium, but un- equally so, being partially rendered thin by the brain within, and the action of the muscles widiout. Connexion.—The occipital bone is connected above, with the ossa parietalia, by the lambdoidal suture ; laterally, with the temporal bones, by the additamenta suturae lambdoidalis; and anteriorly, by the extremity of the cuneiform process, with the sphenoid bone, in the same way that epiphyses and their bones are joined: for, in the young subject, a cartilage is placed between them. Lastly, it is connected below, by a double articulation, with the atlas, each condyle being re- ceived into the superior articulating cavity of that vertebra. Attachment of Muscles.—Muscles attached to the os occipitis are the occipito-frontalis, trapezii, sterno-cleido-inastoidei, splenii, complex!, recti capitis postici majores, niinores et laterales, obliqui superiores, recti capitis aiitici majores et minores, constrictores pliaryngis superior et mcdius. Practical Remarks. The variety of thickness in this bone should be kept in mind while