B0NE3 OF THE EXTREMITIES. 153 die limb. Wlien both bones are broken, a diagnosis is easily formed from the pain, loss of motion, altered form of the limb, and by crepitus being perceptible upon rotating the foot. The position of the fractured bones is generally angular, the upper portion being directed forwards and inwards, while the lower portion is drawn backwards and outwards, by the muscles of the calf of the leg. (Vide Fig. 1., Plate X.) But longitudinal derangement very rarely occurs, in consequence of the extent of surface the fractured bones present, unless the fracture be very oblique, and then some sliglit shortening may occur. The treatment of fracture of both bones consists in making extension from the foot, and counter-extension from the knee; and usually by a very slight force co- aptation is produced, which may be readily known by tracing the anterior angle of the tibia, which is so little covered by soft parts as to render the slightest deviation from the natural direction perceptible. While the limb is held in this position, a long well-stuft’ed pad should be ad- justed on each side the leg, so as to fill up all the natural depressions of the limb ; over these the lateral splints are applied, which should be of sufficient length to pass beyond the foot, so that all its movements may be prevented ; for it is by the motions of the foot that derangement of the fractured portions is most likely to recur. The splints are some- times furnished with what is called the foot-piece, for the purpose of retaining the limb in its proper position, but the long splints do equally well. A third splint may be applied on the anterior part of the leg, which answers not only the purpose of keeping the hones in their proper position, hut also forms a good defence to the leg, from the tapes which are applied for the purpose of permanently securing the splints. The limb may be placed either upon the side or upon the heel, in whichever position the surgeon finds best suited to the circumstances attending the accident; if upon the heel, great care should be taken that every part of the posterior surface of the leg is equally supported, which may be effected by means of bags of bran, or dossils of lint, and that the heel is neither elevated or depressed; for in the first case, the lower portion of the fractured bone would be thrown backwards ; and in the second, it would form a salient angle forwards. The surgeon, upon subsequent exami- nation, may always satisfy himself that the limb maintains its proper position, by attending to the direction of the great toe, which ought always to lie in a direct line with the centre of the patella. Fracture of the Tibia.—When this bone is fractured alone, the acci- dent is more difficult to discover than when both bones are broken, in consequence of the very slight degree of derangement of the fractured portions. But when there is reason to suspect this occurrence from a fall or a blow, the anterior angle is to be carefully traced, upon which the slightest inequality may be detected, and consequently the extent of the injury ascertained. The fibula remaining whole, will not admit of