DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 219 obliquely inwards, becomes then connected with the ad- ductor pollicis, and passes to be inseTtecl by two tendons into the sesamoid bones, and root of the first phalanx of the g'reat toe. Its inferior surface rests upon the tendon of the flexor longus, and adduetor pollicis ; its upper surface has above, the tendon of the peroneus longus, transversus pedis, and metatarsal bone of the great toe. Use To flex the first plialanx of the great toe upon the metatarsus. The m. adductor pollicis—arises tendinous and fleshy from the under and inner surface of the cuboid bone, and from the ligament which connects this bone with the os caleis ; it also arises from the bases of the second, third, and fourth meta- tarsal bones ; forms a triangular fleshy belly, the fibres of which converge towards the inner side of the foot, to be inserted by a double tendon into the outer sesamoid bone, and base of the first phalanx of the great toe. The inferior surface covers the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, lumbricales, and part of the accessorius; its upper surface is in contact with the bones from which it arises; its inner edge corresponds to the flexor brevis pollicis and insertion of the peroneus longus. Use.—To adduct and assist in flexing the great toe. The m. transversus pedis—arises tendinous and fleshy from the under surface and anterior extremity of the meta- tarsal bone of the little toe; passes inwards, crossing beneath the heads of all the metatarsal bones; and is inserted into the outer sesamoid bone, and into the root of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The under surface of this long strip of muscle covers the long flexor tendons, lumbricales, and digital branches of the arteries and nerves ; the upper surface corresponds to the plantar, interossei, and metatarsal bones; at its insertion, its tendon is connected with the adductor pollicis. Use.—To maintain the transverse arch of the foot, hy drawing the anterior extremities of the metatarsal bones nearer to each other. The m. flexor brevis minimi digiti pedis—arises tendinous