THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 154 sufficient separation of the fractured portions for crepitus to be produced; but the friction of these portions may be sufficiently diminislied by ex- tension and counter<extension, as to admit any slight derangement being corrected. The same treatment is to be followed as when both bones are broken. Fracture of the Fibula.—If the fibula alone be fractured, and much tumefaction ensues, it is often difficult to detect it; more particularly as the patient is frequently able to walk after this injury. In whatever direction the bone may be broken, the pieces are not susceptible of a longitudinal derangement, but are always drawn inwards towards the tibia; (Fide Fig. 2, Plate X.) so that the best means of detecting this fracture is to press the fibula towards the tibia, when crepitus will be per- ceived. Fracture of the fibula is frequently produced by the foot being forcibly driven outwards during its progressive motion, so that the astra- galus, striking violently against the malleolus externus, that portion of the bone gives way just where it is attached to the lower extremity of the shaft. In the treatment of fractures of the fibula, the outer splint should project beyond the foot, so as to prevent its rotation outwards. The Foot. The foot forms the third part of the lower extremity, is situated inferiorly with respect to the leg, which is attached to its upper surface at a right angle, nearer to its posterior than to its anterior extremity ': it is composed of the hones of the tarsus, placed posteriorly; of the metatarsus, in the middle ; and of the phalanges, in front. The Tarsus Forms the posterior middle part of the foot, and is com- posed of seven bones ;—the astragalus, cdlcis, scaphoid, cuboid, and three cuneiform bones, which are so articulated as to form an arch sufficiently strong to bear the wdiole weight of the body, and yet sufficiently elastic to prevent severe con- cussion. The astragalus is the uppermost of the bones of the tarsus.