DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 105 de of the opposite side, and is inserted into the roug-h surface on either side of the protuberance between the two transverse ridg’es of the occipital bone. The complexus is covered successively by the trapezius, splenius, and trachelo inastoideus ; it is situated between that muscle and the spine, being separated from its fellow by the spinous processes. It lies upon the semi-spinalis colli, upon the rectus capitis posticus major, and the obliqui; between this muscle and the semi-spinalis colli is placed the deep cervical branch of the subclavian artery, anastamosing- with the occipital. A large portion of this muscle is seen between the splenius and the spine upon the removal of the trapezius. Use.—To draw the head backwards, and to support it on the spine, also to rotate it; being in this action an auxiliary to the sterno cleido mastoideus of its own side. The sixth layer of muscles of the back consist of the rectus capitis posticus major, the rectus capitis posticus minor, the obliquus superior, the obliquus inferior, the semi-spinalis colli, and the semi-spinalis dorsi. ITie m. rectus capitis posticus major—is a triangular muscle, and is much broader above than below. It arises from the spinous process of the vertebra dentata, from whence it ascends, passing outwards to be inserted under the inferior transverse spine of the occiput, between the rectus capitis posticus minor, and the obliquus superior, the insertion of which partly covers it. This muscle is situated between the occiput and the neck, is covered by the complexus, and lies upon the rectus minor, the arch of the atlas, the posterior circular ligament, and the vertebral artery. Use.—To draw the head backwards, and to one side, if only one acts; directly backwards, if they both act. The m. rectus capitis posticus minor—arises from a small tubercle upon the posterior arch of the atlas, which corres- ponds to the spinous process of the other vertebree; from thence it passes upwards nearly vertically, becoming broader