53 BONES OF THE HEAD. Practical Remarks. From the exposed situation of these bones they are liable to fracture, although from their arched form the force to produce the accident is necessarily so considerable as usually to effect comminution of bone and laceration of the soft parts, rendering the fracture compound. In this case the surgeon should carefully remove all the detached portions of bone, and any extraneous body which may have been introduced, as deep fistulous abscesses are liable to form in the cavities behind these bones. Inflammation of the eye frequently follows these accidents, from the fracture extending into the orbit. It is behind the zygomatic arch, formed by this bone and the temporal, that the condyloid process of the lower jaw is thrown in dislocation. The Ossa Maxillaria Superior a. Of the six pairs of bones which enter into the composition of the upper jaw these are the larg’est, and derive^ on that account, their specific name. The form of these bones is extremely irreg-ular, offering" a number of processes and de- pressions, which enter into the composition of the cavities of the orbits, nose and mouth. Each maxillary bone is divided into a body and seven pro- cesses. The body occupies the central portion of the bone, and is hollowed out, forming" the antrum highmorianum, which has a natural opening into the middle chamber of the nose, and is lined by a continuation of the pituitary membrane. The anterior and external surface of the body presents a con- cavity, which is situated immediately beneath the foramen infra-orbitale, giving origin to the m. levator anguli oris. The posterior extremity of the body is rounded, and forms the tuberosity of this bone, which is rough for the attachment of the pterygoid process of the palate bone, and origin of the m. pterygoideus externus. On the inner side of the tuberosity is a groove, forming part of the palato-maxillary foramen, which is completed by the palate bone. It leads from the spheno-palatine canal into the roof of the mouth, and transmits the palatine nerve and artery; the lower part of the body forms e2