70 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. an interlacement with the musculi orbiculares palpebraram and the occipito frontales. Use—To draw inwards the skin and to elevate the hair of the eye- brows, expressing the passions of malevolence and anger. The m. occipito frontales.—To expose these muscles an incision should be made on either side, transversely from the mezian line to the external ang-ular process of the frontal bone; and a second incision commencing at the tuberosity of the occiput, and terminating at the nasal process of the os frontis. The integuments of the cranium should now be very cautiously reflected, for they will be found very dense and adhering firmly to the muscle and tendon beneath. The m. occipito frontales are fleshy anteriorly and posteriorly, and tendinous on their superior and lateral surfaces, covered throughout by a thick rough subcutaneous cellular tissue, by which they are firmly connected with the skin, and lying upon the pericranium. They arise posteriorly from the su- perior transverse ridge of the occiput, reaching outwards as far as the mastoid processes of the temporal bones ; their fleshy fibres proceed upwards and forwards to the lambdoidal suture ; then becoming tendinous, expand over the vertex of the cranium as far as the coronal suture; there again be- coming fleshy, pass downwards to be inserted into the skin of the eyebrow's, and to be connected with the m. orbiculares palpebrarum and eorrugatores superciliorum, sending a fleshy slip downwards on the dorsum of the nose to join with the m. compressores narium. Use.—To explain this it is necessary to divide these digastric mus- cles into their occipital and frontal portions. The frontal portions bring forward the skin of the forehead, at the same time wrinkling it transversely; and also assist in raising the upper eyelids, while the occipital portions draw backwards the skin of the head ; and both put the central aponeurosis upon the stretch. These muscles may be con- sidered as forming a distinct digastric muscle on each side of the head, as is proved by their single action during the winking of either eye. The last muscles to be described as moderating the action of the orbiculares palpebrarum, are