66 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. The Base of the Skull. Having described separately each bone which enters into the composition of the head and face, and also their respective foramina, it is now my intention more particularly to point out the direction and use of these foramina, with the cavities and fissures into which they open, or to which they lead. The internal surface of the base of the skull, from which all the foramina pass, is divided into three regions;—an anterior, a middle, and a posterior,—to support the corresponding parts of the brain. Of these divisions the anterior is the highest, the middle lower, and the posterior the lowest. The anterior includes all that part of the base situated before the transverse spinous processes of the sphenoid bone; and in this division the following processes, foramina, and depressions, are observed. First, two convexities constituting a large part of the floor of tliis division, formed by the orbitar processes of the frontal bone ; between which convexities— and completing the floor—is situated the horizontal or cribri- form plate of the ethmoid bone. From the surface of this cribriform plate arises the crista galli, from which, passing upwards, we see the commencement of the frontal spine, soon bifurcating to form a groove for the superior longitudinal sinus; at the point of junction of the spine with the crista galli, is placed the foramen coecum: all these parts give at- tachment to the falx major. On each side of the crista galh are the foramina cribrosa, leading into the superior chamber of the nose, for the transmission of the first pair of nerves, which are here protected from the weight of the brain by grooves formed on its under surface. The depressions in this division are produced by the inequalities on the anterior lobes of the cerebrum. The middle region includes that space bounded, before, by the alae minores and by the processus olivaris of the sphe- noid bone; behind, by the posterior clinoid processes and superior ridges of the petrous portions of the temporal bones;