78 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. action of the muscles of respiration and of the face ; and as we advance further in the knowledg’e of anatomy, it will be found that tlie distribution of the nerves, as has been demon- strated by Mr. Charles Bell, corresponds with the pheno- mena related. Practical Remarks. It is obvious from the various functions to which the muscles of the exterior of the cranium and tlie face are subservient, and from tlie manner in which they are destined to move their cutaneous coverings, that in the treatment of all wounds to these parts, the surgeon should most studiously endeavour to diminish their motion, by keeping the edges of the wound in apposition with sutures, plaisters, and bandages; and, as has been stated, that respiration, niodihed by the passions, is the natural stimulus to these muscles,—physiology and pathology point out to us the propriety of warning our patients to avoid every mental excitement; for, in proportion as parts are subjected to motion, so is the adhesive inflammation disturbed, and a tendency to the suppurative promoted. Thus we find, that superficial wounds of the scalp become of serious importance in consequence of the frequent motion of the occipito frontales muscles ; a danger which is much enhanced if the tendon of these muscles be wounded, not only from the motion, but also from the little power that structure possesses of reparation, suppuration and erysipelas frequently supervene; it is therefore essential in opera- tions on the scalp, to avoid wounding this tendon. Wounds about the orbits are subject to the same disturbance, from motion during their reparation, as the other parts of the head and face, and require, therefore, the same means to keep their edges in adaptation. Such injuries, however, are more serious, on account of the important function these parts have to perform ; for should they interfere with the action of the orbiculares palpebrarum, the organ of sight itself may be affected by the diseases called ptosis, or lagopthalmos : in the former, the upper eyelid hangs down over the eye, caused by a disturbance to the adhesive inflammation, or paralysis to its nerve of motion ; while, in the latter, the eyelid is drawn permanently upwards by a contraction of the cicatrix, so that the cornea is constantly exposed. It is said, that injury to the supra orbita nerve sometimes produces amaurosis; but there is reason to suspect the validity of this opinion, as the function of this nerve cannot, in any way, be traced as further necessary to vision than as destined to supply the tutamina oculi; and its division could therefore only indirectly and slowly affect sight. I am disposed to believe, that where amaurosis follows this accident, it is produced by the concussion of the optic nerve, and not in any way attributable to injury of the supra orbitar.