178 PARTS ESSENTIAL TO THE SKELETON. of the skull are comprised, as well as those connecting' the bones of the pelvis. All of them are of a wedge-like form, having their external surface larger than the Internal. The third class of articular cartilages may be considered as intermediate between the other two, and constitutes the medium of connexion between the ribs and the sternum. Here we find the cartilage emanating from the extremity of the rib, passing forward in the same form as the rib itself, and continued in the same direction towards the sternum, to which bone it is joined by the intervention of synovial mem- brane. From the great length to which it is prolonged, what would constitute its surfaces in the two first classes, are here converted into its extremities. Thus it will be found to re- semble the first kind, by having one of its surfaces or rather extremities continuous with bone, while the other is covered with synovial membrane; and it is also analogous to the second kind, in being covered with perichondrium, and allow- ing of motion, from its elastic and yielding structure. The fourth class are termed the interarticular cartilages, which differ from the rest in not being in contact with the osseous system, but having both their surfaces covered by .synovial membrane, and thus dividing the joint to which they belong into two synovial cavities. These cartilages are more fibrous than any of the other class, and are for the purpose of adapting their articulatory surfaces to the varied motions of the bones between which they are placed, to the extremi- ties of which they always present a corresponding surface. Practical Remarks. Tlie slowness with which the vital principle of cartilage manifests itself, the little tendency it has to be acted upon by morbid causes, and the slight power which it possesses of reparation, all render it liable to but few of the diseases which are incident to more highly organized structures. We therefore find that wounds in cartilage do not unite, like most of the other structures of the body, by the reunion of their surfaces, but that an intermediate ligamentous structure forms the bond of union between tbe divided edges. This incapability of generating cartilage is further obvious in cases of unreduced dislocations, in which we find that nature has been able to reproduce all the structures neces-