DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 125 until the hand is dissected. The belly of the muscle lies upon the radius and interosseous ligament. Use.—To flex the extreme phalanx of the thumb upon the second. The m. pronatus quadratus—arises, on the inner side of the ulna, from a space about two inches in length, situated between the styloid process and lower attachment of the flexor carpi ulnaris; from thence it proceeds trans- versely, adhering to the interosseous ligament, and is inserted into the lower and outer part of the radius, between the styloid process and attachment of the flexor longus pollicis. Anteriorly all the tendons which pass to the hand cross this muscle ; it lies upon the bones and interosseus ligament. Use.—To roll the radius inwards upon the ulna, and thus to prone the hand. The muscles situated between the radius and ulna, pos- teriorly, are eleven in number, which we may divide into a superficial layer, composed of eleven, and into a deep-seated layer, composed of five musclps. Collectively these muscles are extensors to the wrist and fingers, and supinators of the radio ulnar articulations. The superficial layers, six in num- ber, all arise from the inferior extremity of the humerus. The m. supinator radii longus.—This muscle arises from the external ridge of the os humeri, beginning immediately below the insertion of the deltoid, and continuing its origin to about two inches of the external condyle, from' whence the extensor carpi radialis longior begins to arise, also from the outer intermuscular tendon ; it then forms itself into a thick muscle, which becomes narrower as it descends below the elbow-joint, and about the middle of the outer side of the fore arm it terminates in a tendon, at first flat, afterwards rounded, which proceeds along the outer side of the radius to the styloid process, into the anterior part of which it is inserted. At the base of the styloid process, the tendon sends off an aponeurotic expansion, which passes upon the posterior surface of the radius, so as to assist in forming the sulcus for the passage of the extensor primi and secundi internodii into