THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 126 the upper called the cubital row, consisting’ of the scaphoid, lunar, cuneiform, and pisiform bones. The lower, or digital row, consisting of trapezium, trapezoides, magnum, and unciform bones. The os scaphoides is situated most externally of the cubital row, and immediately to its inner side is placed the lunar bone; both of them present superior rounded articular surfaces, to be connected with the radius, by which junction a very con- siderable portion of the wrist-joint is formed. The cuneiform bone is placed immediately on the inner side of the lunar, but does not extend so high as either of the last two bones. It is not in contact with either the radius or the ulna, being op- posed to the under surface of the interarticular cartilage, which, together with this bone, completes the wrist-joint, and separates the ulna from that articulation. The cuneiform bone forms the inner or ulnad termination of the cubital row of the carpus ; the fourth bone of this range, viz., the pisi- form, being situated on its anterior surface, reaching into the palm of the hand. Of the digital row, the os trapezium is the most external or radial, and is situated between the os scaphoides and the first phalanx of the thumb: the trapezoid is placed on the inner side of the trapezium, between it and the os magnum, being connected, above, with the scaphoid, and below, with the metacarpal bone of the fore finger. Immediately on its inner side is found the os magnum, bounded, above, by the scaphoid and lunar bones; below, by the metacarpal bones of the middle, fore, and ring fingers ; and lastly, to the inner or ulnad side of this row, is situated the unciform bone, having the cuneiform bone above, and the ring and little finger below it. The ossa scaphoides and trapezium on the outer side, and the pisiform and hamillary process of the os unciforme on the inner side, present four prominences in the concave ante- rior surface of the carpus, which give attachment to the an- nular ligament, for the purpose of confining the tendons of the flexor muscles, and maintaining the lateral arch of the wrist.