183 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. The m. coccygeus—is of a triangular form, situated behind the levator ani; it arises from the inner side of the spinous process of the ischium, and anterior sacro sciatic ligament, along which it runs, forming a thin fleshy belly; its fibres diverging to be inserted, tendinous and fleshy, into the side of the last bone of the sacrum, and the two upper of the os coccygis, immediately anterior to the attachment of the glutseus raaximus. This muscle is placed between the levator ani and gluteus raaximus; its posterior surface is covered by the sacro sciatic ligaments ; its anterior corresponds to the rectum. Use.—To draw the os coccygis forwards during the expulsion of the faeces. The perinseum of the female diflFers from that of the male, chiefly in its size, which is little more than an inch in length, reaching from the posterior part of the vulva to the anus; and, as in the male subject, the central line forms a raphe. The muscles are nearly similar, both in their origins and insertions; the exceptions are, that the erector clitoridis, which answers precisely to the erector penis, is inserted into the crura of the clitoris, as the latter is into the crura of the penis. ITie m. constrictor vagince—surrounds the exterior opening of the vagina ; it arises from the crura of the clitoris, the fibres of one side diverging from, the other, so as to surround the orifice of the vagina; at the lower and posterior part of which they again converge to be inserted in the centre of the anterior part of the perinseum, in a point common to the sphincter ani and transversi perinsei. Use,—To contract the orifice of the vagina. » Practical Remarks. There are comparatively but few surgical remarks connected with this part in the female, in consequence of the large size, and the short- ness of the meatus urinarius. Retention of urine is of very rare occur- rence, unless produced by pressure in the progress of uterine gestation, or retroversion of the uterus. Tlie perinaeum is liable to injury from rupture, when it is not properly protected during difficult parturition ; and in these cases the patient is sometimes left in the most deplorable n2