ANATOMY OF NAILS. 30T groove in the cutis, it becomes thicker, until it emerg’es from the cutis; after which it continues of nearly a uniform thick- ness to the e.xtremity. It is firmly attached to the cutis by numerous long-itudinal ridges and depressions, which are closely connected with corresponding ridges and depressions in the surface of the cutis; a horizontal section of this connection Avould present a junction analogous to a suture. The nail is of a semitransparent colour, and shews the vascular cutis underneath, excepting near its root, where it is opaque, and of a white colour ; this white part commences at a point on either side, and becomes broader in the middle ; hence it forms a semilunar arch across the root of the nail. Portions of this white structure will occasionally appear in other parts of the nail, and will gradually reach its free ex- tremity, and disappear with the exuberant growth of the nail. The nails appear about the fifth month in the foetus, and are but partially developed at birth, when they do not project above their bodies; hence they have no free extremity, which is an admirable provision for the protection of the parietes of the uterus, which would be liable to injury from the motions of the foetus if its fingers and toes were armed with projecting nails. The cuticle joins the nail at its extremity, and moreover projects with the tips over the nail, so as to form a cushion around it. (Vide Plate II. Fig. 13. and 14.) The nails have little or no sensibility, and ipay be cut without communicating pain; their nerves, or secreting* vessels, have not been detected. They appear to be se- creted from their roots enclosed in a groove of the cutis, from which point they are continually increasing, and if not cut, would extend at their free extremities several inches in length, as has been observed in some Indian devotees. When separated from accident or disease, a new nail will readily form ; but it will not be so thick and strong as the original, will be more susceptible of injury, and will more easily separate again. Tlie part from which the nail grows has been termed by