DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 18‘J outwards ; it serves to maintain the body in the erect posture, acting as an antagonist to the extensors of the spine. When the inferior extre- mities are fixed, it will bend the body for^vards, or obliquely to one side, as both or one muscle act, Although the psoas parvus is not a muscle destined to move the hip-joint, yet from its situation, and for the facility of dissection, it is impossible to describe it at a more con- venient time. The m. psoas parvus.—This muscle does not always exist: when present it arises from the sides of the bodies of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebra; it forms a fleshy belly which ceases opposite to the fourth lumbar vertebra, termi- nating' in a flat tendon, which becoming" broader as it descends, passes to be inserted into the linea ilio pectinea, at the point of junction of the ilium with the pubes ; it also sends an aponeurotic expansion, which is connected at Poupart’s lig-ament with the fascia lata. It is situated anteriorly, and to the inner side of the psoas magnus ; its origin is covered partly by the diaphragm, and renal vessels, and plexus of nerves, and at its insertion by the external iliac vessels. Use—When the pelvis is fixed, to flex the trunk; or bend it ob- liquely, when one muscle only is in action. The m. iliacus internus—is a flat, triangular, radiated muscle, filling up tfle venter of the ilium ; it arises fleshy from the transverse process of the last dorsal vertebra, from the ilio lumbar ligament, from the inner labium of the crista of the ilium, reaching from the sacro iliac symphisis along its two posterior thirds ; from the greater part of the venter of the ilium, and also from its anterior and inferior spinous processes ; being below this attached to the capsular liga- ment of the hip-joint. From these origins its fibres converge, and pass outwards under the crural arch with the psoas magnus; terminating in a tendon firmly united to, and inserted in common with the tendons of the psoas magnus, into the lesser trochanter, between the vastus internus and pectinaeus.