272 PARTS ESSENTIAL TO THE SKELETON. head of the fibula, to which it is attached. These two liga- ments are connected with each other by a strong cellular tissue. The internal lateral ligament is also posterior to the centre of the joint. It is of a triangular form, its apex arising from the posterior part of the internal condyle of the femur, and its base being attached to the internal edge of the head of the tibia; its fibres are more flattened than the external liga- ments of the knee-joint; it is rather thicker before than be- hind, where it is connected with the posterior ligament of Winslow by a strong aponeurosis. This ligament is covered above by the insertion of the vastus internus, and below by the sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus muscles ; the liga- ment itself covers the synovial membrane, and is connected with the internal semilunar cartilage. The 'posterior ligament forms a great protection to the back part of the joint. It passes transversely from without to within, arising from the external condyle of the femur, and being inserted into the back part of the tibia, where it is inti- mately connected with an aponeurotic expansion from the tendinous insertion of the semimembranosus muscle; which muscle, in flexion of the knee, prevents this ligament from being pressed between the bones. This, at least, is the function usually ascribed to the attachment of that muscle to the posterior ligament; but I believe a much more important purpose may be assigned to it,—that of keeping the semi- lunar cartilages in their natural position under all the various motions of the joint. Its fibres take an irregular course, leaving several apertures for the transmission of blood- vessels ; its posterior surface is covered by the popliteus muscle, its anterior is in contact with some fat which is in- terposed between it and the posterior crucial ligament, leaving a space for the transmission of the middle articular vessels. Tlie second class, or those ligaments which are described as within the knee-joint, though without the synovial capsule, are the following.