61 BONES OF THE HEAO. and irregularities, for the attachment of the numerous mus- cles, necessary to the various functions which this bone has to perform in mastication, speech, deglutition, etc., etc. The body of the bone, or chin, forms the most anterior and central part of the bone, and is bounded on either side by the anterior maxillary, or mental foramen, on its external conve,x surface; and by the termination of two obUque lines, on its internal concave surface. The middle line, joining the two symmetrical sides of the jaw-bone, is termed tire sym- phys^is ; which, at the lower part, is formed into a rounded protuberance, to which the term chin is more especially ap- plied ; and from which a short line extends laterally out- wards and upwards on each side, giving attachment to the muscles which depress the lower lip. The muscles which raise the lip also mark this portion of the bone, at the root of the sockets of the two outer dentes incisivi. The internal surface of the body of the lower jaw in the middle line, is marked by a process of bone, which is termed the spine. It is sometimes bifid ; and, at others, divided into three or more small projections. They give attachment to the frsenum of the tongue, above; to the m. genio-hyoglossi, in the middle ; and the genio-hyoidei, below: and on each side, a small rough depression marks the attachment of the m. digastricL The upper portion of the body of the bone forms a part of the alveolar process, which contains the sockets for eight teeth. This process, however, extends backwards, along the horizontal plate of the jaw, as far as to the root of the coro- noid process. The horizontal plate of the lower jaw is that surface bounded before by the anterior maxillary foramen and body of the bone, and behind by what is called the angle of the lower jaw: an angle formed by the junction of the horizontal with the ascending plate of the same bone. The external surface of this horizontal plate presents a ridge, commencing- from its base, which, running obliquely upwards and back- wards, ascends a considerable way above the level of the plate. It terminates in a peak, which forms tlie anterior