BONKS OF THE HEAD. 31 c.Xiiiiiining it in case of injury. The ossa triquctra, which arc insulated portions of bone produced by variations in the course of the lambdoidal suture, sometimes offer such irregularity of surface, as might lead to a suspicion of injury to the bone where it did not exist. From its con- nexion with the first cervical vertebra, this bone differs from all those already described, by its liability to the diseases incident to moveable articulations. The only situation in which the trephine can be safely applied to this bone, is in the space above the tubercle on either side of the median line, in consequence of the situation of the sinuses, above, and the thick layer of muscles below the tranverse ridge. The Ossa Temporum Are situated at the sides and inferior part of the cranium^ containing’ within them the organ of hearing: they are said to be so called from the hair situated on them first becoming grey, and thus denoting age in the individual. Each os temporis may be divided into two portions : the upper one thin and smooth, terminates in a semicircular edge, which,, from its pecuhar connexion with other bones, is called the squamous portion. The low er portion, situated at the base of the skull, is hard, and forms a protuberance irregularly triangular : this contains the organ of hearing, and is denominated the petrous portion. These hones present an external irregularly convex, and an internal concave surface. There are five processes on the external surface of each temporal bone which may be described: the first, situated at the low^er and posterior part of the bone, called, from its re- semblance to the nipple, the mastoid process: this is exter- nally hard, but is composed internally of cancelli, which have communication with the cavity of the tympanum: it has three muscles attached to it: the sterno-cleido mastoideus, trachelo-mastoideus and splenius—all inserted into it. An- terior to the mastoid, a second process begins to rise out of the bone : it is directed obliquely forwards about two inches in length, and terminates by joining the os malsc, forming an arch under which the temporal muscle passes: this is called