PHYSIOLOGY OF LIGAMENT, 187 nre surrounded by a reflection of the synovial capsule, to which, however, they are always external. Such are the crucial ligaments iof the knee, and the ligamentum teres of the hip-joint. They are properly called the interarticular liframents. The fifth class comprehends those ligaments which are not only for the purpose of connecting bones, but assist in forming a surface for the reception of the articular face of a bone, as in the Ugament extending from the os calcis to the os navi- eulare. Its particular use is to prevent violent concussion, which must inevitably have occured, had the astragalus been received wholly upon the unyielding structure of the os calcis. The sixth class includes those ligaments whose points of attachment become widely separated from each other, during the different motions of the bones which they connect, and which require therefore elasticity, as well as flexibility, to en- able them to recover their form when in the quiescent state. By this property of elasticity, they diminish the necessity for muscular power. The bony arches of the vertebra are con- nected by this structure, which becomes elongated when the spine is flexed, and by its elastic power assists in bringing the separated spinous processes again together, thereby pro- ducing an erect posture of the body. The seventh class consists of those ligamentous fibres, which either serve to fill up an opening in one bone, or to connect bones to each other, without entering into the com- position of a joint: they answer the double purpose of g'iving strength and affording a surface for the attachment of mus- cles. The ligamenta obturatoria, and interossea, constitute examples of this class. All these classes, more or less, resemble each other, in being much longer and broader than they are thick. Practical Remarks. Articular ligaments are, from their situation and use, very liable to be distended beyond their natural limits, which extension is calculated to excite inflammation, constituting the afl’ection commonly denominated sprain ; and which, under ordinary circumstances, it is very difficult to