ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. 283 anterior part of the articular surface of the astragalus leaves the cavity between the tibia and fibula in the opposite direc- tion to that in which it was kept by the last motion; and the posterior and smaller part of the astragalus passes forwards. In this action the lateral motion of the joint is allowed, in consequence of the comparatively smaller size of the astra- galus behind, by which it is incapable of filling up the whole space between the tibia and fibula. During extension of the foot the anterior ligament is put upon the stretch, the pos- terior is relaxed, while the lateral remain unaltered as to their degree of tension. Lateral motions are extremely confined under every posi- tion of the joint; in fact, they can scarcely be separately distinguished from the motions of the bones of the tarsus be- tween each other. They may, however, be performed to some small extent under the circumstances that exist during the extension of the foot, as already described; and, there- fore, this being allowed, a circular motion must be ascribed to the joint, although it is capable of performing it only to a very confined extent, even in this position ; in which state, the foot enjoying the greatest degree of motion, it is then in the position of all others in which the ancle-joint is liable to injury: while, on the contrary, in the erect posture, when this joint is sustaining the whole weight of the body, it is in its firmest state, and best capable of resisting injury from external violence. Practical Remarks. Dislocations of the Ancle-Joint. Notwithstanding the numerous and strong ligaments which serve to connect the tibia and fibula with the bones of the tarsus, yet, from the great degree of violence to which the ancle-joint is constantly exposed, luxation does frequently occur; and as it is usually attended with great injury and laceration to the parts entering into the composition of the joint, the accident is one of a dangerous nature. The astragalus may be thrown from the tibia in four different direc- tions ; but the fibula, having its ligaments so strong in proportion to its articular surface, usually breaks, rather than separate from its connexion with the astragalus.