THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 10 also takes place very early in the foetus; for, at the beginning’ of the third month, the bony cylinders are nearly completed: their extremities, however, continue in a cartilaginous state till a much later period. Iho flat bones of the cranium begin to ossify about seventy days after conception, at which period the dura, mater is found highly vascular. ■ With respect to the process of ossification, as it proceeds in different bones, it is found in some to take place from the centre, and from thence gradually to extend to the extremities or sides; while in others, it commences and proceeds from several points at once. In the long bones, again, a different order is observed: in these, ossification takes place in the body from several points at once, and proceeds from these points as from so many centres. The extremities, however, of these long bones, w^hieh until the age of eighteen are called the epiphyses, are not perfected till that period, when the whole becomes completely ossified. The mode by which these epiphyses are ultimately connected, with the body of the long bones by ossifie deposit, is precisely the same,— various centres of ossifie matter uniting with each other, as in the rest of the bone: but the process is much slower, and, as has been observed, is not completed until the age of eighteen, at which period we suppose a harder substance than cartilage is necessary to support the w^eight of the body, and meet the increase of muscular action. The epiphyses of the lower are ossified earlier than those of the upper extremities. The projecting apophyses of bones also undergo a process similar to that which takes place be- tween the epiphyses and the long bones,—all such processes being originally united to the bodies of the bones by an in- tervening cartilage, as may be seen in the grow th and developement of the trochanter major. The cancellated structure of bone is not completed until the epiphyses have disappeared. With respect to the growth or increase of different bones, this proceeds, in long bones, not only by the successive de- position of new bony matter around that which has been