DESeUIPriVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES, 159 the lower five or six of the dorsal vertebrae have them usually the most distinct; when found, they are placed more by the sides oli the spinous processes than at their apices, and seem as if they were portions of the attachment of other muscles rather than distinct muscles themselves. Use.—The same as the last described. The m. inters finales lumhorum—are usually six in num- ber ; the first being- between the spinous process of the last dorsal and the first lumbar vertebra, and the sixth between the sacrum and the last lumbar. In this reg-ion, as in the dorsal, they are placed more by the sides of the spinous processes than in the cervical reg-ion. Having- finished the muscles situated upon the posterior- part of the spine, in order to complete the muscles of the spinal column, we will now proceed to those situated upon its anterior and lateral surfaces. Deeply seated on the anterior surface of the neck are three muscles, which are exposed by removing- the pharynx and larynx. The first of these—■ The m. longus colli.—This muscle is peculiar from its orig-in being- within the thorax, and passing- out of the upper opening of the chest, extending from the third dorsal ver- tebra to the atlas. It arises tendinous and fleshy from the lateral surface of the bodies of the three superior dorsal vertebrae, and also from the anterior surface of the roots of the transverse processes of the four or five inferior cervical vertebrae ; the fibres ascend obliquely inwards, adhering to the bones and intervertebral substances, and pass to be inserted tendinous and fleshy into the fore part of the bodies of all the vertebrae of the neck. This muscle is covered by the phar3mx, larynx, oeso- phagus, carotid sheath, and its contents ; it lies upon the vertebrae and intervertebral substances; just where it ema- nates from the thorax it is placed on the inner side of the scalenus anticus muscle, between which a space is left which contains the vertebral artery, vein, and some filaments of the sympathetic nerve.