270 GENERAL ANATOMY OF CELLULAR MEMBRANE. absence of serous infiltrations ; but in the absence of adipose cellular membrane. It appears that, during sleep, the secretion of serum is increased, as is seen by the moisture on the surface of the skin. The important function of decarbonizing the blood, may be thus effected when the lungs, and other vital organs, are in comparative quiescence. The cellular tissue is one of the structures earliest de- veloped ; in the foetus, it is at first abundant and in a semi- fluid palpy state; it then diminishes as the organs develope themselves, and at the same time as growth advances, its density increases. In the female it is more abundant and lax than in the male. The cellular membrane has a greater power of repro- duction, than almost any other structure in the body ; and to it probably may be attributed the process of reparation of divided parts. The phenomena which occur in the union of divided cellular membrane when brought into immediate contact, consist, first, of the pouring out of a fluid, which soon has vessels shooting into it; and consolidating, the whole becomes highly vascular: this new structure remains for some time firmer, and more vascular, than the originally formed membrane; but, by degrees, it is not distinguishable from it. In large and extensive wounds, in which the edges are widely separated, a similar process occurs in the formation of granulations ; and the readier process of growth in cellular membrane beyond that of the skin, is often witnessed in the exuberance of granulations before the new skin is capable of covering them. The cellular membrane is frequently the seat of inflam- mation, which produces an adhesive deposit, and consequent consolidation, which diminishes the elasticity and power of motion in the part. Inflammation, in other instances, ex- tends to suppuration; and in consequence of the slight degree of vitality of this structure, and the free communi- cation of its calls, extensive abscesses follow, which are