THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 168 inflammation than to replace tlie bone. Fracture of these bones is, moreover, dangerous from their vicinity to joints, and also from the greater quantity of animal matter that enters into their composition, rendering them more liable to subsequent inflammation and disease. Compound fracture differs only from simple in there being an exter- nal wound communicating with the fractured extremity of the bone, by which, indeed, the wound is generally produced. The treatment only differs in removing every extraneous substance and portions of bone if it be comminuted fracture, then closing the wound, and assist- ing nature in every way to convert it into a simple one. The means to be adopted to relax the muscles, and to keep the bones in their natural position, is precisely the same in compound as in simple fracture. Immediately after fracture of any bone in which there is a tendency to great tumefaction, it is wrong to apply either splints or bandage, for any restriction of swelling is liable to produce gangrene: under these circumstances the limb should be placed on a pillow in a semi- flexed position, so that the muscles may be perfectly relaxed, and the bones placed as near as possible in their natural position; which cir- cumstances may be ascertained, whatever may be the swelling, by the immediate comparative ease of the patient. An evaporating lotion is then to be used ; or should there be any tendency to involuntary con- traction of the muscles, strips of soap-plaister may be gently applied around the limb, which, hy causing’ a secretion beneath it, diminishes the irritability of the muscles, as well as the urgency or the inflamma- tion. If it can be avoided, purgative medicines should not be given, as they would produce a necessity for frequent change of position; but should their use be considered essential, such medicines should be given as are least likely so keep up a continued action on the bowels. As soon as the tumefaction and inflammation have subsided, which, under the treatment recommended, generally happens in three or. four days, well padded splints should be applied, and retained in their situation by broad pieces of tape resting firmly on the splints, but should not any where be in contact with the limb. It has been stated, that a bandage should never be applied immedi- ately after the occurrence of fracture; however, it may be considered as an exception to this rule, that, when a portion of fractured bone has wounded and irritated a muscle, a bandage is the best means of relieving its spasmodic action. When fracture of a bone happens in the neighbourhood of, or passes into a joint, local bleeding, by means of leeches, is always necessary, and may require frequently to be repeated: even the necessity for general bleeding may sometimes be indicated when there is much constitutional irritation, in which case calomel and opium will also be found of the greatest service. In fractures into