BONES OF THE HEAD. 55 skeleton, forms the anterior opening- to the nares. On the anterior part of the rough surface, which connects the pala- tine process with its fellow, is found a g-roove on each bone, which form, by their junction, a canal, common to the two bones below, but terminating-, above, in a foramen proper to each maxillary bone. This canal is called the ductus incisi- vus : establishing- a communication between the nostrils and the mouth. The foramina proper to this bone, are:—the foramen infra- orhitale, forming the anterior opening of the infra-orbitar canal; and the foramen incisivum, passing- from the nose, and joining with its fellow, to form the ductus incisivus. The common foramina are, the palato-maxillary, the spheno- maxillary fissure, and the ductus incisivus. The names of the two former express their construction; the latter is formed by the junction of the palatine processes of the two bones. Tlie maxillary, with the assistance of the lachrymal and infe- rior turbinated bones, form the fossa for lodgingthe lachrymal sac and the ductus ad nasum. Connexion.—'^The superior maxillary bone is connected, by its malar process and orbitar process, to the malar bone ; by the anterior edge of the nasal process, to the nasal bone; by its upper extremity to the os frontis, by the posterior edge of the same process, and by the adjoining part of the orbitar plate, to the lachrymal bone, behind which the orbitar plate joins the ethmoid. The back part of the orbitar process, to- gether with the tuberosity and the posterior edge of the palatine process, is connected to the palatine bone. The internal edge of the palatine process joins its fellow; the inferior turbinated bone is attached to the ridge running across the internal surface of the nasal process: and lastly, the vomer is connected to the nasal spine, produced by the union of the two ossa maxiUaria. Attachment of Muscles.—The muscles attached to this bone are the masscter, the constrictor pharyngis superior, the pterygbideus e.xternus, the buccinator, tbe levator anguli oris, the levator ct depressor labii supe- rioris, alccque nasi, the orbicularis palpebrarum, the obliquus oculi infe- rior, and compressor naris.