DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF ARTICULATIONS. 20.O It is somevvhai in the form of a wedg-e, being thicker behind than before; and into its posterior edge some small arteries may be traced: its centre is always very thin, and is some- times perforated, forming an opening between the two syno- vial cavities. Its circumference is attached to the lateral lig’aments. Its tine is to facilitate and extend the motions of the lower jaw, and partly to give insertion to the pterygoideus externus muscle. This articulation is strengthened by an external and internal lateral, and the stylo-iuaxillary ligaments. The external lateral ligament is composed of short, thin, parallel fibres, which are united by a dense cellular mem- brane. It is attached above, by a broad origin, to the arti- cular tubercle and outer edge of the glenoid cavity, and to the anterior edge of the meatus auditorious externus. It ex- tends obliquely backwards, and terminates on the outer side of the neck of the lower jaw': externally, this ligament gives support to the parotid gland; and internally, it is in contact with the interarticular cartilage, and is covered by synovial membrane. The internal lateral ligament is composed of a number of narrow slender fibres, of considerable length, which arise from the inner edge of the glenoid cavity; it passes obliquely downwards and forwards, but immediately divides into two fasciculi: the outer fasciculus, or that one nearest to the bone, is much the shorter, and is attached to the inner side of the neck of the jaw; while the internal, or longer fasciculus, en- larges as it descends, and is inserted into the upper and fore part of the posterior maxillary foramen : its point of insertion is a small spinous process which partly covers that foramen, and, projecting somewhat from the jaw, leaves a space for the passage of the dental artery and nerve, which are thus protected from the action of the pterygoideus internus muscle. Ihe precise situation of this ligament is, first between the pterygoidei muscles, and then between the pterygoideus in- ternus, and the perpendicular plate of the lower jaw.