XXvi LECTURES ON ANATOMY. jaw, formed into a bolus by the tongue, lubricated by a fluid of the mouth, and thus rendered fit to be swallowed, as well as to undergo certain changes in the stomach. The food thus masticated and prepared, is passed by the action of the tongue upon the soft palate, into the cavity of the fauces, towards the pharynx. Stimulated by the presence of food, the pharynx contracts and presses it into the canal of the oesophagus, the muscular fibres of which by their action convey it into the stomach. From the organs necessary to the processes of deglutition, I pass to the digestive organs, commencing with the stomach: a membraneous bag, which is situated in the cavity of the abdomen, and which constitutes another important distinc- tion between the animal and the vegetable kingdom ; animals receiving’ their nutriment into an interior organ for assimila- tion, while plants imbibe theirs at the surface. The stomach is found in every animal, and may be considered as consti- tuting the organic difference between the animal and the vegetable world. The process by which food is converted into nourishment, and which constitutes the peculiar oflfice of this organ, is termed digestion. By the action of a powerful solvent called the gastric juiee, supplied from the glands of the stomach, the food is converted into a pulpy substance called chyme, and it then passes through the pylorus into the duodenum, where it mixes with other fluids, the bile, the pancreatic and the enteric juices, and is converted from chyme into chyle. The whole of the substance however is not transmuted into chyle, for a considerable portion of it passes away as useless and feculent matter. That portion of it which is proper for corporeal sustenance, is taken up by the absorbent vessels from the small intestines, which are furnished w’ith a number of folds of a valvular structure, called valvulce conniventes, which tend to retard the passage of the feculent matter, and by enlarging the surface enable the lacteals to take up such portion as may still prove nu- tritious. This rather minute detail of the alimentary process, ap-