DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 91 comparative development of these muscles forms a distin- 2’uishine* mark between carnivorous and g-raminivorous feeders. In man, who is termed omnivorous, these four pairs of muscles being’ equally developed, all kinds of food are thoroughly prepared by them for deglutition. We may now take into consideration those muscles which are des- tined to collect and form the masticated food into a bolus, for the purpose of its being passed into the fauces; this office is performed by the Muscles of the Tongue. The tongue is composed of muscle, and is covered by mucous membrane; it is attached behind to the os hyoides by a broad base, while anteriorly it is narrow and pointed, and capable of being turned and twisted in every direction, to enable it to collect the food, and perfectly mix it with the secretions of the mouth. The tongue, although it has all the appearance of a single organ, yet might with propriety be considered a double one, being furnished with a central rapha, and perfectly symmetrical organized sides, which are, in a great measure, independent of each other. This may be frequently seen in hemiplegia, where one side has com- pletely lost its power of function, while the other remains per- fect. The principal bulk of the tong’ue is made up of four pairs of muscle, which are placed in the following order, and are to be dissected by dividing the jaw at the symphysis, and by drawing the tongue forcibly forwards out of the mouth ; thus bringing into view, first. The m. genio hyo glossus.—The anterior fibres, or genio hyoideal portion of this muscle have already been described as acting solely with those placed between the os hyoides and lower jaw; but the genio glossal portion, or posterior fibres, are now to be considered, as belonging especially to the tongue. They arise from a protuberance on the inner surface of the symphysis of the lower jaw, above the origin of the genio hyoideus ; from this, as from a centre, the fibres radiate, passing forwards to the tip, upwards to the centre,