DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 217 Use—To flex the second phalanges of the four toes, and to strengthen the arch of the foot, in conjunction with the long flexor of the toes and plantar fascia. The m. abductor pollicis pedis.—This muscle is proper to the great toe, and forms the inner boundary of the inner re- g-ion of the foot; it arises tendinous and fleshy from the inner side of the under surface of the tuberosity of the os calcis, from a ligament which extends from the calcis along the os naviculare to the internal cuneiform bone, and from the fascia plantaris; the fleshy fibres from these origins pass forward parallel to the metatarsal bone supporting the great toe, and are inserted tendinous into the inner sesamoid bone, and root of the first phalanx. The under surface of this muscle rests upon the inner portion of the plantar fascia; its upper surface is partly covered by the flexor brevis pollicis, and the tarsal bones. Use.—To abduct the great toe. The m. abductor minimi digiti pedis—is proper to the little toe ; it arises tendinous and fleshy from the outer side and under surface of the calcis, from the fascia plantaris, and from the outer surface of a ligament reaching from the os calcis to the base of the metatarsal bone supporting the little toe; its fibres pass forwards to be inserted tendinous into the anterior extremity of the metatarsal bone, and outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. This muscle is the most external of this region ; its under surface rests upon the outer portion of the fascia plantaris ; its outer edge is merely covered by skin ; its inner surface is in contact with the bones of the tarsus. Use.—To abduct, and assist in flexing the little toe. The second layer of muscles of the sole of the foot consist of the musculus accessorius, and lumbricales, and the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, and flexor longus pollicis; which tendons have already been described when speaking of those muscles situated in the deep-seated region of the leg.