188 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. Practical Remarks. In opening abscesses, attention must be paid to the situation of the matter, whetlicr in tlic anterior or posterior bag, as they have no com- munication with eacli otlier; as was noticed in reference to the fascial coverings of the arm. In amputation above the knee, a skilful operator will make his first circular incision through the skin and superficial fascia only; for when the fascia lata is cut through at the same time, the retraction of the integument is effected with greater difficulty, in consequence of the much firmer attachment of the fascia to the muscles than to the skin. We may now proceed to the dissection of the muscles of the hip-joint. The three flexors are, the psoas, iliacus, and pectineus. The m. psoas magnus—arises tendinous and flesh}’^ from the sides of the bodies of the four superior lumbar, and the last dorsal vertebra*, from the fore part of the roots of their transverse processes, and sometimes also from the head of the last rib ; from these origins the muscle forms a thick belly, at first slightly contracted, enlarging as it descends, until it reaches the linea ilio pectinea, where it again con- tracts, becomes tendinous; and leaving the pelvis with the iliacus passes downwards into the thigh, to be inserted into the trochanter minor, extending a short distance below it. Above, its origin is covered by the diaphragm, the psoas minor when it exists, and a small portion of the kidney ; the lower portion of this muscle has resting upon it, the external iliac artery and vein ; and the tendon, where it passes to be inserted, has the same vessels in front of it, under the name of femoral artery and vein. The inner edge of the muscle covers the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, transmitting be- tween its fibres a plexus of lumbar nerves ; when the tendon gains the thigh, it is placed between the pectineus muscle on its inner, and the tendon of the iliacus on its outer side —these tendons being connected with the capsular ligament of the hip-joint. Between the tendon of the psoas magnus, the pubes, and the capsular ligament of the hip-joint, a bursa is situated. Use.—To flex the thigh upon the pelvis, and slightly to rotate it