DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OK MUSCLES. 1 15 behind. Its tendon passes behind the coraco brachialis and short head of the biceps, in common with the tendon of the latissimus dorsi. These tendons are firmly united, excepting near the humerus, where a small bursa separates them. The relative position of these tendons with each other is, that the tendon of the latissimus dorsi is placed superior and anterior to that of the teres major; which latter, being broader, passes lower down along the edge of the bicipital groove. These united tendons form a part of the posterior boundary to the axilla, and have lying upon them the axillary vessels and nerves. Use.—To rotate the arm inwards, and to direct it downwards and backwards; but should the humerus be fixed, it will then draw tlie scapula in the opposite directions. The m. coraco brachialis—arises from the middle of the apex of the coracoid process of the scapula, and also from the inner edge of the tendon of the short head of the biceps ; it forms a fleshy belly, which descends, becomes tendinous in the middle of the arm, and is inserted into a rough ridge at the middle and internal part of the humerus. The origin of this muscle is situated between the short head of the biceps to its outer side, and the insertion of the pectoralis minor on its inner; the belly of the muscle then passing downwards and outwards, on the inner side of the biceps and behind the pectoralis major and deltoid, is perforated by the musculo cutaneous nerve. The insertion of the muscle takes place between the third head of the triceps and inner origin of the brachialis internus; and from which passes the intermuscular tendon to the internal condyle. Use,—To raise and draw the arm forwards towards the body; and to rotate it outwards. The nine muscles last described, conclude those which ' perform the motions of the shoulder-joint. The next set in the order of my arrangement, are those which belong to the elbow-joint; they are four in number, two flexors, and two extensors.