DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 100 tendon, from the inner side of the base of the styloid process of the temporal bone; it passes downwards and backwards to be inserted into the side of the pharynx, sending- some fibres to the os hyoides and thyroid cartilag^e, and mingling- with those of the palato pharyngeus muscle. This muscle is deeply seated, its origin being covered by the stylo hyoidcus and stylo glossus muscles, and its insertion, by the middle constrictor of the pharynx. Use.—To raise tlie pharynx, and at the same time to widen it, and render it better capable of receiving the food. This muscle in its dissection may be classified as one of the three muscles arising from the styloid process, and being situated transversely between the os hyoides and lower jaw; but then its situation alone would be learnt, and not its function, which should always be the paramount consideration. From the pharynx the ingesta pass into the oesophagus, an organ which will be described with those of digestion. Practical Remarks. The neck has been already described, as that part of the body which is situated between the chest and head. From the numerous and im- portant parts which are connected with it, such are the organs of deg- lution, respiration, large arteries, veins, and nerves, &c., the wounds of this part require a treatment at once ready and efficient, and such as can only be recommended by a surgeon, who, familiar with the ana- tomy and physiology of all the structures, is at first view capable of forming a just opinion as to the necessary means to be employed for the relief of the patient. To simplify these considerations, the neck should be divided into four regions; an anterior, two lateral, and a posterior region. The anterior region is triangular, and is bounded above by the lower- jaw, reaching as far laterally as the mastoid processes of the temporal bones, below by the sternum forming the apex of the triangle, and late- rally by the two anterior edges of the sterno cleido mastoidci muscles. This space should be subdivided into thirds, the upper third between the os hyoides and the lower jaw: the middle third between the os hy- oides and the cricoid cartilage; and the lower third between the cricoid cartilage and the sternum. In a surgical point of view, wounds of the upper third are the least important; of the middle third, of greater; and of the lower third, of the greatest importance; for the following rea- sons. Wounds of the upper third would divide chiefly muscular parts, without leading to much apprehension from haemon-hagc, in conse-