DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF ARTICULATIONS. 225 and is composed of parallel fibres which run transversely from the head of one clavicle to the head of the other, above the con- cave semilunar edg^e of the sternum. It is sometimes composed of two fasciculi, an upper and a lower, but usually only of one. It is connected on the heads of the clavicles with the sterno-clavicular articulations ; and from its lower edg"e, as it passes above the upper part of the sternum, it is attached to its periosteum by cellular membrane. The use of this ligament is not only to connect the clavicles firmly with each other, but also to strengthen their articulation with the ster- num. It also assists in protecting the trachea, as it passes through the upper opening of the chest. The rhomboid ligament is connected firmly with the in- ferior surface of the clavicle, and with a small tubercle close to its sternal extremity. It is strong- and broad, and passes obliquely downwards and forwards to be inserted into the an- terior part of the cartilag-e of the first rib, close to its junction with the sternum, and mixes with the lig-ament which con- nects them. The use of this ligament is principally to fix the clavicle for the action of the sterno cleido mastoideus, and to give attachment to the subclavius muscle. Inter articular cartilage.—This cartilag-e is very nearly circular, having- a smooth surface above for its attachment to the clavicle, and one below for the sternum. It is thick and roug-h at its circumference, and comparatively thin in its centre. It adjusts itself to the articular surfaces of both the clavicle and sternum, extending- as far on the latter bone as the attachment of the cartilag-e of the first rib, with which it is firmly connected. This cartilag-e is in the form of a wedg-e with its base turned upwards to the clavicle, and its apex descending- obUquely to be connected w-ith the first rib. In structure it resembles the interartieular cartilag-e of the lower jaw; its fibres being- more apparent at the circumference than at the centre. Synovial membrane.—This membrane is separated, as in Q