descriptive anatomy of muscles. 93 the stylo glossus on the outer side, and the lingualis on the inner ; above it is covered by the mucous membrane of the mouth; and some few of its fibres are connected with the middle constrictor of the pharynx, at its hyoideal attachment. Use.—When one muscle acts, it depresses the base of the tongue, ob- liquely drawing it to one side: when both act, it either depresses the whole base, or raises the os hyoides if the tongue be fixed. The m. stylo glossus—arises, thin and tendinous, from the ape.x of the styloid process of the temporal bone, below and in front of the stylo hyoideus muscle, and also from the stylo maxillary ligament; it then descends, becoming broader and thinner, to be inserted into the whole length of the outer edge of the tongue. This muscle is bounded externally by the digastric muscle, lingual nerve, and mucous membrane of the tongue ; inter- nally, by the superior constrictor of the pharynx ; by the hyo glossus muscle posteriorily, and the lingualis anteriorly. Use.—To carry the tongue upwards, backwards, and obliquely to one side, when acting singly ; but when both act, they direct the tip of the tongue to the roof of the mouth, and contract both its longitudinal and lateral dimensions. The next part called into action in the function of deg'lu- tition; under which consideration I have classed the muscles of the tongue; is the fauces, which is a narrowed arched canal, connecting the posterior part of the mouth with the pharynx. It is bounded below, by the base of the tongue ; above, by a soft muscular moveable curtain, which is termed the velum pen- dulum palati; and on either side by two pillars ; the anterior of which is termed the constrictor isthmi/faucium; the posterior, the palato pharyngeus; which, in their descent, diverge, so as to admit the tonsil gland between them. From the centre of the velum pendulum palati, a soft triangular portion falls down in the middle line, so as in some measure to divide the open- ing of the fauces into two passages: this process, which is muscular, is termed the uvula. All these parts are covered by a continuation of the raucous membrane of the mouth, which must be removed, to expose the muscles of the fauces