2‘JO GliNERAL ANATOMY OF THE SKIN, ot the body beyond that point which would prove injurious. At the time the temperature of the room was raised to 264“, the heat of the body itself never rose above 102“—its natural temperature being- 98“; which, in fever, is rarely or never raised above 10l“. This vital reg-ulation of tempera- ture resident in the skin, in some instances would appear not exactly to depend upon the mere process of evaporation producing- cold, as frog-s and fish are capable of maintaining- a standard temperature of body in water of a much hig-her temperature. Occasionally in fevers this function of the skin seems to be suspended, particularly in fevers of a typhoid character ; when the g-reat heat of the skin will communicate to the touch of a healthy person the sensation of a burning- surface ; in such instances, relief can only be obtained by the application of artificial cold and moisture; and nothing can exceed the pleasurable feelings of persons thus relieved from the insupportable heat of the body. The quantity of perspirable fluid secreted from the skin of a healthy subject in a given time, under the different states of rest and exertion, has been the subject of various expe- riments, by different physiologists. Mr. Cruikshanks placed his arm in a glass vessel, and found that, in the space of one hour, twenty grains of perspiration were given off; he repeated the experiment, but now walking about, and in one hour forty-eight grains were produced from exertion; thus making the difference of rather more than one half. Mr. Allen tried this experiment, subjecting a glass tube in which his arm was enclosed, to a high degree of heat; when the perspiration became excessively profuse. Another important function is referable to the skin, wherein it answers a somewhat similar purpose to respiration ; and, like it, appears to assist in decarbonizing the blood. This is found by the precipitation of a carbonate of lime, when the hand, in a state of perspiration is immersed in lime water ; or if the lime water is exposed to air which has been for a length of time confined upon a surface of skin. These