i78 DESCRimVli ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. which is seen the urethra,) to be inserted into the corpora cavernosa of the penis. In the erect posture, the inferior surface of this muscle rests upon the superficial fascia of the perinaeum ; the upper surface is connected laterally with the crura of the penis, and the deep fascia of the perinaeum, and in the middle line receives and supports the bulb of the urethra; anteriorly, it is lost upon the membranous covering of the corpora cavernosa of the penis; posteriorly, it is blended with the fibres of the sphincter ani, and transversus perinaei. Use.—To compress and elevate the bulb of the urethra, so as to accelerate the ejection of the urine and sema. The m. erector penis—is a thin flat muscle, arising ten- dinous and fleshy from the inner side of the tuberosity of the ischium, in connection with the inferior sacro sciatic liga- ment ; the fibres proceed forwards, inwards, and upwards, converging towards those of the opposite side, adhering to the crus penis, and reaching the corpus cavernosum is in- serted into the membranous investment of that body. This muscle is bounded on its outer side, by the rami of - the ischia and pubes; on its inner, by the accelerator urinae, being separated from it by a considerable space of a trian- gular form, in which is found the artery of the perinaeum, and a considerable quantity of fat; its inferior surface is covered by the superficial fascia; and its superior by the crus and corpus cavernosum penis. Use.—To direct rather than erect the penis, unless it performs the latter office by preventing the return of the blood from the organ by the compression of the veins. The m. transversus perincei—is composed of a few fleshy fibres, whioh arise from the inner side of the tuberosity of the ischium, above the attachments of the erector penis ; the fibres pass inwards and slightly forwards to be inserted into a tendinous line, situated between it and the muscle of the opposite side, and being also connected with the sphincter ani, and accelerator urina3.