46 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM, Attachment of Muscles.—The following muscles are attached to the os sphenoides, all of them having their origin from it, viz.:—all the muscles of the eye, excepting the inferior oblique;—ni. levatores palpe- brarum superiorum, levatores, depressores, abductores, adductores et obliqui superiores oculorum, temporales, pterygoidei extern! and interni, biiccinatores, extern! mallei, constrictor pharyngis superior, and tensores palati. Use.—The use of this bone, in common with the other hones which assist in forming the cranium, is to support the brain ; but it also par- ticularly serves to strengthen the skull by the manner in which it extends across the base and is clamped with the temporal bones, preventing the separation of these bones from a blow on the vertex. Through its nume- rous foramina it allows of the passage of important nerves from the brain. It also assists in forming the bony orbit, the nose, and the upper and lateral boundary of the pharynx. Practical Points. This bone cannot be fractured from the immediate application of any external violence upon it, being so deeply seated; but it is liable to fracture from blows upon the vertex of the skull, which accident is indicated by bleeding from the ears, and sometimes from the nose, in corisequenoe of the rupture of some of the vessels of the mucous mem- brane lining the sphenoidal sinuses, which open into the nose. It is, also, liable to be affected by diseases incident to the mucous membrane, as polypi, etc. The Os Ethmoides Is placed in the anterior, inferior, and middle line of the base of the skull, between the two orbitar plates of the frontal bone. It is of a cuboidal figure, cellular in its structure, and has derived its name from being penetrated by numerous holes for the transmission of the first pair of nerves. It presents the following parts for description, viz.: its horizontal plate, its ascending, descending, and lateral lamince, its cells and tur- binated bones. The horizontal plate, which forms the body of the bone, is cribriform, has its long axis from before to behind, and offers