THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 144 bone, so tliat tlie inferior extremity of the upper part appears to be the one displaced. In Fractures of the Condyles, the vasti muscles passing around them to be inserted into the patella, admit of but little displacement. They have a slight tendency to be drawn backwards by the m. gastrocnemius externus, and the inner one upwards by the tendon of the m. adductor magnus. Fractures of the Thigh may be considered of more difficult manage- ment than that of any other bone, both in consequence of the difficulty in keeping the parts in apposition, and of the violence necessary to produce solution of continuity. In all fractures, the causes of the displacement of the fractured por- tions of bone is muscle; and as coaptation is necessary for the cure, it becomes the object of the surgeon to place the limb in that situation best adapted mechanically to prevent the influence of muscles, as well as to subdue their irritability by constitutional means. For the first indication various apparatus have been invented, aud numerous positions of the fractured limb recommended. It occurs to me, however, that no general practice, no constant rule can be laid down as the best. The surgeon’s mind in every case can alone form the means to be adopted, as applicable to the individual instance; bearing in mind that coaptation must not only be produced, but preserved for a longer or shorter period. From the size of the femur, its reparation is not completed, under ordi- nary circumstances, in less than fifty days. The second division of the bones of the lower extremity, or leg’, is composed of the tibia, patella, and fibula. The Tibia Is the larg’est bone of the leg-, placed on the inner side, entering’ into the composition of the knee and ancle-joints, and is situated between the femur and tarsus. It is divided into a body, and two extremities. The superior extremity, or head, is of an irregular oval form, having its long axis from side to side, with a convex anterior and a concave posterior edge, or circumference. Its upper surface presents two articulatory faces, an external and an internal one, to receive the corresponding condyles of