200 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. forms a thick fleshy muscle, which passes vertically clown- Avarcls to be inserted tendinous into the upper part of the patella, in common with the vasti; continuing’ downwards so as to form in part the lig’amcntum patellae. "J'lils is a double penniform muscle ; its upper half, ante- riorly, is covered with tendon, over which the sartorius g’lides; while its posterior surface, in the lower half, is also furnished with tendon, which facilitates its motion on the cruraous. Its anterior surface is covered by the fascia lata, iliacus, and sartorius muscles ; its posterior surface, above, covers the capsular lig'ament of the hip-joint, and the external circumflex vessels ; in the rest of its extent it lies upon the cruraeus and vasti muscles. Use.—To extend the leg, and to assist in flexing the thigh upon the pelvis. In the ereet posture, it fixes the pelvis and adds strength to the hip-joint. The m. crureeus—arises from the fore and external part of the femur, commencing’ from a space between the two trochanters ; it proceeds downwards, along- three fourths of that bone ; and on the outer side, extends as far backwards as the linea aspera: it then inclines forwards, becomes tendinous, posteriorly, where it is separated from the bone by a considerable quantity of adipose matter, and a larg-e bursa; its tendon is inserted into the upper part of the patella, behind the rectus, in common with that muscle and the two vasti. The anterior surface of the cruraeus is covered by the rectus and two vasti, to which muscles it is firmly con- nected ; superiorly, they are somewhat separated by some larg-e vessels and nerves which pass between them. Use.—To assist in extending the leg. The m. vastus externus—is the larg-est of the three mus- cles which cover the anterior surface of the thigh-bone; it arises above, by a broad, tendinous and fleshy origin, from the root and outer surface of the trochanter major, anterior to the tendon of the glutajus maximus; from the whole