92 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. and backwards to the base of the tongue, forming thus tbe inner boundary of each half. The posterior fibres send off a delicate tendinous fasciculus to the os hyoides, which passes to be indirectly connected with the base of the epiglottis. This muscle is bounded inferiorly by the genio hyoideus, superiorly by the mucous membrane of the mouth, externally by the sublingual gland, the lingualis, and hyo glossus mus- cles ; internally it is firmly connected with its fellow by strong condensed cellular tissue forming the rapha. Use.—^All the fibres of this muscle assist in pushing the tongue out of the mouth, the anterior fibres draw it back again, while the middle fibres render the dorsum of the tongue concave, the fasciculus, which passes to be attached to the base of the epiglottis, pulls that fibro carti- lage forwards and upwards. The m. lingualis,—as its name would imply, is only attached to the tongue ; arising from the base of that organ, it pro- ceeds forwards to the tip, in which it may be said to be in- serted. It has to its inner side, along its whole length, the genio hyo glossus. On its outer side, for the posterior two thirds, the hyo glossus; and on the anterior third, the stylo glossus muscle: above and below it is in contact with the mucous membrane of the mouth, and its fibres are intimately connected with the muscles which bound them laterally. Use.—To shorten the tongue, and direct the tip towards the fraenum linguaj, and floor of the mouth. The m. hyo glossus—arises from the os hyoides by three separate fasciculi, in such a manner as to have been described by Albinus as three distinct muscles, bearing each a dis- tinct name, according to their attachments; it may, how- ever, with propriety be described as one muscle, arising from the outer half of the base, and part of the cornu of the os hyoides, passing upwards to inserted into the posterior two thirds of the tongue. The under surface of this muscle, at its hyoideal attach- ment, is covered by the mylo hyoideus, stylo hyoideus, and ' digastricus muscles ; as it proceeds towards the tongue, by the lingual and lingual gustatory nerves, submaxillary gland, and excretory duct; at its insertiofi it is placed between