l02 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. The m. longissimus clorsi—arises precisely by the same attachments with the last described muscle, passes insepa- rably w'ith it to the last rib, where they diverge, to be in- serted by tendinous and lleshy fibres into the lower edge of all the ribs, excepting the two last, in a space between their tubercles and angles, and into the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebrae, by small double tendons ; the insertions into the ribs proceed from the outer edge of the muscle, and into the transverse processes from the inner. These muscles are situated underneath the latissimus dorsi, trapezius, rhomboidei, and serrati, and occupy a space between the spinous and transverse processes of the vertebrae. Use,—To assist in preserving the erect position of the trunk, turning it to one side ; or, in violent expiration, to diminish the capacity of the chest, by drawing down the ribs. The m. spinalis dorsi—is exposed by turning the longis- simus dorsi outwards from the spine; it forms the innermost fasciculi of the erector mass of muscle of the trunk, arising tendinous and fleshy from the spinous processes of the two superior lumbar, and the three inferior dorsal vertebrae; it proceeds upwards, in contact with the bones of the spine, to be inserted tendinous into the spinous processes of all the dorsal vertebrae above the ninth, ex- cepting the first. The situation of this muscle is between the longissimus dorsi and spinous processes of the vertebrae. Use,—Together with the preceding to keep the trunk erect. The m. splenius—arises tendinous from the spinous pro- cesses of the five inferior cervical and the four superior dorsal vertebrae ; from these origins the fibres pass upwards and outwards, divide themselves into two portions—the upper one, which is by some anatomists termed the splenius capitis, to be inserted tendinous into the back part of the mastoid process of the temporal bone, and into the occipital bone immediately below the superior transverse ridge ; tlie lower portion, frequently called the splenius colli, is inserted