119 BONES UP THE EXTREMITIES. which extends to tlio lower extremity, and forms the greatest part of the leng-th of the bone. It is of a triangi-ular form, and presents three surfaces and three angles. ^J'he anterior sur- face is somewhat hollow above, expanding- in its lateral dimensions as it descends, and becoming- flattened for the attachment of the pronator quadratus muscle. On this sur- face is to be observed the foramen for the nutritious artery, having- its course from below upwards. The posterior sur- face presents a convexity outwards and a concavity inwards, which are more particularly distinct in the middle third of the bone. The concavity offers an extended surface for the at- tachment of the muscles of the thumb. The lower third of this surface is g-rooved for the passag-e of the tendons which are attached to the fingers. The external surface is arched, and offers nothing- remarkable, excepting a rough surface in its centre, for the insertion of the pronator radii teres muscle. Of the angles, the internal is the most acute, and gives at- tachment to the interosseous ligament: it forms a very consi- derable arch, the concavity of which faces inwards, thereby producing a space between it and the ulna for the lodg-ement of muscles. The external angle is rounded, presenting- no particular point worthy of observation. The posterior angle is only to be remarked in the lower two-thirds of the bone, and forms a ridge between the posterior superficial and deep layer of muscles. The inferior extremity of the radius is the largest part of the hone, and is divided into an anterior and a posterior sur- face, two articulatory surfaces, and a process. The anterior surface is concave from side to side, allowing of the passage of the flexor tendons to the fingers. The posterior surface forms a general convexity from side to side, but is rendered irregular by four grooves, which pass from above to below, and which admit of the passage of the following tendons : the outer groove receives the tendons of m. primi et secundi in- ternodii; the second groove, the extensor carpi radialis longior et brevior; the third, the extensor tertii internodii; while the fourth and inner one transmits tendons of the indicator and