bones of the head. 43 riorly, is joined to the body of the sphenoid bone, and, anteri- orly, to the ethmoid. This plate, or portion, may be called the ethmoidal spine. The superior surface of these aim support the anterior lobes of the brain: their under surface forms a small part of the roof of the orbit posteriorly, and the fora- mina lacera orbitalia superiora, to which we have already adverted. The foramina in this bone are numerous, and all consist of pairs: six pairs are proper to the bone, and four are common to it and other bones. The six proper are, first, the foramina optica, which are situated at the junction of the roots of the alae minores with the body of the sphenoid bone: they are directed forwards, outwards, and rather downwards into the orbit, and are for the passage of the optic nerves, and ophthalmic arteries of the internal carotid. Behind, and to the outer side of these are situated the foramina lacera orbitalia superiora, which are directed from v^ithin to without, and from below upwards. They are formed by the junction of the aim majores and mi- nores to the body of the bone on the inner side of the foramen, and to each other on the outer: sometimes, however, assisted, as has been before observed, by the frontal bone. These foramina communicate with the orbits, and allow of the trans- mission of the third, fourth, first division of the fifth, and sixth pair of cerebral nerves—all of which pass to supply the eye and its appendages : they also admit the ophthalmic veins to pass through them backwards from the orbit to terminate in the cavernous sinuses, which are situated immediately posterior to them. Directly under these foramina, and slightly posterior to them, are placed \hQ foramina which pass somewhat downward, and lead to the spheno-maxillary fossm: they trans- mit the second division or superior maxillary branch of the fifth pair of nerves. Nearly an inch behind these, and external to them, are placed \hQ foramina ovalia, for the passage of the third division of the fifth pair, or the inferior maxillary nerve: the names of these two last mentioned nerves indicate their distribution. Behind the foramina ovalia, and to their outer