articulations of the lower extremities. 265 with which it is firmly united. On tlie inner side, the fibres of the capsular ligament are often so much separated as to leave a space between them, exposing" the synovial mem- brane; and again becomes streng-thened by fibres, which pass downwards from the obturator foramen. The whole external face of the capsular ligament of this joint is covered by the insertion of muscles destined for the motion of the thigh-bone: its internal surface is lined by synovial mem- brane. The interarticular ligament, or ligamentum teres, is com- posed of ligamentous fibres, which pass from the inner and fore part of the cotyloid cavity to a rough fossa on the head of the femur. Its form is that of a triangle, the apex of which is attached to the thigh-bone; and its base, which is bifur- cated, forms two flattened bands, which pass around the circumference of the foramen produced by the cotyloid liga- ment passing over the notch of the acetabulum. The superior band is of less extent than the inferior, but both are attached to the cotyloid ligament. Cotyloid ligament.—The circumference of the cotyloid cavity is surrounded by this fibro-cartilaginous substance, which renders it perfectly regular, and forms into a foramen the notch which is situated at the under and fore part of that cavity, leaving a space for the passage of blood-vessels to the ligamentum teres. It is connected with the bony edge of the acetabulum by a comparatively broad base, while its apex is a free border a little inclined inwards. Its internal surface is covered by the synovial membrane ; its external is in contact with the capsular ligament. Synovial membrane.—This membrane arises from the car- tilage of the head of the femur ; it is then continued along its neck as far as its base, from whence it becomes reflected on the capsular ligament, covering it throughout its whole ex- tent ; it then passes on the inner surface of the cotyloid liga- ment into the cavity of the acetabulum, at the bottom of which it forms folds or fimbriae, for the purpose of enlarging the surface for the secretion of its fluid ; but, from its