184 PARTS ESSENTIAL TO THE SKELETON. a greater degree of density towards the interior. They vary in thickness, shape, consistence, and adaptation, according to the function and form of the articulation which they strengthen, and the degree of motion which they serve to restrain. They differ also in number, some joints being provided only with a single ligament, while other possess several. The direction of their fibres also varies in the different articulations, but they are always so disposed as to offer resistance in a line continuous with that in which the fibres themselves pursue; or in other words, the extent and variety of motion of which a joint is capable, may be discovered by observing the incli- nation adopted by the fasciculi of its difierent ligaments, as they pass from one bone to the other. The ligaments are in- separably united to the periosteum of the bones which they attach, and may indeed be considered as a prolongation of that membrane from one bone to the other. They are both of the same tissue, but taking the name of periosteum where covering bone; but when leaving the bone, it either becomes lined by synovial membrane, or is in contact with articular cartilage, under which circumstance the term hga- ment is applied to it. The hgamentous tissue is slightly vascular, but more so than cartilage. On examination, however, numerous blood- vessels are found entering between its fibres ; but these are destined rather for the supply of synovial membrane and the extremities of bones, than for the organization of ligaments themselves. Nerves and absorbents are said to have been traced into ligaments, and the changes which they undergo afford evidence of their existence, although these structures, in a healthy state, possess a very small share of irritabihty and sensibility. The ligaments contain, in their natural state, a great portion of water, and when dried, become hard, trans- parent and brittle; they lose their fibrous texture, and as- sume a red yellowish colour. They may be reduced to char- coal by fire, and to gelatine by maceration. They are found to contain a considerable quantity of albumen. In embryo and in infancy, the ligaments are found very