THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 100 I he clavicle is divided into its body, its sternal and scapu~ lar extremities, and its tubercles. The body comprises the middle part of the bone, and pre- sents a superior surface, vrhich eidarg-es as it extends out- wards: the sternal half of this surface is rounded and rouffh- O ened, and g-ives attachment to the m. sterno-cleido-mastoideus. The inferior surface is similar in its form and direction: it is hollowed in its middle part, to lodge the subclavian muscle; and there is also seen here a foramen, for the passage of the nutritious vessel. The under surface of the body is placed between two projecting portions of bone termed the tubercles, which are situated at the precise point where the extremities of the clavicle are connected with the body. The inner tu- bercle is for the purpose of giving attachment to a hgament connecting this bone with the first rib; and the outer one,for the ligaments which join the clavicle with the coracoid pro- cess of the scapula. The anterior edge of the body is large : convex on its sternal half, where it gives attachment to the pec- toralis major muscle, and concave on its outer half, to which is aflaxed the deltoid muscle. The posterior edge, on the con- trary, is concave internally, and convex externally, where the m. trapezius is inserted. The sternal extremity is the thickest part of the hone, and terminates in an articulatory surface, which is directed slightly forwards. This surface is somewhat triangular in form, be- ing larger above than below, and is concave from behind to before. The circumference of this extremity of the bone is rough, for the attachment of ligaments to strengthen its arti- culation with the sternum. It should, however, be men- tioned, tha't an intervening cartilage separates the clavicle from the sternum. The scapular extremity is incUned backwards and upwards, to be connected to the acromion process of the scapula by a small articular surface, which has its long axis from before to behind. This extremity presents a superior and an infe- rior, flattened, rough surface, which give attachment to ligaments connecting the clavicle with the scapida.