161 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. The m. rectus capitis lateralis—arises by a small tendon from the superior and anterior part of the transverse process of the atlas, aud ascends vertically to be inserted into a small process on the occipital bone, immediately behind the fossa jugularis. The situation of this muscle is between the internal jugular vein, w'hich is anterior to it; and the vertebral artery, which is behind it. Use.—To incline the head laterally and slightly forwards. The m. scalenus anticus—arises tendinous from the an- terior part of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae; it forms a thick fleshy muscle, which passes downwards to be inserted tendinous into a small tubercle situated upon the upper and anterior surface of the middle part of the first rib. This muscle is deeply seated, and is covered by the sterno eleido mastoideus, and omo hyoideus muscles ; its insertion is crossed by the subclavian vein, above which, it is also crossed by the superficial cervical artery; in the direction of its long axis there rests upon the muscle the phrenic nerve, and the ascending' cervical artery ; behind it, is placed the subclavian artery, so that the scalenus anticus muscle separates the subclavian artery from the subclavian vein ; the outer side is bounded by the cervical nerves, as they are passing to form the axillary plexus, and the inner side by the vertebral artery. Use.—To bend the cervical vertebrae laterally and forwards, and to assist in inspiration by raising the rib, fixing it as a point for the action of the intercostal muscles. The m. scalenus medius—arises tendinous from the trans- verse processes of all the cervical vertebrae; these origins soon become fleshy, and pass downwards as one large muscle to be inserted into the upper and outer part of the first rib, about half an inch anterior to its angle, behind the subclavian artery. This muscle is separated from the preceding, below, by the subclavian artery, and above, by the cervical nerves. M