THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 108 portions shall lacerate the skin, and render the fracture compound. It is also possible for the subclavian vessels to be injured. These circum- stances would necessarily render the prognosis much less favourab le. In simple cases, the bone usually consolidates in forty or fifty hours. The Scapula. This bone is situated at the upper posterior and lateral part of the chest, and tog'ether with the clavicle, through the medium of numerous muscles, serves to connect the upper extremity with the trunk. It is of a triangular form, and may be considered as one of the flat bones. This bone reaches from the first to the seventh rib, and is placed with a slight degree of obhquity, so that the inferior angle of the two scapulae have a tendency to converge. The parts which are to be observed on the scapulae are the following:— Three processes,—the acromion, coracoid, and spine: —three costae,—a superior, posterior, and anterior,—these terminating in three angles, a superior, inferior, and ante- rior: three fossae,—the fossae supraspinata, fossa infraspi- nata, and fossa subscapularis. Three notches,—the acro- mial, semilunar, and coracoidal, besides the neck and the glenoid cavity. The external surface of the bone is convex, and the internal one concave. Having thus named the se- veral parts constituting the scapula, the particular description of each will be more readily understood. I shall commence with the processes, and first, the spinous process, which runs across the dorsum or convex surface of the bone, passing from below upwards, and dividing tliis sur- face of the scapula into two unequal fossae for the attachment of muscles. The spine then becomes broader; and, rising up above the body of the scapula, terminates in the acromion process, or extremity of the shoulder, which, overhanging the glenoid cavity, protects the shoulder-joint superiorly and be- hind. The acromion is hollow underneath, to allow of the passage of a muscle, and its extremity is tipped witlr carti- lage to be connected with the clavicle. The coracoid process