7 PHYSIOLOGY OF THE BONES. ITiere are also enclosed cavities in bones, wliich produce in tlie long- bones cylindrical canals, forming- the medullary cavities, occupying- the middle of the bone, and terminating- at its e.vtremities in the areola of the spongy substance. I’hese cavities tend to render the bone lighter in proportion to its bulk, and stronger in proportion to its weight. In infancy, while the extremities of the bones are cartilaginous, the me- dullary canal is shorter in proportion than in the adult; and, indeed, is not completed until the epiphyses are perfectly ossified. Even in the first formation of callosity, after the fracture of a bone, this canal is obliterated by being filled up with cartilage, and is not re-established until this cartilage is completely converted into bone. There are no bones in the human body that have their medullary canal extending throug-h their whole length. There are also canals found running into bones for the transmission of blood-vessels, as well to the medullary system as to the bones themselves, which are termed the nutritious canals : the direction of these canals varies in different bones, and will be noticed when describing the anatomy of each particular bone. Another kind of cavity found within the interior of the bones more especially belongs to the bones of the head, and forms what are called the sinuses. The sphenoid, ethmoid, and frontal bones, each form such cavities, which seem to be produced merely by the separation of the outer from the inner table of the bone, small bony bands proceeding from the one table to the other, so as to produce a cellular appear- ance. Precisely the same organization may be observed in the medullary canals of the long bones. Structure and Texture of Bones. The structure of bones, like that of most other parts of the human body, is fibrous: the fibres are either so arranged as to form laminae more or less compact, or so interwoven as to constitute a cellular or reticulated tissue. The fibres, then, which may be considered as the basis of the bony structure, differ from the fibrous structure of every other part