BONES OF THE EXTREMITIES. 151 an obtuse edg-e, but equally roug-hened for the attachment of the ligaments which serve to strengthen the ancle and inferior tibio-fibular articulations. The projecting apex of the inferior extremity of the fibula, has connected with it the external lateral ligament of the ancle-joint, and is furnished with a groove at its posterior part, in which the tendons of the peronei muscles pass. IJsg^—The fibula assists in the formation of the ancle, and of the superior and inferior tibio-fibular articulations. It also gives insertion to one of the muscles of the knee-joint, and origin to some of the muscles of the foot and toes. Attachment of Muscles—Ho the external face, the m.peroneus longus and brevis, and the m. biceps flexor cruris; to the inner face, the ex- tensor longus digitorum, and extensor proprius pollicis; and on the posterior face, the m. soleus, tibialis posticus, and flexor longus pollicis pedis, are attached. Practical Remarks. Hhe patella may be fractured transversely, or with different degrees of obliquity, but the longitudinal fracture rarely happens; for as the solu- tion of continuity in this bone most frequently occurs by violent action of the extensor muscles, the transverse fracture is thus produced. A fracture of this bone in a longitudinal direction is usually caused by a fall upon the bone itself, at a time when the knee being bent, the patella at its extremities is resting upon the femur and the tibia, whilst its middle part is without support, and consequently most liable to yield. Under these circumstances, the bone is sometimes comminuted. The injury may be discovered by examining the bone, when a fissure may generally be felt; displacement does not occur as when the fracture is transverse. The treatment consists in extending the leg, and placing a circular bandage around the knee,—at the same time enjoining rest, and using every precaution to guard against inflammation. When a transverseyVac^Mre is produced, and which most frequently hap- pens from the inordinate contraction of the extensor muscles in the act of saving oneself from falling backwards, the superior portion of the bone is drawn upwards by the muscles for an inch from the lower, (Vide Fig. 6, Plate IX.) and a considerable hollow may be felt between the two. The patient loses the power of raising the foot from the ground, and consequently of progressive motion, excepting in a retrograde di- rection, by which act the foot can be drawn along the surface of the ground, the knee being kept extended. Treatment.—The limb should be extended to the utmost, bending the