THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 14G the tendons of the m. sartorius gracilis and semitendinosus muscles. The rest of the internal surface is only covered hy skin and fascia, and terminates below m forming- the inner projecting- portion of the inferior extremity. The outer face presents less surface than the internal; is concave on its upper half, and convex below, where it becomes directed more forwards than outwards. The upper broader concave part g-ives orig-in to the m. tibialis anticus and ex- tensor long-us dig-itorum ; the lower third is covered by the tendons of those muscles, as well as of the extensor proprius pollicis and peroneus tertius. Its posterior surface may be considered as the largest of the three, and is marked above by an oblique line, which be- gins immediately below the articular face on the outer tube-*. rosity for the fibula, and proceeds downwards and inwardsj- to terminate at the inner angle of the bone, leaving a triangular space above it, for the attachment of the popliteus muscle ; whilst this line gives attachment also to the soleus tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum, which cover the posterior surface of the tibia. Just beneath the linea poplitea is found the canal, for the nutritious artery of the bone, which takes its direction from above to below. The three angles of the tibia separate these surfaces firom each other. The anterior angle is also called the spine of the tibia: it begins above from the anterior tuberosity of the tibia, and proceeds downwards to the inferior extremity of the bone,— not, however, in a straight course, but so as to produce a sigmoid line, presenting a concavity outwards for its upper and inwards for its lower half. The anterior tuberosity, from whence this line begins, gives attachment to the figaraentum patella?, while the line itself has attached to it die fascia of the leg. The internal angle begins from the roughness on the inner tuberosity of the tibia, for the insertion of the internal lateral ligament, and proceeds downwards the whole length of the bone to the inferior extremity: above, it is obtuse and rounded;