general anatomy of muscles. 19 involuntary action of a 'voluntary muscle, as in cramp and spasm: this inherent property has been termed by Haller the vis insita, in contradistinction to the vis nervosa, which enables it to receive the impressions made upon it through the nerves; the one, in fact, being voluntary, while the other is involuntary. May not the rigidity which is observed to take place in muscle immediately after death be attributable to an exertion of the vis insita 1 Such rigidity, however, we know is in a short time succeeded by permanent relaxation. The volition of the mind, which acts through the medium of the nerves, produces its influence only on a certain class of muscles, which are called, therefore, the voluntary muscles. The excitement caused by the passions of the mind is. also transmitted through the medium of the nerves, but is capable of extending its influence to every class of muscle ; as is proved by its effects upon the heart, stomach, bowels, &c., as well as the voluntary muscles. A stimulus applied to the skin, to the mucous membranes, to the internal membrane of the heart, or to the serous membranes, has also the effect of producing contraction of the muscles. And, lastly, if muscular fibre itself be irritated, it contracts; but yet it is doubtful if the stimulus does not act through the medium of the nerves, from the circumstance, that when only a part of a muscle has been irritated, the whole muscle is observed to contract. The duration of contraction is longer when any voluntary muscle is acted upon by its natural stimulus, namely, the will, than if it be made to contract by any mechanical or chemical stimulus. Indeed, this may be said of all the muscles, that their natural stimuli infiuence them for a longer period than any artificial excitement. The general effect produced by the contraction of the muscles in the living body, consists either in producing or preventing motion, both in the solid and fluid parts of the organismus, and frequently of the whole body. The various modes in which they contract may be reduced to the three following:—