t BONES OF THE TRUNK. 87 fjpoBg-y texture, and hollowed, to receive the cartilag-c, with which it is inseparably connected. These cartilages are not continued in the same direction as the ribs themselves, but pass very obliquely upwards, so as to form, by their junction with the sternum, an angle, obtuse above, and acute below. 'Iliis inclination of the cartilages upwards, increases from the first rib downwards. Lastly :—In viewing a rib, we observe that it presents a twisted appearance, as if the two extremities had been turned round in a contrary direction. The degree of this twist varies in each rib in such a manner, that the rib shall always present its flat internal surface towards the lung, under the different motions which each exerts during respira- tion: and thus, although the size of the thoracic cavity is altered, its plane continuous surface is preserved. Having described the general character of the ribs, it will be proper to mention some of the number which, from cer- tain peculiarities, may be distinguished from the rest: for although every rib varies somewhat from its neighbour, either in form or position, yet the gradations of difference are so slight, as to render it difficult, or almost impossible, to name the precise condition of each. We may, however, recognize the first, the seventh, the ninth, the eleventh, and the ticelfth. The first is known by its small size, and incurvated form, completing about half of a circle: it is very broad and fiat, one of its two surfaces facing upwards, and the other down- wards. On the superior surface there are two slight grooves, marking’ the course of the subclavian artery and vein ; be- tween which a small tubercle is situated, for the attachment of the scalenus anticus muscle. Its angle and tubercle are situated on the same spot. Its head has only one articulatory surface, corresponding with that on the first dorsal vertebra. From the first, the ribs increase in length to the seventh, which is the longest of all, and may be known by that cir- cumstance. After this, they again decrease to the last. The distance between the tubercle and the angle, and indeed the curve of the angle itself, will be found to increase regularly from above to below, as far as the ninth, where they both