166 DESCRimVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. by judicious position, and perhaps motion, the active means of re- storing the natural position of the bones. With respect to the first indication, the improvement of the gene- ral health, it is necessary that the surgeon’s attention should be direct- ed to the state of the digestive organs, to the quality of food, and the salubrity of the air; mechanical means adopted to lessen superincum- bent weight, as the inclined plane. Sic., are of no avail whatever, and often are highly injurious, if at the same time the means of improving the general health be not attended to. AVith regard to position and motion, in relation to muscular action, no general plan can be laid down, as it must depend upon the peculiarities of each individual case. Diseases of the spine frequently produce lumbar abscesses; and according to the direction which the matter takes between the layers of the lumbar fascia, they are named either lumbar, inguinal, or psoas: these are insidious in their progress, and often form large collections of matter, with very little concomitant constitutional derangement. As far as my experience extends, I doubt the propriety of opening these abscesses, as they are generally followed by hectic and dangerous symptoms. As the most convenient progress of dissection, I shall now proceed to the remaining muscles connected with the thorax, which are expressly concerned in the function of respiration; while those which I have before given in con- nection with the chest, were only secondary in respiration, having to assist in other functions with which they are connected. ^ These muscles are, the intercostales, situated between the ribs ; the triangularis sterni, on the inner surface of the sternum; the diaphragm, which separates the thorax from the abdominal cavity ; and the quadratus lumborum, situated within the abdomen. The m. intercostales, consist of twelve pairs on each side of the chest, and, with the ribs and sternum, form the pa- parietes of that cavity; they are arranged in two layers, denominated the m. intercostales extern! and intern!. The m. intercostales externi—are twelve in number, and proceed from the transverse processes of the vertebrae, as far forwards as the cartilage of each rib. They arise from the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebrae, and from the acute edge of each superior rib; their fibres pass