DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 109 toralis minor and subclavius muscles 5 to g'ain its point of insertion, it passes in front of the coraco bracliialis and biceps, and behind the inner edge of the deltoid. It forms also the anterior boundary to the axilla. Use. To bring the arms forward and across the chest, as in the act of embracing. When the upper extremities are raised above the head and fixed, then this muscle acts po^verfully in inspiration ; this position is frequently taken advantage of by patients suffering from dyspncea. The pectoralis major also assists powerfully in raising the body from the ground when holding by a rope or a beam over the head, and in balancing the body when walking on the hands. This muscle is frequently the subject of varities in the origin and insertion here laid down, the clavicular attachment has in some cases been wanting; the number of the ribs, and the extent of sternum from which it arises, also differ in different subjects; and at the insertion it is not unfrequent to find a portion of the pectoralis major passing to be connected with the bracliialis internus. The m. latissimus dorsi—arises by a broad tendinous expansion (which fonps in fact the posterior layer of the fascia lumborum) from the spinous processes of the sacrum, lumbar and seven or eight inferior dorsal vertebrae, from the posterior fourth of the ilium where it is connected with the origin of the glutaeus maximus, from the three or four inferior ribs, near their extremities, by distinct fasciculi which digitate with the obliquus abdominis externus. The iliac and lumbar fibres pass obliquely upwards and out- wards; the dorsal pass transversely, and the costal are directed nearly vertically upw'ards; all converging to the inferior angle of the scapula, over which they pass (fre- quently gaining a fresh fasciculus from that bone) towards the os humeri, into which this muscle is inserted by a flat tendon, along the internal edge of the bicipital groove with the teres major. The tendon by which the latyssimus dorsi terminates its insertion, is about three inches long, and turns one half upon itself, so that its lower edge receives the