I’ARTS ESSENTIAL TO THE SKELETON. 248 Radio Carpal Articulation; or, Wrist-Joint. Class Diarthrosis,—Suhdivision Arthrodia. This joint is produced by the junction of the hand and the fore arm. The convex surfaces of the os scaphoides and the lunare, are received into the cavity formed at the inferior ex- tremity of the radius, while the cuneiform bone is opposed to the under surface of the interarticular cartilag’e, which carti- lage has already been described as assisting in the formation of the inferior radio ulnar articulation ; all of these surfaces are covered by a synovial membrane. This joint is further strengthened by the four following ligaments. The anterior ligament is flat and delicate in its texture ; it arises from the fore part of the inferior extremity of the radius, passes downwards and forwards to be inserted into the scaphoid, lunar, and cuneiform bones; it is covered by the tendons of the flexors of the fingers, and posteriorly it is lined by the synovial membrane. The posterior ligament arises from the lower and back part of the radius, and passes to be inserted into the lunar and cuneiform bones; this figament is not so strong as the anterior ; it is covered by the extensor tendons of the fingers, and is opposed to the synovial membrane. The external lateral ligament arises from the lower ex- tremity, or apex, of the styloid process of the radius, descends to the bones of the carpus 5 is inserted into the outer side of the scaphoid bone, and from thence is continued to the tra- pezium : it is of a triangular form, the apex being attached to the radius, while the base is composed of diverging fibres, which pass before and behind, and are connected with the anterior and posterior ligaments, which have been just des- cribed. The internal lateral ligament arises from the inner surface of the styloid process of the ulna, and passes downwards to be inserted into the cuneiform bone, from which it sends off a strip anteriorly to be connected with the os pisiforme. As