DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 135 by the skin and a thin aponeurosis ; it lies upon the two short flexors of the thumb. —Its use is implied by its name, separating tbe tliumb from the fingers. The m. flexor frimi internodii, or apponens pollicis— arises fleshy and tendinous from the os naviculare, and from tlie os trapezium close to the groove in that bone for lodging the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis ; it also arises from the ligamentum carpi annulare, from thence it descends to be inserted by short tendinous fibres along the whole length of the outer edge of the first phalanx. This muscle is usually termed the flexor ossis metacarpi, as the anta- gonist to the extensor ossis metacarpi; but of both these muscles I have changed the name, for reasons already given. Nearly the whole of this muscle is covered by the ab- ductor pollicis, and it lies upon the flexor secundi internodii, and the articulation of the trapezium with the first phalanx. Use.—To flex the first phalanx on the trapezium, and to direct the thumb towards the fingers and palm of the hand. The m. flexor secundi internodii, or flexor brevis pollicis —arises by tendinous origins from the ossa unciforme, magnum, trapezoides, and trapezium, and also from the me- tacarpal bones of the ring, middle and fore fingers ; the belly of this muscle, almost immediately after its origin, is sepa- rated into two fasciculi by the tendon of the flexor tertii internodii; but they unite below it, and descend to the lower extremity of the first phalanx, where they again separate to be inserted into the two sesamoid bones, which are connected by ligament and a continuation of the tendons of this muscle, with the fore part of the scond phalanx of the thumb. This muscle is covered by the abductor pollicis, and more on its inner side by the flexor profundus digitorum and tw^o first lumbricales muscles; it lies upon the outer interossei muscles and tendon of the flexor carpi radialis; it has to its outer side the flexor primi internodii, and on its inner the adductor pollicis. Use.—To flex the second on the first phalanx. I