DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. 69 The m.orbicularespalpebrarum.—A circular incision around the bony edges of the orbits will expose these muscles ; the fibres of which are thin and pale, and are found completely surrounding the orbits, and extending into the fibro-carti- lages of the eyelids. They arise from the internal angular process of the os frontis, and from the groove which lodges the lacrymal sac in the superior maxillary bone; and also by a small tendon which attaches the tarsi of the eyelids to the nasal process of the same bone; from these orig'ins the fibres spread outwards along the upper and lower margins of the orbit, and unite at the outer canthus, being there very loosely connected to the bones by cellular membrane. They are united above, to the m. occipito frontales and corrugatores superciliorum ; below, a few fibres are connected with the skin of the cheek. The pale straight fibres of these muscles, which are forming a part of the eyelids, are sometimes de- scribed as separate muscles, under the name of musculi ciliares. Use.—To close the eyelids and to compress the globe of the eye, and direct the tears from the outer towards the inner canthus. They draw the integuments downwards from the cranium, upwards from the lips, and inwards from the temples. Their most fixed point is at the internal angular process of the frontal bone; towards which tbeir superior fibres are drawn in frowning, by tbe action of the musculi corrugatores superciliorum. The muscles which moderate and assist in the action of the musculi orbiculares palpebrarum are the m. occipito frontales, the levatores palpebrarum superiorum, the corru- gatores superciliorum, and the depressores labii superioris alarumque nasi. If the fibres which form the connection between the m. orbiculares palpebrarum and the occipito frontales be raised from the inner canthi, the musculi corrugatores supercili- orum will be exposed; which are small muscles arising from the internal angular process of the frontal bone ; from which origin they pass upwards and outwards, as far as the centre of the superciliary' ridge, to be inserted, by forming