BONES OF THE EXTREMITIES. 109 rises upwards from the neck of the scapula, passes forwards and inwards over the g-Ienoid cavity, and assists the acromion in protecting- the joint: it, also, g-ives attachment to muscles and lijraments. The costa form the three sides of the trian- gle: the superior one is the shortest, and forms the base of the triangle. The posterior costa, or base of the scapula, as it is sometimes called, commences from the posterior termi- nation of the superior costa, and passes downwards to termi- nate at the inferior ang-le of the bone: several muscles are at- tached to this part of the bone. The anterior costa is the edge of bone passing from the low^er part of the glenoid ca- vity to the inferior angle, and forms the longest of the sides of the triangle: it gives origin to muscles. The angles are produced at the points of junction of the three costae. The anterior one forms the inferior point of the glenoid cavity, and gives attachment to the tendon of the long head of the triceps muscle. The posterior angle is formed by the termination of the superior costa and com- mencement of the posterior, and has the levator scapulae muscle inserted into it. The inferior is the most acute of the three, and is produced by the termination and junction of the anterior and posterior costae; the latissimus dorsi passes over it. Of the three fossa two are placed on the dorsum of the sca- pula, whilst the largest one forms the internal concavity of the bone. The/ossa supraspinata is all that hollow above the spinous process, between it and the superior costa, and lodges the supraspinatus muscle. The fossa infraspinata forms the remaining portion of the dorsum of the bone below the spine, and lodges the infraspinatus muscle ; while the whole of the cavity on the inner side or venter of the scapula consti- tutes the fossa subscapularis, so named from the muscle which arises from it. Two of the notches have reference to the fossai—the acromial aud coracoidal. The acromial situated between the junction of the two fossm spi- natae and neck of the |;-lenoid cavity, receives the tendons of the two spinati muscles in their passage to the humerus 5