185 PHYSIOLOGY OF LIGAMENT. soft, and more vascular than in after periods of life ; and in old ag-e they become yellow and less brilliant in appearance, and are less flexible and dry. Notwithstanding this tendency of the ligamentous tissue to become dry in old age, it is but little liable to ossify excepting in tendons, which are much subjected to pressure. Accidental production of ligament frequently occurs in the human body, as may be seen in the formation of new articu- lations, as well as in the cicatrices of the skin, &c. in which this tissue is produced. Practical Remarks. The ligamentous tissue is liable to inflammation, which sometimes terminates in resolution; but at other times it become hardened, thick- ened, and even ossific matter will sometimes be deposited. Long con- tinued inflammatory action has a tendencey to produce a softened and less tenacious state of tbe ligamentous tissue, so as to render it inca- pable of sustaining the common motions of a joint. Fungoid disease generally commences from this tissue, as may be frequently observed from tbe dura mater, and from the fasciae covering the long muscles, or from the periosteum. When ligaments are torn through, they are capable of reuniting, as may be seen in cases of rupture of the tendo Achillis, after which accident, if the ends be kept immovable and in contact, an agglutination takes place, and an organic union results, which although at first is more extensible than the tendon, it acquires in time the tena- city of the original structure. Articular Ligaments. I shall now particularly treat of that class of the liga- mentous tissue, which serves in particular to attach the bones to each other, in the formation of joints. Articular hgaments maintain the bones which they connect in their relative posi- tion, restrain and limit their motion one upon the other; they are also sometimes for the purpose of filling up vacancies in bones, and affording an expanded surface for the attachment of muscles. These divisions may each be considered as as- sisting more or less in the functions of joints. In the arrangement of articular ligaments, I shall divide