234 • DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OP MUSCLES. circular amputation, mention, that the artery will be dilferently situated according to the part of the limb cut through: for instance, if on a level with the aponeurotic arch of the adductor magnus, the artery will be found on the inner side of the stump; if below this point, it is placed posteriorly; and if above it, anteriorly and internally. The bursa mucosa situated under the common tendon to the extensors of the knee, forms the boundary, below which, it is not proper to amputate the thigh. Wounds in this part, which open into the synovial sac, are tedious to heal; and dangerous, should a high degree of inflam- mation follow, and extend to the knee-joint. Hence, in these accidents, the necessity of placing a splint behind the knee, so as to preclude the possibility of motion. The lower and posterior third of the femoral region is termed the popliteal space, in which is situated the popliteal vessels, and posterior tibial nerve, as ivell as a considerable quantity of cellular and adipose membranes, with absorbent glands. In this region, the adipose membrane is sometimes the seat of a fatty tumour, termed steatoma; when from their size it becomes necessary to remove such tumours, the depth of their situation, and their connection with the important vessels of the part, renders this opei'ation one of considerable difficulty. In the leg, the fascia ties down the muscles so firmly, that when the subjacent parts are injured and swollen, gangrene will occasionally follow, from its great pressure and unyielding nature : to relieve this, early and free openings should be made. In the region of the foot, the most remarkable surgical points to be attended to, are the various projections formed by the several processes of the bones of the ancle, tarsus, and metatarsus ; a correct knowledge of which is necessary, as they form the guide in the amputations which are performed upon this part of the body; as, for instance, in Chopart’s operation, and other partial amputations. The great degree of tensity in the skin of the foot renders it necessary to preserve a large proportion of integument in partial amputations, so as to leave a sufficient covering to the projecting bones; and for the same reasons, a larger flap is required on the inner than on the outer side of the foot. The great thickness of the skin on the sole of the foot, and its strong connection by dense aponeurotic fibres to the plantar fascia, offers considerable resistance to the swelling of this part from any morbid cause; hence the formation of matter in this part produces excessive pain and constitutional irritation, which is to be relieved by early openings. The skin on the dorsum of the foot, is thin, and affords but little protection to the subjacent parts; hence wounds are more liable to occasion injury to the blood-vessels and tendons here situated ; and the tense state of the skin, forms a considerable obstacle to the process of cicatrization.