205 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. to be connected with the short head, its anterior surface covers the semimembranosus, vastus externus, and adductor mag^nus ; its posterior surface is covered by the fascia lata. As it diverges from the semimembranosus, it forms the outer boundary of a triangular space, within which is placed the great sciatic nerve. The tendon of this muscle, inferiorly, forms the outer boundary of the popliteal space, or outer hamstring. Use.—To flex tlie leg, and, when flexed, to rotate the leg outwards ; its long head also extends the thigh upon the pelvis. The m. poplitceus—is next in order to be dissected; but some difficulty arises in exposing it, from its lying under the origins of the external head of the gastrocnemius, and plantaris muscles. It arises by a thick and strong tendon -from a sulcus situated on the back part of the external condyle of the femur, beneath the attachment of the ex- ternal lateral ligament of the knee-joint; this tendon passes obliquely downwards and inwards, being attached to the posterior ligament of Winslow, and the external semilunar cartilage; the muscle then becomes broad and fleshy, to be inserted into a triangular space occupying the superior fifth of the posterior surface of the tibia. The posterior surface of this muscle is covered by the gastrocnemius, plantaris, popliteal vessels, and posterior tibial nerve; its anterior surface is in contact with the pos- terior ligament of Winslow, external semilunar cartilage, tibialis posticus muscle, and the triangular space on the upper part of the tibia. Use.—To flex the knee, and confine the external semilunar cartilage in its situation, and to rotate the tibia and foot inwards. We next proceed to the dissection o^ the muscles of the ancle-joint, which are six in number; namely, the gastroc- nemius, plantaris, solseus, tibialis posticus, peroneus longus and brevis tibialis anticus, and the peroneus tertius; which last is usually described as a portion of the extensor longus digitorum.