bones of the extremities. 13T Their inferior extremity is precisely similar to those of the first phalang-es : these phalanges have inserted into them the rn. flexor sublimis. The Inferior Phalanges Only differ in size, that of the thumb being the largest, and of the little finger the smallest; their superior extremity are similar to those of the second phalanges. Their inferior ex- tremity is rounded, is not furnished with any articular surface, is very rough, and larger than the body of the bone, it is convex upon its posterior surface, and covered with the nail; concave anteriorly, and gives attachment to the flexor pro- fundus muscle. Attachment of Muscles to the Metacarpus.—muscles may be classed into those which are common to alb and those which are proper to individual bones of the metacarpus. The first class comprises the seven m. interossei. Of the second class, to the metacarpal hone of the fore finger; anteriorly, the m. flexor carpi radialis, posteriorly, the m. extensor carpi radialis longior are attached; to that of the middle finger, the m. extensor carpi radialis hrevior, and the m. adductor pollicis; and to that of the little finger, the m. extensor carpi ulnaris, and the adductor minimi digiti. Attachment of Muscles to the Phalanges.—These muscles may also be divided into those which are common and those which are proper to some of the fingers. Those which are common, and which are inserted into all the fingers excepting the thumb, are the m. lumbricales into the upper or first pha- langes ; the m. flexor sublimis perforatus into the second phalanges; and the m. profundus perforans into the third phalanges ; while the extensor digitorum communis is inserted into the dorsal surface of them all by a tendinous expansion, which receives also the attachment of the interossei. The Muscles proper to the Thumb are eight, viz.:—three flexors, flexor ossis metacarpi (which would be better named the flexor primi internodii), into the first phalanx ; the flexor brevis pollicis, or secundi internodii, into the second phalanx ; and the flexor longus pollicis, or tertii internodii, into the third phalanx:—these are inserted into their palmar surface. Into their dorsal surface is inserted the extensor ossis metacarpi, or primi internodii, into the first; the extensor secundi inter- nodii into the second ; and the extensor tertii internodii into the third phalanx.