DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES, muscle, and which afterwards unites with the aponeurosis of the arm; the anterior edg’e of the deltoid is separated from the pectoralis major by the cephalic vein and humeral thoracic artery. The orig-in of this muscle corresponds with the insertion of the trapezius. In passing* over the acromion scapulae, the tendinous fibres are very numerous, and a bursa mucosa is found, which is placed between the muscle and capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint. Use.—The anterior fibres of the deltoid draw the arm forwards, and assist in rotating* the head of the humerus inwards; the posterior direct the arm backwards, and assist in rotating the head of the humerus outwards ; while the middle fibres, whether acting singly or in con- junction with the others, raise the arm, drawing it upwards and out- wards. When the arm is fixed, as in the attempt to raise a very heavy weight, it draws the scapula downwards. ' The m. supra spinatus—arises from the fossa supra spinata, from the costa of the scapula situated above the spine, also from the tendon which covers this muscle: the fibres pass from these origins outwards and forwards through the acromial notch, beneath the triangular ligament, ter- minating in a tendon which passes over the neck of the scapula. It is intimately connected with the capsular liga- ment, and is inserted into the anterior depression on the upper part of the greater tubercle of the os humeri. This muscle is covered posteriorly by a strong aponeu- rosis, and by the trapezius ; superiorly by the deltoid and coraeo acromial ligament: just as it passes through the acromial notch, it has the origin of the omo hyoideus muscle above it, and there is a bursa between its tendon and the neck of the scapula. Use.—To assist the deltoid in raising and abducting the arm; it gives strength to the capsular ligament, and uniting with the upper part of the glenoid fibro-cartilaginous tissue, it assists in supporting that cartilage in the various motions of the head of the humerus. The m. infra spinatus—arises from the fossa infra spinata, from the costa of the scapula below the spine, and from the fascia which passes olf from the trapezius and deltoid