PHYSIOLOGY OF THE BONES. 15 the adult; yellow and brittle, in old age. The yellow color of the bones in oUl age is, however, in part owing to the deposition of an oily matter into their substance. In speak- ing- of the composition of bones, it may not be improper ' again to allude to what may be numbered with their appen- dages. Externally, they are covered either by periosteum or cartilage; internally, by a medullary membrane. The periosteum furnishes a membranous covering to the bones generally. Cartilage covers the extremities of such bones only as are destined to enter into the construction of joints. The rnedullary membrane performs a two-fold function: it assists in the nourishment of the bone itself, and secretes the marrow contained within the interior of the bone. This marrow has an oily consistence, but does not present the same appearance or the same characters in all bones: in long bones it is solid and compact, in the short bones it is fluid: indeed, some have contended that during life the mar- row is always in a fluid state, and only congeals after death, but in some bones sooner than in others. In the long bones the marrow is lodged within the medullary membrane; whilst in the short bones that membrane is wanting, the marrow being deposited in the cancellated structure of the bones themselves. Marrow is formed at an ei^rly period of ossification: it is of a redder color and most fluid in infancy: it becomes more copious and more e.xtensively difiused till adult age; and is supposed by some to assist in nourishing the body generally, and in decarbonising the blood. Reproduction of Bone. The process by which bone is generated, after injury or disease, is precisely analogous to that by which the bones are originally produced. The vessels of the bones, and even the other structures surrounding them, if the separated parts be but approximated, soon throw out a gelatinous fluid, which hardens by degrees, aud is in time converted into car- tilage. In the interior of this cartilage, bony nodules are in a