87 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. dinous into the fore part of the os hyoides; its anterior fibres being shorter than the posterior, whicli pass from one bone to the other in nearly a vertical direction. The cutaneous, or under surface of the mylo hyoideus, has in contact with it the platysraa myoides,. the anterior belly of the digastricus, and the submaxillary gland. The upper, or lingual surface, covers the genio hyoideus, genio hyo glossus, and hyo glossus muscle; the sublingual gland, duct of the submaxillary gland, lingual, and lingual gustatory nerves. Use.—One of these muscles seems scarcely capable of action without its fellow; they are together for the purpose of depressing the lower jaw, or of raising and drawing forvrards the os hyoides, and parts at- tached to it, pushing the tongue upwards towards the palate. The m. genio hyoideus—arises by strong and short ten- dinous fibres, from a small tubercle situated in the inner sur- face of the symphysis of the lower jaw; gradually becoming thicker and broader, it passes downwards and backwards, to be inserted into the anterior surface of the body of the os hyoides. Its cutaneous, or under surface, is covered by the mylo hyoideus muscle; its posterior, or upper surface, is in contact with the genio hyo glossus, and its inner surface with its fellow. Use.—The genio hyoideus muscle assists either in depressing the lower jaw, when it acts with the sterno hyoideus, of which it seems as a continuation; or in elevating the os hyoides. The m. genio hyo glossus.—This muscle may be divided into two portions; its genio hyoideal, and its genio glossal fibres; the former is that portion which is now to be de- scribed as assisting in the function of those muscles which depress the lower jaw, or raise the os hyoides; it takes precisely the same course from the symphysis of the jaw to the os hyoides, as the last described muscle, its under surface being in contact with that musclp ; its inner surface, with its fellow, and its upper, being contiguous with its genio glossal fibres; which portion of this muscle will be described w’ith the muscles proper to the tongue. G 2