INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. XX'XIX to acknowledg’e as her brig-htest ornaments, have worked their way from poverty to aflluence—from obscurity to im- perishable renown. It is not your daily attendance on lec- tures, or your regular appearance in the dissecting-room, in compliance with the customary routine of study, that will at all avail, unless your attention be exclusively devoted to the subject before you. In this perhaps more than in any other pursuit, the Roman maxim should be emphatically en- forced : that which deserves to be done at all, should be done in the best possible manner; or, in briefer phrase, whatever you do let it be done effectually ; done with heart and soul. Let not your time be absorbed, and your attention altogether distracted, by taking notes of these lectures ; as that which is mechanically and literally committed to paper, is too often lost to the memory. When you go home from lecture, deli- berately and carefully recall to mind that which you have heard; it is the notes taken after lecture that will most re- dound to your advantage 5 what is then written will be easily recollected, while dissection will rivet it in your me- mory, and accomplish you as anatomists. A few words. Gentlemen, on your conduct when you shall have embarked in the practice of your profession, and I will trespass on your time and patience no longer. Be not misled by the delusive notion that in acquiring a proficiency as ana- tomists, and even in qualifying yourselves to become eminent as surgeons, you will have ensured professional advance- ment ; the general line of conduct, the kindness and atten- tion to patients, the pains taken, in short, to render yourselves worthy to be beloved as men, while you are esteemed and respected as surgeons, will materially influence your success. You will have to prepare for numerous difficulties, many of them unforeseen and to be promptly encountered; but he who cannot strain against, and stem the adverse tide, should not launch forth into the troubled sea of life. Remember, that in proportion as you become objects of envy to your competitors, you will become objects of detraction. When you have to confer with scientific men, treat them with the