THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM, 82 Attachment of Muscles.—Those muscles attached to the spine are principally for the purpose of keeping the trunk and head erect, and many of them moreover are muscles of respiration. They are placed in the fol- lowing order:—Posteriorly are found the m. trapezii, latissimi dorsi, rhomboidei majores et minores, levatores scapulae, serrati postici supe- riores et inferiores, splenii, sacro-lumbales, longissimi dorsi, spinales dorsi, cervicales dcscendentes, transversales colli, trachelo-mastoidei, complexi, recti capitis postici majores et minores, obliqui capitis supe- riores et inferiores, semispinales dorsi, semispinales colli, multifidi spinae, intertransversales et interspinales colli, dorsi et lumborum, ob- liqui abdominis interni. In the anterior region, m. longi colli, recti capitis interni majores et minores, recti capitis laterales, diaphragma, quadrati lumborum, psoae magni et parvi. Laterally, m. scaleni antici, medii et postici, and the transversales abdominis. Practical Remarks. Fractures of the spine are difficult to detect, from the little displace- ment which occurs: but the best mode of examining a patient who has suffered from this accident, is to place him with his face downwards; and by pressing the palm of one hand firmly on one side of the spine, trace the spinous processes with the other from the neck to the sacrum. When you arrive at the displaced vertebra, you will find it thrown a little out of its line, where a hollow in the part is perceptible. Symptoms.—Paralysis immediatelj'- ensues of all the parts beneath the injury : and it is remarkable, that when this accident occurs in the male, that the penis is found in a half erected state. The abdomen is tympanitic, the faeces are passed involuntarily, and the urine is retained : the latter symptom, however, in cases where the sufferer lives for a con- siderable length of time, becomes changed to an involuntary discharge. The passing away of the faeces is to be explained by the paralysis of the sphincter ani, and the continued peristaltic action of the intestines : while the muscular coat of the bladder, being no longer stimulated by the accumulation of urine, is rendered incapable of contraction, and the water is consequently retained. There is no instance recorded of a per- manent recovery from this accident; as it seems impossible that the vertebrae should be fractured, without mischief to the spinal marrow. AVhen the lower part of the spine is the seat of injury, the patient will, in some cases, live for six weeks, or even longer; but when the ffacture happens above the fourth cervical vertebra, death immediately ensues. If the fracture take place at the bottom of the neck, the patient may survive nine or ten days. These results depend upon the degree of in- terrupted function, which the nerves distributed to the muscles of