LECTURES ON ANATOMY. XXIV its function of connecting’ bones tog’cther, Lig’aments are strong’ inelastic membranes, uniting’ the extremities of move- able bones in such a manner as not to interfere with motion, except where it has a tendency to be carried beyond its natural extent, which the ligaments restrain, and will not permit without rupture. Thus by bones, the organs of support: by ligaments, the organs of connection : and by the substances interposed for protecting and lubricating the articulatory surfaces, the fabric of the body is rendered capable of being’ moved. I shall now proceed to consider the manner in which the movements of the body are effected. The instruments or organs by w'hich corporeal motion is per- formed, are the muscles. The term muscle, is derived by etymologists from the Greek word o /xycuv, that which contracts or closes, (from /xuw, claudo) and aptly designates a property peculiar to this organ. Muscles are formed of long parallel fibres, con- nected by cellular membrane, and, in the human body, are generally of a red colour. Soft, irritable and contractile, they Ctre well adapted for producing the great movements that take place in the living body. On tracing a muscle, we find it originating from a considerable extent of surface, gra- dually converging to a small space, to be united to a chord called a tendon. -This tendinous structure, consists of fibres of a white-colour, firmly united tog’ether, and extending in a uniform direction to the muscle, to w'hieh the tendon is attached. By the contraction of muscles, motion is pro- duced, as must have been experienced by all who are con- scious of this faculty, though-from usag’e not attentive to the manner of its exercise : for instance, the brachialis internus is one of the muscles intended to raise the fore arm ; by the contraction of this muscle, the bone into which it is in- serted,—that is, the coronoid process of the ulna,—is brought nearer to the os humeri, from which it arises; and in this way the elbow joint is bended. The joints are provided with as many muscles as are necessary for the possible flexures of those joints in the different motions of the body, each muscle