DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. lol lumbalis, and then becomes fleshy, dividing- into four distinct bundles which are inserted into the four inferior ribs ; tlie inferior portion being- the narrowest and the long-est, extends as far as tlie cartilag-e of the last rib, while the others are inserted between the ang-les and the cartilag-es. This thin broad muscle is covered by the latissimus dorsi ; it rests upon the sacro lumbalis, long-issimus dorsi, upon the three last ribs, and their corresponding^ external intercostal muscles. Use.—To depress the lower ribs ; to act therefore as an antagonist to the preceding muscle in diminishing the capacity of the chest. These muscles being removed, the fourth layer will be exposed, consisting of a vast mass of muscle bounded above by the occiput, below by the pelvis, on the inner side by the spinous processes of the vertebrae, and on the outer side by the angles of the ribs, and are pHncipally for the purpose of keeping the head and trunk erect; and many of them are muscles of violent expiration. It is necessary to sub- divide this layer into three, consistent with my arrangement of dividing the muscles of the back into seven ; although their precise origin is often arbitrary. The muscles which are completely exposed in this fourth layer are, below, the sacro lumbalis, longissimus dorsi, and spinalis dorsi; above, the splenius. - The m. sacro lumbalis—forms the outer boundary of the erector muscles of the spine ; it arises by a broad tendon from the spinous processes and posterior part of the sacrum, from the posterior labium of the ilium, reaching nearly to the middle of its crista, also from the spinous and roots of the transverse processes of all the lumbar vertebrae ; from these origins this muscle proceeds upwards and slightly outwards to be inserted, by long and thin tendons, into all the ribs, near their angles—the superior tendons being the longest. From the upper part of the six lower ribs, distinct bundles of fleshy fibres arise, which pass upwards to be attached to the inner side of this muscle ; these are termed the musculi accessorii ad sacro himbalem. l2