116 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. consider eacli fracture separately. The humerus may be fractured through its neck, within the capsular ligament; it may be fractured just below its tubercles, above the insertion of the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, and teres major: or in the space between those muscles, and the insertion of the deltoid: or below the deltoid muscle : or, lastly, through the condyles of the bone. When the fracture is through the neck, and consequently above the tubercle of the bone,—an accident, however, of rare occurrence,—but little deformity takes place; the bone being retained in nearly its na- tural situation by the capsular ligament. The shaft of the bone is ne- vertheless drawn slightly upwards and outwards ; the rotundity of the shoulder remains, and crepitus maybe readily felt in consequense of the proximity of the fractured surfaces : for the capsular ligament not be- ing torn, little separation can take place. (Fide Plate VII. Fig. \.) The treatment proper for the accident is to confine the arm in a short sling, to place a pad in the axilla, and to apply pressure on the greater tubercle by means of a compress and bandage, so adjusted as to press the upper extremity of the shaft against the head.of the bone, which re- mains in its natural position within the glenoid cavity. The injury next to be described has, by some surgeons, been called fracture of the neck of the bone. The situation alluded to, however, is immediately below the tubercles of the os humeri, above the insertion of the muscles attached to the edges of the bicipital groove, which can- not certainly with propriety, be regarded as the anatomical neck of the bone. I would designate the accident, therefore, fracture immediately below the tubereles. At first sight the position of the arm might lead the surgeon to suppose that the deformity depended upon a dislocation of the head of the bone into the axilla; but attention to the following circumstances will generally enable us to form a correct diagnosis. The roundness of the point of the shoulder remains: a hollow is ob- served below the point, in consequence of the lower fractured portion, or shaft, being drawn inwards by the action of the pectoralis major, la- tissimus dorsi, and teres major, whilst the deformity is increased by the action of the teres minor and spinati muscles drawing the upper portion of the fractured bone upwards, outwards, and backwards ; no tumor is to be felt in the axilla: the whole limb is moveable, so that a very slight force readily restores it to its natural position; but this force is no sooner withdrawn, than the deformity returns : lastly, the patient expe- riences the same difficulty in raising the hand to the head, as occurs in fracture of the clavicle, a difficulty in both cases arising from a loss of the fulcrum, upon which the upper extremity plays. The treatment is much the same as in fracture of the clavicle. A large conical pad should be placed, with its base upwards, in the axilla, and the arm