300 THE SKELETON IN GENERAL. Pritchard makes but three varieties of form in the head :— Narrow.—^dithiopian and Malay. Intermediate.—European, or Caucasian. Broad.—Mongolian and American. Individuals in each of these races may, however, more or less, approach to one of the others ; and it therefore requires strict investigation, and a combination of the distinguishing marks, to enable the craniologist correctly to class them. In some nations the form of the head is artificially modified; this is more particularly remarkable amongst the ^Ethiopians and Americans. Humbolt has remarked, that these artificial forms are the exaggerations of such as belong to their parti- cular race : thus the North American Indian, whose forehead naturally retreats, pushes it backwards to a preposterous extent, by means of pressure. In consequence of the foramen magnum being placed much more anteriorly in man than in other animals, some physiolo- gists have attempted to classify the different races of man- kind by its relative position ; and even in the human race, the form and position of this aperture is said not to be uniform, but has been considered to be larger, and placed more pos- teriorly in the Aiithiopian than in any of the other races: yet Soemuxring, who has paid great attention to this subject, admits this is a questionable point. In the North American Indians, near the copper-mine river, who are remarkable for the before-mentioned depression of the forehead, the foramen magnum is found placed forwards—a fact which, if any doubt could exist respecting the use of artificial means in modifying the head, would strongly tend to remove it. The spine, or vertebral column, serves three important purposes in the animal economy. It forms the great bond of union between all the parts composing the skeleton; it lodges and protects the spinal marrow, and supports the head, which, indeed, according to some anatomists, has been considered a mere assemblag’e and modification of vertebrae. When we examine the mechanism of this column, we find it