108 DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY OF MUSCLES. both of which it is attached. The serratus muscle is situated between the ribs and the scapula. It covers tlie eight superior ribs, and their intercostal muscles, being itself covered below by the latissimus dorsi, and above by the subscapularis ; its fleshy digitations are of unequal length, the superior being shorter and thicker, while the inferior are longer and thinner, and are connected with the m. obliquus abdominis externus. Having described the seven muscles connecting the sca- pula to the trunk, there are yet two muscles which must be dissected before we can detach the upper extremity, and which properly follow now in the order of dissection, as they belong to the set of muscles next to be described. The muscles of the shoulder joint are nine in number; two arising from the trunk, to be inserted into the os humeri, and seven from the scapula, likewise to be inserted into the os humeri. The m. pectoralis major.—It arises tendinous from the sternal half of the clavicle, tendinous from the whole ante- rior surface of the sternum, fleshy from the cartilages of all the true ribs; and, lastly from an aponeurosis common to it and the external abdominal oblique and rectus muscles. From this extended origin, its fleshy fibres converge, passing across the breast to be inserted by a broad flat tendon into the os humeri, attached to the outer edge of the groove which lodges the tendon of the long head of the biceps. The clavicular portion of this muscle is separated from the commencement of the sternal origin by an intermediate space between its fibres, which is filled up by condensed cellular membrane ; this is a space of considerable surgical importance, as behind it, is placed the subclavian artery and vein, covered by the coraco costal ligament. The pectoralis major is superficially situated upon the chest, being only covered anteriorly by the skin and platysma myoides and mamma ; it covers the inner half of the clavicle, the anterior surface of the sternum, and the cartilages of the true ribs, the internal intercostal muscles, the serratus magnus, pec-