114 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. terminate in the condyles. It offers an anterior and a poste- rior flattened surface, and two lateral ridges. The anterior surface is somewhat roug-hened for the attachment of the brachialis internus muscle, and presents, immediately above the internal condyle, rather to the inner side of the centre of the bone, a deep depression, to receive the eoronoid process of the ulna during- a flexed state of the fore arm. This de- pression is sufficiently deep to allow flexion of the arm to a very acute an g-le. 'Yh& posterior surface smooth, alio wing- the passag-e of the triceps muscle over it, but not giving- ori- g’in to it; and, at the lower part, immediately above the con- dyles, in the middle line of the bone, is situated a deep de- pression, which lodg-es the olecranon process of the ulna, during- extension. The olecranon is so larg-e and projecting-, as not to allow extension beyond the straight line. The late- ral ridges are continuations of the two lines leading- from the greater and lesser tubercles above, and which were before described as terminating- at the condyles. They are for the purpose of giving attachment to muscles of the elbow and wrist-joints. The inferior extremity forms the external and internal condyles, the former giving- origin to the extensor, and the latter to the flexor muscles of the hand and fing-ers. The external condyle presents below a rounded articulatory surface, well adapted to allow of the two-fold motions of the radius: namely, the flexion of the elbow-joint, and the revo- lution of the radius upon the ulna. Just on the outer side of this surface is a small projecting- non-articular apophy- sis, which gives attachment to muscles and ligaments. The internal condyle is larger, and very different in its form. Like the external, it is covered with cartilage, and presents a pulley- like articulatory surface, which is called the trochlea, on which the sigmoid cavity of the ulna moves in flexion and extension. Both the condyles present a larg-er articulatory surface anteriorly than posteriorly, which admits of a greater extent of flexion than*of extension of the fore arm. The inter- nal condyle is also furnished with a non-articular apophysis