OKNERA.L ANATOMY OF CELLULAR MEMBRANE. 273 and others, that this structure is absorbed with its adipose contents: it is to me more than probable, that adeps is a peculiar g-ranular secretion from the common cellular mem- brane. This structure is sufficient to account for the circumstance, that adeps does not infiltrate from one cell to another, although in a semifluid state. In every situation where adeps is found in the human body, it assumes ag- gregates of these minute globules, formed precisely according to the shape of the cells of the cellular membrane which encloses them; these masses are of various forms and sizes, depending upon the function and motion of the parts to which they are attached. To suppose that adeps is secreted by a distinct membrane from the common cellular structure, involves the difficulty of demonstrating a second cellular, or adipose apparatus ; which, from the variety of situations in which fat is found, would be almost as general as the distribution of the de- monstrable cellular membrane ; it is therefore more probable, that the cellular membrane appertains to the formation of fat, as well as the other structures of the body. The existence of a distinct capsule to each granule of fat, is not equally demonstrable in every part of the body ; and if we may suppose that the common secretion of the cellular membrane does surround each granule as it is formed, its fluid nature would tend alone to preserve the globular form of the oily secretion. On holding a piece of beef suet to a lighted candle, its surface will melt, and the granular structure immediately disappears; a circumstance which could hardly take place, if the capsule in every situation existed. Malphigi tells us, that fat is formed of grains appended to the blood-vessels ; Swammerdam, that it is a fluid oil contained in membranules. W. Hunter was the first to assert, that the cells containing fat do not communicate with each other in the same manner as those which contain serum. It is evident, that but little is known upon this subject; and wherever such is the case, each physiologist T