HINTS FOll HOUSEMAIDS 49 at each end to keep it in place, and all other widths should he laid in the same way. When one of the widths is thoroughly stretched out and cpiite straight, it must be tacked down. When the first end has been th'inly fastened down, let one side at right angles to the first nailed be tacked, and when the side and end at right angles have been tacked down, the other side and end must be tacked down according to the first. When bright steel fire-irons have become rusty, rub the rust spots well with glycerine over night, and next day bring some very fine emery paper into use, and the rust will soon disappear. In putting them away for the summer gi’ease them with mutton fat and wTap them in old news- papei*. All fine, bright-metal goods when ixot in use should be lightly rubbed over with glycerine or kerosene, as it keeps them bright. The Draught Excluder is the most perfect one I have ever met with, for it can be fixed inside the door as well as outside. It is simply a roller covered with plushette, the ends being covered with felt and therefore quite noiseless ; they are supported in slotted brackets, which have merely to be screwed to the door and the roller lises and falls along its whole length. If the floor be uneven this draught excluder accommodates itself to the unevenness, and if a mat be in its way it will rise and pass over it. Any one can put it up. Dust and Dirt Shields.—These are shields made three- cornei-ed in shape, which fit closely and neatly over any corner, preventing the accumulation of dust and dirt; they are most useful on staircases, and are made of lacquered brass or nickel plate, but may be painted over to match any colouring. They are also most useful for cornel’s of wardi-obes, cupboards, presses and boxes. They require but little fixing as they are designed to fit perfectly on all sides, axxd a gx-eat advantage is that they are vexy cheap. Safety Folding Window-Cleaning Chair. This is a chair which is secured to the window-sill by a strong steel rod, which passes through two screw eyes screwed into the sill, on which the chair is seated firmly, and the cleaner has 4