140 THE HOUSEWIFE’S KEFEBEE and place a thin layer of the above preparation in the part representing the skin of the ham. Garnish the remaining surface of the mould with a layer of rather stiff force-meat of chicken. Pound up one pound of the lean part of cooked ham, and add a tablespoonful of Sauce Espagnole. Pass through a sieve, and fill up the moulds with it, leaving sufficient space to cover this with a layer of force-meat of chicken, joined at the edges with the first layer. Then steam in a bain-marie without allowing to boil. Withdraw the entrees from the moulds, and fix a small feather-bone of a chicken (decorated with a frill), and dress each upright on a bed of spinach set with Sauce Espagnole. Serve with Madeira sauce. Jellied Meat (Virginia).—Take a large shin of beef, one set of pigs’ feet well scraped and soaked. Put them on to boil in separate vessels, using very little water— just enough to cover the meat. Boil till the meat slips from the bone; lift the meat from the pot, draining it well ; lay it on dishes to cool, and set the vessel with the liquor aside till next day. It is better to take the bones from the pigs’ feet while warm. Next morning skim the grease from the liquor of the pigs’ feet, which has now become a stiff jelly. Cut the meat of feet and shin into small bits, leaving out all gristle and tough poi'tions. Put it with the pigs’ feet jelly and melt all together. When it comes to a boil, add pepper, salt, one half of a teaspoonful of ground cloves, the same of allspice, stir well and pour into a mould. Kidneys a la Brochette.—Four kidneys, one ounce of butter, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley and onion, a teaspoonful of lemon juice, pepper, and salt. Cut the kidneys nearly in halves, put them on a gridiron (well greased) to grill. When they are quite done have ready a piece of butter mixed with the chopped parsley and onion, and a little lemon juice, pepper, and salt. Put this in the kidneys at the moment you send them to table. (Time—six to eight minutes). Kidneys a la Tartare.—Broil three kidneys, put them on a hot dish, and serve the following sauce:—Beat the yolk of an egg for several minutes, add gradually three or