90 the housewife’s kefeiiee 0. R. sauce ; let the whole boil up, and then strain into the tureen. Hotch-Potch {Scotch Recipe).—Put three or four pounds of a neck of mutton, six carrots, six turnips, cut in dice, half a peck of peas, half a peck of beans, pepper and salt to taste, into four quarts of lukewarm water and boil very slowly for three hours. An hour before serving add six small mutton chops carefully trimmed, another half-pint of peas, two carrots grated, a handful of finely chopped parsley, two or three chopped onions, and any other vegetable at hand, skim constantly, then take out the neck of mutton before serving. The broth should be made the day before. Hunters’ Soup.—Take a lai'ge white cabbage and pour boiling water over it, brown it by frying in a good dripping, add some thin stock, then a piece of ham or bacon, a lean piece of mutton, parsley, an onion, two shallots, and a rabbit cut up, or part of a hare. Boil all together over a slow fire for four hours. Toast some pieces of bread, cut them up into sippets, and place at the bottom of the soup tureen. When this is done, strain the gravy and pour over the sippets ; add pepper and salt, and serve very hot, with a sufficient quantity of cabbage to give the proper thickness. The ham, rabbit, etc., should be minced, thickened with Hour, and fried in the shape of balls with the addition of two yolks of eggs to make them firm. Italian Soup.—Take the flesh left from the cow-heel or calves’ feet that jelly has been made from; cut it into dice. Boil two tablespoonfuls of sago, well washed until it is clear, either in water or inferior stock, and warm just to boiling point some soup stock. Just before dinner put the pieces of meat into some boiling stock until warmed through ; then put them at the bottom of the tureen, also the sago and a large tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, and pour the boiling stock upon these and send to table. Kidney Soup.—Parboil an ox kidney, mix it with two or three slices of liver and bacon, and fry in clarified dripping till nearly browned. Now pour on a pint of stock, season with pepper, salt, a tablespoonful of Worcester sauce, and a dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup; make a brown