89 SOUr MAKING little salt, a small onion, and a little white pepper. When perfectly tender, strain from the water and pass all through a sieve ; then add the required quantity of good white stock. Put into the stewpan again and heat up, adding a lump of sugar; when hot, beat up the yolk of an egg, in a gill of cream, and put into it, off the fire. Serve with small croil- tons of fried bread. Celery and Onion Soup.—Clean four heads of celery ; cut them in pieces; boil in water for ten minutes ; drain them ; place them in a soup-pan with half a pound of onions, a little tarragon and chervil, a piece of sugar, and a pinch of pepper; fill up with game stock. Boil gently until the celery is thoroughly done ; and serve. Clam Soup (Philadelphia).—Chop up twenty-five small clams, and put them into a colander to drain; peel three potatoes, chop them rather fine, and put them to boil in a double kettle, with one quart of milk ; that is to say, stand the vessel containing the milk and the potatoes in a sauce- pan full of water, after the fashion of a bain-marie, and let them boil for a quarter of an hour. Meantime rub to a cream a small teacupful of butter with two large table spoonfuls of flour; stir it into the milk, and let it simmer for eight minutes. To this add one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and after three minutes add the clams strained from all their liquor; let the soup boil up once quickly, and serve hot. Cockie leekie.—Boil a fowl in three pints of light-coloured stock. When done, cut the fowl in pieces and let these be kept in reserve between two plates to prevent them from becoming dried up. Next add to the broth which the fowl has been boiled in a dozen leeks cut into inch lengths: then add the pieces of fowl, a few stewed prunes, pepper and salt. Cornish Porridge.—Boil a large onion till soft, thicken a bowl of water with flour, add salt, pour the thickened water over the onions and let all boil up again and serve hot. Cottage Soup.—Time four hours. 2 oz. of dripping, ^ lb. of any solid fresh meat in dice 1 inch square, | lb. of onions, a lb. turnips, 2 lbs. leeks, 3 oz. celery, | lb. rice, 1 teaspoon-