13 RULES ANT) TUNTS FOR THE KITCHEN fall, saying: “They fell out of my hand, ma’am,” or “ They came to pieces in my ’ands, ma’am.” All the scraps from plates that cannot be utilised should at once be placed on the kitchen fire, unless poultry is kept, when the scrapings of the plates and dishes should be put by for them. Scraps of bacon left on the dishes should be put iuto the stock-pot, as they add greatly to flavours. Egg shells should go straight into the tire, except when there is much clear soup required, when they will be wanted for clearing. Tea leaves should also be burnt when quite done with, and never put into the dust-bin, though, when first taken out of the teapots, they may be put aside for the housemaid for cleaning carpets and water bottles. If butter becomes rancid, to each pint of it add one tablespoonful of salt and one of soda and mix well, then add one pint of cold water and set on the fire till it comes to boiling point. Put away to cool and then take off the butter in a cake, wipe dry, and put away for cooking purposes. Stale cake may be made into cabinet and other puddings. Jelly should never be boiled too long or the colour will be spoiled. Pickles may be kept from becoming mouldy by laying a little bag of mustard on the top of the pickle jar. Sharp knives should never be put into grease, as it blunts them. Salt should never be put into milk preparations till the dish is prepared, or it will curdle them. A dish of charcoal placed in the meat larder will keep all provisions sweet and wholesome, almost as well as ice. If anything happens to catch fire, either whilst cooking or otherwise, throw salt upon it at once to prevent any disagreeable smell.* Beat up the whites of eggs with a pinch of salt; it helps to froth them quickly, for salt cools, and cold eggs froth rapidly. The quicker food of all kinds cools the longer it keeps. Apple jelly can be made from apple parings. The * A bag of cedar shavings is a good thing to keep for throwing on the stove when there is a disagreeable odour.