38 THE HOUSEWIFE’S HEFEHEE placed between each, to prevent scratches on the glaze or painting. The china closet should always be in a dry situ- ation, as a damp closet will soon tarnish the gilding of the best crockery. In a common dinner-service, it is a great mistake to make the plates too hot, as it invariably cracks the glaze on the surface of the plate itself ; for when the glaze is once injured, every time they are washed after the water soaks into the interior, swells the porous clay and makes it rotten, causing it to absorb grease, and, therefore, when exposed to further heat the grease causes the dishes to discolour. Thus, never put plates and dishes in the oven to warm; it is best to heat them by water or steam, where there is not a plate warmer. Glass should always be washed in cold water, as warm water prevents their looking bright. After glasses, decanters, etc., have been allowed to drain, they should be wiped with a fine glass-cloth, and then polished with a soft chamois leather, or selvyt cloth, which should be marked “ Glass,” and kept for nothing else. Wine-glasses should never be held by the stem when being polished or wiped, but by the base, and then held so lightly that they can be twisted round in the action of wiping, as it is the tight grip on the stem which causes so many glasses to be broken. “ It broke in my hand, ma’am,” would not then be so often heard. Richly cut glass must be cleaned and polished with a soft brush upon which a very little fine whitening is put, which preserves its brilliancy. I think the reason there is so much glass and china broken in families is that the servants have too many things out for daily use. I know it is a great trouble to have out only sufficient for daily use, and to put out more as it is required; but it is wonderful the check it has on servants’ breakages. I like pretty and good glass and china to be used every day, and not to keep extra for entertaining ; but, of course, in many large families that cannot be done, and it would come very costly on account of the breakages. I keep a very strict account of what I put out when I have friends, and insist on having things returned to me directly they are done with. It is a very good plan to have several sets of glasses; by sets, of course, T mean sherry, port, and claret, for after