SAVOURIES 177 flavour with a bead of garlic, and a shallot chopped up and rubbed through a sieve, which must be mixed in with the tomatoes; add four tablespoonfuls of whipped aspic jelly, and mix into a puree. Decorate a mould with hard-boiled eggs, stamped out in rounds or stars, and arrange them in tiers one above another. Between each layer of eggs place a little chervil leaf and a sprig of tarragon alternately , fill the mould with the tomato puree, in which a little aspic jelly should be mixed, and place on ice, and when ready turn out. Garnish with small salad mixed with mayonnaise sauce round the base. Arrange watercresses prettily on the top and sprinkle red aspic jelly all over it. Salad, Tomato, a la Duchess of Fife.—Chop up some tomatoes quite small, flavour them with a bead of garlic and mix in with a shallot, chopped and rubbed through a sieve; add four tablespoonfuls of aspic jelly and mix into the puree with the same quantity of mayonnaise sauce. Decorate a mould with hard-boiled eggs, stamped out in fancy rounds and stars, and arrange them in tiers one above another. Between each layer of egg place a leaf of chervil and a sprig of tarragon alternately ; fill the mould with the tomato puree, place on ice, and when sufficiently iced turn it out. Garnish with small salad mixed with mayonnaise sauce ; arrange watercress prettily on the top, and sprinkle, chopped, all over. Sandwiches en Surprise.—Jones Brothers sell some sandwich moulds for this dish. Flatten some fillets of chicken equal to the size of twelve moulds on a buttered baking sheet. Moisten the top with white of egg, cover with a layer of thin lean ham or tongue, and again moisten with white of egg. Another layer of fillets of chicken is then to be added. Cook lightly and press when done. Garnish the bottom of the mould with aspic jelly, cut and trim the fillets to nearly fill the mould, and finish with aspic. Sandwiches, Italian.—Mince some cold meat to a paste with an anchovy, a little parsley, and a good-sized piece of butter. Add pepper, salt, and lime juice, spread on buttered bread. The meat, if put in a covered jar and kept in a cool place, will keep a considerable time. 12