170 THE HOUSEWIFE’S REFEREE to a pale brown in butter. Put into a deep dish; pour over them a rich bechamel sauce made with sour cream, and flavoured with a pinch of chopped fennel. Cover with rolled breadcrumbs; stick little bits of butter among them ; put into the oven, and bake to a light brown, and serve very hot. Mushrooms, Broiled.—Choose large flaps, cut off the stalks about half an inch from the gills, and peel the tops. If very gritty wash in water acidulated with vinegar, and dry immediately. Place them on a gridiron over a clear fire, stalk downwards, for about three minutes, then turn them and place a small morsel of butter in the centre of each, and let them cook till done. Place upon a dish, stalk- side upwards, in front of a bright fire, place on more butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and serve very hot with a few drops of lemon-chili vinegar and Worcester sauce. Mushrooms; Croute’s aux Champignons.—Select fresh, fully expanded mushrooms that are not large enough for boiling. Cut off the stalks about half-way down, but do not peel the tops. Place in a baking tin with a liberal supply of butter, and cook in a quick oven for about fifteen minutes. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, and serve piled on a dish. Mushrooms en Croustade; Champignons en Croustade.— No. 1. Line the top parts of some mushroom moulds with a fine paste of macaroni, bake them a nice, light brown colour, Then fill up the bottom parts with a puree of mushrooms, join the two parts together, and serve up very hot. Send tomato sauce separately with them. No. 2. Chop an onion very finely, fry it in butter to a pale brown colour, stir carefully and then add a quarter of a pound of finely chopped mushrooms. Simmer together till the mushrooms are two-thirds cooked. Soak two anchovies, pound them in a mortar with a teaspoonful of French mustard, three teaspoonfuls of brown sauce, and add this to the mushrooms. Boil together for two or three minutes, and fill a ci'oustade with it. Mushrooms en Ragout; Champignons en Ragout {Lady St, Glair).—Slice some mushrooms, toss them in melted