198 THE HOUSEWIFE’S REFEREE Brown Bread Pudding.—Get ready the following ingre- dients :—A quarter of a pound of dry brown breadcrumbs, six ounces of pounded sugar, half a pint of whipped cream, some grated lemon peel, pounded cinnamon, one pound of Morelia cherries and eight eggs. Mix these ingredients together in a basin ; remembering that the whites of eggs must be whipped firm. Next, grease smoothly the inside of a plain round mould, strew some brown breadcrumbs therein, fill the mould with alternate layers of the preparation and Morelia cherries; bake the pudding on a baking sheet, in a moderate heat, and when done, turn out on a dish, shake some cinnamon sugar over it, pour some cherry sauce round it and serve. This pudding can be eaten cold. Burnt Cream.—Make a rich custard of cream and eggs, boiling lemon peel in it but no sugar. When cold pour it over the gdteau de pommes, sift a good deal of sugar over, and brown the top with a salamander. Chocolate Puffs.—Make a light crust, cut into shapes and spread on them a mixture made with one egg beaten as lightly as possible, and sufficient grated chocolate to render the mixture of a thickish consistency, cover with crust, pinch the edges, and bake. Claret Jelly.—No. 1. Dissolve a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar in a gill of water, and when the water is boiling add half an ounce of French gelatine in it and a quarter of a pot of red currant jelly. When it is cool, add a table- spoonful of brandy, a few drops of cochineal, half a pint of claret, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice; then mould, put on ice, and turn out. No. 2. One ounce of isinglass, half a.bottle of claret, half a lemon, one cupful of raspberry juice, one table- spoonful of brandy, half a pound of loaf sugar, half a pint of cream, half a saltspoonful of vanilla. Boil for a few minutes one ounce of Swinburn’s isinglass with half a bottle of claret, the juice and rind of half a lemon, a small teacup- ful of raspberry juice, a tablespoonful of brandy, half a pound of loaf sugar. Pour into a mould and put aside till the following day. When it is to be used, serve with a garnish of whipped cream flavoured with vanilla.