130 the housewife’s referee Chicken Entombe; PouletEntombe.—Boil afowl,and mask it with bechamel sauce in which half a pint of aspic jelly has been mixed; cut truffles into tiny rings, crescents, and trefoils, and decorate the chicken highly with them. Take a square tin mould, pour in a layer of good, pale, clear aspic; and when it is quite set, place the fowl breast downwards on it; then fill it up gradually with the aspic, and put on ice. Turn out, and decorate the base with truffles, and red chopped aspic. The first layer of aspic should be deep enough, so that when the whole is finished, the fowl should be quite in the centre. Chicken Grilled a la Napolitaine; Poulet Grille a la Napolitaine.—Grill a fowl in the ordinary fashion. Boil some large Italian macaroni cut into pieces about an inch long, for fifteen or twenty minutes; strain and season with Parmesan cheese, butter, and pepper; add enough cheese and butter to make them thoroughly stringy. Place the fowl on a dish, put the macaroni at either end, and the remainer of the stew around it, with a few slices of truffles, cockscombs, etc., on the top. Serve hot. Chicken Medallion; Medaillon de Volaille a la St. James (The Gentlewoman).—Cut the breast from a raw chicken in thin slices, then cut them again with a small cutlet cutter; lay the pieces in a baking tin with a very little stock, pepper, and salt. Cover with buttered paper, and put in a slow oven till done (a few minutes will be sufficient). Cut some cold tongue into the same-sized pieces as the fowl, and spread them with green butter. When the chicken is quite cold, lay a piece of tongue on each piece of chicken. Dish on a rice socle with salad in the centre. Chicken Pie ; Pate de Poularde a la Francaise.—Make a raised pie case Cut up a couple of young fowls into nice pieces, removing the breast and all other large bones. Blanch, and free from skin a couple of sweetbreads; hard-boil six eggs, and cut up the yolks into quarters ; take a small bottle of truffles and mushrooms and cut them up. Also make one and a half pound of force-meat. Now put a layer of force-meat all round the inside of the case; then lay in the chickens, sweetbreads, truffles, and mushrooms, till the case is filled to the top; put on the lid; ornament, and bake in a moderate