THE HOUSEWIFE’S REFEREE 200 quantity of sugar used. Make a syrup with the sugar, throw in the fruit, and let it boil gently till the mixture has thickened to a proper consistency; serve cold or warm. Compote of Pears.—Take some pears and drop them first into cold and then into hot water, with a sufficient amount of sugar, a piece of cinnamon, and the thinly grated rind of a lemon. Bring slowly to boiling point, taking care to remove the'pears before they become soft. Boil the syrup again, skim the surface and pour over the pears, adding a wineglassful of claret. Conservative Pudding.—Four ounces of sponge cake, half an ounce of ratafias, one ounce and a half of macaroons : put them into a basin, and pour over half a gill of rum and a gill of cream ; add six well-beaten eggs; beat for ten minutes. Butter a pint mould, stick it tastefully with pre- served cherries ; putin the pudding, tie it over with writing paper spread with butter, and steam over fast-boiling water for an hour and a half. Turn out carefully, and serve with clarified sugar (flavoured with almond) in the dish, but not poured over the pudding. Three ounces of loaf sugar, a laurel leaf, and half a gill of water, boiled ten minutes, will make the sauce. Conserve a la Richelieu.—Peel and cut six ripe apples and the same number of oranges, and place them in a basin with one pound of castor sugar; let them cook slowly till they become quite liquid, when they must be strained. Make some flaky paste, and cut it into oblongs and triangles, and spread some of the conserve over, fold over and bake. Corbeille d’Oranges a la Creme.—Put half a pound of lump sugar and a quarter of a pint of water into a small sauce- pan, and boil them till the sugar becomes brittle. Peel four or five oranges, remove as much of the white skin as possible. Divide them into their natural sections, take out the pips, then dip each section into the sugar, holding them on the point of a thin skewer. Oil a mould and arrange the pieces of orange at the bottom and sides quite closely together; when firm turn out the shape very ' carefully, and fill up the centre with whipped and flavoured cream.