THE HOUSEWIFE’S REFEREE 150 Squab Pie.—No. 1. Take the remains of any cold meat (pigs’ feet or bits of pork), four large apples, two Spanish onions, a teaspoonful of pepper, and a dessei’tspoonful of salt. Put all together in a large pudding dish, add half a pint of water to make gravy and cover over with a suet crust. No. 2. Cut up equal quantities of apples, onions, and potatoes; add some good-sized pieces of mutton, and plenty of salt and pepper. Put all together in a deep pudding dish, cover with plain pastry, and bake thoroughly. No. 3. Take some meat, cooked or raw, and cut into small pieces ; cut half a dozen apples into thin slices; one tablespoonful of dried currants, onions, salt, and pepper. Mix well, cover with paste, and bake. Supreme de Volaille Lucullus Chicken ; (Corblet).—• Remove the fillets from two chickens and take away the skin. Cut each fillet in two, put on a wet board, and make them in the shape of a cutlet; place them in a buttered stewpan, season with a little salt and lay a buttered paper over them. Cook them for ten minutes in a moderate oven, mask them with a good supreme sauce, dish on a border of force-meat, decorated with truffles and very red tongue. Place a little round of truffle between each fillet, and serve with truffles in the centre and sauce supreme round. Sweetbreads a la Toulouse (Gouffe).—Take some scallops of foie gras, truffles, whole button mushrooms, cockscombs and lambs’ sweetbreads. Boil the truffles in glaze and chablis, cook the mushrooms in butter and lemon juice. The cockscombs can be bought already prepared; boil the livers and fry the sweetbreads. Place all these ingredients in the middle of the dish and cover with veloute sauce and in the centre put some calf’s sweetbread that has been braised and glazed. Sweetbreads, plain, To dress.—Boil and trim the sweet- breads ; beat up an egg, season it with pepper and salt, and nutmeg. Brush them over with the egg, roll them in breadcrumbs, fry them in boiling lard or dripping, put them before the fire to drain, and keep them hot. Have a dish of spinach or boiled whole rice; place it in the centre of the dish and the sweatbreads round it. Serve with beef gravy.