30 THE HOUSEWIFE’S REFEREE should be away from stable, cowsheds or refuse heaps, as milk rapidly absorbs all gases and bad odours. Cool- ness and ventilation are two other necessary aids for successful dairy operations; the walls, if possible, should be of white tiles, as they are easily washed down and keep the dairy cool and free from vermin. The flooring should be of red tiles or small fluted flooring tiles, the windows should have tine gauze stretched over them to exclude all flies, etc. The sink should be lined with glazed tiles, and shelves of slate should surround the walls. In many dairies the shelves are made portable, or they have portable stands, so that they can be changed about, to allow the floor to be com- pletely cleaned. To these portable stands or shelves, re- volving discs can be attached ; the pans can then be turned round and the cream skimmed without disturbing the pans. The table is best made with a marble top. All dairy utensils must be constantly scrubbed and scalded, and should be of the best materials. Bowls, spatulas, and the butter prints should never be dried in the sun or by a fire, as it causes them to crack. The door should have a good lock and key, and have a sliding panel in it so that when necessary a thorough draught may be carried through it. Scrupulous cleanliness should reign everywhere, as the slightest cai’elessness on this essential point might spoil a whole pan of milk, and even taint the whole contents of the dairy. The churn must be constantly scalded, and the lid handle and dasher in separate parts; when done with, and before using, the churn must always be scalded, by pouring water over the inside till every part is wet. Then the cover must be put on and the handle turned briskly in order to thoroughly saturate the wood; afterwards pour out the boiling water and fill the churn with clean cold water, turn- ing the handle round again briskly till the churn is quite cold. The cover must then be put on again so that no dust may get into it. The socket of the churn handle requires especial care, as the butter from the last churning is very apt to lodge there. It is well to have a small glass churn (in addition to the usual one), in which from half a pound to three pounds of butter may be churned in a few minutes, as it is most