90 tfie housewife’s referee fill of salt, l oz. brown sugar, 6 qts. of water. Put tlie meat, sugar, dripping, and onions into an iron saucepan, stir them till lightly browned, add turnips, celery, and leeks. Stir ten minutes. Mix well with one quart of cold water and rice, add five quarts of hot water, and salt to your taste, stir occasionally till it boils. If to be kept, stir gently till the soup is nearly cold; let it simmer three hours. Crab Soup.—Take two tablespoonfuls of flour, and fry it in lard till the flour is well browned. Add a chopped onion, a chopped potato, thyme, parsley, salt, and red pepper. Fry these for a few minutes, put in eight crabs scalded and cleaned, add three pints of boiling water and boil the whole for half an hour. When ready to serve, rub a tablespoonful of powdered sassafras leaves to a paste in a spoonful of butter. Stir this in the soup until well mixed, then pour in tureen and serve with rice. Crayfish Soup.—Boil three dozen crayfish with one glass of sherry and a little stock. When cooked strain their liquor to a sauce made of a carrot, onion, celery, four shallots, bay- leaf, thyme, and parsley, fried in a stewpan with a piece of butter till browned, adding six ounces of flour; mix well. Moisten with three pints of good stock, stir over a fire, and when it boils let it simmer gently for half an hour. Pick the tails from the shells and clear all the pith from the bodies without breaking them and put this aside. Pound shells, pith and claws, add this to the sauce, rub through a tammy and pour the soup into a small soup pot. Fill the body of the shells with force-meat and bake on a baking sheet in a hot oven for six minutes. Make the soup hot, skim it, season with cayenne, lemon juice, a few drops of anchovy, one glass of sauterne, and pour it into the tureen with the tails and bodies of the crayfish and serve very hot. Cream of Rice Soup.—Two quarts of chicken stock (the water in which fowl have been boiled will answer), one tea- cupful of rice, one quart of cream or milk, a small onion, a stalk of celery, and salt and pepper to taste. Wash rice carefully and add to chicken stock, onion, and celery. Cook slowly for two hours (it should hardly bubble). Put through a sieve ; add seasoning and the milk or cream, which has