THE HOUSEWIFE’S REFEREE 172 Onions, Stewed Portugal.—Peel four large onions and put them into one quart of strong broth, with three-quarters of a pound of fine white sugar, and a pinch of salt. Put this into a stewpan, cover it close, and set it in the oven. They will require from six to eight hours’ cooking. The broth should be reduced to quite a glaze. Parmesan Creams.—Take some little clariole moulds, chemise them with aspic. Cut some truffles in small shapes and in different devices, and arrange them in the jelly. When cold put in the following mixture:—Four ounces of Parmesan grated finely, a dust of cayenne, salt to taste, and stir all in half a pint of rich double cream. Fill the moulds with this, stand on ice, and when cold turn out and serve, garnished with the cherry tomatoes. Peas a la famille.—Wash and shell the peas, and without draining them put them into a stewpan with broth, a sliced onion, parsley, salt and pepper, some little pieces of ham, and some oil. Put on the lid of the pan and let all cook over a moderate fire, turning them from time to time to prevent the peas burning. Petits Pates aux Champignons.—Take some French rolls and with a round cutter, four inches long, cut out the crumb, but leave a bottom to them. Butter these inside and out, and fill them with a mince made with mushrooms peeled and mixed up roughly. Put them in a stewpan with some butter, the juice of a lemon, and a little mushroom ketchup. Let them cook till the mince becomes thick ; fill the little bread cases, and bake till cooked. Place a cooked cherry tomato on the top of each with a spray or two of parsley. Roll the cases before filling them in a little dried and finely chopped parsley. Petits Talmouses au Parmesan.—Line some tartlet pans with puff paste. Take two ounces of cream curd, one ounce of butter and beat them smoothly together; add two ounces of flour, one and a half ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and not quite a gill of milk, and cook over the fire till the mixture does not cling to the sides of the pan. Take off fire, and beat well in two and a half eggs (or three small ones), one at a time, and fill the cases with this mixture.