10.2 THE HOUSEWIFE’S EE FEE EE drain it over the chops, which must be put in a large enough stewpan to contain the soup. Have some well-washed barley which has been boiling for a long time, and put it into the soup with the chops to boil for one hour. Skim before sending to table. Chop a little parsley very fine and add just before serving. Scotch Broth (Scotch Recipe).—Wash well a teacupful of barley and put it in with four pounds of neck of mutton into four gallons of luke-warm water; bring to the boil and skim thoroughly, then stew gently for one hour. Take three or four leeks, an onion, two large turnips, and three carrots; cut them up and add them to the soup and let all boil quietly till the vegetables are thoroughly done ; for if allowed to boil hard, the meat becomes tough. Any vege- table in season may be added, such as lettuce, cabbage, peas, and beans. “ Second day’s broth ” is always better than the same first day. Siberian Soup {Foreign Recipe).—Rub a piece of fresh sturgeon well with seasoning, and let it soak half a day in white wine with aromatic herbs. Stew it with wine, bacon, ham, and vegetables. When done let it cool in the liquor, and then strain. Remove all grease, cut up some parsley roots, small peel, six pickled gherkins, scrape out the centre and slice them. Brown a chopped onion and stir in two tablespoonfuls of flour, let it cook for two minutes, add two quarts of fish stock and the liquor in which the sturgeon was cooked, stir till it boils, then simmer one hour. Tust before serving stir in gherkins and parsley and the fish into dice. Thicken with a glass of smitane ; sprinkle with fennel, and serve. Solferino Soup.—Four eggs, half-pint of cream, ounces of fresh butter, salt and pepper to taste, a little flom to thicken, and two quarts of bouillon. Beat the eggs, put them into a stewpan, and add the cream, butter, and seasoning, stir in as much flour as will bring it to the consistency of dough ; make it into balls, either round or egg-shaped, and fry them in butter; put them in the tureen and pour the boiling bouillon over them. Time one hour. (Seasonable all the year.) Tomato Soup.—Boil a good-sized carrot and grate it; add