138 THE HOUSEWIFE’S REFEREE Fritto Misto.—Take some lambs’ fry, roll it in egg and breadcrumbs, fry, and arrange prettily round the dish. Egg and breadcrumb some brains, cooked in white sauce, and roll into balls and place in the centre. Serve a thick brown piquant sauce with it. Ham and Eggs.—Fry some slices of ham with a little butter; when done, take them out and dress them on a hot dish, then break an egg into some of the fat of the ham, taking care not to spoil the yolk. Let it be done on both sides like a poached egg. There should be the same number of eggs as slices of ham. Place an egg on each slice, pour over the boiling fat, put a little vinegar into the pan, heat it, pour upon the eggs, and serve very hot. Hare a la Fantaisie; Lievre a la Fantaisie.—Take the fillets from a fair-sized hare. Cook them in butter for a few minutes over a quick fire; take them off, strain off the butter, and let them get cool; lard them and sprinkle them with pepper and salt. Roll each fillet round a middling-sized onion, joining the ends with a very small skewer. Place these fillets with large slices of bacon beneath and above them in a stewpan. Cut two carrots in slices and a bouquet garni. Moisten with a cup of clear broth, and let it cook for three hours. When done take out the fillets, and arrange them en couronne on a dish. Strain the sauce and skim it, and pour it over the fillets just before serving. Hare en Champagne; Lievre en Champagne. — Cut a hare into fillets, and stew it with a hash of chickens’ livers, truffles, shallots, moistened with a coulis and champagne. Hare, Fillets of, anx Cerises; Filets de Lievre aux Cerises.—Lightly stew some fillets of bare, then place in a stewpan with sufficient brown sauce and a good handful of cjlac'e cherries, and let them stew gently till done. Dish on a thick crouton of bread fried, with little heaps of the cherries in between en couronne with the sauce over and round them. Hash au Diable.—Cut some slices of cold beef, removing gristle and fat; stew them gently for half an hour in the following sauce:—Mix together one ounce of flour, one ounce of butter, half a pint of stock or broth, a few pepper-