SAVOURIES 163 Concombres a la Sutton.—Boil a large cucumber till quite tender, drain and remove all the green rind, cut into little rounds about half an inch thick, take out the seeds and arrange neatly on a hot dish with a wall of mashed potatoes round ; fill each case with a highly seasoned mince ; put into the oven for a few minutes to get thoroughly'hot, and pour round the dish a thick brown gravy seasoned with tarragon vinegar. Sprinkle a little very finely chopped parsley over each little round of mince, and serve. Eclairs a la Venetienne.—Prepare some choux paste, and make twenty eclairs three inches and a half long and half an inch in diameter, brushing them over with beaten-up egg. Bake them in a moderate oven for about half an hour, when they should be of a nice golden colour. Let them get cold, split them down one side and fill with the following :— One dozen anchovies pounded in a mortar with two table- spoonfuls of bechamel sauce and a little Nepaul pepper. Pass the paste through a fine sieve, and put it into a stew- pan ; make it warm and mix with it two whites of eggs which have been whipped very stiff with a pinch of salt. Take a forcing bag with a plain tin pipe, put the cream inside and fill each eclair with it. Bake in a moderate oven for eight minutes, and serve very hot. Egg Cheese; Eieikase Eierzieger.—Whisk up eight whole eggs, with a pint and a half of cold milk, a few drops of lemon juice, an ounce of sugar, and a very little salt; pass two or three times through a hair sieve; then stir over a slow fire till they begin to curdle. As soon as they do this they must be taken off' the fire at once. Continue to stir for a minute, and then pour into a mould, and let it stand to get cold. Now make a cream sauce, and let it stand till cold. Turn out the first mixture and pour over it the cream sauce. The cream sauce is made with one pint of cream, in which three ounces of sugar, a small stick of cinnamon, and the peel of a lemon have been boiled, mixed with the yolks of four eggs. The eggs should previously have been stirred with the point of a knife full of rice flour, and a tablespoonful of cold milk. Egg Cutlets.—Chop six hard-boiled eggs very small, add to them a teaspoonful each of mushrooms, truffles, and