ENTRIES 145 * the same gravy and melted batter (seasoned with a little cayenne) to table in a sauce tureen. Sauces to be eaten with it:—Bread, tomato, or apple sauce as prepared. Pigeons ala Becasse.—Clean and truss two pigeons, cut a slico^jpf bread*'toast and butter it; then chop up six mushrooms and sfx anchovies finely and mix them together ; pepper and salt it and then* spread it on the toast thickly, and put it under the pigeons while they are roasting. Pigeons a la Grecque.—Cut some pigeons in halves, add three pints of stock, and simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. These should be cooked in the morning and put between two plates with a weight on the top to flatten them. The sauce is made of two ounces of butter, the same of chopped ham, two shallots, one small onion, one bay leaf, and two tomatoes fried together; then add a gill of sherry, pepper and salt, and simmer gently for about three-quarters of an hour, and pass through a sieve. Pour this mixture over the pigeons in a stewpan, and simmer for a quarter of an hour. Place the pigeons in a dish, garnish with olives and spinach, and add the sauce. Pigeons en Compote.—Put one-quarter of pound of lean bacon cut into small dice into a stewpan, with half ounce of butter, and fry a few seconds over the fire; then have three pigeons trussed with their legs turned inside, place them on the stewpan breast downwards, set them over the fire until they are of a light brown colour, and move them round occasionally ; add a tablespoonful of flour, work it well in with a wooden spoon, until it becomes browned, when it must be moistened with' one pint of water; then add a good bunch of parsley with a bay leaf, and about thirty button onions; season with a little pepper and salt. Let the whole simmer for three-quarters of an hour, keeping it well skimmed; then dress the pigeons upon a dish with the bacon and onions round, reduce the sauce to a proper consistency, take out the parsley and bay leaf, sauce over and serve. Polpettone.—No. 1. Cut the meat off a joint and hash it up with sage, parsley, a little mashed potato and a very small lump of butter, some grated cheese, salt and pepper. Add to this the yolks of two eggs, and a little milk. Mix all well together, then make it into the shape of a very large croquette ; 10