PLAIN COOKING 81 whether a chop or steak is done or not is to press it with a spoon; if it feels spongy it is not cooked, but directly it ceases to feel spongy it is done. Mutton chops and rump steaks are generally liked rather underdone, but lamb and pork and every kind of fish should be most thoroughly done. A separate grill should always be kept for fish. Fish should be wrapped in oiled or well-buttered paper before being broiled. Steaming.—This process is especially adapted to delicate preparations. The ingredients for boiling should be pre- pared as for boiling, and then placed in the steamer, with the lid tightly closed over a saucepan full of boiling water, which should be kept boiling, and fresh water added as it boils away. If there be no steamer at hand, make one by turning a plate upside down in a saucepan, and surround it with three inches of fast-boiling water, and place the mould or basin containing the mixture on the plate. Cover the saucepan closely and keep the water simmering round it, so that it will produce continuous steam. It is a good plan in cooking a pudding to place a weight on the top of the mould to avoid the condensed steam getting into it. I think all potatoes and puddings should be steamed. Boning.—It requires great practice and nicety to bone. The first thing necessary is to have a sharp boning-knife, then cut the head and pinions of the bird off as close to the body as possible, and the feet cut off at the first joint. Then cut out the crop at the neck, but do not make too large an opening; then cut the flesh off the breast bone, keeping the knife with the point as near the bone as possible. Remove the merry-thought, then sever the wings at the joints. The bird must constantly be turned round and round whilst boning; and the utmost care is needed not to break the skin. The legs are then disjointed with the thumb by pressing them in. Larding.—Larding like every thing else requires practice; but the result is such an improvement to the dish, that it is quite worth practising to do it. It is necessary to have two larding needles, one for large lardoons and one for the small ones. Lai doons are strips of fat bacon : larding or French bacon is sold on purpose for this; though one can lard with fat bacon if the other is not handy. The bacon should be 6