ENTRIES 14(J is done, take it up and keep hot, skim the fat off and strain the gravy. Garnish the dish with the carrots and add either lemon or vinegar to the gravy. Thicken with flour and boil up. Pour some of the gravy over the meat and send some to table in a sauce boat. Sauerkraut.—The cabbage should boil very slowly with the necessary stock and good beef dripping for five or six hours. A few minutes before serving add some good hock. This dish should be very tender and dry. A few pounds of fresh pork boiled with the kraut is an improvement. Scotch. Haggis.—Boil a sheep’s heart and two pounds of liver till quite tender; when cool, mince it very fine with one pound of suet and two good-sized onions, add a large teacup- ful of oatmeal and a little pepper and salt. Mix all together with the liquor the liver was boiled in to the thickness of thin batter. Have the sheep’s stomach ready cleaned and pour the mixture in, but do not fill it, sew closely up, then drop it into a pot of boiling water, boil it slowly for two hours. Prick it constantly with a skewer for the first hour it boils to prevent its bursting. The sheep’s stomach should be soaked for from twelve to sixteen hours in salt and water to cleanse it, and then scraped clean and allowed to soak for twenty-four hours, the water being constantly changed. Spatchcock.—Cut a chicken in half and season the inside of the bird with pepper and salt, finely chopped shallots, a bouquet garni, then brush the bird over with oiled butter, then grill it in front of a fire for a quarter of an hour, basting it well the whole time. When it is taken from the fire it .should be well sprinkled with browned crumbs; return it to cook before the fire for ten minutes more, and serve the following sauce with it:—Chop up finely a shallot and put it into a stewpan with two bay leaves, a sprig of thyme, a little pepper, and four tablespoonfuls of French vinegar ; boil all together till the vinegar is reduced to half the quantity, then mix with it three-quarters of a pint of biown sauce and a teaspoonful of Liebig’s extract of meat and boil together for ten minutes, pass through a tammy and add a couple of large gherkins, a dessertspoonful of capers, and half a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley. Make the sauce thoroughly hot and use.