214 THE HOUSEWIFE’S REFEREE with the raspberries into a bowl; crush the fruits well, and then strain through a cloth. To two-thirds of the juice, one-third water; sweeten to taste, and then set on to boil. Have ready some cornflour mixed with water, and when the juice boils pour it in carefully, stirring quickly all the time to prevent it from getting lumpy. It must not get too thick. When cold it should be of a jelly consistency and must be eaten iced, with milk or cream. Savoury Almonds.—Split, scald, blanch, and skin half a pound of sweet almonds; put them into a tin ; add a lump of butter the size of a walnut; place them in a hot oven, seeing that each almond gets well oiled ; let them remain there till all are perfectly brown and dry. Send to table with a little of the finest salt sprinkled over them. Semolina Pudding.—One and a half pints of milk, sugar to taste, three tablespoonfuls of the best Indian semolina, a few drops of any flavouring, two or three eggs. Boil the milk with the sugar, then add the semolina, and stir over the fire till it becomes tolerably thick. Pour into a basin, and when cool mix in the egg, well beaten, and the flavouring. Put the whole into a buttered pudding dish, and bake for about one hour in a moderate oven. Small Orange Ice Souffles (Drogan).—Take five yolks of eggs, two ounces of castor sugar, half a pint of thick cream whipped, and three whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Beat the yolks and the sugar with a wineglassful of water over hot water. When this batter becomes quite light, remove and beat till it is cold; add the cream and the whites of the eggs beaten stiff; mix lightly. When liqueurs, juices, or syrups are used the water must be omitted ; therefore, in orange souffles, the juice of the oranges must be used instead of water. Fill small paper cases with the mixture, placing bands of foolscap paper round them to rise two inches above the edge of the souffle papers. Sponge Cake Pudding.—Six penny sponge cakes, one packet of Bird’s Custard Powder, three ounces of white sugar, some jam, and one pint of new milk. Cut the sponge cakes into slices, spread each slice with jam (rasp- berry, strawberry, or currant jams are preferable), and place in a dish. Make the custard with the milk and sugar,