53 THE LAUNDRY remember—good water, good soap, good air, and good rubbing. To steep the clothes, the tub should be half filled with water in which should be put a handful of soda and a little soap. Each garment being put in separately, any very dirty bit or stains should be soaped. Starched things should be steeped in plain, cold water. If the clothes are soaked over night, a tablespoonful of pure ammonia in each tub of water will much diminish the labour of washing. The next morning all the clothes should be wrung out and put into fresh hot water, with plenty of soap to make a good lather. Each garment should have a thorough rubbing in order, if possible, to remove all stains. The clothes are next put into the copper with cold water and a little soap, and all boiled for about ten minutes, except dusters, pantry cloths, etc. Two rinsings are necessary ; the second rinsing must have a little blue in before the clothes are put in, but they must be thoroughly wrung out before they are put into the rinsing tub with cold water. To bleach, put the articles through tepid water after boiling them, and then lay them on grass and let them lie all day, and water them with tepid water whenever they become dry. In the evening turn them over and lay them on their other side all night and part of next day. A smnll quantity of starch for all cottons and linens should be put in the water, but when they are intended to be really stiff, a little more starch should be mixed in the water. It is very important that no garment, etc., should go into the rinsing tub before it is perfectly clean. Boiling once in three or four weeks is quite enough for ordinary garments, but all kitchen cloths, servants1 clothes, etc., require boiling every week; a little Hudson’s soap put into the water cleanses these thoroughly. Where machines are used, the soap has always to be prepared beforehand, by cutting it up into small pieces the day before and putting them into a large earthenware jar. Pour over the pieces of soap a quart of water to a pound of soap ; then put this into the oven, and stir occasionally till it is melted; leave it all night and in the morning it will be jellified. The clothes are soaked in the same way as for hand washing—the day before. Next morning put the linen into