FISH 117 with buttered paper, and bake from three-quarters of an hour to one hour. Garnish with peas, and serve with caper sauce. Salmon, Spiced.—Put into a fish kettle one pint of water, two quarts of good vinegar, half an ounce of black pepper, and a quarter of an ounce of cloves. Cut the salmon into neat slices, and put it into the liquor; when it boils allow it to simmer till well done; then take it out and let it cool. When the fish is cold put it into the covered dish in which it is to be kept. Strew bay leaves and a peppercorn between each piece. Send to table garnished with fennel and cucumber. It will keep for a month in the hottest weather. Salmon Trout a la Suedoise.—Boil a good-sized salmon trout and let it get cold. Make a sauce by chopping a cucumber small and passing it through a sieve, add some salad oil and cream to it with pepper and salt to taste. Mix thoroughly, then add to it half a pint of aspic jelly, coloured green; it must be mixed in the cool, but still in the liquid state. Put the sauce on ice, and when nearly firm and smooth entirely mask the fish with it; put it on ice again, and before sending it up to table garnish with whipped green aspic round and stick pi-awns down the back, or put in three hdtelets, on each of which stick two or three prawns. Sama Teneriffe.—Salt fish served in oil, vinegar, chopped parsley, and green chillies; eaten with boiled potatoes in their skins. Saumon au Beurre Montpelier.—Boil a nice-sized salmon w'hole, and when cold dish it up lengthways, and garnish it with three stripes across its back at three inches apart to be placed on the salmon as saddles. These stiipes should be made of Montpelier butter made very stiff with aspic jelly, and coloured a gcod gi-een, and should be orna- mented with little kite-shaped devices of hard w’hite of egg, and rose aspic *tars. Two silver hdtelets should be placed upright acx-oss the middle of its back, piei’cing truffles and crawfish; fennel and chopped aspic should be arranged round as a garnish. Irlandaise sauce should be served with it.