193 SAUCES Tomato Sauce.—No. 1. Take tomatoes when perfectly ripe, bake them quite tender, skin and rub them through a coarse sieve; to every pound of pulp add one quart of chili vinegar, one ounce of garlic, and one ounce of sliced shallots, a quarter of an ounce of white pepper finely sifted, and half an ounce of salt; if the chili vinegar is not strong, add an additional half an ounce of pepper; boil the whole together till every ingredient is tender; rub it through a sieve, and to every pound of fruit add the juice of three lemons; boil the whole again till it becomes of the thicknefe of good cream ; when quite cold bottle it, cork it well, and tie a bladder over it, and keep it in a cool and dry place. No. 2. Take a dozen tomatoes and put them into a saucepan with four onions sliced, a little parsley, thyme, one clove, a little cayenne, three shallots, and a quarter of a pound of butter. Set the saucepan on the fire, stirring occasionally for three-quarters of an hour. Strain and bottle, or use. Sauce for Wild Fowl.—One tablespoonful of Worcester sauce, one of mushroom ketchup, one of water, one of lemon juice, one slice of lemon peel, one shallot, and a trifle of cayenne. Simmer this mixture over the fire for five minutes, strain, and serve. Sauce Verte.—Boil some slices of ham or veal in equal quantities of chablis. When cooked let all simmer over a slow fire till the sauce is reduced, and then pass it through a tammy sieve. Pound some fresh herbs, and parsley, and an anchovy in the mortar; then pass through a sieve, and season with salt, pepper, and lemon juice; thicken with the yolks of eggs, and colour with a little of Breton’s green colouring. White Lemon Sauce.—Make a good white or cream sauce, flavoured with about two inches of lemon rind when cooking. When the sauce is done, take out the lemon rind, take the flesh of the lemon, after the white pith has been peeled off, cut into small pieces the size of a green pea. Mix this with the white sauce. Heat it up, and pour into the tureen. Note.—Driessen’s foundation sauces are great aids in cookery, and every housewife should keep a stock of them ; any flavouring can be added to them. 13