16 THE HOUSEWIFE’S REFEREE more lemons, and repeat till the jar is full. Store in a cool dry place, and they will keep preserved for months. To preserve lemon juice.—Squeeze the lemons, strain the juice, and put it into a clean lined saucepan. Bring the liquid to the boiling point, and put into bottles quite dry inside, but made hot by placing them into hot water, or into the oven. Cork tightly with new corks, then dip the ends of the bottles in melted resin to exclude all air, and keep in a dark, dry place. The liquid should reach up to the corks. To destroy flies.—Use Christy’s Myocum or fly glue, by covering lengths of string with it, and hanging it about the kitchen and larder, and especially on the gasalier. A piece of flannel saturated with turpentine and put on a plate will keep flies away. To destroy cockroaches.—Cut a cucumber into strips, and put them in places where ants and cockroaches revel, and it will spoil their fun by driving them away. To poison mice.—This is a very simple way. Take a deal cartridge box, such as gunmakers send out with one hundred cartridges, remove the lid, turn the box bottom upwards, and bore two or three little holes in it. Put a little bread or corn under the box for a few nights; the mice will go down through the holes and eat it, and then they become used to being fed. Spread some thin bread and butter with Battle’s vermin killer. The poisoned mice will be unable to return through the holes, and will be found dead underneath ; then burn the bodies at once. But be careful the cat or other animal does not lick those boxes. To choose meat.—In buying meat, choose that which is reddish, neither too dark nor too pale; it should have a marble-like appeax-ance, pi'oduced by layers of fat interposed between the fleshy fibi’es, possessed only by good meat. Good meat should be elastic to the touch, and should not be clammy or moist; a very pale colour is a sign the animal was poor in blood, and therefore the meat would be want- ing in nutritive qualities. The cause of the bloodlessness may have been some serious disease. A deep reddish-purple colour shows the animal has not been killed, but that it died a natural death. Ox beef is best. The fat of raw beef should be light yellow, like butter; but in mutton.