35 THE DAIRY cold water, renewing the water several times after kneading the butter well in it with the hand. Never let milk stand more than twenty-four hours before skimming. Three or four days’ cream should be kept in a cream crock, in some cool place before churning; but every time fresh cream is added the whole should be well stirred. Thick cream from pan-setting must be diluted with skim milk before churning, otherwise it will not churn into gran- ular form, but will come into a large compact mass, which cannot be freed from butter-milk without spoiling the gx-ain and flavour by ovex-wox-king. When salting press the salt in with a ladle; but do not give the ladle a wiping motion as it injures the grain. To sweeten rancid butter, break it up into small pieces, put it into a basin containing lxew milk, leave it for an hour, then pour off the milk and wash it in salted water. If not sweet, woi’k in a saltspoonful of box-ax to half a pound of butter ; then place and leave it for a coxxple of hours in the milk bath. On Churns The New Era Disc Churn is a vex-y x-apid churn. At px-esent it is not much known, but will, I think, be vex-y popular in time. It consists of an oval box with a circular bottom; in- side is a plain disc of wood, which is made to revolve at great speed by a multiplying geax\ Over the disc is placed a hood. Cream being of a sticky nature adheres to the disc, which, being revolved at great speed, dashes the cx-eam into the hood and against the sides of the churn. This aerates the cx-eam, and when the churn is opened at the top all bad gases escape at once, instead of being re-cluxx-ned into the butter. When the cx-eam gets qxxite thick and the butter globules are almost ready to bx-eak, a little water is added and a few turns of the handle are given. The buttermilk is turned off and the chux-n is then filled with cold water half-way between the top of the disc and the axle. About two minutes’ fast churning both ways is given, the water is then thrown off and the butter grains are ready for bxining, which is conducted on the same principle as the washing. The head is removed and swilled out with cold water, the churn is filled up with cold water and the butter is taken