173 SAVOURIES Plovers’ Eggs a la Balfour.—Pound and press through a fine wire sieve the flesh of three fine anchovies, boned and skinned. Remove the shells from six plovers’ eggs, halve them longwise, take out the yolks and pound into a paste with the third of their weight of fresh butter. Then add the anchovies, a grate of nutmeg, a little Nepaul pepper and salt to taste, beat altogether thoroughly and fill the whites of the eggs neatly with the mixture; this must be done very carefully so as not to break the white. Lay the eggs in little square-shaped paper souffle cases, put on each a scalded fillet of anchovy, and fill up the cornel’s with chopped aspic jelly. Surround the dish with thin rolled bread and butter and tufts of watercress. Plovers’ Eggs a la Careme.—Shell some plovers’ eggs, cut some truffles in the shape of tiny kites, the same in beetroot, and ornament the eggs alternately with these, sticking them on with a little aspic jelly; line a mould with aspic jelly and place two tiers of eggs in it; put it on ice or in the refrigerator to get firm, then pour in a little more nearly set aspic jelly (the mould should have a pipe in it), put on ice again, and when properly iced turn out and fill the interior with an iced vegetable macedoine and mayonnaise sauce, garnish the top with prawns or cray fish and make a thick hash of sprays of chervil round the base and beyond that chopped aspic. Potato Balls.—Mash some floury potatoes quite smooth, season with pepper and salt, add fresh butter until sufficiently moist, but not too much so, make into balls, roll them in vermicelli crumbled, or in breadcrumbs—in the latter case they may be brushed with the yolk of egg— fry them a nice brown ; serve. Potatoes a lltalienne ; Pomi de Terra allTtaliana.— Boil some potatoes in salted water; when quite cooked, after removing the skins, throw them into a pan and cover them with grated Parmesan cheese, stirring all well together. Form the mixture into balls about the size of potatoes and dip them into the white of an egg, and then into flour. Fry them till they are crisp and of a pale gold colour, drain carefully from fat, sprinkle a little salt over them, and serve quite hot.