Fisn 113 distances all round and the curry poured into the middle of the ring. Red Mullet.—If you get red mullet fresh from the sea, dress them as is done with woodcock, retaining the trail; but inland this is not a safe proceeding. They can be wrapped in buttered paper, baked in the oven, and sent up in the buttered paper ; about half an hour is the time in a fairly heated oven; or they can be broiled or fried ; Italian sauce should be served with them. Chopped shallot or onion, chopped mushroom, chopped line herbs, mixed in brown sauce and diluted with a glass of chablis wine. Red Mullets k la Navarino ; Rougets a la Navarino.— Place the mullets in a stewpan with butter, stock, and a tablespoonful of chablis and bake them in the oven slowly for ten minutes. Then take them out of the pan, strain off tho liquor, add to it some truffles, mushrooms, parsley, shallot, lemon juice, and flour. Stir all together over the fire for eight minutes, then add a liaison of three well-beaten yolks of eggs and a spoonful of cream. Take two sheets of grease-proof paper, butter them, lay the mullets on them and spread an equal proportion of sauce over each. Then fold the papers over them and roll the edges together and fasten them. Broil over a slow fire, enough to brown them on both sides and warm them through, but not to burn the paper. Red Mullets a la Toscana.—Make a mixture with tomatoes and mushrooms, three parts of the former to one of the latter, pepper and salt to taste, stuff' some red mullets through the gill openings, and then roll the mullets in some salad oil and wrap them up separately in greased paper, and broil them over a moderate fire, and send them very hot to table. Red Mullet and Tomatoes; Rougets aux Tomates.— Butter a baking dish ; lay in the red mullets ; sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and minced parsley; add half a bottle of tomato sauce ; cover the dish with buttered paper, and cook in the oven for half an hour. Salmon a la Boulanger.—Take some slices of small sal- mon (grilse), boil them and let them get cokl. Arrange 8