162 the housewife’s referee China Chilo.—Mince a pound of raw mutton with two ounces of salt pork. Put three ounces of butter into a saucepan with two small onions minced small, three young lettuces, salt, pepper, parsley, and a pint of green peas. Stir over a gentle fire for ten minutes, add the meat and enough stock to cover. Stir thoroughly, and then let all simmer very slowly for two hours. Serve with steamed rice. Colcannon.—Chop an equal quantity of boiled cabbage and potatoes, add two ounces of butter, pepper, and salt, and fry them together ; some onions or carrots may also be added, if liked. The cabbages should be boiled in two waters, and the water skimmed; cook for about one hour. Cucumber, Fried.—Peel some large cucumbers, slice and sprinkle with pepper and salt, dip them in beaten egg, sift over with breadcrumbs, and fry to a brown. Cucumber Fritters (Anna Cameron).—Peel and grate full- grown tender cucumbers. Press all the juice from the pulp, and add to one quart of pulp half a teacupful of good cream, half a pint of flour, one gill of melted butter, salt and pepper to taste. Beat four eggs separately very light, and add to the batter, which should be very thick. Have ready a saucepan of boiling lard and drop in one large spoonful at a time, removing as soon as crisp or brown. Serve as for fried oysters. Cucumber Mayonnaise.—Put the beaten yolk of an egg in a bowl, with very little salt, pepper and cayenne, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice ; mix these to a cream and then add the best salad oil, a few drops at a time, and well stir till thick. Grate a freshly peeled cucumber till there is about three tablespoonfuls of it and beat this into the mayonnaise. Fry filleted sole, or brill in egg and bread- crumbs, and serve the mayonnaise with it. Cucumbers a la Poulette.—After they are boiled and drained, put them in a saucepan with a little cream, or Avhite sauce, or milk; simmer for five or ten minutes, and then take out the cucumbers. Thicken the sauce with yolks of eggs; season with pepper, salt, and lemon juice and serve over the cucumbers.