THE KITCHEN There should be several sieves in a kitchen, of all kinds and dimensions, with three or four very small strainers. Also three jelly bags—one for sweet jelly, one for soup, and one for aspic. Mine are made at home of bath flannel. I am a great advocate for the French fireproof china, as so many appetising dishes can be cooked and sent up to table in them : for instance, macaroni-cheese and sole av. gratia are never so good as when cooked in one of these, and for souffles, the round, white, fluted dishes are excellent. A marble slab for making pastry is a necessity, and can be obtained very inexpensively from a stonemason, as they often have pieces left, which they are glad to sell cheaply. Evei-y cook should be provided with a set of sixecial knives, wide at the base of the blade and ending in a point; the larger ones for cutting, and the smaller for quick peeling and picking. Theie is a veiy useful knife with a notched blade which is veiy handy, not only for peeling, but for cutting up potatoes, turnips, apples, etc. The French filtering spoons are useful for carrying off the grease from gravy, etc. A palette knife is also necessary for making dishes with chautlfroid sauces, and for icing cakes, etc. In foreign kitchens the cooks always use the cerde ct plat (dish hoop), which is used when dishing up, to keep the edges of the dishes free from splashes. The zest knife is another useful article, which one seldom finds in an English kitchen ; it has a screw blade by means of which the zest can be removed without a particle of pith. The cuillere degrais- seuse is another article always used abroad. All gi'avies arc put in the sauce-tureen through it, and it is made to retain the fat, whilst the pime gravy goes into the tureen. KITCHEN FIRES So many people think that by constantly heaping coals on a kitchen fire, they keep the place warm, and never think of the unnecessai’y extravagance consequently entailed. If cooks would only make up a good fire, and then insist that all the servants going in and out of the kitchen should shut the doors after them, it would be found that the temperature would be much moi-e even than it would be by keeping a blazing fire, and allowing all the heat to escape through the open doors. The coal dust should alwavs be burnt,