FI HE 51 be means- at hand to procure the safety of the household and inmates in case of fire. One thing is most indis- pensable, and that is every one should tiy to exhibit presence of mind. It should be remembered that all doors and windows must be kept shut so as to exclude air, and thus retard the progress of the flames. Where there is much smoke, a person may breathe freely by crawling on the hands and knees and keeping the mouth near the door, or by placing a wet towel, handkerchief, or sponge, over the nostrils and mouth. Grenades should be kept on every floor, or what is better still an extincteur. Before giving an account of one or two portable fire- escapes, I must say a few words respecting asbestos, and advise all householders to have asbestos putty and cement wherever their gas dres and gas pipes are joined, and, wherever it is possible, to have asbestos paint on staircase, etc., or for coating any indammable material. All the stores now sell an asbestos rope as the means of escaping from windows or balconies in a bre, and these are necessary in a house where none of the escapes I am about to describe are used. There is no doubt all dres could be easily extinguished at once if appliances were only at hand. A very simple dre-escape, where people will not go to the expense of one of the many dre-escapes now to be had, is a piece of rope long enough to reach the ground, with a strong hook at one end to let down a basket, and a f\-shaped piece of iron on the other end to attach to the window-sill. An excellent Domestic Fire Escape which, I think, comes within the scope of most people’s means, consists of a light, very strong clothes basket, to which is fixed a strong rope, the coil being safely hidden under a wooden cover. With these baskets are supplied a pin and volute hook, which are fastened to the door and wainscotting, immediately under the bedroom windows. This apparatus when not in use serves as a clothes basket, and in the event of bre, the linen can be turned out, the rope either passed through the volute hook and over the pin, or round the bed-post, and the basket pushed out of the window.