18 THE HOUSEWIFE’S liEFEBEE USEFUL ADJUNCTS TO THE KITCHEN A Patent Carbon Safe is a great desideratum in every household; but still more so where there is difficulty in procuring ice, as this safe requires neither ice, prepara- tion, nor attention. Carbon, which is a disinfectant and deodoriser, is used in these safes, so that all air is effec- tually filtered and rendered innocuous before reaching the contents; thus preserving them for days, even in the hottest weather, in their natural state, and free from all signs of taint or decay. Meat and even chops will keep good a fortnight. Everything is kept sweet in these safes; and they are especially necessary to those who live in India or the tropics. The Safe Boiling Stove Mat is a sine qua non in kitchens. Milk, soup, jellies, and porridge will not boil over or burn when this is used, It is very compact and has an outside rim of metal with a little ring attached to it to hang it up when not in use. It is quite fiat, and where the saucepan touches it is made of asbestos, which arrests the direct heat of the flame, thus rendering the boiling slow but sure. An Asparagus Saucepan which I can thoroughly recom- mend is one much deeper than usual, and deep enough to hold any bundle of asparagus in an upright position. The interior is fitted with a movable wire holder, which is divided into four compartments so as to keep the stalks from falling out. The water should reach half-way up the bundle and be rapidly kept boiling. By this means the tops are steamed to a nicety, and the branches retain their original shape. The Patent Domestic Draining Table is one of the latest patents, and is a most convenient appliance. It is a table and rack combined, and consists of a grooved table top supported on four legs with an upright rack at the back, and four little brackets at the sides all made in wood. The table top slopes towards the front, and all the water runs down the grooves into a channel in the front edge, and thence runs out into a basin placed to catch the drips. The