194 THE HOUSEWIFE’S REFETIEE SWEETS “ Here we wander in illusions.”—Comedy of Errors. Apple and Rice.—Boil a quarter of a pound of rice in one quart of milk till done; add two or three eggs, sugar to taste, and three or four pounded macaroons. Peel and core five apples; boil in a very little water and sugar some lemon peel and one glass of wine till tender, but they must not break. Lay the rice one inch thick at the bottom of a dish, the apples on the top; fill the holes left by the core with preserved cherries, and send to table warm. Apple Charlotte (Mrs. Eichenlaub).—Line a round pudding dish with buns one day old in finger-thick slices, cut into heart-shaped pieces; then dip in melted butter. Line the dish so that the point of the pieces reaches the middle of the bottom, and the broad side of the bread the broad side of the dish. They must fit very closely. Line the sides the same way, but with square pieces. After it is all fitted perfectly fill the form with sweet stewed apples, raisins, currants, and blanched almond. Bake about half an hour in not too hot an oven, turn over on a plate, sift sugar over it, and brown it with a salamander. Apple Mus.—Make a mus with fifteen large apples, peeled and cored very cai-efully, and let them boil in a stewpan with wine; flavour it with vanilla and a liqueur glass of Kirschwasser. Whilst still hot, stir in four pre- served peaches, the same of apricots, a quarter of a pound of mixed candied peels all chopped moderately fine. Hollow out a large sponge cake, and fill in with the fruit mixture; when cold, sprinkle the cake with powdered chocolate, bake it in a hot oven for five minutes, and then serve hot. Apple Trifle.—Ten large apples; the rind of half a lemon ; six ounces of pounded sugar; half a pint of milk; half a pint of whipped cream; and two beaten eggs. Peel, core, and cut the apples into slices, put them into a saucepan with two tablespoonfuls of water, sugar, and minced rind. Boil all together until quite tender. Then pulp the apples through a sieve and add more sugar if re-