tO the Housewife’s referee white meat and the brown skin. The side bones are next removed, the carcass divided in two from the neck, and the part cut off to form another portion. A sirloin of beef should be cut in thin slices, and cut with the grain of the meat to keep the gravy in. A leg of mutton should be cut across the middle bone proceeding towards the thick end. Mutton should not be cut too thin. Hams should be carved by cutting long thin slices through the thick part to the bone. Sometimes thin slices are cut from the knuckle up- wards. Tongue should be cut very thin ; a piece of fat from the root should be given with each portion. Loins of veal are cut from the small end ; a piece of the kidney and fat should be given. A haunch of venison should be carved in slices down to the bone from the broad end upwards. A saddle of venison should be cut in thin slices from the tail upwards, each side separately. Poultry Carving.—An expert carver ought to be able to divide poultry without removing the fork from the breast bone, or turning the bird on the dish ; but a beginner will do well to have a small fork at hand, for the purpose of laying out portions aside as the carving progresses. Torn the bird so that the carving-fork can be held in the left hand, and firmly fixed in the breast bone, and use a sharp knife. First cut off both drumsticks at the knee-joint and then remove the second joints. Next cut off the first joints of the wings and the pinions, and then the joints nearest the body. After the wings are removed, cut off the merry- thought or wish-bone, and then the wing side-bone which holds the breast to the backbone ; then carve the breast in medium thin slices, and serve the bird giving gravy and dressing on each plate. The joints of all birds are similarly placed, so nearly identical in point of junction that one is a guide to all others. The different terms used in carving various joints are curious; in an ancient cookery book we are told to “dis- member” a hern, “string” a lamprey, “wing” a partridge, “ lift ” a swan, “ border ” a pasty, and so forth.