ENTRIES 133 Cotelettes a l’ecarlate.—Make a stiff force-meat from the breast of a fowl. Cut out of a good red tongue twelve pieces in the shape of a cutlet. Pound and pass through a sieve the remainder of the tongue, and mix with the force- meat ; season with a little cayenne pepper and essence of mushrooms. Butter and fill little cutlet moulds, and steam them in an oven; then withdraw the force-meat cutlets from the moulds, and place upon a baking sheet, glaze them over and replace in the oven for a few seconds. Dish up, alternating a cutlet of tongue with a cutlet of force-meat. Sauce the whole over with a demi-glaze. Creme de Volaille; “Trente et Quarante” (Drogan.)— Make a force-meat of the breast of a chicken with two yolks of eggs and a pint of cream, passing all through a fine hair sieve. Procure some card moulds from Jones Brothers, Down Street, Piccadilly; butter them, and decorate them so as to resemble cards—truffles, for clubs and spades, tongue, for hearts and diamonds; which are cut with special cutters forming the card pips. Place the moulds on ice for a few moments, then fill them up with the force-meat; steam for five minutes ; turn them out, and dish on a border of force-meat, with asparagus points, or green peas, in the centre. Serve up with sup'eme sauce. Curry, Hindostanee.—Boil two pounds of any meat in a pint and a half of water till half done; then take it out and skim the broth, and put to it six cloves, a blade of mace, a small piece of cinnamon, and a few cardamom seeds. Cut the meat into small, square pieces, roll them well in four tablespoonfuls of curry powder, and fry them a nice brown in butter. Cut up two onions and a root of garlic, and fry also till brown, but separate from the meat; then add the whole to the broth with two tablespoonfuls of cocoa-nut milk or a little good cream, and ten blanched and pounded almonds. Cover the pan closely over, and let it stew gently over a slow fire until well mixed and very hot, and just befoi’e serving squeeze in the juice of a lemon. Curry Puffs.—Make a puff paste in the usual way, roll it out as for jam turnovers, fill it with the following force- meat, and make it in the shape of jam tarts; fry them in butter till they are a pale golden brown, put them on