SWEETS 217 place whipped cream on the top. A souffle dish may be used instead of a glass dish. Trifle.—One quart of good cream, three wineglassfuls of sherry or other wine, six ounces of powdered sugar, lemons, jam, six sponge cakes, ratafia biscuits, sweet almonds, custard, two eggs, small candied fruits. The night before the trifle is required prepare the “ whip ” as follows :— Put into a large basin the whites of eggs, well beaten (the yolks can be used in the custard), the cream, sugar, one glassful of sherry, and juice of one or two lemons as liked. Whisk the ingredients well and when formed into a stiff froth, put to drain on a hair sieve. In the morning, put into a large, deep glass dish six sponge cakes, and soak them with sherry; put here and there about them a few ratafias, and sweet almonds which have been blanched and split. Over these spread a layer of jam or jelly. Place over this a good custard about two inches deep, and then heap in the form of a pyramid the whipped cream, and garnish with candied fruits. Venus Pudding.—Butter a quart mould, and ornament with candied ginger. Make a custard of eight yolks of eggs and the whites of four, three-quarters of a pint of cream with sugar to taste; dissolve three-quarters of an ounce of isinglass in sufficient milk to fill up the mould. When cold add a glass of rum, put the ingredients into the mould and place on ice to set. Before adding the isinglass put aside a little of the custard for sauce, to which add some ginger syrup, and serve round the pudding. Vinegar Peaches.—Remove the down from the peaches by dropping a few at a time in cold water. To every four pounds of fruit, take two pounds of sugar and half a pint of vinegar ; make a syrup of the sugar and water, drop in the peaches and let boil twenty minutes, till they look clear; drain them from the syrup; add the vinegar, and boil a few minutes longer. Remove from the fire, and seal while hot. Weymouth Cheese Cakes.—To a pint of luke-warm milk add a dessertspoonful of rennet; after it has stood in a warm place for one hour and the curd is properly formed, strain it through a sieve, and get the curd as dry as possible. Then put it in a mortal', and pound it well with