171 SAVOURIES butter seasoned with salt and pepper, add a little minced parsley, moistened with broth and a spoonful of coulis (brown sauce), and serve piping hot with a squeeze of lemon. Olives; Croutes aux Olives.—Fry some neat crotitons a golden-brown, and spread them rather thickly with anchovy butter. Pour a little melted aspic over this, and in the middle of each ci'cntton set an olive turned, the stone being replaced by a fillet of anchovy. Omelette a la Vieille Noblesse.—Take some eggs, soft fish roe, fresh truffles, cockscombs, and kidneys. Dust a roe, or two roes as the case may be, with flour and stew in clarified butter. Mix the first ingredients together and keep warm; then make an omelette in the usual way. Place half the stew in the omelette, roll it up, turn over the two ends and place remainder of stew round it, with a few slices of truffles and cockscombs on the top, and serve very hot. Omelette, Russian.—Prepare the eggs as for an ordinary omelet, adding a little cayenne. When nearly done put some caviare in the centre, fold over in the usual way, and serve hot, and quickly garnished with fried parsley. Onions a l’Etoile.—Take a large Spanish onion, core it with the column cutter, then cut it down within two inches of the bottom in divisions like an orange, so that it has somewhat the appearance of a star. Make a, mince of beef or mutton in the usual way, flavour it highly and fill in the onion with it, tying the onion round to cook it, to prevent the mince falling out. Make a hole in the centre of the mince and put in a macedoine of carrots and turnips, cut in Julienne strips, made with a good brown sauce in which isinglassine has been mixed. When it is cooked cut the string and dish it up with a mushroom puree round it. Onions al vino.—Slice and peel two large Spanish onions, cut them into rings, stew them in butter for five minutes over a vei'y clear fire, drain them and put them into enough chablis to cover them; next add an ounce of fresh butter rolled in flour. Sprinkle upon them a little cayenne pepper, and salt and cook them slowly, and serve with little sippets of toast under them,