36 THE HOUSEWIFE’S REFEREE out with a butter scoop. From twenty to twenty-five minutes is occupied from the time of putting the cream into the churn and of placing it on the table for working, the whole operation of churning, washing and brining being completed ; and the washing is so good that little or no butter-milk is found on the table; which absence of butter- milk is most conducive to the keeping quality of the butter. They are made of all sizes, small ones for hand work or large ones for factory operations. The Atmospheric Churn is one that is very popular and much to be recommended ; the butter being produced by atmospheric action, the air being forced in continuous currents into the midst of the milk or cream contained in the cylinder. This churn makes butter from fresh milk in ten minutes. It is extremely simple, with no machinery to get out of order, and is easily cleaned. The Royal Triangular Concussion Churn is also a very good churn and very much in use; but, really, there are so many good ones it is difficult to praise or recommend them all. A visit to the dairy shows, where everything relative to the dairy can be found, will enable people when they see them in operation to judge for themselves which they consider best. THE PANTRY A pantry should contain all that is requisite for the men- servants, or for the parlour-maid, where a man-servant is not kept. This apartment looks best with glazed tiled- pattern paper, as it can then be constantly washed down, and linoleum is the best covering for the floor. A pantry sink should be supplied with hot and cold water, and ought to be enclosed, so that when the lid is down it makes a useful table. There is generally a small cupboard under- neath with shelves where the blacking brushes and dirty knife-box is kept. The knife machine and, if there is one, the boot-cleaning machine should stand in the pantry. There should also be placed close to the sink the decanter drainer, some hooks for the pantry cloths and a jack towel on the