THE HOUSEWIFE’S REFEREE 224 knife into strips, which must not be thicker than the knife. These must now be thoroughly dried for some hours, till quite hard, and then put into boiling salt water and allowed to boil for ten minutes, after which pour off and pile them in a dish, and strew over with fried breadcrumbs and serve with oiled butter. Orange Cake (The, Queen).—Put six eggs into a saucepan, add a small teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, the finely chopped rind of three oranges, ten ounces of castor sugar and a little saffron-yellow. Whip the mixture over boiling water till just warm, then remove from the fire and continue whipping the mixture till it is cold and as thick as whipped cream, then add six ounces of Vienna flour which has been warmed and passed through a sieve, stirring the mixture whilst doing so with a wooden spoon as lightly as possible ; brush a plain mould with warm butter, line it with buttered paper, and dust the paper with flour and sugar mixed in equal quantities ; pour the mixture into the mould, but only half full; then bake the cake in a moderate oven for an hour and a quarter. Cover with orange glace when cold. Potato Cakes.—Pub two tablespoonfuls of butter into two pounds of mashed potatoes, add two pounds of flour, a little salt, and milk enough to make a stiff batter; add half a cupful of yeast, set the mixture to rise; stir it steadily for a few minutes before baking in a quick oven. To be eaten buttered, either hot or cold. These rolls, a day old, are delicious for making sandwiches. Ratkanen Kitchen.—Take half a pint of milk, five eggs, half a pound of butter, half a pound of yeast, a quarter of pound of currants, a little sugar, and a pinch of salt. Warm the milk and mix the yeast in it; put the flour into a basin and make a hole in it, and mix in the yeast, having a ring of flour all round ; let it rise and melt the butter, mix it in the eggs, and beat these for twenty minutes. Butter the mould, throw in some bx*eadcrumbs and almonds, and put in a hot oven for half an hour. Sables Normands ; Normandy Short Cakes.—Take three eggs, half a pound of sugar, and half a pound of butter, and mix all these together with a wooden spoon; then, with the hands, add half a pound of flour, little by little,