24 THE HOUSEWIFE’S REFEREE Clarke’s Grilling Pan for chops and steaks is cleaner than a gridiron, and has a cut in it which prevents the grease running over the fireplace. A clear fire is not essential, as anything cooked in this pan cannot get smoked; it has a raised bottom so that the meat does not try in its fat, contracting thereby a disagreeable flavour; in fact, the meat cooked in this grilling pan preserves its proper flavour, just as though it were cooked on a clear fire. Even the lean part of bacon becomes crisp. The Octopus, a galvanic and hygienic anti-incrustator, is a necessity in every house; it prevents kitchen-boilers ex- ploding, purifies and softens the water, saves from twenty to eighty per cent, in fuel, and prevents deposit of fur in boilers and pipes connected; smaller ones are useful to keep in a kitchen kettle. The New Milk Boiler is a very useful appendage to the kitchen; with it, boiling over is cjuite impossible. It con- sists of a sox-t of chimney or cylinder, at the base of which is a collar shaped like a para pet, which has four holes in it. A second cylinder slides over the vertical one, and is provided with a lid to facilitate cleaning the apparatus. The appliance is placed with its cone-shaped base on the bottom of the saucepan, and so provides the boiling milk with another place in which to travel than outside the pan into the fire. The cylinder is telescopic and can be made shorter at will. The Gourmet Boiler should be a sine qua non in every house. It consists simply of a glazed stoneware vessel containing the food required to be cooked, which stands inside an ordinary saucepan half-filled with slightly salted water. It requires no watching nor stirring, and does away with the possibility of burning by maintaining a uniform simmering, however much the water in which it stands may boil. I have all my soups and hashes made in one. They are made in every size, and the small ones are so useful for sauces. Perrault’s Machine Americaine is a capital utensil for making real strong consommes. The meat is cut up and put into the china vessel with vegetables and seasoning.