99 SOUP MAKING into a stewpan to dissolve over the fire; mix in four ounces of flour ; moisten with a pint and a half of good white stock ; season with nutmeg, a pinch of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of anchovy; stir over the fire for a quarter of an hour; boil gently and add the liquor. Cut the oysters in half, pour the hot soup over them in the tureen; add a little sweet cream and serve. Oyster Soup, a l’Americaine.—Take one tablespoonful of butter und one of flour; rub them wrell together ;< boil two quarts of milk and, when thoroughly boiling, dissolve the butter and flour in it; add two or three blades of mace well broken up, half a teaspoonful of whole black pepper, two or three sprigs of parsley chopped fine, and salt to taste. When all has been stirrred and is boiling, drop in fifty or sixty oysters; let them boil once, or say for two minutes, or till the oysters begin to swell up ; and the soup is ready for use. Before putting the oysters in to boil, strain all the liquor from them. Parmesan Soup.—Put into a stewpan celery, turnips, carrots, green leeks or onions, and young cabbage leaves, all cut in strips, with a piece of butter and a little sugar; cover close and leave to stew in their own steam over a slow fire. Shake them occasionally till soft and yellow. If the vegetables are not quite young they must be previously parboiled, or they give too strong a flavour to the soup. Boil the vegetables thus prepared in good gravy soup, and then strain them away. Take slices of stale roll, and with a small round cutter no bigger than a shilling, cut out little cakes, dip them in hot butter, and roll them in grated Parmesan cheese. Bake them a bright yellow, and throw them into the soup at time of serving. Parsnip Soup.—One pound of sliced parsnips; two ounces of butter; salt and cayenne to taste; one quart of stock. Put the parsnips into the stewpan with the butter, which has been previously melted, and simmer them till quite tender. Then add nearly one pint of stock, and boil together for half an hour. Pass all through a fine strainer, and put to it the remainder of the stock. Si ason, boil and serve immediately. Time two hours. Seasonable from October to April.