099 THE HOUSEWIFE’S REFEREE W rW tyj round. Let it rise, melt the butter, and mix it in the eggs, and beat these for twenty minutes. Butter the. mould, throw in some breadcrumbs and almonds, and put in a hot oven for half an hour. Ginger-bread Cake.—Rub a quarter of a pound of butter to a pound of flour, add a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, one ounce of ground ginger, one ounce of caraway seeds, a little candied peel and a few chopped almonds; then one pound of golden syrup and two well-beaten eggs; lastly, a quarter of an ounce of carbonate'of soda ; dissolve in a small cup of warm water. Butter a cake-mould, pour in the mixture, and bake for an hour in rather a brisk oven. Before baking, decorate the top of the cake with blanched almonds. This mixture must not be touched with the hand, but beaten with a wooden spoon. Gingerbread Nuts, To make.—Six ounces of butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of treacle ; boil them together, and a quarter of a pound of oatmeal nicely sifted, one and a half ounce of grated ginger, half a pound of flour, adding citron or orange as you like; mix all well together into a stiff paste, roll it out and cut into nuts the size you like. Twenty minutes will bake them. Karlsbad Wafers.—Beat the whites of ten eggs to a stiff froth ; add one pound of castor sugar, half an ounce of cinnamon, and three-quarters of a pound of sifted flour. Lay a tablespoonful of it on a greased baking tin, each spoonful two inches from the other apart, smooth them out with the round side of a teaspoon to the thickness of a knife blade, the shape to be round. Bake in a quick oven. Have ready a finger-thick, round, smooth stick of wood. Roll each one of the cakes around it, like the outside leaf of a cigar ; press it on the -wood a little, and pull the stick out. Kenlourakia ; Tea Cake.—To one pound of flour add four ounces of butter, a pinch of salt, one of sugar, and one small teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. Mix the powder, salt, and sugar in the flour in a dry state \ then rub in the butter. Add half a pint of tepid milk to make it into a dough, but it must not be kneaded much ; make it into small rings and place these on the baking tin at a little distance from one