69 ON ENTERTAINING After the ladies have the dining-room, it is the fashion at dinners for cigarette boxes and cigar lighters to be placed on the table, also little old pocket boubonnieres tilled with either violet or rose cachous for gentlemen to take before joining the ladies, so that they may not be annoyed with the smell of tobacco. The paraphernalia for fumants is so varied, and such lovely things are made, that it will be impossible to describe more than one or two, which strike me as very charming. A cigar lighter in the shape of a hot-potato oven, with a little muffineer and knife attached ; a gondola fitted up with the requisites for the smokers ; the facsimile of a four-in-hand, fitted up with every convenience required for smokers is a very favourite arrangement; also a silver organ-grinder with monkey—the organ holds cigarettes, the handle of the organ a tobacco pin, the monkey smokes a pipe, forming the lighter, the man’s hat opens for fusees and matches, and the monkey’s sword is a cigar cutter, a grindstone to hold matches, and to strike a light the handle is turned. Another very fascinating one has two kittens holding a skipping rope between them, over which a mouse is jumping; the lighter is in one kitten and the matches in the other. One of the nicest conceits for the smokers, where lemon squash and cobblers are in request, is the straw and rummer all in one, the straw made in silver, the end terminating in a trefoil leaf to stir with. The cafe noir cups and saucers are now made very small. Those in plain white Worcester china are great favourites, and the liqueur bottles and glasses sent in with the coffee are most delightful; those made of the reeded glass with silver- rims are the favourites, and the little Sevres china coffee spoons are little gems of art. > Carving.—The carving of fish requires great care, or the flakes will fall to pieces. A piece of the back and belly of salmon ought to go to each portion. The head pieces of all fish are considered the most delicate. Where there is roe or liver a piece should be given. Fowls must be held firmly, breast up, and the wings and legs should be removed with a sharp knife without turning the fowl. A piece of the breast should be attached to each wing. The breast- bone should be cut in such a way as to leave it covered with