221 CAKES AND CONFECTIONS it is rolled out square and thin, and then cut out with a wheel into strips of three-quarters of an inch broad and three inches long. Brush these over with egg, and dust with a mixture of coarsely cut almonds, sugar, and cinnamon; or press into a mixture of three ounces of almonds, six of hard sugar, and a teaspoonful of cinnamon. Lay the pieces on a baking tin, syringe with water, and bake. Coffee Cakes; Sahnekringel. —Take a pound of flour, three-quarters of a pound of butter, and ten tablespoonfuls of thick, sour cream. Cut the butter into small pieces, and knead it into the flour. Gather it into a heap on the board; make a hole in the middle, into which pour the cream ; then work it into a light paste. When this is ready divide it into smaller pieces ; roll out in lengths of six or seven inches, and twist into the shape of the figure 8. When all the paste has been used up, brush the kringels with the yolk of an egg, sprinkle with castor sugar and powdered cinnamon, and bake quickly in a hot oven. Dinner Finger Bread.—These are made of a dough like that used for French bread. The dough is cut into long strips, and gradually rolled out till quite thin with the hands, and then sprinkled with a little rough, dry salt before putting them into the oven, which should be a moderately cool one, and should be baked for a long time till the biscuits are dry and crisp. Easter Bread.—One yeast cake, two cups of flour, two cups of water; mix, and set to rise overnight. In the morning take six cups of flour, two cups of milk, one and a half cup of currants, the same of raisins, half a cup of sugar, butter the size of a good-sized hen’s egg rubbed in cold, one teaspoonful of salt. Mix and let it rise till light. Then mould, and put in pans until light; then wet the top with melted butter, and bake one hour. German Cake.—Take half a pint of milk, five eggs, half a pound of butter, half an ounce of yeast, a quarter of a pound of currants, a few sultanas and large raisins, a little sugar, and a pinch of salt. Warm the milk, and mix the yeast in it; put the flour in a basin, and make a hole in it, and mix in the yeast and milk, having a ring of flour all