20G THE housewife’s REFEREE rennet. Stir it together and cover it until it is set; then spread the cream over the top and finally decorate with glaced cherries or grated nutmeg and serve. Kirschen Auflauf; German Souffle.—Take a quarter of a pound of creamed butter, the yolks of six eggs, and the crumbs of two rolls soaked in milk, a quarter of a pound of blanched and pounded almonds, the grated peel of a lemon, half a teaspoonful of grated cinnamon, and six ounces of sugar all well stirred together. Whisk the white of the eggs to a stiff snow ; add it to the mixture, and then stir in as many cherries as it will take. Butter a mould, line with as much breadcrumbs as will hang on, and bake it without delay. Ladies’ Custards.—Pare and core four sharp apples, put them in a saucepan with a little water and boil till soft, then strain and rub the pulp through a sieve; grate the rind of half a lemon, and add to the apples with the strained juice of it; add one ounce of dried breadcrumbs pounded and sifted, and two ounces of castor sugar; then add three ounces of melted butter and three eggs well beaten. Place in tartlet pans lined with puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Lemon Biscuit Cream.—Three lemons, one heaped up cup of sugar, one cup of hot water, six eggs. Pare the lemons very thin; pour the hot water on to the peel; when it is cold strain and add the sugar, and heat till dissolved. Beat the eggs well, whites and yolks separately, and add to the other ingredients; also the strained juice of the lemons, beating all the time. Pour into a jug and set over boiling water, and cook until thicker than boiled custard. Remove from the fire, and beat one minute; pour into small paper cases, and put in the freezer and half freeze. Lemon Sponge.—Half an ounce of isinglass, one pint of water, half a pound of pounded sugar, two tablespoonfuls of brandy, two lemons. Simmer half an ounce of isinglass in one pint of water three-quarters of an hour, and when cold add half a pound of pounded sugar, the rind of one lemon grated, and the juice of two, two tablespoonfuls of brandy, and the white of one egg previously beaten to a froth. Whisk all the ingredients well together; pour into a mould, and do not turn out till next day.