141 ENTRIES four teaspoonfuls of oil, and then one of tarragon vinegar. Beat the mixture thoroughly till the oil is of the consistence of cream, then add a little salt, a dust of cayenne pepper, a dessertspoonful of made mustard, three gherkins, three shallots, all mixed, a teaspoonful of chopped chervil, tarragon, and burnet, and half a teaspoonful of chili vinegar. Lamb Cutlets a la Duchesse.—These are prepared in the first instance, and are to be dipped in Duxelles sauce; and when this has become firmly set upon them, let them be egged, crumbed, fried, and dished up on a vegetable border, the centre to be garnished with a puree of green peas, on a, jardiniere, and some supreme sauce poured round the base. Lamb Cutlets a la Ravissante.—Take some very small but thick lamb cutlets, shape them nicely, the bone of each very short, and stew them. Dip them into tomato aspic jelly, and arrange them in a plain round mould in two tiers, each cutlet overlapping the other, the first tier lying one way, and the upper tier the other. Place a tumbler in the centre, putting a weight in it to keep it in its place, then fill up the mould with tomato jelly. Place on ice when ready to turn out. Take out the weight, and fill the tumbler with hot water for a second or two, then dislodge it, and put the mould on ice for half an hour longer, when it can be turned out. The centre should be filled with a macedoine of peas, mixed with green mayon- naise sauce. White chopped aspic and chervil leaves should garnish the dish. The tomato aspic is made with the strained juice of tomato, flavoured with a little cayenne and shallot put into aspic jelly, and a few drops of cherry red colouring. Lamb Cutlets in Aspic.—Take the best end of a neck of lamb, cut it, and trim it into small, neat cutlets. Season with pepper and salt, place them in a stewpan, and lightly fry them. Put them to press between two plates, and when cold mask them over thickly with white sauce, into which two tablespoonfuls of aspic and one of mint sauce have been mixed. Garnish each one with the hard boiled white of egg cut into little star shapes. Dish up in the form of a crown, with chopped aspic round, and truffles cut into ball shapes arranged here and there. In