101 SAVOUIUES through the pointed strainer, pour over the celery, and serve. Chartreuse a la Variete.—Oil well a plain round mould, cut some truffles into pieces an inch square, and one eighth of an inch thick. They must be very evenly cut. Make some savoury custard in which aspic jelly has been mixed, and cut it into pieces the same size. Place these evenly and alternately like a chess-board all round the oiled mould, then paint very thinly all over with aspic jelly just before it quite sets, and place on ice for two or three hours. Then fill the centre with pate de foie gras, or any kind of force-meat, and put on ice again ; then turn out, and serve red aspic jelly, chopped fine, round the base. Cheese Balls.—The whites of two eggs, two ounces of grated Parmesan cheeese, salt, and a dust of cayenne. Beat the eggs to a stiff froth; stir in the cheese, salt, and pepper. Shape the mixture into balls the size of marbles, and drop them into boiling lard. Pry them for about five minutes till a golden brown, drain well, and serve with grated cheese. Chendool Curry.—Either pound, or pass through a machine, one pound and a half of meat; mix with it one small onion very finely chopped, two beads of garlic ditto, one teaspoonful of mixed ground spice, one or two chopped chillies, and a little green ginger; salt to taste; add just a very little flour, and bind the mixture with a well-beaten egg. Make into little balls, and fry a nice golden colour in butter, and put them on one side. Cut up an onion into very thin rings, chop one bead of garlic small, and fry these a golden brown with twelve cloves and the seeds of eight cardamoms in two ounces of butter; then add one table- spoonful of best mild curry powder (such as may be got at Stenbridge’s, in Leicester Square, or Cook’s, in Prince’s Street, Oxford Circus); fry this a minute also, and then add one teaspoonful of Armour’s beef extract dissolved in one small cup of water; let this simmer gently for about an hour, then add one tablespoonful of cream; salt to taste, and a tablespoonful of very finely grated cocoanut, also a squeeze of lemon juice; then acid the little balls, warm through, and serve very hot, with a separate dish of plain boiled rice. 11