THE HOUSEWIFE’S REFEREE 26 the V-shaped part of the lift being placed under the knob. They are made of galvanised wire fitted with a strong wooden handle and can be hung up close to the stoves. The Enterprise Meat-chopper is one well adapted for family use. It is very simple, and chops half-a-pound of meat, etc., per minute with ease. Its great merit is that it chops, and does not grind nor tear the meat, and it is im- possible for any sinews, fibres, or gristle to pass through without being chopped fine and even, the meat coming out in a continuous stream. It is very easily cleaned, as it can be taken to pieces without any trouble. The knives have cutting edges, and can be sharpened should they get blunt. The Self-closing Bread-bin is particularly useful for large families. It is formed of two cylinders of triple thickness of tin plate; the inner cylinder revolves upon centres fixed upon it and the inside of the outer cylinder; it is so weighted as to shut automatically. This bread- bin keeps bread, cakes, etc., quite fresh, and it is not apparent that the bread is a day old. There is sufficient air space to allow the escape of superfluous moisture without allowing the bread to get stale; and there is no fear of breaking it, or having the lid left off as in the earthenware bread-pan, which servants so often do. The Cinder Basket and Coal Saver is another most useful thing for the kitchen; it is a Avire basket made to go under the grate, Avhere it will catch the cinders falling from the fire. A slight shake causes the dust and ashes to pass through and the cinders remain for consumption. It does the work itself, and cannot get out of order; it materially lessens the coal bill, and keeps the hearth clean and tidy. It is made in several sizes, and can be procured at most ironmongers. Note.—There are a great many labour-savers and novelties I have not space to mention here, such as the automatic baster, the cherry and plum stoner, etc.; but at any time I shall be glad to hear from my readers Avho require useful novelties. Measures for Cooks Ten usual-sized eggs weigh one pound.