107 FISH in a saucepan, put some chablis into a saucepan ; put in the melted butter, mushroom, onions, and the eels ; add pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg. Let it boil for a few minutes, then put in two spoonfuls of flour and a little lemon juice, and let all boil up together; take out the eel, tammy the sauce, and pour it over the eels. Finnon Haddock.—Take a finnon haddock, half an ounce of butter, one pint of milk, one quarter of a teaspconful of flour. Wipe the haddock with a damp cloth, cut it in quarters, roll the pieces in the flour. Place them in a stew- pan with the milk and butter. Bring to the boil very slowly, and allow them to simmer gently for five minutes; serve with the sauce in which the fish was cooked. Finnon Haddock with Poached Eggs.—Make a large pie-dish hot, place the haddock in it and cover it with boiling water; put a dish over and allow the fish to soak for eight minutes, when the haddock will have swollen to double its size. Drain it from the water, skin downwards place it in a Dutch oven before the fire with several lumps of butter on the top, also pepper, and a dust of cayenne. Then it must remain before the fire till of a golden brown colour, and the tin should be turned so as to colour equally. When cooked place on a hot dish, and cover the top with poached eggs. Fische Pastete (Fish Pie).—Take some small, neat shaped fish, cut oft’ the heads, split them down the back, remove the large bone, stuff them with force-meat, close them and lay the fish thus prepared in couples, or separately, on a piece of pastry large enough to fold over like a turnover, and well-lined with stx-ips of bacon. Bake about two hours, and serve. Fish Quenelles.—Remove the skin and bones from any cold fish, pound about five ounces till fine, then put the bones in a stewpan with a little water, pepper and salt to make stock • when cooked strain, and when cool soak in it two ounces of breadcrumbs, squeeze it out and stir over the fire in a small pan till dry; then turn into a basin and beat into it the yolk of an egg. When cold mix the fish into it, adding a small piece of butter, salt, pepper, and grate of nutmeg, and one whole egg. Shape the mixture into ovals