THE HOUSEWIFE’S EEFEREE 208 oi’ cloudy, then pour directly into a shallow tin pan. When cold turn the pan upside down, and the cream will drop out; then divide into blocks. Mountain-ash Berry Jelly (Scotch Recipe).—Gather the berries in September, when they are red and juicy. To two quarts of berries put three quarts of water. Boil them till one-half the water is boiled away. To each pint of juice add one pound of loaf sugar well broken ; when it comes to a boil take off an)'- scum that rises ; let it boil for half an hour, fill small pots with it, but do not put paper over it for two or three days. Mousse au Banana.—Rub three ounces of loaf sugar on the rind of half a lemon ; then pound three bananas and put with the mixture, which has been rubbed through a sieve, and place in a stewpan; beat up the yolks of five eggs; add them to the mixture, and stir over the fire till it just thickens. Whisk the white of the eggs to a stiff froth, and when the banana mixture is cool, stir them in lightly ; then turn out of the pan on to the glass dish it is to be served in. This sweet should not be made more than an hour before it is required. Naples Tartlets.—Scald half a pint of cream or milk ; pour this over four sponge cakes or a quarter of a pound of savoy biscuits; let it stand till cold ; then add a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, two ounces of flour, a little orange- flower water and a little nutmeg grated, then add three eggs well beaten, and a few drops of essence of almonds. Line some tartlet pans with puff paste, place some of the mixture on, dust over with sugar, and then bake in a moderate oven. Nesselrode Pudding.—Put into an enamelled saucepan one ounce of the best isinglass, five ounces of loaf sugar, two inches of stick vanilla, and one pint of new milk ; boil gently for ten minutes. Beat the yolks of six fresh eggs, and stir into the milk while hot, but not boiling; stir over the fire till at boiling heat, then strain into a basin. Cut the following fruits into half-inch squares :—Four ounces of preserved pineapple, one ounce of angelica, two ounces of candied apricots without stones, two ounces of candied cherries, two ounces of orange peel, and one ounce of ginger;