185 FISH SAVOURIES little of the aspic added to it, line the moulds with this to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and fill in the lobster panada and place the moulds on ice for two hours. Have ready an oval shaped mould and put some of the already- prepared liquid aspic at the bottom, stand on ice a few minutes; take the lobsters out of their moulds, and place two of the fish as if swimming into it, and fill in with a little more aspic ; let this cool and then put in two or three more fish, turning them in the contrary direction in the mould ; fill in with more aspic, and so on till the mould is full; place on ice for two hours, turn out and garnish the base with whipped aspic, in which a little apple-green colouring has been mixed. Lobster Creams a la Bismarck ; Cremes de Homard a la Bismarck.—Mix a gill of aspic jelly when nearly cold with the finely chopped meat of a lobster, season with cayenne, salt, and a small teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and stir in a gill of whipped cream. Pour the mixture into some oiled clariole moulds, and when set, turn out and decorate each cream with aspic jelly. Serve with a garnish of small salad sprinkled with a little oil and tarragon vinegar. Lobster Creams a la Metropole ; Cremes de Homard a la Metropole.—Dissolve half an ounce of gelatine in half a pint of milk, season with cayenne, salt, and a small teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. When nearly cold add the meat of a lobster, finely chopped, and just before it begins to set stir in a gill of whipped cream. Pour the mixture into some tiny moulds (well oiled), and when set, turn out, and decorate each cream with chopped aspic jelly. Serve with a garnish of watercress lightly dressed with a little oil and tarragon vinegar. Lobster Medallions : Medaillons de Homard.—Take some little fluted tartlet pans, line them with white aspic cream very thickly, place on ice, and when firm turn them out, brush them over lightly with aspic jelly, and fill them with the following mixture : —Mince some lobster very small; add a few drops of anchovy sauce, a table- spoonful of cream, and a dust of Nepaul pepper. Stand on ice till firm; then mask them over with green mayon- naise, in which some aspic has been mixed. Then cut out