ENTRIES 151 Teal Fillets with Anchovies; Filets de Sarcelles aux Anchois.—Cut cold roast teal into neat cutlets, fry in butter and boil up in a little good brown gravy. Arrange the fillets neatly in a dish, previously buttered and dusted with grated Parmesan. Upon each fillet of teal place a fillet of anchovy, then place a little consomme on each and sprinkle over all more Parmesan and breadcrumbs. At the moment of serving, add a little champagne or white wine. Toad-in-a-hole may be thought a very humble dish, but if well dressed is very good. Make a common batter of eggs, flour and milk, but rather thicker than usual, and put in the centre of it a fowl boned and stuffed with force-meat; let it be entirely covered with the batter, then bake it. Two pounds of beef or any kind of meat may be seasoned and dressed in the same manner. Tomates a l’Algerienne.—The tomato moulds can only be procured at Jones Brothers, Down Street, Piccadilly, and they make a charming dish Line the two halves of the mould with a puree of tomato and a little aspic, then fill them up with the following preparation :—Pound, and pass through a sieve the flesh of a cold, cooked fowl, then add two tablespoonfuls of veloute sauce, the same quantity of aspic, and half a pint of whipped cream. Close the two halves together, press firmly, taking care that the marks on each part of the mould are opposite to one another. Place on ice for half an hour, then turn them out, and serve on chopped aspic. These moulds can be used for jellies and creams. Tongue and Tomatoes, Boiled.—Select a fresh tongue, wash, trim and scrape it, and cook it for three-quarters of an hour in cold water. Put it in a pot, cover with hot water, and cook till tender. Then take it out of the water, peel off the skin, lay it on a hot plate, and pour over some tomatoes prepared as follows:—Peel some tomatoes, slice them thin, and put with them some fine dry crumbs, enough to thicken them. When done, put them in a stewpan and cook gently, stirring frequently. Add to them half a small onion and five or six cloves, and add a large spoonful of butter, pepper, and salt. Have this ready when the tongue is done, and pour round it when ready to serve.