97 S0U1> MAKING thickening (not too thick), and boil all up together; add a small glassful of claret. Lobster Soup.—First cut up very small the following— viz., a carrot, onion, celery, four shallots, bay leaf, and thyme and some paisley. Fry these in a stewpan with a piece of butter until they are lightly browned, then add six ounces of flour, mix well, moisten with three pints of good stock (or water if for meagre soup), stir over the tire, and when it boils set it by the side to simmer gently for half an hour. While this part of the preparation is going on, break up a fresh-cooked hen-lobster ; remove the meat from the tail and claws, and cut this into neat square pieces, to be kept in reserve; all the remainder of the lobster and shell, together with a little spawn, must be well bruised in a mortar and stirred into the soup as it boils; and five minutes after let the whole be rubbed through a tammy, poured into a soup- pot, made hot and skimmed, seasoned with a glass of sherry, a little Harvey, lemon juice, anchovy, and cayenne, and poured into a soup tureen already containing the cut-up lobster and some small quenelles. Madras Soup (Grace Johnstone).—Cut an onion into thin rings, chop one or two cloves of garlic very fine, and fry these a golden brown in two ounces of good salt butter, with twenty-four cloves and twenty-four peppercorns. Now add a good heaped-teaspoonful of best curry powder and two quarts of stock; stir well. Then stir in two packets of Edwards’s brown desiccated soup and one pound of tomatoes sliced, or, better still, one pound of tomato conserve, three bay leaves, and salt to taste. Let this simmer gently for quite two hours, then strain through a wire sieve, passing all the ingredients you can into the liquor. Serve with fried bread cut into dice. This is a delicious soup. Maigre Soup.—Two quarts green peas, two onions sliced, two quarts hot water, one bunch fine herbs ; stew for half an hour; add mashed potatoes or boiled rice, and pass through a tammy. Season with pepper, salt, and sugar (a tablespoonful), add a pint of new milk, stir till the mixture is smooth, and then warm. Serve croiUons of bread fried in butter. A similar soup is made with roots; but as they require unequal time, observe the following rules—viz., <