FISH 121 fish in the dish on which it is to be served, and which should be a silver one. Put it again into the oven for a quarter of an hour, pass the salamander over it and serve very hot. Sole, Filets de, a la Dieppoise.—Take the fillets of two good-sized soles and place them on a buttered dish. Moisten with a glass of vin de graves, add salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, and put all into a moderately heated oven. When the fillets are cooked, take oft' the moisture, and replace by a spoonful of port wine. Add a piece of butter, and then arrange the fillets in the middle of the dish. Garnish with mushrooms and scallops which have been cut up • put the dish into the oven to glaze the sauce and serve. Sole, Filets de, en Mayonnaise.—Bake the fillets in a well-buttered baking dish with a squeeze of lemon, white pepper, and salt for ten or twelve minutes; press the fillets till quite cold, then dip in a thick mayonnaise, and when this has set, dish the fillets en couronne, filling the centre with Russian salad garnished with julienne strips of red chillies, French gherkin, etc. Sprats a la Rochelle.— Steep the sprats in oiled butter and lemon juice, cayenne, and a soujxjon of shallot; then roll each in breadcrumbs, next in beaten egg, then again in breadcrumbs, and fry a nice gold colour. Terrapin.—When a pot of water is boiling hard, drop the live terrapin in, and boil from one-half to three-quarters of an hour or more, until the skin can be pulled off their feet and the upper and lower shells are coming apart. Then take them out of the pot and set them to cool (they must be fairly warm or they will not pick apart well); reserve a quart of water in which they have boiled. Open the shell of the terrapin and quickly pull off the head and remove the two livers; the largest liver contains the gall in a small round sac, which must be care- fully cut loose and removed without breaking (hold it oft' some distance from the terrapin, for the least drop will spoil everything), wash the livers and cut them up in medium-sized pieces, then all the rest of the terrapin, entrails included, is good. Cut the latter in pieces an inch