236 THE HOUSEWIFE^ REFEREE the cylinder, light the spirit lamp underneath, and turn the handle of the roaster evenly. The process takes about twenty minutes. The contents ought to he roasted to perfection. When the berries are done, turn them into a wooden bowl to cool rapidly in the open air, after which they must be shut up in a light tin canister with a tight- fitting lid. It should be ground as required. THE WINE CELLAR “ Sure the gods of old were a goodly crew. For they knew the use of wine; They sipped of naught but Olympian brew, The immortal juice of vine.” Wine-drinking at dinner has been decreasing for the last ten years, according to Mr. Chauncey Depew, who says that he has noticed during the last two seasons at the dinners that claret and champagne only are served, to the exclusion of others, excepting dry sherry after the soup. He observes : “ The amount of wine which is consumed per head is con- stantly diminishing at all dinners, and the number of men who abstain altogether is decidedly on the increase. The sparkling mineral waters are largely performing the functions formerly filled by the stronger beverages.” Never- theless, it is quite necessary, whether wine is drunk or not, to understand something about them and the management of the cellar; and though in most houses the gentleman sees to the cellar department, yet, in many families, the lady undertakes it; therefore a few words about it in The Housewife’s Referee may not be out of place. How to Keep a Cellar Cool.—Ventilation has for its object the keeping of cellars cool and dry, but often by this means the cellar is made both warm and damp. A cool place should never be ventilated, unless the air admitted is cooler than the air within. The warmer the air, the more moisture it holds in suspension, therefore the cooler the air the more this moisture is condensed and precipitated. Windows of cellars should only be opened at night and quite late, then the cool air enters the apartments during the night and