FISH ID') Cod fish en tranches frits.—Cut- the middle or tail of the fish into slices nearly one inch thick; season them with salt and white pepper and cayenne; Hour them well and fry them of a clear equal brown, on both sides; drain them on a sievo before the fire and serve them on a well-heated napkin, with plenty of crisped parsley round them, or dip them into beaten egg, and then into fine crumbs, mixed with a seasoning of salt and pepper (some cooks add one of minced herbs also) before they are fried. Send melted butter and anchovy sauce to table with them. Eight to twelve minutes. This is a much better way of dressing the thin part of the fish than boiling it, and as it is generally cheap, it makes an economical, as well as a very good dish. If the slices are lifted from the frying-pan into a good curried gravy, and left in it by the side of the fire for a fewr minutes before they are sent to table, they will be found excellent. Cod roes in Tomato Sauce.—Take one or two cods’ roes, wash well and be careful not to break them. Boil till quite soft, drain from the water, and when cold cut into slices about half an inch thick. Take one ounce of butter, warm it over the fire in a stewpan, stir into it the yolks of two eggs beaten, half a teaspoonful of salt, a little cayenne, a grate of nutmeg, and two dessertspoonfuls of tomato sauce ; mix well, and stir over fire to thicken. Put in the slices of roe, and let them soak for a few minutes; have some slices of toast ready, put the ecds’ roe on them, pour the sauce over, and put in the oven for a few minutes and serve very hot. Crappit Heads.—Take three haddocks’ heads, two haddocks’ roes, and livers, quarter-pound of oatmeal, one dessertspoonful of breadcrumbs (browned), the same of chopped parsley, two minced and parboiled onions, ono teacupful of milk, one-quarter teaspeonful of pepper and one teaspoonful of salt. Brown the oatmeal by placing it in a dish in the oven, stirring it occasionally ; cleanse the heads, wipe them dry, and remove the eyes ; mince the roes, livers, parsley, and onions, adding the pepper and salt. Make them into a stiff paste with the milk. Stuff the heads with this mixture and sew them up. Melt the dripping and brush the heads over with it and sprinkle them with bread- crumbs. Bake for an hour and a half or boil for three- quarters of an hour,