191 SAUCES juice. Mix all together, and put in a covered jar in a warm place, stirring daily for a month. Strain and place away in clean bottles. Lemon Sauce for Black Game, etc.—Take one lemon and one small orange, remove every particle of white, cut it into little dice-shaped pieces, and bring to almost boiling point in water to cover. Add a glass of either port or claret, a tablaspoonful of brown sauce, a pinch of salt and cayenne pepper, and finally the juice of another orange and lemon. Mint Sauce.—Select the brightest and most delicate leaves from twelve to fourteen stalks of mint. Mince them very finely; dissolve three tablespoonfuls of sugar in half a teacupful of boiling water, add the juice of a lemon, and then make the liquid up to a pint with malt vinegar, put over the mint in the sauce tureen, stir up well and serve. Mustard Sauce.—Make a white sauce with two ounces of butter, a good spoonful of flour, and a little cold milk; add to it a desertspoonful of mustard, and add sufficient vinegar to a tumbler of boiling water to give it a flavour, and pour it on the butter, stirring all the time. Piquant Sauce.—Take a couple of ounces of butter, one carrot, six shallots, one bunch of savoury herbs, parsley, half a bay leaf, two slices of lean ham, two cloves, six peppercorns, three allspice, four tablespoonfuls of vinegar, half a pint of stock, one lump of sugar, half a saltspoonful of cayenne, and salt. Slice the carrots and shallots and put with the butter in the stewpan ; add the herbs and minced ham, and simmer over a slow fire. Stir and put in the remaining ingredients. Simmer for a quarter of an hour, skim, strain through a sieve, and serve very hot with cutlets, etc. Ravigote Sauce a la Provence.—Take half a pint of clear stock and make it hot, and add to it a head of garlic, a bouquet of mixed herbs, a dust of white pepper; let it reduce, then strain it from the garlic and herbs, add a quarter of a pint of tarragon vinegar, and the same quantity of meat glaze; put on the fire again and reduce, pass through a tammy, stir in some chopped tarragon and