THE LAUNDRY 61 Merely the slightest squeezing and rinsing up and down in the suds are all that is required; they should never be wrung. Then they should be hung up by the tops and allowed to drip till almost dry, when they may be taken down and gently pulled with the hands and shaped, care being taken not to stretch them out of form. To Clean Lace.—Fill a bottle with cold water, draw a stocking tightly over it, securing both ends firmly. Place the lace smoothly over the stocking and tack closely, put the bottle in a kettle of cold water containing a few shavings of soap, and place over the fire to boil; rinse in several waters, and then drain and dry. When dry, remove and place smoothly in a large book, and press with weights. Black lace, which has become rusty, may be restored by soaking in ammonia and water, or by washing in milk and water, or gin. It is a good plan to use gum arabic for stiffening all laces and fine muslins, as it leaves no smeared surfaces and makes the articles look like new. To Wash Lace Curtains.—They should soak for twenty - four hours in cold water; then press the water from them, and, if very much soiled, repeat the soaking with several changes of water. They can then be washed in the usual way—gently pressed and rubbed with hands, then boiled. They must be thoroughly dry before starching. Clear, well-boiled starch should be used. They should be rather limp than stiff. After starching they must be hung care- fully over the line and should remain there till a little more than half dry. Place a sheet on the floor and tack it down carefully, with no wrinkles in it; when the curtains are nearly dry lay each one on the sheet and pin the hemmed ends carefully to one end of the sheet: leave no wrinkles, and pin down the sides first, going from those to the centre, keeping an even line: all this must be most carefully and very evenly manipulated, and they then must be left to dry. Lace curtains should never be ironed. Mildew on Linen.—-Rub soap on the mildewed spots, scrape chalk over it thickly, and lay in the sun ; repeat this till the spots disappear. Most stains will disappear if the cloth is held in milk that is boiling over the fire.