ENTRIES 147 froid sauce coloured a pretty rose colour. Decorate them with little round spots of truffle in the form of a lozenge, and mount them on a white aspic cream socle. Run chopped aspic jelly between each cutlet, and arrange chopped aspic all round the dish, with here and there a spray of chervil leaves. Quails, Trophee of, in Aspic {Food.)—Put a vine leaf inside each quail and a spoonful of veal force-meat. Truss them, blanch the legs and claws in boiling water, remove the nails, wrap each claw in fat bacon carefully, and truss it into place. Stew the birds in champagne ; when done, drain the birds, remove the fat from the claws, and lay them on a sieve. Have some aspic jelly just warm. Decorate the top of a tall mould (similar to those in which sponge cakes are made) with olive truffles, chillypods, etc. (these must be well drained). Set them in the aspic and fill up the first tier of the mould and set firm. Lay two birds in, back downwards, and nearly cover with almost cold aspic. Next, chop the whites of hard-boiled eggs, and wash them well in cold water to make sure no yellow remains on them. Drain very dry and form into a sort of rock for the birds to rest upon, with some of the Indian pickles here and there, truffles, etc. Set and repeat, taking the white ground x'ight down to the edge of the mould. At the bottom set sprays of endive, the edge of the leaves only, and not more than one inch round the edges of the mould and amongst the rocky white of egg. Make a handsome garnish of green round, decorate with slices of lemon halved and semi-quartered with a chilly at the juncture of the quarter, or a curl of parsley. Rabbit, Dressed (Economical way).—A rabbit, half a pound of pickled pork, one onion, one and a half ounce of butter; a little flour and some force-meat balls. Divide and cut the rabbit and pork into slices, shred the onion fine, and fry the whole a nice brown. Then put them into a stewpan, with just sufficient water to cover them. Season it highly with pepper and salt, and let it simmer for a quarter of an hour, or twenty minutes. Then thicken the gravy with a piece of butter rolled in flour. Add a few force-meat balls, and let it again simmer until the gravy is the consistency of thick cream. It takes about an hour altogether.