136 THE HOUSEWIFE’S REFEREE to allow it to set; then cut it in pieces the size of the domino mould. (The domino moulds are to be procured at Jones Brothers, Down Street, Piccadilly.) Butter the moulds, place a small shred of truffles in the space at the bottom; then form the dominoes with pieces of truffle stamped out with a domino cutter. Take the remaining two-tliirds of force-meat, add a little cream, and season ; fill up the moulds about three parts full with this preparation, then take the pounded truffles and fill up the moulds, press firmly together, poach in an oven for a few minutes. Dish up on a force-meat border, with a financiere ragout in the centre, and send up supreme sauce with it. Duck, Devilled (Indian).—Take a pound of onions, a piece of gx-een ginger, and six chillies; reduce them to a pulp, then add two teaspoonfuls of mustard, pepper, salt, cayenne and chutney, two tablespoonfuls of ketchup, and half a bottle of claret. Cut up the duck and put it into the sauce, and let it simmer for a long time. The duck must have been previously roasted. Ducks, Wild, Salmi of.—Boast two wild ducks, and when they are cold, cut them up; take off the skin, trim the pieces, and put them in a glazing stewpan. Put in another stevvpan two onions, four cloves, one faggot, half a bottle of claret, four shallots, the bones axxd trimmings; reduce the wine, and pour in a pint and a half of espagnole sauce; simmer for twenty minutes ; skim, and strain through the pointed strainer into a stewpan, and reduce till the sauce coats the spoon; pour one-fourth of this sauce over the pieces of duck; warm them, without boiling, put them on a dish, pour over the remainder of the sauce, and garnish l’ound with a’outons of bread fx-ied and glazed. Filets de Volaille a la Valenciennes.- Take a fowl, bone and boil it, and cut it into fillets, shaping them as far as possible to look like cutlets; mask them with supreme sauce in which half a pint of aspic jelly has been mixed ; ornament them with star-like devices of tongue and truffle ; put little frills on the ends, axxd arrange them cross-wise fashion, two at a time over one another; place chopped aspic all round for garnish. Foie Gras, Chartreuse of Pate de.—Line a mould over