164 THE HOUSEWIFE’S REFEREE parsley, a little salt, and pepper. Mix these ingredients together, and when cold make them into nice-shaped cutlets. Dip them into egg and breadcrumbs, and fry a nice golden brown. Place each cutlet on a round crouton of bread fried a light colour, and dish them arranged in a ring, with peas in the centre. (Serve with rich white sauce, in which the yolks of two eggs have been mixed. Egg Plant, Fried.—One fine egg plant, two eggs, half a cup of milk, a little salt, flour for thin batter, and lard or dripping for frying. Slice and pare the egg plant, and lay in salt and water one hour. Wipe perfectly dry, make a batter as directed above, dip each piece in it, and fry it to a fine brown. Drain, dry, and serve on hot, flat dish. Egg Souffles, Savoury.—Butter some little china souffle cases, break a fresh egg into each, season with pepper, salt, grated tongue, finely minced parsley and chives, and set it in the oven for a few minutes. Eggs a la Baldwin.—Boil four or six eggs till quite hard, cut the whites into very small pieces. Make a rich white stock, add a little chopped parsley, a dust of cayenne, a little salt, a tablespoonful of cream; put in the pieces of white of egg and boil all up for one minute, and have ready the yolks rubbed through a coarse sieve; place the white mixture into a dish, cover with the tammied yolk, and brown slightly with a salamander. Eggs, Zurich.—Beat up four eggs, and add three spring onions with some parsley to them, all finely minced. Season with pepper and salt; then mix well into them two ounces of melted butter, and the same of grated Par- mesan cheese. Fry slightly, and brown with a salamander. Enchiladis, or Pepper Tortillas (Jeivson).—The tortillas are pancakes made of equal parts of Indian corn-meal and wheat-flour, seasoned with salt and mixed with cold water to a thick paste. They are then baked upon a griddle dusted with corn-meal. Have ready, chopped fine, equal parts of olives, raisins, and cheese, and mix together. Make some Spanish sauce by bruising some green garden peppers to get off the skins, and peel some tomatoes, and two large onions, chop all fine; and also a red pepper sauce by