TIIF. LAUNDRY O i and forwards over each article before ironing it, then pass the iron lightly over the surface of the cuff or collar on the wrong side and then on the right until it is perfectly stiff and dry, and ready to wear. When all the articles have been ironed, take each one separately, pass a wet flannel over first on the right side and then on the wrong, then pass a piece of dry linen over it exactly in the same way, and proceed to use the polishing iron, which must be heated very hot and passed quickly and firmly with strength over the surface of the article on both sides till the required polish is obtained. This process completed, each collar and cuff should be taken separately, held in the left hand and turned round with the iron pressed to the right, which will form it to the circular shape of the neck or wrist. They should then be put into an oven, or on an old dish placed near enough to the fire for the heat to reach them. “ To starch a shirt, the front should he taken by the hands and gathered into plaits from either side, handling it in such a way as to prevent all other parts of it coming in contact with the starch. The fronts and cuff's having been dipped in the starch, they should be rubbed between the hands to press the starch through the linen. The band of the shirt must not be starched. After the shirts have all been starched, the bodies must be damped, the sleeves laid straight and each one rolled up singly, then laid in a basket and put in a cold place till next day. They must then be ironed. Fold the shirt down the centre of the back, and iron on both sides smoothly; double the fronts in the same way, and iron them without touching the starched parts. Next, iron the yoke without creasing the body of the shirt, then the band, now the wristbands and sleeves, and finally the front, which must be ironed over a shirt board or a piece of felt. The cuffs and fronts must then be wet and polished as described before.” To Wash Blankets.— The water should never be above luke-warm. If there are any greasy spots on the blankets use a little benzine, or any soiled spots, rub a little soap on them. Wash all old blankets first, then prepare fresh water for the new ones, as they contain oil and must be perfectly rinsed. Blankets must be soaked in abundance of luke-warm soapsuds, ip which there are two table-