220 THE HOUSEWIFE’S REFEREE When the bread has soaked in all the liquid, fry it in half butter and half lard to a nice golden colour on both sides. Serve on a hot dish ; sprinkle sugar over, and hand stewed fruit with it. Baden Cakes.—Make some short pastry with half a pound of flour and six ounces of butter, and line some tins with it. Then put an ounce and a half of castor sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, four tablespoonfuls of cream, and the yolks of three eggs in a stewpan, and stir till it becomes the consistency of cream ; then add a tablespoonful of almonds which have been previously blanched and finely cut up, and the whisked whites of the three eggs. Pour the mixture into the tins, and bake for about twenty minutes. When they are cold, ice the tops (the icing is made by mixing one tablespoonful of icing sugar with one white of an egg); sprinkle some finely-chopped pistachio nuts over them, and serve cold. This makes ten cakes. Butterkiichen (Westphalian Recipe).—Sift three pounds of flour into a basin which has been slightly warmed ; make a well in the middle, and put in two cupfuls of castor sugar, seven eggs, the peel of one lemon, and half a pint of milk in which two ounces of yeast have been dissolved. Warm a pound and a half of butter, and add it gradually to the other ingredients; then beat all together briskly. Butter thinly a baking sheet, spread the paste on it to the thick- ness of three-quarters of an inch, and set it in a warm place to rise. Butter the upper surface of the cake; sprinkle it with coarsely pounded sugar, and bake quickly. It can be varied after the dough has risen, by sprinkling it with a mixture of half a pound of coarsely pounded sugar, three ounces of chopped almonds, and some powdered cinnamon; and put small lumps of butter all over at regular intervals. Prick it well to avoid blisters rising. When taken from the oven, sprinkle it with half a cupful of rose water. It should be eaten fresh, and is generally cut into pieces two inches broad and five long. Coffee Cake (Gei'man Recipe).—Take half a pound of sugar, the same of butter, four eggs, some grated lemon, a good pinch of salt of ammonia, and the requisite quantity of flour to make a good dough. After it has rested a short time,