THE HOUSEWIFE’S REFEREE 114 them, one overlapping the other, straight clown the middle of the dish. Take a lobster, cut it very small, add a few drops of essence of anchovy, and a dust of cayenne ; and mix well with thick cream and plenty of lobster spawn, which has been rubbed through a fine sieve. Mask the top of each slice of salmon thickly with this mixture; then sprinkle some finely chopped aspic over each, and decorate with two or three chervil leaves. Around the salmon arrange a wreath of cucumber shred into julienne strips, with mayonnaise poured over it. Here and there place a spray of chervil. Salmon a Demain.—Salmon, two tablespoonfuls of liquor, one tablespoonful of salad oil, one dessertspoonful of chili vinegar, one dessertspoonful of cucumber vinegar, one tea- spoonful of minced capers, one teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, breadcrumbs. Separate the salmon in flakes, and lay them in a sauce, made of all the above ingredients mixed together (except the crumbs) to soak for about two hours. Take them up separately and lay them in a scallop tin. Mix the sauce with enough breadcrumbs to give it consistency; cover the fish with it, and make it hot in the oven. Salmon a l’ltalienne.—Take a middle-sized salmon, draw and scale it, drying it inside and out with a cloth. Then take fine grated breadcrumbs, currants, a little butter, flavouring of nutmeg and sweet marjoram, and make it into a pudding with new milk, which must be thrust in at the gills till the belly is well stuffed. Lay in a baking tin, and baste first with a little salt and water, then vinegar and sugar, and lastly with claret and butter beaten up together. When done enough, serve hot with a garnish of whole spice and anchovy sauce. Salmon a la Montpelier.—A grilse makes the best looking dish. Scrape away all the scales, and wrap the fish in a piece of the grease-proof paper, and place it into boiling water, which should have a carrot, onion, a bunch of herbs, a few peppercorns, and a little salt, and a few drops of vine- gar. After letting it come to the boil, draw the pan to the side of the fire and let it simviei’, allowing ten minutes to each pound of fish. Leave the fish in the water till it is cold then remove the paper and arrange the fish on a