8 THE HOUSEWIFE’S REFEREE mixed with lumps, and if mistresses would insist on this there would not be found so much wasted coal in the cellar. The dust is most useful in backing up fires by damping it and placing it on the back of the fire. Whenever the flames roar in passing through the back flue of the range, it is very certain that coal is being wasted. Poking the fire is a great mistake, and a kitchen fire hardly ever re- quires it; it is a most wasteful habit, not only burning out the poker, but turning the coals into cinders, and no fire lasts so long when it is constantly being stirred. A cook can prevent the accumulation of soot in the chimney by making a brine of a few pennyworths of com- mon salt and pouring it over soft coal, and the under parts of the stove in which it is used will be kept clean. In lighting a kitchen fire, or indeed, any fire, the back of the grate should be swept daily, and once a fortnight a long-handled sweep’s brush should be passed up the chimney. Any kind of paper will do, except brown, to light fires with; but all paper should be rolled into balls the size of an orange, then the wood should be put in and a few lumps of coal, and all the cinders which have been sifted from the day before. A good cook studies her range and learns everything respecting its draughts and dampers, and tries to economise the fuel as much as possible. Coal- dust is most necessary, as a little can always be used with the lumps of coal. The best plan for using it is partly to fill some large-sized vessel with it and gradually mix water until it is moistened enough to press into balls, but not enough to prevent its adhering together. Then place these in the cellar till required. THE LARDER “ Peace hideth herself under the lid of the well-managed pot.” The larder should be the picture of cleanliness, and large enough to hold all the meat and provisions, cooked and uncooked, in the house ; it should be well ventilated and airy, but perfectly dry, with a window covered with wire to keep out flies and smuts.