THE HOUSEWIFE’S REFEREE 160 cooked with a lump of butter; when cooked, drain them. Blend over the fire some butter and flour, together with pepper and salt; add some white stock, two yolks of eggs, and a squeeze of lemon. Toss the carrots in this, but do not let them boil, and serve. Celery, Fried.—Cut the white pieces of celery into lengths about four inches long, and dust with salt and pepper, dip them in whipped eggs, then in dry bi'eadcrumbs, and fry quickly in smoking hot fat. Drain, and serve very hot with roast turkey. Celery, Fried, a ITtalienne.—Divide a few sticks into equal pieces, and cook them gently in a saucepan with gravy, lard, a little piece of ham or bacon, salt, and pepper. When they are cooked, take them off the fire and let them get cold, then dip each piece into egg and breadcrumbs, and fry the whole; when arranged in a dish preparatory to serving, pour tomato sauce on the celery. Celery, Stewed.—Wash and trim off the outer leaves, put it on to boil; when it is tender, take it out and squeeze it well; then place it in a stewpan with some good veal broth, and simmer it over a gentle fire. When reduced enough, thicken the sauce with a bit of butter the size of a walnut rolled in flour; add a few drops of vinegar or a squeeze of lemon, and serve. Celery with Gravy.—Take six heads of fresh celery, cut off the tops, leaving each head six inches long, trim the outside leaves and cut the roots to a point; wash, then blanch them for ten minutes in boiling water, cool, and wash them again ; carefully tie the heads together in two bundles, and put them in a stewpan with three gills of broth, two gills of water, one gill of stock-pot fat or clean dripping, one faggot, one small carrot, say two ounces, one small onion, say two ounces, one pinch of salt, and one small pinch of pepper. Put a round of paper over the whole and close the stewpan, simmer for two hours; when done, drain and put the celery on a dish—three heads at the bottom, then two, then one. Prepare a sauce as follows :—Put one ounco of butter and one ounce of flour in a stewpan, stir over the fire for three minutes; add a pint and a half of household gravy, stir till reduced to one pint j strain