86 THE HOUSEWIFE’S REFEREE with half a pound of raw neck of beef chopped fine, whilst boiling fast; then whisk for one or two minutes all together, and let all boil quickly for some minutes; the saucepan must then be drawn to one side of the stove, and allowed to remain there for about twenty minutes, after which it must be strained through an old fine dinner napkin, which has been wrung out in hot water. Many persons advise a felt jelly bag, but I prefer the napkin. There is another detail in soup making which is very important and that is the difference between bouillon and consomme broth and double broth. Bouillon is a beef broth, the consomme is also a beef broth which has been doubled with veal and fowl, the former to give it gelatine, the latter to give it flavour. In concluding this part I must remind m}T readers that every particle of fat should be removed. Soup should never be greasy; the best plan is to make the stock beforehand, and to make sufficient for a couple of days; when the broth cools the fat will cake on the surface, and may then be easily removed. After it is removed a damp hot cloth should be passed over it so as to absorb every particle of fat, and care should be taken to cut off the piece at the bottom of the basin where any sediment is likely to be found. SOUPS “Spoon-meat, . . . bespeak a long spoon.”—Comedy of Errors. Alma Mater Soup.—Take a sheep’s head and pluck ; fry it, then boil it in a gallon of water till it is reduced to two quarts; add to it a small teacupful of pearl barley, two large onions, carrots, and turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, and four cloves; season with pepper and salt to taste. When sufficiently boiled put in two spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, thickened with flour and butter; cut the best of the head into small pieces, and add to the soup a glass of Marsala and some force-meat balls. The head should be boiled or fried as long as the other parts. Andalusian Soup.—Take two quarts of fish stock and keep it boiling. Mix together in a basin three tablespoon- fuls of onion puree, and the yolks of three eggs. Make a