PLAIN COOKING 79 sediment adhering to the bottom of the cake and wipe it dry with a clean cloth. To clarify butter, put it in a saucepan on the fire, and when boiling remove the scum from the top and pour the clear butter gently into the pan which is required for use. Stewing, the most economical style of all cooking and, if properly managed, one of the most delicious, is much favoured by foreign cooks. The advantage of this mode is that pieces of meat which in any other form would be tough and tasteless become tender and nutritious. The French are perfect past-masters of the use of the stew- pan ; and it has been observed that as all cookery is but an aid to digestion, the operations of the stewpan resemble the action of the stomach very closely. “ The stomach is a close jar in which solids and fluids are mixed together, macerated in the gastric juices, and dissolved by the aid of heat and motion occasioned by the continual contraction and relaxation of the coats of the stomach during the action of digestion. This is more closely resembled by the the process of stewing than by any other of our culinary methods.” The plan is to put the meat to be stewed into cold water and to set it on a good fire till it simmers. It must never get beyond simmering or it will spoil. In all good stewing none of the water should be thrown away, as it contains as much nourishment as the meat itself. In stewing there should be only just enough water to cover the meat: the lid should fit very tight, and if possible should never be removed. It is a sure but slow process and extends to many hours and even to days. I have read of an old-fashioned French country way of stewing and think it must be perfect. They put what is to be stewed in an earthenware jar with a tight fitting lid and very little water, they then place it in the hot ashes of a wood fire, where it can be left for hours. The loss of meat in stewing is twenty per cent., chiefly water, and the meat being cut up and constantly moistened with its own juices, makes it a very economical way of cooking. Buckmaster, the great authority on cooking, says stewing is a gradual simmering, and he says, “ Bring the water to the boil, remove all scum and let the contents simmer till the flavour of the meat is absorbed in the liquor,