223 CAKES AND CONFECTIONS another, to prevent them sticking; egg them over with a brush, and put them at once into a hot oven and bake. Kirschen Kiichen ; Cherry Cake (German).—Soak half a pound of sliced bread in as much cold milk as it will absorb, press it out; add six well-beaten eggs, two ounces of pounded almonds, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of creamed butter, and a small teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. When these are well mixed, stir in one and a half pound of cherries. Butter well an inch-deep tin : till with the mixture ; strew sugar and cinnamon over the top, with a few sliced almonds, and bake slowly in a moderate oven. Moscow Buns.—Dissolve one ounce of encore yeast in a pint of warm milk, beat up two eggs and two ounces of cas- tor sugar together, aaid add the milk ; then rub a quarter of a pound of butter into two pounds of flour and a saltspoonful of mixed spice. With these make a well, and add the above mixture ; make it into soft dough ; mould round, and put on baking tins, well buttered, nearly close together ; wash over with milk, bake in a sharp oven; wash over again with milk directly they come out of the oven. Norfolk Rusks.—Take one and a half pound of flour, two ounces of butter, two ounces of lard, two dessertspoonfuls of baking powder, one saltspoonful of salt; all of which mix thoroughly together. Add one egg beaten up with as much milk as will make it into a stiff paste ; roll out to about the thickness of two inches, and cut into rounds with the top of a tumbler, previously dipped into flour to prevent the mixture sticking to it. Bake in a brisk oven until they are of a light brown colour; then take them out, and pull them each in half, and put them into a slow oven to dry. Nudeln (German).—Take half a pound of flour, three whole eggs, and a very little salt. The eggs and salt must first be beaten up with a knife, and then worked together with the flour to a firm and smooth paste. Should the paste not be firm enough, a little flour may be added. Divide the paste now into three or four pieces, each piece being again worked till smooth with the hands, and then immediately rolled out as thin as paper; they are then cut in strips five inches wide— '.liese lay over each other—and then cut with a very sharp