SAVOURIES 175 tlie stirring, wine or stock can be added. It should have a shiny appearance, and be of a blue red colour, and taste very savoury. Red Cabbage, To Stew.—Strip the outer leaves from a fine and fresh red cabbage, wash it well, and cut it into the thinnest possible slices, beginning at the top, put it into a thick saucepan in which two or three ounces of good butter have just been dissolved, add some pepper and salt, and stew it very slowly indeed for three or four hours in its own juice, keeping it often stirred and well pressed down. When it is perfectly tender add a tablespoonful of vinegar, mix the whole up thoroughly, heap the cabbage on a hot dish, and serve broiled sausages round it; or omit these last, and substitute lemon juice, cayenne pepper, and a half-cupful of good gravy. The stalk of the cabbage should be split in quarters and taken entirely out in the first instance. Three to four hours. Rice a la Marseillaise.—Cut up roughly a large cauli- flower ; wash, drain, and place in a stewpan with basil, two cloves of garlic, two or three cloves, and a piece of butter. Let this cook over a slow fire for a quarter of an hour, then moisten it with fish stock, and let it boil till the cauliflower is perfectly cooked. Next cook the rice in stock, and before taking it from the fire add some grated Parmesan with a few spoonfuls of essence of anchovies. Riso e Piselli; Rice and Green Peas.—Take half a pound of Italian rice, well washed and dried, put it into a stew- pan with a quarter of a pound of butter, stirring it until it is of a bright golden colour; but great care must be taken not to burn it. Then add a teacupful of good stock with half a pint of fresh green peas, stirring the whole together till the rice and peas are tender; add salt and pepper to taste, and serve hot. The rice must always be in grains. Salad a la Duke of York.—Take some white celery-heads, and mince them very small, also a Spanish onion minced, and press through a sieve, mix them well together, and put them aside; then take some watercress leaves and pound in a mortar with two boned anchovies, after which pass