219 CAKES AND CONFECTIONS and a teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Measure the flour after sifting; a level tumblerful is the amount I'equii’ed. Stir all together very lightly, and then pour into a new un- greased tin and bake in a moderate oven for forty minutes. After it has been baked for twenty minutes, a sheet of paper should be placed over the top to prevent its becoming too brown. When the cake is cooked, it must not be removed from the tin, but turn the tin upside down and rest the edges on two plates; care should be taken not to shake it, or it will become heavy. It should be eaten the day it is baked. Anis Brod.—Take half a pound of castor sugar, three whole eggs, four yolks, four whites, and a quarter of a pound of flour. Stir the eggs, yolks, and sugar for twenty minutes, then add the beaten whites, and lastly stir in the siftecl flour and one teaspoonful of caraway seeds. Bake in a slow oven to a golden brown. Apricot Layer Cake.—Beat half a jxmnd of butter to a cream, add half a pound of powdered sugar, beating all the while; then put in the yolks of five eggs and, after, the whites well beaten, six ounces of flour, two ounces of corn- starch, and a teaspoonful of baking powder. Beat well; add a quarter of a teaspoonful of mace, a teaspoonful of vanilla, and two tablespoonfuls of sherry. Grease three round tins and pour in the cake, and bake in a moderately quick oven for fifteen minutes. When done remove carefully, and stand the cakes on a cloth to cool for a few minutes. Pare some apricots, and slice them thinly. Beat the whites of two eggs lightly, and add four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and beat till stiff enough to stand alone. Put a layer of this over the top of one cake, then a layer of sliced apricots; stand another cake on the top; put the remainder of the white beaten eggs over the top of this cake; then another layer of apricots. Place the remaining cake on the top of this; press down lightly, and dust the top over with powdered sugar. Arme Bitter.—Take a plain roll two days old and cut it into one-inch slices ; put these on flat dishes and pour over them one pint of cold milk well mixed with three eggs, a little salt, and a little cinnamon or lemon flavouring.