32 the Housewife’s referee dairy proceeds will be spoilt. The cream and blitter will turn sour; even if a drop of milk is spilt it should be wiped up at the very moment. Milk should always be strained through both a wire and cloth strainer as soon as it is brought into the house or dairy. Milk-pans and pails should be thoroughly washed and scalded before using. The cream separators are now mostly used, where a quantity of butter has to be made, as it makes 20 per cent, more, and is more economical in every way. All firing for heating skim milk for calves is saved, as the separated milk is warm and sweet. Since it is separated the moment it comes from the cow, filling, skimming, emptying and clean- ing pans are dispensed with. The Victoria hand-power cream-separator is one of the best, it is so simple to use and keep clean, and is made in several sizes. The machine should always be warmed before using, so as not to chill the milk. The handle should be turned very slowly, and the directions with it strictly attended to. In large dairies there should be always refrigerators to cool the milk. When the milk has a turnip flavour, to get rid of it, put the milk, immediately after milking, in a water bath at from 135° to 140°, which will completely destroy the turnip flavour, and which will also cause the cream to rise better if set in shallow pans, and thus increase the amount of butter. The way to give the water bath is to set the pail into a larger pail containing water, allowing the water to circu- late under the vessel containing the milk by raising it on two thin bars of iron. The milk will then be heated by hot water and cannot be scorched. To make butter the cream must never be left to stand too long, and a dairy thermometer should be kept, for it is most necessary that the cream be brought to the right temperature before it is put in the churn. If the cream is too cold, when churning time comes add a little warm water, if too warm, add cold water. When the butter is about the size of wheat grains, stop churning and draw of! the butter-milk and pour into the churn some clear, cold water. Turn the churn slowly several times to free the granules of butter from the butter-milk. Be careful not to overdo this, and gather the butter