the Housewife’s kefeHee 1 '> 1 rW families where only one is kept in the kitchen. Perfect drying is very important. The water should be very hot. The proper way to wash dishes and plates* is to scrape off all the food; then carefully wash each piece by itself. Rinse thoroughly with clean cold water and use dry cloths to wipe them with. Crockery should never be washed together, as the pieces so often get chipped and cracked. Pudding, pie and tart dishes in which food has been baked should be soaked carefully before washing, and if very much stained, a little salt added to the water will remove it. A few drops of Scrubb’s ammonia in the water, or Hudson’s soap, brightens both glass and china, and where the dishes are very greasy a dish mop is useful for these purposes. Meat should never be put directly on ice, as it helps to draw out the juices, but placed on a dish and then set on the ice. Every scrap of meat and bones left from roasts, broils, and bacon rinds should be saved for the stock-pot. Trimmings from ham, tongue, mushrooms peelings, etc., should be saved, as they can be turned into so many uses in flavouring sauces and purees. Bacon fat should be clarified and kept by itself, for it makes capital pastry. Fowl fat, if kept by itself, is very good for delicate frying. Eveiy particle of soup, sauce, and gravy should be saved, as a small quantity of either adds a great deal of flavour to many little dishes. Tea, coffee, and sauces should never stand open or un- corked, as they lose their strength. Vegetables leit Irom the table should not be thrown away, as they would warm up again ; and many a piece of meat that cooks might throw away would make a good hash or soup. The mistresses of small establishments should all notice these things, as servants have a way of causing money to be spent needlessly—for example, they use towels for iron holders and leave cheese and ham to get mouldy besides having a happy knack of letting plates and dishes 1 here is a capital little utensil that can be bought at any iron- monger’s which effectually scrapes grease off dishes and plates!