SAVOURIES 169 finely chopped mushrooms. Simmer till the mushrooms are two-thirds cooked. Soak two anchovies, pound them in a mortar with a teaspoonful of French mustard, three tea- spoonfuls of brown sauce, and add to the mushrooms. Boil together for two or three minutes and fill a croustade case with it. Mushrooms a la Montglas ; Champignons a la Montglas. —Jones’ Brothers mushroom moulds must be used for this entree. Prepare a Julienne composed of equal parts of fillet of chicken, tongue, truffles, and mushrooms, and mix with it a chaud-froid sauce of a night-light colour. Line the parts of the moulds with a nice clear aspic. Fill them up with the above preparation, join the two halves together, px'ess firmly, and place on ice for twenty minutes. Turn out, and serve on chopped aspic. Mushrooms a la Russe.—Clean and wash mushrooms ; wipe dry, and cut in half. Put into a saucepan, with a lump of fresh butter, some chopped parsley, green onion, and fennel. Season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Cook slowly till the mushrooms are tender. Five minutes before serving take out the musln-ooms, strain the liquor in which they have cooked and return it to the saucepan, with two coffee-cupfuls of rich bechamel sauce, and one of good sour cx-eam. Add salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste, and put in the mushrooms. Boil up once; put in a pinch of chopped fennel, and serve. Mushrooms au Gratin; Champignons au Gratin.—Skin, wash, and wipe dry some fresh cup mushi’ooms, cut the stems to within a quarter of an inch of the head, and fill the cups with a foi'ce-meat made of a quarter of an ounce shredded bacon, the same of shallot, a sprig of chopped parsley, a tiny piece of thyme, and pepper and salt to taste. Simmer for five minutes in butter and add the yolk of an egg. Well dredge them with bread l’aspings in a buttered baking dish, and bake in a moderate oven. When done pile on a hot dish, serve rich brown sauce round. Mushrooms au Gratin a la Russe.—Clean and wipe the mushi-ooms, cut off the stems, rinse and wipe them cain- fully; salt them lightly, and roll them in arrowroot; fi-y