ENTIRES 131 oven for two or three hours. When clone, remove the top and fill up with some good gravy. Chicken Pie a l’Empereur.—Take a couple of small chickens, and cut them into small joints with layers of sweetbreads and ham placed alternately ; make a force-meat of veal and ham nicely flavoured, and place in the bottom of the lining of a china raised pie dish, the layers of ham and sweetbread on the top ; season with chopped mushrooms, truffles, and some white sauce in which some aspic jelly has been mixed, and then place the chicken on the top, and wherever there is a cavity place a plover’s egg, if in season; if not, either a bantam’s, or half a hen’s egg. Place some more white sauce on the top, and bake for an hour and a half. When cold, chop aspic and lay on the top, and garnish round with alternate slices of cucumber and lemon ; sprinkle a little coralline pepper over all. Chicken Pilau.—Have ready a good quantity of stock, melt half a pound of butter in a saucepan; fry in it a handful of onions very finely sliced lengthways ; when brown remove them, and fry in the same butter the pieces of chicken which have been previously boiled and divided into neat pieces. When the chicken is slightly fried take it out, and to the same butter add eight ounces of dry rice, and fry it a little. The rice must be washed and well dried before frying. As the butter evaporates, add the broth, and boil the rice in it, adding ten cloves, ten cardamoms, ten black peppercorns, a blade of mace, a dessertspoonful of salt, a little turmeric or a pinch of saffron, a slice or two of ginger, and two ounces of raisins. When the rice is nearly boiled, put it on the side of the fire, put in the chicken, and warm all together; if the rice be at all hard, add a little water till sufficiently cooked. To serve it up, pile the rice high in the dish over the pieces of chicken, garnish with slices of hard-boiled egg, and almonds blanched and cut fine, with the shreds of fried onions. Chicken Tartlets en Surprise; Tartelettes de Volaille.— Line some patty-pans with puffpaste. Pound the remnants of a cold chicken with some veloute sauce, pass through a sieve, add a small quantity of cream, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; put a part of the mixture in each little