4 THE HOUSEWIFE’S REFEREE part of the hot plate, roasting or baking in the ovens, or supplying hot water for baths, etc. The adjustment of the bottom grate is very simple, and is instantly raised even whilst the fire is burning. The clearing of the boiler is also a very simple matter; it is only necessary to remove one small loose plate to expose the boiler lid. The flues, also, are very easily kept clean, though it is always most necessary that they should be thoroughly cleaned at least once a week, if not twice; unless this is done the fire will not draw properly, and it will be impossible to get the oven really hot. I think a gas stove is essential to almost every kitchen, however small, even if only a small Fletcher’s patent gas twin burner is used, as it is so much more convenient to cook all the dainty little dishes with, especially for the use of gentlewomen, who are, I am delighted to see, beginning to turn their hands to the better class of cookery. Moreover, it is cleaner, and with skill and care far superior to a coal fire, labour and dirt are absent, and the waste and loss in cooking, beyond comparison, less. Few gentle- women would, I think, be without some kind of gas stove in their kitchens if they only knew its great convenience. There is both an Eagle range and a small gas stove in my kitchen, but I prefer to use the latter whenever I am making a dish of the haute cuisine. The instant command, day and night, of a gas fire is a luxury that almost any one can indulge in. Great cleanliness is necessary with gas, however small the stove; the burners must be kept clean inside for the same reason, and also for the sake of sweet flavours in the food. My own preference is decidedly in favour of gas as a cooking medium, as I find it, under proper conditions, more economical than coal; and to many this is a great point. There should be no draught in the kitchen, but plenty of good ventilation, which can be obtained by inserting a bit of wood, the width of the window and about four inches deep, between the lower sash and the window-frame, the opening between the two sashes affording sufficient ventilation. At the top and bottom of all doors to cupboards, there should be a narrow sliding panel for a ventilator, kept always open, except when sweeping or making up the fire— this secures a free circulation of air, which keeps the contents of the cupboard free from rust and mould,