SWEETS 201 Cream Pudding.—One pint and a half of milk, three eggs, three ounces of butter, one and a half tablespoonfuls of arrowroot or cornflour, two ounces of sugar, a little lemon or other flavouring. Mix the arrowroot with a little cold milk till quite smooth, flavour with a few drops of lemon essence or juice and stir the butter into it. Bring the rest of the milk to boiling point in a lined saucepan, and add the sugar, then pour it into the arrowroot, stirring well together. Beat the eggs thoroughly, stir them into the other ingredients and pour the whole into a pie dish. This pudding should be baked in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. It may be served with stewed fruit. Cream Wafers.—Beat together two ounces of Vienna flour, four ounces of castor sugar and two eggs, then roll out at once. Rub a baking sheet with wax and place it in a quick oven. Cut out six circles and curl up when hot, fill these with whipped cream flavoured with vanilla. Arrange in a circle on a dish, and serve cold. They look alternately one white and pink. Dampf Nudels (German Recipe).—Mix three tablespoon- fuls of German yeast with five of warm cream and one ounce of sugar; mix with one pound of flour and six yolks of eggs one after the other. Work it well, and add two ounces of butter nearly melted. Put this paste into a warm place to rise. When it has risen about an inch, put it on the table, and cut pieces the size of an egg. Then let it rise again, and about twenty minutes before they are wanted, put them into a stewpan, with about half' a pint of hot milk, a little butter and sugar; put them on the stove or a moderate fire, cover the stewpan all the time. Send them up with custard sauce. Devon Pancakes.—Whisk three eggs (whites and yolks separately), stir into them by degrees one dessertspoonful of Vienna flour and the same quantity of sifted sugar. When quite smooth mix in half a pint of whipped cream, flavoured with vanilla, pour into tin saucers that have been buttered, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Arrange the pancakes one on the top of another, on a hot dish, with a layer of preserved cherries in syrup between each. Sprinkle sugar over before serving.