ENTREES 153 up in a cloth, and save the bacon and the liquor in which they have been braised, which will serve well for either fowl or turkey, or to moisten a salmi, and in fact to improve a great many dishes. Turkish Tawntatalet.—Dilute half a pound of rice flour with three glassfuls of cream. Pass the preparation through a sieve into a stewpan, and stir well over the fire, making a smooth pap. At the first bubbling add to it half a pound of castor sugar, and let the pap reduce for twenty minutes on a very moderate fire. Meanwhile take the breast meat of two small chickens, remove the skin, pound them in a mortar to a paste, add the grated zest of half a lemon, and lastly seven yolks of eggs. Take the paste and pass it through a sieve, and put it into a stewpan. When the pap is quite smooth, pour it over the poultry, working the preparation hard. Let it boil up but once, then immediately pour it into a deep dish or silver pan. Adorn the surface with a few drops of caramel, which let fall at intervals, and then stir to and fro with the point of a knife, to imitate marble. Veal, Breast of, Stewed.—Cut a breast of veal or a portion of it in pieces, fry them with a little butter, an onion, and a cabbage lettuce shred small. When browned, add a little flour ; shake it well together, then add a small quantity of broth or water. Let it stew gently. When the veal is three parts done, take one quart of peas, put them in water, and handle them with a little buttei*, so that they adhere together. Take away nearly all the gravy from the veal, and put in the peas. When both are done, add pepper, salt, and a little pounded sugar. Thicken the peas with flour and butter, dish up the veal, and pour the peas over. There should be very little sauce with the peas. Cut a handsome piece, put it into a stewpan with a piece of butter, a pint of water, an onion, a stick of celery, and some white pepper and salt. Let it draw gently for some time, then cover it with hot water and allow it to stew until perfectly tender. Remove any skin that may be about it, and thicken a part of the stock with cream, flour, and butter. Cover it with the sauce and serve it up. Mushrooms, pickled white, may be added to the sauce, or stewed celery.