165 SAVOURIES blistering red garden peppers in the oven just tender enough to permit the juice being squeezed out by wringing in a cloth. Dip the tortillas in the pepper sauce, put the olive mixture on the pancakes and roll them up, place them on a dish to heat in the oven, and cover them with the sauce. Endive with Gravy.—Take twelve heads of endive; wash, blanch, and chop them as directed for garnish. Put in a two-quart stewpan one ounce of butter, and half an ounce of flour ; stir over the fire for five minutes ; add one pint of good plain gravy; simmer for half an hour, stirring occasionally; take off the fire; add one ounce of butter, and when it is melted, dish up the endive, and garnish with croiltons in the same way as spinach. Milk may also be substituted for gravy. Endives, Dressed.—Pick to pieces three endives; wash them well in three different waters; drain them; throw them into boiling water with a handful of salt, and boil them on a quick fire till they are very tender. Put them to drain in a colander, and squeeze out all the moisture. Chop them very fine; place them in a saucepan, with one ounce of butter, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt; stir them over the fire for about twenty minutes; add a little cream, and dish them up with fried sippets. French Beans a la Maitre d’Hotel. —Have ready two pounds of French beans ; two ounces of butter ; pepper and salt, nutmeg, one tablespoonful of chopped pai’sley parboiled, and the juice of half a lemon. Pick and string the beans, cutting each bean into three or four strips. Wash them well in cold water, drain them, and put them into a sauce- pan. Cook them, adding the above ingredients. Gnocchi.—Boil one pint of milk and sprinkle gradually in half a pound of semolina, stirring steadily all the time and keeping the mixture as light as possible ; put in a pinch of sugar and a pinch of salt. Draw the saucepan off the fire and, still stirring, add three or four well-beaten eggs, and half a tumblerful of cold water. Pour the paste on to a marble slab, slightly wetted; spread the layer to the thickness of half an inch and put it to cool on ice. Cut the iced paste into rounds or otherwise arrange them in a buttered