SAVOURIES 170 each layer of slices with salt, and let them remain all night. The next day put into a preserving pan two quarts of vinegar, two pounds of brown sugar, one pound of sliced onions, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, half a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of peppercorns. Drain the tomatoes from the salt, and simmer them with the vinegar, sugar, onions, etc., till tender. Then put into small pickle bottles, and cork well. The tomatoes must be picked just before turning red. Tomato Cream.—Cut some tomatoes in slices; oil a plain mould, and arrange the tomatoes all round in circles ; and at the bottom of the mould have ready a white puree, of mushrooms, which has been cooked and allowed to cool, and in which half a pint of aspic jelly has been stirred in. Put this puree into the centre of the mould, and set on ice for some hours. Turn out and serve, with a little chervil and tarragon salad round, and arrange aspic jelly and gi-een butter cut into devices on the top. Hard-boiled eggs in quarters should be placed at equal distances on the chervil salad. Tomato Cutlets.—Cut some tomatoes in two roundways, egg and breadcrumb them, introducing a little grated parsley and Parmesan cheese in the breadcrumbs. Fry in clarified butter till of a pale colour. Dish in a circle with a broiled mushroom between each. Serve egg, or mayonnaise sauce in the centre. Tomato Jelly.—Take two pounds of tomatoes, half a grain of cayenne pepper, and two. shallots. Put them in a stewpan, and boil till quite soft. Melt fifteen sheets of the thin French gelatine, and pour it into the mixture. Then pass all through a sieve, and mould. Serve with chopped aspic jelly. A little grated Parmesan sprinkled over it is an improvement. Tomato Ketchup.—Bake some tomatoes in a jar till tender, strain and rub them through a sieve. To every pound of juice add a pint of chili vinegar, an ounce of shallots, half an ounce of garlic (sliced), quarter of an ounce of salt, and a quarter of an ounce of fine white pepper.