87 SOUP MAKING force-meat with four ounces of whiting, four ounces of tomato puree, and a pinch of red pepper. Make little quenelles of this; poach them, and when drained put them into the soup tureen ; and after skimming the stock, thicken with the onion and tomato puree, and pass it through a sieve into the tureen over the quenelles If the tomatoes are not a good colour, add a little cherry red or cochineal to it. Antwerp Soup.—Take two quarts of good veal stock, put in a small handful of sliced spinach and sorrel, and let it boil till it is tender; season it with salt, and while it is boiling (but about two minutes before serving) stir into it one pint of cream previously well mixed with the yolks of six eggs. Asparagus Soup.—Take a large bundle of asparagus, and one quart of white stock, one pint of milk, and half a pint of cream, three tablespoonfuls of butter, the same of flour, one onion, salt and pepper to taste; cut the tops off half the asparagus and cook them twenty minutes in salt water just covered. The rest of the asparagus cook for twenty minutes in the stock; put the onion in, cut in thin slices, and fry in the butter for ten minutes, taking care not to burn it; then add the asparagus which has been boiled in the stock. Cook for five minutes, stirring constantly ; then add the flour and cook for five minutes longer. Turn this mixture into the boiling stock, and simmer for twenty minutes, then put through a sieve; add the milk and cream which should just have come to the boil, and also the asparagus heads. Season to taste with salt and butter, and serve. Barley Cream Soup.—Put half a pound of Robertson’s pearl barley into a stewpan with a quart of water, an ounce of butter, salt and pepper to taste; bring this to the boil, I’emove the pan to the side, and stir the barley well all the time. Then after it has simmered for an hour, add three pints of clear white stock, and let all boil for an hour at the side of the fire; after passing through a sieve, let it boil up again ; add a little sugar and a quarter of a pound of Nudeln paste, which has been previously boiled and cut into ipch pieces. Then add three yolks of eggs which have