228 the housewife’s referee tablespoonful of cornflour; stir over a slow fire till it thickens. Orange Frosting.—The juice of two lemons and two oranges; mix till stiff enough to spread with powdered sugar. Walnut Cakes.—A cupful and a half each of sugar and butter, two of flour, three-fourths of milk, the whites of four eggs, two teaspoonfuls of yeast powder, one large cupful of English walnut meats chopped coarsely. Zwieback.—Make a paste of one and a half pound of flour, half a pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, and milk so that it can be rolled. Roll very thin, cut into any shape, and bake on waxed tin. BREAKFASTS. “ A bit in the morning is worth more than all day long.” Thomas Tusser. Few people seem to pay much attention to breakfasts. It seems to be regarded as a mere meal to fortify one for getting through the day ; indeed, many persons despise the morning meal, of which in the artificiality of modern life there are few, even amongst the sterner sex, who sit down to breakfast with a really good appetite. A cup of tea and an egg, perhaps now and then a kidney, or a cup of coffee and a slice or two of delicately thin slices of bacon, are supposed to be enough to satisfy the inner man till luncheon time. A contemporary asks the question, “ Whether breakfast is most enjoyed in solitude or in company, and whether few pictures are fairer or more suggestive of the peace and orderly comfort of an English family than that afforded by a country house breakfast table in summer ? The mother is there behind the tea and coffee cups, the father behind his newspaper; the children chattering together of their own affairs; the girls each with a button-hole in her dress, look as clear and fresh as the morning dew. The day is planned out and little informal arrangements made,” etc. On the other hand a bachelor’s breakfast has its own charms. There is no occasion to jangle about reading the newspaper first, as he alone is King ; no inquisitive eyes to