1 180 THE HOUSEWIFE’S REFEREE Boil the whole till all is soft. To every pound add the juice of three lemons, boil it again to the consistency of cream. When cold bottle it, put a small quantity of sweet oil on each, tie bladders over, and keep in a dry place. Tomato Mustard {American).—Take some tomatoes in their green state, slice them very thin, and thickly sprinkle with salt. Let them stand all night, and next day squeeze them out, slice two or three onions and lay them in a saucejxan alternately with the tomatoes, add a quarter of a pound of mustard and cover them with vinegar. Boil for one hour, and pack it away in jars. Tomato Omelette.—Mix two or three tablespoonfuls of flour with a very little water. Add six well-beaten eggs with salt and pepper; peel and chop very fine three or four tomatoes. Stir these ingredients together, and fry in the usual way ; it may be folded over but not turned. Tomates a l'Algerienne.—Line two halves of tomato moulds with a piece of tomato and a little aspic, then fill them up with a mixture made thus :—Pound and pass through a sieve the meat of a cold roast fowl, then add two spoonfuls of veloute sauce, the same quantity of aspic, and half a pint of whipped cream. Close the two halves to- gether, press firmly, taking care that the marks on each part of the mould are opposite to one another, place on ice for twenty minutes, then turn them out and serve up with a little curled parsley. These moulds are only to be procured at Jones Brothers, Down Street, Piccadilly. Tomatoes a la Francesco.—Take some small, bell-shaped tomatoes; peel and core them with a column cutter, and fill up the inside with three or four anchovies cut very small, and stirred in mayonnaise sauce. Have some melted aspic jelly just beginning to set in a deep basin. Pass with a trussing needle a piece of string through the top of each tomato, so that they may be dipped into the basin of aspic till they are well soaked with it. Lay them on ice and remove the string. When quite cold, cut little fancy rounds of aspic and lay on the top of each, and on this place a