14 operations ai’e on the whole fewer than they used to be ; but it is this,—that more limbs are saved by the judicious and early interference of the surgeon. Many a foot and hand, many a leg and arm, have been saved in the last few years, which even twenty years ago would most certainly have been sacrificed. These especial operations con- stitute what has been fairly called Conservative Surgery, which, like true conservative politics, consists in the removal of abuses, but without the removal of time-honoured institutions. In either case the object is to correct and improve, not to uproot and destroy. In the science of Surgery, chloroform has enabled us to perform many operations, which previous to our knowledge of it we should have regarded as cruel, lest they should not be final. But chloroform alone has not established conservative Sur- gery. Without Medicine it never could have advanced as it has done. The surgeon is no longer a mere chirurgeon, or handi- ci*aftsman. He must be a sound pathologist, he must be a good physician, or he is no surgeon in the proper meaning of the term. Surgery and Medicine are one, and there must be no dis- tinction, gentlemen, between them in the study of your pro- fession. Injuries of the head strictly come under the dominion of the surgeon; but how soon the external treatment of these injuries sinks into nothing, as compared with the medical treatment of the brain and its membranes ; how soon the surgeon has to balance, especially if his patient is among the inhabitants of a large city, between those symptoms which are the result of the injury, and those which follow the effect of antiphlogistic measures on a shattered constitution, or that nervous depression which is caused by the withdrawal of a hard drinker’s accustomed stimulus. In this stage of the treatment an ignorant man may soon hurl his patient into eternity. Those of my hearers who are about to leave the hospital, having employed their time dili- gently in the medical wards, will recognize the truth of my words with pleasure, and rejoice that they have studied the treatment