12 bat to all and each of you who would understand them for the purpose of practising the healing art. It is principles, not phenomena,—laws, not isolated indepen- dent facts, which you must study. If you do not begin by talcing an interest in investigating the causes of disease, you will do nothing. A habit of reasoning on the facts which pre- sent themselves to your notice is essential to success in our pro- fession. The widest field of observation, rich in medical pheno- mena, is utterly useless without this habit. The experience of years in the most extensive practice is vain and valueless to the individual who has neglected to acquire it; and I believe that without the study of Physiology it has never been attained. But the study of Physiology alone will not give it. It is not to be acquired in a day ; it must be sought for with earnestness and determination. Attention—constant, unremitting attention, will alone give it. The time has been when you might meet two physicians, the one prescribing for symptoms, the other viewing the symptoms only in so far as they were indications of the disease from which they sprang. The latter a Physiologist, the former ignorant of the science, except in name. I consider, then, Anatomy and Physiology the essential groundwork of the profession. In the study of Physiology you will be most ably assisted by Dr. Bristowe and Mr. Ord, whose talents, and those of my other colleagues, you will no doubt soon appreciate as highly as I do. Anatomy and Physiology lead to Pathology, to which you must attend most diligently in all its details. Materia Medica and Chemistry are essential; and I have always observed that the man who ridicules the power ot medicine, does so because he is ignorant how to use the tools which have been graciously bestowed upon us by a bountiful Providence. The division of labour which takes place in a large capital like London is useful. It is advantageous to the public that certain men should especially devote their attention to the performance ot opera- tions, for constant practice as an operating surgeon alone gives