18 Ratcliffe, Ainslie, Reynolds, Fordyce, Wells, Sir Charles Locock, Williams, Elliotson, and Roots, Cheselden, Sir Astley Cooper, Travers, Green, Tyrell, and South. The institution which gave rise to St. Thomas’s Hospital was founded 700 years ago, by St. Mary Ovarie, as an eleemosy- nary establishment. She Avas the daughter of a man who made a fortune by ferrying pilgrims and others from and to Canterbury across the Thames. It was in the first instance a religious convent, called after her own name. The surname, Ovre-rie, is supposed to signify, over the river, and is derived, like that of Smith or Turner, from the employment of the individual.- This convent was converted into a college of priests by a noble lady of the name of Switliin. To these priestly fathers our ancestors were indebted for the construction of London Bridge. After continuing for about a century, the priory was burnt down in 1212, and the building they erected to supply its place, temporarily, while it was rebuilt, stood where the old St. Thomas’s Hospital did before it was demolished by the Charing Cross Railway. It Avas afterwards used as the al- monery for “ indigent children and necessitous proselytes,” and dedicated to St. Thomas a Becket. In the 15th century St. Thomas’s Hospital was munificently supported by the Lord Mayor and Sheriffs of London, an example which has been followed in later times. On the 15th of July, 1586, it was claimed as Church property, and surrendered to Henry VIII., Avho intended re-endowing it for the reception of lame, Avounded, and diseased soldiers, but hisv death interfering with this plan, the citizens of London—to their honour be it told—revived the benevolent design, and, Avith the sanction of Edward VI., formed a board of inquiry as to the best mode of relieving the misery of their more unfortunate brethren. The result, as regards the foundation of St. Thomas’s, Avas that they purchased of Edward VI. the manor of Southwark; and the Avorthy citizens, in 1551, at the expense of £1,000, repaired and enlarged the Hospital for the reception of 800 patients.