15 of diseases of the brain under tho physician with the same care that they have watched the progress, both pathologically and physiologically, of injuries of the brain under the surgeon; while those whose time for study is expired, whose money is spent, and who must now provide for their own subsistence, but who have neglected the wards, and still only know of diseases by their names, will mourn over their wasted time and ill-spent hours. From both these classes you may learn something, you may learn what to aim at and what to avoid. As regards Medicine and Surgery, I must tell you honestly that the best lectures ever delivered on the'se subjects can oidy teach you general principles. It is quite impossible that lectures can give rules to guide the young practitioner in every individual case which may come before his notice. You must regard these lectures as valuable aids, but as comparatively use- less unless you also observe every case that you can while here ; for hearing without observing is worth nothing. The wards that should first engage your attention are the Physicians’; as, unless you obtain a Clinical clerkship, you cannot obtain a Dressership, and without a Dressership you will have lost one of the greatest advantages which we have to offer. The very fact that our school is at present small, makes it easy for every industrious man to obtain a Dressership. I say at present advisedly, ag every year our numbers are creeping- up, and will very soon, I have no doubt, reach those they enjoyed in the palmy days of Sir Astley Cooper. I am afraid that some of the Dressers do not value their privileges as much as they should. I judge so from the fact that to a certain extent the details of their duties are not attended to as accurately as they ought to be. When I first came to this Hospital, every Dresser was obliged to pay £50 per annum for the privilege ; and as the article was dear, so was it valued. How that it may be obtained without money payment, by some, I am afraid, its advantages are not appreciated. When the difficulty becomes greater, it will, I dare say, rise in value again. Of this I am sure, that when, as practitioners, you are once involved in the meshes of a difficult surgical case, such as an