13 dexterity. I cannot agree to that cant which would decry all operations as the opprobria medicorum. A carefully considered, judiciously contrived, and skilfully performed operation is a noble act. It requires a combination of qualities which are not often met with. If by the performance of an operation, dangerous, difficult, and therefore deeply anxious to himself, he sees a reasonable prospect of being able to save the life of a fellow-creature, lie must not weigh in the balance for one moment what the world, or even the profession, will say, if that operation, after all his care and skill, should prove fatal. In the dissecting-room you must acquire that knowledge of Anatomy, and that dexterity in the use of the knife, by which alone you can become skilful operators. During the short period that you are able to stop in London, you will not have a single hour to spare. You ought always to be in the dissect- ing-room during the time devoted to that purpose. Whether you have anything to dissect or not, you can still be learning looking over others ; not gossiping and smoking, but studying - in serious earnestness. Do not, however, misunderstand me: the knowledge you are to acquire in the dissecting-room is only a very small portion of the acquirements essential to a good surgeon. It is no use your knowing how to perform an operation skilfully, if you cannot treat yonr patient skilfully afterwards. This knowledge must be acquired in the wards of the hospital; not alone in the Surgical wards, but in the Physi- cians’ as well. You must study Medicine most diligently. You will meet with ten Medical cases in private practice to one Sur- gical, and that one Surgical case you cannot treat properly if you are ignorant of Medicine. No doubt there is more to catch the eye in the Surgical wards, and the results of Surgical treat- ment are more easily understood and observed ; but that is no reason for devoting exclusive or even greater attention to Sur- gery. The advance which the science of Surgery has made in this country during the last thirty years has been most remark- able, most gratifying to humanity, in its results. It is not merely that the great body of surgeons are better operators than they used to be ; it is not merely that the deaths from