20 The governors of these noble establishments had then only half understood their duties and responsibilities. They paid their medical officers for their services, but they did not provide for their proper and efficient education, without which their practice was empirical and their services imperfect. The ignor- ance of the surgeons also of the art of prescribing, even a few years later (in 1G89), may be presumed by the following minute in the records of this Hospital:—“ General Court.—‘ Ordered, that the ancient rule of this Hospital, that no chirurgeon shall give any physic to any patient admitted into this house, but that the doctor alone be left to prescribe physic to all patients, be confirmed, and for the future strictly observed.’ ” But strange to say, gentlemen,—and the fact is one, amongst others, which might be adduced to show how rules adopted in times of darkness are often absurdly continued unto days of light,—this rule has only been abolished within my own time. I remember, when I was attending the Physician’s practice with Dr. Scott, in 1824, Mr. Green’s book being handed to him to sign, as a permit for dispensing the medicine he had prescribed for his patients, Dr. Scott remarked contemptuously, “ These surgeons have quite a cacoetJies scribendi now-a-days.” There are none of us, however long we may have been engaged in the study and practice of our profession, who do not feel that we occasionally require reminding of the weighty and solemn character of the duties we have undertaken to fulfil. If this observation applies to men who, in the active discharge of their duties, necessarily, from the very fallibility of human intellect, meet with severe losses to stimulate them to constant study, how much more will it apply to those who are only commencing them career, and who cannot possibly conceive the difficulties to which they will one day be exposed. Our profession must not be embraced merely as a source of emolument. The alleviation of the distresses of our fellow- creatures ought to be our first consideration. We are not irre- sponsible agents. We are the servants of the public, and by our ignorance or knowledge may scatter misery or diffuse blessings. If a man in trade fail in his undertakings, he suffers the penalty of his ignorance, not necessarily involving the happiness of others. But with us the health and happiness of our fellow-