19 Tlie thousands of pounds which private charity thus expended, and is now expending, on this Institution, and the thousands more which have been paid to support with food and bedding its unfortunate inmates, would have been of comparatively little service, if men had not been found to study Medicine and dis- pense the healing art. The charity would have remained as in the days of St. Mary Ovarie, an alms-house, not an Hospital. Yes, gentlemen, it is—I say it proudly—the noble profession which many of you are this day about to enter, that gives character to this Institution. Need 1 say that such a profession is a glorious profession ? Need I say that to rank as one of its members is ennobling, and that to achieve high honour in it is an ambition worthy of a Christian, and, next to our eternal welfare, is worthy of all exertion. Before the existence of Medicine as a science, St. Thomas's Spital was in being, but it was only as a resting-place for pil- grims, and a home of refuge for the destitute. But you must not suppose, my friends, that the erection and endowment of this and other hospitals was sufficient to educe the science of Medicine. No, something more was wanting. Many years subsequent to the reign of Edward VI., we find the practice of Medicine in a miserable state. Macaulay tells us, in his account of the death of Charles II., that fourteen Physicians deliberated on his case, contradicting one another. “ Some of them thought his fit was epileptic, and that he should be suffered to have his doze out. The majority pronounced it apoplectic, and tortured him like a wild Indian at the stake. Then it was determined to call his complaint a fever and to administer bark. One physician, however, protested against this course, and assured the Queen that his brethren would kill the King among them.” Let me now ask you, gentlemen, why the physicians of that day were so ignorant of their profession, why they could not tell of what disease the King was labouring ? The answer is an important one to those who are entering the profession: they were ignorant of Anatomy, Physiology, and Pathology. They had patients enough under their care at St. Thomas’s and Guy’s, but they had no anatomical schools.