17 Medicine and Surgery and the allied sciences devote each year £271 to be distributed in this useful way. The distribution of these prizes, which you will witness this day, is to strengthen your good resolutions, and to stimulate you to do all that you can in the short time allotted to you. We wish by these meetings to show you that you must not be satisfied with mediocrity—you must strive after excellence. You will see by the list of prizes that we offer no mean reward for industry and intellectual acquirement. You will also observe, on looking down the list, that there is a gap : that the College Prize for £30 to third-year’s students has not been awarded ; and this arises from the fact that no student obtained a sufficient number of marks to be placed in the first class. I hope that you will not allow this to occur again. You will, however, perceive that they are really prizes, and not awarded unless, to the best of our belief, the merit is equal to the reward. In the year 1845 we were honoured by the presence of one of the best and greatest men who have held exalted rank in England—Prince Albert the Good. I must not here indulge myself with the expression of my admiration of his character. The world is at last beginning to understand and appreciate him ; but our Gracious Queen, who alone knew him in all his inward sincerity and purity, has scarcely received from the nation that continued sympathy for her bereavement which was due to her exalted and therefore lonely position. We, however, ol this old Royal Hospital of St. Thomas, can never forget the condescension and kindness which induced Prince Albert to distribute such prizes in our ancient Hall, which, alas ! like our honoured patron, exists no longer. Let me, then, hope that the very fact of your having entered here a3 pupils is an earnest of your determination to distinguish yourselves. This School, though now imperfectly enshrined, will in the course of two short years rise again in all its outward glory on the banks of the Thames. A School which dates its origin 156 years back, from the days of the immortal Cheselden. A School which numbers among its former Professors the names of Meade,