0 Do not think, my young friends, that this picture is over- drawn, or too highly coloured. Every conscientious medical man who has arrived at my time of life will allow tlie truth ot it; and happy is he who can say to himself, when he closes the eyes of his patient, “I have done my duty, and used all those means which the science of our profession, to the best of my belief, has accorded to us.” We are all fallible, and the best of us are poor erring mortals. We are all students, or ought to be, but some do, and some do not do, their work as students earnestly, zealously, and truthfully. Let us, then, consider this responsibility, and the way in which we are the most likely to be able to perform these duties in accordance with our high aspirations. The man who practises the profession of Medicine and Sur- gery honestly and skilfully, is a noble being. The object of our meeting to-day is to encourage the young Student to devote himself heart and soul to this godlike profession. When we first commence our studies we are, I fear, most of us, thoughtless, giddy, self-indulgent creatures. When we conclude our studies at the hospital, and launch our bark upon the troubled sea of actual professional life, we ought to be serious, thoughtful, and instructed men. A few short years ought to see this change in you. In these few short years how is it to be accomplished P The science of Medicine and Surgery must be founded on a knowledge of the way in which the vital functions are carried on in a state of health. You must first study the construction of the instruments, or mechanism by which these functions are carried on ; in other words, you must begin with Anatomy, and that anatomy can only be efficiently learned by dissecting the dead body. All reading or studying of plates is a delusion and a snare. It will be of no service to you Avhen you require your Anatomy to save life. It will vanish in the hour of difficulty ; it will desert you in the hour of need. You must learn anatomy practically. The very mention of Practical Anatomy recalls to my mind the name of one of its most able votaries—I mean that of Mr. George Rainy. His reputation is not limited to this country, it A 2