16 obscure fracture of the base of the skull, and various others that I could mention, you will deeply repent any want of attention to the observation and registration of your cases during your Dressership. In connection with this subject, I cannot help referring to the fact that there is still a vast amount of bad surgery wandering about unheeded ; even in tbis great meti'opolis and its environs scarcely a year passes Avithout my seeing a case or two of frac- ture of tbe collar-bone in children undetected. Cases of frac- ture of the base of the radius undetected, fractures of tbe neck, of the thigh, undetected, &c.; so might I go on with a longer list. Now be so good as to remember that the surgeon cannot bury his mistakes as the physician. Many of your errors as surgeons will remain permanent and patent proofs of your ignorance and want of skill. I do not mean this in disparagement of Medicine ; as I have already said, no man can be a good surgeon unless he is also a good physician. 1 am well aware that this dogma will not be assented to by the surgeons of the old school; but, happily for surgical science, this old school is rapidly fading away. Having been perhaps a little severe on the subject of your duties as Dressers, I must not omit a few words of advice re- garding your amusements, for all work %nd no play makes Jack a dull boy. Never omit three or four miles’ quick Avalk or run every day; live well, do not starve. Join the foot-ball and cricket club, and the athletic sports,—in short, let your amuse- ments improve your health, and strengthen, not deteriorate it. Avoid nocturnal amusements of all kinds; burn the midnight oil for study, not dissipation. Keep holy the Sabbath day. To encourage you in carrying out your course of study to its fullest extent, the following Prizes have been instituted:— Our worthy Treasurer gives each year a gold medal. My old and A7alued friend, Mr. Tite, has endowed a scholar- ship with the intei’est of £1,000. Mr. George Vaughan gives the Cheselden Medal. Then we have Mr. Newman Smith’s prize, and one from the Grainger Testimonial Fund. While the Professors ol