21 creatures are more or less in our hands; and if we, through ignorance, sacrifice the lives of our patients, we commit crimes for which we shall be accountable to an All-wise Judge hereafter. It is, then, my friends, a matter of the deepest moment to you at this season of your lives to study your profession, that in future years you will be able to look back without regret upon this the seed-time of your education. I cannot conclude this imperfect Introductory Address with- out saying a few words regarding the future of St. Thomas’s. Behind me you see a drawing of the building of St. Thomas’s Hospital as it is to be : you cannot fail to observe it3 noble elevation. Its internal arrangements are as perfect as the ingenuity of collective wisdom can make it. The contract for the superstructure has been let; and it is provided in the contract that the two pavilions next the centre, with the necessary offices and out-patients’ departments, the centre block, containing chapel and resident Medical Officer’s apartments, and the School buildings, are to be completed by Michaelmas, 1869, and the remainder by Lady Day, 1870. I feel, therefore, confident, considering the energy of our ex- cellent Treasurer, the zeal and ability of our Architect, and the good faith of our Contractor, that the Introductory Lecture for the session of 1869 will be delivered in our new Hospital at Stangate. I must now conclude, as is usual at all banquets—intellectual or otherwise—with a few words regarding the Ladies. I have pointed out that all the money spent in charity would have been useless, if men had not been found to study Medicine and minister the healing art. With almost equal truth might I say, tha,t not only would the Hospital be useless, but the skill of the physician and surgeon also, if good earnest women had not been found to aid us in our ministration— “ 0, woman! in our hours of ease, Uncertain, coy, and hard to please, And variable as the shade By the light quivering aspen made ; When pain and anguish wring the brow, A ministering angel thou ! ”