11 aided in his laborious work (1 mean Mr. Croft and Mr. Wag- staffe) will cheerfully echo every word I have said in all sincerity and thankfulness. Following, and founded on a knowledge of Practical Anatomy, ought to be the study of Physiology—the science of Life. If, as I have said, that the study of the machinery of this frail body is marvellously interesting, what shall I say of that science which has for its object the discovery of the laws by which that machinery is worked ? The study of Physiology you will find especially interesting as proving Design and Contrivance,—Design and Contrivance emanating from Omniscience. “ The necessity of contrivance for the accomplishment of purpose,” says the Duke of Argyll, in his most interesting work entitled “ The Reign of Law,” “ arises out of the immutability of natural forces. They must be conformed to and obeyed. There- fore, when they do not serve our purpose directly, they can only be made to serve it by ingenuity and contrivance. Nothing is more certain than that the whole order of nature is one vast system of contrivance. And what is contrivance but that kind of arrangement by which the-unchangeable demands of law are met and satisfied ? ” The laws which regulate disease are at present but little known, and the obscurity which envelops them is still a great drawback to the successful practice of the healing art. John Hunter, the most profound genius our profession could ever boast of, considered that the backward state in which he found the art of Surgery—for previous to his time it could not be called a science—wa3 owing to a shallow and theoretical phy- siology ; that the ignorance of his contemporaries regarding the practice of Surgery was due to their still greater ignorance of the laws of life. He therefore first devoted all his energies to the study of Physiology, not confining himself to the narrow limits of the human frame, but extending his researches to vital phenomena, as exhibited by all living beings. And you, my young friends, must do the same ; for the study of Physiology is not merely necessary to the great pioneers of Surgery, to those who live to extend our knowledge of its truths,