fb II.S7' V. H r\SURGERY ITS THEORY AND PRACTICESTUDENTS GUIDE SEBIES SUEGEEY ITS THEOEY AND PEACTICE WILLIAM JOHNSON WALSHAM, SENIOR ASSISTANT-SURGEON, LECTURER ON ANATOMY, AND SURGEON IN CHARGE OF THE ORTHOPEDIC DEPARTMENT, ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL ; SURGEON TO THE METROPOLITAN HOSPITAL', CONSULTING SURGEON TO THE HOSPITAL FOR HIP DISEASES, SEVENOAKS, AND TO THE COTTAGE HOSPITAL, BROMLEY ; EXAMINER IN ANATOMY AND IN SURGERY TO THE SOCIETY OF APOTHECARIES. BY F.R.C.S. Eng. ; M.B. and CM. Aberd. ; WITH 335 ILLUSTRATIONS FOURTH EDITION LONDON & A. CHUKCHILL 11, NEW BURLINGITON STREET 1892. 1 Hill ill M la 1 I ■ II •WMiii 1 ■ 1- ■- ri-ji'i i 1]-■■■^rtlS fiom CGiLeat of PHYa5€«A>i$ INV ^ *cc y7,1^1^ CAT REFS HDG8 '17PEEFACE TO THE FOURTH EDITION. The book, although not quite two years have elapsed since the publication of the third edition, has again been thoroughly revised and brought up to date. Twenty-four pages and eighteen new illustrations have been added to the present edition. The chief alterations will be found in the sections on Abdominal and Brain Surgery, but much new matter has been introduced throughout. The sections on the Ear and Eye have been revised by their authors Mr. Cumberbatch and Mr. Jessop, respectively. I am again indebted to Mr. W. G. Spencer, Assist- ant-Surgeon to the Westminster Hospital, for advice and help ; also to my friends Mr. John Miller, M.R.C.S., andMr.Masterman, F.R.C.S., House Surgeon to St. Bar- tholomew's Hospital, for many valuable notes and suggestions, and to the latter in addition for his kindness in reading the proof-sheets.vi PREFACE. The new drawings were made, as before, by Mr. Leonard Mark, M.R.C.S., artist to St. Bartholomew's Hospital, from my own rough sketches and from pre- parations in the Hospital Museum. 27, Weymouth Street, W. October, 1892.PEEFAOE. When asked by the Publishers to write a small book on Surgery for their Student's Guide Series I readily undertook the task, since as a teacher of Surgery I had for some time felt that a work of the kind would be useful to the student when first entering on the study of that subject. The text- books in general use have, with the advance of Surgery in recent years, grown to such a length that many months are required even to read them through, and it is quite impossible for the student to master them during the comparatively limited period allotted to dressing in the wards and out-patient room. The present work is designed to aid him in gaining a general insight into the theory and practice of Surgery while he is yet engaged in practical work in the wards ; at a time, that is, when such a knowledge should be of especial value to him. With this aim in view it w^as necessary to present the subject in as brief and concise a manner as pos- sible ; but whilst so doing I have endeavoured not to lose sight of the principles that underlie the science, and to give the indications that should guide us in the practice of the art rather than any detailed account of treatment. Special prominence has been given to those subjects with which every student ought to be acquainted ; whilst the rarer injuries and diseases have receivedviii PREFACE. but a brief mention, or have been altogether omitted. The details of Operative Surgery, and Minor Surgery and Bandaging, and such other things as the student is taught practically to do for himself in the wards, have been only shortly discussed ; and no account has been given of the specialties of the Eye and Ear. It will be seen, therefore, that the book is in no way intended to take the place of any of the excellent Manuals of Surgery in present use, but rather to supplement them, and prepare the student the better to profit by their perusal at a subsequent stage in his studies. It is also hoped that it may serve to refresh his memory before presenting himself for examination in Surgery. My best thanks are due to Mr. Spencerj late House- Surgeon to St. Bartholomew's Hospital, for his kind- ness in reading through the proof-sheets, and to Mr. Godart, Artist to St. Bartholomew's Hospital, for his care in preparing and making drawings. I am also indebted to Messrs. Arnold and Son for the use of several woodcuts. The space at my command did not permit of refer- ence in the text to the authors consulted ; but I here express my indebtedness for the aid I have received from the works of Agnew, Billroth, Bryant, Erichsen, Holmes, and Pirrie, and from the various articles in Holmes' " System of Surgery," Heath's " Dictionary of Surgery," and Treves' "Manual of Surgery." 27, Weymouth Street, W., July, 1887.CONTENTS. SECTION 1. General Pathology of Surgical Diseases. PAGE Inflammation . . . . . . . . .1 Chronic inflammation . . . . . . . . 20 Suppuration and abscess ....... 22 Sinus and fistula . . . 31 Ulceration and nlceis ....... 32 Gangrene or mortification . . . . ... 41 Tubercle and tuberculosis . . . . . . .49 Struma or scrofula . . . . . . . . 54 Syphilis 56 Hsemophilia . . . 69 Tumours .......... 70 Cysts . . . . 95 SECTION II. General Pathology of Injuries. Wounds 100 Contusions or bruises . . . . . . ..118 Burns and scalds . 119 Haemorrhage 123 Constitutional effects of injury . . . . . .138 Diseases the result of septic and infective processes in wounds . . 143 SECTION HI. Injuries of Special Tissues. Injuries of bones ........ 173 Injuries of joints . . . . . . .... 192 W. hCOOTENTS; X . fAGE Injuries of muscles and tendons 201 Injuries of arteries . . . . . . . . 203 Injuries of veins . ,211 Injuries of nerves , . . 213 SECTION IV. Diseases of Special Tissues. Diseases of bone 218 Diseases of joints . . . . . . .250 Diseases of muscles ........ 278 Diseases of tendons 279 Diseases of fasciae ........ 283 Diseases of bursse ......... 284 Diseases of arteries, including aneurysm . . . . 286 Diseases of veins . . . . . . . . . 327 Nsevus 334 Diseases of lymphatics . . . . . ... 336 Diseases of nerves . . . . . . . 340 Surgical diseases of the skin ....... 345 SECTION V. Injuries of Regions. Injuries of the head ........ 353 Injuries of the face . . . . . . . . 379 Injuries of the neck, including the entrance of foreign bodies into the pharynx, oesophagus, and air-passages . 384 Injuries of the back 394 Injuries of the chest . . . . . . . . 401 Injuries of the abdomen . . . . . . . 409 Injuries of the pelvis . . . . . . ..^24 Injuries of the upper extremity \ . . . . . 434 Injuries of the lov>^er extremity . . . . . 465CONTEIS-TS. xi SECTION VI. Diseases of Regions. PAGE Diseases of tlie scalp and skull 501 Diseases of the brain, calling for surgical interference . . 504 Diseases of tlie ear ........ 507 Diseases of the eye . . . . . . . . 523 Diseases of the lips, cheeks, and mouth .... 556 Diseases of the tongue ........ 565 Diseases of the uvula, palate, fauces, and tonsils . . 575 Diseases of the gums and jaws . . . . . . 582 Diseases of the nose, naso-pharynx and accessory cavities . 591 Diseases of the pharynx and oesophagus . . . . 605 Diseases of the larynx . . . . . . .613 Diseases of the parotid gland . . . . . . 631 Diseases of the thyroid gland . . . . • . .633 Diseases of the spine . . . . . . . . 636 Surgical diseases of the intestines ..... 653 Diseases of the liver, gall-bladder, stomach, spleen, and pancreas calling for surgical interference . . . . 672 Hernia 676 Diseases of the rectum ........ 709 Diseases of the urinary organs . . . . . . 725 Diseases of the genital organs . . . . . . 796 Diseases of the female geidtal organs .... 821 Diseases of the breast . . . . . . . . 832 Deformities of the neck, knees and feet .... 846 APPENDIX. Amputations ......... 861 Index 869W. B SUEGEKY; ITS THEOKY AND PRACTICE. SECTION I. General Pathology of Surgical Diseases, inflammation. Inflammation is defined by Dr. Burdon Sanderson as '' the succession of changes which occurs in a living tissue when it is injured, provided that the injury is not of such a degree as at once to destroy its structure and vitality." Inflammation as thus defined may occur in any tissue of the body, and in whatever tissue or organ it occurs, whether superficial or deep, transparent or opaque, vascular or non-vascular, soft or hard, the pathological process is essentially the same. General Outline of the Process.—Let us first study the process as it may be observed by the naked eye, say, in a portion of inflamed skin. The part is uniformly red, hotter than the surrounding skin, swollen and pain- ful. The redness momentarily disappears on pressure, and gradually fades away into the natural colour of the part around, but later it becomes mottled, and in places of a deeper hue. There is usually some oedema about the inflamed spot, and the neighbouring lymphatic glands may be slightly tender and enlarged. If an incision were now made into the inflamed tissues, they would be found fuller of blood than natural, of a bright red colour, and infiltrated with serum; whilst if the lymphatics leading from the part were opened, as has2 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OE SURGICAL DISEASES. been done in animals, they would be seen to be trans- mitting more lymph than nnder normal conditions. The inflammation may now terminate, leaving the tissues apparently normal {resolution)^ or it may lead to certain changes producing irreparable damage to, or total de- struction of the part. Thus the process may become chronic and the tissues thickened and indurated [fibroid thickening); or the tissues in the centre of the inflamed spot may soften and break down, forming a creamy fluid called pus [suppuration and abscess); or the more super- ficial tissues may undergo molecular destruction, leaving a raw surface [ulceration); whilst again the whole of the tissues in the inflamed area may lose their vitality and die "en masse" [gangrene). When the inflammatory process is at all severe, constitutional symptoms will also be present. Thus, the temperature will be more or less raised, the skin dry, the pulse increased in rapidity, the tongue furred, the appetite lost, the bowels confined, and the urine scanty and high-coloured—a condition known as inflammatory fever. Under some circumstances the constitutional symptoms may be of a more serious character, and secondary inflammations may be set up in internal organs or in other parts of the body : the patient is then said to be suffering from septic or from infective poisoning, conditions which, as will be pointed out hereafter, are probably due to poisonous products entering the general blood-stream at the primary seat of inflammation. The minute changes which occur in the above-described phenomena have of late years been very accurately studied in the transparent parts of the mesentery of the frog, rabbit, and dog; and in sections of the cornea and tongue of the frog. They are divisible into (1) the changes occurring in the blood-vessels and their con- tents, and (2) the changes in the fixed tissue elements. The following is a brief summary of what is observed. 1. Changes in the blood-vessels and their contents.—After, in some instances, a momentary contraction, the vessels become dilated, the arteries first and then the capillaries and veins, and the blood in them flows with greater rapidity [determination of blood or active hypercemia), whilst smaller vessels which were previously invisible are now seen transmitting blood. Hence the redness of the part. Now, after a longer or shorter period, according to the kind of irritant used to set up the inflammation, theINFLAMMATION. 3 blood-CTirrent slackens at first in the veins and then in the capillaries and arteries, and leucocytes are seen to drop out here and there from the central stream or axial current, which appears yellowish in colour from the red corpuscles being contained in it. These truant leucocytes first roll lazily along in the pale or circumferential current, and are joined by more and more as the blood- stream further slackens in speed. Now they adhere to the walls of the veins, and to a less extent to the walls of the capillaries and arteries, so that the vessels appear as if lined with them. Soon they begin to pass through the vessel-walls into the tissues around (diapedesis), a process which need not here be described, as it is now fully treated of in works on Physiology. By and by, if the inflammation is very acute, the coloured corpuscles, in groups of two to a dozen, also leave the central stream and pass through the walls of the vessels into the tissues, producing those patches of darker redness and the mottling of the surface alluded to above. The central stream next begins to oscillate, flowing onwards during the systole, and slightly receding during the diastole of the heart; whilst the coloured corpuscles show a tendency to adhere to one another. Finally the stream stops, and stasis is said to have occurred (Fig. 1). In the meantime the liquid contents of the vessels have also been passing through the vessel-walls into the tissues, and together with the escaped leucocytes, account for the swelling and for the serous exudation which can be squeezed out when the parts are cut into. The serum, further, soaks into the neighbouring healthy tissues, thus explaining the surrounding oedema, and is thence, along with some of the leucocytes, taken up by the lymphatics, and so passes back into the circulation, and as we shall presently see, may partly account for the attendant in- flammatory fever. If now the cause of the inflammation ceases to act, and the vitality of the tissues has not been too much lowered to permit of their recovery, the cor- puscles in the middle of the stream in those vessels where stasis has occurred again begin to oscillate and then to move on ; the leucocytes no longer drop out of the axial current, and those that have already escaped into the tissues either break down or pass along with the escaped fluids into the lymphatics, leaving the part apparently uninjured (resolution). If the above favourable termination does not take B 24 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. place and stasis is not soon relieved, coagulation of the serum rapidly ensues, and the vessels become thrombosed. At the same time, moreover, coagulation of the liquid exudation in the tissues also occurs, in consequence, it is said, of the fibrin ferment contained in the leucocytes causing the fibrinogen in the liquid to unite with the fibrinoplastin in the leucocytes. The clot thas formed contracts, squeezing out the serum, which is then drained Fig. 1.—Diagram of the minute changes in inflammation. away by the lymphatics, so that if the parts at this stage be cut into, a serous exudation will no longer escape. The original tissues, partly in consequence of the plugging of the vessels, and partly in consequence of the digestive action of the leucocytes and soddening effect of the fluid exudation, become swollen and softened, and finally lose their vitality and disappear, their place being taken by a mass of closely-packed small cells embedded in a very slight amount of intercellular substance. This small- cell-infiltration was formerly thought to be derived entirely from the multiplication of the original tissue elements. More recently it has been attributed to the aggregation of the escaped leucocytes, the tissue elements being believed to remain passive or to undergo degcnera-INTLAMMATIOlSr. 5 tion; whilst more recently still it lias been ascribed in chief part to the proliferation of the connective-tissue and other cells in the inflamed area, the leucocytes being thought to play only a subordinate part and sooner or later to undergo disintegration or absorption. Erom whatever source these cells are derived, among them may soon be seen numerous delicate capillary loops, which have been formed from the old capillaries in and around the inflamed area. To this vascularized tissue the name of inflammatory new formation or granulation tissue is given. When the cells and liquid escape on a free sur- face, the fibrin with the entangled cells forms a so-called false membrane. 2. Changes in the fixed elements of the tissues,—When the mesentery is examined after inflammation has existed a short time, the cells of the original tissue are found to be proliferating. The nuclei of the endothelial cells divide, and the daughter cells thus produced lose their endothelial characters and become pear-shaped and larger than the escaped leucocytes surrounding them. The con- nective-tissue cells are believed to divide and proliferate in like manner. Thus, in the earlier stages of inflam- mation, two kinds of cells may be found—a number of small round cells, leucocytes, which have escaped from the vessels, and amongst them larger cells, which exhibit amoeboid movements on a warm stage, and are now looked upon as being derived in the way above mentioned from the original tissue cells. These large cells are believed by many recent pathologists to continue to divide and multiply, and to form in chief parts the cells of the inflammatory new formation or granulation tissue. They are called fibro-blasts. The escaped leucocytes are sup- posed, by the supporters of this view of the formation of granulation tissue, to act the part of scavengers, to eat up and remove effete and dead tissues, and destroy in this way any micro-organisms that may be present {phagocytosis) and then in their turn to undergo degeneration and absorption. By some pathologists the large amoeboid cells formed from the connective tissue cells are believed to absorb the leucocytes which have already done their part in eating up the devitalized tissues and micro- organisms. The large cells are thus called macrophages, the small cells or leucocytes microphages. Terminations or inflammation.—We have already seen that before coagulation has taken place and the6 GENEIIAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. tissues have become irreparably damaged, if tlie cause of the inflammation ceases to act, tbe process may terminate and the part resume its normal conditions, when resolution is said to occur. Failing this, however, the following terminations may ensue. Thus, under favourable cir- cumstances, the cells constituting the inflammatory new formation may gradually become converted into fibrous tissue, producing the condition already referred to of fibroid tliiclmiing or scarring. Under less favourable circumstances the intercellular substance in the centre of the mass of closely-packed cells liquefies ; and the cells, cut oft from their nutrient supply by the compression and thrombosis of the capillaries, undergo degeneration and die, and are then known as pus cells, whilst the liquefied tissues and exuded serum form a fluid {liquor puris) in which they are contained. Thus pus is formed, and suppuration is said to be established. When these changes occur on the surface of the skin or mucous membrane, so that the products escape externally, the process, though essentially similar to that of suppuration, is spoken of as ulceration. And lastly, the infiltrated tissues in the centre of the inflamed area may lose their vitality and die en masse, before infiltration with leucocytes and serum has gone on sufficiently long to produce their softening; mortification or gangrene is then said to result. Causes of inflammation.—The direct cause of the inflammatory phenomena is thought to be some mole- cular chaDge in the vessel-walls whereby they are rendered capable of behaving towards the blood more or less like dead matter, thus promoting a tendency to stasis and coagulation and the escape of leucocytes and serum in abnormal quantities. This molecular change in the vessel-walls, may be brought about by some influence acting upon them, 1, from within, through the blood; and 2, from without, either directly upon the vessel- walls themselves, or indirectly through the intervention of the contiguous tissues. Irritants acting in either of these ways may be looked upon as exciting causes, and would appear in some instances to be alone sufficient to set up the process. In other cases, however, certain prior conditions such as may be considered to lower the vitality of the tissues, and to render them less able to resist dele- terious influences, appear necessary to render such irri- tants operative. Among such predtsposirig causes may be mentioned:—1. A deficient supply of healthy bloodINFLAMMATION. caused by insufficient or improper food and air, a feeble action of the heart, haemorrhage, anaemia, and the.like. 2. The presence of impurities or of certain poisons in the blood, such as exist in chronic alcoholism, Bright's disease, diabetes, gout, syphilis, and in lead, mercury and phosphorus poisoning. 3. Deprivation of healthy nerve influence, as from disease or injury of a nerve centre, or nerve trunk. 4. Old age. 5. The so-called strumous diathesis. The exciting causes^ which are usually spoken of as irritants, may be considered under the following heads:— 1. Direct violence and chemical irritation. 2. The chemical products of putrefaction. 3. Infective micro- organisms. The last, however, most likely also act by their chemical products (ptomaines). 1. Direct violence and chemical irritation.—Under this head are included all forms of mechanical injury; excessive heat or cold; electrical stimulation; the applica- tion of strong acids or alkalies, or of irritating products, as croton-oil or mustard; friction, and tension. The fore- going are regarded, as here, by the majority of Surgeons as exciting causes. By the extreme supporters of the germ theory, however, they are merely considered as pre- disposing causes, the exciting cause according to these pathologists being in every case the presence of micro- organisms. The character of this work will not permit of the discussion of the arguments for and against such a view, and it must here suffice to say that the results of experiments seem clearly to show that inflammation can be produced by mechanical or other violence or chemical irritation without the intervention of micro-organisms, although it must be admitted that injuries which are in themselves inadequate to produce inflammation acquire that power when micro-organisms are present in the system. 2. The chemical ^products of putrefaction would appear to play an important part in the causation of inflammation. For fermentation or putrefaction (or sepsis as it is often called) to occur, there must be dead animal matter, a sufficiency of water and oxygen, the maintenance of a certain temperature, and the presence of a ferment. This ferment consists of living microscopic organisms, species of schizomycetes or bacteria known as saprophytes, which exist in large numbers in the air, water, &c., in short everywhere, except in mid-ocean and above the snow line8 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. on mountains, and are especially numerous in large cities, hospitals, &c. It is not thought, however, that the inflammation is lighted up by the bacteria themselves, but , by the chemical products (sepsine, putrescine, saprine, &c.) / which are formed in the process of fermentation or putre- faction, and which soak into the surrounding tissues, acting like any irritant fluid or the poisonous alkaloids. For it has been found that when a fluid swarming with these bacteria {saprophytes) is injected into the blood or connective tissue of a living animal, the bacteria rapidly disappear without causing inflammation or other ill- effect. Again, if a similar fluid is injected into the peri- toneal cavity in such quantities only as to allow of its rapid absorption, no inflammation ensues. On the other hand, if such a fluid, or even water is injected in quantities more than can be rapidly absorbed, serum from the blood is eflused into it; and as all the essentials for putre- faction are now presest, viz., diluted serum which consti- tutes the dead animal matter, heat, moisture, oxygen, and saprophytic bacteria to act as a ferment, putrefaction ensues. The albuminous material becomes decomposed into peptones, and then into ptomaines, and these chemical products acting on the tissues set up inflamma- tion. Thus, to sum up, it is inferred from these and similar experiments that the saprophytic bacteria them- selves are incapable of setting up inflammation; that they are only able to thrive in dead animal matter, and not in living tissues; and that it is the products of putre- faction, of which they are believed to be the cause, that set up the inflammatory process. 3. Infective micro-organisms.—These, which include the various species of micro-organisms, known as pathogenic or parasitic bacteria, are also -believed to play an important rSle in the causation of inflammation. Indeed, they are believed by some pathologists to be the essential factors in all inflammatory processes. Bat whilst it cannot be admitted that they are the exciting cause of all inflam- mation, the belief is fast gaining ground that they are important, if not the chief agents in many inflammations, and especially in those inflammations which, because they occur without any apparent cause, were formerly spoken of as idiopathic. Thus erysipelas and some forms of osteomyelitis and periostitis appear to depend upon them, whilst malignant pustule has been proved to do so. They are said always to be found in acute suppurativeINELAMMATIOI^. 9 inflammation. Unlike the saprophytes, the bacteria which are found in all decomposing fluids, and which as we have seen are unable to exist in the living tissues, the species under consideration are not only capable of living in such tissues, but thrive and multiply in them, and whilst doing so give rise to certain irritating chemical products ['ptomaines) which set up inflammation. Hence their name, infective, parasitic or pathogenic bacteria. They are supposed not only to multiply and spread in the surrounding tissues, setting up inflammation in their course, but also in some instances to enter the system by the blood or by the lymph vessels, where still multiplying, they poison the body generally, and in con- sequence of their becoming lodged in the capillaries of various tissues or organs of the body where they further multiply and thrive, to set up there a like inflammation. The way in which they enter the body is either by a wound direct, or else by the alimentary or respiratory mucous tract. Where they enter by a wound, it appears that decomposition of the discharge favours their entrance (as in erysipelas occurring in a septic wound), though such is not essential. They or their spores are supposed to exist in the air, water, &c., but in less quantities than the saprophytic bacteria, and only occasionally, as, for instance, when a case of specific inflammation to which they give rise is present in the same ward. As the various species of bacteria will have to be frequently mentioned, they may be here briefly described. The bacteria or schizomycetes belong to the group of protophytes, the simplest of vegetable organisms. They are divided into 1, micrococci or spherical bacteria; 2, bacilli or rod-like bacteria; and 3, spirilli or screw-like twisted bacteria. Micrococci are round or oval bodies; they occur singly or in pairs. When in pairs they are called diplococci, an example of which we find in the gonococcus. Sometimes they form chains, and are then termed streptococci, e.g., streptococcus pyogenes; or they may occur in colonies (zooglcea masses), and are then spoken of as staphylococci, the best known being the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus. They multiply by fission or division. Bacilli are rod-like microbes of at least more than twice their breadth in length. They multiply by spores as well as by fission. Hence a bacillus may at one period have a rod-like shape, whilst at another period of its development it may be round like a micro-10 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OE SUEGICAL DISEASES. COCCUS. The spores wliicli are developed in tlie interior of the bacillus are liberated by its destruction and then gradually assume the shape of the fully developed organism. The spores have a greater resistance to ex- ternal influences, heat and chemicals, than the bacillus from which they are formed. The sjpirilli are of no surgical interest, and will not be further mentioned. Both bacilli and micrococci may be divided into (a) sapro- phytic, and (h) parasitic bacteria. (a) The saprophytic bacteria only live on dead organic material or in solutions of the same, and are incapable of thriving in the living tissues. Some species by means of the activity of their protoplasm not only obtain food from the dead organic material and multiply, but cause changes in the fluid in contact with their surface known as fer- mentation. To this is due the decomposition of serum or of pus retained in a wound, the conversion of milk-sugar into lactic acid in the souring of milk in the stomach, and the resolution of urea into carbonate of ammonium and consequent production of ammoniacal urine in the bladder. The albumen of the dead organic material in contact with the bacteria becomes decomposed into peptones and then into ptomaines or chemical compounds, which act as irritants in the living tissues, setting up inflammation, or, if absorbed, give rise to symptoms somewhat similar to those produced by the poisonous alkaloids. The short rod-like body always present in myriads in a drop of decomposing fluid was formerly known as bacterium termo, or the bacterium of putrefaction. Within the last year or so it has been shewn that these rod-like bodies are not capable of pure cultivation, and that not one but many species of bacilli were confounded under the term. Most of these bacilli have been but imperfectly investigated and are consequently still unnamed. For the present therefore it appears better to drop the name bacterium termo, and to speak of the bacilli of putrefaction merely as saprophytes until their nature has been determined and definite names have been given to them. Other species of saprophytic bacteria, instead of setting up fermentation, produce pigment, as for example the bacillus of blue or green pus. Many of the saprophytes, as already mentioned, require oxygen of the air for their development, and are then called aerobic; whilst others only thrive when protected from access of oxygen and are known as anaerobic.INFLAMMATION. 11 (h) The parasitic bacteria reside in living organic mate- rial and derive their food from the fluids of the circulation or from the protoplasm of the living cell. Some of these are only capable of thriving in living tissues {true para- sites) ; some, though occasionlly found in living tissues, are as a rule found in dead organic material [facultative parasites); some, again, though they require living tissues for their growth and development, at times act as sapro- phytes {facultative saprophytes). Parasitic bacteria may be divided from a pathological point of view into the non- pathogenic, which exist in the body without doing any harm, and the pathogenic, which produce disease either by their direct influence or by their chemical action. Pathogenic bacteria include : 1, those which are capable of attacking a healthy organism, as the anthrax bacillus; and 2, those which develop when the life energy of the cells of the organism are depressed, or when the tissues in which they live are altered, as the tubercle bacillus. In the former the special properties of the bacteria, and in the latter the predisposition of the organism to attack, are the determining factors. The methods by which bac- teria may gain admission to the body and set up inflam- mation have already been referred to (p. 9). Having gained admission, they may merely affect the tissues at the place of entry, setting up a local inflammation; or they may extend by the lymphatics to the nearest lymphatic gland, where they may be arrested or pass through it and thus enter the circulation; or they may make their way into the small veins, and so gain the cir- culation at once, and become lodged, according to the nature of the bacteria, in the capillaries of various tissues and organs. Bacteria growing in connection with a mu- cous membrane may extend along the surface as in diphtheria; or may be carried from one point to another, as, in phthisis, from the lungs to the larynx or intestine. Diseased tissues produced by one kind of bacteria may be secondarily infected by another kind; thus croupous pneumonia is frequently secondarily infected by the tubercle bacillus, and the tuberculous tissue by the mi- crococcus of suppuration. It is believed that the tissues may be protected against the development of bacteria (a) by the normal resistance of the organism to the pro- cess of disease, the "vis medicatrix naturae; " {b) by the exhaustion of the soil—thus the occurrence of a disease once is thought to protect against a second attack by the12 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. first disease having exhausted the supply of the material which is necessary for the development of the bacteria of that particular disease; (c) by the chemical products formed jpari passu with the bacteria acting as a poison to the bacteria and preventing their development; {d) by certain chemical constituents in the blood-serum which destroy the bacteria; (e) by the leucocytes collecting around the bacteria, and so killing them; and (/) by the leucocytes and tissue cells absorbing and destroying the bacteria [phagocytosis). Much has been written of late on the destruction of bacteria by the leucocytes and tissue cells [phagocytosis). Metschnikoff and his pupils hold that the leucocytes are endued with a peculiar power of protecting the organism, that they are attracted by the bacteria [chemiotaxis), gather round them, absorb them into their substance, and so digest or destroy them; and then that the leucocytes [microphages) having thus per- formed their function of scavengers are in their turn absorbed by large amaeboid cells [macrophages) derived from the tissues and are in like manner destroyed. Other pathologists hold that the bacteria are first killed by the chemical products generated by the bacteria or by the disinfecting constituents in the blood-serum, and then only when dead are absorbed by the leucocytes and tissue cells, and thus along with the devitalized tissues are in this way got rid of. Amongst the pathogenic bacteria of surgical interest may be mentioned : the anthrax bacillus, the cause of malignant pustule ; the tubercle bacillus found in tuber- cular disease; the bacillus of glanders, of leprosy, of actino- mycosis, of tetanuSj of diphtheria, and of rhinoscleroma; the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, and the streptococcus pyogenes, the organisms found in connection with suppu- ration; the streptococcus erysipelatosus and the micro- coccus gonorrhoeae. Signs and symptoms of inflammation. These may be divided into the local a^nd the constitutional. The local signs are the well-known redness, heat, pain, and swell- ing, to which may be added disturbance or alteration of function. Except in a typical case, these signs are not all necessarily present; on the other hand, the presence of one or more is not always indicative of inflammation. The redness is due to the dilatation of the small arterioles, veins and capillaries, and increased flow of blood to the part; the darker patches over the generalINFLAMMATION. 13 surface to the escape of red corpuscles, and to the blood passing into the yeins before the oxyhsemoglobin has all been reduced. The redness varies according to the intensity of the inflammation, being bright in the acute, and dull in the chronic yariety, and generally assumes a livid hue when suppuration is about to occur. It may sometimes be absent as in inflammation of non-vascular tissues, although present in the vascular area around. It more or less disappears after death. The increased heat is now generally held to be due merely to a greater flow of blood through the part, and not to any generation of heat in the part itself, as the blood coming from it is never hotter than the blood in the left ventricle of the heart. The inflamed part, however, feels intensely hot and burning to the patient, although the thermometer shows little actual increase of heat. The pain^ which is due to pressure upon or stretching of the terminal nerve-twigs by the dilated blood-vessels and by the exudation, varies in intensity and character, and is nearly always increased by pressure and by the dependent position. It is of a stabbing character in serous membranes, aching in bone, throbbing when pus is about to form, more intense when occurring in organs where but slight stretching can occur, as the globe of the eye or the testicle, and less intense in parts like the axilla where the tissues are loose. In the eye, as well as pain, there may be flashes of light; in the ear, noise. The pain is sometimes referred through the nerves to other parts or organs. The swelling, which is caused partly by the increased quantity of blood in the inflamed area, partly by the exudation of leucocytes and serum, and partly by the proliferation of the original tissue elements, is, as might be expected, greatest in lax tissue, as the axilla, and least in the dense and fibrous, as bone or tendon. It is always an important sign in chronic inflammation where there may be but little redness or pain. The disturbance in function^ which practically always occurs in an inflamed part, may be illustrated by the inability of an inflamed bladder to retain urine, or of an inflamed eye to tolerate light. The constitutional symptoms may be summed up as those of fever. There is a rise of temperature—often preceded by chilliness or even a distinct rigor, a quickened pulse, dry skin, furred tongue, loss of appetite, constipation,14 GEN^EHAL PATHOLOGY 01^ StiRGICAL t)ISEASES. scanty and high-coloured urine, headache, perhaps de- lirium, and a general feeling of malaise. When the inflammation is slight there may be no fever; but when it is at all intense, or occurs in an important part, the fever is generally considerable, and in septic and infective inflammations is by far the most anxious symptom. Inflammatory fever has been divided into the sthenic, asthenic, and the irritative or nervous. In the sthenic the symptoms are acute, the temperature is high (104° or 105°), and the pulse full, strong and bounding. In the asthenic the symptoms assume what is called a typhoid character; the temperature falls, the tongue becomes brown and dry, the lips and teeth are covered with sordes, and the pulse is quick, soft, and feeble. In the irritative there is, in addition to either of the above set of symp- toms, delirium, violent in the one case, or low and muttering in the other, and a general nervous state. The cause of the fever has been variously explained. In simple inflammation it may be due: 1, in part to tissue-change caused by the presence in the blood of free fibrin ferment (a substance known to possess pyrogenic or fever-producing properties), which is supposed to be derived from the escaped leucocytes and drained away in the serum from the inflamed part by the lymphatics; and, 2, in part to disturbance of the heat-regulating centre in the brain, induced either reflexly, through the sensory nerves, as when there is much pain and tension in the inflamed part, or directly, by the action on it of the deteriorated blood. In septic inflammations the absorption of the products of fermentation or putre- faction, as from a septic or ill-drained wound, has no doubt a large share in the production of the fever, which is then spoken of as septic [septic fever, saproimia); whilst in the infective inflammations the presence of micro- organisms is believed to be the chief factor (see Septi- ccemia and Fi/cemia), Varieties of inflammation. — Inflammation may be divided into the acute and chronic according to its intensity and duration; the acute again into the simple, the septic, and the infective. "What has already been said applies chiefly to the acute variety. The chronic is dis- cussed separately later on. Simple or traumatic inflammation is that which remains localized to a limited area, and subsides without suppura- tion as soon as the cause is removed. It is commonly15 IKFLAMMATIO]^. tlie result of a mecliaiiical injury, and may be studied in its simplest form in the healing of an incised wound by the first intention (see Wounds), Should suppuration occur it is now generally held to be due to the presence of certain pyogenic micro-organisms (see Suppuration, p. 22). Septic inflammation depends upon the presence of fer- mentation or putrefaction in a wound or serous cavity; it spreads beyond the original seat of injury, and is accompanied by constitutional symptoms of blood- poisoning {septic feveVy saprcemia). The septic products soak into the tissues, where they act like other chemical irritants, and so set up wider and wider circles of in- flammation, and entering the general blood-stream with the serum which is drained away by the lymphatics, give rise to septic poisoning. They do not multiply in the living tissues, like the micro-organisms producing the infective inflammation to be next described. Hence as soon as the fermentation or putrefaction can be checked the spreading of the inflammation and septic poisoning have a tendency to cease. Septic inflammation is often accompanied by suppuration, but this is regarded as a complication depending on the presence of pyogenic micro-organisms (see Suppuration). Some pathologists include under the term septic all inflammations attended by suppuration and the various specific inflammations, as erysipelas, which are here called infective. The infective variety is also of a spreading character, and depends upon the presence of specific micro- organisms {pathogenic bacteria). Unlike the products of putrefaction these micro-organisms multiply and thrive in the living tissues and in the blood stream. They may also under certain circumstances become lodged in the lymphatic glands and in the capillaries of distant organs and tissues, where they give rise to inflammations similar to that at the seat of primary inoculation. Like the septic, the infective inflammations are generally accom- panied by severe constitutional symptoms. The micro- organisms may enter, it is thought, either through a wound, or through the respiratory or alimentary tracts ; and, though not essential, a septic wound favours their admission. (See Infective processes in wounds.) Inflammation also admits of other divisions; thus it is variously spoken of as traumatic, idiopathic, strumous, syphilitic, gouty, &c., according to its supposed cause; as16 GENERAL PATHOLOGY 01' SURGICAL DISEASES. adhesive, suppurative, and ulcerative, according to its termination, &c. The treatmeot of inflamination may be divided into the Preventive and the Curative, The former will be dis- cussed under the Treatment of wounds. Curative treatment. — This must necessarily vary ac- cording to the character and situation of the inflammation and the type of constitutional disturbance. Here only are given the indications which should guide us in the general management of the case. Our first endeavour where practicable should be to remove the cause. Thus a foreign body in the tissues, such as a thorn in the finger, should be extracted; tension should be relieved; a free drain established for any pent-up and decomposing discharges; exit given to extravasated secretions, as putrid urine and the like; irritating applications, as strong antiseptics, exchanged for less irritating dressings; and such constitutional causes as syphilis, gout, &c., treated by appropriate remedies. When the cause can be thus removed and fresh sources of irritation avoided, the inflammation will tend of itself to cease. Where such cannot be done, we should endeavour in the second place to prevent the complete loss of vitality of the already injured tissues and to restore their healthy nutrition. For this purpose our efforts should be principally directed to controlling the supply of blood to the part, and reducing the blood pressure in the damaged blood-vessels in order to lessen the escape of leucocytes and serum, the pressure of which on the vessels and tissues may lead to the death of the part, whilst the tension to which they give rise is a fertile source of fresh irritation and consequently of the continuance of the inflammation. Further, we should aim at counteracting this injurious pressure and tension by facilitating the draining away of the products of in- flammation ; whilst we should seek to promote the return of healthy nutrition to the inflamed tissues by endeavour- ing to remedy such constitutional defects, which, as we have seen, by lowering their vitality act as predisposing causes. Thirdly, we should not lose sight of the impor- tant indication to relieve pain. And lastly, whilst direct- ing our efforts to the treatment of the local inflammation, we must modify our remedies according to the type of constitutional disturbance to which it may give rise. General remedies,—The means at our disposal for fulfill- ing the above indications are both local and constitutional.17 INPLAMMATION^. In some cases local remedies alone will suffice, in others constitutional remedies will also be required. The local may be enumerated as rest, elevation of the part, cold, heat and moisture, local blood-letting, inci- sions, and astringents. These means should not be used indiscriminately; those that may at one period be of the greatest benefit, may at another produce the result we are trying to avoid. Rest is one of the most important means we possess in the treatment of surgical inflammation. It should be complete, and as far as possible both functional and phj^siological. Thus^ an inflamed joint should be placed on a splint, an inflamed eye receive no light, &c. Elevation of the part relieves swelling and tension by diminishing the arterial supply, and promoting venous return, and the draining olf by the lymphatics of the in- flammatory exudation. Thus, an inflamed hand should be placed in a sling, an inflamed foot raised on a pillow, &c. Cold, though a most powerful agent in controlling inflammation, is one that requires cautious and season- able application. It acts by causing contraction of the small arteries, and consequently diminishes the supply of blood to the part; it likewise controls the amoeboid move- ments of the leucocytes. At the same time when intense it lowers the vitality of the tissues and promotes adhesion of the corpuscles and stasis, and as exemplified by frost- bite may destroy the part. It is of the most service in the preventive treatment of inflammation, and for con- trolling the process in the early stages. Later, when the inflammation is fully established, it can only do mischief. Its action should be continuous; if applied intermittently it tends to increase the inflammation by the reaction which follows each application. It is best applied in the form of an ice-bag, or by irrigation with ice-cold water, or by Leiter's tubes. Heat and moisture act by causing a general dilatation of the capillaries and free flow of blood through the part. They are especially useful when the inflammation has become fully established, and suppuration is threatened. Under the latter circumstances they tend to localize the process, and bring the abscess to the surface. They may be applied in the form of linseed-meal poultices or hot fomentations to which opium and belladonna in some form may be added to soothe and relieve pain. Heat c18 GE]N"EEAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. alone may be applied by means of Leiter's tubes, the water being kept heated by Krohne's lamp. Local Uood-letting relieves the vessels of the inflamed part, and so removes tension. It may be employed in the form of leeches, wet-cupping, or incisions with a lancet. It is often of great benefit, even when not applied directly over the part, as is shown by the relief afforded to an in- flamed eye by a leech behind the ear. Incisions are useful in some forms of inflammation, as phlegmonous erysipelas, to relieve tension. They should be made in the long axis of the limb, taking care to avoid important structures. Astringents act by constricting the blood-vessels, and are especially useful in inflammations of the mucous membrane of the mouth, nose, urethra, and conjunctiva. Constitutional remedies^ like the local, should be used according to the intensity, nature and situation of the inflammation, and the type of the constitutional disturb- ance. In an ordinary case of simple inflammation, beyond a brisk purge, subsequent regulation of the bowels and secretions by salines, and restricting the diet, no special constitutional treatment is required. But when the fever is high, the patient young and vigorous, and the pulse rapid, full, and strong—in short, where the fever is of the sthenic type, antiphlogistic or lowering treatment should be adopted. Where, on the other hand, the patient is weakly or old, or broken down in constitution, and the fever is of a low or asthenic type, a stimulating plan of treatment will be required. Antiphlogistic treatment may be considered under the heads of diet, drugs, and general blood-letting. The diet should be restricted to milk, weak beef-tea, barley-water, arrowroot, and the like. Drugs.—Purgatives determine the flow of blood to the intestines, and so relieve the inflamed part. They are not, however, generally employed except as a brisk purge at the onset of the inflammation, and in gonorrhoea and orchitis, in which they are of considerable benefit. In inflammations of the intestine and peritoneum they should not as a rule be used at all. Diaphoretics and diuretics relieve the distended vessels, the former by determining the flow of blood to the skin, the latter to the kidneys. They are not often employed in surgical inflammations. Aconite in small doses, frequently re- peated, is believed to reduce the frequency and force of thelOTLAMMATION. 19 Heart's action, and is much praised by some. Antimony- was formerly much, employed, and is still used in in- flamed testicle. Mercury in combination with opium was once in much favour, and was thought to have a controlling action on the inflammation. It is seldom given at the present day, except in syphilitic inflamma- tion, and as a purgative at the commencement of other inflammations. Opium, however, is frequently used to relieve pain, and it also seems to have some action in controlling the inflammation. It may be given by the mouth, or in the form of morphia as a subcutaneous injection. Quinine, salicylic acid, and antipyrin are some- times employed when the temperature is high, as is col- chicum in gout, potash and salicylate of soda in rheuma- tism, perchloride of iron in erysipelas, and hyoscyamus, bromide of potassium, sulphonal, and chloral when there is want of sleep. Bleeding is not often employed in modern surgery, but it is at times beneficial in very acute inflammations in Fig. 2.—Method of holding the lancet in bleeding. (Heath's Minor Surgery.) young and plethoric subjects. Of late bleeding has again become not so very uncommon in the medical wards The surgeon should therefore make himself acquainted with the method of operating. The blood may be taken from^ one of the veins of the arm, usually the median basilic, as that is the larger vessel, or from the external jugular vein. In bleeding from a vein of the arm {plile- hotomy), a bandage or tape is carried twice round the arm a little above the elbow to obstruct the vein and tied in a bow. Grasping the arm with the left hand, with the thumb steadying the vein, the surgeon makes an incision 0 220 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. into the vessel, holding the lancet with the blade between his forefinger and thumb about half an inch from the point, to prevent it penetrating too deeply (Fig. 2). The blood is directed into a graduated bleeding-bowl, the flow if necessary being increased by the patient making his muscles act by grasping a stick. When sufficient blood has been taken (usually about 10 ozs.) the constricting tape is untied, a pad placed over the incision, and the ends of the tape carried across the pad to below the joint, then round the arm and again over the pad, where they are tied. The stimulating plan of treatment may be considered under the head of diet, drugs, and stimulants. The diet should consist of essence of beef, milk, eggs, milk- puddings, oysters, turtle soup, and of white fish and minced chops if solid food can be retained. Of drugs, ammonia and bark, or quinine and iron will generally be found of most service; whilst stimulants in the form of brandy, the brandy-and-egg mixture, port wine, cham- pagne, or any other that the patient has been accustomed to take, should be given in divided and measured doses at stated intervals. Stimulants increase the force of the heart's action, and so drive the blood through the in- flamed part, and maintain the circulation till the crisis has been tided over. The indications for their use are a feeble and frequent pulse, a high temperature, a dry and brown tongue, and general signs of prostration. CHRONIC INELAMMATION. The pathological process in chronic inflammation is essentially the same as in the acute; but the dilated vessels appear to lose their tone, and remain dilated for longer periods, and the escape of leucocytes and proliferation of the original tissue elements are con- tinuous. Further the inflammatory exudation contains less fibrin-forming material and albumen. Like the acute, it may terminate in resolution, suppuration or ulceration, but it is much more liable to produce chronic thickening, from the accumulation of the cellular elements in the tissues. It may also terminate in caseation or even calcification. The causes of chronic inflammation are similar to those of the acute, but they appear to act with less intensity21 and for longer periods. Amongst the predisposing causes must be especially mentioned passive congestion, struma, rheumatism, gout and syphilis. Tlie exciting causes are often very slight, and may be altogether overlooked ; whilst secondary causes which may keep up the inidam- mation for an almost indetinite time frequently come into play. Thus in chronic joint-disease, though the cause may be but a trivial injury in a rheumatic subject, continual movement, and tension due to the distension of the synovial membrane, may keep up the inflammation for months or years. The presence of miliary tubercle is a frequent exciting cause. Symptoms.—These are also local and constitutional. Of the local signs the redness may be absent, or, if present, may be of a dusky hue ; whilst the part is often discoloured from pigmentation due to the disintegration of the coloured corpuscles. The pain is less severe than in the acute, often of a dull aching character, and increased on pressure, and sometimes worse at night. The part may be slightly hotter than natural, but at times no mcreased heat is apparent. The swelling is always a marked sign. Constitutional symptoms may be altogether absent; generally, however, the patient's health is feeble or below par, or he is strumous, or he has gouty, rheu- matic, or syphilitic symptoms. At times there may be some fever when an important organ is affected. Treatment.—The indications are :—to remove the cause and all secondary sources of irritation; to promote the absorption of the inflammatory products; and to re- establish the normal nutrition of the damaged tissues. For this purpose constitutional as well as local means should be employed. Thus :—we should endeavour to improve the general health by a careful dietary and the regulation of the secretions; whilst stimulants and tonics should be given where indicated. In the strumous, cod- liver oil, in the syphilitic, mercury or iodide of potassium, in the gouty, colchicum, and in the rheumatic, the salts of potash or guaiacum, are especially indicated; whilst residence at the seaside, or at some spa suitable to the diathesis, or a sea voyage should be enjoined. Locally, the means at our command, besides rest of the part, are : 1,^ counter-irritation by blisters, tincture of iodine, and stimulating liniments; 2, friction with mercurial oint- ment, the oleate of mercury or ointments of iodide of lead or cadmium, or by shampooing, massage, &c.; 3,22 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF StlRGlGAL DISEASES. pressure by means of carefully applied bandages, Scott's dressing, or Martin's bandage, or the ammoniacum and mercury plaster; 4, the formation of setons or issues : and 5, the application of the actual cautery. Where suppuration threatens, as in chronic inflammation of lymphatic glands, sulphide of calcium may be of ser- vice in promoting the rapid breaking down of the case- ating mass. It should be given in doses of ^ to ^ of a grain. SUPPUEATION AKD ABSCESS. We have already seen that under some circumstances the inflammatory process may terminate in the softening and breaking down of the inflamed tissues, death of the infiltrating leucocytes and proliferating tissue cells, and consequent formation of pus, suppuration being then said to be established. This process, whether it occur (1) in the substance of the tissues or organs, or (2) on the free sur- face of the skin, a mucous or a serous membrane, is practically the same. In the former situation, it is spoken of as circumscribed or as diffuse suppuration, according as it is limited in extent or the reverse; in the latter situation it is known as purulent exudation or catarrh, or as ulceration, according as the process merely involves the superficial layers of the epithelium, or extends through to the deeper parts. We will first deal with the circumscribed variety of suppuration or ahscess, as this is the most familiar example to Surgeons. Circumscribed suppuration or abscess.—An abscess may be defined as a circumscribed collection of pus, the result of inflammation. It may be acute or chronic. Acute Abscess. — The formation of an abscess may perhaps best be studied as it occurs in the superficial tissues. We have already seen that an inflamed part is hot, red, swollen, and painful. If the inflammation ends in suppuration, the swelling which was more or less diffuse becomes circumscribed and pronounced, the red- ness localized and more intense, the pain assumes a throbbing character, and a distinct chill or rigor is generally experienced. On pressing lightly with the fingers on the inflamed part a sensation of fluid beneath the skin is felt, and fluctuation is said to be present. If left to nature the abscess makes its way in the direction23 SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. of least resistance, i.e., generally towards the free sur- face of the skin, or if more deeply seated, towards a mucous canal, serous cavity, or the interior of a joint. Continuing to take a superficial abscess as our example, one part of the inflamed area' becomes more prominent than the rest, and the skin over it red and glazed. The abscess is said to point. The skin will shortly ulcerate or slough, and bursting of the abscess with discharge of the Fig. 3.—Diagrammatic representation of the minute changes in the formation and heaHng of an abscess. The upper half shows abscess enlarging ; the lower half abscess healing. pus will ensue. On the evacuation of the pus either naturally as above, or through an incision artificially made, the walls fall more or less together, and the cavity is gradually filled up by granulations till finally only a scar remains. The minute changes concerned in this process are briefly as follows:—The leucocytes which have escaped from the vessels in the way already described, together with the cells resulting from the proliferation of the original tissue elements, aggregate at the focus of inflammation around the micro-organisms which, if not already present as the cause of the inflammation, have24 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. now made their way to the inflamed spot. The tissues, as the result of the devitalizing or digestive action of the products of the micro-organisms, undergo what is called coagulation necrosis, and then softening and liquefaction, and finally disappear among, or are absorbed by, the leucocytes and proliferated tissue cells which now com- pletely replace them in the form of a mass of small round cells. The cells in the centre of this dense mass being cut o& from their nutrient supply by the destruction of the vessels, partly as the result of over-stimulation or over- work in their battle with the micro-organisms, and partly as the result of the peptonizing action of the latter, in their turn degenerate and die, and are now found floating in a fluid formed by the liquefied tissues and serous exudation infiltrating the part. The dead leucocytes and proliferated tissue cells are known as pus^corpusdes, the fluid as liquor puris. Thus a cavity is formed containing pus. Meanwhile around the cavity the leucocytes and tissue cells continue to aggregate and thus form a barrier to the advance of the microbes. New vessels now grow into the mass of small round cells and the abscess cavity becomes surrounded by a layer of vascular granulation- tissue (the pyogenic zone). The accompanying woodcut (fig. 3) illustrates diagrammatically the appearance that would be presented by a section through an abscess and the surrounding tissues. In the centre is the abscess cavity; around this in the upper half of the diagram are zones representing the inflammatory changes in various stages of progress. When an abscess enlarges it is simply by the extension of the inflammatory process from zone to zone. The central cavity increases by the successive degeneration of the small round cells, which fall into the cavity and become pus-corpuscles, whilst what was for- merly the zone of thrombosis is now converted by the aggregation of the leucocytes and proliferated tissue cells into the zone of small round cells, the zone of dilated vessels and retarded flow into the zone of thrombosis, and so on to the circumference. Such at least occurs when an abscess spreads uniformly in all directions. Usually, however, it makes its way in the direction of least resistance, these changes then occurring chiefly at that part. If an abscess is not opened the tension and the presence of the pus keep up the inflammation, but when the pus is evacuated and all sources of irritation are removed the circulation in the vessels around resumes25 SOTPrBATlON AND ABSCESS, its normal state. The walls in consequence of the pres- sure of the surrounding tissues fall more or less into contact, and what remains of the cavity is gradually filled up by the growth of the granulation-tissue. The granu- lation-tissue is developed into fibrous tissue, which in its turn contracts, obliterating the blood-vessels, and is con- verted into dense cicatricial tissue. In the lower half of the diagram (fig. 3) are zones representing the various changes in the process of healing. Characters of pus,—Pus from an acute abscess in an otherwise healthy person is a thick, creamy, opaque, yellowish-white, slightly alkaline fluid, with a faintish smell, saltish taste, and a specific gravity of about 1030. If a drop is examined under the microscope it is found to consist of a fluid (the liquor puris) and corpuscles (pus- cells). The greater number of these corpuscles are globular, slightly granular, measure 2^ of an inch in diameter, and contain two or three nuclei which are made more evident on the addition of acetic acid to clear up the granular matter. Amongst them may be seen other corpuscles indistinguishable from leucocytes, and ex- hibiting when examined on a warm stage amoeboid movements. The latter are probably living leucocytes which have escaped into the abscess cavity, the former leucocytes and proliferated tissue cells which have under- gone death and degeneration. The liquor puris consists of water, albumen, and salts, of which chloride of sodium is the chief. It coagulates on boiling. Though probably derived in chief part from the exudation of the serum through the vessels, it differs from serum in that it does not coagulate spontaneously. In acute abscesses the pus contains granular material derived from the rapid degeneration of the tissues, and various species of micro- cocci. If allowed to stand or to decompose in an im- perfectly drained abscess cavity, it will be found moreover teeming with the bacteria of putrefaction. Varieties of pus,—Pus is variously spoken of as sanious when it contains blood, curdy when portions of coagulated fibrin are seen floating in it, ichorous when of a watery consistency, muco-pus when mixed with mucus, and in- fective when containing pathogenic micro-organisms. In some instances it has been observed to have a bluish- green colour (blue pus), due to the presence of the micrococcus cyaneus. The Cause of inflammation terminating in an acute26 GENEEAL PATHOLOGY OE vSUEGICAL DISEASES. abscess may briefly be said to be tbe presence of the pyogenic micro-organisms in tissues wbose vitality has been lowered by the persistent action of an irritant. The micro-organisms which appear to be chiefly con- cerned in the process of suppuration are the Staphylo- coccus pyogenes aureus and the Streptococcus pyogenes. The Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus is found in inflam- mations running on to suppuration and abscess, and is always present wherever necrosis of tissues is taking place. The organisms are found gathered in grape-like masses, and the growth in an artificial culture is com- monly golden-coloured, but there are varieties in which the culture is white or lemon-coloured. These organisms occur in suppurating wounds, in pustular inflammations of the skin, in suppuration in bone, in suppurating joints, in acute periostitis and osteomyelitis, in purulent perito- nitis and in empysema and other deep abscesses. They may extend from a wound either by the lymphatics or by the veins and give rise to metastatic abscesses (pyaemia), or they may enter the system through ulcers of the respiratory or digestive tract. The exact point of entry in acute periostitis and osteo-myelitis, ulcerative endo- carditis and empysema is uncertain. The Streptococcus pyogenes is more especially found in suppuration attended by phlegmonous or purulent oedema with a tendency to spread. The organisms occur in chains. The suppurations in which they appear to be chiefly con- cerned may start in a septic wound of the skin, or the puerperal uterus, or on a mucous or serous surface in con- tact with decomposing substances. The absorption of the chemical products (p^omames) produced by these organisms is very liable to occur, giving rise to general septic poison- ing [saprcemia)^ or if the micro-organisms themselves also gain access to the circulation they may become lodged in the capillaries and produce metastatic abscesses, so that the toxic symptoms produced by the absorption of the ptomaines may be accompanied by metastatic {pycemic) abscesses. The two foregoing micro-organisms, though the chief, are not the only ones associated with suppuration; other forms of micrococci and even of bacilli may also at times be found in pus. The Streptococcus erysipelatosm and the Micrococcus gonorrhoeoe, which are closely allied to the Streptococcus pyogenes, are referred to under Erysipelas and Gonorrhoea. The Symptoms of an acute abscess are at first those of27 SOTPURATION AND ABSCESS. inflammation, followed, whilst pus is forming, by a chill or rigor and by throbbing pain in the part. The pain, however, usually ceases when suppuration is fully estab- lished. The local signs, when the abscess is superficial, are pointing, central softening, and when about to burst, a red and glazed appearance of the skin with separation of the cuticle. Deep suppuration is often difficult to detect; deep-seated fluctuation, oedema, subcuticular mottling and tenderness on pressure are then the chief signs; but puncture with a grooved needle will clear up any doubt. Treatment.—The chief indications are to remove the pus with as little injury to the tissues as possible, to ensure a sufficient drain, and to maintain the parts aseptic. When it is evident that suppuration must ensue it should be promoted by moist warmth in the form of a large boracic poultice sprinkled with opium, or hot poppy fomentations. As soon as fluctuation is detected the abscess should be opened by making a free incision in the most dependent part or where it is pointing, of course taking care to avoid blood-vessels or other important structures in the neighbourhood. The pus should generally be allowed to flow out of its own accord. To ensure a thorough drain, and to prevent any tension from re-accumulation, the opening should be free and a drainage tube should be inserted. If the abscess is large a counter opening may be necessary or the abscess cavity may degenerate into a sinus. If the drainage is efficient, no harm will ensue if a poultice, the favourite treatment of the older surgeons, be applied. But if the abscess is deep and the aperture small and there is thus danger of the pus becoming retained and undergoing decomposition, antiseptic dressings or boracic fomenta- tions should be used, as under these circumstances the retained discharge will probably be under some degree of tension and the granulation-walls of the abscess hence inefficient to prevent absorption. Although it is a rule in Surgery to open an abscess as soon as fluctuation clearly shows that pus has formed, there are some instances in which this is especially imperative. Thus an abscess should be opened at once when it is situated in the perineum, the abdominal or thoracic walls, the sheath of a tendon, under deep fascise or the peritoneum, in the orbit, near a joint, and in the neck if attended by dyspnoea ; when obstructing some passage ; when caused28 GEi^EHAL tATfiOLOGY OF StJRGtCAL DISEASllS. by the infiltration of nrine, faeces, &c.; and wlien a spon- taneous opening would produce deformity. Hilton''s method, as it is called, of opening an abscess, is very useful when the abscess is situated deeply and amongst important structures, as at the root of the neck or in the axilla. It consists in making an' incision through the skin and fascia, and then working gently in the direction of the pus with a director. As soon as pus presents, a pair of dressing forceps is slid along the grooye of the director into the abscess cavity, the director removed, and the blades of the forceps separated so as to stretch the opening and make a free exit for the pus. The comjplications of acvte abscess are : 1. Hsemorrhage from the involvement of a large vessel. 2. The implication of some important part, as the peritoneal cavity, the in- terior of a joint, &c. 3. Degeneration into a sinus or fistula. 4. Blood-poisoning (saprcEmia, pycemia). A chronic abscess differs from an acute in that it is formed slowly, is unattended by the ordinary signs of inflammation, and does not depend upon the presence of the pyogenic micrococci. The contents, moreover, are usually thin and curdy, not thick and creamy like the pus from an acute abscess, and before the abscess is opened are said never to contain pyogenic micrococci. In some situations, however, as in the chronic abscess in the sub- cutaneous tissue so familiar to the surgeon, the contents may differ very little to the naked eye from ordinary pus, and when the result of tubercular disease may contain the tubercle bacillus. A chronic abscess is generally formed in connection with carious bone, joint disease, a caseating lymphatic gland, or tubercular deposit. At times no cause can be discovered. When due to spinal caries a chronic abscess has a tendency to burrow in the tissues, especially in the long axis of the body; and its walls often become condensed and thickened, and lined with a layer of smooth granulations, which give it a velvety and mucous membrane-like appearance, or they may become coated with a thick layer of caseating tuber- culous matter. The symptoms are very various, and differ according as the abscess is found in connection with carious bone, a diseased spine, &c., and will be again referred to under the head of suppuration in bone, psoas abscess, &c. Here it may be stated generally that the chief signs are a fluctuating swelling, often unattended with any sign of inflammation, and the presence of some29 suppuratiojV and abscess. a-ffection, as spinal caries, that is known to be often associated with abscess. Before a chronic abscess is opened there are usually no constitutional symptoms; but subsequently saprophytic bacteria or pyogenic micro- cocci may gain admission, and long continued suppuration attended by hectic fever or lardaceous disease of the viscera is very liable to ensue and terminate fatally from exhaustion, renal disease, diarrhoea, or hepatic mischief. Diagnosis, A small chronic abscess in the subcutaneous tissue may be mistaken for a fatty tumour, a hydatid or other cyst, a blood-extravasation, or a soft solid tumour, and it may be quite impossible to arrive at a correct diagnosis without puncture with a grooved needle. The diagnosis of chronic abscess connected with the spine, joints, &c., will be further alluded to in the section on diseases of regions. Terminations.—A chronic abscess, after remaining quiescent for a long period, may take on increased action, and burst either externally, or into a mucous canal, a serous cavitj^, &p., or the watery portions of the pus may be absorbed, leaving behind a caseous mass, which may either dry up or undergo calcification; or it may remain in its caseous state for years, and then break down, and set up fresh inflammation around, and produce what is called a residual abscess. Treatment.— Small chronic abscesses unconnected with diseased bone, joints, &c., may be treated like other abscesses by free incision, drainage, and prevention of putrefaction. Large abscesses, especially when the result of spinal disease, require very careful management. If free drainage and antiseptic precautions are neglected, and the pus is allowed to undergo putrefaction or fermentation, or pyogenic micrococci gain admission, long, continued suppuration and attending hectic generally follow and frequently terminate fatally. Hence, many advise that the opening of a chronic abscess should be delayed as long as pos- sible—i,e., until it is evident from the reddening of the skin, and its near approach to the surface, that it will, if left longer, burst spontaneously. The objections to this plan are, that the evil day is only postponed, and that in the meantime extensive destruction of the tissues is taking place as the abscess is allowed to enlarge. The best plan would appear to be to aspirate the abscess frequently so as to reduce its size, and then to open it freely with anti- septic precautions, and ensure thorough drainage sub- sequently. Aspiration alone, however, and especially30 QEIS'ERAL PATHOLOGY OF SUBGICAL DISEASES. when combined with the injection of iodoform emulsion, will in some cases suffice, the abscess drying up, and in this way becoming cured. When the abscess is lined with a thick layer of caseous material, healing will ^be promoted by rubbing the walls with a strong solution of chloride of zinc (grs. xl. to Jj.)' injecting iodoform emulsion (iodoform, 10 parts ; glycerine, 70 parts; water, 20 parts), or by scraping away the unhealthy granulations with a Yolkmann's spoon. Diffuse suppuration may occur either, 1, in the sub- stance of the tissues or organs; or 2, on the surface of the skin or a mucous or serous membrane. As examples of the former may be cited cellular and cellule-cutaneous erysipelas, in which, as the result of a spreading infective inflammation, extensive suppuration occurs through large tracts of the subcutaneous tissue; as examples of the latter, gonorrhoea, bronchitis, and some forms of peri- tonitis. The pathological process in both is practically similar, only that in one the inflammatory products (pus) are disused through the tissues, and in the other, over the free surface. Suppuration on the free surface of the skin or mucous membrane when the deeper layers of these structures are involved, is, however, spoken of generally as ulceration; and when the epithelial layers only are affected, as intertrigo in the case of the skin, and as purulent catarrh in the case of a mucous mem,- brane. Constitutional effects of long-continuefd suppuration. Hectic fever and lardaceous disease,—Hectic FEVEE, is a common accompaniment of prolonged suppuration from whatever cause when the wound cannot be kept aseptic and efficiently drained. It has been ascribed to the drain on the system owing to the formation of large quantities of pus; but this is certainly not the only cause, as a chronic abscess may attain a very large size, and exist for years unattended by hectic as long as it remains un- opened ; nor after opening does hectic occur if the pus can be prevented from undergoing fermentative or putrefac- tive changes, and the cavity can be well drained. It would therefore rather appear to be due to a chronic blood-poisoning, consequent upon the absorption of the products of fermentation or putrefaction in small quan- tities at a time. Symptoms.—Hectic fever is characterized by profuse sweating, rapid wasting, nocturnal rises of temperature with morning remissions, and generally bySINUS AND FISTULA. 31 diarrhoea and deposits of urates in the urine. The face is pale and pinched, the cheek flushed, the eye bright, the pupil dilated, the tongue red and dry at the edges, and the pulse rapid, small, and weak. The appetite gra- dually fails, the patient becomes weaker and weaker, and dies exhausted of diarrhoea, lardaceous disease, &c. Treatment.—The cause of the suppuration should be re- moved, or if this is impossible, the absorption of septic products should be as far as is practicable controlled by establishing a free drain to the suppurating cavity, and by preventing by the use of antiseptics the putrefac- tion of the discharges. At the same time the system must be supported by nourishing diet and stimulants, the sweating combated by dilute sulphuric acid or atro- pine, and the diarrhoea by opium, catechu, or other astringents. Lardaceous disease is another of the complications that may follow prolonged suppuration consequent upon long-standing disease of the bones or joints. As the disease, however, perhaps falls more often under the notice of the physician than of the surgeon, the student, for a description of it, is referred to a work on Medicine. SINUS AND FISTULA. When an abscess opens spontaneously, or is opened artificially, we have seen that the cavity usually fills up with granulations. Under some circumstances, however, as when an abscess is connected with dead bone, or con- tains a foreign body, or is formed in connection with a mucous canal or secreting gland, or its walls after opening are prevented from remaining in contact by muscular action, the abscess does not close, but degenerates into a suppurating track called a sinus or fistula. Though the terms sinus and fistula are often used synonymously, the former is generally applied to such a track when 'it is only open at one end, the latter when it is open at both ends. ^ Although, perhaps, a sinus or a fistula more often owes its origin to the non-closure of an abscess, and is hence described here, it may also be the result of a wound, of ulceration, of sloughing, or of a congenital defect'. Special forms of fistulse, as fistula in ano, recto-vesical, salivary fistula, &c., will receive special notice under diseases of organs. Here generally it may be said that a32 GEJN-EKAL PATHOLOGY OE SURGICAL DISEASES. sinus, and in some instances a fistula, is a long and often tortuous suppurating track, lined with a smootli membrane, and usually opening in the midst of prominent granula- tions. Treatment.—The cause should be sought, and if possible removed, and the walls of the sinus then pressed together by careful bandaging. The bandage should be so applied as to prevent the accumulation of pus in the deeper end, and the consequent reconversion of the sinus into an abscess. If this is found impracticable, a drainage- tube should be inserted and shortened daily as the sinus gradually fills up from the bottom. When the sinus has existed long, and the walls are callous and indurated, it should be stimulated by injections of tincture of iodine, nitrate of silver, or the like. Or the lining membrane may be destroyed by chloride of zinc, the galvano-cautery wire, or the benzoline or actual cautery. These and such like means failing, the sinus should be laid freely open, the lining membrane scraped away by a Yolkmann's spoon, and the wound plugged with iodoform gauze or other antiseptic material to ensure healing from the bottom. Where the laying open of a sinus would involve important structures, as a large vessel, or necessitate an extensive wound, or is otherwise impracticable or unadvisable, a counter-opening should be made by cutting on the end of a long probe, and the sinus then drained by passing a drainage-tube at first through it, and subsequently in at each end, and gradually withdrawing the two portions as the sinus heals. At the same time that these local means are adopted, attention must be paid to the general health, as the intractability of a sinus may depend in part, or even entirely, upon some constitutional derangement. The treatment of special fistulse is elsewhere described (See fistula in ano, &c.) ULCERATION AND ULCERS. Ulceration is another of the terminations of inflam- mation, and as we have already seen, merely differs from suppuration in that the one occurs in the substance of the - tissues, the other on the free surface. In both there is minute disintegration and liquefaction of the tissues, with degeneration and death of the infiltrating leucocytes and proliferated tissue cells; in suppuration, however, the dead products being unable to escape form an abscess,33 ULOERATIOIS" AND TJLCEES. whilst in ulceration the broken-down tissues and pus are cast off as soon as formed as a discharge or ichor. An abscess may therefore be said to be a closed ulcer, an ulcer an open abscess. This molecular death of the tissues serves to distinguish ulceration from gangrene^ in which the tissues die en masse and^are cast off in the form of a slough7 TEeTwo'^processes, however, are fre- qu^tly combined. The softening and breaking down of a new growth, though not generally due to inflamma- tion, is also spoken of as ulceration. Ulceration may occur in any tissue of the body. Here, however, our description will chiefly apply to the process as it affects the skin or mucons membrane. Let us first study the process as it may be followed with the naked eye in a portion of inflamed skin. The cuticle in the centre of the inflamed spot separates or is rubbed off, and a raw surface is thus ]eft which gradually enlarges in depth and extent, leaving an angry-looking sore exuding a sanious discharge. Supposing the destructive process to now cease, minute red points called granulations spring up from the surface of the sore, and the discharge is replaced by pus. The ulcer skins over from the margins, till the raw surface is thus covered in, and finally a scar only is left to mark the situation of the former wound. The Minute Changes are as follows :—The tissues at the focus of inflammation where stasis has already occurred become infiltrated with serum and leucocytes; the cells Fig. 4.—Diagram of ulceration. Formation of granulation-tissue. New capillaries growing out amongst the small round cells from the old capillaries. of the Malpighian layer of the epidermis, of the dermis, and of the subcutaneous tissue proliferate; the cells of the cuticle are in consequence pushed forward before they have had time to assume their horny character, and the cuticle thus softened readily separates or is rubbed off, leaving the dermis raw and exposed. The infiltrated and softened tissues forming the surface of the sore34 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OE SURGICAL DISEASES. become disintegrated as in suppuration and are cast off in a molecular and partly liquid form, while those a little deeper become completely replaced by the leuco- cytes and proliferating cells which form a layer of vascular granulation-tissue (Fig. 4), essentially similar to that forming an abscess wall. When the cause of the ulcera- tion is removed the circulation around becomes normal, the infiltration of leucocytes and serum and proliferation of the tissue cells cease, and although the superficial cells of the granulation-tissue at first degenerate and are cast off as pus, under healthy conditions the granulation-tissue soon outbalances in its growth the superficial disintegra- tion and thus fills up the ulcer. New epithelium is formed from the old epithelium at the margin of the ulcer, and gradually spreads over the surface of the granulations till the ulcer is finally skinned over. The granulations develop into fibrous tissue which slowly contracts, helping to reduce the size of the wound. Causes.—Ulceration, like suppuration, is due to the action of the pyogenic micrococci on tissues weakened by previous inflammation. Por a fuller account of the causes of ulceration, therefore, the student is referred to the causes of inflammation and suppuration. Here it may briefly be said that the ulcerations of the integu- ments so common in surgical practice are generally the result of:—1. Injury, often slight, inflicted on parts the vitality of which is already lowered by poor living, ad- vancing age, and chronic congestions due to varicose veins, long-standing, &c. 2. Certain morbid states of the system, such as are produced by syphilis and struma. 3. Pressure, especially when conjoined with a defective nerve-supply, as an example of which may be mentioned bed-sores occurring in cases of injury to the spinal cord. The treatment of ulceration varies according to the local condition of the ulcer and the constitutional state of the patient, and will be discussed under Varieties of Ulcers. All that need be said in general is, that the cause should if possible be removed, all sources of irri- tation avoided, the constitutional state of the patient treated with appropriate remedies, and such dressings applied as are indicated by the local condition of the ulcer. Diseases oe cicatrices.—After an ulcer has healed over and the granulation-tissue has been converted into fibrous tissue, this latter continues to shrink, leading toIJLCERS. 35 obliteration of the blood-vessels in the cicatrix and causing contraction and often distortion of the sur- rounding parts. Cicatrices differ from normal skin in that they are devoid of sweat-ducts, hair-foliicles, seba- ceous glands, and lymphatics, and being also but poorly supplied with nerves and vessels, are very apt to break down on slight provocation leading to a re-opening of the ulcer. Moreover, owing to their unstable nature they are liable to undergo certain changes and become the seat of eczema, hypertrophy, keloid, epithelioma and warty excrescences, and to be attended with itching, pain, and intense neuralgia. ULCERS. An ulcer is the term applied to an open sore produced by a loss of substance of the free surface of the skin or mucous membrane in the process of ulceration, or of ulceration and gangrene combined. The term, moreover, is sometimes extended to any open granulating wound the result of an injury or operation. Varieties of Ulcers.—The various names given to ulcers are derived either from their local conditions and sur- roundings or from their specific cause. The characters of the specific ulcers, however, often become obscured by accidental local conditions, and these latter again are constantly changing from day to day, so that an ulcer which at one time would be called callous may at another be in a sloughing state. The following are examples of the chief types of ulcers, but in practice many minor shades of di:fference in the local appearances are met with, so that it may be difficult or impossible to assign a given ulcer to a particular type. A. Ulcers ivhose characters depend upon their local condition. The simple^ healthy, or healing idcer.—The edges are- smooth and shelving, and extend in the form of a bluish- white film over the marginal granulations. The base is level, or nearly so, and covered with healthy granulations. The discharge is inodorous pus, ' laudable' pus as it was formerly called, or if the ulcer is dressed antiseptically, and all irritation avoided, merely healthy serum. The D 236 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SXJBGICAL DISEASES. surrounding skin is healthy. This is the type that all ulcers assume when healing. Treatment,—Eest and pro- tection by any light unirritating dressing* is all that is usually required. When large, cicatrization may be pro- moted by skin-grafting. Two methods are employed. (a) Old method of skin-grafting.—Small pieces of healthy skin, including the rete mucosum or actively-growing epithelial layer but not the whole thickness of the corium, should be snipped from the patient's arm or elsewhere by the skin-grafting scissors and placed at once with gentle pressure on the granulating surface of the ulcer, and retained there by suitable dressings until they have become adherent. After a few days the grafts often disappear, but this may only be owing to the loss of the horny layer of the epidermis which gives them their opacity. The active deeper layer which is transparent may still be there, and the grafts, if the process is suc- cessful, will become apparent in a few days, as in the course of growth the deeper cells are pushed forward and become horny. Erom each islet of epithelium thus grafted new epithelium spreads over the surface of the sore. The granulating surface of the ulcer must be healthy or the grafting will not succeed, [h) New method of skin-grafting (Thiersch's).—The ulcer should first be brought into a healthy condition, all strong antiseptics washed off with boiled salt solution so that they may not come into contact with the grafts, and the granulations scraped away. Longitudinal shavings of skin should then be taken from the arm or thigh with a sharp razor, carried on the razor to the ulcer, and laid upon its surface. The grafts should overlap the margins or they will in retracting leave a border of granulations. There should be no subcutaneous tissue or fat on the under surface of the graft; indeed it is only necessary to shave off the tops of the papillae, as the thinner the graft the more easily it is handled. The grafts, if preferred, may be taken from an amputated limb, or from a puppy, rabbit or frog. Sponge-grafting, when the ulcer is deep, has been recommended by Professor Hamilton, but in the cases in which I have seen it tried it has not been successful. The exuberant or fungous ulcer is generally due to ob- structed venous return from the granulations, the result of undue contraction of surrounding tissues, as seen, for example, after a burn. The edges are healthy, but theULCEUS. 37 granulations rise up above the surface, and are turgid, dark red, redundant, and readily bleed. The discharge is purulent. Treatment—Solid nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper should be rubbed over the granulations until they are reduced to healthy proportions. The cedematous or weak ulcer generally occurs in con- nection with tubercular bones or joints, but any ulcer may become cedematous if healing is delayed by the too long use of emollient applications. The edges and surround- ings are generally healthy; and the granulations are up-raised, flabby, bulbous, semi-translucent, watery, and friable. The discharge is profuse and watery. Treats ment.—Eemoval of the cause where possible; uniform pressure; and application of lotions of nitrate of silver, or like astringents. The inflammatory and inflamed ulcer.—These terms are applied to ulcers in which the inflammatory phenomena are the most marked feature. The inflammation may depend on some constitutional disturbance consequent upon alcoholism, poor living, and the like; or it may be the result of local irritation applied to any ulcer what- ever its previous character. Por the purpose of distinc- tion, the term inflammatory is applied to the former condition, whilst the term inflamed is generally restricted to ulcers of the latter class. Inflammatory ulcers have generally an irregular shape, the edge& are ragged and shreddy, or abrupt or sharp-cut; the surrounding skin is red and cedematous, and the base void of granulations, dry, livid-red, or covered with a serous or sanious dis- charge mixed with tissue-debris, and if the inflammation is very acute, with yellow sloughs. When inflammation attacks a previously granulating ulcer, the granulations become florid and swollen, and generally slough, whilst the surrounding parts present the ordinary inflammatory phenomena. The treatment should consist of rest, the elevation of the part, the removal of all local irritation, the application of warm antiseptic lotions, as boracic acid, on lint, attention to the constitutional state, and regu- lation of the secretions. The sloughing ulcer.—This is merely a severer degree of the former, and it differs from it in that the inflammatory process is more intense and of a spreading character. It is seldom met with except in connection with venereal disease. The micro-organisms at work in this and the next form of ulcer are probably only the ordinary pyo-38 GET^ERAL PATHOLOGY OE SITRaiCAL DISEASES. genie micrococci found in all ulcers, but liere acting with greater intensity in a vitiated constitution. The ulcer spreads with great rapidity, the edges are utfdermined, inverted, and dusky red, and the base is covered by an ash-grey or black slough. There is commonly much pain and severe constitutional fever. The treatment is similar to that of the inflamed variety. Antiseptics should be freely used if the ulcer is foul, and opium given if there is much pain. When due to syphilis, the proper remedies for that affection should, of course, be given; but mercury should be used cautiously, or be altog^ether withheld till the sloughing has ceased. The ;phagedcmic ulcer^ owing to improved sanitation and hygiene, and the more scientific treatment of wounds, is seldom seen at the present day, except in connection with venereal disease in persons whose constitution is thoroughly broken down by intemperance, poor living, and general neglect. The edges of the ulcer are irregular, swollen, and undermined, and the skin around is of a dark, purplish, and dusky red colour. The surface is devoid of granulations, and covered with a dark blood-stained ichorous discharge often mixed with sloughs. When the sloughing proceeds to any extent, the ulceration is spoken of as sloughing phagedcena. The ulcer spreads with fearful rapidity, and often destroys the whole organ, as the penis or vulva, and is attended with severe constitutional dis- turbance. Treatment. — The patient should be placed under an anaesthetic, the surface of the ulcer dried, and then thoroughly destroyed with fuming nitric acid. I prefer this method myself as being most efficacious and radical in its action. Some surgeons are content, how- ever, merely to apply carbolic acid (1 in 20) or per- chloride of mercury (1 in 1000), and then dust with iodoform. The continuous use of the hot bath is often of much service in phagedeena of the penis and vulva. Internally opium should be given in full doses, with tonics, nourishing diet, and when indicated, stimulants. Thorough ventilation and good hygiene generally are imperative. The chronic, callous, or indolent ulcer.—This condition of an ulcer is the result of continued irritation and neglect, in consequence of which the edges become infiltrated with inflammatory material, which impedes the circulation and prevents healing. It is very common in the lower third of the leg in the poorer classes, The edg^s are sniQOth,39 TOCEES. white, callous, rounded, steep, and quite insensitive when touclied. The skin around is generally congested or eczematous. The base is covered with a thin sanious dis- charge, whilst there are either no granulations, or such as are present are small, flabby, pale, and ill-formed. These ulcers often exist for years, and are usually attended with but little pain, and though they are at times small, at other times extend nearly round the leg. They are often adherent to the fascia, periosteum, or bone. Old callous ulcers when subjected to continued irritation are apt, as age advances, to become epitheliomatous. Treatment.—The callous edges should first be softened by emollient dressings, and uniform pressure subse- quently applied by a Martin's bandage, or by strapping and a bandage after Baynton's method. When very large, amputation under some circumstances may be called for. The varicose and eczematous ulcer.—These terms are applied to any ulcer, whatever its other characters, when associated respectively with a varicose state of the veins, or an eczematous condition of the skin. Both conditions frequently occur together, and are described under Vari- cose Veins. The irritable or painful ulcer.—Though any ulcer may be irritable or painful, the above terms are generally re- stricted to a small painful ulcer about the anus (see Diseases of Eectum), and to a small, superficial, generally congested ulcer, commonly situated about the ankle, and occurring chiefly in women beyond middle life. The pain is often intense, and is generally believed to depend upon the involvement of the nerve-endings. Treatment.—The improvement of the general health, small doses of opium, and cauterization with nitrate of silver will often suffice to cure the ulcer. In inveterate cases an attempt may be made to divide the nerves subcutaneously after the manner of Hilton. B. Ulcers whose characters depend upon their specific origin, Tuherculous or Strumous ulcers are generally due to the breaking down of enlarged tuberculous lymphatic glands, the bursting of subcutaneous tuberculous abscesses, or the ulceration of the so-called tuberculous or strumous40 GEN^ERAL PATHOLOGY OE SURGICAL DISEASES. nodules. They are generally multiple and often confluent, forming an irregular indolent sore. The edges are pale, bluish-pink, thin, and undermined. The granulations are pale, oedematous, protruding, and readily bleed when touched. The discharge is thin, yellowish-green and scanty. Enlarged glands and cicatrices of former ulcers are frequently present in their near neighbourhood. The cicatrices are generally raised, pale pink or white, whilst the skin is often puckered in around them. Treatment.— Constitutionally that for struma and tubercle. Locally the sore should be destroyed by paring away the edges and scraping the base with a Yolkmann's spoon. The cicatrices may sometimes be dispersed by repeated blis- terings or by subcutaneous division. Syphilitic ulcers. — Primary ulcers or chancres are described under syphilis. Those occurring in the course of constitutional syphilis may be divided into the super- ficial and deep, (a.) The superficial occur in the course of pustular and tubercular syphilides, and are often asso- ciated with patches of these eruptions on other parts of the body. They are usually circular or crescentic in shape, spreading by their convex margin, and healing on their concave. Their edges are sharp-cut and often surrounded by an areola of dusky redness ; their base is but slightly depressed, and of a dark red colour, and is often covered by a yellow slough, or a rupial or ecthyma- tous scab. Several of these ulcers frequently coalesce, giving rise to a serpiginous or annular form of ulceration, which is very characteristic of syphilis, (h.) The deep are due to the breaking down of gummata. They are circular or oval in shape ; their edges are steep, sharp-cut, slightly scooped out, and of a dull red colour; and their base is depressed and covered with a yellow wet-wash- leather-like slough and the debris of breaking-down tissue. They leave slightly depressed, white cicatrices, often surrounded with pigmentation. Treatment.—Con- stitutionally, iodide of potassium should be given in full doses, combined in obstinate cases with small doses of mercury; whilst locally a poultice may be applied till the slough has separated, and then black wash, iodoform, or the red oxide of mercury ointment. Gouty ulcers are such as are met with over gouty parts. They are small and superficial, and the discharge as it dries leaves a chalk-like deposit of urate of soda on the surface of the ulcer. The treatment is that for gout,41 GANGRENE. The scorhutic ulcer. —Should an ulcer exist in a person affected with scurvy, its surface becomes covered by a spongy, dark-coloured, strongly-adherent foetid crust, the removal of which is attended with free bleeding, and is followed by the rapid reproduction of the same material. The treatment is that for scurvy. Lupous, epitheliomatous, rodent, carcinomatous, and sarco- matous ulcers will be found described in the sections on Lupus, Tumours, &c. GANGBENE OR MORTIEIOATIOIS'. Although gangrene may occur from causes other than inflammation, it is, as we have seen, one of its results, and is therefore described here. It di:ffers from ulceration in that the affected tissue dies en masse instead of in a molecular manner. General outline of the process,—Let us take as our type gangrene as it occurs in a superficial part as the result of inflammation. The part which was previously hot, red, painful, and swelled becomes cold, gradually falling to the temperature of the surrounding medium. The pain, which just before the gangrene sets in, is often of a peculiar burning character, ceases, and sensation is com- pletely lost both to the touch and to other external stimuli. The skin, formerly red, becomes of a peculiar pale earthy colour, mottled in places with patches of green or red. Now the cuticle separates in the form of blebs, or can be removed by gentle rubbing, leaving the dermis below wet and slippery. A peculiar crepitant sensation is felt on pressure, on account of the formation of putrescent gases in the tissues, which, if cut into, are found stained and infiltrated with a reddish fluid. The part next becomes blackish-brown, and exhales the peculiar odour of decomposing animal matter. Supposing the process ceases to spread, ulceration is set up at the expense of the living tissue bordering upon the gan- grenous part; a bright red line (the line of demarcation as it is called) is thus formed between the living and the dead; this deepens, and finally the gangrenous part is thrown off in the form of a sphacelus or slough, leaving a healthy granulating wound which cicatrizes in the usual way. The minute changes which occur during the above process are as follows:—In consequence of the intense42 GENERAL PATHOLOOY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. action of the micrococci on the weakened tissues the infil- tration of leucocytes and proliferation of connective- tissue-cells are so excessive that the blood supply of the tissues at the focus of inflammation is cut off by the compression and thrombosis of the smaller arteries and capillaries, and partly owing to the loss of the blood supply and partly as the result of the direct action of the products of the micro-organisms the part loses its vitality and dies. The red corpuscles break down, and their haemoglobin is dissolved in the albuminous fluid infil- trating the tissues, and stains them a deep red. Septic bacteria make their way through the skin and putre- faction sets in. The tissues disintegrate and liquefy, sulphuretted hydrogen and other putrescent gases are generated, and the part rapidly passes through changes similar to those it would undergo if it were no longer in connection with the body. Unless bacteria enter, the tissues undergo fatty changes (necrobiosis), not putrefac- tion. If the gangrene ceases to spread, the living tissues immediately in contact with the dead part, owing to the irritation of the micrococci, become intensely inflamed (hence the red line of demarcation) and, subsequently, in consequence of the peptonising action of the products of the micrococci and of the leucocytes and proliferated tissue cells, with which they become infiltrated, soften and break down into pus in the way described under Ulceration, and their cohesion being thus lost, the dead part is cast off. Haemorrhage, during the process of separation, is prevented by the thrombi filling the vessels, which, subsequently, become permanently sealed as ex- plained in the section on Haemorrhage. Granulations in the meanwhile spring up on the surface of the ulcer left on the removal of the slough, and cicatrization is finally effected. In the meanwhile, if the gangrene is at all extensive, or affects a vital organ, as a knuckle of intes- tine, it exercises a marked effect on the constitution. The vital powers are depressed, the heart's action is feeble, the pulse small, soft, and quickened, the tongue dry and brown, the lips are covered with sordes, and the appetite is lost; whilst later, as the products of putrefac- tion are absorbed into the system, symptoms of septic poisoning (saprcemia) set in. The above may be taken as a type of what is called inflammatory gangrene. Gangrene, however, may result from causes other than inflammation, and the dead part,43 GANGBEKE. instead of becoming swollen and infiltrated witti fluids, may shrivel up and become quite dry and mummified. Hence the division sometimes made into moist and dry gangrene. The moist or dry appearance of the part depends upon whether the tissues at the time that gangrene supervenes are charged with blood as in inflammatory gaogrene and in gangrene from venous obstruction; or, whether they are more or less deprived of blood, as in gangrene from the blocking of the main artery supplying the part. The two conditions sometimes run into one another, the dead part at first being moist, and subsequently becoming, as the fluids evaporate, more or less dry. The different appearances presented by the gangrenous part will be further described under Varieties of Gangrene, as it varies according to the cause producing it. The causes of gan- grene, therefore, must first be considered. Causes,—The immediate cause of gangrene, whether the process is induced by inflammation, as described above, or otherwise, may be said to be any agent which is capable of destroying the vitality of the tissues or cutting off their nutrient supply. The agents capable of inducing one or other or both of these conditions are very numerous. Some of them are in themselves alone sufli- cient to act in this way. For others, however, to become operative, certain prior changes in the tissues would appear to be necessary. The causes of gangrene, there- fore, may be considered under the heads of predisposing and exciting. The Predisposing causes are such as impair the vitality of the tissues, and render them less able to resist injurious influences. They, therefore, include those already given under Inflammation (p. 6), and amongst them may be especially mentioned old age, feeble action of the heart, chronic congestion of a part, deteriorated blood as in diabetes and Bright's disease, and impairment or loss of nerve influence from injury or disease of the nerve- centres or nerve-trunks. Exciting causes.—These may be considered under the following heads :—1. Physical or chemical agencies^ which act by directly destroying the vitality of the tissues. Among these may be mentioned mechanical violence, as a severe crushing of part of a limb; excessive heat, as in burns and scalds; intense cold, as in frost-bite; chemical action from strong acids, alkalies, putrid secretions, and44 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SUEGICAL DISEASES. the like. Althougli these may,, act by directly killing the tissues of the part, their action is often aided by inflam- mation, as seen for instance in a crushed foot, where both the injury and the subsequent inflammation determine the death of the member, 2. Inflammation causes gangrene in part by the pressure of the inflammatory exudation and the thrombosis of the vessels cutting o£E the nutritive supply, and in part by the action of the irritant causing the inflammation. The latter is especially the case in the septic and infective inflammations, the noxa here being either the products of putrefaction [^ptomaines) or micro-organisms, especially the streptococcus pyogenes. Some inflammations always terminate in gangrene, as carbuncle and malignant pustule. The manner in which micro-organisms act in producing gangrene is not deter- mined, but it is believed to be due to the peptonising action of their products on the tissues. 3. OhstrucUon to the arterial supply^ as from ligature of the main artery, embolism, thrombosis or rupture of the artery supplying the part, and spasm of the arterioles due to long ingestion of ergot. 4. Obstruction to the capillary circulation from thrombosis or pressure. As examples of this may be men- tioned, bed-sores from pressure of the part between the bed and a point of bone; the death of the skin and bone in cellulitis and periostitis respectively from compression of the capillaries by the inflammatory effusion; local sloughing from the pressure of a splint or a new growth; cancrum oris from thrombosis of the capillaries, &c. 5. Obstruction to the venous return as seen in strangulated hernia, paraphimosis, tight bandaging, &c. Obstructed venous return, however, is generally associated with ob- struction to the arterial supply as well. The Signs of gangrene vary considerably according to the cause. The general symptoms in the acute inflamma- tory form have already been given in the outline of the process (p. 41). Those of the special forms will be further mentioned under varieties of gangrene and elsev/here, as in the section on Cancrum oris, &c. The Treatment, like the symptoms of gangrene, depends so much upon the cause and nature of the gangrene, that its details can only be given under the special varieties. Here, however, it may be said that the general indications for treatment, whatever the variety, are—(1) To remove where possible the cause, as a tight bandage constricting a limb, putrefactive processes in wounds, tension, pressure,45 and so on. (2) To prevent gangrene, when threatened, from actually occurring by maintaining the warmth of the part, and endeavouring to relieve the embarrassed circulation by elevating the limb, and by gentle friction when there is venous congestion; and (3) When gangrene has actually occurred, to check it spreading; to promote the separation of the dead from the living part, or remove it by amputation; to control as far as possible the for- mation of the products of putrefaction by keeping the part dry, and by the free use of antiseptics; to support the patient's strength; to counteract the deleterious effects on the constitution from the absorption of the septic poison; and to soothe pain by opium. Varieties of gangrene.—We have just seen that gan- grene is generally divided into the moist and dry according to the condition of the gangrenous part. Although these may be looked upon as more or less accidental conditions, depending upon the amount of fluid in the tissues at the time that gangrene supervenes, they are convenient for the purpose of classihcation, and are thus used here. As examples of moist gangrene may be mentioned— (1) Inflammatory gangrene, (2) Traumatic gangrene, (3) Hospital gangrene, (4) Phagedsena, (5) Cancrum oris and Noma, (6) Carbuncle, (7) Bed-sores, (8) Diabetic gangrene. As examples of the dry—(1) Senile gangrene, (2) Gangrene from embolism or ligature of a main artery, (3) Gangrene from frost-bite, and (4) Eaynaud's disease. Thus it will be seen that there may be made almost as many varieties of gangrene as there are causes producing it. Here only a brief account of a few of the typical varieties can be given; others, as Hospital gangrene, Phagedsena, Cancrum oris, &c., are described in the sections on Septic processes in wounds, Diseases of the Cheeks, Skin, &c. Traumatic gangrene may be divided into the local and the spreading. Local traumatic gangrene is of common occurrence in surgical hospital practice. It may be the result of a severe injury, such as the crushing of a limb, whereby the tissues are killed outright or their vitality is so lowered that the blood extravasated from the wounded vessels is sufficient in addition to the lowering of their vitality to kill them. Again, it may be due to the rupture of a main artery or vein without any lesion of the skin. The symjotoms in these cases are as follows:—The limb is46 GEKEKAL PATHOLOGY OF StTRGICAL DISEASES.. cold and swollen, its sensibility is lost or blunted, and the pulse below the seat of injury is indistinguishable. As the patient recovers from the shock of the injury the circulation may return and all may be well; or the vitality of the part may become completely lost, the skin discoloured, and the other signs of putrefaction, already described, set in. Here the process is entirely a local one, and is dependent neither on constitutional disturb- ance, inflammation, nor septic agencies. But if the limb be not removed, the septic products will give rise to local inflammation and to constitutional signs of blood-poison- ing. The treatment consists in amputation well above the gangrenous j)art as soon as the diagnosis is thoroughly established; but as long as it is doubtful whether the limb will not recover, the part should be handled with all gentleness, kept warm with cotton-wool, and placed at rest on a pillow, while stimulants should be administered, and tight bandaging and splints avoided, as such might be sufticient to determine the death of the part. Spreading traumatic gangrene is a much more serious affection. Here the gangrene spreads with fearful rapidity towards the trunk, and is attended with severe constitu- tional symptoms. It occurs in two forms, one of which appears to depend upon the constitutional condition of the patient and is unattended with inflammation; the other upon a septic or infective inflammation. The former occurs in persons whose vitality has been lowered by previous ill-health or internal injury. It usually comes on about the second or third day after an injury that has been generally though not necessarily severe. The limb becomes swollen, cold, and of an earthy or leaden hue, and the gangrene rapidly extends towards the trunk unattended with any local sign of inflammation; the patient falls into a typhoid condition, and sinks as the gangrene reaches the trunk. The second or septic form is most frequent after severe crushes or bruises of a limb, especially the lower, with injury of the bone, as com- pound fracture attended with extravasation and retention of blood or serum in the tissues. The gangrene begins at the edge of the wound and spreads up towards the trunk, but is preceded by a blush of inflammatory redness and emphysema of the tissues. In this case the gangrene is • probably the result of an infective micro-organism in the wound {hacillus oedernatis maligni); the system becomes' poisoned by the absorption of the septic or infective pro--GANGEENE. 47 ducts ; and the ordinary signs of septic intoxication {saprcemia) ensue. Treatment.—In the first variety, depending on the con- stitutional condition of the patient, no treatment hitherto has been of any avail, as the gangrene almost invariably recurs in the flaps if amputation is performed. In the second variety, amputation, as far removed from the injury and gangrene as possible, should be resorted to early, so as to be well above the infiltrated tissues. It is of no use waiting for a line of demarcation, as one does not form. The strength must be supported by stimulants and fluid nourishment, and opium given to relieve pain. As the gangrene often spreads higher along the inner side of the limb than the outer, the flaps should in such cases be taken from the outer side so as the better to avoid the infiltrated tissues. Senile gajstgrene is generally taken as a typical example of the dry variety, but is often more or less moist when starting in inflammatory action. It is usually the result of calcification or of atheroma of the arteries and consequent clotting of blood on their roughened surface, a cause rendered more effective in old people by the weak propelling action of the heart, and feeble circulation through the lower limbs. It may occasionally be pro- duced by embolism. It often begins apparently spon- taneously as a black spot on one of the toes or the side of the foot; or it may start as a slight or diffuse inflamma- tion induced by cutting a corn, a trivial injury of the foot, or ulceration of a bunion, and is often preceded by coldness and numbness, or cramp in the feet. It may gradually involve the whole foot and part of the leg, the parts becoming dry, black, and shrivelled. The process of separation is usually very slow, and at first is attended with very little constitutional disturbance. It frequently terminates fatally. Treatment.—It is generally held that the parts should be allowed to separate spontaneously, the surgeon merely stepping in to help nature by severing the bone or any tendons that may remain after the softer tissues have separated. If this treatment is followed the limb in the meantime should be kept at a uniform tem- perature by wrapping it in cotton-wool; the odour of the gangrenous part kept in check by dressings of iodoform or dried charcoal; the strength supported by fluid nourishment and stimulants; and pain relieved and the circulation controlled by small doses of opium. The48 GEMRAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. result of this treatment, however, is at the best un- satisfactory. It has been proposed by Mr. Hutchinson, therefore, to amputate at a distance from the gangrene, through the thigh in gangrene of the foot, the objection to amputation in the neighbourhood being the liability of the flaps to slough, the risk of secondary haemorrhage, and the difficulty of securing the arteries. These dangers have probably, however, been much lessened since the introduction of antiseptics, and successful cases of ampu- tation through the thinnest part of the leg—a much less severe procedure in itself than amputation through the thigh—have been reported. Diabetic gangrene, as the name implies, occurs in persons the subject of diabetes. In some respects it resembles senile gangrene in that it usually occurs in moderately old people, starts in the lower extremity, frequently in the sole of the foot, and is generally the result of a trifling injury, and at times of a perforating ulcer. It spreads more rapidly, however, shows little tendency to be limited by a line of demarcation, and instead of being dry, generally remains moist. The local treatment is similar to that for senile gangrene, but ampu- tation as a rule is inadmissible on account of the diabetes, for which the usual remedies may be given, care being taken however in their employment not to lower the patient's strength. Eaynatjd's Disease is a peculiar form of spontaneous gangrene usually affecting symmetrically the fingers, toes, or more rarely the ears. It generally occurs in children or young persons who have previously suffered for a longer or shorter period from intermittent attacks of numbness and coldness of the extremities, generally brought on by cold weather {local syncope), followed later in many cases by blueness and congestion, accompanied by burning pain [local asphyxia), which, in its turn, shows a tendency to run into actual death of the part [gangrene)» The gangrene is usually of the dry kind, but in the toes and shins a bleb often forms, and the parts slough [moist gangrene). This condition is supposed to depend upon some disturbance of the vaso-motor nerve-centre inducing spasm of the arterioles, or in some cases upon a peripheral neuritis, but no organic lesion has yet been discovered. Haematinuria is frequently observed in association with it. It does not appear at present to have ended fatally. Treatment,-;—ThQ constant descending current, as recom-TUBERCLE AND TUBERCULOSIS. 49 mended by Eaynaud, or placing the parts in an electric bath, has been attended with good results before gangrene has set in. When this has occurred it must be treated on general principles till the parts have separated. TUBERCLE AND TUBERCULOSIS. Tubercle is a new growth depending upon the pre- sence of the tubercle bacillus, and capable of inducing tuberculosis by transference to most animals. Tubercle may be limited to one set of tissues, or to an organ {local tuberculosis). Or it may be generally diffused throughout the whole body {general tuberculosis). Structure of tubercle.—Tubercle is met with under two forms, grey miliary nodules and yellow caseous masses. {a) The grey miliary tubercles have almost the lustre and hardness of cartilage. They are globular in shape and vary in size from a pin's point to a millet or mustard seed. They are sharply defined, and may be scattered throughout an organ or on a serous surface, or be grouped more or less closely, {b) The yelloiu caseous masses are soft in consistency and larger than the miliary tubercles, the larger masses being produced by the fusion of several tubercles. Yellow tubercle is believed to be due to the degeneration of miliary tubercle. In some cases of general tuberculosis only the miliary form may be found, in other cases only the yellow variety; but fre- quently the two forms are mixed, and the various stages from grey to yellow, from the central softening of the miliary tubercle to its complete conversion into a caseous yellow mass, can be traced. Microscopically a typical grey granulation when of some size is seen to consist of some smaller nodules aggregated together, whilst each of these again is composed of cells of various shapes and sizes, arranged in three zones (see Fig. 5). The inner zone is formed by one or more large branching so-called giant-cells, composed of a granular protoplasm, in which many large distinct oval nuclei containing nucleoli are found. The next zone consists of large single-nucleated cells, arranged between the branches or processes of the giant-cells, which ramify through the zone. These cells are called endothelioid, from their resemblance to endothelial cells. The third or outermost zone consists of lymphoid cells, like ordinary w. ' E50 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. leucocytes, scattered through a delicate reticulum of branched connective-tissue cells, which is sometimes continuous with the processes of the giant-cells. There is no distinct line of demarcation between the outer zone of lymphoid cells and the surrounding tissues. The tubercle-nodule, though sometimes seated upon a small vessel, is itself completely non-vascular. The bacilli may be found in the giant-cells especially in animals, and in and amongst the endothelial cells. They are less readily discovered after caseation has commenced. They are rod-like bodies usually straight, sometimes curved, rounded at the ends, and about one-fifth their length in breadth. Although the above may be regarded as the typical microscopical appearance of a miliary tubercle, often neither giant-cells nor endothelioid cells are present, whilst both these may be found in chronic inflammations which are not tubercular. Development of tubercle. — A tubercle nodule appears generally to arise from an endothelium such as is fouud in serous cavities or the walls of the blood-vessels or lymphatics. It is supposed that the bacilli are arrested at some spot in the affected organ whilst being carried through it in the blood stream, or else come into contactTUBERCLE AND TUBERCULOSIS, 51 with the tissues by direct inoculation. In the neigh- bourhood of the bacilli the endothelial cells proliferate, and form a group of large cells resembling those of endothelium. One or- more of these cells now increase in size whilst the contained nuclei continue to divide, thus forming the giant-cells. In the meanwhile a certain amount of inflammation takes place around, and leu- cocytes invade the tubercle from without, and pass inwards towards the centre amongst the endothelial cells. Secondary changes.—(1.) Tubercle, probably on account of the absence of blood-vessels and the pressure of the invading leucocytes, and possibly also on account of the noxious influence of the bacilli, is very liable to undergo caseous degeneration. This change begins at the centre of the tubercle in the giant-cells, and spreads out- wards. (2.) In chronic tuberculosis, instead of caseation occurring, a capsule of fibrous tissue may be formed around the nodule, and the cicatrisation extending in- wards until the giant-cell is involved, the whole tubercle may be converted into a mass of fibrous tissue. The tubercle bacillus is not found under such conditions. (3.) After caseation has occurred the tubercle may be- come encysted, or may undergo calcification, in both of which states it may remain harmless; or (4) it may become infected with pyogenic micrococci, which, acting as irritants, set up inflammation and suppuration in the tissues around, leading to the formation of an abscess, and subsequently on its bursting to an ulcer. Cause.—The immediate exciting cause of tubercle would appear to be the presence of the tubercle bacillus. The bacillus is believed in man to gain admission (1) by the digestive tracts as in the saliva of a phthisical mother or nurse, in milk taken from cows with tuberculous udders, or in imperfectly cooked tuberculous meat; (2) by the respiratory tract, as by close and long contact with the breath of phthisical patients, inhalation of the dust of dried phthisical sputa, &c.; and (3) by the skin. It is still doubtful if man is often inoculated through the skin; at any rate, there then seems little or no ten- dency for tubercle to spread beyond the point of inoculation. Predisposing causes.—For the bacillus to take effect a lowering of the vitality or resisting power of the tissues appears to be necessary. Such a condition of the tissues may be present: — (1) In children born of phthisical parents. Hence, heredity in this sense may be said to be E 252 GENEEAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. one of the chief predisposing causes, but it must be remembered that tubercle is not transmitted from the parent to the offspring as is syphilis; (2) In the so-called strumous diathesis ; and (3) In certain states of the sys- tem induced by bad hygiene and food, and imperfect assimilation of food and consequent impairment of nutri- tion. Tubercle is most common in the young, but adults and even old people are liable to it when exposed to like unfavourable conditions, a slight inflammation or injury then generally forming the starting point. Dissemination of Tuherde.—The bacillus having gained admission in one or other of the above-mentioned ways is believed to set up the tubercular process as previously described. The tubercular process may then (1) remain confined to the seat of inoculation, as in some forms of tubercle of the skin. Or (2) with or without any local manifestation it may spread by the lymphatics to the nearest lymphatic glands, and there become arrested. As an example of this may be mentioned the tuberculous or so-called strumous enlargement of the glands of the neck, in which the bacillus is believed to gain admission through a crack or small ulcer of the mucous membrane of the mouth or through an inflamed tonsil. Again (3) the bacillus may pass the glands and enter the circulation, and then either [a) become lodged in some organ or dis- tant part of the body, as the testicle, a bone or a joint, or (&) become disseminated, setting up general acute tuberculosis. The brunt of the affection falls in the latter case either on the lungs, acute tubercular phthisis, or on the membranes of the brain, acute tubercular meningitis. When affecting an organ or tissue, as a testicle or a joint, it may remain localized for a longer or shorter time, and even become cured; or it may set up inflammation, and involve and destroy the whole organ ; or finally become generally disseminated through the system, leading to geneial tuberculosis. Localization of Tubercle.—Tubercle has a special afiinity for certain organs and tissues to the exclusion of others. Serous membranes, such as the pleura, peritoneum, pia mater, and arachnoid, are especially liable to be affected ; whilst, on the other hand, the pericardium and the tunica vaginalis show an immunity. Of all organs the lung is most prone to suffer; next, though much less fre- quently, the testicle, kidney, brain, liver, spleen, supra- renals, and ovaries. The larynx and intestines may be-TUBEECLE AND TUBERCTJLOSIS. 53 come involved by the bacillus coming into contact witli them either in the breath or swallowed sputa \ yet the trachea, the stomach, and the upper part of the intestine generally escape. The bones and joints are frequent seats of the disease, which has a special predilection for the cancellous ends of the long bones and the short bones. The upper end of the femur and hip-joint, the ends of the femur and tibia forming the knee-joint, and the short bones and joints of the foot and hand are most often affected, the elbow-joint less often, and the upper end of the humerus and the clavicular joints but rarely. The scapula and ilium with the acetabulum may suffer, but the shafts of the long bones, the clavicle, and the ischium and pubes, apart from the acetabulum, escape. The bodies of the vertebrae are frequently attacked, while the laminae, with the spinous and transverse processes, remain free. The bones of the skull are rarely involved, those of the jaws and face never. Tuberculosis may occur in the skin and affect the glands, but lupus, which is believed to be a form of tuberculous disease, does not spread to the glands. The reason for tubercle aiffiecting any special organ or tissue is not known, but it is thought to depend on some previous lowering of vitality of the part, as a sprain of a joint, a blow on the testicle, &c. A general though brief account of tubercle has been here given to prevent repetition when treating of tuber- cular diseases of certain organs. As a surgical affection, it is chiefly met with in the bones, joints, testicle, lym- phatic glands, skin, larynx, and more rarely in the bladder and rectum. All that need here be said is, that such lesions are of a very chronic and indolent nature; that they are set up by very slight and apparently inadequate causes; that they exhibit a marked tendency to suppura- tion and progressive destruction or undermining of the tissues, and but little tendency to repair; that they are often productive of much scarring and deformity, as when they occur as abscesses in the neck; that they are gene- rally very obstinate and intractable as regards treatment; and that they may terminate in general dissemination of the tubercle through the body and death. The treatment should be both constitutional and local. Thus, the patient should be placed under as perfect hygienic conditions as possible, with residence at the sea- side, preferably Cromer or Margate, or where possible he may go a sea voyage. The diet should be nourishing54 GEI^ERAL PATHOLOGY 0^ SUHGlCAL DISEASES. but iinstmiulating witli plenty of milk and cream, whilst cod-liver oil or maltine and the syrup of the iodide or phosphate of iron are especially indicated. Koch's tuberculin has now had extensive trial in sur- gical tubercular affections. My own experience of it has been unfavourable, and such would appear to be that of the majority of Surgeons. A grave objection is the danger of setting up general tuberculosis. The local treatment required for the various lesions that may be present is given when describing these lesions as they occur in special tissues and organs. STEUMA OR SCROEULA. The terms struma and scrofula are here used synony- mously. To prevent confusion the former, as perhaps the one in more general use, will be subsequently employed. By struma or strumous is generally understood a consti- tutional condition or diathesis, in which, on very slight provocation, chronic inflammations of certain tissues and organs, preferably skin, mucous membrane, lymphatic glands, bones, joints and testicle are set up, run an in- dolent course, and have a marked tendency to caseation and suppuration. By many pathologists, however, these chronic inflammatory processes, which have been supposed to be characteristic of struma, are considered to be in themselves of a tuberculous nature, and dependent on the presence of the tubercle bacillus; whilst what is here called the strumous diathesis is regarded by them merely as a phase of ill-health or malnutrition, favourably disposing the subject to tubercular infection. Such observers, therefore, regard the terms strumous and tuberculous as synonymous. The histological characters and the general behaviour of many of the so-called strumous inflamma- tions are no doubt in many respects similar, if not identical, to those which are on all hands regarded as tuberculous, and in many of them the tubercle bacillus has been found. In others, however, even after a careful search, it has not been discovered; and if, therefore, the presence of the tubercle bacillus is to be taken as dis- tinctive evidence of tubercle, all the so-called strumous inflammations are not tuberculous. The constitutional condition or diathesis, moreover, regarded by surgeons as strumous, is certainly something more, though difiicult55 STRUMA OR SCEOrULA. to define, than a mere state of debility or feeble bealtb. It would appear, therefore, that the so-called strumous inflammations, though often tubercular, are sometimes of a simple chronic character, and only distinguishable from ordinary chronic inflammations by the indolence of their course and the tendency of their products to undergo caseation or become secondarily infected by the tubercle bacillus. And further that the strumous condition or diathesis is a constitutional state in which certain tissues and organs possess a feeble resisting power, and are hence exceedingly liable to be infected by the tubercle bacillus or on very slight injury to become inflamed, whilst the most trifling irritation, as friction, tension, or pressure, is then sufiicient to keep such inflammation up. The causes of the condition known as the strumous diathesis are hardly known, but it is thought to be here- ditary, and has been attributed to bad hygienic conditions of all kinds, as impure air, dark and damp dwellings, improper or insufficient food, &c. It is said to be espe- cially common in children born of dyspeptic or phthisical, or very young or very old parents. Syphilis in the parent is also believed by some to be a cause. Symptoms,—The general symptoms which are usually regarded as strumous, irrespective of any of the local lesions, as enlargement of the tonsils or of the lympathic glands, eczematous eruptions of the skin, disease in the bones or joints, and catarrh of the mucous membranes, are thus given by Sir William Savory, who speaks of two chief forms of the diathesis :—"In tlEie first, distinguished as the sanguineous or serous, there is a general want of muscular development; for although the figure may be sometimes plump and full, the limbs are soft and flabby ; the skin is fair and thin, showing the blue veins beneath it; the features are very delicate; often a brilliantly transparent rosy colour of the cheeks contrasts strongly and strikingly with the surrounding pallor ; the eyes grey or blue, are large and humid, with sluggish pupils sheltered by long silken lashes ; hair fine, blonde, auburn, or red ; teeth white and often brittle; there is frequently a fulness of the upper lip and alse nasi; the ends of the fingers are commonly broad, with convex nails bent over their ex- tremities. Such persons usually possess much energy and sensibility, with elasticity and buoyancy of spirits; they often possess, too, considerable beauty. In this variety, with the same delicacy, the skin and eyes are56 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SUHGICAL DISEASES. sometimes dark. In the second, distinguislied as the phlegmatic or melanclwlic, the skin, pale or dark, is thick, muddy, and often harsh, the general aspect dull and heavy; hair dark and coarse; the mind is often, but not always, slow and sluggish. Children especially, in whom the diathesis is strongly marked, are often distin- guished by the narrow and prominent chest, the tumid and prominent abdomen; and the paste-like complexion; the limbs are wasted; the circulation languid; chilblains are common on the extremities ; the mucous membranes particularly, and above all of them the digestive, are liable to morbid action ; the breath is often sour and foetid; the tongue is furred, and the papillae towards the apex red and prominent; the bowels act irregularly, and the evacuations are unusually offensive; the digestion weak; the appetite variable and capricious." An account of the lesions of the skin, mucous mem- branes, tonsils, lymphatic glands, bones, joints, testis, &c., which were regarded by the older pathologists as local symptoms of struma but are now generally believed to be due to tubercular infection, is given in the section on Diseases of Eegions. SYPHILIS. Syphilis may be divided into 1, the acquired, and 2, the inherited or congenital. Acquired syphilis is a constitutional disease due to direct inoculation with a specific virus. It is charac- terized by the appearance, after a certain period of incu- bation during which the poison is circulating in the system, of a local lesion at the seat of inoculation, fol- lowed by induration of the nearest lymphatic glands, and after a variable time by certain affections of the skin and mucous membranes and more rarely of the deeper tissues, and still later by fibroid changes in the tissues and viscera, or the formation of gummata which are exceed- ingly liable to break down and suppurate. General outline of the disease.—Beyond perhaps a slight abrasion, which heals in a few days, and is possibly thought no more of, nothing is probably noticed till about three weeks to a month. Attention is then called to the part by a slight irritation, and a red papule may be noticed which slowly enlarges, becomes indurated at the base, and perhaps ulcerates. This papule or ulcer is57 ACQUIKED SYPHILIS. called tlie primary chancre^ and the period which inter- venes between the date of inoculation and its appearance the period of incuhation. The- induration of the sore increases, and the neighbouring glands become hard and shotty. In from six weeks to three months from the date of inoculation, affections of the skin and mucous membrane begin to show themselves, and are known as secondary manifestations. The period between their appearance and the induration of the chancre is some- times called the secondary incubative period, during which time malaise, pain in the limbs, lassitude, &c., are noticed. The secondary affections are syminetrical, and though generally confined to certain superficial changes in the skin and mucous membranes, at times attack the deeper structures, as the bones, iris, &c. The secondary stage may last from two months to two years, and no further changes^ may manifest themselves, the disease appearing to be* worn out; or after a few months or years of apparent cure, further changes, known as tertiary symptoms, make their appearance. The tertiary affections are asymmetrical, and not only attack the superficial parts, but- are especially common in the deeper structures, as the bones, periosteum, and viscera. They consist in the formation of gummatous material in the skin and mucous membrane, which is very prone to break down and ulcerate; and of gummatous swellings in the bones, periosteum, and viscera, leading to suppuration, fibroid changes, necrosis, serious con- tractions, paralysis, &c. The tertiary affections may last for years or even for life, and not infrequently terminate fatally when involving vital structures. It should be thoroughly understood, however, that there is no hard and fast line between the secondary and tertiary stages of syphilis. The one may merge into the other, or the secondary symptoms may last into the period usually assigned to the tertiary, whilst the latter may show themselves a few months after the first appearance of the sore. Syphilis, like the exanthemata, as a rule confers immunity upon the patient from a second attack, although in rare instances a second attack has been known to occur. As long as the patient shows secondary manifestations of syphilis, it will probably be transmitted to any offspring. Hence, as a rule, a patient should not be allowed to marry for fully two years after the dis- appearance of the secondary symptoms.58 GENERAL I'ATSOLOGY OF StJlK^ICAL DISEASES* Peimary syphilis.—The primary or infecting chancre, or hard sore as it is sometimes called, though most often met with on the genitals, may occur on any part of the body exposed to infection, and hence is not infrequent on the fingers of accoucheurs, the lips, nipple, &c. On the genitals its most frequent situation is on the prepuce just behind the corona glandis in the male, and on the inner surface of the labia in the female; but it is often met with on the glans, the skin of the penis, and just within the urethra ; more rarely on the vaginal walls and OS uteri. It is commonly produced by direct con- tact with another chancre, or a mucous tubercle or other secondary lesion; but it may also be contracted indirectly in many ways, as by drinking out of an infected vessel, or by inoculation with infected lymph in vaccination. The exact nature of the virus is not known, but is believed by many to be a specific form of bacillus. It is probable that it is generally inoculated through a crack or abrasion, except in situations where the skin or mucous membrane is very thin and delicate. The period of incubation varies from ten days to six or seven weeks or even longer. When, however, the syphilitic virus is inoculated in the pure state it usually gives rise to no sign till three to five weeks, when a small papule will be noticed, which enlarges and becomes indurated at the base, and may either remain as an indurated nodule throughout or if irritated change into a small ulcer. Not infrequently, however, the virus may be conveyed in the pus of a non-infecting or soft chancre, under which circumstances a soft chancre will form in two or three days whilst the syphilitic poison is still circulating in the system, and after the incubative period is passed will manifest itself locally by induration about the base of the soft sore, or, if this is healed, by an indurated nodule at its former site. The characters of an infecting chancre vary. In the typical form {Hitnterian chancre), it is raised though slightly depressed at its centre, whilst its surface is either glazed or covered with epithelial debris or scanty secretion; there is scarcely any inflammation, but marked and sharply circumscribed induration about its base. The induration, however, may be absent in chancres on the glans penis and on the female genitals, and is seldom well marked in chancres on parts of the body other than the genitals. It must be borne in mind, moreover, that a non-infectingI^RIMAUY SYPHILIS. 5^ sore when inflamed may be attended with some inflam- matory induration, and hence may be mistaken for an infecting sore. This inflammatory induration, however, is diffused, and fades away into the surrounding parts; whereas the induration of an infecting sore feels as if a piece of cartilage or parchment had been inserted under the skin. Infecting chancres, though usually single, may be multiple if several spots are inoculated at the same time, all then appearing at the same stage of development; but when a primary chancre has once declared itself, showing that the system is impregnated with the poison, other chancres can no longer be produced by inoculation in the same patient. The duration of a primary chancre varies. It usually disappears quickly under the influence of mercury, but if untreated may last for many months. The lymphatic glands generally become enlarged about the same time as the induration of the primary sore, a con- dition known as indurated huho. Thus, if the chancre is on the genitals or about the anus, the inguinal glands are those affected; if on the finger, the epitrochlear or axillary; if on the lip, the submaxillary. They have a hard, shotty feel, remain distinct from each other, are not adherent to the skin, and do not, as a rule, suppurate. The induration is commonly greater in the inguinal glands than in those of other situations; but, at the same time, the enlargement is not so marked. The in- duration may subsequently affect all the glands of the body, especially the posterior chain in the neck. If the chancre is irritated or inoculated with pus from a soft chancre, or a soft chancre has formed simultaneously, then a suppurating huho may occur. Secondary syphilis.—The secondary symptoms con- sist of certain affections of the skin and mucous mem- branes, general enlargement of the lymphatic glands, and more rarely of inflammation of such deeper structures as the iris and periosteum. They generally set in from six weeks to six months after the appearance of the primary sore. They may assume a very severe, or a very mild form, or they may not occur at all, or may be so slight as to be overlooked. The skin eruptions may take various forms. The earliest to appear is usually a roseolous rash over the chest and abdomen. It is generally accompanied by a congested condition of the mucous membrane of the fauces, giving rise to a slight sore-throat. This rash is produced merely60 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF StTHGICAL DISEASES. by local congestion, and hence fades on pressure and usually disappears in a short time. But should the con- gestion continue, some infiltration of the skin may occur, and the epithelium take on increased growth, and be thrown off in the form of scales, the eruption being then known as a scaly syphilide or psoriasis. Should further infiltration occur, a papular syphilide, or lichen, may be produced; or if the process is more acute, serum may be exuded, and raise the cuticle in the form of small vesicles, or even of large blebs, conditions which are spoken of as a vesicular syphilide or eczema, and as a bullous syphilide or pemphigus respectively. Both, however, are rare, and the latter seldom occurs, except in congenital syphilis. Still later, especially where the patient is debilitated, the vesicles may be converted into pustules {pustular syphilide), while the pustules again may dry into scabs, which fall off, leaving no scar beneath [syphi- litic ecthy ma); or if the patient is cachectic, or his consti- tution broken down, ulceration may ensue beneath the scabs [rupda). The appearance presented by rupia is peculiar. As the ulceration proceeds in depth and extent, larger and larger scabs are successively formed beneath those above, which are thus pushed forward, giving the mass the appearance of a limpet-shell. Each rupial spot is surrounded by a dusky-red areola, and on the separa- tion of the scab, a foul circular ulcer is left, which, on healing, leaves a permanent scar. Eupia by some is regarded as an early tertiary, by others as a late secondary, affection. "With the exception of rupia the eruptions in syphilis resemble those due to non-syphilitic causes. They are, however, all modified by their coppery or raw- ham colour, by more or less surrounding pigmentation, by their symmetrical arrangement, by the circular or crescentic shape of the patches, by the absence of itching, by the absence of the large silvery scales seen in ordinary psoriasis, by their predilection for certain situations—i.e., the chest and abdomen, the space between the shoulders, the back of the neck, the forehead, especially about the roots of the hair, the palms and soles, and the flexor aspect of the limbs ; and lastly, by their polymorphism— i.e., their mixed character, the eruption being here papu- lar, here scaly, here pustular, &c. In situations where the parts are moist, as about the mouth, anus, and scrotal folds, the papillae become succulent and the epithelium sodden, forming condylomata. Where such occur between61 SECONDARY SYPHILIS. the toes, ulceration may ensue (rhagades); but this condi- tion is not common, except as the result of uncleaniiness. Condylomata appear as low, soft, flattened, sessile eleva- tions of a whitish colour, with a smooth -surface, covered by a moist secretion, and often of considerable size. They are intensely contagious, and when occurring where two skin surfaces are in contact, as about the anus and labia, are usually symmetrically placed on either side. The affections of the mucoiis memhranes are similar to those of the skin, and are also usually symmetrical. At first, they consist of mere congestions, later of infiltra- tions with overgrowth and soddening of the epithelium {mucous tubercles), and subsequently of superficial ulcera- tions from the breaking down of the infiltrating inflam- matory exudation. Mucous tubercles are especially common about the palate and fauces, side of the tongue, lips, and cheek, and appear as slightly elevated whitish- looking patches, giving the part somewhat the appearance of having been rubbed over with nitrate of silver. The ulcers, which occur in similar situations, particularly about the tonsils and corners of the mouth, are usually of a crescentic shape, with sharp-cut edges, and are quite superficial. Similar mucous patches and ulcers may occur in the larynx or about the anus or in the rectum. During the later secondary stages, besides the super- ficial eruptions and ulcerations which may still be present, the deeper structures may become involved. Amongst these maybe mentioned the iris, periosteum, bones, joints, ear, and testicle. The lymphatic glands, not only those nearest to the primary sore, but overall the body, become affected, the posterior cervical more particularly so. This condition is of service in diagnosis; but as it gives rise to no symptom, it is generally overlooked by the patient. Syphilitic iritis is especially characterized by the presence of nodules of lymph on the iris, the effusion into the anterior chamber, the comparatively small amount of pain, and its amenability to mercurial treatment. But the irregular pupil, discoloured iris, circumcorneal zone of congestion, photophobia, and patches of pigment on the lens, are also present as in other forms of iritis. The periostitis seldom gives rise to the distinct nodes so common in the tertiary stage; otherwise the symptoms are similar. The joint - affections are like those in rheumatism, and exhibit nothing very characteristic. Epididymitis and orchitis are occasionally observed, and62 OENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. are then generally symmetrical, thus differing from the gummatous affections of the testicle in the tertiary stage. The general health usually suffers, the hair becomes thin [syphilitic alopecia), and the patient anaemic. At times severe cachexia ensues, attended by much wasting and prostration. Tertiary syphilis.—The symptoms of the tertiary stage commonly occur after a period of apparent cure, sometimes within a few months after the cessation of the secondary symptoms, at other times not till after many years. Occasionally, however, they may be manifested within a few months of the primary sore, i.e., during the period usually assigned to the secondary stage. Moreover, between the termination of the secondary and the onset of the tertiary, certain skin eruptions, enlargements of the testicle, choroiditis, inflammations and ulcerations of the tongue, and psoriasis of the palms may occur, and have been spoken of as " reminders." They are by some re- garded as constituting an intermediary stage. The tertiary affections proper are of a more serious nature than the secondary, and show no tendency to spontaneous cure. They depend upon chronic inflammations in various tissues and organs, leading to the formation of granula- tion-tissue (gummata). The gummata may undergo caseation and break down, producing when situated in the subcutaneous and submucous tissue characteristic ulcers ; or they may continue for indefinite periods, or be slowly absorbed under appropriate treatment, leaving fibroid thickenings and scarrings in the capsules and substance of the affected organs. These gummata vary in size from a pea to a walnut, and are intimately blended with the surrounding tissues. They consist, roughly, of three zones ; in the central, the cells are breaking down and undergoing fatty change; in the next zone the cells are contained in a fibrillated matrix; in the outer zone numerous vessels ramify among the cells. The breaking down of the central portion is attributed to changes in the vessels causing a diminution of their calibre or com- plete thrombosis, whereby the blood-supply of the central zone is cut ofC and degeneration consequently ensues. Amongst the most common of the tertiary lesions may be mentioned—1, chronic gummatous inflammation of the periosteum and bones, leading to the formation of nodes, caries, or necrosis, and giving rise, as when attacking the bones of the nose, to horrible deformity; 2, gummatousTERTIATIY SYPHILIS. 63 infiltration of the skin and mucous membrane {tubercular syphilide) terminating in serpiginous ulceration; 3, gum- matous swellings in the subcutaneous and submucous tissue which may break down, forming deep ulcers the cicatrization of which causes severe contractions, as for instance those seen in stricture of the pharynx, glottis, and rectum; 4, gummata in the muscles; 5, gummata in the tongue, producing scarring and ulcers apt to terminate in epithelioma; 6, affections af the nervous system leading to paralysis.; 7, affections of tha arteries leading to embo- lism or aneurysm ; and 8, gummata, followed by contrac- tion and fibroid changes in the liver, lungs and other vis- cera. The various tertiary lesions will be further described under diseases of the special tissues and organs; for those affecting the lungs, liver, kidneys, and nervous system, a work on Medicine must be consulted. Here it must suffice to say that the tertiary lesions are usually asymmetrical; that they are not, as a rule, contagious; that they are chronic in their course; and that they often prove fatal by affecting important organs, as the lungs or brain, or by causing constriction of a passage, as the larynx or rectum. The treatment of syphilis necessarily varies according to the constitutional condition of the patient and the stage of the disease. The primary sore requires no other local treatment than the application of iodoform or black-wash and protection from irritation. Some, however, still ad- vocate its destruction by caustics or complete excision, and further recommend removal at the same time of the nearest indurated glands. The majority of Surgeons have 'regarded such treatment as useless, believing that the induration of the primary sore is merely an indication that the disease is already established in the constitution. Moreover, excision has repeatedly failed to prevent the occurrence of secondary symptoms. At the recent Inter- national Congress at Berlin, however, the consensus of opinion was in favour of the possibility of aborting the disease by an early excision. ConstUutionally, mercury in some form is by the majority of Surgeons thought to be necessaiy in all cases, it must, however, be given with caution to strumous and tuberculous subjects, and to persons whose constitution is impaired by dis- sipation, alcohol, or bad living. It should be with- held ^in chronic Bright's disease; nor should it be for- gotten that some patients exhibit a peculiar idiosyn-64 OENEEAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. crasy, in that they are violently salivated by a grain or two of the drug. Mercury may be given, 1, by the mouth; 2, by inunction; 3, by fumigation; and 4, by subcutaneous injection. It is, as a rule, perhaps, best given by the mouth, either in the form of a pill or mix- ture. As a pill, the green iodide in doses of |^ a grain to 2 grains, combined with ^ to J of a grain of opium to prevent purging, may be given two or three times a day, or the mercury and chalk powder in doses of from 2 to 3 grains, or calomel or blue-pill may be substituted for it. As a mixture, tKe perchloride in doses of ^ to ^ of a grain, combined with ammonia, is very useful. The green iodide possesses an advantage, in that the iodine prevents an accumulation of mercury in the system. Where mercury given by the mouth causes much irrita- tion of the bowels, it may be used in the form of an inunction, half a drachm to one drachm of mercurial ointment being rubbed into the inner part of the thigh or the axilla night and morning, the parts being thoroughly washed every day to prevent the ointment accumulating in the sweat ducts, &c. This is a rapid way of bringing the patient under the influence of the drug, as is also fumigation with calomel or other preparation of mercury, though this latter method may be followed by violent salivation. Subcutaneous injection appears to possess no special advantages over the other methods except perhaps in obstinate tertiary nerve lesions, and is apt to cause sores or abscesses at the point of puncture. The effects of the mercury should be judged by its action on the primary sore and secondary affections. Under its influence the induration of the sore rapidly disappears, and the rash fades. It should never be pushed beyond causing a slight soreness of the gums, the formation of a red line on their free margin, and tenderness on biting. Should salivation occur, the mercury should be imme- diately stopped, a gentle purgative given, the mouth rinsed with a gargle of chlorate of potash, and iron taken internally. The mercury should also be intermitted for a few weeks or so at a time if symptoms of depression come on. During the mercurial course the patient should avoid chills and abstain from alcohol, fresh fruit, and food liable to disturb the digestion and set up diarrhoea. The mercurial course may with advantage be continued for a year or more, and on its termination iron, tonics, and cod-liver oil should be given, whilst change of airTREATMENT OF SYPHILIS. 65 and the baths of Aix-la-Chapelle or Harrogate will be found beneficial. If mercury cannot be taken or is contra-indicated, iodide of potassium with a tonic treat- ment may be tried. During the secondary stages mercury should still be continued internallyv Locally, condylo- mata are best treated by dusting them with equal parts of calomel and oxide of zinc, under which they dry up very rapidly. Mucous tubercles about the fauces may be gargled with black-wash; superficial cracks and ulcers on the lips, tongue, &c., may be touched with a strong solution of nitrate of silver, or a lotion of bicyanide of mercury or chromic acid. Iritis should be energetically treated by mercury, or if this is already being given, the dose should be increased, whilst locally atropine should be dropped in the eye, and if there is much pain and the congestion is acute, leeches or blisters should be applied to the temple. In the tertiary stages iodide of potassium has the most marked effect. It may often be advan- tageously combined with ammonia, quinine, iron, or cod-liver oil, or even with small doses of mercury if the affection proves intractable. If badly tolerated kola chocolate may be given with it, or iodide of sodium or ammonium substituted for it. In tertiary nerve lesions in- tramuscular injections of perchloride of mercury (gr. J) or of salicylate of mercury (grs.l^) are strongly recommended. The injections are usually made once a week or oftener in the gluteal region, the syringe being passed deeply into the underlying muscle. The treatment of tertiary syphilis will be referred to more in detail under the Diseases of Tissues and Organs. Should phagedsena occur, it must be energetically treated by the continuous hot bath, or by the destruction of the ulcer with the fuming nitric acid or acid nitrate of mercury. Congenital or inherited syphilis is syphilis trans- mitted to the offspring by one or both of the parents, and must be distinguished from syphilis contracted by the infant coming in contact with a chancre on the genitals during birth, which would be a case of acquired syphilis. Cause.—The poison is transmitted through the sperma- tozoa of the father, or the ovum of the mother, and not by direct inoculation and the formation of a primary chancre as in the acquired form. Symptoms.—The child is usually born healthy, and though the virus is present in the system, the disease does not manifest itself as a w. p66 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. rule till the fourth or sixth week. In rare instances, however, infants are born with well-marked signs of syphilis; and at times the affection does not show itself till much later in life. But in the latter case the symp- toms are those of the tertiary stage, not those of the secondary stage delayed. The symptoms in a typical case usually set in with a chronic catarrh of the nasal mucous membrane, popularly known as the snuffles, fol- lowed by a rash on certain parts of the body, and mucous tubercles and superficial ulcerations about the mouth and anus. The catarrh may simulate merely a cold in the head, or be attended with a muco-purulent discharge, and cause obstruction to respiration and difficulty in sucking. The eruption, like that of the secondary stages of acquired syphilis, is symmetrical, and of the same peculiar coppery or raw-ham colour. It is most common about the nates and genitals, where it is usually erythe- matous in character, and on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, where it is commonly squamous. But it may be papular and at times bullous, or pustular. A well-marked mucous tubercle or condyloma about the anus is pathognomonic of the disease. These symptoms are frequently, though not invariably, accompanied by marasmus and wasting, the child looks shrivelled and old, the skin earthy and dry, whilst the hair may fall off, and the nails, iris, periosteum, and bones may be affected as in the acquired form. At this period death is far from uncommon. Usually, however, and especially under a mercurial course, the symptoms gradually subside, and by the end of the first year disappear altogether and no further manifestation of the disease may occur through- out life. But frequently after several years of immunity certain tertiary affections show themselves, the chief of these being interstitial keratitis, periostitis, and osteitis, followed by necrosis, disease of the ear often ending in total deafness, ulceration about the palate, chronic syno- vitis of one or more of the joints, and the formation of gummata in the viscera, testicle, &c. Along with these, certain important diagnostic symptoms, the result of the former secondary lesions, may be present, viz., 1, a de- pressed and widened condition of the bridge of the nose, due to the influence of the nasal catarrh upon the de- velopment of the nasal bones and septum; 2, radiating scars about the angle of the mouth, the result of the cicatrization of the former ulcers [Hutchinson''s lines); 3,COTs^GEIS-ITAL SYPHILIS. 67 a peculiar conformation of the skull, the result of the previous bone-lesion, consisting chiefly in a furrow above the eyebrows, a square forehead, and prominent frontal eminences; and 4, a characteristic appearance of the permanent central incisor teeth, consequent upon the action of the stomatitis upon them while yet soft and uncut. The distinctive sign of syphilis in these teeth is a slight crescentic notch in the biting edge (Fig. 6). They are also generally dwarfed, especially in width, their angles are rounded off, and their sides convex in outline {pegged teeth). These appearances must be dis- tinguished from those due to the action of mercurial stomatitis, the teeth so affected showing horizontal markings, or honey-comb-like excavations in the enamel (compare Figs. 6 and 7). The bone-lesions of congenital syphilis were until re- cently overlooked, or confounded with those of rickets, which they much resemble. Two forms are described, the osteophytic and the atrophic. In the osteophytic the cranial bones present localized and symmetrical thicken- ings {Parrofs nodes) in the region of the frontal and parietal eminences (the natiform or hot-cross-hun-like skull), and the long bones subperiosteal enlargements. In the atrophic the cranial bones, especially in the occi- pital region, are thinned or locally absorbed, so that the brain is only covered at these spots by a thin membrane {osteoporosis, craniotahes), and the long bones are enlarged at their epiphyses by the production of ill-formed bone and the absorption of the normal bone. These lesions are usually transitory, and generally give rise to little incon- venience; but at times separation of the epiphysis may occur, with inflammation of the neighbouring joint; and when several bones are affected, the child may be so chary of movement on account of the pain it causes that infan- tile paralysis may be simulated. Treatment.—In the early stages mercury generally acts like a charm. It is best administered as an inunction by putting half a drachm of blue ointment on the binder of the child and allowing it to be thus rubbed into the skin. Or it may be given in the form of mercury and chalk in doses of from half to one grain, but is then apt to cause diarrhoea. Mercury, however, should be given with caution if there is much marasmus, and discontinued as soon as the symptoms have cleared up, lest mercurial stomatitis be induced and the permanent teeth suffer in F 268 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OE SURGICAL DISEASES. consequence (Fig. 7). The child should be well and carefully fed during the mercurial course, and small doses of cod-liver oil may often be taken with advantage. If the mother is unable to suckle the infant it must be brought up by hand, not by a wet nurse, for fear of her nipple becoming affected with a primary chancre, a danger the mother herself does not run, even although she has exhibited no signs of syphilis. This inability of an infant with inherited syphilis to infect its mother (known as Cones' laiv) was formerly thought to be a proof that the mother had suffered from syphilis whilst the foetus was in utero. In some instances this has no doubt been the case. But in other instances she has shown no sign of syphilis during gestation, and there has been reliable evidence that she had not had the disease pre- viously. The explanation offered by the followers of M. Pasteur is that the syphilis of the foetus has protected the mother. In the later stages of congenital syphilis, as in those of the acquired form, iodide of potassium is indicated, and may frequently be advantageously combined with small doses of mercury, where the later lesions, as is too often the case, prove intractable. Lastly, should syphilis be suspected in either of the parents during the period of gestation, mercury should be administered to the mother; whilst a caution should be given to both parents after the birth of a syphilitic infant for the sake of any future o:ff- spring. Fig. 6.—Syphilitic teeth (after Hutchinson). Fig. 7.—Mercurial teeth (after Hutchinson).69 HEMOPHILIA. HEMOPHILIA. Hemophilia, or the hseniorrliagic diathesis, is a con- dition in which bleeding is prone to occur spontaneously or on the slightest provocation, and is very difficult to arrest. • The cause is unknown. The affection, however, appears to be hereditary; it often occurs in members of the same family, and nearly always in the males, although it is almost invariably transmitted through the female line. The pathology of the disease is obscure, and except that the arteries have been found thin, and the left ventricle hypertrophied, nothing abnormal has been dis- covered either in the tissues or in the blood. The bleeding may be started by the most trifling injury, such as a mere scratch of the finger, the extraction of a tooth, or a bite of the lip or tongue. Or it may occur spontaneously, when it is sometimes preceded by flushings of the face and throbbing of the arteries, and then commonly takes the form of epistaxis, or of extravasations beneath the skin, or of bleeding from the gums or intestines, or of effusion into a joint. When the result of a traumatism, the blood, except a large artery is wounded, oozes from the injured surface in a steady, continuous, and uncon- trollable stream. The bleeding may last for weeks and then cease spontaneously, leaving the patient in an ansemic condition, from which, however, he may speedily recover; or it may terminate fatally. Successive attacks are common at varying intervals, and to one of these the patient generally succumbs. Should, however, he survive the period of puberty, there is a fair chance of the tendency to bleed decreasing with advancing years. The treatment consists in placing the patient at perfect rest in the recumbent position, and in elevating the part when the bleeding comes from a limb. Ligature, the actual and galvanic cautery and acupressure only do harm by increasing the size of the wound; and cold, in the form of ice, is of doubtful benefit. When the blood comes from a tooth-socket a plug of perchloride of iron may be ap- plied. Internally, such drugs as qrgotin, acetate of lead, gallic acid, and sclerotic acid, are recommended, but do not appear to have much power in controlling the bleed- ing. Eecently calcium chloride has been recommended in- ternally, and as a local styptic, a solution of fibrin ferment to which calcium chloride has been added (see styptics, p. 130).70 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. TUMOURS. A TUMOUR, as generally understood, is a swelling in some part of the body not depending upon inflammation or mere hypertrophy of pre-existing tissue, and showing no tendency to undergo spontaneous cure or to yield to the action of medicines. In structure a tumour consists of elements resembling those of the normal tissues of the body either in the mature or in the immature state. Thus a tumour may be composed of bone, cartilage, fat, &c.; or of cells like those constituting the epithelium; or of elements indistinguishable from the rudimentary tissues found in the embryo. A tumour may resemble and con- tinue to grow in the tissue in which it originates, merely displacing the surrounding tissues, as for example, a fatty tumour growing in the subcutaneous fat. It is then called homologous. Or a tumour may originate in one tissue, and retaining the type of that tissue, invade another, as an epithelioma infiltrating connective tissue, muscle, or bone; it is then spoken of as heterologous. Homologous tumours have generally the structure of the mature tissues of the body, as fibrous tissue, fat, bone, &c., and are usually innocent. Heterologous tumours, on the other hand, commonly consist of cells like those of the more lowly organized or immature tissues {epithe- lium, emhryonic tissue), and are generally malignant. The lower the organization of a tumour the greater, as a rule, is its malignancy, although, as pointed out by Mr. Butlin, '' tumours of similar structure differ widely in their power of mischief according to the part of the body in which they originate." Development.—All tumours are believed to arise by the multiplication of pre-existing cells, and to retain through- out their growth the type of the cell from which they spring ; hence they are spoken of as connective-tissue or as epithelial growths, according as they originate in the connective tissue or in the epithelium. Tumours arising in the connective tissue at first consist entirely of small round cells, with a scanty amount of intercellular sub- stance ; that is, they resemble embryonic connective tissue. They may retain this structure throughout their course (sarcoma), or they may become more highly de- veloped and assume the structure of the more specialized connective tissues. Thus, fibrification may occur and the tumour take the form of mature fibrous tissue [fibroma);71 TUMOUKS. or chondrification or ossification may ensue, or fat be deposited in the cells, and the tumour become indis- tinguishable in structure from normal cartilage, bone or fat {enchondroma, osteoma^ lipoma). Tumours springing from epithelium not only retain the character of epithe- lium, but likewise that of the special form of epithelium from which they are derived. Thus they resemble squamous epithelium when derived from the skin, sphe- roidal epithelium when from a gland. Cause.—Little is actually known of the etiology of tumours. Some forms however appear undoubtedly to be due to local causes, sach as 1, long continued irritation; 2, chronic inflammation; and 3, injury; but whether these conditions are in themselves capable of producing tumours unless the patient is otherwise in some unknown way predisposed to tumour-formation is still perhaps open to question. The presence in the completely developed tissues of embryonic remains which from Isome un- explained cause have taken on active growth later in life, and the action of some unknown form of parasite or ferment are also regarded by some pathologists as local causes. Tumours have further been ascribed to such constitutional causes as hereditary predisposition, the activity of tissue-growth in early life, the slow degenera- tion of advancing age, and the lessened resisting power of the tissues that may be occasioned by such depressing influences as grief, anxiety, or mental strain. Eesidence in certain localities is considered by some observers to be a predisposing cause of some forms of malignant tumour. Clinical course.—Clinically, tumours are spoken of as innocent and malignant, I. Innocent tumours as a rule grow slowly, and resemble the fully-formed tissues of the body, and usually those amongst which they grow. They are generally encapsuled, circumscribed, and freely moveable, merely displacing the tissues around, not infiltrating them. They do not involve the lymphatic glands, nor become disseminated in distant organs; neither do they recur if completely removed. They may, however, attain a large size and destroy life by pressing upon a vital organ, or in other ways interfering with its functions. II. Malignant tumours, on the other hand, grow rapidly, do not resemble the fully-formed tissues in structure, and differ markedly in appearance from the, tissues in which they grow. They are generally non- encapsuled and infiltrate the surrounding parts, whether72 GEI^ERAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. these be muscle, fat, bone, &c., and in consequence become more or less fixed and adherent. They frequently involve the lymphatic glands, and become disseminated through the body by means either of the lymph or blood- stream. They usually recur after removal, in the scar, in the corresponding lymphatic glands, or in internal organs, and sooner or later give rise to a general cachectic condition known as the cancerous cachexia. Death is commonly due to exhaustion caused by the local ulceration, hsemor- rhage and pain, combined with the mental distress, and the general interference with nutrition induced by the rapid growth of the tumour and its dissemination through internal organs. Secondary changes are common in tumours, especially in those of more rapid growth. Thus a tumour may become inflamed, or may ulcerate, or undergo fatty, mucoid, colloid, pigmentary, or calcareous degeneration; or as the result of these changes, or of haemorrhage into its substance, cysts, or, more rarely, circumscribed abscesses, may form in its interior; or the whole tumour may undergo necrosis, and, in exceptional instances, slough away. Recurrence and dissemination.—Local recurrence is probably the result of some of the tumour-elements having escaped removal, and may take place in the scar, or in the tissues immediately around. Eeproduction in the neighbouring lymphatic glands is believed to be due to the tumour-cells becoming arrested in the lymph- sinuses ; dissemination in more distant tissues and organs to the tumour-cells being carried by the blood-stream (which they may enter either directly, or indirectly by the lymph-channels) to these parts, where they become lodged and form starting-points for secondary growths. Secondary growths, whether in the glands, or elsewhere, resemble in structure the primary tumour. Classification,—Tumours are here classified, partly ac- cording to their supposed origin, and partly^ according to their anatomical structure. Thus, they may be divided into:—■ I. Mesohlastic or connective-tissue tumours^ which are such as spring from the connective tissue. These may be subdivided into :—A. Those of the type of fully-formed connective tissue, i.e., fibrous, cartilaginous, fatty, osseous, and mucous tissue: (1) Fibroma, (2) Enchondroma, (3) Lipoma, (4) Osteoma, and (5) Myxoma^ B. Those of the73 TUMOUKS. type of the higher complex connective tissues, i.e., muscle, nerve, blood-vessels, lymphatic vessels, and lymphatic glands: (1) Myoma, (2) Neuroma, (3) Angioma, (4) Lymphangioma, and (5) Lymphoma, C.' Those of the type of embryonic connective tissue : (1) Round-celled sarcoma, (2) 'Spindle-celled sarcoma, (3) Myeloid sarcoma. II. Epihlastic and hypohlastic tumours, which are such as are composed of cells like epithelium. They are divided into:—A. The innocent: (1) Papilloma and (2) Adenoma; and B. The malignant: (1) Spheroidal- celled carcinoma: (a) Hard, scirrhous, or chronic carci - noma; (h) ,^Soft encephaloid, or acute carcinoma; and (c) Colloid carcinoma, (2). Squamous-celled carcinoma {epithelioma), and (3) Columnar-celled or cylindrical carcinoma, III. Tumburs in which epihlastic, hypohlastic and meso- hlastic elements are comhined, A. Teratoma, a rare form of tumour found occasionally in the ovary and testicle, containing bone, hair, teeth, &c. I. MESOBLASTIC OE COOTECTIVE-TISSUE TUMOIIES. A. Tumours of the type of fully-formed connective tissue, FiBEOMATA OE FIBEOUS TUMOUES COnsist of fibrouS tissue, which may vary in density from the firmness of a tendon or ligament to the soft consistency of the sub cutaneous tissue. They are quite innocent, grow slowly, do not return if completely removed, and are usually surrounded by a distinct capsule. Structure,—The firmer varieties (Fig. 8) consist of dense fibrous tissue intermixed with but few elastic fibres and connective-tissue corpuscles. The fibres, as a rule, are variously interlaced without definite arrangement, though in some fibromata they form concentric circles around the blood-vessels. On section they appear firm, smooth, and glistening, and of a greyish-white colour. The vessels are usually small, thin-walled, and not numerous, though certain of the fibromata [naso-pharyngeal polypi) are very vascular, and are permeated by large cavernous blood- spaces. The softer varieties, formerly called fibro-cellular tumours, consist of loose succulent fibrous tissue, and often contain large and numerous blood-vessels. On section they appear yellowish, glistening, semi-trans-74 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OE SURGICAL DISEASES. parent, and gelatinous, and a serous fluid can be squeezed out from the cut surface. Secondary changes.—Calcification, ulceration,and mucoid softening. Usual seats.—Fibromata may grow from the connective tissue anywhere, but the harder forms are chiefly met with in the periosteum, especially that of the jaws {fibrous epulis), in the uterus where they are intermixed with unstriped muscle {myo-fibroma), in the neurilemma of nerves {false fieuroma), on the termination of nerves {painful subcutaneous tumour), and in the naso-pharynx Fig. 8.—Fibrous tumour. Firm variety. and rectum (fibrous polypus). The softer forms grow from the subcutaneous and submucous tissue, and the inter- muscular septa, and are most frequently met with in the scrotum, labium, and scalp. The loose-textured, large and often pendulous growths, occurring in the sub- cutaneous tissue, and known as wens, and the small, sessile, or partially-pedunculated tumours scattered over the body in the condition known as molluscum fibrosum, are varieties of soft fibromata. The signs and diagnosis of fibromata vary according to their situation, and will be again referred to under the diseases of the various regions in which they occur. The firm fibromata are usually oval or globular, smooth, pain- less unless attached to a nerve, moveable, very firm and hard, and generally single. The softer forms are smooth, globular, elastic, soft and painless, especially whenTUMOURS. 75 growing about the scrotum or labium; doughy, non elastic, moveable, pendulous, and fleshy when occurring as wens. Treatment.—When practicable they should be removed. LiPOMATA OR FATTY TUMOURS are composed of fat like that normally found in the body. They are innocent, and grow slowly, but may attain a large size, and do not return on removal. They are most comnion in adult life. Structure,—They consist of masses of fat bound to- gether by delicate connective tissue and blood-vessels, and are surrounded as a rule by a thin capsule, which is Fia. 9.—Fatty tumour. attached by fibrous septa to the skin. The microscopical characters are seen in Fig. 9. Secondary changes.—Mucoid softening, inflammation with adhesion from pressure, and, very occasionally, ulceration and calcification. Usual seats.—They are most common on the shoulders, back, and nates, where they have been attributed to irritation or pressure, as by the braces, the sitting pos- ture, &c. Signs and diagnosis.—They form circumscribed, lobu- lated, semi-fluctuating, painless, soft, inelastic tumours, generally single, but occasionally multiple. They may be distinguished from a chronic abscess, a bursa or a cyst, the swellings for which they are perhaps most likely to be mistaken, by the edge slipping from under the fingers when the side of the tumour is pressed upon, by the dimpling of the skin when pinched up between the thumb and fingers, and by the non-escape of fluid on puncture with a grooved needle. They sometimes, when gravity favours it, shift their site by slipping down in the connec- tive tissue. This is most common in the spermatic cord, a76 GENEHAL PATHOLOGY OP St^RGICAL DISEASES. lipoma there having a tendency to sink down into the scrotum. A diffuse variety of lipoma is sometimes met with in the form of symmetrical masses of fat at the back of the neck and below the chin. This variety is mostly seen in stout men above middle age, and especially in those who are addicted to alcohol. Treatment,—The capsule should be freely opened, when the tumour will usually readily shell out. The diffuse form should be left alone; for such, liquor potassse in small doses for long periods is said to do good. Enchondromata, or cartilaginous tumours consist of cartilage, and, when pure, are quite innocent, grow Fig. 10.—Cartilaginous Tumour. Upper half hyaline ; lower half fibrous. slowly, and do not return on removal. Cartilage, how- ever, is frequently developed in sarcomatous tumours, and it is probable that the malignancy which enchon- dromata have at times apparently exhibited may have been due to the presence of sarcoma elements which were overlooked. Structure.—Cartilaginous tumours are generally en- capsuled, and, when large, are often lobulated. They may consist of a single mass of cartilage, without visible partitions, or of numerous small clustered masses bound together by connective tissue and blood-vessels. On section they are translucent, bluish-grey, pinkish-white, homogeneous or coarsely granular, and frequently mapped out into irregular lobules. They usually consist of hyaline- or fibro-cartilage. The microscopical charactersTUMOURS. 77 of typical examples of the hyaline and fibrous varieties are seen in Fig. 10. Secondary changes.—Calcification, ossification, mucoid softening with formation of cysts, and ulceration. Usual seats.—(1) The bones, especially the phalanges of the fingers and sometimes of the toes, the lower end of the femur, and the head of the tibia and humerus, and (2) the parotid gland. Enchondromata may also occur in the subcutaneous tissue and the testicle. The signs and diagnosis will be given under Tumours of Bone and Parotid gland. Here only need it be said, that their chief characteristics are their extreme hardness, smooth or lobulated surface, and slow growth. They are usually single, except in the hands, where generally several fingers are a:ffected. At times they are of a softer consistency in places owing to mucoid softening, and at times of rapid growth, but in the latter case it is probable that they contain sarcomatous elements, xllthough they may occur at any age, they are most common in the young. Treatment.—They should be removed where,possible. OsTEOMATA OR OSSEOUS GROWTHS consist of true bone. They very rarely occur except in connection with bone or cartilage, and will again be referred to under diseases of bone. Those growing in connective tissue apart from bone are probably other tumours, or structures such as cysts, tendons, and muscles, that have undergone calcifi- cation or ossification. Myxomata or MUCOUS TUMOURS consist of tissue re- sembling that found in the umbilical cord and vitreous humour of the eye; but many of the growths that were formerly claimed as myxomata would appear to be fibro- mata, sarcomata or enchondromata undergoing mucoid softening. Pure myxomata are innocent tumours and do not return if completely removed, but they may attain a large size. Structure.—They consist of a soft gelatinous semi- translucent material, enclosed in a loose capsule of con- nective tissue, and intersected by bands of fibrous tissue. On section, they are of a pinkish or yellowish-grey colour, and of a soft gelatinous consistency, often almost diffiuent; whilst a tenacious and glairy fiuid containing large quantities of mucin oozes away from the cut sur- face. Under the microscope there are seen round and spindle cells and stellate cells with branching processes.78 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OE SUHGICAL DISEASES. the processes forming a delicate stroma in tlie meshes of which the homogeneous, gelatinous basis-substance is contained (Fig. 11). The round and spindle cells vary in number, and are not shown in the diagram. Fibrous tissue, fat, cartilage, and sometimes adenomatous and sarcomatous elements may likewise be present; but it is. questionable in these cases whether the tumour should not be regarded as a soft fibroma, lipoma, enchondroma, sarcoma, &c., undergoing mucoid degeneration. Secondary changes.—Fatty degeneration, inflammation, ulceration, and the formation of blood-cysts owing to rupture of the capillary vessels. Usual seats.—They are most often found in the nose, where they constitute the gelatinous polypus. They are Fia. 11.—Myxomatous Tumour. also found in the adipose, subcutaneous, submucous, ,and subserous tissue, and occasionally in the periosteum and medulla of bone and neurilemma of nerves. Signs.—Except when forming polypi, as in the nose, they resemble fatty and soft fibrous tumours, from which they cannot be diagnosed with certainty. The so-called gelatinous or mucous polypus will again be referred to under Diseases of the Nose. Treatment.—Eemoval where practicable. B. Tumours of the type of the higher connective tissues. The myomata or muscle tumours consisting of non- striated or even of striated muscular fibres; the neuromata consisting of true nervous tissue, either the grey or the79 TUMOTJRS. white; tlie angiomata, or naeyi ; the lympliangiomata con- sisting of dilated lymphatics, and the lymphomata and lymphadenomafa consisting of lymphatic glandular tissue, will receive no further attention here (see Ncevi, Diseases of Nerves and Lymphatics). Unstriped muscle tissue, it may be said, however, is frequently found in the so-called fibroid tumours {myo-fibromata) of the uterus, of which, indeed, it often forms the chief part. It is also found in the chronically enlarged prostate. 0. Tumours of the type of embryonic connective tissue. (^Sarcomata,) Sarcomata constitute a group of tumours resembling in structure normal embryonic or immature connective tissue. They include the fibro-nucleated, fibro-plastic, myeloid, and recurrent fibroid tumours, and many of the so-called cancers of the older pathologists. Normal em- bryonic tissue in the course of development may become fibrous tissue, cartilage, bone, &c. The sarcomata, how- ever, retain the structure of embryonic tissue throughout their life-history; and although in places, and indeed, in some instances in the greater part of the tumour, de- velopment may proceed, as in the normal growth of the body, to the formation of fibrous tissue, cartilage, or bone, yet the circumferential or growing parts of the tumour will always be found to consist of sarcoma elements. Hence the importance of examining the growing part lest a sarcoma which has undergone chondrification, ossifica- tion, &c.,be pronounced a cartilaginous or osseous tumour. The sarcomata present the most diverse characters, both as regards their structure and their clinical behaviour, but have the following in common:—1. The cells of which they are composed consist of masses of protoplasm without distinct cell-wall, and contain one or more nuclei. 2. Each cell is surrounded by a varying amount of intercellular substance which has no definite arrange- ment, and does not form alveolar spaces as in carcinoma. 3. The blood-vessels have very thin walls, and ramify among the cells, not in the stroma as in carcinoma; indeed, they are often mere spaces bounded by the cells themselves ; hence the frequency with which haemor- rhages occur in the substance of the growth. 4. Dissemi- nation usually takes place by the blood-vessels (not by80 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SUHGICAL DISEASES. the lymphatics, as in carcinoma), a fact which may probably be explained by the above^-'mentioned relation of the vessels to the cells. 5. The secondary growths, when dissemination occurs, are, as a rule, like the primary, and are most frequent in the lungs. 6. Sarco- mata grow by invading the surrounding tissue, and generally return locally after removal, probably because some portion of infiltrated tissue has been left. 7. They do not, as a rule, affect the lymphatic glands, except when they occur as primary tumours in such glands, or when they grow, as pointed out by Mr. Butlin, in the testis and tonsil, when implication of the glands is the rule rather than the exception. 8. They are of most frequent occurrence in youth and early middle life. 9* Their cut section, when fresh, does not yield a milky juice like that obtained on scraping a carcinoma. In their simplest form sarcomata consist of small round cells resembling leucocytes, embedded in a very scanty amount of homogeneous intercellular substance traversed by delicate loops of capillary vessels; in fact they so closely resemble the granulation-tissue of inflammation as to be microscopically indistinguishable from it. In the higher forms the cells become elongated and of a spindle shape, and the intercellular substance may show an attempt at fibrillation; or fibrification, chondrification or ossification may ensue, and indeed in some instances may proceed to such an extent that the whole tumour appears composed of fibrous tissue, cartilage or bone, and it may only be at the growing edge that the sarcomatous elements are discoverable. Notwithstanding such changes the tumour will continue to display its malignancy in that it still invades the surrounding tissues, or becomes disseminated through internal organs. Sarcomata that have thus undergone ossification, are often spoken of as ossifying sarcomata. Ossification, however, is seldom met with except in sarcomata in connection with bone, and although it may then occur in all varieties, is most common in the spindle-celled and mixed forms. The new bone spicula usually grow into the tumour at right angles to the shaft of the bone, and are surrounded by sarcoma tissue; whereas in the true osteomata the bone spicula are parallel to the shaft, and are surrounded by cartilage or periosteum. Sarcomata may be divided into four chief groups (a) theTUMOURS—SARCOMATA. 81 round-celled^ {l) the spindle-celled, (c) the giant-celled or myeloid and [a) the mixed-celled. {a.) The round-celled sarcomata usually occur as soft, vascular, and very rapidly growing tumours, and often attain a large size, and quickly become disseminated through distant parts of the body and through internal organs. Structure.—They consist- of round cells like leucocytes, varying in size in different tumours, and embedded in a small amount of granular or homogeneous intercellular substance. On section they appear soft and vascular, resembling brain matter. Hence the term encephaloid or medullary which is sometimes applied to them. It was this variety of sarcoma that was formerly called enceplia- loid cancer. The microscopical appearance of a typical specimen is shown in Eig. 12. Secondary changes.—They may undergo mucoid soften- ing, fatty degeneration and ulceration, or blood may be extravasated in their substance leading to the formation of cysts [sarcomatous hlood-cysts). Usual seats.—Wherever fibrous tissue exists; but they are most common in the periosteum, bone, skin, sub- cutaneous tissue and testicle. Varieties of round-celled sarcoma, — 1. The glio- «arcoma, which grows in the connective tissue of nerves, and has a matrix like that of the neuroglia of nerve centres. It occurs most frequently in the retina and brain. 2. The lymphosarcoma, which grows in the lymphatic glands. It consists of a reticulum resembling lymphoid tissue, and the sarcoma cells are usually of the size of leucocytes. 3. The psammoma, s. very rare form which occurs only in the pineal body and orbit. 4. The alveolar sarcoma, in which the matrix forms a net-work82 GEISTERAL PATHOLOGY OF STJRGICAL DISEASES. enclosing each, cell in a separate space or alveolus. 5. The melanotic sarcoma^ which contains pigment both in the cells and intercellular substance. Its favourite seat is in the skin and the choroid coat of the eye, i.e., in situations where pigment normally exists. It becomes rapidly disseminated through the body, the secondary growths being generally also pigmented. It is the most malignant of the sarcomata, and was formerly known as melanotic cancer. The cells are sometimes spindle-shaped instead of round. It differs from the pigmented wart, in that the latter is firm, often pedunculated or lobulated, and of slow growth. The signs of round-celled sarcomata vary so much according to the tissue implicated, that only the briefest outline of their general course can be here given. They will more especially be referred to under bone, testicle, and breast. Here it may suffice to say that they exhibit all the signs of malignancy. Thus they grow rapidly, invade the surrounding tissues, the veins over them become enlarged, and the skin as they approach it becomes inflamed and finally gives way, and an ulcerating chasm is left or a fungus protrudes. The health and strength fail, cachexia sets in, evidence of dissemination of the disease in other tissues or in internal organs may be manifested, and death soon ensues. Diagnosis.—It is often very difficult to diagnose a sarcoma, especially of bone, from inflammatory affections. The history of the case, the unequal consistency of the tumour, which may be hard in places, soft in others, the irregularity of its shape, the absence of pus on puncture with a grooved needle, and the progressive loss of weight and strength point to its sarcomatous nature; but an incision into it will sometimes be necessary to clear up the doubt. The rapid growth and dark colour of a melanotic sarcoma are distinctive. Treatment.—The only effectual treatment is removal. When the tumour is situated in one of the extremities amputation well above the disease should be practised; when on the trunk it should, where practicable, be dis- sected out, cutting as wide of the disease as possible. (6,) The spindle-celled (Fig. 13) are the most com- mon of the sarcomata, and are composed of spindle-shaped cells, varying in size, and containing one or more nuclei. The cells, in some instances, are arranged concentrically around the blood-vessels, or in bands; or again, in otherTUMOURS—SARCOMATA. 83 instances, appear to have no definite arrangement. Spindle-celled sarcomata are subdivided according to the size of their cells into the large-spindle-celled and small- spindle-celled varieties. The small-spindle-celled sarcomata are firmer and less rapid in their growth than the round-celled or large- spindle-celled forms; they do not become so quickly disseminated in internal organs, and are therefore less malignant. They generally recur locally when removed; but after many recurrences, their tendency to return may at length cease, or they may, on the other hand, assume a more malignant form and become disseminated. Structure.—They consist of small spindle cells containing usually a single nucleus; the cells are embedded in a small amount of homogeneous intercellular substance, which at times is somewhat fibrillated. They may at first be enclosed by a capsule, but later infiltrate the sur- rounding parts. They appear as smooth firmish growths, pinkish-white, semi-translucent, and fibrillated on section. Their microscopical appearance is seen in Fig. 13. Secondary changes,—Eibrification, chondrification, calci- fication, ossification, and, when implicating the skin, ulceration. ^ Usual seats.—Periosteum, fascise, and sub- cutaneous tissue. The large-spindle-celled sarcomata are much softer than the preceding variety, and often grow rapidly, and quickly become disseminated; indeed, they may be as malignant as the round-celled growths. Structure.— They consist of large spindle cells, which frequently contain several oval nuclei, embedded in a scanty amount of intercellular substance. They occur as non-encapsuled tumours of soft consistency, frequently in parts diffluent, and on section appear of a pinkish-white colour, and often blotched with blood. Secondary changes.—Fatty Fig. 13.—Spindle-celled Sarcoma. G 284 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF StlUGICAL DISEASES. degeneration, blood-extravasation with the formation of blood-cysts, and ulceration. Usual seats,—The inter- muscular fasciae, periosteum, and breast. Signs and diagnosis.—The small-spindle-celled sarco- mata, when occurring in the fasciae and subcutaneous tissue, appear as moderately firm, or at times as softer growths, unattended with signs of inflammation unless inyolving the skin. They recur in situ after removal, but do not as a rule become disseminated. The large- spindle-celled forms resemble the round-celled, from which they cannot be distinguished before removal. Both varieties are more especially referred to under Diseases of Bone, Treatment.—The small-spindle-celled variety should, where practicable, be freely and widely removed. The treatment of the large-spindle-celled is like that of the round-celled. (c.) The G-IANT-CELLED or MYELOID SARCOMATA nearly always occur in connection with bone, and will be more fully described in the section on Diseases of Bone. They are usually of slow growth, and are amongst the least malignant of the sarcomata, especially when occurring in the interior of bone. After removal, however, they have been followed by the more malignant forms. Structure.—They consist of spindle or round cells, amongst which are found large irregularly-shaped masses of protoplasm, containing often as many as thirty or forty oval, highly-refracting, distinct nuclei. These masses of nucleated protoplasm are known as giant or myeloid cells, and resemble those found in the marrow of the foetus. The microscopic appearance is seen in Pig. 14. Myeloid sarcomata vary from a firm or fleshy to a soft or jelly-like consistency, and are neither elastic nor tough. On section they appear uniformly smooth, succulent, shining, semi-translucent, but not fibrillated, of a livid crimson or maroon colour not unlike the muscular tissue of the mammalian heart, and often blotched with brighter patches of pink or darker red due to blood-extravasation. Secondary changes.—Chondrification sometimes occurs, but ossification is rare. Blood-cysts are very common, from the giving way of some of the numerous thin-walled vessels. Usual seats,—In the interior of the ends of the long bones, especially the lower end of the femur and upper85 TUMOURS— SARCOMATA. end of the tibia, and in the lower jaw; less rarely they grow from the periosteum. Sigjis, diagnosis and treatment.—See Sarcoma of Bone. (d.) The Mixed-celled.—Many sarcomatous tuniours consist of both spindle and round cells. They may resemble either the spindle- or the round-celled tumours, and cannot be distinguished without a microscopical examination. Sarcomatous Uood-cysts.—Soft sarcomatous tumours sometimes become completely broken down by extravasa- tion of blood into their substance, and converted into cysts containing partly fluid and partly coagulated blood. When such a cyst is punctured, the haemorrhage is often difficult to control. When cut into, the walls are gene- rally found ill-defined, and it may be impossible to dis- tinguish the cyst from a heematoma or ordinary blood- cyst, without a microscopical examination of a piece of the wall. II. EPIBLASTIC AND HYPOBLASTIC TUMOURS. These may be divided into the innocent and the malignant. Papillomata or warty and villous tumours re- semble in structure the papillae of the skin and mucous membrane. They include warts, condylomata, and mucous tubercles, and some forms of so-called villous tumours. They are innocent growths, rarely attain a Fig. 14.—Myeloid Sarcoma. Tximours of the type of epithelial tissues. (a) The innocent.86 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF STJRGICAL DISEASES. large size, and only occur in the skin and mucous mem- brane. In old people, however, warty growths are apt to degenerate into epitheliomata; and villous growths in the bladder may destroy life by the haemorrhage to which they frequently give rise. Structure,—They all agree in that they resemble hyper- trophied simple or compound papillae. Thus, they con- sist of several layers of connective tissue surrounding one or more central blood-vessels, and are covered by one or many layers of epithelium resembling that natural to the part from which they spring. The epithelium, however, never penetrates the connective tissue—a point that serves to distinguish them pathologically from epithe- lioma, which in many respects they resemble in structure. The warts and warty growths^ which form circumscribed tumours or cauliflower-like masses often of considerable size, consist of one or more enlarged papillae covered with several layers of horny epithelium, and contain as a rule only a few small blood-vessels. The condylomata and mucous tuhercles^ which occur as flattened elevations of the skin and mucous membrane respectively, also consist of enlarged papillae, but the epithelium covering them is moist and sodden, and the connective tissue, as might be expected from their rapid growth, is abundantly in- filtrated with small round cells. They are always the result of syphilis. The villous tumours^ which form delicate branching growths resembling the villi of the chorion, are also classed by some pathologists as papillo- mata, even when they grow from parts as the interior of the bladder where no papillae exist. In such situations they spring from the sub-epithelial connective tissue, and owe their papillary shape to the arrangement of the connective tissue and epithelium around the blood-vessels. The latter are often dilated and numerous, and frequently give way, leading to serious haemorrhages. The epithe- lium covering them forms a delicate layer, and may often be rubbed o:ff or washed away by the urine. Usual seats.—Papillomata in the form of warts and warty growths, are of most frequent occurrence in the skin, especially of the hands and genital organs, and in the larynx. As condylomata and mucous tubercles, they occur about the anus and genitals, and on the mucous membrane of the mouth and throat. The villous growths are met with in the bladder, rectum, and larynx. Secondary clmoiges.—Pigmentation, ulceration, andTUMOURS —P APILLOMAT A. 87 atrophy. As age advances, the epithelmm in the case of the warty growths is liable to invade the underlying connective tissue, the papilloma being thus converted into an epithelioma. The' signs^ diagnosis, and treatment of the different varieties of papillomata are given under the head of skin, syphilis, bladder, rectum, and larynx. All that need be said here is that warty growths, especially in some situations as about the genitals, may greatly resemble epithelioma, from which, however, they may generally be distinguished by the absence of induration at their base, Fig. 15.—Adenomatous Tumour. slower growth, non-implication of the glands, the probable history of venereal disease, and by their occurrence usually at an age younger than that at which epithelioma is commonly met with. Adenomata or glandular tumours are innocent growths resembling secreting glands in structure, and only grow in connection with pre-existing glandular tissue. They are divided into the acinous and tubular, according as they resemble one or other of these glands. The acinous variety consists of acini, lined with spheroidal epithelium, and communicating with each other by duct- like channels. The acini are clustered in twos, threes, or more, and are separated and bound together by connective tissue, in which the vessels ramify. Pure adenomata are rare, the scanty amount of intertubular and interacinous connective tissue in such being more often replaced by fibrous tissue (adeno-fihroma), or by mucous tissue {adeno-88 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. myxoma)^ or by sarcomatous elements {adeno-sarcoma), or by a combination of two or more of the above tissues {adeno^fibro-sarcoma^ adeno-myxo-sarcoma); whilst at times the acini or ducts become dilated into cysts, in which proliferating growths [intracystic groivths) may project. The tumour is then spoken of as an adeno-cystoma, cysto- sarcoma, &c., according to the character of the intertubular and interacinous connective tissue. The microscopical ap- pearance of an adenoma is shown in Fig. 15. The tubular adenomata resemble the tubular glands, the epithelium of this variety differing from that of the acinous in being more or less columnar. They are most common m the mucous membrane of the intestine, where they form papillary or polypoid growths. Both varieties are distinguished from carcinoma, in that the epithelium does not penetrate the basement membrane and invade the connective tissue. Usual seats.—The acinous occur in the mamma (where they are generally of the adeno-fibromatous form), the lip, the prostate, the thyroid, parotid, and lachrymal glands, and the sebaceous glands of the skin. The tubular occur in the intestine, especially the rectum. Secondary changes. — Cystic degeneration consequent upon mucoid softening, and fatty degeneration of the epithelium. Signs, diagnosis, and treatment. See Diseases of the Breast, Eectum, &c. (b) The malignant, Carcinomata, or Oaitcers, are malignant growths consisting of epithelial-like cells contained in an alveolar stroma. The individual cells are not surrounded by any intercellular substance as in the sarcomata, and the vessels run in the stroma, and not among the cells. They are derived from pre-existing epithelium, and are hence spoken of as tumours of epiblastic or hypoblastic origin. The epithelium is believed to proliferate and break through the wall of an acinus or duct, or the basement membrane of the skin or mucous membrane, and invade the surrounding or underlying connective tissue, where it is supposed to enter the lymphatic spaces, and thence, sooner or later, pass into the lymphatic vessels, and so finally become disseminated. The cells in carcinoma, though varying in their character, retain the type of the89 TUMOTJRS—CAECIIS'OMATA. epithelium from which they spring. Thus, they are more or less squamous when derived from the skin, squamous or columnar when derived from a mucous membrane, spheroidal when derived from a gland. The alveoli in which the cells are contained are by many regarded as the lymphatic spaces natural to the affected tissue dilated by the invading epithelium. They communicate with one another, forming a kind of cavernous tissue throughout the growth. The stroma surraunding the alveolar spaces at first consists of the connective or other tissue of the invaded parts, infiltrated more or less with small round cells. This small-cell-infiltration is ascribed to the irrita- tion of the epithelial invasion, and from it is believed to be later derived the fibrous tissue constituting the dense stroma of some forms of carcinoma. The blood-vessels, which run in the stroma, are nume- rous in the more rapidly-growing tumours, and especially in the circumferential parts, but are much fewer in number in the more chronic forms, and in the central parts of the latter may be obliterated by the growth of the fibrous tissue. Hence the frequency with which fatty degeneration of the cells, and breaking down {ulceration) of older parts of the tumour occur. In the softer or rapidly-growing forms, in which the stroma is scanty and the support that the vessels receive from it consequently but slight, haemorrhages are frequent. Carcinomata have no capsule, grow by endogenous cell-division and continued invasion of the surrounding tissues, and, sooner or later, break down and ulcerate. They implicate the nearest lymphatic glands, and finally become disseminated. At first the general health is usually but little affected; but later, partly owing to the local ulceration and partly owing to the dissemination of the growth, a condition known as cancerous cachexia sets in, the skin becoming sallow and of a peculiar earthy colour, the face careworn and anxious, and the body emaciated. The strength fails, and the patient at length dies of exhaustion induced by the general interference with nutrition, local ulceration, haemorrhages, pain and mental anxiety. Yaeieties of Carcinoma.—The carcinomata are divided into three great classes :—(1) The spheroidal-celled; {2) the sg'mmoits-ceTM(epitheliomata); and(3)^Ae columnar- celled or the adenoid or glandular carcinomata. The spheroidal-celled are further divided into (a) the hard spheroidal-celled, {h) the soft spheroidal-celled, and (c) the90 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OE STJHGICAL DISEASES. colloid variety, which is probably a degenerated condition of one or other of the former, or indeed of any variety of carcinoma. 1. The SPHEROIDAL-CELLED Or ACINOUS CARCINOMATA consist of epithelial cells resembling spheroidal or glandu- lar epithelium, and only grow in connection with glands. They usually exhibit the characteristic alveolar structure of the carcinomata in a well-marked degree. They are divided into the hard spheroidal-celled, the soft spheroidal- celled, and the colloid varieties. {a.) The hard spheroidal-celled carcinomata^ the scirrhous or chronic cancers are moderate-sized, hard, nodular, and Fig. 16.—Hard spheroidal-celled or scirrhous carcinoma. comparatively slowly-growing tumours, which, sooner or later, ulcerate and become disseminated through the body. Structure.—They are characterized by the large amount of their stroma (Fig. 16). Indeed, the central parts of the growth, in some cases, consist of little else than dense fibrous tissue, with a few atrophied and fatty-looking cells in the shrunken alveoli. The circumferential parts of such tumours, however, still display the typical charac- ters of acinous carcinoma, and in the surrounding tissues the epithelial invasion and the small-cell-infiltration are still going on. It is owing to the excessive forma- tion of fibrous tissue that the scirrhous cancer is so hard, and creaks under the knife when cut; and to the tendency of the fibrous tissue to shrink, that the skin91 TUMOURS—CARCINOMATA. over the tumour becomes puckered, and the nipple in the case of the mamma retracted, and that the cut surface of the tumour becomes concave. Usual seats.—-The breast; but scirrhous cancer also occurs in the oesophagus, pylorus, and, more rarely, in other situations. The general appearance of scirrhous cancer, the symptoms, diagnosis, varieties and treat- ment, are given under Diseases of the Breast, its favourite seat. (h.) The soft spheroidal-celled carcinomatay the medullary, encephaloid or acute cancers, are much more rapid in their growth than the preceding variety, and form soft and Fia. 17.—Soft spheroidal-celled or medullary carcinoma. often large tumours, quickly terminating in ulceration and general dissemination through the body. Structure. —The stroma is scanty in amount (Fig. 17), and does not contract like that of scirrhus; the cells, which are very prone to undergo fatty degeneration, ave contained in large alveoli. They are very vascular, and as the scanty stroma affords but little support to the vessels, extensive haemorrhages into the substance of the growth are com- mon. On section, they appear of a greyish-white or cream-colour, blotched in places with blood, whilst in the centre they may be almost diffluent, consequent upon their having undergone fatty degeneration. On account of the resemblance to brain-matter the older pathologists termed them encephaloid cancers. After they have in- volved the skin, they protrude in the form of a bleeding fungating mass, and hence were further called fungus hmmatodes. Although in accordance with general usage,92 aElSTEEAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. the spheroidal-celled carcinomata are divided iuto hard and soft, it should be understood that no hard and fast line can be drawn between them, as the characters of the one often merge into those of the other, so that some- times it may be difficult to decide whether an individual spheroidal-celled carcinoma should be classed as hard or soft. Usual seats.—The testis, liver, bladder, kidney, ovary, and breast. Secondary growths in internal organs con- sequent upon the dissemination of scirrhous cancer are often of the soft variety. (c.) Colloidf gelatiniform, or alveolar carcinomata,— These terms are applied to either of the above described varieties, or indeed to any form of carcinoma, which has undergone mucoid or colloid degeneration. It is believed that the degeneration generally begins in the cells which, as they become enlarged, so distend the alveoli that the latter can be seen by the naked eye. The colloid material is glistening, semi-translucent, and jelly-like, or in places diffluent. In it some spheroidal cells are generally found. The favourite seats of these cancers are the stomach, intestine, omentum and ovary; but they occasionally occur in the breast. 2. The squamous-celled ca-rcinomata (Upitheliomata) always spring from the skin or a mucous membrane, and constitute the second great division of the cancers. They are characterized by the resemblance of their cells to squamous epithelium. The typical alveolar arrangement of the carcinomata is much less well marked than in the spheroidal-celled or acinous variety. It was to this squamous-celled form of carcinoma that the term epithelioma was originally applied; but as all carcinomas are now believed to be epithelial growths, the term squamous-celled is prefixed to this variety to distinguish it from the columnar-celled and the spheroidal-celled carcinomata. Squamous-celled carcinomata may spring either from the skin or from any mucous membrane covered with squamous epithe- lium, and are especially common where skin and mucous membrane meet, as in the lip, anus, &c. They are most frequent in the old, seldom occurring under forty years of age, and are more common in men than in women. They are usually the result of continued irritation; thus in the tongue they may be due to the presence of a jagged tooth, in the lip to the constant contact of a hotTUMOURS—EPITHELIOMATA. 93 pipe-stem, in the scrotum to the retention of soot or coal- tar in the folds of the skin. They are also not uncommon in situations where the epithelium is in an abnormal con- dition, as in old scars, white patches on the tongue and inside of the cheek, chronic ulcers, warts, and moles. Structure, — Squamous-celled carcinomata consist of columns of epithelium, which have grown into the con- nective or other underlying tissue, surrounded by an imperfectly fibrillated stroma, and a small-cell-infiltra- tion. At the same time the epithelium is usually also proliferated outwards, forming a warty excrescence or Fig. 18.—Squamous-celled carcinoma (epithelioma). The small- cell-infiltration around the epithelial columns is less marked than usual. cauliflower-like growth. Breaking down rapidly ensues, and an epitheliomatous ulcer is the result. Amongst the cells forming the columns of invading epithelium are found in places small collections of cells of a crescentic shape, arranged concentrically around one or more central rounded cells. These collections, spoken of as cell-nests, are probably due to the more rapid growth of the epithe- lium at certain spots, the shape and arrangement of the peripheral layers of cells being due to their compression between the rapidly-growing central cells and the sur- rounding tissues. In the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 18) the down- growing epithelial columns, a column in transverse sec- tion, and several cell-nests are seen. Usual seats,—Tongue, lower lip, cheeks, gums, vulva, scrotum, penis and anus. Signs,—A squamous-celled carcinoma usually begins94 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF StTHGlOAL DISEASES. as a warty tubercle or fissure, wHcli soon becomes an ulcer with everted, sinuous and indurated edges, and a bard, warty, and irregular base, wbilst tbe tissues around become infiltrated with the growth and the nearest lymphatic glands enlarged. Unless an epithe- lioma is removed whilst the disease is still local, recur- rence usually takes place in the nearest lymphatic glands ; at times, like other forms of cancer, though less often, it may become disseminated through internal organs. When incompletely removed it will return in the scar. Death is usually the result of exhaustion con- sequent upon ulceration and haemorrhage. The signs, diagnosis, and treatment are further referred to under Diseases of Eegions. (See Lip, Tongue, etc.) 3. COLUMNAE, - CELLED CAECINOMATA, CYLmDRICAL CARCINOMATA Or ADENOID CANCERS COnsist of Cells derived from columnar or cylindrical epithelium, and are less common and usually of slower growth than the former varieties. They begin as papillary outgrowths from the surface of mucous membranes covered with columnar epithelium, or from the interior of the mucous glands, and are most common in the rectum, though they may affect other parts of the intestine, the uterus, &c. Btructure.^H'h.Bj consist of tubes lined with columnar epithelium, and bound together by a delicate connective- tissue stroma more or less infiltrated with small round cells. The epithelial cells retain more or less their shape, and are arranged at right angles to the walls of the alveoli, generally leaving a central space. In the more rapidly growing tumours, however, the alveoli become completely filled with the cells. There are no cell-nests as in squamous-celled carcinoma. Like other carcinomata they infiltrate the surrounding tissues, and may affect the lymphatic glands, and later become disseminated in in- ternal organs, especially the liver. Death, however, usually occurs from obstruction of the bowel, haemor- rhage from the ulcerating surface, or exhaustion, rather than from dissemination. Their appearance, symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment are further described under Diseases of the Rectum, The treatment of carcinoma generally may be divided into the palliative and the radical. The palliative is resorted to when from some cause a cancer cannot be removed by operation, and consists briefly in soothing pain by opium, neutralizing the offensive smell when ulceration95 CYSTS. has occurred by antiseptics, and supporting the strength by nourishing diet and stimulants. The radical treatment aims at removing the cancer by operation, in the hope that it may not return or manifest itself in other parts. If removed early, there is a good chance of the squamoils- celled carcinoma not doing so, and in some forms of the columnar and spheroidal-celled the same fortunate result has occasionally occurred. As a rule, however, the issue is not so favourable, and after an immunity, varying in duration according to the variety, situation, and size of the tumour, the length of time it has existed, and the implication or non-implication of the lymphatic glands, the disease returns in the scar, in the lymphatic glands, or in internal organs. But though the patient may not be cured by an operation, he may be greatly relieved by the removal of the local trouble, and die with less distress from the implication of internal organs. Should removal be determined on, it is best done by the knife; but in certain parts the scissors or ecraseur may be more applicable. At times caustics may be employed. Eecently it has been urged that electrolysis is capable of so acting on the cancer cells as to prevent further growth and produce shrinking; but there is at present no trust- worthy evidence that it has any such action. The various methods of removing carcinomata will be described more in detail under Diseases of Eegions. CYSTS. A cyst is a closed-^ac containing fluid or pultaceous matter. Cysts may be divided into :— L Cysts formed hy distension of naturally existing cavities or spaces. II. Cysts of new formation, III. Cysts of congenital origin. I. Cysts formed hy distension of naturally existing cavities or spaces. These are subdivided into :—A. Exudation cysts; B. Eetention cysts; and 0. Extravasation cysts. A. ExuDATioiS' CYSTS are formed by exudation or by excessive secretion into cavities which have no excretory duct. Under this head are included Bursse, Ganglia,96 GENEKAL PATHOLOGY OE SURGICAL DISEASES. Cystic bronclioceles, and Cysts in the ovary due to tlie dilatation of Graafian follicles. They will be further referred to under Diseases of Bursse, Ganglia, &c. B. Eetention cysts are formed by the retention of the normal secretion and the consequent dilatation of the ducts or acini of the affected gland. They are lined with epithelium ; their walls become thickened by fibroid changes; and the natural secretion is altered by inspissa- tion or by exudation from the cyst-wall. Three forms are described—1, atheromatous or sebaceous cysts due to the dilatation of the sebaceous glands; 2, mucous cysts formed by the dilatation of mucous glands ; and 3, cysts produced by the distension of special ducts, as the salivary, lacteal, hepatic, and renal ducts, and fubules of the testicle. (1.) Atheromatous or sebaceous cysts occur mostly on the scalp or face, but may be met with on any part of the body, and are often multiple. They do not contain hair- follicles, papillae, or other skin elements, thereby differing from the dermoid cysts which they otherwise resemble. Those on the scalp are sometimes hereditary. Signs.— They form smooth lens-shaped, semi-fluctuating, move- able swellings, often adherent to the skin. They may be distinguished from a fatty tumour by not slipping from under the finger on pressing the edge of the swelling, and from an abscess by the absence of signs of inflammation. A small black punctum, the obstructed orifice of the sebaceous follicle, may, moreover, be discovered on the surface. Secondary changes.—1. They may become in- flamed and break, down into an abscess. 2. One part may give way, and the sebaceous matter exude, become har- dened, and be pushed up from below, and take the form of a horny growth. 3. Granulations may spring up from the interior of the cyst, and exude as a fungating mass resembling an epithelioma. 4. They may degenerate into an epithelioma. 5. Their walls may undergo calcification. Treatment.—They may be removed by—(a) Dissection. (&) Splitting them, squeezing out the sebaceous matter, and seizing the cyst-wall with forceps and pulling it out. Care should be taken not to leave any of the wall behind, or a troublesome sinus will remain. (c) Dilating the orifice with a probe, and squeezing out the contents. They are apt, however, to refill when emptied in this way, unless the cyst-wall is also squeezed out or sufiicient in- flammation is set up to destroy it.97 CYSTS—BETEKTION AND SEBOUS CYSTS. (2.) Mucous cysts are formed by tlie dilatation of mucous glands. They occur in the lips, mouth, labia, and other situations where mucous glands exist. In the mouth they constitute one form of raniila. The so-called dropsy of the antrum is generally believed to be due to the dila- tation of one of the mucous glands of the lining mem- brane of that cavity, and the cysts met with at the entrance of the vagina to a dilatation of Bartholin's glands. The walls of mucous cysts are thinner than those of the sebaceous variety; the contents are viscid, and mucoid in character, and cholesterine is at times present. Treatment.—Excision of a piece of the wall, and touching the interior with nitrate of silver or other caustic will generally cure them; if not the cyst must be dissected out. (3.) Cysts formed hy the dilatation of special ducts.— As examples of these may be mentioned, dilatation of Wharton's duct {ranula), of a lacteal duct (galactocele), and of a tubule of the testicle (encysted hydrocele). For a further account, see Diseases of Eegions. C. Extravasation cysts are formed by extravasation of blood into closed cavities, as the tunica vaginalis of the testicle (hcematocele), &c. II. Cysts of New Formation, These are divided into—A. Serous cysts; B. Blood* cysts; C. Proliferous compound cysts; and D. Parasitic cysts. ^ A. Serous or simple cysts are thin-walled cysts, lined with a single layer of endothelium, and containing a sticky serous Suid. They are supposed to be formed by the accumulation of fluid consequent upon irritation, pressure, &c., in the lymphatic spaces of the connective tissue, these spaces subsequently becoming fused into a single cavity. Their walls consist of fibrous tissue formed by the condensation of the surrounding connec- tive tissue by the pressure of the fluid. As examples of serous cysts may be mentioned:—adventitious bursee developed over prominences of bone, some forms of gan- glion, and simple cysts in the breast, neck, &c. By some pathologists, however, the serous cysts found in the neck are regarded as congenital formations. Those in the median line are undoubtedly formed by the enlargement of pre-existing bursse, e.g., those about the hyoid bone. W. H98 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. B. Blood-cysts or h^matomata may be subdivided into—1. True blood-cysts, which are most commonly met with in the neck, and consist of thin-walled cysts contain- ing pure blood. Their mode of origin is doubtful, but they appear to have some connection with the veins, since if tapped they often bleed very freely. 2. Cysts, formed by condensation of the tissues around a mass of extravasated blood. In such the blood may become absorbed or organized; or it may break down and disin- tegrate, or deposit fibrin upon the wall of the cyst; or suppuration may occur and an abscess ensue. They are common in the scalp {cejphalhcematoma)^ and on the ear {hematoma auris) but may occur in any situation after injury. The extravasation of blood into serous cavities and into solid tumours is also by some included under Hsematoma ; but such a classification is misleading (see Hematocele, Sarcoma). C. Proliferous compound cysts are cysts containing growths. They are most common in the breast and ovary, and will be ^ found more fully described under Diseases of the Breast. These cysts are developed in connection with the growth of solid tumours, and must be distinguished from cystic degeneration, which, as has already been shown, is very common in some forms of tumour. In the one case, the cysts which may be regarded as primary, contain growths springing from their walls or projecting into them from the growth around. In the other case, the cysts are secondary, and are produced by the degeneration and softening of the tumour-elements, or by the extravasation of blood into the substance of the tumour. D. Parasitic cysts are such as are formed in the tissues around a parasite. As an example may be men- tioned the Hydatid cyst, for an account of which, as of other parasitic cysts, the student is referred to a work on Medicine. III. Cysts of Congenital Origin. Congenital cysts may be formed in various ways 1. By the inclusion of a portion of epiblast within the mesoblast {dermoid cysts). 2. By the distension in after life of some foetal structure which has not become obliterated in the course of normal development, for example encystedCYSTS—DERMOID CYSTS. 99 hydrocele of the spermatic cord developed in an unobli- terated portion of the funicular process of the tunica vaginalis, and certain broad ligament cysts developed from the parovarium. (See Testicle, &c.) 3. By the in- clusion of a blighted ovum in a part of the embryo. Such at least is the origin ascribed to certain cysts containing pieces of bone, cartilage, teeth, &c., occasionally found in connection with the ovary and testicle. Another form of congenital cyst, known as the cystic hygroma, is not uncommon. It consists of dilated lym- phatic spaces with a varying amount of fibrous, fatty and nsevoid tissue around, being almost solid or quite cystic according to the proportion of the solid elements. Hygro- mata occur in the neck, axilla, scrotum, &c. Their origin has not at present been satisfactorily explained. Of the congenital cysts, the Dermoid only are described here. Dermoid cysts are cysts in the walls of which are found all the structures constituting the true skin and its appendages, such as hair, hair-follicles, sebaceous glands, &c. The contents, which resemble sebaceous matter, con- sist of the secretion of the glands in the cyst-wall, and of epithelial debris, and frequently of hair. They are often quite unconnected with the skin, and their origin is attributed to the inclusion of a portion of the epiblast in the mesoblast, an explanation which in the region of the neck and face is probably correct, as these cysts are usually formed about the outer angle of the orbit, and in other of the situations at which in the embryo a cleft or fissure exists between the processes from which the face and neck are developed. In some dermoid cysts of the ovary teeth also are occasionally found. The origin of these, as of the dermoid cysts of the testicle, are not so obvious. Signs,—The dermoid cyst so common near the outer angle of the orbit forms a smooth, tense, globular tumour, generally freely moveable on the parts beneath. It is always congenital, grows slowly, and though generally small may attain a considerable size. Treatment.—The cyst should be dissected out by an incision through and parallel to the eye-brow, in order that the scar may be as much as possible hidden. At times these cysts send pro- cesses beneath the eyelid, or into the orbit, and they have even been known to perforate the bone and extend into the interior of the skull. Care, therefore, is necessary in their removal. H 2100 GENEBAL PATHOLOGY OE IKJtJElES. SECTION II. General Pathology oe Injuries. WOUNDS. Wounds are divided into two great classes, the open, and tlie subcutaneous. Open wounds.—A wound has been defined as "a solution of continuity in any part of the body, suddenly made by anything that cuts or tears, with division of the skin." Here our attention will be confined to the general pathology and treatment of wounds of the soft tissues. Wounds of special tissues, as bone, muscle, blood- vessels, neryes, &c.^ will be further referred to under those heads. The process of repair in open wounds of the soft tissues differs according as the wound is incised, lacerated, contused, or punctured, and according as it is, or is not, kept aseptic, properly drained, and protected from iufec- tive processes. The healing process will, moreover, be infiuenced by the patient's state of health previous to the wound, and the hygienic conditions under which he is subsequently placed. Let us first take a general view of the process of repair as it occurs in a simple incised wound in a healthy subject. Immediately the wound is infiicted there will be free hsemorrhage varying in amount according to the vascularity of the part, probably a spouting of blood in jets from a few larger arteries, and a more or less general oozing from the smaller vessels and capillaries. The heemorrhage from the larger arteries having been arrested, and that from the smaller having ceased spontaneously, the wound, if accurately closed, and kept aseptic and at rest with its surfaces in contact, will unite without suppuration by a process of simple or adhesive inflammation. Thus, the edges of the wound for the first day or two may present a very faint blush of red- ness extending for a few lines to perhaps in a large wound half an inch or so beyond the incision; whilst they may101 be slightly swelled, a little hotter than natural, and tender on pressure, but quite devoid of pain. The redness, swel- ling and heat, however, may be so slight as to be almost imperceptible, or indeed may be said in some instances- not to occur. If an attempt were now made to draw the edges apart they would be found adherent to each other, and a few days later firmly united. All trace of redness and swelling about the edges will by this time have dis- appeared, a red streak only remaining to mark the line of the wound. This streak grows paler and paler, till ulti- mately a thin white line, which in course of time may become hardly perceptible, alone indicates the site of the injury. The above-mentioned process, which should be attended by little or no constitutional disturbance, is known as healing by the first intention, and is the one which, other things being equal, is always aimed at by the surgeon in the treatment of wounds. Should, how- ever, the wound not admit of its surfaces being placed wholly in contact, or should it be improperly drained and not kept aseptic, the inflammatory redness and swelling of the edges, instead of subsiding and disappearing in a few days, will increase and extend for some distance around ; the parts then become tense, there may be throb- bing pain, union fails, and suppuration is set up. In the meantime the patient may have a chill or even a distinct rigor; the temperature rises; the pulse is increased in frequency; the tongue becomes coated, the skin hot and dry, the urine scanty and high coloured, and the bowels confined; he complains of headache and loss of appetite, and there may be restlessness and want of sleep and per- haps slight delirium (septic traumatic fever). If now a free exit is established for the pus, and further septic changes are prevented, the constitutional disturbance subsides, and the surface of the wound becomes covered with granulations. The granulations gradually fill up the wound, and when the level of the skin or mucous membrane is reached, epithelium slowly spreads from the edges of the wound over the granulations till they are completely covered in. A red scar is thus left at the seat of the former wound, and though this in the process of time assumes a white colour, and becomes smaller from the contraction of the fibrous tissue into which the granu- lations are at length converted, it is of a permanent character. The above method of repair is known as healing by the second intention, or by granulation.GENERAL PATHOLOGY OE mJURIES. 102 In wouuds where there is loss of substance so that the edges of the skin cannot be brought into contact, healing by the second intention is the normal method of union. The surface after the haemorrhage has been stopped be- comes glazed over, and a reddish serum slowly escapes; granulations appear, first here and there, a,nd finally over the whole surface of the wound, which is then gradually filled up as described above. In lacerated wounds the same process occurs, the dead portions of the lacerated tissues, however, being first thrown off in the form of sloughs. In flap wounds where adhesion by the first intention has failed, after the surfaces of the flaps have become covered by granulations the two layers of granulations in contact may unite, a mode of healing known as secondary adhe- sion or union by the third intention. Yet again, when a wound has been sealed by blood or discharges, it may unite either by adhesive inflammation or by granulation, the process being hidden by the scab of hardened blood and discharges, on the separation of which the wound is found soundly healed. It is the common method of healing among animals, and is known as healing under a seal), or as it was humorously described by Sir James Paget in his lectures on Surgery, as union by no inten- tion at all. Thus a wound may heal, 1, by adhesive inflammation, or by the first intention; 2, by granulation, or by the second intention; 3, by secondary adhesion, union of granulations, or by the third intention; and 4, under a scab. These methods of healing may now be studied more in detail. 1. Healing hy the first intention, or hy adhesive inflam- mation.—Chiefly as the result of the injury inflicted on the tissues by the instrument making the wound, and to a less extent as the result of exposure to the cold air and it may be of the irritation of strong chemical anti- septics, a simple traumatic inflammation is set up in the layer of tissue bounding the incision (Fig. 19 and Fig. 20). As a consequence, stasis and coagulation of the blood is induced in the divided smaller vessels and capillaries, and thus the haemorrhage from them spontaneously ceases (Fig. 20a). Immediately around there is dilatation of the vessels with retarded flow, and escape of leucocytes and liquor sanguinis. These infiltrate the tissues adjacent to the incision and pass through the cut lymph-spaces on to the raw surface of the wound. There coagulation occurs,PROCESS OF REPAIR IN WOUNDS. 103 tlie fibrin and the entangled corpuscles forming a layer of coagulable lymph, between the surfaces of the wound, whilst the serum, at first red from the presence of red corpuscles but subsequently becoming colourless, drains Fia. 19.—Diagram representing a simple incised wound, immediately after the incision has been made. gradually away. It is this coagulable lymph which causes the surfaces of the wound after the first few hours to adhere, or to become glazed if the wound is kept open for some time before the edges are approximated as was formerly a Fig. 20.—Diagram representing an incised wound a few hours after the incision. A. Area of thrombosis—^leucocytes making their way to the cut surface ; b. Area of dilated capillaries— leucocytes escaping from the vessels into the tissues, c. Normal tissues. not uncommon practice. A little further from the line of incision there is the usual inflammatory phenomenon of dilated vessels with accelerated flow (Fig. 20b), thus ac- counting for the faint blush of redness and the slight swelling a>bout the edges of the wound. The coagulableGENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJURIES. 104 lymph, uniting the surfaces of the wound, together with the tissues immediately adjacent to the incision, next become softened and finally replaced by the infiltrating leucocytes and proliferating cells on the surface of the Fig. 21.—Diagram of an incised wound a day or two after the incision. The sides of the wound united by small round cells. wound which now form a layer of small round cells welding as it were the surfaces of the wound together (Fig. 21). The infiammation, like all inflammations of traumatic origin, tends to cease as soon as the cause is Fig. 22.—Diagram of an incised wound, a few days after the incision. Loops of capillaries growing out from the old capillaries and making their way amongst the small round cells uniting the cut surfaces. At the lower part of the figure a loop has united with one from the opposite side. removed. Thus in a day or two it subsides, and if a sec- tion of the parts were now made, the uniting layer of small round cells could be seen permeated by delicate new capillaries stretching across from one side of the wound to the other (Fig. 22). They are generally believed105 ■PROCESS OF REPAIR IN WOUNDS. to be produced by loops growing out from the old capillaries, and uniting with, others similarly produced, and growing out from the capillaries on the opposite side. This vascularization of the unitiDg layer of cells accounts for the redness of the cicatricial line, and for the slight . haemorrhage which now occurs if the edges of the wound be drawn forcibly apart. As the capillary circulation is established the edges of the wound become pale from the collateral vessels being now no longer overcharged. The granulation-tissue thus formed is at length developed into fibrous tissue, which, like all new fibrous tissue, contracts, obliterating many of the newly-formed vessels. Hence the gradual paling of the cicatrix which now becomes practically non-vascular. Healing by the first intention may be prevented by— 1. Much contusion of the edges of the wound, with con- sequent death of the tissues bounding the incision; 2. The presence of a foreign body in the wound; 3. A greatly lowered vitality of the tissues, as from broken health, abuse of alcohol, bad hygienic surroundings, bruising of the parts, rough sponging, or use of too strong anti- septics; 4. The parts not being kept at rest, with the surfaces of the wound in accurate apposition; 5. Inefficient drainage whereby the serum squeezed out from the coagulating material is allowed to collect in the wound and cause tension; 6. Neglect of antiseptic precautions and consequent decomposition of the serum or the infec- tion of the wound by some of the specific micro-organisms. Under any of the above circumstances the inflammation may be kept up, the pyogenic micrococci may gain a footing, further infiltration of leucocytes and i^rolifera- tion of tissue elements take place, the small-cell-exuda- tion uniting the wound breaks down into pus, the flaps separate, and suppuration is established. Supposing the cause of the inflammation to be now removed, healing by the second intention will ensue. 2. Healing hy the second intention,—New vessels grow out among the layers of small round cells forming the exposed surface of the wound, and granulation-tissue is thus formed (Fig. 23). The growth of granulations, other things being equal, exceeds the breaking down of the superficial layers of cells into pus, and the wound is gradually filled up. Epithelium derived from the old epithelium at the edges of the wound gradually spreads I over the surface of the granulations ; but new sweat and106 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJURIES. sebaceous glands, hair-follicles, papillae and lymphatics, are not formed. The cicatrix, at first red from the abundance of the capillaries in the granulation-tissue, becomes pale as these are obliterated by the contraction of the fibrous tissue into which the granulation-tissue is converted, and though, in the course of time, in conse- quence of the fibrous contraction, it becomes smaller, a permanent scar will remain. In wounds attended with loss of substance, in which healing by the second intention is the normal process, a traumatic inflammation is set up in the tissues imme- diately adj acent to the surface of the wound, and the Fig. 23.—Diagram of a granulating wound, conditions for healing being otherwise favourable, a coagulable material, as described above, is formed over the surface, and the serum drains away. Loops of new capillaries, derived from the old, spring up amongst the cells replacing the coagulable exudation and softened adjacent tissues, and the wound heals and cicatrizes as has just been described. Where there is much laceration or contusion of the surface of the wound, the dead tissues are cast o:ff by ulceration in the way mentioned under gangrene. 3. Healing hy the third intention,—When the two layers of granulations covering the flaps of the wound are placed and kept in contact, the capillaries in the one layer meet with those in the other, and so establish a vascular con- nection between the two flaps, and the healing of the wound then proceeds in the way described under union by the first intention. 4. Healing under a scah.—The minute changes of healing under a scab require no special description.107 TREATMENT OF WOIJXDS. Treatment of wounds.—The general principles which should guide us in the treatment of wounds will be con- sidered under the following heads:—1, Arrest of hsemor- rhage; 2, Cleansing of the wound and removal of foreign bodies; 3, ■'Drainage; 4, Closing the wound and keeping it subsequently at absolute rest; 5, Prevention of putre- faction, fermentation, and infective processes; and 6, Constitutional treatment. 1. The arrest of hcemorrhage is considered separately at page 123. 2. The cleansing of the loound and removal of foreign bodies should be done with all gentleness, so as not to bruise more than can possibly be avoided the tissues, the vitality of which is already lowered by the incision through them. Thus the wound should not be sponged or rubbed more than is absolutely necessary, but a stream of pure water, if preferred containing some mild anti- septic, allowed to run through it to wash away any dirt, blood-clot, or other foreign substance. If the wound is deep or irregular, it should be irrigated, taking care when the skin-wound is small not to cause any forcible dis- tension for fear of driving the fluid into the interstices of the tissues where it may act as an irritant and set up in- flammation. Foreign bodies, as glass, splinters, bullets, etc., if lodged in the wound, should be picked out by forceps or other suitable instrument. 3. Drainage,—"Where a wound is quite superficial, and in some situations where the parts are very vascular, as about the face, and for moderate-sized wounds in which the surfaces can be kept in contact by pressure, drainage is not necessary. Such wounds may be completely closed if clean cut and moderately small, or a stitch may be omitted at one end; or a loop of pewter wire inserted but only deep enough to keep the edges of the skin apart at that place. If, however, the wound is large or irregular or lacerated, and the surfaces cannot be kept in contact, efficient drainage of the wound is of the greatest im- portance. Its object is to promote the free escape of the serum, which, as we have seen, is squeezed out during the first twenty-four hours from the coagulable exudation formed upon the surface of the divided tissues as the result of the traumatic inflammation. If this serum is allowed to collect in the deeper parts and irregularities of the wound, it not only mechanically separates the sur- faces and gives rise to tension, a cause in itself of theGENERAL PATHOLOGY OF mJURIES. 108 continuance of inflammation and hence of the non-healing of the wound, but is also liable to undergo decomposition and putrefaction, and forms a suitable nidus for the growth of pyogenic micro-organisms. Now the coagul- able exudation, being living tissue, resists the agents which determine putrefaction. Not so the serum. In this we have a fluid containing dead animal matter, and as the other conditions favourable for decomposition are also present, viz., a temperature of about 100°, and a sufficient supply of water and oxygen, the addition of a ferment only is required to set it up. If decomposition or fermentation then is suffered to take place through not keeping the wound aseptic, or the pyogenic micrococci are allowed to enter, the freshly divided tissues, not as yet sealed by traumatic inflammation, allow the products of decomposition or of the micrococci to soak into the tissues around, setting up locally a septic or spreading inflammation, whereby the coagulable exudation, tem- porarily holding the surfaces of the wound in apposition, is destroyed, and healing hy the first intention is further prevented. In the meantime the products of decomposi- tion may pass into the blood, and give rise to the consti- tutional state known as septic traumatic fever, or if the dose of the poison is large, to saprsemia or septic intoxi- cation ; and this is the more likely to occur if the wound has been closed, so that the decomposing serum is pent up under some degree of tension. If therefore the wound is very large, and deep or lacerated or irregular, a drainage tube or tubes should be placed in it, and brought out at the most dependent part, the incisions, if the wound is made in an operation, being so planned as to allow as much as possible of a dependent drain. For smaller wounds it may be sufficient to place in them a leash of horse-hair or of catgut, a piece of gutta-percha tissue, or a strand or two of pewter wire. The drain-tube if kept in too long will act as a foreign body, set up inflam- mation, and give rise to a suppurating sinus along its track. It should therefore be withdrawn as soon as the serum ceases to be squeezed out from the coagulating material—?'.e., from twenty-four to forty-eight hours, according to the size of the wound. In large and deep wounds it is better not to remove the tube all at once, as the superficial part of the wound may then heal, and the discharge or pus collect in the deeper part; but to shorten it gradually, allowing the wound to soundly heal as it is109 TREATMENT OF WOUNDS. withdrawn. The drain-tube should consist of red-rubber tubing, varying in calibre according to the size of the wound. It should have lateral holes cut in it to facilitate the >escape of the discharge, and should be made thoroughly aseptic by being kept in some antiseptic fluid. It had better be passed through the first layer of dressing, and its mouth surrounded by some absorbent material to take up the discharges. Where the wound is deep, the tube should be secured by an antiseptic thread, lest it slip in, and becoming lost in the depths of the wound, sub- sequently act as a foreign body. Tubes of decalcified bone have been used in the hope that they would become absorbed, and so prevent the necessity of disturbing the dressings; but they do not appear to have had the desired Fig. 24.—Surgical needles and hare-lip pin. effect. Eecently a reaction seems to have set in against the use of drains of all kinds. Where they are dispensed with the skin wound is not as a rule tightly closed, and the deeper parts of the wound are maintained in close apposition by means of buried or deep sutures and the application of firm pressure over a thick layer of ab- sorbent and antiseptic dressing. 4. Closure of the toound,—The surfaces should be placed in contact, and the edges accurately united by suture, strapping, or a bandage. Where the wound involves different layers of tissue, muscle and fascia should be united, each to each, by aseptic sutures. In uniting the edges of the wound, care should be taken to see that the skin is neither inverted nor everted, and that the sutures, whatever form is used, are only tied sufiiciently tight to keep the edges in apposition. All tension should be avoided, as this in itself is a fertile cause of inflammation. The sutures may consist of silver-wire, silk, catgut, silkworm-gut, or horse-hair. All kinds have their110 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OE INJUEIES. advantages and disadvantages, and are variously required in different cases. Thus, silver-wire is unirritating and perfectly non-absorbent, but causes pain on removal, and, as it is quite unyielding, is apt, from the swelling of the parts, to cause tension and inflammation if left in too long. Catgut is useful in that its deeper parts become absorbed, and therefore does not require removal. For this reason it is often inapplicable, as it gives way too soon. Catgut when chromicized resists absorption for many days, and forms an admirable suture. It is difficult, however, to ensure it being aseptic and is therefore abandoned completely by many surgeons. Horse-hair is non-absorbent, and is also non-absorbable; it has the additional advantage of being slightly yielding as well as sufficiently supporting. It is very useful when a delicate suture is required, as in wounds about the face. Silk forms a strong suture, but possesses the disadvantage of being absorbent and thus of becom- ing saturated with the discharges, _ ^ ^ . so that, if decomposition takes • 2^--\;onyenient ^ ^^11 irritant, needle-holder. , further, unless tied tightly, in which case it is apt to produce tension, it yields too much. At the present day, how- ever, fine silk or china twist is, on the whole, the favourite suture. Sutures may be made aseptic by boiling or by soaking for twenty-four hours in 1 in 500 perchloride of mercury solution. They should then be kept in absolute alcohol 3 parts and perchloride of mercury solution (1 in 200) 2 parts. The sutures are introduced by various forms of surgical needles, curved and straight, bayonet- spear- and probe- pointed (Fig. 24), the needle being conveniently passed by one of the many forms of needle-holder (Fig. 25). The methods of applying sutures are very numerous. The two chief forms of suture used in ordinary wounds are the interrupted, the suture being tied or twisted at each stitch and cut off short, and the continuous, one suture being used throughout without being cut. Among the special forms may be mentioned the twisted, the button, the quilled, the Lembert, the Jobert, and the Czerny, which are referred to under those wounds where they are specially indicated. The other methods of closingIll TREATMENT OF WOUNDS. wounds, as by styptic colloid and collodion, are Tiseful in wounds about the face, and wbere the wound is small. Having closed the wound, the parts should be placed as far as is possible at absolute rest, and supported by firm but elastic pressure to ensure the deeper surfaces being in apposition. 5. Prevention of putrefaction^ fermentation, and infective jjrocesses occurring in the tuound.—Putrefaction and fer- mentation are best prevented by efficiently draining the wound, or by keeping the surfaces in contact by firm pressure, as there is then no material present in the wound wherein decomposition can occur. Antiseptics, viz., agents that destroy septic and infective organisms, are usually adopted as an extra precaution, and are especially necessary where thorough drainage or efficient pressure, as in some forms of compound fracture, wounds of joints, etc., cannot be employed. But we have to guard, not only against the decomposition of the discharges, but also against the entrance of infec- tive micro-organisms, conveyed by instruments, sponges, the surgeon's or nurse's hands, or by the air when an infectious case is in the ward. The greatest cleanliness therefore is necessary. All instruments should be care- fully cleansed after use before they are put away, and before being used again they should be sterilised by boiling them in water or a 1 per cent, salt solution, or by passing them through the flame of a spirit-lamp or placing them in the steam sterilizer. Whilst in use they should be placed in some antiseptic solution, as carbolic acid (1 in 20) or lysol (2 per cent.). Sponges except new ones had better not be used at all, but (lamgee's absorbent pads, or dabs of cotton-wool, which can be destroyed immediately after the operation. New sponges after cleansing should be kept in carbolic acid (1 in 20). The hands of the surgeon should be scrupulously clean, and further purified by dipping them into carbolic acid (1 in 40), or corrosive sublimate (1 in 1,000). Previous to operating, the parts should be shaved, if necessary, and washed with soap-and-water for some distance around where the wound is to be made, and afterwards with carbolic acid (1 in 20), or corrosive sublimate (1 in 1,000), and where greasy, with ether. An antiseptic dressing should then be applied till the patient is on the operating table. Before the dressing is removed towels wrung out in warm carbolic lotion (1 in 20) should be arranged aroundGENEEAL PATHOLOGY OE INJURIES. 112 the part where the wound is to be made so as to prevent the clothes coming into contact with the wound. The wetting of the patient's clothes is prevented by placing aseptic mackintosh cloths beneath the carbolized towels. On the removal of the dressing the parts should be again sponged with the antiseptic. The carbolic spray is now abandoned, and irrigation with corrosive sublimate (1 in 5,000), carbolic acid (1 in 40), or even pure water substituted for it. In a work of this character, it would be impossible to attempt any description of the numerous methods of dressing wounds which have been, or are at the present day, in use, and to adequately discuss the advantages claimed for them, and the disadvantages which all of them to a greater or less degree possess. The objects aimed at in the selection of a dressing are—1, that it should be absorbent, so as readily to soak up the dis- charges drained off from the wound; 2, that it should promote the drying of the wound; 3, that it should be antiseptic or aseptic; and, hence, 4, that it should not require frequent changing, and the consequent disturb- ance of the wound and therefore of that rest which is so important in promoting physiological repair. The materials most frequently used are gauze or cotton-wool, impregnated with sal alembroth or the double cyanide of mercury and zinc, or simply sterilised by dry heat or superheated steam. My own plan is to dress the wound with several layers of moist sal alembroth gauze, over which is placed dry gauze and a thick layer of dry sal alembroth wool. Firm compression with a bandage is then applied. The wound is now left absolutely at rest till healing is thought to have taken place. The tempera- ture and pulse are, of" course, carefully -snatched; and should they indicate any abnormality in the process of healing, or should there be local pain or uneasiness, the wound is looked at and the dressings re-applied. 6. Constitutional treatment.—Whether the wound is received accidentally, or is inflicted in the form of an operation, much of the Surgeon's success will depend upon judicious constitutional after-treatment; and, indeed, in the latter case, in great measure also upon the preparation of the patient. Where the wound is large and there has been much haemorrhage^ the condition known as shock, and the constitutional symptoms de- pending upon severe loss of blood, will probably ensue.TREATMENT OE WOUNDS. 113 For the treatment of these see Shock and Hc^imorrhage. For the wound to do well it is important that the patient should be placed under the best possible hygienic condi- tions. He should have an abundant supply of fresh air, the secretions should be regulated, and the diet care- fully supervised. Thus, he should have at least fifteen hundred cubic feet of air, and this should be changed by efficient ventilation once every hour. The windows, in addition, except in very severe weather, should be opened at regular intervals, in order to thoroughly flush out the room; but draughts must be avoided, and the tempera- ture of the room maintained at a uniform degree of about 60° F. A horsehair mattress should be employed, and a draw-sheet placed on the bed. The room or ward should be scrupulously clean; there should be no curtains to the bed and windows, or carpet on the floor, and nothing under the bed to interfere with the free circu- lation of air. The bowels should be kept regular by small doses of confection of senna or of the compound liquorice powder, or by one of the laxative mineral waters; the secretion of the skin promoted by washing, which may be done without unduly exposing or wetting the patient; and sleep induced, if necessary, by bromide of potas- sium, urethane, chloral, sulphonal, or opium, or by sub- cutaneous injections of morphia. The patient must be kept cheerful by books, newspapers, etc. The diet for the first few days should be limited to milk, weak beef- tea, or chicken-broth, and gradually increased if the temperature remains normal and as the digestive func- tions regain their power. Where the strength has been much reduced previous to the operation, or the operation has been severe, or the shock marked, or haemorrhage free, or suppuration has ensued, stimulants, varying in amount according to the state of the pulse, temperature, and tongue are indicated. The treatment necessary for the various complications, that may attend the healing of wounds are given under Inflammation, Suppuration, Erysipelas, etc. As regards the preparation for operation^ where this is not one of emergency the patient should be placed at rest for a few days, and kept cheerful and in good spirits, and put on nourishing but unstimulating diet. In the meantime his digestive, alvine, renal, and cutaneous functions must be regulated by appropriate means, the bowels being cleared the day before the operation by a dose of castor-oil or other mild purgative. IGENERAL PATHOLOGY OE INJURIES. 114 Where his strength is much reduced by long-continued suppuration or chronic disease, efforts must be made to improve his general health by nourishing diet and the judicious employment of stimulants. Varieties oe open wounds. — Open wounds are divided into incised, lacerated, contused, punctured, and poisoned. Incised wounds are such as have their edges evenly divided and their surfaces smoothly cut. They are usually inflicted by sharp instruments, and are those commonly made by the Surgeon in operating. The danger which is particularly liable to attend them is haemorrhage. Healing is generally accomplished by the first intention, provided the proper means are employed. Treatment.—What has been said under the treatment of wounds generally, applies especially to this variety. Lacerated ivounds are those in which the tissues forming the surface and edges of the wound are irregularly torn. They are commonly caused by machinery and by the goring and bites of animals. There is usually but little haemorrhage, in consequence of the vessels being torn rather than cut across. The chief dangers are profuse suppuration, tetanus, saprsemia, erysipelas, and extensive scarring. Healing is generally accomplished by the second intention, the dead portions of the lacerated tissues being first thrown off by ulceration in the way described under Gangrene. In some situations and under favourable conditions, however, a large part of the wound may heal by the first intention. Treatment.— Special attention should be paid to the cleansing of the wound and establishing a free drain. Any portions of the tissues which have obviously lost their vitality should be cut away. Sutures should not as a rule be applied, but the wound should be dressed by one of the methods before described, and the parts placed at rest. Contused wounds are those in which the tissues forming the surface and edges are extensively bruised. They are usually made with blunt instruments, or with such agents as distribute the force over a large surface. There is commonly considerable extravasation of blood amongst the bruised tissues, though usually but little external haemorrhage. The chief dangers are extensive inflamma- tion and sloughing, secondary haemorrhage on the separa- tion of the sloughs, spreading gangrene, erysipelas orPOISONED WOUXDS. 115 diffuse cellulitis, tetanus, and, later, scarring. A com- bination of laceration and contusion is frequently present. Healing is generally accomplished by the second inten- tion. The Treatment is similar to that of lacerated wounds. Any portions of skin which have not lost their vitality should be preserved, especially if the wound involves the scalp or face. Punctured wounds are those in which the depth is much greater than the breadth. They are usually produced by sharp-pointed instruments, bayonet- or sword-thrusts, and stabs. The chief dangers are haemorrhage, penetration of important cavities, as the thorax, abdomen, or a joint, injury of a large blood-vessel or nerve, and subsequently deep suppuration in consequence of the retention of the discharges in the deep portion of the wound. Punctured wounds usually unite by the second intention, owing to the difficulty of keeping the deeper parts of the wound in contact and of preventing the collecting of serum and later of pus. Treatment.—If deep, a drainage-tube should be passed to the bottom of the wound, and gradually shortened as the wound heals. If there is severe arterial haemorrhage which cannot be controlled by carefully applied pressure, the wound must be converted into an incised one, and the bleeding vessel treated in the way described under wounds of arteries, veins, etc. For the special treatment required where a joint or visceral cavity has been penetrated, see Injuries of Uegions. Poisoned wounds. Dissection and post-mortem ivounds, —Dissection wounds are of frequent occurrence, but seldom give rise to any serious trouble, unless the body from which the poison is received is fresh, when the risks are similar to those attending wounds received in making post-mortem examinations. Post-mortem wounds ap- pear to owe their virulence to inoculation with infective micro-organisms which are capable of multiplying in the tissues or in the blood, and so setting up true infective inflammation and blood-poisoning. These micro-organ- isms are replaced, as decomposition of the corpse sets in, by the bacteria of putrefaction. Hence the longer the body has been kept the less dangerous the wound, as these bacteria are merely capable of inducing a local inflammation, and not a true infective process. The most dangerous wounds are those received whilst ex- amining bodies in which death has recently resulted from septicaemia, pyaemia, diffuse or puerperal peritonitis, I 2IIG GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJURIES. and erysipelas. The effects of a wound received in dis- section, or in post-mortem inspection, will depend in some degree upon the health of the operator; if strong and vigorous he is better able to resist the toxic effects than when debilitated by prolonged study or work in a hospital ward. On the other hand, persons acclimatized to the dissecting or post-mortem room are less liable to be affected than those who have but recently been engaged there. The signs^ as might be expected from what has been said above, vary considerably, depending, as they do, upon the nature of the poison received from the corpse and the previous state of the operator's health. Thus: 1. A pustule may form at the seat of inoculation, and, after breaking and scabbing, leave a raised, indolent, painful red sore, which may exist for months in spite of treatment. 2. The scratch or wound may become in- flamed, the superficial, and, perhaps, the deep lymphatics implicated, and the axillary glands enlarged and painful, this condition being attended by sharp constitutional disturbance, often preceded by a rigor. Suppuration generally occurs at the seat of inoculation, and sometimes also in the axillary glands. The prognosis is usually good. 3. With or without the local signs of the preceding form, severe constitutional symptoms set in, preceded by a rigor, and rapidly assume a typhoid character. Diffuse suppuration occurs in the axillary glands, and may spread to the neck and side of the chest. The prognosis is very unfavourable, the patient often dying in from one to three weeks, or only recovering after a tedious con- valescence, and then, probably, with a broken constitu- tion. 4. Diffuse cellular, or cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas is set up at the seat of inoculation, attended with the usual constitutional symptoms of these affections, and may rapidly spread up the limb and terminate in gan- grene and death. The axillary glands in this form are not usually affected. 5. In addition to the local suppuration, a pysemic state, with the formation of metastatic abscesses in various tissues and organs, some- times occurs. Treatment.—Immediately on its infliction the wound should be sucked, and cleansed by a stream of cold water, and bleeding encouraged and absorption prevented by tightly binding the part above the wound. Where the corpse is recent and death is known to be the result of some infective disease, the wound should be washed in117 STTBCtJTAJ^EOtJS WOtT^BS. strong carbolic or corrosive sublimate lotion (some recom- mend its cauterization with caustic potash, or nitrate of silver), and then dressed and protected from further in- fection. If a wart, or indolent sore form, it should be destroyed by nitrate of silver, or other caustic, and the patient's health improved by tonics and change of air. If an infective inflammation be set up, the wound should be freely incised, and any abscess that may form in the axilla, or elsewhere, opened early; indeed, if there is much tension or brawniness of the parts, incisions should be made before pus has formed. The bowels in the mean- time should be cleared by a brisk purge, and the strength supported by nourishment and stimulants. Stings of insects sometimes cause troublesome local in- flammation, which is occasionally of a diffuse character, and where a large extent of surface is stung, as by a swarm of bees, ma^' be attended with symptoms of severe depression. Stings of the throat occasionally occur from swallowing a wasp, and are liable to be followed by oedematous laryngitis. Treatment,—The application of ammonia will at once relieve pain. Where there is severe depression, ammonia or alcohol must be ad- ministered. Scarification, intubation of the glottis, or even laryngotomy, may become necessary in severe stings of the throat. Snake-hites.—The bites of poisonous snakes, other than the adder, are fortunately rare in this country. The bite of the common adder is seldom fatal. It is attended with much collapse, nausea or vomiting, great pain in the part, swelling of the affected member, subsequent discoloration from blood-extravasation, and occasionally inflammation and suppuration. The treatment consists in sucking the part where practicable, applying a bandage tightly above the bite to prevent absorption of the poison, and the internal administration of stimulants. The local application of liqaor potassae or permanganate of potash, the injection of ammonia into the veins, and excision of the bitten part are recommended. Eor an account of the more serious symptoms attending the bite of the cobra and other venomous serpents of tropical countries, a larger work must be consulted. Subcutaneous wounds.—A wound, whether it be of the connective tissue, bone, muscle, tendon or other structure, is said to be subcutaneous when the skin or mucous membrane remains intact. Such wounds differ118 GENEHAL 1>ATH0L0GY OF INJimlES. from tlie open in that they heal by adhesive inflammation without suppuration, since as long as the skin or mucous membrane covering the wounded part is unbroken, septic processes are effectually prevented. Moreover, they are attended by but little, if any, constitutional disturbance. They will be further described under Rupture of Muscles and Tendons, Simple Fractures, &c. Diseases of cicateices.—The cicatrices left on the healing of a wound are liable to certain affections which may be enumerated as :—1, painful cicatrix; 2, depressed or contracted cicatrix; 3, warty cicatrix; 4, thin cica- trices; 5, ulceration; 6, keloid; and 7, epithelioma, and more rarely sarcoma. See Ulceration, Tumours, &c. CONTUSIONS OE BEUISES. Contusions are subcutaneous injuries, occasioned by a crushing, pulping or tearing of the tissues, combined with extravasation of blood consequent upon the rupture of the capillaries and smaller vessels of the part. In their slighter forms they constitute the common injury known as a hruise. The effused blood generally makes its way in the connective-tissue planes towards the skin, giving rise to the characteristic purplish-black appear- ance, and, as it later breaks down and becomes absorbed, to a change of colours from bluish-black through dark red to yellowish-green. In severe cases the cuticle is raised into bullae by the effusion of blood-stained serum beneath it. These bullae, together with the black colour of the part, may occasion a close resemblance to gangrene, from which however a contusion may be distinguished by there being no loss of heat or of sensation in the part, and by the bullae being fixed, and not changing their position on pressure as in gangrene. In very severe and extensive contusions, however, the tissues may be so injured as to lose their vitality, and gangrene actually ensue; whilst in other instances inflammation and suppuration may occur. When the contusion is localized, blood to a con- siderable amount may be poured out at the injured spot, forming a fluctuating swelling known as a hcematoma. Contusions of muscle, bone, blood-vessels, and nerves, and contusions of the viscera, are considered separately under Injuries of Special Tissues and Organs. Treatment.—'Bejond placing the part at rest, and119 BURN'S XNB SCALDS. applying an evaporating or a spirit lotion, nothing more as a rule is required, as the extravasated blood presses upon the injured vessels, and so prevents further hsemor- rhage. Should a hBematoma form, it should on ' no account be opened, as the blood will usually become absorbed; whilst, if air be admitted, suppuration will probably ensue. Aspiration, however, when the hsema- toma is very large, may occasionally be done with ad- vantage. BURNS AND SCALDS. Burns and scalds vary in their effect according to their depth, extent, situation, and the age of the patient. An extensive though superficial burn on the trunk, head, or face, especially in a child, may be more serious than a deeper but limited burn on the extremities. A burn is usually said to be more severe than a scald, as the fluid producing the latter generally quickly cools and runs off. A scald, however, owes its severity to the large extent of surface usually implicated, and when produced by molten metal or boiling oil which adheres to the part is generally very serious. Burns and scalds, when severe, give rise to constitutional as well as local effects. The local effects may be considered under Diipuytren's division of burns into six degrees. These degrees, however, may be variously combined in the same burn. 1st degree.—Simple erythema, due to increased flow of blood through the dilated vessels. ' No tissue destruc- tion ensues, and no scar is left. 2nd degree.—Vesication, due to the exudation from the dilated capillaries of the cutis causing the superficial layers of the epithelium to be raised from the deeper in the form of blebs. No scar is left, as only the superficial layers of the epithelium are destroyed, and these are soon reproduced from the deeper layers. Some slight staining of the skin, however, may subsequently remain. 3rd degree.—Destruction of the cuticle and part of the true shin,—The epithelium around the hair-follicles, in the sweat-glands, and between the papillse, escapes, and rapidly forms new epithelium over the granulating surface left on the separation of the sloughs. A scar results, but as it contains all the elements of the true skin, the integrity of the part is retained, and hence thereGENERAL PATHOLOGY OF IJs^JURIES. 120 is no contraction. It is the most painful form of burn, as the nerve-endings are involyed but not destroyed. 4th degeee.—Destruction of the whole shin. — The sloughs are yellowish-brown and parchment-like; and their separation is attended by much suppuration. As the nerve-endings are completely destroyed, the pain is much less than in the former degree of burn. The epithe- lium which covers in the granulating surface is only derived from the margins of the burn, and the resulting scar consists of dense fibrous tissue. Hence the extensive contraction and great deformity which often result. 5th degree.—Penetration of the deep fascia and im- plication of the muscles,—Great scarring and deformity necessarily follow. 6th degree.—Charring of the ivhole limh.—The parts are separated by ulceration in the same way as in gangrene. Cdnstittjtional Eeeects.—When the burn is super- ficial and of small extent, there may be no constitutional symptoms ; and even when it is deep, but limited to one of the extremities, as the foot or hand, they may also be slight. When, however, the burn is extensive, and especially when it involves the chest, abdomen, or head and neck, even although it is only of the first or second degree, the symptoms may be severe, more particularly when the patient is a child. The constitutional effects may be divided into three stages:—1. Shock and con- gestio7i. 2. Reaction and inflammation, ■ 3. Suppuration and exhaustion, 1st stage.—Shock and congestioii.^—The shock is often very great, especially when the burn is extensive, and involves the trunk, or head and neck. The patient is pale and shivering, the pulse feeble and fluttering, and the extremities are cold; he suffers little or no pain, and sometimes passes into a state of coma and dies, the chief post-mortem appearances being congestion of the internal organs, particularly the brain. 2nd stage. ^—Reaction and inflammation.—Eeaction comes on from twenty-four to forty-eight hours after the burn. The pulse is full, strong, and rapid, the tem- perature rises, and there are other symptoms of fever. Inflammation is set up around the burnt part, and there is now danger of the absorption of the septic products derived from the putrefaction of the sloughs which are beginning to separate. The congestion of the internalBUBNS AND SCALDS. 121 viscera, so common in the former stage, may run into inflammation ; and pleurisy, pneumonia, peritonitis, or meningitis may supervene and prove fatal. Perforating ulcer of the duodenum, which is generally situated near the head of the pancreas, may now occur, and is said to be most frequently met with about the tenth day. It would appear to be more rare, however, than has been generally supposed, since no case has occurred at St. Bartholomew's during the last seven years. It has been attributed to Brunner's glands taking upon themselves the function of the injured glands in the burnt skin, and to the irritation of the .vitiated products secreted in the bile and discharged into the duodenum at the bile papilla. '6rt> stage.—Biippuration and exhaustion.—During this stage, which sets in on the separation of the sloughs, there is still a danger of the patient succumbing to in- flammation of the viscera, especially the thoracic; or he may be worn out by hectic and exhaustion from long- continued suppuration. He is also exposed to the risks of secondary haemorrhage on the separation of the sloughs, and to blood-poisoning from the absorption of septic pro- ducts unless the greatest care is exercised to prevent the decomposition of the discharges. On cicatrization occur- ring, horrible deformity may ensue from the contraction of the newly-formed fibrous tissue in the scars. The Treatment must be both local and constitutional. Local treatment,—The clothes should be removed with the greatest care, so as not to tear off the cuticle; but undue exposure should be avoided. In burns of the first and second degree, the part should be protected from the air and changes of temperature by smearing it with carron oil or vaseline and wrapping it in cotton-wool, the blisters being pricked to relieve tension and to let out the serum. The cuticle, however, should not be removed, as it serves as the best protective. In burns of the third degree, the parts may also be protected by cotton-wool till the sloughs begin to separate. Decomposition of the dis- charges should then be prevented as much as possible by mild antiseptic dressings. Thus, the surface may be dusted with iodoform; or eucalyptus oil, boracic lotion, and the like may be applied. Some Surgeons put on a charcoal or even a linseed-meal poultice. Carbolic acid should not be used, as not only is it too irritating, but there is danger of it being absorbed when the burn isGEXEHAL PATHOLOGY OF INJUEIES. 122 / very extensive. When the sloughs have separated, and granulation sets in, the wound may be treated as described under simple ulcer, redundant granulations being repressed by nitrate of silver. Skin-grafting is often useful in the fourth decree of burns. The fourth and fifth degrees require the same treatment as the third, but during cicatrization, contraction must be as far as possible prevented by the use of elastic tension, extension- apparatus, splints, &c. Later some form of plastic operation to overcome the efcects of the contractions will often be required. In the sixth degree, amputation, if a limb is affected, will probably sooner or later be called for. Constitutional treatment.—If the shock is severe, stimu- lants in the form of brandy or ammonia should be given according to the state of the pulse, the patient covered with blankets, hot bottles put to the feet, and undue exposure whilst removing the burnt clothes and applying the dressings as much as possible avoided. Opium should be given, especially if there is much pain. As soon as the patient can bear it, fluid nourishment should be substituted for stimulants, as the latter, if given in large quantities, only tend to produce excessive reaction and inflammation. During the second stage, little can be done beyond regulating the bowels and secretions; lower- ing treatment is not well borne, at any rate when the burn is extensive and deep, as the patient will then require all his strength to sustain the drain on his system during the casting off of the sloughs and the long suppu- ration following. The inflammatory fever, moreover, generally assumes, if it is not so from the first, a low type. A stimulating plan of treatment, rather than a depressing, is therefore necessary. In the third stage, the patient's strength should be supported by abundant nourishment and stimulants. Lightning- and Electric-steoke.—Death may be instantaneous, or the stroke, beyond causing temporary unconsciousness, may do no harm. In some instances, superficial or deep burns, or paralysis of certain nerves, as the optic, auditory, &c., have been produced. Of late effects similar to those produced by lightning-stroke have occurred from contact either with wires through which electric currents of high intensity were passing, or with electro-motor apparatus. The treatment consists in apply- ing warmth, artificial respiration, and stimulants whilstH.EMoimilAGE. 123 the patient is in a state of shock. The functions of the nerves if paralysed have sonietinies been restored by galvanism. H^MOEHHAGE. Ii^ speaking of the treatment of wounds it was stated that onr first care should be to staunch haemorrhage. This requires different measures according as it is arterial, venous, or capillary. It is therefore first necessary to be able to distinguish between these varieties. Usually it is quite easy. In arterial liwmorrliage the blood escapes in jets, the force of wEich is increased at each systole of the heart, and is of a bright scarlet colour. In venous hcemor- rhage the blood wells up from the wounded vessel usually in a continuous"^ream, and is of a dark purplish-red colour^ in capillar(/ hcemor7'Jiage the blood appears to ooze from all parts of the wound, trickling down its sides to the deeper parts, where it forms a little pool. In some instances, however, as where arterial blood escapes fronij' a deep and devious wound, it may resemble venous bloodf in that it flows continuously instead of in jets, and when| the patient is partially asphyxiated, as from too large a| dose of an anaesthetic, it becomes of a dark colour. On,| the other hand, venous blood exposed to the air in its^ passage from a deep wound may undergo oxygenation and become bright like arterial. Bleeding from the corpus spongiosum and corpora cavernosa of the penis, or from like tissues consisting of cavernous blood-spaces or numerous small arteries and veins, is sometimes spoken of as parenchymatous hw7norrhage. When haemorrhage occurs in a visceral cavity, as the pleura or peritoneum (internal limmorrhage)^ or into the substance of the tissues of the trunk or extremities [extravasation), it is known by special signs, and is treated of elsewhere. Constitutional effects of hcemorrhage.—The effect upon the constitution of course varies according to the amount of blood lost, and is more marked when the blood is rapidly poured out from a large artery than when it escapes slowly from a small artery or from a vein. In the former case the patient may die in a few minutes of syncope. When the bleeding is less severe the face and general surface become blanched and cold, and the lips and mucous membrane pallid. The pulse is feeble, fluttering and rapid, and at length only to be felt in the124 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OE INJURIES. larger vessels. The skin is bathed in profuse perspiration, the respiration is sighing, and the mind wanders. These symptoms may end in syncope, convulsions, and death; or the patient may slowly recover, or may suffer from anaemia or functional disturbance for years. If he is old, some secondary disease is apt to be engrafted on this state of anaemia, of which he may die. Children bear the loss of blood badly, but recover rapidly; the old stand the loss better, but the effect on their constitution is more permanent. Constitutional treatment of hcemorrhage.—When the bleeding has been severe, immediate steps must be taken to prevent fatal syncope; and after this danger has been tided over, we must then seek to counteract the remote effects produced upon the whole system by the loss of blood. 1. Immediate treatme^it.—Our efforts must first be directed to arrest, or at any rate to temporarily control, the haemorrhage by some of the local measures to be presently described. Having done this, the chief indica- tion is to prevent fatal syncope by ensuring a sufficient supply oi blood to the brain to excite the cardiac ceiitre in the medulla oblongata. Thus, the patient should be laid on his back with his head low, his body warmly covered up, and hot bottles placed at his feet; or if the pulse does not improve, stimulants in small quantities should be administered, by the mouth if he can swallow. whilst in severe cases the legs and arms shouHoe held up, or an Esmarch's bandage applied to them in order the better to drive the blood to the brain. As a last resource, infusion of a saline solution should be practised. "Where theTileedihg is"^^^^^ be arrested, stimulants should be avoided, inasmuch as the syncope into which the patient has fallen tends temporarily to stop the bleeding by inducing clotting of the blood in the wounded vessels. If the heart be again roused to action by stimulants and the vessels in consequence become dilated, the clots may be displaced, the bleeding re-started, and the last flickering spark of life put out. 2. To counter- act the remote effects of the loss of blood, fluid nourishment should be given in small quantities, and then eggs, fish, and finally meat. Irop- is required to restore the JjQss-of haematin, and a sea-voyage or prolonged residence in the country is beneficial in overcoming the anaemia. Transfusion of hlood and infusion of saline solution into otherwise by the _ rectumTREATMENT OF II^MOERHAGE. 125 the veins.—Transfusion of blood has long been employed in cases where death is threatened from excessive haemor- rhage. It is, however, a dangerous procedure, in that the transfused blood may form clots and thus lead to the plugging of some of the patient's vessels, with possibly fatal consequences. And, moreover, it appears that blood is of no more value than an equal amount of any bland fluid, since it has been recently shewn that the transfused blood is merely destroyed and absorbed and the blood-pigment passed with the urine. On the other hand, the infusion of a saline solution has all the advan- tages of transfusion of blood without its disadvantages and dangers. A normal saline solution (common salt 53* ; water Oj) at 99° F. is the most easily prepared, and is best infused into the median basilic vein. The vein is exposed, ligatured below, compressed above by a clamp, opened, and a glass cannula introduced and secured in situ by a ligature. The cannula is next connected with an irrigator by a rubber tube, and all air having been carefully excluded the clamp is removed from the vein and several pints of the solution allowed to flow in. The object of the infusion is to raise the blood pressure in the arteries sufficiently to enable the patient to rally. The infusion should be con- tinued, therefore, till the object is attained. I have seen the most marvellous effects follow this treatment. It may be repeated if necessary after a short interval. Where the apparatus is not at hand and the case is urgent a pint of warm water should be injected into the rectum and prevented from escaping. The fluid is rapidly ab- sorbed from the rectum and acts in a similar manner to infusion into the veins, only somewhat more slowly. The local treatment of haemorrhage may be con- sidered under the heads of arterial, venous, and capillary haemorrhage. Arterial haemorrhage is spoken of as (1) primary, (2) reactionary or recurrent, and (3) secondary. 1. Primary hcemorrhage is that which occurs at the time an artery is wounded, whether by accident or sur- gical operation. 2. Reactionary or recurrent hcemorrhage is that which occurs on the patient recovering from the shock of the wound or operation after the primary haemorrhage has stopped, and may be regarded as a failure in the process for the temporary closure of the vessel. The term recurrent, therefore, should only be applied to haemorrhage occurring within twenty-four126 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJURIES. hours of the injury. 3. Secondary hcemorrhage is that which occurs any time after the first twenty-four hours, and is due to the failure of the process for the permanent closure of the vessel. The treatment in each case is different. (1.) Primary arterial hemorrhage. — The older Surgeons resorted to very barbarous methods of controlling haemorrhage, such as plunging stumps after amputation into boiling pitch, or operating with a red-hot knife, and it was not till Nature's method of arresting bleeding had been intimately studied, both in the human subject and by experiments on animals, that the local treatment of haemorrhage was placed upon a scientific basis. It may be best, therefore, first to consider Natures method of controlling haemorrhage before describing the surgical measures which have been founded upon it. When an artery of small or moderate size is completety divided, the cut end, in consequence of the injury stimulating the muscular fibres of the middle coat, contracts^ thus lessen- ing the size of the orifice, and, in the case of the small arteries, completely closing it. At the same time, the ciit end, owing to the normal elastic tension of the artery, retracts within its sheath, leaving the surface of the latter rough and uneven. The diminution in the size of the orifice retards the escape of blood. The slower current passing over the divided wall of the artery and the roughened internal surface of the sheath, in consequence of this multiplication of points of contact and exposure to the air, coagulates, gradually blocks up the orifice, and fills the sheath around and beyond the retracted end of the artery, forming what is called the external clot. The stream having been thus slowed or stopped, the blood in- side the vessel also coagulates, and the coagulation spread- ing from the clot that blocks up the orifice to the first collateral branch, forms what is called the internal clot (Fig. 26). When the haemorrhage has been severe, two other factors favour the formation of these clots, viz., (1), the enfeeblement of the heart's action induced by the tendency to syncope, and the consequent diminished force with which the blood is propelled from the divided vessel; and (2) the increased tendency of the blood to coagulate owing to an alteration in its composition caused by the absorption of watery fluid from the tissues to make up for the amount of blood lost by the haemorrhage. Thus the haemorrhage is arrested, and still presuming that the127 TREATMENT OE HAEMORRHAGE vessel be of a small or a medium size, it may not recur, and nature will permanently close the wounded vessel in tlie way to be presently described. It is only, however, when the vessel is small, that nature can be thus trusted. "When a large vessel is wounded, she is quite impotent to prevent an immediately fatal issue ; whilst if the vessel is of medium size, as the syncope passes off, and the heart again begins to act with vigour, the clots may be washed away and the bleeding recur till fainting once more ensues. In this way bleedings, alternating with tempo- rary arrests, exhaust the patient's strength, till he finally succumbs to fatal syncope. The method by which nature per- manently closes the vessel is as follows : — The clot between the artery and the sheath prevents the artery from dilating on the cessa- tion of the contraction of the muscular fibres of the middle coat; whilst the internal clot acts, so to speak, as a buffer, and thus prevents the force of the blood-stream being exerted to its full on the end of the vessel while healing is taking place. The injury inflicted on the coats of the vessel by its division sets up a traumatic inflammation. Leu- cqeytesjand- serum escape from the vasa vasorum of the divided vessel-walls and tissues about the cut end of the vessel, whilst there is pxoliferation of the endothelial and connective^-tissue^ceUsJr^ the margin of the torn coats of the vessel. The cells thus formed graduaTFy'pernieate both the internal and external clots so that the end of the artery in a few hours becomes sur- rounded by a small mass of coagulable lymph. The artery at the same time contracts on the internal clot, which gradually loses its red colour as it is invaded by the in- flammatory exudation. New vessels grow out from the vasa vasorum of the arterial wall, and from the granula- tion-tissue about the cut end of the vessel, and invade the inflammatory exudation, which has now replaced the in- ternal clot. Thus the internal clot, instead of as at first being merely adherent by its base to the end of the divided artery, is now intimately blended with the arterial walls, a wounded artery closed by clots.128 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OE INJURIES. forming a plug of vascular granulation-tissue. The granulation-tissue is next converted into fibrous tissue, which, gradually contracts and obliterates the newly- formed vessels, till finally the internal clot together with the artery is converted as far as the first collateral branch into a firm fibrous cord. Similar changes, in the meanwhile, occur in the^ ex- ternal clot, and it is finally blended with the scar tissue formed by the healing of the wound of the soft parts around the injured artery. When an artery is divided in its continuity, the healing of the distal end is accomplished in a similar manner, except that the internal clot in the distal end is often Fia. 27.-—Spencer Wells' pressure forceps, modified by Morrant Baker. less perfectly produced, and may not be formed at all. Consequently secondary haemorrhage is more frequent from the lower than from the upper end of a ligatured artery. The above description applies chiefly to a complete division of an artery. When an artery is rcierely punc- tured, the arrest of haemorrhage will depend upon the size of the vessels, and the size and direction of the puncture. A wound, however small, of the aorta, or vessel next removed in size, will probably be fatal. In a vessel of less magnitude, when the puncture is small, a clot forms of an hour-glass shape, thus blocking up the wound, and healing occurslBy adhesive inflammation. A somewhat larger wound, when made longitudinally to the artery, may heal in the same way; but when made transversely to the axis of the vessel, it assumes a diamond shape, in consequence of the elastic tension of the coats, and the haemorrhage will probably not be arrested.STOGICAL METHODS OF ARRESTmO H^MORKHAGE. 129 The suegical methods of arresting hemorrhage may be considered under tlie heads of temporary and permanent methods. 1. Temporary methods,—The surgeon, if the bleeding point IS within reach, need never fear hsemorrhage, as mere pressure with the finger will control it, whatever the size of the vessel, till he can obtain the means of permanently arresting it. The pressure may be made directly on the bleeding point, or between the wound and the heart; in the former situation with the finger, Fig. 28.—Petit's Tourniquet. Fig. 29.—Signoroni's Tourniquet. Spencer Wells' pressure forceps (Fig. 27), or the tour- niquet ; in the latter situation with the finger or the tourniquet, the pressure being then made in such a direction as to press the artery against some resisting structure, as a point of bone. The tourniquets employed are various (Fig. 28 and Fig. 29). The rubber tube of the Esmarch's apparatus perhaps answers the best. An im- promptu tourniquet may be made by tying a pocket- handkerchief loosely round the limb, and twisting it up tightly with a walking-stick or umbrella. These tem- porary means, however, should only be trusted to until more permanent methods can be applied. 2. Permanent methods.—The agents employed for per- manently arresting haemorrhage are—1. Cold, 2., Heat, 3. Pressure, 4:. IStyptics, 5. CavMry, 6. Ligature, 7. Torsion, 8. Acupressure, 9. Forcipressure,l36 GENERAL PAffiOLOGY OF mjtJRlES. 1. Cold is only applicable to stopping hsemorrliage from small vessels. It acts by causing the ^Aiscularjoat fo^ontract, thus promoting the coagulation of the blood in the arterioles and capillaries. It is frequently employed in the form of cold water or ice to arrest bleeding from the toaller vessels in operation wounds, and is a well-known domestic remedy for checking epistaxis, &c. 2. Seat in the form of hot water is now often em- j)lciye(r m place of cold water in large operation wounds, as cold applied to a large surface tends to increa^se the shock of the operation. The water muit be'TTot (110° to 120°) ; warm water merely encourages the haemorrhage by washing away the coagula blocking the vessels. Heat, like cold, acts by stimulating the muscular fibres of the vessel to contract. 3. PeE^SURE as a temporary means of arresting haemor- rhage has already been mentioned. Firmly applied to the flaps covering a wound, it is an efficient method of con- trolling the bleeding from the numerous small vessels necessarily divided in operations. In the form of a plug or tampon it is the best means at our command in certain situations where the artery cannot be secured by more reliable methods, as the rectum, vagina, tonsil, nose, socket of a tooth, interior of bone, &c. It is, moreover, frequently employed to stop haemorrhage from a moderate- sized artery where such can be pressed against a bone, as in the scalp ; whilst in the form of a graduated compress it is especially applicable to wounds of the palmar arch. Pressure acts mechanically by closing the vessel. 4. Styptics arrest haemorrhage by inducing_the co- agulatioh of the blood. Those most in use ai-e percEloride of iron, hamamelis, and nitrate of silver. Of the per- chloride of iron, the strong liquor and the solid form are the most efficient preparations. Styptics may be most usefully employed in conjunction with pressure in cases where the latter alone has proved ineffectual. The ob- jection to their use is that they are apt to cause inflam- mation and sloughing of the tissues, and consequently secondary haemorrhage is liable to occur on the separa- tion of the slough. A case has recently come under the care of a colleague in which two inches of the median nerve were destroyed by the sloughing following the appli- cation of perchloride of iron to a wound of the brachial artery. Styptics should never be used where more efficient and safer means of arresting haemorrhage can beSTTRGICAL METHODS OF ARKESTINa BiEMORRHAGE. 131 adopted. The new styptic, consisting of a solution of fibrin ferment (1 to 10) to which, calcium chloride 1 p. c. has been added, is said to act only on the blood not on the tissues, and to be perfectly aseptic. It was found by Mr. Wright to l)e effectual in arresting haemorrhage after the division of all the veins except the common jugular in a dog's neck. 5.. The cautery arrests bleeding in part by causing the ml^rctiaf coat of the artery to contract, in part by inducing coagulation of the blood, and in part by charring the tissues and so producing an eschar which checks or prevents the flow of blood. The wound should be first dried by pressure with lint, and then immediately touched lightly with the cautery, which should be at a dull red heat, as, if used hotter than this, it simply destroys the Fig. 30.—Liier's Artery forceps. tissues without producing the above e:ffects, and the hsemorrhage continues. It may be applied in the form of the cautery-iron, which is simply heated in the fire; but Paquelin's benzoline cautery and the galvano-cautery are much more convenient. The chief objection to the use of the cautery is that it causes destruction of the tissues around, and on the separation of the resulting eschar secondary haemorrhage is liable to ensue. The cautery should never be used in a clean cut wound. 6. Ligature is the most reliable method of permanently arresting Haemorrhage, and is the one most frequently employed. Silk, China twist, whipcord, carbolized and chromicized catgut, kangaroo-tail-tendon, and ox-aorta are the materials chiefly used as ligatures. Of these chromicized catgut, if rendered aseptic in the way men- tioned at page 110, answers admirably for securing the cut ends of arteries in amputation and other wounds. For the ligature of arteries, in their continuity the choice of ligature is still open to question, and will be referred to again under ligature of arteries. Whatever form of ligature is used it should not be too thick, or the internal and middle coats will be unevenly divided or may escape division altogether. At the same time it should be strong K 2132 enough to resist absorption or softening till tlie artery is securely sealed. It should be tied tightly till the internal and middle coats are felt to yield, but not so tightly as to Fig. 31.—A. The reef-knot versus B, the granny-knot. E Ml cut through the external coat. Eecently Messrs. Ballance and Edmunds, as the result of an experimental enquiry on the ligature of the larger arteries in their continuity, have advocated that two ligatures should be applied so as merely to occlude the lumen of the vessel, without dividing the internal and middle coats. These observations, however, can hardly apply to the liga- ture of the cut end of arteries in wounds, as unless the ligature is ap- plied tightly to such there is, obviously, danger of its slipping. An artery is tied in an open wound by seizing the cut end with nibbed forceps (of which Fig. 30 is one of the best forms), drawing it gently from its sheath, throwing a liga- ture round it, and then tying the liga - ture in a reef-knot (Fig. 31, a). Both ends of the ligature are then cut off short. JE^^ts vf liguture.—"When a ligature is properly applied the intemaL^nd middle coats are evenly and trans- versely cut through by its pressure. Their cut edges retracVahd curve within the canal of the vessel, and the external coat, crumpled ujd and tightly embraced by the ligature, retains the two inner coats in contact with each other (Fig. 32). A clot of conical shape Fia. 32.—Diagram of a ligatured artery. E. Ex- ternal ; M. Mid- dle ; and 1. In- ternal coat. L. Ligature.SURGICAL METHODS OF ARRESTINO H^MOHRHAGE. 133 forms in the vessel, extending from the seat.,Q£Ii^;atiire to the first collateral..bm and subsequently becomes ad- herenTIBylS ba^e to the wall of the vessel. The cut ends of the internal and middle coats unite by adhesive inflamma- tion. When an aseptic ligature is used, and the wound runs an aseptic course, the ligature becomes embedded in r Fia. 33.—Torsion-forceps. the granulation-tissue and ij of animal material absorbed, i^,the case olLsilk^ encysted. "The permanent closure of the ar^eryTs accomplished by the process already described under Nature's Method of controlling liciemorrhage (p. 126). 7. TORSIQK consists in seizing the artery firmly with the torsion forceps (Fig. 33), drawing it gently from its sheath, and twisting it sharply several times in its long Fig. 34.—Effects of torsion on an artery. axis till the internal and middle coats are felt to yield. The process resembles the tearing across of an artery, such as occurs in the avulsion of a limb. When torsion is successfully performed, the internal and middle coats are rui^tured and bent upwards into the lumen of the artery, and the external coat is twisted up into a cone (Fig. 34). A clot then forms, and the artery heals j)ermanently in , the way already described. It appears to be a reliable i method, but takes a longer time in its performance than I ligature, . .GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJURIES, 134 8. AxiUPRESSiJRE consists in securing the end of the bleeding artery by pressing it between an acupressure needle (which resembles a hare-lip pin) and the tissues, or between the needle and a wire twisted over the needle. This method is scarcely ever used now. 9. FoRCiPRESSiJRE consists in seizing the bleeding artery, and the surrounding tissues if the vessel is small, with Spencer Wells' pressure forceps, leaving them on a few minutes and then very gently withdrawing them. It is a means often used to control the haemorrhage during an operation, and will even permanently arrest it in the case of the smaller vessels, which are often found not to bleed when the forceps are removed. It is sometimes employed for arresting haemorrhage from a vessel which from its depth or other cause cannot be tied. In such a case the forceps are left on from twelve to twenty-four hours, and at the end of that time are very gently removed so as not to re-start the bleeding. (2.) EeCURRENT, REACTIONARY, OR INTERMEniARY HEMORRHAGE is that which may come on within the first twenty-four hours after a wound as the patient gets warm in bed, and the shock of the operation or injury has passed off. It may be regarded as a failure in the pro- cess of the temporary closure of the vessel. It should be noted that the term recurrent is by some authors applied to what is here termed secondary haemorrhage. Causes,— 1. Slipping of a ligature or displacement of a clot from a vessel consequent upon the wounded parts not being kept at rest. 2. Washing out of a clot trom a vessel which it has temporarily plugged, by the increased force of the circulation as the heart regains power on the passing off of the syncope or shock. It is not uncommon in large wounds to have some oozing of blood through the dressings; but this should not be considered as recurrent haemorrhage unless it occurs in unusual quan- tities, and only then calls for treatment. The soiled dressings having been covered with fresh layers of the antiseptic gauze and wool, the part should be firmly but gently bandaged and_ttien elevate d. This failing, the dressings must be removed, and the flaps in the case of an amputation separated, the clots washed away with cold or hot water containing an antiseptic, and any vessel found bleeding, tied. The wound should be then re-dressed and firm pressure applied.135 SECONDARY HEMORRHAGE. (3.) S^COTOARY HEMORRHAGE is that whioh occurs after the period of reaction has passed in consequence of the failure of the process for the permanent arrest of haemorrhage.. ^ ^15Wse7^Secondary hsemorrhage is due either to the defective formation of the internal clot, or to the failure of union of the internal and middle coats. Either of these, again, may be (a) the result of some fault in the surgical means taken to arrest the primary haemorrhage, and then in some measure may be said to be preventable; or {b) the result of some disease of the vessel or consti- tutional state of the patient, and then may usually be regarded as non-preventable. These causes may be con-* sidered under the following heads :— X. Defect in the ligature or in its applicatio7i.—^{a) An improperly prepared animal ligature may become ab- sorbed too soon, (^) A non-absorbable ligature, if chosen, may be too thick or tape-like, and hence not divide or unevenly divide the internal and middle coats, (c) The ligature may not be aseptic, and so cause suppurative instead of adhesive inflammation, {d) The ligature, what^ ever kind is used, may be tied too tightly or too loosely, or be unevenly knotted, (e) The sheath in applying the ligature may be too freely separated from the artery, or the artery bruised during the separati6n of the sheath, (/) The ligature may be placed too near a collateral branch. 2. Defect in the management of the toound.—-The tissues may be roughly handled and bruised, or the wouud may be imperfectly drained and the discharges allowed to become septic or infected by pathogenic organisms, so that, in either case, septic inflammation and suppuration may be set up and spread to thej^ess^an^ its^o^ained clot. 3. Disease of the vessel-walls.—Under this head may be mentioned atheroma, calcareous degeneration, and syphilitic and tubercular disease, all of which may either allow the ligature to cut its way too quickly through the diseased coats, or prevent the adhesion of the internal and middle coats and the other changes that should occur in the normal process of healing. 4. Constitutional conditions,-^These are such as render the blood less coagulable than usual, or are associated with an increase of the blood-pressure or an excited action pf the heart. Anioi^gst sT;ch conditions may be mentioned136 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJURIES. the hsemorrhagic diathesis, diabetes, Bright's disease, septicBemia, pyaemia, traumatic fever, and plethora. Symptoms.—There may be a sudden and even fatal gush of blood, or previous to this, the discharges of the wound may have been blood-stained. In some cases, the bleeding may stop ,for a time, but again and even again recur till the patient finally sinks from exhaus- tion. Sometimes the haemorrhage may cease spon- taneously after one or more bleedings, and the patient recover. Treatment.—^A. From an artery in a stump after opera- tion.—The treatment will dilfer according to (1) the date at which the haemorrhage occurs; (2) whether it is from the main artery; (3) the condition of the stump ; and (4) the situation of the amputation. Thus, when the haemor- rhage occurs a few days after the operation, and is little more than a mere oozing, elevation and pressure by careful bandaging will often stop it. If it should not do so, or the bleeding is more severe and appears to come from the main artery, a tourniquet applied to the artery above may succeed. This failing, or the flaps appearing distended with blood, the wound should be opened up, the clots removed, and the bleeding vessels secured. At a later period, when the healing process has considerably progressed, should pressure fail, it becomes a question whether the healing flaps should be torn apart and the artery secured at its bleeding point, whether the main artery should be tied above the wound, or whether re- amputation should be performed. If the main artery can be easily secured just above the operation wound, this is to my mind the proper procedure, especially if the wound is in a sloughy condition, in which case the ligature would probably not hold at the seat of bleeding. This is also the right course to pursue if the amputation has been performed at the shoulder or hip-joint; but if in the lower third of the leg or in the fore-arm, then an attempt should be made to tie at the wound, or if this is impossible from the sloughy condition of the stump, re- amputation is probably the safest treatment. B. From an artery in its contimcity.—Pressure should first be applied at the seat of wound, and in the case of one of the extremities for a considerable distance over the course of the artery, both above and below the wound, and the whole limb bandaged from the foot or hand, as the case may be, upwards. This treatn;entVENOUS HiEMORRHAGE. 137 failing after a thorough trial of it has been made, the best plan, as a rule, is to cut down upon and tie both ends of the bleeding artery in the wound. Tying the main artery at a distance above the wound has.been advised, but is open to the objection that the secondary bleeding often comes from the distal end of the artery; and that aven when it comes from the proximal end, the ligature of the main vessel may not control it, since blood may be carried into the artery below the ligature by collateral branches (see Fig. 45, p. 208). Further, in the case of the lower extremity, there is also a danger of gangrene. The operation of tying at the seat of wound is no doubt difficult, as the parts are generally matted together or in a sloughy condition, and the coats of the artery so softened that a ligature will not hold; but by following the artery a little way upwards and downwards, a healthy portion may be found whereon to place the ligature. The steps of the operation are greatly facilitated by the use of Esmarch's bandage. When the haemorrhage comes from an artery deeply placed, as the external iliac or sub- clavian, pressure is probably our only resource. In the case of the iliac, an attempt might be made to secure it at the bleeding spot. In the only instance, however, in which I have seen it tried it was unsuctessful. Should haemorrhage recur after both ends of the artery have been tied at the seat of wound, amputation in the case of the lower extremity is probably the safest course. Yenous hemorrhage.—When a vein is cut com- pletely across, the arrest of haemorrhage is due chiefly to the form^ition of a cgagulu but^partjly. to the collapse of the vein. Treatment.—Unless a large vein is wounded in its continuity, no treatment beyond pres- sure is usually required. Should the main vein bleed after an amputation a ligature should be applied to it. See Treatment of luounded veins. Capillary HiEMORRHAGE is arrested by the formation of_cc)agaila in the capillaries and smaller arterioles. The coagiil§^iQp. is due in part to the^^e^osure of the blood to the air ; in part to the traumatic inflammation set up in the capillary-wall by its division; and in part to the diminished force of the circulation in the capillaries con- sequent upon the reflex contraction or even closure of the arterioles which follows the division of the tissaes. Treatment.—As the haemorrhage usually stops spontan- eously, nothing in the way of treatment is, as a rule,138 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJURIES. called for. Cold or hot water, however, may be used to more quickly cause its cessation; and firm pressure on bringing the wound together will also check it. CONSTITUTIONAL EFEECTS OF INJURY. Shock is a general lowering of the vital powers induced by a severe impression made directly on the nerve-centres, or indirectly through the peripheral nerves. The causes of shock may be divided into the predis- posing and the exciting. Certain conditions prior to an injury or an operation tend to make the shock more severe, and may therefore be regarded as predisposing causes. Such are Bright's disease, hepatic and cardiac mischief, a highly nervous and hysterical temperament, enfeeblement from old age, sedentary occupation, exces- sive fear of the operation, &c. Among the exciting causes may be mentioned mechanical injuries, especially of important parts or organs, as the abdomen, testicle, &c,, burns and scalds, especially when extensive and involving the trunk, serious operations, particularly when prolonged, undue exposure of the body to cold as during a long operation, bites of venomous reptiles, the action of some irritant poisons, the sudden emptying of an overdistended bladder, &c. Powerful mental emotions, as sudden fright, grief, or joy, are sometimes sufficient of themselves to produce severe and even fatal shock. In fatal cases of shock from such causes, however, some visceral disease has generally been discovered. Fright, moreover, adds to the shock produced by mechanical injury, as seen for example in railway accidents, burns from the clothes taking fire, &c. Pathology.—But little is found post mortem in fatal cases of shock. The right side of the heart and the venous system generally, especially the abdominal veins, may be engorged with blood, and the nerve-centres anaemic. Sometimes the heart has been found empty, and if the shock has been combined with severe haemorrhage there may be a general deficiency of blood in the body. The impression produced by the injury, operation, or mental emotion on the nervous centres, is believed either, —1, to lead to paralysis of the heart directly through the pneumpgastric neryes; or 2, to induce through th?139 SHOCK. splanclinics a vaso-motor paralysis of the walls of the abdominal veins, whereby they become engorged, and the nerve-centres and heart in consequence imperfectly sup- plied with blood; hence, partly owing to deficient nervous stimulus, and partly to lack of sufficient arterial blood to the heart's substance and ganglia, cardiac paralysis ensues. The symptoms vary considerably in severity. In extreme cases the patient lies in a semi-conscious state. His pulse is feeble, frequent, and fluttering, perhaps hardly per- ceptible at the wrist. The surface, especially that^ of the extremities, is cold, the temperature falling at times to 97°, or even 96°; the face is pale; the lips are blanched; the skin is moist or covered with a clammy sweat; the eye is half closed, and lustreless or glazed; and the respiration is shallow, and may be barely perceptible. There is marked muscular relaxation; there may be yielding of the sphincters, and at times nausea and vomiting. The symptoms may gradually increase, and the patient die of syncope or asthenia; or he may gradually rally and pass into the condition known as reaction. The pulse will then become full and increased in frequency, the temperature slightly raised, the face flushed, the skin hot and dry, the urine scanty and high coloured, the tongue furred, and the bowels confined. Many of the feverish symptoms, however, that were formerly regarded as the result of excessive reaction, are now known to be due to septic poisoning. Treatment.—In slight cases, beyond covering the patient up warmly in bed with blankets, and applying hot bottles to the feet, nothing is required, except when there is much pain a subcutaneous injection of one-sixth to*one quarter of a grain of morphia. In severe cases, small and repeated doses of brandy should be given, carefully watching its effect upon the pulse so as not to subsequently induce excessive reaction ; whilst hot bottles should not only be applied to the feet, but placed on either side of the thorax, and friction used to the hands and surface generally. If there has been severe haemorrhage, fluid nourishment in small and oft-repeated doses should be administered with the stimulant. In extreme cases, where the patient is unable to swallow, brandy should be administered by the rectum or ether injected subcutane- ously ; whilst, should the breathing cease, artiticial re- spiration ought to be employed and persevere^ in fpr sopi9140 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OE INJURIES. time, although at first it may apparently be ineffectual. The application of heat by means of hot bottles and warm blankets must, in the meantime, on no account be neglected. Hot flannels placed over the cardiac region may be successful in rousing the flagging heart; and in the case of a child, a hot bath may be given. Should the jugular veins be distended, indicating an over-full and partially-paralysed condition of the right side of the heart, the external jugular vein may be opened. On the other hand, if there has been excessive haemorrhage, infusion of saline solution should be performed, the extremities in the meantime being raised and bandaged so as to impel as much blood as possible to the nerve- centres and imperfectly-distended heart. Electricity in some cases has been useful. Traumatic eeyer.—After every injury, when severe, the temperature, even when there is no wound, as in some cases of simple fracture, may rise one or two degrees, but falls to normal about the third day, whilst the tongue may become slightly furred, the bowels confined, the appetite lost, and the pulse increased in frequency. These symp- toms, however, pass off with the fall of temperature, and, for the rest of the ■ period while the wound or inj ury is healing, the patient's general functions are performed naturally. This condition appears to depend in part upon an impression made through the peripheral nerves on the heat-regulating centre in the medulla, and in part upon the absorption of free fibrin ferment which escapes with the leucocytes and serum in the process of the simple traumatic inflammation resulting from the injury. This simple form of traumatic fever must be carefully dis- tinguished from the septic, which depends on the absorp- tion of the products of fermentation or putrefaction from a septic and imperfectly drained wound. If the wound is allowed to become septic, the symptoms of simple trau- matic fever pass into those of the septic form, or if the dose of poison absorbed has been large, into those of saprsemia. Simple traumatic fever subsides of itself, and requires no special treatment beyond relieving the bowels by a gentle purgative and keej)ing the patient on slop diet. Septic traumatic fever will be described under septic processes in wounds. Traumatic delirium is the term apjDlied to the delirious state which sometimes supervenes after injuries and surgical operations, The delirium may depend upon141 TRAUMATIC DELIRIUM. several distinct conditions. Thus (1.) i^ merely a symptom of septic traumatic fever, and is then known as Inflammatory or septic traumatic delirium, (2.) It may occur in the highly nervous or neurotic as the result of severe mental strain or exhausting brain-work previous to the injury or operation, being then spoken of as nervous traumatic delirium. (3.) It may be the result of the long- continued abuse of alcohol, and is then ordinary deliriun\ tremens brought on by the accident or operation. These various forms, however, no doubt often occur together. Inflammatory traumatic delirium.—Of this variety little need be said further than that it generally occurs from the third to the fifth day when the septic traumatic fever is at its height, and that it usually begins or is worse in the night and abates with the morning remission of tempera- ture. The treatment is that of septic traumatic fever with the addition of an ice-cap to the head when the delirium is high. Nervous traumatic delirium, though rare, sometimes occurs in subjects of a susceptible nervous temperament or over-exhausted with brain-work. It is unaccompanied by fever and closely resembles delirium tremens, except that it is not due to alcoholism. The delirium, which is usually of a low and muttering, but occasionally of a violent or maniacal character, usually yields to quiet and opium, or bromide of potassium and chloral, with careful feeding and the judicious employment of stimulants where such are indicated. Alcoholic traumatic delirium or delirium tremens differs from the inflammatory variety in the absence of fever, and in the peculiar nature of the delirium, which is of a low muttering or busy kind. The patient has delusions, fancies that he sees animals or devils under his bed or chair, is suspicious of his friends, talks constantly to himself, answers rationally when spoken to, but imme- diately relapses into his incoherent muttering state. Sometimes the delirium is of a violent character, the patient will not remain in bed, and may attempt to destroy himself or those around him. The temperature is normal or but slightly raised; the skin is perspiring; the hands are tremulous; the pulse is full, soft, and often quickened; the tongue is also tremulous, indented by the teeth, and coated with a creamy fur, and in severe cases becomes dry and brown. The bowels are usually ' confined. The patient cannot sleep, and will not of his142 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJtTEIES. own accord take food, but will, as a rule, drink any- thing. The prognosis is good when the patient is young, and can be induced to take food; but when he is broken- down in health or the subject of visceral disease he usually sinks into a state of asthenia, and dies of exhaus- tion, or it may be of heart-failure during a paroxysm of violence. Treatment,—The chief indications are to make the patient take food and to procure sleep, and so restore power to the exhausted nerve-centres. Thus, the diges- tive functions should be regulated by clearing the bowels with a purgative or an enema, and by the subsequent administration of tonics, such as quinine. The difficulty in gettiDg the patient to take food may generally te over- come by a judicious mixture of firmness and coaxing, otherwise he must be fed by an oesophageal tube. The diet should consist of fluid nourishment given in small and repeated quantities by night as well as by day, pro- vided the patient is awake. To procure sleep subcutaneous injections of morphia (gr. \ to J), or bromide of potassium and chloral in doses of twenty grains of the former to fifteen of the latter, should be given every two hours, carefully watching their eft'ect. When these fail, success may sometimes be obtained by first inducing insensibility by chloroform, and following up its effects by the subcu- taneous injection of morphia. The administration of chloroform to patients with delirium tremens is however by no means free from danger, since three deaths have occurred at St. Bartholomew's alone in seven years. If there is kidney disease, morphia and opium should not be given at all, or with great caution. The question of the administration of stimulants is one on which surgeons differ. Perhaps the best rule is—where the patient is young and of good constitution, to withhold them entirely; but where he is old, broken down in health, or the subject of visceral disease, to give them in modeiate quantities, regulating the dose according to the amount of depression and the elf ects produced. If he is violent or noisy he must be placed in an isolation-ward, and prevented from injuring himself or his attendants, either by the use of the strait-jacket or by manual restraint. Seclusion itself has often a good effect in producing sleep. The management of a local injury is often rendered very difficult by the patient tearing off bandages, splints, &c., and thus, for143 DISEASES DUE TO SEPTIC PHOCESSES. example, converting a simple fracture into a compound one. Such mischief can only be prevented by the greatest watchfulness and care. DISEASES THE RESULT OF SEPTIC ATO INFECTIVE PROCESSES IN WOUNDS. The diseases included under this head may be divided into two chief classes, the septic and the infective. The SEPTIC are such as depend upon putrefaction or fermentation, whereby certain chemical products, known collectively as ptomaines, are formed and set up local inflammation, and if absorbed into the sj^stem through the blood- or lymph-channels, give rise to fever and other constitutional symptoms known as blood - poisoning. These chemical products are believed to be of the nature of alkaloids, and to act on the tissues locally, or on the whole system if absorbed, as intense irritants, and in a manner similar to that in which known alkaloidal bodies do. Thus, they do not multiply in the body, and the effects to which they give rise are proportionate to the dose absorbed; and as soon as the putrefactive or the fermentative processes in the wound, or the a.bsorption of their products, are prevented, the local inflammation and the constitutional symptoms cease. The poison is non- infective : that is, if an animal is inoculated with the blood of another suffering from a septic disease, the disease is not transmitted. Neither is there evidence of one patient being able to infect another. Micro-organisms are not discovered in the blood or tissues during life, nor immediately after death. The INFECTIVE diseases, on the other hand, depend upon inoculation with a virus, of the nature of micro- organisms, or of an unorganized ferment produced by them in some at present unknown way. The poison, whatever its nature, is believed to thrive and multiply in the tissues or blood; the effects produced, therefore, are not proportionate to the dose, the smallest quantity intro- duced into the system being sufficient after a certain incubative period, during which the poison is multiply- ing, to set up local or constitutional effects. The infec- tive micro-organisms may be divided into two chief classes : (1) the non-specific^ or the pyogenic micrococci, which, if admitted into the wound, may merely set up local suppuration, or if introduced into the system may,144 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJURIES. under certain conditions, lead to disseminated suppura- tion through, the body (Pycemia)^ ; and (2) the specific or the true infective micro-organisms, as the bacillus of anthrax, which, when introduced into the tissue or sys- tem, set up a like disease to that from which the subject they were taken from was suffering. Micro-organisms in large numbers are often found in the blood and in the tissues immediately after death. Both septic and infective diseases may occur simul- taneously in the same subject. Thus, a specific virus may set up a localized infective inflammation in the wound, and the septic products of this may be absorbed into the system either with or without the specific virus. Or septic products in the wound or in the system at large may favour the growth and development of the infective organisms. These diseases, whether septic or infective, may be divided into the local and the general: that is, the poison may set up local mischief, which may or may not be followed by general 23oisoning of the system; or the whole system may be primarily affected, any local mischief that may occur in the wound being merely of secondary con- sequence. Classification of septic and infective diseases :— I. Septic diseases.—{a) Local,—1. Septic inflamma- tion, {h) General.—I. Septic traumatic fever; 2. Saprse- mia or septic intoxication; and 3. Hectic fever. II. Inpective diseases.—(a) Local.—(1) Non-specific. 1. Suppuration; 2. Cellulitis; 3. Hospital gangrene ; 4. Wound diphtheria. (2) Specific.—1. Cutaneous erysipelas; 2. Phlegmonous erysipelas; 3. Malignant pustule; 4. Actinomycosis, {h) General.—{1) Non-specific.—1. Pyaemia. (2) Specific.—1. Septicaemia ; 2. Glanders ; 3. Hydro- phobia ; 4. Tetanus; and 5. Some forms of Anthrax- poisoning. Septic inflammation, hectic fever and spreading trau- matic gangrene have already been described. General Septic Diseases. Septic traumatic peyer is the result of the absorp- tion of a moderate dose of the chemical products of putrefaction or decomposition from a septic or imperfectly- drained wound (see septic inflammation). It begins usually about the second or third day after the wound, whether145 SAPR^MIA OR SEPTIC INTOXICATION. this be the result of injury or of operation, with a feeling of chilliness or a distinct rigor. The temperature runs up to 102° or, 103° or higher, with morning remissions, the pulse is increased in frequency, the skin is hot and dry, the urine is scanty and high coloured, the tongue is furred, the appetite is lost, the bowels are confined, and the patient complains of headache and general feeling of malaise, and is at times delirious. The symptoms, which are generally at their height about the sixth or seventh day, may subside as suppuration is established and the further absorption of septic products is prevented by the sealing of the tissues with the inflammatory exudation and the formation of granulation-tissue. If the absorp- tion of septic products continues in small quantities the fever may run into hectic, or, if the dose of poison is increased, into saprjBmia. The treatment consists in at once rendering the wound aseptic and thoroughly draining it, the bowels in the meantime being opened by a brisk purge, and slop diet continued. Sape^mia oe septic intoxication, which has hitherto been included with septic infection under the term septicaemia, is a form of blood-poisoning believed to be due to the absorption in large quantities of the chemical products of putrefaction {sepsine, putrescine, cadaverine, &c.), derived from a septic or ill-drained wound. It is, therefore, a more severe form of septic traumatic fever, the difference being one of degree rather than of kind. Clinically, it is not always possible to distinguish it from septic traumatic fever on the one hand, and from septi- caemia, or even pyaemia before metastatic abscesses are formed, on the other hand. It is probable, moreover, that sapraemia, septicaemia and pyaemia, though each may depend upon a different poison, often occur simultaneously in the same subject. Cause,—For sapraemia to occur the septic poison must - be absorbed in a sufficient quantity, which is estimated in the human subject at from one to two ounces. Hence the cause may be said to be those conditions that lead to the production of the poison in large quantities and that favour its absorption into the blood. Amongst these may be mentioned—1. Extensive wounds recently made, inefficiently drained, and not kept aseptic. 2. Wounds of serous and synovial membranes. 3. Abscesses, cavities, and granulating wounds in which decomposing discharges w. LGENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJUKIES. 146 are subjected to mechanical tension in consequence of the insufficiency of the external opening. Pathology,—The poison, notwithstanding its virulence, is productive of very little in the way of post-mortem change which can be said to be characteristic. The parts on which its effects are more especially manifested are the blood, the gastro-intestinal canal, the nerve-centres, and the kidneys. Thus, the red blood-corpuscles undergo rapid disintegration, causing a staining of the tissues and vessels, and are found aggregated in little masses blocking the capillaries, and, probably in consequence, producing the capillary hjemorrhages (petechice) which are found more or less over the whole body, and especially beneath the serous membranes. No micro-organisms are found in the blood. The gastro-intestinal canal, the nerve centres, and the viscera generally are congested; the congestion of the kidneys, by which organs the poison is principally eliminated, being especially marked. De- composition occurs very rapidly after death. The Symptoms, of which headache, vomiting, and de- lirium are the chief, usually come on about the second day after the infliction of the wound, and may be ushered in by a slight chill or even a severe rigor. The tempera- ture suddenly rises to 103° or 104°; the skin becomes clammy ; the tongue dry and furred; nausea or vomiting, and sometimes diarrhoea set in; the patient becomes delirious, and if the dose of the poison has been large or its continuous absorption is not prevented, rapidly sinks into a state of collapse; the temperature falls possibly below normal whilst the pulse continues rapid. The patient becomes unconscious, then comatose, and then dies. Where the dose absorbed has been less, the progress of the disease is less rapid, the patient becomes anaemic, and perhaps jaundiced, the urine albuminous, the spleen enlarged, the vomiting and diarrhoea continue, and death may occur from exhaustion. The Treatment must be directed to the removal of the decomposing discharges from the wound or cavity. If this is promptly and effectually done, the disease will generally be arrested. Thus, wounds must be washed out with antiseptic lotions, serous cavities drained, joints laid freely open, and tension in abscesses removed by giving free vent to the pent up and decomposing pus. The patient's strength in the meanwhile must be supported by fluid147 ERYSIPELAS. nourishment and the judicious administration of stimu- lants, and the subsequent anaemia combated by iron and quinine. ^ Local Infective Diseases, Erysipelas is an infective, diffusely spreading inflam- mation, commonly affecting the skin or subcutaneous tissue, or both, less frequently the mucous membranes or submucous tissue, and still more rarely the serous mem- branes and the connective tissue in such situations as the pelvis, orbit, &c. Cause.—Erysipelas depends u]Don the introduction of an infective poison into the system ; but for this to act it appears necessary that the vitality of the body should be lowered, and the tissues in consequence rendered less able to resist the injurious influence of the poison. The causes, therefore, may be divided into the predisposing and the exciting, the predisposing again into those that are general and those that are local. The general predisposing causes are such as pertain either to {a) the state of nutrition of the bodj'-, or {h) its environ- ment, {a). Among the conditions that predispose to the disease by inducing an impaired state of the tissues are —1, chronic alcoholism ; 2, Bright's disease ; 3, diabetes; 4, gout; 5, malignant disease; 6, insufficienf: food; 7, want of exercise combined with high living ; 8, previous attacks of the disease, {h). Among the causes that pertain ' to the environment of the body are bad hygienic conditions of all kinds, as—1, imperfect ventilation; 2, defective drains; 3, accumulation of the products of decomposing organic matter; 4, overcrowding ; 5, want of cleanliness ; 6, a large number of suppurating wounds in an hospital; and, 7, probably certain not altogether understood atmo- spheric influences. The local predisposing cause is the presence of a wound, scratch, or abrasion of the surface, [ and especially of a lacerated wound, or one in which the discharge is undergoing putrefaction. The exciting cause is the introduction of some infective poison into the system. This poison is probably not the same in each form of the disease. In the cutaneous form it would appear from the observations of Eehleisen, to be a species of micrococcus, the streptococcus erysipelatosus. It had been known for some time that micrococci existed in the spreading margin of cutaneous erysipelas. L 2148 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF ITsTJURIES. Eeh-leisen cultivated some micrococci from this source, in some instances through thirty generations, i.e., for up- wards of six months, and then inoculated several patients, in all of whom, with the exception of one, who had just recovered from an attack of the disease, erysipelas, after an incubation period of from 15 to 60 hours, was set up."^ The contagion may be conveyed by the hands of the surgeon or nurse, by instruments, sponges, &c., and pro- bably by air and water. It is now supposed to enter the system in all cases through a wound. The so-called idio- pathic erysipelas, in which there is ostensibly no wound, was thought to be an exception, but as this invariably occurs on exposed parts, as the face, it is now believed that the poison gains access through some slight crack or abrasion that has been overlooked. The so-called cellulo- cutaneous and cellular varieties have not been proved to be inoculable, and it is generally held that they depend not upon a specific microbe but upon the ordinary strepto- coccus of spreading suppui^ation. In that, however, they bear certain clinical resemblances to true or cutaneous erysipelas, they are for the present, in accordance mth the more general custom, described here with that affection. Pathology.—The virus when inoculated, multiplies in the tissues, and spreads by the lymphatic vessels and spaces. In the cutaneous form, according to Fehleisen and Metchniko:^, just beyond the spreading edge of redness where the skin is apparently normal the lymphatics are crowded with micrococci; beneath the inflammatory blush the vessels are dilated and the tissues softened ancl infiltrated with leucocytes which are devouring the micrococci. Still further inwards are large amoeboid cells derived from the connective tissue absorbing the leu- cocytes and their contained micrococci, whilst beneath the part where the blush of redness has faded only dead micrococci are seen. The septic products of the micro- cocci, after passing through the lymphatic glands, which become swollen and tender, enter the system, producing the constitutional s^Tuptoms. When the cellular tissue is involved, suppuration generally occurs, and the vessels which run through it to the skin are destroyed, and the skin in consequence sloughs. The post-mortem appearance * These inoculations were undertaken for the cure of lupus and malignant tumourSj and in two instances apparently with success.CUTAICEOITS OR SIMPLII EII"^SI1*ELAS. 149 of the body is" similar to that seen in other cases of septic jDoisoning. The organs are congested, and the blood is thin and fluid. , The streptococci are not, as a rule, found in the blood; but the white corpuscles have been observed degenerated, and in some instances forming granular masses, plugging the capillaries of the lungs and brain. Varieties.—Erysipelas may be divided into—1, the cutaneous or simple; 2, the cellulo-cutaneous or phleg- monous ; and 3, the cellular or diffuse cellulitis. 1. Cutaneous or simple erysipelas generally attacks the skin, less commonly the mucous membrane. It is a specific infective disease. The symptoms are local and constitutionaL Local signs.—There is a vivid blush of redness, usually, but not invariably, starting from a wound, and appearing either simultaneously with, or in some instances not till twenty-four to foHy-eight hours after the onset of the constitutional symptoms. The blush has a great tendency to spread, or to suddenly leave one part and attack another {metastasis). The spreading edge is sharply defined and slightly raised above the surrounding skin, whilst the subsiding edge fades off into the healthy skin. The surface is usually at first vividly and uniformly red, oedematous, and shining, the redness fading momentarily on pressure, and later l)ecoming of a dusky hue. The patient complains of a stiffness and stinging heat in the part. In very acute cases the cuticle is raised into blebs by the exudation of serous fluid beneath it, and the nearest lymphatic glands are generally tender and enlarged. Where the tissues are lax, as about the face or scrotum, there is much oedema, but there is little tendency to suppuration. When the inflammation subsides, there is usually some desquamation of the cuticle. The wound itself, if one is present, takes on an unhealthy appearance; it ceases to heal, the edges swell, the granu- lations shrivel, and the surface becomes dry. The constitutional symptoms generally begin w^ith a chill or rigor. The temperatui^e suddenly rises to 103° or 104^, or higher, but it does not fluctuate as in septicaemia and pysemia. The pulse becomes rapid, and there is head- ache, loss of appetite, furred tongue and constipation, or sometimes diarrhoea. Terminations.—The erysipelas as a rule gradually sub- sides, and the patient recovers; or it may spread over a large area, and the patient sink into a low typhoid state,GENJ:EAL pathology OY INjtllilES. 150 and die of blood-poisoning, especially wlien the subject of kidney disease or other visceral trouble. "When about the bead and face it may spread to the pharynx, and thence to the larynx, and end fatally from oedematous laryngitis; or it may attack the membranes of the brain and set up meningitis. Eelapses are common. Treatment.—The bowels should be opened by a smart purge (Calomel, gr. y. d. jalap, gr. viii), and subsequently lierchloride of iron given in large doses (Tinct: ferri perchlor: m. xl, quartis horis). Slop diet is usually re- quired at first) but as the constitutional symptoms gene- rally assume a low tyjDC, the patient should not be too much depressed, as a stimulating plan of treatment will j)robably sooner or later be indicated. Thus, ammonia and bark, brandy and egg mixture, brandy, strong beef- tea, &c., are called for should the temperature run high, the pulse become soft, and the tongue dry and brown, or low muttering delirium set in. Locally, nothing answers, better than dusting the part with equal quantities of oxide of zinc and starch powder, and enclosing it in a thick layer of cotton-wool. When there is an unhealthy wound, means should be taken to render this aseptic ; but strong antiseptics, as carbolic acid, must be avoided, as they cause too much irritation. Should there be any collection of pus, or other pent-up discharge, it must of course be let out, and the part efficiently drained. When a patient is attacked with erysipelas in an hospital, he should be removed to an isolation ward, and the greatest care taken not to infect other patients. It was an old practice to draw a stick of nitrate of silver over the skin in front of the spreading edge of redness, and it was said that the erysipelas would not pass over this line. Since the teaching has been in vogue that the inflammatory re-action follows the spread of the micrococci, and is salutary in that the leucocytes destroy the micro- organisms, attempts have been made to set up inflam- mation in front of the encroaching microphyte's by j)aint- ing the skin with tincture of iodine. Cases in which the disease is said to have been thus arrested have been reported. 2. CeLLULO-CUTANEOUS, OR PHLEGMONOUS ERYSI- PELAS, differs from the preceding variety, in that it in- volves the subcutaneous tissue as well as the skin. It has not been proved to be inoculable, and is generally believed to depend upon a poison different to that setting up the151 CELLULO-CUTANEOUS ERYSIPELAS. cutaneous form, most likely the ordinary streptococcus of spreading suppuration. It is probably always associated with a scratch or wound, and nearly always terminates in suppuration,of the subcutaneous tissue and sloughing, of the skin, but it seldom penetrates beyond the deep fascia, unless this has been injured. It is most common in the intemperate, or those of broken-down constitution or the subject of visceral disease, and is especially frequent after a scalp wound. Symptoms,—There is locally much more oedema and swelling than in the former variety, but the redness is less bright and not so sharply defined, and blebs or bullae containing serum, which may be blood-stained, often form over the affected part. The pain, at first hot and tingling, soon becomes throbbing, and the swelling brawny, and, should suppuration occur, boggy in places; whilst the redness assumes first a dusky, then a purple, and then a mottled hue ; finally, dark-coloured sloughs form, but no pointing occurs. If an incision is made into the tissues, they are at first found infiltrated with fluid, and later look like wet wash-leather from the breaking down of the cellular tissue into pus and sloughs. As the inflammation is more intense than in cutaneous erysipelas, so are the constitutional symptoms, though similar, moire severe. The fever, at first slight, assumes a typhoid cha- racter as suppuration sets in. The disease may terminate in resolution, but more frequently runs the course above described, and may end fatally from broncho-pneumonia, saprsemia, septicaemia, pyaemia, exhaustion, or hectic. It is most fatal when, as is so frequently the case, the patient is the subject of chronic kidney disease. Locally, it may lead to necrosis of bone, destruction of a joint, brawny thickening of the part, or much scarring. Treatment.—This must be both constitutional and local. A purgative should be given at the onset, and the patient placed on slop diet, which should be exchanged, when suppuration occurs, for concentrated nourishment with bark, iron, and stimulants. Locally, lint or spongio- piline soaked in hot boracic lotion should be applied, and incisions made early before sloughing has had time to take place, i.e., as soon as the parts become brawny. A number of small incisions made parallel to the long axis of the limb are preferable to one long one. They should extend through the skin into the inflamed cellular tissue, the haemorrhage, which is often free, being readily stopped152 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OE INJURIES. if excessive by plugging with iodoform or sal alembroth gauze, or like antiseptic material. Subsequently tbe wounds should be dressed antiseptically, well drained, and the sloughs removed from time to time as they form. At St. Bartholomew's Hospital a large charcoal poultice is with some a favourite form of dressing. Should diar- rhoea set in it may be controlled by opium; but this drug must be given cautiously when there is kidney mischief. In bad cases, where much skin has been destroyed or a joint irreparably damaged, amputation may ultimately be required, but should not, as a rule, be done whilst the disease is in progress. 3. Cellular Erysipelas, or dieeuse cellulitis, is an acute, infective, and diffuse inflammation of the cellu- lar tissue. It may occur in the subcutaneous or submu- cous tissues, in the intermuscular planes, in the cellular tissue of the pelvis or orbit, in fact anywhere in the body where connective tissue exists. It is probable that it does not depend upon a specific virus, but upon the strepto- coccus of spreading suppuration, and hence, although it spreads by the lymphatics and lymph spaces like cutaneous erysipelas, it is not like it a specific infective disease. It may be due to various causes. Thus it may occur in the subcutaneous tissue after a scratch or puncture, particu- larly one inflicted in the post-7nortem room or by the bite of a venomous reptile or sting of an insect; in the pelvic cellular tissue after parturition, or the operation of litho- tomy; and in the submucous tissue after an injury, as a sting of the throat by a wasp. Symptoms.—The constitutional symptoms resemble those already given under the preceding varieties of erysipelas, and though they may vary in intensity they are generally grave and soon assume an asthenic type, and become those of sapraemia as the septic products are absorbed from the decomposing sloughs. The local symptoms vary according to the part attacked. When the subcuta- neous tissue is affected they are similar to those of cellulo- cutaneous erysipelas, save that the skin is not at first involved but is only slightly reddened or mottled; the parts, however, feel hard and brawny, and become boggy as suppuration occurs. Later, the skin, as the vessels which supply it are destroyed by the pressure of the inflammatory exudation in the subcutaneous tissue, loses its vitality and rapidly becomes gangrenous and sloughs. The Treatment is like that of cellulo-cutaneous er}^-HOSPITAL GANGRENE. 153 sipelas. Incisions should be inade early, and stimulating treatment is generally required from the first. Hospital Gangrene or Sloughing Phagedena is a rapidly spreading, infective inflammation accompanied by extensive sloughing and ulceration. It most commonly aftects an open wound, but has been known to follow injuries where there has been no break in the skin. It is seldom seen at the present day owing to improved hygiene, better hospital management, and the more scientific treatment of wounds. The virus, probably the pyogenic micrococci, may be conveyed to the wound by the air, the hands of the surgeon or nurse, instruments, sponges, &c. The micrococci [streptococci and staphylo- cocci) are found in chains and masses as well as singly, both in the slough and in the inflamed tissues around. (See also Fhagedcenic Ulcers, p, 38.) Symptoms.—When an open wound is attacked a pulta- ceous, ash-grey, adherent slough forms on the surface, and the sloughing rapidly spreads both deeply and widely. The edges of the wound are dusky-red, oedematous, sharp- cut, and rapidly melt away as the gangrene proceeds. The discharge is thin and greenish or blood-stained, and exhales a horrible foetor. Although a local infective dis- ease, severe constitutional symptoms of blood-poisoning, rapidly assuming a typhoid character, are set up by the absorption of the septic products (ptomaines), and fre- quently terminate fatally in a few hours. No micro- organisms have been found in the blood. Treatment.—The patient should be isolated, and where the disease occurs in military practice as an epidemic, the whole of the patients in the infected building should be removed to huts or tents. Stimulants, opium, and quinine should be given internally; whilst locally, the slough must be completely removed, the ulcerated surface thoroughly destroyed by strong nitric acid or chloride of zinc, and the wound sprinkled with iodoform and dressed- antiseptically. Wound-Diphtheria is rare in this country. It is thought by some to be a mild form of hospital gangrene due to the ordinary microbes of suppuration, by others to be a distinct affection depending upon a specific form of micrococcus and the result of bad hygiene and want of cleanliness in the treatment of the wound. When a wound is so attacked, the surface, previously granulating, becomes covered with a greyish-white, opaque, tenacious154 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OE INJURIES. membrane, similar to that of diphtheria. This membrane consists of granulation-cells and coagulated exudation in which are found micrococci in chains and colonies. The affection appears to be only very slightly contagious, and does not aft'ect the system generally further than by the absorption of the septic products. The treatment consists in attention to the general hygiene, and dusting the wound with iodoform or rubbing it over with a stick of nitrate of silver. Malignant Pustule or Charbon is a specific infec- tive disease due to inoculation with a virus {bacillus anthracis) obtained from animals suffering from splenic fever. It occurs most frequently in this country amongst those whose work brings them into contact with hides imported from countries in which splenic fever is common. The bacillus may enter the system through a wound or abrasion of the skin, a pustule occurring at the point of inoculation. The disease may then remain localized, or the bacillus may enter the blood and there rapidly multi- plying give rise to constitutional symptoms. At times the bacillus is absorbed directly into the blood through the alimentary or respiratory mucous membrane without any external manifestation, and sets up similar constitu- tional symptoms, the affection being then known as W^ool- sorter''s Disease, (See a work on Medicine.) t^ymjotoms.—A red itching pimple is first noticed, gene- rally at the situation of a slight scratch or abrasion of the skin, on the face or some other exposed part. The pimple soon becomes converted into a vesicle, whilst the sur- rounding tissues become red and brawny. Gangrene occurs at the focus of inflammation, and around this a ring of secondary vesicles forms. Thus, when the so- called pustule is fully developed, it presents a very characteristic appearance (Fig. 35). In the centre there is a dry black slough, around this a ring of vesicles, and around this again an area of redness, brawny induration and much oedema. There is, however, but little pain and no suppuration. The neighbouring lymphatic glands may now become enlarged and tender; feverish symptoms rapidly assuming a typhoid type set in, and the patient dies of sudden syncope, exhaustion, or it may be of oedema of the glottis when the disease affects the neck. Should any doubt exist as to the nature of the disease, it will be cleared up by examining the contents of the vesicles for the bacillus.Malignant ptJSTuLi:. loo The bacillus wnthracis is a rod-like body, straight or sometimes bent, varying from gcso iho ^^^^ length, a.nd presenting cross-markings and sometimes round bodie's [spores) in its interior. It mnltiplies by fission and by spores, and is itself readily killed by heat; but the spores resist both, heat and drying, though they Fig. 35.—Malignant Pustule. From a case under the care of Mr. Morrant Baker. are destroyed by a 1 per cent, solution of perchloride of mercury and some other antiseptics. The bacillus has also been found in the blood and in various tissues of the body in this disease. The Treatmerd consists in the free excision of the pustule and cauterization of the wound with potassa fusa, chloride of zinc, carbolic acid, and the like. If this is done in time the patient usually recovers. "When constitutional symp-lo6 GEKEBAL PATHOLOGY OF IKJUEIES. toms have developed the strength must be supported by fluid nourishment and by stimulants when indicated. Sulphide of soda in ten-grain doses has been recommended on account of the beneficial effect it exercises in splenic fever in animals. Actinomycosis is an infective disease depending upon the presence in the tissues of a micro-organism, the acti- nomyces. Cause.—The disease, which is prevalent in cattle, mar be transmitted to man either directly from the diseased animal, as sometimes occurs in cowmen, or indirectly through the medium of uncooked meat or milk. It may Fig. 36.—Actinomycetes—tbe parasite of actinomycosis. also apparently be transmitted by cereals. A grain of barley has been found in several growths. The com- monest site of inoculation is through a carious tooth, but the parasite may also gain admission by the alimentary and respiratory tracts. Pathology,—The actinomyces, having entered the tissues, sets up a progressive inflammation leading to the forma- tion of granulation-tissue, connective tissue and pus. The pus contains pale yellow, or sometimes white or brown grains, which are visible to the naked eye when the pns is spread out in a thin layer, the larger grains being about the size of a pin's head. These grains, which consist of the parasite, are seen, on microscopical examination, to be made up of fine threads of mycelium, with rod-like bacilli radiating from their ends (see Fig. 36). In cattle, the disease affects chiefly the lower jaw, butSEPTICEMIA. 157 it has also been met with in the upper j aw, the tongue, the respiratory and alimentary tracts, and in the subcutaneous and intermuscular tissues. It was formerly included under the names of osteo-sarcoma, wooden tongue, bone cancer, tubercle, &c. Symptoms,—In the lower jaw it is commonly met with about the socket of a carious tooth. A great deal of thickening occurs in the surrounding bone, and abscesses are formed in the neighbouring connective tissue. On the opening of the abscesses sinuses are left leading to the swelling, which is found to consist in part of tough fibrous tissue and in part of soft vascular granulation-tissue filling cavities in the bone. The escaping pus contains the grain- like masses of the fungus which are characteristic of the disease. When the disease occurs in bones other than the jaw, it gives rise to a growth with characters similar to those mentioned above. When it begins in the lung it may spread to the pleura and then extend widely in the chest walls. From the intestine it may invade the peri- toneum and abdominal walls. In whatever situation it begins, however, it steadily spreads until it kills either by exhaustion or by involving some vital organ. Diagnosis,—The disease perhaps most resembles tuber- culous ulceration or a fibre- or myxo-sarcoma attended by profuse suppuration. The presence of the parasite in the pus will clear up any doubt as to the nature of the disease. Treatment.—The only efficient treatment is the complete removal of the growth, whilst it is still local, by excision and scraping. In the lower jaw this has been attended with complete success. When the disease is too extensive to admit of removal, free drainage and antiseptics should be used as palliatives. General Infective Diseases. Septicemia or septic infection.—The term septi- caemia is here restricted to the condition known as septic infection; septic intoxication, which has hitherto been included under the term septicaemia, has been already described under the head of sapraemia. Septicaemia, in this sense, is an infectious disease due to inoculation with a specific virus which multiplies in the blood and is pro- bably of the nature of a micro-organism. Cause.—The essential cause is the introduction of the158 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJURIES. specific virus into the blood. The vims may be derived from the body of another patient who is suffering from or has died of the disease, and may be conveyed by the hands of the surgeon or the nurse, imperfectly cleaned instru- ments, sponges, &c. The minutest quantity of the poison appears to be sufficient. Pathology.—Th.Q ;post-mortem appearances are similar to those of f-apreemia. There is a like condition of congestion of the nerve-centres, gastro-intestinal tract and viscera, with petechiae beneath the serous membranes, and stain- ing of the vessels and tissues. Micro-organisms, both micrococci and bacilli, however, are found in the blood. The serous cavities often contain blood-stained serum, and pleurisy and pneumonia may at times be present. The spleen is generally greatly congested and enlarged. The symptoms are also similar to those of saprsemia; indeed, it is often impossible to differentiate between them. Septicaemia, however, may be suspected when there is evidence of infection from some source, or the wound is of such a size as to render it impossible for the amount of septic matter necessary to set up septic intoxi- cation to be formed in it. It would, moreover, appear probable that the two diseases may at times coexist in the same subject. Septicaemia begins with a distinct rigor, which may be repeated, followed by a temperature of 103° to 104° or higher. The symptoms, the chief of which are headache, nausea, vomiting, delirium, and sometimes diarrhoea, may run the same rapid course as in saprsemia, the j^atient passing into a state of collapse; or they may be more chronic and less severe in degree though similar in kind, whilst leucocytosis and petechial eruptions of the skin, or bronchitis, pneumonia, pleurisy, or pericarditis may supervene. Treatment.—Little can be done in the way of curative treatment beyond preventing the introduction of more poison by taking the same ioisal means to disinfect the wound as were mentioned under saprsemia. The same good effects, however, must not be expected, as the poison once introduced multiplies indefinitely, and hence the disease is almost invariably fatal. Large doses of quinine or salicylic acid or sulphite of potash, however, may be given, whilst the strength should be supported by fluid nourishment and stimulants. Pyemia is distinguished from septicaemia by the formation of secondary [metastatic) abscesses in various159 PY.EMTA. tissues and organs of the body. It received its name on tlie erroneous supposition that it was due to the entrance of pus into the blood, seeing that it generally originates in connection with a suppurating wound, and is later attended with purulent collections in various parts of the body. By some it is still regarded as a later stage of septicaemia, as previous to the formation of the abscesses the two diseases are often clinically indistinguishable. Eecent investigations, however, point to py<3emia being a disease distinct from both septicoemia and saprsemia, and have further made it appear probable that the train of symptoms known as pyaemia are due to several different pathological processes. Cause.—The immediate cause is no doubt the entrance of a poison into the blood, and since pyogenic micrococci have been found in the wound, the thrombosed veins leading from the wound, in the blood, the tissues, and the metastatic abscesses, it is now held that these organisms are essential factors in the production of the condition known as pyaemia. Pyaemia, however, is seldom deve- loped except where the patient is exposed to unfavourable hygienic conditions, amongst which may be especially mentioned overcrowding in ill-ventilated and badly- drained hospitals, particularly where a large number of suppurating 8.nd foul wounds are congregated together in the same ward ; whilst the general debility induced by insanitary dwellings, poor living, town life, and the abuse of alcohol, in that it lowers the resisting power of the tissues, further predisposes to the disease. Pyaemia is generally developed in connection with a wound which has reached the stage of suppuration and has not been properly drained and kept aseptic. It is probable, there- fore, that the septic products entering the system with the pyogenic micrococci further lower the resisting power of the tii^sues. The micrococci having gained admission to the wound, infect the thrombi fillins: the veins leading from it, and are carried away with detached portions of the,thrombi into the venous circulation. The emboli be- come lodged in the capillaries of the tissues and organs, and being infected with the pyogenic organisms and im- pregnated with septic ptomaines from the wound, set up suppuration in the tissues around the vessels in which they lodge. In other instances it is believed that the pyogenic micrococci may enter the circulation in such masses that they are sufficient in themselves without160 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJURIES. the presence of any clot to plug the small vessels, and here in like manner to cause secondary suppuration. There appears to be, therefore, two chief elements at work, the pyogenic cocci giving rise to the disseminated suppura- tions, and the septic ptomaines developed in the wound or generated by the cocci themselves, poisoning the whole system. Pyaemia is especially common after wounds in- volving bone, owing to the liability of the large patulous veins of bone to become filled with purulent thrombi, portions of which are readily carried away by the blood- stream. Hence the frequency of pyaemia after injuries of the cranium involving the diploe, compound fractures, amputations, and excisions, when antiseptics and drain- age are neglected. Again, the poison may be developed in decomposing portions of the placenta left after child- birth, and may then enter the blood by infecting the thrombi in the uterine veins. Or it may be formed in connection with operations on the genito-urinary tract, on account of the difficulty of keej)ing such wounds aseptic. Pysemia, moreover, is especially frequent after infective osteomyelitis and infective periostitis, even before the sa^Dpurating cavity is opened and exposed to the outer air. It may also occur in connection with erysipelatous wounds, diffuse cellulitis, and hospital gangrene, and sometimes after gonorrhoea, ulceration of the intestines in typhoid fever and dysentery, and ulcerative endocar- ditis. Very occasionally pyaemia follows the most trivial operation or injury, as the subcutaneous division of a tendon or a portion of fascia. Here it is probably the result of the introduction of micro-organisms at the time of the operation. At times no local source of infection can be discovered; the disease is then spoken of as idio- pathic pyaemia, and it is believed that the pyogenic micro- organism gains admission, as in infective osteomyelitis, periostitis, and ulcerative endocarditis, through a mucous surface. Pathology.—The post-mortem appearances are similar to those in septicaemia, plus purulent collections in one or more situations, or disseminated through the body as multiple small abscesses. Thus, there is the same rapid tendency to putrefaction, disintegration of red blood-corpuscles, stain- ing of the vessels and tissues, minute extravasations {pete- chice) beneath the serous membranes and in the skin, con- gestion of the viscera, enlargement of the spleen, and in many cases the presence of micro-organisms in the bloodPYJ5MIA. 161 and various tissues and organs. The body is emaciated, and the skin yellowish and earthy in appearance. The purulent collections may be found in the serous cavities, in the viscera, in the joints and indeed throughout the body generally. There may be one or more moderate- sized collections of pus; or an organ, as the lung, may be riddled by a number of small abscesses varying in size from a pea to a nut. The visceral abscesses are most common in the lungs, then in the liver, and next in the spleen, kidneys and brain. They are situated in the periphery of the organs, i.e., in the situation of the smallest capillaries. Where, however, pysemia follows a lesion of the rectum, the abscesses are generally found in the liver, since most of the blood from the rectum passes first through that organ. The pus is sweet, rarely foetid, and may resemble ordinary pus, or it may be thin and watery. It always contains pyogenic micrococci. When there is a wound it is usually found unhealthy or putrescent, and sur- rounded by an inflammatory area; micrococci are present in it. The veins leading from the wound are usually filled with thrombi, which are generally, though not invariably, un- dergoing purulent softening, and then contain micrococci. Where the pygemia has originated in infective osteomye- litis, infective periostitis, or in a wound involving bone, the veins in the medulla of the bone, and those leading from the bone are usually also found filled with purulent thrombi. If the affected veins are followed towards the heart, the end of the thrombus will often be seen projecting into the blood-current in the larger vein at the spot where the smaller joins it (Fig. 37.) Lastly, coccus colonies, i.e., collections of micrococci, are found m the various tissues and organs. A consideration of the above morbid appearances makes it appear probable that the metastatic abscesses may be produced in several ways: 1. Thrombosis of the veins leading from the wound is set up by one or more of the conditions that commonly produce thrombosis, such as suppuration around a vein, an abscess breaking into a Fia. 37.—Throm- bosed vein. The thrombus is seen projecting from the smaller into the larger vein. W.162 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJURIES. vein, death of the part from which the vein runs, &c. The thrombus becomes impregnated with the septic products forming in the wound, and with the pyogenic micrococci introduced from without. The septic and in- fective changes extend up the thrombus; portions of the thrombus where it projects into a larger vein are de- tached by the force of the blood-stream in the larger vein (see Fig. 37), and are carried away in the blood, and become lodged in the capillaries of the lungs or, possibly, escaping through them, in the capillaries of other parts of the body. These emboli, being of a septic and infective nature, instead of leading to the changes which follow ordinary embolism, give rise to septic and infective in- flammation, terminating in suppuration and abscess [primary embolic abscesses). 2. Masses of micrococci which have gained entrance, either directly through a wound, or indirectly through a mucous membrane, as in the case of infective periostitis, osteomyelitis, &c., are carried from the primary seat of disease by the lymphatics or blood-stream, and become lodged in the capillaries of the various tissues and organs. There blood-corpuscles aggre- gate around them, thus forming a thrombus, which softens and sets up infective inflammation and suppuration. 3. Portions of the softened thrombus in the lung-capil- laries become detached, and are carried by the blood-stream to other parts of the body, where they in turn form emboli, which also set up similar infective inflammation and suppuration (secondary embolic abscesses), 4. The diffuse purulent collections in the serous and synovial cavities are thought as a rule to depend upon the poisoned condition of the blood and the presence of micrococci, not upon emboli. The symptoms usually set in with a rigor, generally a severe one, during which the temperature rises to 103°, 104°, or even higher. Profuse sweating follows. The rigors are repeated from time to time. The temperature chart represents the same series of long up and down strokes characteristic of hectic fever, only di:ffering in that the morning temperature in pysemia seldom reaches normal. The pulse is quick; the tongue is red or glazed, and later, dry and brown; wasting rapidly sets in; the skin often assumes an earthy or jaundiced hue; the face is anxious, perhaps flushed, or pale ; extravasations from the capillaries of the skin occur producing petechise; and other eruptions, though less common, as patches of erythema, may appear from time to time, with aphthae or163 GLATOERS. nlceration of tTie fauces. The breath and the exhalations of the body have a peculiar sweet odour, and albumen may be found in the urine. At about the end of a week metastatic abscesses form in various parts, as the lungs, liver and joints; or dilfuse suppuration may be set up in the serous cavities, and signs of pericarditis, pleurisy, or peritonitis ensue. Diarrhoea sets in, then delirium, and the patient dies exhausted usually during the second week. In the meanwhile, the wound, if one exists, is generally foul and suppurating, though later it may become dry and cease to form pus; in some chronic cases, which are rare, however, the wound may heal. The prognosis is extremely unfavourable; acute cases are always fatal, each rigor making the chance of recovery more hopeless. At times, however, the disease may run a chronic course {chronic jpycemia), differing from the acute in degree rather than in kind. Thus the rigors are less frequent or none may occur. The viscera, as a rule, are not affected, and the abscesses show a special predilection for the joints. The patient may die after some weeks, or may linger for some months, or very slowly recover after one or more relapses, with probably stifeess of one or more joints. Or he may subsequently die of phthisis, albuminuria, or lardaceous disease. Treatment,—Little or nothing can be done in the way of treatment in acute cases, when once the pysemic pro- cess is established, beyond supporting the strength by fluid nourishment and stimulants, opening abscesses as they are formed, and placing the patient under the most favourable hygienic conditions possible. Measures should, of course, be taken to drain the wound and render it aseptic if this has been neglected. Quinine in large doses is generally advised, but little must be expected from it. In infective osteomyelitis and periostitis ampu- tation through the joint above the affected bone should be done if pj^semia appears imminent but has not fully- declared itself. In chronic cases, when convalescence has ensued, a sea voyage or residence at Aix-la-Chapelle or other suitable spa may be of benefit. Glanders is a specific infective disease common amongst horses, and occasionally communicated to man by inocu- lation through a wound or the unbroken mucous mem- brane. The poison is believed to be a specific form of micro-organism, since in glanders a bacillus has been found, which after several cultivations retains the power M 2aENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJUEIES. 164 of reproducing the disease in the horse. The disease may run an acute or chronic course. It is nearly always acute in man and chronic in the horse. The acute form is characterised: (1) by a thin serous discharge, rapidly becoming foul, purulent, and sanious, from the nasal mucous membrane, with enlargement of the submaxillary glands; (2) by a pustular eruption, resembling that of small-j)ox, on the skin and mucous membrane of the respiratory and digestiye tract; and (3) by the formation of circumscribed nodules in the lymphatics of the subcutaneous and muscular tissue, which usually soon break down into abscesses and foul ulcers. These signs are ushered in and accompanied by fever, which rapidly assumes a typhoid type, and is sometimes preceded by a rigor. Symptoms of pneumonia or pleurisy, or vomiting and diarrhoea ensue, according as the respiratory or ali- mentary tract is chiefly affected, and death usually takes place within a week from saprsemia, sej)tic8emia, or pyaemia. In the chronic form the constitutional symptoms are less severe, and the patient may linger for months, or even recover. In the horse the disease is spoken of by veterinary surgeons as "/arc?/" when the lymphatic vessels and glands are principally affected, the swellings opposite the valves in the lymphatics forming the so-called farcy- huds ; " and as glanders, when the disease falls chiejfly upon the nasal mucous membrane. In man the two processes generally occur together as above described. Treatment.—Beyond supporting the patient's strength with concentrated fluid nourishment, opening abscesses as they occur, dressing the ulcers antiseptically, and syringing out the nasal chambers with antiseptic lotions, little or nothing can be done, as no treatment appears to have been hitherto of any avail. Hydrophobia is a specific infective disease, always propagated by inoculation, and probably due to a spe- cific micro-organism. It has received its name from the prominent symptoms which the pharyngeal spasms 2)ro- duce. It is called rabies in dogs because no fear of water is shown, and because in them there may be great ex- citement. The disease is generally received by man from the dog, occasionally from the cat, and more rarely from the wolf or fox, and by these animals it may be given to horses, deer, &c. The inoculation is generally through a bite by which the saliva containing the virus reachesHYDROPHOBIA. 165 the lympliatics. At times it. has occurred through a scratch which has been only licked by the affected animal, and once through making a post-mortem examination on a subject who had died of the disease. Of all persons bitten by rabid animals about 15 per cent, only suffer from the disease, a fact which probably in chief part depends upon the saliva being wiped off the teeth as they pass through the clothes. The most dangerous wounds are those on the face and hands, and on the bare legs of children, the average mortality of bites on the face being as high as 60 to 80 per cent. Multiple and lacerated wounds are naturally most to be feared, as inoculation in them is more likely to take place. Also the nearer the bite is to the central nervous system, the more easily and rapidly does the poison reach the brain and begin to take effect. Indeed the only certain method of producing the disease in animals is by inoculation under the dura mater. It was the discovery of this fact which enabled M. Pasteur to make his inves- tigations. The average period of incubation varies from two weeks to six months. Although it is said that the incubation period has been as short as two days, and as long as twenty years, two weeks to two years may practically be given as its limits. There are no symptoms during this period. The vesicles or lyssse said to occur under the tongue from the third to the ninth day after the bite do not appear to be a constant phenomenon. The virus has no influence on the healmg of the wound, the bite of a mad dog healing like other wounds, either by first intention, or if the tissues are badly lacerated, slowly and painfully. Seeing therefore that there are no symptoms during the incubation period, and that in the early stages of rabies there are no naked-eye post-mortem signs, the only way of ascertaining if the bite is that of a mad dog is to watch the animal. If the dog is killed at once the patient will suffer much mental anxiety. He must wait for three' weeks before the point can be determined by inoculation experiments on rabbits, or he may undergo Pasteur's treatment unnecessarily. Moreover, to wait three weeks may be too late for wounds of the face. Every suspected dog, therefore, should be confined in a strong cage. If mad he will show advancing ^symptoms, and die in three or four days. It is important, therefore, to recognize the symptoms of rabies in the dog.166 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OE INJURIES. Symptoms of rabies.—The earliest symptoms are rest- lessness, dulness, and a tendency to shun the light. The dog often roves far and wide, and has a morbid appetite for pieces of stick, hay, stones, &c. In the next stage he may rush wildly about, biting other dogs, inanimate objects, or men, frequently those to whom he has been previously attached. The appetite is lost; there is desire to drink, and the muzzle is put into the water, but none is taken. Pinally he becomes paralysed, the lower jaw begins to drop, the bark changes to a characteristic hoarse howl from pharyngeal paralysis ; next the limbs fail, and finally the muscles of respiration. Sometimes, however, advancing paralysis is the only symptom, the power of barking being then lost. This form of the disease is called dumb rabies. Post-mortem signs of rabies.—The stomach contains hay, sticks, stones, &c., and its mucous membrane is con- gested and scattered over with small haemorrhages. The trachea is congested and may also be dotted over with small haemorrhages. The nervous system, especially the cord and medulla, show signs of acute myelitis. This begins with an exudation of leucocytes into the sheaths of dilated vessels; next haemorrhage, and finally soften- ing. If a portion of the medulla or cord is required for inoculating purposes, a piece should be placed at once in a 20 p.c. solution of glycerine and kept there for three or four days to kill septic micro-organisms ; an emulsion is then made and a drop or two injected under the dura mater of a rabbit, which will die in from eighteen to twenty-one days, showing first excitement, and then paralysis of the hinder limbs. Pathology of hydrophobia,—The principal post-mortem changes have been found in the medulla, especially about the region of the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric and hypo-glossal nuclei, and in the cerebral cortex. They consist in the infiltration of the perivascular sheaths with leucocytes, thrombosis of the medium-sized vessels, small haemorrhages, and degeneration of the nerve cells; in short, as in animals, of an acute myelitis. The theory now generally held with regard to the pathology of the disease is that the poison, after remaining for a variable time dormant in the wound, multiplies or matures; and then that either it or its products slowly enter the blood and set up a specific inflammation in the medulla and oerebral cortex, whereby their power of resistance toHYDROPHOBIA. 167 reflex irritation is diminislied or lost. Hence the occur- rence of the spasms on the slightest provocation. Finally, that should the patient not succumb to spasm of the glottis or muscles of respiration, the afitected nerve- centres become exhausted and no longer respond at all to the reflexes necessary to carry on life, and the heart's action in consequence ceases. The nature of the poison is not known, though the belief is gaining ground that the disease depends in some way upon a micro-organism, since rod-like bodies have been discovered in connection with the hsemorrhagic lesions in the cerebral cortex, and a micro-organism has been isolated by inoculating fowls with the virus taken from rabid animals. Symptoms of hydrophobia,—At first there may be prick- ing pain at the site of the wound, which has generally long since healed. The patient, if an adult, has often much mental anxiety, and with the onset of the symp- toms may become melancholic. As the disease becomes fully developed the symptoms point to disturbance in the medulla, especially about the centres for, deglutition and respiration. Thus there is increasing difficulty in swal- lowing in consequence of pharyngeal spasm, and a peculiar click in respiration in consequence of spasm of the diaphragm. The pharyngeal spasms are at first only excited by attempts to swallow, but subsequently the sight of water and the sound of its trickling from one vessel to another, a blast of cold air, or a sudden light is sufficient to set them up. Swallowing is now quite impossible, and viscid saliva is forcibly hawked up and expectorated about. The spasms which begin in the pharynx extend to the muscles of respiration and then become general; the pain is agonizing and the patient may have hallucinations or violent delirium, but often remains sensible of his dreadful condition to the end. Paralysis finally ensues, and death usually occurs from involvement of the respiratory muscles. The spasms sometimes diminish as the paralysis advances, and the patient may sink into a delusive calm, during which the power of swallowing may be regained. Sometimes the chief symptom throughout is advancing paralysis. Such cases resemble dumb rabies of dogs. JDeath may be due in the earlier stages to spasm of the glottis or muscles of respiration; later to paralysis of the muscles of respiration or to exhaustion. Diagnosis.—The intermittent character of the spasmsGENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJURIES. 168 {clonic spasms), the hallucinations, and the escape of viscid saliva from the mouth, will generally serve to dis- tinguish hydrophobia from tetanus following the bite of a dog, and from false or hysterical hydrophobia. In the latter case, too, the convulsions will cease if the patient is put under chloroform. TJie prognosis when the disease has once developed is hopeless. There is no authentic case of recovery from hydrophobia. The treatment may be divided into the preventive and palliative. Preventive treatment.—If the patient is seen immediately after the bite, we should endeavour to re- move the poison from the wound, or else destroy it. This may be attempted by suction, a procedure which appears to be quite safe provided there is no crack or abrasion about the lips or tongue; or if at hand, a cupping-glass may be applied. The parts should after- wards be excised or thoroughly cauterized, the best caustics being nitric acid, nitrate of silver, caustic potash, and pure carbolic acid. It has been advised that if the wound has already healed when the patient is seen the cicatrix should be cut out; but it is more than ques- tionable if this procedure is of any value, especially as it appears that if inoculation by M. Pasteur's method is resorted to before symptoms come on, the disease may be effectually prevented from developing. Pasteur's treatment.—This consists in obtaining a virus of fixed strength and then attenuating it so that it can be safely inoculated. To obtain the fixed virus the disease is transmitted through a series of rabbits, the period of incubation becoming less and less as the virus increases in intensity, till, after passing through upwards of eighty rabbits, the period of inoculation is found to be constant and the virus of maximum intensity. A rabbit inocu- lated with this fixed virus always develops symptoms on the 7th day and dies on the 10th. To attenuate the virus a portion of spinal cord of a rabbit inoculated with the fixed virus is suspended in a sterilized bottle over caustic potash. As the cord dries the virus becomes less virulent, so that after 2 days' drying a rabbit inoculated with it dies in from 11 to 17 days; after 7 days' drying from 23 to 29 days; after 11 days' drying from 30 to 35 days; until after 12, 13, or 14 days' drying, its virulence is com- pletely lost. An emulsion is made of 0*5 centigrams of spinal cord in 2 cubic centimetres of sterilized beef-tea,169 TETANUS. and a drop or two ici subcutaneously injected under the skin of the abdomen or flank. Tbe cords are used in an ascending series from the 14tli or loth day of drying up- wards, until on tbe 9 th day of treatment a cord which has been dried for only 3 days is used. The treatment is continued for 16 days. The above is known as the Simple method. For face-bites a more rapid method has been found necessary to prevent the disease. In this, which is called the Intensive method^ a cord of only 3 days' drying is used on the 6th day, and the treatment is continued with two days' intermission until the 20th day. This method, however, appears to be somewhat dangerous, patients so treated having died with symptoms of the paralytic form of the disease similar to that in- duced in animals by inoculation. Palliative treatment.—When hydrophobia has super- vened, all that can be done is to relieve symptoms. Thus the patient should be placed in a darkened room, and every source of irritation that may cause spasm avoided. Opium and morphia should also be given for the same purpose. Chloral, chloroform, eserine, pilocarpine, curare, and many other drugs have been given ; but all are use- less, and some, as chloroform and curare, are not unat- tended with danger. Tetanus is a disease in which the voluntary muscles are thrown from time to time into a state of intense spasm, whilst they remain in the intervals in a condition of constant contraction {tonic spasm). Cause.—Tetanus was formerly attributed to a lesion of the peripheral nerves; but recent researches render it almost certain that it is an infective disease depending upon a specific virus generated by the growth of a micro- organism {hacillus tetani). It is especially prevalent in hot climates, and amongst the negro races; it occurs more often in men than in women, and in military than in civil practice. It is seldom met with in this country except in connection with a wound, and is especially common after lacerated and punctured wounds and burns; but it has been known to occur after every kind of wound, from a mere scratch, or the ligature of a pile or j the umbilical cord, to amputation of the thigh or other I capital operation. Tetanus, however, has been more often observed to occur when the wound, whatever its cause and character, is in a septic condition. Exposure to cold, damp, and sudden changes of temperature, are i170 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF IN JURIES. believed to influence its production, and where tetanus occurs, as it sometimes does, independently of a wound, are regarded by some as the essential cause. It is more probable, however, that these conditions merely act as depressing agents, and that the micro-organism in these cases gains admission through a scratch or abrasion which has been overlooked, or by absorption through the unbroken mucous or cutaneous surface. Tetanus is inoculable from animal to animal, and probably from animals to man, since a veterinary surgeon has lately died of tetanus after making a post-mortem examination on a horse dead of the disease. Pathology,—But little is discoverable on post-mortem examination. At times the nerves leading from the wound have been found congested, at other times unaltered in appearance. Hypersemia of the medulla and cord, exuda- tion in, and degeneration of the grey matter, and haemor- rhages in the white columns, have been noted in some cases; whilst in others nothing abnormal in the nerve- centres has been discovered. The older vieiv of the pathology of tetanus is that the disease depends upon a primary lesion of the peripheral nerves, and that the irritation thus produced is conveyed by the injured nerve to the nerve-centres, where it becomes persistent and continuing after the real cause has been removed, gives rise to muscular spasm in various parts of the body. The modern view is that the disease is due to a specific virus which affects the medulla and cord in a way similar to strychnine. The virus is believed to be a chemical com- pound of the nature of a ptomaine or an albumose (tetano- toxalhumen, tetano-toxin), and to be usually generated in a wound by the growth of the tetanus bacillus. When no wound exists, it is further believed that the virus may gain admission by absorption through the unbroken mucous or cutaneous surface. It is only quite recently that an absolutely pure culture of the bacillus has been obtained. It is drum-stick shaped when sporing, anaerobic, and rapidly loses its virulence on exposure to air. It has been found in the surroundings of horses, the floor of stables, and in ordinary earth, thus serving to explain the frequency of tetanus in the wounded who have been allowed to lie on the ground after battles. The horse is merely looked upon as an intermediary as is the cow in connection with tuberculosis. It has also been found in soil taken from beneath the floor of hospital wards inTETANUS. 171 which cases of tetanus Lave occurred. It would appear that the bacillus only exists in the soil or in the wound; not in the blood or nervous system. The symptoms usually begin by a feeling of stiffness in the muscles of the neck; the patient complains that he is unable to open his mouth widely (trismus)^ and that his throat feels sore on swallowing. On examination, the mus- cles of the neck, the masseters, and perhaps the abdominal muscles, are found hard and rigid, and the face presents a characteristic expression from the angles of the mouth being drawn slightly upwards by the contraction of the facial muscles. Later, other of the voluntary muscles, especially those of respiration, become affected, and distinct spasms attended with severe pain and varying in dura- tion, occur from time to time. The spasms are induced by the slightest irritation, a breath of air, the least noise, the merest touch, and the remissions become shorter, or only partial, as thf^ disease is fully established. During the spasms the face assumes an expression of intense anguish {risus sardonicus)^ the respirations and pulse are quickened, and the body is variously contorted. Thus, when the spinal muscles are chiefly affected the back becomes arched, so that in severe cases the patient rests only on his head and heels [opisthotonos); more rarely the body is bent forward, being rolled up as it were like a ball (emprosthotonos); whilst still more rarely it may be drawn to one or other side (pleurosthotonos). The skin is bathed in perspiration, the urine concentrated and high coloured, and the bowels are obstinately confined. The temperature may remain normal, or be but slightly raised; though sometimes shortly before death it runs very high, and has been known to register 112° Fahr. The patient is unable to sleep, but the intellect continues clear to the end. Death may occur from spasm of the glottis, spasm of the respiratory muscles, or from exhaustion or syncope. Recovery hardly ever takes place when the symptoms are acute, but if the patient survive till the twelfth day the prognosis is more favourable, and becomes more and more so every day. Diagnosis,—From strychnine poisoning and hydro- phobia, tetanus is distinguished by the spasms being of a tonic instead of a clonic character, and further from hydrophobia by the absence of hallucinations and the discharge of viscid saliva, signs which are characteristic of that affection,172 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJURIES. Treatment.—Nothing in the way of specifics has hitherto been found for the disease. Curare, Indian hemp, Calabar bean, eserine, and numerous other drugs have been tried, and signally failed, at least in the acute form of the disease. Chloroform, although it prevents the spasms while the patient is under its influence, appears to be of no permanent benefit. Eecently, however, hypodermic injections of carbolic acid \ grain, and paraldehyde, pilo- carpine and urethane, have been said to be successful. But our chief hope in acute cases appears to be in attempting to tide the patient through the first few da^^s on the chance that the affection may become chronic. Thus his strength should be supported with fluid nourish- ment, administered by the rectum if he is unable to swallow, and the spasms as much as possible prevented by the most absolute quiet, the avoidance of all sources of irritation, and the employment of such sedatives as Indian hemp, bromide of potassium, urethane, paralde- hyde, chloral or opium. If the latter is chosen, it should be pushed to the extreme verge of safety. In the few cases I have seen recover, the patient was treated by excessive doses of this drug. The bowels should be cleared by purgatives or enemata. Injections of carbolic acid or of hydrochlorate of pilocarpine ma}^ be tried. Locally, under any circumstances, means should be taken to render the wound aseptic, and in the light of recent researches that seem to show that tetanus is due to a poison generated by micro-organisms which exist only in the wound, the practice of free excision of the injured part and subsequent thorough cauterization on the first appearance of the symptoms, commends itself for adoption.173 INJURIES OF BONES. /, SECTION III. Injueies oe Special Tissues, injuries of bones. Fractures.—A fracture may be defined as a sudden and forcible solution of continuity of a bone. The Causes of. fracture are predisposing and exciting. 1. The jpredisposing causes may be enumerated as senile atrophy, fatty degeneration, rickets, mollities ossium, locomotor ataxy, strumous, tuberculous and syphilitic in- flammation, caries and necrosis, and malignant growths ; in brief, any condition rendering the bone unusually fragile, to which may be added the male sex as more frequently exposing to violence. 2. The exciting causes are either external violence or muscular action, (a) External violence may be direct or indirect. In fracture from direct violence the bone is broken at the spot where the violence is applied. Such fractures are usually attended with more serious consequences than fractures from indirect violence, since the soft parts are, as a rule, much injured, and the fragments comminuted or fissured, and, perhajDs, driven into important organs, as the lung in fracture of the ribs, or the brain in fracture of the cranium, &c. In indirect violence the fracture occurs at a distance from the spot where the violence is applied, as, for instance, a fracture of the clavicle from a fall on the arm. The bone usually breaks at its weakest spot, and the fracture may be rendered compound from the fragments, which are very sharp and irregular, being driven through the soft parts. Fracture from indirect violence is most common m the bones of the extremities, and the base of the skull. (6) Muscular action, except in the case of the patella, is not a common cause of fracture. "When the long bones are broken in this way, they are usually the seat of some of the diseases mentioned above as predisposing causes. "When a bone infiltrated with a malignant growth, or softened by mollities ossium, breaks from very slight violence, the fracture is said to occui' sjjontaneoiisly.174 INJURIES OF SPECIAL TlSStTES. Varieties of fracture.—A fracture is said to be simple ■when the skin covering it is not broken ; compound wlien a wound through the skin and soft parts leads down to the seat of the fracture. Whether simple or compound, fractures are further spoken of:—1. According to their extent, as:— complete, when the bone is broken quite across; incomplete or greenstick, when partially broken and partially bent; comminuted, when broken into several pieces; and midtiple, when two or more distinct fractures occur in the same bone, or in different bones. 2. Accord- ing to the condition of the fragments, as:—impacted, when one fragment is driven into another; fissured, when there is a mere crack through the bone without displacement; depressed, when one fragment is pressed in below the surface, as in some fractures of the cranium; punctured, when there is a small perforation with driving inwards of the fragments; and splintered, when only a fragment of bone is chipped off. 3. According to the line of fracture, as:—transverse^ oblique, spiral, longitudinal, or stellate, terms which sulficiently explain themselves. A fracture, moreover, is said to be complicated, when associated with other injuries, as rupture of the main artery of the limb, implication of a large joint, &g. displacement of the fragments, especially in the bones of the limbs, commonly occurs, except the fracture is trans- verse, when, as in the case of the tibia, there, may be little or none. The causes of the displacement may be enumerated as: 1. The weight of the limb acting on the lower fragment; 2. Muscular contraction; and 3. The violence producing the fracture. The amount of dis- placement will depend in part on the direction of the line of fracture, and in part on whether the periosteum is or is not torn. Thus the displacement is usually considerable when the fracture is oblique, insignificant when trans- verse, especially if the periosteum is intact. The dis- placement is spoken of as angular, lateral, longitudinal, and rotatory, according to the direction which the frag- ments bear to each other. Signs.—Before examining for fracture, the clothes should be carefully removed, and the parts handled tenderly, lest a simple fracture be converted into a com- pound by a sharp fragment being driven through the skin. Thus, in the case of the leg, the boot should be cut off, the trousers ripped up the seam, and the stocking split with scissors. The injured side should always beINJURIES OF BONES. 1/0 compared with the sound side. The general signs of fracture are:—1. Alteration in the shape of the part; 2. Swelling; 3. Loss of function; 4. Preternatural mobility; 5. Shortening; 6. Pain; 7. Crepitus; 8. The sensation of a sudden snap or giving way of the bone experienced by the patient. No one of the above signs alone, except crepitus, is absolutely diagnostic of fracture; and crepitus itself, when the fragments are impacted, may be absent, or may be simulated by joint-crepitus, effusion into the sheaths of tendons, emphysema, and by the grating of osteophytes in chronic osteo-arthritis. True crepitus, however, having been once felt, can hardly afterwards be mistaken; it is readily distinguished from false crepitus by its harsher and more grating character. The shortening may be natural or due to some previous injury or disease, as a former fracture, osteo-arthritis, &c.; it also occurs in dislocation. Increased mohility may not be present, as when a fracture is firmly impacted. Pain may, of course, occur from causes other than fracture; it may often be elicited in fracture when crepitus cannot be obtained. Siuelling, loss of f unction, and alteration in the shape of the part may be present in other injuries, but are useful signs in some forms of fracture. Too much weight, it need hardly be said, should not be given to the patient's sensations, as a snap or feeling of the bone giving way may occur in rupture of a tendon, ligament, &c. The Diagnosis is often difficult, especially :—1. When the fracture is near, or extends into, a joint, owing to effusion of blood, or synovial fluid into the joint-cavity* 2. When there is great extravasation of blood, or later, effusion of inflammatory products about the fragments. 3. When the fracture is transverse, and there is no dis- placement, especially if the fragments are held in position by a companion bone, as the fibula in fracture of the tibia. 4. When the fracture is subperiosteal. In the cranium, a simple uncomplicated fissured fracture cannot be diagnosed. \- How to obtain crepitus,—Grasp the limb firmly above and below the suspected fracture, and when there is shortening, make extension to bring the rough surfaces into contact. Then gently attempt to move the lower on the upper fragment. Having once assured yourself that crepitus is present, desist from your manipulations, as they not only give the patient pain, but injure the soft parts. In some cases, as in fractui'e of the neck of the176 INJURIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. femur, wliere the nature of the injury from the presence of other signs is quite obvious, crepitus should not be sought lest an impacted fracture be rendered non-impacted and afterwards remain ununited, or the periosteum uniting the fragments be torn, and a like result ensue. The Method of Union is similar to that which occurs in the healing of a wound of the soft parts by the first intention. Blood is at first extravasated between and around the fragments (Fig. 38). Then quickly follows a simple traumatic inflammation; the periosteum and adjacent soft tissues, together with the medulla, become Fig. 88.—Diagram of the fragments a few hours after simple fracture. The periosteum is torn and ragged, and separated from the bone for a slight distance above and below the fracture. Blcod is extravasated between the fragments, in the medullary canal, and in the periosteum and other soft tissues surrounding the fracture. Fig. 39.—Diagram of the process of repair in simple fracture. A. Ensheathing callus ; b. Internal callus ; c. Permanent callus. Commencing ossification of the ensheathing callus is indicated by the darker shading at the angle between the periosteum and the bone. infiltrated with leucocytes, which have escaped from the vessels of the inflamed periosteum, medulla, and bone, and by proliferating tissue cells derived from these parts. The inflammation subsides in a few days, leaving the fragments embedded in a mass of soft, red, gelatinous material [granulation-tissue)^ derived chiefly from the leucocytes and proliferated tissue cells, but according to some observers in part from the remains of the extravasated blood that has not been absorbed. This177 TREATMENT OF ERAOTURES. granulation-tissue, whicli is called callus, consists liere, as in the union of soft parts, of small round cells with a small amount of 'firm intercellular substance, and delicate loops of capillaries, which are derived in part from the vessels in the Haversian canals, and in part from the vessels in the periosteum, and adjacent soft tissues. It is found (1) replacing the periosteum, and extending for some distance around the bone, above and below the line of fracture, forming a spindle-shaped tumour, by which the ends of the fragments are surrounded, as it were, with a ferrule {enskeathing callus, Eig. 39, a) ; (2) replacing the medulla for some little distance up and down the medullary canal (internal callus, Fig. 39, b) ; and later (3) between the ends of the fragments {permanent, intermediate or definitive callus. Fig. 39, c). The ensheath- ing callus and internal callus are gradually organized into fibrous tissue, becoming harder and firmer, and in animals, and, in some instances, in children, are con- verted into cartilage, or fibro-cartilage. The outermost layers of the fibrous tissue into which the ensheathing callus is thus converted, form a new periosteum. Ossifi- cation of the ensheathing callus now begins—generally in the angle between the periosteum and the bone, and proceeds along the surface of the bone, where it is preceded by the formation of cells like osteoblasts, and also along the surface of the ensheathing callus beneath the new periosteum, till the upper and lower layers of ossifying callus meet opposite the line of fracture. Ossi- fication of the internal callus goes on at the same time. Permanent callus, as soon as the ends of the bone are thus fixed by the ensheathing and internal callus, is formed between the ends of the fragments, and later also under- goes ossification. It is probably derived (1) from leuco- cytes which have escaped from the vessels in the en- larged Haversian canals of the inflamed and softened ends of the fragments, and (2) from a proliferation of the cells of the connective tissue lining these parts. The ensheathing callus and internal callus having discharged j their functions, are gradually absorbed. Where the ends of the fragments overlap, the en- sheathing callus fills up the angles (Fig. 40); and while the open end of the medullary canal in each fragment is I thus closed, its continuity through the bone is restored by the absorption of the intervening walls of the con- tiguous and overlapping fragments (Fig. 40). When178 INJURIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. the fragments are in good apposition, and are kept at rest, little or no enslieathing callus is formed ; but when there is much displacement, or rest is impossible as in fractured ribs, or difficult to obtain as in a fractured clavicle, a considerable amount is produced. In children, even when the parts are kept at rest and in good apposi- tion, the formation of much ensheathing callus is the rule. Treatment,—Here only the indications for treatment will be pointed out. The particular methods will be given under Special Fractures. A. Treatment of simple fracture,—The indications are— (1) to reduce the fracture, that is, to place the fragments in apposition, so as to restore as far as possible the bone to its normal shape; (2) to keep it in this position by properly applied apparatus till firm union has occurred ; (3) to promote the restoration of the normal functions of the part; and (4) to attend in the meanwhile to the general health and comfort of the patient. 1. The reductio7i, or as it is popularly called the setting of the fracture should not be undertaken till the appa- ratus into which the limb is to be permanently placed is ready; but the fragments should be temporarily fixed so as to prevent further injury, such as a sharp fragment being forced through the skin. Thus, in the case of the lower extremity, the injured limb may be bound to the sound one, or secured by a handkerchief to an impromptu splint such as an umbrella or walking- stick; or if the patient is not seen till he is already in bed, the limb may be placed between sand-bags. As a general rule, the fracture should be reduced as soon as possible; but where there is much swelling, the part may be wrapped in a pillow or secured by sand-bags till the swelling has subsided. "When the fracture is transverse, the fragments will, as a rule, be but slightly displaced, and little as regards reduction will be required. In other instances, as when the line of fracture is oblique, considerable trouble in bringing the fragments into apposition may be experienced. The chief obstacles to be overcome are (1) the contraction of the muscles, which are thrown into action by the irritation of the fragments ; and (2) the impaction of the fragments, or the interposition of muscle or tendon between them. The splint or other apparatus being in readiness, extension in the case of fracture of a limb should be made on the lower fragment, preferably, as a rule, through the intervention of the joint below.TREATMENT OF PRACTURES. 179 Thus, in fracture of the fore-arm or leg, extension should be made from the hand or foot respectively, whilst counter-extension is applied at the same time to the upper fragment, also preferably through the joint above. Whilst steady traction is thus being made, the Surgeon should gently manipulate the fragments, and he should not ,:^est satisfied till the symmetry of the part has been as far as pos- sible restored, and the limb is found, both on inspection and measurement, to correspond as near as may be with the opposite side. In this position the parts should be held till the apparatus for permanently fixing them has been applied. Where great diffi- culty is experienced in reducing the fracture owing to muscular spasm, the limb should be flexed or placed in such a position as will tend to relax the opposing muscles, or if this does not suffice an anaesthetic may be adminis- tered. At times the subcutaneous division of a tendon may become necessary before the fracture can be reduced. In some impacted ^^^^ 40.-Fracture of the Femur with overlapping fragments to show round- ing off of angles, and re- storation of medullary canal by absorption of intervening bone. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) fractures, as of the neck of thehu merus or femur, it may be advis- able not to disturb the fragments, as by so doing non-union, a worse condition than impaction, may result. The special methods of reduction which may be required for certain fractures will be given und^r Varieties of Fracture. 2. To keep the fragments in apposition till union has taken place, numerous contrivances have been invented. They may be said to consist of splints, cradles, fracture- boxes, bandages hardened by plaster of Paris, silica, paraffin, glue, or gum and chalk, and such material as gutta-percha, poroplastic felt, and leather, moulded to the individual case. The method of applying splints will be better learnt by three months' dressing in the wards N 2mJURIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 180 than by any verbal description. The points that should be chiefly attended to are:—1. The splints should be well padded. 2. Pressure should not be made over points of bone. 3. Strapping or bandages should not be put on too tightly. 4. Circular constriction of the limb should be avoided. 5. The splints where possible should reach beyond both the joint above and the joint below the fracture. 6. The fracture should not, as a rule, be covered with the bandage. 7. The patient should be seen within twenty-four hours after the splints have been applied, as swelling of the part is apt to occur, and the bandages thus become too tight. 8. The part having once been properly secured in splints, should not need- lessly be disturbed. 9. Should the fragments become displaced from spasm of the muscles, steady extension as by a stirrup, weight, and pully will usually over- come the difficulty. 10. The part below the fracture may sometimes be bandaged with advantage to prevent oedema. The time the splints should be kept on varies greatly, and will be stated under each individual fracture. On their removal the limb should be kept at rest for some time longer in a plaster-of-Paris, gum and chalk, or other form of stiff bandage till complete consolidation has taken place. At some hospitals the fracture, if not severe, is placed at once in a plaster-of-Paris bandage or plaster-of-Paris splints [Bavarian splints). If this or other similar material is used, the limb should be well padded with cotton-wool, the toes or fingers left exposed, the joints above and below included in the bandage, and the limb subsequently raised. The patient should be visited a few hours after the plaster of Paris has been applied, so that should the circulation have become im- peded from swelling of the limb, the plaster bandage may be removed before any serious damage has had time to ensue. The indications for at once removing, or for loosening the bandage by cutting it in places are*: 1, much pain; 2, swelling; 3, numbness; and 4, signs of obstructed circulation in the fingers or toes. A tight bandage, it should be remembered, is more dangerous in the upper than in the lower limb, because in the former most of the venous return is by the superficial veins. Should the bandage become loose, it must of course be removed and re-applied. 3. To promote the restoration of the normal functions oftlNOTITED FRACTURE AKD FALSE JOINT. 181 the part physiological after-treatment is required. Thus it will often be found after the apparatus is finally re-' moved, especially if the fracture is near a joint, that the joint is stiff, the tendons are more or less glued together,, and the muscles wasted and atrophied. Under these circumstances shampooing, massage, electricity, friction with stimulating liniments, and passive movements of the joint, should be sedulously employed. 4. The general health and comfort of the patient should not be neglected. Thus if he is confined to bed, boards should be substituted for the ordinary webbing or steel laths of the bedstead; the sheets should be kept smooth; and bed-sores guarded against by the use of water- cushions and by hardening the skin over prominent parts of bone with spirit lotions. Old people should not be kept too long in bed, lest passive congestions of the lungs occur. The general health should be promoted by attention to the secretions, regulation of the diet, and administration of sedatives to relieve pain and pro- mote sleep. U^^'UNITED FRACTURE AND FALSE JOINT.—An ununited fracture is one in which the fragments are either totally ununited, or merely bound together by fibrous tissue. Some fractures, such as transverse fractures of the patella, and fractures extending into joints in general, seldom or never unite by bone, but remain merely bound together by fibrous tissue; but as fibrous union here appears to be the normal method of repair they are not, as a rule, spoken of as ununited fractures. The condition of the fragments varies. They may be completely separated, with the ends rounded off and the medullary canal closed; or they may be bound together by long pliable bands of fibrous tissue permitting of considerable movement, or by tough fibrous bands allowing of but very little, or by a fibre-cartilaginous material—a kind of ensheathing callus. The last condition, however, is thought by some to be merely an example of delayed union and not one of permanent ununited fracture. A false joint or pseudarthrosis is merely a variety of ununited fracture in which the ends of the fragments are rounded off and eburnated, or covered with a layer of fibrous tissue or fibre-cartilage, and enclosed in a strong fibrous capsule formed by the condensation of the sur- ji rounding soft tissues (Fig. 41). A fluid resembling Ij synovia has occasionally been found within the capsule.iJSrJuntEs or special TisstfEs. 182 A false joint may resemble a liiiige or a ball-and-socket joint. The latter condition is more common in fractures near the articular ends of bone where rotatory as well as angular movement may occur; the former in the shaft where angular movement only is permitted. The Causes are local and constitutional. The local are —1, The fragments not having been kept thoroughly at Fig. 41.—False joint following fracture of the humerus. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) rest; 2, The fragments not having been placed in apposi- tion in consequence of {a) muscular contraction; (h) the loss of a large piece of bone, as in compound fracture; (c) the intervention of a piece of muscle, tendon, or peri- osteum between the fragments; and {d) the effusion of synovial fluid in the case of a fracture into a joint; 3, The necrosis of the end of one of the fragments; 4, The interference with the arterial supply of one of the fragments, as from injury of the medullary artery; and 5, The poor supply of blood to one of the fragments, as in fracture of the anatomical neck of the humerus. Coristitutional causes.—Syphilis, struma, gout, Bright'sUNUNITED FRACTURE AND FALSE JOINT. 183 disease, fever, scurvy, the cancerous cachexia, pregnancy, old age, alteration of the patient's habits, and sudden deprivation of stimulants, are all said to be causes of ununited fracture. No doubt any condition that lowers the vitality and consequent power of repair of the tissues has a tendency to delay union, but it seems doubtful if any of the above conditions except scurvy is in itself, apart from the local causes, sufficient to prevent the bone uniting. Sometimes the callus, after having been formed, appears to be re-absorbed, the fracture being then spoken of as disunited. This appears to be not uncommor in scurvy. Treatment,—Constitutional as well as local treatment maybe required. In recent cases—where the fracture is found ununited after having been kept in splints for the usual time,'a condition sometimes called delayed union in contradistinction to ununited fracture, the splints should be re-applied, and in such a manner as to ensure perfect immobility of the fragments; whilst the general health should be improved by every means in our power; and any constitutional taint as syphilis, gout, &c., thai} may be detected, combated by appropriate remedies. If the patient has been accustomed to stimulants, and has been deprived of them, he should be allowed a moderate quantity. In some cases it may be expedient to ^Vit the fracture in an immovable apparatus, and let the j)atient get about on crutches. Should union still not occur, the ends of the fragments should be rubbed together to excite some amount of inflammation, and splints or other apparatus be again applied. This failing, and in long- standing cases, two courses are open; either to try to unite the fragments by some operative procedure, or to apply some form of permanent apparatus to fix them in position. The choice of these methods will depend upon the situation of the fracture, whether it is of the nature, of an ununited fracture or a false joint; and upon the patient's age, constitutional condition, occupation, and rank of life. Thus, in the case of an ununited fracture of the upper third of the femur in a patient of advanced age or of broken constitution, an operation is attended with the greatest risk to life, and for such, some form of apparatus is better suited. But when the patient is yoang or of good constitution, or his occupation is such that he cannot afford an apparatus and the continual184 INJURIES or SPECIAL TISSUES. expense of keeping it in good order, and especially where the fracture is in the shaft of the humerus, an operation may be undertaken. Such operations may be divided into two classes—1, those haying for their object the setting up of inflammation about the ends of the frag- ments, or in the fibrous tissue uniting them, and so inducing ossification; and 2, the cutting out of the false joint, and bringing the refreshed surfaces of the bone into apposition, and keeping them there till union has occurred. Among the former, which are applicable to an ununited fracture rather than to a false joint, may be mentioned —1, the subcutaneous scraping of the ends of the frag- ments ; 2, passing a seton between them; and 3, cutting down upon and inserting iyory pegs into the fragments. Of these the subcutaneous method appears attended with the least risk, and is the one that should as a rule be first undertaken. The passage of a seton is highly dangerous. The operation for cutting out a false joint consists in making an incision down to the bone, and then chiselling or sawing away obliquely the ends of the fragments and wiring them together, or fixing them by ivory or metal pegs. This operation, though attended with less risk than formerly, is still a grave one, and should only be undertaken after the case has been fairly weighed in all its aspects. Eecently in ununited fractures with loss of substance from necrosis, the gap has been filled by grafting a piece of bone between the fragments. The grafts may be obtained from a young animal, or from a limb imme- diately after amputation. In one successful case, wedge- shaped pieces of bone, removed in osteotomy of the tibia were used. Whilst being transferred the grafts should be kept at a temperature of 100° in a capsule containing boiled salt solution (5j to Oj). Malunited euacture or vicious union.—1. Frac- tures in consequence of having been improperly set or not kept at rest in a good position, may unite at an angle (Fig. 42), or in some other faulty direction. 2. If splints have been removed too early, or if in the case of the lower extremity the patient has been allowed to walk too soon, the callus may yield, and deformity result. 3. Two adjacent bones, as the radius and ulna in the fore- arm, may become united to each other by callus (Fig. 43). 4. A greenstick fracture from neglect to straighten the partially bent bone before applying splints may con- solidate in its distorted condition.185 SEPARATION OF EPIPHYSES. Treatment.—If the fracture is recent, and the fragments are not firmly united, the patient should be placed under an anaesthetic, the faulty position rectified, and splints properly applied. If firm union has already occurred, an attempt should be made to re-fracture the bone under an anaesthetic; and if this fails, as also in long-standing Fig. 42.—Malimited fracture. ig. 43.—Vicious union after (St. Bartholomew's Hospital fracture. (St. Bartholomew's Museum.) Hospital Museum.) cases, osteoclasia or subcutaneous osteotomy may in some instances be performed, or a wedge-shaped piece of bone removed. Where a sharp fragment projects beneath the skin, it may sometimes be sawn off with advantage, though it should be remembered that it will often become rounded of£ with time. Separation of epiphyses.—This injury may be re- garded as a variety of fracture. It consists in the forcible wrenching of the epiphysis from the shaft at their cartilaginous line of union, and consequently canINJURIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 186 only occur in subjects under twenty-one years of age, the period at which nearly all of the epiphyses have united with the diaphyses. The injury is most common in the upper and lower ends of the humerus, and, from the proximity of the epiphysial lines to the shoulder and elbow-joints respectively, is liable to be mistaken for a dislocation. Eepair usually takes place by osseous tissue; hence the bone ceases to grow at the injured end, and permanent shortening of the limb if the patient has not completed his growth will then result. Por treatment, see Special fractures and dislocations, A COMPOUND ERACTURE is One in which there is a wound through the skin and other soft tissues leading to the fracture. Cause.—The wound may be produced, 1, At the same time as the fracture, either by the violence directly tearing open the soft tissues, or, as is more usually the case, by one of the fragments being forced through the skin either by the original violence or by muscular contraction. 2. Subsequently to the fracture^ by the patient trying to rise or to use the injured limb; or by want of care in removing the clothes, in handling the fracture, or trying for crepitus. 3. Still later, by ulceration or sloughing of the soft parts due to inflammation set up by the laceration of the tissues or the pressure of a projecting fragment. State of the parts.—There maybe a mere puncture, with but little if any more injury to the soft tissues than may be met with in simple fracture; or with or without a large external wound of the skin there may be extensive laceration of the soft tissues, protrusion of one or other fragment, extensive comminution of the bone, implication of a large joint, rupture of the main artery, vein or nerve, and in extreme cases crushing and laceration of the whole of the injured part of the limb. Union of compound fracture.—"When the wound is small, and has been closed at once, and the soft parts are but little injured, the process of repair is as a rule similar to that of a simple fracture. When the wound is large, or there is much laceration of the soft tissues or comminution of the bone, suppuration is very likely to ensue, and union is then effected by granulations springing from the ends of the fragments and periosteum, the process being analogous to union of the soft parts by the second inten- tion. The granulations either undergo direct ossification, or first pass through a fibrous, or in some instances aCOMtOtrND rHACTtJllE. 187 cartilaginous stage. The loose fragments and injured tissues, where the bone is comminuted and the soft parts are much bruised or lacerated, are cast off by the process of ulceration (Fig. 44), before healing ensues. "Where, however, a fragment retains its connection with the periosteum, it may not lose its vitality, but may help in the restoration of the bone. Where a large portion of bone is denuded of periosteum it generally dies, and is usually separated as in the ordinary pro- cess of necrosis (Fig. 44). It may, however, become embedded in the new bone, and remain a source of irritation for years. Dangers o f compound fracture. —1. Immediate dangers : shock and collapse from loss of blood, which may prove fatal in a few hours ; more rarely fat-embol- ism. 2. Intermediate dangers: septic inflammation, erysipelas, sapraemia, septicaemia, pyaemia, and tetanus. 3. Late dangers: hectic, lardaceous disease, and exhaustion from long-continued suppuration. The treatment varies according to the state of the parts, the age and health of the patient, and the situation of the fracture. Our aim, when possible, should be to convert a compound into a simple fracture. Thus, w^hen the wound is small, a mere puncture, it should, after being well cleansed by antiseptics, be closed by a piece of antiseptic gauze, and the case treated as a simple fracture. "When the wound is large and lacerated, or other serious injury of the bone, soft parts or neighbouring joint has been sustained, the question of amputation will arise. (See Amputation in Compound Fracture, p. 188.) Having, however, determined to save the limb, the indications are —(1) to reduce the fracture, and maintain the fragments at perfect rest; and (2), to promote the healthy healing of the wound. The fracture should be set as described under simple fracture; if the fragments protrude they should be reduced where practicable, sawn off where Fig. 44.—Diagram show- ing i)rocess of separa- tion of necrosed bone in compound fracture. A. Ensheathing callus; B. Internal callus ; c. Necrosed fragments. D. Gfranulations lining wound leading to frac- ture. (After Billroth.)188 INJtTHIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. not, enlarging the wound in the skin if necessary, but taking care not to remove more bone than is sufficient to accomplish the object. Splinters when attached by periosteum should not be removed but simply placed in position. The parts should then be secured in some form of apparatus, so arranged that the wound is not covered by it, but is freely accessible for dressing without disturbing the fragments. The wound should be rendered aseptic by washing out all corners with some antiseptic fluid, and kept freely drained to prevent the decomposition of any extravasated blood and discharges. A careful inspection ought to be made daily to see that the drainage is efficient; and if any collection of pus, which is apt to form in the intermuscular planes, be discovered, it should be let out with antiseptic precautions and the wound drained. Any portions of bone that may necrose should be removed as soon as loose. When the wound has healed the fracture should be treated in the same way as a simple one. Any complications, as erysipelas, saprsemia, &c., that may occur, must be treated as described in other parts of the book. The constitutional treatment is the same as that indicated in other severe injuries. (See also Simple Fracture.) Question of amputation in compound fracture,—Ln slight and uncomplicated cases, and in those severe injuries in which the limb is completely shattered, the course to be pursued is quite clear; in the one case to spare the limb, and in the other to amputate immediately. But in other instances the question of attempting to save versus ampu- tate becomes one of the most serious and anxious that the surgeon has to decide. No one sign of those to be men- tioned below as calling for amputation is in itself alone in every case a sufficient reason for amputating, and when in doubt we cannot do better than follow the rule laid down by Mr. Bryant of waiting," unless the patient be old, in which case immediate amputation should be per- formed. "With this reservation it may be said that we should amputate,—1. If there is great laceration of the soft parts and extensive loss of skin. 2. If there is much comminution of the bone. 3. If the main artery or nerves of the limb are torn. 4. If a large joint is implicated. 5. If the limb is likely to be of little subsequent service from the severity of the injury; and 6. If the patient is old or of a broken-down constitution. The above indica- tions for amputation are more imperative if the fractureCOMPLICATIONS OF rHACTURE. 189 involves tlie lower extremity, especially the femur; but each, case must be judged on its own merits, and some surgeons will attempt to save what others condemn. Every legitimate effort should of course be made to save a limb, but we must remember that in attempting to do so we may place the patient's life in danger; and that too often it is a question of a limb versus the life. If amputation is not performed at once or within the first twenty-four hours, and it then becomes evident that the limb must be sacrificed, the amputation should not as a rule be undertaken till the traumatic fever has subsided, the surgeon watching carefully for the most favourable opportunity that presents itself. The signs calling for amputation during the suppurating stage are:—Exten- sive suppuration, great sloughing of the soft tissues, inflammation and ■ suppuration of a neighbouring joint, necrosis of large portions of bone, exhaustion, hectic, and lardaceous disease. Complications of fractiiee.—A simple fracture may be complicated by any of the general affections attending other injuries, as shock, traumatic delirium, tetanus, retention of urine; and by such local conditions as, 1, concomitant dislocation, 2, extravasation of blood, 3, rupture of the main artery, vein, or nerve, 4, implication of a joint, 5, gangrene from tight bandaging, 6, paralysis from the use of a crutch, or the implication of a nerve in the callus, 7, venous thrombosis, 8, embolism, 9, forma- tion of ulcers or bed-sores over prominences of bone, 10, erysipelas, 11, fat-embolism, and 12, suppuration where there is much laceration of the tissues with giving way of the skin, the fracture then becoming compound. A compound fracture may in consequence of the open wound be complicated, in addition to the above-mentioned affections, septic inflammation and suppuration, necrosis, saprcemia, septicaemia, pycemia and hectic. Of these complications of fracture, whether simple or compound, the only ones that need be further mentioned here are the following :— Fracture combined with dislocation.—In simple fracture the treatment consists in placing where possible the frac- ture in splints, and then attempting the reduction of the dislocation. Where the dislocated end cannot be replaced the fragments must be allowed to consolidate, and another attempt then made to reduce the dislocation ; or the sur- geon may try to manipulate the dislocated portion into itsINJUHIES OP SPECIAL TISSUES. 190 socket, and tlieii apply splints to the fracture. In com- pound fracture this complication is a much more serious one, especially when it occurs in the lower extremity, and involves one of the larger joints. In the knee, ankle, and wrist, amputation, and in the elbow and shoulder, excision, is usually indicated. In the smaller joints the dislocation may be reduced, and the case treated as a wounded joint complicated by fracture. Fracture implicating a joint. —A simple fracture extend- ing into a joint is not an uncommon accident; indeed the elbow- and knee-joints are always involved in fracture of the olecranon and patella respectively, and the shoulder and hip-joints in the intra-capsular fracture of the neck of the humerus and femur. The injured joint may become stiff or ankylosed, though usually no serious mischief ensues. Suppuration is very rare. The limb in putting up the fracture should be placed, except in the case of fracture of the olecranon, in a position in which it will be of most service should bony ankylosis ensue. Inflam- mation and stiffness of the joint from fibrous adhesions should be treated in the way described under Diseases of the Joints. A compound fracture extending into a joint, though more serious, does not necessarily call for amputation or excision, and may be treated in the way described under Wounds of Joints. But should such be required, excision in the upper extremity and amputation in the lower may be said with certain reservations to be the rule of practice. If an operation is considered unneces- sary the case should be treated as a wounded joint, and splints according to the variety of fracture applied. Fat-embolism is a rare complication of fracture, but is more frequent in the compound than in the simple variety and in bones that have undergone atrophy. It appears that in consequence of the crushing of the medulla, fat- globules gain admission into the veins, and become lodged in the capillaries of the lungs, brain, kidneys, and other organs. It is attended by dyspnoea, either cyanosis or pallor, collapse, irregular action of the heart, and at times by coma and death. Yenesection, injection of ether into the veins, and artificial respiration have been suggested in the way of treatment. Crutch-palsy is due to the pressure of a crutch on the musculo-spiral nerve. It is best avoided by well padding the crutches, or by having handles to the crutches so that part of the weight falls on the hands. An ingeniousCOMPLICATIONS OF FEACTtTRE. 191 crutch with handles has lately been introduced. The paralysis, which chiefly affects the extensor muscles of the fore-arm, giving rise to dropped wrist, usually passes off when the crutch is no longer used. Should it not do so, electricity and massage may be employed. Paralysis or neuralgia sometimes occurs in consequence of the implication of a nerve in the callus. An operation is then at times necessary to liberate the nerve. Gangrene from tight bandaging is occasionally met with, and is of the moist variety. All bandages should of •course be at once removed, in the hope that the limb may recover. When the gangrene is thoroughly estab- lished, amputation above the seat of fracture, and of course well beyond the gangrene, must be performed. Short of gangrene, the partial cutting-off of the blood- supply may cause inflammation and degeneration of the muscles, followed by stubborn contracture {ischcemic rigidity), Extravasation of hlood into the tissues is not uncommon in simple fracture, owing to the tearing of some of the smaller blood-vessels by one of the rough fragments. The extravasated blood causes in some instances con- siderable swelling, and on making its way to the surface gives the part a bruised and black appearance, and fre- quently causes the cuticle over it to be raised into blebs. These blebs differ from those formed in gangrene in that they are fixed and firm, whilst the latter are movable over the moist and slippery skin beneath. No special treatment is required, the blebs should not be opened, and the blood will gradually be absorbed. In rare instances, however, suppuration ensues. Rujpture of the main artery or vein occasionally occurs, causing when the skin is unbroken a tense swelling at the seat of fracture, attended in the case of the artery by coldness of the limb, and cessation of the pulse in the arteries below. In compound fracture, rupture of the artery is, as a rule, easily diagnosed, in that pressure on' the artery above the fracture stops the bleeding. Treat- ment.—Should the swelling in simple fracture increase in spite of elevation of the limb, cold, and pressure on the main artery above, and gangrene threaten, three courses are open : 1, ligature of the artery above, 2, tying the artery at the seat of fracture, or amputation. In the lower limb amputation is probably, as a rule, the safest course; in the upper limb ligature of the vessel at theINJURIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 192 seat of fracture may be attempted. But the conditions that call for the adoption of one or other of these methods are too various to discuss here. In compound fracture the vessel should be tied in the wound if possible. If not, amputation will probably, though not invariably, be the right course. INJURIES OF JOINTS. Contusions of joints maybe produced by any mechani- cal violence. They are generally attended with pain and stiffness on movement, and, in severe cases, with swelling from effusion of blood (hcemarthrosis), and later, of serous fluid {synovitis) into the synovial cavity. If the contusion is neglected, especially in strumous children, acute or chronic inflammatory changes may ensue, leading to de- struction of the joint. The treatment consists in placing the part at rest on a splint, or in a plaster-of-Paris band- age, and applying cold by means of an ice-bag or Leiter's tubes. Where there is much effusion into the synovial cavity, and consequently considerable tension and pain, aspiration of the joint may be advantageously practised, and pressure afterwards applied. Sprains.—A sprain is a stretching or partial rupture of the ligaments of a joint without separation of the articular surfaces. Sprains are generally due to a violent wrench or twist of the joint, and are often accompanied by laceration of the tendons and other soft tissues around. They are of most frequent occurrence in the ankle, shoulder, wrist and knee. Signs and diagnosis.—Severe pain, often localized to certain points, and increased on movement, inability to bear weight on the limb, swelling and ecchymosis from efcsion of blood in and around the joint, and later inflammatory effusion into the synovial cavity. The ab- sence of signs of fracture or of dislocation will usually suflice to distinguish a sprain from one or other of these injuries; but where there is much swelling it may be difficult or impossible to make a diagnosis till the swelling has subsided. If there is any doubt the injury should be treated as a fracture. The consequences of a neglected sprain may be very serious, especially in rheumatic and gouty subjects. Thus, as the result of the incomplete absorption of the inflammatory products, the imperfect repair of the tornINJURIES OF JOINTS—DISLOCATIONS. 193 ligaments, tlie formation of fibrous adhesions in and around the joint, and the glueing of the surrounding tendons to their sheaths, a strain may be followed by long-continued pain, stiffness, weakness and even fibrous ankylosis of the joint. At times in strumous subjects a sprain may be the starting-point of destructive joint- disease. Treatment.—The indications are to place the joint at perfect rest till the torn ligaments have had time to heal; to prevent or subdue inflammation ; and, should stiffness or ankylosis have ensued, to restore the mobility of the joint by breaking down any adhesions that may have formed. Thus, if seen at once, a plaster-of-Paris or a Martin's bandage should be put on; or if much swelling has already occurred, the parts should be placed on a splint, or in a sling, and either cold in the form of lead- lotion or ice, or heat in the form of hot fomentations applied. Eor very slight cases, however, a few days' rest, with the part supported by a wet bandage, followed by the use of a stimulating liniment, is all that is usually necessary. The joint in any case should not be kept too long at rest lest stiffness ensue; but as soon as all signs of inflammation have disappeared, passive movements should at once be begun. If stiffness or fibrous ankylosis has already occurred, friction, shampooing, and massage may be tried; or the joint may be forcibly wrenched under an ansesthetic, provided all signs of active inflam- mation have ceased. Dislocations.—A dislocation is the forcible separation of the articular end of a bone from the part with which it is naturally in contact. Varieties,—Dislocations may be divided into the Con^ genital and the Acquired ; the latter again into the Spon- taneous and the Traumatic, The Spontaneous are those that occur as the result of disease of the joints, and are treated of elsewhere (see Diseases of Joints), The Traumatic, or accidental dislocations, with which we are here specially concerned, are spoken of as compound or simple according as they are, or are not, complicated with an external wound leading into the joint; and in either case as complete or partial according as the articular surfaces are, or are not, completely separated from each other. The causes of dislocation are predisposing and exciting. The predisposing causes may be enumerated as :—^1, weak- w. oINJURIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 194 ness of the ligaments surrounding the joint from previous dislocation or disease; 2, the' shape of the joint—ball- and-socket joints from their extensive range of movement being more easily dislocated than hinge joints; 3, middle life—the bones being then strong and capable of resisting fracture and the muscles powerful; 4, the male sex—men being more continually exposed to violence than women. The exciting causes are usually, 1, external violence, either direct or indirect, and sometimes, 2, muscular action. Examples of each will be met with in the section on special dislocations. The Signs common to all dislocations are:—1. Altera- tion in the shape of the joint. 2. Inability to move the limb on the part of the patient, and more or less fixidity to the efforts of the Surgeon. 3. An alteration in the relations of points of bone about the joint. 4. An ab- normal position of the end of the displaced bone; and 5. Shortening or lengthening of the limb, or an alteration of its axis. The signs are frequently obscured by swelling, in and about the joint, due to extravasation of blood or effusion of synovial fluid. Hence the importance of accu- rately ascertaining the nature of the injury immediately after the accident, as when swelling has supervened it may not be possible to make a diagnosis till it has sub- sided. The state of the parts will be more especially referred to under each special dislocation. Here it may be briefly stated that the head of the bone is generally forced through the capsular ligament; whilst other of the ligaments, surrounding tendons, and muscles, may be ruptured or tightly stretched, and the arteries and nerves displaced, pressed upon, or torn. In the ball-and-socket joints the end of the bone will be found either opposite the rent in the capsule, or drawn to some distance from it by muscular contraction. If reduction is effected early, the damaged ligaments and muscles are soon repaired; but they remain for some time weakened and stretched, and thus predispose to re-dislocation. Hence the impor- tance of keeping the parts at rest until firm union of the ruptured capsular and other ligaments has occurred. After reduction a moderate amount of inflammation and serous effusion in and about the joint generally ensues, but usually subsides in a few days if the parts are kept at rest, the joint becoming gradually restored to its normal condition. If rest is neglected, however, the rent in the195 INJURIES OF JOIOTS—DISLOCATION'S. capsule may not heal, but remain as a permanent hole with smooth edges, allowing the head of the bone to slip in and out of its socket. In some instances, moreover, the inflammation may run into suppuration, which may be followed by ankylosis of the joint. The impediments to reduction are:—In recent cases :— 1. The spasmodic contraction of the muscles surrounding the joint. 2. The small size of the rent in the capsule. 3. The hitching of points of bone on each other; and 4. The interposition of ligaments, tendons or muscles. In old-standing cases :—1. The formation of adhesions around the displaced bone. 2. The closure of the rent in the capsule. 3. The permanent shortening of the liga- ments and muscles ; and 4. The alteration of the shaj^e of the articular surfaces, in part from absorption and in part from the formation of new bone. The contraction of the muscles generally increases from the time of the accident; hence every hour the dislocation remains unreduced the more difficult the reduction becomes. The consequences of non-reduction are either the forma- tion of a new joint, or ankylosis, the former being more common in ball-and-socket joints, the latter in hinge joints. When any movement between the dislocated bones exist, the osseous surface on which the displaced bone rests is converted into a new articular cavity by a process of absorption of the old bone, and the formation of new bone around; the end of the displaced bone becomes adapted by a similar process of absorption to its new socket; and the soft tissues around become condensed so as to form a kind of new capsule. The old socket in the meantime becomes more or less obliterated, its ar- ticular cartilage absorbed, and its cavity filled up with fibrous tissue or new bone. The range of movement in the newly-formed joint will at first be limited, but in the course of time under appropriate treatment will be- come much more free, and a very fairly useful limb may be obtained. When on the other hand the dislocated bone is immoveably fixed upon another, the articular car- tilage is absorbed, the contiguous osseous surfaces unite, and bony ankylosis is said to ensue. The muscles, more- over, from want of use undergo shortening or partial atrophy and fatty degeneration, leaving the limb in a more or less shrunken and wasted condition. Treatment. —The indications are :—1. To replace the articular surfaces in contact; and 2. To keep them there o 2196 INJURIES or SPECIAL TISSUES. until the rent in the capsule has united and the torn liga- ments and muscles have had time to heal. Unless the case is seen immediately after the accident, whilst the patient is faint, and the muscles are in consequence re- laxed, an anaesthetic had better be given to overcome the resistance of the muscles. The reduction may then be effected either by, 1, manipulaiion, or 2, extension. 1. Manipulation consists in putting the limb througb certain movements of flexion, extension, rotation, and circumduction, varying according to the situation and variety of the dislocation. By means of these movements we endeavour:—{a) To overcome the obstacles to reduc- tion by relaxing the stretched ligaments and tendons, and disengaging any hitching points of bone; and (b) To make the displaced head retrace as it were its steps and re-enter its socket. In order to employ manipulation successfully it is essential that the Surgeon should know the anatomy of the part, the direction in which the bone has travelled to reach its abnormal situation, and the probable position of the rent in the capsule. 2. Extension is a much less scientific method of reducing a dislocation, and should never be resorted to, except in certain forms of dislocation which will be mentioned hereafter, till manipulation has been tried. It was the method almost always employed by the older Surgeons, and has for its object the forcible dragging of the dis- placed end of the bone into its socket, or opposite its socket, into which it is then drawn by muscular con- traction. In many forms of dislocation the method is as harmful in practice as it is wrong in principle, since the displaced head, as in some forms'of dislocation of the hip, can only be drawn into its socket in this forcible manner by rupturing the resisting ligaments and tendons. In employing extension, traction is made in the long axis of the limb by the Surgeon, either with his hands or by means of a jack-towel secured by a clove hitch to the limb, or if more force is required, by multiplying pulleys. Counter-extension is in the meanwhile made in the opposite direction to the extending force, but in the same straight line, either by the Surgeon pressing with his heel or knee on the part above the dislocation, or by fixing the part with a jack-towel or suitable strap to a hook in the floor or wall. When sufficient extension has been em- ployed to draw the head of the bone opposite its socket, the Surgeon should endeavour to guide it into its place.197 TREATMENT OE DISLOCATIONS. Before the introduction of chloroform this was usually effected by the coatraction of the muscles themselves, after the head had been drawn down by the extending force. In old-standing cases, before either manipulation or extension is employed, the adhesions, which offer the chief obstacle to reduction, should be first broken down by cautiously rotating or circumducting the limb. When the rent in the capsule has united, the old socket been filled up, and a new joint formed, reduction is of course physically impossible ; even then, however, the breaking clown of the adhesions may greatly improve the range of motion and consequent usefulness of the limb. In attempting the reduction of a long-standing disloca- tion, however, great care must be exercised, or irreparable damage may be done. Eather than use any great vio- lence it may in some cases be justifiable to cut down upon the dislocation and divide any bands which may be found preventing reduction. Not only may the accidents below enumerated be thus avoided, but reduction may be safely accomplished at later periods than was formerly possible, and with antiseptic treatment of the wound good move- ment of the joint may be expected. Among the accidents that have attended violent efforts at reduction may be mentioned :—1. Eupture of the main artery, vein or nerves. 2. Laceration of muscles and tendons. 3. Tearing open the skin and soft tissues, thus rendering the dislocation compound. 4. Fracture of the bone. 5. Inflammation and suppuration of the joint and suiTOunding parts; and 6. The evulsion of the limb. How long after a dislocation may an attempt he made at reduction ?—Sir Astley Cooper gave the time at between three and four months; but since the introduction of chloroform successful cases have been reported after much longer periods. In an old-standing case the circum- stances which should influence us in deciding whether an' attempt at reduction should be made are :—the age of the patient, the situation of the dislocation, the presence or absence of pain, and the amount of usefulness of the limb. By the new method of open division of the adhesions about the joint, the time at which the dislocation can be reduced is considerably extended. This method, how- ever, should not be employed unless the movements of the joint are much restricted, and the usefulness of the limb in consequence is impaired.198 11SrJtJllli]S OP SPECIAL TiSStTES* The after-treatment consists in maintaining the part at rest by suitably-applied strapping and bandages, and in preventing or subduing inflammation by cold, evaporating lotions, &c. The part, however, should not be kept at absolute rest longer than is sufficient for the torn liga- ments and other soft tissues to heal lest adhesions form and stiffness of the joint ensue. Passive movements, therefore, should be cautiously begun after a few weeks; and friction, shampooing, or galvanism subsequently employed to restore the tone of the wasted muscles. Where stiffness has occurred the adhesions should be broken down under an ansesthetic, provided there are no signs of active inflammation in the joint. Treatment of compound dislo'-ations.—The dislocation should be reduced, the parts placed at perfect rest, and the case treated as a wound of the joint (see Wounds of Joifits). In consequence of the extensive laceration of the ligaments and other soft tissues reduction is usually quite easy. When a compound dislocation is combined with a fracture of the bone, and there is much laceration of the soft parts, amputation of the limb in the lower extremity, and resection of the joint in the upper, will probably be required. Congenital dislocations are those that occur during intra-uterine life, and generally depend upon some mal- formation of the articular surfaces. They are all very rare, congenital dislocation of the hip, however, being the least so. Little or nothing, as a rule, can be done in the way of treatment. But continuous extension in the horizontal position with pressure over the trochanter has in the case of the hip been attended with considerable success, and Dr. Ogston has recently excised the head of the femur and inserted the neck into a new acetabulum formed by cutting a notch in the ilium. Wounds op joints.—A joint may be merely punc- tured, or it may be laid freely open. The wound may be of an incised, lacerated or contused character, and com- plicated by extensive injury of the surrounding soft tissues, or by dislocation or fracture of the articular ends of the bones. In the latter case, the wound may be further complicated by the protrusion of the dislocated bones or the ends of the fragments. A wound of a large joint should always be regarded as serious, as owing to the difficulty of securing an efficient drain, and, when once air has entered, of preventingWOUNDS OF JOINTS. 199 decomposition of the extravasated blood and serous secretion in the synovial pouches, septic or infective inflammation is very liable to be set up, and rapidly run on to suppuration and disorganization of the joint. The peculiar absorptive power of the synovial membrane, moreover, favours the entrance of the chemical products of putrefaction into the system and the consequent danger of septic poisoning, to which, or to such infective processes as septicsemia or pysemia, the patient may suc- cumb. ^Further, should he survive these earlier dangers of blood-poisoning, he is still liable to fall a victim to hectic, or to exhaustion or lardaceous disease conse- quent upon the prptonged drain on the system attending the suppurative inflammation in the synovial membrane, the articular ends of the bones, and the surrounding soft parts. Medium-sized wounds are the most dahgerous, as in such air cannot be prevented from entering, and drainage cannot always be eftectually secured. Punctured wounds, when made with a clean instrument and in an oblique direction, may heal under appropriate treatment without any inflammatory or other trouble. Should septic or infective poisons, however, gain admission at the time of puncture, or subsequently through neglect of the wound, or should the joint not be kept properly at rest, a punctured wound may be followed by the most intense inflammation of the synovial membrane, and total dis- organization of the joint, with its attendaSnt dangers of blood-poisoning. Extensive and lacerated wounds of joints, when not sufiiciently severe to call for amputation or excision, are not necessarily a source of extreme anxiety, as they usually permit of effectual drainage, and under the use of antiseptics may heal up by granulations without giving rise to any serious constitutional dis- turbance. In such cases, however, bony ankylosis will generally ensue, though in some instances the cartilages may escape destruction, and a fairly moveable and useful joint may be obtained. Signs,—When the joint is laid freely open the nature of the injury is obvious, and any displacement or splintering of the bones can be ascertained by examination with the finger. "When the wound is of a punctured character and the incision in the skin is some distance from the joint, the signs are not always so apparent. In such cases an account of the depth to which the instrument penetrated.INJUEIES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. 200 and the direction'in wliicli it appeared to run, will lielp us to determine whether the synovial membrane has been entered. The escape of a glairy fluid like white of egg— the synovial secretion—will make the diagnosis certain. If in doubt, the case should be treated as if the joint had been opened, but on no account should the wound be probed for the purpose of settling the point. Should inflammation ensue the signs will be the same as those of acute arthritis (see Diseases of Joints). The treatment will depend on the size and character of the wound, the joint affected, the nature of the compli- cations, and the age and constitution of the patient. The chief indications are to prevent inflammation and its attendant consequences, or if the injury is of a very severe character, to endeavour to save the patient's life by the sacrifice of his limb. Thus, if the wound is small and uncompli(5ated, an attempt should be made to convert it into a subcutaneous wound by sealing it with coUodionized lint, or better by placing over it an antiseptic dressing, after having first thoroughly cleansed the skin and rendered it aseptic. One or more silver or chromic gut sutures may first be inserted if the wound is too large to be closed in this way. The limb should be then placed on a splint at perfect rest, and cold applied by means of an ice-bag or by Leiter's tubes. Should inflammation follow, half a dozen leeches should be placed over the joint, and warm applications be substituted for the cold; whilst, should the local and constitutional disturbance increase and the joint become distended, aspiration should be practised to relieve tension, opium given to soothe the pain, and the treatment persevered in. If, however, pus is withdrawn by the aspirator, the joint should be laid freely open, drained, dressed antiseptically and placed in the position in which, should ankylosis ensue, it will subsequently be of most use. If, notwithstanding free incisions, the sup- puration goes on, continuous irrigation with some weak antiseptic fluid may be tried, or the whole limb kept continuously in a hot bath, the patient if necessary, as in the case of the knee, being himself immersed. Should signs of saprsemia or exhaustion from hectic set in, amputation must be performed. Larger wounds of joints, especially when lacerated, should be thoroughly cleansed with antiseptic lotions, well drained, and dressed antiseptically. A counter- opening at a dependent spot may in some cases be advan-INJUKIES OF MtJSCLES A^B TEKBONS. , 20l tageously made, as for instance in the popliteal space in wounds of the knee, and a tube passed through the joint. "Where there is extensive laceration of the soft parts, much comminution of the bones, or other complications of such a nature as to render it doubtful whether a useful limb can be obtained, the question of amputation or ex- cision must be raised. In deciding on the propriety of an operation the Surgeon will be influenced by the situation of the joint, and the probable power of the patient, either on account of his age or the general state of his constitu- tion, to stand the acute inflammation and prolonged suppuration which must almost necessarily ensue if the limb is not removed. In a work of this character such a diflicult question cannot be adequately discussed. Briefly it may be said, that an injury which in the elbow might be treated in the ordinary way or by excision of the joint, would in the knee probably call for amputation; that a wound of the wrist is generally more serious than one of the ankle; and that the sacrifice of the limb is required for a much less severe wound of the knee than of the ankle. INJUHIES OE MUSCLES AKD TENDONS. Contusions of muscles are very common as the result of falls, blows, kicks, or other violence. They may vary from a slight bruising with or without tearing of the muscle-fibres and blood-extravasation to complete pulping of the muscles. Signs,—In the slighter cases there is dull aching pain increased on movement, ill-defined and deep- seated swelling, and later, ecchymosis as the blood makes its way to the surface. Some stiffness or loss of power from partial atrophy frequently follows, and occasionally inflammation and abscess. Severe cases are frequently associated with other injuries of the part, as fracture of a bone, laceration of a large blood-vessel, &c. The treat- ment consists in keeping the part at rest with the muscle as much as possible relaxed, and in preventing inflam- mation by cold, lead and opiimi lotions and the like. Shampooing, massage, and galvanism may subsequently be necessary to restore any loss of power that may ensue. Wounds of muscles may be incised, lacerated, punc- tured, or contused. When the wound is made trans- versely, the divided ends, which gape widely, must beINjrRIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 202 approximated by placing the limb in such a position as will relax the muscle, and then united by aseptic sutures. When the wound is deep or parallel to the fibres a drain- age tube must be inserted to prevent the retention of the discharge by the bulging of the muscle. Union takes place by fibrous tissue. EuPTURE OF MUSCLE may occur from a sudden and violent spasmodic action, or during vomiting, tetanus, or delirium. As examples may be mentioned rupture of the sterno-mastoid of the child in a difiicult labour, the rectus abdominis in parturition, the biceps in raising weights, the supinator longus and gastrocnemius in lawn-tennis, the quadriceps extensor at football, and the adductors of the thigh in riding. A sensation of tearing is often felt at the. moment of rupture, followed by pain and, if the rupture is complete, by loss of function. The rupture is indicated by a gap, above and below which is felt a hard swelling formed by the ends of the retracted muscle; or blood is extravasated between the ruptured ends occasioning a haematoma. The treatment consists in approximating the divided ends as much as possible by position and by suitable bandages and splints, and in applying ice and evaporating lotions to control the blood-extravasation and to prevent inflammation. If a blood-tumour forms it should not be opened, unless suppuration occurs. Wounds of tendons may be divided into the sub- cutaneous and the open. The former are discussed under Tenotomy. When a tendon is divided in an open wound, its cut ends should be approximated by placing the parts on a splint in such a position that the muscle is as much as possible relaxed, and the divided ends then united by aseptic sutures. In long-standing cases an attempt may also be made to unite the cut tendon if the patient's general state of health is favourable, and there is no evidence of extensive destruction of the tendon or of its adhesion to the neighbouring structures. Dislocation of a tendon from its sheath or groove without fracture or other injury occasionally occurs from a sudden twist or strain. It is indicated by pain and partial or complete loss of function of the affected muscle, swelling and ecchymosis ; whilst on examination, the dis- placed tendon may sometimes be felt in its abnormal situation. The injury is most common about the ankle, and in the fore-arm, back and neck. The treatment con- sists in replacing the tendon by manipulation, breaking,203 mJtJllIES 0-^ AUTEHIES. down any adliesions that may have formed, and retaining it in place (which is often dijB&cult) by a suitably-applied pad and bandage, or in the case of the ankle or wrist by a plaster-of-Paris bandage, and subsequently by a leather support. EuPTURE OF A TENDON may occur as the result of external violence or during some sudden and involuntary muscular action, and is very common in the plantaris and tendo Achillis, and somewiEiat less so in the biceps (see Injuries of the Upper and Lower Extremity). The ten- don, except when the ends become widely separated, as generally happens in the case of rupture of the long tendon of the biceps, usually unites readily on the ends being approximated and kept at rest in that position. Evulsion or TEAHiNa out of a tendon with part of its muscle occasionally occurs as the result of catching the finger or thumb in a machine, on a hook, &c. Part or the whole of a digit is usually torn off, bringing away with it the flexor tendon, this being more firmly attached to the bone than the extensor. In consequence of the tendon-sheath being thus left open suppuration is liable to extend up it into the forearm. Eree drainage of the wound and antiseptic dressings are then imperative. INJURIES of arteries. Contusion or Bruising of an artery without laceration or other injury of its coats is of occasional occurrence, and is said to be followed by contraction and permanent diminution in the size of the vessel, and even by gangrene of the limb. Little that is definite, however, is known of this injury. EuPTURE or SUBCUTANEOUS LACERATION of an artery may occur as the result of any severe violence, but is perhaps most often due to the passage of a wheel over a limb, incautious attempts to reduce an old dislocation of the shoulder, and excessive violence in breaking down adhesions in stiff joints. 1. The rupture may he partial, i.e., the internal and middle coats only may be torn. In such a case the ex- ternal coat may subsequently yield to the pressure of the blood, thus laying the foundation of an aneurysm ; or the internal and middle coats may be folded inwards into the interior of the vessel, obliterating its calibre, and in this204 mjfB-i:fis oi' si^EciAL tissues. way may cause, especially if the vein is also injured, gangrene of the limb. 2. The rupture may he complete, i.e., all the coats may be torn across. Here in a similar manner the artery may become occluded without any haemorrhage; or blood, often in enormous quantities, may be poured out into the tissues of the limb. In either case gangrene may ensue, espe- cially if the vein is also ruptured, and the injury occurs m the lower extremity. Sometimes the extravasated blood, particularly in the upper extremity, may become encysted, a sac being formed for it by the inflammation and condensation of the surrounding tissues. This condition is called a circumscribed traumatic aneurysm in contradistinction to diffused traumatic aneurysm,, the term sometimes applied to the injury when the blood is simply extravasated into the tissues, though in this latter case the name ruptured artery is more appropriate. The symptoms vary according to the nature of the injury. When the main artery becomes occluded there will be pain at the seat of rupture and cessation of the pulse below, while later gangrene will probably, though not invariably, ensue. Should the artery not be occluded, blood in large quantities escapes into the tissues, giving rise to a rapidly-increasing swelling, in which no pulsation can be detected, although a bruit may sometimes be heard ; the limb becomes cold, livid, and swollen, and the pulse, as a rule, can no longer be felt in the arteries below. When the extravasation is very large constitu- tional symptoms of haemorrhage will also be present, and signs of gangrene, if the ruptured artery is in the lower limb, will probably soon supervene, since not only is the main arterial supply cut oft', but the collateral flow, and venous return are also impeded by the pressure of the extravasated blood on the collateral arteries and veins. On the other hand, should the blood, as occasionally happens in the upper limb, become encysted, the swelling will slowly assume the characters of an ordinary aneurysm. Treatment.—(a). When the artery is occluded all that can be done is to endeavour to prevent gangrene occurring by maintaining the warmth of the limb till the collateral circulation has had time to become established. Should gangrene occur amputation must be performed as soon as a line of demarcation has formed, (b). When blood inWOUNDS OF ARTERIES. '205 large quantities is extravasated into the tissues the treatment will depend on the situation of the ruptured artery. Thus, in the case of the popliteal, amputation is usually called for, especially if the vein is also ruptured, as gangrene, for the reasons stated above, will almost invariably ensue if the main artery is tied either above or at the seat of rupture. In the case of the axillary, how- ever, where the collateral circulation is much more free, the ruptured artery may be cut down upon and secured above and below the bleeding spot. Wounds oe arteries may be divided into the pene- trating and the non-penetrating. 1. The non-penetrating are those in which either the outer only, or the outer and middle coats, are notched or torn. Here the wound may heal, or the uninjured coat or coats may ulcerate, give way, and haemorrhage ensue, or may gradually yield, as may also the cicatrix left on the healing of the wound, to the pressure of the blood, and lead to the formation of an aneurysm. 2. The penetrating are those in which the interior of the artery is laid open. In this case much will depend upon the size of the artery, and whether it is completely or only partially cut across and upon the direction and size of the wound. (a) . Wounds of large arteries, as the aorta or pulmonary artery, whatever their nature, are usually immediately fatal. (b) . Wounds of arteries of the second and third degree, as the femoral and brachial. If the artery is completely divided, and the edges of the wound are cleanly cut, re- peated haemorrhages rapidly terminating in death will generally ensue ; but if the edges are uneven and ragged, as in the avulsion of a limb by machinery or by a cannon- ball, the external coat becomes twisted up, and the middle and internal retract and contract, a clot forms within the vessel, and no haemorrhage occurs. If the artery is partially divided and the wound is made transversely to the long axis of the vessel the longitudinal tension of the elastic coat causes the wound to assume a diamond shape, and severe haemorrhage will ensue ; but if the wound is made parallel to the long axis of the vessel, and is small (a mere puncture) it may heal by adhesive inflammation. In the latter instance the cicatrix may remain permanent, or it may subsequently yield, producing a traumatic aneurysm.206 mjUEIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES, (c) . Wounds of medium-sized arteries, as tlie radial and tibials, are attended when the vessel is completely and evenly divided by sharp haemorrhage, followed by syncope, and temporary arrest from the formation of a clot. The artery may then become permanently occluded; usually, however, as the heart's power is restored the clot is washed away and hsemorrhage recurs. In this way haemorrhages, alternating with temporary arrests, con- tinue until death ensues from exhaustion. When the edges of the wound are uneven, or the artery is only partially divided, the effects are similar in each case to those described above in arteries of larger size. (d) . Wounds of small arteries.—If the artery is completely divided it will usually become occluded in the way de- scribed under nature's method of arresting haemorrhage (p. 126); but if onlj partially divided such occlusion does not as a rule take place, and repeated haemorrhages follow. Complete division will then often suffice to cause its occlusion, a plan which was frequently resorted to when bleeding from the temporal was practised. When the wound through the soft tissues leading to a wounded artery is small or of a punctured character, the superficial part of the wound may close, whilst the blood continues to be extravasated from the wounded vessel into the deeper part, where it may become encysted from the condensation of the soft tissues around [circumscribed traumatic aneurysm). Treatment oe wounded arteries.—1. When an artery is seen spouting in an open wound a ligature should at once be applied to the bleeding end. Other methods of securing the vessel, as torsion or acupressure, may of course be used if preferred ; but as the ligature is almost invariably used at my own School, I shall, to prevent repetition of what has been already said under arrest of haemorrhage (p. 129), speak of ligature only in the context. 2. When the end of a large artery is seen pulsating, but not bleeding in consequence of it having been torn across, I should, myself, apply a ligature to it as a precaution, though by some this would not be considered necessary. 3. When an artery is exposed for some distance in its continuity two ligatures had better as a rule be applied and the artery divided between them, especially if it be notched or bruised. 4. When an artery has ceased to bleed, even though theTREATMENT OP WOUNDED ARTERIES. 207 lisemorrliage may have been sharp, the wound should on no account be enlarged for the purpose of tying the bleeding vessel, unless it can be seen or felt; since not only may it not bleed again, but as the bleeding has ceased it may also be difficult or impossible to find it. In such a case, however, especially if the patient is much collapsed, he should be watched for the first sign of any return of the hsemorrhage, firm pressure in the meantime being applied over the wound, and where practicable over the course of the main artery above and below. The whole limb, moreover, should be carefully bandaged from below upwards. 5. When the haemorrhage is moderate and clearly arterial, the external wound small, and the artery not seen, pressure should be applied in the way mentioned above, and will probably suffice. 6. When the bleeding is severe and evidently arterial, and the external wound is still open, whether the wound be deep, recent, inflamed, or sloughing, the well-established rule, to which, however, there are of course exceptions, is to cut doiun upon the hleeding point and apply a ligature to each end of the artery if divided, or above and helow the wound if the artery is punctured or only partially cut across. To do this it is generally sufficient to enlarge the wound in the soft tissues; but where the wound is on one side of the limb and the bleeding apparently comes from an artery on the other, a probe should be passed through the wound, its projecting point cut down upon, and the bleeding artery sought through this incision and tied as above. The object of this procedure is to prevent the necessity of making a very large wound. The reasons for tying an artery at the place where it is luounded are:—1. It is often impossible to determine, without cutting down upon it, what artery is bleeding, and should the alternative plan of securing the main artery higher up be adopted, the wrong artery after all may be tied and the bleeding continue. Thus, for example, in a supposed wound of the femoral it might be the profunda, or even a small muscular branch that was bleeding. 2. Even supposing the main trunk were the one wounded the blood might still be carried by the collateral vessels into the artery beyond the ligature, either above or below the wound in the vessel, and bleeding recur from either the proximal or distal end (Fig. 45). 3. Should, more- over, ligature of the main artery higher up thus fail toINJURIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 208 arrest the lisemorrhage, not only will the patient be further reduced by loss of blood, but the subsequent ligature, which will then probably in the end have to be applied to the bleeding artery in the wound, may through the extra interference with the collateral vessels induce gangrene of the limb. 4. Tying the main artery above is in itself in some cases a more dangerous and difficult procedure than enlarging the wound. The reason for applying a liga- ture to hoth ends of the vessel if it is divided, or above and heloiu the tuoitnd if it is merely punctured or only partially cut across, is that ligature of the proximal end only is insufficient to arrest the hsemor- rhage, since the blood, as seen in Fig. 45, may be carried round by the collateral channels into the ar- tery below the wound and may thence escape by the open distal end. In some instances, the above rule of cutting down upon and tying the artery at the wounded spot cannot be carried out. Thus, where the artery is inaccessible, as in punc- tured wounds of the tonsil, or about the angle of the jaw; or where important structures would be damaged by enlarging the wound, as the tendons in the palm of the hand in wounds of the palmar arch, it may be necessary to tie in the former case one of the carotids, in the latter the brachial. Moreover, it may at times be safer to remove a limb than to search for the bleed- ing vessel, as for instance in wounds of the posterior tibial artery in the upper third of the leg, especially if the injury is complicated by fracture. Again, it may not only be found impracticable to ligature the artery at the wounded spot, but also impossible to tie or even compress the main vessel nearer the heart, as for Fig. 45.—Diagram to illustrate the manner in which, after a li- gature has been ap- plied at a distance from a wound in an artery, the blood may be carried back again into the artery above and below the wounded spot by col- lateral vessels. The arrows indicate the direction of the blood current.209 TRAUMATIC ANEUBYSM. instance in wounds of the subclavian above tbe davicle. Here all that can probably be done is to trust to pressure firmly applied to the wound. Whilst cutting down upon a bleeding artery haemor- rhage should be restrained by the use of an Esmarch's bandage, or by the tourniquet or the fingers applied to the main artery above the wound; and in the case of a w'ound of the external iliac or gluteal by Davy's lever passed up the rectum and made to compress the common iliac. Where it is impracticable to control the bleeding in any of these ways the wound, if necessary, should be sufiiciently enlarged to admit one or two fingers, and the bleeding vessel having been recognized by the escape of warm blood should then be compressed, the wound further enlarged, and the artery secured with the aid of an assistant before the finger is removed from the bleeding spot. Should gangrene ensue after ligature, and spread rapidly, amputation must be performed at the seat of ligature ; but if it involves only one or two fingers or toes, or spreads slowly, a line of demarcation should be waited for before amputating. Traumatic aneurysm.—Two forms are described, the diffuse and the circumscribed. The diffuse is practically a ruptured or wounded artery with extravasation of blood into the tissues. There is no attempt at the formation of a sac, and the term aneurysm applied to it is misleading. (See Euptured Artery, p. 201.) The circumscribed may be formed in several ways, as already stated under Eupture and Wounds of Arteries. Thus, 1. An artery may be wounded, pressure be applied, the external wound heal, and blood slowly escape into the tissues. 2. An artery may be wounded, heal, and the cicatrix subsequently yield. 3. An artery may without external wound be punctured by a fragment of fractured bone, or torn in reducing a dislocation, and blood in either case be extravasated into the tissues. 4. An artery may be wounded but not penetrated, and the uninjured coat or coats may yield to the pressure of the blood. In all of these cases the soft tissues around become condensed and form the sac of the aneurysm. Where the aneurysm is produced by the yielding of any portion of the arterial coat, this at first will form the sac, but sooner or later it will give way, and the sac will then be formed by the condensation of the soft tissues around, as when the P210 INJURIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. blood escapes directly into the tissues. Tlie course, ter- mination, and signs of a circumscribed traumatic aneu- rysm are similar to those of a spontaneous aneurysm. The treatment, however, inasmuch as the artery in the neigh- bourhood of the sac will probably be healthy, differs from the treatment of a spontaneous aneurysm, in that the artery may be tied immediately above the sac, or the sac may be laid open and the vessel tied above and below. Thus, if the injured artery is small, it may be tied above and below; if large, immediately above, unless the aneu- rysm threatens to burst, under which circumstances the aneurysm should be laid open and the artery tied where it enters and leaves the sac. Arterio-VENOUS ANEURYSM is a pulsating tumour de- pending upon an abnormal communication of an artery with a vein. There are two kinds: in one the communi • cation between the artery and vein is direct (Fig. 46a.), and the arterial blood is forced into the vein at each beat of the heart, causing its walls to be dilated into a fusiform or sac-like swelling (aneurysmal varix); in the other (Fig. 46b), the blood first passes into a small aneurysm formed by condensation of the tissues between the artery and vein and thence into the vein, the dilatation of the vein being consequently less than in the preceding variety (varicose aneurysm). Both forms may occur spontaneously, but are usually the result of some injury, as a stab, wounding the walls of both vessels. The lesion was of common occurrence at the bend of the elbow when venesection was in vogue, the lancet passing through the median basilic vein and bicipital fascia into the subjacent brachial artery. Signs.—An aneurysmal varix gives rise to a pul- sating tumour in which a peculiar bruit, compared to the buzzing of a fly in a paper box, is heard. The artery is dilated and thinned above owing to the impediment to the circulation, and is smaller below; whilst the vein is dilated, especially above, and pulsates. In varicose aneurysm, in addition to the above signs, which are com- mon to both forms, an ordinary aneurysmal bruit can be heard. Treatment,—In aneurysmal varix some form of elastic support should be applied, or if the swelling is increasing the artery tied above and below its point of communication with the vein. In varicose aneurysm pressure may first be applied to the artery above the sac, combined with direct pressure on the sac. If this fails the artery must be tied above and below the sac, sinceIKJITRTES OF VEINS—UTTPTITRE. 211 if left to nature tliere is grave danger of rupture and lisemorrhage. When the carotid or the femoral artery and the adjoining veins are the subject of the lesion, no operative treatment as a rule should be undertaken unless the lesion is recent, and the blood as well as passing into the vein is being likewise extravasted into the tissues, and threatening to break through the external wound. In such a case, should pressure applied to the main artery and over the site of the wound fail, the artery must be cut down upon and tied above and below the wound. Fig. 46.—Diagram of arterio-venous aneurysm, a. Aneurysmal varix. b. Varicose aneurysm. Unless pressure controls the haemorrhage from the vein a lateral ligature must be placed on the wound in its wall, or if the wound is too large to admit of this being done, the whole vein must be tied above and below the wound. IKJITRIES OF VEINS. RuPTTTRE or subcutaneous laceration of a vein occa- sionally occurs from causes similar to those producing rupture of an artery, an accident moreover with which it is frequently associated. When the vein is of large size much blood may be extravasated into the tissues and may produce gangrene by pressure on the vessels carrying on the collateral circulation, though such a result is much less common than after rupture of an artery. The blood.212 INJURIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. except wlien the extravasation is large, is usually ab- sorbed, but may break down and suppuration ensue. Wounds.—Punctured and incised wounds wben small and parallel to tbe long axis of even large veins readily beal by adhesive inflammation without obliteration of the lumen of the vessel. At times, however, a clot may form in the wound, and successive layers be deposited upon it until ultimately the vein is occluded. When a vein is com- pletely cut across, as in amputations, it usually collapses as far as the next pair of valves, a clot forms as high as the first collateral branch, and the vein becomes permanently occluded in a way similar to that described under Heal- ing of Wounded Arteries. In consequence, however, of the vein-wall containing less elastic and muscular tissue than an artery, bleeding sometimes continues unless stopped artificially. Treatment.—When the wound is a mere puncture in the continuity of the vein, unless it is found that pressure will control the haemorrhage, the coats should be nipped up by forceps and a lateral ligature applied. If a vein continues to bleed during an amputation it should be tied like an artery. A large wound, or one made in the longitudinal axis of a large vein, necessitates ligature of the vein in two places, and the division of the vessel between the two ligatures. The dangers of wounds of veins are :—1. Haemorrhage. 2. Inflammation of a septic character, and the attendant risks of blood-poisoning from the detachment of the in- fected clots. 3. Entrance of air. Entrance oe air into veins is fortunately a rare acci- dent. It sometimes happens in operations about the root of the neck where the disposition of the cervical fascia prevents the veins collapsing and thus allows air to be sucked in during inspiration. Air is known to have entered a vein by the hissing sound during inspiration, the escape of frothy blood from the vein on expiration, the urgent dyspnoea, and the state of collapse into which the patient immedi- ately falls. On listening over the heart a peculiar churn- ing sound can be heard. Death in fatal cases usually occurs in a few minutes and is due to the admixture of blood and air preventing the circulation through the capillaries of the lungs and so causing distension and paralysis of the right side of the heart. Treatment,—The finger should at once be placed over the hole in the vein to prevent more air entering, and a clamp or ligature appliedINJURIES OF VEINS AND NERVES. 213 as soon as practicable. Pouring water into the wound has been suggested both as a means of preventing the further entrance of air during inspiration, and of allowing that which is already in to bubble out during expiration. The patient should be placed with his head low to ensure a sufficient supply of blood to the brain, and for the same purpose the arteries of the extremities should be com- pressed, whilst injections of ether or brandy should be given subcutaneously to stimulate the heart. Artificial respiration should not be performed till the vein is secured, lest more air be sucked in. To guard against the acci- dent the veins should be clamped before division, and in removing a tumour traction should not be made at the moment the vein is severed. INJURIES OF NERVES. Wounds of nerves.—A nerve may be completely or partially divided, and the wound may be of an incised, lacerated, contused, or punctured character. Pathology.—After complete division of a nerve the divided ends slightly retract, and should union not be effected, either naturally or by surgical means, the por- tion of nerve below the injury being cut o:ff from its trophic centre, undergoes atrophy and degenerates through- out its entire length [Wallerian degeneration). In the meanwhile the portion of nerve immediately above the wound is converted into a bulbous swelling by the prolife- ration of the fibrous tissue of the sheath and its prolonga- tions within the nerve. The nerve-fibres within the bul- bous end, being compressed by the newly-formed fibrous tissue, undergo atrophy and degeneration, but the rest of the nerve above the injury remains unimpaired. On microscopic examination of the bulbous end, numerous young nerve-fibres are seen in the fibrous tissue (Bowlby). Should union on the other hand occur, the process by which it is effected is briefly as follows :—Inflammatory material is thrown out between the divided ends, and forms a delicate fibrous network bridging the gap; into this the axis-cylinders of the upper end are said to grow out and unite with the degenerated axis-cylinders in the lower end, which then becomes gradually restored from above downwards. By some it is believed that new axis-cylinders "are developed from the nuclei of the214 IIS'JURIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES sheath of Schwann in both the proximal and peripheral ends" (Bowlby). The exact manner, however, in which the union and regeneration of the nerve is brought about is hardly accurately known. When a nerve is only par- tially cut across, the divided portions may unite in the way above described, or they may become involved in the scar resulting on the healing of the soft tissues and then prove a source of much irritation to the rest of the nerve. The effects of wounds of nerves in addition to the de- generation of the portion below the wound are:—1. Paralysis of motion and sensation of the parts supplied by the nerve. 2. Subsequent wasting, atrophy, and fatty degeneration of the paralysed muscles. 3. Certain trophic changes in the tissues whose nutrition is presided over by the injured nerve, such as a glazed, smooth, cold and bluish-red condition of the skin, falling off of the hair, cracking and deformity of the nails, local ulcerations and gangrene of the fingers, (fee. 4. A marked diminution of the temperature of the part, which may be preceded for a few days or even a few weeks by a slight increase of two or three degrees. 5. Affections of the joints re- sembling rheumatism, and apt to terminate in more or less complete ankylosis. 6. Ascending neuritis, which is attended with severe pain in the cicatrix, pain shooting up the nerve, and pain in the area of its distribution, and 7. Very rarely, changes in the nerve-centres of a functional or of an organic nature. Signs.—The immediate symptoms are loss of function in the parts supplied by the nerve, viz., local anaesthesia, muscular paralysis, or loss of special sense, according as a motor, sensory, or nerve of special sense is injured. In the case of a mixed nerve both motion and sensation will be lost; but sensation in some instances may be partially restored in a few days through anastomosing branches from other nerves. The remoter symptoms are wasting of the muscles, and the trophic changes of the skin, nails, &c., already alluded to, and sometimes pain in the cicatrix, and in the course of the nerve and its peripheral distribution. The muscles exhibit to electrical tests the reaction of degeneration, i.e., they do not respond to the Faradic current, but contract on the application of a con- tinuous current of less strength than that necessary to cause the contraction of normal muscles ; the contraction elicited, moreoyer, is slow, long, and tetanic; a^d theWOUNDS OF NEEYES. 215 sequence of polar reaction is altered {ACOCCC, instead of CCOAOC). Their response, however, to the con- tinuous current becomes less and less till they finally cease to contract at all. As a consequence of the dege- neration of the affected muscles their opponents undergo adaptive shortening, thus producing various deformities as for example the hammer fingers [main en griffe) seen after division of the ulnar nerve. The treatment varies according as the wound of the nerve is recent or of long standing. In the former case the nerve should be sought in the wound, the divided ends sutured, the limb placed at rest on a splint in such a posi- tion that the united ends are not subjected to tension, and every effort subsequently made to obtain healing of the wound of the soft parts by the first intention. If the divided ends of the nerve are lacerated or contused, the injured portions should be cleanly cut away before apply- ing the sutures. If the nerve is only partially divided the divided parts should be sutured. The sutures, consist- ing of fine China twist, should be passed with a small curved needle through the sheath of the nerve in four or five places. At St. Bartholomew's one of the sutures is generally passed completely through the nerve, a quarter of an inch from the divided ends, to ensure a better hold. In every recent wound it should be as much a matter of routine to suture large nerves if divided, as to tie wounded arteries. If the nerve does not unite, an attempt may be made to procure union after the wound has healed, as may also be done in long-standing cases of non-union, though many months or even a year or two may have elapsed. An incision over the ununited ends should be made parallel to the nerve, the bulbous upper end of which can generally be felt through the soft tissues. The ends, which may have retracted so as to be as much as an inch apart, should be sought, the bulbous end shaved away little by little with a sharp scalpel till ■ plenty of nerve-fibres are seen on the surface of the section, the lower end also refreshed and the two united in the manner described above. "Where the ends are embedded in much cicatricial tissue they should be freed by careful dissection, and when much separated stretched so as to bring them into apposition. If the nerve is only partially divided, and the divided portions are bound down by cicatricial tissue, the injured segment of nerve, in its entire thickness, should be cut away before applying theINJURIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 216 sutures. In some instances sensation may return within twenty-four hours of suture; but it may be more than a year in long-standing cases before the function of the nerve is restored. In the meanwhile the nutrition of the parts supplied by it should be promoted by warmth, and the muscles prevented as much as possible from de- generating by galvanism, massage, friction, and passive movements. Transplantation of nerves or nerve-grafting.—Becently Mr. Mayo Eobson has succeeded in transplanting a por- tion of the posterior tibial nerve taken from an amputated limb in the gap left in the median nerve on the removal of a tumour. In some cases, also, a piece of nerve has been taken from an animal for the same pur- pose. An attempt to restore the function of the nerve in this way may be made where the proximal and the distal ends of a divided nerve cannot be brought into apposition, as, for instance, after a portion of nerve has been destroyed in a compound fracture, or after a portion of nerve, damaged by the contraction of cicatricial tissue, by the formation of callus or by the growth of a tumour in its substance, has been removed. The conditions for success are:—Great care in dissecting out and handling the nerve, its immediate transference, the employment of a single suture at each end, the avoidance of all tension, strict asepsis, and immediate union of the wound of the soft parts. Subcutaneous rupture of a nerve is rare, but is occasionally met with as the result of a severe twist or wrench. I have seen it twice in the peroneal nerve where it winds round the head of the fibula. It is attended with severe pain at the time of injury, perhaps also referred to the periphery of the nerve, and the gradual formation of a bulbous swelling on the nerve immediately above the rupture. The same effects follow as in division of a nerve in an open wound. The treatment is also similar. In the evulsion of a limb the nerves may be torn away from their roots, as in the instance of a boy recently in St. Bartholo- mew's Hospital, whose leg was torn off above the knee, bringing with it the whole sciatic nerve as far as its origin from the spinal cord. Compression of a nerve occasions numbness and tingling, and, if severe and prolonged, partial or complete paralysis of the parts supplied by it, and the series of changes described in the last section. As examples may217 rOREIGN BODIES m NERVES. be mentioned crutcli-palsy due to the pressure of a crutch, upon the large nerves in the axilla; the dropped wrist from the involvement of the musculo-spiral nerve in the callus in fracture of the humerus; the tingling, nu;iiibness and partial paralysis sometimes following dis- locations of the shoulder from the pressure of the head of the displaced bone on the brachial plexus; the pain caused by the pressure of a tumour on a nerve; the '' pins and needles " felt in the feet after sitting on the edge of a chair from compression of the sciatic nerve, &c. The treatment consists in releasing, if practicable, the nerve from the compressing agent. If a wound of the soft tissues is necessary to accomplish this object, healing with- out suppuration should be obtained, if possible, as other- wise the nerve may become again compressed by the re- sulting scar-tissue. Contusions of nerves.—A familiar example of this injury is a blow on the ulnar nerve, as it lies behind the internal condyle. There is intense pain at the spot struck, and shooting pains and " pins and needles " in the parts supplied by the nerve. These symptoms pass off shortly, but occasionally they may be more severe and last for several weeks, in which case there is probably some effu- sion of blood in the nerve. In rare instances ascending neuritis, persistent neuralgia, or even paralysis, and changes similar to those observed after complete division of a nerve, may follow. Foreign bodies in nerves.—A portion of a needle broken off in a nerve, the lodgment of small shot from a gun accident, &c., may give rise to inflammation of the nerve, persistent irritation and pain at the inj ured spot, spasm in the muscles, and pain or tingling in the parts supplied by the nerve. Such accidents have occasionally been followed by epileptiform convulsions. The treatment is to cut down upon and remove the foreign body.DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 218 SECTION lY. Diseases or Special Tissues. DISEASES OF BONE. Diseases of bone may be classified into those depending upon—1. Inflammation and its results. 2. Simple defect or increase in nutrition. 3. Constitutional dyscrasia; and 4. New growths. 1. Inflammation and its Results, Inflammation of bone.—In studying inflammation of bone it should be borne in mind that it is in the soft parts of bone,—the periosteum, the medullary membrane, and the delicate vascular connective tissue which pervades the Haversian canals and cancelli that the inflammation occurs, and that the pathological process, though some- what modified by the hard and resisting nature of the osseous framework, is essentially similar to that which occurs in the soft tissues. The same vascular and exuda- tive changes ensue, and are accompanied by the like phenomena of redness, heat, pain and swelling. The in- flammation, moreover, may be of a simple and local, or of a diffuse and septic or infective character, and variously influenced by such constitutional states as syphilis, struma, gout, and rheumatism, or by the presence of miliary tubercle. Further, it may terminate in resolu- tion, or, in sclerosis, caries, necrosis, or suppuration, con- ditions comparable to fibroid thickening, ulceration, gangrene and suppuration of soft ]3arts. On account of the intimate connection of the bone with the periosteum and medullary membrane inflammation is seldom limited to any of these structures, and when one is affected the others generally soon become also involved. According, however, as the inflammation begins in, or is chiefly con- fined to the periosteum, medulla or bone, the disease forACTJTE PERIOSTITIS. 219 convenience is spoken of as periostitis, osteo-myelitis, and osteitis. Periostitis, or inflammation beginning in or chiefly affecting the periosteum, may be acute or chronic. 'Acute periostitis may occur (1) as a simple local, or (2) as a ditose and infective inflammation: the former being generally the result of some local injury, the latter of some severe constitutional dyscrasia. Acute simple periostitis is generally the result of a local injury, and occurs most frequently in the tibia, that bone being most exposed to injuries, as kicks, blows, &c. Pathology,—The inflammation is of the ordinary, simple kind, and usually terminates in resolution ; occasionally, however, suppuration occurs, attended by some superficial necrosis, or the inflammation may become chronic. Symptoms.—There is acute throbbing pain, increased on pressure, and worse at night. If the bone is superficial, as in the case of the tibia, there may be also local redness of the skin, oedema, heat, and evident swelling over the bone, followed, should suppuration occur, by fluctuation. Treat- ment,—Eest, elevation of the part, and the application of cold, with perhaps a few leeches, will usually suffice; but should suppuration threaten, hot boracic poultices should be put on, and a free incision made as soon as pus has formed. Opium may be required to relieve pain. Diffuse infective periostitis, sometimes known as acute necrosis," is always of a grave nature, as not only may it lead to the death of large portions of bone, but it may also terminate fatally from septicaemia or pyaemia. Cause.—It generally occurs in debilitated children following upon some slight injury, as a blow or fall upon the part. It is, however, probable that it depends upon some constitutional mischief, and that such local influences as injury, cold, &c., although they may act as slight exciting causes, have little or nothing to do with it. It also occurs as a sequela of the continued fevers. From the constancy with which micro-organisms (stapJiylo- cocci, streptococci) have been found in the pus, it is now generally believed to depend, chiefly or in part, in some way, on their presence in the system. Pathology.—The disease appears to begin generally, as here described, as an acute infective inflammation of the periosteum which rapidly spreads through the bone to the medulla; but some believe that it begins in the medulla, and thence spreads to the periosteum. In any case pus is rapidlyDISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 220 formed beneatH the periosteum, stripping the latter from the bone, which thus cut o& from its nutrient supply dies. Sometimes the whole diaphysis may thus perish. The epiphyses, however, generally escape, as they are supplied by a separate set of vessels, which, as long as the epi- physial cartilage remains unossified, do not anastomose with those of the diaphysis. For the like reason the joints usually escape, but as the periosteum is continuous with their capsular ligament the inflammation may at times spread to them through this structure. Symptoms and diagnosis.—The disease is attended with severe inflammatory fever, and is often preceded by a rigor, and sometimes accompanied by delirium. The shafts of the long bones are most frequently attacked, especially the lower end of the femur, the tibia, and the humerus. The nature of the local mischief may not at first be recognised and the affection may be mistaken for acute rheumatism, but the deep-seated intense pain which becomes agonizing on the least attempt at handling soon makes it probable that the periosteum is affected. The soft parts covering the bone become swollen and oedema- tous, the skin white and waxy looking, and later dusky red, clearly indicating the presence of deep-seated suppuration. From abscess, however, it cannot always be diagnosed, except by an exploratory incision which will disclose bare bone. Should one of the neighbouring joints become involved the symptoms become more urgent and the local signs of acute arthritis supervene. Signs of blood-poisoning now frequently manifest themselves, and the patient may rapidly succumb to septicsemia or pyaemia. Should recovery take place it is usually with the loss of considerable portions of bone, and after months of su:ffering, or it may be with a stiff joint or the loss of a limb. Treatment.—Immediately the nature of the disease is discovered a free incision should be made to the bone under the strictest antiseptic precautions, and the wound dressed with sal alembroth gauze or similar antiseptic material. Abundant fluid nourishment, and probably stimulants, will be required with large doses of quinine if symptoms of blood-poisoning supervene. Should a joint become involved and suppurate it must be laid freely open and dressed antiseptically; whilst if the wound leading to the dead bone becomes septic, and signs of saprsemia occur, the question of amputation must be raised. TheCHUONIC tEHlOSTlTlS. 221 necessity of an early incision cannot be too strongly insisted upon, as by its means extensive denudation of the bone and necrosis may frequently be averted, and the risks of blood-poisoning greatly reduced. Should necrosis Occur, the dead bone will have to be removed when it has become loose. Sub-periosteal resection of the whole of a diaphysis is recommended by some surgeons as a means of preventing or lessening the danger of blood-poisoning, but the results hitherto obtained do not appear to have been very favour- able. OHEomc PERIOSTITIS is nearly al- ways associated with some amount of inflammation of the subjacent bone, and is generally limited in extent, constituting what is commonly called a node. Cause.—It is mostly due to syphilis, but may be of rheumatic, tuberculous, or traumatic origin, or caused by the spread of inflammation from an ulcer of the soft parts. It sometimes occurs as a sequela of typhoid and other of the continued fevers. Pathology. — The periosteum becomes swollen and thickened from small-cell-infiltration of its deeper layers, whilst a similar infiltration occurs in the Haversian canals of the contiguous bone. The inflammatory material may, under appropriate treat- ment, be absorbed; or it may undergo ossification, or more rarely break down into pus leading to caries or sometimes to necrosis of the subjacent bone. The ossifying variety (see Fig. 47), or the hard node as it is called when circumscribed in extent, is more common in the long bones, the suppurating or soft node in the bones of the cranium. A suppuratmg node in the extremities is pro- bably always of tuberculous origin; a suppurating node on the cranium is generally syphilitic. Symptoms and diagnosis.—The patient commonly com- plains of a deep-seated, dull, boring pain, worse by night than by day. On examination a hard, irregular swelling of the bone is felt, not as a rule very painful on handling, Fig. 47.—Chronic periostitis. (From St.Bartholomew's Hospital Mu- seum.)222 DISEASES 0^ SPECIAL TiSSITES* and not accompanied by redness of the skin. On the head the swelling is soft and fluctuating, and may have to be diagnosed from an abscess, new growth, or sebaceous cyst. Its evident connection with the bone, the history of syphilis, the effect of treatment, and, if still in doubt, exploration with a grooved needle, will clear up the point. Treatment.—Iodide of potassium is useful in all forms of chronic periostitis, but it may often be necessary to give it in large doses. In the s^^hilitic variety it generally acts like a charm. In the rheumatic an oint- ment containing iodide of potassium, mercury, and belladonna may also be used locally with benefit. In the tuberculous, cod-liver oil and syrup of the iodide of iron should be given. In all forms opium internally is indicated when there is much pain. The soft node on the cranium should on no account be opened, even where the skin is inflamed and appears about to give way, as iodide of potassium will then often promote complete resolution. OsTEO-MYELiTis or inflammation beginning in or chiefly affecting the medullary membrane and cancellous tissue of bone, may like periostitis be acute or chronic. Acute osteo-myelitis may also occur as a simple localized, or as a diffuse septic or infective injiammation. Simple acute osteo-myelitis is generally the result of an injury exposing the medulla as a compound frac- ture, or the sawing of a bone in amputation. In the latter instance it is usually quite local, though at times it may spread a slight distance up the bone and cause a localized central necrosis. The sequestrum in such a case has commonly a conical form, in consequence of the inflammation as it spreads up the medullary cavity affecting less and less of the surrounding bone lamellae. Beyond keeping the wound perfectly aseptic and re- moving the sequestrum when loose, no special treatment is required. DlEEUSE infective OE, SEPTIC OSTEO-MYELITIS.— Cause.—This variety may be idiopathic (infective) or traumatic (septic) in origin. The idiopathic variety, like acute infective periostitis, usually occurs in young and either debilitated or strumous subjects without apparent cause, and also like it is generally believed to depend upon the presence of micro-organisms {staphylococci, streptococci) in the system. Indeed, as alreadjr stated, the disease described as infective periostitis is believed by some pathologists always to begin as an infective osteo-OSTEO-MYELITIS. 223 myelitis. The traumatic variety appears only to occur as the result of injury to the interior of bone, especially where the cancellous tissue is exposed, and where the wound is not kept aseptic. Hence it is most often met with after compound fracture, excisions, amputations, and the operation of trephining the skull. Pathology.—Whether idiopathic or traumatic the in- flammation rapidly spreads through the bone to the periosteum, and diffuse suppuration ensues, the danger of saprsemia, sep- ticaemia, and pyaemia being even greater than in diffuse periostitis in consequence of the large patulous veins of the medulla becoming filled with purulent and either infective or septic thrombi. The idiopathic form would appear to depend upon the presence of infective micro-organisms(stoj9%Zococc?', streptococci) in the system; the trau- matic usually on those micrococci in- troduced from without, and hence is probably preventable if the wound is kept strictly aseptic. Should the patient in either case not be carried off in a few days by sapraemia, septicaemia, or pyaemia, the whole diaphysis may die, or suppuration occur between the dia- physis and epiphyses, and destruction of the neighbouring joints ensue (Fig. 48). In less severe cases the medullary membrane may become thickened, and only the layers of bone immediately surrounding it may die (ce/i^m^ necrOSjtk^^ 43^ Acute The symptoms of the idiopathic form osteo-myelitis of are similar to those of acute infective the tibia, with periostitis (see p. 219), save that at destruction of the . first there may be less oedema and knee and ankle swelling of the soft parts ; but soon joints. (St. Bar- the periosteum becomes involved, and tholomew's Hos- then the one disease can hardly be pital Museum.) distinguished from the other. The septic or traumatic variety is attended by high fever, rigors, and swelling and oedema of the limb, and a pu% tumour of the scalp when the diploe is involved. In the ease of an amputation the wound looks unhealthy, the224 DISEASES OE SPECIAL TlSStTES. flaps separate, and the periosteum recedes, leaving the end of the bone exposed. A fungous mass of granula- tions generally protrudes from the medulla of the divided bone. Treatment,—In the idiopathic variety an early and free incision through the periosteum to the bone should be at once made. In traumatic cases every effort should be directed towards rendering the wound aseptic, and en- suring an efficient drain. Of late, considerable success appears to have attended the scraping out of the inflamed medulla from the affected bone, and then insufflating the cavity with iodoform. The constitutional treatment should be similar to that described under acute periostitis. Should blood-poisoning (saprcernia) threaten, the question of amputation must be raised. If this is decided on it should be done through the knee-, elbow-, or shoulder- joints, if the bones of the leg, forearm, or arm are involved, so as to avoid again cutting through cancellous bone. Amputation at the hip-joint is in itself so serious an operation that it is an open question whether it should be undertaken in the case of osteo-myelitis of the femur. The operation, however, is less dangerous than formerly, and as it holds out the only chance its propriety should certainly be discussed if the case is seen early. When septicaemia or pysemia is already fully established ampu- tation should not be undertaken. Chronic osteo-myelitis can hardly be distinguished from chronic osteitis. Indeed, in chronic inflammation of bone the soft tissues lining the medulla, cancellous spaces, and Haversian canals are generally equally involved in the process, as is also frequently the periosteum. At times, however, the inflammation may be more or less limited to the medullary membrane, and to the layers of bone contiguous to it, and may then terminate either in central necrosis, or in ossification and the consequent obliteration of the medullary cavity {osteo-sclerosis). Osteitis, or inflammation of the bone itself, is always associated with some amount of inflammation of the peri- osteum and of the medullary membrane, and hence it is often difficult in any given pathological specimen to deter- mine whether it is one primarily of osteitis, periostitis, or osteo-myelitis. It may occur in any bone, or in any part of a bone, but is most frequent in the cancellous ends of the long bones, in the cancellated bones of the tarsus and carpus, and in the bodies of the vertebrae. The termOSTEITIS. 22o osteitis as here employed refers to a dironic or subacute inflammation of bone, acute inflammation of bone being practically indistinguishable from acute osteo-myelitis or periostitis, under which it is included. The causes may be predisposing and exciting. Among the former may be mentioned syphilis, tubercle, and rheumatism; among the latter any local injury, and exposure to cold damp, or malarial influences. Fathology.—As in inflammation of soft parts, the first stage of osteitis is one of increased vascularity, the bone appearing red and injected from dila- tation of the blood-vessels in the Haversian canals. Next, exudation and escape of leucocytes take place into the delicate connective tissue occupying the space between the blood-vessels and the bony walls of the Haversian canals and cancelli respectively, and the cells of the con- nective tissue itself also undergo proli- feration. The earthy salts are loosened from their connection with the animal matter, and the bone lamellae and trabeculse are softened, eaten into as it were, and absorbed by the pressure of the inflammatory material which here, as, elsewhere, assumes the form of a small-cell-exudation [granulation- tissue). The bone is destroyed irregu- larly, appearing crescentically eaten out into spaces known as Hoioship's lacimce, in each of which, and imme- diately in contact with the bone, are found large cells (osteoclasts^ contain- ing many nuclei. It is believed that these osteoclasts, which are in some way derived from the inflammatory exudation, take an important though unknown part in the absorption of the bone. The bone-corpuscles themselves are generally thought to be entirely passive, and to take no part in the rarefying process. In this way the Haversian canals and cancelli become dilated, the compact bone being thus converted into cancellous, and the cancellous further widened out (see Fig. 49). The periosteum and medullary membrane generally appear thickened. In inflammation FiG.49.—Rarefying osteitis. (St. Bar- tholomew's Hos- pital Museum.)226 DiSiJASES 0^' SPECIAL TISSTJES. of bone, as in inflammation of the soft tissues, several terminations may occur. Thus, resolution may take place, and the bone resume more or less its normal ap- pearance ; or the inflammatory material may undergo ossification, and the bone become hard and indurated {osteosclerosis or osteoplastic osteitis), a change comparable to that which occurs in the fibroid thickening of the soft tissues; or the rarefying process may continue until the affected portion of bone is completely destroyed by the granulation-tissue {rarefying osteitis or caries), a termina- tion similar to ulceration; or if the inflammation is more acute, the vessels in the Haversian canals may become strangulated by the pressure of the inflammatory material, and the inflamed portion of bone die {necrosis), a termi- nation of like nature to gangrene of the soft tissues; or finally, the inflammatory material may break down into pus^ {sicppuration), and an abscess be produced in a way similar to that which occurs in the soft parts. Signs and diagnosis»—The signs vary according to the intensity of the inflammation, and are similar to those of simple periostitis, and when, as is frequently the case, the osteitis is associated with inflammation of the periosteum the two can hardly be distinguished. There is deep-seated boring pain, worse at night and increased on exercise, perhaps some slight oedema, but seldom any redness unless the periosteum is involved, and then only when the bone is superficial. There is at first no swelling of the bone, though subsequently it may become per- ceptibly enlarged. The deep-seated character of the pain, its increase and long continuance after percussion of the bone, with, possibly, relief by steady pressure, and the absence of much, if of any, perceptible swelling, point to osteitis; whereas pain of a more superficial character and increased on pressure, together with an earlier appearance of swelling, indicates periostitis. From chronic abscess it is not always possible to diagnose osteitis, though in abscess the pain is generally more localized, and a slight yielding of the bone at one spot may be discovered. Treatment.—Eest, elevation of the part, a few leeches in the more acute forms, the administration of iodide of potassium and in some instances mercury, the application of small blisters from time to time in the more chronic cases, and opiates internally with opium or belladonna liniments externally to relieve pain. In obstinate casesJlAHEFYmG OSTEtTtS OU CAUtEg. 227 linear osteotomy, which consists in making an incision down to the inflamed bone, and continuing it into the bone substance by means of a Hey's saw or a chisel, will, by removing tension, generally give permanent relief and prevent further changes ensuing. Should the existence of an abscess be suspected the bone may be drilled in several directions or a small trephine applied. Where there is a taint of gout, struma or rheumatism, appro- priate remedies for these affections must, of course, be given. E,AREPYINa OSTEITIS, CARIES, OR ULCERATION OF BONE,.is comparable to ulceration of the soft tissues, and Fig. 50. —Diagram of caries, a. Grranulation-tissue ; b. Small- cell-exudation destroying the bone ; c. Small-cell-exudation between vessels and walls of the Haversian canals ; v. Normal bone. is characterized by the rarefaction, molecular death, and loss of substance of the bone-tissue, and the tendency of the inflammatory exudation to caseous degeneration and suppuration. Cause, — Tubercle and syphilis are undoubtedly the most frequent causes of caries. Sometimes, however, caries would appear to depend on a debilitated state of the system, in which there is no evidence of tubercle or syphilis, and to which the term struma may with propriety be applied. Occasionally it is the result of an injury. Pathology,— Caries, as has already been stated, is one of the terminations of osteitis; indeed, it is often some- what difficult to say where osteitis ends and caries begins. Q 22^^8 BISilASES OF SI*ECIAL TISSUES. In caries tlie tliinned and eroded trabeculae of tlie in- flamed bone become still further tliinned and eroded by the action of the small-cell-exudation and osteoclasts until the affected portion of the bone is completely de- stroyed and replaced by granulation-tissue. Under ap- propriate treatment ossification of the granulation-tissue may occur; more often, however, especially in tuber- culous cases, the inflammatory material undergoes case- ation, and may break down into pus and an abscess be formed, which may remain as such in the interior of the bone or under the periosteum, or later may open exter- nally, giving rise to a sinus leading to the disease. In other cases the small-cell-exudation undergoes further proliferation, and either makes its way to the surface of the bone (Fig. 50), and thence through the soft tissues and skin, or it perforates the articular cartilage and enters a joint {fungating caries). At other times the granulation-tissue merely destroys the bone without the production of pus [dry caries or caries sicca) \ whilst again the inflamed bone in the centre of the area may die en masse from the cutting-ofE of its blood supply, and become separated from the surrounding bone, forming a sequestrum at the centre of the carious spot {caries necrotica)., In tuberculous cases giant-cells and the tubercle bacillus have been discovered in the inflamma- tory exudation. The favourite seat of caries is the cancellous tissue, whereas that of necrosis is the com- pact. It is most frequently met with in the bodies of the vertebrse, in the cancellous ends of the long bones, and in the short bones of the tarsus and carpus. The tuber- cular variety, to which many restrict the term caries, is distinguished by the more marked tendency of the in- flammatory material to undergo caseous changes ; by the soft, greasy, and crumbling condition of the bone; by the more extensive destruction of the bone; and by the little tendency shown towards the formation of new bone and repair. The symptoms at first are those of local chronic osteitis and periostitis, namely, some pain, with oedema and swelling of the soft parts over the inflamed bone; but soon the inflammatory products make their way to the surface, and a sinus or sinuses leading to the carious bone form. The sinuses have generally a button of oedematous granulations at their entrance, and a thin, purulent, and commonly foul-smelling discharge containing bone salts229 EAEEFYmG OSTEITIS OR CARIES. in solution escapes from them. On probing or on en- larging the sinus and introducing the finger, the bone is felt to be soft and friable, breaking down and readily bleeding. Caries of the vei:tebr8e and of the articular ends of bone will be described under Diseases of the Spine and Joints respectively. The treatment will necessarily vary according to the situation of the disease. When accessible the carious bone may be gouged away. In doing this it will be known when all the _ carious bone is removed Jby the part becoming hard to the gouge. The sinuses should be well scraped with a Volkmann's spoon, and the wound dressed with iodof orm-glycerine emul sion and iodoform gauze. Unfortu- nately, however,. after the carious part has been removed the disease may recur in the surrounding bone, so that in caries of the tarsus or carpus it may be better to excise the whole of the affected bone or bones, or where the caries is extensive, to amputate the foot or hand. Necrosis is the death en masse of the whole or part of a bone, and is analogous to gangrene of soft parts. It is, however, of more frequent oc- currence than gangrene, inasmuch as, owing to the hard and resisting nature of bone, the vessels are more liable to become compressed by the inflammatory effusion, and the blood- supply in consequence to be cut off. For the same reason necrosis is more common in compact than in cancel- lous bone; whilst the reverse holds good with regard to caries. Hence, moreover, necrosis is more frequent when the inflammation is acute, caries when it is less acute, as in the latter case the bone-trabeculse slowly yield and disintegrate before the less quickly-produced inflammatory exudation, and the vessels consequently escape compression. The bones inost often affected are the tibia, the femur, the lowej" Fig. 51. — Necrosis of shaft of tibia. (Druitt's Surgery.)DISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. 230 •jaw, the bones of the skull, and the phalanges of the fingers. Cause.—The immediate cause of necrosis, like gangrene, can in all cases be traced to the cutting off of the blood- supply of the bone, and this again may be due to inflam- mation, injury, or more rarely, as in the necrosis which sometimes occurs in old people, to some change in the vessels probably analogous to that producing senile gangrene of soft parts. The causes of inflammation of bone may, therefore, also be looked upon as causes of necrosis; but syphilis, the specific fevers, especially Fig. 52.—Diagram of the process of separation of dead bone, 6'. Dead bone ; h. Inflamed Hving bone with formation of granu- lation-tissue where it is in contact with the dead part; a. Healthy living bone. scarlatina, and mercurial and phosphorous poisoning, may be particularly mentioned. Pathology.—In injury, the death of the bone is due to the stripping off of the periosteum, the destruction of the medullary membrane, or more rarely the plugging of the vessels in the Haversian canals with clots. In this wa.y necrosis may occur after compound fracture, or in stumps after amputation; but the inflammation that follows the injury has no doubt also a share in its production. The way in which necrosis is brought about in inflammation has already been described under periostitis, osteitis, and osteo-myelitis, and according as it results from one or other of these causes will it vary in its situation and extent, Thus, when due to simple periostitis it is231 NECROSIS. generally limited to the external lamellse of the bone {'peripheral necrosis); when to simple osteo-myelitis, to the layers immediately surrounding the medullary canal [central necrosis); when to diffuse, septic or infective periostitis or osteo-myelitis, it may affect the whole thickness of the shaft (Fig. 51), and possibly the whole diaphysis [total necrosis); whilst when due to osteitis it is usually associated with caries, and only a portion of cancellous tissue perishes [caries necrotica). Characters of dead hone,—^l?he dead bone, which is called a sequestrum or an exfoliation, is bloodless, white, hard, Fig. 53.—Syphilitic necrosis of the skull, (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) dry and sonorous when struck, but often becomes brown or black when exposed to the air and the action of the discharges. Its free surface is smooth and even, or if previously inflamed, rough and irregular; its margins are serrated and ragged; and its previously attached surface is rough and uneven. It is heavy when sclerotic changes have occurred, light and porous when associated with caries. Process of separation.—^When a portion of bone has become necrosed it acts as a foreign body and nature tries to cast it off. In some situations she is successful, in others she fails, and if not assisted by art the dead bone may remain as a lifelong source of irrita- tion. The separation of dead bone is best studied in232 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. superficial situations, as in the cranial bones (Fig. 53), where its process can be watched. Here, say, from the breaking down of a syphilitic node {syphilitic periostitis), a portion of bone is exposed and dies. This acting as an irritant causes the bone around to beconie inflanaed (Fig. 52); rarefaction {ulceration) ensues, and around the dead portion is formed a groove, which gradually deepens and extends beneath the dead part until the latter is completely cut off from the living, and if not removed by art simply comes away, or exfoliates as it is technically Fig. 54. Figs. 54, 55, and 56 illustrate the formation of a sequestrum, its separation from the living bone, and the cavity left after its removal, a. Dead bone ; b. Living bone ; c. The separated periosteum lined by granulations ; d. Cloacae lined by granula- tions, which are indicated by shading, and are continuous with those lining the cavity containing the sequestrum ; e. New peri- osteal bone perforated by cloacae. /, Cavity left after removal of the dead bone. (After Billroth.) termed. The cavity left becomes filled with granulations, which subsequently ossify, and so restore the lost part. In situations, as in the tibia (Fig. 54), where the perios- teum has not been destroyed, ossification of this membrane proceeds at the same time as the bone is being separated. The dead bone thus becomes surrounded on all sides by new bone, and lies bathed in pus in a cavity lined ^ith233 NECROSIS. granulations (Fig. oo), and though loose, is thus pre- vented from being cast off. It is then said to be invaginated, and is called a. sequestrum. At certain spots where the periosteum and soft tissues have been per- forated by the discharges from the inflamed bone making their way to the surface, ossification does not occur, and these apertures thus left in the casing of new bone are called cloacce (Figs. 54, 55, 56, d). After the removal of the sequestrum the cavity (Fig. 56, /) fills with granula- tions, though more slowly than after the removal of an exfoliation. Symptoms.—These vary according to the cause, stage and situation of the necrosis. When of inflammatory origin the symptoms at first will be those, already de- scribed, of periostitis, osteo-myelitis or osteitis, according as one or other of these has produced it. "When suppura- tion has occurred and an incision has been made to the dead bone, or ihe discharges have made their way to the surface, or the wound, in the case of an injury, leading to the dead bone has remained open, a sinus or sinuses will exist. These generally discharge a thick foul- smelling pus, and are accompanied by much thickening of the bone, and redness and brawniness in some instances of the surrounding skin. On passing a probe the dead bone will probably be felt. In traumatic cases there will further be the history of the injury. Having discovered dead bone the next point to ascertain is if it be loose. This may be done by observing if it can be moved by the probe, or, if two sinuses exist, by passing a probe down each and pressing alternately first in one, then in the other. If the sequestrum is loose, a see-saw movement ^ may thus be given to it. In superficial situations such as the cranium, or where a bone protrudes or is exposed, as in a stump or compound fracture, the dead bone will at once be known by the characters already given (page 231). The chief distinctive signs between necrosis and caries are: • —In necrosis the dead bone is generally hard and smooth, in caries soft, rough, and crumbling; in necrosis the granulations round the sinus are healthy and the skin is generally normal, in caries there may be no granulations, or if present they may be oedematous, and the skin around is undermined or inflamed; in necrosis the discharge is thick and yellow, in caries thin and watery; in necrosis there may be great thickening of the bone, in caries there is usually but little. It must not be forgotten, however,234 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. that caries may be associated with necrosis. In some cases of necrosis no suppuration occurs [quiet necrosis), but the bone becomes greatly swelled from the excessive forma- tion of new bone around the dead portion. It then closely resembles a new growth, from which it may be impossible in some instances to distinguish it without an exploratory incision (see Tumours of Bone). Treatment.—The dead bone should be removed as soon as it is loose. When it is superficial this can generally be done by the forceps, after slightly enlarging if necessar}^ the sinus through the soft tissues, or where the end of the sequestrum is exposed in a stump by simply drawing it out. But where the dead bone is invaginated and the cloacae leading to it are small a more serious operation is required (sequestrotoiny). The operation is much facili- tated by the use of an Esmarch's bandage. The sinus leading to the most convenient cloaca should be enlarged by a simple incision in the longitudinal axis of the limb, the sequestrum seized by forceps, and if practicable drawn out. If the cloaca is too small to admit of this it must be enlarged, or two cloacae, if present, may be laid into one by cutting away with a mallet and chisel, Hoffman's forceps, Hey's saw, gouge, &c., the intervening portion of the sheath of new bone. No more of the new bone, however, than is absolutely necessary should be cut away for fear of weakening the limb. For the same reason cloacae should be enlarged in the longitudinal axis of the bone. The extraction of the sequestrum may often be aided by the use of the elevator, or by cutting it in two pieces with the bone-scissors. The cavity should then be sprinkled with iodoform, packed with iodoform or sal alembroth gauze to prevent bleeding, and the wound dressed with gauze impregnated with the same or other antiseptic material. Whilst the cavity is healing, which when large it may take many weeks or even months to do, the patient's strength must be supported by tonics and a generous diet. At times the sequestrum is so intimately inter- locked between the old and the new bone that it may be impossible to remove it. In such cases, where the patient's powers are flagging from the long-continued suppuration, or signs of lardaceous or other visceral disease are manifesting themselves, amputation may be called for. Suppuration AKD ABSCESS in bone.—Diffuse suppura- tion in bone has already been described as a commonABSCESS m BONE. 235 termination of diffuse osteo-myelitis and periostitis. Cir- cumscribed suppuration or abscess is generally of the chronic variety, and, as already stated, is one of the terminations of chronic osteitis. Chronic abscess in hone is most common in the cancellous ends of the long bones, especially the upper and lower end of the tibia and lower end of the femur, but is occasionally met with in other bones. The causes especially leading to the termination of osteitis in abscess are thought to be the presence of Tig. 57.—Abscess in end of tibia. The pyogenic mem- brane is well seen. (From St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) Fig. 58.—Necrosed cancellous bone in abscess cavity. (From St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) tubercle or of micro-organisms, the strumous diathesis, or a feeble state of health. At times the abscess can be apparently traced to an injury. Pathology.—In the course of rarefying osteitis the bone- tTabeculse are gradually destroyed, and their place is taken by a small-cell-exudation, which now assumes the form of granulation-tissue. This in the focus of the inflamed spot softens and breaks down into pus, whilst that around the centrally-softened spot constitutes the abscess-wall, and forms to the naked eye a distinct membrane (Fig. 57) lining the bony cavity {pyogenic membrane). The bone around the abscess generally becomes sclerosed owing to236 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES, the ossification of tlie inflammatory products, whilst new bone is formed beneath the periosteum. In this way as the abscess enlarges at the expense of the old bone, new bone is continually formed around, and hence the pus seldom makes its way to the surface as in the soft parts. As the abscess, however, approaches a joint new bone is not formed beneath the articular cartilage, and so the pus on reaching the cartilage may perforate it and escape into the joint. When the inflammation is more acute sup- puration may occur before the bone-trabeculse have been completely destroyed, under which circumstance a seques- trum of cancellous tissue may be found free in the abscess cavity (Fig. 58). The symptoms are of a chronic nature, and are often obscure. Generally there is pain of a dull, boring, and localized character, often intermittent, and worse at night; tenderness on pressure at the spot where the abscess is approaching the surface; some oedema and pitting of the soft tissues; occasional enlargement of the end of the bone; and later some dusky redness of the skin. Inter- mittent attacks of inflammation of the neighbouring joint without other apparent cause are very suggestive of abscess. These symptoms will usually serve to diagnose abscess from rheumatism, local periostitis, and a new growth in the end of the iDone. From chronic osteitis it cannot always be distinguished; but this is not of so much importance as the treatment is practically the same. Treatment.—An Esmarch's bandage having been ap- plied, a crucial or T-shaped incision should be made over the tender spot, and the bone trephined. If pus does not escape a perforator should be thrust in various directions into the cancellous tissue in the hope of dis- covering it. The abscess-cavity, after having been well scraped, should be mopped out with carbolic acid or chloride of zinc, and dusted with iodoform and the wound dressed with iodoform or other antiseptic gauze, great care being taken to keep it aseptic. Should the abscess break into the joint amputation will probably be necessary. 2. Diseases depending upon Simple Defect or Intrease in Nutrition of Bone, Under this head are included two diseases of bone in which neither inflammation nor such constitutional affcQrCONSTITUTIONAL AJ'I'ECTlONS 01^ BONE. 23? tions as syphilis or struma appear to take a part— Atrophy and Hypertrophy. Atrophy of bone is a common accompaniment of old age. It may also be produced by pressure and disuse. Thus it is seen in the bodies of the vertebrae from the pressure of an aneurysm of the aorta or a tumour in the mediastinum; in the bones of a limb from disuse, as in long-continued joint-disease, and in stumps after amputation. An atrophied bone is always decreased in weight, often in size ; and in some situations, as the neck of the femur, is liable to fracture on slight provocation. Atrophy is always attended with more or less fatty de- generation. Hypertrophy of bone is an overgrowth of bone which is due merely to an increase of nutrition and not to any inflammatory change. It is generally dependent upon excessive functional activity of the part, the bone in- creasing in size and strength commensurately with the hypertrophy of the muscles. It may also occur in asso- ciation with general hypertrophy of the tissues in the affection known as congenital hypertrophy. It must be distinguished from inflammatory thickening of bone, a condition to which the term hypertrophy is sometimes though incorrectly applied. 3. Constitutional Affections of Bone* Under this head are included Syphilitic and Tubercular affections of bone, Rickets, Scurvy-rickets, Mollities Ossium and Acromegaly. Syphilitic affections of bone are common both in acquired and congenital syphilis. In the former they generally occur during the tertiary stages of the affection, either as gummatous inflammations of the periosteum (nodes), or as chronic inflammatory thickenings or gum- matous infiltrations of the bone itself, leading to caries,' necrosis, or sclerosis. For a full account of the peculiarities in the above affections when due to syphilis the student is referred to a work on Pathology. The affections of the bones in congenital syphilis have already been briefly re- ferred to in the section on that subject (see page 67). Tubercle.—We have already seen that many of the nflammatory diseases of bone, especially some forms of rarefying osteitis or caries, are attributed to the presence ^nd degeneration of tubercle; and it has been pointedDISEASES OE SPECIAL TtSStTES. 238 out in what respects the affections of tubercular origin differ from those of a simple or traumatic nature. Here it need only be added that miliary tubercles may often be found scattered through the medulla and in the cancellous tissae in cases of acute tuberculosis; but as in these cases the bone-affection plays but a secondary part and cannot be diagnosed during life, nor indeed as a rule gives rise to any symptoms, it need not be further described. EiCKETS, though generally described under Diseases of Bone, is a constitutional affection occuiTing in infancy and early childhood. It is characterized by impaired nutrition and arrest of development of the whole body, and especially by the softening and the resulting de- formity of the bones. Causes. — (1) Malnutrition pro- duced by improper food, especially an excess of the starchy elements during infancy; (2) debility of the mother during gestation and lacta- tion as the result of excessive child - bearing or over - suckling; and (3) bad hygiene, i,e,, want of fresh air and sunshine, residence in damp dwellings, uncleanliness, and lack of attention generally. Struma and syphilis in the parent, but I think without sufficient evidence, are also given by some as causes. Pathology, — The bone - changes consist essentially in the forma- tion of soft, vascular, imperfectly- ossified bone, which replaces the healthy bone as the latter is gradually absorbed in the normal process of development. This ill-formed bone is produced both at the line of the epiphysis and under the periosteum, i,e,^ in those situations where active growth normally occurs. In the former situation the intermediate semi-transparent bluish zone of ossifying cartilage between the diaphysis and epiphysis is greatly increased in thickness and its line of junction with the bone is no longer straight but broken, in conse- quence of the irregular advance of ossification. The adjacent bone is soft and spongy, and contains here and Fig. 59.—A longitu- dinal section of a rickety femur. (St. Bartholomew's Hos- X^ital Museum.)239 RICKETS. there islets of cartilage wliich liave escaped ossification, whilst its medulla is abnormally yascular. It is to the excessive formation of this proliferating layer of cartilage and ill-formed bone immediately underlying it that the enlargement of the ends of the long bones and the beading of the ribs so characteristic of rickets is due. Microsco- pically the cartilage-cells in the bluish zone are seen en- larged, and instead of being arranged in regular columns are grouped irregularly; whilst the calcification of the ma- trix between them is also seen proceeding in an irregular manner, so that calcified or ossified patches exist here and there where all should be cartilage, and portions of cartilage where all should be bone. The vascular medullary spaces which are continuous with these chan- nels in the shaft likewise project in an irregular manner into the cartilage, and the laminse of bone formed from the osteoblasts lining these spaces are deficient in earthy salts. Under the periosteum, the superficial layers of which are unaffected, similar soft bone is laid down in consequence of the osteoblastic layer, though increased in thickness, producing osteogenetic fibres deficient in earthy salts. Hence, whilst all the bones are more or less softened, the long bones become swollen at their ends, and the flat bones thickened especially along their line of suture. The liver, spleen and lymphatic glands are often enlarged from irregular increase of their fibrous elements, and the muscles are generally soft, flabby and wasted. Symptoms. — Eickets is most frequently met with between the ages of eighteen months and two and a half years. Among the early symptoms may be noticed sweating of the forehead and perhaps of the upper part of the body, throwing off of the bedclothes from a desire of the child to be cool, a general restlessness, and often an excessive tenderness on handling and aversion to move- ment. Sometimes large quantities of phosphate of lime are found in the urine. The abdomen is generally en- larged, and there is frequently some gastric catarrh and flatulence. The swelling of the ends of the long bones, especially of the lower end of the radius and tibia, the beading of the ribs where they join the cartilages, and the thickening of the cranial bones along their line of suture are characteristic of the disease. Later, bending of the bones occurs. Thus, the long bones generally give in the direction of their normal curves and near the epiphyses,DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 240 leading to knock-knee, bow-legs, and other deformities. The yielding of the ribs to atmospheric pressure produces the deformity known as pigeon-breast. The spine presents a general curvature with the convexity backwards in infants and young children, and in older children a lateral or a lordotic curve. The pelvis is ill developed, flattened and usually of a reniform or hour-glass shape in consequence of the depression of the promontory of the sacrum. The head is square, the forehead prominent, and the fontanelles are late in closing. The occipital bone is sometimes thinned so that it yields on pressure or it may be in places absorbed, a condition known as craniotahes. By some pathologists, however, this condition is believed to be due to congenital syphilis. Dentition is generally delayed, or the teeth, if cut, often soon decay and fall out. Bronchitis, diarrhoea, convulsions, laryngismus stridulus and chronic hydro- cephalus are not infrequent complications; and to any of these, but especially to the first two, the child may succumb. Under appropriate treatment the disease is nearly always arrested, and perfect recovery results. The bones, however, if much bent are liable to become consolidated in their deformed condition and premature synostosis of the diaphysis and epiphysis is apt to occur inducing a stunted growth. The bones are also harder and denser than natural, especially on the side of their concavity, where a thick buttress-like layer of dense hard bone is formed. (See Pig. 59.) The treatment resolves itself into proper feeding and correcting bad hygienic conditions. The child should have plenty of new milk and cream; and the juice of raw or underdone meat, or underdone meat that has been pounded up, should be given in quantities suited to the age and powers of assimilation. Farinaceous food should be restricted in amount, and in the case of infants forbidden. Abundance of fresh air and sun- light and attention to cleanliness are especially indi- cated. In the way of medicine cod-liver oil is the most important, and may almost be looked upon as a specific. It should be combined with syrup of the phosphate or lacto-phosphate of iron and lime in half-drachm to drachm doses. The deformity of the legs may be corrected in the earlier stages by insisting upon the child not being allowed to stand or walk. To ensure it being kept ofit its legs splints reaching from the waist to below the feet may be applied. Confirmed deformitiesMOLLITIES OSSIUM. 241 can only be dealt with by instruments or operation, which will be described under bow-legs, knock-knee, osteoclasia, osteotomy, &c. ScuEYY RICKETS is an acute affection of young children. It is also known as acute rickets and as infantile scurvy. The disease is characterized by a sudden swelling in connection with the bones, and especially with the femur. The swelling is due to extravasation of blood beneath the periosteum. The chief signs are acute ten- derness, oedema, and generally a spongy condition of Fia. 60,—Microscopical appearance of a fragment of bone in mollities ossium. (From Rindfleisch.) the gums. The treatment consists in rest and in the use of such constitutional remedies as are appropriate for scurvy. Mollities ossium or Osteo-malacia is a rare disease characterized by softening of the bones through the re- absorption of their earthy salts and destruction of their osseous lamellae. Cause,—It is a disease of adult life, and most often occurs in females during the child-bearing period. Some- times it appears to be hereditary; but its causation is practically unknown. Pathology.—The disease appears to begin in the medul- lary tissue of bone which is replaced by a soft, dark-red gelatinous material somewhat resembling spleen-pulp, whilst later the whole bone, with the exception of a thin layer immediately beneath the periosteum, becomes replaced by this material and reduced to little more than a mere shell. The bone appears first to become decalci-DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 242 fied and then destroyed. The exact pathology of the process is not known, but it has been suggested that the decalcification of the bone is due to the action of lactic acid, which has been found both in the bone and the urine, or to excess of carbonic acid in the veins of the medulla, which are said in the early stages to be enlarged. The microscopical appearances lend some support to this view, as in a bone-trabecula (see Fig. 60) the decalcifica- tion is seen to begin around the Haversian canals and medullary spaces, the bone-corpuscles in these parts having entirely disappeared while in the centre of the trabecula they are still present. At times the gelatinous material is in places yellow and fatty-looking. In some of the specimens in St. Bartholomew's Hospital the medulla appears entirely filled with fatty material, but it . is a question whether these specimens, though called moUities ossium, are not of a different nature from the disease to which the term is gene'rally applied, and do not rather depend upon a senile change. Symptoms,—In the early stages the disease may be mistaken for rheumatism or neuralgia, as, beyond some general feeling of weakness with obscure pains in the bones, it is attended with no definite symptoms. Suddenly, however, fracture of some bone occurs, whilst others become bent and variously distorted without any or with but the slightest provocation. Thus the pelvis, thorax, spine, and extremities become misshapen and sometimes extraordinarily deformed. The pelvis is flattened from side to side, the symphysis pubis projects in the form of a beak giving a rostrated appearance to the pelvic inlet, whilst the tuberosities are approximated and the pubic arch is diminished in width. Thus, parturition is rendered difii- cult if not impossible. The condition of the urine is an important element in the diagnosis, a peculiar form of albumen and abnormal quantities of phosphates and lactic acid being found in it. The disease progresses and the patient generally dies of exhaustion, or during parturition, or of dyspnoea consequent upon respiratory trouble in- duced by the weakened ribs. In a few cases recovery has taken place. Treatment.—No remedy is at present known for the disease. The strength must be supported by tonics and abundance of nourishing food, pain must be relieved by opium, and rest enjoined in order to prevent fracture. The patient should be warned of the danger of child-bear-243 OSTEOMATA. in^. Should she be already pregnant, the question of inducing premature labour must be raised; whilst, should she be at her full time, craniotomy, or in advanced deformity of the pelvis, Oeesarean section, may be neces- sary. In a large number of cases of late, especially in the districts on the continent where the disease is prevalent, oophorectomy has apparently arrested the disease and the bones are said to have again become firm. Acromegaly.—This disease is characterized by a sym- metrical enlargement of the bones of the hands and feet as well as of those of the head and face, the nasal and inferior maxilla being chiefly afPected. The disease is supposed to be associated with changes in the thyroid body, but at the best is at present little understood. 4. Neio Growths in Bone. New Growths.—Nearly all the varieties of tumour described in the section on that subject (p. 70) occur in bone. Some, indeed, as the exostoses, are altogether confined to the bony tissue; others occur in it so frequently that it may be said to be their favourite seat; others, again, are in this situation so rare that they may be dismissed as pathological curiosities. Some, moreover, the carcinomata, only occur in bone as secondary growths, the primary malignant tumours of bone, formerly de- scribed as carcinomata, being now classed as sarcomata. Tumours of bone may spring from the periosteum, the medulla, or the bone itself, and exhibit a remarkable tendency to undergo calcification or ossification, and when of slow growth to assume the character of true bone. OsTEOMATA OR OSSEOUS TUMOURS have the structure of true bone, and are only met with in connection with bone. They must be distinguished from other forms of tumour that have undergone calcification or ossification. They may be divided into the circumscribed and the diffuse. Circumscribed osseous tumours or exostoses occur in two chief forms, the cancellous and the compact. (a.) The cancellous or spongy exostoses consist of can- cellous bone containing marrow in its cancellous spaces, and surrounded by a delicate layer of compact bone, which itself is covered with a capping of cartilage, or sometimes merely with periosteum. They are most fre- R 2244 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. quently met with in the young, and are considered by some to be ossifying enchondromata and to spring from portions of the epiphysial cartilage that has escaped ossification. Their common situation is at the junction of the diaphysis and epiphysis of long bones, or at the origin or insertion of muscles—as for example, the insertion of the adductor magnus into the tubercle just above the internal condyle of the femur, and the pectoralis major into the external bicipital ridge of the humerus. They are also very common on the last phalanx of the great toe. (&.) The compact or ivory exostoses consist of dense, hard bone, which usually contains no Haversian canals. They nearly always spring from the bones of the skull and face, and are generally sessile or broadly pedunculated, and of a lenticular shape. Symptoms.—The cancellous variety are met with as hard, smooth or irregular, and frequently pedunculated tumours of slow growth, and are commonly of small or moderate dimensions. Sometimes they are quite painless, but at other times they cause jDain on movement or pressure, as is the case with the small exostosis which so frequently grows from the distal end of the dorsal surface of the last phalanx of the great toe. This, which is usually harder than the more common form of cancellous exostosis, but less hard than the ivory, occurs as a tumour projecting under the nail, and raising it up as it grows. In some cases exostoses affect simultaneously many bones, and at times nearly all the bones of the body. They are then generally hereditary, and often symmetrical, and are spoken of as multiple exostoses. They have the structure of the cancellous form. The evident firm attachment of the ivory exostoses of the skull to the bone, their slow growth, small size, great hardness, the freedom with which the scalp moves over them and the absence of pain and history of fracture or other injury, sufficiently serve to distinguish them. Treatment.—A spongy exostosis, unless occasioning pain, deformitj^ or other inconvenience, or growing rapidly, maybe left alone; otherwise, it should be removed by a chisel, bone-nippers, saw, &c., taking care it is com- pletely extirpated, as what is left will have a tendency to grow again. In removing an exostosis from near the knee-joint, the synovial membrane may be avoided by flexing the knee, and so drawing the membrane away. Ivory exostoses should not as a rule be interfered with,245 TUMOtTBS OF BOKE. •as they are so hard that no ordinary saw will cut througlfi them, and the skull has been fractured in attempts to remove them with the chisel. If causing great incon- venience, however, it is probable that they might be safely removed by the rapidly revolving saw of the surgical engine. Diffuse osseous tumours occur in connection with the bones of the face, often filling up the antrum, occluding the nasal chambers, and producing much deformity. They are composed of finely-cancellated bone, and are more compact than the cancel- lous exostoses, but less compact than the ivory. Their slow growth, extreme and uniform hardness, and irregular nodu- lated surface will serve to dis- tinguish them from sarcomata undergoing ossification. There is usually little or nothing that can be done in the way of treat- ment. The superior maxillary bone, however, has at times been removed when the growth has been confined to it alone. Enchondromata oe, carti- LAeiNOUS TUMOUES.—The gene- ral and microscopical characters pici, Cartilaginous of these growths have already tumours of the bones been described under Tumours of the hand. (From (p. 76). In the bones they are Druitt's Surgery.) most frequently met with in the fingers (Fig. 61) and the ends of the long* bones. In the fingers, where they are generally multiple and often con- genital, they usually begin in the interior of the ends of the phalanges or metacarpal bones, and as they increase in size, expand the bone around them into a thin shell, which may finally give way, allowing them to protrude. When growing from the articular ends of long bones, they gene- rally spring from the periosteum, and thence grow both outwards and inwards, but seldom involve the articular surface. They are thought by some to possibly arise from the epiphysial cartilage, especially as they are most often met with in the young. They should not be confounded with sarcomata, in which considerable masses of cartilage are frequently developed, or with the exostoses, which^46 DISEASES or SPECIAL TlSSfES. are often capped with cartilage, and are regarded by some as ossifying encliondromata. The enchondromata rarely ossify, but may undergo calcification or mucoid softening, and when unmixed with sarcomatous elements are quite innocent. Symptoms.—:Their slow growth, great hardness, evident attachment to the bone, the absence of glandular enlarge- ment, and non-implication of the surrounding tissues and FiBEOMATA OE. EIBBOUS Fig. 62.—Periosteal sarcoma TUMOUES seldom occur in of Femur. (St. Bartholo- bone except in the jaws or in mew's Hospital Museum.) connection with the base of the skull. They then consti- tute the common form of epulis and naso-pharyngeal polypus respectively^ and are described under Diseases of the Jaws and Nose. LiPOMATA OE EATTY TTJMOUES too rarely occur in bone to require special mention. I have seen one or two grow- ing from the outer surface of the periosteum {parosteal lipoma). They were not diagnosed before operation. Saecomata in bone may be divided into the perios- teal and the endosteal, the former being commonly of the round-celled, spindle-celled, or mixed variety, the latter of the myeloid variety. The periosteal (Fig. 62) spring skin will serve for their dia- gnosis. When of large size ulceration of the integuments covering them may be pro- duced by their pressure. Treatment.—If small, and involving, say, only one finger, they may be enucle- ated, taking care not to in- jure the neighbouring joint. But when several fingers are implicated, and the hand is rendered useless, amputation of the affected fingers, or of the whole hand, may be necessary. The removal of the limb is usually called for when they grow about the articular end of a long bone, especially if they have at- tained a large size.TUMOURS or BONE. 247 from the deep layers of the periosteum, and as they in- crease in size invade the bone beneath on the one hand, and the soft tissues surrounding them on the other, till finally the skin is involved, and they protrude as a fun- gous mass if the patient has not been already carried of£ by the dissemination of the growth through internal organs. They are very prone to calcification and ossifica- tion and are then sometimes spoken of as osteoid sarco- mata ; but the simple expression ossifying sarcomata, as less misleading, and as more indicative of what really Fig. 63.—Endosteal sarcoma in head of tibia. (St. Bartholo- mew's Hospital Museum.) happens, had better be employed. Their favourite situa- tions are the neighbourhood of the large joints, which however they seldom involve. Though not usually implicating the lymphatic glands, they often rapidly infect the system through the blood-stream and quickly return after removal. The endosteal or central spring from the medulla in the interior of the bone, and are of slower growth and generally less malignant than the periosteal. As they increase in size they expand the bone around them into a thin shell (Fig. 63) which finally gives way, when they grow with greater rapidity, behaving as the periosteal variety. The myeloid form of the endosteal sarcoma is the least malignant, and may not return after enucleation or complete removal for24S t>ISEASES OF SPECIAL llSStTES. several or many years, and possibly not at all. A variety called parostealy in which the sarcoma involves the outer layers only of the periosteum, has been described. Symptoms^—In a typical case of periosteal sarcoma there will be a rapidly growing tumour, evidently connected with the bone, not as a rule painful, nor usually attended with heat, oedema, redness, or increase of body tempera- ture. The swelling is soft and semi-fluctuating or boggy, sometimes indistinguishable by touch from an abscess; or hard in some parts, soft in others, or, if ossifying, uniformly hard all over. The superficial veins may be tortuous and dilated, and the neighbouring lymphatic glands enlarged. The patient, who is usually young, frequently complains of having lost both weight and strength, although till later there may be no cachexia. Often there is a distinct history of the growth having appeared some time after an injury of the part, and it is probable in some cases such may be the cause of the growth. The endosteal are of much slower growth, and are generally accompanied by boring pain whilst the bone is being expanded. Sooner or later they give rise to a more or less uniform swelling, generally of the articular end of one of the long bones, and as the shell of bone becomes thinned a peculiar sensation, known as egg-shell crackling, may sometimes be felt on palpation. After they have protruded from the bone they present similar signs to the periosteal, and at times distinctly pulsate, especially when connected with the pelvic bones. They may then be mistaken for an aneurysm. diagnosis,—The above signs will commonly serve to distinguish a sarcoma from an innocent tumour of bone. From an inflammatory affection, such as subacute periostitis or osteitis, quiet necrosis, or an abscess in the interior of the bone, it is sometimes very difficult to diagnose a sarcoma. The absence of signs of inflamma- tion, or increased body temperature, of oedema, and of pain on pressure, point strongly to the swelling being of a sarcomatous nature. But these signs may be present in large and rapidly-growing sarcomata, and may be but faintly marked, or not apparent, in inflammatory affections. A steady increase of the growth whilst under observation, notwithstanding rest and appropriate remedies for inflammation, the gradual loss of weight and strength, and the unequal consistency and irregular surface of the swelling are more certain indications of its malignancy;TUMOUBS OF BONE. 249 but puncture with a grooved needle, or even an explora- tory incision, may be required before the nature of the tumour can be cleared up. From an aneurysm, a pulsating sarcoma may be very difficult to distinguish, especially when growing from the pelvic bones. In the tumour the pulsation is not equally expansile over all parts, and although it may be stopped by pressure on the artery above, the tumour does not become smaller; _ nor is it felt to refill when the pressure is removed during two or three beats of the heart, as in aneurysm; and a bruit, if present, is not so distinct. Portions of expanded bone, moreover, may be felt in parts of the tumour, and there may be glandular enlargement and other general signs of malignancy. Erom an inflammatory condition of a neighbouring joint a tumour of the end of the bone may generally be distinguished by the absence of signs of inflammation; by the swelling being less regular in contour than in a, joint-affection, and apparently being connected more intimately with one of the bones entering into the articulation than with the other; and by a careful review of the history of the case. Treatment,—Periosteal growths, unless the glands are much enlarged and there is evidence of dissemination having occurred, call for amputation of the limb, or removal, if practicable, when growing from the bones of the head or trunk. Small growths, however, may at times be dissected off the shafts of the long bones, and the surface of the bone scraped, gouged away, or destroyed by the actual cautery. Endosteal growths, if small, may in some cases be enucleated, but usually, like the periosteal variety, call for amputation. In some situations, as in the head of the radius, the affected portion of bone may be excised. The treatment of sarcomata of the jaws and of other special regions is described under Tumours of the Jaws, &c. Carcinoma never occurs as a primary growth in bone. . It may spread to the bone, however, from the skin or mucous membrane, as seen, for example, in some cases of squamous carcinoma of the leg or lip, or be deposited there in the course of the general dissemination following on primary carcinoma of other tissues or organs, as the breast or liver. In the latter case it is seldom discovered till after death, unless it gives rise to spontaneous fracture (Fig. 64). Treatment,—Where epithelioma has spread to the bone, free and early removal with the knife before250 - Diseases (xf special tissttes. the glands have become affected is the only treatment that holds out a prospect of success. In the case of a limb, amputation well above the disease is generally called for although where the bone is but little involved a free sweep of the growth and the gouging away of the underlying bone may under some circumstances be justifiable. Glands that have become affected p,,,,^,.,., should be removed if practicable. It Cysts m bone are rare, except ~ ij in the jaws. Hydatid cysts are I' . occasionally met with, but require no special description. The san- 5 guineous or blood cysts formerly i described were probably sarcoma- H tons tumours in which haemorrhage '■m^ had taken place. |!fp Aneurysms m bone are occa-= = '4X f sionally met with, and vascular ERECTILE TUMOURS consisting of 1%' i anastomosing vessels, and somewhat \ I I resembling nsevi of the soft tissues, I at times occur in the bones of the J skull. The majority of pulsating "' tumours in bone, however, are of f the nature of soft sarcomata. Fig. 64. — Secondary carcinoma of the DISEASES OE JOINTS, t^:^ SYNOVITIS or inflammation of fracture of the bone. the synovial membrane, may be . (St. Bartholomew's ^^ute, subacute, or chronic. Hospital Museum.) AcuTE SYNOVITIS. — Cause. — Generally a slight injury, as a sprain or over-exertion of a joint, or exposure to cold and wet in a gouty or rheumatic subject. Synovitis, moreover, especially in the knee, often occurs during an attack of gonorrhoea, and is sometimes seen in the earlier stages of syphilis. It is well known as a symptom of acute rheumatism and pyeemia, in which latter affection rapid suppuration and implication of the other tissues of the joint occur. Pathology.—The synovial membrane becomes red and congested and loses its lustre, the synovial fringes turgid, and the synovial fluid increased in quantity and slightlyACttTE SYNOVITIS. 2S1 turbid from admixture with inflammatory products. Eesolution may now occur, or the inflammation may be- come chronic, or it may spread to the cartilages, bones, &c., and terminate in suppui'ation and the probable disorganization of the joint (see Acute Arthritis). Signs.—The joint is hot, excessively painful, especially on movement and pressure, and if the inflammation is very intense, the skin may be slightly reddened, and the tissues around oedematous. The joint is usually held flexed, that is, with the capsule and ligaments relaxed,— the position of greatest ease. Where the joint is super- ficial the swelling is well marked, the outline of the synovial membrane being distinctly mapped out. Thus in the hnee^ the joint perhaps most commonly affected, the synovial membrane can be seen extending upwards under the crureus and vasti, and bulging on either side of the ligamentum patellae. The patella itself is raised from the condyles of the femur, and on making pressure on it the fluid is displaced, and the patella can be felt to strike against the condyles {riding of the patella). In the elboiu, the synovial membrane can be seen extending under the triceps and on either side of the olecranon; in the ankle, bulging beneath the extensor tendons and behind the malleoli. Feverish symptoms varying in intensity ac- cording to the severity of the inflammation are generally present. The inflammation may now gradually subside or assume the chronic form. Should, however, suppura- tion occur, and the other tissues of the joint become involved, the pain, swelling, and oedema increase, and the skin becomes of a dusky red, whilst a chill or distinct rigor ushers in a more severe type of inflammatory fever. Treatment.—The joint should be placed at absolute rest on a splint, and the patient, in the case of the hip, knee, or ankle, confined to bed. In applying the splint, care should be taken that the limb is in the position best suited for future use should ankylosis ensue; thus the knee should be straight, and the elbow bent at a right angle. Where the joint has already been drawn into a faulty position, this must be rectified, the patient being placed under an ansesthetic, as the manipulation is attended with intense pain. Cold, by means of evaporating lotions or Leiter's tubes, may in slighter cases be applied to the joint. When, however, the inflammation is very acute, half-a-dozen leeches followed by hot applications shouldDISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSXTES. 252 be substituted for the cold, with, liniments of belladonna and opium to assuage j)ain. Where there is much disten- sion and the synovial membrane threatens to give way, the joint should be aspirated and elastic pressure applied, or if suppuration occurs, laid freely open and drained antiseptically. Amputation may be called for should the patient's powers fail under the long-continued suppuration that at times ensues. Subacute synovitis.—The term subacute is applied to less severe cases of acute synovitis. But as one form of the disease differs from the other in degree rather than in kind, and as the causes, symptoms, and treatment are similar, no special description is required. Chronic synovitis.—Causes.—Similar to those of the acute form of which it is often a sequel. When occurring in strumous subjects, it probably nearly always depends on the presence of the tubercle bacillus, and will be described under tubercular disease of the joints> Pathology,—The synovial membrane is slightly thick- ened, and the synovial fluid increased in quantity; but there is little or no change in the cartilages or the other tissues, though, if the disease is neglected, it may run on to total disorganization of the joint. At times, the synovial membrane becomes greatly distended with clear serous fluid, a condition known as hydrops articuli, and in this state it may remain for years without any further change ensuing; or, after long periods, the synovial membrane may become thickened, and little masses of cartilage form in its hypertrophied fringes. In other instances pouch-like protrusions of the synovial mem- brane may extend along the muscles and other tissues, often to some distance from the joint, where they give rise to bursa-like swellings {Morrant Baker^s cysts). Signs.—The joint, as in the acute affection, is swollen, and the synovial membrane slightly thickened; but there is little or no heat, there may be no pain, and the skin is unaltered in appearance. The patient, however, com- plains that the joint feels weak and stiff on movement, but he does not suffer from starting-pains at nights. In hydrops articidi the synovial membrane is greatly dis- tended but not thickened, and save a sensation of weak- ness and want of security in the joint on walking, the affection gives no trouble. In what may be termed the bursal variety of chronic synovitis, in addition to the joint- affection, more or less tense fluctuating and translucentCHROlSriC SYI^OYITIS. 253 swellings occur in the neighbourhood of the joint. On pressure, these swellings become less tense, and some of the fluid contained in them can at times be forced back into the joint. Treatment.—The indications are (1) to prevent further irritation by placing the joint at perfect rest, (2) to pro- mote the absorption of the inflammatory products by pressure and counter-irritation, and (3) to remove any stift- FiG. 65. — Thomas's Fia. 66.—Thomas's hip-joint splint ap- hip - joint splint plied. Patten on sound limb. (Heath's (front view) with Minor Surgery.) patten. ness that may remain on the subsidence of the inflamma- tion by passive movements, massage, or the breaking down of fibrous adhesions. Thus, the joint should be fixed in an ^ accurately-fitting poroplastic or a moulded leather splint, or a plaster-of-Paris bandage ; and the limb, if a joint of the upper extremity is affected, should be carried in a sling. In the case of the lower extremity, the patient, if unable to lie up, may wear a Thomas's hip or knee splint, according to the joint affected, and be allowed254 DISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. to get about on cmtches with, a patten fixed to tlie boot of the sound limb (Figs. 65, 66, 67 and 68). Pressure may be applied by strapping the joint with ammoniacum and mercury plaster, or with Scott's dressing, or by means of a Martin's bandage. Counter-irritation may be effected either with the liniment of iodine, small flying blisters, or the actual cautery. Best, however, though most essen- tial in the treatment, should not be continued too long. lest the joint become stiff. Should this happen, friction, massage, and passive movements must be sedulously used, or if all signs of inflammation have ceased, the adhesions may be broken down under an anaesthetic. In the mean- time, the patient's general health must not be neglected, and any constitutional tendency to gout, rheumatism, &c., should be corrected by appropriate remedies. During convalescence a stay at Buxton, Harrogate, Wiesbaden, or Fig. 67.—Thomas's knee- joint splint with foot- piece for extension. (Heath'sM inorSurgery.) Fia. 68.—Thomas's knee - joint splint applied. Patten on sound limb. (Heath's Minor Surgery.)ACUTE ARTHRITIS. 255 some other suitable spa may be of benefit. In hydrops articuU the treatment recommended above may first be perseveringly tried. After prolonged rest has failed mas- sage of the limb with exercise of the joint may sometimes effect the absorption of the fluid, this failing, the joint may be aspirated and pressure re-applied. Should it refill, it may be injected with iodine, or in very severe cases laid open, well washed out, and drained. 'Where cysts have formed in the neighbourhood of the joint, they should, if pressure fails to cure them, be left alone. It is not safe to puncture them, for fear of setting up suppura- Fia. 69.—Acute arthritis of the knee-joint beginning in the synovial membrane. The Hgaments are almost destroyed and the tibia is displaced backwards and outwards. The joint was filled with pus. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) tion in the joint, and even a free incision, with antiseptic precautions, is not devoid of this risk. Acute arthritis is the term applied to a general in- flammation of all the tissues of a joint. It may begin in the synovial membrane, in the articular ends of the bones, or in the tissues around, but in whatever way it begins, the whole joint rapidly becomes involved in the inflammatory process. The causes are very various, and include those given under acute synovitis. Amongst the most frequent causes, however, may be mentioned penetrating wounds, infective periostitis or osteo-myelitis, epiphysitis, the bursting of an abscess in the soft parts or in the end of the bone into the256 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. joint, pyaemia^ and tlie continued and the exantlieniatous feyers. Pathology.—The course of the disease differs somewhat according to its cause and mode of origin. In a typical case beginning in the synovial membrane and running on to complete disorganization of the joint and subsequent ankylosis the following changes occur:—The inflammation rapidly spreads from the synovial membrane to the bones and surrounding soft tissues ; the cartilages are destroyed; the ligaments are softened; the articular surfaces are dis- placed by the action of the muscles; and the joint is con- verted into the cavity of an abscess (Fig. 69). The capsule of the joint now gives way, allowing the inflammatory products to escape. The soft tissues break down into pus, and the abscesses open externally, forming sinuses leading down to the joint. Should the inflammation now subside, granulations spring up from the denuded ends of the bones, the two layers of granulations unite, and after passing through a fibrous stage undergo ossification {hony ankylosis), leaving the patient with a stiff joint. The pathological process by which these changes are brought about is as follows :—The synovial membrane, which at first appears red and injected, rapidly becomes infiltrated with inflammatory products, and is converted, together with the adjacent capsules, into a thick layer of granulation-tissue. The inflamed articular ends of the bones also become infiltrated with inflammatory products, and pass through the changes described under rarefying osteitis. The cartilages thus cut off from their nutrient supply lose their lustre, and while portions die and are cast off into the interior of the joint, the rest is invaded both on its free and deep surface by the granulations derived from the synovial membrane on the one hand, and from the articular end of the bone on the other. As the result of this invasion, the cartilaginous matrix liquefies, and the cartilage cells proliferate, while the brood of young cells thus formed in part coalesce with the cells of the invading granulation-tissue, and in part escape into the joint in the form of pus. After the inflammatory products have escaped, should the inflammation subside, the layers of granulation-tissue, which spring up from the surface of the bones that have been denuded of their cartilage, come into contact, and unite in the way described under union of the soft parts by the third intention. Ossification subsequently ensues. Under less4 EPIPHYSITIS. 257 favourable circumstances the inflammation may assume a septic character, and the abscesses around the joint burrow widely among the muscles and other soft tissues. Or the periosteum or the medulla of the bones may become involved in the septic inflammation, and ex- tensive caries or necrosis ensue. The septic products may become absorbed, and the patient die of sapraemia or pyaemia, or suppuration may continue and death result from hectic or lardaceous disease. Signs,—The disease may begin like an ordinary attack of synovitis, but the pain soon becomes intense and agonizing on the least movement, the heat more marked, and the skin often covered by a blush of redness. The swelling at flrst takes the form of the synovial membrane, but soon becomes general, and the joint assumes a flexed position. In the meantime the constitutional disturbance is severe, the temperature high, the pulse rapid, the tongue furred, and a chill or rigor may perhaps occur. Painful startings of the joint now set in, in consequence of the reflex irritation of the muscles; abscesses form and make their way to the surface, and burrow in the tissues around; and the joint-surfaces become displaced from each other (Fig. 69). After the abscesses have opened, the inflammation may subside, probably leaving the joint stiff; or the patient may die of septic poisoning or of exhaustion. The treatment at first should be similar to that of acute synovitis; but should suppuration set in, the joint must be freely opened and antiseptically drained, and all abscesses that have formed around treated in the same manner. When e:^ectual drainage cannot be secured continuous irrigation or immersion in a hot bath may be tried. If septic poisoning or exhaustion threaten life, amputation must be performed. ^ Epiphysitis is an inflammation of the soft growing tissue between the shaft and the epiphysis; it is therefore necessarily confined to the young, and is of most frequent occurrence under the age of ten. It may be acute, sub- acute, or chronic, and may or may not involve the neighbouring joint. The epiphyses most often affected are those of the hip, knee, and shoulder, but several may be implicated at the same time, or one after the other in rapid succession. Cause. — Slight injuries, tubercle, infective micro- w. sDISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 258 organisms, and sepsis as from the absorption of septic poison after ligature of the umbilical cord. ■ Pathology.—The inflammation as a rule terminates rapidly in suppuration, in which case either the articular cartilage may be perforated and the pus escape into the joint setting up acute arthritis, or the epiphysis may become completely cut off from the diaphysis and form, as in the case of epiphysitis of the upper end of the femur, a loose sequestrum in the interior of the joint. In less acute cases the inflammation may subside without suppuration ensuing, under which circumstances premature synostosis may take place between the diaphysis and epiphysis, and the growth of the bone at the affected end be thus arrested. The chronic cases may also terminate in sup- puration and destruction of the joint; but if this does not occur, the prolonged vascularity may lead to increased nutritive changes, and instead of growth being arrested by premature synostosis, the bone may be increased in length. Symptoms,—Severe constitutional disturbance; swelling of the end of the bone; tenderness, heat, and sometimes redness of the skin; stiffness and fixidity of the joint; pain, increased on movement; and probably, later, signs of acute arthritis, grating of the epiphysis on the dia- physis, and if the capsule of the joint bursts^ the forma- tion of a large abscess in the limb. In the chronic form the signs are those of the early stage of tubercular joint disease. The treatment consists in placing the limb in a corrected position on a splint, the application of a few leeches, and free incisions down to the epiphysis with antiseptic pre- cautions as soon as there are signs of suppuration. Should it appear probable that pus is contained in the epiphysis the latter should be cautiously perforated. If the jointj notwithstanding this treatment, becomes affected, it must be laid freely open and drained antiseptically, and any sequestrum that may be present removed. Ghbonic TUBERCULAR ARTHRITIS, also called tumor albus or white swelling, pulpy degeneration of the synovial membrane, and fungous or _ strumous inflammation, is characterized by a gradual "enlargement of the joint, unaccompanied by redness or much increase of synovial secretion. It begins very insidiously, i& chronic in its course, and is prone to end in total disorganization of theCHROKIC TUBEECULAR ARTHRITIS. 259 joint. Though most frequent in the young, it may occur at any age. : . Causes.—It is generally attributed to some slight injury of the joint, occurring in a strumous or unhealthy subject; but frequently no history of any such injury is forthcoming. The immediate cause is the presence of the tubercle bacillus which has gained admission to the system in the way described under Tubercle. Fathology.—The disease may begin either as a chronic inflammation of the synovial membrane, or as a funga- ting caries of the articular ends of the bones; in the former case, the synovial membrane, which first appears red and injected, gradually becomes thickened and oedematous, and ultimately pulpy and gelatinous and in places fatty looking. The synovial fluid in the meantime becomes turbid or muco-purulent, but is rarely much increased in quantity; the synovial tufts, at first soft and fiocculent, gradually assume the form of spongy granulation-tissue, and grow over the cartilage from the sides till they com- pletely cover it, " lying over it like a veil." Prolongations from this veil of granulations, compared by Billroth to the roots of ivory penetrating a wall, insinuate themselves into and spread in all directions through the cartilage, which they ultimately destroy, and then in like manner invade the bone. The granulation-tissue may also make its way between the bone and the cartilage, and unite with that derived from the synovial membrane, thus leaving por- tions of cartilage loose between the two layers of granula- tions. At the same time, fungous granulations derived from the synovial membrane may invade the tissues around the joint, and undergoing caseous or fatty degeneration in places, break down into abscesses whicli may open both externally and into the joint, leading to the production of sinuses and fistulse. The ligaments being thus softened and destroyed, allow the articular surfaces to be dislocated by the contraction of the muscles; whilst the muscles and bones themselves, partly from want of use and partly from the. debilitating nature of the disease, undergo atrophy and fatty degeneration. When the disease begins in the hone it takes the form of a rare- fying osteitis, the fungating granulations invade the deeper surface of the cartilages, perforate them, and then set up the changes in the synovial membrane and other tissues described above. 'The minute changes which occur during the above-mentioned phenomena are those already s 2260 DtSEASIlS smctAt TiSStJES* described under inflammation. All that need be repeated here is, that the synovial membrane, ligaments, and in places the surrounding tissues, become infiltrated with small cells, and ultimately converted into a layer of vascular granulation-tissue; that the cartilage-cells pro- liferate whilst the matrix undergoes softening and lique- faction; and that the articular ends of the bones are eroded and destroyed in the way described under Caries. In places in the granulation-tissue are found non-vascular areas, consisting of tubercle nodules, in which the tubercle bacillus is found. In the early stages under appropriate treatment the inflammation may subside, and the joint resume its normal condition. After the cartilages, however, have been destroyed, such a favour- able ending is of course impossible, and all that can be hoped for is, that the layers of granulations covering the denuded bones may unite and ankylosis ensue. The dangers to be apjDrehended are that the tubercle should become disseminated, lighting up phthisis, meningitis, &c. ; or that long-continued suppuration should induce hectic, exhaustion, or lardaceous disease. Signs.—The disease is generally chronic, often lasting for years. It usually begins very insidiously: there may be some slight stiffness of the joint, attributed perhaps to a trivial injury, or in the case of the lower extremity a slight limp in walking. The joint may be held in a slightly-bent position, and the range of flexion and ex- tension may be somewhat restricted. Occasionally the disease is ushered in by an acute attack of synovitis. At first there may be little or no swelling, or the swelling- may take the form of the synovial membrane ; but as the disease advances, it becomes general and uniform, so that the points of bone about the joint become obscured. The wasting and atrophy of the tissues of the limb, however, give the articular ends of the bone the appearance of being considerably enlarged. In the meantime, there is no redness of the skin; hence the name tumor albus, or ivJiite swelling. Pain at first may be absent, or only present on movement of the limb, but gradually increases till the patient, in the case of the lower extremity, is prevented by it from walking. There is usually but little heat. In this condition the joint may remain for many months, and under appropriate treatment the disease may completely subside. If neglected, however, the articular surfaces of the bones, as the ligaments become softened, are.CHRONIC TUBERCULAR ARTHRITIS. 261 slowly displaced, and painful star tings of the limb at niglit indicate that the bones are involved. Now tenderness followed by fluctuation may be detected at one or more spots ; the skin becomes red in these situations ; and the abscess if not opened, bursts externally, allowing of the escape of curdy pus. Thus, by the formation of succes- sive abscesses, the tissues around the joint are slowly undermined, and sinuses and fistulae are formed. The general health becomes more markedly affected, and although even now the sinuses and fistulae may heal and the patient ultimately recover, suppuration as often con- tinues, hectic sets in, and the patient dies of exhaustion, or succumbs to phthisis or lardaceous disease. The treatment must be both local and constitutional. The local indications are (1), to place the joint at absolute rest in a position in which it will subsequently be most useful should ankylosis occur; (2), to keep it at rest, not only till all signs of the disease have disappeared, but for some months afterwards, to prevent a relapse; (3), to open and drain antiseptically any abscess that may form, or fully expose the cavity of the joint and remove the diseased tissues; and (4) in advanced and intractable cases to save the patient's life by the sacrifice of the limb. For keeping the joint at rest, splints maybe employed similar to those mentioned under chronic synovitis; and in the case of the lower extremity, where there may be flexion of the hip or knee, the patient should be placed in bed, and extension made by a stirrup, weight and pulley, or by Bryant's double splint (Fig. 164), till the deformity has been overcome. The time the splints should be worn will vary in each individual case according to the progress of the disease. Eoughly, it may be said that they will generally be required for many months, perhaps for several years, and that they must be worn three months after the disease has ceased. The consti- tutional means which must be adopted, are those that have already been described under the treatment of Tubercle (p. 53). Should the disease progress in spite of treat- ment the joint may be freely opened and the diseased synovial membrane scraped or cut completely away [artliredomy), or if the cartilages and articular ends of the bone are found much diseased, the joint excised. Where however abscesses and sinuses have formed and notwith- standing antiseptic drainage and injection of iodofoim- glycorine emulsion, the patient is becoming exhausted by262 DISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. long-continued suppuration and hectic, or wliere signs of incipient phthisis or lardaceous disease are becoming manifest, the question of amputation must be raised. ^ TuBEECULAR DISEASE OF THE HIP, though essentially similar to tubercular disease of other joints, requires separate mention, as owing to the depth and conforma- tion of the articulation it is attended with special symptoms, and calls for certain modifications in the method of treatment. Signs.—In the early stages there is slight lameness, some limitation in the range of movement of the joint, generally pain, and often quite early some atrophy and wasting of the muscles. The pain, though at times severe, is more frequently slight, and may only be elicited on making certain movements of the joint. It may be felt in the hip, or as is commonly the case, be referred to the knee or to other parts supplied by the obturator nerve, as the inner side of the thigh. At times it may be felt in both hip and knee simultaneously. The joint is slightly stiff, not only on flexion and extension, but also on rotation and on abduction and adduction, especially in the semi-flexed position. There is often some fulness about the front of the joint, loss of the gluteal fold, and perhaps tenderness on pressure. The joint becomes at first slightly flexed, everted, and abducted, i.e., it assumes the position in which the ligaments of the inflamed joint are most relaxed—the position of greatest ease. In order to bring the flexed and abducted limb to the ground, the pelvis is depressed on the affected side, and hence the limb appears when placed parallel to its fellow slightly lengthened (Fig. 70, A and b). Later, the joint becomes further flexed; but inverted instead of everted, and adducted instead of abducted, a change of position which has been variously attributed to erosion of the posterior part of the acetabulum, a yielding of the ligaments, or exhaustion of the external rotator and abductor muscles. To overcome this position of adduction in which the limb is useless, the pelvis is raised on the affected side, so that the limb if brought parallel to the other, now appears slightly shortened (Fig. 70, c and d) in place of being lengthened. Whilst the position of abduction and adduc- tion is overcome by depressing or raising the pelvis respectively on the affected side, i.e., by laterally ben die g the lumbar spine, flexion is overcome by rolling the pelvis forward, i,e , by increasing the normal lumbar curve.TUBERCULAR DISEASE OF THE HIP. 263 Hence when the patient is laid on his back and the limbs are brought down parallel to each other, there is always considerable lordosis of the lumbar spine (Fig. 71), which, however, disappears on flexing the affected limb to the angle at which it is held flexed by the contracted- A B C D Fig. 70.—To show the effects of abduction (a), and adduction (c) in causing apparent lengthening (b), and apparent shortening (d) of the hmb in hip-joint disease, when the affected Kmb is placed parallel to the opposite limb. Fig. 71.—To show the lordosis of the lumbar spine when the limb is placed in the straight position, p. Psoas muscle. Fig. 72.—To show effect of flexing the limb on the lumbar lordotic carve, p. Psoas muscle. muscles (Fig. 72). Later in the disease real shortening ensues, owing to the destruction of the joint and the dis- location of the head of the bone on to the dorsum of the ilium. Finally sinuses may form about the joint and the disease may progress in the way described under Tuber- cular Arthritis. Treatment.—As regards constitutional treatment nothing need be added to what was said on pp. 53, 261. The in-264 DISEASES OP SPECIAL TISSUES. dications for the local treatment are similar to those for tubercular disease of the joints generally, but require certain modifications in the methods of carrying them out. Thus if the symptoms are acute the patient should be placed in bed, and extension made by the stirrup, weight and pulley in the direction in which the joint is displaced, the limb being gradually brought down in this way to a straight position. If the child is restless a long splint should be placed on the opposite limb to keep him from rolling to one or other side, whilst the foot of the bed should be raised by blocks to prevent him slipping down, or Bryant's double splint may be used with great advan- tage in some cases (Fig. 164). Subsequently, or at once in subacute cases, a Thomas's splint (Fig. 65) should be applied, and after the limb has been brought into the straight position, the patient may be allowed to get about on crutches. If in spite of treatment, the disease pro- gresses and pus forms, early incision and drainage with the injection of iodoform-glycerine emulsion, the excision of the head of the bone and scraping away of the diseased tissues, or in very intractable cases amputation at the hip joint may become necessary. One advantage of early incision is that the pus in some cases may at first be outside the joint, being dependent upon disease about the great trochanter, lower end of the neck or upper end of the shaft, and so extension to the joint may be avoided. Disease of the sacro-iliac joint also requires a separate, brief notice. It is generally of tubercular origin, but is sometimes apparently due to injury. It usually occurs in young adults, rarely, if ever, in children. There is pain, swelling, and later redness over the joint, followed by the formation of abscesses which may open posteriorly or through the sciatic notch, above Poupart's ligament, in the ischio-rectal fossa, or in the rectum. The pain may be reflected along the sciatic nerve, simulating sciatica, or along the obturator nerve to the hip or knee, and may then be increased on moving the hip. The thigh, more- over, in consequence of the irritation of the psoas, maybe slightlv fle xed. The disease may thus have to be diagnosed fromhip-disease and spinal caries. On fixing the pelvis, however, the hip and spine move freely and without piin, but pain is felt on making pressure inwards or outwards on the iliac crests or over the sacro-iliac joint. When sinuses have formed carious bone may sometimes be265 CHRONIC OSTEO-ARTHRITIS. detected on probing. The prognosis is unfavourable. The treatment consists in keeping the parts at absolute rest by fixing the pelvis and thigh in a moulded leather splint reaching to the knee, and after sinuses have formed, in scraping and gouging away as much as possible the tuberculous granulations and carious bone and dressing with iodoform. Chronic osteo-arthritis, also called rheumatoid arthritis, or arthritis deformans, is an incurable and pro- gressive disease leading to great deformity and at times to complete disablement of the joint. It is characterized by gradual degeneration and destruction of the cartilages, eburnation and alteration in the shape of the articular ends of the bones, and formation of nodular osteophytes in the fibrous tissue around the joint. It is a disease of middle and advanced life, and may'be confined to one or more of the larger joints—the hip, knee or shoulder {monarthritis), or it may affect many joints, including the smaller articulations {polyarticular rheumatism). Though most frequently met with in the joints of the extremities, it may affect other joints, as those of the lower jaw, spine, &c. The cause is not known. The disease, however, has been attributed to deficient or perverted innervation, depressing nervous influences, exposure to cold and damp, improper feeding, insuflicient clothing, etc. At times a slight injury appears to be the determining cause. Pathology.—The disease is variously believed to begin as a chronic inflammation of the synovial membrane, a fibroid degeneration of the cartilages, or as an inflamma- tory affection of the ligaments. In whichever way it begins, however, the earliest characteristic changes are found in the cartilages. These at first appear nodular and cracked, but subsequently become roughened, fibrous and villous-looking, and are finally rubbed away by the friction of the articular surfaces of the joint' on each other. Such changes appear to be due to fibroid degenera- tion, or splitting of the matrix into fibres, and the multi- plication, enlargement, and fatty degeneration of the cartilage cells. Thus it will be perceived that the pro- cess by which the cartilages are destroyed in chronic osteo-arthritis differs materially from the so-called ulceration of cartilage which occurs in the inflammatory joint-affections previously described, and in which the matrix undergoes liquefaction and softening consequentDISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. 266 upon its invasion by the granulation-tissue derived from the synovial membrane and bone. In chronic osteo- arthritis the synovial membrane, at first dry, becomes slightly thickened and vascular, and moderately distended with turbid synovial fluid which at times resembles train oil. In the meanwhile the synovial fringes become hypertrophied, and assume the form of pedunculated pro- cesses, often containing little masses of cartilage or bone. These little masses may subsequently become detached and form loose bodies in the joint (Fig. 73). The Fig. 73.—Chi'onic osteo-arthritis of the knee-joint. The articular surface of the tibia is shown in the upper part of the figure : the patella is turned down. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) articular surfaces of the bone become smooth, hard, polished, eburnated or porcellaneous in appearance and variously altered in shape—changes apparently depending in part on friction and mechanical pressure, and in part on the formation of new bone in the cancellous spaces, whereby the bone is rendered harder and is capable in consequence of receiving a higher polish. "Whilst, how- ever, new bone is being formed immediately beneath the polished surface, rarefaction and atrophy are going on a little deeper in the bone leading to the shortening and distortion so commonly observed. Hence, for example, the flattening and enlargement of the acetabulum and glenoid cavity, and the absorption of the neck and flatten- ing of the head of the femur and humerus, seen in osteo-arthritis of the hip (Pig. 74) and shoulder respec-CHRONIC OSTEO-ARTHRITIS. 267 tively. At times the new bone in the cancellous spaces and Haversian canals is not formed as quickly as the polished layer of bone is worn away, and the open ends of the enlarged Haversian canals give the articular surface a worm-eaten appearance. In the meantime out- growths of cartilage take place around the articular sur- faces and undergo ossification, forming the low nodular flattened osteophytes and the " lipping " of the articular Fig. 74.—Chronic osteo-arthritis of the hip. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) ends of the bone so characteristic of the disease. Ossifi- cation may also occur in the ligaments, tendons, and other soft structures around. Signs,—When the disease is fully established it may be known by pain, increased on movement, and often worse at night and during changes of the weather; a charac- teristic creaking and harsh grating felt on moving the joint; the detection of masses of bone around; the limita- tion of the movement of the joint; and absence of heat and redness. In the hip there may be eversion, shorten- ing and much lameness; in the knee, swelling and268 DISEASES OP SPECIAL TISSUES. thickening of the synovial membrane, and deformity of the patella; and in the shoulder, enlargement or displace- ment of the head of the bone. In the hip the disease may closely simulate intracapsular fracture of the neck of the femur; in the shoulder, dislocation of the humerus. (See Fracture of Femur and Dislocation of Shoulder,) Treatment.—Although the disease cannot be cured, and may get steadily worse as the patient grows older, much can be done in the way of relief. Thus the whole body should be warmly clad, the diet carefully regulated, stimulants prohibited or restricted in quantity, and a periodical visit paid to such spas as Buxton, Harrogate, Bath, Wiesbaden, Aix-les-Baios, or Wildbad. Locally, massage, friction, and passive movements, should be from time to time employed; the joint should be enveloped in wool or flannel, but should not be kept at rest on a splint, since this will only tend to increase the stiffness. In the way of drugs, cod-liver oil, iodine, iodide of potassium, arsenic, and guaiacum, are of most service. Blisters and fumigations of sulphur are recommended for relieving the pain. Charcot's disease is an affection of the joints closely resembling osteo-arthritis. It is believed by some to depend upon degenerations in the spinal cord (locomotor ataxia) and therefore to be the result of trophic changes in the joint. Others, however, regard it merely as an osteo-arthritis occurring accidentally in a patient the subject of locomotor ataxia. The pathological changes are similar to those already described under osteo-arthritis, but the destruction of the joint is more marked. Briefly they may be said to consist in erosion of the cartilages, softening of the ligaments, grinding away of the articular surfaces and often of the contiguous portions of the shaft of the bone, induration of the remaining portions of the articular surfaces, thickening and at times pouchings of the synovial membrane, and formation of osteophytes around. Suppuration is very rare. These changes may affect one joint only, or may occur successively in several joints. The signs in a tj'pical case are as follows:—Sudden swelling of a joint, usually without much pain or any marked signs of inflammation, followed, on the subsidence of the swelling, by preternatural mobility, and the fonna- tion of processes of bone about the articular surfaces and in the surroundmg muscles and tendons. There is great deformity, but not much pain either on movement or269 handling. Along with the local signs there are generally sj^mptoras of locomotor ataxia, such as an unsteady gait, a tendency to fall on placing the feet together with the eyes closed, a jerking movement of the limbs, absence of the patella-tendon-refiex, lightning pains, spasmodic muscular contractions, local anaesthesia and sweating of the limbs, loss of response of the pupil to light but no loss of power of accommodating for near objects [Argyll- Bohertsonpupil), sometimes optic neuritis, bladder troubles, and loss of sexual power. The joints most often affected are the knee, hip, and shoulder. In the tarsus the bones on the subsidence of the swelling of the synovial mem- brane, though at first felt to be loosened by the softening of the ligaments, may ultimately become ankylosed. Treatment,—Beyond keeping the part at rest during an acute attack, and adopting the same general treatment as is appropriate for osteo-arthritis and locomotor ataxia, little can be done. To relieve the pain antipyrin and antifebrin may be tried. Suspension has at times been of service. Loose bodies in a joint may be formed in several ways, of which the following are the chief:—1, by the pro- liferation of the cartilage cells that normally exist in the synovial fringes, and the subsequent detachment of the little mass of cartilage so formed throu.gh the rupture of its peduncle in the movements of the joint (Fig. 75); 2, by thickening or hypertrophy of a synovial fringe, or by extravasation and subsequent organization of blood in a synovial fringe, detachment occurring in a manner similar to that in the former case; 3, by necrosis of a portion of the articular cartilages; and 4, by chipping off of a portion of the articular cartilage during some injury to the joint. Loose cartilages are most common in the knee, but may be met with in any joint. They^ are generally single, but may be multiple, and vary in size from a pea to a walnut. Symptoms.—The chief symptom is pain, due to the loose body slipping between the ligaments and articular surfaces during the movements of the joint. In the knee this occurs during flexion; and on the patient attempting to straighten the joint the loose body, by forcing the articular surfaces apart, stretches the ligaments, and thus gives rise to a sudden and excruciating pain, perhaps so severe as to cause him to fall. At times the loose body remains fixed between the articular surfaces, the patient270 BIS^EASES OF SPECIAL TlSStfES. 'being then unable to straighten liis limb. Sucb an attack may be followed by synovitis. On examination the body may often be felt somewhere in the synovial ponch, probably on the outer side of the joint in the case of the knee. If attached, its movements will be limited, but if free it can frequently be made to move round to the opposite side of the joint. It may perhaps disappear by passing into some of the synovial recesses, though it cari generally be felt again on moving the joint. Fig. 75.—The formation of a loose cartilage in a joint. A little mass of cartilage attached by a slender stalk. (St. Bartholo- mew's Hospital Museum.) Treatment,—If the loose body gives rise to little or no trouble, and can be easily fixed by a pad and bandage or knee-cap, it should not be interfered with; nor should any operation be undertaken where the joint is disorganized by osteo-arthritis, or where the synovial membrane is studded with masses of cartilage. Under other circum- stances the loose body should be removed. This may be done either by the direct or the indirect method. The former consists in transfixing the loose cartilage by a strong needle on a handle thrust through the skin, so that the loose body may not slip away or be lost during the; operation, and then cutting down on the capsule, and271 ANKYLOSIS OR STIFF JOINT. when all bleeding has been stopped, opening the joint. The body if loose will generally slip through the opening; if attached, its pedicle must be ligatured and divided. The operation should be performed with the strictest antiseptic precautions, and the patient prepared by a week's rest in bed in the case of the knee with his joint on a splint. The splint should be continued after the operation, or the joint placed in a plaster-of-Paris bandage till the wound has healed and all fear of inflam- mation has passed. The indirect method consists in incising the capsule subcutaneously with a tenotomy knife, forcing the loose body through the incision into the connective tissue around the joint, and then either allowing it to remain there permanently, or removing it after the hole in the capsule has healed. The operation is difficult to perform, and since the introduction of anti- septics possesses no advantage over the direct method. Ankylosis or stiff joint may be divided into the fibrous and the tony. A spurious form of ankylosis, due to the contraction of the surrounding muscles or of cicatrices after burns, may also occur, but is generally associated with some amount of fibrous ankylosis. Fibrous ankylosis, also called ligamentous, or by some authors, false, in contradistinction to the bony which they then term true, is the union more or less complete of the articular surfaces of the joint by fibrous tissue. Thus, it may consist of—1, a mere thickening of the capsule; 2, a thickening and shortening of the ligaments; 3, the formation of fibrous bands within the joint; 4, the partial removal of the cartilages and the union of the bones by fibrous tissue; and 5, the above conditions variously combined. It may be the result of joint- disease, or of keeping an inflamed joint in too long a state of rest. Sometimes it may terminate in bony ankylosis. Bony ankylosis is the firm union of the articular ends of the joint by bone. It is often a further stage of the fibrous variety. The articular surfaces may be united evenly and uniformly, or by irregular bridges of bone, or partly by bone and partly by fibrous tissue. The union may occur with the articular surfaces in contact in either the extended or the flexed position, or at an angle between the two (Fig. 76); or it may occur with the articular surfaces dislocated from each other. The way in which it is produced has already been described under Arthritis: all that need be repeated here is, that in272 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. tuberculous disease, ankylosis and caries may often be observed at the same time. The signs of ankylosis are obvious—?*.e., the joint is stiff. It only remains to diagnose the fibrous from the bony. Ill the former there is slight movement, and generally pain; in the latter neither movement nor pain. In some instances, however, as in ankylosis of the shoulder and hip, it may be necessary to place the patient under an anaesthetic, as the joint may be held so firmly by the contraction of the muscles that the fibrous may simulate the bony form, and again, although bony ankylosis may exist, the revolving of the scapula and pelvis on the trunk may make it appear that there is some movement in the affected joint. The treatment will vary with the nature of the anky- losis. In the spurious form something may often be done by dividing the cicatrices, or by freeing the parts by a plastic operation, though in such cases the treatment is seldom very hopeful. In the fibrous form an attempt should be made to restore the natural movements of the joints— (1) by manipulation, friction, and passive movements; (2) by forcibly breaking down the adhesions under an anaesthetic, at the same time dividing any tendons that may offer resistance; or (3) by gradual extension by a weight and pulley, or some form of cog- wheel or screw apparatus. An attempt to break down adhesions, however, should on no account be made whilst any signs of inflammation remain, and after the opera- tion the limb should be placed on a splint for a iew days, and cold by means of Leiter's tubes or an ice-bag applied to prevent inflammation. Bony ankylosis, with the limb in a good position, is often the best result that can be hoped for after the disease of the joint has reached a certain stage. But in some instances an operation may be required to restore movement, or to rectify a faulty Fig. 76.—Bony ankylosis of the hip. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.)KEUHALGiA 01' JOINTS; 273 position. Thus in an ankylosed elbow, especially when fixed in the extended position, excision of the joint should be practised. In a bent knee a wedge-shaped piece may be removed, or an osteotomy done. In the hip, subcutaneous osteotomy of the neck of the femur or of the shaft just below the trochanters may be undertaken. In the shoulder, no operation as a rule is required, as the movement of the scapula on the trunk is very free. When ankylosis is accompanied by much wasting of the limb, amputation may be necessary. Neuralgia of joints.—Pain of a neuralgic character unassociated with heat, redness, swelling, or physical signs of organic disease, is occasionally met with in one or more joints, especially in young women of the neuro- mimetic temperament. They are very difficult cases to deal with, and should receive the greatest care and attention, lest an erroneous diagnosis be made. Nearly all the signs of organic joint-disease may be simulated; thus, there may be pain on movement, or some slight redness and heat of the part, or fixity of the joint. The pain, however, is generally superficial, and is not in- creased on movement of the joint if the patient's atten- tion in the meanwhile is otherwise engaged ; the redness and heat will often be found on enquiry to be due to previous friction or the use of irritants; and under an an'fBsthetic the rigidity of the joint completely disappears, its movements then being found to be free, smooth, and natural. Further, on recovery from the ansesthetic, the rigidity does not return until the patient again directs her attention to the joint, whereas in organic disease it returns as soon as the muscular relaxation ceases. The treatment consists in the employment of the ordinary remedies for neuralgia, both locally and internally. Where the patient is of a neuro-mimetic tempera- ment, and organic disease is simulated, appropriate hysterical treatment must be adopted. Bee a loork on Medicine. Arthrectomy or erasion of joints consists in scraping or cutting away the whole of the diseased synovial membrane, after the cavity of the joint has been fully exposed by some such incision as that employed in excisions. It is a useful addition to our methods of treating diseased joints, and appears to be especially in- dicated for those cases in which the disease is too far advanced to ^deld to the ordinary plan of treatment, but W. T274 DISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. has not as yet, or at least only to a slight extent, in- volved the cartilages and bones. Excision or resection oe joints consists in cutting away the articular surfaces of the bones entering into the affected joint, or in removing a portion of bone where osseons ankylosis has taken place. "When excision is done for disease it may be said here to prevent repetition that the whole of the diseased synovial membrane should be cut or scraped away, as should also the lining mem- brane of any sinuses that may be present. Excision may be required for severe injury or for intractable disease of the joint. Space does not permit of the discussion of the various conditions under which excision should or should not be performed, but it may briefly be stated that it should be undertaken—1, when the disease is acute; 2, when there is much destruction of the bones, or riddling of the soft parts with sinuses ; 3, when there is much atrophy of the bones and muscles; 4, when the patient is under the age of ten or over that of thirty, as in the former instance, the epiphyses are liable to be removed, and the growth arrested in consequence, and in the latter, the powers of repair are usually insufficient to ensure sound healing and a subsequently useful limb ; 5, when there is lardaceous disease or signs of phthisis, or other organic mischief; and 6, when the patient's condition is such that the excision would probably be attended with long-continued suppuration and conse- quent exhaustion or lardaceous disease. Under most of the above circumstances amputation is generally indi- cated. Excision is usually attended with the best suc- cess in the elbow, and here it may be done at a later period of life than that assigned above as the limit. In the shoulder, elbow, and wrist, fibrous ankylosis is aimed at in order to secure a moveable joint; in the hip and knee, firm bony union is sought in the most useful position of the limb, which is that of extension. Excision of special joints.—The shoulder.—Ex- cision of the shoulder is generally practised for gunshot injuries and for innocent tumours in the head of the bone. It is seldom performed for disease of the joint, as an equally useful joint may be obtained by osseous ankylosis. It should never be done for osseous ankylosis, as the movements of the scapula on the trunk are so free, that they compensate to a great extent for the fixed condition of the joint, and little would be gained by the operation.EXCISION OF JOINTS. 275 The operation.—Make an incision about four inches long from just outside the coracoid through the substance of the deltoid down to the bone ; detach the long tendon of the biceps from its groove, and give it to an assistant to hold aside with blunt hooks. The arm being rotated inwards, divide the teres minor, infraspinatus, and supra- spinatus tendons at their insertion into the bone. The arm being next rotated outwards, divide the tendon of the subscapularis, and the head of the bone can be pushed out of the incision. Separate the periosteum as far as is necessary, place a retractor behind the neck of the bone to protect the soft parts, and saw it across. Bring the wound together by suture, place a drain-tube in the lower part and dress antiseptically. The elbow may be excised for chronic disease of the joint, gunshot or other injury, and osseous ankylosis. Some surgeons only recommend excision for ankylosis, when the elbow is fixed in a faulty position. The opera- tion, however, is attended with so little risk, and the advantages of a moveable elbow are so great, and the results so good, that others unhesitatingly excise the joint in whatever position it may be fixed. The operation may be performed in several ways; but that by the single vertical incision {LangenhecWs) is undoubtedly the best and the one most frequently practised. Make a vertical incision about five inches long over the back of the joint, beginning about two and a half inches above the ole- cranon, and carry it over this process and down the ridge on the ulna for the same distance. The incision should extend in its whole length down to the bones. Cut into the joint above the olecranon and clear the condyles of the soft tissues by keeping the edge of the knife in contact with the bone, taking special care not to injure the ulnar nerve behind the internal condyle. Divide the lateral ligaments, and whilst the assistant strongly flexes I the j oint to force the bones out of the wound, free them i from their remaining connections, and saw off the olecranon, the head of the radius, and the lower end of I the humerus, steadying the parts with the lion forceps. If possible, the coronoid process of the ulna and the tubercle of the radius should not be removed, and the shaft of the humerus not encroached upon. Preserve the connection of the anconeus with the triceps, as better extension of the arm will be thus obtained. Unite the wound by sutures, after inserting a drain, and place the T 2DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 276 limb on a splint in the flexed position. Callender's splint is one of the best for the purpose, as it permits of passive motion not onl}^ in the direction of flexion and extension, but also in that of pronation and supination, and that without removing the arm from the splint. It also allows of the limb being slung by pulleys from the ceiling, which is much more comfortable for the patient than placing it on a pillow. Passive movements should be begun at the end of the first week, the aim of the surgeon being to obtain a moveable joint. The weist may be excised for chronic disease of the wrist and carpal joints. The operation is very successful in suitable cases; these, however, are rarely met with, as if the disease is extensive, it is as a rule better to amputate, and if limited, gouging away the diseased bone will generally suffice. The ojperatioii usually done is that now known as Lister's. It consists in removing all the bones of the carpus, the bases of the metacarpal bones, and the lower end of the radius and ulna, the incisions being so planned as to avoid cutting the numerous tendons surrounding the joint and the radial artery. As the operation is rarely performed, further details will not be given. The hip may be excised—(1) when the head of the bone has become necrosed, and lies loose in the joint; (2) when suppuration continues in spite of free drainage and antisep- tics ; (3) when in addition to suppuration the head of the bone is dislocated, and the limb cannot be placed in a useful position. Excision should not be done when there is extensive disease of the pelvis or femur, or signs of lardaceous disease or of phthisis. Under these circum- stances amputation is the only resource. For ankylosis in a faulty position subcutaneous osteotomy of the neck of the femur or of the shaft of the bone below the trochanters is preferable to excision. The operation.—1. By the posterior incision. Make a slightly curved incision about four inches long behind the great trochanter, and after dividing the glutei, open the capsule, insert the finger, and with this as a guide, saw through the neck of the femur with Adams's saw, or Gowan's osteotome, and re- move the head thus detached with sequestrum forceps. The trochanter should be spared if possible. It is important to avoid protruding the end of the bone out of the wound since the periosteum may in this w^ay be stripped up and thus lead to further necrosis. Exa-EXCISION OF JOINTS. 277 mine the acetabulum, and remove any carious bone or sequestrum that may be discovered with, the gouge or sequestrum forceps. Place the limb in the position of abduc- tion on a double Thomas's splint, so as to bring the stump of the neck into the acetabulum, and thus leave as little space as possible between the bones. After ankylosis has taken place the abducted position is of advantage, in that to bring the limbs parallel in walking the pelvis will have to be depressed on the affected side, and thus a good inch of lengthening is obtained to compensate for the shorten- ing produced by the excision of the head of the bone. Some surgeons now no longer use a drain-tube, but bring the deeper parts of the wound together by buried sutures, and having lightly closed the skin incision apply firm pressure over a dry antiseptic dressing, so as to keep the tissues in close apposition and thus obtain union by the first intention. 2. By the anterior incision. An incision four inches long is made from half an inch below the anterior superior iliac spine downwards and a little inwards between the sartorius and rectus on the inner side and the tensor vaginae and glutei on the outer side, and the joint opened from the front. In other respects the steps of the 'operation closely resemble those of the former method. The knee.—Provided none of the contra-indications to excision already enumerated are present, the knee may be excised for intractable disease of the synovial mem- brane, especially where the articular surfaces are much displaced, or for ankylosis in a faulty position. In the latter instance, however, a subcutaneous osteotomy is often preferable. The operation,—The knee being held in a flexed position by an assistant, make an incision from the posterior part of the condyle on one side, across the front of the joint midway between the patella and the tubercle of the tibia, to the corresponding situation on the other. Eaise the flap of skin with the subcutaneous tissue thus mapped out, and open the joint by cutting into it above the patella. Divide the lateral and crucial ligaments, and saw off a thin slice of bone from the lower end of the femur and from the upper end of the tibia, taking care not to injure the popliteal artery which lies close to the back of the joint and is only separated from it by the posterior ligament. If possible, the whole of the epiphysis should not be removed. The wound should then be closed with sutures, a small drain being insertedDISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. 278 on each. side. Mr. Morrant Baker secures the articular surfaces in contact by means of steel needles fitted with handles. The needles are passed through the skin and obliquely through the bones on each side of the joint, the handles removed, and the needles left in situ till union has occurred. Others substitute bone pegs for the needles, passing the pegs along the holes made by the needles. The pegs are then cut o:ff short and left in permanently. Tenotomy of the hamstring tendons may be required to bring the bones into apposition if there has been much displacement. The limb should then be placed on a Gant's or other form of excision-splint; but the kind of splint is not very material if the bones are well secured in good position by the pegs in the way described above. After convalescence the knee should be kept for at least a year in a well-fitting leather splint, as there is a great tendency for the bone to yield and the limb to become flexed. The ankle.—Excision of the ankle is too rarely required in practice to call for a description. The results following it, moreover, are so unsatisfactory, that in disease of the ankle-joint either Syme's operation, or amputation through the lower third of the leg, is nearly always done in preference. Arthrectomy however where the bones are not extensively diseased may be tried before resorting to the above procedures. DISEASES OF MUSCLES. Inelammation and abscess.—Inflammation of muscle, or myositis, may be due to a sprain, partial rupture, or other slight injury, or to rheumatism or pyaemia, or it may spread to the muscle from the surrounding tissues. Except in the pysemic form it generally ends in resolution. Signs.—Pain, swelling, rigidity, and more or less fever, followed by signs of an abscess should suppuration ensue. Treatment.—Eest, anodyne liniments to assuage pain, and a free incision if pus forms. GuMMATA may be met with in muscle in the tertiary stages of syphilis. They are said to be especially common in the sterno-mastoid of infants, the subjects of congenital syphilis; but it is probable that many of the localized swellings in the sterno-mastoid of infants are due to partial rupture during birth.279 DISEASES OF TENDONS. Atrophy and degeneration of muscle merely require ,mention. The chief degenerations are—1, simple atrophy; 2, fatty degeneration ; 3, granular degeneration; and, 4, waxy or vitreous degeneration. In simple atrophy the muscles merely waste, but do not lose their striation, and are capable of being restored to their normal condition; whereas the fibres of a degenerated muscle are altered in their anatomical structure, and their function is entirely and permanently lost. Simple atrophy may occur from many causes. It is generally seen in surgical practice as the result of long disuse of a limb, as in chronic joint disease, but it is then usually associated with some amount of degenerative chaiige. Fatty, granular, and waxy degeneration, though sometimes met with singly, are more often found combined in the same muscle. They occur in acute febrile diseases, scrivener's palsy, progressive muscular atrophy, infantile paralysis, pseudo-hypertrophic paralysis, &c. Hypertrophy of muscle calls for no special remark. A familiar example of hypertrophy of the voluntary muscles is seen in the limbs of athletes ; of hypertrophy of the involuntary muscles, in the muscular coat of the bladder which has become thickened in its efforts to over- come the obstruction of a stricture. Ossification of muscle may occur as the result of chronic irritation. As examples may be mentioned the rider^s hone, or ossification of the adductors, occasionally met with in persons who ride a great deal; the drill hone, or ossification of the deltoid in soldiers as the result of shouldering arms; and the ossification of the rectus and other muscles in Charcot's disease of the joints. Tumours.—Although primary tumours are not common in muscle, nearly all varieties except carcinoma have at times been met with. Sarcoma occurs, perhaps, the most frequently. diseases of tendons. Simple teno-synovitis or inflammation of the sheath of a tendon may be acute, subacute, or chronic. It is most frequently met with in the subacute form and in the extensors of the thumb and wrist as the result of over-exertion—a hard day's rowing, and the like. In this situation, it produces an elongated swelling over the extensors of the thumb, and is attended with pain onDISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 280 pressure and movement, and a characteristic creaking sensation. In the acute form suppuration may occa- sionally occur. Treatment.—Best on a splint, painting with tincture of iodine, and strapping will generally suffice. In the acute variety, leeches, or free incision if pus forms, and passive movements to prevent adhesions. In the chronic, counter-irritation in the form of blisters, and pressure by means of strapping followed by elastic support. Ganglion is a simple or compound cyst formed in con- nection with the sheath of a tendon. It is generally due to continued strain or teno-synovitis. A simple ganglion may be produced by—1, the cystic transformation of the cells in the synovial fringes; 2, the dilatation of the sub-synovial follicles; and 3, the pouch-like protrusion of the synovial lining of the tendon through the fibrous sheath, with the subsequent obliteration of the neck of the pouch. Simple ganglia are most common on the extensor tendons at the back of the wrist, but occur in other situations, as the front of the wrist and ankle, and on the sheaths of the flexor tendons near the web of the fingers. They form smooth, generally globular, often translucent, tense or semi-fluctuating moveable swellings, evidently in connection with a tendon, and varying in size from a pea to a pigeon's egg. They contain a clear jelly-like fluid. The only inconvenience to which they give rise is a feeling of weakness in the wrist or fingers; they are seldom attended with pain. Simple ganglia are sometimes simulated by pouch-like protrusions of the synovial membrane of the carpus and tarsus. The deep attachment of these synovial pouches, their non-connec- tion with a tendon, and the concomitant swelling of other parts of the synovial membrane are points which may serve to distinguish them. Treatment.—They may often be broken by pressure with the thumbs; otherwise they may be punctured with a tenotome, the skin being drawn aside to make the opening valvular, and the contents squeezed out. In either case firm pressure must subse- quently be applied by strapping and a bandage. Should they refill, a second puncture may be made, and the interior scarified by the point of the tenotome. This failing, the cyst may be laid open and allowed to granu- late from the bottom, or it may be dissected out. A compound ganglion consists of the dilatation of the sheath of several tendons. It is most common in con- nection with the flexor tendons where they pass under theDISEASES OF TElS'DOlSrS. 281 anterior annular ligament of tlie wrist, and is then spoken of as the palmar bursal ganglion. The walls frequently become thickened and villous-like on their internal surface, whilst melon-seed-like bodies are frequently found free in the interior of the ganglion or attached by slender peduncles to its walls. The fluid contained in the cyst may be clear and serous, or thick and gelatinous, and of a dark chocolate colour. These ganglia have lately been described as arising from a tuberculous degeneration^ of the sheaths of the tendons, similar to pulpy degeneration of a joint, and the tubercle bacillus has been found in them. Signs.—A palmar bursal ganglion forms a tense elastic swelling, constricted at its centre by the anterior annular ligament. The swelling projects both in the wrist and in the palm, and occasionally extends along the flexor tendons of the thumb and little finger. Fluctuation may be ob- tained by pressing alternately above and below the annular ligament. Operative treatment is always attended with some risk—such as stiff wrist or fingers from the glue- ing together of the tendons, suppuration extending up the planes of the flexor muscles into the forearm, acute cellulitis, erysipelas, saprsemia and pyaemia. An opera- tion, therefore, should only be undertaken when necessi- tated by loss of power in the wrist or fingers, and even then not until an attempt has been made to cure the ganglion by pressure, strapping, and counter-irritation. Should an operation become requisite, it is best, in my opinion, to make an antiseptic incision above and below the annular liganfient, squeeze out the melon-seed bodies and insert a drain-tube. If this is done before suppuration has taken place recovery with complete movement may generally be obtained. The forearm and hand should be confined on a splint. Paronychia tendinosa, a variety of whitlow, is an acute infective inflammation of the sheath of a tendon, generally of a finger, more rarely of a toe. It is usually the result of inoculation with a septic or infective poison in a person who is out of health. It may begin in the sheath of the tendon, or in the tissues superficial to the sheath, or in the periosteum of the phalanx. If neglected, very serious consequences may ensue; thus—1, the tendon may die from its blood-supply being cut off by the inflam- matory effusion ; 2, the suppuration may extend into the palm, and under the annular ligament into the forearm ; 3, the inter-phalangeal, carpal, or wrist joint may282 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. become involved in the inflammation and destroyed; 4, the phalanx may necrose; 5, septicaemia or pyaemia may ensue. Signs,—Intense and throbbing pain, acute tenderness on pressure, and swelling and induration of the finger, followed by a similar condition of the palm, and often by great oedema of the back of the hand, which may perhaps extend up the forearm. The lymphatics may become tender and inflamed, and the lymphatic glands in the axilla enlarged. Exhaustion from pain and want of sleep, feverish symptoms, and at times signs of blood-poisoning may ensue. Diagnosis.—Acute septic inflammation of the pulp of the finger is very apt to be mistaken for true thecal whitlow. The diagnosis of these two conditions is most important, since in the former affection if free incisions are made into the inflamed part, leaving the tendon sheath intact, the tendon will be saved, whereas if the affection is mistaken for thecal abscess, and the sheath opened, the septic material will invade the sheath and the tendon will probably be destroyed. The history of the case and the severity of the symptoms will guide us somewhat, but perhaps the most important sign in distinguishing the two aJffections is one pointed out by Mr. Morrant Baker, viz., "the power or the loss of it on the part of the patient of flexing voluntarily the distal phalanx." In true thecal whitlow this power is much impaired or lost, whilst in mere septic inflammation of the pulp, although the finger may appear hopelessly spoiled, it is ' ^ markedly and strongly retained." Treatment,—The chief indication is to relieve tension, and thus prevent the strangulation of the vessels and consequent death of the tendon, and the spread of the inflammation into the palm or to the periosteum covering the phalanx. For this purpose, a free incision is generally recommended in the middle line of the finger extending into the sheath, or to the bone if the periosteum is a:ffected. Mr. Heath, however, advises that the incisions should be made at the side of the finger, but should not in this position open the sheath, since if this is done he says the tendon invariably sloughs. He opens the sheath by a small incision through the palm over the head of the metacarpal bone. Should suppuration occur in the forearm the pus of course must be let out by timely incisions. The pain in the meanwhile will be greatly relieved by placing the whole forearm for several hours at a time in a bath kept283 DISEASES OF FASCIA. at a temperature as high as can be borne. Corrosive sublimate or carbolic acid should be added to the water. A purge at the onset is generally required, and opium is usually needed to relieve the pain. The patient at first should be confined to a slop diet, but later a stimulating plan of treatment is commonly called for. Should any stiffness of the part remain after the inflammation has subsided, an attempt should be made to overcome it by passive movements, massage, &c. Dead bone must be removed when loose, and amputation of the affected finger, or even, in severe cases, of the forearm, may become necessary. DISEASES OF FASCIA. Dupuyteen's contraction of the palmar fascia is the only affection of the fasciae requiring notice. It has been attributed to gout and rheu- matism, and to habits or occu- pations necessitating pressure in the palm, or flexion of the fingers. It is probably of the nature of a chronic inflamma- tion, secondary, according to Mr. Anderson, to inoculation of the subcutaneous connective tissue with a specific germ which he suggests might gain admission by a scratch of the palm by the finger-nail. The affection consists in a shortening of the prolongations of the fascia from the palm on to the sheath of the flexor ten- dons. The tendons themselves are not affected. The contraction generally begins in the fascia of the little or ring finger as a small rounded fibrous nodule, and always at a point where a wound from the nail with the finger clenched might occur, and later may affect that of the middle finger, and at times the fore- finger and also the thumb. The affected fingers (Fig, 77) are drawn by tense bands towards the palm, and in severe Fig. 77. — Dupuytren's contraction of the pal- mar fascia. (From a cast in St. Bartholo- mew's Hospital Mu- seum. )284 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. cases may become fixed in contact with. it. The skin being adherent to the fascia, is thrown thereby into transverse puckers. The affection may be distinguished from a contracted tendon by the latter forming a tight cord, which can be traced under the annular ligament, and by the skin in the case of the contracted tendon being free. In contraction of the fascia, moreover, two tense bands can generally be traced to the sides of the finger, whereas a contracted tendon is centrally placed. Treatment.—Except in the early stages, when steps should be taken to prevent further contraction by suitable splints, elastic tension, &c., subcutaneous division of the affected portions of the fascia, followed by extension, or the excision of the contracted band through an open aseptic incision [Thiersch's method) is requisite. Sub- cutaneous division may be done by single or by multiple puncture. The latter is, in my opinion, preferable if the subcutaneous method is adopted. The punctures should be made opposite the puckers in the skin, not in the creases, to prevent the wounds from gaping when the fascia is stretched. An apparatus should be worn for many months to prevent recontraction. In severe cases I have obtained excellent results by the open incision. After this method, moreover, there is less liability to re-contraction. DISEASES OP BIJES^. BuRS^, wherever situated, and whether existing naturally or formed adventitiously, are liable to become acutely or chronically inflamed. Acute bursitis may occur spontaneously, but is generally excited by injury, or undue pressure as from constant kneeling. The inflammation comes on ra,ther suddenly, the part appearing red, hot and swollen. It is apt to terminate in suppuration, which if timely incisions are not made may become diffuse and phlegmonous. Evaporating lotions, an ice-bag or a few leeches, may, if applied early, check the inflammation; but a free incision must be made as soon as there are signs of suppuration. Chronic bursitis is very apt to occur in bursee that are subjected to continued pressure or irritation, and may lead to several distinct conditions. Thus, 1. Bur see may become simply enlarged and distended with bursal secretion, In this state they form globular, fluctuating,DISEASES OF BtTRSJE. 285 often translucent, tense or flaccid swellings; their walls are but slightly thickened; and there is no heat or red- ness of the skin. 2. They may become enlarged, slightly thickened, and distended tvith a serous or dark fluid con- tcmiing small masses of fibrin resembling melon-seeds. These melon-seed bodies may be formed from extrava- • sated blood, fibrinous deposits, or detached portions of thickened synovial fringes, and their presence may some- times be detected by the crackling sensation they give when the bursa is handled. Sometimes in place of, or together with, melon-seed bodies, fibrous cords are found stretching across the cavity of the bursa. 3. They may become enlarged and their ivalls greatly thickeiied by inflam- matory inflltration, and the deposit of flbrin in their interior, A small central cavity may remain, or they may be solid throughout. They then appear as firm, non-elastic, solid-feeling tumours, and when situated over the tuberosity of the ischium, or in front of the patella, may cause much inconvenience. Treatment,—y^h^u simply enlarged, painting with the liniment of iodine, or strapping will sometimes disperse them. If this fails they should be punctured, the fluid evacuated, the melon-seed bodies, if present, squeezed out, and firm pressure applied. When greatly thickened or solid they must be dissected out. The situations in which these various conditions of the bursse are most frequently met with are: — over the patella, the housemaid^s knee; over the olecranon, the miner^s bursa; over the tuber ischii, the tueaver^s bottom or coachmarts bursa; over the great trochanter; under the semi-membranosus; and under the psoas tendon. Adventitious bursse may also be found under corns or over points of bone subjected to pressure, as the meta- tarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe {bunion), the outer side of the foot in talipes varus, &c. (See Hcdlux Valgus and Talipes.) The bursa patellce is the one which is most frequently affected, and what has been said about diseases of bursse in general applies particularly to it. When acutely and diffusely inflamed it may simulate disease of the knee- joint, from which, however, it may readily be diagnosed by the swelling in the one case being in front of the patella and in the other behind it. A few words may also be added concerning the bu7'sa beneath the send-membranosus. When enlarged it forms a tense or semi-fluctuating ovoid286 DISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. swelling in the popliteal space; but becomes flaccid, or disappears altogether on flexing the knee. Counter- irritation or pressure will generally disperse it. If these fail it may be punctured or incised and drained anti- septically ; but the greatest precaution must be taken to prevent septic changes occurring, as it often communi- cates with the knee-joint. The safest course perhaps is • to dissect out the bursa, ligature the pedicle by which it communicates with the knee-joint, and cut the rest away. DISEASES OF THE ARTERIES. Arteritis or inflammation of the arteries may be acute or chronic. Acute arteritis was formerly thought to be of fre- quent occurrence as an idiopathic affection, but as such it is now known not to exist. Acute traumatic arteritis, however, is very common, occurring as its does in the simple or plastic form in the process of healing of an artery after injury or ligature, or from the presence of a non-infective thrombus; whilst as a septic, infective, or suppurative a:ffection it is occasionally met with as the result of the extension of septic or infective inflammation to an artery from the surrounding tissues, or as the result of the presence of a septic or infective embolus brought by the blood-stream from a like inflammation of a distant part, as the heart in ulcerative endocarditis. Plastic or adhesive arteritis has already been discussed under the Healing of Arteries, Of septic and infective arteritis all that need be said here is that when due to extension from the surrounding tissues it may lead to the softening and giving way of the arterial walls, and, unless a clot forms above and below, to haemorrhage; whilst when due to an embolus it may lay the foundation of an aneurysm, or, more rarely, may lead to the rupture of the vessel. It is believed to be the chief cause of aneurysm in children. Chronic arteritis, familiarly known as atheroma, mainly affects the deeper layers of the intima, not, as a rule, the other coats. Hence it is often spoken of as endarteritis. It is the commonest disease of the arteries, and to some extent is generally present in persons over forty. It is most frequent in the aorta and large vessels, that is, in those containing the greatest amount of yellow287 DISEASES OE ARTERIES. elastic tissue, and is more often met with in the arteries of the lower than in those of the upper limb. Causes.—Mechanical strain or vascular tension is looked upon as the most frequent exciting cause. Thus it is attributed to—1, occupations necessitating severe and prolonged exertion; 2, the abuse of alcohol, which pro- duces an increased and forcible action of the heart; 3, chronic Bright's disease, in which the blood-pressure, in consequence of capillary fibrosis or spasm of the arterioles, is increased; 4, plethora, in which the arterial tension is also raised; 5, syphilis, which is attended by fibroid change in the small vessels and consequent increased vascular tension, and 6, gout, in that it may produce Bright's disease. In addition, however, to the increased vascular tension, to which the above-mentioned conditions may give rise, gout, syphilis, and alcohol may also lead to primary degenerative changes in the coats of the arteries in common with the degenerations they induce in the tissues generally throughout the body, and hence, together with advancing age, and the male sex, men being more exposed to mechanical strains than women, may be looked upon 8iB predisposing as well as exciting causes. Pathology.—Arteritis begins as a small-round-cell in- filtration of the deeper layers of the intima—those next the muscular coat. This gives rise to characteristic greyish-white, slightly-elevated, tough, semi-gelatinous patches on the inner surface of the vessel. The patches, which frequently begin around the entrance of small lateral branches, increase by their edges, and by coalesc- ing with other patches produce extensive tracts of the disease. The inflammatory infiltration in consequence of the absence of new vessels, may undergo—1, fatty, 2, calca- reous, or, 3, fibroid degeneration. 1. The patches formerly grey become yellowish-white, breaking down into a cheesy mass or completely liquefying into a puriform fluid con- sisting of fatty debris, cholesterine-crystals, and minute oil-drops.^ The layers of the intima next the blood are at first continued unbroken over the fatty patch, which is then called an atheromatous abscess. These layers, how- ever, may subsequently give way, leaving the softened and fatty mass in contact with the blood (the atheromatous ulcer). Portions of the fatty material may now be washed away by the blood-stream and become lodged in some of the smaller arteries and capillaries, where they seldom, however, do any harm, as the emboli are non-infective.288 DISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES* At times, however, a larger vessel may become plugged, when gangrene may ensue. As the atheromatous material is washed away by the blood, fibroid thickening of the external coat and sheath of the artery takes place opposite the base of the ulcer, so preventing perforation of the artery ; but as the new tissue is very inelastic it is liable to yield to the pressure of the blood and an aneurysm occur. 2. Instead of the patch undergoing fatty softening lime salts may be deposited in it. This secondary calcifica- tion must be distinguished from the primary calcification to be shortly mentioned. The intima may be continued over the calcareous patch, or it may break away, leaving it exposed to the blood current, thus constituting a nidus for the deposition of fibrin and the formation of a throm- bus, portions of which again in their turn may be washed away by the blood and form emboli. 3. The small-cell- infiltration in the inflamed patch instead of undergoing either of the former changes may advance to the pro- duction of fibrous tissue, and a dense fibroid thickening- result. The effects of chronic arteritis,—1. The artery may be- come dilated, elongated, and tortuous; 2, it may yield at the atheromatous patch, producing an aneurysm; and 3, it may rupture under violence. In addition to the above effects depending upon the loss of elasticity of the vessel, thrombosis and embolism may occur as already stated, and give rise to gangrene, aneurysm, or rupture. Signs.—Except in the superficial vessels, where atheroma is productive of rigidity and a tortuous condition of the artery, it gives no special evidence of its presence. Syphilitic arteritis. — This term is applied to a fibroid change in the arteries occurring during the later stages of syphilis. It is most common in the arteries of the brain. The inner coat is chiefly affected and becomes greatly thickened, so that the lumen of the vessel is almost or entirely obliterated. The change consists in an extensive infiltration of small round cells, which later become developed into an imperfect fibrous tissue. The outer coat is likewise implicated, but to a less extent, while the muscular coat either escapes, or is merely encroached upon by the cells infiltrating the inner coat. The disease is very chronic, and may terminate in thrombosis, or may lead to the formation of an aneurysm. Obliteratiye arteritis, so called, is a rare disease, characterized by great pain spreading up the course ofDISEASES OF ARTERIES. 289 1^ the artery, loss of pulse in the vessel, and often gangrene of the part supplied by it. Its pathology is not known, but there is evidence that points to its depending more on some nerve change than on an inflammation of the artery itself. Primary degeneration of arteries. — We have already seen that fatty, calcareous, and fibroid degenera- tion may follow chronic endarteritis. These changes may, however, occur as primary affec- tions, and may next be considered. Primary fatty degeneration begins in the superficial layers of the intima, immediately under the endothelium. It takes the form of yellowish-white patches, very slightly projecting into the vessel. The patches can be readily stripped oft from the deeper layers, which when thus Gxposed are found healthy; whereas, in atheroma, it is the deeper layers which are the seat of the disease. The disease is attended with no signs, and is of little practical interest. Primary calcification is of more im- portance. It should be distinguished from calcification occurring as a second- ary change in endarteritis. Primary calcification begins in the circular muscular fibres of the middle coat, and is more common in the smaller than in the larger arteries, and in those of the lower than in those of the upper extremity. It is a disease of advancing age, and is a frequent cause of senile gangrene in that the arteries are converted into rigid tubes and the circula- tion through them is in consequence greatly impeded. Thrombosis, moreover, is very liable to occur. In primary calcification the lime salts are deposited in the form of rings (Pig. 78) instead of in irregular patches as in secondary calcification. Fibroid degeneration.—Por a description of this a work on Medicine must be consulted. Fig. 78.—Primary calcification of arteries. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Mu- seum. ) W. u290 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. ANEURYSM. An aneurysm is a tumour containing blood and com- municating with the interior of an artery. Aneurysms may be divided into two main classes, the spontaneous, which are the result of disease of the vessel-walls, and the traumatic^ which are due to a direct injury of the artery and extravasation of blood into the tissues. Here the spontaneous only will receive attention. The trau- matic are described under Injuries of Arteries (p. 209). Spontaneous aneurysm.—Cause.—Aneurysms are most common at that age when the coats of the arteries are liable to be weakened by disease whilst the muscular system is still vigorous, and are chiefly met with among those whose occupations subject them to sudden or irregular strains. Hence, the frequency with which they occur in soldiers, sailors, and the labouring classes, and in men rather than in women. The chief predisposing causes are 1, atheroma, whereby the coats of the artery are softened and unable to resist an increased expansile pres- sure of the blood; and 2, embolism which may lead to in- flammatory changes, and consequent weakening of the arterial walls. Thus the conditions which induce athe- roma and embolism may also be considered as predisposing causes of aneurysm. Of these, however, syphilis, the abuse of alcohol, continued vascular strain, and ulcerative endocarditis may be especially mentioned. The exciting causes are such as produce the rupture or yielding of the diseased coats, either (a) by direct mechanical violence, or {h) by increased blood-pressure in the vessel owing to violent and sudden action of the heart and obstruction by muscular contraction of the capillary flow. Hence, blows or strains, mental emotion, and violent and sudden exertion of all kinds may be mentioned as exciting causes. Process of formation.—An aneurysm may be formed in several ways:—1. By the simple dilatation of a diseased portion of an artery due to the yielding of the softened coats to the expansile force of the blood current. 2. By the giving way of the internal and middle coats at the diseased spot, and the yielding of the external coat to the force of the blood. 3. By the giving way of all the coats at the diseased spot and escape of the blood into the tissues which become.condensed around it to form a sac.291 ANEURYSM. 4. By the giving way of the external and middle coats, and the protrusion of the internal coat through them (very rare); and 5. By the giving way of the internal and part of the middle coats, and extravasation of the blood be- tween the layers of the middle coat. Structure of an aneurysm,—An aneurysm consists of a sac and its contents. The sac may consist—(1) of all the coats of the artery, Fig. 79, A and B; (2) of the external coat only, Fig. 79, c; (3) of condensed tissues external to the artery, Eig. 79, r ; (1) of the internal coat only (very rare), Fig. 79, D ; (5) of the separated layers of the middle coat, between which the blood has been forced, with the external and internal coats on either side (dis- secting aneurysm). Fig. 79, E. The practical point. I ^ A B C D E F Fig. 79.—Diao-rani illustrating the structure of an aneurysm. however, to be borne in mind, is that it is only whilst the aneurysm is small, and then by dissection alone, that these distinctions can be made ; and that as the aneurysm increases in size the tissues around become condensed and blended with the sac, which may finally be formed almost or entirely of these tissues. The contents of the sac.— When an aneurysm is first formed, the sac contains only fluid blood; fibrin, however, is gradually deposited from the blood in concentric layers upon the internal surface of the sac, so that after it has existed some time, the contents are partly solid laminated fibrin, and partly coao:u1ated and fluid blood. Next the wall of the sac the fibrin is laminated, firm and compressed, and of a yellowish-white colour; but towards the mouth of the sac it becomes softer and moister, and of a reddish colour: whil>?t that in contact with the fluid blood merely resembles ordinary blood coagulum. In an aneurysm that has been cured, the whole sac will generally be found thus filled with laminated clot, which has been aptly likened to the u 2DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 292 appearance presented by the section of an onion (Fig. 80). "Where the cure has taken place in a few honrs, it is pro- bable that the greater part of the material filling the sac is merely blood coagulum, as in such instances the time would probably be too short for fibrin to be deposited. Classifioatioj^.—Aneurysms may be divided into the fusiform, the sacculated, and the dissecting. 1. A fusiform aneurysm is a dilatation of the whole circumference of a portion of an artery. The sac consists Fig. 80.—Laminated appearance of the clot filling a consolidated aneurysm of the arch of the aorta. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) of all three coats, and is continuous with the lumen of the artery at each end (Fig. 79, A). The dilated portion of the artery is also elongated, as is well seen in aneurysms of the arch of the aorta, where the three primary branches are much further apart than is natural (Fig. 80). Fusiform aneurysms are most common in arteries that contain much yellow elastic tissue, as the aorta and its primary branches and the contiguous portions of the iliac and femoral arteries. They often attain a large size, and after they have existed some time, frequently become sacculatedTERMINATIOKS OF ANEURYSM. 293 from the unequal yielding of their walls. The walls themselves, though' sometimes thinned, are more often thickened, and are highly atheromatous. Laminated fibrin is seldom found in them, as the circulation does not as a rule become sufficiently retarded to allow of its deposition. 2. A sacculated aneurysm is one in which dilatation occurs in part of the circumference of the artery only {Fig. 79, B, c, and d). It may consist of all three coats; but much more often the internal and middle coats give way, and it is formed of only the external coat, or after it has existed some time, chiefly of condensed cellular tissue around. According as all three coats are or are not present, the aneurysm was formerly spoken of as true or false. As, however, it is only the smallest aneurysms that can consist of all three coats, the true aneurysm could hardly be said ever to occur, and all sacculated aneurysms were then called false—the absurdity of which is self- evident. As these aneurysms increase in size, the sac comes to consist almost entirely of the tissues around. Whilst they are still enclosed by one of the coats of the artery, they are sometimes called circumscribed, and after all the coats have given way, consecutive or diffused (Fig. 79, f). As the term di:ffused, however, is sometimes applied to a leaking or ruptured aneurysm, it had better be dis- continued. Nearly all sacculated aneurysms, when they have existed some time, are of the consecutive variety, and usually contain a considerable amount of laminated fibrin, 3. A dissecting aneurysm is one in which the internal coat of the artery and part of the middle coat have given way, and the blood has been forced between the two layers of the middle coat for a variable distance parallel to the course of the artery (Fig. 79, e). It is most frequent in the arch and thoracic portion of the aorta. The blood may remain between the layers of the middle coat, or it may escape through a rupture of the external coat into the tissues around, or through a rupture of the internal coat lower down the course of the vessel into the lumen of the artery. Terminations.—An aneurysm may terminate in spon- taneous recovery or in death. I Spontaneous recovery may take place:—A. By the gradual deposit of fibrin from the blood in a laminated manner on the walls of the sac, so that the aneurysm is completely con-DISEASES OP SPECIAL I'ISSUES. 294 solidated (Pig. 81, a), and subsequently by condensation and shrinking becomes converted into a small nodular mass of fibrous tissue. The artery under such circumstances may remain pervious, or become converted into a fibrous cord as far as the first collateral branch above and below the seat of the aneurysm. Such a favourable termination may be brought about by the retardation of the blood current induced by—(1) the lowering of the heart's action; (2) the pressure of the aneurysm on the artery above its opening into the sac (Fig. 81, c); (3) the partial blocking of the mouth of the sac with a piece of detached coagulum; (4) the impaction of a piece of clot in the artery below the mouth of the sac (Fig. 81, b) ; (5) the pressure of another aneurysm or of a tumour upon the artery above the sac or Fia. 81.—Diagram to show methods of spontaneous cure of aneurysm. A. by laminated clot, b. by plugging of artery below, c. by pres- sure of aneurysm on artery above mouth of sac, d. by plugging of mouth of sac and formation of passive clot. on the sac itself; (6) the aneurysm rupturing, and the effused blood compressing the artery leading to the aneurysm. B. By the filling of the sac luith ordinary coagulum, the passive clot as it is called, in contradistinction to the deposit of laminated fibrin (the active clot). This coagula- tion of the blood in the sac may be brought about by—(1) the complete blocking of the mouth of the sac by a piece of detached clot (Fig. 81, d), or (2) the complete plugging of the artery above and below the aneurysm. The clot may then undergo the ordinary changes that occur in the so- called organization of blood-clot and be converted into fibrous tissue. C. By the inflammation and sloughing of the sac and the plugging of the artery above and below with clot and the subsequent changes described under the spontaneous arrest of hsemorrhage. A fatal termination may be brought about by—1, rup-SYMPTOMS AND SIGNS OF ANEIJItYSM. 295 ture of the sac ; 2, inflammation and slonghing of the sac attended by haemorrhage; 3, pressure upon important parts; 4, gangrene due to the obstruction to the circula- tion in consequence of the large size of the aneurysm, or to the plugging of a large vessel by a portion of detached clot; 5, general constitutional disturbance. Eupture when it occurs into a serous cavity is generally by a rent or fissure ; into a mucous canal, by a small round ulcera- ted opening; on to a cutaneous surface, by sloughing of the skin covering the sac. In the first case the rupture is generally rapidly fatal from excessive haemorrhage; in the last two, as a rule, only after repeated haemorrhages, the slough having at first a tendency to cause the coagula- tion of the blood and block the opening. Pressure effects.—^The pressure of the sac of an aneurysm may cause,—1, inflammation and condensation of the parts around, which thus become blended with the sac; 2, diminution or obliteration of the lumen of a large vein ; and hence 3, oedema and dilatation of the superficial veins; 4, irritation or interruption of the conducting power of nerves giving rise to pain, spasm, or paralysis; 5, ero- sion of the bones and cartilage; 6, obstruction of the oesophagus, trachea, or thoracic duct. Effect on the circulation.—Hypertrophy of the left ven- tricle of the heart, obstruction of vessels and enlarge- ment of the anastomotic channels, syncope, and gangrene. Symptoms and signs of external aneurysm.—The attention is usually first drawn to the disease by pain, swelling, and a feeling of muscular weakness, or by stiff- ness in a joint. On examination a tumour is discovered in the course of the main artery. It pulsates, and the pulsation is expansile, that is, on placing the hand upon the aneurysm, it is felt at each systole of the heart to enlarge in every direction, or if the hands are placed on either side of the tumour, they are seen to be slightly separated at each pulsation. If the artery on the cardiac side of the tumour can be compressed, the pulsation of the tumour is felt to cease, and the tumour itself to become perceptibly smaller and less tense. On cessation of the pressure, however, it quickly fills again in two or three forcible pulsations, and resumes its former characters. On raising the limb, the pulsation is less forcible; on lowering the limb more forcible, the tumour at the same time becoming more tense. The pulse below the tumour is smaller on the affected than on the sound side, and a296 DISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. spliygmograpllic tracing, if taken, shows the pulse is delayed on the diseased side and diminished in force, the tracing being less abrupt in its rise and more rounded (Fig. 82, b). On listening with the stethoscope, a bruit is heard in most cases. In consequence of pressure on the vein corresponding to the artery, there is often oedema of the part below, and sometimes varicosity of the superficial veins. In internal aneurysms, no tumour may be felt; the signs are then often obscure, and the diagnosis will depend upon the effects the aneurysm produces by pressing upon important parts. Thus, in thoracic aneurysms, there may be pain, dyspnoea, dysphagia, cough, aphonia, dilatation of the pupil on one side, enlargement of the superficial A Fig. 82.—Sphygmographic tracing of the pulse in an artery below an aneurysm (b) compared with that of the pulse on the sound side (a). (After Mahomed.) veins, and oedema of one arm; signs readily explainable by the pressure on the nerves, trachea, bronchi, oeso- phagus, and arteries and veins of the thorax. But for a more detailed account of the symptoms of internal aneu- rysm, a work on Medicine must be consulted. The signs of an aneurysm undergoing spontaneous cure are usually obvious. The tumour decreases in size, and the pulsation in it gets gradually less and finally ceases. At times a rapid cure may ensue ; the pulsation then ceases suddenly, and the tumour is felt to be hard, the patient often complaining of great pain at the moment of con- solidation. The signs of a leaking aneurysm, i.e., an aneurysm in which blood is beginning to be slowly effused into the tissues, are as follows :—The pulsation is less distinct, the outline of the tumour less circumscribed, the growth progressive, and the pressure-signs are more urgent. The signs of sudden rupture of an aneurysm, — 1. If the rupture is into a serous cavity, the signs are those of in- ternal haemorrhage, rapidly followed by death. 2. If into297 TREATMENT OF ANEURYSM. a mucous canal there will be sudden haemoptysis in the case of the trachea or bronchus, hsematemesis in the case of the oesophagus or stomach, melsena, if the patient lives long enough, in the case of the intestine. 3. If the blood is effused into the tissues, there will be pain, faintness, loss of pulsation and bruit, rapid increase in the size of the swelling, oedema, coldness, and cessation of the pulse in the parts below, followed by increasing syncope from loss of blood, or if death does not soon occur, by gangrene. 4. Eupture externally is yery rare ; the signs are evident. Diagnosis.—An aneurysm may have to be diagnosed from simple dilatation of an artery, an abscess or tumour over an artery, a pulsatile tumour of bone, and enlarge- ment of the thyroid gland. In a simple dilatation, there is an absence of bruit. In an abscess or tumour over an artery, the pulsation is not expansile, there is no bruit, and the swelling is not emptied or made less tense on compressing the artery above. A tumour can often be lifted from the vessel. In the case of an abscess, there will probably be a history or signs of previous inflamma- tion. In a tumour raising an artery over it, the pulsation is only felt in the course of the artery, and there is no expansile pulsation in the swelling. In pulsatile tumour of bone, the pulsation is not equally expansile all oyer; and although pulsation is stopped on compressing the artery above, the swelling does not become smaller like an aneurysm, or refill on removal of the pressure in two or three beats of the heart. Portions of expanded bone may also be felt in parts of the tumour, and there may be glandular enlargement and other signs of malignancy. From an enlarged thyroid gland, a carotid aneurysm may be distinguished by the gland moving with the larynx on deglutition. Treatment.—In no disease, perhaps, has an accurate knowledge of its pathology done more to ensure success in treatment than in aneurysm. The older Surgeons, believing that the clot possessed vicious properties, directed their efforts to the emptying of the sac; and it was not until the fact became fully recognized that Nature's method of curing an aneurysm was by filling the sac with organizable clot, that the lamentable results attending the treatment of aneurysm in olden times gave place to the brilliant successes of modern surgery. Our treatment at the present day is therefore directed rather to aiding or promoting Nature's efforts than to thwartingDISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 298 them. Thus, the modern Surgeon> by means of rest, low diet, recumbency, and certain medicines, endeavours to lessen the force of the blood-current through the sac, and thus to aid Nature in the deposition of laminated fibrin. By compression or ligature of the artery between the aneurysm and the heart he aims at diminishing the flow of blood through the artery leading to the aneurysm, and in this manner seeks a like result. By manipulation and the use of the distal ligature, he endeavours to copy the method of spontaneous cure that is sometimes brought about by the plugging of the artery beyond the aneurysm; whilst by flexion, he imitates Nature's method of cure by the pressure of the aneurysm itself on the artery either above or below the sac. The treatment of aneurysm, therefore, may be divided into the medical or general, and the surgical or local. Medical treatment,—Both internal and external aneu- rysms have been cured by medical treatment alone. Indeed, in some forms of internal aneurysm, it is the only means at our command. In external aneurysms, how- ever, local treatment in addition is nearly always expe- dient or necessary. Absolute rest, both bodily and mental, should be enjoined; the patient must lie in bed, and must not move for any purpose whatever, not even to feed himself. The diet should be limited in quantity, unstimulating but nutritious in quality, and the fluid portion restricted as much as possible. The following diet scale is advised by Mr. JollifEe Tufnell:—Bread and butter, 4 ozs. ; meat, 3 ozs.; potatoes, 3 ozs. ; fluid, 8 ozs. in the twenty-four hours. Small repeated bleedings, where there is excessive action of the heart, or the patient is plethoric, may occasionally be useful. Medicines seem to have little efficacy, but iodide of potassium in large doses, acetate of lead, aconite, and digitalis have been recom- mended, either for promoting the coagulation of the blood, or retarding the heart's action. Where there is a history of syphilis, iodide of potassium should certainly be given. Surgical treatment.—In all suitable cases of external aneurysm pressure, when it can be applied between the aneurysm and the heart, should first be tried, aided under certain circumstances by the method of flexion. But these failing, or appearing unsuitable, the artery should be tied, if practicable, on the proximal side, and preferably at some distance from the sac where the artery is more likely to be healthy. Where pressure or ligature cannot be usedl»BESStJEE-TEi2ATMEKT OF ANEUBYsM. ^99 on the proximal side, as for instance, in aneurysms at the root of the neck, it becomes a question whether we should trj^ distal pressure or ligature, scratching the wall with needles {Macewen''s method), manipulation, galvano- puncture, coagulating injections, or the introduction of wire or horsehair; or fall back on medical means alone. In some varieties of traumatic aneurysms where the artery is presumed to be healthy, and in certain forms of aneu- rysm, as gluteal, where a ligature of the artery at a distance from the sac is attended with excessive risk, it may even be expedient to resort to the old method of opening the sac, turning out the clot, and securing both ends of the bleeding vessel by ligature. Each of these methods requires discussion. Before resorting to surgical methods, however, the circulation through the aneurysm should have been previously quieted as much as possible by rest, recumbency, restriction of the diet, and regulation of the secretions. Where the aneurysm is on an artery of the lower extremity, any embarrassment of the venous circulation and consequent oedema that may be present, should be lessened or removed by elevating and lightly bandaging the part. Pressure.—This method of treating aneurysm was known to the older Surgeons, but in consequence of their efforts being directed either to the emptying of the sac by direct pressure upon it, or to the obliteration of the artery leading to it by adhesive inflammation, it was attended with such unfavourable results that it fell into disuse. To the Dublin Surgeons, who recognized the fact that it was not necessary to obliterate the artery in order to cause consolidation of the aneurysm, is due in chief part the credit of reviving treatment by pressure. The object of pressure as now employed, is to produce consolidation of the aneurysm, by the formation of either a laminated, or an ordinary coagulum. The methods of bringing this about may be considered under 1, direct pressure on the aneurysm ; and 2, indirect pressure, either on the artery above, on the artery below, or on both simultaneously. 1. Direct ^pressure is now seldom used, except in as far as flexion may be considered as in part a method of direct pressure, although several successful cases have of late been reported. It will not receive further notice. 2. Indirect pressure, whether applied to the artery above, the artery below, or to both at the same time, may be considered under the heads of—(a.) Digital pressure.300 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. (b.) Instrumental pressure, (c.) Pressure by Esmarch's bandage, (d.) Pressure by flexion of the limb. (a.) Digital pressure, where it can be applied to the artery on the proximal side at some distance from the sac, is undoubtedly the safest and best method of treating an aneurysm; and it is the one, other things being favourable, which should usually first be tried. Its advantages are— 1, that it causes less pain than other forms of pressure; 2, that the artery can be compressed with little or no in- terference with the venous circulation; 3, that it is less liable to injure the tissues; and 4, that in common with other methods of pressure, it does not expose the patient to the dangers of an open wound. It requires a relay of intelligent assistants, acting in pairs and alternately compressing the artery for about ten minutes at a time. Whilst one presses the artery, the other should have his hand on the aneurysm, to ascertain if pulsation is being properly controlled. The fingers of the one assistant should not be removed till the other has taken his place, as the artery must on no account escape compression for a single moment. The pressure of the fingers may be aided by a shot-bag, and the spot at which pressure is applied may be slightly varied from time to time. Opinions differ as to whether the circulation should be completely, or only partially stopped through the artery, and whether the pressure should be continued both day and night, or only during the day. Aneurysms have been cured by digital pressure in a few hours, but some days are usually necessary ; and to obtain success, much care and attention to detail is required. (6) Instrumental pressure may be applied so as only partially to control the circulation through the artery, and thus induce the gradual obliteration of the aneurysm by the deposit of laminated fibrin in the sac {slow pres- sure) ; or it may be applied so as to completely control the flow of blood through the vessel, and induce rapid coagulation in the sac (rapid pressure). The latter method can only be done under an anaesthetic, but has been attended with some brilliant results, especially in cases of abdominal aneurysms. As a rule for external aneurysms, however, the milder measures will suffice, and it is a question if these fail whether it is not better treatment to ligature the artery than subject the patient to further attempts at cure by rapid pressure. Both kinds of pres- sure may be applied by one or other of the many foimsPRESSUEE-TREATMENT OF ANEURYSM. 301 of compressors and tourniquets which have been invented for the purpose (Figs. 83, 84, and 85). It is better when possible to apply the pressure to one artery, though slightly varying its position, than to change from one artery to another, as from the superficial to the common femoral, since by so doing different sets of anastomosing arteries are enlarged, and the collateral circulation may become too free. Cases unsuitable for pressure.—1. Where the aneurysm is of very large size, or is rapidly increasing. 2. Where the sac is thin, contains but little fibrin, and appears Fig. 83.—DeCarte's Fig. 84.—Lister'sab- Fig. 85.—Skey's Tourniquet. dominal Tourniquet. Tourniquet. likely soon to burst. 3. Where there is much oedema from venous obstruction. 4. Where the patient is of an irritable disposition, is intolerant of pain, or has been addicted to the abuse of alcohol. It is considered by some that even if pressure fails good may have been done by causing a deposit of fibrin in the sac, and by enlarging the collateral vessels. By others these advantages are thought to be outweighed by the irritation and disappoint- ment to the patient of failure, and the bruising and injury of the tissues at the situation where the artery will have to be tied. (c.) Pressure by EsmarcJi's bandage {Reid^s method) aims at simultaneously compressing the artery above and below the aneurysm, and thus causing the blood contained in both the aneurysm and the artery to coagulate. TheDISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. 302 elastic bandage, in the case of poiDliteal aneurysm in whicii this method of compression has most often been used, should be evenly applied from the foot as far as the aneurysm ; a turn should be then made over the tumour, so as only lightly, if at all, to compress the sac, and the bandaging then continued firmly half-way up the thigh. The bandage should be kept on for an hour to an hour and a half. The elastic cord should not be used at all. On removing the bandage digital pressure should be kept up on the main artery from thirty-six to forty-eight hours, so as to control the circulation and prevent the clot, while still soft, from being washed out of the artery and sac. The patient must be placed under an ansesthetic during the use of the bandage, as it causes great pain. Many cases have been cured by this method ; but on the other hand there have been many failures, and it is far from being unattended with danger. Thus, gangrene of the limb and rupture of the sac have ensued, and aneurysms of internal arteries have apparently been produced by the prolonged increase of blood-pressure in the rest of the arterial system. {d.) Pressure hy Flexion [Harfs method) consists in flexing the limb so as to compress the artery by the aneurysm in imitation of that form of spontaneous cure which is brought about by the pressure of the aneurysm itself on the artery above and below. It is obviously applicable to aneurysms in but very few situations, and has been most successful in those of the popliteal artery. It may be used either alone, or in conjunction with digital or other pressure, or with medical treatment. LiGATUEE, like pressure, is a very old method of treatment, but to Anel and John Hunter is due the credit of having placed it on a scientific basis. The older Surgeons laid open the sac and turned out the clots, and endeavoured to staunch the haemorrhage by ligaturing the artery above and below the aneurysm. Antyllus, it is true, applied his ligatures before opening the sac; but it was not until centuries afterwards that Anel recog- nised the fact that it was unnecessary to open the sac at all, and tied the artery immediately above the aneurysm. Many years later Hunter perceived that the more or less complete stoppage of the circulation obtained by Anel's method was not necessary, and that the ligature of the artery close to the sac was attended with the risk of secondary hsemorrhage and inflammation of the sac. HeHUOTEEIAN LIGATUEE IN ANEURYSM. 303 therefore applied his ligature at a distance from the aneurysm, where he had observed moreover that the artery was likely to be in a healthier condition. For aneurysms so situated that a ligature cannot be placed on the cardiac side, Brasdor proposed tying the trunk of the artery on the distal side of the aneurysm; whilst Wardrop suggested tying one or two of the terminal branches of the artery on the distal side of the aneurysm where neither Brasdor's operation nor the proximal ligature was applicable. Hence ligature for aneurysm may be applied (Fig. 86), 1. On the peoximal side of the aneurysm either at a distance [Hunter''s method) or immediately above it [AneVs Fig. 86.—Different positions of ligature for Aneurysm. A, Antyllus's method ; b. Anel's ; c. Hunter's ; d. Brasdor's ; and E. Wardrop's. method). 2. On THE DISTAL SIDE of the aneurysm, either to the main trunk {Brasdor^s method), or to one or more of the main branches [Wardrop's method). 3. Immediately above and below the aneurysm, either opening the sac [the old operation), or without opening the sac [Antyllus's method). 1. The peoximal ligatuee. A. Huntee's method.— This operation, when applicable, is the one now almost universally adopted. The chief merits claimed for it are—1. That the artery at the spot selected for ligature is not only more likely to be healthy, but is also more easily tied than the artery in close proximity to the sac, in which latter situation, moreover, its anatomical rela- tions are liable to be disturbed by the aneurysm. 2. That the sac is not interfered with, and hence is less likely to304 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. i become inflamed and suppurate; and 3. That as several branches will probably be given ofl between the liga- ture and the aneurysm, the circulation through the sac, though lessened, will not be com- pletely arrested, and the clot is there- fore more likely to have a laminated, and hence a permanent character. Effects 0ftheproximal ligature.—After the successful application of a ligature by the Hunterian method the pulsa- tion in the aneurysm immediately ceases, and for a time the circulation through the limb is diminished. Hence the temperature becomes lower and the surface pale. Soon, however, the collateral circulation becomes estab- lished, and a faint pulsation may be felt again in the aneurysm; but this recurrent pulsation usually grows less from day to day, and shortly ceases, and the aneurysm slowly shrinks and is finally absorbed, or remains as a small, hard, fibrous mass. The artery leading to the aneurysm may remain pervious, but it more frequently be- comes olDliterated as far as the first collateral branch above and below the sac. The artery on either side of the ligature also becomes obliterated as far as the first collateral branch. This con- dition of an aneurysm and artery after ligature is seen in the accompanying diagram (Fig. 87). The blood passes the ligature by the collateral channels ; re-enters the artery below; passes the obstruction where the artery is closed at the seat of the aneurysm, also by collateral channels ; and then again enters the main artery. Treatment after ligature.—The limb should be completely swathed in the cotton-wool and flannel bandages (which, before the operation, should have already been carried up as far as the seat of the ligature), and kept at perfect rest. In the case of popliteal aneurysm, the limb should be Fm. 87.— Diagram to show the con- dition of the ar- tery and aneu- rysm after the Hunterian liga- ture, and the establishment of the collateral circulation. The arrows indicate the direction of the blood rent. cur-305 DAIN'GERS OF LIGATURE. slightly raised on a pillow, and placed on its outer side, with the knee a little flexed, care being taken that no pressure is made on the heel, malleoli, or other points of bone, for fear of local sloughing. If the weather is at all cold, hot bottles should be applied, near, but not in contact with, the limb. The patient must be kept in bed till the aneurysm is thoroughly consolidated, and the operation wound has healed. The dangers oe ligature.—These are—(a) secondary haemorrhage; (&) gangrene; (c) recurrent pulsation; {d) suppuration and sloughing of the sac; (e) phlebitis; (/) great enlargement of the aneurysm without pulsation; and (g) the other dangers that may attend any open wound. (a.) Secondary hcemorrhage is liable to occur at any period before the wound is soundly healed. The causes, symptoms, and treatment, are discussed under " Haemor- rhage," see p. 135. (&.) Gangrene is more common in the leg than in the arm; indeed, in the latter situation it is yery rare. It may be due to—l, failure of establishment of the col- lateral circulation, when it usually supervenes within a few days; or 2, yenous obstruction, the result of plug- ging of the yein in consequence either of injury at the time of operation, or of pressure on the vein by a swollen and suppurating sac. When due to the latter conditions, it may be delayed for some weeks. When extensive and spreading rapidly, amputation at the seat of ligature must be performed. The surgeon, however, should not be in too much haste to amputate, as the gangrene may involve only a toe or two, or part of the foot, and spread no further. When, therefore, it is limited in extent, and spreading slowly, a line of demarcation should be waited for before amputation is performed. When the sac is yery large, and the gangrene appears to be due to pressure on the yein, the sac may at times be opened with advantage, the clots turned out, and any bleeding vessels secured. (c.) Recurrent "pulsation^ when slight, is a good sign, as it shows that the collateral circulation is becoming established, and, consequently, that the danger of gan- grene is lessened, if not passed. If, however, instead of ceasing, as it usually does in a few days, it becomes more pronounced, the limb should be raised, and carefully bandaged from the foot upwards, and pressure applied to the artery leading to the sac. If this does not suffice, and the pulsation returns as strongly as ever, and the TV. X306 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. aneurysm again begins to increase in size, it is clear that the ligature has failed; and it becomes a grave question what further treatment should be undertaken. Should it appear that a large branch is feeding the aneurysm, this should undoubtedly be secured; otherwise the choice will probably lie between—1, pressure upon the artery and aneurysm; 2, the use of Esmarch's bandage; 3, flexion in the case of a popliteal aneurysm ; or if these fail, 4, tying the vessel either above the aneurysm, or above the former ligature; 5, cutting down upon the sac, and securing both ends of the artery; or 6, amputation. Much will turn on each individual case, but the discussion as to a choice of method is too long to be entered upon here. {d,) Inflammation and suppuration of the sac may be met with after pressure, as well as after ligature; and \ although it may occur after the Hunterian operation, is j more frequent in cases where the ligature has been applied close to the sac, or where rapid pressure has been used, j It appears to be due to—1, the spread of inflammation to | the sac from the wound; 2, the formation in the sac of a soft coagulum; or 3, excessive manipulation before the operation. It is ushered in with redness, heat, pain, and swelling of the sac (which has not undergone the usual process of shrinking), and oedema of the surrounding parts. Later the skin gives way, and a mixture of pus and broken-down coagula escapes. It may be accom- panied by hsemorrhage ; but more commonly the vessel has become sealed and no bleediag occurs. The abscess should be opened as soon as pus has formed, a grooved needle being previously inserted if there is doubt on this point. Should haemorrhage occur, the clots must be turned out, and the artery secured above and below, or amputation performed. (e.) Phlebitis may occur from injury to the vein in passing the aneurysm needle. Should the vein be j pricked, an accident which may be known by venous I blood welling up by the side of the ligature, the^ artery should on no account be tied at this spot, as the ligature would act as a seton in the vein, and death possibly ensue from phlebitis or pyaemia. The ligature, if already passed, should be withdrawn, pressure applied to the vein, and the artery tied higher up. Where this treat- ment has been adopted, I have never seen any ill results follow the injury. B. Anel's opebation is seldom done except where307 anel's operation. the Hunterian method is inapplicable, as for aneurysm in the groin, aneurysm of the upper part of the common carotid, &c. The disadvantages said to attend it are— 1, that the artery is likely to be diseased, and hence there is greater risk of secondary haemorrhage; 2, that its anatomical relations are apt to be disturbed by the contiguity of the sac; 3, that the sac itself is liable to be injured during the operation, and to become inflamed and suppurate; and 4, that the clot which forms in the sac is of the soft or passive variety in consequence of there being no circulation in the sac. Eecently this method has been revived at St. Bartholomew's for the treatment of popliteal aneurysm and the popliteal artery is there now frequently tied. It has been found to diminish the risk of gangrene and holds out a greater certainty of cure. Gangrene is less likely to occur when only the popliteal is obstructed close to the aneurysm than when both the popliteal and femoral are blocked. Eecurrent pulsation and failure after ligature of the femoral are due to too free a supply of blood flowing into the artery below the ligature (Figs. 87, 91); when the popliteal is tied this is prevented. Moreover the popliteal has been found quite as healthy as the femoral, it is easily tied at its upper part without disturbing the sac, and there appear to be sufficient small vessels to ensure some cir- culation in the sac and the formation of an active clot. 2. The distal ligature should only be used where the Hunterian or Anel's method cannot be applied. Brasdor^s method, which consists in securing the main trunk on the distal side of the aneurysm, may be employed in aneurysm of the carotid at the root of the neck. It copies that method of spontaneous cure in which a clot blocks the artery beyond the aneurysm. After the ligature the clot that forms in the artery may extend to the aneurysm, which thus becomes filled by a coagulum; or the blood pressure in the sac may become so diminished that laminated fibrin is deposited. Unfortunately, however, in practice the blood-pressure in the aneurysm appears in some cases to be increased rather than diminished. Wardrop^s method consists in securing two or more of the main branches of the artery on the distal side of the aneurysm. It aims at cutting off part of the blood-stream through the aneurysm, and so, by reducing the blood- pressure, promoting the deposition of laminated coagu- lum. It has been applied to the subclavian and carotid X 2308 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES, arteries for aneurysm of the innominate ; but tlie success attendmg it has not been great. The chief risks are passive enlargement and subsequent bursting of the sac, or inflammation and suppuration of the sac. 3. The double ligatuee.—^Ligature above and below the sac, either, 1, by the old method of first laying the sac open and then securing the bleeding ends of the artery ; or, 2, by the method of Antyllus, of first securing the artery and then laying the sac open, is only employed in exceptional cases. Thus the old method is sometimes resorted to in traumatic aneurysm of the axillary artery in preference to tying the subclavian, and also in gluteal aneurysm where the Hunterian method of tying the common or internal iliac is attended with such terrible risk. The great danger is the patient dying under the operation of haemorrhage. During the operation, there- fore, in the case of the axillary artery, pressure should be made on the subclavian, an incision through the skin and fascia above the clavicle being made to ensure its better control. In the case of the, gluteal, Davy's lever or the abdominal tourniquet should be used. The true method of Antyllus may, in rare instances, be required as in some forms of aneurysm at the bend of the elbow. Manipulation.-—A spontaneous cure, as we have seen (p. 294), is sometimes brought about by the impaction of a portion of clot either in the mouth of the sac or in the artery below. Manipulation of the sac aims at breaking up and displacing the clot in the hope that a portion may become impacted in this way, and so lead to consolida- tion. Sir William Fergusson, who first introduced this method, used it with success, and others have done so likewise. It is far from being unattended with danger, however, since a portion of the clot may be carried away by the blood-stream and become lodged in a vessel leading to an important organ, as the brain. It should, there- fore, only be tried when other means are impracticable or appear attended with even greater risk. Irritation of the interior of the sac by needles (Macewen's method).—This method aims at so irritating the walls of the aneurysm as to induce slight inflamma- tion and the formation of white thrombus. The skin having been made aseptic, long needles are forced into the sac and the walls systematically scratched all round the aneurysm. It is applicable to aneurysms where pressure or proximal ligature cannot be employed. Con-ANEURYSM AT ROOT OF NECK. 309 solidation occurs very slowly. Our experience of this method is at present very limited. In a case of aneurysm at the root of the neck in which I tried it the results were such as to lead me to think it has a future. GrALVANO-PUNCTURE, INJECTIONS OF PERCHLORIDE OF IRON, TANNIN, and the like, and the introduction of FOREIGN BODIES as HORSEHAIR or IRON WIRE, which have all for their object the coagulation of the blood in the sac, are highly dangerous procedures, and have not hitherto been attended with much success. SPECIAL ANEURYSMS. Internal aneurysms falling as they do under the care of the Physician rather than of the Surgeon, will be referred to only in as far as an aneurysm of the arch of the aorta, of the innominate, of the first portion of the subclavian, and of the portion of the left common carotid within the chest may present as a pulsating tumour at the root of the neck, and as such may call for surgical treatment. Aneurysm at the root of the neck.—-The dif- ferential diagnosis of aneurysm in this situation is always difiicult, at times impossible. Indeed the aneurysm may involve more than one artery, perhaps all three of the main branches of the aortic arch, and even the arch itself as well. The sign common to all forms, whatever the artery implicated, is a pulsating tumour at the root of the neck, in whicn a loud bruit can generally be heard. When the aneurysm involves the aorta, it generally presents just above the suprasternal notch, and there are symptoms within the chest of the aorta being affected. When the innominate is implicated, the aneurysm pro- jects between the two heads of origin of the sterno- mastoid muscle; and the pulse in the temporal and radial arteries is smaller on the right than on the left side, and is aneurysmal in character. (See p. 296.) When the aneurysm involves the common carotid, it presents beneath the inner head of the sterno-mastoid, and tends to extend upwards in the neck by the side of the trachea; the bruit is transmitted up the carotid, and the pulse in the tem- poral is smaller on the affected than on the sound side and is aneurysmal; but the pulse in the radial is the same on both sides. When the subclavian is involved the tumour is external to the sterno-mastoid; it extends inDISEASES OE SPECIAL TlSStTES. 310 the direction of the subclavian arterjr; the bruit is trans- mitted towards the axilla; and the pulse at the wrist is diminished in volume and is aneurysmal. Such is a brief outline of the di:fferential diagnosis of these aneurysms; but there are many other signs due to the pressure of the aneurysm on the veins, nerves, oesophagus, trachea, &c., which have to be taken into account, and which it is evident the size of this work does not permit to be dis- cussed. Treatment.—When the aneurysm is aortic medical means alone must be relied on. When the innominate is involved, Macewen's method of scratching the interior of the sac with needles should certainly first be tried. This failing, medical means and pressure on the carotid or distal ligature of the carotid and subclavian arteries simultaneously may be employed. If these do not prove successful or are impracticable owing to the large size of the aneurysm, nothing is left but the desperate resort to galvano-puncture or the introduction of iron wire. When the carotid or subclavian is affected, Macewen's method and medical means may also in the first instance have due trial; afterwards, in the case of the carotid, distal compression or ligature may be tried; and in the case of the subclavian distal compression or ligature if practicable, direct pressure on the sac, or the terrible expedients of amputation at the shoulder-joint, ligature of the innominate, manipulation, galvano-puncture, in- jection of coagulants, or the introduction of iron wire. Carotid aneurysm at the root of the neck has just been alluded to. Aneurysm of the common trunk higher in the neck presents the ordinary signs of aneurysm, and in this situation has to be diagnosed from—1, simple dilatation of the artery at its bifurcation; 2, enlarged glands; 3, abscess or tumour over the artery; 4, pulsating goitre. In simple dilatation there is no bruit; in enlarged glands and tumours there is also no bruit, the pulsation is not expansile, and ceases when they are lifted up from the vessel; in abscess, in addition to the absence of the above signs, there is the history or presence of inflamma- tion ; in pulsating goitre the tumour moves up and down "with the larynx on deglutition. The treatment consists in pressure or ligature of the artery below the aneurysm, or if there is not room in this situation, distal ligature. Aneurysm oe the external and internal carotids requires no special mention. Pressure or ligature of the common carotid is the treatment generally indicated.SPECIAL ANEURYSMS. 311 Orbital aneurysm.—Several conditions may giye rise to the group of symptoms to wliich the name '' orbital aneurysm" has been applied. In only one instance has the existence of a circumscribed aneurysm in the orbit been verified by an autopsy. In the other cases that have proved fatal the following conditions were found :— 1. Thrombosis of the cavernous sinus. 2. Communica- tion between the carotid artery and cavernous sinus. 3. Dilatation of the carotid artery. 4. Aneurysm of the ophthalmic artery within the cranium. The general symptoms are:—pulsation over the whole or part of the orbit; protrusion of the eyeball with loss or impairment of sight; more or less pain; and a loud bruit which can also often be heard by the patient himself. The differen- tial diagnosis of the several conditions producing these symptoms is one of great difficulty and cannot be entered upon here. Treatment.—The symptoms have been known to subside spontaneously. Where they have not done so ligature of the carotid has been attended with the best results. Injection of perchloride of iron has been re- commended, but I should hesitate to use it myself for fear of venous thrombosis and embolism. "Where the pulsation has followed a punctured wound of the orbit it has been advised to extirpate the globe and secure the bleeding vessel in the orbit. In a case of the kind recently under the care of my colleague, Mr. Power, ligature of the common carotid was attended with perfect success. Axillary aneurysm is not uncommon as the result of sprains, or of attempts to reduce long-standing disloca- tions of the shoulder. The diaqno sis^ as a rule, presents no difficulty except the aneurysm has become diffused, when it may be mistaken for abscess. Treatment.—1. When the aneurysm is spontaneous, small, and well- circumscribed, pressure or ligature of the third part of the subclavian should be practised. 2. When more or less diffused, as when the result of an injury to the artery in the reduction of a dislocation, the aneurysm should be cut down upon, the clots turned out, and the vessel secured above and below. If this operation is decided on, an incision should be made over the subclavian artery through the skin and fascia, so that pressure may be made on it more directly, and the circulation through the aneurysm during the subsequent operation better controlled. A small incision is then made over the312 DISEASES OP SPECIAL TISSUES. aneurysm, two fingers are introduced into it, and placed on tlie bleeding spot in the artery, wMcli may be known by the hot arterial blood issuing from it. An assistant in the meantime enlarges the wound, turns out the clots, and helps the Surgeon to tie the artery aboye and below the rupture-before the fingers are removed. This method is less dangerous than that practised by Syme, who made a free incision over the aneurysm, rapidly turned out the clots, and seized with forceps the bleeding point in the artery. 3. Where the aneurysm is of great size and involves the subclavian, Macewen's method may be em- ployed or the first part of the subclavian or the innomi- nate may be ligatured, or iron wire introduced, galvano- puncture or manipulation tried, or amputation at the shoulder-joint performed. Space does not permit of a discussion of the cases in which one or other of these methods is the more suitable. All, however, with the exception of Macewen's method, are desperate expedients. Aneurysms at the bend oe the elbow were formerly common when venesection was in vogue, and were then generally arterio-venous in character (see p. 210). Gluteal aneurysm is the term applied to aneurysm of the gluteal artery itself, the sciatic, or the pudic where it winds over the spine of the ischium. Aneurysms in this situation may be the result of a wound or other injury, or may occur spontaneously. They iare frequently attended with pain and interference with the movements of the hip-joint. The pulsation and bruit will generally serve to distinguish them, but there may be no pulsation, as where the aneurysm has burst, or blood has been effused into the tissues as the result of a wound of the artery; a tumour of bone, moreover, may also pulsate. Under such circumstances, exploration with a grooved needle will be necessary. Treatment.—When of traumatic origin, an incision should be made over the tumour, the clots turned out, and the bleeding vessel secured, the haemorrhage during the operation being controlled by pressure on the common iliac by Davy's lever or by the hand in the rectum. When spontaneous, the internal iliac may have to be tied if the aneurysm encroaches on that vessel within the pelvis—a point which may perhaps be determined by exploring with the hand in the rectum. Before, however, resorting to ligature of the internal iliac, Macewen's method or compression of the abdominal aorta or common iliac, and carefully applied direct pressure on the313 SPECIAL ANEUEYSMS. swelling, should be tried. Galvano-puncture and the introduction of coagulants have been employed success- fully in this aneurysm. Inguinal aneurysms are those which involve either the termination of the external iliac, or the commence- ment of the femoral. They may extend either upwards along the course of the iliac into the abdomen, or down- wards in the course of the femoral into the thigh. They may have to be diagnosed from enlarged inguinal glands over the artery, tumours, especially pulsating tumours of the pelvic bones, and abscesses. From abscess and tumour they may be distinguished by the signs already several times alluded to. Their diagnosis from pulsating tumours of bone is often very difficult, and the external iliac has before now been tied by the most skilful Surgeons under the impression that such a tumour was an aneurysm. The diagnostic points have already been given under Fulsatile Tumours of Bone and Diagnosis of Aneurysm (pp. 249, 297). Treatment.—1. When the aneurysm is of moderate dimensions, and involves only a small portion of the external iliac, this vessel should be tied, or if preferred, an attempt may first be made to compress it. 2. Where there is apparently not room to apply a ligature to the vessel, rapid compression of the abdominal aorta may be employed, combined in some cases with distal pressure. 3. Where there is not room for the tourniquet on the aorta, medical means must be relied on, or Macewen's method tried. This failing the common iliac may be tied; or the desperate experiment made of tying the aorta, or injecting coagulants, or pass- ing iron wire into the sac. On the whole if pressure or Macewen's method fail, ligature of the common iliac by the intraperitoneal method perhaps holds out the best chance of success. Eemoral aneurysm requires no special remark other than that when situated in Hunter's canal, the femoral should be compressed or tied in Scarpa's triangle. When' situated in Scarpa's triangle, the external iliac may be treated in the same way. In either situation Esmarch's bandage may be used if this method of treatment com- mends itself to the Surgeon's judgment. Popliteal aneurysm.—The frequency of aneurysm in this situation is attributed to—1, the bifurcation of the popliteal artery into the anterior and posterior tibial whereby the circulation through it may be slightly ob -DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 314 stmcted, or an embolus be readily impacted; 2, the artery being unsupported by muscles, and in contact with tbe bone; 3, the strain on the artery in the movements of the knee-joint; 4, the compression that may be exerted on the end of the artery by the strong fascia of the soleus muscle. A popliteal aneurysm is not usually difficult to diagnose; but should it become diffused, suppurate, or break into the knee-joint, it may be mistaken for a malig- nant tumour of the bones, an abscess, or an affection of the joint. The history of the case, the consideration of the diagnostic signs of aneurysm already given, and the introduction of a grooved needle into the knee when blood has been effused into the joint, will usually clear up any doubt as to the nature of the affection. Treatment.— Little need be added here to what has already been said on the general treatment of aneurysm, as such especially applies to aneurysm in this situation. Flexion, combined with appropriate medical treatment, is often successful; and digital and instrumental compression are especially applicable to this aneurysm, or an Esmarch's bandage may be used if preferred. These methods failing or not being considered advisable, the popliteal in the upper part of its course or the femoral artery in Scarpa's triangle should be tied. The operation of tying should be done at once under the following circumstances:—1. When the aneurysm is rapidly increasing in size, leaking, or threaten- ing to burst. 2. When the aneurysm is inflamed but has not suppurated. 3. Under some circumstances when it has burst into the knee-joint. 4. When the limb is oedematous, showing that the vein is being seriously com- pressed. 5. When the patient is of an irritable disposi- tion, addicted to alcohol, and impatient of control. Amputation, on the other hand, is, as a rule, called for.— 1. If the aneurysm has burst; 2. If gangrene has set in; 3. If suppuration attended with profuse haemorrhage has occurred ; and 4. If the knee-joint is disorganized. LIGATUHE or APvTERIES. The ligature of arteries requires a knowledge of their relational anatomy and of the position and appearance of the various structures which serve as guides to them. Such a knowledge can only be gained in the dissecting- room, and by the frequent practice of operations on the315 dead body. Here only the chief rules that should guide us in applying a ligature, and a short account of the methods of tying the more important arteries, can be given. General rules for ligature:—1. The incisions should generally be made parallel to the course of the artery, and the skin divided evenly to promote union by first in- tention. 2. Each successive cut through the underlying tissues should be made the same length as that through the skin, and bruising of the parts avoided as much as possible. 3. The sheaths of muscles and tendons should not, if possible, be opened. 4. The sheath of the vessel having been exposed and the artery felt pulsating with the index finger, the sheath should be pinched up with forceps and opened by cutting with the blade of the knife on the flat. 5. The sheath being opened, it must be separated from the artery in the whole of its circum- feretLce, either by careful dissection with the knife turned with its edge from the artery, or by the director insinuated by a gentle to and fro movement between the sheath and the artery. If this part of the operation is not done very delicately, too much of the sheath in the long axis of the artery will be separated, and there will be danger of secondary haemorrhage from cutting off of the blood supply which the vessel receives from its sheath. 6. Having separated the sheath, one side of it should be seized with the forceps and the needle passed, unthreaded, between it and the artery, and the point, by a gentle to and fro movement, carried round the vessel without injuring or including any of the contiguous structures. It should always be passed from the side on which the vein lies. 7. When the point of the needle projects on the opposite side, it should be cleared from any loose cellular tissue of the sheath it may have carried before it by scratching with the finger-nail, or cutting on the needle with the edge of the scalpel directed from the artery. 8. The artery should be gently pressed between the curve of the needle and the finger to ascertain that no other structure is included, and that pressure controls the pulsation in the aneurysm. 9. The needle should now be threaded with the ligature which is carried round the artery as the needle is y/ithdrawn; the ligature should then be tied in a reef knot and its ends cut off short. 10. Should much of the sheath have been unavoidably separated from the artery, two ligatures had better beDISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. 316 passed, and the artery divided between them. I question if this will not always be found the safer method : it is now the one always used by myself and by several of my colleagues at St. Bartholomew's. 11. Some form of aseptic ligature should be used, as silk, chromicized catgut, ox-aorta, or kangaroo-tail tendon, but the best material can hardly be said to have been determined. I have always used kangaroo-tail tendon myself, and have found it answer admirably. 12. The wound should be accurately united, drained if deep, and dressed antiseptically. Ligature oe special artekies.—The common caro- tid ARTERY may require tying for—1. Wound of the artery; 2, a punctured wound near the angle of the jaw or tonsil; 3, aneurysm of the upper part of the artery or of one of its branches ; 4, orbital, intracranial and cirsoid aneurysm; and 5, aneurysm at the root of the neck (distal ligature). The artery may be tied either above or below the omo-hyoid. When practicable it should be tied above, as it is here more superficial, and the risk of suppuration ex- tending beneath the deep fascia into the chest is avoided. The high operation, or ligature above the omo-hyoid. Make an incision three inches in length with its centre opposite the cricoid cartilage, along the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, i.e., in a line drawn from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process (Fig. 242, i). Divide the skin, superficial fascia, platysma and deep fascia. Draw the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid gently outwards, and the artery will be felt pulsating in the angle formed by the omo-hyoid with the sterno- mastoid. Open the sheath on its inner side, and pass the aneurysm-needle from without inwards to avoid injuring the vein which slightly overlaps the artery on its outer side, and keep its point close to the vessel lest the pneumo- gastric nerve be included in the ligature. The small descendens noni nerve runs superficial to the sheath, and if seen, should be avoided. The superior thyroid, lingual and facial veins cross the artery to open into the internal jugular vein. Should they impede the operation, divide them, having first applied two ligatures. The low opera- tion, or ligature below the omo-hyoid. Make an incision in the same line as for the high operation but lower in the neck. Draw the sterno-mastoid outwards and the sterno-hyoid and thyroid inwards and the artery will beLIGATURE OF ARTERIES. 317 felt beating in the angle formed by the omo-byoid with the sterno-tbyroid. Pass the needle as before from without inwards, taking especial care not to injure the vein which on the left side slightly overlaps the artery. The head should be kept fixed after ligature by sand bags or some form of splint. The chief dangers after ligature are—1. Cerebral mischief from partial cutting of£ of the blood supply to the brain; 2, a low form of pneumonia from interference with the blood supply of the pneumo- gastric centre; 3, suppuration descending into the mediastinum; and 4, suppuration of the sac when tied for aneurysm. The collateral circulation (Fig. 88) is carried on by the anastomosis of—1. The vertebral with the opposite vertebral. 2. The inferior with the superior thyroid. 3. The internal carotid with the opposite internal carotid through the circle of Willis. 4. The deep cervical with the princeps cervicis. 5. Branches of the external carotid with the corresponding branches of the opposite side across the middle line of the neck. The external and internal carotid arteries may be tied by an incision similar to that for the common carotid, but higher in the neck. A point to remember is that the internal carotid is in position at first external to the external carotid and of larger size. The lingual artery may require ligature for haemor- rhage in cancer of the tongue, and as a preliminary to excision of the tongue. Make an incision along the greater cornu of the hyoid bone (Fig. 242, g), divide the skin, superficial fascia and platysma; hook up the submaxillary gland, and a few touches of the director will expose the triangle bounded below by the anterior and posterior belly of the digastricus and above by the hypoglossal nerve. Scratch cautiously through the muscular fibres of the hyo-glossus which forms the floor of this triangle, taking care not to injure the lingual vein which is super- ficial to the muscle: the lingual artery will be seen or felt lying upon the middle constrictor of the pharynx. The vessel, however, is often abnormal, and consequently may not be found in the usual situation. The facial artery is readily tied at the anterior edge of the masseter, where it can be felt beating. It lies anterior to its vein. The superior thyroid artery can seldom require tying except for wounds of the neck, as '* cut throat," and as a preliminary to removal of the thyroid body.318 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. The temporal arteey may require ligature for cir- soid aneurysms or a wound of tlie vessel. It can be readily secured at the spot where it is felt beating as it Fig. 88.—Diagram to show the collateral circulation after ligature of common carotid, subclavian and axillary arteries. A. Common carotid ; b. Internal carotid ; c. External carotid ; d. Vertebral ; E. Circle of Willis ; f. Basilar ; a, Subclavian ; h. Thyroid axis ; I. Inferior thyroid; j. Superior thyroid; k. Occipital; l. Princeps cervicis; m. Deep cervical; Transversalis colli; o. Suprascapular; p. Posterior scapular ; Q. Dorsalis scapulae ; r. Infrascapular ; s. Subscapular ; t. Long thoracic ; u. Short thoracic ; v. Superior intercostal; x. Internal mammary ; y. and z. Aortic intercostals. crosses the zygoma just in front of the external auditory meatus (Fig. 242, h, p. 628). The subglayian" aktery may be tied in the third partLIGATURE OF ARTERIES. 319 of its course for—1, axillary aneurysm ; 2, aneurysm at the root of the neck (distal ligature); 3, ruptured axillary artery; 4, secondary haemorrhage after amputation at the shoulder-joint; and 5, as a preliminary to the latter operation. The head having been drawn well back, the face turned to the 0]3posite side and the shoulder depressed, draw^ down the skin over the clavicle, make an incision along the middle third of that bone through the integuments and platysma, so as to avoid injuring the external jugular vein, and let the tissues slip up again (Fig. 242, f). Next divide the deep fascia on a director, and the posterior edge of the sterno-mastoid will be exposed. Hold aside or divide if necessary the external jugular or any other vein that may be in the way, but do not injure the suprascapular artery, as this is one of the chief vessels by which the collateral circulation will subsequently be carried on. Search with the finger and director for the scalene tubercle in the triangle bounded by. the omo-hyoid above, the clavicle below, and the scalenus anticus on the inner side; the artery will be felt pulsating behind the tubercle. It has the vein in front of it, but on a lower plane, and the brachial plexus above it. Pass the needle from above downwards. The artery, if necessary, may be tied in the second part of its course by extending the incision inwards and partially dividing the scalenus anticus. Ligature of the first part has been so uniformly fatal hitherto that it will not be described. The principal accidents that may occur during ligature of the subclavian in the third ^ part of its course are—1, injury of the external jugular vein or other veins, and profuse venous haemorrhage; 2, wound of the sac of the aneurysm; 3, puncture of the pleura; 4, inclusion of a cord of the brachial plexus ; 5, injury of the phrenic nerve. The chief dangers after liga- ture are pleurisy, secondary haemorrhage, and suppuration of the sac. The collateral circulation (Fig. 88) after liga- ture of the third portion is carried on by—1, the supra- scapular and posterior scapular arteries anastomosing with the infra-scapular, subscapular, and dorsalis scapulae arteries; 2, the internal mammary, superior intercostal and aortic intercostal arteries anastomosing with the long and short thoracic arteries. The axillary artery can seldom require ligature except for wound or rupture (p. 203). In its continuity it may be tied in the first, second, and third part of its course. In the third part it can be readily secured byDISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. 320 Fia. 89.—Diagram to show the collateral circulation after ligature of the axil- lary, brachial and radial and ulnar arteries. a. Brachial ; b. Eadial ; c. Ulnar ; d. Superior pro- funda ; E. Inferior pro- funda ; F. Anastomotica magna ; g. Eadial recur- rent ; H. Interosseous re- current ; ic Anterior and K. posterior ulnar recur- rent ; J. Axillary; l. Com- mon interosseous; m. Pos- terior interosseous; n. An- terior interosseous ; o. o. Anterior and posterior car- pal ; P. Deep palmar arch ; Q. Superficial palmar arch ; R. Posterior circumflex; s. Subscapular. making an incision, with the arm raised, through the skin and fascia along the inner border of the coraco-brachialis and biceps (Fig. 90, b). In the first and second parts of its course it lies below the pec- toral muscles, and to expose ^ it so deep a dissection is re- quired, that ligature of the subclavian is preferable. The collateral circulation (Figs. 88 and 89) after ligature of the first portion of the axillary is carried on by the same vessels as after ligature of the third part of the subclavian. After ligature of the third part of the axillary it is carried on by the anastomosis of small branches of the subscapular and circumflex above with similar branches of the supe- rior profunda below. The BRACHIAL ABTERY may require ligature for—1, wound of the artery; 2, aneurysm at the bend of the elbow; 3, wound of the palma^r arch. It may be tied in any part of its course. Make an incision (Fig. 90, c), along the inner edge of the biceps in a line drawn from the anterior fold of the axilla to the middle of the bend of the elbow through the integuments and deep fascia, avoiding the basilic vein which lies over the course of the artery but superficial to the fascia. The median nerve crosses the artery along the middle of its course from with- out inwards. At the lend^ of the elhow make the incisionLIGATURE OP ARTERIES. 321 r obliquely from within outwards (Fig. 90 d) and divide the semilunar fascia of the biceps; the artery will be found between the tendon of the biceps on the outer side and the median nerve on the inner side. The collateral circulation (Fig. 89) when the artery is tied above the superior profunda is like that after ligature of the third part of the axillary (p. 320). "When tied below the superior profunda it is carried on chiefly by the anastomosis of this vessel with the radial and interosseous recur- rent and the anastomotica magna; when tied below the inferior profunda by the additional anasto- mosis of this vessel with the posterior ulnar re- current. The RADIAL AND ULNAR ARTERIES may be tied for —1, aneurysm of either vessel, or, 2, wound of the palmar arch; but it is a question whether ligature of the brachial is not preferable in the latter case, as the anasto- mosis between the radial and ulnar and the carpal and interosseous arteries is so free (Fig. 89). Both arteries in the case of a wound of the palmar arch need to be tied. This is best done at the ivrist where they are superficial and can be felt pulsating. The radial lies between the supinator longus and the flexor carpi radialis; the ulnar between the innermost tendon of the flexor sublimis digitorum, and the flexor carpi ulnaris, by which it is slightly over- lapped. An incision about an inch long through the integuments and deep fascia parallel to the course of either vessel, is all that is necessary to expose them. (Fig. 90, g, h). In the case of the ulnar, however, the flexor W. Y Fig. 90.—Lines of incision for ligature of arteries of the upper extremity.322 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. carpi ulnaris may have to be held aside. The aneurysm needle should be passed from the ulnar to the radial side to avoid the nerve which lies to the ulnar side. In the case of the radial, the needle may be passed either way as the radial nerve at the wrist is not in contact with the artery. No harm will ensue if the vense comites are tied with their respective vessels. The radial artery in the upper third lies deeply between the supinator longus and pronator radii teres. Make an incision 90 e) in a line drawn from the middle of the bend of the elbow to half an inch internal to the styloid process of the radius. Separate the muscles and the artery will be exposed. The radial nerve in this situation is some distance to the outer side of the artery. Ligature of the ulnar in the upper third is more difficult as it lies beneath the super- ficial flexor muscles. Make an incision (Fig. 90 f) four inches long in a line drawn from the front of the internal condyle to the radial side of the pisiform bone. Seek the interval between the flexor carpi ulnaris and the flexor sublimis digitorum. Separate these muscles and the ulnar nerve will be seen. Work superficial to the, nerve and the artery will be found between the flexor sublimis and flexor profundus digitorum. For Collateral circula- tion after ligature of the radial and ulnar arteries, see Fig. 89. , The external iliac autery may require ligature for:—1. Aneurysm in the groin; 2, secondary haemor- rhage from the femoral; 3, a wound of the vessel itself. A Ime drawn from half an inch below and a little to the left of the umbilicus to the middle of Poupart's ligament indicates its course. Make a curved incision beginning a little external to the centre of Poupart's ligament up- wards and outwards for about three inches towards the anterior superior spine of the ilium (Fig. 253, c). Divide the skin, superficial and deep fascia, and the aponeurosis of the external oblique; cut more carefully through the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, and the fascia transversalis will be exposed. Divide this on a director, taking care not to injure the peritoneum. Separate the peritoneum gently from the psoas muscle, and let an assistant press it carefully upwards and in- wards. The artery will now be felt beating at the inner part of the wound along the inner border of the psoas. Pass the aneurysm needle from within outwards to avoid injuring the vein which lies to the inner side of the323 LiaATITRE OF AKTEHIES. artery. The small crural branch of the genito-crural nerve lies on the artery, and the circumflex iliac vein and vas deferens cross it just be- fore it passes under Poupart's ligament. The chief accidents that may occur during liga- ture are:—1.- Injury of the peritoneum; 2, wound of the vein; 3, wound of the sper- matic cord; 4, wound of the epigastric artery ; and 5, puncture of the circumflex iliac vein. The chief dangers after ligature are :—1, Gran- grene of the limb; 2, peri- tonitis ; 3, secondary haemor- rhage. Should secondary haemorrhage occur, carefully applied pressure must be tried. If this fails, nothing is left but the desperate expedient of cutting down on the bleed- ing vessel and trying to secure it. Davy's lever should be used to control the haemor- rhage during the operation. The peritoneum will be pro- bably opened, and success can hardly be hoped for. The collateral circulation (Pig. 91) is carried on chiefly by the anastomosis between the in- FiG. 91.—Diagram of the collateral circulation after ligature of ' the common iliac, external and internal iliac, femoral, pop- liteal, and arteries of the leg. a. Common iliac ; b. External iliac ; c. Internal iliac ; d. Last lumbar ; e. Ilio-lumbar ; f. Epigastric; G. Circumflex iliac ; h. Obturator ; i. Gluteal; j. Lateral sacral; K. Sciatic ; l. external circumflex ; m. Profunda ; n. Internal circumflex; o. Femoral ; p. Comes ischiatici; qqq. Perforating ; R. Anastomotica magna ; ss. Superior articular; tt. Inferior articular ; u. Tibial recurrent ; v. Popliteal; w. Anterior tibial; X. Posterior tibial; y. Peroneal. Y 2324 DISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. ternal mammary and deep epigastric; the ilio-lumbar and circumflex iliac; the gluteal and external circumflex; the obturator and internal circumflex; the sciatic and the superior perforating and internal circumflex. The common iliac artery has been ligatured for aneurysm of the external iliac and for gluteal aneurysm ; the INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY, also for gluteal aneurysm. Both may be reached by prolonging the incision for liga- ture of the external iliac, and both have recently been tied through the peritoneum. Both operations were formerly attended with the most unfavourable results, but of late there have been several successful cases in which the abdomen has been opened in the middle line, the intestines drawn aside and the vessels exposed by scratching through the peritoneum. For collateral circulation see Fig. 91. The superficial eemoral artery may be ligatured for :—1. Wound of the artery itself; 2, popliteal aneurysm; 3, haemorrhage from a wound of one of the tibials. The ligature may be applied either in Scarpa's triangle or in Hunter's canal. In Scarpa's triangle the artery is usually tied at the apex where the sartorius touches the adductor longus. If thought necessary, the line of the sartorius may be marked on the skin with lunar caustic by putting the muscle in action before the patient is ansesthetized. Slightly flex the leg, and place the thigh on its outer side in a position of slight abduction and flexion. A line drawn from a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine to the ad- ductor tubercle in this position indicates the course of the artery. (Fig. 92 a.) Make an incision about three inches long in this line, beginning about four inches below Poupart's ligament; cut through the skin and superficial fascia, and divide the deep fascia on a director. Draw the sartorius gently outwards and the sheath of the vessel will be exposed. Open this in the usual way, avoidiug the small branch of the internal cutaneous nerve which crosses the artery at this spot. Pass the aneurysm needle from within outwards to avoid injuring the vein which lies to the inner side of, and a little posterior to, the artery. In Hunter^s canal the same line as the above indicates the course of the vessel (Fig. 92 b.) Place the limb as before, and make an incision three or four inches long in the line of the artery in the middle third of the thigh. Divide the superficial and deep fascia, and the sartorius will be exposed. It may be known by325 LIGATURE OF ARTEEIES. extremity. its fibres running downwards and inwards. Draw the muscle to the inner side, and the aponeurotic covering of Hunter's canal (known by its strong transverse fibres) will be seen. Divide it on a director, and the artery will be found lying between the vastus internus on the outer side and the adductor longus and magnus on the inner side. The vein is behind and a little external to the artery. The long saphenous nerve crosses the artery from the outer to the inner side. Pass the aneurysm needle from without inwards, keep- ing the point well applied to the vessel, as the vein in this situation is usually very adherent to the artery. The chief dangers after ligature are : — 1. gangrene ; 2, secondary haemorrhage; 3, phle- bitis and pyaemia from pricking the vein (see p. 306).' The collateral circulation (Fig. 91) is carried on by the anastomosis of (a) the per- forating branches of the profunda with the articular branches of the popliteal; (b) the descending branch of the external circumflex with the external articular branches of the popliteal and tibial recurrent; and (c) the artery of the great sciatic nerve with the internal articular branches of the popliteal. The popliteal artery may be ligatured in its upper part for popli- teal aneurysm. Place the limb on its outer side and make an incision about four inches long at the upper part of the popliteal space over the centre of the artery. Divide the deep fascia and feel for the pulsation of the vessel at the inner margin of the semi-membranosus. Hook the nerve outwards or in- wards, and open the sheath well to its inner side to avoid the vein. The posterior tibial artery.—In the upper third. Place the limb on its outer side, and make an incision cl 92.—Lines of in- cision for ligature of arteries of lowerDISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 326 four inclies long parallel, and half an inch posterior to the inner border of the tibia (Fig. 92 e). Divide only the skin and superi&cial fascia in the first incision to avoid injuring the long saphenous vein. Then divide the deep fascia and draw the gastrocnemius, if seen, backwards; cut through the tibial origin of the soleus, and the inter- muscular fascia will be exposed. Divide this on a direc- tor, and the artery will be found lying on the tibialis posticus with the nerve to its outer side. Ligature of the posterior tibial in its upper third can hardly be required, except for a wound which should then be enlarged longi- tudinally until sufficient room is obtained. At the ankle. —Make a curved incision over the artery a finger's breadth behind and below the internal malleolus. Divide the superficial and deep fascia and the internal annular ligament, and the artery will be found between the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus poUicis with the nerve to its outer side. For collateral circulation, see Pig. 91. The ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY.—A line drawn from the inner side of the head of the fibula to midway between the two malleoli indicates the course of the vessel. In the upper third make an incision about five inches long in the line of the artery (Fig. 92 c) through the skin and superficial fascia and look for the innermost white line, which indicates the cellular interval between the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum. Divide the deep fascia over this line on a director; hold the muscles apart by retractors, and the artery will be found on the interosseous membrane with the nerve to its outer side. In the middle third the artery lies between the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius poUicis, and the nerve lies on the artery. I71 the lower third the artery lies between the extensor proprius poUicis and the extensor longus digitorum with the nerve on its outer side. An incision in the line of the artery (Fig. 92 d) and the separation of the muscles is all that is necessary to expose the vessel in either of these situations. For collateral circidation^ see Fig. 91. The dorsalis pedis artery may require ligature for a wound on the dorsum of the foot. I have twice seen it tied for aneurysm of the vessel itself. Make an incision in a line drawn from midway between the two malleoli to the interval between the great and second toes; divide the skin and the superficial and deep fascia, the artery327 DISEASES OF THE VEINS. will be found between the extensor proprius pollicis and the innermost tendon of the extensor longus digitorum. As tbe artery sinks into tbe sole it is crossed by the inner- most tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum. The anterior tibial nerve is on the outer side. DISEASES OP THE VEINS. Thrombosis, or clotting of the blood in a vein, is very common, and was formerly thought to be always the result of inflammation of the vein-wall. Hence, when- ever a vein became thrombosed, the condition was spoken of as phlebitis. It is now known, however, that a thrombus may form in a vein without any inflammation of its walls, and that the presence of a thrombus is in some cases the cause and not the result of the inflam- mation. The causes of thrombosis may be considered under the following heads. 1. Changes in the vein-wall, such as may result' from injury, inflammation and degenerative processes. 2. Changes in the Mood, such as occur in septicaemia and pyaemia and other affections in which there is a destruction of the white corpuscles, and the consequent setting free of the fibrin ferment con- tained in them. The exact nature of the changes in the blood inducing thrombosis is, however, not known, and the above explanation is at the best a mere theory. 3. The presence of micro-organisms, 4. The retardation or arrest of the hlood-stream, as (a) when a ligature is applied to a vein; (b) when a vein is compressed by a tight bandage, tumour, or contraction of a cicatrix; (c) when the blood flows feebly through a vein owing to weak action of the heart induced by age, fevers, loss of blood, &c. 5. The presence of a foreign body not covered by endo- thelium, as a piece of ligature, an embolus, an already formed thrombus, or the protrusion of a new growth into the lumen of a vein. Method of extension of the thrombus,—^When once formed the thrombus may extend either with or against the blood- stream. As a rule, however, it takes the former direction, extending from the smaller to the larger veins, and in this way may at times reach the heart. Appearances of a recent thrombus.—^When the blood is at rest at the time of coagulation, as when a vein is ligatured, the thrombus will be red throughout, as both the coloured328 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. and colourless corpuscles equally become entangled in the fibrin. It will fill the whole lumen of the vein, and at first will be soft and gelatinous, and but loosely attached to the vein-wall. When, on the other hand, the clot is formed gradually whilst the blood is in motion, as when the clot is deposited on an unhealthy vein-wall, the clot is laminated, and firmly adherent to the wall, and will be either white or tinged with red, according to the rate at which it is formed. A post-mortem clot may be distin- guished from the above in that it does not adhere to the wall of the vessel, nor as a rule entirely fill its lumen. It is never laminated, although it may consist of two layers, one white and one red. Changes in the thrombus.—1. The clot may become con- verted, together with that portion of the vein in which it is contained into a fibrous cord. Thus it first loses its red colour from the disappearance of the red corpuscles, then becomes firmer, more adherent to the wall of the vein, and finally indistinguishable from it. The minute changes which occur in this process are similar to those already described in the healing of an artery after injury (page 127). 2. The clot may undergo calcification and become converted into a so-called vein-stone or phlebolith, which may either be found free, or attached to the walls by a pedicle. 3. The clot may soften and disintegrate, forming a pultaceous reddish material or a yellowish-red puriform fluid, the latter change being probably due to the action of septic micro-organisms. 4. The clot may shrink to one side of the vein, or become tunnelled by the blood, or it may be slowly carried away by the circulation without causing any mischief. The tunnelling of the clot is brought about by the gradual enlargement of the small vessels which normally permeate the clot during its con- version into a fibrous cord. The effects of thromlosis are, 1. Swelling and oedema of the parts from which the affected vein returned the venous blood. This may completely or partially disap- pear, or it may remain permanent constituting the con- dition known as solid oedema^ according to whether the lumen of the vein is or is not restored, or the collateral channels are sufficient for the requirements of the circu- lation. A good example of oedema from thrombosis is furnished by the so-called white leg, or phlegmasia alba dolens, so common after parturition as the result of the extension of the clot from the uterine veins through the329 DISEASES OF THE VEINS. iliacs to tiie femoral. 2. Gangrene occasionally occurs after the plugging of a large vein where the collateral circulation is insufficient to relieve the engorgement of the part, and is necessarily of the moist variety. 3. Fhle- hitis, or inflammation of the vein-walls, may ensue, and will take a simple or a spreading and suppurative form, according as the thrombus is of a simple or of a septic or infective nature. 4. Emholism, owing to a portion of a thrombus being swept away by the blood-stream and becoming lodged in a distant vessel. The way in which this detachment may take place is shown in Fig. 37, p. 161. If the thrombus is of a simple character, no harm may ensue; but if septic or infective, the embolus will also be septic or infective, and set up a like inflam- mation in the part where it becomes arrested. (See Pycemia, p. 158.) Signs.—When the deep veins are plugged, the^ only evidence of the thrombosis will be signs of obstruction to the circulation in the veins below, such as oedema or dilatation of the superficial veins. When, however, a superficial vein, as one of the saphenas, is affected, there will be a hard cord-like swelling in the situation of the vein, and some tenderness on pressure and feeling of stiffness on movement. Should inflammation of the vein follow from the presence of the thrombus, there will be in addition some heat and redness of the skin. (See Phlehitis.) Treatment.—Absolute rest in the recumbent position is essential, lest a portion of the clot should become detached and lodged in an important organ, as the brain, or plug the pulmonary artery, and sudden death ensue. Where there is much oedema, the part should at first be elevated, and subsequently evenly and firmly bandaged. Phlebitis, or inflammation of veins, may be divided into the simple, and the septic or spreading. Simple phlebitis, formerly known as adhesive phlehitis, is a simple local inflammation of the vein-wall, and may terminate in resolution, obliteration of the vein, or more rarely in the formation of a localized abscess. Causes.— 1. Injury of the vein-walls. 2. Simple inflammation of the surrounding tissues. 3. The formation of a non- infective thrombus in a vein. 4. Gout or the gouty dia- thesis. 5. Certain conditions of the system the exact nature of which is not known, the phlebitis being then spoken of as idiopathic.330 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. Pathology.—The walls of tlie veiii become infiltrated with leucocytes and swollen, whilst a thrombus, should such not already be present as the cause of the inflam- mation, will form in the interior of the vein. Changes similar to those already described under thrombosis may then occur in the clot. Thus the vein may become ob- literated, or the thrombus variously disposed of and the calibre of the vein restored. Or pyogenic organisms may gain admission and suppuration may take place. The suppuration however does not spread unless the thrombus, the barrier to the organisms, is disturbed on the evacua- tion of the pus. Symptoms.—There is the same cord-like swelling in the affected part of the vein as in simple thrombosis, but the skin, at least when a superficial vein is involved, is dusky- red and oedematous, and pain is more severe on pressure and on movement. When a vein of large size is affected, there will be in addition signs of obstruction to the venous circulation. The gouty form is either associated with ordinary gouty inflammation in the foot or joints, or occurs with little or no evident provocation in persons of marked gouty constitution, or with a gouty inheritance. It is more especially characterized by its symmetry, apparent metastasis, and frequent recurrences. The treatment is similar to that of thrombosis. Where there is much pain, a mixture of glycerine and bella- donna may be smeared over the vein, or lead and opium lotion, or hot boracic poultices may be applied. Should an abscess form, it must be opened with antiseptic pre- cautions, care being taken not to disturb the clots. Saline purgatives should be given, with potash, lithia, piperazine, and colchicum in the gouty, and the patient placed on low diet. Suppurative phlebitis is a spreading, infective in- flammation of the vein-walls and tissues around. Causes.— It is due to an infective inflammation spreading to the vein-walls or to the softening of an infective thrombus. Thus, it is frequently met with in connection with compound fractures, ill-conditioned stumps, acute necrosis, osteomyelitis, diffuse cellulitis, malignant pus- tule, facial carbuncle, &c. It may also follow the opening of an abscess, the result of simple phlebitis, if the clots are disturbed and septic processes are allowed to take place in the wound. Pathology.—The coats of the inflamed vein become red, swollen, and in places soft andYARICOSE YEINS. 331 diffluent, and the thrombus softened into a purulent fluid, whilst micrococci are found both in it and in the vein-walls. These changes gradually extend up the vein, and should portions of the infectiye thrombus be carried away by the blood-stream, metastatic abscesses in distant parts and general blood-poisoning will result (pywmia). Symptoms.—When a superficial vein is affected there is at first a cord-like swelling as in simple phlebitis, but redness and oedema of the skin soon supervene, followed by fluctuation in one or more situations in the course of the vein, and frequently by general blood-poisoning. When the deep veins are involved, the disease may not be suspected until signs of pyaemia set in, and the condition of the veins can then only with certainty be ascertained on a post-mortem examination being made. The treatment resolves itself into controlling or arresting, if possible, the infective inflammation in the part from which the suppurative phlebitis starts. Beyond this, little can be done, although, could the condition of the veins be diagnosed with certainty, amputation above the inflamed part might, before general blood-poisoning had super- vened, save the patient's life. When the vein is super- ficial, cutting out a piece above the disease has been suggested; but cases to which such treatment would be applicable must be very rare, as the inflammation is seldom limited to a superficial vein. Yaricose veins.—A vein is said to^be varicose when it is permanently and unequally dilated, and its coats have ' undergone certain _ degenerative changes. A varicose condition is most common in the veins of the lower ex- tremities, and in the veins of the rectum and testicle (see Files and Varicocele). The causes may be considered under the heads of in- creased intra-venous pressure, and changes in the vein- walls. A. Increased intra-venous pressure may be due to 1. Organic affections of the heart whereby the return of venous blood is impeded. 2. Obstruction to the circula- tion in the portal system, a cause chiefly affecting the hsemorrhoidal veins (see Files). 3. Pressure upon the veins, such as may be exerted (a) by the gravid uterus or a tumour of the uterus or of the ovaries on the iliac veins; (Z)) by an aneurysm of the abdominal aorta on the inferior vena cava; (c) by faecal accumulation on the haemor- ; rhoidal veins; (c^) by a tumour in the groin on the femoral vein; (e) by an ill-fitting truss on the spermatic veinsDISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. 332 (see Varicocele) ; or (/) by a tight garter on tlie saphenous veins. 4. Long-standing, which has a tendency to cause the accumulation of blood in the veins of the lower extremity. 5. Severe muscular exertion, whereby an increased amount of blood is driven by the contraction of the muscles from the deep into the superficial veins. Some authors consider this the chief, if not the only cause of varicose veins of the lower extremities. They maintain that the pressure of the blood first produces a dilatation of the superficial veins where the intermuscular veins empty into them; that this dilatation being frequently repeated becomes permanent; that the valves in conse- quence are unable to close and protect the veins, and being thrown out of use gradually undergo atrophy, whilst the weight of the column of blood, from the inefficiency of the valves, becomes further increased, and the veins still further dilated. B. Changes in the vein-walls,—These consist principally in an hereditary weakness, want of muscular tone, and inflammatory softening of the walls. Varicose veins are more common in men than in women, owing to their more frequent exposure to the exciting causes; women, however, are peculiarly liable to them during pregnancy. Pathology.—A varicose vein is lengthened, dilated, and frequently tortuous (Fig. 93), the dilatation being espe- cially marked where the intermuscular veins open into the superficial, and at the situation of the valves. The middle, and to a less extent the outer coat, are often greatly thickened by the formation of fibrous tissue, but the inner coat shows little change. In the dilated portions immediately above the valves the coats, on the other hand, may be found greatly thinned, so that the vein may give way at these situations. The valves them- selves, from the dilatation of the veins, cease to be of service, and become atrophied and frequently reduced to mere ridges or fibrous cords. Thus the intravenous pressure in the segment below is increased as the column of blood in the upper part of the vein is no longer, supported by the valves. The deep veins are generally involved in the varicose condition, and the smaller radicals returning the blood to the varicose vein from the skin often share in the dilatation. The skin, in consequence of the obstruction to the venous return, becomes con- gested and chronically inflamed [varicose eczema)^ and frequently gives way, producing an ulcer {varicose ulcer);VAUICOSE VEINS. 333 whilst at times the pressure of the vein causes thinning of the skin, and this, with the wall of the vein, may give way, and haemorrhage result. When the valves have been destroyed, the haemorrhage may be very severe, and even terminate in death, as the blood sometimes flows back- wards from the heart through the proximal end as well as through the distal end of the vein. The symptoms usually complained of are fatigue and a sense of fulness of the limb after exercise or long standing, and perhaps cramp, coldness of the feet, swelling and oedema of the ankle, and numbness of the leg. Sometimes there is deep-seated pain. The tortuous vein or veins meandering up the leg is a characteristic sign which cannot be mistaken. When the smaller radicals are affected bluish clusters of minute veins are visi- ble here and there, especially about the ankle and knee. The treatment may be palliative or radical. Palliative treatment con- sists locally in supporting the di- lated vein by an elastic stocking or by a Martin's or an ordinary bandage, and reducing the hours of standing where possible. The bowels at the same time should be regulated, and the general health improved by tonics, iron, &c. Radical treatment should only be undertaken under exceptional cir- cumstances, as 1, when a vein appears likely to burst; 2, when there is a knotted mass of large veins in one or more situations, giving rise to much pain and inconveni- ence ; 3, when an intractable ulcer is present; and 4, when the varicosity is chiefly confined to a single vein. Many methods of operating have been proposed. The object aimed at in all is to obliterate the vein, either, 1,. by exciting adhesive inflammation as by acupressure, coagulating injections, ligature, or caustics; or 2, by excising a portion of the vein itself. Acupressure consists in passing a needle beneath the vein in several situations, and compressing the vein between the needle and a piece of bougie placed over the vein by means of a figure-of-8 Fig, 93. — Varicose Veins. (From Bry- ant's Surgery.)DISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. 334 suture. The injections chiefly employed are perchloride of iron and carbolic acid. If they are used, the vein should be compressed above till the blood at the spot of injection has had time to coagulate. If a subcutaneous ligature is employed, it should consist of aseptic silk or chromicized catgut. The caustic method consists in placing Vienna paste in various situations over the vein ; it sets up inflammation and ulceration of the skin, which spreads to the vein and causes its obliteration. Excision of a portion of the vein after a ligature has been applied above and below is a method commonly employed at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, and appears on the whole to be the best and most certain method of radical cure. What- ever operation is undertaken, however, the patient should be kept at rest in the recumbent position to prevent a portion of the thrombus becoming detached and the consequent danger of embolism in vital organs; whilst the strictest precautions should be taken to keep the wound aseptic, lest suppurative phlebitis ensue. K^VUS. There are two chief varieties of nsevus, the capillary and the venous, but both forms may be combined. The CAPILLARY N^YUS or plexiform angioma con- sists of a mass of dilated and tortuous capillaries bound together by a scanty amount of connective tissue. These nsevi are most common on the head, neck, face and chest; and occur as small, flat, or slightly-elevated, red or purplish-red patches on the skin or mucous membrane. Sometimes they are spread out as a thin layer covering perhaps the greater part of one side of the face, and are then known as jport-iuine marks. The blood can be pressed out momentarily, but returns when pressure is removed. Their rate of growth varies; sometimes it is quick, at other times it is slow; or they may remain stationary, or disappear spontaneously. Treatment,—The smaller nsevi may readily be destroyed by nitric acid or ethylate of sodium. Those known as " port-wine marks " should be left alone, or under some conditions they may be scarified. The yenous N^YUS or cavernous angioma consists of a number of cavernous spaces lined with endothelium and communicating with each other, and with the arteries on335 the one hand and the veins on the other. They form distinct tumours bound together by delicate connective tissue sometimes containing fat. The blood in them is of a dark venous colour. They are generally subcutaneous, but may likewise occur beneath a mucous membrane. They are always congenital. They appear as irregular, nodular, soft, compressible tumours, easily emptied by pressure, but quickly refilling, and swelling up on coughing or crying. When under a mucous membrane they are of a bluish-purple colour. The skin or mucous membrane covering them may be natural, or it may be alfected with the capillary variety of nsevus. Their favourite seats are the lips, cheeks, scalp, organs of generation, back, and nates. They may gradually mcrease m size, remain stationary, or undergo a spontaneous cure. Treatment.—The indications are to remove or to destroy the nsevus with as little scarring as possible. This may be done by, 1, excision with the knife; 2, ligature; 3, coagulating injections; 4, setons; 5, electrolysis. 1. Excision with the knife is a rapid, painless^ and effective method, and where, as in the lip, by removing a Y-shaped piece a mere linear scar is left, is, perhaps, the best. To avoid haemorrhage, however, the incision should be made wide of the growth. 2. Ligature is a sure, simple, and safe method, but is painful, slow, and leaves a scar. The ligature may be applied in several ways. All that can here be said is that the ligature should consist of whip-cord or China silk; * that it should be applied with a nsevus needle, either subcutaneously, or, if this is impracticable, through an incision made in the skin round the neevus; and that it should be tied tightly in a reef knot to ensure complete strangulation. 3. Coagulating injections, — The materials most often used are perchloride of iron, carbolic acid, and chloride of zinc. Only a drop or two should be injected, as other- wise sloughing may occur, or the coagulation may spread to the blood in the veins, and embolism, resulting perhaps in sudden death, may ensue. To avoid this accident the base of the neevus must be compressed by a clamp or a ligature during and for a short time after the operation. 4. Setons.—A simple thread, or one soaked in per- chloride of iron, passed through the nsevus and lett inDISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 336 for a week, may effect a cure by causing adhesive inflam- mation. This method is sometimes useful where others are inapplicable. 5. Electrolysis is indicated when it is important to save the skin and reduce the scar to a minimum, as in venous neevi about the face. It consists in passing two or more needles into the neevus in different situations, and sending a weak constant current through them; or better, passing needles connected only with the positive 23ole of the battery into the nsevus, and rubbing a rheo- phore connected with the negative pole over the skin of some other part of the body. Should bubbles of gas escape the current must be reduced in strength. Before removing the needles from the nsevus the current should be reversed for a few seconds in order that the salts of iron may be formed around the needles, and so prevent bleeding from the punctures. The operation must be repeated many times, as if too strong a current is used sloughing will take place. Arterial varix, or a dilated, tortuous and irregularly pouched condition of an artery similar to that of a vein in varix, cirsoid aneurysm, or a pulsating tumour com- posed of several lengthened, dilated and pouched arteries, and nearly always situated on the scalp, and aneurysm BY ANASTOMOSIS, or a localized dilatation of arteries, veins, and capillaries,—are all too rare to require descrip- tion here. diseases oe the lymphatics. Lymphangitis or inflammation of the lymphatic vessels is generally associated with more or less inflammation of the lymphatic glands. Causes—ThQ most common cause is the absorption of septic or of infective products from a wound, which, however, is often very trivial, such as a simple scratch, abrasion, sting, or puncture; more rarely, the inflammation may follow upon mere irritation of the skin, as a chafe of the heel, excessive friction, or sun-burn. Pathology,—The walls of the lymphatics be- come infiltrated with cells, swollen, and softened, whilst the endothelium is shed, and the lymph contained in the vessels often undergoes coagulation. The inflammation spreads to the surrounding tissue, but seldom higher in the course of the lymphatics than the first set of glands, which also become swollen and infiltrated and arrest the337 DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATICS* further absorption of tlie septic products. It may termi- nate in resolution, or in suppuration in and around the glands, or more rarely around the lymphatics themselves. Sometimes the septic products appear to escape the gland, and general blood-poisoning ensues. Symptoms.—In severe cases, lymphangitis generally begins with a chill or rigor, followed by high temperature and fever, and perhaps vomiting and diarrhoea. Eed lines, when the superficial lymphatics are affected, are seen running from the wound to the nearest lymphatic glands, with here and there erysipelatous-like patches of redness. There is generally pain and tenderness, especially in the region of the swollen glands, and swelling and oedema, sometimes of the whole limb. It may be diagnosed from phlebitis by the redness being superficial and in the course of the lymphatics, not in the course of the veins ; by the absence of the cord-like and knotty feel of plugged veins, and by the presence of glandular enlargement; from erysipe- las by the redness having no defined margin, and gene- rally running in lines. The treatment consists in attending to any wound or abrasion, allaying other sources of irri- tation that may be present, and placing the inflamed part at rest in an elevated position. Hot fomentations or poultices, or glycerine and belladonna may be applied, and abscesses should be opened as soon as they form. If any swelling is left, pressure in the form of Scott's dressing or ammoniacum and mercury plaster may be used to disperse it. Lymphatic yarix oe, Lymphangiectasis is very rare. It is attended by a condition of elephantiasis of the parts where the lymphatics are blocked. When the superficial vessels are a:ffected, '' the varix first appears in the form of small elevations, giving the skin an appearance which has been compared to the rind of an orange. It subse- quently takes the form of little vesicles, covered with a thin layer of dermis." (Erichsen.) At times the dilated lymphatics form distinct tumours (Lymphangiomata)» Treatment,-Slight elastic pressure, and protection from injury or irritation. Lymphatic fistula or Lymphorrhcea, though ex- ceedingly rare, is a condition sometimes met with, and more especially in the groin, scrotum, or labium. It is said to be due to a wound of a lymphatic, or to the giving way of a varicose lymphatic, but the cause is not clearly understood.338 DISEASES OI' SPECIAL TISSUES. Lymphadenitis, or inflammation of the lymphatic glands, may be acute, subacute, or chronic. Acute and subacute inflammation is nearly always secondary to inflammation of the parts from which the a:fferent lymphatics proceed. Indeed, in most inflamma- tions, there is some tenderness of the neighbouring glands. The lymphatic yessels themselves, although the glands may become extensively involved, and even suppurate, often escape. The inflammation, however^ rarely pro- | ceeds further in the course of the lymphatics than the I first series of lymphatic glands, although it often spreads I to the surrounding tissues {peri-lymphadenitis). The I changes in the inflamed gland are like those of other in- P flammations. The whole gland is enlarged, the vessels dilated, and the lymph-sinuses crowded with cells. Micro- organisms, similar to those found in the inflammatory lesion giving rise to the lymphadenitis, have been dis- covered in the glands. The signs are tenderness, heat, pain and swelling, followed by redness of the skin and oedema. The gland, at first moveable, becomes fixed, and if the process runs on into suppuration, the usual signs of an abscess ensue. Familiar examples of lymph- adenitis are seen in the bubo of gonorrhoea, in the tender glands of erysipelas, and in the suppurating bubo of soft chancre. The treatment consists in subduing the inflam- mation of the part from which the lymphatics proceed, painting the glands with glycerine and belladonna, apply- ing a hot poultice, and, if suppuration occurs, in making a free incision. Chronic lymphadenitis is very common in strumous children, especially in the neck. The affection of the glands can frequently be traced to some exciting cause, as the irritation of pediculi on the head, eczematous affec- tions about the mouth, enlarged tonsils, or carious teeth. In other cases, it depends upon the presence of the tubercle bacillus. See T^t5erc^e, p. 49. The glands slowly enlarge, and become infiltrated with small round cells; whilst in the tubercular cases, non-vascular areas containing giant-cells, lymphoid corpuscles, and tubercle bacilli are found. The enlargement may subside, or the inflamma- tory products may caseate, and suppuration occur in, or in and around the gland; at times, the caseous mass may dry up and become cretaceous, or atrophy or fibroid thickening may ensue. In rare instances the tubercle may become disseminated, leading to general tuberculosis.LY MPHADENOMA. 339 Signs,—The glands, when those of the neck (the most common situation) are affected, become enlarged on one or both sides of the neck, without pain. They are at first distinct and moveable, but later often coalesce and become adherent to the surrounding parts. After a time, they may soften and break down ; the skin then becomes adherent and red, gives way, and a curdy pus is exuded. After the abscess has thus opened, a portion of the broken-down gland may be seen in the floor of the ulcer, the edges of which are bluish-pink, and undermined. See Tubercular Ulcers. The ulcers are very indolent, and when finally healed, leave characteristic raised, puckered, pinkish-white scars. Concomitant signs of struma or tubercle are frequently present. Treatment,—Any source of irritation, such as pediculi, carious teeth, &c., should be sought and removed, and the patient, if tuberculous, treated as indicated at p. 53, The glands had better be left alone, unless suppuration threatens, when they should be removed. If an abscess has already formed it should be opened early to prevent scarring. This may be done by a small incision, after which the capsule of the gland may be cleared out by a Yolkmann's spoon. Should an indolent ulcer or sinus remain, as often happens if the abscess is allowed to burst spontaneously, it should also be scraped with a Yolkmann's spoon and its edges destroyed by nitrate of silver or potassa fusa, or better, cut away. Lymph ADENOMA, or non-inflammatory enlargement of the lymphatic glands, consists of a simple hypertrophy oLthe ^land tissue, especially of the fibrous stroma of the gland, and is often associated with leukaemia^ or an increase of the white corpuscles of the blood, and with a general hypertrophy of the adenoid tissue of the body, especially of the spleen. The cause is unknown. One or two glands only may be affected (simple lymphadenoma or lymphoma)^ or many of the glands, especially those in the neck, axilla, and groin, or, indeed, all the glands of the body, together with the adenoid tissue in other organs [Hodgkin's disease). The enlargement differs from that of the in- flammatory affections, in that the glands remain free and distinct, and form smooth, rounded or egg-shaped, firm, elastic, and generally painless swellings, which, as a rule, do not suppurate. When one or two glands only are enlarged, the general health is not affected; but when many are involved, and especially when associated with a z 2DISEASES OE SEECIAL TISSUES. 340 leuksemic condition, the patient rapidly emaciates, be- comes ansemic, the spleen enlarges, diarrhoea or dropsy may set in, and death usually results from exhaustion, or, it may be, from the pressure of the enlarged glands upon the trachea, bronchi, or some vital organ. Treat- ment.—Where one or two glands alone are enlarged they may be removed; but where large numbers are affected, no surgical treatment is of any avail, although if a gland is pressing upon the trachea, &c., it may be removed, or tracheotomy performed. In the non-leuksemic forms, arsenic, in increasing doses, may be given internally, with iron and cod-liver oil, or chloride of calcium in ten grain doses may be tried. Por the treatment of the disease when associated with leukaemia, see a work on Medicine. Lympho-saecoma is the term sometimes applied to primary sarcoma occurring in a lymphatic gland. (See bar coma J p. 81.) DISEASES OE NEBYES. Neuritis, or inflammation of nerves, occurs in the sheath or connective tissue binding the nerve-fibres together, and is therefore a perineuritis, or interstitial neuritis, and not an inflammation of the nerve-substance. Causes.—Injury, cold, rheumatism, syphilis, tubercle, lead-poisoning, gout, diphtheria, alcoholism, and fevers. Pathology. — In the acuter forms, the nerve appears slightly red and swollen, and later infiltrated with inflammatory exudation. In the more chronic cases the sheath and interstitial connective tissue appear thickened, whilst the nerve-fibres are more or less atrophied. When following an amputation, partial division with laceration, or gunshot injury, the inflammation generally spreads up the nerve from the seat of injury [ascending neuritis). Symptoms.—There may be tenderness on pressure, or con- tinuous pain with exacerbations, in the course of a nerve and its peripheral branches, tingling and numbness in the part supplied by it, and occasionally spasm of the muscles. The pain is generally worse at night, and increased on movement. At times the nerve may be felt to be swollen, and there may be loss of sensation or muscular paralysis in the part it supplies. The acute cases are attended with slight fever. In the traumatic form, pressure at the seat of injury, or over the bulbous341 DISEASES OF IS'ERVES. end, may cause great pain and muscular spasm. Treat- jnent,—The cause, if possible, should be removed, alcohol forbidden, and appropriate remedies given if there be gout, syphilis, or signs of lead-poisoning, &c. Locally hot fomentations or leeches, or belladonna and glycerine may be applied, and later, blistering fluid along the course of the nerve. Absolute rest of the part supplied by the nerve is imperative. In the traumatic form following amputation, stretching the nerve relieves for a time; but cutting out the bulbous end, division of the nerve, or resection of a portion, though said to do good, have, in my experience, failed to do so. Percussion of the nerve is well spoken of. Neuralgia is the term applied to pain, generally of a paroxysmal and violent character, in the course or dis- tribution of a sensory or mixed nerve. The causes of neuralgia are very various. Thus, it may be due to—1, pressure on a nerve by a tumour or aneurysm, or involve- ment of its end in a scar; 2, the presence of a foreign body in a nerve ; 3, inflammation of a nerve from injury, exposure to cold, &c.; 4, irritation or injury of another nerve or its endings, transferred or reflected—e.g., supra- orbital neuralgia due to carious teeth, pain in the back consequent on uterine disease; 5, some constitutional con- dition, as debility induced by excessive child-bearing, mental depression, hysteria, influenza, malaria, &c.; 6, disease of the central nervous system; 7, unknown causes. Symptoms.—The usual sign is pain in the dis- tribution or course of a nerve or of several nerves, generally violent, shooting, paroxysmal, and tingling. At times it may be attended with spasm of the muscles, hypersecretion of the glands and derangements of pig- mentation of the hair and skin. The pain, except when it depends upon neuritis, may often be relieved by pres- sure. It is most common in the fifth nerve, trigeminal neuralgia {tic douloureux)^ in the sciatic nerve {sciatica)^ and in the intercostal nerves {pleurodynia). At other times it is localized to an organ, as the testis or the breast, or to a joint. A severe form of trigeminal neuralgia known as ej^ileptiform neuralgia or incurable ticy may affect one or more of the branches of the fifth nerve. The paroxysms are of short duration, but of a most excruciating character; they recur at varying intervals, and are brought on by the slightest cause, as pressure over the bony canal through which the nerve emergesDISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 342 on the face, a draught of cold air, taking food, &c. The pathology of it is quite unknown. Simple Pleural- gia, i.e., pain, the cause of which is not apparent, often simulates organic disease. Thus, pain in the course of an intercostal nerve may simulate pleurisy; neuralgia in a joint, joint-disease. It may be distinguished from such by the absence of signs of inflammation, of deep- seated pain, and of swelling and deformity; by the presence of increased cutaneous sensibility; and often by the fact that firm pressure relieves it. Sciatica, or pain in the course of the sciatic nerve, may be a simple neuralgia, depending upon some central and unknown cause ; or it may be due to a neuritis set up by cold, or a blow causing local effusion in the nerve-sheath or an adhesion between the nerve and its sheath, a spiculum of bone or exostosis pressing upon the nerve especially in its passage through the great sciatic notch, a foreign body in the thigh, pelvic inflammation in connection with pregnancy, or the pressure of a tumour. "When due to a neuritis it is accompanied by more or less muscular atrophy. Treatment.—The first indication is to remove the cause, for which a careful search should be made. Thus, carious teeth should be extracted, foreign bodies removed, &c.; the general health improved by tonics, iron, quinine, fresh air, &c. ; and gouty, rheumatic, or other constitu- tional diatheses combated by appropriate means. When no cause can be discovered, the treatment must necessarily be empirical; and when one remedy fails, another must be tried. Thus, internally, quinine in large doses, arsenic, aconitine beginning with ^ grain, nitro- glycerine in one minim doses of a one per cent, solution, croton-chloral, gelsemium, tonga, antipyrin and phos- phorus, may successively be given. Locally, the part may be painted with liniment of aconite or rubbed with oint- ment of aconitine ; or the actual cautery, or small blisters applied over the course of the nerve; or morphia or osmic acid injected subcutaneously. In simple neuralgia of the sciatic nerve the continuous current with the positive rheophore applied over the sacro-iliac synchondrosis and the negative in a vessel of salt and water in which the foot is placed is often of great benefit. Neurotomy, or dividing the nerve, and neurectomy, or cutting a piece out of the nerve, have long been practised for obstinate trige- minal neuralgia, but are attended with but very tempo-343 TUMOURS OP NERVES. rary benefit. Nerve-stretching holds out better prospects of success. It consists in cutting down upon the nerve, catching it up with a blunt hook or aneurysm needle passed beneath it, and forcibly stretching both the proximal and distal ends. The strain that a nerve will bear without breaking of course varies with its size, but it is very con- siderable. The sciatic nerve, which is sometimes stretched for sciatica, is so strong that the patient can be lifted up from the table by it without its giving way. This nerve, however, may be stretched by what is called the bloodless method—i.e., by extending, the leg on the thigh, and forcibly flexing the thigh on the bbdy. The effect upon the pain produced by nerve-stretching is variously supposed to depend on—1, some alteration of the molecular ele- ments of the nerve which may be transmitted to the nerve- centres; 2, some alteration in its vascular or nervous supply; 3, the breaking down of adhesions which may have formed around it. This operation is not infrequently practised for intractable trigeminal or epileptiform neuralgia. The relief it gives is unfortunately not always permanent, though considerable periods of immunity have been gained, and after the return of the pain the opera- tion may be repeated. At any rate it appears to give more lasting relief than either neurotomy or neurectomy. Cases of epileptiform neuralgia that have resisted all other treat- ment, have, in several instances, been greatly benefited, if not cured, by the excision of Meckel's ganglion. In others the trunk of the fifth nerve or all its branches simultaneously have been divided, and the Gasserian ganglion has even been removed. These very severe procedures have been followed by sloughing of the eye- ball. Slight injuries to the eye, such as the irritation of the conjunctiva by the antiseptic fluid in operations upon the fifth nerve and especially upon the first division, may lead to suppuration of the globe. It has been advised therefore to sew up the eyelids previously to operating. Hypnotic suggestion has of late been much practised abroad for the cure of neuralgia and allied affections. Tumours oe nerves, whatever their structure, were formerly called neuromata. This term, however, should be restricted to that rare form of tumour composed of nerve elements; whilst other tumours of nerves should be called fibromata, sarcomata, &c., as in other situations, according as they consist of fibrous tissue, sarcoma elements, &c.DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 344 The true neuromata are exceedingly rare, and call for no further mention. The fibromata^ though., like other tumours of nerves, far from common, are the variety most frequently met with. They grow from the connective tissue either of the sheath, or its prolongations within the nerve; in the latter case the nerve-fibres will be spread out over them (Fig. 94). They are generally single, or there maybe several on the same or on different nerves. Signs.—They occur as painful, more or less globular tumours in the course of a nerve, and are often accompanied by numbness, tingling, and perhaps muscular spasm in the part it supplies. They can be swayed from side to side, but cannot be moved up and down in the long axis of the nerve. Another form of fibrous tumour con- nected with nerves is the so-called painful subcutaneous tumour of Paget, which occurs as a small nodule beneath the skin, and causes the most exquisite pain when handled. The treatment consists in dis- secting the tumour out, or if this is impracticable, removing it along with the affected portion of the nerve, and then suturing the divided nerve-ends. If the divided ends cannot be brought into contact an attempt may be made to graft a piece of nerve between them. The painful subcutaneous tubercle is readily removed by dissection. The myxomata are the next most com- mon tumours of nerves, and give rise to similar symptoms. The sarcomata, though more rare, may also be met with in nerves, and are sometimes multiple. CoisrvuLSiVE or musculae, tic, or histrionic spasm as it is sometimes called, is a convulsive twitching of the muscles of the face, due to some form of irritation of the facial nerve the nature of which is not known. It is at times associated with neuralgia of the fifth nerve. Stretch- ing the facial nerve just after it emerges from the stylo- mastoid foramen may be undertaken in severe cases, as, for instance, where the spasm interferes with sleep, &c., and with a fair prospect of success, Fig. 94. — A median nerve, with a tumour over which the filaments are spread out. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Mu- seum.)SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. 345 Pereorating ulcer of the foot.—Though the pres- sure of a corn can generally be traced as the exciting cause of the ulcer, it would appear in many cases to depend upon changes in the peripheral nerves, leading to trophic changes in the part and a consequent lowered resist- ing power of the tissues to injury or pressure. It is some- times associated with locomotor ataxia, at times with diabetes, and more rarely with spina bifida. The usual situation of the ulcer is the ball of the great or little toe. It is attended with but slight inflammation, and probing causes hardly any pain. It may lead to destruction of the metatarso-phalangeal joint, necrosis of the bones, and perhaps complete perforation of the foot; it is sometimes the starting point of gangrene. There is usually local sweating, lowering of temperature, and impairment of sensation of the foot and lower third of the leg. The patella-reflex is often lost. Treatment.—Though the ulcer will often yield to prolonged rest, the removal of dead bone, scraping, and other local treatment, amputa- tion is sometimes called for. Nerve-stretching has also been recommended. Eelapses are common. SURGICAL diseases OF THE SKIN. Yerruc^ or warts, are small excrescences on the skin formed by the hypertrophy of the papillae and epidermis. The following varieties are described. 1. Verrucce vulgares^ or common warts, so frequent on the hands of children and young adults. 2. Verrucae seniles, which occur as brownish elevations generally about the back, neck, and arms of old people. 3. Verrucce necro- genicce, common on the hands of dissecting-room porters and morbid anatomists. 4. Venereal luarts, met with on the genitals as the result of the irritation of gonorrhoeal or other irritant discharges. 5. Soot warts, which affect the scrotum of chimney-sweeps, and are frequently the starting point of sweep's cancer." 6. Congenital ivarts, which take more the form of irregularly-shaped growths than of true warts, are not very common. Treatment.— Common ivarts often disappear spontaneously. They may be readily destroyed by such caustics as salicylic, acetic, and nitric acid, or nitrate of silver; or they may be snipped off with the knife or scissors, or ligatured. Senile warts, when large, had better be excised. The soot wartDISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 346 ought to be removed at once by the knife. The acid nitrate of mercury is highly spoken of as an application to verrucce necrogemcce. Clayus.—Corns consist of localized thickenings of the epidermis, and although they may occur on any part of the body that has been subjected to intermittent pressure, are most common on the feet, where they are produced by tight or badly-fitting boots, especially where high heels have been worn, and the weight of the body has thus been unnaturally thrown upon the toes. Two varieties are described, the hard, occurring on exposed parts, par- ticularly the dorsum of the toes, and the soft, situated between the toes, where in addition to pressure, the parts are subjected to moisture. A hard corn, on section, is seen to be more or less conical; and it is the pressure of the apex of this cone upon the papillary layer of the corium that causes the pain. At times a bursa is de- veloped beneath the corn. At other times suppuration occurs, and the pus being prevented from escaping by the hardened cuticle, gives rise to great tension, pain, and consequent inflamm.ation of the skin and sub- cutaneous tissue around, and may even terminate in ulceration, which may extend deeply into the foot. Treatment,—A hard corn should be pared down, and then painted night and morning with salicylic acid and col- lodion. In the meantime all pressure should be removed by means of a corn pad, or a hollow moulded in the leather of the boot. Soft corns should be allowed to become dry and hard by separating the toes with cotton- wool, and dusting them with a mixture of oxide of zinc and iodoform, or other form of astringent and antiseptic powder, and then treated in the same manner as hard corns. Should suppuration occur beneath a corn, an incision through it to evacuate the pus will give imme- diate relief. Chilblains are local congestions of the skin caused by exposure to cold and damp in young persons with a feeble circulation. They commonly occur on the fingers and toes; less frequently on the nose and ears. They present a sharply-defined, bluish-red blush of erythema, disappearing on pressure, and slowly returning. In severe cases the skin becomes dusky and purplish in colour, and the cuticle gives way, leaving a raw surface {Iro'ken chiMains). They are attended with intolerable itching. Treatment.—The general circulation should beONYCHIA—BOILS. 347 promoted by exercise and good food, and the local by stimulating liniments, tbe parts being kept warm by woollen gloves or socks. When the chilblain is broken, it may be dusted with iodoform, or dressed with oxide of zinc or soap-plaster. Arsenic internally appears some- times of service. Onychia, or onychia maligna as in severe cases it is sometimes called, is a chronic unhealthy inflammation of the matrix of the nail, attended with ulceration and a foetid purulent discharge. It is most frequently met with in strumous children as the result of a crush of the finger or some slight injury; but it may depend on syphilis, or more rarely on eczema or psoriasis of the matrix, or its inoculation with the parasite of ringworm. In a typical case the end of the affected finger is swollen and inflamed and of a dusky or livid red colour, whilst the nail is blackened, shrunken, loosened from its matrix, sur- rounded by a crescent of unhealthy ulceration, and bathed in a very foetid discharge. It is exquisitely tender to the touch. In severe cases the ulceration may extend to the bone and neighbouring joint, and the last phalanx be lost. Treatment, — The nail, if black and shrivelled, should be removed by forceps, the wound powdered with iodoform or nitrate of lead, or dressed frequently with a lotion of liquor arsenicalis or nitrate of silver. In strumous subjects appropriate constitutional remedies must be given. If there is a suspicion of con- stitutional syphilis, the part should be dusted with calomel, or dressed with blackwash, and mercury or iodide of potassium given internally. In some in- veterate cases it may be necessary to scrape or shave away the matrix of the nail, or destroy it with caustics. FuEUNCiJLUS, or BOIL.— A boil is a circumscribed inflammation of the skin and subcutaneous tissue, terminating in gangrene of the central part, which is then cast off in the form of a slough, popularly called the core. Boils generally occur in crops, one coming out after the other has healed; or several small boils form around a larger central one. They are usually situated on the neck, nates, back of the hand, and back. Though most common in the young, they may occur at all ages. The causes are numerous. As predisposing may be men- tioned change of habit, a too exclusively meat diet, diabetes, albuminuria, alterations in the blood depending on acute disease, the emanations of sewer gas, change of348 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. season or air, and cachectic conditions however induced. The exciting cause is any local irritation, such as chafing of the neck by the collar, or of the nates in rowing, the irritation of morbid fluids in making post-mortem examinations, &c. But frequently no efficient cause, either constitutional or exciting, can be discovered. The staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, which is always present in boils, is generally thought to be the essential cause. Signs.—A boil begins as a red pimple usually with a hair in the centre, and as it increases in size forms a painful, dusky, purplish-red and conical swelling, with a flattened apex. The inflammation may at times sub- side, and the boil gradually disappear {blind toil). More often the cuticle separates at the apex, a vesicle forms, bursts, and leaves a yellow slough exposed, which is cast off as a central core through a single opening. Treat- ment.—A boil may sometimes be aborted by plucking out the central hair, injecting with carbolic acid, applying nitrate of silver, or painting it over with a thick layer of collodion. Should these fail, a linseed-meal poultice or hot fomentations, and, where there is much pain, gly- cerine and belladonna may be applied, and after it has broken, a simple healing ointment. An incision may occasionally be necessary. The constitutional treatment consists in attention to hygiene, regulation of the diet and secretions, administration of tonics, &c. Arsenic and sulphide of calcium have at times been found useful. Carbuncle is a spreading inflammation of the sub- cutaneous tissue involving, to some extent, the overlying skin and terminating in gangrene of the affected tissue, which is discharged in the form of sloughs. It differs from a boil in that it is of larger size, has a tendency to spread, and is flattened instead of conical; there is greater brawniness of the surrounding tissues; the skin gives way at several places instead of at the apex; the gangrenous tissue is discharged in the form of sloughs instead of as a core; and it is accompanied by severe constitutional symptoms. Cause.—Any vitiated state of the constitution, such as may be induced by too high or too poor living, gout, diabetes, albuminuria, typhus or other acute fevers, prolonged lactation, and the like. Friction and pressure are mentioned as exciting causes, and are said to explain the frequency of its occurrence on the nape of the neck, back, and nates. The presence of the pyogenic micrococci is the essential cause. It is more^ CAilBTTl^CLE* 349 P common in men than in women, and does not usually occur till after the middle period of life. It is especially dangerous when associated with diabetes, and when it occurs on the face and scalp. In the former situation, suppurative phlebitis of the angular vein, with extension of the infective thrombi through the ophthalmic vein to the cavernous and other blood sinuses in the skull, and consequent meningitis or general blood-poisoning, is the danger to be apprehended. Symptoms,—It begins as a hard painful swelling, accompanied by fever, generally of a low type and with marked depression. The swelling rapidly spreads, and forms a flattened, generally more or less circular, elevation of the skin, surrounded by con- siderable brawny induration and redness. At first red, it soon becomes purplish-red, dusky or livid. Vesicles form over its surface, and on bursting, leave a number of aper- tures in the skin through which a greyish-yellow slough is seen. The apertures then coalesce, and the slough is gradually thrown off, leaving a granulating wound; or the inflammation continues to spread, and the patient may sink into a low typhoid or delirious state, and die of asthenia or of blood-poisoning (saprsemia, septicaemia, or pysemia). Treatment.—The strength must be supported by fluid nourishment, and stimulants as indicated by the pulse and temperature; the patient should have abundance of fresh air, and should not, if it can be avoided, keep his bed. Opium should be given when there is much pain. Locally, a crucial incision was formerly a favourite practice, but it is attended with so much haemorrhage that unless the patient's powers are good it should not be made. Some recommend the introduction of potassa fusa or the injec- tion of carbolic acid into the carbuncle, and speak highly of both plans as a method of arresting its progress while still small. Others apply strapping firmly over it, leaving an aperture for the escape of the discharge through the centre. Others again make a subcutaneous incision when there is much pain and tension; whilst by the majority of surgeons the expectant treatment of merely poulticing is followed. Poultices are open to the objection that they tend to produce putrefaction of the sloughs, and as their chief use is the application of heat and moisture, a better substitute is some hot antiseptic lotion, or spongio-piline steeped in hot antiseptics. Eecently scraping away the sloughs and diseased tissues by a Yolkmann's spoon has been recommended for preventing septic poisoning andDISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. 350 promoting healing. I have tried this method and can speak well of it. The haemorrhage attending the scraping is much less than might be imagined. Healing rapidly ensues. When the sloughs have separated or have been removed, the wound should be treated as a granulating ulcer, but as it is often slow in healing it may require stimulation with resin ointment, Peruvian balsam, &c. Lupus yulgaris is a disease of childhood, and seldom begins after the age of puberty. It is characterized by the formation of yellowish-red nodules in the skin or mucous membrane, and subsequently by scarring and often great destruction of the affected tissues and much deformity. The cause is unknown, but it is believed by many to be of the nature of a local tuberculosis depending on the presence of the tubercle bacillus. Pathology.—The deeper layers of the corium become infiltrated with small round cells, amongst which new capillaries are formed. In this granulation-like tissue are found non-vascular areas resembling in structure miliary tubercles, and in them the tubercle bacillus has at times been discovered. The small-celled infiltration extends along the vessels, sweat-glands, sebaceous glands and hair-follicles, and may finally involve the whole of the corium. The granu- lation-like tissue may then either undergo atrophy and be partially absorbed without ulceration, though leaving, nevertheless, a permanent scar; or it may undergo caseation, and the cuticle giving way, break down into an ulcer. Signs.—The disease begins as reddish or amber-coloured, semi-transparent, jelly-like nodules, the colour of which does not completely disappear on pressure. The nodules later become slightly elevated, and several coalesce, forming larger nodules or tubercles, over which the cuticle forms slight scales. The centre of the patch may now undergo atrophy and partial absorption, leaving a slightly- depressed whitish cicatrix. In this way the disease may become cured; or while cicatrization is taking place in the centre the disease may continue to spread at the margins. Or the lupous patch may break down and ulcerate, the surrounding skin often becoming inflamed. The edges of the ulcer are raised, whilst its base is smooth, red, and spongy-looking. The ulceration may proceed gradually or rapidly, and extend through the skin or mucous membrane to the underlying structures, destroy- ing, as when the nose is attacked, skin, mucous mem-LUPUS. 351 brane, muscle, cartilage, in fact everything except bone. The favourite seat of lupus vulgaris is the face, especially the ala of the nose; but it may attack the skin and mucous membrane of almost any part. It is more common in females than in males. Prom tubercular syphilis, the affection for which it is perhaps most likely to be mistaken, it may be distinguished by the age at which it began, the history of the case, and the absence of concomitant signs of syphilis. Treatment.—The lupous patch should be thoroughly scraped with a Yolkmann's spoon, the scraping being con- tinued as long as any soft lupoid material comes away, and until the tissues feel hard and resisting to the spoon. The actual cautery, or some form of caustic, is then by some applied to the raw surface, but it is not necessary. The wound should be dressed with iodoform or other antiseptic, and healing is quickly accomplished with comparatively little scarring. Internally, cod-liver oil, arsenic, or the phosphate or the iodide of iron, may generally be given with advantage. Lupus erythematosus is a chronic inflammation of the sebaceous follicles and surrounding connective tissue. Pathology .—The capillaries of the follicles become dilated, and the tissues intiltrated with small round cells. The follicles then become enlarged and distended with seba- ceous material, which exudes and forms greasy scales on the surface of the lupous patch. These scales, on removal, are found continuous with the plugs of sebaceous mate- rial filling the follicles. Later, the follicles are destroyed, and the infiltrating cells converted into cicatricial fibrous tissue. The cause is unknown, but it is believed to depend neither on syphilis nor on tubercle. It has not been proved to be hereditary, and it is not contagious. Signs.—It begins most commonly on the cheeks or nose in the form of one or more erythema-like red patches, which fade momentarily on pressure, and are often attended with itching. The patches become covered with greasy scales continuous with the sebaceous matter in the enlarged follicles. They usually spread by their slightly raised edges, leaving dry, pale, depressed scars in their centre, which are productive of considerable deformity, but ulceration does not occur. The disease is nearly always symmetrical, affects most commonly the cheeks and nose, less commonly the ears, scalp, lips, backs of the hands and fingers, and after an apparent cure is liable to aDISEASES or SPECIAL TISSUES. 352 relapse. It is most frequent in women, begins in young adult life, is very chronic in its course, and is often com- plicated by attacks of erysipelas. Treatment.—The general health should be attended to, and arsenic, cod-liver oil, or iron should be given if indicated. Local treatment, however, is the only efficient means. Yery numerous applications for relieving the itching and promoting absorption have been recommended, such as mercurial plaster, iodine, and oleate of zinc; but the best method is linear scarification, which must be repeated from time to time for considerable periods. Ingrowing nail is most frequently met with in the great toe as the result of wearing tight boots and of cutting the nail square. The tight boot presses the skin over the sharp corner of the nail on each side, and ulcera- tion, attended by the formation of exquisitely tender and exuberant granulations, results, giving the part the ap- pearance as if the nail had grown into the flesh. The condition is a very painful one, and troublesome to cure. The treatment consists in wearing square-toed boots, so as to provide plenty of room for the toes, and then pressing a piece of tinfoil or lint between the edge of the ' in- growing ' nail and the overhanging portion of skin. Should this not succeed a longitudinal strip of nail should be removed, and the prominent granulations and redun- dant skin shaved away to the level of the nail, together with that portion of the matrix corresponding to the strip of nail removed. As the operation is excessively painful, it should be done under an ansesthetic; or the ether spray may be used, or the part painted with cocaine. Hypertrophy of the toe-nail occasionally occurs as the result of neglect or chronic congestion of the matrix, and may assume the form of a horn. The treatment con- sists in cutting away the hypertrophied portion or in removing the whole nail.mjURIES OF KEGIONS. 353 SECTION Y. Injuries of Eegions. iis"juries of the head. Injuries of the Scalp, CoOTUSiONS OF THE SCALP are very common as the result of falls or blows on the head, and are frequently followed, especially in children, by extravasation of blood, and the consequent formation of a hwmatoma or blood- tumour. In new-born infants such tumours are of fre- quent occurrence in consequence of severe pressure on the head during birth, especially when instruments have been used, and are then known as cephalhcematomata. The blood may be extravasated (1) between the aponeurosis and the pericranium ; and (2) between the pericranium and the bone. In the latter situation the resulting tumour is generally circum- scribed in consequence of the pericranium being firmly attached along the lines of the sutures; in the former it is generally difose, and in some instances extends over the whole of one side of the head. The diffuse form can only be mistaken for an abscess, from which, however, it may be distinguished by its sudden formation and the absence of signs of inflamma- tion. The circumscribed, which gives rise to a soft fluctuating tumour with hard and often sharp margins, is sometimes very diflicult to diagnose from a depressed fracture. In the case of the blood-tumour the hard margins (which are due to the coagulation of the blood at the circumference—the central part remaining fluid) Fig. 95. — a. Section of a cephalhaGmatouia ; and b. a depressed fracture. The dark shading in A. repre- sents the coagulated blood. W. .A A354 INJURIES OF REGIONS. are raised above the level of tlie surrounding bone, as may be detected by passing the finger along the scalp; while on pressing upon them with the finger-nail the blood may be displaced and the bone be felt beneath. As a rule, the blood becomes absorbed, but ossification at times occurs in the angle where the pericranium is raised from the bone. Treatment,—Under the use of evaporat- ing lotions the more superficial hsematomata will usually subside. It may sometimes be necessary, however, to aspirate those, more deeply situated. If suppuration occurs a free incision should be made. Wounds of the scalp vary in extent from a mere scratch to an extensive denudation of the bone, and, like other wounds, may be incised, lacerated, punctured, or contused. Though large portions of the scalp may be torn up from the bone, sloughing is very rare, as the arteries which supply the scalp run between the skin and the aponeurosis, and hence are contained in the flap. Scalp-wounds are frequently attended with sharp haemor- rhage ; they are also often associated with fracture of the skull, search for which should always be made by passing the finger into the wound. Moreover, they are apt to be complicated by erysipelas or cellulitis, with the formation of pus between the aponeurosis and the pericranium, and, where the bone has been much contused^ by suppuration beneath the pericranium, in the diploe, or between the bone and dura mater. Suppuration in any of these three situations may be followed by necrosis of the bone, by septicaemia or pyaemia, or by inflammation of the brain and its membranes. When a flap of the scalp has been completely detached, and even when the pericranium has also been lost, necrosis need not necessarily occur, since granulations may spring up from the bone, and cicatriza- tion follow. Treatment.—The scalp should be shaved around the wound, and the latter cleansed with antiseptics, and, if small and incised, closed with adhesive strapping over a pad of sal alembroth gauze and supported by a capeline or other form of bandage. When large portions of the scalp have been stripped up but not detached, the flaps should be carefully replaced, and secured by silver sutures. Haemorrhage is usually readily controlled by pressure, though occasionally it may be necessary to completely divide a partially torn artery or to apply a ligature. If the wound is extensive the patient should be kept at rest355 INJURIES OF THE CRANIAL BONES. for a few days, placed on low diet, a smart purge given, and a careful watch made for signs of suppuration. Should such occur, the adhering margins of the wound should be separated to permit the free escape of the pus, and the wound be allowed to heal by granulations. If pus forms at some distance from the wound, an incision must be made at that spot through the scalp, of course avoiding the track of any large vessel. Injuries of the Cranial Bones. Contusions of the cranial bones are always serious, especially when attended with a wound of the scalp, inas- much as they are liable to be followed by—1. Inflamma- tion of the pericranium, which may terminate in suppura- tion between it and the bone and necrosis of the external table or even of the whole thickness of the skull; 2. Suppuration in the diploe, with implication of the large diploic veins, and probably septicaemia or pyaemia; 3. Suppuration between the bone and dura mater, and sub- sequent general meningitis; 4. Chronic inflammatory thickening of the cranial bones or dura mater, giving rise to constant headache, impairment of one of the special senses, epilepsy, or even insanity; and 5. Cerebral abscess. Signs.—Contusions of the skull are attended by no primary symptoms, but should any of the above-men- tioned conditions supervene there will be the usual signs of inflammation localized to the injured spot, with more or less constitutional disturbance. 1. In simple peri- cranial inflammation the symptoms will usually subside in a few days. 2. Should pus form between the peri- cranium and the bone, there may be chills, and perhaps rigors, with local signs of suppuration; whilst the bone, should necrosis occur, will become dry and yellowish- brown or greenish-white in colour. 3. Should suppura- tion ensue in the diploe, there will be rigors, followed by high temperature, and probably, later, signs of pysemia or septicaemia. 4. Pus between the bone and dura mater will be indicated by headache, vomiting, rigors, mono- plegia or hemiplegia, delirium, or stupor, followed by convulsions or coma (see intracranial suppuration); whilst locally a circumscribed swelling may form over the injured spot {Potfs puffy tumour), or if there be a wound it will become dry and the bone discoloured. a A 2356 mJURIES OF KEGIONS. Treatment,—When, from tlie account of the injury, it is probable that the bone has been contused, measures should be taken to prevent inflammation by rest, cold to the head, free purging, and, where there is a wound, by strict antiseptic precautions. Should suppuration be sus- pected between the pericranium and the bone, free inci- sions to let out the pus should at once be made; whilst should the signs point to the formation of pus between the bone and dura mater, the trephine should be applied. For suppuration in the diploe, and the consequent septi- caemia and pyaemia, little or nothing can be done. Fractures of the bones of the skull may be divided into—1. Fractures of the vault; and 2. Fractures of the base. 1. Fractures of the vault. — Causes. — Grenerally direct violence, as a blow on the head with a sharp- pointed body, or fall on a sharp edge. (Blows with soft bodies or falls on soft ground on the head more often cause a fracture of the base, or a fissured fracture extend- ing over the vault to the base.) Occasionally indirect violence, as a blow, say on the front of the head, causing a fracture at the back [fracture hy contrecoup). Varieties.—The fracture may take the form of a simple fissure {fissured fracture), or of several fissures radiating in various directions {stellate or radiated fracture) ; or the skull at the seat of injury may be broken into several pieces {comminuted fracture), one or more of which may be pressed inwards below the surface of the rest of the bone {depressed fracture); or a portion of bone in rare in- stances, as in some forms of sabre-wounds, may be raised above the surface of the skull {elevated fracture). At times the fracture consists of a mere puncture of the bone, with driving inwards into the membranes or brain of the sharp fragments of the inner table {punctured fracture); and, lastly, the fracture may be limited either to the outer or to the inner table of the skull {partial fracture). In any of these varieties, except, perhaps, in the punctured, the scalp may remain whole, when the fracture, as in other situations, is said to be simple ; or there may be a wound of the scalp leading to the fracture, when it is said to be compound. In children the bone may be depressed without fracture. State of the parts.—In simple fissure there is no displace- ment of the bone, but a mere crack extending from the part struck for a variable distance over the vault, andFRAeTXTRES OF THE SKULL. 357 frequently running througli the base of the skull. In the stellate fracture several fissures radiate over the vault from a central point, at which the bone is frequently punctured. The comminuted fracture is generally compound, and one Fig. 96.—Depressed fracture (pond variety). (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) or more of the fragments may be completely detached or driven through the dura mater into the brain, which itself may protrude through the external wound. In the de- pressed fracture the depressed fragments may be loose, or Fig. 97.—Elevated fracture, probably from the cut of a sabre. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) firmly locked together, often forming a shallow or deep rounded or oval depression,—pond and gutter fractures, as they are sometimes called (Fig. 96). Elevated frac- tures (Fig. 97) are not often met with in civil practice. They are the result of oblique cuts, as by a sabre, and only occur in young adults whilst the bone is com-INJURIES OF REGIONS. 358 paratively soft. In punctured fractures (Fig. 98), wliicli are generally produced by a blow with a sharp instrument, as a pick-axe or a fragment of a falling chimney-pot, or by a fall on a spike, &c., the splinters of the internal table Fig. 98.—Punctured fracture. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) are often driven into the dura mater or brain at right angles to the rest of the bone. When the membranes are not injured at the time of the accident, the irritation of these sharp fragments, if not removed, is nearly certain Fig. 99.—Fracture of the internal table. (Druitt's Surgery.) to set up meningitis. At times the inflicting body has been found broken off flush with the surface of the skull. Fracture of the external taUe alone is most common over the frontal sinuses, where it is separated for some distance from the internal. In fracture of the internal taUe (Fig. 99), which is^ a rare accident, there may be merely aFRACTimE OF THE VAULT OF THE SKULL. 359 splintering of the bone, or a fragment may be completely detached or driven into the dnra mater or brain. Any of these fractures may be complicated by laceration or other injury of the brain or its membranes, or by rupture of the middle meningeal artery or of one of the venous sinuses. In all fractures involving both tables, except in the simple fissure, there is usually greater splintering of the internal than of the external table. In fractures, however, pro- duced from within the cranium, as by a bullet passing through the skull, the external table at the aperture of exit is more splintered than the internal. The reason for the greater splintering of the internal table (or the external table when fractured from within) is, that the force is broken in perforating the external table, and becomes more distributed over the internal. It was formerly said to be due to the internal table being more brittle than the external. Signs.—Whatever the form of fracture, it may be ac- companied by signs of concussion, compression, or other injury of the brain. Here only are given the principal local signs of the various forms of fracture of the vault. In a simple fissured fracture there is no sign, but in the compound variety the fissure may be detected by the finger in the wound. A sharp edge of the torn pericranium, a suture, or a natural inequality may, however, if care is not exercised, be mistaken for such a fissure. In the depressed fracture the depression in the bone in the simple variety may be obscured by extravasated blood either in the scalp or under the pericranium, but in the compound variety it can be felt by the finger and, if the wound is large,"£seen. In both varieties, when the bone is much depressed, signs of local compression of the brain may be present. In the 'punctured fracture the sharp fragments may be detected, with the finger or with a probe, pro- jecting into the interior of the cranium, and signs of local compression may or may not be present; later, symptoms of inflammation of the brain, if the fragments are not removed, will almost certainly supervene. In both the compound depressed and punctured fracture there may be comminution or loss of bone, and portions of lace- rated brain substance may at times exude through the fracture. Fracture of the inner table is very difficult to diagnose, but later it may be indicated by an increase of local temperature, signs of local compression, and localized pain from irritation of the dura mater. It is said thatINJURIES OF BEGIONS. a friction sound may sometimes be heard, from the rubbing of the brain and pia mater on the sharp fragments. When a fracture is situated over the frontal sinuses there may be emphysema from escape of air into the connective tissue, or if the fracture is compound air may be forced out of the wound on blowing the nose. The treatment of fracture of the vault will necessarily vary according to the nature of the fracture and of any cerebral complications that may be present. The general indications are to prevent inflammation of the brain and its membranes, and to relieve any existing brain compli- cation. Thus the patient should be placed at perfect rest in a darkened room, every source of cerebral irritation avoided, an ice-bag applied to the shaven head, the bowels acted on by a calomel purge, and the diet restricted to slops. When the fracture is compound every care should be taken to render the wound aseptic, and to promote healing by the first intention. 1. In fissured fracture uncompli- cated by cerebral mischief little more will be required ; but when symptoms of cerebral compression are present the question of trephining may be raised, and will turn upon the probable nature of the cerebral lesion (see Compression of Brain), 2. In c^epressec? fracture the treat- ment will differ according as the fracture is simple or compound, and according as symptoms of local compres- sion of the brain are or are not present. In the simple form, unless the depression is deep and there are signs of local compression, no operative interference should be undertaken. In the compound form, any fragment found loose or penetrating the membranes of the brain should be removed, or if slightly depressed, raised, provided the elevator can be readily inserted beneath it. If a frag- ment is deeply depressed and cannot be raised by the elevator the trephine had better be applied. When, however, the depression is but slight, and the fragments are interlocked, as in pond and gutter fractures, the case, unless there are signs of local compression of the brain, should, as a rule, be left to nature. The patient, however, should be carefully watched lest inflammation supervene, on the first signs of which the depressed bone should be removed by the aid of the trephine. In both the simple and compound varieties the depressed bone, if it is apparently causing compression of the brain, must be raised by the elevator or by means of the trephine. It may here be remarked that some Surgeons recommendiRACTUBE OF. THE BASE OF THE SKULL. 361 the raising of the depressed fragments under nearly all circumstances, even when there is no external wound ; as although many cases of depressed fracture undoubtedly recover, nevertheless, inflammation of the brain and its membranes, or if this danger is escaped, subsequent trouble, such as long-continued headache, progressive mental inability, or even epilepsy and insanity, may ensue from the irritation of the depressed bone. In punc- tured fracture the trephine should always be applied, as here the fragments are driven vertically inwards (see Fig. 98), and though they may not have punctured the dura mater, will invariably set up inflammation if not removed. In fracture of the internal table, too, the trephine ought to be applied; but this form of fracture is seldom diagnosed. After any kind of fracture the patient should be care- fully watched for a month or six weeks, and even though no complications are present at first, the greatest care should be exercised, and any indiscretion in diet, abuse of stimulants, or undue mental excitement, should be avoided. 2. Fracture of the base is generally caused by a blow or fall upon the vault, the fissure extending from the part struck to the base; or it may be due to a fall upon the feet or nates, the fracture being then produced by the shock transmitted to the occipital bone through the spine. Earely it has been caused by a sharp instru- ment, as a sword thrust through the roof of the orbit or nose, or by a blow on the lower jaw fracturing the glenoid cavity or forcing the condyle through it. As a rule the anterior, middle or posterior fossa is found frac- tured, according as the blow falls upon the anterior, middle, or posterior part of the vault of the skull. Should the force, however, be very severe, fissures may radiate from the seat of injury to two, or even to all three fossae. Fractures through the middle fossa gene- rally involve the petrous portion of the temporal bone on one or both sides of the skull. Thus they frequently extend through the internal and external auditory meatus and walls of the tympanum, lacerating the prolongation of dura mater contained in the internal auditory meatus, the reflexion of the arachnoid around the seventh pair of nerves, and the membrana tympani, and so allow of the escape of the cerebro-spinal fluid from the external audi- tory meatus. The fracture may also involve the lateral362 sinus or middle meningeal artery, in wliicli case blood may be found mixed with the cerebro-spinal fluid that escapes from the ear. Fracture of the posterior fossa extends through the foramen magnum of the occipital bone, and frequently through the petrous portions of the temporal bones. Fracture of the anterior fossa inyolyes the roof of the orbit and nose. One or more of the nerves that escape through the bony foramina in the base of the skull, the lateral sinus, the middle meningeal artery, or one of the smaller blood-channels are frequently torn or otherwise injured in a fracture of the base; whilst the inferior lobes of the brain are often extensively lacerated and contused, or compressed by extravasated blood. It should be remembered that a fracture of the base, if the membrana tympani or the mucous membrane covering the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone is ruptured is really of the nature of a compound fracture, and hence is liable to be followed by septic inflammation which, moreover, may spread to the membranes and brain. Signs,—At times there may be none, and the nature of the injury may be quite overlooked. Generally, however symptoms, such as compression, indicative of a severe lesion of the brain co-exist, and these, together with the history of the way in which the injury occurred, should lead us to suspect that the base is fractured. The signs however, which when present may be considered diagnos- tic of the injury are—1. The escape of cerebro-spina fluid from the ear, nose, or mouth, or from a wound i one exists. 2. The escape of blood from similar situations 3. Effusion of blood under the conjunctiva, about th mastoid process, or in the sub-occipital region; and 4 Injury of one or more of the cranial nerves. 1. Cerebro-spinal fluid consists principally of water holding in solution a large amount of chloride of sodium. It has a low specific gravity (1002), and contains little or no albumen, but sometimes a trace of sugar. When it escapes in considerable quantities (several pints in the twenty-four hours) immediately after an injury, it is pathognomonic of fracture of the base. Escaping from the ear, it indicates fracture of the middle or posterior fossa; from the nose or mouth, generally the anterior fossa, though in fracture of the middle or posterior fossa it may, by passing along the Eustachian tube, or through a fracture of the basilar process with laceration of theTEACTtTRE OF-THE BASE OF THE SKTTLL. 363 mucous membrane of the pharyngeal vault, also come from the nose or mouth. 2. Blood may escape from the same parts and by the same channels but has not the like diagnostic value, since bleeding from the ear, and especially from the nose, may occur from causes other than fracture. Still when blood escapes in considerable quantities, and for some time after the injury, it is when combined with other evidence of severe cerebral mischief a sign of importance. It should not be forgotten that blood coming from the nose or roof of the pharynx may be swallowed and afterwards vomited or passed per rectum. 3. Effusion of blood under the ocular conjunctiva, and ecchymosis about the mastoid process and sub-occipital region, are signs of less value; the former may indicate fracture of the anterior, and the latter fracture of the posterior fossa, the blood passing along the floor of the orbit in the one case to the conjunctiva, and in the other draining through the fracture and appearing under the skin. 4. Injury to one or more of the cranial nerves will be indicated by paralysis, loss of function, or spasm of the parts which they supply. Thus there may be dropping of the upper eyelid {ptosis), external squint, loss of accommodation, double vision {diplopia), and dilatation of the pupil, when the third nerve is affected; spasm or paralysis of the facial muscles {BelVs paralysis), deafness or loss of sight if the facial, auditory or optic is injured, &c., but as the patient is frequently comatose these signs may not afford much information. The paralysis when the facial nerve is affected may come on immediately after the accident or not for some days. In the latter case it is due to inflammatory effusion about the nerve as it passes through the aqueduct of Fallopius over the tym- panum. The prognosis is always grave, the lesion generally, though not invariably, terminating fatally from con- comitant injury to the brain, or from septic inflammation of the brain and its membranes. The treatment should be directed towards the preven- tion of inflammation of the brain, in the way described under fracture of the vault (p. 360). It has been suggested that when the membrana tympani is ruptured, an attempt maybe made to prevent septic inflammation, by syringing out the ear with perchloride lotion, and applying an anti-364 INJURIES OF REGIONS. septic dressing. It is true that even when this is done a way still remains open to the tympanum by the Eustachian tube; but it is thought that the cilia prevent the access of micro-organisms by this channel. Should intra-cranial inflammation supervene, it must be treated in the way indicated under that head (p. 375). Injuries of the Brain and its Memhranes. CoNCUSSioiS' OF THE BRAIN.—This term is applied to a collection of symptoms supposed to depend on a shaking or commotion of the brain substance. It is popularly spoken of as ' stunning.'' Pathology.—The exact condition of the brain that gives rise to the symptoms which go by the name of concussion is not known. By some it is believed that they depend on the mere shock to the brain—that there is some vibration or molecular disturbance of its particles, or anaemia of its substance induced by spasm of the small arteries, and that the shock may prove fatal in this way without any lesion being discovered after death. Generally, however, a slight contusion or laceration of the brain, or puncti- form extravasations of blood in its substance have been found, and to such some attribute the symptoms of con- cussion. In the few cases that have been immediately fatal after a blow on the head without any obvious lesion having been discovered in the brain, the post-mortem examination has been unfortunately incomplete. Henc it is maintained by those who hold that there is always an obvious lesion, that death in these cases might have resulted from other mischief, such as fracture of the cervical spine. Symptoms.—Concussion may be divided into two stages: 1. Insensibility; 2, Eeaction. 1. The first stage comes on immediately on the receipt of injury; it may be quite transitory, the patient merely losing consciousness for a few minutes, and then recovering completely; or it may last for a few hours or a few days or even longer. The patient lies in an unconscious condition, but can be roused momentarily on shaking him, or shouting in his ear There is loss of all power of motion; the pulse is feeble, fluttering, often frequent; the respirations are shallow, and quiet or sighing; and the surface is cold, often clammy, the temperature sometimes being as low as 97 or 96. The365 COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. pupils are variable, but sensitive to light. The sphincters are often relaxed at the time of injury, allowing the in- voluntary passage of the faeces and urme, but are not paralysed. This condition, after lasting for a variable time, usually passes gradually into the second stage—that of reaction; or symptoms of compression or of inflammation of the brain may come on without the patient recovering consciousness. 2. The second stage, or that of reaction, is marked by a gradual return to consciousness, and is usually preceded by vomiting, which is therefore regarded as a favourable omen. The skin becomes warm, the pulse increased in frequency, and the temperature slightly raised. These symptoms commonly terminate in com- plete convalescence, or they may run into those of in- flammation of the brain. At times, however, the patient may relapse into a state of unconsciousness and die, or certain impairments of brain function may remain. The remote effects of concussion may be enumerated as headache, confusion of thought, mental irritability, im- paired virility, optic neuritis and atrophy, epilepsy, or even insanity. These after-effects are more likely to occur if there is an inherited predisposition to nervous diseases, and appear to be brought on by excitement, abuse of stimulants, or excesses in diet. In some of these cases the brain has been examined after death, but no organic lesion has been found. Treatment.-—The chief indication is to restore the cere- bral functions by promoting the cerebral circulation, taking care not to produce too violent a reaction. Thus the patient should be placed at perfect rest; warmth applied to the surface by means of blankets, hot bottles, and, if necessary, by friction; and small quantities of diffusible stimulants, as ammonia or warm tea, adminis- tered. Alcohol should not as a rule be given. When reaction has come on, inflammation must be warded off by gentle purgatives, low diet, and the avoidance of stimulants and of mental exertion. Compression of the brain maybe caused by: 1. A fragment of depressed bone; 2. Extravasated blood; 3. Pus, or other inflammatory products; and 4. A foreign body, such as a bullet. The signs of compression, i.e., of pressure on the brain, vary according as the compression is made over a wide area or is localized to a particular part. Thus, when the pressure is diffused over a considerable portion of theINJURIES OF REGIONS. 366 brain, the patient lies in a completely unconscious state, and cannot be roused either by shouting in his ear or by shaking him. The extremities on one or both sides are paralysed; the face is livid, at times flushed; the tem- perature is usually low, but at times raised; the pulse is full and slow, often not beating more than 40 to the minute; the respiration is slow, laboured, and stertorous, i.e., a peculiar noise is made during expiration by the flapping of the paralysed soft palate; the cheeks and lips puff out at each expiration in. consequence of paralysis of the buccinator and muscles of the lips; the pupils are fixed (*.e., the iris does not respond to light), and may be either dilated or contracted, or one may be dilated and the other contracted; the urine is at first retained owing to the paralysis of the muscular coat of the bladder, but afterwards dribbles away as the bladder becomes over- distended and will hold no more; the faeces pass in- voluntarily consequent upon paralysis of the sphincters'; at times there are violent convulsions. When on the other hand the pressure is localized the coma is usually less profound, the pupil on one side only may be fixed and the paralysis may be limited to one side, possibly to an arm or leg, or to one side of the face or there may be con- vulsive twitching of certain muscles or of a limb. The compression-symptoms may gradually deepen till the patient dies; or he may recover on the removal of the cause, e.g., a piece of bone or a clot of blood. The diagnosis of the cause of the compression will rest on the fact that when due to bone or blood the symptoms come on within twenty-four hours of the injury, gene- rally directly if due to bone, or after a brief interval of consciousness if due to blood; but not till three or four days after the injury if due to the pressure of inflamma- tory exudation or of pus, in which case, morever, they are preceded by signs of inflammation. Where the signs are general, as given above, the injury usually depends upon the pressure of extravasated blood on some of the central portions of the brain following upon laceration of the brain-substance, or upon general inflammation of the brain or its membranes. But when the signs are those of local pressure on the surface of the brain, the lesion will probably be due to a depressed portion of bone or a cir- cumscribed extravasation of blood between the bone and dura mater, or a collection of pus either between the bone and dura mater or in the cortical substance of the brain.INTEACHANIAL HEMORRHAGE. 367 The treatment will necessarily depend upon tlie cause of the compression. Thus a depressed fragment of bone should be removed (see depressed fracture) ^ a clot between the bone and dura mater let out by the trephine, and a circumscribed collection of pus between the bone and dura mater, or in the membranes or brain, also evacuated by the trephine. But when the compression depends upon extravasated blood in the subdural or subarachnoid space or substance of the brain, or upon a general inflammation of the brain and its membranes, no surgical procedure is of any avail. In any case, therefore, the first point to consider in regard to treatment is whether the com- pression of the brain is due to a removable cause, or to one that is beyond the reach of surgery. Extravasation oe blood in the cranium may occur 1. Between the bone and dura mater; 2. In the subdural space; 3. In the subarachnoid space; and 4. In the sub- stance of the brain. 1. Blood hetiueen the hone and dura mater [suhcranial extravasation) is generally due to rupture \ of the middle meningeal artery, especially its anterior branch, and is commonly associated with a fissured fracture extending across the line of the artery. At times it is due to a wound of the lateral sinus or a laceration of some of the small vessels which run from the dura mater into the bone. The blood is usually extravasated in large quan- tities, widely separating the dura mater from the bone, and producing severe compression of the brain. Should the patient survive, the blood may become organized or absorbed. 2. Subdural extravasation is due to rupture of capillary vessels, and is very common in severe head injuries. The blood usually extends widely over the surface of the arachnoid, and, if the patient survive, may become absorbed or organized, forming a false membrane, and in some cases a blood-cyst. 3. Subarachnoid extravasation is generally associated with contusion or laceration of the brain. The blood may spread widely, and may become absorbed, but does not as a rule become organized. 4. Blood in the brain substance {intracerebral extravasa- tion) is the result of contusion or laceration of the brain, with rupture of the small vessels. When the laceration is extensive, it is usually fatal; but should the patient survive, the blood may undergo changes similar to those368 INJURIES OF REGIONS. of an ordinary apoplectic clot, or may break down into pus [cerebral abscess). The symptoms of intracranial extravasation are those of compression of the brain, but vary according to the situa- tion of the blood and the rapidity with which it is extra- vasated. The diagnosis may be more or less obscured by the presence of concomitant injury to the brain. 1. "When the blood is between the bone and dura mater the patient, to take a typical case, is concussed at the time of the injury, recovers from the concussion, and is, perhaps, rational, then grows faint and sinks into a state of coma. The coma gradually deepens, and he usually dies in from a few hours to a few days after the injury with signs of profound compression of the brain. The paralysis at first is on the side opposite to the injury, but may become general as the blood extends over the surface of the brain. The pupil on the side of the injury may at first react to light, but becomes dilated and fixed as the blood extends to the base and presses on the third nerve. At times the eyeball may protrude owing to the pressure upon the cavernous sinus. Yery occasionally reflex convulsions, also on the side of the injury, may be set up by irritation of the nerves of the dura mater. If a fissured fracture is present, there may be some fulness externally from the escape of blood through the fissure. 2. When the blood is in the subdural space, signs of compression may be present; but there are no special symptoms by which it can be diagnosed, or, indeed, at times distinguished from blood between the bone and dura mater. Irritability of temper, headache, or convulsions coming on some time after the injury, are said, however, to indicate it. 3. When the blood is beneath the arachnoid in quantities suflicient to cause compression, it will probably be associated with severe laceration of the brain, and the patient will not, as a rule, regain consciousness. There are no special symptoms by which blood in this situation can be dia- gnosed (see Laceration of Brain), 4. When the blood is in the brain substance it produces symptoms which can- not be distinguished from those of apoplexy, except perhaps by the history of the injury, and not always then, as it may be impossible to determine whether the patient first fell and thus injured his brain causing e:ffusion of blood into its substance, or whether a vessel first gave way, and the fall was the consequence of the escape of blood into the brain.369 CONTUSION OE. BRTTISING OF THE BRAIN. Treatment.—Wheii it is clear that the hsemorrhage is from the middle meningeal artery, and it appears pro- bable that no other serious injury of the brain has been received, the trephine should be applied for the purpose of removing the clot and securing the bleeding vessel. The situation of the artery is about an inch and a half behind the external angular process of the orbit, and over this spot a crown of bone should be removed. The dark clot which now protrudes at the opening should be turned out by some form of scoop, and if the bleeding artery is then seen, an attempt should be made to tie or twist it, or to compress it by plugging the groove in the bone in which it lies with a piece of aseptic wax or wood. If the bleeding point cannot be reached, more bone may be cut away. If, however, on the removal of the clot, the brain does not expand, and the haemorrhage is so profuse that the wounded artery cannot be seen, the external or common carotid artery may be compressed or tied, and ice applied to the side of the head. "When no blood is found between the bone and dura mater, but the dura mater itself is bluish in colour, does not pulsate with the brain, and bulges into the trephine hole, indicating the presence of blood beneath it, an incision should be made through it and the blood let out. Great care must sub- sequently be taken to keep the wound aseptic. For haemorrhage on the surface or in the substance of the brain surgical interference is not permissible; all that can be done is to treat the case as one of ordinary apoplexy from cerebral haemorrhage, i.e., by free purging, cold to the head, hot bottles to the feet, &c. Contusion or bruising of the brain may be due to any severe violence, and may occur with or without injury of the scalp or cranial bones. It is often accom- panied by laceration of the brain substance and of the pia mater and arachnoid. The bruising may be general or circumscribed. In the latter case it may occur imme- diately beneath that part of the cranium to which the violence was applied, or on the opposite part of the brain, the brain being as it were dashed by the violence of the blow against the cranial wall furthest from the part of the skull to which the force was applied. Like bruises of other soft tissues it is attended by extravasation of blood from rupture of the smaller vessels. It may terminate in absorption of the blood and healing of the bruised parts, or in general inflammation of the brain w. B b370 IlSrJURIES OF BEGioisrs. and its membranes, or in local inflammation and cerebral abscess. The symptoms are generally obscured by those of concussion or compression, and it is seldom that an accurate diagnosis can be made. Irritability, restlessness, and spasms of certain muscles, when a motor centre is injured, are said, however, to point to contusion. The chief indication for treatment is to prevent the occurrence of inflammation of the brain (see p. 360). Laceration oe the brain may occur with or without fracture or other injury of the skull. The laceration is most common in the anterior part of the frontal and in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, owing in part to the unevenness of the base of the skull on which these lobes rest, and in part to the fact that the back and the top of the head are most exposed to injury, the brain, as in contusion, being generally lacerated on the side of the head directly opposite to that on which the force is received, At times, however, the brain is lacerated directly beneath that part of the skull to which the force is applied. Laceration may also be caused by a fragment of bone, as in depressed or punctured fracture, or by the passage of a bullet or the thrust of a sword through the orbit or nose. Pathology.—The laceration may be slight or very ex- tensive, and is generally accompanied by more or less bruising of the surrounding brain-tissue and extravasation of blood over its surface. The pia mater is also lacerated, and where the injury is produced by a fragment of bone the dura mater is likewise torn, and in some cases, large portions of the lacerated brain may protrude through the skull. Inflammation of the brain and its membranes is liable to follow, and to assume a septic character, and spread widely if there is an external wound which has not been kept aseptic. Should the patient recover, cicatrization, with adhesion of the membranes, occurs, the extravasated blood in the meantime undergoing the changes already described. The symptoms vary. At times there may be none, although a considerable mass of brain tissue is protruding through a fracture in the skull. Or they may be obscured by signs: of concussion, or, if much blood has been ex- travasated, by those of compression. There are no signs pathognomonic of laceration of the brain, but convulsions, localized spasms or paralysis, long-continued insensibility without coma, and the collection of symptoms known as371 LACERATION OF THE BRAIN. cerebral irritation, point to such an injury. The symptoms of cerebral irritation may be described as follows:—The patient lies in a torpid or semi-conscious condition, coiled up on one side, with his limbs in a general state of flexion. If spoken to he evinces great irritability of temper, answering momentarily and sharply, perhaps shaking himself, and then relapses into his torpid state. His pupils are contracted, his eyes closed, but his pulse tem- perature, and respirations are normal. Is there any way of localizing the seat of the laceration tvhere no external injury exists ? * * If a patient receive a blow upon the head, and it is found that localized paralysis is present, we conclude that there exists a laceration of some severity in the cortical centre corresponding to the muscles impli- cated. If almost immediately after the injury there is a distinct spasm affecting a localized group of muscles—a monospasm—we conclude that haemorrhage is going on from the lacerated brain substance, or breaking down the tissue of the centre corresponding to the affected muscles. If the monospasm extends, first affecting one side of the body, and finally both sides, so that the attacks assume the form of true epileptic fits, it is probable the extrava- sated blood is extending over the surface of the brain and irritating more or less widely the whole motor area" (Erichsen). Should there be aphasia, a lesion of the posterior extremity of the third left frontal convolution (Broca's convolution) is indicated (Fig. 100, b). Should there be facial spasm or paralysis, a lesion of the lower third of the ascending frontal and the contiguous part of the posterior end of the second frontal convolution is pro- bably present (Fig. 100, F^, P^). Should there be paralysis of the arm—a brachial monoplegia—the middle portion of the ascending frontal and the contiguous part of the ascending parietal on the other side of the fissure of Eolando are probably affected (Fig. 100 R^ and p^). Should there be paralysis of the lower limb, the lesion probably involves the upper end of the ascending parietal and the superior parietal lobule lying behind it, as far as the margin of the longitudinal fissure (Fig. 100, and P^). Briefly, therefore, a cortical lesion may be distinguished from a central, as follows:—In the cortical lesion the paralysis, although it may occur immediately after the accident, often does not appear for some time. It is incomplete and localized, and probably affects only one limb or a single group of muscles. In the central lesion, B B 2INJUBIES OF REGIONS. 372 Fig. 100.—The cerebral convolutions : R, fissure of Rolando ; F'^, ascending frontal convolution ; P^, ascending parietal con- volution ; F\ F^, F^, superior, middle, and inferior frontal con- volutions ; S F, superior frontal sulcus ; I F, inferior frontal sulcus ; S, fissure of Sylvius ; S% anterior limb of fissure of Sylvius ; Sp, posterior limb of fissure of Sylvius ; P^, superior parietal convolution ; P^, supra-marginal convolution ; P^, an- gular convolution ; I P, inter-parietal fissure ; T S^, T S^, T S"^, superior, middle, and inferior temporo-sphenoidal convolutions ; B, Broca's convolution ; P°, parieto-occipital fissure ; 0^, 0^, 0^, superior, middle, and inferior occipital convolutions. (After Lucas-Championni^re and Ericbsen.) Fig. 101.—The situation of tbe line of Rolando.373 nNTTRACEANIAL INFLAMMATION. on the other hand, the paralysis occurs immediately after the injury; it is more complete and extensive, and the whole of one side, at least, will probably be paralysed. The treatment should be directed to the prevention of inflammation in the way already described. If there is a wound, with protrusion of the brain, the contused and protruded portions and any fragments pressing upon or penetrating the brain substance should be removed, the wound cleansed with antiseptics, the scalp replaced, and its union by the first intention sought. In the case of a gunshot wound the bullet should be removed if it can easily be got at, otherwise it should be left in situ. Where there is no wound, but signs of local irritation or of compression of the cortical motor area from blood- extravasation, the indications are to trephine. The guide to the spot for perforation is the line of the fissure of Eolando on the side opposite to that of the localized spasm or paralysis. This line may be found in various ways. M. Lucas-Championniere employe the following method (see Fig. 101):—He first finds the bregma, t.e., the spot where the coronal joins the sagittal suture, by carrying a line directly over the vertex from one external auditory meatus to the other. The top of the Eolandic fissure is situated about 2 inches behind the bregma. The bottom of the fissure corresponds to a spot 2| inches behind the external angular process and about 1 inch above it. We have already seen that the cortical motor centres are grouped around the Eolandic fissure. If therefore there is general hemiplegia, the perforation should be made over the middle of the line ; if paralysis of the arm and leg, over the upper part of the line; if paralysis of the arm only, in front of the middle third of the line; if aphasia, below and a little in front of the line on the left side of the head; if there is paralysis of the leg alone, behind the upper third of the line ; if paralysis of the arm and face, in front of the lower third of the line; if paralysis of the arm and aphasia, or paralysis of the face and aphasia, below and in front of the line. iNTRACRAisriAL INFLAMMATION, though at times it may remain localized either to the membranes {^meningitis) or to the brain {encephalitis), more often, in whatever way it begins, spreads from the one to the other {meningo- encephalitis), Cause^-^Woxinds of the scalp; contusions or fracturesINJURIES OF REGIONS. 374 of the bone; concussion, contusions, lacerations, and penetrating wounds of the brain. Pathology.—It may be acute or chronic; septic and diffuse, or simple and circumscribed. Acute inflammation may begin in the dura mater, and remain confined to that membrane [pacliymeningitis) or spread inwards to the other membranes and the brain; or it may begin in the brain, but then seldom spreads further outwards than the arachnoid {leptomeningitis). When it begins in the bone or in the dura mater it is at first circumscribed, the inflammatory products, and, should suppuration occur, the pus, being confined between the bone and dura mater. Later, the inflammation may spread to the arachnoid, and thence to the pia mater and surface of the brain, diffusing itself widely through the subdural space and over the cerebral cortex. When it begins in the brain it is generally the result of a contusion or laceration of the cerebral substance, and may remain circumscribed, and eventually end in a cerebral abscess, or spread to the pia mater and then become diffuse. It seldom, however, in- volves the free surface of the arachnoid. The post-mortem appearances commonly observed are increased vascularity of the brain and its membranes, an exudation of greenish- yellow lymph and distension of the ventricles with a serous blood-stained fluid ; whilst the grey-matter is of a reddish hue, soft and diffluent, and the white more abun- dantly dotted over with puncta vasculosa than natural. In the chronic form, which is generally due to inflamma- tion, caries or necrosis of the bone, or more rarely to a brain-in jury, the dura mater becomes thickened and adherent to the bone, the arachnoid thickened, and the pia mater opaque and indurated, so that when removed its prolongations, which dip between the convolutions, can be pulled out without tearing. The symptoms vary according as the inflammation is acute or chronic, diffuse or circumscribed; according as it begins in the dura mater or in the brain and pia mater; and according as it involves the vertex or base of the brain. The general symptoms in acute cases are in the early stages, fever, pain in the head, generally on the same side as the wound if one is present, intolerance of light and sound, retching with probably a clean tongue, a quick, full pulse, flushed face, contracted pupils, violent beating of the carotids, restlessness, sleeplessness, and at times violent delirium. Later the symptoms pass into375 INTEACRANIAL INFLAMMATION. those of compression, the pupils becoming dilated and fixed, the pulse slow, and the breathing stertorous. Then follow paralysis, stupor, coma and death. Eigors will probably occur should pus form. In the chronic form of inflammation the symptoms are similar to those of the acute, but of less severity, and are later, as a rule, in making their appearance. Complete recovery may have apparently taken place, or there may have been headache or irritability of temper previous to the symptoms setting in. Is there any way of localizing the inflammation 1. If ten to twenty days have elapsed since the injury; if the onset of the symptoms is sudden, though preceded perhaps by some headache; if there is a puffy swelling over the seat of injury, due to the separation of the pericranium from the bone by serous efcsion; if the bone, should it be exposed, looks dry, white, and discoloured, or the wound unhealthy; and if the paralysis is localized,—the inflam- mation is probably between the bone and dura mater, and if a rigor has occurred, pus has probably formed. 2. If, on the other hand, there is no apparent injury of the scalp or bone; if the patient has had concussion; and if the symptoms set in a few hours after the injury,—the inflammation is probably in the brain or pia mater, where it has arisen in consequence of increased vascularity following the concussion. Or if the symptoms come on about the fourth or fifth day after the injury, when it had apparently been recovered from, the inflammation will probably be also in the brain or pia mater, but in this case due to contusion or laceration of the brain. 3. If, again, the symptoms are delayed some weeks, if there is optic neuritis or symptoms of disturbance of one or more of the motor areas, the inflammation is probably localized to some portion of the brain, and if a rigor has occurred, a cerebral abscess has probably formed. The treatment may be divided into the preventive and the curative. The former consists briefly in guarding against the occurrence of septic changes in the wound if one is present, and in preventing congestion of the brain and its membranes by the means already indicated (see p. 360). The first signs of inflammation should be actively combated by a calomel purge, leeches to the temples and an ice-bag to the head; whilst pain should be subdued and sleep promoted by the cautious use of opium. The curative treatment consists in evacuating the products of the inflammation, should such, in spite of the preventiveINJURIES OE REGIONS. 376 treatment, ensue. Thus, if there are signs of local sup- puration between the bone and dura mater, the trephine should be applied over the seat of injury, or if one is not apparent, over the motor area at the spot indicated by localized paralysis or spasm. If, on removing the bone, the dura mater is seen to bulge, and the pulsations of the brain cannot be felt, the dura mater should be perforated, and if pus is still undiscovered, but the signs of suppura- tion are well marked, an exploring needle should be cautiously passed into the brain-substance. If there are signs of cerebral abscess, a trephine should be applied over the suspected spot, the dura mater incised, the brain carefully punctured, and if pus is discovered, a free incision made to let it out. If the suppuration appears to be general rather than local, no operative treatment should be undertaken. Hernia cerebri is a protrusion of brain-substance through a hole in the cranium and dura mater. Cause. It appears to be due to a localized swelling of the brain, consequent upon inflammation, and may occur after any injury of the cranium where there is loss of bone and a wound or sloughing of the dura mater, with bruising or laceration of the brain. Pathology,—The protrusion con- sists of brain-substance infiltrated with inflammatory pro- ducts and blood, and is the result of the inflammatory swelling finding a vent in the only possible way in which it can escape, viz., through the hole in the cranium. The effused blood is due to the rupture of the obstructed capillaries, consequent upon the protruding mass be- coming constricted by the margins of the aperture through which it is protruding. At times, when the rupture of the capillaries is extensive, the tumour con- sists almost entirely of clotted blood. Signs.—The hernia appears as a reddish-brown, blood-stained, fungus-looking mass, overhanging the hole in the cranium, through which it has protruded, and often pulsating synchronously with the brain. Should the inflammation subside, the protrusion will gradually recede, and the patient recover; but should it continue, the hernia will increase in size, and as more and more of the brain is involved, the patient sinks into a comatose state and dies. At times the protrusion may become constricted at its base, and slough away and the parts cicatrize; or an abscess may form in its interior and in the contiguous part of the brain, and de^th result frojn cerebral compression. The377 TREPHINING THE SKULL, treatment consists in attempting to allay tlie inflammation of the brain, whicli is the cause of the hernia, by the means already described in Intracranial Inflammation. Formerly, pressure on the protrusion, shaving it off, and applying caustics, were the means employed, but they were not attended with success, and are now discarded as unscientific. Pressure would rather tend to cause an abscess or promote inflammation by keeping up tension. The hernia itself should be left alone, except when the inflammation has become chronic, when well-regulated pressure may possibly promote the absorption of in- flammatory products and the shrinking and recession of the mass. TuEPHiNiNG THE SKULL is indicated I—1. In all cases of punctured fracture. 2. In depressed fracture with symptoms of compression, whether simple or compound. 3. In localized extravasations of blood between the bone and dura mater. 4. In intracranial suppuration when the pus is circumscribed and situated between the bone and dura mater, in the subdural or subarachnoid space, or in the substance of the brain. 5. Eor the removal of a bullet lodged in an accessible situation in the brain. 6. In fracture of the inner table. 7. In epilepsy, mania, and continued headache following on head-injury. 8. For the removal of a cerebral tumour. 9. In micro- cephaly with idiocy. 10. In compound depressed fracture without symptoms, in which the fragments cannot be raised by the elevator, opinions differ as to the propriety , of trephining. If the depression is considerable, I think it ought to be done, as should the patient escape the im- mediate danger of intracranial inflammation, he is liable I to certain remote effects from the irritation of the de- pressed fragments, such as headache, epilepsy, mania, &c. (see Depressed Fracture, p. 360). T?Le operation.—If a wound of the scalp exists, it should be enlarged, other- wise a large semi-circular flap of the scalp should be turned down, so that when it is replaced after the opera- tion the trephine-hole is completely covered. The peri- cranium having been turned back from the bone, the trephine, with the pin protruded one-tenth of an inch, should be applied, and steadily worked, clearing the teeth from time to time with a feather or the brush provided for the purpose in the trephine-case. A. good groove having been formed in the bone, the pin should be withdrawn. When the diploe is reached, which may378 INJURIES OF REGIONS. be known by the bone-dust being soft and red, greater caution must be used, and a quill or probe introduced into the groove at intervals to ascertain whether perfora- tion has taken place at any situation. When the crown of bone is loose it should be removed with the sequestrum forceps, and if it is intended to replace it, it should be kept warm in some weak antiseptic solution, and, at the end of the operation, cut into small pieces and placed in the hole, and the flap laid down over it. If more room is necessary, the trephine hole may be enlarged by a Hey's saw, Hof- man's or Keen's forcej)s, or by the surgical engine. It need hardly be said that the strictest antiseptic jorecautions should be used through- out. Thus, the whole scalp should be shaved, and washed with soap and hot water, then with ether, turpentine, or ammonia, to remove all grease, and afterwards with perchloride of mercury or other antiseptic. Healing by the first intention should be obtained if possible by accurately uniting the wound except perhaps at its lowest part, which may be left open for drainage, and by applying a dry antiseptic dressing, and over it an ice-bag to prevent inflammation. The trephine should not be applied, as a rule, over a suture, an air or venous sinus, or over the middle meningeal artery, unless the operation is undertaken with a view to secure that vessel. The conical trephine, shown in Fig. 102, will be found a safer instrument than that in ordinary use, as with it the dura mater is less likely to be injured, and the handle also is more comfort- able to work with. Before trephining for the removal of a cerebral tumour morphia should be given, as it causes contraction of the small blood-vessels, and so has a tendency to lessen the hsemorrhage. The chloroform, however, should be given in much smaller quantities when the patient is under the influence of morphia. Fm. 102. — Conical trephine, with the authors improved handle.379 INJURIES TO THE FACE. INJURIES OF THE FACE. OoOTUSlONS of the face are very common. Amongst them may be mentioned "black-eye," wbicb is attended with, extravasation of blood in the loose cellular tissue of the eyelids. The swelling is often very great, the eye being completely closed, but it usually subsides in a few days. Suppuration occasionally occurs, a small incision then becoming necessary. Wounds of the face, owing to the great vascularity of the parts, readily and rapidly heal. The edges of the wound should be approximated as accurately as possible, especially when near the eyelid, where there is danger of contraction, and united with horse-hair sutures. If quite superficial the wound may then be sealed with collodion; but if deep the surfaces should be supported by hare-lip pins or wire sutures, which, however, to prevent scarring, should be removed at the end of twenty-four to thirty-six hours. Wounds attended by loss of substance may sub- sequently require a plastic operation. Foreign" bodies in the nose.—Peas, beads, pebbles, and the like are sometimes pushed up the nose by children, where they sooner or later give rise to irritation and a muco-purulent and foetid discharge. Indeed the presence of such a discharge from one nostril in a child should always lead the Surgeon to make a careful search, if necessary under an ansesthetic, for a foreign body. If allowed to remain, foreign bodies may cause ulceration, or even bone-disease. They can generally be removed by forceps, curettes, or the nasal douche, but before these are used the patient should close the opposite nostril and forcibly expire, since the body may often be expelled in this simple way. At times they may have to be pushed back into the pharynx. Milder means failing, Eouge's operation (see Diseases of Nose) may become necessary. It should not be forgotten that foreign bodies occasionally enter the nose from behind during vomiting. Foreign bodies in the ear should be removed by syringing with tepid water, and no attempt made to extract them with instruments unless their nature is such that the warmth and moisture of the part may cause them to swell, as is the case with peas. Under these circumstances, some of the various aural curettes, snares, &c., devised for the purpose may be used, but with greatINJUEIES OF REGIONS. 380 gentleness and aided by artificial liglit, the child, if unruly, being placed under an anaesthetic. If a rounded body, as a bead, which is incapable of swelling, does not come away on syringing, it should be left alone for the time, as it will subsequently, by setting up slight sup- puration, become loosened, and can then be removed by again using the syringe. The incautious use of instru- ments has been attended by perforation of the membrana tympani, and even followed by fatal intracranial inflam- mation. As a caution it may be mentioned that the handle of the malleus has ere now been mistaken for a foreign body and roughly torn out. Salivary fistula occasionally results from a wound of Stenson's duct. It is known by a small fistulous opening on the cheek from which saliva dribbles, especially when food is being taken. Treatment,—Numerous opera- tions have been proposed and practised for this somewhat troublesome condition. The principle underlying them all is, first to establish a free opening of the duct into the mouth, and then, if the external opening does not heal, to close it by a plastic operation. Fracture of the nasal bones is always the result of severe direct violence. The fracture is commonly transverse in direction, and is often comminuted and accompanied by much displacement and at times by emphysema. Occasionally the fracture extends through the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid and thence to the cribriform plate. Hence it may be complicated by sub- sequent inflammation of the brain and its membranes. Treatment.—The bones should be manipulated into position by the fingers externally and by a director passed up the nostril, or by the dressing forceps with one blade within and one blade outside the nose. The fragments should then be retained in position, which is often difficult, by pads of lint and strapping. They unite very quickly by bony callus. The septum, where this has been deflected, should be straightened, so as to support the depressed bones, and kept in place by ivory plugs passed up the nostrils, or by other suitable retentive apparatus. Where the fracture has not been properly reduced much de- formity may remain, and if the septum has also been deflected, considerable inconvenience may be felt in conse- quence of obstruction to respiration through one or other nostril. In such cases, though a considerable period may have elapsed from the time of the accident, much may beJ^HACWtl'B Ot TME lOWEfe JAW. 381 done by forcible straightening to remedy the deformity (see Diseases of the Note), The lateral caitilages, if separated from the nasal bones, should be careduily re- placed, as if this precaution is neglected little can sub- sequently be done. Where, howeyer, they are meiely laterally deflected, the resulting defoimity may be corrected by the use of a retentiye apparatus. Fkacttjres of the upper jaw, or of the malar bone with depression of the zygomatic arch are occasionally met -with in severe smashes of the face. They are often impossible to rectify, and considerable deformity fre- quently remains. Although much comminution may occur, necrosis, in consequence of the great vascularity of these parts, rarely results. Fractuhe of the lower jaw is nearly always due to severe and direct violence. The fracture may extend through any portion of the bone, but commonly occurs a little to one or other side of the symphysis, the line of fracture being then usually vertical. In this situation, and indeed whenever the fracture involves the alveolar border, the mucous membrane of the gums is torn, rendering the fracture compound. It unites, however, nearly always like a simple fracture. There is not as a rule much displacement; but when, as occasionally happens, there is a fracture on both sides of the symphysis, the central portion is considerably depressed by the action of the genio-hyoid and digastric muscles. When the line of fracture extends through the angle or ascending ramus, the fragments are held in apposition by the masseter on the outer, and the internal pterygoid on the inner side. The fracture may occasionally occur through the coronoid process or the neck of the condyle. In the latter situation the displacement is peculiar, the condyle on the injured side being drawn forwards and in- wards by the external pterygoid muscle of that side, while the rest of the jaw is tilted over towards the injured side by the action of the opposite external pterygoid, which is thus left unopposed. This sign is of some importance in distiDguishing such a fracture from a partial dislocation in which the jaw is drawn over to the side opposite the dislocation. Signs,—The common form of fracture may be readily distinguished by pain on mastication, dribbling of saliva, some irregularity in the line of the teeth, unnatural mobility of the fragments, crepitus, and a rent in the mucous membrane over the fracture. FractureINJIJEIES OF EEGIONS. 382 througli the angle may be detected by crepitus and by slight mobility of the fragments on firmly grasping the ascending ramus and body of the jaw. Fracture through the neck may be known by the peculiar displace- ment before alluded to, and perhaps, by crepitus on manipulation. Treatment,—The parts should be placed in apposition and kept at perfect rest. This can usually be done by a gutta-percha splint moulded to the chin (Fig. 103), and secured by a four-tailed bandage (Fig. 106). All movements of the jaw must be avoided, the patient being fed on slops introduced either behind the last molar tooth or through any space left available by the loss of a Fig. 103.—Grutfca-percha splint for fractured jaw. (Bryant's Surgery.) Fig. 104.—Dental splint applied. tooth. In placing the parts in apposition some difficulty may be experienced in consequence of a displaced tooth having slipped between the fragments. If the parts can- not be kept in place by the simple splint above mentioned, they must be secured either by drilling the fragments and wiring them together, or by means of the dental splint shown in the accompanying drawing (Fig. 104). This splint consists of a wire frame fitted round the back and front of the teeth, and further secured by transverse wires between the teeth. One of the more elaborate, so- called interdental splints, may at times be found neces- sary. Union is usually accomplished in four or five weeks. Dislocation of the lower jaw.—This accident may sometimes result from a fall or blow upon the chin with the mouth open, but more frequently occurs from spas- modic action of the external pterygoid muscles during yawning. When both condyles are displaced the disloca-383 DISLOCATION OF THE LOWER JAW. tion is said to be complete; wlien only one is displaced, incomplete. Nature of displacement,—The condyle with the interarticular cartilage is drawn over the eminentia articularis into the zygomatic fossa, where it is firmly held by the contraction of the internal pterygoid, masseter. and temporal muscles. Signs.—The mouth is widely open and cannot be closed by any voluntary effort of the patient, and the saliva constantly dribbles away. In complete dislocation the symphysis remains in the middle line, and an unnatural hollow is felt behind each condyle. If the dislocation is partial the symphysis is carried over to the opposite side, and the hollow is felt only behind Fig. 105.—Mechanism of reduction of a dislocated jaw. f. Cork acting as fulcrum. The dotted lines represent the masseter and temporal muscles—the weight to be overcome by the hand or power. Fia. 106.—The four-tailed bandage applied. (Bryant's Surgery.) the dislocated condyle. Treatment.—The indications are to overcome the contracted muscles, and so allow the displaced condyle or condyles to be drawn by the temporal and deep fibres of the masseter, the retractors of the jaw, over the eminentia articularis into their sockets. A cork, or the thumbs, wrapped in a towel to avoid being bitten, should be placed between the last molar teeth of the upper and lower jaw on each side to act as a fulcrum whilst pressure is made in an upward direction on the symphysis by the Surgeon's hands on the principle of a lever of the first order (Fig. 105). Whilst the symphysis is thus pushed upwards the condyle is drawn downwards, the weight, represented by the contracted muscles, beingiKJIJItlES OF HEGIOKS. gradually overcome. As soon as tlie condyle is clear of the eminentia articnlaris it is drawn back into its place with a snap by the fibres of the retractor mnscles. At times, in consequeiiCe it would appear of the coronoid process being wedged against the zygoma, reduction can- not be effected in this way. Downward and backward pressure by the protected thumbs will then generally succeed. A four-tailed bandage (Fig. 106) should be worn for a fortnight to prevent re-dislocation, which is very liable to happen. The term subluxation of the jaw is applied by some to a displacement of the condyle from the interarticular cartilage; by others to an unnatural slipping forwards of the interarticular cartilage on the eminentia articularis in consequence of rupture or elongation of the ligaments. The latter condition is most frequently met with in delicate young people. The condyle catches, and the mouth cannot be closed for a second or two, but it can generally be replaced by the patient's voluntary efforts with a distinct snap. Treatment.—If counter-irritation and tonics do not succeed the joint may be opened and the cartilage secured in position by sutures. INJURIES OF THE NECK, INCLUDING THE ENTRANCE OF FOREIGN BODIES INTO THE PHARYNX, (ESOPHAGUS AND AIR-PASSAGES. Wounds of the neck.—Superficial wounds call for no special comment. Our attention here need only be given to wounds of the front of the neck, which are generally inflicted either with homicidal or suicidal in- tent. Such wounds are usually of the incised variety, more rarely punctured. They may be situated anywhere between the lower jaw and the top of the sternum, but are more common in the laryngeal region, especially through the thyro-hyoid membrane. Suicidal wounds are generally made obliquely from left to right and from above downwards, but may be transverse, and are com- monly deeper on the left than on the right side. These facts are explained by the suicide generally using the right hand, and becoming less determined as he proceeds. There is usually but one gash, but there may be several, and again the gash may be superficial, or it may be deep, even extending to the spine. The structures involved385 WOUNDS OF THE JTECK. will depend upon the situation, depth, and extent of the wound. Thus, 1. When the wound is made above the hyoid bone the tongue may be severed, and the muscles that depress the jaw and elevate the hyoid bone divided together with the lingual or facial arteries and hypoglossal nerve. Such a wound will gape widely, and may open into the mouth, the food and saliva then escaping freely through it. 2. When the wound is through the thyro-hyoid membrane the pharynx will be opened, and the epiglottis, aryepi- glottidean folds or arytenoid cartilages, the superior thy- roid and lingual arteries, and the superior laryngeal nerve may be cut through. The wound gapes less than in the preceding situation, but allows of the escape of food and saliva. There is usually great difficulty in swallowing. 3. When the wound is through the cartilages, the vocal cords and one or other of the intrinsic laryngeal muscles may be divided, with consequent loss of voice; the carti- lages themselves, moreover, may be variously displaced. There is as a rule but little haemorrhage. 4. When the wound is made below the cricoid cartilage the depressor muscles of the larynx, the inferior or superior thyroid artery, and the thyroid and anterior jugular veins may be wounded, the trachea partly or entirely cut across, and even the oesophagus implicated. Wherever the wound is situated the carotid arteries generally escape owing to the resistance of the cartilages of the larynx, the deep situation of the carotids, and the contraction of the sterno-mastoid muscles. , Bangers.—The immediate dangers are—1. Haemorrhage, When the carotid artery or jugular vein is wounded death is generally, though not invariably, instantaneous; but even when no large vessel is implicated, death before help is obtained is frequent from haemorrhage from some of the arteries above mentioned, the external jugular vein, &c. 2. Ohstruction to respiration in consequence of (a) the blood entering the air-passages in larger quantities than the patient can cough up; (6), the lolling back of the tongue over the glottis ; (c), the displacement of the cartilages; ((i), the separation of the divided portions of the trachea. 3. Entrance of air into the veins is also an occasional danger. The subsequent dangers are—1. (Edema- tous laryngitis; 2. Bronchitis and broncho-pneumonia; 3. Inflammation and suppuration of the loose tissues of the neck even extending to the mediastinum or pleura, and, still later, 4. Obstruction of the air-passage with increas- w. c cINJIJEIES OF REGIONS. 386 ing dyspnoea or loss of voice from (a), constriction during cicatrization, or{h), formation of prominent granulations; and 5, QEsophageal or tracheal fistula. Treatment.—The haemorrhage must be arrested; the air-passages cleared if obstructed with blood, by suction if necessary; and artificial respiration resorted to if the patient has already ceased to breathe. If the tongue or epiglottis is divided it must be fixed by sutures, or if a portion of the epiglottis is loose it may be cut ofp. The wound, unless quite superficial, should not as a rule be approximated by suture or strapping, but by position, the patient being propped up by pillows and the head bent forwards. The cartilages of the larynx, if displaced, may be brought together by suture, as may also the trachea if divided. When the oesophagus is wounded the edges may be united by suturing the muscular coat the mucous mem- brane being turned inwards, and the patient fed by a tube passed through the mouth and beyond the wound, or at first entirely by the rectum. Tracheotomy may have to be performed if respiration is embarrassed by displacement of the laryngeal cartilages or by oedema of the glottis. When the air-passages are opened the precautions de- scribed under Tracheotomy must be taken to prevent lung-trouble. Suppuration must be watched for, and free exit given to pus as soon as detected. Contusion of the larynx may be caused by blows or kicks of all kinds and manual compression as in garot- ting. Symptoms.—Pain, especially on handling, localized swelling or ecchymosis, alteration or loss of voice, and slight haemoptysis when the mucous membrane is lacerated. Unless there is much bleeding there is usually no dyspnoea, though this may subsequently be present should spasm or oedema of the glottis supervene. Severe compression of the larynx is said at times to have been instantly fatal from spasm of the glottis. The treat- ment should be directed towards allaying pain and pre- venting inflammation. Thus, a lead and opium lotion or an ice-bag may be applied over the larynx, and all attempts at speaking prohibited. Should signs of oedema- tous laryngitis appear, leeches, followed by hot fomenta- tions, may be placed over the thyroid cartilage, whilst scarification of the glottis, and if this fails and suffocation threatens, intubation of the larynx or tracheotomy must be performed. Subcutaneous rupture oe the trachea is a rare0 FEACTUEE OF THE CAETILAGES OF THE LAEYNX. 387 accident, but may be caused by any violence applied to the neck. It is attended by emphysema and dyspnoea, and is usually rapidly fatal. An incision should be made in the middle line of the neck and an attempt made to draw the lower end of the trachea to the surface, and to pass in a tracheotomy tube. FeACTUEE and dislocation of THE HYOID BONE.— Fracture may be produced by any violence applied to the neck, especially a severe grip. The line of fracture is usually about the junction of the greater cornu with the body, but may occur in any situation. The usual signs are pain, increased on handling, on turning the head, and on moving the tongue; dysphagia or inability to swallow; hoarseness or aphonia; a sense of suffocation on pro- truding the tongue; mobility of the fragments and crepitus; sometimes cough and dyspnoea; and haemo- ptysis when there is laceration of the mucous membrane. Treatment.—The fragments should be replaced by the finger passed through the mouth, whilst the fingers of the other hand manipulate the bone externally, a gag and chloroform being usually necessary. The parts must then be kept perfectly quiet, and the patient fed on slops passed well to the back of the tongue. What has been described as dislocation of the hyoid bone appears rather to be a condition of the parts due to relaxation of the ligaments attaching the thyroid carti- lage to the hyoid bone. FeACTUEE of the CAETILAGES OF THE LAEYNX.— The fracture may extend through either the thyroid or the cricoid cartilages, or through both. The thyroid , alone is most usually fractured. Cause,—Direct violence j applied to the part, such as a blow or fall, or com- pression with the hand, as in garotting. The usual signs i are pain, increased on speaking, on swallowing, and on handling; dyspnoea; cough; expectoration of frothy blood, and later, when inflammation has come on, of offensive pus ; emphysema when the mucous membrane 1 is injured; great swelling and ecchymosis; and on ex- I amination, irregularity, undue prominence or flattening of the cartilages, crepitus, and preternatural mobility. The danger to be apprehended is obstruction to the respiration in consequence of — 1, displacement of a i portion of cartilage across the larynx ; 2, spasm of the : glottis from irritation of the fragments; 3, entrance of blood into the air-passages; 4, swelling from submucous c c 2INJURIES OF REGION'S. 388 extravasation of blood; 5, oedematous laryngitis; and 6, pericliondrial abscess and necrosis of the cartilage. Treatment.—If the parts are fairly in apposition all that can be done is to steady them with a bandage and suitably-shaped pads of lint. But when there is serious displacement with perforation of the mucous membrane, as evidenced by severe dyspnoea and spitting of blood, tracheotomy should be at once performed, as otherwise the patient runs an imminent risk of sudden suffocation. An attempt may then be made with the hand manipu- lating the cartilage externally, and with the forefinger of the other hand in the pharynx, to rectify the displace- ment. Injuries of the Pharynx and (Esophagus from ivithin. Wounds of the pharynx are not infrequently met with from falls with a pipe, stick, &c., in the mouth. They may be attended by severe haemorrhage when the lateral walls of the pharynx are punctured, either imme- diately, or on removing the inflicting body, or later, from a portion of the stick or pipe being broken off and re- maining as a foreign body in the wound where it has caused suppuration and ulceration of a vessel. Treatment.—Any bleeding vessel seen should be se- cured, or failing this, pressure must be made with a stick wrapped round with lint, or solid perchloride of iron applied. As a last resource the common or external carotid must be tied. Should a foreign body be seen in the wound it should not be removed till preparations have been made (as for tying the carotid) to effectually arrest any hsemorrhage which might follow its extrac- tion. Injuries of the (esophagus may be inflicted in at- tempts to remove a foreign body or to pass an oesophagus bougie; or its walls may be perforated by a fishbone, &c., or may occasionally be ruptured during vomiting. Fatal haemorrhage from the aorta, and perforation of the peri- cardium, pleura, and posterior mediastinum, followed by inflammation and death, have occasionally resulted from such injuries. Treatment,—Where a wound is suspected, the patient should at first be fed entirely by the rectum, and subsequently given only fluids in small quantities, so as to allow the wound time to heal. Burns and scalds. — Burns of the pharynx occa-389 FOREIGK BODIES IK THE PHARYKX. sionally occur from the inhalation of flame, as in a gas explosion or from the clothes taking fire; scalds are more common, especially among the children of the poor, from drinking boiling water or inhaling steam from the spout ol a tea-kettle. In neither of these injuries is the oesophagus as a rule involved. In the case of burns the flame sometimes appears to be drawn through the larynx into the trachea. The boiling water is generally ejected from the mouth and nose, and only aflPects the entrance of the larynx. Both burns and scalds owe their gravity to the fact that they are frequently followed by oedema- tous laryngitis. The scalded and white appearance of the mucous membrane and the history of the case generally make the diagnosis plain. Treatment.—The patient should be placed in bed in a warm room and carefully watched for signs of oedematous laryngitis. Should such supervene, the swollen mucous membrane at the entrance of the larynx may be scarified; but if this does not at once relieve, an O'Dwyer's tube should be jDlaced in the glottis, or tracheotomy performed. In the slighter cases the application of a hot sponge to the larynx, the administration of small doses of antimony, tincture of aconite or calomel, or mercurial inunction may be tried. Charring and other chemical lesions from drink- ing corrosive liquids, strong acids, or alkalies, are not uncommon. The effects vary according as they are taken intentionally or accidentally. In the former case, the larynx usually completely escapes, whilst the mouth, pharynx, oesophagus, and stomach, may be extensively injured. In the latter case, the fluid, on the discovery of the mistake, is expelled forcibly, and some of it thereby generally enters the larynx and nasal cavities, but little passes down the oesophagus. Here, as in burns and scalds, the chief danger to be apprehended is oedematous laryngitis. For an account of the effects that may follow swallowing corrosive fluids, the student is referred to a work on Forensic Medicine. It need only be remarked here that should the patient recover from the immediate dangers, he may subsequently come under the care of the Surgeon for stricture of the oesophagus, due to the cicatrization following the injury. Foreign bodies in the pharynx and oesophagus.— Fish-bones, coins, false tooth-plates, and portions of food, are the bodies most commonly impacted in the pharynx390 and oesophagus. The situations at which they may become arrested, vary with the nature of the body. Fish-bones, pins, and the like, are easily caught in the loose folds about the tonsil and fauces, or may be impacted length- wise across the pharynx. Larger bodies, as false tooth- plates, coIds, &c., commonly become lodged about the cricoid cartilage. The symptoms and treatment vary according to the nature and size of the foreign body. A large portion of meat arrested over the entrance of the larynx will give rise to urgent symptoms of suffocation; and endeavours should be made to remove it instantly by the finger plunged into the throat. If this fails, laryngo- tomy should be done at once, and artificial respiration resorted to if the patient has already ceased to breathe. A fish-bone or pin may give rise to a pricking sensation with difficulty or pain on swallowing, and the patient will often be able to indicate the position where it has lodged. A search should be made for it in the mouth and throat, aided by the laryngoscopic mirror; but it must not be forgotten that the symptoms in consequence of the body having scratched the mucous membrane may persist even after it has been dissolved or swallowed. If in the tonsil or about the fauces, it may be removed with the dressing forceps, or it may be hooked out from the upper part of the pharynx by the finger nail. If a foreign body is beyond reach of the finger, an attempt must be made to extract it by pharyngeal forceps (Fig. 107) or by some of the various forms of coin-catchers (Fig. 108) , or the expanding horse-hair extractor (Fig. 109). If, after a thorough trial, with the patient under chloroform, these means fail, pharyngotomy must be performed, and the body removed through the opening in the neck. "When situated lower down the oesophagus, and it cannot be extracted by gentle means, it had better be left alone in the hope that it may become loosened in a day or two by ulceration, and be expelled or pass down into the stomach. Should this not occur, an endeavour may again be made to extract it, or to push it onwards into the stomach with the sponge probang (Fig. 108). In these manipulations the greatest care must be taken, as if the body is sharp the oesophagus may easily be lacerated. Eecently it has been shown that the oesophagus may be reached as it lies in the posterior mediastinum by cutting vertically midway between the scapula and spine, turning in the iliocostalis and resecting a portion of the third,FOREIGN BODIES IN THE AIK PASSAGES. 391 fourth and fifth, ribs. When the foreign body has been pushed into the stomach the patient should be fed on oatmeal porridge, and made to swallow portions of hair, and the like, in the hope that the body, if angular, may become surrounded by this soft material and travel through the intestines without injuring them. Should it be too large to pass the pyloric valve, gastrotomy is the only resource. FOUEIGN BODIES IN THE AIR PASSAGES.—A foreign body may become lodged in the larynx, the trachea, or in one of the bronchi. Foreign todies in the larynx,—A foreign body may be lodged above, below, or between the vocal cords, or in the Fig. 107.—Pharyngeal forceps, Fig. 108.—Coin-catcher and sponge probang. Fig. 109.—Expanding horse-hair extractor. ventricles. When a voluminous body, as a piece of meat, becomes impacted at the entrance of the larynx, it may block up the passage, causing instant suffocation. Smaller bodies, wherever situated, may also cause fatal dyspnoea by setting up reflex spasm of the muscles of the glottis; though in some cases a foreign body, such as a tooth- plate, may be so lodged between the cords as to prevent them closing. A foreign body in the ventricle may cause the same urgent symptoms. At other times the foreign body may give rise to severe, but not fatal, attacks of dyspnoea and spasmodic cough, though if not removed, inflammation and oedema will probably be set up and the patient ultimately succumb. Treatment-^'WhQTQ the392 INJURIES OF REGIONS. symptoms are urgent and the body cannot be removed by the finger, instant laryngotomy should be performed. But when less urgent, a deliberate attempt should be made to remove it by means of laryngeal forceps aided by the laryngoscope. Sometimes, where extraction would be otherwise impossible, this may be accomplished by catting the body in two by the use of the laryngeal cutting-pliers. These means having failed, an external operation must be undertaken. Thus, when the foreign body is above the cords, it may be removed by sub-hyoid pha- ryngotomy; when between the cords or in the ventricle, by thyrotomy ; when below the cords, by laryngo-tracheotomy or tracheotomy, the forceps in the last instance being passed up through the wound in the trachea. Foreign todies in the trachea and bronchi.—Small objects such as coins, buttons, orange-pips, and fruit-stones, are liable to be drawn into the trachea during a sudden inspiration, while the patient is swallowing or is hold- ing such in his mouth. The accident is most common in children. The foreign body may remain free, or become impacted either in the trachea or a bron- chus (Fig. 110). It is usually said to most frequently enter the right bronchus, that being the larger, and the spur-like projection at the bifurcation of the trachea directing it that way, but the left is the more direct route, and the direction it takes would seem to depend in great part on the shape and size of the foreign body. The symptoms vary somewhat, according as the body is free or impacted, light or heavy. When it is free and light, and, as is usually the case, has fallen into one of the bronchi, there will be sudden and paroxysmal attacks of suffocative cough and dyspnoea, in consequence of the foreign body being driven upwards against the glottis, which then closes spasmodically. On listening over the trachea it Fig. 110.—Foreign body in the right bronchus. The trachea is opened from the front. (St, Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.)FOBEIGN BODIES IN THE AIR PASSAGES. 393 may be heard to strike the cords, whilst a whistling sound may sometimes be detected as it passes up and down. During the intervals of the cough and dyspnoea, whilst the body is at rest in the bronchus, as is also the case when it is permanently impacted in it, there will be an absence of the breathing sounds over the whole or part of the lung on that side, according as the main bronchus or one of the secondary bronchi is obstructed; the resonance, however, will be normal or dull in places, according to the position and nature of the foreign body. If any air can pass the obstructing body, rhonchial or sibilant sounds may be heard, due in part to the bron- chitis set up by it. Over the opposite lung puerile breathing may be detected. When the foreign body is heavy and of a rounded shape, it may act as a ball- valve, i.e., it may allow air from the lung to be forced past it during expiration, but then fall back into a narrower part of the bronchus, and so prevent air entering during inspiration. In this way collapse of the lung is brought about. If the foreign body is not re- moved, or does not escape spontaneously, sudden death may occur during an attack of spasmodic dyspnoea; or it may set up bronchitis, pneumonia, or gangrene or abscess of the lung. At other times it induces more chronic changes, such as phthisis, or it may become encysted ! and no harm follow. In rare instances it may make I its way out through the chest-walls by perforation or I ulceration. Treatment.—The patient should be inverted. Before doing this, however, everything should be in readiness for instant tracheotomy, in case the foreign body becomes lodged in the larynx and gives rise to spasm of the glottis. Children may be held up by the legs, but for adults some special contrivance may be necessary, as, for instance, Brunei's table. Inversion failiog, tracheotomy should be performed, as the patient is in danger of suffoca- tion at any instant. On opening the trachea, should the foreign body not be expelled at once, either through the wound, or, as sometimes happens, through the mouth, the patient may be again inverted, or search made for it through the wound with tracheal forceps, wire variously bent, &c. These means failing, the tracheotomy wound must be kept open to allow of future trials being made if the foreign body is not expelled during the interval.394 mjUHIES OF HEGIOKS. Pharyngotomy, and CEsophagotomy, are tlie opera- tions of opening the lower part of the pharynx or upper part of the oesophagus for the purpose of removing a foreign body. As the oesophagus inclines to the left, the opera- tion by choice is done on that ^ide, unless the body be felt distinctly on the right side. Make an incision about four inches long, having its centre opposite the cricoid cartilage, parallel to the sterno-mastoid, over the inter- space between the great vessels and the larynx. Divide the platysma and deep fascia; draw the sterno-mastoid outwards, and the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid in- wards ; and divide the omo-hyoid if in the way. Gently draw the larynx and trachea across the middle line in order to separate them from the great vessels; and then open the pharynx or oesophagus, as the case may be, by cutting on the foreign body if felt, or on the point of a sound passed through the mouth and made to project in the wound. Avoid injuring the superior and inferior thyroid arteries and the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The incision in the oesophagus should be united by sutures passed through the muscular coat only. The external wound should then be closed, drained and dressed antisepiically. The patient should be fed entirely by the rectum for some days after the operation or by a tube passed down the oesophagus and retained in situ. Opening the oesophagus in the posterior mediastinum has recently been proposed for the extraction of a foreign body in the thoracic portion of the tube. (See page 390.) INJURIES OF THE BACK. Sprains of the spine are exceedingly common, and may be caused by any violent twist or bend of the back. The pathology of these injuries is hardly known. They are said to depend upon a partial tearing or rupture of the spinal ligaments, muscles or fasciae, but opportunities for verifying this statement seldom occur. Sprains of the back may be complicated by concussion of the spinal cord, extravasation of blood in the subcutaneous tissue, or contusion or rupture of the kidney. They may, moreover, be followed by inflammation of the intervertebral joints and fibrous tissue about the spine; the inflammation may then at times spread to the membranes and cord, or be the starting-point of vertebral caries. Symptoms.—The395 DISLOCATION- AND FHACl'tJllE. patient usually complains of having ricked his back, i.e., of severe pain localized to one spot, commonly the lumbar region, and increased on movement and pressure. On examination no definite injury, beyond, perhaps, some obscure swelling about the tender spot, or more rarely blood-extravasation, is discoverable. In the cervical region a sprain may sometimes simulate a dislocation, the pain causing the patient to hold the head in a fixed and one-sided position, thus rendering the transverse pro- cesses on one side of the neck more prominent than natural. In the lumbar region a severe sprain may sometimes simulate an injury of the spinal cord, inasmuch as the patient may complain of weakness^of the legs or inability to move them, or may even experience some difficulty in defaecatirig or passing urine. It will be found, however, that in these cases no true paralysis exists, but that the apparent loss of power is due to the pain which is induced on attempts at movement. The tredtment consists in rest, and the application of hot fomentations to relieve pain, and later of stimulating liniments. In severe cases the patient should bo kept in bed for a week or so, and subsequently shampooiDg, mas- sage and galvanism may have to be employed to overcome the pain and stifcess which often last for some time. "Wounds of the spinal membranes and coed may be inflicted by stabs in the back, falls on sharp bodies, &c. When the membranes alone are wounded, there may at first be no signs except perhaps an escape of cerebro- spinal fluid; but later, should inflammation be set up, there will be the usual signs of spinal meningitis. A I wound of the spinal nerves may be known by paralysis of the parts which they supply; a wound of the cord, by paralysis of the parts below the seat of injury. When division is complete the knee-jerk is quite lost, when incomplete the knee-jerk may be exaggerated. The treatment consists in placing the patient at absolute rest, and in keeping the wound perfectly aseptic to prevent inflamraation; but if the cord has been divided, permanent paralysis will necessarily ensue. Should in- flammation occur, the appropriate remedies for meningitis must be administered. (See Work on Medicine,) Dislocation and fracture.—Dislocation of the spine without fracture is exceedingly rare; indeed, except in the cervical region, it is said never to occur. Eracture unaccompanied by dislocation is also uncommon; but396 IN-JITRIES OF REaiONS. uncomplicated cases of fracture of the spinous processes and laminae, and more rarely of the transverse and arti- cular processes, are sometimes met with. In the majority of cases fracture and dislocation are combined. Thus, usually there is fracture of the body and articular pro- cesses of one or more of the yertebrse, with dislocation of the whole of the spine above the seat of injury from the spine below. This common form of injury is in the context spoken of as fracture-dislocation. Fracture-dislocation". Causes.-—It is either the result of direct violence applied to the spine, or of indirect violence, as a fall upon the head. 1. When the result of direct violence, which can only be ap- plied to the posterior part of the spine, one or more of the spinous processes may be detached with- out implicating the vertebral canal. When the violence is very great, as in a fall from a height on the back across a beam or rail, or a severe blow, as from a crane, the spine is bent violently backwards, tear- ing asunder the structures form- ing the anterior segment of the column, and crushing those forming the posterior. Hence the vertebral bodies are gene- rally uninjured, but wrenched apart, the intervertebral carti- lages are ruj^tured, the anterior common ligament is torn, and the arches of the vertebrae and the articular and spinous processes are crushed. The vertebrae above the injury are dislocated forwards, as the articular processes being fractured and the intervertebral cartilages torn, nothing remains to keep them in position. 2. In fracture from indirect violence (Fig. Ill), such as may be received in a fall from a height upon the head, or catching the head whilst passing under an arch, or from a weight falling upon the head or shoulders, the spine is bent violently for- wards, crushing the anterior part of the column and tearing the posterior asunder. Here one or more of the bodies and intervertebral cartilages are crushed between Fia. 111.—Fracture-dis- location of the spine. (St. Bartholomew's Hos- pital Museum.)FRACTUEE-BISLOCATION OF THE SPINE. 397 the vertebrae above and the vertebrae below, one of the fragments of the fractured body being frequently driven backwards into the vertebral canal, whilst the arches and the spinous and articular processes are wrenched asunder. Fracture of the sternum is occasionally com- bined with this injury, in consequence of the chin, it is said, coming into violent contact with the sternum as the spine is doubled forwards. Condition of the spinal cord,—The importance of fracture- dislocation of the spine lies not so much in the fact that the vertebrae are fractured, as that the cord is generally injured. When the vertebrae are not displaced, the cord may at times altogether escape. More commonly, how- ever, it is compressed, or, perhaps, completely divided, or again so bruised that it rapidly undergoes inflamma- tory softening. When the injury is situated below the second lumbar vertebrae, the cord necessarily escapes as it terminates at that spot, but the nerves of the cauda equina may then be injured. Signs and si/mptoms.—The local signs are often but little marked. There may be pain at the seat of injury, or some inequality in the spinous processes; but as often as not these are absent. The general signs depend upon the condition of the cord, and none will be present when it has escaped injury. But when it is compressed or crushed there will be paralysis of the parts below, more or less complete according to the extent of the lesion. Taking as an example a case of fracture in the lower cervical or upper dorsal region—the most common situa- tion—with severe compression or crushing of the cord, there will be paralysis of both motion and sensation of the whole of the parts below the seat of injury (para- plegia), and perhaps a zone of hyperaesthesia immediately above the injured part. The intercostal muscles being paralysed, respiration can only be carried on by the diaphragm, this muscle receiving its nerve-supply through the phrenics which are given off above the seat of injury. Hence, while the chest is motionless, the abdomen rises and falls during respiration. The bladder and rectum and their respective sphincters share in the paralysis, so that there is at first retention of urine and faeces, followed by passive overflow of urine as the bladder becomes dis- tended and will hold no more, and by involuntary passage of faeces. Priapism, or involuntary erection of the penis, is frequently present, or is induced by the use of the398 INJURIES OF BEGIONS. catlieter. The temperature varies; sometimes it may be lower than normal, but often it is considerably raised, even reaching as high as 107° shortly before death. Consciousness, unless any head-injury has been received at the same time, is not affected. The reflexes in the lower limbs are usually at first in abeyance, but may return if the patient does not succumb to the shock of the injury. If the reflexes remain quite lost the probabilities are that the conducting power of the cord has been com- pletely destroyed. If they return it is a sign that some power of conductivity is left in certain portions of the cord at the seat of injury. Death occurs, as a rule, from twenty-four hours to a few days from bronchial trouble ; but the patient, if the fracture is in the upper dorsal region, may linger from two to three weeks. The secondary troubles which are then generally met with are bedsores and chronic cystitis. 1. The bedsores occur in situations subjected to pressure, and depend in great part on the congestion and lowered vitality of the tissues induced by the impairment of the nerve-influence; but they may also to some extent be due to the soddening of- the. part with the urine and faeces from which it is very difficult to keep the patient free. 2. The chronic cystitis is pro- bably also due in part to impaired nerve-influence, and in part to slight injury in the passage of a catheter, or to the introduction by the catheter of a micro-organism— the micrococcus urese. The urine, which is at first acid, becomes ammoniacal from the conversion of the urea into carbonate of ammonia, and thick from the deposit of phosphates and the presence of ropy mucus. The in- flammation may then extend up the ureter to the kidney, where suppuration of the pelvis and substance of the kidney (pyelo-nephritis) may be set up. Such may be taken as a typical example of fracture of the spine as commonly met with in surgical practice. But the nature and gravity of the symptoms will depend upon the situation of the fracture, and the amount of injury to the cord. Thus in some cases of fracture there may be no paralysis: in others the paralysis may be incomplete, i.e., confined to loss of motion only, or to paralysis of one limb or one group of muscles, or to impairment of sensation over some limited area. Such cases, however, are much less common than that above described. Causes of death.—I. When the fracture is above theFRACTURE-DISLOCATION OF THE SPINE. 399 fourtli cervical vertebra, death is instantaneous in conse- quence of the severance of the phrenic nerves from the respiratory centre in the medulla. 2. In the lower cervical or upper dorsal region, death is due either to (a), hsemor- rhage in the cord gradually extending to the origin of the phrenic nerves, or (&), a low form of bronchitis induced partly by hypostatic congestion, partly by defective nerve- influence, and partly by inability to clear the lungs effectually by coughing. 3. Later, death is commonly due to exhaustion produced by (a), the sloughing of the bedsores, or (6), the pyelo-nephritis, induced in part by the extension of cystitis up the ureters to the kidney, and in part by the defective nerve-influence on the kidney structure. The prognosis will depend in great measure on the situation of the fracture and condition of the cord. Thus, when the fracture is in the cervical region, if death is not instantaneous, the patient may survive from twelve hours to two or three days; usually, however, death occurs in about twenty-four hours. In the upper dorsal region the patient may linger for two or three weeks. In the lower dorsal region, if he survive the period at which the inflammatory troubles commonly occur, he may recover, remaining, however, if the cord is severely injured, paraplegic. In the lumbar region he may recover, with perhaps only partial paralysis of one or other of the lower limbs or of a certain group of muscles, or even without any paralysis whatever. But even where the injury to the cord has been so high as to cause paralysis of the whole body below the neck, patients have been known in rare instances to live for several months or even years. Treatment.—1. In cases where there is no paralysis, thus showing that the cord is not affected, the indication is to keep the fractured spine at perfect rest, for the pur- pose not only of obtaining union of the fracture, but also of preventing by any movement displacement of the fragments and injury of the cord. 2. In the toore common cases, where there is paralysis, showing that the cord is injured, the indications are to remove any frag- ments that may be compressing the cord, and subse- quently to keep the parts at rest till union of the bones has occurred. 3. Where, however, as is too frequently the case, the removal of the fragments is not practicable, or the cord itself has been crushed, all that can be done is to endeavour to guard against the formation of bed-INJURIES OF REGIONS. 400 sores, and the occurrence of chronic cystitis and its attendant evils. Thus the patient should be placed upon a water bed, and his posture gently changed from time to time, so that pressure may not be continuously made on one part, while he must be kept scrupulously clean and dry, and free from urine and faeces. The bowels should be cleared, if necessary, by enemata, or excessive diarrhoea controlled by morphia suppositories or starch and opium injections. Should bedsores threaten, the skin should be hardened by sponging with rectified spirit, and dusted with oxide of zinc and starch powder. If formed, they should be dressed with mild antiseptics, iodoform, balsam of Peru, &c., and all pressure removed from the surrounding skin by the use of water cushions. To prevent cystitis from occurring a soft rubber catheter, thoroughly cleansed in carbolic acid and dipped in car- bolic oil, should be passed twice daily. Should the urine become alkaline the bladder must be washed out with some antiseptic solution. Extension and trephining of the spine.—In cases where, from the marked inequality of the spinous process there is a probability of fragments pressing upon the cord, a cautious attempt to extend the spine and reduce the displaced vertebrae may be made, and a plaster-of-Paris case applied during the extension. In some instances it may be justifiable to trephine the spine {laminectomy) for the purpose of removing a frag- ment or extravasated blood ; but space will not permit of the discussion of this interesting question. Concussion oe the spinal coed.—This term has been applied to various injuries of the cord received in railway and other accidents. It ought, however, to be restricted to those cases in which the cord is merely con- cussed or shaken; and the other injuries, such as haemor- rhage into its substance or into the arachnoid, contusions, and lacerations, all of which have been included under the term concussion, described as spinal haemorrhage, lacera- tion^ of the spinal cord, &c. Concussion in this sense is one of the rarest of injuries, and need not detain us in a work of this character. For an account of the other lesions, and the very various, apparently anomalous, and, as yet, far from understood symptoms which may attend them, and which are generally classed together under the term of the railway spine," a larger work must be consulted.FRACTUKE OF THE RIBS. 401 INJURIES OF THE CHEST. Injuries of the ChesUiualls, Contusions may be produced by any sort of violence applied to the cbest, and may be attended with, laceration or rupture of the muscles, or with extravasation of blood into the tissues, which, again, may be followed by sup- puration and abscess. They owe their chief importance, however, to the fact that they may be complicated by serious injury to the contained viscera, such as contusion or laceration of the pleura, lung, heart, or pericardium, or rupture of a large vessel in the mediastina. Fracture of the ribs is a very common accident. Cause.—Generally external violence, rarely muscular action. 1. External violence may be—(a) Direct^ such as the kick of a horse, a fall upon the edge of a table, &c. The fracture then occurs at the seat of injury, the frag- ments being driven inwards, occasionally injuring the thoracic, or more rarely, the abdominal viscera; or (h) Indirect, as a severe compression of the chest in a crowd. The fracture then generally occurs about the angle of the ribs, their weakest part, and several bones are usually broken. 2. Muscular action.—The ribs are sometimes broken in this way during violent coughing, or from straining during parturition. Complication.—Fractures of the ribs may be complicated by an external wound; a wound of the pleura and lung, or pericardium and heart; laceration of a blood-vessel, as an intercostal artery ; penetration of the diaphragm; and more rarely by perforation of the peritoneum, and wound of the liver or spleen. Hence they may be followed by emphysema, pneumothorax, haemothorax, hsemoptysis, hsemopericardium, and later by pleurisy, pneumonia, pericarditis, or peritonitis. State of the parts.—Fracture of the ribs is more common in the old than in the young, on account of the loss of elasticity as age advances. Like fractures of other bones, they may be simple, compound, or comminuted. The middle ribs are those usually affected; the first and second rib being protected by the clavicle, and the eleventh and twelfth being moveable, are not often broken. Fracture of the upper ribs is more serious than fracture of the lower, as the lung is more liable to bo wounded. w. D DINJURIES OF REGIONS. 402 Signs,—Severe stabbing pain is felt over the seat of fracture, and is increased on taking a deep breath, or on cougbing. On drawing tbe finger along tbe rib, some irregularity may be detected. Crepitus is usually felt on placing tbe band flat over tbe fracture wbile tbe patient breatbes deeply, or it may be beard on listening witb tbe stetboscope. Empbysema, i.e., sl crackling sensation, sometbing like rubbing tbe bair between tbe fingers, may at times be felt on touching tbe part. It is nearly always due to a wound of tbe lung, tbe air being drawn into tbe pleura tbrougb tbe visceral layer during inspiration, and forced tbrougb tbe wound in tbe parietal layer into tbe subcutaneous tissue during expiration. Treatment.—In an ordinary case tbe injured side should be strapped witb adhesive plaster, so as to control the respiration on that side and thus place tbe fractured rib as much as possible at rest. A broad bandage in addition applied round the chest often gives relief. When several ribs are broken a shield of gutta-percha may be moulded to tbe chest-walls and strapped on. Union occurs by ensheatbing callus in three or four weeks. Fractijre oe the sternum is rare. It may be ac- companied by fracture of the ribs or costal cartilages, separation of the ribs from their cartilages, and some- times by fracture of the spine. Causes.—Direct violence; indirect violence in consequence of a forcible bend of tbe body, either backwards or forwards; very rarely, muscular action, as during parturition. State of the parts.—The line of fracture generally runs through tbe gladiolus, and may be transverse, oblique, or longitudinal, the lower fragment usually projecting in front of tbe upper; but at times the gladiolus is separated from the manubrium, a condition sometimes spoken of as dislocation of the sternum. The chief signs are pain, increased on deep inspiration and coughing, irregularity and crepitus at the seat of fracture, and emphysema if the lung is wounded. The fracture may be complicated by injury of any of tbe thoracic viscera, or by haemorrhage or suppuration in the anterior mediastinum. Treatment. —Eest on tbe back, and the application of a bandage, if it can be borne, round the chest. Wounds of the chest-walls may be divided into the penetrating and non-penetrating. The non-penetrating kre of no serious consequence, and may be treated like wounds in other situations. The penetrating are thoseINJURIES OF THE PLEURA AND LUNG. 403 that pass through the parietes into the pleura, peri- cardium, or mediastinum, and may be complicated by a wound of the lung, the heart, a large blood-vessel, an intercostal artery, or the internal mammary artery. When the wound is small, and there are no signs of injury to the thoracic viscera, it is not always possible to determine whether it has penetrated the chest-wall; although the direction and situation of the wound, and an account of the way in which it was inflicted, may point to its having done so. Under these circumstances, the wound should on no account be probed, but the patient treated as if the wound had penetrated, and watched for signs of inflammatory complications. The symptoms and treatment will depend upon the viscus wounded. (See Wounds of Thoracic Viscera.) ' Injuries of the contents of the Chest, These may be divided into injuries of the—1, pleura and lung; 2, pericardium and heart; and 3, large blood- vessels. 1. Injuries of the pleura and lung.—Contusion of the lung without an external wound may be produced by a severe crush of or blow upon the chest. The visceral layer of the pleura may or may not be lacerated. It is attended with paroxysmal dyspnoea, cough, localized dulness, and crepitation, followed in a few days by expectoration of rusty sputa. If the visceral layer of the pleura is lacerated, blood and air may escape into the pleural cavity, and there will then be in addition to the above, signs of hsemo-pneumothorax. The patient usually recovers in a few days, but pneumonia, pleurisy, or abscess or gangrene of the lung occasionally ensue. - Wounds of the pleura and lung may be produced by the fragments of a broken rib, or by a stab or gunshot. When attended with a penetrating wound of the chest, they are very serious. The pleura alone may be wounded, but more often the lung is injured at the same time. Signs.—No single symptom is sufficient to make it certain that the lung has been wounded; but where several of the following are present, the diagnosis becomes fairly certain. Thus, there may be severe shock, abdominal 1 breathing, and cough with expectoration of frothy blood- stained mucus, or even of pure blood. If there is an D D 2INJUEIES OF REGIOIS^S. 404 external wound, there will be escape of air intimately mixed with blood, and accompanied by a peculiar hissing noise {hcematopnoea); or if there is no external wound, emphysema in the region of the fractured ;rib. When the pleura alone is injured, a very rare accident, the signs are similar ; but no blood is coughed up, and though air may escape from the external wound if there be one, it is not churned into a fine froth with the blood, as it does not come from the lung, but is simply drawn in and out of the pleura through the wound in the parietes during inspiration and expiration. ComjjUcations.—UdemothoreiiLf pneumothorax, emphysema, haemorrhage, and later pleurisy and pneumonia (see Complications of Injuries of Chest). Treatment,—Absolute rest, ice to suck, opium to subdue pain, closure of the wound if small, or insertion of drain-tube if large, and antiseptic dressings, with such treatment as is appropriate for the complications that may be present (see below). If the pleura alone is injured, the external wound should be closed, unless any com- plication exists, and dressed antiseptically. 2. Injuries op the heart and pericardium.—Co?!- tusions, tcouTids, and rupture of the pericardium may at times be produced by a severe crush of the chest-walls ; but are more often due to the penetration of a fragment of a broken rib, or to a stab or gunshot. In the last two instances the heart is generally also involved. Signs.— Severe shock, haemorrhage, the position and direction of the wound, and subsequently symptoms of pericarditis. The prognosis is always very serious, death occurring either from the effused blood impeding the heart's action, or from pericarditis. The treatment consists in absolute rest, the local application of cold, and if inflammation threatens, of leeches. Should the heart's action become seriously impeded by effused blood, serum, or pus, aspiration or free incision and drainage may be required. When there is an external wound it should be dressed antiseptically. Wounds of the heart, especially when they penetrate one of its cavities and particularly an auricle, are generally instantaneously fatal from shock or haemorrhage. Ee- markable exceptions however occur, and patients have been known to linger for a few hours or a few days, or even to recover. Signs.—When not at once fatal, a wound of the heart is attended with great collapse, syncope, a fluttering pulse, and dyspnoea, and later withCOMPLICATIONS OF CHEST-IIS-JUKIES. 405 symptoms of pericarditis. The treatment is the same as that for a wound of the pericardium. Rapture of the heart, though rare, occasionally occurs as the result of great external violence to the chest-walls, orof some sudden exertion on the part of a patient sjitfer- ing from disease of the heart's substance. Death is as a rule almost instantaneous. 3. Wounds of the large blood-yessels, as the aorta or vena cava, are almost invariably and immedi- ately fatal, and require no further comment here. CompUcatiohs of Injuries of the Chest, The chief complications attending injuries of the chest are :—1, external haemorrhage ; 2, hsemothorax ; 3, pneu- mothorax ; 4, emphysema; 5, prolapse and hernia of the lung; 6, pleurisy; 7, pneumonia; 8, hsemopericardium; 9, pericarditis ; 10, mediastinal abscess. 1. External hemorrhage in penetrating wounds of the chest-walls may come from:—(1), an intercostal artery ; (2), the internal mammary artery; (3), a wound of the lung; or (4), a wound of the heart or one of the large vessels. Haemorrhage from an intercostal or the internal mammary artery, though it may generally be known by the blood escaping in jets, is sometimes diffi- cult to distinguish from haemorrhage from the lung. In such a case it is said that if a card be introduced into the wound, the blood, if it comes from an artery in the chest- wall, will flow over the outer surface of the card, but if it comes from the lung will well up around the card. Haemorrhage from the heart or one of the large vessels is as a rule immediately fatal. Treatment.—1. An inter- costal artery should, if possible, be tied; otherwise pressure forceps may be left on, or the artery with the periosteum may be separated from the lower half of the rib and then tied, or a portion of the rib may be excised. Where assistance is not at hand, the centre of a sheet of lint (wrung out of an antiseptic solution) may be pushed into the pleural cavity and the hollow stuifed lirmly with antiseptic w^ool. When the lint is now drawn on, the artery will be compressed against the interior of the chest- wall as shewn in the accompanying diagram. (Fig. 112.) 2. The internal mammary in the four upper spaces can be easily tied ; in the lower spaces a portion of the costalINJTJllIES OF HEGlOlSrS. 406 cartilage must be first cut away. 3. When fhe bleeding is from the lung the patient must be placed at perfect rest on the injured side, and an ice-bag applied. Internally, lead and opium, gallic acid, or ergot, maybe given. Some recommend the closing of the external wound and the application of a bandage to the chest, so that the blood may collect in the pleura, press on the lung, and thus stop the bleeding. 2. H^JMOTHORAX, or haemorrhage into the pleura, may occur either with or without an external wound. It is, perhaps, most often due to a fragment of a broken rib Fig. 112.—Method of compressing a wounded intercostal artery. A. Artery, l. Sheet of lint. R. e. Ribs. w. Plug of antiseptic wool. penetrating the lung or wounding an intercostal artery. The signs are those of internal haemorrhage with rapidly extending dulness to percussion, absence of breathing sounds, bulging of the intercostal spaces, and increasing dyspnoea. It may be distinguished from pleurisy and pneumonia by coming on immediately after the injury and by the absence of fever. Treatment,—Similar to that for haemorrhage from a wounded lung. Should the breathing become dangerously embarrassed the blood must be drawn off with the aspirator. Should suppuration occur the chest must be opened and freely drained. 3. Pneumothorax, or air in the pleura, is generally the result of a wound of the lung by a fragment of a broken rib. It may be known by tympanitic resonance, absence of breathing sounds, or amphoric breathing, metallic tinkling, bulging of the intercostal spaces, and increasing dyspnoea. When combined with haemothorax407 PROLAPSE AND HERNIA OF THE LUNG. or with, pleuritic effusion, the lower part of the chest will be dull to percussion, and a splashing sound on shaking the patient {succussion) may be heard on auscultation. The air is usually absorbed, but should the breathing become seriously affected it may be removed with the aspirator. 4. Emphysema, or air in the connective-tissue spaces, is sometimes called surgical emphysema to distinguish it from the medical affection of the same name in which the air-cells of the lung are dilated. It is generally due to a wound of the lung combined with a laceration of the parietal and visceral layers of the pleura, and is a very frequent complication of fractured ribs. The air either escapes into the pleura at each inspiration, and thence during expiration is forced through the parietal layer into the subcutaneous connective tissue, or it passes, if there are adhesions between the two layers of the pleura, directly from the lung into the subcutaneous tissue. More rarely it is due to a rupture of the lung without injury of the pleura, the air then escaping at the root of the liiDg into the posterior mediastinum, and thence into the connective tissue of the neck and arms. More rarely still it may occur without a wound of the lung, or even without a wound of the pleura. Signs.—The emphysema, though usually limited to the seat of injury, may extend somewhat widely around it, and in rare instances has spread over the whole body. It gives rise to an ill- defined flattened swelling unattended with signs of in- flammation and unaltered on inspiration and expiration. On pressing on the swelling a peculiar crackling sensa- tion is experienced, like that of rubbing the hair between the fingers. Treatment.—A pad and bandage is all that is usually necessary, but should the air instead of becoming absorbed extend so widely as to interfere with respiration, a puncture or two must be made to let it escape. 5. Prolapse and hernia of the lung.—Prolapse of the lung occasionally occurs through a wound in the chest-wall. It should be returned by gentle pressure, the wound being slightly enlarged if necessary. If the pro- lapsed portion has become adherent and congested it may be removed by the knife or ligature, taking care not to break down the adhesions of the visceral layer of the pleura to the chest-wall and so open the pleural cavity. Hernia of the lung is sometimes met with after a pene- trating wound of the chest has cicatrized, or even when408 INJURIES or REGIOISS. there has been no wound of the skin. It forms a soft, crepitating, resonant swelling, which can be made smaller by pressure, and generally becomes more prominent on forced expiration or coughing. On listening over it a harsh vesicular murmur is heard. The treatment consists in protecting it with a properly-shaped pad or leather shield moulded to the part. For an account of such complications di.^ Pleurisy, Pneu- monia^ Hcemopericardium^ Pericarditis, and Mediastinal Abscess, a work on Medicine must be consulted. Operations on the cke^t,—Tapping the pleura should be done when the effusion is serous without admitting air, either with the aspirator or with the syphon-trocar and cannula. The spot usually selected is the sixth intercostal space in the mid-axillary line. A small in- cision is first made through the skin, which should be drawn down on the rib so that the wound may be valvular. The needle of the aspirator or the trocar and cannula is then thrust into the pleural cavity. The fluid should be allowed to escape slowly, and its flow stopped for a minute or so if coughing occurs. The instrument must be withdrawn should any blood become mixed with the fluid. The wound should be closed with a pad of anti- septic gauze. Incision and drainage of the pleura may be required for empyema, the removal of putrid clots, &c. The incision may be made in the sixth intercostal space in the mid- axillary line, or in the ninth or tenth space in a line with the angle of the scapula. An anaesthetic should be given, and a careful dissection made between the ribs down to the pleura, or a director may be thrust through the muscles into the pleural cavity and the wound suffi- ciently enlarged by passing a dressing forceps along the director and forcibly opening the blades. A drainage- tube should then be inserted. If the space between the ribs is insufficient a piece of a rib may be excised. The wound should be treated antiseptically, and if pus again collects a counter-opening may be made. Thoracoplasti/ or Estlander^s operation consists in re- moving a portion of several of the ribs, for the purpose of allowing the chest-walls to fall in, in cases of empyema where, after the pleura has been drained, the lung in consequence of adhesions does not expand. An incision three or four inches in length may be made obliquely downwards and inwards over the side of the chest, just in409 INjruiES OF THE ABDOMEIf. front of the latissimus dorsi, across the ribs, the portions of which it is intended to excise. The edges of the wound being retracted to expose the ribs an incision is next made through the periosteum along the course of each rib for the required distance, the periosteum separated with a raspatory from both the outer and inner surface, and the rib then cut through with the saw or bone-forceps at each end of the incision, the soft parts being protected by a spatula passed beneath the rib. Tapping the pericardium,—The puncture should be made with the aspirator in the fourth or fifth intercostal space on the left side about two inches from the sternum or immediately to the left of the sternum. Care should be taken not to injure the internal mammary or an inter- costal artery, and not to thrust the needle too deep lest the heart be punctured. Incision and drainage of the pericardium may be re- quired for pus in its cavity. An incision about two inches long should be made along the upper border of the fifth or sixth rib, beginning one inch from the sternum. When the pericardium is reached it should be freely opened, a drainage-tube inserted, and antiseptic dressings applied. Fneumotomy, or incising the lung for the purpose of opening an abscess or hydatid cyst, or of draining a phthisical or bronchiectatic cavity, has in a few instances been done. An incision is made down to the pleura, a trocar and cannula then thrust into the cavity in the lung, and the wound made by the cannula cautiously enlarged by dressing forceps. INJURIES OE THE ABDOMEN. Contusions of the abdominal wall, especially when due to a sharp or sudden blow or a severe crush, should always be regarded as serious, as they may be complicated . by grave internal injuries. Thus, the peritoneum may be lacerated, one of the viscera ruptured, or a large blood- vessel injured and blood extravasated into the peritoneum or subperitoneal tissue ; whilst among the minor compli- . cations may be mentioned rupture of the rectus or other muscle of the abdominal wall accompanied by blood- effusion {hcematoma) Sind possibly followed by suppuration and abscess. Even where no injury to a viscus has been sustained, a contusion of the abdomen is nearly410 always attended with sliock which, may be severe, and in some instances has been fatal, probably from injury to the solar plexus. The signs of a simple contusion are pain, ecchymosis, tenderness and swelling, with a varying amount of shock. A ruptured rectus will be indicated by pain on putting the muscle into action, and the presence of a gap, and later of a swelling from the effusion of blood. A blood-tumour will be known by its sudden occurrence, and absence of signs of inflammation. Treat- ment.—The patient should be treated as if he had sus- tained a grave injury, since it is impossible at first to say that such is not the case. Thus, he should be placed at absolute rest in bed, hot fomentations applied to the abdomen and hot bottles to the extremities, and opium given internally; whilst for precaution's sake for the first twelve or twenty-four hours nothing should be given by the mouth or only small quantities of iced milk. Where there is rupture of the rectus the parts should be approxi- mated as much as possible by position. If a blood- tumour forms cold should be applied, but it should on no account be opened, as the blood will nearly always in time be absorbed. Lacebation of the peeitoi^eijm may occur from a blow or crush of the abdomen without injury of the viscera, and may be complicated when a large vessel has been ruptured by extravasation of blood into the peritoneal cavity or sub-peritoneal tissue. There are no special signs of this injury; but restlessness, a sensation of sinking, yawning, an anxious countenance, coldness and blanching of the surface when complicated by haemorrhage, with an absence of vomiting and often of pain, are said to indicate it. Peritonitis nearly always quickly supervenes. Treat- ment,—Like that of peritonitis. SuppuEATiON AND abscess may follow on any injury of the abdominal walls, or extravasation of urine; or may be due to the breaking down of a blood-tumour or syphilitic gumma, or to disease of the bones forming the walls of the abdomen or pelvis. The suppuration may be acute or chronic, superficial or deep. When deep it is very apt to be ditose, and extend along the muscular planes or between the peritoneum and transversalis. When superficial, except as the result of extravasation of urine, it is generally circumscribed and often confined to the sheath of the rectus. Signs,—The acute form is attended with the general and local symptoms of inflammation.HOTTtrUE or THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA. 411 ■followed by those of suppuration, and subsequently, by the signs of an abscess. In the chronic form there will probably be no constitutional signs; but a localized swell- ing, either superficial or deep, will generally be present in which fluctuation may be detected. Treatment.— Early and free evacuation of the pus. EuPTURE OF THE VISCERA.—The rupture of an abdo- minal viscus is always a most serious accident, and one which is frequently, though not invariably, fatal. Cause. —Grenerally a severe crush of the abdomen, as between the buffers of railway cars; or a kick or blow, or the passage of a wheel over the abdomen. Pathology.—Any of the viscera, except perhaps the pancreas, may be ruptured; but the liver, intestines, and bladder are those most frequently injured. In rupture of the liver and spleen severe haemorrhage into the peritoneal cavity, followed by peritonitis, ensues, unless the peritoneal covering escapes rupture, when no blood is extravasated. In rupture of the stomach, gall-bladder, and intestines their contents escape into the peritoneal cavity, setting up rapidly-fatal peritonitis, though in the case of the stomach and gall-bladder the more immediate danger is death from shock. Eupture of the intestine usually occurs where the duodenum joins the jejunum. The large intestine is rarely injured in consequence of its protected position. Eupture of the kidney is a less fatal accident, as the organ lies well behind the peritoneum; but when the crush is severe it may be attended with haemorrhage or peritonitis. It is liable to be followed by perinephritic abscess. For rupture of the bladder, see Injuries of Pelvis. The signs of a ruptured viscus are often obscure, but great shock, extreme collapse, and intense localized pain, together with the history of a severe crush of the abdo- men, point to such an injury having occurred. Beyond a surmise that one of the viscera has been injured, it may be quite impossible to localize the mischief. The following signs, however, may serve to indicate the probable nature of the lesion; thus—1. In rupture of the liver there may be pain in the right hypochondrium, perhaps a fracture of the ribs over the liver, symptoms of internal haemorrhage, increase of the hepatic dulness in consequence of blood extravasation, and later peritonitis, jaundice, and very occasionally diabetes. When the rupture is slight, or the peritoneal covering is not torn, the injury may remain unsuspected and the patient re-412 INJURIES O'F HEGIOKS. cover. Or after a few days the peritoneal covering may give way and peritonitis ensue. 2. Iq rupture of the spleen the signs are similar, save that the pain is referred to the left side, and there may be increase of the splenic dulness, and perhaps fracture of the ribs in that region. 3. Eupture of the stomach is attended with extreme collapse, and if not rapidly fatal, with intense pain in the region of the stomach, and vomiting of blood, followed by peritonitis. 4. In rupture of the intestines, in addition to the intense pain radiating over the abdomen, there may be vomiting, first of the contents of the stomach, then of bile, and tben of altered blood; blood in the stools; tympanites with dulness in the flanks ; and, later, peritonitis, o. When a kidney is ruptured there will probably be a history of a blow or ottier injury of the loin, increased frequency of micturition, blood-stained urine, urinary extravasation in the loin, pain and signs of bruising in the lumbar region, retraction of the testicle, and, later, pus in the urine, and signs of deep-seated suppuration {perinephritic abscess) or peritonitis. 6. Eupture of the ureter may give rise to a fluctuating retro- peritoneal swelling containing urine. Treatment.—Whatever viscus is ruptured, perfect rest, and the administration of opium, or subcutaneous injec- tions of morphia, are imperative. In rupture of the liver, spleen, or kidney, ice may be applied over the part, and gallic acid or ergot given internally to restrain the hsemorrhage. Stimulants must be avoided, but fluid nourishments should be administered in very small quantities at a time. In rupture of the stomach or intestines the abdomen should be opened, the rent sewn up by a Lembert's suture, and the peritoneal cavity thoroughly cleansed by irrigation with a weak antiseptic solution. Subsequently the patient should be kept under the influence of opium, and nothing whatever be given by the mouth for the first few days. Nutrient enemata, if the strength flags, should be administered. In rupture of the kidney an incision in the loin or nephrectomy may become necessary. The swelling following rupture of the ureter may require tapping or free drainage. Wounds of the abdomen may be divided into the penetrating and non-penetrating, according as they do or do not involve the peritoneal cavity. NoN-PENETKATiNa WOUNDS should be treated like wounds in other situations, especial care, however, beingWOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 413 taken to establish a good drain, as should they extend deeply they are apt to be complicated by effusion of blood or suppuration in the sub-peritoneal tissue. They are liable to be followed by ventral hernia. Peneteating wounds are such as involve the peri- toneal cavity. They may be divided into the following :— 1. Simple penetrating wounds without injury or protru- sion of the viscera. 2. Penetrating wounds with injury, but without protrusion of the viscera. 3. Penetrating wounds with protrusion, but without injury of the viscera. 4. Penetrating wounds with both protrusion and injury of the viscera. I. Simple pen?:teating wounds without injuky on PROTRUSION OF THE VISCERA.—When the wound is large there will usually be no difficulty in ascertaining the fact that the viscera have escaped injury. If, how- ever, the wound is very small—a mere puncture, or made obliquely, it may be difficult or impossible to say whether any injury to the viscera has been done, or, indeed, whether the abdominal cavity has been penetrated. In such a case it has hitherto been taught that the wound should on no account be probed for the purpose of settling the point, but the patient treated as if the'wound had pene- trated, and had not injured the viscera. If all antiseptic precautions are taken however, it is questionable whether the safer course is not to thoroughly explore the wound, not only by probing but by enlarging it if necessary, so as at once to ascertain whether it has penetrated the peritoneum, and whether the viscera have escaped injury, and not to wait till the diagnosis is settled by the onset of peritonitis. Where there are signs of internal haemor- rhage no surgeon would, I presume, hesitate to search for the bleeding vessel. Treatment.—Large wounds should be thoroughly cleansed with some weak antiseptic lotion (as 2 per cent, boric acid), and united with china- silk sutures, which should be passed through the peri- toneum as well as the edges of the wound so as to bring the two free surfaces of the serous membrane into contact. If this is not done the discharge from the deep part of the wound may make its way into the peritoneal cavity and set up peritonitis. In the case of punctured wounds it has usually been the custom to merely close them and apply some antiseptic dressing. As a rule, however, it will probably be safer to enlarge them, and, having ascertained that the viscera have escaped, to treatINJUBIES OF REGIONS. 414 tUem as described above. In any case the patient should be placed at absolute rest in bed and bis diet restricted to small quantities of iced milk for the first few days. Most surgeons would give opium in small doses. Should peritonitis supervene it must be treated as described under that head. II. Penetrating wounds with injury, but with- out PROTRUSION OE THE VISCERA.—When the wound is large, and the injured viscus can be seen, the nature of the injury will probably be obvious. When, however, the wound is small, unless there be an escape externally of fseces, bile, urine, or the contents of the stomach, there are no primary signs, with the exception perhaps of emphysema about the wound, absolutely diagnostic of a viscus having been injured. Intense pain, and extreme collapse, if present, no doubt point to such an injury having probably occurred; but both pain and shock are so variable as really to afford little guidance. Later the presence of tympanites and the escape of blood from the anus make it highly probable the intestine has been wounded. In a doubtful case of wound of the intestine the rectum may be inflated with hydrogen by Senn's rubber balloon. If the gut is wounded the gas will escape through the rent into the peritoneum and thence through the external wound, where it will ignite on applying a light, thus settling the diagnosis. In a doubtful wound of the stomach this viscus may be inflated by a tube passed through the mouth. The tympanites will be con- fined to the stomach if the viscus is sound, or spread to the rest of the abdomen and efface the liver dul- ness if it is injured. Any of the viscera may be implicated ; but wounds of the liver, gall-bladder, spleen, and stomach, are much less common than wounds of the intestine. The danger to be apprehended is haemorrhage in the case of the liver or spleen, extravasation in the case of a hollow viscus, and in all, peritonitis. The amount of extravasation will depend upon the size of the wound, and whether the viscus was distended or empty at the time of injury; when the wound is a mere punc- ture, there may be none. If the extravasation is but slight, or escapes externally through the wound in the parietes, it may be cut off from the general peritoneal cavity by a local peritonitis, and the patient recover. An extensive extravasation is always followed by diffuse septic peritonitis, which, unless surgical measures areWOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 415 undertaken, will certainly prove fatal in a few days. Treatment.—1. If the wound in the parietes is extensive, the injured viscus, if the stomach or intestine^ should be drawn gently through the aperture and the wound of its coats united by Lembert's sutures. Should the intestine be torn completely across, its continuity should be restored by circular enterorrhaphy or by Senn's method of anastomosis by bone-plates. If its coats are much lacerated, the lacerated portions should be first excised. These methods have so reduced the time required for restoring the continuity of divided intestine that only in exceptional cases should the patient's general condition render it necessary to draw the injured gut into the wound, stitch it to the parietes, and make an artificial anus. In gunshot wounds of the intestines Senn's infla- tion method is useful in determining if there be one or more wounds. The rectum is first inflated and the lowest wound detected by the escape of the gas. This wound is then sutured, the inflation repeated, and the gas extends up to the next wound. If the liver is wounded an attempt may be made to unite the peritoneal surface by sutures, or if the wound is deep it may be plugged with iodoform-gauze and the wound in the parietes be left open above for the purposes of drainage and the subsequent removal of the plugs. If the gall- Uadder is penetrated the wound should be sewn up, or the edges of the wound if lacerated stitched to the abdominal parietes, or the gall-bladder removed. If the spleen is injured extirpation of the organ appears to be the best method of arresting the otherwise fatal haemor- rhage. After the wounded viscera have been treated in one or other of the ways described above, the peritoneal cavity should be thoroughly cleansed from all blood and other extravasation by irrigation with warm water or boric acid solution (2 per cent.), and the wound in the parietes closed as after a simple penetrating wound. 2. If the wound in the parietes is small, the safer course is prob- ably to enlarge the wound, and treat the wounded viscus as described above. The general treatment consists in the administration of opium; abstinence from all nutriment taken by the mouth for the first two or three days, and subsequent feeding with small quantities of iced milk^ and nutrient enemata. Absolute rest is imperative. Should peritonitis supervene, it must be treated as described under that head.416 INJURIES OF REGIONS. Method of uniting wounded intestine,—If the wound is small (a mere puncture) it has usually been taught that no suture will be required, since the mucous membrane will protrude, block up the wound, and prevent extra- vasation until the wound has healed by inflammatory exudation from the peiitoneal surface. Gross's experi- ments on dogs show, however, that the protrusion of mucous membrane is not always sufficient even in minute wounds to prevent the escape of faecal matter. It would, therefore, appear to be the better practice in all cases to sew up the wound, however small. This is now usually Fig. lis.—Section of intestine united by Lembert's suture. Fig. 114.—Intestine united by Lembert's suture. done by interrupted sutures, the two peritoneal surfaces being placed in contact. The sutures are best applied by Lembert's method, as shown in the accompanying diagram (Fig. 113), in which it is seen that the suture passes through the peritoneal and muscular coats only, avoiding the mucous membrane, since ii this is included there is danger of peritonitis from leakage along the thread. The sutures, which may cons'st of fine aseptic China silk, should be introduced about two lines from the edge of the wound and brought out at the margin of the serous coat, and then passed in the same manner on the opposite side (Fig. 114). If, however, the edges are lacerated the sutures should be introduced further from the wound, and brought out a good line from the margin, so as not to include the bruised tissues. Sufficient sutures should be passed to ensure the parts being everywhere in appo- sition, and should not be tied too tightly, lest gangrene, the commonest cause of non-union, ensue. The peri-WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 417 toneal surfaces thus placed in contact unite by adhesive -inflammation. The sutures either remain encysted, or ulcerate through the mucous membrane, and drop into the interior of the bowel. It is not safe to suture the wound—(1) when the wound runs longitudinally along the mesenteric aspect, inasmuch as gangrene of the part cut off from its vascular supply will inevitably ensue; (2) when suturing would reduce the lumen of the gut to more than half its normal size ; (3) when there is much bruising of the gut; (4) when there are several wounds close together. In such cases the injured portion of the intestine should be excised and the two ends united by circular enterorrhaphy or an intestinal anastomosis formed. Circular enterorrhajphy is the union of the ends of the completely-divided intestine with the peritoneal surfaces in contact by a row of sutures around the circumference of the bowel. The Lembert method of a single row and the Czerny-Lembert method of a double row have in recent years usually been employed. The objection to these methods are the great number of sutures, and hence the length of time required for the operation^a serious drawback in abdominal cases—and the danger of extravasation at the mesenteric attachment. It would be better therefore to employ Senn's modification of Jobert's suture. Having determined which is the upper end of the intestine, as by applying to the surface of the peritoneal coat a little common salt, which causes ascending peristalsis (Nothnagel's test), line the lower end of the upper portion of the bowel with a soft pliable rubber ring half an inch wide, made by stitching together the ends of a rubber band by two catgut sutures. Fix the ring by sewing its lower margin with a continuous catgut suture to the cut-end of the bowel; the ring prevents bulging of the mucous membrane and causes the end of the bowel to slightly taper, and thus aids its subsequent invagination (Fig. 115). Pass two catgut sutures with a needle at each end from within outwards through the upper margin of the ring and all the coats of the bowel, one suture near the mesenteric, one near the convex surface of the bowel. Pass the other end of the sutures through the peritoneal and muscular coat of the lower portion of the bowel about a third of an inch from its cut margin. Whilst an assistant draws on the four ends of the two sutures turn in the margin of the upper end of the lower portion of the gut evenly by the aid of a £ EINJURIES OF REGIONS. 418 director, and at the same time invaginate the ring-lined upper portion of the intestine into the lower portion (Fig. 116) to the extent of the whole width of the ring. Tie the sutures only sufficiently tightly to prevent dis- invagination. The two peritoneal surfaces are thus held in close contact by the rubber ring. The intestinal con- tents, says Senn, pass freely through the lumen of the ring from above downwards, and escape from below is impossible, as the free end of the intussuscipiens secures Figs. 115 and 116.—Senn's method of circular enterorrhaphy. E. Rubber ring. s. Continuous suture, m. Mesentery, us. Retaining suture, i (in Fig. 115). Margin of intestine, shown turned in at I.I in Fig. 116. accurate valvular closure. The catgut sutures fixing the ring are absorbed, and the ring, reconverted into a band, is passed per anum. The invagination sutures are believed by Senn to be removed by substitution on the part of the tissues. Hence the punctures of the bowel remain closed and extravasation is prevented. Intestinal anastomosis y or the restoration of the conti- nuity of the intestine by Senn's decalcified bone-plates after complete division or excision of a portion of intes- tine is done as follows:—Having let what faeces will escape from the proximal portion of the intestine, clampWOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEK. 419 both, the proximal and distal portions about five inches above and below the divided spot by passing a piece of indiarubber tubing through a small incision in the mesentery and tying it sufficiently tightly to prevent any further faecal soiling of the parts. Invaginate the divided ends with the peritoneal surfaces in contact and unite them by a continuous suture passed through the peri- toneal and muscular coats (Fig. 119, A a). Make an incision about an inch in length along the convexity of each portion of the intestine between the sutured end and Fio,. 117. Fig. 118. Fig. 117.—A Senn's decalcified bone-plate threaded ready for use. A fine cliina silk suture with a loop at one end, the size of the aperture in the plate, is passed through one of the suture holes, and to this loop the three other sutures passed through the three remaining holes are securely tied. The plates should be kept in alcohol. Fig. 118.—Portion of intestine with line of suture covered by omental graft. i. Intestine. m. Mesentery. o. (xraft. s. Suture fixing graft. the rubber clamp. Insert into each incision a Senn's bone plate properly threaded, as shown in Fig. 117, with four fine aseptic china silk sutures. Pass the lateral sutures from within outwards through all the coats of the intestine a line or two from the margin of the incision and bring the longitudinal sutures out through each end of the incision (Fig. 119). Now place each portion of the E E 2INJURIES OF REGIONS. 420 intestine corresponding to tlie situation of the bone-plates opposite to each other, and having scarified the serous surfaces lightly with the point of a needle to aid subse- quent adhesion, tie each of the four sutures coming from one bone-plate to the corresponding suture from the other, just sufficiently tightly to keep the wall of the intestine between the plates in contact. Tuck in the knots between the approximated serous surfaces and apply round the line of approximation for greater safety an omental graft (Fig. 118). On removing the clamps the contents flow as shown by the arrow in Eig. 120, through the central hole Fig. 119.—Method of forming an intestinal anastomosis by Senn's bone-plates after complete division of the bowel. The divided ends closed by continuous suture, a. a. in the bone-plates and the incision in the walls of the gut from the proximal to the distal portion of intestine. The bone-plates hold the portions of intestine in contact, preventing any leakage of faeces till firm union has occurred. They ultimately become dissolved, and, to- gether with the sutures, are passed per anum. The advantages of this method over circular enterorrhaphy as practised by the Lembert and Czerny-Lembert suture are that it can be done in a much shorter time (a quarter of an hour ?) and hence greatly minimizes the risk from shock. It also appears attended with less danger of septic peritonitis, in consequence of leakage between the sutures or one of the Lembert stitches having penetrated the mucous coat.421 WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMET^. The omental graft is made by cutting a piece of omen- tum about an inch wide sufficiently long to encircle the intestine (Fig. 118). It is placed oyer the line of union and fixed by catgut sutures to the mesentery. ^ It adheres very rapidly to the intestine, but this adhesion maybe accelerated by lightly scarifying the peritoneal coat of the intestine to which the graft is to be applied. It is of service in preventing extravasation should a leakage occur through a stitch-wound, &c. III. PENETRATma WOUNDS WITH PROTRUSION BUT WITHOUT INJURY OF THE VISCERA. — The protruding Fig. 120.—Diagram of intestine united by Senn's plates. The arrow shows the way in which the contents of the bowel pass through the plates and incision in the wall of the bowel from the proximal into the distal portion. viscus is nearly always a portion of intestine or omentum. It should be cleansed with some weak antiseptic lotion, and returned by gentle uniform pressure into the abdo- men, care being taken not to force it between the perito- neum and fascia transversalis. If the wound of the parietes is too small to allow the viscus to be returned easily, it should be cautiously enlarged. The wound should then be closed in the way already described. If the portion of intestine is congested or inflamed, it should still be re- placed. If gangrenous, however, it should on no account be returned, but the gangrenous portion excised and the continuity of the gut restored by means of circular entero- rrhaphy or by Senn's plates, and replaced in the abdomen. In exceptional cases it may be left in situ, an incisionINJURIES OF EEGIOIS-S. 422 made into it, and an artificial anus thus formed. A congested portion of omentum should be ligatured and cut off, and the stump returned; a gangrenous portion should be cut off, and the stump, which is probably already adherent, separated from the parietes, ligatured at a healthy spot, the diseased part cut away, and the stump returned. The general treatment should be the same as that before described. lY. PENETRATmG WOUNDS WITH BOTH PROTRUSION AND INJURY OF THE VISCERA.—The protruded viscus is nearly always a portion of the small intestine. The wound should be united by suture in the way already de- scribed, and the intestine then replaced. If the intestine is completely divided it may be united either by suture or by Senn's plates and returned, or an artificial anus may be made. If the wound is high up the intestine the former procedure should be the one adopted. Traumatic peritonitis may be set up by any of the injuries above described, and may either remain localized as a simple inflammation to the neighbourhood of the wound or other injury, or, as is more frequently the case, may become diffused over the whole peritoneal cavity, when it generally assumes a septic character, and ter- minates in blood-poisoning from the absorption of the chemical products of putrefaction. The simple localized variety, after gluing the parts together, and thus preventing the spread of the inflam- mation, usually subsides; but it may terminate in sup- puration and the formation of a circumscribed abscess, which may burst externally, into the intestine, or into the general peritoneal cavity, then setting up diffuse peritonitis. The diffuse variety is generally due to ex- travasation of urine, blood, bile, or the contents of the stomach or intestine, or the breaking of an abscess into the peritoneal cavity; and when there is an open wound, or a wound or rupture of the bladder, stomach, or intes- tine, it generally assumes a septic character. It usually terminates fatally, sometimes in a few hours, usually within a week or ten days, either from collapse, or from blood-poisoning due to the absorption of septic products. Should recovery occur, death may subsequently ensue from intestinal obstruction consequent upon the gluing together of the intestines or the strangulation of a loop by a band of adhesion. Symptoms,—In the local form there is severe pain at one part of the abdomen increased on pressure, on deep423 TRAUMATIC PERITONITIS. inspiration, and on cougliing, with perhaps vomiting, and a slight rise of temperature, followed should an abscess form by a circumscribed swelling, rigors, and fever. In the diffuse variety the pain, which at first may be localized to the seat of wound or injury, becomes general and of a lancinating character, and so increased by the slightest pressure that the weight of the bedclothes in a severe case cannot be borne. The patient lies on his back with his legs drawn up to relax the abdominal parietes, his bxeathing being entirely thoracic. The abdomen is at first hard owing to the spasmodic contrac- tion of the muscles, but soon becomes distended and tympanitic, the paralysis of the muscular coat of the in- testines allowing them to become inflated with gas. Later, as effusion occurs, the abdomen becomes dull in the flanks. The general symptoms are obstinate vomit- ing, complete constipation, hiccough, a furred, dry, and brown tongue, and a small, quick, and wiry pulse. The temperature may register 103° or 104°, but it generally falls before death, or may remain little, if at all, raised throughout. The treatment may be divided into the preventive and the curative. Preventive treatment consists in the prompt removal, where practicable, of the conditions which, if allowed to continue, are virtually certain to be followed by inflammation; and subsequently in keeping the patient at absolute rest and allowing nothing to be taken by the mouth save small quantities of ice. By most Surgeons opium in small and repeated doses is given; but by others the drug is only used if there is much pain, as it tends to restrain absorption from the peritoneal sur- face, and excretion from the intestines. Mr. Tait, on the first signs of peritonitis, orders a turpentine enema and a saline purgative, with a view to cause the absorption of any serum that may have collected in the peritoneum. This treatment is advancing in favour, but it should be borne in mind that it ought never to be employed when there is any serious obstruction in the intestines; in such cases it could only do harm. Where the abdomen has been closed, as after an ovariotomy, the wound may at times be opened with advantage, the peritoneum washed out and a glass drainage-tube inserted. In the way of curative treatment the only chance for the patient where the inflammation depends on such causes as those above mentioned, is at once to freely open the abdomen,424 USTJURIES OF REGIONS. deal with any wounded viscus in the way already de- scribed, thoroughly cleanse the peritoneal cavity, and establish a free drain. Beyond this little can be done save keeping the patient well under the influence of opium, and supporting the strength by nutrient enemata, and fluid nourishment given by teaspoonfuls at a time. In the local variety, leeches followed by hot fomentations and turpentine stupes, may be employed, whilst, should suppuration occur, the pus should be cautiously let out. Fractures oe the pelvis.—Cause.—Nearly always severe and direct violence, as the passage of the wheel of a heavy van, or a crush between the buffers of railway Fig. 121.-—Fracture of the pelvis. (Bryant's Surgery.) carriages. The acetabulum, however, especially in old people, may be fractured from a fall on the great tro- chanter, or its rim may be chipped off in conjunction with dislocation of the hip. State of the parts.— The injury may be localized to the acetabulum, or to the ramus of the pubes or ischium; or merely the anterior superior iliac spine or the crest of the ilium may be splintered off. When the result of a crush, the injury is generally more severe, the line of fracture often extending through the ramus of the pubes or ischium, and thence backwards through the ilium near the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, thus detaching, as it were, one side of the pelvis from the other. Or the fracture, as shown in Fig. 121, may extend in various directions. INJURIES OE THE PELVIS.FRACTURE OF THE PELYIS. 425 more or less smasliing both the false and true pelvis. "The fracture owes its importance to the liability of the pelvic viscera to be injured. Thus the bladder is not infrequently ruptured; or the urethra torn across by a fragment of the pubic arch; or the rectum or intestines lacerated, when the sacrum or the venter of the ilium is implicated. Signs,—The history of the accident, and perhaps the mark of a wheel across the lower part of the body, will commonly direct attention to the possibility of a fracture. On grasping the crests of the ilia firmly, preternatural mobility or crepitus may be discovered and pain produced, whilst the patient is usually unable to walk or to turn himself in bed without great suffering. A displaced fragment may sometimes be felt through the vagina or rectum. There is usually considerable shock, and where any of the viscera have been ruptured, commonly severe collapse, {^ee Buvture of Bladder, Urethra, &c,) Treatment.—As the bone readily unites, little beyond keeping the parts at rest and in apposition is required. This may be done by applying a flannel bandage firmly round the pelvis and confining the patient to bed for three to five weeks according to the severity of the fracture. Where there has been much crushing a gutta-percha or poroplastic felt shield should be moulded to the pelvis and hip of the affected side to prevent any movement of the fragments by the use of the joint. In any case a catheter should be passed in order to make sure that the urinary apparatus is not injured. Fracture of the acetabulum.—A word or two in addition may be said of this form of fracture of the pelvis.—The rim of the acetabulum, generally the posterior and upper part, may be broken off in some forms of dislocation of the femur on to the dorsum ilii. Beside the ordinary symp- toms of the dislocation, crepitus will generally be detected on manipulation, and the head of the femur will slip in and out of the acetabulum. Or the fracture may extend through the floor of the acetabulum, the head of the bone being even driven into the pelvis. Crepitus may then be detected ; or the head of the bone may be immovably fixed and the limb shortened. Pain is present on movement or on attempting to stand on the limb; also, it is said, on pressing on the pubes. Treatment.—Extension may be made by a long splint, or by a stirrup, weight, and pulley.INJURIES OF REGIONS. 426 EuPTURE OF THE BLADDER Can Only occur when tlie viscus is full. It may then be due to a blow or kick upon the abdomen, and is a frequent complication of fracture of the pelvis. Eupture is seldom due to over-distension consequent upon urethral stricture, as the walls of the bladder are then generally thickened and thereby rendered capable of resisting the pressure of the contained urine. Under these circumstances it is commonly the urethra behind the stricture that gives way. State of the parts.—The rupture, which is usually vertical, may extend through the posterior part of the bladder, the urine escaping into the peritoneal cavity; or through the anterior part, the urine then being extravasated into the loose cellular tissue of the pelvis. In the former case, which is the more common, acute peritonitis is generally set ^up, and is, as a rule, fatal in a few days. In the latter, diffuse cellulitis com- monly occurs, the patient succumbing either to septic poisoning from the absorption of the products of putre- faction, or to the extension of the inflammation to the peritoneum. Signs.—Intense collapse following a blow over the abdomen or a severe injury of the pelvis, combined with the fact that on passing a catheter (as should always be done in such a case) no urine but only a little blood escapes, whilst the patient states that the bladder was full at the time of the accident, or at least that he had passed no water for several hours previously, should lead us to infer that the bladder is ruptured. The catheter, moreover, may at times be felt to be grasped by the empty bladder, and to slip through the rent in its walls; the point may then be detected more plainly than natural through the front of the abdomen, and blood-stained urine may flow. The flow, however, is not continuous, but varies with respiration. If the urine has had time to collect in the peritoneum, a sensation of fluid in the ab- domen may be detected on palpation. The signs, however, are not always so obvious. Thus, there may be neither collapse nor pain; or, again, on passing a catheter, several ounces of clear urine may escape owing to urine having collected in the bladder in consequence of the rent being small or blocked by a portion of intestine. If in doubt, 10 or 12 ounces of some antiseptic fluid may be injected into the bladder, when, if no rupture exists the same quantity should flow out again through the catheter.RLTPTIJRE OF THE BLADDER. 427 Or the bladder may be inflated with hydrogen ; if there is a rupture the abdomen becomes distended and the liver dulness lost; if the bladder is sound a localized tympanitic tumour rises from the pelvis. Later sym- ptoms of peritonitis or of pelvic cellulitis will probably supervene. , Treatment.—The following are the chief plans of treat- ment that have been adopted:—1. The retention of a soft catheter just within the bladder. 2. Washing out the bladder and adjoining portion of the peritoneal cavity with an antiseptic solution by a catheter passed through the rent in the viscus. 3. Washing out and drainage Figs. 122 and 123.—Method of applying Lembert's suture in ruptured bladder. (After Sir W. MacCormac.) through an incision in the perineum. 4. Opening the abdomen, sewing up the rent in the bladder, and washing out the peritoneal cavity if the rupture is intra-peritoneal. Of these methods the last, provided every care is taken to ensure perfect closure of the rent in the bladder, and thorough cleansing of the peritoneum by irrigation, holds out, in the intra-peritoneal rupture, the best prospect of success. Several cases have now been treated success- fully in this way; amongst the first of these may be men- tioned, two by Sir William MacCormac, one by Mr. Holmes, and one by myself. In sewing up the bladder the peritoneal surfaces should be brought into contact by Lembert's sutures (Fig. 123), which should not pass through the mucous membrane. And one suture at least should be placed beyond the angles of the wound so as to prevent leakage at these spots (Fig. 122). After the rent has been closed an antiseptic fluid should be injected into the bladder to make sure that the viscus is watertight.INJURIES or REGIONS. 428 A catheter should not be tied in, for fear of it inducing septic changes in the nrine, but the patient should be made to regularly empty his bladder every .four hours to guard against oyer-distension and the giving way of the sutures. When it is not clear whether the rupture is intra- or extra-peritoneal, the fundus of the bladder should be exposed before opening the reflection of the peritoneum. Extra-peritoneal rupture should be treated by a free incision in the perineum, or above the pubes, and an antiseptic drain. Nothing, as a rule, should be given by the mouth for the first twenty-four or thirty-six hours. Where, however, there is extreme collapse, stimulants may be cautiously administered. As in other peritoneal cases it is a moot question whether opium should be used as a matter of routine. Rupture of the urethra is a serious injury, as it exposes the patient not only to the immediate danger of extravasation of urine, but also to the life-long trouble of a traumatic stricture. It is generally caused by a kick on the perineum, a fall astride a joist or rail, or the dis- placement of a fragment of the pubic arch in fracture of the pelvis. The urethra may also give way behind an old stricture while the patient is straining to empty his bladder. State of the parts.—The rupture usually occurs where the urethra passes under the pubic arch, i.e., either just in front of or just behind the triangular ligament. In the former situation urine and blood will be extravasated in the perineum; in the latter, about the neck of the bladder. As the triangular ligament, however, is generally torn, some urine will, as a rule, in the latter case also pass forward into the perineum. The urethra may be com- pletely torn across, or the rupture may only be partial, the upper wall escaping. The signs are usually quite obvious. Together with the history of an accident, there will be pain, swelling, and ecchymosis of the perineum, and escape of blood, often in considerable quantities, from the urethra. The patient is unable to pass water, and any attempt to do so merely forces more urine into the tissues of the perineum and gives pain. On trying to pass a catheter some obstruc- tion is generally met with, and will often prove insur- mountable ; but if the catheter is finally passed, clear urine will escape. These signs distinguish it from rup- tured bladder, in which injury the catheter passes easily,IKJtTHIES OF THE BECTUM. 429 but as a rule (although the bladder is said to have been full at the time of the injury) only a little urine flows. In mere bruising and ecchymosis of the perineum the catheter will pass easily, and there is, as a rule, no escape of blood from the urethra. Treatment,—A Soft catheter should be passed if pos- sible ; if not, a gum elastic or a silver one, and in any case tied in. Failing to pass a catheter and extravasa- tion of urine in any quantity having already occurred, a silver catheter should be passed down to the obstruction, and a free incision through the middle line of the peri- neum made on its point. If the proximal end of the torn urethra can now be found, the catheter should be passed through it into the bladder and tied in. If not readily discovered, a prolonged search for it need not be made, as with a free incision through the perineum there is no danger of further extravasation of urine. If the urethra is found only partially torn across, it has been proposed to unite it by suture and close the perineal wound, but such a procedure is attended with some risk of extravasation, and could hardly be done where extra- vasation had already occurred, on account of the softened condition of the tissues. Should a fragment of the pubic arch be found compressing the urethra, steps must be taken to remove it, the bladder in the meantime being aspirated above the pubes to prevent further extravasa- tion occurring. A silver catheter, as the point of this is more under control than that of a soft one, should be passed daily during the healing of the wound, and the patient enjoined to pass one for himself at frequent inter- vals, and warned that if he neglects to do so a stricture will gradually form. In.jtjuies oe the rectum occasionally occur from falls upon sharp-pointed bodies, or incautious attempts to pass a long enema-tube or bougie. Should the peritoneal cavity be perforated, death is the almost invariable con- sequence. If any injection has been thrown into the peritoneum before the mistake is discovered, opening the abdomen, flushing out the peritoneum, and sewing up the rent in the gut, probably holds out the only chance of escape. EoREiGN BODIES IN THE BECTUM.—Foreign bodies of the most various descriptions have at times been acci- dentally or intentionally introduced into the rectum. Fish-bones that have been swallowed not infrequently430 INJITRIES OF HEGIOKS. become impacted just witliiii the anus, there giving rise to much irritation or pain, and often causing an ischio- rectal abscess. The removal of som-e of these bodies, when of large size, is frequently attended with consider- able difficulty, requiring an ansesthetic, dilatation of the sphincter, and the use of various forceps or even the passage of the whole hand. Injuries of the pudenda.—Contusions and wounds of all kinds may be met with, and require no special remark further than:—that ecchymosis of the loose cellular tissue is often extensive; that wounds, though apt to be attended with considerable hsemorrhage from the great vascularity of the parts, on this account also heal very readily ; and that serious consequences from such injuries are exceedingly rare. HEMATOMA OF THE LABIA MAJORA sometimes occurs from injury, especially during pregnancy or parturition, the parts being congested at those times. The tumour may attain a large size, owing to the laxity of the tissues. The blood generally becomes absorbed, but suppuration may occur or the blood become encysted. The applica- tion of ice will generally control the haemorrhage. A hsematoma should on no account be opened unless suppuration takes place, when a free incision will be required. Wounds of the yagina perhaps more frequently fall under the care of the obstetrician than of the surgeon. The surgeon, however, may be called upon to arrest hsemorrhage from this canal, consequent upon laceration inflicted by falling upon some sharp object, or the intro- duction of a foreign body. The application of ice, or, if necessary, careful plugging with cotton-wool, or cotton- wool soaked in perchloride of iron, will usually suffice. Perforation of the walls of the yagina, with injury of the bladder, peritoneum, or intestines, is the occasional result of wounds of the vagina, and is usually fatal. Foreign bodies in the yagina.—Pessaries that have been introduced and forgotten by the patient, or possibly without her knowledge, are the foreign bodies most fre- quently found in the vagina, but various other articles have at times been met with. Their long retention here is often productive of a foul-smelling discharge, and may lead to the perforation of the walls of the rectum or bladder and an incurable fistula.RUPTURED PERINEUM. 431 EOREIGN BODIES IN THE FEMALE URETHRA AND BLADDER.—Hair-pins introduced with the bent end for- wards, are not infrequently pushed up the urethra into the bladder, where, if allowed to remain, they become encrusted with phosphates, and give rise to symptoms of stone. The urethra should be dilated, and the sharp ends of the hair-pin grasped by forceps, snared in a tube, or in some such way remoyed. EuPTURED PERINEUM occasionally occurs during first, and especially instrumental labours. There may be a mere rent in the fourchette; or the rupture may extend from the vagina through the sphincter ani into the rectum, and involve more or less of the recto-vaginal septum. Symptoms.—A rupture, when slight, gives rise to no special trouble ; but when more extensive, there may be some prolapse of the posterior wall of the vagina with the contiguous wall of the rectum {rectocele)^ or of the anterior wall of the vagina and the part of the bladder in contact with it {vesicocele), and, perhaps, some prolapse of the uterus. There may also be frequent micturition, and when the sphincter ani is involved, occasional inconti- nence of faeces. Treatment,—An attempt to unite the parts should always be made immediately after the rupture by intro- ducing several wire sutures. Should this fail, no harm will have been done, and a plastic operation can be sub- sequently performed. Such, however, should not be undertaken until the vaginal discharge has ceased, the child been weaned, and the general health restored. The patient in the meantime should not be allowed to walk about, for fear of a prolapse of the parts. The operation consists in refreshing the sides of the rupture, and uniting them by suture. The bowels having been cleared by an aperient, and the rectum on the morning of the operation by an enema, the patient should be placed in the litho- tomy position, and the skin dissected off from the sides of the fissure, and the mucous membrane from the recto- vaginal septum, so as to leave a raw surface of the size and shape shown in Fig. 124. The skin and mucous membrane should not be cut away as shown in the figure but reflected towards the vagina. Care should be taken that the tissues are clean cut, and that the raw surface of the recto-vaginal septum is at least an inch broad, so that immediate and firm union when the parts are brought432 ^ INJURIES OF REGioisrs. together may be obtained. Three deep sutures, consist- ing of thick silver-wire, strong silkworm gut, or China twist, should be introduced by means of a perineal needle. The first should be passed about an inch from the margin of the rupture deeply through the recto-vaginal septum, and out at the corresponding spot on the opposite side. The next two sutures should be passed in the same way. Fig. 124.—Operation for ruptured perineum. only not through the septum. Fig. 124 shows the appear- ance presented by the sutures when in situ and ready for tying. They may be fastened over a piece of quill or by split shot, or simply tied, the posterior suture being first secured. Superficial sutures, after the fissure has been drawn together by the deep, should be used to keep the edges of the skin in contact. If there appears to be any tension, ''incisions of relief" maybe made through the skin on either side. There are many modifications of this operation, but for the sake of clearness only the most simple method has here been described. The bowels must be kept confined for a week, and the bladder for theLIGATURE OF THE PENIS. same period emptied by the catheter. The patient should lie perfectly quiet on her back with the legs tied together, and the knees over a pillow. The deep sutures should be removed at the end of a week, the parts in the meanwhile being kept clean by gentle syringing with an antiseptic lotion. The bowels should be opened by an enema at the end of a week or ten days, and the patient should keep her bed for at least three weeks. Where the posterior or anterior wall of the vagina is much prolapsed, a wedge-shaped piece of mucous membrane may be removed, and the edges of the incision brought together by suture. Injuries oe the scrotum and testicle.—Wounds of the scrotum and penis are rare. They readily heal in consequence of their abundant blood-supply. Contused wounds of the scrotum are often attended with much extravasation of blood, giving the parts a black and swollen appearance, and are apt to be followed by sloughing. Should such threaten, free incisions must be made. Extravasation of blood into the tunica vaginalis {hcematocele), and inflammation of the testicle {orchitis)^ both of which may follow a blow or other injury of the parts, are described under Diseases of the Testicle, Ligature of the penis.—A piece of string is some- times tied round the penis by children either in play, or to prevent themselves wetting the bed. Grreat swelling in front of the constriction ensues, and if the cause is not recognized and removed, the string will soon cut deeply into the penis, and may even divide the urethra. Foreign bodies in the male urethra and bladder. —Pieces of slate-pencil, beads, and the like, are some- times passed by boys into their urethra, and not infre- quently a piece of wax bougie, or damaged gum-elastic or black catheter is broken off during catheterization. An attempt should be made to remove the foreign body by manipulation with the fingers, or by the introduction of various urethral forceps, or by asking the patient to first close the meatus with the finger and thumb, to make a forcible attempt to pass water, and then suddenly to relax his hold. If the forceps are used the urethra should be grasped, if practicable, behind the foreign body, lest the latter be pushed back into the bladder. Tailing to remove the body by any of these means, it may be pushed back into the bladder, broken up by a lithotrite, and removed by the evacuator, or, if soft, grasped with the F F434 INJURIES OF REGIONS. lithotrite and removed whole. If it cannot be pushed into the bladder, it must be cut down upon and extracted through an incision in the middle line of the urethra. Foreign bodies in the bladdery if allowed to remain, become encrusted with phosphates, and give rise to symptoms of stone (see Stone in the Bladder). INJURIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. Bruises, contusions, burns, scalds, and frost- bites of the upper extremity require no special remarks. Sprains of the joints of the upper extremity, especially of the wrist, are very common. Eest, the application of cold, and in the case of the thumb, wrist, or elbow, a wet bandage followed by friction with a stimulating liniment, is the usual treatment. A sprain, however slight, should never be neglected, as inflammation in or around the joint may ensue, leading to fibrous anky- losis, adhesion of the tendons to their sheaths, &c. See Sprains of Joints, p. 192. Sprains of the muscles causing tenderness, slight swelling, and pain on movement, are not infrequently met with after hard rowing or other excessive exercise. EuPTURE OF MUSCLES AND TENDONS, especially the pectoralis major and the long tendon of the biceps, are not uncommon accidents. The latter may occur during any sudden involuntary action, and may be known by sudden pain, loss of power, and a gap in the course of the long tendon, whilst the inner head, on putting the muscle into action, forms a prominent lump. Little or nothing can be done in the way of treatment. Wounds of all kinds are very common. Wounds of the palm only need special comment. Wounds of the palm are frequently attended with severe and troublesome haemorrhage from either the superficial or deep arch. When the wound is clean cut the bleeding vessel may be tied in the usual way; but when the wound is of a punctured character such an attempt would inflict severe injury on the tendons and nerves in the palm. A graduated compress in this case should be put on, the hand bandaged over an ordinary roller, pressure applied to the ulnar and radial arteries at the wrist, and the forearm flexed forcibly on the arm to control the flow of blood through the brachial artery.435 DISLOCATION OF THE CLAVICLE. The compress should be kept on for about a week. If this fails, or if the patient is not seen until the palm has become infiltrated and sloughy, the brachial artery- should be tied. The anastomosis through the inter- osseous and carpal arteries is so free that ligature of the radial and ulnar is not, as a rule, sufficient to stop the bleeding. Needle in the palm.—It is not infrequent for a needle to run into the hand and be broken oft'. If it can be felt it should be cautiously cut down upon and ex- tracted with forceps, care being taken not to push it in further, and so lose it in the attempt. If it cannot be felt, an exploratory incision should on no account be made, as the needle will probably do no harm in the tissues and in course of time will work its way to the surface, whilst a search for it may be attended with irreparable damage. A galvanometer has occasionally been used for its discovery with success. In smashes of the hand requiring operative inter- ference the thumb and as many fingers—indeed as much of the hand—as possible, should be saved. Dislocations of the Upper Extremity, Dislocations of the clavicle.—I. The sternal end may be dislocated, 1, forwards; 2, upwards; and, 3, backwards. Cause.—The forward and the upward dis- locations are produced by indirect violence, such as a blow or fall upon the front or top of the shoulder; the backward variety either directly by force applied to the sternal end, or indirectly by a blow or fall on the hack of the shoulder. Displacement.—In the forward dislocation the end of the bone lies in front of the sternum, in the upiuard it lies in the suprasternal notch touching the opposite clavicle, in the hackiuard between the sternum and the trachea. Signs.—In the forward dislocation (Fig. 125)' the end of the bone can be felt in its abnormal situation, and can be distinguished from fracture near the sternal end by the length of the clavicle being the same on the two sides, and by the absence of crepitus. The upward variety, which is very rare, may be diagnosed in the same way. In the backward, which is also rare, there is a depression at the situation of the sterno-clavicular joint, and there may be dyspnoea, dysphagia, or congestion of F F 2436 INJURIES OF REGIOInTS. the head and face from pressure on the trachea, oeso- phagus, or veins of the neck. Treatment—The forward and the backward dislocations can generally be readily reduced by simply drawing back the shoulders, the knee, if necessary, being placed between the scapulae. In the forward variety, indeed, I have always found the end of the clavicle sink into its place on laying the patient on his back. Eeduction of the backward variety has at times been impossible, and excision of the end of the bone has been necessary for the relief of the severe dyspnoea which it has caused by its pressure on the trachea. The upward dislocation may be reduced by Fig. 125.—Dislocation of the sternal end of the clavicle forwards. (Bryant's Surgery.) placing a pad in the axilla to act as a fulcrum and pressing the arm to the side, thus drawing the clavicle outwards. Direct pressure should at the same time be applied to the displaced end. All forms are difficult to retain in position. The best plan, perhaps, is to keep the patient constantly on his back for three weeks. If, how- ever, he will not consent to this restraint, an endeavour may be made to retain the parts in as good a position as possible by one of the many methods of bandaging described in the larger text-books. I do not mention any here, as I have never seen any of them of any avail. II. The acromial end may be dislocated either, 1, upwards; or, 2, downwards. Both forms are rare, but the upward is the least so. These injuries are sometimes spoken of as dislocations of the scapula. Cause.— Commonly direct violence applied to the acromion. The signs are usually obvious. There is apparent lengthening of the arm with depression and slight flattening of theDISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. 437 shoulder, and a projection in the region of the acromio- clavicular joint caused, in the upward form, by the acromial end of the clavicle, and in the downward by the acromion process. In the upward variety moreover the end of the trapezius stands out as a prominent ridge, and on pressing with one hand on the shoulder and with the other on the elbow the articular surfaces are brought into apposition and pseudo-crepitus can be obtained. Reduction is as a rule easily effected by drawing the shoulders well back- wards ; but it is difficult to retain the bones in position in consequence of the peculiar obliquity of the articulation. This may be attempted by placing a pad over the joint and applying a strap or a bandage over the shoulder and under the elbow, and then bandaging the arm to the side. I have seen the best results from rest in the horizontal position for three weeks; few patients, however, will submit to this, nor is it possibly worth their while to do so, as little inconvenience attends the dislocation, though unreduced. Dislocation of the shouldee is very common, a fact explained by the shallowness of the glenoid cavity, the large size and rounded shape of the head of the bone, the looseness of the capsule, and the powerful leverage exerted on the joint by the arm in protecting the body in falls, &c. It is most frequent in the old and middle-aged, rare in the young, and more common in men than in women. Cause.—Palls or blows directly upon the shoulder; falls on the elbow or hand with the arm extended; forcible twists of the arm ; and occasionally muscular action. Varieties,—Dislocations of the shoulder may be classi- fied according to the position of the head of the humeras into—1, forward and slightly downwards (suhcoracoid); 2, downwards and slightly forwards {subglenoid); 3, back- wards (subspinous); and 4, forwards {subclavicular) (Figs. 126, 127, 128, and 129). An upward dislocation {sub- acromial) has been described, but this form of displacement is more generally believed to be the result of chronic osteo-arthritis. Other and rarer varieties have also been described, but appear to be merely modifications of those above enumerated. The signs common to all the varieties in addition to the ordinary signs of dislocation, viz., pain, swelling, im- mobility, and absence of crepitus, are—1, flattening of the shoulder; 2, prominence of the acromion; 3, a depression438 INJURIES OF REGIONS. beneatli tlie acromion, increased.when tlie arm is raised; 4, a change in direction of the axis of the hnmerus; and 5, the absence of the head of the bone from the glenoid /Sab-clamcalai' Figs. 126, 127, 128, 129.—Various forms of dislocation of the humerus. (Professor Flower's models.) cavity and its presence in an abnormal situation. In doubtful cases the following tests will be found of uge :—1, Hamilton's test. A straight edge applied to theDISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. 439 outer side of the arm, can only be made to touch the acromion and external condyle at the same time wheji the head of the humerus is absent from the glenoid cavity; 2, Callaway's test, A tape passed round the acromion and under the axilla, will measure about two inches more on the dislocated than on the sound side; 3, Dugas's test. With the hand placed on the opposite shoulder, the elbow in a dislocation cannot be made to touch the chest. Occasionally a dislocation is complicated by a fracture, and an accurate diagnosis may be rendered very difficult. In such, and in all cases where there is any doubt, the patient should be examined under an anaesthetic. The suhcoracoid.—This is the most frequent variety of dislocation of the shoulder (Fig. 126). The head rests on the anterior surface of the neck of the scapula, just below the coracoid process, the groove between the head and greater tuberosity resting on the anterior margin of the glenoid cavity. The capsular ligament is lacerated, an- teriorly and inferiorly, or detached from the margin of the glenoid cavity in front and below. The subscapularis is generally raised by the head of the bone from the scapula, and the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor are tightly stretched. Sometimes the muscles are torn across at their insertion, or the greater tuberosity is detached, the muscles remaining entire. 13 nder these cir- cumstances the head of the bone rolls inwards so that more of it is internal to the coracoid process, a condition described by Malgaigne as a distinct variety {intracoracoid). The long head of the biceps is generally unmjured, whilst the short head and the coraco-brachialis and the axillary artery and brachial plexus are displaced inwards by the head of the bone. Special signs.—The head of the bone can be seen and felt in its abnormal situation. The elbow projects slightly backwards and away from the side. The arm is generally shortened or unaltered in length; occasionally it is said to be lengthened. The truth appears to be that there are all grades between the' subcoracoid as here described in which there is undoubted shortening, and the next form, the subglenoid, in which lengthening as undoubtedly occurs. The subglenoid is the next most common variety. The head rests on the inner aspect of the inferior border of the scapula, below and a little in front of the glenoid cavity (Fig. 127). The capsular ligament is ruptured below. The supraspinatus, infraspinatus, teres minor, and sub-440 INJURIES OF REGIONS. scapularis may or may not be torn. The circumflex nerve is especially liable to be compressed, producing temporary or even permanent paralysis of the deltoid. The signs are similar to those of the subcoracoid, but there is greater flattening of the shoulder, more promi- nence of the acromion, and a more marked depression under it, and the elbow points neither backwards nor forwards. The diagnostic marks are:—1, great depres- sion of the anterior fold of the axilla; 2, presence of the head of the bone in the axilla; 3, lengthening of the arm; 4, an interval of from one to two inches between the coracoid process and the head of the bone. The suhspmous.—This variety is rare. The head rests on the dorsum of the scapula beneath the spine (Fig. 128). The capsular ligament may or may not be ruptured. The infraspinatus is generally torn up from the bone, and the subscapularis and supraspinatus are either stretched, or ruptured according to the amount of dis- placement. The tores minor is relaxed, and the long tendon of the biceps stretched or displaced from its groove. Special signs.-—Theve is great flattening of the shoulder, the elbow points forwards, the forearm is in front of the chest in consequence of the inward rotation of the humerus, and the head of the bone can be felt in its abnormal situation, but not in the axilla. The subclavicular is very rare. The head rests beneath the clavicle, internal to the coracoid process (Fig. 129). The capsule is generally extensively lacerated at its inner side. The pectoral muscles are raised by the head of the bone, which rests on or between the fibres of the sub- scapularis. The latter muscle is torn up from the sub- scapular fossa, but retains its connection to the humerus. The supraspinatus and infraspinatus are generally torn, or detached from the humerus, but may retain their con- nection to the capsular ligament. The teres minor is not torn. Special signs.—The head of the bone forms a dis- tinct prominence below the clavicle, and the shaft only can be felt in the axilla. The arm is pressed tightly to the chest and the elbow projects backwards. Diagnosis,—A dislocation of the shoulder may have to be diagnosed from a fracture of the neck of the humerus, separation of the upper epiphysis, fracture of the neck of the scapula, fracture of the glenoid cavity, and from simple sprains and contusions of the joint attended with more or less paralysis of the deltoid. Attention to theDISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOTTLDER. 441 general and special signs of dislocation as above given, together with the absence of crepitus and other signs of fracture, will generally make the diagnosis easy; but where the patient is very muscular, or there is much swelling, or manipulation causes excessive pain, an anaesthetic should be given, and a thorough examination made. It should not be forgotten that crepitus may be simulated by effusion into the joint and sheaths of the surrounding tendons. True bony crepitus having been once felt, however, can hardly be mistaken for this. Treatment.—The difficulty in reducing a recent dis- location consists in 1. Overcoming muscular contraction; and 2. Ee-introducing the head of the bone through the hole in the capsule. In long-standing cases there are additional impediments to reduction, viz., 3. The forma- tion of adhesions around the joint. 4. Alteration in the shape of the head of the bone; and 5. The obliteration of the old cavity. Manipulation should first be tried, if necessary, under an anaesthetic, and if this fails, extension should be made with the knee or heel in the axilla, and finally with the pulleys. In some long-standing cases where the above methods have failed reduction by open incision may be justifiable. 1. Manipulation.—Many methods have been devised, some of which are not un- attended with danger, as the axillary artery has been torn or ruptured in their use. The following method is now generally employed at St. Bartholomew's, and has been attended with excellent success. Place the patient in the horizontal position; flex the elbow; rotate the humerus outwards as far as possible without using exces- sive force, then carry the elbow across the chest, at the same time rotating the humerus inwards. Another method consists in slowly abducting the arm to the level of the shoulder or above. 2. Extension (Fig. 130).—Place the patient on his back; seat yourself on the edge of the couch; draw the arm slightly from the side; place your heel without your boot well in the axilla, and grasping the wrist, make steady extension on the arm, whilst the heel fixes the scapula and presses the head of the bone outwards. The head of the bone will probably be felt after a few minutes to slip into its place with an audible snap. Should it not do so, secure a jack towel with a clove-hitch (Fig. 131) to the arm, and increase the ex- tending force by getting an assistant to pull on it with you at the same time. The direction of the force442 INJTTRIES OF REGIONS. may be slightly varied from time to time, and the humerus gently rotated. Where extension with the heel in the axilla fails, slowly carry the arm to a right angle with the body and extend, or raise Fig. 130.—Reduction by the heel in the axilla. (Cooper's Dislocations.) it above the head, and again extend in this position. An anaesthetic should be given if necessary. 3. Extension with the pulleys, — In long-standing cases the use of the pulleys may be required. First break down any adhe- sions that may be present, by cau- tiously manipulating the arm; then fix the scapula by a well-padded leather strap passed under the axilla and se- cured to a staple in the wall. Attach the pulleys to a leather band buckled round the arm, and make steady exten- sion, manipulating the head of the bone the while. The extension, and counter-extension should always be made in the same horizontal line. This may be first in the direction of the axis of the body, then across the body, with the arm at right angles to it (Fig. 132). Occasionally success may Fig. 131.—The clove hitch.DISLOCATIONS OV THE SHOtTLBEU. 443 be obtained by suddenly relaxing the extension after it has been applied for a few minutes, endeavouring at the same moment to manipulate the head into its place. Although the direction of the force appears to vary in the different methods of extension, it is probable that in consequence of the mobility of the scapula, it is nearly Fia. 132.—Reduction with the pulleys. The patient, though here shown sitting, should as a rule be placed in the recumbent posture, as an anaesthetic is generally required. (Cooper's Dislocations.) always applied perpendicularly to the plane of the glenoid cavity. After-treatment.—A pad should be placed in the axilla and the arm carefully bandaged to the side with the fore- arm across the chest, and the hand on the opposite shoulder. Passive movements of the joint should be begun about the end of a week and practised once or twice daily, but the arm should be bandaged to the chest in the intervals for upwards of three weeks, and sub-444 INJURIES OF REGIONS. sequently used with great caution for several montlis to preyent re-dislocation. Occasional ill-effects following a dislocation of the shoulder, —1. Inflammation or suppuration of the joint and anky- losis ; 2. Paralysis of the deltoid or other muscles; 3. Axillary abscess; 4. Non-union of the rent in the capsule and a consequent tendency to re-dislocation on very slight violence. How long after a dislocation of the shoulder has occurred does it admit of reduction ? Sir Astley Cooper fixed the limit at three months, but cases are reported in which it is said to have been accomplished two years after the accident. It should be remembered, however, that as in unreduced dislocations a new cavity is gradually formed for the head of the bone whilst the old cavity is filled up, reduction sooner or later becomes a physical impossibility. Still, where the arm is very stiff, although reduction may not be accomplished, the range of motion in the false joint may be considerably improved by the attempt. On the other hand, where the motion is fairly free, the injury inflicted in an attempt at reduction may counter- balance any advantage gained. Pdshs that may attend reduction of long-standing cases.— 1. Eupture of the axillary artery or vein; 2. Injury of the brachial plexus of nerves; 3. Fracture of the neck of the humerus; 4. Fracture of the ribs ; 5. Tearing open of the axilla; and 6. Evulsion of the arm. 4. Reduction hy open incision.—This method has been recently employed for long-standing cases where cautious attempts at reduction by manipulation and extension have failed. The advantages claimed for it are :—1. That the reduction can be accompKshed without subjecting the patient to the dangers mentioned above, and 2. That it is applicable at periods later than those at which reduction by manipulation or by extension can be accomplished without undue risk. An incision is made down to the head of the bone between the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles, and the subscapularis muscle detached from its insertion into the lesser tuberosity. If the bone cannot now be manipulated into position the attachments of the external rotators (the supraspinatus, infraspinatus and teres minor) are in like manner detached from the greater tuberosity. The bone will now return into its socket unless the time that has elapsed has been sufficient for the head to have been partly absorbed and the glenoidDISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. 445 cavity filled up. The long head of the biceps should be preserved as in excision of the joint. Passive movements ought to be begun as soon as the wound has healed. Treatment of compound dislocation of the shoulder.—"When the wound is small, the head of the bone uninjured, and the soft parts are neither much lacerated nor bruised, an attempt should be made to reduce the dislocation. If successful, the case may then be treated as a wound of the joint. When the head of the bone is much injured, it may be excised; whilst in severe and complicated cases, amputation at the shoulder-joint may become necessary. The treatment of dislocation with fracture is often attended with much difficulty. As a rule the fracture if possible should be set, the arm placed in splints, and an Fia. 133.—Dislocation of the radius and ulna backwards. (Cooper's Dislocations.) attempt then made to reduce the dislocation. Pailing in this, the separated head may sometimes be manipulated into its socket; otherwise, splints should be applied, and when the fracture has united, another trial made to reduce the dislocation. Dislocation of the elbow is most frequent in the young. Cause—'DiicQoi violence, or a fall on, or wrench of, the forearm or hand.— Varieties.—A. Both hones (radius and ulna) : 1, backwards; 2, inwards; 3, outwards; 4, forwards; and 5, radius forwards, and ulna backwards, B. Radius only: 1, forwards ; 2, backwards; and 3, out- wards. C. Ulna only : 1, backwards. Of these, the dis- location of both bones backwards, and of the radius forwards or backwards, are the only common forms; the others are very rare, and will receive but a passing notice. Signs.-^In the common form of hoth hones hacJcivards (Fig. 133), the radius and ulna are displaced directly backwards, so that the coronoid process of the ulna rests446 INJURIES OF EEGIONS. in the olecranon fossa, and tlie neck of the radius on tlie capitellum of the humerus. The coronoid process is often fractured at the same time. The bones are frequently displaced slightly outwards, or inwards, as well as back- wards — modifications which have been unnecessarily classed as distinct varieties. The forearm is partially flexed and shortened. The olecranon and head of the radius form an unnatural prominence posteriorly, and are felt at a considerable distance behind the external and internal condyles respectively. The lower end of the humerus forms a broad projection heloiu the crease of the bend of the elbow. In the rarer forms of hoth hones inwards or outiua/rds the prominence of the opposite condyle of the humerus on one or other side is a charac- teristic feature. In hoth hones forwards (exceedingly rare) the forearm is lengthened, the natural prominence of the olecranon is lost, and the condyles of the humerus are very prominent. In the ulna hackioards and the radius forwards the arm is greatly increased in its antero- posterior diameter. In dislocation of the radius alone, lohether forwards, hack- wards, or outwards, the head of the bone is felt to roll in its abnormal situation, in front of, behind, or external to, the external condyle on pronating and supinating the hand. The first of these forms (Fig. 134) is the most common, and in it the forearm cannot be flexed beyond a right angle, in consequence of the head of the bone striking the humerus. Fig. 134.—Dislocation of the radius forwards.447 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. In dislocation of the ulna backwards the forearm is pro- nated and shortened on the ulnar side, and the olecranon projects backwards, but the head of the radius is felt in its normal situation. Diagnosis.—In moderately thin subjects when seen soon after the accident, attention to the above signs will generally enable the Surgeon to make a diagnosis; but in a few hours the parts become so obscured by swelling about the joint, that it may be impossible to make out the .nature of the injury till it has subsided. In all cases of injury of the elbow the relation of the points of bone to each other should be carefully compared with those of the uninjured side, and the relative position of the olecranon to the condyles should be determined (see Fracture of the loiuer end of the Humerus), Treatment.—The reduction of the common form of dis- location of hoth hones backwards is generally easily accom- plished in recent cases by pressing with the knee in the bend of the elbov\r on the upper part of the radius and ulna to disengage the coronoid process, whilst forcibly but slowly flexing the forearm. As soon as the coronoid process is freed from the olecranon fossa, the muscles generally draw the bones suddenly into position. Pressure upon the humerus by the knee, as recommended by some, should be avoided, as it locks the coronoid process more tightly in the olecranon fossa. If necessary, an anses- thetic should be given. In long-standing cases adhesions must be broken down by forcibly flexing and extending the forearm, and extension may then be made either by the knee, or by an assistant pulling on the wrist, or if this is insufficient, by the pulleys. Six weeks is the period usually given as the time beyond which it is inexpedient to try and reduce the dislocation. This rule, however, admits of some latitude. Thus, an attempt at reduction, when the movement is fairly good, even after less time has elapsed, may be unwise ; while, on the other hand, it may sometimes be made with advantage, especially where there is much rigidity, even at a later period. In disloca- tion of the radius alone^ extension should be made from the hand (so as to act solely on the radius), whilst the elbow-joint is grasped, and the head of the radius pressed into position by the thumb in a forward or backward or inward direction, according to the variety of the disloca- tion. In the other dislocations slight modifications of these methods are required, and will be suggested by aINJURIES OP REGIONS. 448 knowledge of the anatomy of the joint, and a correct diagnosis of the nature of the displacement. After-treatment.—The joint should be placed on a splint and the arm in a sling, and evaporating lotions or ice applied to prevent inflammation. Passive movements should be cautiously begun about ten days or a fortnight after the injury. Complications.—1, Fracture of (a) the coronoid process; (b) the olecranon; (c) the neck of the radius; {d) the lower end of the humerus; and (e) the condyles of the humerus; 2, separation of the lower epiphysis of the humerus; 3, wound of the joint; 4, laceration of the main artery;' and 5, injury of the ulnar or other nerve. Treatment of compound dislocation of the elhow.—When the patient is young, the wound small, the laceration and bruising of the soft parts but slight, and the bones are uninjured, the dislocation should be reduced, and the case treated as a wound of the joint. Otherwise excision of the joint, or, in severe cases, amputation, must be practised. Dislocation of the wrist is very rare. The carpus with the hand may be displaced either backwards or forwards. In the dislocation backwards, which is the more common variety, the carpus forms a projection on the dorsal surface of the wrist, whilst the ends of the radius and ulna project on the palmar surface. It resembles CoUes' fracture, which was formerly confused with it. In the dislocation the styloid processes of the radius and ulna are on the normal level, and are nearer the knuckles than is natural, and there is no crepitus. Treatment. — Eeduction is easily e:ffected by making extension on the hand and pressing upon the displaced bones. The forearm and hand should then be secured to a splint, and passive movements begun early to prevent stift'ness. Dislocation of the lower end of the radius FROM THE ULNA may be produced by a violent twist of the hand. When the twist is in the direction of prona- tion, the radius is displaced forwards; when of supination, backwards. The former is the more common. The hand accompanies the radius, and the styloid process of the ulna projects prominently in the opposite direction and has been sometimes forced through the skin. Treatment.— Whilst making extension from the hand, manipulate the bone into position and retain it there by a compress and splint.DISLOCATIONS OF BONES OF THE HAND. 449 I Dislocations of the carpal and metacarpal BONES are very rare. Their diagnosis is usually obvious. The phalanges of the fingers may be dislocated backwards or forwards. Eeduction is easily effected by extension and manipulation. Dislocation of the metacarpal hone of the thumb from the trapezium may occur in a backward or forward direction, and is easily reduced by extension or pressure. Dislocation of the first phalanx of the thumb from the metacarpal bone is of more importance. The phalanx is FiCt. 135.—Dislocation of the thumb backwards at the metacarpo- phalangeal joint. (After Agnew.) nearly always displaced backwards; the shortening of the thumb and the projections of the base of the phalanx and head of the metacarpal bone serve for its diagnosis. Eeduc- tion is often very difficult; this is usually ascribed to the head of the metacarpal bone being forced between the two insertions of the flexor brevis pollicis by which its neck is tightly embraced. (Fig. 135.) Sir George Humphry, however, has shown that the hindrance to reduction depends upon the fact that the sesamoid bones and the ligaments connecting them are carried back with the phalanx, and being held there by the flexor brevis and intervening between the metacarpal bone and the phalanx, prevent the articular surfaces of the bones being brought into contact. Treatment,—Press the metacarpal bone well into the palm of the hand to relax the flexor brevis W. G G450 INJURIES OF REGIONS. pollicis, and bend back the first pbalanx on tbe meta- carpal bone nntil the extremity of the thumb points towards the wrist, thus forcing the base of the phalanx wedge-wise between the two insertions of the short flexor. Next flex the phalanx while an assistant, by placing his thumb behind its base, prevents it slipping back. The head of the metacarpal bone will now probably slide into its place between the two insertions of the flexor brevis pollicis, which are forced apart by the wedge-like action of the base of the phalanx. Eeduction may sometimes be accomplished by extension, e.g., by the clove-hitch, or if, at hand, by the Indian puzzle-toy or the American for- ceps—a method, however, less scientific than that of manipulation, and one which seldom succeeds if the other fails. These means not proving successful, it is usually advised that the insertion of the flexor brevis pollicis should be subcutaneously divided. Sir George Hum- phry, however, recommends an incision over the sesamoid bones and the introduction of a hook to hitch the sesa- moid bones over the head of the metacarpal. In this way, he says, the reduction is immediately e:ffected. As a last resource, the joint may be cut down upon, the bands resisting reduction divided and the bone replaced, or the joint may be excised, or better, left alone, as very fair movement will, as a rule, in time be gained. Fractures of the Upper Extremity, Fractxjres of the clavicle are divided into fractures of—1, the shaft; 2, the acromial end ; and 3, the sternal end. I. The shaft may be fractured by direct violence, or, as is more commonly the case, by indirect violence, such as a fall upon the arm or shoulder; more rarely by mus- cular action. Situations.—"When the result of indirect violence or muscular action the bone is generally broken near its centre—its weakest part. When due to direct violence, the bone will break wherever the force is ap- plied. Nature of the displacement.—The inner fragment, although it appears raised in consequence of the depres- sion of the outer, is not displaced, being held in position by the sterno-mastoid and the rhomboid ligament; the outer fragment is drawn downwards, forwards and inwards by the weight of the arm and the contraction of the pectoral muscles. The signs in an adult are usually very evident.FRACTURES OF THE CLAVICLE. 451 The inner fragment projects prominently under the skin; the shoulder droops forwards and downwards; the patient usually supports his elbow with the sound hand whilst he inclines his head to the fractured side to relax the sterno- mastoid. In a fat child, however, especially when the fracture is of the greenstick variety (Fig. 136), which it often is in children, the signs are less evident; indeed surgical aid is often not sought until the mother's atten- tion is called to the part by the presence of a lump formed by the ensheathing callus. tJnion generally occurs in about three weeks in children and five in adults. Treat- ment,—The fracture is easily reduced by drawing back the shoulders, or by placing the patient in the recumbent posture; but it is very difficult to maintain the fragments in apposition. Hence the numerous bandages and appa- ratus that have been from time to time employed. Where Fia. 136.—Grreenstick fracture of the clavicle. (Holmes' System.) it is important to avoid deforrdity, rest on the back for a fortnight is essential; otherwise the patient may be allowed to get about with his arm bandaged to the side, and the parts kept as much as possible in apposition by bandaging or strapping. Of the many plans the following may be tried. 1. Bayre's method.—Take three pieces of adhesive strap- ping about three inches and a half wide, and long enough to surround the arm and afterwards the body. Stitch one piece, with the adhesive surface outside, loosely round the arm on the injured side at the insertion of the deltoid muscle. Draw the arm forcibly backwards to put the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major on the stretch, and carry the strapping across the back and round the front of the thorax and sew the end to the part which crosses the back (Fig. 137). Fix one end of the second strip of plaster to the sound shoulder; carry it obliquely across the back beneath the elbow (which should be pushed forwards) of the injured side, a slit being made to receive G G 2INJURIES or REGIONS. 452 Figs. 137, 138, 139.—Sayre's method of treating fractured clavicle. (After Agnew.) the olecranon ; bring it upwards in front of the chest, and fasten it to its other end over the sound shoulder (Figs. 138 and 139). A third strip may be carried round the arm, forearm and thorax to keep the others in place. The firstI'RACTtrBES OF THE SCAflTLA. 453 strip acts as a fulcrum ; whilst the second, by drawing the elbow forwards, forces the upper end of the humerus, with the clavicle, backwards, and at the same time keeps the shoulder raised. 2. Ellis^s method consists briefly in the use of an axillary crutch supported by two straps, the one round the chest, the other passed over the sound shoulder. The chest strap also encircles the arm and holds it firmly to the side. The forearm is further supported by a sling. 3. The axillary pad and bandage.—Many surgeons simply place a wedge-shaped pad with the base upwards in the axilla, and then bandage the arm to the side with the elbow well raised. If the pad is used, care should be taken in bandaging lest the axillary vessels or nerves are compressed, and oedema, pain, or even gangrene of the arm be the consequence. II. Fracture of the acromial end of the clavicle may occur either internal or external to the coraco-clavicular ligaments. In the former situation there is very little displacement, the fragments being held in position by the above-mentioned ligaments. Pain, crepitus, and possibly a slight gap, will serve to distinguish it. When external to the ligaments the outer fragment is drawn down nearly at a right angle to the rest of the bone, so that its acromial articulation looks inwards, forwards, and slightly downwards. Treatment.—An axillary pad and bandage, with a moulded leather shoulder-cap to protect the parts. lil. Fracture of the sternal end is too rare to require description in a book of this character. The scapula.—The fracture may extend through 1, the body ; 2, the neck; 3, the acromion; 4, the coracoid process; and 5, the glenoid cavity. 1. Fracture of the body is nearly always caused by direct violence. It may be star-shaped or transverse, or it may run vertically or obliquely through the spine ; but com"*-;' * monly it is limited to the infraspinous fossa, and fre- quently the angle is alone broken off. The displacement is not usually very marked, as the fragments are well covered with muscles. Signs.—On fixing the angle of the scapula with one hand, and raising the arm, crepitus and pain may be elicited. On running the fingers along the spine and down the posterior border, some irregularity may be detected when these parts are involved, and on grasping the bone the fragments may be felt to move454 IISTJURIES OF REGIONS. on each other. Treatment,—Little can be done beyond confining the scapula by strapping and a bandage to the chest, and restraining the motions of the arm by bandag- ing it to the side. 2. Fracture of the neck.—By this is understood fracture through the surgical neck, i.e., internal to the coracoid, so that the latter process is separated with the glenoid cavity from the rest of the bone. There is a specimen of it in the Hunterian and in Guy's Hospital Museum (Fig. 140), though it is stated by some not to occur. The signs which have been ascribed to this injury resemble those of dislocation of the humerus downwards. The deformity, however, is said to disappear on pressing up the elbow, when crepitus can be elicited, and to reappear on removing the pressure. The treatment recommended is to raise the elbow, and main- tain, the parts in their restored position by a bandage. 3. Fracture of the acromion may occur at any situation. Cause.—Direct violence, such as a blow or fall on the shoulder. Nature of the dis- placement.—The outer frag- ment is drawn downwards by the deltoid, leaving a gap between it and the rest of the bone. Symptoms.—Pain, flat- tening of the shoulder, presence of a gap on drawing the finger along the spine, acromion, and clavicle; and crepitus on raising the arm and thus bringing the fragments into apposition. Union.—When near the tip the union is fibrous ; when near the base, it is said to be bony. Treat- ment.—Eaise the elbow so as to relax the deltoid, and fix the arm to the side by a sling and bandage, protecting the parts by a gutta-percha cap moulded to the shoulder. Some employ an axilla-pad. 4. Fracture of the coracoid process msij occuT either nesLY the tip or near the root. The cause is usually direct vio- lence, such as a kick or fall on the shoulder. Nature of the displacement.■^'When the fracture is near the tip the distal fragment is drawn downwards by the biceps; when near Fig. 140. —Fracture of the neck of the scapula. (Gruy's Hospital Museum.)FRACTUEES OF THE HUMEHUS. 455 the root it is held in position by the coraco-clavicular ligaments, and but little displacement occurs. Signs.— Bruising and pain over the situation of the coracoid. On placing the finger on the tip of the coracoid some altera- tion in its relative position may be made out, and crepitus elicited by moving the arm. Treatment,—The forearm should be flexed to relax the biceps; the arm and forearm bandaged to the side; and a cap of gutta-percha placed over the shoulder. 5. Fracture of the glenoid cavity is rare. At times it occurs in connection with dislocation of the shoulder. The humerus.—Fractures of the humerus are divided into fractures of 1, the upper end; 2, the shaft; and 3, the lower end. 1. The upper end of the humerus.—Varieties,— A. Intracapsular, or fracture of the anatomical neck. B. Extracapsular, or fracture of the surgical neck. 0. Separation of the upper epiphysis. D. Fracture of the greater tuberosity. A. The intracapsular fracture may be impacted or non-impacted. When impacted the upper fragment, or •head, is generally driven into the lower, that is, between the tuberosities. Cause.—Glenerally direct violence, as a blow or fall on the shoulder. Signs.—Often obscure. There may be pain, swelling, impaired movement, and crepitus, with absence of signs of dislocation or of other fracture about the shoulder. In the impacted variety there is generally some prominence of the acromion ; loss of rotundity of the shoulder; slight shortening of the arm; inability to feel the whole of the head in the gle- noid cavity; and crepitus on firmly grasping the head and rotating the shaft. Method of union.—Fibrous or bony, often with excess of callus and impairment of movement of the joint. Treatment.—Apply a leather or poroplastic shield to the shoulder and outer side of the arm, rectifying any displacement inwards by a pad in the axilla. Bandage the arm from the fingers upwards to prevent swelling, and confine it to the side of the chest without raising the elbow. When the fracture is impacted do not disturb the fragments. Passive movements should be begun early (in about three weeks). B. The extracapsular fracture is the most common form of fracture about the shoulder. It may, like the intracapsular variety, be impacted or non-impacted; but when impaction occurs it is the lower fragment that456 INJURIES OF REGIONS. is driven into the upper, i.e., the narrower shaft between the broader tuberosities. Cause.—Generally direct vio- lence. Nature of the displacement.—The upper fragment is rotated outwards by the three muscles inserted into the greater tuberosity ; the lower fragment is drawn upwards by the deltoid and inwards by the three muscles inserted into the bicipital ridges (Fig. 141). Signs.—Vdjm, swelling, and impaired movement; marked shortening of the arm; proj ection of the rough end of the lower fragment, usually below the coracoid; and increased Fig. 141.—Extracapsular involvement of the circumflex fracture of the humerus. j^^^ve in the callus. Treatment.— poroplastic shield over the shoulder and outer side of the arm. Support the hand in a sling, but do not raise the elbow, in order that the weight of the arm may act as an extending force to overcome the upward displacement. C. Fracture through the greater tuberosity is the result of great violence, and is very rare. Nature of the displace- ment.—The humerus is drawn inwards beneath the cora- coid process by the muscles inserted into the bicipital ridges, and the greater tuberosity backwards by the three muscles inserted into it. Signs.—The shoulder is-greatly increased in breadth; a vertical gap may, perhaps, be made out between the tuberosity and the head of the bone ; and on approximating the fragments, crepitus can be felt. Treatment.—Endeavour to bring the fragments into con- mobility of the arm to the sur- geon. On rotating the arm, the head remains motionless in the glenoid cavity, whilst on exten- sion crepitus is felt. In the impacted form the signs are very obscure, and principally nega- tive. Thus, there may be de- formity, slight shortening, and impaired movement; but there is no crepitus, unless unjustifi- able force is used. Union is generally bony. There is often much impairment of movement, in consequence of inflammatory thickening, and sometimes para- lysis of the deltoid, from the (After Gray.) Similar to the intracapsular form. Place a pad in the axilla, and a457 FEACTUKES OF THE HUMERUS. tact and to keep them so by an axillary pad, strapping and bandage; apply a shield over the shoulder, and confine the arm to the side. D. Separation of the upper epiphysis can only occur in patients under twenty-one years of age. Nature of the displacement.—The upper fragment, which includes the tuberosities, is drawn outwards by the three muscles inserted into the greater tuberosity, and the lower frag- ment upwards by the deltoid, and inwards by the three muscles inserted into the bicipital ridges. The signs are similar to those of the extracapsular fracture, save that the projecting end of the lower fragment is smooth and rounded in place of being rough and uneven, and pseudo-crepitus, instead of bony crepitus, is elicited on extension and rotation of the arm. Method of union.— Usually bony, but with much less production of callus, and consequently less impairment of movement than in other fractures of the upper end. Treatment.—Like that of fracture of the surgical neck. 2. The shaft of the humerus may be fractured in any situation, but more often in its lower than in its upper half. Causes.—Direct or indirect violence, rarely muscular action. Nature of the displacement.—When the line of fracture is transverse little displacement occurs; but when it is oblique, the fragments have a tendency to glide over one another owing to muscular action, although this is somewhat counteracted by the weight of the arm. When the fracture is above the insertion of the deltoid the upper fragment is drawn inwards by the muscles inserted into the bicipital ridges; whilst the lower frag- ment is drawn upwards by the biceps and triceps, and outwards by the deltoid. When below the deltoid, the upper fragment is drawn outwards by that muscle and the lower fragment upwards and inwards by the biceps and triceps. Signs, usually obvious, viz., pain, preter- natural mobility, and generally deformity and shortening; whilst crepitus is readily obtained. Method of union.— Generally bony; but it is one of the most common situa- tions of ununited fracture. Treatment.—Place the arm and forearm on an inside rectangular splint with three short splints to the humerus, one in front, one behind, and one on the outer side. Or, apply four short splints to the humerus and support the forearm by a sling, leaving the elbow free, so that the weight of the arm may act as an extending force. The splints should be worn, from aINJITRIES OF IIEGIOKS. 458 month, to five or six weeks. The fingers and fore-arm may often with advantage be bandaged to prevent oedema. 3. The lower end of the humerus. — Fractures in this situation may be divided into (a) transverse fracture; (b) separation of the epiphysis; (c) T-shaped fracture; (d) fracture of the condyles. Of these, the transverse when above the condyles, the separation of the epiphysis, and the fracture of the tip of the internal con- dyle, are extra-capsular; the others involve the joint. Cause.—All varieties are generally the result of direct violence, such as falls upon the bent elbow, (a) The transverse fracture may be above or below the condyles; in the former case it is extra-, in the latter in- tracapsular. Nature of the displacement. — The lower fragment, together with the bones of the forearm, are drawn backwards and up- wards behind the upper frag- ment by the triceps, whilst the lower end of the upper fragment projects in front of the joint (Fig. 142). Signs.— The forearm is shortened and generally bent more or less at a right angle to the arm; the olecranon projects pos- teriorly; and the lower end of the upper fragment forms a prominence in front of the joint. The signs are similar to those of dislocation of the radius and ulna backwards. The following differences presented by the two injuries should serve to distinguish them; although when not seen immediately after the accident the condition of the parts may be so obscured by swelling that an accurate diagnosis cannot be made till the inflammation has sub- sided. Thus, in fracture—1, the deformity is readily reduced, but reappears on removing the extending force; 2, crepitus is obtained on reduction; 3, the condyles bear normal relations to the olecranon ; 4, the distance between the acromion and external condyle is less than on the sound side; 5, the prominent lower end of the upper Fig. 142. — Fracture of the lower end of the humerus. (After Grray.)459 FRACTtlRES OF TSE KtTMERtJS. fragment projects above the crease at tlie front of the elbow. In dislocation, on the other hand—1, the de- formity does not reappear when reduced; 2, there is no crepitus; 3, the distance between the condyles and olecranon is increased; 4, the distance between the acromion and external condyle is the same on both sides; and 5, the prominent lower end of the humerus projects helow the crease at the front of the elbow. {})) Separation of the epiphysis.—The signs are similar to the above, but the patient is under twenty-one years of age. (c) T-shaped fracture.—In this there is a transverse fracture above the condyles, combined with a vertical or oblique fracture extending between the condyles into the joint. Signs.—Similar to the transverse fracture, except that the condyles move on one another as well as on the shaft, and the distance between them is increased. These signs, however, are often obscured by great effusion in and around the joint. {d) Fracture of the condyles.—The projecting internal condyle may be broken off without implicating the joint; or the fracture may extend obliquely through either condyle and the contiguous articular surface into the joint. Cause. — Generally direct violence. Signs. — Mobility and crepitus on grasping the condyles, and on flexing and extending the forearm when the internal condyle is fractured, and on pronating and supinating the hand when the external condyle is fractured. Method of union.—The extracapsular varieties unite by bone, the intracapsular by fibrous tissue. In the T-shaped fracture the transverse portion unites by bone; the vertical or oblique, i.e., the portion inside the joint, by fibrous tissue. Treatment.—If there is much swelling, and you cannot be quite sure that there is no dislocation, place the limb on a pillow, or better, on a Stromeyer's cushion, and apply cold in the form of lead lotion or ice, till the swelling has subsided. Subsequently reduce the fracture, and place the arm and forearm on an angular splint or on a bent anterior splint, or in Bavarian plaster, moulded leather, or poroplastic felt splints. Passive movements of the elbow should be begun early whenever the fracture in- volves the joint, but when it is transverse above the joint they should be delayed for a month, since there is then no danger of a stiff joint, but a risk of the passive move-460 INJURIES OF REGIONS. ments at the seat of fracture leading to a false joint. Where the internal condyle only is chipped off, the angular splint should be placed on the outer side of the arm. In the other forms it is usually applied to the inner side. The radius and ulna. Cause.—Generally direct violence, when each bone breaks in the same transverse line at the spot where the force is applied ; occasionally indirect violence, as a fall on the hand, when each bone generally breaks at its weakest part—the radius in its upper third, the ulna in its lower third. Nature of the dis- placement,—The upper fragment of the radius is drawn by the pronator teres towards the upper fragment of the ulna, which in consequence of its hinge-shaped articula- tion with the humerus is not displaced. The lower frag- ments are drawn towards each other by the pronator quadratus. Signs. — Obvious deformity, crepitus, &c. Treatment.—Flex the elbow to relax the muscles ; reduce the fracture, and place the forearm in well-padded splints with the thumb uppermost. In this position the bones are midway between pronation and supination, and parallel to one another. There is, consequently, a good interval between them, and the danger of the radius becoming united by callus to the ulna, as in Eig. 43^ is avoided. Durmg pronation the radius crosses the ulna. Were the fracture set with the bones thus in contact, the risk of their uniting would be great. The splints should reach from above the elbow to below the wrist, and should be broader than the forearm so that the bones may not be pressed together by the bandage. If this point is attended to interosseous pads are not necessary. The patient should be seen within twenty-four hours, as swelling may occur and the bandages require loosening. The splints must be worn for about a month, and passive movements of the fingers practised early to prevent stiffening. Greenstick fracture of the radius and ulna is common in children. The radius.—Fractures of the radius may involve, 1, the neck; 2, the shaft; and, 3, the lower and (Colics' fracture). 1. The neck of the radius is occasionally fractured. It may be known by crepitus, and by the absence of move- ment of the head when the hand is pronated and supinated. Treatment.—Flex the forearm, and place the limb on an angular splint. 2. The shaft of the radius may be fractured by direct or461 FRACTURES OF THE RADIUS AND ULNA. indirect violence. Both fragments are drawn towards the ulna, the upper by the pronator teres, the lower by the pronator quadratus. (Fig. 143.) Treatment.—Similar to that of fracture of both bones. 3. Fracture of the loiuer end of the radius (CoUes^ frac- ture).—The line of fracture generally runs transversely about three quarters of an inch above the articular surface of the bone. Cause.—Falls on the palm of the hand. It is more frequent in the old than in the young ; and is especially common in elderly women. Nature of the displacement.—Sometimes there may be no dis- placement, but generally the lower fragment with the hand is so displaced that the articular surface looks down- FiG. 143.—Fracture of the radius. (After Grray.) wards, and slightly backwards and. outwards, instead of downwards, forwards and inwards. This, according to Mr. E. W. Smith, is due to the action of the supinator longus, the extensors of the thumb, and the radial extensors of the carpus. By others it is believed to be due to the impaction of the upper fragment into the lower, a condition frequently met with in specimens preserved in museums.' Occasionally the lower fragment is displaced forwards in consequence of falls on the back of the hand. Comminution of the lower fragment with involvement of the wrist-joint frequently occurs. Signs.—Very characteristic. On the back of the wrist, just above the joint, there is a prominence caused by the backwardly displaced lower fragment, and above this a slight de- pression ; whilst on the palmar surface there is a promi- nence caused by the lower end of the upper fragment, corresponding to the dorsal depression, and below this a depression corresponding to the dorsal prominence. Pro- nation and supination are lost, the hand is deflected to the radial side, and the lower end of the ulna is promi- nent. The deformity is well seen in Fig. 144. TheseINJURIES OF REGIOISrS. 462 signs are similar to those of dislocation of the carpus backwards. The following points will serve to distin- guish the two injuries :—In fracture, 1, the styloid process of the radius is on a higher plane than that of the ulna; 2, the distance from the internal condyle to the tip of the styloid process of the radius is less than on the sound side; 3, there is crepitus; 4, the deformity, when it can be reduced, has a tendency to return if the extending force is relaxed; and, 5, it is very common in the old, and occurs from slight^ causes. In dislocation, on the other hand, 1, the styloid process of the radius is on a lower plane than that of the ulna; 2, the distance from the internal condyle to the tip of the styloid process of the radius is the same as on the sound side; 3, there is no crepitus; 4, the de- formity when reduced has no tendency to return when the extending force is relaxed; and, 5, it is Fig. 144. -Colles Fracture. (St usually the result of great Bartholomews Hospital Museum.) violence, and more fre- quently occurs in the young than in the old. Treatment.—After reducing the fracture as thoroughly as possible apply two ordi- nary forearm splints, taking care that the anterior one does not reach beyond the heads of the metacarpal, bones, and place a pad beneath the wrist to restore the lost concavity of the front of the radius. Practise passive movements from the third day, as in this form of fracture the tendons, where they cross the back of the radius, the seat of fracture, are apt to become adherent to their grooves. This is the almost invariable method of treating Colles' fracture at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, and is attended with excellent results. If preferred, Gordon's (Fig. 145), Carr's, Hawkins', or Bond's splints may be used. The pistol-shaped splint introduced by Nelaton, and justly condemned by Sir James Paget as so frequent a cause of stiff wrist and fingers, should on no account be used. Eemove the splints in about four weeks, and employ shampooing, friction with stimulating liniments, &c., till any stiffness of the joint or fingers that remains has disappeared. Separation of the lower epiphysis may occur in young subjects and resembles Colles' fracture.463 FRACTURES OF THE ULN'A. The ulna.—Fractures of the ulna may be divided into fracture of—1, the olecranon; 2, the coronoid process; and 3, the shaft. 1. The olecranon may be fractured in a transverse or oblique direction. The elbow-joint is always involved, Fig. 145.—Grordon's splint for Colles' fracture. (G-ordon's Fractures.) Fia. 146.—Fracture of olecranon. (Listen's Surgery.) except when the fracture is through the tip of the process only. Cause,—Direct violence, as a fall on the point of the elbow, or violent action of the triceps muscle. Nature of the displacement (Fig. 146).—The detached fragment is usually widely separated from the rest of the bone by the triceps ; but when the periosteum and tendinous ex- pansion of the triceps covering the olecranon is not torn, and the fracture is very oblique, little or no displacement464 INJURIES OF REGIOI^S. occurs. Signs.—Swelling from effusion of blood, and later of serum, into the joint; inability of the patient as a rule to extend his arm; and generally, the presence of a gap between the fragments. Method of union.—Usually fibrous; but when the separation of the fragments is slight, it may be bony. Treatment.—Place the elbow in a position of slight flexion on a jointed splint, and apply evaporating lotions till the swelling has subsided. An attempt may be made to bring down the detached fragments by strapping and a bandage. Passive move- ments should be begun early to prevent ankylosis (seventh day, Hamilton). Many advise that the arm should be put up in full extension; but this is objectionable, as it causes the olecranon to form an angle with the shaft. Mr. Heath on the other hand strongly recommends flexion of the arm to a right angle. 2. The coronoid process of the ulna, except in disloca- tion of the ulna and radius backwards, is rarely fractured. It is said at times to occur from a violent contraction of the brachialis anticus muscle. Signs.—When fracture of the coronoid is present in dislocation of the radius and ulna backwards, the dislocation is readily reduced but immediately returns on relaxing the extending force. When fracture of the coronoid is not present, the dis- location is more difficult to reduce; but when once reduced, has no tendency to recur. Treatment.—After reducing the dislocation, place the arm in a flexed position on an inside angular splint. Employ passive movements early. 3. The shaft of the ulna is occasionally fractured without implication of the radius. Cause.—Direct violence. Nature of the displacement.—The upper fragment is not displaced, being held in position by its hinge-shaped articulation with the humerus. The lower fragment is drawn towards the radius by the pronator quadratus. Signs.—It is readily detected by running the finger along the prominent posterior border of the bone, when a gap or irregularity is felt, and by crepitus on movement. Trefttment.—Similar to that of fracture of the radius. The carpus, metacarpus and phalanges.—Frac- tures of these bones require no special mention. They may be diagnosed by the deformity and crepitus. Best for a few weeks on a splint, followed by passive movements to prevent stiffness, is all that is generally necessary.INJURIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMIXr. 46o INJURIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. Bruises or contusions, burns, scalds, and frost- bites of the lower extremity call for no special mention beyond that bruises about the hip and ankle may be mis- taken for fracture, and that a contusion of the limb may be so severe at times as to terminate in gangrene. Sprains of the ankle and knee are very common. Pain, inability to bear any weight on the limb, effusion into the joint or the sheaths of the surrounding tendons, and later, ecchymosis of the skin, are the usual signs. A sprain of the ankle, when there is much swelling, is often difficult, and sometimes impossible, to diagnose from a fracture, and should then be treated as such. For an ordinary sprain absolute rest should be enjoined, and cold or evaporating lotions or a wet bandage should be applied. When the swelling has subsided, the part may- be put in a plaster-of-Paris bandage or in a poroplastic splint for some weeks, and then shampooing and passive movements employed if any stiffness be left. EuPTURE OF MUSCLES AND TENDONS, either as the result of external violence or of sudden and spasmodic contraction of the muscle, is not infrequent in the lower limbs. Here, only rupture of the plantaris or Achilles tendon requires special notice. It usually happens in men beyond the middle period of life without any evident cause. It is attended with a distinct snap, and a feeling as if the part had been struck, followed by pain, and sometimes by ecchymosis and inability to raise the heel. Treatment—A. plaster-of-Paris bandage should be applied with the foot in the extended position to approximate the ends of the ruptured tendon. If a heel is made to the plaster case, the patient need not lay up. The plaster case should be worn for two or three weeks. Dislocations of the Lower Extremity, Dislocation of the hip.—This injury is much less common than dislocation of the shoulder, a fact readily explained by the strength of the capsular ligament, the depth of the acetabulum, and the powerful muscles by which the joint is surrounded. It occurs, however, more frequently than might be expected, owing to the powerful leverage which, from the great strength of the w. H H466 INJURIES OP BEGIONS. femur and length of the leg, is brought to bear upon the joint in falls upon the knee and foot with the limb extended and abducted. Dislocation, therefore, as might be inferred, is more common in the young and strong; fracture of the neck of the femur in the old and feeble. Cause.—Dislocation of the hip, whatever forpa it may take, generally occurs when the limb is abducted. In this position the head of the bone presses upon the inner and lower part of the capsule, its weakest part, and if any sudden or great force is now applied to the other end of the lever, the head of the bone may be forced through the capsule at this spot into the obturator foramen. Here it may remain, or if at the time of the accident the limb is flexed and rotated inwards as well as abducted, it may be carried round the outer margin of the acetabulum on to the dorsum ilii; or if the limb is extended and rotated outwards as well as abducted, round the inner margin on to the pubes. In rare instances, it would appear to occur during forced adduction of the limb, the head of the bone being then driven directly backwards on to the dorsum ilii. In such a case, however, the rim of the acetabulum is generally, though not always, splintered off at the same time. The Y, or ilio-femoral ligament ^Isij^ so important a part in dislocation of the hip that its attachments should be briefly considered before studying the varieties of this dislocation. It consists of a thickening of the front of the capsular ligament, and is attached above to the anterior inferior spine of the ilium, and then divides into two branches like the letter Y inverted. The outer branch is inserted into the upper part of the anterior trochanteric ridge; the inner branch into the lower part of that ridge. It is exceedingly strong, and will bear a breaking strain of from 250 to 750 pounds. Both branches limit extension; the outer branch rotation outwards as well. The whole ligament therefore is tense during extension and outwards rotation of the limb; relaxed during flexion and rotation inwards. Yahieties.—Dislocations of the hip are divided by Bigelow into the regular, in which one or both branches of the Y ligament are intact, and the irregular, in which both branches are ruptured. In the former the signs are constant, as the untorn branch of the Y ligament compels the bone to take a certain definite position. In the irregular the signs vary, as both branches of the Y being467 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. ruptured, tlie control which it exercises over the position of the bone is lost. Our attention here will only be directed to the regular dislocations. • Of these Bigelow describes seven, the first four of which are commonly known as the classical dislocations of Sir Astley Cooper. Cooper's Olassipication. Bigelow's Classipication. Eegular. One or both branches of Y entire. Dislocation on to the dorsum ilii Dislocation into sciatic notch Dislocation into the obturator foramen Dislocation on to the pubes 1. Dorsal the ; = 2. = 3. Dorsal below the tendon Thyroid and downwards Pubic and sub- spinous Anterior ob- lique Supraspinous 7. Everted dorsal = 4. o. Both branches of Y entire. Outer branch of Y ruptured. Both bran- ou B. Irregular. ches of Y ruptured to the dorsum ilii {the dorsal of 1. Dislocation Bigeloiu),—This is the most common form of dislocation of the hip. The head of the bone is thrown upwards and backwards on to the dorsum of the ilium., the articular surface of the head looking backwards, and the great trochanter forwards. The capsular ligament is generally ruptured at its lower and inner part, sometimes posteriorly, and the round ligament is usually torn. The Y ligament is uninjured, the external branch preventing eversion. The glutei muscles are raised from the ilium by the head ' of the bone, which is always situated above the tendon of the obturator internus. The other external rotators have been found variously lacerated or torn from their attach- ments. Signs (Fig. 147).—The limb is slightly flexed, adducted, rotated inwards, and .shortened, so that the, lower end oF the femur crosses tKe lower third of the^ opposite thigh, and the'^great toe rests on the instep of the' opposite foot. The head of the bone, at least in thin sub-| H H 2INJXJUIES BEGIOKS. 468 jects, can be felt in its abnormal situation on rotating the limb. Tbe great trochanter is above a line drawn from the anterior superior iliac spine to the most prominent part of the tuberosity of the ischium {Nelafon^s line) Fig. 147.—Dislocation on Fig. 148.—Dislocation into dorsim ilii. sciatic notch. (Cooper's Dislocations.) (Fig. 149); and the distance from the top of the great trochanter to a line drawn horizontally round the pelvis on a level with the anterior superior iliac spines {Bryanfs line) is less on the injured than on the sound side. 2. Dislocation into the sciatic notch {the dorsal Mow the tendon of Bigeloio).—The head of the bone escapes below the tendon of the obturator internus, and then ascendsDISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. 469 Fig. 149.—A—B, Nekton's line. a h Fia. 150.—Sciatic dislocation of the left hip. a, shows slight • shortening in extended position of limb; h, shows marked shortening in flexed position. (After Dawson, of Ohio.) behind it on to tlie surface of the ilium just in front of the sciatic notch, or on the pyriformis as it emerges from the notch. The head looks backwards and the great tro- chanter forwards, eversion being prevented by the outer braAch of the Y ligament, The tendon of the obturatorINJURIES OF REGIONS. 470 internus winds over the neck of tlie femur, and is there- fore the great obstacle to reduction. The capsule is gene- rally torn below, the round ligament ruptured, the gluteus maximus raised by the head of the bone, and one or more Fia. 151.—Dislocation into Fig. 152.—Dislocation on obturator foramen. the pubes. (Cooper's Dislocations.) of the external rotators are usually torn. The ^igns (Fig. 148) are very similar to those of the former variety ; but the flexion, adduction, and rotation inwards are less pro- nounced. The lower end of the femur crosses the opposite knee, and the great toe rests on that of the opposite foot. Shortening with the limb extended is much less than inDISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. 471 the former variety; but with the limb flexed it is much greater. This is shown in the accompanying diagram (Fig. 150), and depends upon the fact that in the dis- location on to the dorsum ilii the head of the bone in ex- tension lies above the acetabulum, and when flexed at a right angle to the body on the same level as the acetabulum; whereas in the sciatic dislocation the head of the bone in extension is almost on the same level as the acetabulum, but when flexed at a right angle to the body lies considerably behind the acetabulum. 3. Dislocation into the obturator foramen {the thyroid and downwards of Bigeloiv),—The head is displaced down- wards on to the obturator externus, where it lies suspended by the Y ligament, and may remain either just below the acetabulum, or be carried slightly inwards towards the perineum or outwards towards the tuberosity of the ischium. The head of the bone generally looks slightly inwards, and the trochanter outwards. The capsule and round ligament are ruptured, the former at its lower and inner part. The glutei, pyriformis, psoas and iliacus, obturator externus, pectineus, and the adductor brevis are stretched or sometimes torn. Signs (Fig. 151).—In the more common form, viz., that in which the head is displaced downwards and a little inwards, the limb is apparently lengthened, due to the lowering of the pelvis on fharside, but is really shortened about half an inch or so. It is also abducted and slightly .flexed, whilst the body there is^iisually some external rotation, the toes point slightly outwards. The nearer the head of the bone approaches the perineum the more plainly can it be felt, and the more eversion and abduction will there be ; con- versely, the nearer it approaches the tuberosity of the ischium the greater its inversion and adduction; whilst when it is displaced directly downwards there will be neither eversion nor inversion, adduction nor abduction, but marked flexion. 4. Dislocation on to the puhes {the puhic and subspinous of Bigelow).—The head of the bone is thrown forwards and rests below Poupart's ligament, either upon the ramus of the j)ubes {pubic) or upon the pectineal eminence ]ust in front of the anterior inferior spine {subspinous). The head looks forwards and the trochanter backwards. The capsule is generally torn below, and the round liga- ment ruptured. The Y ligament is entire, and produces psoas and iliacus, and asINJURIES OF REGIONS. 472 the eversion of the limb characteristic of this variety. The psoas and iliacus, with the anterior crural nerve between them, are generally stretched tightly over the head of the bone. The femoral vessels are displaced to its inner side. Signs (Fig. 152).—The limb is slightly shortened, flexed, abducted, and rotated outwards; and the head of the bone can be plainly felt in its new situa- tion. There is flattening over the hip-joint. The anterior oblique, supraspinous, and everted dorsal, the three remaining regular dislocations of Bigelow, are too rare to be described here. They can readily be pro- duced, however, on the dead body. Thus the ordinary dorsal dislocation can be converted into the anterior ohlique by carrying the leg across the symphysis, forcibly evert- ing the thigh, and bringing it down across the lower third of the opposite thigh, in which position it becomes firmly locked. If now the thigh is forced into the perpendicular position, the outer branch of the Y ligament will be ruptured and the supraspinous variety produced. This variety in its turn can be converted into the everted dorsal by circumducting the extended limb inwards and then everting it. Treatment.—Eeduction may be effected by: 1, manipu- lation ; 2, traction with the limb in the flexed position; 3, traction with the limb in the extended position. Of these methods the first and the second are by far the most scientific, and when their principles are thoroughly under- stood and they are rightly applied, they are the most successful. Eecent dislocations should always be reduced by the first or second method, aided if need be by an anaesthetic"; and these methods will also often succeed in reducing cases of long standing after traction in the ex- tended position, even with the pulleys, has failed. 1. Reduction hi/ manipulation consists in relaxing the Y ligament, the chief obstacle to reduction, and then by means of various movements of rotation, circumduction and extension applicable to each particular variety of dislocation, in making the head of the bo^e retrace its steps round the margin of the acetabulum, and finally re-enter the acetabulum through the hole in the capsule by which it escaped. To do this it is necessary to know in what direction the head of the bone looks in any particular position of the limb—a point easily determined by remembering that the articular surface of the head looks very nearly in the same direction as the internal473 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. condyle. It must be further remembered that by rotation is meant the rolling of the femur on its own axis; that in outward rotation the anterior surface of the patella is rolled outwards, and in inward rotation inwards ; that by circumduction is meant the revolving of the femur round the axis of its head, and that in this movement the anterior surface of the patella always looks to the front. During the manipulation the patient should be placed upon his back on the floor, while the Surgeon with one hand Fig. 153.—Method of reducing Fia. 154.—Method of reducing should grasp the ankle, and with the other the femur or leg, and put the limb through the several movements required for the kind of dislocation. An assistant, if. necessary, should fix the pelvis. For the dislocation on the dorsum ilii and into the sciatic notch the movements are practically the same (Fig. 153). The limb should be flexed and slightly adducted to disengage the head from behind the acetabulum and then abducted, rotated outwards and brought down parallel to the sound limb. These movements are tersely described by Bigelow in the words * lif t up,' 'bend out,' 'roll out,' i.e., lift up or the dorsal and sciatic disloca- tions of the hip by manipula- tion. the pubic and thyroid dislo- cations of the hip by mani- pulation. (After Bigelow.)INJURIES OE REGIONS. 474 flex—bend out or abduct—roll out or rotate outwards. The bead is tbus compelled to revolve round a centre formed by tbe great trochanter, which is held in position by the outer branch of the Y ligament. In the thyroid (Fig. 154) the thigh should be flexed and slightly ab- ducted, then rotated forcibly inwards and adducted, and brought down parallel to the sound thigh. The head is thus made to retrace its steps towards, and re-enter the acetabulum, the Y ligament being wound up, as it were, and so put on the stretch. In the puUc the reduction is accomplished in a manner similar to that employed for the thyroid. 2. Reduction hy traction with the limb in the flexed posi^ tion.—The flexion of the limb has for its aim the relaxing of the Y ligament and other ligaments and tendons that impede reduction, and then drawing the head of the bone directly into its socket. In the dorsal dislocation the thigh should be flexed at a right angle to the body and traction then made in an upward direction, slightly adducting and rotating inwards to disengage the head from behind the acetabulum. Oounterpressure may. be made, if necessary, by the Surgeon placing his unbooted foot on the anterior iliac spine whilst drawing or jerking the limb upwards. If on flexion it is found that the limb cannot be abducted beyond the perpendicular with the body, the hole in the capsule is probably too small to allow of the head being replaced. It may readily be enlarged by circumducting the flexed thigh outwards across the abdomen. The pulleys may be used if more force is required,' the patient then being laid on his sound side and counter-extension applied to the pelvis by a leather band secured to the wall; or the patient may be placed on his back, the pelvis secured to the floor, and the pulleys attached to a staple in the ceiling. In the sciatic the same method should be adopted, as the flexion frees the head of the bone from the tendon of the obturator internus which winds round its neck, aiid together with the Y ligament, which is also relaxed by flexion, is the chief obstacle to reduction. In the thyroid the limb should be flexed and abducted, and the head of the bone drawn towards the socket, counter-pressure being made, if required, by the unbooted foot on the pelvis. The pulleys may also be employed in this position if more • force is required. In the pubic the limb should be flexed on the pelvis, whilst the head is drawn down towards theDISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. 4Vo acetabulum by a jack-towel passed round the upper third of the thigh. At the same time the limb should be rotated slightly inwards. 3. Reduction hy tractioyi tvith the limb in the extended Fia. 155.—Reduction of dorsal dislocation by pulleys in extended position. (Cooper's Dislocations.) position is the method recommended by Sir Astley Cooper, but is one which is now seldom used except in long-stand- ing cases. It has for its object the drawing of the head of the femur directly into the acetabulum by main force, FiOt. 156.—Reduction of sciatic dislocation by pulleys in extended position. (Cooper's Dislocations.) rupturing any ligaments, muscles, or tendons that offer impediment. The extending force is made in the line of the dislocated femur, generally by means of the pulleys, which are usually secured to the lower third of the thigh476 INJURTES OF REGIONS. by a padded leather band, counter-extension being made simultaneously and in the same straight line as the exten- sion, by fixing the pelvis by means of a perineal band, secured by suitable straps to a staple in the wall or floor. The patient should be placed on a low couch or on a mat- tress on the floor. The line of extension and counter- extension differs accord- ing to the form of dis- location. Thus:—In the dorsal (Fig. 155), ex- tension should be made across the lower third of the sound thigh, the pulleys being fixed to a staple in the wall a few feet from the foot of the couch above the level of the body, and the counter - extending band to a staple in the floor near the head of the couch. In the sciatic (Fig. 156), the extension is made in a nearly similar direction, save that the thigh should be more flexed. In the thyroid (Fig. 157), extension is made in an upward and out- ward direction, by means of a perineal band passed round the upper part of the dislocated thigh and attached to pulleys fixed to a staple in the wall on the injured side. Counter-extension is made by a band passed round the pelvis and secured to a staple in the floor on the sound side. The ankle, in the mean- time, is drawn towards the mesial line of the body by the Surgeon's hand passed behind the sound limb. The line of extension and counter-extension here runs obliquely across the body. In the jpubic (Fig. 158), extension is maae downwards and outwards by Fia. 157. — Eeduction of thyroid dislocation by pulleys. (Cooper's Dislocations.)DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. 477 pulleys attached to a staple in the floor, counter-exten- sion being made by the perineal band, which is carried upwards and inwards across the opposite shoulder, and attached to a staple in the wall. After the extension has been applied some time the head of the bone may be lifted over the edge of the acetabulum by a jack-towel, the thigh, if necessary, being rotated inwards at the same time. The patella may be dislocated outwards, inwards, upwards, and edgeways. The outward dislocation is the most common; the upward variety can only occur Fig. 158.:—Reduction of pubic dislocation by pulleys in extended position. (Cooper's Dislocations.) when the ligamentum patellae has been ruptured or divided. The outward and inward varieties may be complete or incomplete. In the dislocation edgeways, which is very rare, the patella rests vertically on one edge between the condyles, either the outer or the inner edge looking forwards, but most commonly the former. Cause, — Muscular action, or a blow on the outer or inner edge of the bone. Knock-knee predisposes to the outward dislocation. The signs are obvious, the position of the patella indicating the nature of the acci- dent. Treatment.—With the patient under chloroform, the thigh should be flexed on the abdomen, to relax the quadriceps extensor muscle; and the leg, for the same purpose, extended on the thigh. In the outward and inward dislocation, pressure should now be made on the edge of the patella that is further from the centre of the joint so as to raise the opposite edge and478 INJrElES OF REGIOKS. tilt it over tlie condyle, wlien it is at once drawn into place by the action of its muscles. In the edgeways variety, pressure should be made with the thumbs in opposite directions on the upper and lower margin of the dislocated bone, this manipulation being aided by sud- denly and forcibly flexing the knee, and then, if neces- sary, by extending it. Eeduction, though generally easy, is sometimes attended with great difficulty, and has occa- sionally been found impossible, even after subcutaneous division of ligaments and tendons. Effusion into the joint generally follows, and should be treated in the usual way. After reduction the joint should be placed on a back splint or in plaster-of-Paris, and a knee-cap subsequently worn to prevent a recurrence of the dislocation. The knee.—Dislocation of the knee is exceedingly rare. It may occur in a forward, backward, inward, and outward direction, and in any case may be complete or incomplete. Cause.—Usually great violence, as a severe wrench or twist of the joint. Signs.—In the lateral dis- locations, which are generally incomplete, a projection caused by the condyles of the femur on the one side, with a depression below, and a projection of the tibia, or of the fibula, as the case may be, on the opposite side, with a depression above, at once show the nature of the injury. In the antero-posterior varieties, which are generally complete, there is great shortening and deformity of the limb; the head of the tibia in the forward dislocation projects anteriorly; whilst in the backward it can be felt in the ham. In the former there is generally considerable swelling and congestion, and often pain in the limb below the knee, from pressure of the condyles of the femur on the popliteal vessels and nerves. Treatment.—Eeduction, as a rule, is easily accomplished by extension, combmed with manipulation and pressure in the direction indicated by the variety of the dislocation. The limb should then be placed on a back-splint, and an ice-bag applied to the knee, passive movements being begun at the end of two or three weeks, and a knee-cap subsequently worn for twelve months at the least. Compound dislocations usually, though not invariably, call for amputation. Dislocation of one of the semi-lunar cartilages of the knee, usually the internal, may occur from a sudden twist or wrench of the joint during semi-flexion. The accident is attended with sadden and severe pain, a ' locking' of the joint usually in a bent position, and the presence of aDISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE AND ANKLE. 479 hollow, sometimes of a projection oyer the site of the semi- lunar cartilage. There is at first commonly some effusion into the joint. In chronic cases the patient may be able to displace and replace the cartilage at will by twisting his knee. The condition may closely simulate a loose body in the joint or a nipped synovial fringe, but the above signs will generally suffice to distinguish it. The diagnosis is, however, sometimes difficult unless the patient is seen at the time the cartilage is displaced. The treatment consists in limiting the movements of the joint to flexion and extension by means of a special form of clamp. In intractable cases the joint may be opened and the displaced cartilage fixed by sutures or removed. The ANKLE.—The astragalus, together with the rest of the bones of the foot, may be dislocated from the socket formed for it by the tibia and libula, in an outward, in- ward, backward, forward, or upward direction. All five varieties are generally complicated by fracture of the fibula, or of the internal malleolus. The outivard and inward varieties will be described under the head of fracture of the fibula (see p. 495). The backward and forivard varieties are rare; the latter especially so. In the former (Fig. 159), the astragalus is either partially or completely driven backwards from its socket, carrying with it, of course, the other bones of the foot; so that the foot appears shortened, the heel prominent, and the tendo Achillis tense. In the forivard variety the astragalus is generally forced only partially from between the malleoli, and the foot appears lengthened, the heel less prominent than natural, and the tendo Achillis relaxed. In the ujQivard variety the tibia and fibula are torn asunder, and the astragalus is forced upwards between them. The* ankle appears widened, the malleoli are almost in contact with the ground, and all motion at the ankle-joint is lost. Treatment—The leg having been flexed and the foot ex- tended to relax the calf-muscles, make extension on the foot whilst an assistant holds the thigh, and then manipu- late the bones into position. If necessary, give an anses- thetic, and cut the tendo Achillis. Place the foot and leg on a back-splint, or, if preferred, on a Oline's or Dupuy- tren's splint. Compound dislocation of the anMe,—In young and healthy subjects an attempt should be made to save the foot, unless the main vessels are torn, or there is much comminution of the bones, or extensive laceration of the480 INJUBIES OF REGIONS. soft parts, when amputation is the safer course. Eesection of the bones, however, may, in some instances, be under- taken with advantage, but each case must be judged on its merits, and the indications for resection cannot be discussed here. The astragalus may be dislocated from the tibia and fibula above and from the os calcis and scaphoid below and in front, in a forward, backward, inward, or outward direc- tion ; whilst very rarely it may be rotated on its own axis either vertically or horizontally. The forward dis- FiG. 159.—Dislocation of the foot Fig. 160.—Subastragaloid dis- backwards. (St. Bartliolo- location. (St. Bartholomew's mew's Hospital Museum.) Hospital Museum.) location, which is generally produced by a wrench of the extended foot, is the most common, the bone in this variety usually inclining either a little outwards, or a little inwards at the same time. The backward dislocation most often occurs from a wrench when the foot is flexed. The lateral dislocations when complete are always com- pound, and nearly always associated with fracture of the malleoli. Signs,—The astragalus in the forward variety can be felt projecting under, and often threatening to pro- trude through the skin of the instep; whilst in the hach-- tvard form it gives rise to a prominence beneath the tendo Achillis, which it causes to bulge backwards, to shortening of the foot, and to a projection of the tibia in front. The481 STJBASTRAGALOID DISLOCATION. lateral varieties being compound, the nature of the injury is obvious. Treatment.—In the simple form attempts should always be made to push back the displaced bone into its socket, by making pressure in the proper direction, the calf-muscles being relaxed by position, the foot extended, and the tendo Achillis, or any other tendon or ligament that is felt tense, divided if necessary. An ansesthetic is generally required. If reduction is then found impossible, the rule is to leave the displaced bone alone, and only to excise it if sloughing threatens or has actually occurred. Seeing, however, how successful are the results of excision of the astragalus for intractable cases of club-foot, I should myself, if I failed to reduce the bone, remove it at once. In a compound dislocation the bone should, as a rule, be excised. The STJBASTRAGALOID DISLOCATION is one in which the bones of the foot are displaced from the astragalus, which itself retains its natural connections with the tibia and fibula. The foot is generally displaced either back- wards and inwards, or backwards and outwards; more rarely in the opposite directions. In the backward and inward variety (Fig. 160) the foot is inverted, the sole looks inwards, the external malleolus is prominent, the in- ternal malleolus is buried by the projection of the oscalcis beyond it, and the head of the astragalus forms a distinct prominence on the outer side of the instep, over which prominence the skin is tightly stretched. In the back- Xv^ard and outward variety the foot is everted instead of inverted, the internal malleolus is prominent, the external buried, and the astragalus projects on the inner side of the instep. The forward varieties are too rare to require description. The normal relations of the head of the astragalus to the malleoli, together with the signs above given, will serve to distinguish it from dislocation of the astragalus alone, the injury with which it is most liable to be confounded. Treatment. — In the back- - ward varieties the foot should be drawn forwards, whilst the leg is forced backwards, the tendo Achillis and the tibialis anticus and posticus being divided if necessary, and the patient put under an anaesthetic. Eeduction is sometimes very difficult or even im- possible in consequence of the tibial tendons hooking round the head of the astragalus, or of the mutual interlocking of the bones. After reduction the foot should be placed on a splint, and an ice-bag applied. If w. IIINJURIES or REGIONS. 482 sloughing occurs, Pirogoff's or Syme's operation may have to be performed. Dislocation of the separate bones of the tarsus, OF the metatarsal bones, and of the phalanges of the toes are too rare to require special description. Fractures of the loiuer Extremity, Fractures of the femur may be divided into frac- tures of—I. the upper end; II. the shaft; and III. the loiuer end, I. Fractures of the upper end of the femur may be divided into—1, intracapsular fracture of the neck; 2, extracapsular fracture of the neck; 3, fracture of the great trochanter; and, 4, separation of the epiphysis of the head. 1. Intracapsular fracture occurs most frequently in the old, and more commonly in women than in men. Cause,—The atrophy and fatty degeneration of the bone and the diminished obliquity of the neck which is said frequently though not invariably to attend old age, are the chief predisposing causes. Professor Humphry main- tains, however, that there is no diminution of obliquity as age advances. Slight indirect violence, such as slipping off the curbstone, catching the toes in the carpet, &c., is the common exciting cause. State of the parts,—The line of fracture may be situated at any part of the neck within the capsule, and may be transverse or oblique ; the usual situation, however, is just external to the head, and the direction transverse. The fragments may be impacted or non-impacted, but impaction is the exception. In the impacted form the lower fragment is nearly always driven into the up;^er; when, however, the fragments are very jagged, mutual interlocking may occur. The periosteum covering the neck—the cervical reflection as it is sometimes called— may be partially or completely torn, so that all connection between the head and the rest of the bone is severed. Upon the extent of its rupture will in part depend the amount of displacement of the fragments, and the kind of union that will occur. In the non-impacted form the lower fragment with the rest of the femur is drawn slightly upwards by the muscles inserted into the tro- chanters, and at the same time generally rotated out-FEACTURES OF THE NECK OF THE FEMUR. 483 wards. The outward rotation would appear to depend in part on the direction of the line of fracture; and in part on the weight of the limb, which has a natural tendency to roll outwards. Method of union. — In consequence partly of the feeble blood supply of the upper fragment, and partly of the fragments not being in apposition, bony union seldom occurs, the parts becoming bound together by fibrous tissue or remaining ununited. In the latter case the fragments become rounded and polished, forming a false joint; whilst, owing to the absorption of the lower fragment, great shorteDing of the neck usually ensues. Signs.—Slight shortening—about three-quarters of an inch—eyersion, inabiHty to raise the limb from the hori- zontal position, approximation of the great trochanter to the anterior superior spine of the ilium, rotation of the great trochanter through a smaller arc than on the oppo- site side, and crepitus, are the usual signs. Occasionally there may be no shortening at first, and patients have been known to walk after the injury. In rare instances there has been inversion instead of eversion, a fact not easy of explanation. In the impacted form there is no crepitus, the shortening is less, and does not disappear on extension, and the patient may be able to raise the limb from the horizontal position, and perhaps stand or walk on it. Diagnosis.—The age of the patient, the very slight shortening, the absence of bruising about the trochanter, the slightness of the violence occasioning it, and the ever- sion of the limb are the chief signs which point to intra- capsular fracture ; but it may have to be diagnosed from the extracapsular form, from dislocation of the hip, from dislocation with fracture of the acetabulum, from chronic osteo-arthritis, and from mere contusion of the hip. In the extracapsular form the shortening is greater, the patient usually younger, the occasioning violence direct and more severe, and there is often bruising and ecchymosis of the skin and widening of the trochanter. In dislocation there is loss of mobility of the limb, and the head of the bone can be felt in the abnormal position. The only common dislocation with which the ordinary form of fracture could be confounded is the pubic, as in this alone is there any eversion; but here the distinct prominence formed by the head of the bone on the pubes at once serves to distinguish it. In fracture of the acetabulum with dislocation there is, in addition to crepitus, the pre- sence of the head of the bone in an abnormal situation, I I 2484 INJimiES OF REGIONS. whence it can be drawn on extension of the limb, but returns wben the extension is relaxed, crepitus during these movements being felt. Chronic osteo-arthritis, in which in consequence of the absorption of the head of the bone there is often shortening and eversion, and in consequence of the movement of the osteophytes upon each other crepitus, may be distinguished from intra- capsular fracture, which it may simulate should a patient suffering from it have a fall, by the history of pain, lameness, and stiffness before the injury. In con- tusion of the hip, though there may be eversion of the limb and loss of power, the trochanter retains its normal relations, and there is no shortening or crepitus. It should be remembered, however, that in old people ab- sorption of the neck of the bone may slowly take place after a contusion, and of this the patient should be warned, as otherwise the Surgeon may be accused of overlooking a fracture. The treatment should vary according to the age and powers of the patient. Thus in the old and feeble in whom bony union can scarcely be expected, and in whom, moreover, long confinement on the back is liable to pro- duce bed-sores and even fatal hypostatic congestion of the lungs, the limb should be merely placed at rest between sand-bags, and the patient only confined to bed for a few days. He should then be allowed to get about on crutches with the parts secured in some form of stiff bandage or moulded leather case, or on a Thomas's hip-joint splint. In younger and fairly vigorous patients an attempt may be made to obtain bony union either by means of exten- sion with the weight and pulley or by the long splint. Confinement to bed for six or eight weeks is usually necessary, followed for another two or three months by the use of some form of stiff apparatus. 2. Extracapsular fractures, though more fre- quent in the old than in the young, are not, like intra- capsular fractures, so essentially an injury of old age. Thus, they are frequently met with between the ages of forty and fifty, whereas intracapsular fractures hardly ever occur in persons under fifty. Cause.—Usually direct violence as a fall or a severe blow on the great trochanter. State of the parts.—The fracture commonly extends through the base of the neck just outside the capsule, and is nearly always associated with a fracture of the great trochanter. It may be impacted or non-impacted, the485 I FRACTITEES 0^ THE I^EMTTH. former condition, however, being by far the most common. Indeed, it is probable, that nearly all extracapsular fractures are in the first instance impacted and accom- panied by fracture through the great trochanter, and that they only become non-impacted by the splitting asunder of the trochanters, in consequence of the neck being driven in still further, wedge-wise, between them; and hence, that non-impaction only occurs as a result of great violence. The line of fracture through the trochanter commonly extends obliquely downwards and backwards, and terminates by passing through the trochanter minor; but it may take various directions, sometimes splitting the trochanter into several pieces. The method of union is generally bony, and as the blood supply is very good, there is often an excessive formation of callus. In rare instances no union, or fibrous union, occurs. The signs are similar to those of the intracapsular variety. Thus, there is eversion and shortening of the limb, pain on movement, inability as a rule to raise the limb from the ground, a.nd the top of the trochanter is found to be above Nelaton's line (Fig. 149), and the base of Bryant's triangle to be less than on the sound side. But the shortening is greater than in intracapsular fracture; the patient is commonly not so old; the fracture is probably produced by direct violence; the trochanter feels enlarged and thicker than that of the opposite side, from being split by the neck; there is swelling and bruising about the hip; and often much subsequent ecchymosis, since the blood being outside the capsule readily makes its way to the surface. In the non-imjpaded variety where there is much comminution of the tro- chanter, the shortening may be as much as two or three inches, and crepitus will be well marked. In the impacted, the shortening is much less, seldom exceeding an inch, and crepitus cannot be elicited, unless the fragments are loosely wedged. In firm impaction, indeed, the patient can often raise the leg, or even walk. Treatment. — In the non-impacted variety, extension should be applied by means of some variety of Listen's long splint, a stirrup, weight and pulley being substituted, if preferred, for the perineal band. Firm osseous union will generally be obtained in a month to six weeks. In the impacted, extension had better not be made, but the limb merely kept at rest by the long splint till the swell- ing and pain have subsided, and the patient then allowed486 to get about on crutches. Firm union will occur, but there will be permanent shortening, and probably some eyersion and stiffness of the joint. 3. Fractube oe the great trochanter ; and 4. SEPARATION OE THE EPIPHYSIS OE THE HEAD, are too rare to call for description here. II. Fractures of the shaet oe the eemur are very common in children, less common in adults, and rare in old people, in whom intra- and extracapsular fractures more readily occur. Cause.—Generally the re- sult of indirect violence, occasionally of direct, and rarely of muscular action. State of the parts,—The Kne of fracture is usually transverse or oblique; but in rare instances, Fia. 161.—Fracture of upper third of femur. (After Gfray.) Fig. 162.—Fracture of lower third of femur. (After Grray.) almost longitudinal or spiral. The oblique is more com- mon in adults ; the transverse in children. The fragments for the most part considerably overlap, producing much shortening. The usual situation of the fracture is about the middle of the bone, though it may occur through the upper or middle or lower third. In the upper third (Fig. 161), the lower end of the upper fragment is drawn forwards by the psoas and iliacus, and at the same time,FRACTURES OP THE FEMUR. 487' generally abducted and • rotated outwards by the glutei, and external rotator muscles. The upper end of the lower fragment is drawn inwards by the adductors, and upwards by the quadriceps and hamstrings, whilst it is also rotated outwards in part by the adductors, and in part by the weight of the limb. Occasionally, the upper fragment is drawn inwards instead of outwards. Union is apt to occur with some overlapping of the frag- ments and angular deformity. In the middle third the displacement is similar, the upper fragment usually projecting in front and to the outer side of the lower. In the lower third the upper fragment, in addition to being displaced forwards, is generally drawn towards the middle line by the adductors; whilst the lower fragment, especially when the fracture is just above the condyles, is tilted backwards into the popliteal space by the gastro- cnemius, where it can be felt as a distinct prominence, and at the same time is drawn upwards with the rest of the limb by the hamstrings and quadriceps (Fig. 162), Signs.—In the adult the signs are usually very obvious. They consist in shortening, crepitus, eversion of the foot, swelling from the approximation of the attachments of the muscles, and in preternatural mobility and loss of power in the limb. The ends of the fragments, more- over, can often be felt on manipulation. In young children the diagnosis is not always so easy, especially when the fracture is incomplete; the bowing of the limb, shortening, sensation of yielding or creaking, and the history of the accident^ however, will usually prevent a mistake. Treatment.—The methods of treating fractures of the shaft of the femur are very numerous; they have all for their object the extension of the limb. Extension over- comes the spasmodic contraction of the hamstrings and adductors, and through the insertion of the quadriceps into the anterior surface of the upper fragment draws the lower end of the latter backwards, thus counteracting the psoas and iliacus. The various methods may be briefly considered under the following heads:—1, the long splint; 2, the weight and pulley; 3, the double-inclined plane ; 4, the plaster-of-Paris or starch bandage. 1. The long splint (Fig. 163) in its simplest form consists of a straight lath with two notches at its lower, and two holes in its upper end, and is known as Liston's. It should reach from the axilla to six inches below the488 INJURIES OE REGIONS. foot. The splint, well padded, is first bound to the foot and leg by a bandage carried tbrough the notches in the splint, and over the ankle in the form of a figure of 8, and then up the leg, and beyond the knee to prevent relaxation of the ligaments of the joint (Fig. 163). A perineal band having been previously adjusted, and its ends brought out through the holes in the top of the splint, is now tightened, whilst extension is made upon the foot. The ends of the perineal band, as soon as the fracture is reduced, are securely tied. The band thus acts as a counter-extending force, and the displacement is prevented from returning. A broad bandage is finally passed round the thorax to confine the splint to the side. The perineal Fig. 163.—Liston's long splint. (Heath's Minor Surgery.) band may consist of any soft material, as a folded silk handkerchief, or '' piece of bandage sewn in the form of a long bag and stuffed with cotton wool," with tapes attached at each end. It should take its bearings from the tuber ischii, and not rest between the tuber ischii and great trochanter, as here it would press on the great sciatic nerve. The splint is improved by a cross-bar at its lower end, to prevent the limb rolling outwards, and by an oval aperture opposite the external malleolus, to prevent pressure on that bone. As the perineal band is apt to chafe, some surgeons, in its place, employ, in com- bination with the long splint, the stirrup, weight and pulley for the purpose of extension, raising the bed at the foot so that the weight of the body may act as the counter- extending force. Many modifications of the long splint are in use; amongst these may be mentioned Beyer's, Desault's, Bryant's, and De Morgan's splints. Bryant's (Fig. 164) consists of two long splints united above and below by iron cross-bars in the way shown in the drawing, and interrupted opposite the trochanters to avoidFRACTtJEES OF THE EEMTTR. 489 pressure on these parts. By its use both limbs are kept parallel, and abduction or adduction of the fractured limb is prevented, whilst extension is kept up by means of the elastic apparatus attached to the side of the splint and connected by cords and pulleys to the foot-piece, which moves up and down in a slot. If the foot of the bed is raised no perineal band is required. 2. The weigJit and pulley is frequently used, either alone, or as an addition to the long splint. A long piece of strapping is secured on each side of the leg and lower third of the thigh by strapping and a bandage, leaving a loop about eight inches long under the sole. In the loop thus left a flat piece of wood, about two inches square, is placed, and through a hole in the centre of this a cord is Fig. 164.—Bryant's splint. passed and secured by a knot at its end. The cord is then carried over a pulley at the foot of the bed, and a weight of several pounds suspended on it. The weight should be gradually increased till the fractured limb is found on measurement to be the same length as the sound limb. Ten to twenty pounds or even more may be required. Counter-extension is made by the weight of the body, the foot of the bed being raised six inches or so on blocks. But the many details involved in its application will be better learnt by three months' dressing in the wards than by any verbal description. In children, the limb may be suspended by means of this stirrup in a vertical position to the ceiling (Fig. 165), the weight of the body being the counter-extending force. 3. The douhle-inclined plane is very useful in the treat- ment of fractures of the upper third of the femur, in which the upper fragment is tilted upwards by the psoas and iliacus, and cannot be kept in apposition with the lower. By means of the double-inclined plane the lower fragment490 INJURIES OF BEGIOICS. is raised and brougM into line with the upper, extension being secured by the leg and foot hanging unsupported down the further side of the plane, and counter-extension by the weight of the body. The plane may consist of an ordinary Maclntyre's splint bent to the proper angle, or of a wooden frame that can be adjusted to the proper height at the apex where the planes meet. Dr. Hodgen's and Dr. Nathan Smith's splints are double-inclined planes slung on pulleys, but space does not permit of them being described here. 4. Plaster - of' Paris and starch handages are employed at some hospitals from the first, and the patient allowed to get about on crutches. III. Fractijees through the LOWER END OE THE FEMUR VCry frequently extend either trans- versely or obliquely across the shaft, just above the articular surface, and vertically or obliquely between the condyles into the knee- joint, the broken end of the shaft being often impacted between the partially separated condyles. Some- times the line of fracture may be entirely supracondyloid, the knee- joint then escaping. In young subjects the fracture may occur in the epiphysial line, with or without splintering of the condyles. De- structive inflammation of the knee- joint is liable to follow fractures through the condyles, but is certainly far from common. The signs, when the fracture is supra-condyloid, are similar to those of fracture of the lower third of the shaft. In the T-shaped fracture in which the knee is involved, there is usually great swelling of the joint from effusion of blood and serum; increased width of the femur if the condyles are separated from each other; shortening; inability to stand on or use the limb; and crepitus on manipulation, on grasping the condyles, and often on moving the patella laterally. In fracture through ^ the epiphysis, the age of the patient, and the soft crepitus Fig. 165.—Fracture of the femur treated by vertical extension. (Bryant's Surgery.)491 PUACTtrilES OF THE tATELJLA. cliaracteristic of epiphysial fractures, will point to the nature of tlie injury.- The separation of the fragments, moreover, is usually less than in other fractures in this situation, as the two surfaces are broad. Union generally occurs by bone, and hence shortening is common. Treatmerd. — Some form of the long splint may be applied; or extension made by the stirrup, weight, and pulley ; or the limb may be placed on an iron back-splint, with two side splints, and slung in the way to be described under fracture of the bones of the leg. In the supra- condyloid fracture, where the lower fragment is much tilted backwards by the gastrocnemius, the tendo Achillis Figs. 16.6 and 167.—Transverse and vertical fracture of the patella. may be divided, or the double-inclined plane used. In any case an ice-bag or lead lotion should be applied to the knee till the effusion is absorbed. Passive movements should be begun at the end of about four weeks. The patella. — Fractures of the patella are most common in middle life, of more frequent occurrence in men than in women, and very rare in childhood. Cause. —They are generally due to a sudden and violent action of the quadriceps extensor muscle, such as is exerted by a person to regain the upright position when he feels himself slipping backwards, the knee being then semi-flexed, and the patella unsupported. They are some- times caused by direct violence, as a blow or fall upon the knee. State of the parts.—When due to muscular action the line of the fracture is transverse (Fig. 166), the aponeurotic covering is usually torn, and the upper frag- ment generally drawn some distance from the lower by the action of the quadriceps extensor. When due to direct violence it is more often starred or vertical (Fig. 167), and the aponeurosis being intact, there is little or no492 mjUBIES OP HEGIOKS. separation. In any case the fracture, of course, extends into the joint. Method of union.—When the fractur-e is transverse, union is generally fibrous or membraneous, rarely osseous, in consequence of the fragments being separated, probably in part by muscular contraction, and in part by the effusion of blood, and later of serous fluid, into the joint. In the vertical and starred fractures, where the parts are held together by the untorn aponeurosis, union is usually osseous. Signs, —At first a gap between the fragments can be Fig. 168.—Malgaigne's hooks, seen and felt, but it is with key. subsequently obscured by swelling of the joint. The patient cannot stand, or extend the knee. In a vertical fracture crepitus can usually be detected, and the fragments are not separated. Fia. 169.—Manning's patella splint. The leg is drawn in outline, so as to show beneath it the webbing band passing through the slit in the splint. The strips of strapping should reach up the thigh to the gluteal fold. Treatment.—If seen before effusion has occurred, the whole limb from the ankle to the hip should be enclosed in a Bavarian plaster-of-Paris splint, and the patient " confined to bed for a week, and then allowed to get about on crutches. Even when effusion has set in, this plan may be attended with the best results. Usually, however, the limb is placed on a back-splint with the foot raised so as to relax the muscles in front of the thigh, ice or cold lotion applied till the swelling has subsided, and then an endeavour made to draw down the upper frag-PRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. 493 ment as nearly as may be into contact with the lower. Various forms of apparatus are employed for this purpose, amongst which may be mentioned Manning's, Hamilton's and Steayenson's splints, Malgaigne's hooks (Fig. 168), and Mayo Eobson's pins (Fig. 170). But plaster of Paris apj)lied in the way above described, after the fragments have been as much as possible approximated by strips of strapping, is one of the best methods that can be adopted. On the removal of whatever apparatus is used at the end of six weeks or two months, a leathern knee-cap, to prevent flexion, must be worn from three to six months, and sub- sequently an apparatus to partially limit flexion for two or three years, as otherwise there is a great tendency for the fibrous material uniting the fragments to become stretched, and the fragments to become widely separated. Manning^s splint.—A piece of webbing is taken the length of the leg, and is first secured to the back of the thigh by a dozen or so strips of strapping, which have been pre- viously sewn to the webbing, the lowest strip being an inch or two from the patella. The whole limb is then placed on a back splint with a foot-piece, the leg and foot being firmly bandaged to it below, and the thigh lightly to it above. The free end of the webbing band having first been brought out through the slit in the splint midway between the knee and the ankle (see Fig. 169), is now drawn down towards the foot outside the splint, and sewn over a piece of stick, which is secured to the foot-piece by an india-rubber ring (a) on each side. Thus elastic tension is continually exerted upon the upper fragment, and so draws it down towards the lower. Mayo Rohson^s Method.—A strong steel pin is passed through the ligamentum patellae outside the knee joint; the skin is then drawn down over the patella, and another pin passed through the tendon of the quadriceps also out- side the joint. The two pins and with them the frag- ments of the patella are then drawn together by a figure- of-eight suture on each side, so as to bring the fractured surfaces into apposition. An antiseptic dressing is applied and the pins allowed to remain in situ for a month (see Fig. 170). Aspiration of the joint. Wiring of the fragments.—With the object of obtaining firm fibrous or bony union, some Surgeons, where there is much distension of the joint, draw oft the blood or serum with the aspirator; and others lay the joint freely open and wire the fragments of494 INJURIES OF REGIONS. the patella together. The latter proceeding, it cannot be denied, has often secured bony union without any ill effects, but on the other hand, suppuration, stiff-joint, amputation, and even loss of life have resulted. In the face of these facts, therefore, and considering that no such dangers attend the ordinary methods, and that by these methods a perfectly useful joint can be obtained, even though the union is only fibrous, I, for my own part, have always hesitated to undertake such an operation for a recent fracture of the patella. Eecently Mr. Barker has tied the fragments together subcutaneously by passing Fia. 170.—Mayo Roh-son's method of hokling fragments of patella a suture by the aid of a nsevus needle first behind the patella, and then in front of it between the patella and the skin. The blood is squeezed out of the joint, the frag- ments pressed together, and the sutures tied tightly, thus keeping the fragments in apposition. -The TIBIA AND FIBULA.—Both bones, or the tibia or fibula alone, may be fractured. Fracture of both hones, which is by far the most common variety, may be due to either direct or indirect violence. When the result of direct violence, the frac- ture occurs at the spot where the force is applied, and both bones are usually fractured more or less transversely, and in the same line; but when the result of indirect violence, the tibia generally first gives way at its weakest spot, i.e., about the junction of the middle with the lower in contact.FRACTUEES OF THE TIBIA AND FIBIJLA. 495 third, and then the fibula also at its weakest spot, ^'.e., in its upper third, and the fractures are usually oblique. In the transverse fracture but little displacement occurs; in the oblique, in which the line of fracture usually runs downwards, forwards, and a little inwards, the lower fragments are drawn upwards, backwards and outwards, behind the upper, by the muscles of the calf, while the sharp end of the upper fragment of the tibia projects forwards, threatening, and indeed often causing, perforation of the skin (Fig. 171). Fracture of the tibia alone is generally caused by direct vio- lence, as a kick or a blow on the shin, occasionally by indirect violence, as a fall on the foot. Nature of the displacement,—The fracture is usually situated in the lower third of the bone, and is generally transverse, and at- tended by little displacement, the fragments being held in posi- tion by the fibula, which plays the part of a splint. Fractures of the upper and lower ends, involving the knee- and ankle- joints respectively, and separa- tion of the upper and lower epiphysis, may also occur, but are rare. Fracture of the fibula alone is more common than fracture of Fig. 171.—Fracture of the the tibia alone. Cause.—Though l^^er third of the tibia, sometimes produced by direct it is (After Gfray.) more often the result of indirect violence,_such as a severe wrench or twist of the foot. The fracture is then generally situated from two to three inches from the external malleolus, and the foot is at the same time very commonly dislocated either outwards or inwards, according to the direction of the force. Nature of the dis- placement,—In the fracture with outward dislocation of the foot {Potfs fracture, as it is generally called), the upper end of the lower fragment is driven inwards towards the tibia, the external lateral ligament remains intact, butII^JTJRIES OE BEGIOlSrS. 496 the internal lateral ligament is ruptured, or the end of the internal malleolus is torn off. The foot, at the same time that it is displaced outwards, is also drawn hackwards by the tendo Achillis. In the fracture with inward dislo- cation (which is rare), the articular surface of the external malleolus usually follows the astragalus, and the upper end of the lower fragment of the fibula in consequence projects outwards. Signs.—In fracture of both bones the signs are usually unmistakable, especially when the fracture is oblique and in the lower third of the leg. "When the tibia or fibula alone is fractured the diagnosis is often very difficult. In the tibia some irregularity may be felt on running the finger along the shin, and crepitus may perhaps be elicited. In the fibula, frac- ture of the lower third may be detected by running the finger along the subcutaneous surface of the bone just above the ex- ternal malleous; but if the case is not seen till swelling from effusion has set in, it may be quite impossible to say whether we are dealing with a fracture or a sprain. If in doubt the xxu. j.,^. iuuofs xjc^u- case should be treated as a ture. (St. Bartholomew's fracture. In the upper two- Hospital Museum.) thiids, where the bone is co- vered with muscles, and cannot be felt, the following tests for fracture may be applied. 1. Move the foot laterally, and crepitus will probably be elicited if there is a fracture. 2. Press the tibia and fibula together just above the ankle by grasping them with the hand. In fracture, pain v/ill be felt at the fractured spot, not at the situation where grasped. 3. Grasp the tibia and fibula with the hands just below the knee and above the ankle. If there is a fracture the natural springiness of the fibula will be lost, and crepitus may perhaps be detected. In Fotfs fracture (Fig. 172), the foot is twisted outwards, so that whilst the inner edge is towards the ground the sole is directed outwards. There is a well-marked depression over the seat of fracture, the497 TREATMENT OF POTT'S FEACTUEE. internal malleolus projects prominently under the skin, and crepitus can be easily obtained. There is also marked hacJcward displacement of the foot. Treatment.—In uncomplicated fractures of the tibia or fibula alone, the leg may be placed at once in plaster-of- Paris splints, and the patient, after a few days' rest in bed, allowed to get abbut on crutches. Where there is much swelling, the leg had better be placed for a few days on a back-splint to allow the swelling to subside before the plaster of Paris is applied. In simple fracture of both bones, where the line of fracture is transverse and there is but little swelling or displacement, the same treat- ment may often be adopted with advantage. But greater care and watchfulness will be necessary to prevent any untoward accident. Indeed, whenever this method of treating fractures is used, the precautions mentioned at page 180 should be taken. When there is any dis- placement, however, the fracture must be reduced by making traction upon the foot whilst the thigh is steadied by an assistant, taking special care to correct the eversion, so frequently present, of the lower fragment. You will know when this has been done by the inner side of the pa- tella, the internal malleolus, and the inner side of the great toe being in the same line. Further, you should not, as a rule, rest satisfied as long as any irregularity can be felt on drawing your finger down the crest of the tibia, or as long as any marked difference is apparent on comparing the fractured with the sound leg. If any difficulty is experienced, give chloroform, and if necessary, cut the tendo Achillis. Having reduced the fracture, secure the foot and leg on a splint. Whatever form of the various splints for the purpose is adopted, take care1, that the foot is at right angles to the leg; 2, that the ball of the toes and the heel touch the foot-piece of the splint; 3, that the foot is square with the foot-piece ; and 4, that the back of the heel is kept from contact with the splint by a small pad placed under the tendo Achillis just above the heel. The iron splint and cradle, shown in Fig. 173, is - almost invariably employed by the whole of the surgical staff at St. Bartholomew's Hospital for ordinary fractures of the tibia and fibula and with the most satisfactory results. In applying the splint, which should reach as high as the junction of the middle with the lower third of the thigh and should be well padded and shaped to the limb, the foot is first secured to the foot-piece by strapping w. K K498 INJURIES OF REOIONS. and a bandage. The Surgeon having then assured him- self that the fracture is in good position, secures the splint by a broad strip of strapping, and a figure-of-eight Fig. 173. —Fracture apparatus for the bones of leg. bandage oyer the knee. The splint is next swung in the cradle, as shown in the figure, and side splints are then applied and fixed by webbing straps. In the case Fig. 174.—CHne's spHnts for Pott's fracture. The outside sphnt is known by the foot-piece. of fracture of both bones, the apparatus is generally kept on for a month; in the case of the fibula or tibia alone, for two or three weeks. The leg is then placed in a plaster-of-Paris, a gum and chalk, or a silicate of j soda bandage. In Fotfs fracture, the above apparatus ' is also generally used, and here again I speak of it in theTREATMENT OF POTT's FRACTURE. 499 highest praise. Where, however, there is much difficulty in keeping the bones in good position, the leg is laid on its outer side, with the knee semi-flexed to relax the gastrocnemius, and secured in Cline's splints (Fig. 174), the tendo Achillis being divided, if found necessary. Fig. 175.—Roughton's spHnt. The backward displacement of the heel, however, is best corrected by using Eoughton's modification of this splint (Fig. 175). It consists of an outside splint with a foot-piece. The heel is drawn forward and secured in position by a ' heel bandage,' the limb being fixed to Fig. 176.—Roughton's spHnt applied. The arrows show the direction in which the bandages pull. the splint by two other bandages, one placed just above the ankle and the other just below the knee (Fig. 176). At times Dupuytren's splint (Fig. 177) may be better adapted to a particular case. The splint consists of a straight splint notched at its lower end. It is placed on the inner side of the limb, and should reach from the tuberosity of the tibia to three or four inches below the foot. A wedge-shaped pad, with its base below, and K K 2oOO INJUBIES OF BEGIONS. not extending beyond the internal malleolus, should line the splint. The splint is bandaged on from above downwards, and the leg having been thus secured, the foot is brought over to the splint by making figure- of-eight turns over the ankle and foot and through the notches at the lower end of the splint. The bandage should not pass over the external malleolus or the seat of fracture. The great objection to the use of this splint is, that having no foot^piece, the foot is not kept at a right angle to the leg. The tarsus.—Fractures of the bones of the tarsus are for the most part the result of great violence, and are rare. Fig. 177.—Dupuytren's sphnt for Pott's fracture. The only one calling for passing notice is fracture of the OS calcis, which may occur from a fall on the heel, passage of a wheel over the foot, or violent contraction of the calf- muscles. Crepitus, and, when the line of fracture is behind the interosseous ligament, some drawing up of the posterior fragment by the tendo Achillis, are the chief signs. But where there is much swelling and bruising of the soft parts, the fracture, as is the case in fractures of the astrag- alus and of the other tarsal bones, may be very difficult to diagnose. Eest, with the foot and leg on a splint, in such a position as to relax the calf-muscles where there is much displacement, and an ice-bag to subdue inflam- mation, are the points to be attended to with regard to treatment. When the case is seen early, and there is but little swelling, a plaster-of-Paris splint or bandage may be advantageously used. The metatarsal bones and phalanges of the toes may be fractured by direct violence. No special descrip- tion, however, of these fractures is necessary. oDISEASES OF THE SCALP AND SKULL. 501 SECTION YI. Diseases of Eegions. diseases of the scalp and skull. Erysipelas of the scalp is very common, and may occur idiopathically, or as the result of a wound. In the so-called idiopathic cases, however, it is probable that there is generally some scratch or abrasion through which the specific micrococcus gains admission. The inflamma- tion spreads with great rapidity, but is accompanied by very little redness and swelling, on account of the tense- ness of the parts. It is apt to be attended with headache, drowsiness, or delirium, consequent upon the hypersemia extending to the pia mater. See Erysipelas, p. 147. Cellulitis of the scalp is usually due to a wound, and is described under Injuries of the Scalp. (See also Cellulitis.) Abscess may occur above the aponeurosis, between the aponeurosis and the pericranium, or beneath the peri- cranium. It is generally the result of an injury, but may be due to the breaking down of gummata, disease of the bones, &c. It is further referred to under Injuries of the Head (p. 353). EoDENT ULCEE, and epithelioma of the scalp, require no special mention. Sebaceous cysts are very common on the scalp, where they are at times hereditary. They are frequently multiple, and as they increase in size, the hair covering them falls off, and they appear as bare, rounded tumours. The signs, secondary changes, diagnosis, and treatment of these cysts have been given at p. 96. All that need here be repeated is that the mass of granulations which some- times protrudes from the walls of these cysts {/ungating ulcer of the scalp) closely resembles epithelioma, from which, however, it may generally be distinguished by the absence of induration and glandular enlargement, and by the history of a sebaceous cyst having been previously502 DISEASES OF REGIONS. present. Congenital and dermoid cysts are described at p. 98. N^Vi are also common on the scalp. When large and situated over the anterior fontanelle they should be dealt with cautiously, lest the membranes of the brain be injured and meningitis result. Cahies and neckosis of the bones of the cranium are not uncommon. They are generally the result of syphi- litic periostitis or injury, or very rarely of tubercle or fevers. The external table is the most often affected, but whether the external or the internal table is involved, the disease seldom extends beyond the diploe, as the two tables have a distinct blood-supply. At times, how- ever, complete perforation of the skull occurs. Caries and necrosis in this situation are apt to be followed by septic or infective inflammation of the diploe and its con- sequences; by suppuration between the bone and dura mater; by meningitis and abscess of the brain; or by thickening of the dura mater, resulting in persistent headache or even epilepsy. When the skull is completely perforated, the hole is not filled up by bone; and when necrosis occurs the sequestrum is not invaginated. Treat- ment,—^ejond keeping the parts aseptic, providing free exit for the discharges, and removing loose sequestra, little, as a rule, is required. Should pus collect between the bone and dura mater, it must be let out by the tre- phine ; and a portion of necrosed inner table may also require the trephine for its removal. Appropriate con- stitutional remedies for syphilis or tubercle will of course also be necessary. Exostoses of the skull are described under Diseases of Bone, p. 243. Meningocele and encephalocele are rare con- genital tumours, formed by a protrusion of the mem- branes of the brain through an unossified part of the skull. They are believed to be dependent upon hydro- cephalus, the excess of fluid in the sub-arachnoid space or in the ventricles of the brain leading respectively to a protrusion of the membranes alone (meningocele), or of the brain also [encephalocele). In the latter instance, the dilated ventricle may extend into the protruding portion of brain, a condition further distinguished as hydren- cephalocele. The protrusion is most common in the occipital region, just behind the foramen magnum, between the four centres from which this part of the occipital bone is503 FUNGOIJS TUMOURS. ossified; next, at the root of the nose, between the frontal and nasal bones ; but it may occur in any situation in the course of the sutures, and even project into the nasal fossae or pharynx. Symptoms.—In the occipital region these tumours are generally pedunculated and of large size—sometimes nearly as large as the child's head; at the root of the nose they are usually small and sessile. The skin covering them is generally normal. They swell up when the child cries, and can be completely or partially reduced on pressure, the reduction producing convulsions or other brain symptoms. When they contain fluid only (meningocele) they are soft, fluctuating, translucent, and completely reducible on pressure; they rarely pulsate, and are generally pedunculated. "When they contain brain- matter (encepJialocele) they are doughy, non-fluctuating, opaque, and only partially reducible; they pulsate, and are usually sessile. They may be mistaken for other tumours of the scalp, but especially for congenital der- moid cysts and degenerate neevi. However, their intimate connection with the bone, their situation in the course of the sutures, and their partial and complete reducibility, together with the facts that they swell up on expiratory efforts, and occasionally pulsate synchronously with the brain, will usually ser^'e for their diagnosis. Further, the hole in the skull may at times be detected and brain symptoms be produced by pressure. Treatment,—As a rule they should be left alone, or merely supported by a pad and bandage. A meningocele, when pedunculated, and apparently communicating with the interior of the cranium by a small aperture only, may be injected with Morton's fluid, or under exceptional circumstances excised. Fungous tumours, generally of a sarcomatous nature, and springing either from the tissues of the scalp or pericranium, or from the diploe or dura mater and then penetrating the bone, are occasionally met with, and may be mistaken for inflammatory affections of the pericranium or bone, or for syphilitic gummata. Their rapid growth, resistance to syphilitic remedies, the escape of blood only on puncture, and the concomitant loss of weight and strength of the patient, will usually serve to distinguish them; but an exploratory incision may in some cases be neces- sary to clear up the diagnosis. Secondary tumours which pulsate and have the structure of thyroid-gland tissue, are also very occasionally met with in cases of malignant goitre. Treatment.—WheTe there is no evidence of dis-DISEASES OF REGION'S. 504 semination, and tlie tumour is small and fairly circum- scribed, it may be removed. When growing from tbe scalp this can be usually done without much, difficulty; but when the growth arises from the bone or dura mater a much more serious operation will of course be required, since a considerable portion of the skull will have to be cut away and the dura mater probably opened. It need hardly be said that the strictest antiseptic precautions must be observed. DISEASES OF THE BRAIIST THAT MAY CALL FOR SURGICAL INTERFERENCE. Abscess in the brain is generally the result of a head- injury or of middle ear disease, and when its situation can be localized with a fair amount of probability im- peratively calls for surgical interference. Bee Intracranial Suppuration and Complications of Middle Ear Disease. The tumours and new growths in the brain suitable for operation are gliomata and psammomata, localized tuber- cular lesions, syphilitic scars which drugs cannot absorb, scar-tissue and cystic formations following injury, and parasitic cysts. Sarcomatous and carcinomatous growths are usually too extensive for removal, or are multiple from the first. Moreover since they have no capsule they are not sufficiently distinguishable from the surrounding brain substance to ensure their complete excision and their non- return in the scar. The chief signs of a cerebral tumour are vomiting, persistent headache, optic neuritis, localized spasms or paralysis, and epileptiform convulsions, the convulsive seizures usually starting at the part connected with the cortical area involved in the growth [Jacksonian Upilepsy). Among the symptoms that may enable the Surgeon to localize the growth are the following (Figs. 178 and 179) :—1. If at the beginning of the epileptiform fit there is—(a) pain, peculiar sensation, flexion, or hyper- extension of the great toe, a lesion of the leg area on the opposite side of the cortex about the upper end of the fis- sure of Eolando close to the middle line is indicated; (h) movements of the shoulder, a lesion near the upper part and rather in front of the fissure; (c) flexion of the thumb, a lesion about the genu of the fissure; (d) turning of the head and eyes to the opposite side, a lesion about the hinder portion of the superior and middle frontal convo-SURGEBY OF THE BRAII^. 605 Fig. 178.—The convolutions of the outer surface of the left cerebral hemi- sphere with the cortical centres marked. f1, f^, f^, First, second, and third frontal convolutions ; t1, t^, t^, First, second, and third temporo- sphenoidal convolutions; a. Angular convolution; o. Occipital lobe; F s. Sylvian fissure ; p o f. Parieto-occipital fissure ; p f. Intra-parietal fissure. Fig. 179.—The convolutions of the median surface of the left cerebral hemisphere with the cortical centres marked. fK First frontal con- volution; c M F. Calloso-marginal fissure; g f. Gyrus fornicatus; Q. Quadrate lobule ; c. Cuneate lobule ; p o f. Parieto-occipital fissure ; c f, Calcarine fissure; u, Uncinate lobule ; p. Paracentral lobule.506 DISEASES OF REGIONS. lutions ; (e) movements of the mouth and tongue, a lesion about the lower end of the fissure of Eolando. An epi- leptiform movement starting in one of these parts may be followed by loss of power in the part for some time after the fit. 2. Aphasia indicates a lesion of Broca's convolu- tion. 3. Loss of half the fields of vision in both eyes points to a lesion of the angular gyrus of the opposite side to the lost fields of vision. 4. Loss of hearing suggests a lesion of the upper two tempero-sphenoidal lobes. 5. The aid to localization which may be derived from the involve- ment of the cranial nerves has already been mentioned under Injuries of the Head (p. 353). Where, from a con- sideration of the symptoms, a tumour or new growth is believed to be fairly circumscribed and in an accessible situation, the skull should be trephined, a sufficient portion of the bone removed, to fully expose the growth, by a Hey's saw, Hoffman's or Keen's forceps, or the surgical engine, and the growth cut away by making perpendicular incisions and raising it by means of a sharp spoon. The removal of a portion of the cortex will be followed by loss of function of the area removed, but this to a great extent will be regained by the aid of the surrounding areas, especi- ally as regards the coarser movements. The finer move- ments of the fingers and thumb will not be completely regained; hence in this region the removal of cortex should be as limited as is consistent with success. Para- sitic cysts should be drained. See Trephining, p. 377. EOCAL EPILEPSY, GENERAL PARALYSIS, CEPHALALGIA. In focal epilepsy, that is epilepsy without obvious gross lesion, when the fits become very frequent, for example more than one an hour, and the mental processes are becoming further impaired, the focus in the cortex repre- senting the initial movements may be exposed, the exact spot for the initial movements found by exciting the brain with the Faradic current, and this area of the cortex excised. After such an operation a diminution in the number of fits as well as an improvement in the health of the patient may be expected. In general paralysis trephining in a few cases has been of some benefit in the early stages of the disease. Thus the hallucinations have disappeared and the patient has so far improved as to be fit to be at liberty. In severe cephalalgia incapacitating the patient for work or preventing sleep, trephining may give relief. In such cases an exostosis, a spiculum of bone, an enlarged Pacchionian body, or a fibrous tumour or cyst of the duraDISEASES OF THE EAE. 507 mater lias been found, and its removal has been followed by complete recovery. In other cases where a tumour, &c., of the brain which did not permit of removal has been discovered, the relief of pressure has freed the patient from the excessive pain or threatened blindness. Hydrocephalus, microcephaly.—Hydrocephalus es- pecially (a) when accompanied by fits (h) when progres- sive atrophy of the optic nerve threatens, or (c) when dementia or coma supervenes, may be treated by tapping the ventricles at intervals and applying slight pressure to the skull, or if this fails by continuous drainage of the ventricles. Microcephaly combined with idiocy due to too early synostosis of the cranial sutures, especially the sagittal and coronal, may be benefited by craniectomy, i.e., the removal of a strip of bone on either side of the middle line of the skull. The aim of the operation is to allow of the brain, the development of which has been prevented by the early synostosis, to expand. In some of the cases reported the mind of the child had con- tinued to develop since the operation. Craniectomy.— Apply a half-inch trephine over the parietal bone well external to the longitudinal sinus, gently separate the dura mater and cut away with Hofbnan's or Keen's for- ceps a narrow strip of b|one some four or five inches long parallel to the sagittal suture, taking care during the operation to make as little pressure as possible on the brain. The strictest antiseptic precautions in all operations on the brain should of course be taken. Bee Trephining, p. 377. DISEASES OF THE EAR. By A. E. CuMBERBATOH, F.E.C.S., Aural Surgeon to St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Physical examination of the ear.—In making an examination of a patient, let him be seated between the Surgeon and the source of light, with the affected ear towards the examiner. Throw the light on the ear with the mirror and notice any abnormal condition of the auricle or the external meatus. Next grasp the auricle between the middle and index fingers, the speculum (Fig. 180), between the index finger and thumb, and pulUng the auricle upwards and backwards, insert the508 DISEASES OF REGIONS. speculum with, a gentle rotatory movement. Any epithe- lium or wax that may obstruct the view should be re- moved by means of forceps (Fig. 181), or the syringe. If the canal be unobstructed, the membrana tympani can be seen stretching across its deeper part as a delicate bluish- grey or yellowish-grey semitransparent and highly polished film. Near the upper and anterior margin is a whitish pro- minence — the processus hrevis, and running down- wards and backwards from this, to a point just below the centre of the membrane is the handle of the malleus. From the tip of the handle a cone of light extends downwards and forwards, with its base to the periphery. From the processus brevis two indistinct lines extend backwards and forwards—the anterior and posterior folds. If the Fig, 180.—Aural specula. Fig. 181.-—Aural-toothed forceps. membrane be very thin or its posterior segment much retracted, the long process of the incus can be seen, poste- rior to and parallel with, the handle of the malleus. The portion of membrane above the anterior and posterior folds is called SchrapnelVs membrane, and consists only of the dermoid and mucous layers. Whilst noting these points, carefully search the membrane for perforations, opacities, or small polypi. After thus inspecting the membrane, its mobility should be ascertained by means of 1, the pneumatic speculum, or 2, by forcing air into the tympanum through the Eustachian tube, either by 4I DISEASES OE THE EAR. 509 (a) Yalsalva^s method, {b) by Politzer's metliod, or (c) by the catheter. (a) Valsalva's method consists in making forcible expira- tion with the nose and mouth closed. (h) Politzer's method. Direct the patient to take a mouth- ful of water; insert the end of the india-rubber tube into one nostril, carefully close the unoccupied portions of this and the other nostril with the index finger and thumb ; tell the patient to swallow, and sharply compress the bag Fio. 182.—PoHtzer's bag. (Fig. 182). In small children the tympanum can be inflated without their.drinking water. Some patients find a difiiculty in swallowing easily when told to do so; such persons should be made to say some guttural word such as ''Huck." (c) To pass the Eustachian catheter (Fig. 183), hold the instrument lightly between the forefinger and thumb and Fig. 183.—Eustachian catheter. pass it quickly along the floor of the nose, keeping the point of the instrument downwards till it reaches the back of the pharynx ; next draw it forward about three quarters of an inch, gently rotating outwards at the same time, till the point is felt to ride over the posterior lip of the Eusta- chian orifice, and further rotating it till the ring of the catheter is in a line with the outer canthus of the eye, push the instrument slowly onwards, when the point will be in the Eustachian orifice. Another method for reaching the orifice of the tube is to draw the instrument forward over the back of the soft palate till the point begins to ride over the posterior border of the hard palate, then turn it510 DISEASES OE REGIOKS. upwards and outwards as before. These are the two best methods. If the mucous membrane of the nose be very irritable, first paint the inferior meatus with a 4°/^ solution of cocaine. Occasionally owing to post-nasal thickening, deformity of the septum or enlargement of the inferior turbinal the catheter either cannot be passed, or else when passed cannot be turned. In such cases give the catheter a greater curve, and attempt to reach the tube through the other nostril. When air enters the tympanum freely, it is heard distinctly to impinge on the tympanic mem- brane. If the Eustachian tube be narroived, the air is heard but feebly, or not at all, to impinge on the mem- brane. If fluid be present, either in the tube or in the tympanum, a bubbling or gurgling sound is heard. If the tympanic membrane be 'perforated, the air is heard to whistle through the perforation. To hear these sounds in the tympanum it is necessary while inflating to use the diagnostic tube, which is nothing more than a piece of india-rubber tubing 18 inches long, one end of which is inserted into the patient's, and the other into the sur- geon's, ear. Having thus examined the condition of the external and middle ear, the next step is to ascertain if possible the con- dition of the auditory nerve. If a vibrating tuning-fork be applied to the vertex of the head in the middle line the sound is heard equally in both ears. In this case the sound is conducted directly to the labyrinth by the cranial bones. If now one meatus be closed by the finger, the sound is heard with greater intensity in that ear. The explana- tion offered of this phenomenon is that many of the waves of sound, prevented from escaping through the tympanum and meatus, are thrown back and intensified. If, then, a patient who is deaf on one side, hears the tuning-fork better with the affected ear, it may be assumed that the lesion is in the sound-conducting apparatus; while if he hears it better with the sound ear, some affec- tion of the labyrinth or auditory nerve may be suspected. Another way of testing the condition of the labyrinth is to place the vibrating fork on the mastoid process of the affected ear, and when the patient can hear it no longer for the surgeon to transfer it to his own mastoid, and note if he can still hear it himself. There are certain rare exceptions to the truth of what is here stated, but it is im- possible to discuss the subject further in so limited a space. To complete the examination of a patient, test his hearing511 ECZEMA—HEMATOMA AURIS. by means of the watch, and voice, and finally examine the nares and pharynx in cases where there is reason for sus- pecting that an unhealthy condition of these parts may be the exciting cause of the ear-mischief. I. Diseases oe the External Ear. The auricle is liable to attack from various diseases, but it will only be necessary here to notice two : Eczema and Hsematoma. Eczema may be acute or chronic; primary, or secondary to eczema of the head. In the acute form there is great redness and swelling of the auricle; it is hot, tense, and tender, and later a crop of vesicles appear which exude a serous fluid soon drying into crusts; these, when they fall off, leave a raw surface. Acute eczema rarely invades the meatus. The chronic variety may attack the whole auricle ; more frequently it is limited to some part of it. There is little or no redness, the surface is dry and scurfy, and fissured in places, and the disease generally spreads into the meatus, and some- times even to the drum-membrane. In such cases there is more or less deafness, accompanied, it may be, by tinnitus, and a stuffy feeling in the ear. Treatment.—In the acute stage apply lead and opium lotion, or powdered zinc and starch in equal parts; later, useful applications are linimentum calcis, or ung. hydrarg. subchlor. (53. ad 5jO' parts continue red and swollen, paint them with argenti nitratis (5SS. ad aq. f^j-)' ^^^^ then apply powdered boracic acid, or ung. hydrarg. oxidi. rub. (gr. ij. ad §3.). Applications to the meatus must be applied with a small brush; the parts should be washed with oatmeal instead of soap. Constitutional treatment must not be neglected. HEMATOMA Aimis may occur spontaneously or as the result of an injury, and is not uncommon among the insane. It consists of an effusion of blood between the cartilage and perichondrium on the anterior surface of the auricle. It occurs as a hard and rarely fluctuating swelling, varying greatly in size. The skin over it is of a more or less livid hue, but occasionally is hardly discoloured. There is a feeling of warmth or tingling, but rarely of pain. After a time it gradually becomes smaller and may entirely disappear. Sometimes it sup- purates. In the end the auricle is left more or less deformed. Treatment.—At first the application of ice or cooling lotions; some recommend tapping it and in- jecting iodine; others laying it open and dressing withDISEASES 01^ HEGIOKS. 512 a weak solution of carbolic or boracic acid. Of course, if it suppurates, it must be opened freely. II. Diseases of the meatus :—Diffuse inflamma- tion is caused by injury, irritants (such as scratching the meatus with a pin),or sea-bathing. There is redness and swelling of the skin lining the meatus, a sense of fulness, and throbbing and occasional tinnitus, followed by serous or semipurulent secretion. After a time the epithelial lining becomes whitish and sodden, and, on syringing, comes away in flakes, or even as a cast of the meatus, leaving the surface beneath red, and frequently oblite- rating the demarcation between the meatus and tym- panic membrane. Earely the tympanic membrane may be perforated. There is pain, increased by movements of the jaw or pressure on the auricle, and sometimes fever. Treatment,—In the early stages cold compresses, and a leech or two to the tragus; and antiphlogistics. As soon as secretion is established, instil a warm solution of boracic acid, and later equal parts of alcohol and water, or blow in powdered boracic acid. If the discharge prove obstinate, the surface may be painted with a solution of nitrate of silver (5SS. ad f §j.), or liquor plumbi subacetatis. Furuncles. Small boils frequently occur in the meatus in gouty, anaemic, and diabetic patients; also in those whose nervous system has been greatly taxed. The attack begins with pain, often of the greatest intensity, radiating over the side of the head and in- creased by movements of the jaw, or the slightest pressure on the auricle. There may be deafness as the result of closure of the meatus, not otherwise. Ex- amination shows little or no redness, but one or more swellings, often closing the meatus. These are exquisitely tender when touched. As soon as the abscess bursts the pain subsides, but very often one abscess after another forms, till the patient's life becomes a burden to him through pain and sleeplessness. Treatment.—Apply hot fomentations, a leech or two to the tragus, and instil a concentrated solution of boracic acid in alcohol. Often a plug of cotton-wool soaked in glycerine and laudanum, and gently inserted into the meatus by the aural forceps shown at Fig. 184, or Gruber's medicated gelatine bougies, give relief. When the abscess is fully formed incise it, but not before, as early incision is ex- cessively painful and gives but temporary relief. TheIMPACTION OF CERUMEN. 513 general health should be attended to, and full doses of opium given to procure sleep. Yon Troltsch recommends arsenic to prevent the recurrence of furuncles. Impaction of cerumen may be caused by narrowing of the meatus, cleaning the ears with the end of a towel or ear-pick, or the presence of a foreign body, such as a piece of cotton-wool inserted into the meatus and forgotten. The chief symptom is partial or complete deafness, generally coming on suddenly. There may be tinnitus or even giddiness, often persistent cough, rarely pain. Sometimes the impaction of cerumen is really due to a peculiar laminated desquamation of the skin of the meatus, which becomes mixed with wax, and thus forms a plug. Treatment,-—H the wax be not very hard it can be at once removed by syringing with warm water, the auricle being pulled backwards and upwards, and the nozzle of the syringe directed along the upper and posterior wall. If any difficulty be experienced in re- moving the wax owing to its hardness, soften it first by dropping into the ear for a few nights a warm solution of bicarbonate of soda (gr. x. ad f^j.)* After removal, gently dry the meatus with a cone of absorbent wool, and let the patient keep a piece in the meatus for a few hours. Otomycosis is a chronic inflammation of the external auditory meatus due to the presence of a vegetable fungus. The symptoms are a sense of fulness, tinnitus and occa- sional vertigo, more or less itching and occasionally pain. On examination there is seen a slight serous discharge, and the meatus contains yellowish or blackish flakes, on removal of which the skin beneath is found to be reddened and occasionally bleeding. The Treatment consists in frequently syringing with a warm solution of perchloride w. L L Fig. 184.—Aural forceps.DISEASES OF KEGIOIS'S. 514 of mercury (1 in 1000), or chlorinated lime (gr. ij. ad fjj.)? or hyposulphite of soda (gr. iv. ad t^j.), and, when the meatus is thoroughly freed from the flakes, instilling alcohol. AuEAL EXOSTOSES may roughly be divided into the spongy and the ivory. (a) The Spongy are single and generally pedunculated, are most commonly found at the junction of the cartila- ginous and bony meatus, are rapid in growth, follow suppuration of the middle ear, and are frequently the result of ossification of granulations. Treatment,—They can generally be removed by seizing them with a pair of forceps and breaking them off. (5.) The Ivory exostoses or rather hyperostoses may be single, but are more often multiple. They vary from ridge-like elevations to rounded tumours with broad bases; they are found near the orifice of the meatus, more or less blocking up the canal, and grow slowly. Syphilis, gout, irritation of the meatus, and sea-bathing are said to be the exciting causes. Treatment.—They should not be interfered with unless they cause deafness by completely closing the meatus, except in those rare cases where they, are asso- ciated with discharge. In such cases as they greatly lessen the lumen of the canal they should be removed to avoid the risk of pent-up matter. When their removal is necessary, this should be done by means of a chisel and hammer, or the dental drill. III. Diseases oe the middle eab :—Acute cataeeh may be started by any condition which produces acute naso-pharyngeal catarrh, such as a severe cold, the exanthemata, &c. It may also be caused by sea-bathing, or by the use of the nasal douche. Symptoms.—The attack begins with a feeling of fulness in the head, followed by pain, which varies in character from a dull aching to a severe throbbing or stabbing; there is more or less deafness and sometimes tinnitus, and even giddiness, and in severe cases febrile disturbance. On examination, the membrane shows at first but little change beyond a slight loss of lustre, and the presence of a fine streak of red along the posterior edge of the malleus-handle. In severe cases, the posterior segment of the membrane and the adjacent meatus are red, and this redness may spread over the entire membrane till the outline of the malleus- handle is lost. Vesicles and even small abscesses may form on its surface. Later the epidermis is loosened inCHROmC PURULENT CATARRH OF EAR. 515 white flakes, and finally the membrane distinctly bulges, when the effasion of fluid is great. The Eustachian tube is closed by swelling of its lining membrane. After some days, varying with the severity of the inflammation, resolution begins, or the fluid (mucus or pus) bursts through the membrane, and is discharged into the meatus. Treatment,—The patient should be confined to the house, or even to his bed, according to the severity of the attack. An aperient should be at once given, and an astringent gargle. If the pain is severe, a leech or two should be applied to the tragus. Cold compresses should as a rule be avoided, but hot fomentations are grateful to the patient and generally useful. The ear may also be gently syringed with warm water. If there be distinct bulging the membrane should be incised, especially if the pain persists. If there be any tenderness over the mastoid, this should also be leeched. After the severity of the symptoms has subsided, the tympanum should be inflated daily by means of the air-douche, and if the discharge continues, the ear syringed with a warm solution of boracic acid (1—40), night and morning, and a lotion of sulphate of zinc (gr. v. ad f^j')' equal parts of rectified spirit and water instilled; or after syringing with warm water and drying the meatus with absorbent wool, powdered boracic acid may be blown in. If the catarrh is non-purulent the mem- brane is rarely perforated ; and even if perforation occurs, the aperture speedily heals after the escape of the fluid. Inflation by means of Politzer's bag should be continued with decreasing frequency till the hearing is restored. Chronic purulent catarrh (popularly called Otorrhoea) follows the acute form of disease. After freeing the ear from discharge, the membrane appears thickened, yellowish from the presence of sodden epithelium, or if this has been removed, reddish in hue. In some part of it a perforation can usually be detected varying in size, the margins granular or clean cut. If large, the lining membrane of the tympanum can also be seen, varying in colour from pale pink to dark red, accord- ing to the degree of inflammation present. When very small and situated anteriorly the perforation sometimes cannot be seen, but its existence can be proved by inflating the tympanum and listening with the diagnostic tube. The amount of deafness present in chronic purulent catarrh varies greatly. There is rarely tinnitus, but giddiness is far from uncommon. It is in this form of L L :^DISEASES OF BEGIONS. 516 disease that patients are specially liable to the complica- tions which will be considered later. Treatment,—After attention to the general health, the most important part of the treatment is great cleanliness. If a quantity of half-dried secretion mixed with epithelial debris be found in the meatus, this should first be removed by the instilla- tion of warm bicarbonate of soda (gr. x. ad f§j.) for several nights, and then thoroughly syringing the ear. Next let the ear be syringed with warm boracic acid night and morning, and after drying the meatus, blow in powdered boracic acid. If this treatment be unsuccess- ful, then try an alcoholic solution of boracic acid ; or if this causes pain, the solution may at first be diluted with an equal quantity of water. Or sulphate of zinc (gr. x. ad fgj.), or acetate of lead (gr. iij. ad f^j.) may be tried. If the perforation be large and the mucous membrane of the tympanum much swollen it should be touched with solid nitrate of silver, or a saturated solution of chromic acid. Often when the discharge has ceased, the membrane remains perforated, and there is considerable deafness. In such cases the hearing may be greatly improved by means of an artificial membrane. "Without here discussing how the artificial membrane acts, it is sufficient to say there are two kinds, known as Yearsley's and Toynbee's. 1. Yearsley^s consists of a piece of moistened cotton-wool, rolled into an elongated plug, and applied with a pair of forceps specially designed for the purpose (Fig. 185). 2. Toynbee's consists (Fig. 186) of a disk of soft india-rubber with a piece of silver wire attached to the centre. The former has the advantage of being less irritating to the ear, and can be moistened with medicated fiuids, should any discharge still persist, but it Fia. 185.—Forceps for inserting artificial drum. Fia. 186.—Toynbee's artificial drum.517 POLYPI. has tlie disadvantage of being more difficult to apply. Toynbee's is easily applied, but it is more irritating to the ear. There are various modifications of Toynbee's, the best being Gruteres. It is impossible to tell in any given case whether the artificial drum will succeed; this can only be ascertained by trial. When successful the artificial drum should only be worn at first for a few hours. The length of time should gradually be increased as the ear becomes accustomed to its presence. It should always be removed at night. Various complications may arise in the course of chronic purulent catarrh. These are 1, polypi; 2, mastoid disease; 3, caries and necrosis; 4, meningitis and intracranial sup- puration ; and 5, phlebitis and septicaemia. (1.) Polypi may grow from the tympanic membrane, the meatus, or the tympanic cavity. Those growing from the meatus are not true polypi; but for brevity they will be all classed under the name of polypi. They vary much in size, being sometimes not larger than a mustard seed, at other times large enough to project be- Fig. 187.—Polypus snare, yond the external orifice of the meatus. They are usually bright red in colour, but may be pale pink, and when very large greyish-yellow. ^ They bleed more or less readily when touched. The diagnosis is easily made, but care must be taken not to mistake a swollen and vascular membrane for a polypus. In case of doubt the mobility of the latter, when touched with a probe, will settle the point. Treat- ment.—Polypi growing from the tympanic membrane should be destroyed with a saturated solution of chromic acid applied by means of a piece of cotton-wool twisted round a fine pair of forceps (Pig. 184). When the growth springs from the meatus, and is not too far in, it can easily be pinched off with a pair of aural forceps; when deeper in, it can be scraped off with a small sharp spoon. Those of larger size, especially when arising in the tympanic cavity, should be removed by the snare (Fig. 187). If the growth be of large size, of long duration, and firm in structure, it is most easily removed by seizingDISEASES OP REGIONS 518 it with a pair of dressing-forceps, and slowly twisting it round on its own axis. Care must be taken to fix tlie patient's head in order to avoid sudden movement on his part. However removed, the root of the polypus must be touched with a saturated solution of chromic acid or per chloride of iron till it is quite destroyed. During the time occupied in destroying the root, the ear must be syringed twice a day with warm water, and alcohol dropped into the meatus and retained there some minutes. (2.) Mastoid disease.—Not unfrequently inflammation of the tympanum spreads to the mastoid cells, especially to the large irregular cell {mastoid antrum) situated just behind and slightly above the external auditory meatus. The symptoms are deep-seated pain, tenderness on pressure, and when the periosteum is involved, redness and swell- ing; and the ear projects more or less unduly from the side of the head. In many cases, after a while, there is fluctuation, and on opening the abscess, the bone beneath is felt to be bare. Sometimes there is a fistulous opening communicating with the mastoid cells. If the abscess is not opened, the matter may burrow downwards beneath the sterno-mastoid, or backwards beneath the muscles attached to the occiput. In severe cases there may be signs of cerebral irritation. Sometimes the signs are very obscure, there being little indication of the mischief beyond deep-seated pain, tenderness on making firm pressure, and some fever. It is in such cases that the inflammation is apt to spread to the cranial cavity. Occasionally the inflammatory products ossify, and con- vert the mastoid cells into solid bone. Treatment.— In the early stages apply hot fomentations and leeches, and as soon as fluctuation can be detected, make a free incision into the swelling, and encourage the discharge from the tympanum by frequent syringing with warm water. In obscure cases, if the pain persists, and the temperature keeps above the normal, trephine the mastoid cells or open the cells and antrum by means of a mallet and chisel. There is little danger in trephining the mas- toid cells, if care be taken to avoid wounding the lateral sinus. (3.) Cabies and necrosis.—The parts of the temporal bone most frequently attacked are, the mastoid process, the posterior wall of the meatus, and the roof of the tym- panic cavity. It is generally easy to make a diagnosis,MENINGITIS. 519 but when the deeper parts are affected it may not be possible to do so with certainty. The points that will help the surgeon are, facial palsy, the persistence of offen- sive discharge in spite of cleanliness, and granulations resisting all attempts at destruction. Even then it may be necessary to put the patient under an anaesthetic, and carefully examine with a probe. Treatment. — If the diseased bone can be reached without further injuring the hearing, it should be freely scraped or removed. (4.) Meningitis and intracranial suppuration.— Although meningitis may supervene in the course of acute purulent catarrh of the middle ear, it is generally in the course of the chronic disease that it arises. Intracranial suppuration may occur between the dura mater and the bone—suhdural abscess—or in the cerebrum or cere- bellum. Subdural abscess is generally found on the roof of the tympanum or on the posterior surface of the petrous bone; cerebral abscess in the hinder part of the middle temporo-sphenoidal lobe; cerebellar abscess in the an- terior part of the lateral lobe. If in the course of chronic suppuration, headache, rigors, and rise of tem- perature supervene, we may strongly suspect intracranial mischief, and if in addition there is photophobia, sluggish pupils, and optic neuritis, the diagnosis is all but certain. Treatment.—If the symptoms point to the probability of intracranial abscess the skull should be trephined, and an attempt made to reach the pus. The position of the trephine openings to reach matter are the following :—(a) to reach the mastoid antrum the centre of the trephine opening should be ^ inch behind, and ^ inch above the centre of the external auditory meatus ; {h)to expose the anterior surface of the petrous bone, and roof of the tympanum, the centre of the open- ing should be ^ inch above the middle of the meatus; (c) to expose the lateral sinus, the opening should be Ig^ inch behind, and J inch a.bove the middle of the meatus; {d) to reach a temporo-sphenoidal abscess, trephine 1^ inch behind, and 1^ inch above the meatus; (e) to reach a cere- bellar abscess, trephine IJ inch behind, and J inch below the middle of the meatus. Use a half-inch trephine, and afterwards enlarge the opening when necessary with chisel, gouge, forceps, &c. (5.) Phlebitis and septicemia.—Phlebitis of the lateral sinus may supervene in the course of suppuration of the middle ear, especially when there is caries of some520 DISEASES OF REGIONS. part of th.^ tympanic walls. Wlien followed by septic poisoning, the symptoms are headache, vomiting, and rigors, with great rise of temperature, sweating and tenderness over the mastoid, and in the course of the internal jugular vein. There is also frequently pain on making firm pressure at the posterior border of the mastoid process, and, occasionally, local oedema, and sometimes optic neuritis. TreatmeMt,—Trephine the mastoid, and if the sinus be found plugged,' ligature the internal jugular vein in two places, and divide it between the ligatures. Now lay open the lateral sinus, and, removing the clot, thoroughly wash out the sinus with a weak solution of perchloride of mercury. If in doubt as to whether the lateral sinus is plugged or not, a fine trocar and cannula may first be inserted into it. Chronic non-purulent catarrh.—By far the largest proportion of cases of deafness met with are due to chronic catarrh. So many pathological conditions are included under this heading, that it is impossible to do more than give a very general outline of the symptoms. The affection may result from an acute attack, but more generally is a chronic affection from the very first. Heredity, syphilis, gout, rheumatism, and gestation, are predisposing, and perhaps in some cases, exciting causes. Large doses of quinine long continued, may also be an exciting cause. The disease at first progresses so in- sidiously, as often to remain unsuspected for some time. In many cases, tinnitus is the first and perhaps for a time the only symptom. More often, however, the earliest symptom is slight difiiculty of hearing general conversation; later there is tinnitus, at first intermittent, afterwards persistent. Gradually the deafness increases till it becomes marked. This deafness varies greatly with the state of the weather and the patient's general health. There is rarely pain, and when present, it is transient, and never severe. There is often a sense of tightness in the head, and a feeling as if the ears were stopped with cotton-wool. Sometimes there is giddiness, and some patients hear perfectly in a vibrating noise, as for instance in a railway carriage. On inspection, the meatus is dry and shining; and occasionally it contains im- pacted cerumen, the removal of which, however, causes no improvement in hearing. The membrane varies greatly in appearance. At times it is normal, oftener more or less521 DISEASES OF THE INTERNAL EAR. opaque; rarely is there any sign of congestion. The an- terior segment may be retracted, the handle of the malleus being sharply defined, or the entire membrane may be cupped, and the handle drawn inwards and backwards. Opacities, calcareous deposits, and thinned spots are often seen. The cone of light may be altered in direction, may be broken into points, or may disappear. Ehinoscopic examination may show the naso-pharyngeal mucous mem- brane swollen, congested, and granular, or pale and dry. Adenoid vegetations may be present. The Eustachian orifice may be obliterated by cicatricial bands, or variously distorted. Inflation may prove the canal patent, or more or less obstructed. If the labyrinth be not seriously involved, the tuning-fork is heard louder in the affected ear. Treatment.—The nasal cavity and pharynx should be examined and as far as possible restored to a healthy condition (see diseases of nose and pharynx). The patency of the Eustachian tube must be restored, if possible, by means of the air-douche, catheter, or electric bougie. The nostrils should be syringed through with warm saline solutions, and astringent gargles when necessary should be given, or the throat painted with nitrate of silver, chloride of zinc or glycerine of tannin. If these means fail, the chloride of ammonium inhaler may be tried, or medicated fluids may be injected into the tympanum, such as bicarbonate of potass, iodide of potassium, vapour of iodine, or pilocarpine, although I cannot say I have observed much benefit from their use. Some Surgeons recommend, in obstinate cases, perforating the membrane, and dividing the tensor tympani, the posterior fold, or the anterior ligament of the malleus. IV. Diseases op the internal ear.—Our knowledge of diseases of the internal ear is still so imperfect, and our means of treatment so inadequate, that this part of the subject need not be discussed at any great length. Diseases of the internal ear, although often primary, are more frequently secondary to diseases of the middle ear.. The causes are : — 1. Greneral diseases of the system, especially the zymotic diseases, such as scarlet-fever, measles, mumps, typhus, diphtheria, &c.; also anaemia, lactation, and especially syphilis. 2. Extension from the middle ear, either directly, or indirectly, by causing reflex vaso-motor changes in the labyrinth. 3. Intra- cranial mischief, such as aneurysm of the basilar artery, meningitis, abscess or tumours. 4. Sudden loud noises,DISEASES OF REGIOXS. 522 such as heavy artillery firing. 5. Great emotion; and 6. Continued use of large doses of quinine. The chief points of diagnostic value are :—1. The vibrating tuning-fork placed on the middle line of the head is heard less distinctly with the deaf ear, or if both ears be affected, is not heard at all or very indistinctly. 2. The tuning-fork when it has ceased to be heard through the cranial bones, can still be heard when placed opposite the meatus. 3. The tuning-fork when it has ceased to be heard by the patient, can still be heard by the Surgeon. 4. The patient hears the tick of the watch proportionately better than speech. 5. There is gene- rally nausea or vomiting, giddiness, and always tinnitus. None of these signs and symptoms when taken separately are of much value, but when taken together, they are strong presumptive evidence of mischief in the internal ear. Meistieee's disease is a sudden hsemorrhagic effusion into the labyrinth. The symptoms are very marked. The patient, whose hearing was perfect before the attack, is suddenly seized with intense tinnitus and giddiness, often so great as to cause him to fall. The giddiness is followed by nausea or actual vomiting, faintness, and cold sweats. On recovering somewhat, he finds he is deaf with one ear. The giddiness sooner or later passes off, but the tinnitus and deafness persist. If the deafness is absolute, the tinnitus may eventually disappear. Treatment.—Quinine, bromide of potassium, subcutaneous injection of pilocarpine, and electricity are recommended; but all treatment directed towards restoring the hearing is generally useless. Auditory vertigo is characterized " by a sensation of motion, referred by the patient either to himself, or to surrounding objects, which seem to revolve in certain defined planes" (McBride). The attacks are generally paroxysmal, bat often there is more or less constant giddiness, with occasional exacerbations. As may be seen above, auditory vertigo is a prominent symptom in Meniere's disease, but many causes may give rise to the symptom, such as (a) increased pressure on the secondary membranes of the tympanum induced by accumulations of wax in the meatus, forcible syringing, or retraction of the membrana tympani due to obstruction of the Eustachian tube; [h) fluid accumulations in the tympanic cavity; (c) vascular and nervous changes, or effusion and secondary formations in the labyrinth itself; [d) intra-cranial lesions; (e) dyspepsia, and (/) such drugs as quinine and salicin.DISEASES OF THE EYE. 523 Treatment.—The treatment consists in finding the cause, if ! possible, and attempting to remove it. When this is im- possible, large doses of bromide of potassium, alone or com- bined with hydrobromic acid, will be found most efficacious. I Next, quinine in large doses, but this must be carefully I watched • and lastly, the use of the continuous current of electricity. TmNiTUS ATJBiUM arises under most varied conditions. The sounds complained of are very numerous, but may be divided into ringing, rushing, bubbling, and pulsating sounds. Any abnormal condition of the auditory ap- paratus will produce it, such as—1, accumulations of wax pressing on the drum-membrane; 2, increased intra-laby- j rinthine tension, froin undue pressure on the fenestrse (either by fluid in the tympanum, or retraction of the membrana tympani through obstruction of the Eustachian tube); or lastly, hypersemia of, or pathological change in, the labyrinth. But in addition to these local causes tinni- tus may be produced by causes acting at a distance, such as anaemia, chlorosis, pulsating exophthalmos, aneurysm of the vertebral artery, cerebral disease, large doses of quinine, or salicin. Treatment.—In every case it is im- portant, if possible, to ascertain whether the cause is to be found in some derangement of the auditory apparatus, or elsewhere. If the cause be local, it is generally pos- sible to relieve or cure the tinnitus by curing the local affection. If the tinnitus depends on general anaemia, some form of iron, with generous diet and the addition of stimulants may be sufficient to effect a cure. If there be hypersesthesia of the nervous system, the bromides are indicated, with the addition of hydrobromic acid, if the singing is of a pulsating character. Tinnitus frequently occurs in patients of a rheumatic diathesis, and in snch, anti-rheumatic treatment is, of course, indicated. Other remedies failing, the Surgeon, empirically, may try chloride of ammonium, nitrite of soda, and lastly, the continuous current of electricity. DISEASES OF THE EYE. By Walter H. Jessop, M.B., F.R.C.S., Surgeon to the Central London Ophthalmic Hospital. Physical examination oe the eye.—Por the com- plete and thorough examination of the eye it is necessaryDISEASES OF REGIONS. 524 that it should be examined :—(1) by the unaided eye or by focal illumination ; (2) by the ophthalmoscope; (3) for acuteness of vision, fields of vision, colours, and tension. In all cases where practicable each observation on the one eye should be repeated on the other for comparison. (1.) Seating the patient in front of a window, or in a dark room with the lamp to the left and about two feet in front of him, direct and concentrate the light on his eye by a biconvex lens of about 2^ inches focal length {focal illumination). First look at the lids, and tell him to open and shut them; then, with the lids open, to execute the various complete in, out, down and up movements of the eye to test the extrinsic ocular muscles. Along the edges of the lids look for the puncta which ought to be apjDlied close to the ocular conjunctiva. Press near the inner canthus over the lachrymal sac to see if any discharge passes through the puncta. Evert the upper lid to examine its conjunctival surface by directing the patient to look down to the ground, laying a probe horizontally on the external surface of the lid and then taking hold of the lashes turn the lid over the probe. Pull down the lower lid to examine its conjunctival surface. The ocular conjunctiva should be transparent-looking and a few small vessels should be seen through it per- forating the white or bluish sclerotic. Just external to the inner canthus is a small greyish-red projection, the caruncle, and extending from it a pinkish fold, the plica semilunaris. The vessels seen in inflammations of the eye may be divided into the following :—1. The posterior conjunctival. These are generally brick-red in colour, tortuous, moveable with the conjunctiva, and disappear on pressure. 2. The snh-conjunctival are branches or radicles of the anterior ciliary vessels and are divided into the perforating and the episcleral. The perforating arteries stop about ^ inch from the corneal margin, and are well seen in glaucoma; the episcleral arteries form a pink zone of straight parallel vessels {circumcorneal zone) not disappearing on pressure, and are well marked in iritis and keratitis; the episcleral veins are dark, dusky looking, often in limited patches and are found in cyclitis, scleritis, glaucoma, &c. 3. The anterior conjunctival vessels are superficial branches of the anterior ciliary. They are bright red in colour, found near the corneal margin, and indicate superficial corneal mischief. Next examine the cornea, the depth and contents ofPHYSICAL EXAMINATION OP THE EYE. 525 the anterior chamber, and the iris as to its colour, polish and pupillary aperture. The normal pupil is from 3*5 to 5 mm. in diameter, circular, regular, slightly to the nasal side of the centre of the cornea, and equal to and varying with its fellow under different degrees of illumination. The pupil should con- tract:—on light being thrown into the same eye [direct light reflex)^ on light being thrown into the opposite eye [consensual light reflex)^ and on accommodation or on the convergent movements of the eye associated with accom- modation (accommodation reflex). It should dilate on one or both eyes being shaded, and also on stimulation of a sensory nerve [sensory reflex). Atropine, homatropine, &c. produce a dilated pupil [mydriasis) inactive to any of the reflexes; cocaine causes mydriasis, but the pupil still acts to the contraction reflexes; eserine, pilocarpine, &c. produce a contracted pupil [miosis) always dilating slightly on shading or on relaxation of accommodation. The pupil is influenced by the blood supply, and if there is congestion of the iris it is contracted [congestion miosis). (2.) Examination loith the ophthalmoscope. —The ophthal- moscope in its simplest form consists of a silvered glass concave mirror, of about 20 centimetres focal length, with a central aperture (sight hole) of 3 millimetres diameter, fitted on a suitable handle. If required for estimating refraction, lenses are arranged to pass be- hind the sight hole. The methods of usmg it are divided into (a), direct and (5), indirect, and are much easier with a dilated pupil; for this object homatropine or ' homatropine and cocaine should be used if possible. [a). To use the direct method the patient should be sitting with the light at first just above and behind the head, the observer being about four feet away. Throw the reflection of the light from the ophthalmoscope-mirror through the pupil, and observe through the sight hole the pupillary area as a red colour [red reflex). On now slowly rotating the mirror horizontally and vertically a shadow is seen if the refraction is abnormal (ametropic), and this shadow moves in the same direction as the mirror in myopia, and in the opposite direction in hypermetropia and in myopia of less than one dioptre, [lietinoscopy.) Approaching closer to the patient examine the media, and observe if any objects other than retinal vessels and the optic disk are seen. If so, on telling the patient to move his eye in different directions, these objects, which526 DISEASES OE REGIONS. are usually of a dark colour, will float about if they are in the vitreous. The lamp 'should next be moved on a level with the patient's head and on the same side as the eye under examination. On now bringing the ophthal- moscope to about 2 inches from the patient's cornea, and at the same time relaxing your own accommodation and telling him to look into the far distance and to move his eye about as you direct, inspect the details of the fundus. If the patient has an error of refraction it is necessary to correct it by a suitable lens behind the sight hole. Now place a lens of nine dioptres behind the sight hole to in- vestigate the vitreous and the posterior part of the lens, and one of twenty dioptres to see the cornea, anterior chamber, iris and anterior part of the lens. (5.) The indirect method is perhaps easier to a beginner and gives an extensive and rapid view of the fundus, but is not so accurate as to minute details. At a distance of 18 inches look through the sight hole, your right eye at the patient's right eye, and vice versa, telling him to look into the far distance (to relax his accommodation) in the same direction as the fingers holding the ophthalmoscope if the disk is to be examined, or at the sight hole if the yellow spot region is to be investigated. After obtaining the red reflex, hold a lens of about 2^ inches focal length between you and the patient and at about 2^ inches from the patient's eye; an inverted view of the fundus will be thus obtained. The following are the chief details to be observed in the normal fundus. The optic disk is greyish-pink, lighter than the rest of the fundus, and nearly circular in shape ; its centre is sometimes stippled {lamina cribrosa)', and often depressed {physiological cup) with the retinal vessels dipping into it. The periphery of the disk is usually lighter in colour {scleral ring) and often bordered in part by pigment. Occasionally an opaque white striated patch radiating from the edge of the disk, is seen with its margin gradually thinning out {opaque nerve fibres). The rest of the fundus is bright red, with the retinal vessels on it; sometimes the choroidal vessels may be seen plainly as a network and of a lighter colour than the retinal vessels. At the yellow spot the choroidal red is generally deeper in colour and there are no blood-vessels. The retinal arteries are as a rule smaller and lighter in colour than the veins; both usually divide at a short distance from the disk into superior and inferior temporal and nasal branches. TheDISEASES OF THE EYELIDS, 527 retinal veins can often be seen to pulsate even in health, and by pressing on the eyeball with the finger the arteries can generally be made to pulsate. (3.) Acuteness of vision.—Snellen's test-types are those usually employed for testing vision, and are constructed so as to be seen under the smallest visual angle (5 minutes). Place the patient at 6 metres from the distant type, and if his distant vision is normal, he ought to read the smallest letters, numbered 6 on the types. His vision is then called |, or 1. If he only reads the top letter it is |q, or ^, and so on. If the patient is under 45 give him the reading types arranged on the same plan, and find out the smallest he can read, and at what distance, thus finding his near point and accommodation. If he is too blind to see the type hold your fingers before his eye, and mea- sure the greatest distance at which he can count them. If he is unable to see the fingers, shade his eye, and throwing light into it, see if he has perception of light. If a patient has only perception of light, the observer should, by means of the ophthalmoscope-mirror in a dark room, throw light on to the different parts of his fundus to see if all are equally light-percipient {projection). The fields of vision may now be mapped out roughly by the fingers, or by the perimeter, for white and colours. Any spots of the field in which the object used is not seen are called scotomata. The colour vision is usually estimated by coloured wools. Intra-ocular tension may be estimated by instruments called tonometers, or by the fingers; the latter is the usual way, and is effected by directing the patient to look down on the ground, and then palpating the eyeball through the upper' lid with both index fingers. Certain degrees of tension have been recognized, the firm, tense, semifluctuating feeling of the normal eye being taken as the mean {Tn); these are denoted according to the degree of increased tension +1, +2, +3, or of diminished tension- -1,-2,-3. I. Diseases of the eyelids and lachrymal apparatus. Ciliary Blepharitis {Tinea Tarsi) is the most common inflammatory affection of the lids; it is usually chronic, and occurs especially in ill-fed, dirty, hyper- metropic, or strumous children. The symptoms are red-DISEASES OE BEGIOKS. 528 ness of the ciliary border of the lids, and either an eczematous condition of the border, or more commonly inflammation and vesication of the hair follicles with stunted and misplaced eye-lashes, followed in bad cases by scarring of the edge of the lid, and slight eversion. The best treatment is an alkaline lotion, as sodium bicar- bonate, and a weak mercurial ointment applied along the edges of the lids night and morning; in severe cases removal of the lashes and painting the borders of the lids with silver nitrate solution is advisable. The eyelashes may be the seat of the pediculus pubis, giving rise to a condition which may simulate ciliary blepharitis if there has been much irritation. Meibomian Cyst {Chalazion) is the most common form of tarsal tumour, and is due to chronic inflammation of the fundus of a Meibomian gland. It occurs as a small, hard, painless swelling, with the skin of the lid freely movable over it. On the conjunctival surface of the lid there is usually a bluish-grey discoloured spot, due to thinning of the tissues. A crucial incision should be made through this spot, and the semi-fluid contents evacuated by pressure or by a small spoon. These cysts have no wall, are generally multiple, most common in young adults, and are very prone to suppurate. Stye (hordeolum) is a localized inflammation of the cellular tissue of the lid usually about an eyelash, but sometimes in connection with the duct of a Meibomian gland. It gives rise to throbbing pain, and swelling and oedema of the lid ; it is usually succeeded by others, and is due to some derangement of the general health or error of refraction. It quickly disappears on evacuating the pus if present, or on pulling out the faulty lash. Symblepharon, or adherence of the palpebral conjunc- tiva to the ocular conjunctiva or cornea, may occur owing to inflammation following burns, wounds, and ulcerations. CoNGEmTAL Maleormations of the lids are, ptosis (drooping of the upper lid), ejpicanthus (a fold of skin stretching across the inner canthus and concealing the caruncle), and colohoma (a deficiency of part of the lid). The muscular System oe the Lids may be affected by spasm of the orbicularis palpebrarum (blepharospasm), paralysis of the orbicularis giving rise to inability to close the eye, and paralysis of the levator palpebrse producing ptosis. Inversion oe the Eyelid {Entropion) is produced byDISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. 529 some affection of the conjunctiva or tarsus, or by spasm of the palpebral portion of the orbicularis muscle. The most frequent result of entropion is trichiasis (turning in of the lashes) giving rise to pannus, ulceration of the cornea, &c. Eyersion oe the Eyelid {Ectropion) is due to atrophy of the palpebral portion of the orbicularis muscle, to swelling of the conjunctiva, or to cicatricial contraction. Numerous operations have been planned for ectropion and entropion and the consequent faulty position of the lashes. In addition to the above affections, the eyelids may be acutely inflamed and swollen owing to erythema, erysipelas, acute cellulitis, herpes ophthalmicus, and abscess ; they may also be the seat of maKgnant (rodent and epitheliomatous), lupous, and syphilitic (primary and tertiary) ulcers. Yellow patches of xanthelasma, espe- cially over the inner canthus, are found in elderly people. The lids may also be affected by molluscum contagiosum, warts, translucent cysts, and cutaneous horns. The LACHRYMAL APPARATUS consists of the lachrymal gland and its ducts situated at the upper and external angle of the orbit, and the drainage system, which in- cludes the puncta, canaliculi, lachrymal sac and nasa. duct. The lachrymal gland may be the seat of acute or chronic inflammation, and may also be affected by hyper- trophy, or sarcoma. The chief lachrymal troubles, how- ever, are associated with the drainage system, and the most marked symptom is that of watery eye {Epiphora), The puncta may be everted or inverted by changes in the lid, or stenosed from inflammation, &c. The canaliculi may be narrowed by inflammatory changes or cicatri- zation after injury, or obstructed by cilia, concretions, &c. The entrance of the canaliculi into the sac is a very common place for stenosis. The lachrymal sac may be affected by inflammation spreading from the conjunctival or nasal mucous membrane. This may be accompanied ' by stricture of the nasal duct, and sometimes gives rise to a collection of mucus in the sac {mucocele), and presents as a fluctuating swelling near the inner canthus. On pressing over the swelling the fluid can usually be squeezed out through the puncta. A lachrymal abscess often follows a mucocele; the symptoms are then tense swelling and redness of the integument in the neighbour- hood of the lachrymal sac. The treatment for stenosis of the w. M MDISEASES OF REGIONS. 530 puncta or canaliculi is to employ probes or electrolysis, and if these metliods fail, to slit up the lower canaliculus by a Weber's knife, removing a piece of the conjunctiva from the inner side of the incision with scissors. For stenosis of the nasal duct probes should be used to dilate it, and in many cases the use of styles for some time is advisable. In acute inflammation of the sac an incision should be made from the outside through the swelling, or the lower canaliculus should be slit up, and the pus, if found, evacuated that way; the sac should afterwards be syringed with antiseptic or astringent solutions. II. Diseases of the Conjunctiva, OoNJUNCTiyiTis {Ophthalmia), or inflammation of the conjunctiva, is characterized by a feeling of grittiness, heat, and heaviness of the lids, which tend to stick together, especially at night, injection of, and small haemorrhages from, the posterior conjunctival vessels, and generally discharge from the eye. 1. Catahehal {muco-purulent) Conjunctiyitis may be acute or chronic; it presents the usual symptoms of conjunctivitis (see above), and is often accompanied by more or less muco-purulent discharge. It occurs in epidemics, and if there is much discharge, is contagious. There is often marked enlargement of the conjunctival follicles, especially of the lower lid (follicular con- junctivitis). Occasionally the discharge is more plastic in nature, adhering to the lids {^pseudo-membraneous conjunctivitis). It is best treated by slight astringents or antiseptic lotions, and by ointments placed along the edges of the lids to prevent their sticking together. In chronic cases the refraction should always be tested, as re- fraction errors, especially hypermetropia, may produce this condition. 2. Purulent Conjunctiyitis is an acute affection characterized by the severity and rapidity of its onset. It is microbic in origin, and the specific organism is frequently the gonococcus. It may be conveniently divided into two classes :— I. Adult Purulent Conjunctivitis {Gonorrhoeal Oph- thalmia) the more serious affection, is due to actual contagion with the virus, and usually first affects only one eye. The period of incubation may be only a few531 CONJUNCTIVITIS. hours. The lids at first are red and oedematous; the conjunctiva is much swollen and infiltrated with serum (chemosis), and the discharge is serous in nature. After two or three days the serous discharge changes to a very copious discharge of thick pas. The great danger, if the condition is not soon relieved by energetic treatment, is infiltration of the cornea, giving rise to a perforating ulcer and subsequent loss of the eye for useful vision. If untreated, the purulent state lasts about six weeks, and this is followed by muco-purulent conjunctivitis and a granular condition of the lids. II. Infantile Purulent Conjunctivitis {Ophthalmia neonatorum) occurs in newborn children generally on the third day after birth. It affects as a rule both eyes, and is due to inoculation from the vaginal discharges of the mother; to avoid this risk every child's eyes should be thoroughly washed immediately after birth with an anti- septic solution. The symptoms are similar but not so severe as in the adult, and the cornea is not so likely to become involved. The chief complications are corneal ulcers, leukoma adherens, anterior polar cataract, and panophthalmitis followed by shrinking of the globe. The treatment must be directed chiefly to washing away the discharge. For this purpose the eye should be thoroughly syringed or washed every hour, day and night, with a lotion of corrosive sublimate (1 to 6,000). At the same time the lids should be everted if possible and painted with silver nitrate solution (grs. x. to §j.) once a day, and, if practicable, ice-pads applied to the lids. This treat- ment should be continued as long as the discharge con- tinues purulent. Ulceration of the cornea should be treated energetically by the actual cautery or solid nitrate of silver. If only one eye is affected, the rule in the adult, the opposite eye should be covered if possible by a watch-glass shade to prevent inoculation. 3. Membraneous [diphtheritic) conjunctivitis is the most serious and virulent form of ophthalmia, and an eye- may be destroyed by it in twenty-four hours. It is marked by great pain and excessive brawniness, and stiffness of the lids owing to the plastic infiltration of the mucous and submucous surfaces. The palpebral con- junctiva is covered by a smooth grey membrane, and if this is stripped off, the surface still remains grey. The membrane lasts from 6 to 10 days, and is then followed by purulent conjunctivitis. Treatment.—At first anti- M M 2532 DISEASES OF REGIONS. septic lotions and warm fomentations, and then tlie usual treatment for purulent conjunctivitis. 4. Grajnulae, conjunctiyitis [Traclioma) derives its name from the presence on the palpebral conjunctiva, especially near the fornix of the upper lid, of greyish raised bodies about the size of a pin's head. It may be acute or chronic, and is especially common in those sub- jected to bad hygienic surroundings; hence its frequency in insanitary schools, marshy districts, overcrowded camps, &c. The acute form is rare in England and is accompanied usually by a muco-purulent discharge which generally absorbs the granulations and so cures the disease. In the chronic form the symptoms are a heavy look of the lids, irritable eyes, and at times a muco- purulent discharge. The muco-purulent discharge de- pends more upon the condition of the conjunctiva than on the presence of the granulations. The disease is probably only contagious during the continuance of the discharge. The granulations often affect the submucous tissue, giving rise to scarring. Pathology.—There are two views as to the nature of the granules: 1. That they are due to hypertrophy of the lymph-follicles of the con- junctiva; and, 2, that they are new growths. The disease is believed by some to depend upon the presence of a specific micro-organism. It may be complicated by pannus, ulcers of the cornea, entropion, trichiasis, etc. Treatment.—In the acute form antiseptic lotions should be employed. In the chronic form, with muco-purulent discharge, paint the inside of the lids once a day with silver nitrate solution (grs. x. to §j.), and order an astringent lotion, as zinc sulphate (grs. ii. to §j.), to be dropped into the eye two or three times a day. If there is no discharge, touch the granulations lightly two or three times a week with a crystal of copper sulphate. During the discharge stage the patient should be isolated. 5. Phlyctenular conjunctiyitis is characterized by the presence on the ocular conjunctiva or on the anterior surface of the cornea of one or more papules or pustules surrounded by a limited vascular zone. It is extremely common in young children, especially if strumous. Photophobia or lid-spasm may be present. The treatment is chiefly dietetic with the local application of yellow mercuric oxide ointment. Pinguecula is a yellowish elevation, not containing fat.DISEASES OF THE CORNEA. 533 of thickened conjunctiva and subconjunctival tissue near the inner or outer edge of the cornea. Pterygium is a triangular thickened piece of the ocular conjunctiva, with its apex at the margin of or on the cornea. It is especially found in people who have been in the Tropics. If it invades the cornea it may- be dissected off and the apex stitched back on the con- junctiva. Wounds of the conjunctiva heal well, and if extensive ought to be stitched up. III. Diseases of the cornea and sclerotic. Keratitis, or inflammation of the cornea, is charac- terized, as a rule, by pain, photophobia, lachrymation, impairment of vision, pink circumcorneal vascular zone, and want of natural transparency of the cornea. It may be divided by its position into 1, superficial; 2, interstitial; and 3, posterior or punctate. 1. Supereicial KERATITIS is usually produced by irrita- tion due to roughness or insufficient protection of the lids. The condition is often vascular (pannus). A very painful forni is accompanied by numerous small vesicles [herpes of the cornea). The treatment consists in the re- moval of the irritant, and in the application of sedative lotions of opium, belladonna, &c. In obstinate cases of pannus the operation of peritomy (removal of a ring of conjunctiva round the corneal periphery so as to cut off the superficial blood supply to the cornea) may be per- formed. Corneal Ulcer is a loss of substance due to limited inflammation of the corneal tissue. It is described here under superficial keratitis because it usually begins in the superficial or epithelial part of the cornea. Some- times from the commencement it affects the corneal tissue proper, and is then generally produced by a limited collection of pus in the lamella of the cornea [abscess or onyx). A corneal ulcer may be {a) simple, or [h) infective, and these may be central or peripheral, acute or chronic. [a) The simple idcer may be due to an abrasion of the cornea, a phlyctenula, &c., and is best treated when acute by atropine drops, unless it be deep and peripheral, when eserine or pilocarpine drops are to be preferred. When chronic, an ointment of yellow mercuric oxide should be534 DISEASES OE HEGlO^T^. placed in the eye once or twice a day, and massage employed to the surface of the closed lid. (b) The infective ulcer tends to spread rapidly at its edges and also in depth; it is often accompanied by hypo- pyon (pus in the anterior chamber) and then is generally microbic in origin. The best treatment is the actual cautery or solid nitrate of silver applied to the edges and base; the evacuation of the pus in an adult by tapping the anterior chamber from below; and the local appli- cation of belladonna or atropine. 2. Interstitial keratitis is usually associated with congenital syphilis, sometimes with struma, and occasion- ally with acquired syphilis. The whole cornea undergoes a subacute or chronic inflammation, and at first looks steamy and then patchy and like ground glass; the patches usually become vascular [salmon patches), but there is no tendency as a rule to superficial ulceration or suppura- tion. After some months the eye begins to clear up under treatment, even in very bad and apparently hopeless cases. Though as a rule one eye is attacked first, the other after a few weeks or months generally becomes affected. The usual age is between five and sixteen. The attendant complications are iritis, secondary glaucoma, uveitis, and in very bad cases shrinking of the eyeball. After an attack there are to be found generally nebulae in the cornea and always the remains, at the corneal periphery, of the vessels of inflammation. The treatment is usually the administra- tion of small doses of mercury over a long period, or iron tonics, and locally atropine and yellow oxide of mercury ointment. 3. Keratitis Punctata is probably never present without disease of the uveal tract (page 538). It is characterized by the presence of dots of different sizes on the epithelium of Descemet's membrane. These are generally arranged in the lower half of the cornea in the shape of a conical bullet with the apex upwards. The dots may be proliferations of the posterior corneal epi- thelial cells, or granules &c., deposited on the epithelium. The results of keratitis are often to be found in the cor- neal tissue as small branching lines (remains of vessels), greyish opacities (nehulce), and dense opaque white patches (leukomata). The use of lead lotion in keratitis is especially prone to give rise to leukomata, and should therefore never be used in this disease. In cases of perforating ulcer, the iris may become adherent to the cornea, a con-535 DISEASES OF THE CORNEA. dition known as anterior synechia, or if the corneal scar is white, as leukoma adherens. The other results which may occur are conical cornea, and bulging of the cornea and sclerotic {anterior staphyloma). Conical coenea (keratoconus) is a bulging of the central portion of the cornea. It generally occurs in females, and is due to defective nutrition of the corneal tissue. It may follow an ulcer, especially if central. Operative pro- cedures, as iridectomy, trephining the cornea, &c., rarely do any good, and the same may usually be said for concave and stenopaic glasses. Foreign bodies on the cornea should be removed as soon as possible. Ansesthesia of the cornea should first be obtained by dropping 4°/^ cocaine solution three times into the eye at intervals of five minutes. The patient being placed on a chair facing the light, the operator stands behind the patient and with the fingers of the left hand separates the lids, at the same time pressing on the eye- ball to steady it. Then with a spud or needle held in the right hand the foreign body should be lifted off or picked out of the cornea. ScLERiTis (episcleritis) or inflammation of the scleral tissue, is accompanied by a circumscribed reddish-purple patch of vascular congestion about 2 to 3 mm. from the corneal margin, generally on the outer side. It lasts as a rule from five to eight months, and often relapses; the pain and tenderness vary much in intensity, and in severe cases iritis is usually present. It is more common in women than men, and affects especially those of the rheumatic and strumous diathesis, or patients with a syphilitic taint. The best modes of treatment are warm fomentations of opium, leeches, massage, belladonna and atropine if iritis is suspected, and general constitutional remedies. Wounds of this region may be divided into (a) corneal, [b) scleral, and (c) sclero-corneal. (a) Corneal ivounds, unless implicating the lens or iris, generally heal quickly. (6) Scleral wounds more than J inch behind the sclero- corneal junction, if small and unaccompanied by the pre- sence of a foreign body in the eye, may be stitched up, or the conjunctiva stitched over them, and then treated by ice-pads to allay inflammation, (c) Sclero-corneal wounds are the most dangerous, owing to the great risk of sym- pathetic inflammation, and demand great judgment in saving the eye; in most cases the eye ought to be excised, especially if the lens is injured.DISEASES OF BEGIONS. o36 ly. Diseases of the uveal tract. The uveal tract comprises tlie iris, ciliary body and choroid, and though disease may be limited to one part, there is always a tendency for it to spread through the whole tract. Iritis or inflammation of the iris may be acute, subacute or chronic. The usual symptoms of a case of acute or subacute iritis are—pain and tenderness along the ophthalmic division of the fifth, nerve, dimness of sight, lachrymation, injection of the episcleral vessels giving rise to a pink circumcorneal zone, and occasionally photophobia. The iris is dull, and discoloured, e.g, a blue iris becomes green, the pupil is sluggish, contracted, gene- rally irregular owing to adhesions to the anterior capsule of the lens [posterior synechice), and acts badly or not at all to atropine. In chronic iritis there may be no symp- toms except irregularity of pupil, dimness of vision, and at times pain. Iritis is especially likely to occur in patients suffering from syphilis, rheumatism, or gout; it may also have a traumatic origin, or be secondary to in- flammations of the cornea, sclerotic, or the other parts of the uveal tract. The iritis associated with syphilis is often symmetrical, and generally accompanied by great effusion of lymph in the neighbourhood of the pupil, but in the secondary stage of this disease this symptom may be absent. Iritis in rheumatic patients is usually very pain- ful, and apt to recur, at first only asymmetrically, but generally both eyes sufiter in repeated attacks. It is occa- sionally accompanied by fluid hypopyon. It is especially liable to attack those of the rheumatic diathesis if suffering from prolonged gonorrhoeal discharge. In gouty subjects there may be a very insidious form [quiet iritis). The local treatment is first directed to obtaining dilatation of the pupil by atropine or atropine and cocaine combined ; if there is much congestion of the conjunctival vessels and pain, it is well to apply one or two leeches or a small blister to the temporal region about one inch from the external canthus. The general treatment is that applicable to the diathesis of the patient, but a mild course of mercury is by some always prescribed in acute iritis. The chief traumatic affections of the iris are blood in the anterior chamber (hyphcema), mydriasis (due to paralysis of the sphincter pupillee), tremulous iris (gene-537 IRIDECTOMY. rally due to dislocation of the lens), rupture of the ciliary border of the iris [coredialysis), a rent in the pupillary border, and prolapse of the iris after a perforating wound. The congenital abnormalities are difference in colour in both irides, irregularity in shape and position of pupil, multiple pupils (polycoria) remains of pupillary membrane, deficiency of part of iris {colohoma) and absence of iris {irideremia). In coloboma the deficiency is generally downwards and inwards, and is often combined with a similar condition of the choroid. IniDECTOMY.—This Operation may be performed (a) to improve the sight in cases of corneal opacity, anterior polar cataract and zonular cataract, (b) as a remedial measure in glaucoma, re lapsing iritis, and com- plete posterior synechia, and (c) in cataract ex- traction. ^ ^ Fig. 188.—Spring eye-speculum. Fia. 189.— Showing speculum in eye, fixation-forceps in position, and the keratome passed into the anterior chamber in the opera- tion of iridectomy downwards and inwards. Operation.—Place the patient in the recumbent posture and induce general anaesthesia, preferably by chloroform, or local anaesthesia, by means of cocaine (4°/^). Standing behind the patient's head introduce the spring speculum (Fig. 188), fix the conjunctiva near the cornea with fixa- tion-forceps opposite the place selected for the coloboma.' Pass the keratome by pressure perpendicularly through the cornea (Fig. 189), and then lowering its handle press the blade into the anterior chamber parallel to the iris ; now lower the handle still more till the point nearly touches the posterior surface of the cornea and then slowly withdraw the keratome. Give the fixation-forceps to an assistant to gently depress the eye; pass throughDISEASES or BEGIONS. 538 the wound the iridectomy forceps closed with the points directed towards the posterior surface of the cornea, open the forceps, seize the pupillary border of the iris, slowly draw it out, and snip it off with the scissors 'either parallel to the wound, or at right angles to the wound across the cornea. Carefully return the edges of the coloboma with a curette (Fig. 190), and bandage up the eye. In iridec- tomy for glaucoma it is usual to have a large corneal incision (some operators prefering a Graefe's knife), and to remove the iris up to the ciliary border. Cyclitis, or inflammation of the ciliary body, rarely occurs without other parts of the uveal tract being involved. The symptoms are circumcorneal zone of redness, pain and tenderness in the ciliary region, pain on accom- modating, and often hypopyon and vitreous opacities. It is best treated by atropine and leeches. Choroiditis, except as part of a more general inflam- mation, is rarely accompanied by external signs or severe Fig. 190.—Curette. pain. Ophthalmoscopically there may be, if recent, soft yellowish white exudation patches either at the yellow spot or elsewhere; these patches on clearing up leave as a rule atrophy of the choroid, showing the sclerotic through, and the edges bordered by disturbance of pig- ment. The atrophic patches may be ringed, diffused, or punctate, and if due to hsemorrhage from the choroidal vessels are generally large and deeply pigmented. The retinal vessels always pass over these patches of choroiditis. Vision is as a rule affected, but not always. The usual causes are syphilis (acquired and congenital), myopia, tubercle and haemorrhages. In syphilitic cases mercurial treatment should be continued for a lengthened period. Uveitis, or general inflammation of the uveal tract, commonly starts in the ciliary body, and is characterized by the chief symptoms of iritis, cyclitis, and choroiditis. It may be divided into (1), purulent, and (2), plastic. 1. Purulent uveitis {panophthalmitis) has usually a traumatic origin, but may occur in pyaemia and in old blind eyes. The symptoms are extreme pain, acute congestion and oedema of the lids and conjunctiva, and539 after a few days, if the media are transparent enough, a yellowish, reflex, due, as a rule, to suppuration in the vitreous. The usual course is for the inflammation to affect the whole interior of the eye, and afterwards the extrinsic muscles and Tenon's capsule. The treatment is either immediate enucleation, or incisions into the eyeball to allow free vent to the pus. Meningitis has occasionally followed enucleation in these cases. 2. Plastic uveitis is characterized by a great tendency to deposition of lymph, and may be divided into Acute and Chronic. (a) Acute plastic uveitis [Sympathetic Inflammation or Sympathetic Ophthalmia) is set up in one eye by morbid changes usually the result of a wound of the other eye. The injured eye is called the exciting," and the other the "sympathizing eye." It occurs usually from six weeks to three months after injury. It is preceded as a rule by a condition known as " Sympathetic Irritation," characterized by lachrymation, photophobia, dimness of sight, oscillations of the pupil and frontal neuralgia. The symptoms are impaii'ed vision, circumcorneal zone, keratitis punctata, deep anterior chamber, iritis, papillo- retinitis, and opacities in the vitreous. These symptoms are followed by thickening and vascularization of the iris, occlusion of the pupil by lymph, shallow anterior chamber, diminished tension, shrinking of the vitreous, detach- ment of the retina, &c. The prognosis is very unfavour- able, as only in a few cases the changes stop short of actual loss of the eye for useful vision, and it must always be remembered that the sympathizing eye suffers as a rule more severely than the exciting. The nature of the disease is probably a microbic inflammation spreading .from the exciting eye by the optic nerves and chiasma to the sympathizing eye. The treatmerit consists in confinement to a dark room, goggles, atropine, leeches and mercury. If the exciting eye is quite blind it should be excised, but if it has useful vision it should be saved. (b) Chronic plastic uveitis occurs as a rule in strumous and syphilitic patients. The disease progresses like "Sympathetic Inflammation," but is more chronic; it usually affects both eyes at intervals, and often passes on to complete blindness. In young children plastic uveitis may produce a condition called pseudo-glioma,'^ which may be diagnosed as a rule from glioma by discoloration and adhesions of the iris, minus tension, &c. A less severeDISEASES OF REGIONS. 540 and more common form of chronic plastic uveitis may be called Anterior Uveitis {Serous Iritis) from its affecting the anterior part of the uveal tract. It is characterized by keratitis punctata, deep anterior chamber, often dila- tation of the pupil, increased tension, and the usual symptoms of iritis and cyclitis, accompanied frequently by a few peripheral choroidal changes, and small vitreous opacities. It is generally found in young adults and is often -associated with gout, rheumatism, and struma. The treatment is complete rest for the eyes, and atropine with careful watching of tension. The Uveal tract may be affected in any part by sarcoma, (generally melanotic), but the usual primary ocular seat of sarcoma is the ciliary body or the choroid. Y. Diseases of the crystalline lens. Cataract is the name applied to an opacity, complete or partial, of the lens, and is due to structural changes. Cataracts may be divided into hard or soft, according to their consistency, and this usually depends on age, as below thirty-five they are all ''soft." They are called primary when independent of any other ocular affection, and secondary when following some other disease, as glau- coma, intra-ocular tumour, &c. Though all cataracts at first are incomplete or partial, yet it is advisable to make a division into (1) complete (including those that in time tend to become complete), and (2) partial (those that do not, as a rule, tend to become complete). (1) Complete cataracts are usually senile or hard, and are called, according to their seat of origin, nuclear or cortical. Nuclear cataracts are characterized by an opacity at the nucleus of the lens; they are often amber in colour and usually hard, except sometimes in diabetes; cortical cataracts, which are the more common, begin as flakes or streaks radiating from the axis of the lens. Congenital cataract may occur as a general opacity of the lens; it is usually binocular, and of course soft. A com- plete cataract may degenerate and its cortex become fluid [Morgagnian Cataract), (2) Partial cataracts include [a) lamellar, (&) anterior polar, and (c) posterior polar. {a) Lamellar {zonular) cataract is either congenital or forms in early life; it is generally associated with aDISEASES or THE CRYSTALLINE LENS. 541 history of convulsions, and with a deficiency of the enamel of the teeth. The opacity is situated as a shell between the nucleus and cortex, which are both clear. It is usually symmetrical. (b) Anterior polar (pyramidal) cataract is a dense white opacity at the anterior pole of the lens, usually due to perforation of the cornea in early life, and as a rule asso- ciated with corneal nebula. (c) Posterior polar cataract is situated at the posterior pole of the lens. The opacity is generally in radiating spokes, and is often associated with disease of the vitreous or choroid. Diagnosis.—When a cataract is complete it looks white, amber, or grey, and may be best seen by dilating the pupil, and examining by focal light. When incomplete and cor- tical the striae may be seen by oblique illumination if the pupil is dilated, or by throwing light into the eye by the ophthalmoscopic mirror (preferably a plane mirror), when the strise will appear as black lines. The subjective syw.ptoms in incipient cataract are failing vision, black fixed spots or lines before the eyes, ability to see better in the dark due to dilatation of the pupil, myopia, and sometimes monocular diplopia or polyopia. Treatment.—In incipient senile cataract, especially of the nuclear variety, atropine drops will often temporarily improve the sight, and may be ordered with caution. The operations for removal of the lens are of two kinds, namely (a) extraction and (h) discission; extraction is always preferable in hard cataracts, and sometimes in soft especially in adults. It is of course necessary before pro- ceeding to operation that the condition of the eye be satisfactory as far as the lids, conjunctiva and lachrymal apparatus are concerned, and that there is good perception and projection of light. In senile cataract it is usual to wait till the vision of one eye is reduced to mere percep- tion of light and the vision of the other is insufficient to allow the patient to follow his occupation. The general health of the patient must also be investigated, as senile cataract may be associated with gout, glycosuria, and arterial disease. (a) The extraction operations are numerous, but the only one described here will be the 3 millimetre flap operation, which may be performed with or without iridectomy. Operation.—The first steps are as in operation for iri- dectomy (see p. 537). After the introduction of the spring542 DISEASES OF HEGIONS. speculum, fix the eye by seizing tlie conjunctiva with, fixa- tion-forceps immediately beneath the cornea, pass the point of a Graefe's knife through the margin of the cornea at the outer extremity of a horizontal line 3 millimetres beneath the summit of the cornea (Fig. 191), and direct it carefully across the anterior chamber to the inner corneal end of the above horizontal line ; complete the incision in the corneal margin above by slow to and fro upward movements of Fia. 191.—Showing speculum in eye, fixation-forceps, and Grraefe's knife in position for performing flap section in cataract extrac- tion. The line of flap is also shown dotted. the knife. An iridectomy upwards is now performed if required (see p. 537). Fixing the eye, pass a cystitome (Fig. 192) through the wound and divide the anterior capsule of the lens by horizontal incisions. Draw the eye now slightly downwards, and apply moderate pressure by a curette (Fig. 190) or spoon below the lower edge of the cornea till the upper edge of the lens presents in the wound (see Fig. 192) and the lens is gradually delivered. The speculum is now removed and the lids closed for a brief time, after which any soft matter is extracted by pressure applied to the surface of the cornea with a curette. The iris is now carefully replaced by the curette, and both eyes bandaged up. The after-treatment consists in keep- Fig. 192.—Cystitome.DISEASES OF THE CHYSTALLINE LENS. 543 ing the eyes bandaged for about a week, removing the bandages and washing the lids gently every day. If there are any signs of iritis, characterized by pain and swelling of the lids, atropine and leeches must be pre- , scribed; if the corneal wound suppurates it should be 1 cauterized or dusted with iodoform. The other complica- tions are prolapse of the iris, intraocular haemorrhage and panophthalmitis. After two months the vision should Fig. 193,—Showing the lens presenting in the wound from pressure by the spoon during the operation of extraction. Fia. 194.—Stop-needle. be tried for glasses, and if there is much membrane left in the pupillary area, producing unsatisfactory vision, a secondary operation must be performed. This is done, the eye being under atropine and cocaine, by passing a needle through the cornea and breaking up the membrane. (?>) The discission or needling operation for soft cataract. —Place the patient in the recumbent position and induce local anaesthesia by cocaine, or if the patient be nervous or a young child give chloroform. The pupil must be fully dilated beforehand by atropine. Standing behind the patient's head introduce the spring speculum (Fig. 188), and pass a sharp, straight stop-needle (Fig. 194) through the periphery of the cornea into the anterior chamber. Push the needle firmly but gently till it touches the anteriorDISEASES OF REGIONS. 544 capsule of the lens near its centre, and by a crucial incision lacerate the capsule of the lens. ISTow slowly withdraw the needle, put atropine in the eye, and apply a bandage. The effect of this operation, which may have to be repeated, is that the lens-matter passes into the anterior chamber, and is softened by the aqueous and absorbed. Occasion- ally in young children repeated needlings may produce absorption of the whole lens. As a rule, however, after a week or ten days the soft matter must be evacuated, especially if it produces much irritation or increased ten- sion. This is done by making an incision in the lower part of the cornea by a keratome (Fig. 189), as in the first steps of an iridectomy operation (page 537). After the corneal incision has been made and the keratome with^ drawn, a curette (-Fig. 190) should be introduced through the corneal wound, and by manipulating the curette the soft matter passes out along its groove and can be removed. Care must be taken on completion of the operation that the iris is not caught in the edges of the wound. The CHIEE INJURIES of the lens are (1) traumatic cataract due to rupture of the capsule and (2) dislocations of the lens usually downwards but sometimes into the anterior or posterior chambers. yi. Diseases of the optic nerve, retina, and vitreous. The optic nerve fibres may be divided into two sets, axial (for the supply of the yellow spot region) and 2)eripheral (for the rest of the retina). Optic neuritis, or inflammation of the optic nerve, may be acute or chronic, and attack the whole or part of the fibres of the nerve; and may be divided into (1) papillitis affecting the intraocular end of the nerve, and (2) retro-hulhar neuritis affecting the nerve behind the globe. 1. Papillitis usually affects both eyes except when due to orbital mischief. The signs, chiefly ophthal- moscopic, are hypersemia, swelling and haziness of the edges of the disk, distended and tortuous retinal veins, and small or normal retinal arteries. In extreme cases the retina is much involved [papillo-retinitis), the dis- tended veins being covered in part by greyish-white strise or opacities, and the retina itself oedematous with flame- shaped haemorrhages often radiating from the disk. The vision may be normal or much reduced, and the field for545 ATROPHY OF THE OPTIC NERVE. vision is usually peripherally limited. The chief causes are cerebral tumours, cerebral abscess, tubercular menin- gitis, and nephritis, also orbital inflammations, acute myelitis, syphilis, chlorosis, and lead poisoning. The treatment is chiefly constitutional, but in uni-ocular papillitis incision ijito the nerve-sheath has by some been recommended. 2. Eetro-BULBAR NEURITIS may occur in one eye, dae to orbital periostitis, &c., without at first any ophthalmo- scopic signs, the only symptom being loss of sight and generally pain on movement of the eye. There is usually a central scotoma. As a rule symptoms of optic atrophy follow. Chronic retro-hulhar neuritis (toxic amhlyopia), affecting usually both eyes, is an inflammation of the axial fibres, and is found in persons using excess of tobacco or alcohol, and perhaps in diabetes. The symptoms are diminution of vision usually of both eyes, the fields of vision being normal as to their periphery, but containing a central scotoma (blind spot) for red and green. By the ophthal- moscope there is usually no change to be seen. The patients complain of mist before the eyes, and of confusing gold and silver coins; they generally exhibit want of tone &c. The treatment is directed to improve the general health, and to avoid the exciting cause. Atrophy of the optic nerve may be a primary disease, or secondary to some other optic nerve or retinal affection. By the ophthalmoscope the optic disc is white or greyish, often slightly cupped or filled up; the lamina ' cribrosa is too plainly visible; the retinal vessels, especially the arteries, are too small; the vessels may be accompanied by white streaks on each side; and if there has been previous papillitis, the vessels are curved antero-pos- teriorly and often obscured in places; the scleral ring round the disk is too white and the edges of the disk may be irregular. Atrophy may follow papillitis, retrobulbar neuritis, embolism of the central artery of the retina, retinitis (especially pigmentary), and glaucoma. A form called progressive atrophy is found in locomotor ataxia, insular sclerosis, general paralysis of the insane, and as a purely local disease; it is marked by concentric contrac- tion of the fields of vision, loss of sight, colour blindness, and sometimes central scotoma, and as its name implies progresses to complete blindness. The treatment is generally the administration of anti-syphilitic remedies. N- NDISEASES OF KEGIONS. 546 hypodermic injections of strychnia, and galvanism, but the prognosis is as a rule very bad. Retinitis, or inflammation of the retina, is usually accompanied by diminution of vision, especially at night or in dim lights, and is characterized ophthalmoscopically by loss of transparency and haze of the fundus; soft white discrete or grouped spots ; haemorrhages of various sizes and shapes (striated or flame-shaped in nerve-fibre layer, large and semicircular in yellow spot region), and by vitreous opacities. Retinitis is associated with syphilis, nephritis, glycosuria, leukaemia, pyaemia [purulent reti- nitis) and with diseases of the circulatory system (lioemor- rhagic retinitis). The treatment is chiefly constitutional, and the eyes must be shaded and used as little as possible. Retinitis pigmentosa is a chronic and symmetrical disease, occurring in early life, characterized by night blindness, and great contraction of the fields of vision, even though the central vision be normal, Ophthalmo- scopically the optic disk is "waxy-looking" and atro- phied, the retinal arteries are small, and there is much lace-work retinal pigment, especially near the equator. The loss of sight is progressive, and the disease often ends in blindness. Embolism oe the central aetery of the retina occurs usually on the left side and in connection with heart disease. Owing to this artery being a terminal one complete plugging of it is followed by total and sudden blindness. The ophthalmoscopic signs are pale optic disk, diffused retinal haze, bright red colour at yellow spot, and retinal arteries near disk very small and like white threads. The treatment is massage of the eyeball but the prognosis is bad. Detachment of the retina is due to separation of the retina from its pigment epithelium by haemorrhage or serous exudation. It is accompanied by defect in the field of vision corresponding to the detachment. With the ophthalmoscope the detachment looks greyish, and the retinal vessels passing over it are seen to be elevated. The causes are blows on the eye, myopia, cicatrices following wounds, choroidal tumours, &c. Treatment^ except complete rest, is usually unavailing. Glioma of the retina occurs in early life, and the first symptom is a shining white or yellow reflex seen behind the pupil; by focal illumination there is found a nodulated swelling, with small vessels and often haemor-547 GLAUCOMA. rhages on it. The tension may be normal or increased, and there may be secondary glaucomatous symptoms. The treatment^ unless the tumour is very large, is immediate excision of the eye and removal of as much of the optic nerve as possible. The prognosis is very unfavourable. YiTREOUS OPACITIES are usually due to inflammation {hyalitis) associated with diseases of the uveal tract or retina, but often occur in extreme myopia, and from retinal and choroidal haemorrhages. The opacities may be of different shapes and sizes, and in syphilis are very minute and dust-like. The patient complains of seeing black specks floating about, and vision is sometimes reduced. Owing to degeneration the vitreous may be fluid, and contain cholesterine crystals. Suppuration' of the yitkeous {suppurative hyalitis) is due to injury or to extension of a purulent uveitis, and is sometimes called pseudo-glioma, from its yellowish fundus- reflex. Foreign bodies, as steel, glass, &c., may be found in the vitreous, and, when steel or iron, may be removed by the electro-magnet introduced through the original wound when scleral, or through an incision in the sclerotic. YII. Glaucoma. Glaucoma is a condition of the eye dependent on excess of the intra-ocular pressure. Tho chief symptoms are increased intra-ocular tension (elicited by palpating the eyeball with both index fingers through the closed lids); pain and tenderness ; enlargement of the perfo- rating vessels; impaired sensibility, sfceaminess, and pitted appearance of the cornea; shallow anterior chamber; dilatation of the pupil; greenish fundus reflex; pulsation of the retinal arteries, and engorgement of the retinal veins; undermining and cupping of the optic disk; diminished acuity of vision and light sense; and limitation of field of vision chiefly at nasal side. These symptoms are generally preceded or accompanied by smoky vision (everything seen in a grey or yellow fog), coloured concentric rings round lights, neuralgia along the branches of the fifth nerve, and rapidly increasing presbyopia necessitating frequent changes of glasses. Varieties.—Glaucoma may be divided into (1) acute, (2) subacute, and (3) chrome. 1. Acute glaucoma is characterized hj the severity and N N 2DISEASES OE REGIONS. 548 suddenness of its onset, and from the vomiting, megrim, &c., accompanying it has often been mistaken for a bilious attack. The steaminess of the cornea prevents as a rule any view being obtained of the fundus although the pupil is widely dilated. The optic disk when visible is found in first attacks not to be cupped, but there is marked pulsa- tion of the retinal arteries and engorgement of the veins. Such an attack may pass off after a few days, but is generally followed by others until the eye may pass into a permanent glaucomatous condition {absolute glaucoma) and vision be totally destroyed. Absolute glaucoma is ac- companied by great pain and increased tension, intra- ocular haemorrhages, opacity of the lens, ulceration and staphyloma of the cornea, and shrinking of the whole globe. Some cases of acute glaucoma may be accom- panied by severe intra-ocular hsemorrhage {hcemorrhagic glaucoma). 2. Subacute glaucoma is characterized by the symptoms of glaucoma as given above. There is generally a gradual progress, sometimes with exacerbations, and it may at any time give rise to acute glaucoma. 3. Chronic glaucoma may follow on an acute or sub- acute attack, but there is an insidious and progressive form usually attacking both eyes, in which all irritative signs are absent. Without pain and often with no apparent increase of tension, there is gradual reduction of the amplitude of accommodation, and diminished corneal sensibility, with cupping and progressive atrophy of the optic disks often passing on to absolute blindness. Pathology.—Grlaucoma is produced by any circumstance tending to upset the normal relation of the secretion and excretion of the intra-ocular fluids. These fluids, secreted by the ciliary processes, pass chiefly out at the angle between the iris and the cornea {iridic or filtration angle). This increased tension may be produced by hypersecretion of the ciliary processes, obstruction at the filtration angle, or by serosity of the fluids. The most frequent cause is obstruction of the filtration angle due to inflammatory products, or to mechanical means, as growth of the lens, or dilatation of the pupil especially by atropine, &c. Glaucoma occurs as a rule in persons over 40 years of age, is frequently hereditary, and is often associated with hypermetropia. It may be secondary to complete posterior synechia, perforating ulcers and wounds of the cornea, dislocation of the lens laterally and into549 DISEASES THE OTlBlT. the anterior chamber, cataract operations, intraocular tumours, and intraocular haemorrhage. The treatment of acute glaucoma is by instillation of eserine (especially if the attack is caused by atropine) or by a large iridectomy, as much as one-fifth of the iris being removed. Several other operations have been recom- mended, as sclerotomy, &c. In glaucoma ahsolutum punc- ture of the sclerotic often relieves the pain. In subacute cases iridectomy is generally indicated, but in chronic glaucoma without tension operative procedure probably does little good. YIII. jbiseases of the orbit. SuBCONJUNCTiYAL HEMORRHAGE, due to a blow on the eye or to rupture of a small vessel, owing to cough, &c., is of a bright red colour. The blood effusion is more marked anteriorlf- and does not pass far back. Exactly the converse as to the position of the blood applies to deep orbital hsemorrhage following fracture of the anterior fossa of the skull, &c. Orbital abscess and orbital cellulitis, when acute, are difficult to diagnose from each other. Though often tra.umatic they may be due to cold, irritation of a tooth, erysipelas, pyaemia, &c. , They sometimes originate in periostitis. They are usually characterized by swelling of the lids, chemosis of the conjunctiva, pain on move- ments of the eye and on pressing back the eyeball, limitation of the ocular movements, facial neuralgia, and proptosis; sometimes there is a defined, tender, fluctuat- ing swelling. If the symptoms are not soon relieved, especially in orbital cellulitis, papillitis and atrophy of the optic nerve may ensue, and also meningitis. Orbital abscess may be chronic and simulate a solid tumour. The treatment consists in early evacuation of the pus, hot fomentations and constitutional remedies. Tumours oe the orbit usually cause protrusion of the . eye (proptosis), impairment of its movements, and papillitis or optic atrophy. Generally one orbit only is affected. The origin of an orbital tumour may be primary, in the lachrymal gland, in the loose orbital tissues, in the peri- osteum, in the eyeball or in the optic nerve; or secondary, starting from a neighbouring cavity. The primary tumours may be cystic (hydatid, dermoid); osseous (ivory exostosis), sarcomatous, and vascular (nsevi). Amongst550 DISEASES OF REGIONS. the secondary tumours may be mentioned arterio-yenous communication in tlie cavernous sinus giving rise to a pulsating tumour, and distension of the frontal sinus by retained mucus {frontal mucocele). The treatment is chiefly the same as in other parts. Malignant tumours should be freely removed with if necessary the eyeball and the contents of the orbit, and chloride of zinc paste in some cases applied for a few days afterwards. Enucleation oe the eye.—Patient lying down and as a rule under general anaesthesia; operator standing behind the head; spring speculum in lids. Divide conjunctiva and subconjunctival tissue all round the cornea with scissors; raise each rectus tendon in succession on a squint hook (Fig. 196) and divide each one close to the globe; now separate the limbs of the speculum and the eyeball will project forwards; pass a pair of stout curved scissors, closed, behind the globe from the outer side, and feel for the optic nerve; then pull back the scissors slightly, open them, and divide the nerve. The globe, now pushed for- wards by the scissors, is taken between the fingers and thumb, and the other attachments are divided by the scissors. After the operation firm pressure is applied by a bandage. There is but rarely any trouble from, haemor- rhage. An artificial eye may be given about three months after operation, if the socket is healthy. IX. Errors of refraction and accommodation. The light percipient portion of the eye exists at the external layer of the retina {rods and cones), and it is necessary for perfect vision that images of external objects should be accurately focussed on this layer. Eays of light passing into the eye are refracted at the anterior surfaces of the cornea, lens and vitreous, and brought to a focus at a point varying with the refraction. The human eye for the sake of simplicity may be represented by a convex lens of 23 mm. focus; and the following laws regulating the passage of light through a convex lens will then be ap- plicable to it. Eays of light passing through a convex lens (Fig. 195, L) parallel (P) to the principal axis (X X), and therefore coming from infinity, are brought to a focus at a point Em. {principal focus) varying inversely in distance to the convexity of the lens; rays coming from a point (D) closer than infinity {divergent rays) are refractedEHRORS OF RErRACTION AND ACCOMMODATION. 551 further back (My.) from the lens tha^ the focal point; and rays coming from a point (C) beyond infinity {convergent) are focussed at H between the lens and its principal focus Em. Emmetropia.—In an eye of normal refraction {emme- tropia) with its accommodation relaxed, parallel rays (P) passing through the pupil will be focussed by the surfaces at a point (Em.) represented by the external surfaces of the rod and cone layer of the retina; divergent rays (D) will be focussed behind the retina at My. ; and convergent rays (C) in front of the retina at H. In order to focus the diver- gent rays (D) upon the retina (Em.) it is necessary to in- crease the convexity of the lens and so shorten its focal Fig. 195.—Diagram to illustrate errors of refraction. L. Convex lens. X X Principal axis. D. Divergent ray. P. Parallel ray. C. Convergent ray. H, Em. and My. Position of hypermetropic, emmetropic, and myopic retinae. length. This is done by accommodation, and a young emmetrope with normal accommodation should be able to focus on his retina all rays from parallel to divergent ones starting from a few inches from his cornea. Hypermetropia is the condition in which in the eye at rest the retina (H) only receives convergent rays (C)-; parallel rays (P) and divergent rays (D) are refracted beyond the retina (H). This takes place from too short a distance between the cornea and the retina, or from lessened con- vexity of the lens; the usual cause is congenital shortness of the axis of the eye. Hypermetropes from this fact are obliged to accommodate for parallel rays and still more for divergent ones. The treatment naturally is to increase the V My.DISEASES OF REGION'S. 552 convexity of the lens artificially by giving a convex lens; and by so doing allowing parallel rays to be refracted on the retina, and then the ciliary muscle will be able to focus divergent rays on the retina. In children and young adults to find out their hypermetropia it is often necessary to order atropine before testing the refraction. The symptoms of hypermetropia are pain and discomfort on reading, con- gested eyelids and conjunctivae, spasm and fibrillar twitch- ings of the lids, convergent strabismus, headache, &c. Hypermetropia is usually congenital, often hereditary, and is frequently associated with a flat-looking face, shallow orbits and small eyes. Myopia is the opposite condition to hypermetropia, and in it the retina (My.) only receives certain divergent rays (D). It is due as a rule to the axis of the eye being too long, or in some cases to the ciliary muscle rendering the lens too convex (spasm of accommodation). The treat- ment except in cases of spasm of accommodation, is to give concave glasses to allow parallel and divergent rays to fall on the retina. In low degrees of myopia it is only necessary to order glasses for distance, but in high degrees it is usual to order a stronger pair for distance, and a weaker pair for reading, &c. In apparent myopia due to spasm of the ciliary muscle it is necessary to order atropine to find out the true refraction. Myopes often have the head elongated in the antero-posterior diameter, a long face and large prominent eyes. Myopia is gene- rally accompanied by a crescent at the outer side of the disk {posterior staphyloma)^ and there may be secondary choroidal trouble, detachments of the retina, vitreous opacities, &c. Astigmatism is the condition in which one or more of the refractive surfaces have not the same curvature in all directions. Astigmatism may be divided into—(1), irregular, in which there is a difference of refraction in the different parts of the same meridian due to changes in the lens and cornea; and (2), regular where there is a difference in two meridians {chief meridians) at right angles to one another, and called those of maximum and minimum refraction. It is usually corneal {static astigma- tism), but may be due to the ciliary muscle {dynamic astigmatism). Eegular astigmatism may be—{a) simple, where one meridian is emmetropic and the other hyper- metropic or myopic, and is then called simple hyper- metropic or simj^le myopic astigmatism; {h) compound,553 STRABISMUS AND OCULAR PARALYSIS. where the chief meridians are unequally myopic (com- pound myopic astigmatism) or unequally hypermetropic (compound hypermetropic astigmatism); or (c) mixed^ where one chief meridian is hypermetropic and the other myopic. The treatment is by cylindrical glasses for simple astigmatism, and by cylindrical glasses in com- bination with spheficals for compound and mixed. Presbyopia.—Prom 40 to 45 years of age it is found in all eyes, owing to changes in the elasticity of the lens, that the ciliary muscle begins perceptibly to lose its power of altering the convexity of the lens. The effect of this will be to prevent near objects being focussed on the retina; in order to counteract this condition and to help the ciliary muscle it is necessary to give convex glasses for reading. It has been found that the glass needed is about one dioptre for every five years after 40. In myopes wearing glasses for reading, this amount will have to be subtracted from their glasses. X. Strabismus and ocular paralysis. Strabismus {squint) is always present when the two eyes are ;iiot directed simultaneously towards the same object, and is usually accompanied at some time by double vision {diplopia). Strabismus occurs from over-action, weakness, or paralysis of one or more of the extrinsic ocular muscles. It is usually convergent or divergent, but may be upward or downward. It may be constant or occasional {'periodic)^ and though usually one eye alone squints, yet sometimes both eyes may do so in turn {alternating). When the squinting eye follows its fellow normally in all its movements the squint is called con- comitant in contra-distinction to paralytic. Diplopia is much more marked in paralytic than in concomitant squint. The non-squinting eye is called the fixing eye, and strabismus may be estimated by telling the patient to look at an object about two feet away with the fixing eye, and then taking the distance between the middle of the palpebral aperture and the middle of the cornea of the squinting eye {primary squint); on now making the squinting become the fixing eye the amount of deviation of the original fixing eye is taken {secondary squint). In paralytic cases the secondary squint exceeds the primary, but it is equal to the primary in concomitant squint.DISEASES OF REGIONS. 554 Convergent strabismus {internal squint) is most commoiilY due to hypermetropia, owing to tlie fact tliat the excessive accommodation necessitates a corresponding convergence; but it may occur occasionally in myopia, and follows division or paralysis of an external rectus. Divergent strabismus [external squint) is caused from insufficiency of convergence power, and weakness of the internal recti, especially in myopia; from defective vision of an eye, as in cornea nebulae, &c. ; and from division or paralysis of an internal rectus. The treatment of concomitant strabismus is by atro- pine, eserine, spectacles, prisms, and stereoscopic exercises. The operations that may be required are either tenotomy of the muscle of the affected side, or advancement of the muscle of the opposite side. As a rule only one eye Fig. 196.—Strabismus hook. should be operated on at a time. The treatment of paralytic strabismus is by constitutional remedies and galvanism of the affected muscle. Tenotomy of the iiiternal rectus.—Patient lying down and under cocaine or general anaesthesia; operator stand- ing in front and to the right hand side. Introduce the spring speculum, and pinch up with a pair of fixation forceps the conjunctiva and subconjunctival tissue at the point of junction of the lower horizontal and inner vertical tangents to the cornea. Divide this fold with a pair of blunt-pointed scissors, making the incision only large enough to admit the points of the scissors, and then, passing the scissors through the incision, divide the cap- | sule of Tenon. Pass the strabismus hook (Pig. 196) into | the wound, directing its point backwards, and then turn | the end of the hook upwards between the globe and the tendon, until its point is seen beneath the conjunctiva, at the upper border of the tendon. Introduce the scissors through the wound and open the blades on either side of the tendon between the globe and the hook, and by one or two snips cut through the tendon. Eemove the hook and then reintroduce it to see if the tendon is completelySTRABlSMtiS AKB OCtlLAR PARALYSIS. 555 divided. The eyes should be bandaged for about twelve I hours. The method is the same for the external rectus, ! but it must be remembered that the tendon is situated a little further back. Ocular Paralyses.—Complete Paralysis of the Third Nerve is characterized by complete ptosis; external stra- bismus ; inability to move the eye directly up, down or in; crossed diplopia; moderate mydriasis and inactivity of the pupil to all the reflexes ; and paralysis of accom- modation. Any one of the muscles supplied by the third nerve may be separately paralysed, also the superior oblique (fourth nerve) and the external rectus (sixth nerve). Paralysis of the external rectus gives rise to internal strabismus, inability to move the eye outwards, and homonymous diplopia. It is the most common of the ocular palsies, probably from the long course of the sixth nerve. All the external ocular muscles may be paralysed at the same time {ophthalmoplegia externa). The intra-ocular muscles are the pupillary [sphincter pupilloi) and the ciliary. The pupillary muscle may be affected by paralysis of the third or short ciliary nerves, producing medium mydriasis, and by paralysis of the cer- vical sypipathetic or long ciliary nerves, producing partial miosis. The ciliary muscle may be paralysed {cycloplegia) by affections of the third or short ciliary nerves, usually in conjunction with paralysis of the pupillary muscle. It may be paralysed alone as in diphtheria. In certain diseases, especially locomotor ataxia, the pupil acts to accommodation but not to light [Argyll-Rohertson or spinal pupil). The treatment of ocular paralysis is chiefly constitu- tional. Many are of syphilitic origin and require mercury or iodide of potassium, but faradisation of the affected muscle may also be employed. In mydriasis and cyclo- plegia, the use of eserine is indicated. Nystagmus {involuntary oscillations of the eyeball) is generally binocular, and the movements of the eyes are usually horizontal or rotatory. It occurs generally in early life, and is then due to defect of sight from corneal ulcer, &c., sometimes in adult life, in cases of dissemi- nated scleritis, &c., and in miners, in whom it is probably due to their position at work.556 DISEASES OE REGIONS. DISEASES OE THE LIPS, CHEEKS, AND MOUTH. Herpes oe the lip.—A crop of herpetic vesicles wliich burst in a few days leaving small scabs, are common on tbe lip during slight attacks of catarrh, in- digestion, &c. Their occurrence in pneumonia is well known. Cracks and eissures oe the lip following exposure to cold, &c., in dyspeptics, are very common, and if neglected, may form deep and painful j&ssures, prone to bleed and obstinate to heal. A simple ointment, and if persistent, touching them with nitrate of silver, will generally suffice to cure them. They must not be mis- taken for the fissures about the corners of the mouth so common in congenital and acquired syphilis. Papillomata or warty growths oe the lip are of interest in that they are liable as age advances to become epitheliomatous. They may sometimes grow out in the form of horns. Extirpation with the knife is the proper treatment. SuPEREiciAL ULCERS on the inner surface of the lip are common accompaniments of errors in digestion, and of secondary syphilis. There are usually similar ulcers on the side of the tongue and cheeks. Nitrate of silver or chromic acid lotions are the best local applications. N^YUS OE THE LIP when small may be touched with nitric acid or ethylate of sodium; and when pendulous and projecting from, the free margin, ligatured. When involving the whole substance of the lip it may be treated by electrolysis, or, better, excised by means of a Y-shaped incision. Hypertrophy oe the lip, generally the upper, is often met with in connection with cracks and fissures in strumous children, and is known as the strumous Up. A similar condition is sometimes met with in congenital syphilis and in chronic nasal catarrh. The thickening, as a rule, disappears under constitutional treatment, and as the patient grows older. The removal of a wedge-shaped piece, as advised by some, can seldom be necessary. Carbuncle oe the lip is a most dangerous disease, as it is very liable to lead to infective phlebitis of the facial vein which may spread thence through the ophthalmic vein to the cavernous and other cranial sinuses, and terminate in infective meningitis or in general blood557 EPITHELIOMA. poisoning. Pree incisions should be made, the sloughs scraped away, antiseptics applied, and the strength sup- ported by fluid nourishment and stimulants. Adenomata, or labial glandular tumours (Paget), occasionally occur in the lip as small, smooth, elastic growths projecting under the mucous membrane. They sometimes contain nodules of cartilage, and are then of harder consistency. They should be removed from the mucous surface to avoid scarring. Cysts due to obstruction of the mucous follicles are frequent in the lip. They contain a glairy fluid, and appear as small, tense, semi-translucent, globular, bluish- pink swellings on the mucous surface. A free incision through the mucous membrane, and removal of the cyst- wall with forceps, is perhaps the best treatment. Epithelioma nearly always occurs in men, and on the lower lip ; and although it may affect non-smokers, it generally appears to be due to the irritation and heat of a short clay pipe. It begins as a crack, small ulcer, or in- durated tubercle, and may either spread superficially along the free margin of the lip, or extenddeeplyinto its substance. Sooner or later it involves the whole lip and adjoining parts, becomes adherent to the jaw, and invades the bone. The lyniphatic glands in the neck become involved, but dissemination through internal organs is rare. If removed early, it may not recur till after a long period of immunity, or perhaps not at all. It seldom returns in the scar, but in the lymphatic glands, the patient dying of exhaustion induced by ulcerating and bleeding masses in the neck. The affection is very apt to be mistaken for hard chancre^ and the latter has ere now been cut away under the impression that it was an epithelioma. The following points should serve to distinguish them:—1. Epithelioma generally occurs in the old, and in men, and on the lower lip; chancre in the young, in women, and on the upper lip. 2. The epitheliomatous ulcer has hard, sinuous, and everted edges, and an indurated and warty base; the chancrous is raised, excoriated, smoother, and the in- duration is more circumscribed. 3. In the malignant a:ffection, the glands are not affected till late in the disease—perhaps six months; in the syphilitic early, say six weeks. Moreover, in chancre secondary symptoms will be present or soon appear, and the disease readily yields to antisyphilitic remedies. Treatment,—Eree and early excision is imperative. The growth may be eitherDISEASES OF REGIONS. 558 included in a V-shaped incision, tlie wound being after- wards united by hare-lip pins, or if superficial, freely shaved off. The glands in the neck, if enlarged and not too extensively diseased, should be extirpated at the same time. When the bone is involved, a portion of the jaw may be removed if the whole disease can be got away. Hare-lip is a congenital malformation in which the upper lip is vertically cleft on one or both sides of the median line. It is so named from its fancied resemblance to the lip of the hare. It is produced by the failure of union of the fronto-nasal process which forms the median portion of the lip with the superior maxillary processes which form the lateral portions. The fissure will, there- fore, be opposite the suture between the superior max- illary and premaxillary bones, the situation at which the union between the above-mentioned processes nor- mally occurs; and it will be single or double, according as the failure of union occurs on one or both sides. It may exist as a mere notch on the free margin of the lip, but it more frequently extends deeply through the sub- stance of the lip into the nostril above. Single hare- lip is far more common than double hare-lip, and occurs much more often on the left than on the right side. The two margins of the cleft are often unequal in length, the lip on one side of the cleft being on a lower level than on the other. In double hare-lip the central portion is generally shorter than natural, and along with the pre- maxillary bone and the incisor teeth frequently proj ects forwards, the two clefts being often of unequal extent. Cleft palate is a frequent comiomitant of hare-lip, and malformations, such as club-foot, spina bifida, &c.,. are not uncommon in other parts of the body at the same time. Treatment,—The edges of the cleft should be pared, and the raw surfaces brought into contact, and there held by hare-lip pins or sutures, so that primary union may occur. The operation is best done between the third and fifth months of infancy, as very young infants bear haemor- rhage badly, and later, the troubles of teething begin. To ensure success the child should be brought into the best possible state of health by careful nursing and feed- ing, and any constitutional taint, as syphilis, corrected by appropriate remedies. There are various methods of operating. Here only559 HARE-LIP. the more simple can be described. Whatever method is adopted, the objects to be kept in view are—1, to obtain primary union throughout the wound, and hence the minimum of scarring ; 2, to ensure the margin of the prolabium and free border of the lip respectively being in line ; 3, to prevent the formation after the operation of a notch at the line of union. These objects are best attained by well freeing the lip from the gums at the apex of the cleft so as to avoid tension ; by using a sharp knife so as to ensure clean incisions; by taking care to completely pare the margins of the cleft, and to remove suffi- cient tissue to secure broad, raw surfaces; by passing the hare-lip pins on the same level, and deeply enough to bring the whole of the raw surfaces into contact; and by making the cuts in paring the edges concave towards the Operation for single hare-lip, —Having placed a Smith's clamp (Fig. 197) on the lip Fig. 197.—Smith's clamp for on" either side of the cleft controlling haemorrhage dur- to control haemorrhage, pare operation for hare-hp. the edges of the cleft with a sharp nari-ow-bladed scalpel, taking care to remove the whole of the rounded portion of the prolabium on each side of the base of the cleft; and having freed the lip from the gums at the apex of the cleft^ bring the raw surfaces together by hare-lip pins, passing the lower one first to ensure the free edge of the lip and prolabium being in line. The lower pin should be entered a quarter of an inch from the margin of the cleft, and made to transfix the coronary artery; but it should not penetrate the mucous membrane, as if this be done the mucous membrane will double in and prevent union. A second pin will generally be necessary, and should be passed in the same way, and a silk suture twisted round each.' The sharp ends of the pins should be nipped off with pliers, a small piece of oiled lint placed beneath them to prevent injury to the cheek, and several sutures of horsehair passed superficially to keep the edges of the wound in accurate apposition. The parts should then be dried, and covered with collodion, and a dumb-bell- shaped piece of strapping applied across from cheek middle line of the cleft, so as to lengthen the line of union and allow for retraction.560 DISEASES OF REGIONS. to cheek to prevent traction. The pins should be re- moved at the end of twenty-four to thirty-six hours, as otherwise they will leave scars. The twisted suture should be left on till firm union has occurred, and the strapping re-applied. Where the fissure does not extend through the whole lip, an inverted Y-shaped incision may be made, with its angle just above the apex of the cleft (Fig. 198), each arm stopping short of the prolabium; the tissues included in the arms of the Y should now be drawn down, and a diamond-shaped wound thus formed (Fig. 199). On bringing the raw surfaces together, a projection in place of the fissure will exist on the free border of the lip (Fig. 200); but this will disappear in time, leaving the lip nearly natural. When there is Fig. 198. Fig. 199. Fig. 200. Figs. 198, 199, 200.—Operation for single hare-hp v/hen the fissure does not extend into the nostril. much irregularity between the two portions of the lip (see Fig. 201), the incision on the shallower side should stop short of the prolabium, so as to allow the flap thus formed to remain attached at its base. On the deeper side the incision should slope off at an angle through the prolabium, completely removing the tissue. The flap left on the shallower side should be now turned down and united to the sloped-ofE portion on the deeper side, and the vertical portions of the incision brought together as usual. Thus, what was the free edge of the cleft on the shallower side, now becomes the free edge of the lip (Fig. 202). Operation for double hare-lip.—When the premaxillary process projects, it should not, as a rule, be removed, but be forced back into place by partially detaching it with the cutting pliers blunted by being wrapped in lint, and the lip united over it. There are many ways of uniting the lip. The simplest, perhaps (Figs. 203 and 204), con- sists in paring completely the central portion, and thenEODEISTT IJLCER. 561 I making two flaps from the lateral portions, bringing them down and uniting them to each other below the I central portion, and' also to it, so that they may fill up ; the gap left by the deficient length of the central portion. I EoDENT ULCER most often occurs on the face, espe- i cially near the inner canthus of the eyelids and the side of ^ Fig. 201. ' Fig. 202. Figs. 201, 202.—Operation for single hare-lip when the sides of the fissure are unequal. the nose, and is therefore conyeniently described here. It is also met with on the scalp, the forehead, and the ear, and more rarely on the neck and chin, and even on the limbs and breast. Eodent ulcer is generally regarded as a form of carcinoma; it differs from ordinary carcinoma, however, Fig. 203. Fig. 204. Figs. 203, 204.—Operation for double hare-lip. in that it is much slower in its growth, and does not be- come disseminated, affect the lymphatics, nor return after complete removal. Pathology.—In the early stages the disease is not an ulcer but a new growth, and in exceptional cases the new growth prej)onderates over the ulceration, so that a mass of some size is formed. Eodent ulcer, unlike epithelioma, does not grow from the surface, but begins in the subcutaneous tissue, and it is only after it has spread some little distance superficially that the epidermis w. o oDISEASES OF REGIONS. 562 ulcerates. The new growth is believed to originate from the external root-sheath of the hair follicles, or from the sebaceous or the sweat glands. Microscopically the earliest manifestation is the appearance under the epi- dermis of irregular groups of small round or oval cells lying in a fibrous matrix. These cells may sometimes be seen continuous with the cells of the external root- sheath. Here and there irregular and ill-formed cell- nests occur. The ulceration is preceded, indeed is caused, by the extension of the new growth. From squamous- celled epithelioma rodent ulcer differs in that in the latter the cells are smaller and rounder, cell-nests are either absent or are ill-formed, and the processes of the growth spread superficially instead of deeply, and are flask-shaped and much branched. Signs.—The disease is one of ad- vanced life, and seldom occurs before fifty. It is twice as common in men as in women. It generally begins as a small tubercle, which later becomes an ulcer. The ulcer is generally single; its edges are irregular, sinuous, and a little raised, and but very slightly if at all indurated; its base is slightly depressed, glazed, void of granula- tions, generally of a pale pink colour, and at times covered with a scab. The skin around is healthy. Al- though attempts at cicatrization are sometimes seen, the cicatrix readily breaks down, and the ulcer, which never quite heals, slowly extends, destroying muscle, cartilage, and bone, till at the end, perhaps, of twenty or thirty years it has destroyed a great part of the bones of the face, one or both of the eyes, and the cartilages and bones of the nose, leaving a horrible and unsightly chasm. Treatment.—The growth or ulcer should be freely ex- cised. If done early the prognosis is good, as it is only when some of the growth is left that a recurrence need be feared. Even in the later stages when much tissue has been destroyed, free removal with the knife and the application of caustics to what cannot be thus re- moved, will sometimes stop the further progress of the growth. Stomatitis, or inflammation of the mouth, may be divided into the aphthous, the parasitic, the ulcerative, the syphilitic, the mercurial, and the gangrenous. Aphthous stomatitis generally depends upon some digestive disturbance, and is common in young children. It is characterized by white patches of erosion on the mucous membrane of the lips, cheek, and tongue. Ehu-563 STOMATITIS. barb and magnesia, and locally borax and honey, are the usual remedies. ' Parasitic stomatitis, or thrusb, resembles the preceding, but depends upon the presence of a parasite known as the oidium albicans. It is generally merely symptomatic of other diseases, to the alleviation and cure of which the treatment should be directed. Ulcerative stomatitis is more serious, but is still, as a rule, superficial. It may depend upon digestive disturb- ance, local irritation of cutting teeth, or bad hygiene. The ulcers are covered with a grey slough, the gums are red and swollen, and the breath is foul. A stimulating plan of treatment is generally required, with attention to the digestive functions, hygienic surroundings, &c. Locally, the mouth should be rinsed out with a wash of chlorate of potash. Syphilitic stomatitis is common during the secondary and tertiary stages of syphilis, and requires no further mention. Mercurial stomatitis, depending upon an overdose of mercury, or some idiosyncrasy of the patient to the drug, is of less frequent occurrence in its severe forms than formerly. It is attended with foul breath, swollen tongue, spongy gums, profuse salivation, swelling of the parotid and submaxillary glands, and loosening of the teeth. It may terminate in gangrenous ulceration, with extensive destruction of the soft tissues, and perhaps necrosis of the bones. Chlorate of potash, both internally and as a mouth-wash, should be given; and the strength sup- ported by fluid nourishment and, if indicated, by stimu- lants. Gangrenous stomatitis or cancrum oris, is a phagedsenic ulceration, which begins on the inside of the cheek, and if not checked rapidly involves its whole thickness. It is very apt to terminate in blood-poisoning. It appears to depend upon thrombosis of the capillaries, a condition recently shown to be induced by the presence of a specific micro-organism. It is most frequently met with in under-fed, debilitated children recovering from one of the exanthemata, typhoid fever, &c., or subjected to bad hygienic conditions. A foul and black slough forms in the mouth, and a dusky patch soon appears on the surface of the cheek, which becomes hard and brawny, and then black. If the disease is not soon arrested, extensive sloughing occurs, typhoid symptoms set in, and the 0 0 2DISEASES OF REGIONS. 564 patient dies comatose, of general blood-poisoning, or of bronchitis or pneumonia. It appears to be of a nature similar to the gangrenous inflammation of the female genitals known as noma. The treatment must be ener- getic. The parts should be well dried, and thoroughly destroyed with fuming nitric acid; or boroglyceride may be applied in milder cases. The strength must be sup- ported with strong beef-tea, brandy-and-egg mixture and nutrient enemata. Eecumbency should be insisted upon during convalescence, since there is a tendency to fatal syncope, which may remain for some time. Salivary calculi are sometimes met with blocking the orifice of Wharton's duct, or, more rarely, one of the ducts of the other salivary glands. They are composed of animal matter, impregnated with phosphate and a trace of carbonate of lime. Generally they can be seen, or at any rate felt, in the interior of the mouth, as hard bodies in the course of the duct. They may give rise, by causing retention of the secretion of the gland, to swelling, pain, and tenderness in the obstructed gland, and sometimes to suppuration and salivary fistula. An incision through the mucous membrane over the calculus will allow of its removal with a scoop or forceps. Should stricture of the duct follow it must be divided transversely. Eanula is a bluish-white, semi-translucent, globular or ovoid swelling situated in the floor of the mouth beneath the tongue, and containing a glairy mucoid fluid. It is probably produced by the enlargement of one of the mucous follicles so numerous in that situation. Mr. Morrant Baker has conclusively shown that it is not usually a dilatation of Wharton's duct, as was formerly taught. It is painless, but interferes, to a greater or less extent according to its size, with the movements of the tongue in speech and deglutition. Sometimes these cysts attain a large size and extend deeply in the neck, pre- senting below the jaw. Treatment.—After painting the parts with a twenty per cent, solution of cocaine, a portion of the cyst-wall should be pinched up with nibbed forceps, and a good-sized piece of it excised with curved scissors. A deep hold must be taken or the mucous membrane, which adheres but loosely to the cyst, will alone be caught up. The fluid should be squeezed out, and the lining membrane cauterized with a stick of nitrate of silver, and the opening kept free by the daily passage of a probe, so that healing may take\ DISEASES OE THE TONGUE. 565 place from the bottom. If a mere incision is made, the cyst is nearly sure to fill again. A seton- will sometimes answer, but it is not always reliable; if, therefore, the treatment above" indicated fails, the cyst ^ should be dis- sected out. Congenital, dermoid, or deep sebaceous cysts.—. Pathology. — These cysts, which contain a grumous, sebaceous material, project both under the tongue and in the neck below the jaw. Those in the middle line of the neck or tongue may be due to, 1. Enlargement of the hyoid bursa, 2. Dermoid formations, and 3. Eemains of the thyroid duct [His's duct). In the last case they are situated (a) near the foramen caecum, bulging under the tongue, or (6) in the neck, projecting perhaps as low as the pyramidal or middle lobe of the thyroid body. Those on one side of the neck are due to dermoid forma- tions in the regions of the branchial clefts. Signs.— Fluctuation may often be obtained by one finger in the mouth and another on the cyst in the neck. As they in- crease in size, they send prolongations in various direc- tions, and sometimes become connected with the carotid sheath. In the latter instance the pulsation of the carotid may be communicated to the cyst. Treatment.—When not too large, and apparently moveable, an attempt should be made to remove them through the mouth to prevent scarring. When too large for this, they must be dissected out through an incision in the neck DISEASES OF THE TONGUE. Tongue-tie is due to the tongue being more or less tightly bound down to the floor of the mouth by the shortness of the frsenum. It is apt, when well marked, to interfere with sucking, and later, with distinct speech. It is easily remedied by dividing the fraenum with probe- pointed scissors, taking care to direct the points down- wards and backwards and merely to notch the free border, lest the ranine artery be wounded, an accident which, in infants, has been attended with severe, and in some cases fatal, haemorrhage. If the division of the freenum is too free the tongue may loll backwards, press- ing the epiglottis over the entrance of the larynx, and produce severe dyspnoea or even fatal asphyxia—" swal- lowing the tongue," as it has been called. On drawing566 DISEASES OE REGIONS. the tongue forwards tlie symptoms will at once cease; but a ligature should be passed through its tip and secured to the cheek, with instructions to again draw the tongue forwards with the ligature, should the symptoms recur. NoN-DiEEERENTiATiON of the tongue from the sur- rounding tissues gives rise to the rare malformation in which the tongue appears bound down to the floor of the mouth. This condition must not be mistaken for that called ankyloglossia, in which the tongue, in consequence of cicatricial adhesions, presents a similar appearance. Division of the adhesions in the latter case will do much to remedy the affection. Macroglossia, or hypertrophy of the tongue may be congenital or acquired. In either case it is rare. Signs,—The whole tongue is uniformly enlarged, and sometimes so much so that it presses forwards the alveolar process of the lower jaw with the incisor teeth, and pro- trudes from the mouth, hanging downwards as low as the chin. When thus exposed the mucous membrane becomes cracked, spongy, and bluish.-red, and is subject to repeated attacks of subacute glossitis. Pathology,—- The affection appears to be due to a blocking of the lymphatics at the base of the tongue; at any rate the lymphatics are found enlarged and distended with lymph, and the connective tissue is increased in amount and infiltrated with lymphoid corpuscles. It appears related, therefore, with elephantiasis — a condition sometimes found CO-existing in the neck and other parts of the body. The only treatment of much avail is excision of part of the organ. The removal of a Y-shaped piece has been attended with excellent results. It should be done before the teeth and jaw have been deformed by the pressure. Acute parenchymatous glossitis, or deep inflam- mation of the tongue may be due to mercury, fever, iodism, injury, carious teeth, stings of insects, abscess beneath the jaw; sometimes there is no apparent cause. Signs.—In severe cases the whole tongue is swollen, and protrudes from the mouth, interfering with speech and deglutition, and sometimes threatening suffocation. It frequently ends in abscess. It is often attended with high fever and salivation, and may be quite sudden in its onset. Treatment.—Should the milder means applicable to acute inflammations fail, free longitudinal incisions,DISEASES OE THE TONGUE. 567 which need not be deep, should be made along the dorsum of the tongue, and the swelling will usually subside in a few hours. SuppuiiATiON' and abscess sometimes follow an attack of acute glossitis; but the preceding inflammation may be so slight as to be overlooked. The abscess, which then forms a firm, tense, elastic swelling in the sub- stance of the tongue, may be mistaken for a gumma or carcinoma; but the diagnosis is readily made by an exploratory puncture. A free incision is the proper treatment, the cavity filling up in a few days. Ohronio supereicial GLOSSITIS, also known as psoriasis, ichthyosis, or leucoplakia of the tongue, is a chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane, and may be induced by syphilis, excessive smoking, some forms of dyspepsia, the abuse of spirits, jagged teeth, &c. It begins as a hypersemia of the papillary layer, and presents at this stage slightly-raised red patches better seen if the tongue be dried. This is followed by excessive growth of epithelium, the cells of which assume a horny character, and the patches which were previously red, become bluish white, and later, opaque white. Several of the patches may now coalesce, covering in severe cases the whole or greater part of the dorsum of the tongue. It is this condition to which the term psoriasis has been applied from its superficial resemblance to psoriasis of the skin. Still later, from excessive heaping up of the epithelium, the surface of the organ becomes cracked and nodular, simulating ichthyosis, a name by which it has also been called. As the pathology of the affection, however, is distinct from that of the above-named affections of the skin, it would be better to drop these terms, and to call the affection either leucoplakia [ivhite patches) or chronic glossitis. After variable periods, the hypertrophied papillae may atrophy, or ulceration may occur; or the epithelium may grow into the substance of the tongue and the disease become epitheliomatous. At times the inflammation does not give rise to an increase of epithe- lium, the tongue then appearing smooth, glazed, and red. The disease, except when ulceration occurs, causes little or no pain, and often gives rise to no inconvenience ; but it should always be carefully watched for any sign of its becoming epitlEieliomatous. A similar condition of the mucous surface of the lips and cheeks is a common accompaniment, especially in smokers {smoker's patches).568 DISEASES OF REGIONS. Treatment,—All sources of irritation, especially smoking, stimulants and condiments, should be avoided; anti- syphilitic remedies given where indicated; and soothing washes of chlorate of potash or borax applied. Should any of the leucoplakial patches show signs of ulceration the whole patch should be at once excised; or should signs of epithelioma already be present the whole or half of the tongue should be removed. Ulceration oe the tongue maybe simple,tubercular, syphilitic, lupoid, or epitheliomatous. ' Aphthous ulcera- tion, and that following mercurial salivation, have been described under stomatitis. Simple ulceration may depend on digestive disturbance {dyspeptic ulcer) or on irritation, as of a sharp or carious tooth, hot pipe stem, &c. {dental or irritable ulcer). Both varieties are generally superficial, and unattended with the induration and infiltration characteristic of epi- thelioma. The dyspeptic ulcer usually occurs on the dorsum of the tongue near the tip. The ulceration is sometimes extensive and multiple, and is often accom- panied by some superficial glossitis at other parts of the tongue. The dental ulcer is situated on the side of the tongue, and generally corresponds with a carious or sharp tooth. At first it may be a mere superficial red abrasion, but if neglected, it becomes a distinct ulcer, irregular in shape, and surrounded with an inflammatory area. The edges are abrupt and a little raised, but not everted; the base is depressed, sloughing, and sometimes phagedsenic, but not indurated unless the ulcer has existed some time, when it may become callous. It is always unattended with infiltration. Treatment.—In the dyspeptic ulcer the diet and bowels must be carefully regulated, bismuth or soda in infusion of calumba given internally, and sooth- ing washes or borax and honey applied locally. Caustics must be avoided. In the dental ulcer any offending tooth musd) be filed, stopped, scraped, or extracted, in short, every source of irritation removed. The ulcer will then rapidly heal, but if neglected it may become epithelio- matous. On the first appearance of infiltration, therefore, free excision is imperative. Tubercular ulceration of the tongue is rare, and generally occurs in young adult males, the subjects of phthisis or of general tuberculosis. It usually begins as a small pimple or nodule on the dorsum of the tongue, especially near the tip. This, after a short time, breaks down into aULCERATION OF THE TONGUE. 569 round, oval or irregular, painful ulcer. The edges are slightly raised, vertical, inverted, or undermined, some- times slightly thickened, l^ut never everted or greatly indurated. The base is uneven or nodular, and covered with coarse, pinkish-grey granulations, or with a grey or yellow shreddy slough. Sometimes several smaller ulcers appear around the one first formed, and coalesce with it. The ulceration usually progresses in spite of treatment, the patient dying of phthisis or other tuber- cular affection. The absence of glandular enlargement, of induration, and of signs of syphilis, along with the presence of tubercle elsewhere, and the characters given above should serve to distinguish it from syphilitic and epitheliomatous ulceration. Treatment has hitherto been of little service. The ulcer, however, may be soothed by Ferrier's snuff or cocaine; or if the constitutional state does not forbid, it may be scraped with a Yolkmann's spoon and dusted with iodoform, cauterized with nitrate of silver, or cut out. The usual constitutional treatment for tubercle should, of course, at the same time be em- ployed. {Syphilitic ulceration may be divided for practical pur- poses into the superficial and deep; the former commonly occurring in the early, the latter in the later stages of syphilis, [a) The superficial ulcers affect the side of the tongue, and are frequently associated with similar ulcers on the lips, cheeks, palate, gums, and fauces. They are usually of an oval or irregular shape and have sharply cut edges, an ash-grey base, and a surrounding areola of inflammation. They readily disappear under the influence of mercury, and the local application of a lotion of nitrate of silver or chromic acid. These ulcers are sometimes associated with a heaping-up of epithelium similar to that which occurs in mucous tubercles, {b) The deep ulcers are due to the breaking down of syphilitic gummata. They generally occur in the centre of the dorsum of the tongue as deep irregular excavations, with raised, slightly concave or undermined edges, and a base covered with a yellow slough and debris of breaking-down tissue. They are usually surrounded with a red areola. On healing, they leave characteristic, cracked, or stellate- looking scars. Their situation at or near the middle of the tongue, the absence of induration and of glandular enlargement, the history of the previous gummatous swellings and of syphilis, and their amenability to anti-DISEASES OF REGIONS. syphilitic remedies, should serve to distinguish them from squamous or other forms of carcinoma. Treatment,— Large doses of iodide of potassium, combined with quinine if the constitution is at all broken, and the local application of a cleansing gargle, as chlorate of potash, will rapidly cause them to heal. The scars left by these ulcers sometimes, though rarely, degenerate into epithe- lioma. Should any induration therefore appear in them, their free removal with the knife should at once be undertaken. Lupoid ulceration of the tongue is very rare. I have only seen one case during an experience of twenty years at St. Bartholomew's Hospital. This was under the care of my colleague, Mr. Butlin. The case occurred in a young girl with very extensive lupus about the nose, lips, and mouth. Scraping with a Yolkmann's spoon was the treatment adopted. Epitheliomatous ulceration is due to the breaking down of squamous carcinoma. It is described under ulceration instead of amongst new growths, as in consequence- of the irritation from the teeth, food, and the movements of the tongue, epithelioma in this situation very rapidly ulcerates, even if it does not begin as an ulcer: hence it is from other ulcers rather than from new growths that it has to be distinguished. It is much more common in men than in women, and seldom occurs under the age of forty. Often it is due to the irritation of a carious or sharp tooth, and then begins as a dental ulcer; or it may arise in the scar left by a syphilitic ulcer, or follow upon the condition of the tongue known as chronic superficial glossitis. Occasionally it begins as a wart or pimple in patients in whom no cause for it can be assigned. It is most common on the side of the tongue opposite the molar or bicuspid teeth. The ulcer is irregular, with raised, sinuous, hard and everted edges, and an uneven, excavated, or warty base; while the tissues around are infiltrated and indurated. Its growth is generally rapid, and attended with neuralgic pain and copious salivation. If allowed to take its course it spreads backwards to the pillars of the fauces, downwards to the- floor of the mouth, and inwards to the opposite half of the tongue; whilst the submaxillary lymphatic glands, and later the lymphatic glands in the neck become enlarged, and the parts about the angle of the jaw infiltrated and matted together by the disease. Secondary ulcers then form571 TUMOURS OF THE TOTs^GUE. from the breaking down of the glands in the neck, and the patient dies, worn out by pain and irritation, or exhausted by haemorrhage; but like squamous carcinoma in other parts it seldom becomes disseminated in distant organs. Treatment.—Early and free extirpation ought in every instance to be undertaken, but even then a recurrence in the glands of the neck is only too frequent. When the disease has attained some magnitude, the propriety of removal becomes a question, and opinions differ under what circumstances it ought to be attempted. Its removal is contra-indicated:—1, when it has extended so far backwards that the finger cannot reach healthy tissue beyond it; 2, when it is firmly and extensively adherent to the jaw; 3, when the tongue is firmly bound down to the floor of the mouth; 4, when the glands not only below the jaw, but deep in the neck, are much impli- cated; and 0, when the patient is too weak or enfeebled by age, or emaciated from the disease itself, or from disease of other organs, to stand an operation. Moderate enlargement of the glands, slight adhesion to the jaw, and some infiltration of the floor of the mouth, do not, in my opin;ion, forbid an operation (especially if the patient is suffering from much pain, and is otherwise in good health), provided the whole of the disease with the en- larged glands can be got away. Where the disease is regarded as beyond the reach of extirpation, the pain and salivation may often be relieved by removing, not only decayed, but sound teeth that may be irritating the growth, or by stretching or dividing the gustatory nerve. This, which however is sometimes impracticable on account of the extension of the growth, may be done by making a small incision transversely from the last molar tooth through the mucous membrane to the side of the tongue, then passing an aneurysm needle into the wound, and hooking up the nerve, which is here quite superflcial. Cocaine, or morphia and glycerine, may be painted on the part, whilst the patient's remaining span of life may be rendered bearable by increasing doses of opium or' morphia. TuMOUES OE THE TOIS'GUE.—Pajpillomatous or ivarty growths are not uncommon, and may be distinguished from epithelioma, into which they are liable to degenerate as age advances, by the absence of induration about their base. They should be freely removed by the knife or scissors. Vascular timours or ncevi and JymphangioniataDISEASES OP REGIONS. 572 are occasionally met with, and may be destroyed by the galvano-cautery, or removed by the ligature or knife. Fibrous^ fatty^ myxomatous, adenomatous, sarcomatous, and carcinomatous tumours other than the squamous variety, which has already been described under epitheliomatous ulceration, are too rare in the tongue to call for further remark. For mucous tubercles and gummata see Syphilis of the Tongue. Syphilis of the toi^gue may occur as: 1. Primary chancre. 2. Mucous tubercles. 3. Superficial glossitis. 4. Superficial and deep ulceration; and 5. Grummata. Primary chancres, which are very rare in this situation, require no description. Mucous tubercles consist, as else- where, of heapings up of epithelium over infiltrated and enlarged papillae, and appear as flattened elevations of a greyish-white colour. They are generally present on the palate and fauces at the same time Mercury internally, and black wash locally, cause them rapidly to disappear. Biiperficial glossitis and the superficial and deep ulcerations have already been described. Gummata occur as hard, globular masses in the fibrous tissue of the septum, and also in the substance of the muscle. They may be single or multiple. The mucous membrane covering them is at first natural in appearance, but, as the gumma softens, it gives way, and a deep syphilitic ulcer is produced. Iodide of potassium is the remedy. Excision" oe the tongue may be performed in many ways. Only those methods in most general use will be here described. They will be considered under the heads of, excision with (1) the knife, (2) the ecraseur, (3) the scissors, (4) the galvano-cautery. 1. Excision with the hnife, on account of the profuse haemorrhage which attends it, is only applicable when the anterior portion of the tongue requires removal. The tongue should be well drawn forward and the diseased portion cut away with one sweep of the knife, and the bleeding vessels tied. 2. The ecraseur is frequently used at St. Bartholomew's. The mouth having been widely opened by a gag, two ligatures are passed through the tongue, one on either side of the tip, and the mucous membrane, where it is reflected from the tongue to the jaw, is divided with scissors along with some of the fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus. The mucous membrane covering the dorsum of the tongue is next divided in the middle line by a bistoury from theEXCISION or THE TOIS^GUE. 573 tip as far back as to be well beyond tbe disease. This allows the tongue to be readily'split with the fingers into two halves. The cord of the ecraseur is now passed over one half, and well behind the disease, and, if the whole tongue is to be removed, the cord of a second ecraseur over the other half. The cord being tightened by screw- ing up the ecraseur, the tongue is cut through. The lingual artery, with the gustatory nerve, is drawn out in the form of a loop by the cord of the ecraseur (Fig. 205). A ligature should be passed round the artery with an Fia. 205.—Excision of the tongue with the ecraseur. aneurysm needle, and the artery severed in front of the ligature. The anterior part of the tongue will now come away, leaving the ligature on the artery in the stump of the tongue. The above is a slight modification of the operation introduced by Mr. Morrant Baker. 3. Excision with the scissors as practised by Mr. White- head, consists in drawing the tongue well forward by a ligature through its tip, dividing the frsenum, and then separating the tongue from its attachments beginning from below by a series of short snips with blunt-pointed scissors, tying the lingual arteries, if seen, before they are divided, or else immediately they are cut. To prevent haemorrhage during the operation, some Surgeons first tie the lingual artery in the neck, whilst others, for fear of blood entering the trachea, perform tracheotomy, and plug574 DISEASES OF REGIONS. the trachea with Hahn's tampon cannula, or merely introduce an ordinary tracheotomy tube, and plug the pharynx firmly with a sponge during the operation. All such measures are however in my opinion quite unneces- sary, and only add to the danger of the operation. Should bleeding occur it can always be arrested temporarily by merely passing the finger into the pharynx and pressing the tongue against the inner surface of the jaw, and then as soon as the mouth has been sponged clear of blood the bleeding vessel can be seized and tied. Or Lockwood's clamp for compressing the lingual artery may be used during the operation if the Surgeon is at all nervous of bleeding, the only objection to it being that it is apt to get a little in the operator's way. When Hahn's cannula is used it is often kept in fo.r several days after the operation for the purpose of excluding septic discharges from the air-passages and so preventing septic pneumonia. The advantages claimed for the scissors versus the ecraseur are that a cleaner cut surface is left and consequently that the Surgeon can be more certain of having removed the whole of the disease, that less sloughing occurs, and that the operation is more quickly performed. Where, how- ever, the tongue is adherent to the floor of the mouth and hence cannot be drawn forward, or the mouth cannot be opened sufficiently wide, or the light is bad, or a reliable assistant is not at hand, removal with the scissors is attended with considerable difficulty, and under these circumstances removal with the ecraseur will be found safer. As regards the amount of sloughing, I am not convinced that more attends the use of the ecraseur than the scissors, and if care is taken to pass the cord of the ecraseur well beyond the disease, as complete a removal can be ensured. 4. Excision with the galvano-cautery is strongly recom- mended by some Surgeons, but is open to the serious objection that it is liable to be followed by secondary haemorrhage on the separation of the sloughs. Whatever operation is undertaken, it will be facilitated when the disease is far back by splitting the cheek from the angle of the mouth to the masseter muscle; whilst, if the disease has invaded the bone, the lower lip may be vertically divided in the middle line, the incision con- tinued on each side for a short distance along the lower border of the ramus of the jaw, the soft parts dissected up, and the infiltrated bone removed by the saw or bone-H DISEASES OF THE IJVULA, PALATE, ETC. 575 pliers. Division of the lower jaw in the middle line and separation of the two halves is a useful procedure when the floor of the mouth is implicated and the disease extends far back. The jaw should be united at the con- clusion of the operation by silver wire or by ivory pegs. When the glands in the neck are much affected, and the disease extends far back, Kocher removes the tongue by an incision extending from the mastoid process to the hyoid bone, and thence to the jaw, extirpating the glands and tying the lingual artery in the course of the operation. During the removal of the tongue chloroform should be administered by a tube passed through the nose (Junker's method), or if tracheotomy is performed and the trachea plugged, through the cannula. The after-treatment consists in dusting the stump with iodoform, painting it with Whitehead's iodoform varnish, packing the mouth with iodoform gauze, or frequently syringing it with Condy's fluid or other antiseptic lotion. Some Surgeons recommend feeding with a tube for the first few days, or by the rectum. It is well to leave a ligature through the stump of the tongue, so that should recurrent hsemorrhage occur, the stump may be drawn forward and the bleeding vessel more easily secured. DISEASES OE THE UVULA, PALATE, EAUCES, AND TONSILS. UVULITIS, or inflammation of the uvula, is a frequent accompaniment of pharyngeal catarrh. The uvula appears red, swollen and oedematous, and often considerably elongated. If the inflammation does not yield to the remedies employed for the catarrh, scarification should be practised. Elonoation oe the uvula may depend upon chronic catarrh of the pharynx, or upon conditions similar to those leading to chronic enlargement of the tonsils. The elongated uvula may come into contact with the back of the tongue or even with the mucous membrane of the larynx, and in either case is productive of a troublesome tickling cough. If astringents fail, the end of the uvula may be amputated. Cleft palate is a congenital defect due to an arrest of development of the processes which normally grow inwards from the superior maxillary and palate bones,576 DISEASES OF EEGIOJS'S. and meeting each other and the vomer in the middle line, and the premaxillary bone in front, form the hard and soft palate. This arrest of development may be complete, the fissure extending in the middle line through the uvula and the soft and hard palate, and hence through the alveolar process in the line of suture either on one or both sides oi the premaxillary bone (Fig, 206). It will in this case be generally combined with double or single hare-lip respectively. When the arrest is only partial, the cleft may extend through the uvula alone, or through the soft palate as well, or through the soft palate and part of the hard; whilst in other instances the alveolar process only on one or both sides of . the middle line may be notched, as occurs so often in hare-lip. The vomer, which is continuous in front with the premaxillary bone, either presents a free border in the middle of the cleft, or is attached to one or other margins of the cleft. The consequences of cleft palate vary with the age of the patient and extent of the cleft. In infancy, suction and deglutition are seri- ously interfered with; whilst later, the voice, articulation, taste, smell, and hearing, may all be impaired. Treatment—The infant if unable to take the breast in an erect or semi-recumbent posture, must be fed with the mother's milk by a spoon passed well to the back of the mouth, or by a feeding-bottle with a large teat to act as a plug to the cleft. The operation for the cure of the deformity should be undertaken before the child begins to speak, which is generally about a year later than usual; but not in mfancy, as bleeding is then badly borne, and the cleft of the bony palate diminishes in width during the first three years of life. Infants, moreover, are very liable to such ailments as catarrh of the pharynx and lungs, and coughing and sneezing tend to tear the parts asunder. The cleft in the hard and soft palate should be closed at the same time. Hare-lip, if present, should be operated on in infancy. Stapliylorraphy or closure of the soft palate. Chloro- form having been given by Junker's apparatus with the tube passed through the nose, and the mouth widely Fig. 206.—The lines of suture in the hard palate.577 STAPHYLOREAPHY. opened by a Smith's gag, which depresses the tongue at the same time (Fig. 207), one end of the bifid uvula is seized with long forceps, and the edge of the cleft pared from below upwards, and the paring repeated on the opposite side. The uvula and the lower part of the palate are then united with horsehair, the upper part with silver wire. The wire sutures are best passed by Smith's Fig. 207.—Smith's gag for cleft palate, with key. Fig. 208.—Smith's needle for passing wire-sutures in cleft palate. ARNOLO & S0NS_L»m>Ot»==iii Fig. 209.—Smith's palate needle for passing horsehair sutures in cleft palate. Fig. 210.—Suture-catcher. needle, by which they can be carried through both sides of the cleft by one transit of the needle. This needle, shown in Fig. 208, has " a small reel attached behind the handle to hold the wire, and a small serrated wheel half way up the handle to protrude the wire from its tubular point." The horsehair may be passed across the cleft by the needle shown in Fig. 209, and as the point of the needle protrudes from the palate, the end of the horsehair is seized and drawn out by the nibbed forceps or by the suture-catcher (Fig. 210) and the needle withdrawn. The p PDISEASES OF REGIONS. 578 silver sutures should be fastened by the wire-twister (Fig. 211) and cut off short, care being taken to hold the edges of the cleft merely in apposition and not to apply any tension. The horsehair should be tied with a treble Surgeon's knot. "When the parts have been brought together any undue tension should be relieved by making lateral incisions through each side of the soft palate parallel to the cleft and just internal to the hamular process with a tenotome on a long handle. By these incisions the levator palati muscles are divided. The palato-pharyngei may also be divided if necessary by notching the posterior pillars of the fauces with scissors. TJrano'plasty^ or closure of the hard palate. The soft palate having been previously brought together in the way described, the operation on the hard may be begun Fig. 211.—Wire-twister. at that stage where the tension becomes such that the soft parts can no longer be brought together. The edges of the cleft having been pared, an incision from a quarter to three-quarters of an inch long should be made on either side of, and parallel to, the cleft through the muco-periosteum down to the bone (Fig. 212, E, e). The incisions should fall a little distance from the alveolar process, so as to avoid wounding the anterior palatine artery. Into one of these incisions a raspatory or an aneurysm needle with a short curve should be introduced, and the muco-periosteum separated from the bone along the whole length of the cleft in the hard palate, avoiding the neighbourhood of the posterior palatine foramen through which the anterior palatine artery runs. The attachment of the muco-periosteum to the posterior margin of the hard palate should be divided with curved scissors passed through the cleft and behind the soft palate, which should be drawn forwards to facilitate this step of the operation. Pressure should be made upon the parts with a small sponge by an assistant, whilst the muco-periosteum is being separated in like manner on the opposite side. Wire-sutures should now be passed in the way described for uniting the soft palate, and any tension relieved by prolonging the cuts made for theACUTE TONSILLITIS. 579 introduction of the raspatory forwards or backwards as the case may require. Haemorrhage, though often sharp, is seldom severe, and may generally be stopped by pressure or syringing with ice-cold water, the head being turned over to one side to let the blood escape, or if it becomes serious by plugging the posterior palatine canal with a small peg of wood. After-treatment,—The patient should be fed on iced milk for the first day, and then on soft food for a fort- night. The sutures may be left in for three weeks or a month; if the patient is un- ruly they should be removed under chloroform. The cleft ought to heal by the first in- tention, and the lateral cuts for taking off tension, by granulation. If a portion of the cleft fails to unite by the first intention it will often heal up subsequently by granulation; if not, a second operation must be under- taken. It is somewhat doubt- ful whether the muco-perios- teum ossifies. Necrosis of the hard PALATE is generally due to the breaking down of syphi- litic gummata, and is followed by perforation and at times by destruction of the greater part of the hard and soft pa- lates, and septum of the nose. Treatment.—Large doses of iodide of potassium, and when the ulceration has ceased, an obturator to close the perfora- tion, and later a plastic operation if practicable. Acute tonsillitis may be the result of taking cold in ' a person in feeble health, or the subject of the rheumatic diathesis, or who from previous attacks has become pre- disposed to the disease; sometimes it is due to septic poisoning, as from the inhalations of sewer gas; or it may occur in the course of other diseases, as scarlet fever. Signs,—It generally begins with a slight chill, or even a rigor, followed by high temperature, furred tongue, P P 2 Fia. 212.—Position of the lateral incisions, E, E, through the mnco-peri- osteum, in the operation for cleft of hard palate. The dotted line indicates the line of junction of the hard and soft palate. (Bryant's Surgery.)580 DISEASES OF REGIONS. offensive breath, salivation, pain darting to the ear and increased on swallowing, and swelling of the glands behind the angle of the jaw. If the month can be sufficiently opened one or both of the tonsils are found to be red and swollen, and often in contact, blocking up the fauces. The neighbouring parts are congested and swollen, and, in the variety known as follicular tonsillitis, a secretion is seen oozing from the mouths of the inflamed follicles. The inflammation may now subside, or termi- nate in suppuration [quinsy),^ which may be known by the pain becoming of a throbbing character, and a sense of fluctuation or softening on palpation. Treatment.—At the onset a sharp purge should be given, whilst large doses of perchloride of iron, quinine, or salicylate of soda, with the local insufflations of bicarbonate of soda, may be tried as abortives. Where suppuration threatens, the throat should be steamed', and hot camomile mattresses or linseed poultices applied externally. As soon as the abscess has formed, an incision should be made with a bistoury, guarded by wrapping it round with sticking- plaster to within half an inch from the end, and directing the point towards the middle line to avoid injuring the tonsillar arteries and the internal carotid. Chronic enlargement oe the tonsils consists of an hypertrophy of the normal tissue of the tonsil, and is very common in strumous children, in whom it is frequently associated with adenoid growths in the vault of the pharynx. At times it appears due to oft-repeated attacks of acute tonsillitis. The symptoms to which it may give rise are : a nasal tone of voice ; a peculiar vacant expres- sion, acquired by the child constantly breathing with the mouth half open; regurgitation of fluids through the nose ; snoring during sleep ; distressing dreams, from the imperfect aeration of the blood; and recurring attacks of acute or sub-acute tonsillitis ; whilst deafness, from implication of the Eustachian tube and middle ear in the chronic inflammation, may sometimes be induced, and even an alteration in the shape of the chest, and possibly phthisis. The tonsils appear irregularly enlarged, often almost blocking up the fauces, but, unless inflamed, of a natural colour, or perhaps slightly paler than natural. Treatment.—In young children the affection may be cured by persistent painting with the tincture of perchloride of iron or tincture of iodine, combined with the internal use of cod-liver oil and syrup of phosphate of iron. In olderTTLCERATIOK OF PATTCES, PALATE, AKD TONSILS. 581 cTiildren, or where the tonsils are much enlarged, they should be excised, either with the knife, or better, with the guillotine, and this should be done before the yoice has become seriously affected or other mischief has ensued. The haemorrhage attending the operation, though usually slight, has at times been alarming. Gargling with cold water will generally stop it; but if this fails, ice, or astringents, as tannic acid, or pressure with a pencil guarded with lint, will nearly always succeed. Should a bleeding vessel be seen, it should be tied or twisted. In exceptional cases, the common carotid has had to be tied. Ulceration of the fauces, palate, and tonsils may be simple, gangrenous, syphilitic, strumous, and malignant. Simple ulceration, the so-called ulcerated sore throat, is generally the result of debility, induced by over-work Fia 213.—Tonsil guillotine. in a close atmosphere, and hence is frequent in workers in hospital wards, where it is known as hospital sore- throat. Change of air, a nourishing diet, quinine and port wine, with a gargle of chlorate of potash, will usually relieve it. If neglected it may assume a gangrenous form and extensive sloughing may then ensue, with constitu- tional symptoms of blood-poisoning, which often proves rapidly fatal. Stimulants and fluid nourishment should be frequently administered, and quinine, perchloride of iron, or ammonia and bark, given internally. Tracheo- tomy, if the larynx becomes involved, may be necessary. Syphilitic ulceration may be superficial or deep. The superficial ulcers are common in the early stages of syphilis, and may be accompanied by mucous tubercles. Deep ulcers, due to the breaking down of gummata, occur in the later stages as irregular* excavations with sharply- cut edges and a sloughy base, but are unattended with induration. On healing they are often productive of much contraction (see Pharyngeal Stenosis). The so-called strumous ulceration occurring in strumous children bears a general resemblance to the syphilitic, and is believed by some to be really the result of con-582 DISEASES OF REGIONS. genital syphilis. Like the syphilitic it may lead to extensive destruction of the parts. Malignant ulceration is due to the breaking down of epitheliomatous and sarcomatous growths. It may be known by the sinuous, everted, and indurated edges of the ulcer and other signs of malignancy. Tumours or the tonsil,—Sarcoma and epithelioma occasionally occur in the tonsil. They grow rapidly, soon affect the lymphatic glands in the neck, and extend to surrounding parts. Unless detected and removed whilst they are quite small and localized to the tonsil they are beyond the reach of surgery. Other tumours in this region are rare. DISEASES OE THE GUMS Ato JAWS. Hypertrophy of the gums has been observed as a congenital affection, and may be met with where there is overcrowding of the teeth as a lobulated fringe-like growth of the gums, which, in severe cases, may so sur- round the teeth that they appear as if buried in it. The hypertrophied portion should be shaved off, and one or more of the teeth extracted. Polypi of the gums, as they , are called, are merely ^ overgrowths of the little tongue of gum between the ■ teeth, and appear generally to depend on the presence ^ of tartar or caries. The offending tooth should be scaled, stopped or extracted, and the growth cut off. Papillomata, or warty growths, occasionally occur on the gums. They are generally pedunculated, and can be readily snipped o:ff with scissors. Spongy gums may occur as the result of scurvy or the abuse of mercury, and are sometimes met with in strumous children. The condition is often associated with superficial ulceration. The treatment consists in the removal of the cause, the use of an astringent mouth- wash, and the constitutional remedies appropriate to scurvy or struma. Alveolar abscess may be quite superficial {gum-boil) and merely require a slight prick; or it may form around the fang of a carious tooth, and then either make its way to the surface by the side of the tooth, or expand i the alveolus and perforate the bone. In the latter case it may track below the reflexion of the mucousDISEASES OF THE GUMS. 583 membrane from the gums to the cheek, and point about the angle of the jaw or on the cheek, and after opening leave an intractable sinus. In the upper jaw it some- times also tracks along the hard palate and may lead to necrosis of the bone. It is attended with severe throbbing pain, deep-seated swelling, and often great oedema of the face and eyelid. Treatment,—The o:ffending tooth should be extracted, hot fomentations and bread-poultices applied inside the mouth, and the sinus divided transversely from within the mouth to prevent an external opening being formed. If a sinus exists the carious tooth or dead bone must be removed before it will heal; scraping the sinus will then facilitate the healing. Epulis.—This term, though formerly employed to sig- nify any tumour growing upon the gums, is now usually restricted to the variety that was then distinguished as the fibrous or common epulis. Epulides consist principally of fibrous tissue, but may sometimes contain a few mye- loid cells. They frequently appear to depend upon the irritation ol carious stumps, and spring from the peri- odontal membrane lining an alveolus. Beginning as a swelling of the little tongue-like process of gum between the teeth, as they increase in size they appear as hard, fleshy, circumscribed, smooth or slightly lobulated, elastic growths, covered by mucous membrane. When they have existed some time ulceration of the surface may occur and the teeth become loosened or fall out. Treatment.—^They should be excised with bone forceps or a small saw, taking care to cut away a small piece of the bone beneath, as otherwise they are apt to return. When quite small they may be shaved off and the bone at their base slightly gouged away, and the o:ffending tooth or teeth removed. Myeloid saecoma [myeloid epulis) is occasionally met with in the gums as a rapidly-growing vascular tumour of a purplish-red colour and soft spongy con- sistency. It should be very freely removed, as other- wise it will return. The haemorrhage during removal is generally free, and may require the actual cautery to restrain it. Epithelioma {malignant epulis) of the gums is rare. In the upper jaw it has a marked tendency to creep up into the antrum {creeping epithelioma) and to simulate caries or necrosis of the jaw. Eree excision, with re- moval of the upper jaw if the antrum is involved, shouldDISEASES OF REGIOKS. 584 be undertaken if there is a fair chance of getting the whole of the disease away and the glands are not much involved. Inplammation and abscess of the antrum is gene- rally due to the irritation of the fang of a carious tooth. It is attended with deep-seated pain, followed by swell- ing, oedema, heat, and redness of the cheek and lower eyelid, and when very acute, by sharp constitutional disturbance. The pus may overflow into the nose, or escape by the side of a tooth; or, in other instances, may distend the cavity and cause the bony walls to bulge. The treatment consists in providing a free exit for the pus as soon as formed, either by removing the carious tooth and perforating the antrum through the bottom of the alveolus or, if the ^teeth are sound, by perforating the anterior wall within the mouth through the canine fossa. The cavity should then be kept aseptic by antiseptic lotions. Closure of the jaws is the term applied to a con- dition in which the lower jaw cannot be opened, at least not to any extent. It may be due to—1, spasm of the masseter muscle, consequent upon the irritation at- tending the eruption of a wisdom-tooth for which there is not room ; 2, cicatricial contraction, following ulcera- tion of the mucous membrane induced by cancrum oris, syphilis, lupus, the abuse of mercury, &c.; 3, ankylosis of the tempore-maxillary joint; and 4, hysteria. Treatment. —When dependent upon the eruption of a wisdom-tooth, the tooth itself, or under some circumstances the second molar, must be extracted. When dependent upon cica- tricial contractions, the forcible opening of the mouth by a screw-gag and maintaining it open by a cork placed between the teeth will, in slight cases, suffice. In other instances I have found division of the cicatricial bands, and subsequently keeping the jaws separated, successful, although this proceeding does not appear to have always answered in the hands of others. When the bands are very dense or the closure depends upon ankylosis of the temporo-maxillary joint, a new articulation must be made by dividing the ramus of the jaw and removing a wedge- shaped piece in front of the contractions. Necrosis of the jaws.—Necrosis is more common, and when it occurs, more extensive in the lower than in the upper jaw, a fact due' in part to the poorer blood- supply of the former, and in part to the predilectionNECROSIS OF THE JAWS. 585 of necrosis for compact rather than for cancellous bone. Though the necrosis may affect the whole of the jaw, it is more often limited to the alveolar process or to the anterior wall. The teeth may loosen and fallout; but at times they retain their connection with the gums and remain in situ after the removal of the sequestrum. The causes of necrosis of the jaw as of necrosis else- where, generally depend upon inflammation of the periosteum or bone, which in the case of the jaw ap- pears especially to be induced by the fumes of phos- phorus, the abuse of mercury, carious teeth in strumous subjects, syphilis, the exanthemata, cancrum oris, and lastly, injury, as in extracting 'a tooth. Phospliorus- necrosis is generally believed only to affect the subjects of carious teeth, but some maintain that it is a local manifestation of a general phosphorus-poisoning. It is much less common since the amorphous form of phos- phorus has been used for making matches. The pro- duction of new bone in necrosis of the lower jaw is generally excessive; and there are several specimens in St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum showing almost complete reproduction of the whole jaw. In the upper jaw new bone is not formed after complete removal. In phosphorus-necrosis a characteristic pumice-like deposit of new bone is formed. Symptoms.—Necrosis generally begins with severe pain and deep-seated swelling, which may at first be mistaken for toothache or alveolar abscess, followed by suppuration and bursting of the abscess, either in the mouth or externally on the face, and the formation of sinuses. The breath, as a rule, is horribly foetid, and there is sharp constitutional disturbance which, in phosphorus-necrosis, is sometimes excessive, and may end in septicaemia or pyaemia. On probing the sinus, dead bone is detected. This sign will usually dis- tinguish necrosis from the creeping form of epithelioma, for which it is apt to be mistaken. Treatment,—The bone as soon as loose should be removed, if possible, through the mouth. In the meantime the parts should be kept aseptic by syringing with Condy's fluid or car- bolic lotion, or by insufflation of iodoform, incisions being made through the periosteum to ensure a free drain, or Cargill's respirator may be worn to neutralize the foetor. Internally, tonics and stimulants and nourishing diet should be given, and iodide of potassium if there is a syphilitic taint.586 DISEASES OF REGIONS. Tumours oe the upper jaw may be cystic or solid, and the latter innocent or malignant; whilst cysts may likewise occur in the malignant solid tumours. Cystic tumours may be produced : 1. In connection with the fang of a carious tooth. 2. By an error in develop- ment of the enamel sac covering the crown of a tooth {dentigerous cysts); and 3. By obstruction of a mucous follicle in the lining membrane of the antrum. These cysts usually contain a serous, gelatinous, or a brownish fluid in which cholesterine is often found. The condition known as dropsy of the antrum, and formerly believed to depend merely upon an accumulation of fluid in that cavity owing to the occlusion of the opening into the nose, would appear to be due to one of these mucous cysts completely filling the antrum; Dentigerous cysts, which may also occur in the lower jaw, are due to an error in the development of the enamel sac usually of the permanent teeth. They differ from the ordinary dental cyst depending upon the irritation of a decayed fang, in that in the latter the fang will gene- rally be found projecting into the cyst, whereas in the den- tigerous variety, the crown alone, which has not been cut, or in some cases the whole tooth, will be found in the cyst. Solid tumours may spring from the periosteum covering the exterior of the bone, or from the mucous or the periosteal lining of the antrum. They may have a fibrous, cartilaginous, osseous, myxomatous, adenomatous, sar- comatous or carcinomatous structure; but fibrous and sarcomatous tumours are the most common, whilst car- tilaginous are very rare. Ossification of the sarcomatous growths is of occasional occurrence. They may be closely simulated by tumours of a like diversitj^ of structure growing from the malar bone, the spheno-maxillary fossa, or the base of the skull. Symptoms and diagnosis.—Clinically, it is not always possible to determine the exact structure of these tumours, nor is it essential, the Surgeon's aim being rather to distinguish the solid from the fluid, and the innocent from the malignant', and to make out their origin and present attachments. When the tumour, whether cystic or solid, innocent or malignant, begins in the antrum, it sooner or later fills that cavity, and then in its further growth causes its walls to bulge in various directions. Thus, the protrusion of the anterior wallTUMOURS OF THE UPPER JAW. 587 causes a swelling on the cheek, of the internal wall an obstruction in the nose, of the inferior wall a depression of the palate, and of the superior wall a protrusion of the eye. A rounded projection on the cheek ; a sensation of fluctuation felt through the anterior wall of the antrum-with thq finger in the mouth, or egg-shell-like crackling produced by the yielding of the thinned and partially absorbed walls; the presence of a carious tooth, or the absence of one of the teeth in the series, will point to the cystic nature of the swelling, and puncture with a trocar and cannula will clear up any doubt. Should the tumour be solid, it will probably be innocent if of slow growth and there be absence of pain and glandular enlargement, non-implication of the skin, and non-infiltration of surrounding parts; but malignant if of rapid growth and there is severe pain, early escape through the walls of the antrum, implication of the skin, inyolyement of glands, and protrusion of a fungous mass in the mouth, nose, or on the cheek. In malignant disease, moreover, the patient will probably be either young in the case of sarcoma, or advanced in life in the case of carcinoma, but if a small piece of the growth can be obtained, a microscopical examination will settle the point. When the growth springs from the malar bone, it may either project forwards on the cheek, or into the mouth between the cheek and the bone, and the bulging of the walls of the antrum will be absent. When it arises from the spheno-maxillary fossa or base of the skull, it will commonly project into the naso-pharynx, where it may be detected by the finger or rhinoscope, while the whole maxillary bone will be pushed forward. It should not be forgotten, however, that tumours beginning in the antrum, especially the fibrous and sarcomatous, encroach upon the surrounding parts, and conversely, that the cavity of the antrum may be invaded by growths not primarily connected with it; so that when tumours in this region have attained a large size it may be impossible to determine their origin, or, indeed, the whole of their actual attachments. Treatment.—For cystic tumours, excision of a portion of the wall from within the mouth will generally suflice, if a free drain is subsequently ensured. At times the thinned walls of the cyst may be crushed together by the fingers with advantage. Where the cyst is associated with a solid growth, the latter may sometimes be scraped588 DISEASES OE REGIONS. away, otherwise the upper jaw must be partially or com- pletely removed. Where the tumour is solid, and of an innocent nature, and entirely confined to the antrum, it may be removed by excision of the superior maxilla, but as a rule no more of the bone should be taken away than is absolutely necessary, the orbital plate and hard palate being preserved if possible. When the tumour arises behind the bone, there is often great difficulty in getting it away, as its attachments may be more extensive than is imagined. If thought advisable to attempt its removal this may be done by excising the superior maxilla, and clearing away the growth; or the maxilla may be turned outwards, the growth removed, and the bone replaced [LangenhecWs method). When the growth is malignant and confined to the antrum, the superior maxilla may also be excised; but when it has invaded the surrounding parts, it becomes not only a question whether it can be completely got away, but whether the immunity from its return will not be too short for the patient to undergo the risk of the operation. Complete excision oe the upper jaw. — Having extracted the central incisor tooth on the diseased side, make an incision down to the bone in the direction shown by the dark line in Fig. 214. Dissect back the flap thus marked out from the bone, securing the larger arteries as they are divided. Make a longitudinal incision through the mucous membrane lining respectively the floor of the nose, and roof of the mouth as far back as the soft palate, and then a transverse one along the junction of the soft with the hard palate on the diseased side. Now pass one blade of the long jaw-forceps into the mouth and the other into the nose, and divide the alveolar process and hard palate; cut through the nasal process of the superior maxilla, and then through the malar bone, carrying the forceps into the spheno-maxillary fissure. Seize the bone with lion forceps, and wrench it away from its remaining attachments. The internal maxillary, or any other large artery, should be tied, and haemorrhage from smaller vessels restrained by plugging the wound with strips of iodoform gauze. When the bleeding has stopped, any growth that may remain should be cut away or destroyed with the actual cautery. Unite the edges of the wound with horse-hair sutures, and the lip with hair-lip pins. Healing occurs readily and with little deformity. AnTUMOURS OF THE LOWER JAW. 589 obturator with false teeth, should subsequently be fitted to the mouth. Partial excision of the upper jaw usually consists in leaving the orbital plate, and is done by dividing with a key-hole saw the front wall of the antrum along the margin'of the orbit, and completing the operation as above described. Besection of the upper jaw {LangenhecFs operation) consists in turning the maxillary bone outwards so as to get at a tumour behind it, and then replacing the bone. As the connections of the bone along its outer part are left intact, its vascular supply is not com- pletely cut off, and it soon forms fresh adhesions when placed back in position. Tumours of the lower jaw, like those of the upper, may be cystic or solid, innocent or malig- nant. Cystic tumours^ as in the upper jaw, may be developed in connection with an uncut tooth [dentigerous cyst), or around the fang of a decayed tooth. They are then unilocular. Multilocular cystic tumours have a marked predilection for the lower jaw. They are pro- bably due to invasion of the jaw by epithelium from the gum. The epithelial masses undergo degeneration, leading to cysts often of con- siderable size. These tumours grow very slowly, and may gradually destroy the whole bone, reducing it to a mere shell, but if completely removed do not recur locally. They never affect the glands or become dis- seminated. The solid tumours may grow from the periosteum covering either the outer or the buccal as- pect of the jaw, or from the interior of the bone which they then expand around them. The osseous tumours usually take the form of exostoses, and are not uncommon about the angle of the jaw. The more regular shape of the lower jaw, its compact struc- ture, the absence of a cavity like the antrum, its more isolated condition, and the absence of surround- ing cavities like the nose, orbit, and spheno-maxil- lary fossa, make the diagnosis of tumours in it more Fm. 214.—Lines of incision for removal of upper and lower jaw.590 DISEASES OF REGIONS. easy. The signs are similar to tumours of the upper jaw, which see (p. 586). Treatment.—Cystic tumours are best treated by free incision, and, if large, by excision of a portion of their wall. In the case of the multilocular cysts the whole or part of the jaw may be removed. In excising solid innocent tumours no more of the bone should be sacri- ficed than is necessary to extirpate the disease ; and such removal, when possible, should be done from within the mouth. Myeloid growths springing from the interior of the bone may often be enucleated, and not recur for many years, ^or not at all. Where the tumour is large and encroaches upon the ramus, the affected half of the jaw, or if both halves are affected, the whole jaw, should be removed by disarticulation, as if the ramus is merely sawn across, leaving the coronoid process and condyle, these are apt to be drawn forward by the temporal and external pterygoid muscles and prove a constant source of annoyance. When the growth is malignant or of large size, and the skin and neighbouring soft parts are implicated and the glands extensively involved, no operation as a rule is admissible. Cysts developed in connection with solid growths may be laid open and the tumour scraped away, or part or the whole of the jaw, if the growth is malignant, may be removed. Excision oe the lower jaw.—Having extracted the central or the lateral incisor tooth, make an incision down to the bone (in the way shown in the black line in Fig. 214) through the lower lip, along the lower border of the jaw, and thence up the ramus, nearly but not quite to the lobule of the ear to avoid the facial nerve, tying both ends of the facial artery as it is cut. Dissect up the flap thus formed from the bone, and divide the bone with saw and forceps opposite to where the tooth has been extracted. Seize the bone with the lion forceps, drawing it outwards and ■upwards, and divide the soft tissues on the inner sur- face with a narrow-bladed scalpel, keeping close to the bone to avoid the gustatory nerve and the submaxillary gland. The origin of the genio-hyo-glossus should be spared if possible, as otherwise the tongue tends to fall backwards, and has before now caused suffocation. If this muscle must be divided, pull the tongue forward by a ligature through its tip. Next separate the internal pterygoid, depress the jaw, and divide the temporal muscle at its insertion into the coronoid process. Open591 EPISTAXIS. the articulation from the front, divide the external pterygoid, and carry the knife behind the condyle, taking care not to rotate the jaw outwards lest the internal maxillary artery be stretched round the neck of the condyle and be torn or divided. DISEASES OE THE IS'OSE, NASO-PHARYNX, AND ACCESSORY CAVITIES. AcNE ROSACEA is a dilated or congested condition of the capillaries of the nose, usually accompanied in its later stages by hypertrophy of the sebaceous follicles. It is attributed to indigestion, exposure to cold, sexual dis- turbance or the abuse of alcohol, and is most common in women. Treatment. — Eemove the cause, regulate the diet, and attend to the general health. Locally apply sulphur ointment or perchloride of mercury lotions. In severe cases the dilated vessels may be incised and the resulting haemorrhage restrained by touching them with perchloride of iron, but only small portions of the disease should be thus treated at a time. Lipoma nasi is a hypertrophy of the skin, subcu- taneous tissue, and sebaceous follicles of the nose, and not, as the name implies, an increase in the fatty tissue. It is characterized by the formation of irregular pendulous lobe-like masses, usually situated on the tip and alse of the nose, and often of a bluish-red colour. It occurs in elderly men, generally as the result of alcoholism. Treat- ment.—The masses should be shaved off, care being taken not to cut through the cartilages into the nostrils, and the parts left to granulate. The treatment is usually very successful. Syphilis, eodent ulcer, lupus and epithelioma may all attack the exterior of the nose, but require no special description here. Epistaxis or bleeding eeom the nose is a symptom . of many and various conditions. Thus—1. In the young it often appears to occur spontaneously from congestion of the mucous membrane, and is especially common in girls about the age of puberty. 2. In the plethoric it may be due to the congestion of the brain or liver, and then appears to give relief to the over-full vessels. 3. In the old or cachectic, on the contrary, it may be due to a poor or watery condition of the blood, such as is present inDISEASES OF REGIONS. 592 cirrhosis of tlie liver, heart-disease, granular kidney, &c. 4. It may also occur in scurvy, some forms of fever, and in the hsemorrhagic diathesis. 5. It is common after blows or other injuries of the nose; and 6. It may be a symptom of fracture of the base of the skull, or of a fibrous or malignant polypus in the nose or naso-pharynx. The symptoms are usually evident. The blood generally comes from one nostril, occasionally from both; but it may pass through the posterior nares and be swallowed, and being afterwards vomited, simulate hsematemesis ; or ^it may irritate the larynx, cause cough, and may then be mistaken for haemoptysis. On looking into the mouth in such cases, however, the blood will be seen trickling down the back of the throat; whilst it may also be apparent on examining the nose with a speculum. The treatment will depend upon the cause. Spontaneous haemorrhages occur- ring in the young, except as the result of the hsemorrhagic diathesis, generally stop of their own accord, and require no special treatment beyond those remedies common in domestic use. When due to congestion and apparently salutary, the bleeding should not be too soon checked. In cachectic subjects it is often difficult to control; rest on the back with the arms raised, sucking ice, cold or hot douches, ice to the nose, subcutaneous injections of ergotine (grs. iij.), gallic acid, lead and opium and small doses of ergot or of perchloride of iron, may then be tried. Or pellets of cotton-wool soaked in solutions of cocaine (20°/^) may be placed in the nostril, or pressure made on the upper lip just below the ala of the nose in order to compress the nasal branch of the superior coro- nary artery from which the blood is said often to be derived. If the haemorrhage cannot be thus controlled, the posterior nares should be plugged. The best means of effecting this is by the india-rubber inflating tampon. This consists of an india-rubber tube, with two dilata- tions upon it so sized and shaped that when inflated they will accurately fill the posterior and anterior nares respectively. It is passed in flaccid by means of a long probe, and inflated when in position by the mouth or a small syringe, the escape of air being prevented by clamping the tube. Ee-inflation is necessary from time to time. The posterior nares may also be plugged by Bellocq's sound (Fig. 215) in the following manner. A pledget of lint or cotton-wool rather larger than the aperture to be filled (that is, about half an inch by anEXAMmATION OF THE NASAL CAVITIES. 593 j inch, or roughly, the size "of the last joint of the thumb) is taken, and round the middle of this is tied a doubled piece of stout thread, a long loop being thus left on one side, and two ends on the other, one of which is cut off short. : The sound is then threaded with a separate length of thread, and passed closed through the nostril, and when the end has reached the pharynx, the spring is projected, ! coils round under the soft palate, and appears with the thread in the mouth. The thread is then seized, pulled forwards and the sound withdrawn, thus leaving one ! end of the thread through the mouth and the other ! through the nostril. The mouth end is now tied to the Fig. 215. —Bellocq's sound. loop of thread attached to the pledget; and by making traction on the thread hanging from the nose the pledget, guided by the finger in the mouth, is drawn behind the soft palate into the posterior nares. The loop of thread is finally cut and tied over a pledget of cotton-wool or lint, which is forced into the nostril to form an anterior plug. Meantime the other end of the thread attached to the plug has been retained hanging out of the mouth and is now fastened loosely to the cheek, or it may be allowed to fall back into the pharynx. The plugs should be kept in for about two days. They are readily removed by cutting the thread over the anterior plug, and then withdrawing the posterior one through the mouth by means of the thread that is fastened to the cheek or is hanging loose in the pharynx. A substitute for Bellocq's sound, if this is not at hand, may be found in a soft india-rubber or gum- elastic catheter, which, with a hole drilled through its end, can be used in a similar way. Examination of the nasal cavities.—For the diag- nosis of internal diseases the nasal cavities should be illuminated by the laryngoscopic mirror (Fig. 233) or the electric lamp, the alse being separated by some form of nasal speculum, of which Duplay's and Frankel's are the w. Q QDISEASES OF REGIO]N"S. 594 best (Figs. 216, 211). The posterior part of the nasal cavities can be explored by the finger passed behind the palate, or by a small mirror passed to the back of the throat {posterior rhinoscopy). For detecting necrosed bone the nasal probe may be used. Nasal cataerh, rhinitis, coryza, or inflammation of the mucous membrane of the nose, may be acute or chronic. Acute catarrh^ coryza, or cold in the head, will be found treated of in works on Medicine. Chronic nasal catarrh or rhinitis is most common in the ^young, especially in children of a strumous habit. As Fio. 216.—Duplay's nasal speculum. Fig. 217.—Frankel's nasal speculum. exciting causes may be mentioned oft-repeated attacks of acute catarrh, adenoid vegetations in the vault of the pharynx, nasal stenosis, deflected septum, the irritation of noxious vapours or dust, the abuse of spirits, snufl- taking, &c. Several forms, all of which are believed by some surgeons to be different stages of the same disease, have been described. They will be classed here under the three heads of 1, the simple; 2, the hypertrophic; and 3, the atrophic, which is generally attended with foetor. 1. The simple form is characterized by a thin mucous or muco-purulent discharge, and a congested appearance of the mucous membrane, but is unattended with any thickening, or formation of crusts, or with ICHRONIC NASAL CATARRH. 595 foetor. If neglected, it is apt to pass into the next j variety. 2. In the hypertrophic the mucous membrane, 1 especially over the turbinated bones, is greatly swollen i and congested, and infiltrated with inflammatory material; I while the glands are stimulated to excessive secretion, and I pour out a thick yellowish-green muco-purulent dis- I charge. It is characterized by symptoms of nasal obstruc- I tion, viz., stuffiness or blocking of the nose, nasal tone of j voice, constant need to blow the nose, a vacant expres- I sion of countenance acquired by keeping the mouth open, ! trickling of the discharge down the pharynx and sub- sequent hawking of it up by coughing, and sometimes Fig. 218.—Hypertrophic nasal catarrh. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) deafness from the spread of inflammation to the Eustachian tube. At times certain reflex phenomena are present, such as spasmodic cough, asthma, and even epilepsy. The alse of the nose often appear thickened and the inferior turbinated bodies greatly enlarged. On posterior rhino- scopic examination granular pharyngitis is frequently dis- covered, with. increase of the glandular tissue of the vault of the pharynx; whilst the hypertrophied posterior ends of the inferior turbinated bodies may at times be seen almost completely blocking up the choanse in the form of globular, irregularly-furrowed tumours (Figs.. 218, 219). This variety is said by some, but without sufficient evidence I think, to pass, after it has lasted some years, into the third variety. 3. Atrophic rhinitisy sometimes called dry or foetid catarrh, and by some ozoena^ is apparently due to the shrinking of inflammatory new formation infiltrating the tissues, and the consequent atrophy of the mucous membrane and the greater or less destruction of the glands. It is characterized by the Q Q 2596 DISEASES OE REGIONS. nasal cavities appearing preternaturally large, so niucli so in some cases that the wall of the pharynx and Eusta- chian tube may be seen on looking through the nostril. The turbinated bodies appear decreased in size, and the mucous membrane is atrophied and paler than natural, and covered with hard yellowish-green adherent crusts. Grenerally, though not invariably, the disease is attended with a horrible foetor, which is usually thought to be due to the decomposition of the discharge beneath the crusts, the discharge being secreted in too small quantities Fig. 219.—Hypertrophy of the posterior ends of the inferior turbi- nated bodies, with adenoid vegetations in the vault of the pharynx. and too thick to allow of the throwing-o:ff of the crusts. By some the foetor is believed to be due to the retention of the secretions in some of the sinuses communicating with the nose. In all forms an important point to remember is that ulceration does not occur. Treatment.—In the early stages much can be done in the way of treatment, and by perseverance a cure may be obtained. In the atrophic variety relief from the dis- tressing symptom of foetor only can be expected. In all forms the general health must be attended to. Thus, in the strumous, cod-liver oil or maltine, and the syrup of the iodide or phosphate of iron, are indicated. Locally, in the simple and milder forms of the hypertrophic, the treat- ment consists in cleansing the parts and then applying astringents ; the cleansing may be accomplished by simply blowing the nose, or if this is not sufficient, a cleansing fluid must be used. There are many of these. The one I597 CHRONIC NASAL CATAHBH. f have found most useful is that known as Dobell's solution, but peroxide of hydrogen is perhaps equally as good. I The cleansing lotion should not be used as is so frequently j done by Thudichum's nasal douche, as by its means the j deeper recesses and upper portions of the nasal fossse can- not be reached, and not only may much harm be done to the mucous membrane of the nose, but inflammation of the middle ear may be set up. The solution is best applied ! in the form of a coarse spray, either by the anterior or posterior nasal spray-producer worked by double handballs (Fig. 220). When thoroughly cleansed, astringent or sedative solutions—best in the form of sprays — should be I applied, and of these may be I mentioned tannic acid, sulpho- ' carbolate and iodide of zinc or menthol, eucalyptol (5SS. to 33*.)) terebene (gr. xx. to 53.), cocaine and thymol (gr. x. to dissolved in liquid petroleum, a better vehicle than water for intranasal medica- tion. Or astringents or iodo- form may be applied in the form of powders by the insufflator, or in the form of gelatine bougies. Where there is great hypertrophy, the hypertro- phied tissues must be destroyed by the local application of chromic acid, or the galvano- cautery; or the ends of the inferior turbinated body if much enlarged may be removed by the cold wire or galvanic ecraseur. At times the whole of the turbinated body may be removed with advantage. If the septum is j deflected, it must be straightened; and if adenoid growths ' are present, they must be removed. In the atrophic form, little more can be done than cleansing and disin- fecting the cavities by lotions of carbolic acid, borax, aristol (5SS. to 3]'.), and the like; whilst the mucous membrane may be stimulated to secretion by the use of Grottstein's nasal tampons, or by the insufflation of san- guinaria, galanga, &c. Cubebs internally is often of service. TuBEECULOUS TJLCEEATION sometimes occurs. It may lead to necrosis of the bone, falling in of the nose, and Fig. 220. — Spray - pro- ducer. A. Nozzle for anterior nares ; b. Noz- zle for posterior nares.598 DISEASES OE HEGIOKS. mucli deformity. Constitutional remedies, as cod-liver oil, must be given, and the parts cleansed by lotions, applications of iodoform, &c. When obstinate, scraping the part with a Yolkmann's spoon, and removal of the dead bone, is the treatment indicated. Syphilitic affections of the nose. In the early stages of syphilis, catarrhal inflammation and mucous tubercles are often met with, especially in infants, in whom they give rise to the obstructed and noisy respira- tion popularly known as snuffles. Later, extensive ulcerations, gummata followed by deep ulcers, necrosis or caries of the bones and cartilages, destruction of the septum with falling in of the nose and perforation of the palate may occur, and when combined with destruction- of the soft tissues and skin, are productive of great de- formity. When a small portion of bone in the deeper recesses is necrosed, it may not always be easy to find, but may be suspected by the continuance of a muco- purulent discharge and the foetor so peculiar to dead bone, the presence of foul ulcers, the history or consti- tutional signs of syphilis, and the absence of signs of hypertrophic or atrophic catarrh. Often the bone may be struck on examination with the probe. Treatment,— Iodide of potassium should be given in large doses, com- bined, if necessary, with quinine or bark, and at times with mercury. Locally, the parts should be cleansed and disinfected by the application of carbolic or other sprays, and when dead bone can be detected it should be removed, if loose, through the anterior nares or from behind the palate by forceps; but sometimes it may be necessary for obtaining a sufficient exposure to resort to the method of Eouge, or to cut through the upper lip and turn aside the ala of the nose. In congenital syphilis the adminis- tration of small doses of grey powder, followed by iodide of potassium and cod-liver oil, is productive of the most happy results. In the ulcerative form, iodide of potas- sium in large doses should be given. Lupus, though far more common on the exterior of the nose, may sometimes be met with in the interior. It then generally attacks the cartilage of the septum, leading to perforation. It is attended with a foetid discharge. The ulcer is covered with scabs, and surrounded with reddish tubercles. Treatment.—Cod-liver oil, arsenic, and the complete destruction of the affected tissue by caustics, or by scraping, is the proper treatment.NASAL POLYPI. 599 i Ehinoliths or nose-stones may occasionally form in i the nose from the deposition of phosphate of lime and j mucus upon either a foreign body which has become ! lodged in the nose, or a portion of hardened secretion. I They give rise to inflammation, swelling of the mucous ! membrarfe, and a foetid discharge, and have been mis- taken for osteomata, and even carcinomata. When de- tected they should be removed by forceps, or if too large for this, first broken by the nasal lithotrite. Polypi.—Three forms are described,—the gelatinous, the fibrous, and the malignant. 1. Gelatinous or mucous polypi most frequently spring from the mucous membrane covering the spongy bones, rarely from the roof of the nares, and scarcely ever from the septum. They usually have a myxomatous structure, that is, they consist of delicate connective tissue in- filtrated with large quantities of mucin containing round and stellate cells, and are covered with ciliated epithelium. They are usually multiple, sessile or pedunculated, and of an oval, pyriform, or lobulated shape. The usual symptoms are a feeling of stuffiness in one or both nos- trils, worse in damp weather, a nasal tone of voice, and a mucous discharge. Certain reflex symptoms, such as asthma, cough, &c., are also occasionally present. On inspection, they appear as pinkish or greyish-white, semi-translucent, gelatinous, moveable bodies, soft and dimpling when touched with a probe. When high up, or far back in the nasal cavities, the speculum or rhino- scope may be necessary to detect them. With the rhinoscope I have often succeeded in detecting a poly- pus at the posterior nares that had been previously overlooked. Treatment,—They are best removed by the galvano- cautery, as this is attended with less pain and with prac- tically no haemorrhage. The parts should be previously sprayed with a 20 per cent, solution of cocaine, and after the removal of the polypi the surface from which they sprang should be touched with the galvano-cautery to prevent a recurrence. If the cautery is not at hand, the polypi may be removed by the cold wire snare or be twisted off by the ordinary polypus forceps. When they project into the naso-pharynx, they may be removed, either with the galvano-cautery loop passed through the nose or by the forceps introduced behind the palate. A snuff of tannic acid, used subsequently to their removal,600 DISEASES OF EEGIONS. is said to prevent recurrence, but I liaye not found it of much service. 2. Fibrous polypi actually arising from tlie interior of the nasal cavities are very rare. Those commonly met with usually spring from the basilar process of the occipital bone or body of the sphenoid, that is, from the roof of the naso-pharynx, and then ought properly to be called naso-pJiaryngeal, as it is only after they have attained some size that they encroach upon the nasal cavities. They consist of fibrous tissue not infrequently mixed with spindle cells, and often contain large thin- walled blood-vessels, which give them an almost cavern- ous structure. The mucous membrane covering them is also very vascular. They may be sessile or pedunculated. As they increase in size, they invade and displace the sur- rounding bones, making their way into the nasal cavities and into the pharynx, and projecting below the palate and even into the interior of the skull. They are usually met with in young adult life. The symptoms are ob- struction of one or both nostrils, a mucous and often foul-smelling discharge, repeated attacks of haemorrhage, deafness, obstruction to breathing and sometimes to swallowing, and in the later periods of the growth the characteristic deformity of the facial bones known as frog-face. They may be seen on looking into the nostril from the front, or by the rhinoscopic mirror from the back, or may be felt by the finger behind the soft palate. If not removed, they may end fatally from haemorrhage, although they have apparently a tendency to undergo atrophy as the patient gets older. Treatment.—When of moderate size they are best removed by the galvano- cautery, the wire being passed through the nostril and directed over the base of the grov/th by the finger behind the palate. The pedicle should be then completely destroyed by the post-nasal electrode. When too large for this, an attempt may be made to remove them by electrolysis; this failing, or not being considered ad- visable, they must be exposed by a preliminary operation. If chiefly confined to the naso-pharynx, the soft palate should be split, and part of the hard palate if more room is required, cut away [Nelaton^s operation). When en- croaching chiefly on the nose, a good exposure may be obtained by dividing the lip in the middle line, and turning it to one side with the ala of the nose ; or if more room is required, the superior maxilla must be removed.601 DISEASES OE THE SEPTUM NASI. Eonge's operation of turning up the upper lip and tlie I cartilaginous portion of the nose after division _ of the I septum, and the operation of Langenbeck of turning the maxillary bone outwards on the cheek, and then re- j placing it after removal of the growth, have their advo- I cates. My experience of these last-mentioned procedures i is not very favourable. , The exposure obtained by the ; former is no better than that gained by turning back the ala; and the shock and haemorrhage attending the latter renders it very dangerous. Many other methods and \ modifications of the above have been proposed, but for an account of these a larger work on Surgery must be consulted. 3. Malignant pol2/pi. — Sarcomatous and cancerous tumours may arise both in the nasal cavities and naso- pharynx, and then constitute what are called malignant polypi. They give rise to symptoms similar _ to those of the fibrous polypi already described, but their growth is more rapid, and they quickly infiltrate surrounding parts and involve the neighbouring glands. They may occur both in the young and in the old. If a small piece can be removed, the microscope will reveal its nature. Treat- ment.—When the growth can be got completely away, early and free extirpation by one of the methods above I described is the only treatment. Oz^NA is a term which has been used very loosely by authors. By some it has been applied to all diseases^ of the nose attended with a foul-smelling discharge, whilst by others it has been restricted to the foetid form of atrophic nasal catarrh. The term, therefore, as desig- I nating a disease, is misleading, and should be discon- tinued in this sense. For purposes of diagnosis it may be mentioned that it is a prominent symptom in the fol- lowing affections of the nose : 1, atrophic nasal catarrh ; I 2, necrosis and caries, whether of syphilitic or other I origin ; 3, tuberculous, syphilitic and lupoid ulceration of the mucous membrane; 4, foreign bodies and rhinoliths in the nasal cavities; 5, some forms of new growth. Diseases of the septum nasi.—Blood tumoicrs are occasionally met with as the result of injury. The blood j is extravasated between the cartilage and the soft tissues, \ generally on both sides of the septum, causing in both I nostrils a fluctuating circumscribed swelling which may I be readily distinguished from abscess by its coming on immediately after the injury and by the absence of signsDISEASES OF REGIONS. 602 of inflammation. It should not be opened, as the blood will become slowly absorbed. It sometimes appears to be associated with fracture of the septum. Abscesses of the septum are not very common. They may be due to injury or the breaking down of gummata, but occasionally occur without any apparent cause. When Fig. 221.—Author's forcej)s for Fig. 222.—Retentive apparatus straightening nasal septum. for deflected septum. acute they may lead to perforation of the septum. The parts are hot, red, and swollen, and fluctuation may soon be detected. A free and early incision should be made. Gummata of the septum occasionally form beneath the perichondrium in the course of syphilis. They are readily dispersed with iodide of potassium, but if neglected may Fig. 223.—Nasal plugs. Fig. 224.—Hollow nasal plugs. lead to necrosis and perforation of the septum and to destruction of the bones which may sometimes be so extensive as to lead to falling in of the bridge of the nose. Deflection of the septum to one or other side may occur as the result of an injury, or as a congenital malforma- tion. It appears as a swelling projecting into and ob- structing one of the nasal cavities, whilst in the other cavity a corresponding depression is seen. The inferior turbinated bone on the side of the concavity is often much hypertrophied. The deflection is generally attended with some lateral deviation or even depression of the603 DISEASES OE THE SEPTUM NASI. I lateral cartilages, and frequently gives rise to chronic 1 nasal catarrh, and to many distressing symptoms, snch ! as frontal headache, nasal tone of voice, passage of mucus I into the pharynx, &c. Treatment.—The septum may j generally be forcibly straightened by the forceps shown ! in Fig. 221, and then retained in position for the first few I days, while the parts are becoming consolidated, by the retentive apparatus shown in Fig. 222, and subsequently j by ivory or vulcanite plugs (Fig. 223). I have found I hollow plugs (Fig. 224) useful in that they do not so ! completely obstruct nasal respiration. In some instances ! Fig. 225.—iluthor's nasal Fig. 226.—Author's fixation cap j mask. and nasal truss. portions of the prominent septum may be removed by the nasal saw with advantage. Where the lateral cartilages and nasal bones are deviated they can generally be straightened, even after many years have elapsed since the injury. Great force, however, is required, and care must be taken, by properly padding the forceps, not to injure the soft parts. One of the best forms of retentive apparatus then is, perhaps, the mask shown in the accom- panying diagram (Fig. 225), since by its means a fixed point is secured to work from. As the mask, however, is irksome to some patients I have more recently, for suit- able cases, employed the nasal cap and truss depicted in Fig. 226. Cartilaginous and osseous tumours of the septum, though rare, occasionally occur, and can be readily diagnosed from ^ a deflection of the septum, by their hard and resisting nature and the absence of a corresponding depression in the opposite nostril. Their removal is the proper treatment.DISEASES OF EEGIO]S"S. 604 Adenoid vegetations in the vault of the pharynx are very common in childhood. They are produced by the hypertrophy of the adenoid tissue which is so abun- dant in this situation, and are frequently met with in connection with enlargement of the tonsils, granular pharyngitis, and nasal catarrh, and if neglected may set up catarrhal otitis and incurable deafness. The chief symptoms to which they give rise are deafness, obstruc- FiG. 227.—Author's modification of Loewenberg's forceps for removing adenoid vegetations. tion to nasal respiration, a nasal or "dead" tone of voice, and a vacant expression of countenance from the child breathing with the mouth half open. To the finger, behind the palate, they feel soft, pulpy, and velvety, " like a bag of earthworms;" whilst in the mirror they Fig. 228.—Meyer's ring-knife. appear as pink or reddish, sessile or pedunculated fringe- like masses more or less obscuring the posterior nares (Fig. 219). The treatment consists in removing them, which may be done in several ways. The softer ones may be scraped away with the nail of the finger behind the palate; those about the Eustachian tubes and side of the pharynx are best extirpated by Meyer's ring-knife (Fig. 228) introduced through the nose ; and the larger ones, which are situated on the roof and back of the pharynx, by Loewenberg's forceps (Fig. 227) passed behind the palate. The pharyngeal tonsil which is usually hypertrophied in connection with adenoid growths can be readily removed by these forceps. No after-treat- ment, beyond compelling the child to breathe through the nose by keeping the mouth closed at night withDISEASES OF THE PHARYNX AND (ESOPHAGUS. 605 a bandage, is usually required. I never employ the syringe, as I believe it is one of the chief causes of the middle ear trouble which sometimes occurs after the re- moval of these growths. As a precaution against cold T always confine the patient to his bed or room for a few days. The frontal, ethmoidal and sphenoidal sinuses, as well as the antrum, may be the seat of simple or of purulent catarrh. The catarrh may be due to simple extension from the nose or to the presence of nasal polypi. The most characteristic sign is a unilateral, purulent, and usually inodorous discharge, unattended by necrosis of bone. When it comes from the frontal sinuses there is usually frontal headache, when from the antrum some pain or tenderness on pressure on the cheek, and when ' from the ethmoidal or sphenoidal sinuses a deep-seated feeling of oppression at the back of the nose. Moreover I the discharge when frontal or antral can be seen from the I front trickling over the inferior or middle turbinal; but when sphenoidal or posterior ethmoidal, as a rale only on I posterior rhinoscopy. If in doubt as to its source, the antrum should be tested by electric illumination or ex- j plored by a fine trocar and cannula thrust in below the i inferior turbinal. Treatment.—Sprays such as are men- I tioned at page 597 should first be used to subdue the nasal i catarrh. If the discharge still continues an attempt I may be made to wash out the frontal sinus through the [ nares by the Eustachian catheter or, if this fail, the sinuses may be opened externally by the trephine and I drained. The antrum may be opened and washed out through the nares, the front wall or the alveolus of a tooth. . The sphenoidal or ethmoidal sinuses may be j drained by cautiously puncturing through the nose. DISEASES OF THE PHARYNX AND (ESOPHAGUS. Pharyngitis, or inflammation of the pharynx, is commonly of the catarrhal variety {acute and chronic pharyngitis), but it may fall chiefly on the glands of the pharynx [follicular or granular pharyngitis), or more rarely, may spread deeply and end in suppuration {phlegmonous pharyngitis). At times it is attended with deficient secretion and atrophy of the mucous membrane [pharyngitis sicca), and occasionally assumes an erysipe-006 DISEASES OE REGIOTs^S. latous character and is then generally associated with erysipelas of the face. Here a few words only can be said on the phlegmonous form, which, perhaps, more com- monly comes under the care of the general Surgeon. It is usually the result of an injury. The pharynx is in- tensely red and swollen, the neck often brawny and oedematous, swallowing is difficult or impossible, respira- tion is laboured, and death may occur in a few days from sudden spasm of the glottis, or from exhaustion and blood-poisoning. The treatment consists in inhalations of steam impregnated with carbolic acid; free incisions if pus forms in accessible situations; the administration of fluid nourishment and stimulants, in the form of enemata if the patient is unable to swallow; and the performance of instant tracheotomy if oedematous laryngitis super- venes. IJLCERATioisr generally occurs in connection with like ulceration of the palate, fauces, and tonsils. (See Tonsils.) Here it need only be said that the healing of the ulcers, especially those of the tertiary syphilitic variety, is some- times productive of great deformity. Thus, 1, the soft palate may become glued to the back of the pharynx; or 2, to the base of the tongue ; and 3, the lower part of the pharynx may be narrowed just above the entrance to the larynx, rendering deglutition difficult, and sub- jecting the patient to the risk of suffocation from the lodgnient of food at the constricted part. Treatment.— Adhesions between the palate and pharynx can hardly be remedied; but when contraction or stenosis of the lower pharynx has occurred, the cicatricial bands should be ■ divided in a backward direction with a guarded knife and recontraction prevented by the daily passage of a bougie. I have found a Eicord's urethrotome answer admirably for making the division. If the introduction of instru- ments causes much spasm, tracheotomy should be pre- viously performed. Postpharyngeal abscess is a collection of pus in the loose cellular tissue behind the pharynx, and is most often met with in children. It is generally chronic and due to disease of the cervical vertebrae or more rarely of the base of the skull; but it may be acute, and is then usually the result of an injury, as swallowing acids or the impaction of a foreign body, or of the exanthemata, phlegmonous pharyngitis, &c. It sometimes occurs with- out apparent cause; there is then often a history ofSTRICTURE OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 607 syphilis or tubercle. It may break into the pharynx, or at the side of the neck, or even make its way into the mediastinum. Syinptoms.—Pain, difficulty in opening the mouth, obstructed deglutition and respiration, the presence of a fluctuating swelling at the back of the throat, and more or less swelling about the angle of the jaw. When the abscess is acute, there is commonly some febrile disturbance. Treatment.—A vertical incision should be made in the middle line through the posterior pharyngeal wall with a properly guarded knife, the swelling having been previously punctured with a long grooved needle if there is any doubt as to its nature. If opened under chlo- roform, the head should be turned rapidly to the side to allow the escape of pus through the mouth, as suffocation has occurred through a sudden gush into the air-passages. When it depends upon disease of the spine, if an open- ing is thought necessary it should be made through the side of the neck. Tumours of the pharynx are rare, though all varieties may occur. When arising in the loose cellular tissue behind the pharynx, the more common situation, they are spoken of as post-pharyngeal tumours. The softer varieties closely simulate abscess, but the absence of fluc- tuation, and of pus on puncture will settle the diagnosis. Innocent growths, when small and unattached to the vertebrae, may be enucleated through a vertical incision over them. The malignant, as a rule, should be left alone. Stricture of the cesophagus may be due to spasm of the muscular fibres {spasmodic stricture), to cicatricial contraction [fibrous stricture) or to epitheliomatous or other malignant growths of its walls (malignant stricture). Further, stricture may be simulated by compression of the oesophagus from without as by an aneurysm, enlarged thyroid gland, post-oesophageal abscess, or mediastinal tumour; or by a foreign body impacted in the tube, disease at the back of the larynx, &c. Spasmodic stricture or spasm of the oesophagus generally, occurs in young hysterical women. The patient may be quite unable to swallow, and a bougie, perhaps, will not pass. The diagnosis will then rest on the obstruction existing only at times; on the age and sex of the patient; the presence of other signs of hysteria ; but chiefly on the fact that, under an anaesthetic, the bougie, which could not IDreviously be passed, slips down easily into the stomach. The treatment shoulcj consist in the administration of anti-DISEASES OE REGIONS. 608 hysterical remedies ; whilst the patient may be persuaded that the bougie has cleared the passage. Fibrous stricture is generally due to cicatricial contrac- tion following an injury, as swallowing boiling water or corrosive fluids, or the impaction of a foreign body. More rarely it results from the healing of a syphilitic ulcer. At times it appears to be congenital; at other times no cause can be discovered. It may exist at any part of the tube, but is most common in the upper half (Fig. 229). It Fig. 229.—Fibrous stricture of oesophagus at region of cricoid cartilage. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) Fig. 230.—Malignant stricture of oesophagus at entrance of stomach. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) is much rarer than the malignant form, but is liable to become malignant when it has existed for some time. As the result of the constriction, the tube above the stricture becomes dilated and the muscular coat hyper- trophied. The dilatation may be general or pouch-like, in the latter case consisting either of a dilatation of all the coats, or of a hernia of the mucous membrane through the muscular fibres. Malignant stricture is generally epitheliomatous, and may occur at any part of the oesophagus, but is most common opposite the cricoid cartilage, at the bifurcation of the trachea, and at the cardiac end of the stomach (Fig. 230), situations at which normally slight obstructionSTRICTTTRE OP THE CESOPHAGUS. to a bolus of food larger than usual exists, and at which ''developmental processes are complicated, and where, therefore, errors of nutrition are more likely to occur." Thus, at the cardiac orifice the epithelium changes its character; and where the oesophagus is crossed by the bronchus the food and air passages were originally one. Epithelioma may begin as a distinct cauliflower-like ex- crescence springing from one side of the tube; or as a nodular induration of the mucous membrane involving ring-like the whole calibre of the oesophagus. It gra- dually encroaches upon the lumen of the tube causing more or less complete obstruction. The growth sooner or later ulcerates, and invades the surrounding tissues, the mediastinum, pleura and glands; and sinuses may form between the oesophagus and the trachea or left bronchus, or open externally when the disease is high up in the neck. The patient, if he does not die of starvation, succumbs to pain or exhaustion, or to hsemorrhage from the laying open of a large vessel, or to pleurisy or pneu- monia. The symptoms, common to both the fibrous and malig- nant stricture, are,—1, increasing difiiculty of swallow- ing, first of solids, then of liquids, and finally inability to swallow either; 2, a feeling of obstruction, generally referred to the top of the sternum; 8, regurgitation of food after it has been swallowed for a short time (where the stricture is low down or pouch-like dilatations have formed); 4, a trickling sound on auscultation between the shoulders whilst the patient is swallowing fluid, and 5, progressive wasting and loss of strength. The diagnosis, however, can only be made with certainty, and the situa- tion of the stricture ascertained, by the passage of a bougie. But before attempting to pass a bougie, a careful examination of the chest should be made for the purpose of excluding aneurysm as a cause of the symptoms, lest such should be ruptured as has before now happened. The diagnosis of the malignant from the fibrous stricture will rest on the advanced age of the patient, the absence ! of any discoverable injury, the presence of blood or foul- smelling discharge on the end of the bougie, a sensation of passing over an ulcerated surface, and the presence of enlarged glands or an indurated mass in the situation of the tube when the stricture occurs in the neck. Treatment.—In the fibrous form the stricture should be gradually dilated by bougies. When the stricture is very w. B. RDISEASES OF EEGIONS. tigM, a catgut bougie may sometimes by delicate manipu- lation be insinuated through it; and over this a larger tube may then be passed. When the stricture is very resilient its division posteriorly in the middle line may be called for {internal oesophagotomy). When the stricture is situated at the cardiac end, and a well directed trial at dilatation has failed, gastrostomy may be performed, and the stricture forcibly dilated by the finger or an instru- ment passed into the oesophagus from the interior of the stomach. It need hardly be said that so serious an opera- tion should not be lightly undertaken, nor until other means have failed. In malignant stricture dilatation by bougies or tubes, in the way recommended in fibrous stricture, must not be attempted, as the walls of the oesophagus are so softened by the ulceration and disease that great danger of perforation and extravasation into the mediastinum or pleura would be incurred. The methods of treatment then open to us are—1, to pass an oesophagus tube and keep it in situ ; 2, to perform gastrostomy ; and 3, when the stricture occurs in the neck to open the oeso- phagus in the neck, if possible below the seat of stricture, and stitch the tube to the wound in the skin; or if not possible to get below the stricture, to dilate it from the wound. When a soft tube can be passed and kept in situ this appears to be undoubtedly the best treatment. The tube may be introduced through the mouth or nose, and under favourable circumstances will not need changing for a month or more. Occasionally, however, it causes irritation of the back of the tongue or larynx, or of the mucous membrane of the nose. Should this occur, Mr. Charters Symonds' plan may be adopted of passing, by means of a suitable director, a short tube, shaped like a funnel at one end, into the stricture, and leaving it there merely attached by a strong string, which is secured to the cheek or ear by strapping (Fig. 231). Care must be taken that the patient does not swallow the string, an accident which has happened during this treatment. Excellent results have followed the use of tubes; patients have regained flesh, have fairly enjoyed life for some months, and then have died in comparative ease. When a tube cannot be passed, or is not tolerated, the oesophagus, if the disease is high in the neck, may be opened, or if the disease is low down, gastrostomy performed. GrASTROSTOMY is the Operation of establishing a fistulous opening into the stomach for the purpose of feeding theGASTROSTOMY. 611 patient in stricture of the oesopliagus. The operation is now usually performed in two stages. In the first, the abdomen is opened, and the stomach secured by suture to the abdominal parietes ; in the second, which is not per- formed till from four to six days after the first, the stomach, which by this time has become adherent to the abdominal parietes, is punctured, and a tube introduced. 1. An oblique incision (Fig. 253, e) is made between two and three inches long, about an inch below, and parallel with the left costal cartilages, beginning about an inch and a half from the middle line (Howse). The sheath of the rectus is next opened, the fibres of the muscle sepa- rated, not cut, the posterior layer of the sheath divided, and the peritoneum exposed. Mr. Howse thinks that the fibres of the rectus subsequently play the part of a sphincter to the opening. All bleeding having been stopped, the peritoneal cavity is opened on a director, and the stomach sought and drawn into the wound if it does not already present there. It may be distinguished from the transverse colon by its thick, smooth, and pinkish-red coat. Two loops of silk are passed through Fig. 231.—A Symonds' tube in situ. R R 2DISEASES OE REGIONS. 612 the peritoneal and muscular coat for the purpose of securing a good hold of the stomach whilst the sutures are being introduced, and also for the purpose of steady- ing it during the subsequent operation of opening it and thus preventing the risk of the adhesions being broken down. The stomach, as near the cardiac end as possible, is now stitched to the parietes by a double ring of sutures, so as to ensure a good inch of the stomach-wall (that between the outer and inner ring of sutures) being in contact with the parietal peritoneum (Fig. 232). The Fig. 232.—Howse's method of suture in gastrostoray. outer ring of sutures is passed first, by carrying the needle, armed with a silk suture, through the serous and muscular coat of the stomach, and then through the abdominal parietes a good inch from the edge of the wound. The needle is now unthreaded and withdrawn, re-threaded with the stomach end of the suture, and passed through the abdominal parietes, unthreaded, and finally withdrawn. "When all the sutures are in situ they are tied over a quill. The inner ring of sutures are then passed through the serous and muscular coat of the stomach and the skin and peritoneum only of the parietes, and tied. The wound is dressed antiseptically. 2. At the end of from four to six days the stomach will gene- rally be found adherent, and should then be punctured with a long sharp tenotomy knife, while it is drawn well forwards by the silk ligatures left in for the purpose. A No. 6 or 8 English catheter is passed through the puncture, and the wound again dressed antiseptically, the catheter passing through the antiseptic dressings. At613 DISEASES OE THE LARYNX. first only teaspoonfuls at a time of fluid nourisliment should be given ; later a larger tube may be passed, and minced solid food introduced. DISEASES OE THE LARYNX. Physical examination of the larynx.—Eor tbe diagnosis and efficient treatment of the diseases of the larynx the laryngoscope is required. To use this instru- FiG. 233.—Method of using the laryngoscope. ment place yourself in front of the patient and the light, in the way shown in Fig. 233. Throw the light reflected from the head mirror into the back of the patient's mouth, draw the tongue, held by a towel with the left hand, gently forward, and press the throat mirror, held in the right hand, firmly but gently against the uvula and soft614 DISEASES OE BEGIONS. palate. With a little practice an image of tlie larynx is obtained. Ask tlie patient to pronounce the sounds ah, ee, and the yocal cords will come into view. The image of the larynx is of course reversed, the front appearing in the throat mirror as the back. If any difficulty is expe- rienced in obtaining a good view the soft palate and back of the mouth should be sprayed or painted with a 20 per cent, solution of cocaine. If any operation or manipula- tion is required in the larynx itself, it also should be swabbed with cocaine by the laryngeal brush. Laeyjstgitis, or inflammation of the larynx, may be conveniently divided into acute catarrhal, chronic catarrhal, oedematous, and membraneous laryngitis. Acute catarrhal laryngitis may be due to sudden exposure to cold or damp, violent exertion of the voice, or inhalation of noxious vapours or impure air; or the in- flammation may spread to the larynx from the pharynx; or occur in the course of other diseases, as the eruptive fevers. Symptoms.—Soreness of the throat, hoarseness or even aphonia, laryngeal cough, and tenderness on pressure over the thyroid cartilage, accompanied by febrile symp- toms. On laryngoscopic examination the parts are seen red and swollen, and the cords do not come together pro- perly. The treatment consists in rendering the atmosphere moist by the steam kettle, in inhaling soothing vapours, and abstaining from using the voice; whilst if the attack is very acute, leeches, or cold in the earlier stages, maybe applied over the thyroid cartilage. Should the inflamma- tion assume the oedematous form, scarification, intubation, or tracheotomy may become necessary (see Oedematous Laryngitis), Chronic laryngitis may be due to exposure to wet and cold, over-exertion of the voice, excessive smoking, in- halations of dust and vapours, syphilis, tubercle, and malignant disease. The mucous membrane appears thickened and indurated and covered with a muco- purulent discharge, whilst the glottis is narrowed in consequence of the thickening of the mucous membrane. The symptoms are cough, hoarseness, laryngeal voice, dryness and irritation of the throat, and dyspnoea, varying with the amount of narrowing of the glottis. A variety of chronic laryngitis, in which the mucous follicles are chiefly affected, is known as follicular or granular laryngitis, or clergyman's sore throat, and is frequently associated with a similar condition of the pharynx. I(EDEMATOUS LARYNGITIS. 615 Treatment.—The application with, the brush of a strong solution of nitrate of silver (half a drachm to the ounce, or even stronger), absolute rest of the voice, residence at a suitable spa, avoidance of all sources of irritation, and appropriate remedies if there is any specific disease. (Edematous laryngitis or oedema of the glottis.—In this form there is an effusion of serous fluid into the sub- mucous tissue of the larynx, especially that about the aryteno - epiglottidean folds (Fig. 234). But the oedema does not extend below the vocal cords, as the mucous membrane is tightly attached to them without the inter- vention of any submucous tissue. Cause.—It generally comes on suddenly, and often supervenes upon some pre- vious inflammatory condition of the larynx or neighbour- ing parts. It is of common occurrence after scalds or burns of the throat, stings of insects, or the impaction in the larynx of a foreign body; or it may occur in the course of such diseases erysipelas, fevers, and Fia. 234.—(Edematous Laryn- gitis. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) as small-pox ; or be engrafted on tubercular or syphilitic ulceration of the larynx, perichondritis, or necrosis of the cartilage. (Edema of the larynx of a passive character is also a frequent termination of Bright's disease. The symptoms in the acuter forms are most urgent, the dyspnoea is extreme, and if not relieved rapidly ends in spasm and death.. When less acute the voice is affected, inspiration is often stridulous and laboured, and swallowing is painful and difficult—symptoms which may be followed by cyanosis, coma, and death. The treatment must be energetic; an emetic should be given at the onset, and leeches, ice, or, if preferred, hot sponges, applied over the thyroid carti- lage. These means failing, the oedematous part must be scarified by the laryngeal lancet, or an O'Dwyer's tube,616 DISEASES OF REGIONS. if at hand, passed tlirougli tlie glottis, and retained there until the oedema subsides; otherwise laryngotomy or tracheotomy must be performed. Membraneous laryngitis, laryngeal croup or laryngeal diphtheria, is a disease of childhood, and may either begin in the larynx, or spread to it from the fauces and pharynx. It is characterized by the formation of a false membrane. Fig. 235.—Membraneous laryngitis or croup. (St. Bartliolomew's Hospital Museum.) which may extend into the trachea and bronchi (Fig. 235). The membrane, which may be hard and tough, or soft and crumbling, and of a yellowish or greyish-white colour, is produced by the coagulation of fibrinous material exuded on the surface of the mucous membrane. It consists of a delicate network of fibres enclosing leucocytes, cast-off epithelium, and granular debris in its meshes. Loeffler's bacillus has been found in the membrane. On its separation the mucous membrane beneath is generally though not invariably found to be denuded of epithelium, congested and inflamed; but the mucosa is not usually617 MEMBRANEOUS LARYNGITIS. involved as is the case in diphtheritic inflammation of the fauces and pharynx. This difference would appear to depend on the site of the inflammation and the intensity of the process, though some consider it a point in favour of the non-identity of croup and diphtheria, a question how- ever which cannot here be discussed. The symptoms, when the disease begins in the larynx, generally come on very gradually; and at first cannot be distinguished from an ordinary catarrh. Soon, however, and often first during the night, the cough acquires a ringing or brassy character, and soon afterwards, if not simultaneously, the inspiration becomes stridulous, and later the voice "hoarse, cracked, and whispering, or in young children totally suppressed.'" Dyspnoea is now marked ; the soft parts of the chest-walls recede during inspiration; the inspiration is heaving; expiration as well as inspira- tion may also become impeded, and the child, if not relieved, rapidly becomes cyanosed and dies. When the disease spreads from the pharynx, the laryngeal signs may at first be masked; but later, they are similar to those given above. Treatment,—Internally quinine and perchloride of iron may be given, whilst locally when any membrane is visible on the fauces and pharynx it should be removed, and prevented, if possible, from re-forming by swabbing out the throat at frequent intervals with boro- glyceride, carbolic acid, or other disinfectant. The child may be placed under chloroform, if necessary, to ensure the thorough removal of the membrane. Should the larynx become obstructed, tracheotomy must be per- formed. The chief indications for this operation are 1, retrocession of the soft parts of the chest walls, 2, sup- pression of the voice, and especially 3, impeded expiration. Before introducing the tracheotomy-tube the membrane should be thoroughly removed both from the trachea and larynx by a feather or by the suction-tube apparatus, and its re-formation if possible prevented by constant spraying of the part through the tube with an alkaline lotion. The patient's bed should be surrounded with curtains, and the atmosphere kept moist by steam to which an antiseptic is added. He should be fed with soft solid nourishment, and if necessary by a flexible silk tube passed through the nose. Stimulants are generally required. The recumbent posture should be insisted on, as there is grave danger, if the patient attempts to sit up, of sudden and fatal cardiac syncope.DISEASES OF REGIOT^S. 618 Tubercle oe the larynx, also called laryngeal phthisis, may sometimes occur as a primary affection, though it is generally secondary to tubercle of the lung. It is characterized by the formation of miliary tubercles under the mucous membrane, which subsequently break down, leading to ulceration. The symptoms are those of ordinary chronic laryngitis, but in addition to these, the patient often presents signs of pulmonary phthisis. On examination the mucous membrane looks pale, and the aryteno-epiglottidean folds swollen and often of a pyri- form shape; later, ulceration will be discovered, and may be followed by caries and necrosis of the laryngeal cartilages, dysphagia, and oedema of the glottis. Treat- ment.—The usual constitutional treatment for tubercular diseases must be employed. When ulceration has occurred insufflation of morphia and painting the part with cocaine before taking food may be tried to relieve the cough and the difficulty and pain in swallowing. Should swallowing become impossible, the patient should be fed with the oesophageal tube whilst lying face down- wards. Tracheotomy must be performed if suffocation threatens. Syphilis of the larynx.—In the secondary stages of syphilis, catarrhal inflammation, superficial ulceration, and mucous patches may occur; whilst in the tertiary stages characteristic ulcers due to the breaking down of gummata are not very uncommon. Tertiary ulceration may extend to the perichondrium, or a gumma may begin beneath that membrane, and in either case lead to necrosis or caries of the cartilages. On the healing of the ulcers contractions and adhesions producing stenosis of the larynx may ensue. Greneral syphilitic treatment, appro- priate to the stage, should be employed. Scarifica- tion or tracheotomy are called for in tertiary affections should oedema of the glottis supervene. In stenosis an attempt may be made to dilate the contracted glottis by means of O'Dwyer's tubes, or the stricture may be divided with a guarded knife, or with the galvano-cautery. Tumours both innocent and malignant occur in the larynx. Of the former the papillomata and fibromata are the most common, of the latter the epitheliomata. The papilloinata occur as warty or pedunculated excrescences, or as soft, flocculent, villous-like bodies, and generally grow from the vocal cords and front of the larynx (Fig. 236). They may be single or multiple. The fibromata are less619 TUMOURS OF THE LABYNX. common, and occur as small, smooth, solitary, spherical, pedunculated or sessile growths, springing from the vocal cords. The ejpitlieliomata usually grow from the mucous membrane covering the arytenoid cartilages, or from the ventricular bands or cords. A sarcomatous tumour is shown in the accompanying illustration (Fig. 237). The chief sym,ptoms of a growth in the larynx are hoarseness or aphonia, and dyspnoea. When the growth Fig. 236.—Papilloma of larynx. Fia. 237.—Sarcoma of larynx. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) Museum.) is pedunculated the symptoms are often paroxysmal and intermittent in character, in consequence of the growth being moved by the current of air in respiration. The laryngoscope is essential for the diagnosis. In the early stages it may be difficult to distinguish an innocent from- a malignant tumour, but if a small piece can be removed, a microscopical examination will usually clear up the point. Later, the rapid growth of the tumour, its ten- dency to ulcerate, its induration, its involvement of surrounding parts, the enlargement of lymphatic glands, and the accompanying pain and cachexia will indicate malignancy. Frequently, however, the lymphatic glands are not involved, and there may be no cachexia.620 DISEASES OE REGIONS. Treatment,—Innocent growths should be removed if possible by the intralaryngeal method. This may be done by evulsion with the laryngeal forceps, or by excision with the cutting forceps, or with the cold wire or galvano-cautery snare, local ansesthesia being induced by cocaine. When of very large size, or broad-based, or situated below the cords, or in other parts where they cannot be removed by this method, laryngo-tracheotomy or thyrotomy may have to be performed. When a malig- nant gi owth is confined entirely to the larynx, and the glands of the neck are not involved, thyrotomy may still be performed, and the growth completely cut and scraped away from the cartilages, or if the cartilages are found invaded, part, or even the whole of the larynx may be extirpated. Otherwise palliative treatment only can be employed, or tracheotomy performed if suffoca- tion threatens. OPERATIONS ON THE AIR PASSAGES. Under this head are included tracheotomy^ laryngotomy^ laryngo-tracheotomy, thyrotomy, subhyoid pharyngotomy, and intubation diiidi extirpation of the larynx, A. Tracheotomy , laryngotomy, and laryngo-tracheotomy may be required, 1, for establishing a permanent opening below an obstruc- tion of the larynx; 2, as a temporary expedient until such an obstruction can be removed ; 3, for the extraction of a foreign body or growth; and 4, to prevent blood entering the trachea during operations about the mouth, jaws, tongue, and pharynx. B. Thyrotomy and subhyoid pharyn- gotomy may be necessary for the removal of a growth or foreign body when such cannot be extracted by the intra- laryngeal method or by one of the former operations. 0. Complete or partial extirpation of the larynx may have to be undertaken for a malignant growth confined to the larynx. Before performing any of these operations the Surgeon should consider well the anatomy of the middle line of the neck. Beginning at the chin is the raphe between the mylo-hyoid muscles, next the hyoid bone, and then the thyro-hyoid membrane through which an incision is made in the operation of subhyoid pharyngotomy (Fig. 238, a). Below this is the pomum Adami, or the notch in the thyroid cartilage which, though prominent in adults, especially in males, can hardly be felt in the fat neck ofOPEEATIONS Q-N THE AIR PASSAGES. 621 a child. An incision exactly in the middle line through the thyroid cartilage is known as thyrotomy (Fig. 238, b). A little below the thyroid cartilage the cricoid can be felt. It is situated opposite the fifth or sixth cervical vertebra and is an excellent landmark, as it can always be dis- tinguished however fat the neck. Between it and the thyroid cartilage is the erico-thyroid membrane, which is quite superficial being covered only by the skin, super- ficial and deep fascia, and the overlapping sterno-hyoid Fig. 238.—Situation of incisions for operations in middle line of neck. a. Subhyoid pharyngotomy. b. Thyrotomy. c. Laryngotomy. d. Tracheotomy above isthmus, e. Tracheotomy below isthmus. The lines only show the relative situation of the incisions, not their correct length. muscles. This is the spot where laryngotomy is performed (Fig. 238, c). Below the cricoid cartilage are two or three rings of the trachea, and then the thyroid isthmus. There is usually a space between the cricoid cartilage and the isthmus of a quarter to half an inch. Here the trachea is merely covered by the skin, superficial and deep fascia, and the overlapping sterno-hyoid muscles on either side, and it is in this situation that tracheotomy is best performed (Fig. .238, d). When the incision is extended upwards through the cricoid as well as through the upper rings of the trachea, it is called laryngo-tracheo- toray. After the isthmus of the thyroid gland, which, in adults, is usually about half an inch wide, follow four or622 DISEASES OE HEGlOKS. five rings of tlie trachea, and then the upper border of the sternum. Below the isthmus the trachea recedes from the surface, and in addition to the skin and superficial and deep fascia, is covered by the sterno-thyroids as well as the sterno-hyoids, and by two layers of deep fascia between which is the large inferior thyroid plexus of veins. Superficial to the muscles, the anastomotic branch between the anterior jugular veins also crosses the trachea. On the trachea itself are several small branches from the inferior thyroid arteries, and sometimes the thyroidea ima, an abnormal branch coming ofl from the aorta ; whilst, rarely, the innominate vein may be higher than usual, and cross the trachea above the level of the sternum. On either side of the trachea low in the neck are the carotid arteries. Some Surgeons perform tracheotomy below the isthmus (Fig. 238, e); but a review of these anatomical relations makes it evident how much greater is the risk and difficulty then attending it. Tbacheotomy may be performed either above or below the thyroid isthmus. The former situation should, as a rule, be chosen, as here the operation can be performed with greater ease and less risk. Moreover, there is less danger of suppuration extending between the layers of the cervical fascia which are necessarily opened if the low operation is done. In favour of the low operation, on the other hand, it is argued that the opening is further from the disease when the larynx is affected, and nearer to the bronchi when a foreign body has to be extracted; and that there is more room than above the isthmus, as the latter sometimes touches the cricoid cartilage. The isth- mus, however, can be drawn downwards quite easily with blunt hooks, or, if necessary, may be divided in the middle line with perfect safety and practically no haemor- rhage. If there be any advantage in the low operation in that the trachea is opened further from the disease, it is, in my opinion, fully compensated for by the less risk attending the high operation. The high operation only will be here described. It may be done either with or without chloroform. Chloroform should, as a rule, be given to children, as otherwise their struggles are apt to embarrass the operator. In adults, however, it is not necessary, as after the skin-incision has been made no pain is felt, and chloroform is liable to in- crease the dyspnoea, if present, to a dangerous extent and necessitate the operation being rapidly performed, whereasI TRACHEOTOMY. 623 the more deliberately it can be done, the less are the risks i attending it. A small pillow having been placed beneath 1 the neck so as to render it prominent, make an incision from the cricoid cartilage, exactly in the middle line, for an inch and a half to two inches downwards according to the age of the patient, fatness of the neck, &c. (Figs. 238 and 242, d). Divide the skin and superficial fascia, and having found the interval between the sterno-hyoid muscles continue your incision between them, carefully avoiding any large veins. The isthmus of the thyroid . will now be seen in the lower part of the wound as a ! bluish-red body; and if sufficient room does not exist between it and the cricoid cartilage, draw it down gently with a blunt hook ; or if this cannot be readily done, notch it in the middle line or divide it. The drawing down- wards of the isthmus is greatly facilitated by dividing transversely on the cricoid the layer of fascia which ex- tends from the cricoid cartilage to the isthmus. By doing this, moreover, the wounding of the veins between the layers of fascia will be avoided. The first two or three rings of the trachea having now been fully exposed, and all arterial haemorrhage arrested by ligature or pressure- forceps, thrust the sharp hook into the trachea imme- diately below the cricoid cartilage, and steadying it in this way, divide the first two or three rings by thrusting in the knife with the back of the blade directed down- wards and by cutting towards the cricoid. Venous haemorrhage, except from a large vein, which of course should be tied or clamped, need not delay the opening of the trachea, as it depends on engorgement of the right side of the heart, and will disappear after two or three inspira- tions through the tracheal wound. The wound in the trachea being held open by the tracheal dilator, pass the outer tube, made wedge-shaped by pressing it between the finger and thumb, into the trachea, and then imme- j diately insert the inner cannula, as until this is done, air cannot freely pass through the tube. Secure the tube ' in situ by tracheotomy tapes tied behind the neck. Where ! the operation is performed for croup or diphtheria, the - 1 tube should not, as a rule, be inserted at once, but the wound held open by the dilator, and any false membrane removed by a feather passed both down into the trachea and up into the larynx or if this does not succeed, by a Parker's suction-tube apparatus. The bivalve cannula in general use, is apt, on account of its shape, to produceDISEASES OF REGIONS. 624 ulceration of the anterior wall of the trachea, on which from its curve it must necessarily impinge; it has even been known to perforate the wall and to enter the in- nominate artery. This can be prevented by the improved- shaped cannula invented by Mr. E. W. Parker (Fig. 239). Should the breathing cease during the operation, the trachea should still be opened, the obstructing membranes removed, and artificial respiration persevered in for some time. Bangers and difficulties of the operation,—Where the operation can be done deliberately, and on a patient with a thin neck, it is attended with no great difficulty; but where, as is frequently the case, it has to be undertaken on an emergency, possibly with insufficient light and with no skilled assistant at hand, or on a young child or infant with a fat neck, and has to be completed rapidly to pre- vent death from suffocation, it is perhaps one of the most trying that the Surgeon is called upon to per- FiG. 239.—Parker's form. The dangers into which the cannula. inexperienced and unwary may then fall are the following :— 1. The liyoid hone or the thyroid cartilage may be mis- taken for the cricoid cartilage, and the incision made through the thyro-hyoid membrane or into the thyroid cartilage. This mistake could hardly occur except in a fat-necked child, and then only through carelessness in not determining the position of the cricoid cartilage before beginning the operation. 2. The interval hetioeen the sterno-hyoid muscles may he missed, and the dissection carried to one or other side of the trachea. The thyroid body and even the carotid artery has in this way been wounded. To avoid such, a disaster the head should be held perfectly straight and the incision made accurately in the middle line; one side of the wound should not be retracted more than the other; and the index finger should be used from time to time to make sure that the dissection is being made over the trachea. 3. Too short an incision may he made, and consequently be a source of embarrassment in drawing down the thyroid isthmus, and in defining the trachea before it is opened. The incision should never be less than an inch and a half long even in a child.TRACHEOTOMY. 625 4. One or more large veins may he luoanded, and the steps of the operation be considerably impeded by hsemor- rhage. Their walls are very thin, great care therefore is necessary to avoid injuring them. 5. The knife may perforate the posterior ivall of the trachea and enter the oesophagus. Caution, therefore, is necessary, and some advise that the knife should be held, whilst incising the trachea, with the forefinger placed on one side half an inch from its point, so that it cannot penetrate too deeply. 6. The knife raay slip to one side, instead of entering the trachea. This can hardly happen if the trachea is fixed by the sharp hook and drawn well forward into the wound whilst being perforated. 7. The innominate vein and even the innominate artery have been luounded in incising the trachea during the performance of the low operation. The knife, therefore, should be introduced with the back of the blade to- wards the sternum, and the incision made from below upwards. 8. Blood may enter the trachea, and if allowed to remain there will coagulate, and the clots being drawn into the bronchi and acting as plugs may cause suffocation. This danger should be guarded against by tying all bleeding ! vessels, and thoroughly exposing the trachea before in- cising it, lest there should be a vessel in front of it. I Should only a little blood enter the trachea, it can be I coughed up ; but if the amount is large, the patient should be turned on his side, and the head depressed, the j wound of course being held open by retractors, to allow ! it to run out; or if this does not sufiice, an attempt I must be made to remove it by suction. When there is a general oozing of blood from the wound, the introduc- tion of the tube will prevent more escaping into the trachea. 9. The tracheotomy tube may he forced hetween the fascia j and the front wall of the trachea ; or one valve of the tuhe ! may he passed inside the trachea, and the other outside,— To escape these accidents, the incision in the trachea j should be free, and its edges well retracted, or one edge ! may be held up by a sharp hook. To ensure both valves entering the trachea, they should be pressed well to- gether ; this may be conveniently done by Sankey's forceps ! (Fig. 240). 10. The tuhe, ivhere a memhrane is present, may he passed w. •S sDISEASES OF REGIONS. 626 hetiveen the tracheal wall and the false membrane, a danger that may be guarded against by removing the membrane before introducing the tabe. 11. The tube has been passed upwards into the larynx instead of doiuntuards into the trachea.—No excuse, and it is to be feared no remedy, could be found for such gross ignorance. After-treatment.—The room should be kept at a uniform temperature, the air rendered moist by means of ^ a steam-spray apparatus, and the bed well surrounded with Fig. 240.—Sankey's forceps for introducing tracheotomy tube. Fig. 241.—Author's pilot for Mr. Morrant Baker's soft tube. curtains. The inner tube, especially if the operation is performed for diphtheria or croup, should be freed at fre- quent intervals with a feather, or with a small sponge fixed on a wire ; and well cleansed by the nurse at least two or three times a day. The outer tube which also requires cleansing once a day, should only be removed by the Surgeon himself. Where it is necessary that a tube should be worn for any length of time, Mr. Morrant Baker's india- rubber cannula should be substituted for a silver tube. I have employed this immediately after the operation, but it is perhaps safer not to do so until the wound has been dilated for a few days by the silver cannula, as at first the resiliency of the tracheal rings tends to close the wound, and the india-rubber has been found in some in- stances not sufficiently stiff to resist their pressure. The pilot shown in Fig. 1^41, inasmuch as it renders the end ofLARYNGOTOMY. 627 the fcabe stiff and wedge-shaped, facilitates its introduc- 1 tion. Tiie india-rubber tubes may be worn with the I greatest comfort, and for prolonged periods. I have now a patient who has worn them for upwards of five and a half years. When lined with canvas, as suggested by Mr. Baker, the tube will last in very good condition 1 for nearly twelve months. If a silver tube be worn it should be examined on each removal, any blackening of the end, and, of course, the presence of blood being an indication that ulceration is in progress. The tube should only be worn as long as respiration through the j glottis is impeded. To determine when the tube may ' be dispensed with it is only necessary to close the wound with the finger and thus test the breathing. As a rule, it is better to remove the tube at first only during the day, or for a few hours at a time, or where a fenestrated I cannula is used the external opening may be stopped for certain periods with a plug to gradually accustom the i patient to breathe through the glottis. When the tube i has been worn for any length of time some difficulty is often experienced in leaving it off. This may depend chiefly on: 1, the formation of granulations in the trachea above the opening for the tube; 2, adhesions of the vocal cords to one another; and 3, paralysis complete or partial of the intrinsic muscles of the larynx. Where granula- tions are the cause of the obstruction, they should be touched at intervals with nitrate of silver. Where there is adhesion of the vocal cords the glottis may either be dilated by O'Dwyer's tubes, or the adhesions broken J down by probes passed up through the wound or down through the mouth. The power of the muscles may be restored by galvanism, one pole being placed in the larynx, and the other over the situation of the re- current laryngeal nerve. In children the condition improves as they grow older and as the larynx becomes more developed. Lahyngotomy.—Feel for the cricoid cartilage, and if the case is urgent, and the patient evidently m extremis, plunge a penknife through the skin and subjacent crico- thyroid membrane transversely, immediately above the cricoid cartilage, and hold the wound open by a hair-pin, piece of wire from a champagne bottle, &g. When the operation can be done deliberately, make an incision exactly in the middle line of the neck from a little above the lower border of the thyroid cartilage to a little below the s s 2628 DISEASES OE REGIONS. upper border of the cricoid cartilage (Figs. 238 and 242, c), and the crico-thyroid membrane having been thus exposed, incise it transversely, introducing the knife immediately above the cricoid cartilage, so as to be as far as possible from the vocal cords, and in order to avoid wounding the little crico-thyroid artery which anastomoses with its fellow usually across the upper part of the space. This artery, though commonly so insignificant that any Fig. 242.—Incisions in certain operations on the neck. a. Sub- hyoid pharyngotomy. h. Thyrotoiny. c. Laryngotomy. d. Tracheotomy above, and e below, the isthmus of thyroid. /. Ligature of subclavian (3rd part), g. Ligature of lingual. A. Ligature of temporal, i. Ligature of common carotid. haemorrhage from it could be readily controlled by the tube, is sometimes of considerable size, and, if then wounded, would require tying. The laryngotomy tube should be somewhat compressed from above down- wai ds, so as better to correspond with the shape of the crico-thyroid space. Some Surgeons recommend that the incision through the crico-thyroid membrane should be vertical as the anterior jugular veins and the crico-thyroid muscles have been injured in making the transverse in- cision, and an aerial fistula has at times remained after629 LARYNGO-TRACHEOTOMY. the latter has been employed. Further the vertical incision has this advantage, that it can be prolonged downwards through the cricoid cartilage if more room is required. Laryngo-TRACHEOTOMY consists in prolonging the in- cision in the trachea through the cricoid cartilage. It is sometimes done when there is not room between the cricoid cartilage and the isthmus for the performance of 1 tracjieotomy; also for the purpose of removing a f^rowth ' from the larynx. Although no harm may follow the division of the cricoid, it should be avoided, if possible, as j the integrity of the larynx is thereby interfered with, and 1 serious impairment of the vocal apparatus has occasionally been the result. I Comparison of the operations of tracheotomy and laryn- I gotomy. — Laryngotomy is a much easier operation and j can be done with greater rapidity than tracheotomy. For this reason, it is jpar excellence the one to be undertaken on an emergency, as, for instance, threatened suffocation i from the impaction of a portion of food at the entrance of i the larynx. In children tracheotomy, or, in the case of an emergency, laryngo-tracheotomy, should always be under- taken, as the crico-thyroid space in them is too small to admit a tube. In adults, when either laryngotomy or tracheotomy can be performed deliberately, the opinions of Surgeons are somewhat at variance as to which opera- tion ought to be undertaken for the varying conditions calling for an opening into the air-passages below the glottis. For my own part I always do tracheotomy (except in cases of emergency), as this operation does not interfere with the integrity of the larynx; whereas after laryngotomy the voice has at times been lost or im- paired owing to contraction of the crico-thyroid mem- brane, or to inflammation of the crico-thyroid joint or crico-arytenoid joint. Further there is often difficulty with the tube. This opinion, however, is not held by all. Thus, according, to Mr. Erichsen, laryngotomy should be performed in^ 1. Acute oedematous laryngitis. 2. Membraneous laryngitis in adults. 3. Chronic syphilitic and ulcerative laryngitis. 4. Tumours and foreign bodies obstructing the larynx. 5. Scalds and injuries of the I larynx by acids. 6. Accidents during operations about the head and face in which blood accumulates in the larynx; and 7. Laryngeal spasm and paralysis from com- pression of the recurrent nerve. Tracheotomy^ on the other630 DISEASES OF REGIOlSrS. hand, lie advises to be done for: 1. Membraneous laryn- gitis in children; 2. Foreign bodies in the trachea or bronchi; 3. Impaction of foreign substances in the larynx; 4. Necrosis of the cartilages with obstructive thickening of the tissues; and 5. As a preliminary to certain operations attended with haemorrhage about the face or mouth. Thyrotomy, or laying open the larynx from the front by dividing the thyroid cartilage in the middle line, may be required for the removal of a tumour or a foreign body impacted in the larynx after a thorough and careful attempt has been made to extract it by the natural passages (intralari/ngeal method). Make an incision accu- rately in the middle line of the neck from the hyoid bone to the cricoid cartilage (Figs. 238 and 242, b), and, having exposed the thyroid cartilage, and stopped all bleeding, divide it along the angle formed by the junction of the alse, taking care to do so in the middle line so as not to injure the vocal cords. Separate the alse, and remove the growth, &c., and bring the alse accurately together again, and unite them by silver wire or kangaroo-tail-tendon sutures, which should not, however, be passed through the whole thickness of the cartilage. "When the removal of the growth is likely to be attended with haemorrhage, tracheotomy should first be performed and the trachea plugged by Hahn's cannula. Subhyoid pharyngotomy consists in opening the pharynx through the thyro-hyoid membrane (Figs. 238 and 242, a), for the purpose of removing a tumour or impacted foreign body at the entrance, or in the upper part of the larynx. It is so rarely required that the steps of the operation are not given in detail here. Intubation of the larynx consists in passing a properly-shaped tube through the glottis by means of a forceps or pilot invented for the purpose. The tubes now used are those known as O'Dwyer's. It is employed as a substitute for laryngotomy or tracheotomy in certain cases, as oedematous laryngitis, membraneous laryngitis, &c. It does not seem likely that intubation, as has been maintained by some, will replace, tracheotomy for mem- braneous laryngitis, since there is a danger of the mem- branes being forced into the trachea by the tube, thus causing obstruction, nor does the intubation admit of the removal of the membranes as can be done after trache-631 EXTIRPATION OF THE LARYNX. otomy. In oedematous laryngitis, however, it is a yery useful procedure. Extirpation of the larynx.—Partial or complete remoyal of the cartilages of the larynx may be required for malignant disease when the growth is confined to that organ and the glands in the neck are not involved. First perform tracheotomy, and plug the trachea with Hahn's tampon cannula, and continue the administra- tion of the anaesthetic through it. Next make an incision in the middle line of the neck from the hyoid bone to the tracheotomy wound; free the upper part of the trachea and the larynx from their attachments by dissecting close to these structures, securing all bleeding vessels as they are divided. Divide the trachea above the cannula and detach the larynx from the remaining connections, work- ing from below upwards. Where part of the larynx can be saved, the risks of the operation will be greatly lessened. Lightly plug the wound with antiseptic gauze, leaving the cannula in situ. The patient must be fed at first through a soft tube passed down the oesophagus, and by nutrient enemata. On the healing of the wound an artificial larynx should be fitted to the parts, by the help of which the patient will be able to speak moderately distinctly. diseases of the parotid gland. Parotitis or mumps, is an acute infectious disease attended with sharp febrile disturbance, and with a local inflammation of the parotid gland. There is generally much pain and swelling, but neither redness nor tendency to suppuration. On the subsidence of the inflammation in the one gland, the opposite, if not already affected, generally becomes inflamed, or more rarely the testicle, ovary, or mamma is attacked—a condition spoken of as metastasis. Confinement to the house, a gentle laxative, and a belladonna or opiate liniment or poppy fomentations to soothe the pain is all that is usually required. Parotitis may follow surgical operations, especially those involving the abdominal cavity. It soon subsides if the original wound runs an aseptic course, but if it be due to septic absorption suppuration quickly ensues (pysemia). Parotid abscesses should be opened by an incisionDISEASES OE EEGIONS. 632 in front of the posterior border of the jaw to avoid the external carotid artery, and parallel to the facial nerve. Paeotid tumours may begin in the parotid gland itself, or, as is perhaps more often the case, in one of the lymphatic glands situated over it. They have a great tendency to displace or destroy the parotid, and to extend deeply amongst the important structures behind the ramus of the jaw, where they may surround the carotid arteries, or even encroach upon the pharynx. In struc- ture they may be fibrous, myxomatous, cartilaginous, sarcomatous or carcinomatous. The tumour, however, most common in the parotid region consists of cartilage intermixed with fibrous tissue, with atrophied glandular elements, and often with mucous tissue. The cartilage which so frequently exists in parotid tumours is believed to be derived from the elements of the rudimentary foetal structure concerned in the development of the lower jaw, and known as Meckel's cartilage. Cysts are very rare, but cystic degeneration of the solid tumours is not in- frequent. Symptoms and diagnosis.—The differential diagnosis of the various parotid tumours cannot be here attempted. Nor is it of consequence, as it is often impossible before removal to determine their exact nature. The practical points for the Surgeon to consider are:—Is the growth innocent or malignant ? Can it be safely removed P Innocent tumours grow slowly, and are at first freely moveable, smooth or slightly lobulated, circumscribed, hard and firm or semi-elastic; but as they increase in size they may become soft or fluctuating in places, either from mucoid softening or cystic degeneration. The skin over them, though stretched and thinned, is non-adherent, and the glands are not affected. Malignant tumours, on the other hand, grow rapidly, are ill-defined in outline, generally soft or semi-fluctuating, and become firmly fixed to the surrounding parts ; the skin is adherent, purplish- red, brawny, infiltrated with the growth, and later ulcerated ; and the lymphatic glands are enlarged. An innocent tumour, however, after having grown slowly for many years may suddenly take on rapid growth and malignant characters. Treatment.—When the tumour appears innocent, of moderate size, and freely moveable, indicating that its attachments are not deep, there can be no question about its excision. But v/hen of very large size, especially ifBRONCHO CELE. 633 firmly fixed to surrounding parts, or if malignant, unless quite small and the skin and glands are not to any extent involved, it should be left alone. The Operation.—Make a free longitudinal incision through the skin and fascia to thoroughly expose the tumour; it will then often readily shell out of its capsule; if not, draw it forward with vulsellum forceps, and separate its deeper attach- ments with the handle of the scalpel and occasional touches of the knife, the edge of which should be turned towards the tumour to avoid the branches of the facial nerve and other important structures. The proximity of the carotids should not be forgotten. DISEASES OE THE THYROID GLAND. BrONCHOCELE, goitre or DERBYSHIRE NECK is an enlargement of the thyroid gland. It may be due, as is commonly the case, to the simple hypertrophy of the normal tissues of the organ (ordinary goitre)^ and may then involve the whole gland or one of the lateral lobes, or only the isthmus. In other instances the hypertrophy may fall chiefly on the fibrous tissue constituting the septa of the gland [fibrous goitre). Or along with some amount of simple hypertrophy, or of increase of fibrous tissue, one or more of the normal alveolar spaces may become enlarged, forming single or multiple cysts [cystic goitre). Such cysts contain when single a serous fluid, or when multiple a colloid or a dark grumous material sometimes mixed with altered blood; whilst occasionally proliferating growths project into their interior from the cyst-walls. In other instances again, but more rarely, the hypertrophy is associated with a great increase in the vessels, and a forcible and expansile pulsation is given to the gland {pulsating gottre). But the tissues, besides hypertrophy, may undergo secondary changes. Thus calcification may occur, and the enlarged gland become in places of stony hardness [calcified goitre), or the fluid normally contained, in the alveolar cavities may assume a colloid character. Lastly, the enlargement of the thyroid - may be due to malignant disease [malignant goitre). Groitre in certain districts is endemic, especially in the Ehone Yalley in Switzerland, and in Derbyshire, and is then frequently associated with the condition known as cretinism. It also occurs sporadically ; and in some cases634 DISEASES OE REGIONS. again is accompanied by a peculiar jerking beat in the carotids, by anaemia, and by a prominence of tbe eyeballs (exophthalmic goitre)^ for a full account of which a work on Medicine must be consulted. The Symptoms common to any form of enlargement of the thyroid is a swelling taking more or less the charac- teristic shape of the thyroid gland, and moving with the larynx in deglutition. In this country the enlargement is generally moderate ; but sometimes, and especially in Switzerland, the goitre forms a large mass hanging down in front of the neck, and may press upon or even displace the trachea and oesophagus. It occurs chiefly in women. In the ordinary variety it feels soft, semi-fluctuating, and of uniform consistency; in the cystic, one or more fluctuating places can be felt; whilst in the fibrous it will be firm and hard and more or less lobed or irregular, and where calcification has taken place of stony hardness. Malignant goitre, which is very rare, may be known by rapid growth, enlarged glands, and the other signs of malignancy mentioned at page 71. The Cause of endemic goitre is not known. It has been attributed to impure water, water from limestone, and snow water, but without conclusive evidence. It is said to be most prevalent in valleys where from their direction the sun does not penetrate, on damp soil, and in damp parts of towns, but according to Mr. Berry these influences have little or nothing to do with its causation. In sporadic cases, heredity, disturbance of the sexual functions, and conditions producing congestion of the head and neck, are given as causes. Treatment.—Sporadic cases of ordinary goitre should be treated by the internal and external application of iodine. The application of biniodide of mercury ointment, fol- lowed by exposure to a hot sun, has been attended with much success in India. Injection of iodine and of per- chloride of iron into the solid parts of the growth is also recommended, but is not unattended with danger, as sudden death has occurred either from the accidental entrance of air or injection of the iron or iodine into a vein. If iodine is used m. iii only of the tincture should be in- jected by a hypodermic syringe deeply into the gland at one spot at a time. In cystic goitre perchloride of iron is by some Surgeons recommended to be thrown into the cyst through a cannula, and the cannula plugged and allowed to remain for some days to set up suppuration.635 ACUTE GOtTRE. The cyst is then left to granulate from the bottom. For my own part I prefer shelling the cyst out from the rest of the gland, which can as a rule be readily done. Where great dyspnoea has threatened suffocation, the gland has been removed ; but since it has been shown that such removal is productive of myxoedema or a condition like it {strumapriva), it is a question whether complete re- moval is ever justifiable. It is better to divide the isthmus in the middle line for the purpose of freeing the trachea (which is compressed laterally, not from before backwards) or to remove the isthmus or one lobe of the gland, when the rest will generally shrink. If necessary to remove both lateral lobes the lower end of each should be left, namely thut part into which the inferior thyroid artery enters. The recurrent nerves are not then endangered {Mikulicz's operation). In removing either lateral lobe of the gland it should be borne in mind that, although the common carotid artery is pushed outwards, the internal jugular vein usually runs over the tumour, being held more or less in position by the veins opening into it. The pulsation of the artery is, therefore, no guide to the posi- tion of the vein, which may run in front of, or internal to the artery. Care should also be taken not to open the thin capsule of fascia surrounding the gland either in front or at the outer side in order to avoid wounding the large and thin-walled veins which lie beneath it. Behind, where this capsule is reflected on to the larynx and trachea, it must necessarily be divided. At this spot the veins should be tied. Endemic goitre admits of little treatment other than removal of the patient from the goitrous district. Malignant goitre except when it in- volves only a portion of the gland is not amenable to treatment. For the treatment of exophthalmic goitre see a work on Medicine. Acute goitre.—Goitre, though usually chronic, some- times occurs in an acute form, the gland increasing to the size of an orange in a few days, and causing severe, or it may be fatal, dyspnoea, from pressure on the trachea in consequence of the enlargement taking place so rapidly that the fascia of the neck has not time to yield. It occurs in young subjects both sporadically and endemi- cally. In these instances it sometimes makes its way behind the sternum, so that it is difficult to get below it, even if tracheotomy is performed. The cause of the dyspnoea may not be very evident before the operation.636 DISEASES OF REGIONS. Treatment,—The pressure may sometimes be removed by simply incising the fascia of the neck. Or tracheotomy may be done, and a long tube passed down the trachea beyond the obstruction ; or the isthmus, or one lobe, may be excised. The patient, in the meanwhile, should be removed from the goitrous district. DISEASES OF THE SPINE. Scoliosis or lateral curvature is a complicated distortion in which the spine forms two or more lateral curves with their convexities in opposite directions, whilst the vertebrae involved in the curves are rotated on their vertical axes so that the spinous processes are directed towards the concavity of the curves. Cause.—The immediate cause that underlies the forma- tion of lateral curvature is the unequal compression of the intervertebral cartilages for long periods. This unequal compression may be induced by 1, any condition causing permanent or habitual obliquity of the pelvis and the consequent throwing of the spine over to the opposite side; such as unequal length of the legs, knock-knee, flat-foot, the use of a wooden leg, habit of standing on one leg, sitting crosslegged, congenital dislocation of the hip, &c.; 2, a one-sided position of the body in sitting, standing, or lying, or produced by certain employments, as nursing or carrying with one arm, &c.; 3, contraction of one side of the chest following empyema; 4, unilateral contraction of the spinal muscles following paralysis of the opposing muscles. The conditions mentioned under 1 and 2 are, however, by far the most frequent causes of the deformity. Although lateral curvature may be induced by these causes acting alone, there are certain circumstances that appear especially to predispose to the deformity, by producing a general want of tone in the muscles and structural weak- ness of the ligaments and bones. Such are, 1, here- dity ; 2, general debility; 3, the strumous diathesis; 4, rickets; and 5, rapid growth. It is much more frequently met with in girls than in boys, and is most common from about the age of fourteen to eighteen. Pathology.—The long-continued unequal compression of the intervertebral cartilages causes them to become wedge-shaped, and the portion of the spine corresponding to the compressed cartilages to assume sooner or laterSCOLIOSIS, OR LATERAL CURYATXJRE. 637 a permanent lateral curve. Whilst, however, a curve is thus being produced, say, in the dorsal region with its convexity to the right, a compensating curve in order to maintain the equilibrium of the spine is being simul- taneously produced in the lumbar region with its con- vexity to the left (Fig. 243). Coincidently with these changes a rotary movement of the affected vertebrae upon Fia. 243.—Lateral curvature of the spine. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) their vertical axes is taking place, so that while the bodies turn towards the convexity of the curve the apices of the spinous processes turn towards the concavity. Hence, in addition to the formation of the primary and the secondary or compensating curves, we have a twisting round of the spine within these curves, as a consequence of which the ribs on the convex side are carried backwards with the transverse processes, causing the an^ele of the scapula on that side to project; whilst the ribs on the concave side are for the same reason carried forwards, producing a prominence of the corresponding breast638 DISEASES OF REGIONS. (Fig. 244). The cause of the rotation has been vari- ously explained. The theory, perhaps, most generally accepted is that of Dr. Judson, who believes that the rotation is due to the fact that the posterior portion of the vertebral column, being a part of the dorsal parietes of the chest and abdomen, is confined by the ligaments and muscles to the median plane of the trunk; whilst the anterior portion projecting into the thoracic and abdominal cavities, being devoid of lateral attachments, is free to move either to the right or left of the median plane when the spine is inclined to either side. At first the bones are not affected, but when the compression of the cartilages Fig. 244.—To show the effect of rotation in lateral curvature of the spine. has become permanent the bodies of the vertebrae also gradually assume a wedge shape, whilst the articular processes become contracted and flattened on the concave side and elongated on the convex. The ligaments and muscles on the concave side are shortened and atrophied, whilst on the convex side the ligaments are stretched and the muscles become hypertrophied. Signs.—Pain or a feeling of weakness in the back, general lassitude, and a stooping gait are amongst the early symptoms; but the patient is generally first brought for consultation on account of a slight projection of the scapula, or an apparent prominence of the iliac crest—a growing out of the shoulder or of the hip, as it is popularly termed. In slight cases there may be little or no lateral deviation of the apices of the spinous pro- cesses, and the little there is may be made to disappear on suspending the patient or placing her in the prone position. In the severer cases, however, the signs are unmistakable. Thus, in the more common forms, there is usually a dorsal639 LATERAL CXJUyATURE OF THE SPINE. curve with its convexity to the right, and a shorter lumbar, or dorso-lumbar curve, with its convexity to the left. The right shoulder is generally elevated, and the angle of the right scapula, right iliac crest and left breast are prominent, whilst the left lumbar muscles, in consequence of the backward projection of the left lumbar transverse processes, stand out as a prominent ridge and give a greater sense of resistance on pressing over them than normal. In other cases the compensating curves may be so slight that there is apparently a single curve only, with its convexity either to the right or left, involving the whole spine or chiefly the upper dorsal or the lumbar vertebrae, and producing more or less projection of the scapula or apparent prominence of the iliac crest, &c., according to its severity and situation. Treatment.—Where there is evidence of general or muscular debility the health and muscular tone should be improved by suitable remedies, the avoidance of late hours, fatigue and the like; whilst the exciting cause of the curvature should be looked for and if possible removed. In slight cases, the above means, when con- joined with a judicious selection of muscular exercises and partial recumbency, will generally serve to cure or improve the curvature, or at least prevent it from getting worse. But in severe cases, when osseous changes are already confirmed, some form of rigid support, as a poro- plastic jacket, or a light spinal instrument, will commonly be required, especially for the poorer classes of patients. In ordering such supports, however, the patient should be made to thoroughly understand that no real improvement of the curvature must be expected from them, their only aim being to relieve pain when present, to give a sense of comfort and support, to improve the outward appearance, and to prevent further deformity. In slight cases they should on no account be used. The exercises that I employ are directed in part to improving the muscular tone generally, and in part to strengthening those muscles in particular that tend to lessen or straighten the curves. For the former purpose, such exercises as swinging by the hands from a bar, forcibly stretching an elastic cord fixed to the floor, and dumb-bell exercise, should be practised. For strengthening the muscles in particular that tend to straighten the curve, the back should be manipulated till that posture is found in which the curves are least marked, and the patient made to hold herself in this position for as640 DISEASES OE REGIONS. long as possible. At first she will be only able to do this for a few minutes at a time; but by frequently assuming the posture the muscles thus brought into play are gradually strengthened till at last the improved posture is maintained constantly and without effort. For further im- proving the tone of these muscles Professor Busch and Mr. Eoth recommend some such exercises as the following:— The patient's body held in the improved posture is brought over the end of a couch or table, and whilst she is prevented from falling by an assistant holding her legs, she alter- nately flexes and extends her body at the hips, the sur- geon resisting her efforts. I have also found the use of the sloping seat, as recommended by M. Bouvier and Mr. Barwell, of considerable service in counteracting the curves. A similar effect may be obtained by wearing a thick sole on one boot, and by sitting on the off-side of the horse when riding. After the exercises, or twice or thrice during the day, the patient should lie on her back for half an hour to an hour, and whilst sitting her back should be supported by a reclining chair. Of late I have had very considerable success in removing rigidity in cases where there is slight osseous deformity by applying a weight to the convexity of the curve, the patient standing with her legs straight and body horizontal and supported in this position by her elbows on a chair. Kyphosis is a general curving of the spine with its convexity backwards, or an exaggerated condition of the normal dorsal curve. It depends upon an unequal com- pression of the intervertebral cartilages and to a less extent of the vertebral bodies which thus become wedge- shaped with their bases looking posteriorly. It is gene- rally the result of muscular debility, rickets, slouching habits, or occupations necessitating stooping. The point of chief interest is to distinguish it from the serious angular curvature induced by caries. In children, and in adults, this is generally easy; but in rickety infants, in whom the ordmary tests for caries (see p. 644) cannot be applied, it is often very difficult. In such a case, the in- fant should be laid across the nurse's knees and gently ex- tended, when the rickety curve will disappear, but the angular will remain. The back, moreover, in caries, is rigid, and the child is uneasy in this position and tries to resist the extension by muscular effort, and draws up his legs. In rickets the back is flexible and there are other signs of rickets. Treatment.—In the infant, recumbency ;CARIES OF THE SPINE. 641 in growing lads and girls the correction of stooping habits by the use of muscular exercises and a spinal brace (Fig. 245), with partial recumbency, and tonics, is the treatment usually indicated. For the confirmed kyphosis of the old, nothing can be done. Lordosis, or curving of the spine with the convexity forwards, is a symptom rather than a disease, inasmuch as it is formed as a compensatory curve to restore the equilibrium of the spine when from any cause its normal antero-posterior curves are disturbed. Thus it is most common in the lumbar region, where it is merely an exaggeration of the normal curve; and is there produced to counterbalance the tilting forward of the pelvis consequent upon hip- disease, congenital dislocation of the hips, rickets, &c. Caries of the spine, also called Pott's disease after the Surgeon who first accurately described it, is charac- terized by the destruction of one or more of the bodies of the vertebrae or intervertebral cartilages, and in con- sequence of this destruction is too frequently attended by the falling for- ward of the vertebrae above the seat of disease, and the production of angular deformity of the spine. Hence it is often spoken of as angular cur- vature. The curve, however, is only a symptom, and a comparatively late one, of the disease, and ought not to be allowed to form. Causes,—The disease generally occurs in strumous children, and is then believed, like fungating caries in the articular ends of bone, to be due either to a low form of infiammation set up by a slight injury, or to a deposit of tubercle dependent upon the introduction of tubercle bacilli into the circulation in the manner already mentioned in the section on Tubercle. It some- times occurs in adults who are otherwise perfectly healthy, and can then generally be traced to some injury of the back — probably a strain of the inter- vertebral cartilages. Pathology.—The disease most frequently begins in the bodies of the vertebrae, less frequently in the inter- vertebral cartilages; but in either case both structures Fig, 245. — Au- thor s . spinal brace. W. T TDISEASES or REGIONS. 642 soon become involved. In the bodies it generally starts as a rarefying osteitis in the actively-growing layer of bone which exists nnder the epiphysial cartilages and periosteum. The inflammatory changes that ensue are similar to those already described in rarefying osteitis of cancellous bone. The red gelatinous inflammatory material or granulation-tissue invades both the body of the vertebra and the intervertebral cartilages, and may then attack the -vertebrae above and below. Not infre- quently several of the vertebrae are affected independently by the disease at the same time. In this granulation- tissue non-vascular areas, presenting the appearance of | the tubercle nodules already described, have been found, and tubercle bacilli have in some cases been demonstrated in them. At this stage the disease may cease, the granu- lation-tissue become converted into bone, and no angular deformity result. More commonly, however, the granula- tion-tissue, having destroyed the bone-trabeculse, under- goes caseation, and breaks down into pus, producing a spinal abscess; or it may be absorbed without the forma- tion of any pus [dry caries) ; or if the process has been very acute, large portions of the cancellous tissue may die en masse, forming sequestra, which may keep up the morbid process for years (caries necrotica). In any of these cases angular deformity will be the result, as partly by its own weight, and partly by the dragging of the abdominal muscles, the upper portion of the spine thus undermined falls forward, and necessarily forms an angle with the lower portion at the seat of the disease. In consequence of the patient's efforts to hold himself upright the normal lumbar and cervical curves, when the disease occurs in the dorsal region, will be greatly in- creased; the angular projection is thus thrown backwards (Fig. 246), and the well-known hump-back produced. When the disease occurs in the lumbar region there is no means of restoring the balance, and the patient is com- pelled to stand or walk with the body inclining forwards, and, in severe cases, nearly at a right angle with the pelvis. When the disease ^begins in the intervertebral fibre-cartilages, it probably starts as a low form of de- structive inflammation consequent upon a slight laceration or other injury of the cartilage. But however it begins it soon involves the adjacent bones, destroying them along with the cartilage 'and leading to the angular de- formity. The spinal canal, situated as it is in the posterior643 CARIES OF THE SPINE. segment of the column, witli the exception of being bent, undergoes but little alteration of its calibre, and the cord, as the bending of the canal occurs but slowly, conse- quently usually escapes injury. When the disease is acute and the bending consequently more rapid, some amount of temporary paralysis may occur, impairment or loss of motion being far more frequent than loss of sensation on account of the proximity of the anterior motor columns to the diseased vertebral bodies. The cord is occasionally pressed upon by portions of bone separated from the vertebrae, or by pus making its way into the canal, or by inflam- matory thickening of the mem- branes {pachymeningitis). It may sometimes undergo softening, lead- ing to permanent paraplegia. Spinal abscess {psoas and lumbar). When suppuration occurs, the pus collects in front of the diseased vertebrae in the angle formed by the falling forward of the upper upon the lower portion of the spine. The anterior common ligament and periosteum, relaxed by the bending of the spine, yield to the pressure of the pus, and'with the pleura or peri- Fig. 246. — Caries of toneum become thickened and form the spine. (St. Bar- the abscess wall. The pus, prevented tholomew's Hospital from travelling upwards by the Museum.) overhanging vertebrae, downwards in front of the column by the attachments of the anterior common ligament, and backwards by the posterior common ligament, and by the vertebrae being less diseased behind than in front, makes its way on one or other side of the column. There it either enters the sheath of the psoas, and destroying the contained muscle, presents in the iliac fossa or groin as an iliac or a psoas abscess, or passes backwards through or external to the quadratus lum- borum, and points in the loin where it is known as a lumbar abscess. In rare instances the pus may take a different course. Thus I have seen it make its way into the ischio-rectal fossa, or pass through the great sciatic foramen, or travel along the course of a rib and reach the surface near the sternum. Occasionally an abscess T T 2DISEASES OF REGIONS. 644 forms on both sides of the spine at once. In the cervical region the abscess will point in the pharynx {post- joharyngeal abscess), or in the neck. Process of cure.—Under favourable circumstances the granulation-tissue undergoes ossification without the pro- duction of any deformity; but after the deformity has taken place, and the vertebrae above and below the disease have come into contact by the falling forward of the upper portion of the spine, the destructive process, if the parts are kept at rest, may cease; and firm osseous ankylosis, but with a permanent angular curvature, will ensue. Symptoms.—In the early stages, before the angular deformity is produced, pain is felt on percussion over the diseased vertebra, or better on the head of the rib in connection with it, or on gently pressing on the shoulders or tapping on the head or on applying hot sponges to the spine. Pain also is felt in the course of the intercostal nerves and hence in the case of the lower intercostals may be referred to the abdomen. It is increased on movement; hence the spine is held stifily by the muscles. The move- ments of the child are characteristic. If asked to pick up anything he does not bend his back, but placing his hand upon his knee to support his spine, reaches the ground by bending his legs and holding his back straight. If asked to turn round he rotates the whole body, not the back. He walks about supporting his spine by resting his hand on the various portions of furniture, and soon gets tired of play, and is noticed to lie about on the floor. In older patients tingling or numbness may be complained of in the extremities, and a feeling as if a cord were tied tightly round the body. Later, a prominence of one or more vertebrae occurs, and the nature of the disease can no longer be doubted. If neglected, the prominence increases, and the well-known angular deformity is pro- duced. Now, especially if the disease is high up the spine, some loss of motion in the lower extremities occurs, and may progress to complete paralysis of motion. Sensa- tion is not usually affected, as the posterior columns, being remote from the disease, escape. Nor are the bladder and rectum usually implicated. If an abscess has not already formed, and especially if the disease is moderately low down, one may now present in the loin {lumbar abscess), in the iliac fossa {iliac abscess), or in the groin {psoas abscess). The first gives rise to a fluctuating tumour between the last rib and the crest of the ilium just ex-ANGULAR CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. 645 ternal to the erector spinee; the second to a swelling in the iliac fossa. The psoas abscess may be known by the swelling being at first external to the femoral vessels, by the impulse on cough, and by fluctuation being detected on pressing above and below Poupart's ligament. The abscess makes its way under the femoral vessels, and then generally points at the inner and upper part of the thigh, and there breaks. After the opening of these abscesses hectic but too frequently sets in, and the patient succumbs to the long-continued suppuration pro- ducing exhaustion or lardaceous disease; or he is carried ofl by tubercle in the lungs or other organs. Under more favourable circumstances the abscess may heal, firm ankylosis of the spine occur, and the patient recover with a permanent hump-back. Diagnosis.—In the early stages caries must be diagnosed from neuralgia, rheumatism, lumbago, aneurysm, tumours, and hysteria; in the later stages the angular curvature may have to be diagnosed from the kyphotic curvature of rickets. From neuralgia, rheumatism, and lumbago it is not always easy to distinguish it. The history of a former rheumatic attack, the effect of remedies, and the absence of the signs given above, must then be relied upon. Hysteria may simulate it very closely. The ab- sence of signs of caries, except pain; the inconstant and more diffused character of the pain; and the pre- sence of other signs of hysteria or of uterine disease, are the points to be attended to. A careful ausculta- tion of the chest and examination of the abdomen will usually serve to exclude aneurysm. From tumours of the vertebral bodies leading to the breaking down of the vertebrse caries cannot at first be diagnosed, as both give rise to the same symptoms, but the age of the patient and the presence of a carcinomatous growth elsewhere would lead to suspicion of cancer. The curve of rickets is more generally kyphotic, and disappears more or less completely on gently holding the child up by its arms, or extending it with its face downwards across the nurse's knees. There are, moreover, concomitant signs of rickets, and absence of those of tubercle. Treatment.—Both constitutional and local measures are required. The former are those already described under Tubercle (p. 49). The chief local indications are to keep the spine at rest in order that the diseased vertebrae may be placed in the most favourable condition for repair. This may be attempted in two ways,—1, by646 DISEASES OE REGIONS. absjlute recumbency ; and 2, by the use of some form of spinal support. 1. Ahsolute recumbency from six to twelve months in the supine or prone position on a properly constructed couch is the best method of treatment where the patient can be properly cared for, has airy apartments, can be taken out in this position in an invalid carriage, and can reside in the country or at the seaside. Especially is this treatment the best when the disease is situated high up in the spine, i.e., in the upper dorsal or cervical region, and it is imperatively neces- sary where there is paralysis. To en- sure absolute recumbency I have lately largely employed a double Thomas's splint (Fig, 247), modified by the addition of a pelvic band, a support for the shoulders, neck and head, and two sliding foot-pieces. The two up- right bars, which are prolonged to the head support, are made after the shape of a normally formed child when in the recumbent position, and give sup- port to both sides of the spine. Two cross-bars support the body, just below the axillse and pelvis respectively; the legs are kept in position by the ordi- nary circlets and foot-pieces. The splint is placed next the skin so as not to require removal while the child is washed, dressed, &c. It not only fixes the spine and takes off the weight of the head and upper limbs, but Fig. 247.—Double also fixes the lower limbs, and thus Thomas's spUnt prevents the psoas muscles from for spii^al caries. dragging on the spine. Absolute recumbency, when properly carried out, offers the best prospect of averting serious angular deformity and paralysis; as soon, however, as the acute symptoms quiet down some form of spinal support should be applied, and the patient cautiously allowed to take a certain amount of exercise. But amongst the poor, where the children are often left to themselves during the greater part of the day, absolute recumbency can seldom be ensured; and if it could, its advantage over other methods would be counterbalanced by the severe detriment to the health which the child would suffer in consequence of confinement to an ill-ventilatedI TBEATMENT OF CARIES OF THE SPINE. 647 I room, &c. Por such patients some form of support, not I only to restrain as much as possible the motions- of the I spine, but also to allow them to obtain a certain amount of j fresh air, is generally necessary. 2. The supports most in use at the present day are Sayre's plaster-of-Paris case and Cocking's poroplastic felt jacket, though some Surgeons still prefer steel instruments. The plaster-of- I Paris case may be applied with the patient either in the upright position, suspended with his heels just off the ground by Sayre's tripod, or in the recumbent position by Davy's hammock apparatus. A skin-fitting vest having I been previously applied, and a line drawn across the back ; with a pencil at the level of the axillae to indicate the upper limit of the jacket, crinoline bandages, impregnated I with plaster of Paris, are wound round and round the trunk till a sufficient thickness is obtained, dry plaster being from time to time rubbed in with the hands. The case should reach from the pencil line to just below the crest of the ilium, stopping short of the great trochanter and the pubes, and may be strengthened, if necessary, in I places by inserting strips of perforated tin vertically between the bandages. Before applying the bandages, a folded silk handkerchief should be placed over the abdo- men beneath the vest, so that when afterwards withdrawn space will be left for abdominal respiration (Sayre^s sto- mach-pad). "When the plaster case is dry it may be sawn through down the front, removed, and the fronts edged with leather, and perforated with eyelet-holes, so that it can be worn laced up, and be taken off from time to time. To apply the poroplastic felt, the jacket, which is first made to measure, must be put in a steam oven, and when ren- dered thoroughly plastic, further moulded to the patient, who should be prepared and suspended in the same way as for applying plaster of Paris. Of steel instruments, I that known as Taylor's is perhaps the best. In my own I practice, however, I almost invariably employ the poro- I plastic jacket. Where the disease is in the cervical or - I upper dorsal region, Say re's j ury-mast may be fitted to the j plaster-of-Paris case or poroplastic jacket; or a cervical . I collar composed of leather or poroplastic felt may be used, I or better, the combined poroplastic jacket and collar de- j vised by the author. Should an abscess form, it should i be treated in the way described under Chronic Ahscess. ! In some cases where necrosis has been associated with i caries, success has attended the removal of the sequestrum I iDISEASES or REGIONS. CAS through, a properly-planned incision made in the loin. In severe cases in which the paralysis of the lower limbs continues, in spite of absolute rest and recumbency, the spines and laminse of the affected vertebrae may be excised for the purpose of relieving pressure on the cord. [Laminectomy.) Several successful cases have now been recorded. OcciPiTO-ATLOiD, and ATLO-AXOID DISEASE, are terms applied to tuberculous or strumous inflammation attacking the articulations between the occipital bone and the atlas, and the atlas and the axis respectively. Hence the disease resembles in its course tuberculous disease of the joints, rather than tuberculous disease of the bodies of the vertebrae. It may begin either in the synovial membranes, or as caries of the bones forming the arti- cular processes, and when occurring between the atlas and the axis usually affects the synovial membranes between the odontoid process and the transverse ligament on the one hand, and the tubercle of the atlas on the other. Indeed in this situation it would appear to often begin as a caries of the odontoid process itself, and then spread to the synovial membranes. The disease is often attributed to a sprain of the neck, but though it may sometimes be excited by such, would appear more pro- bably to depend on causes similar to those leading to tuberculous disease elsewhere. Symptoms.—Pain is first felt over the seat of the disease, and radiating in the course of the nerves emerging from the intervertebral foramina between the affected bones. It is increased on attempting to turn or nod the head, but is relieved by supporting the chin with the hand. Hence the patient often holds his head between his hands, and if asked to rotate it, turns his whole body, keeping his neck stiff and immovable the while. When the disease is chiefly limited to the articulations between the occi- pital bone and the atlas, the pain is principally confined to the region supplied by the suboccipital nerve, and is increased on nodding rather than on rotating the head. As the disease advances, the atlas, with the occipital bone, has a tendency to slip forward on the axis—directly for- ward if both sides are equally diseased, or more to one side if the disease is unilateral. The spine of the axis in consequence appears more prominent than natural, and the head on a plane anterior to that of the rest of the spinal column. Should an abscess form it may point atSP^A BIFIDA. 649 the back of the pharynx (post-vharyngeal) or at the side of the neck. Treatment.—Absolute rest on the back, with the head between sand-bags, is imperative, as there is danger of fatal compression of the cord from the odon- toid process or the transverse ligament giving way during some sudden movement of the patient. In some cases attended with paralysis below the disease, continuous extension and counter-extension, with the patient in the recumbent position, has been successful in removing the pressure from the cord. When the acute symptoms have subsided, a moulded collar of leather or poroplastic felt, or an inflating india-rubber collar, will be required. Should an abscess form it should be opened in the neck if possible rather than through the mouth. Spina bifida " is a congenital malformation of the vertebral canal with protrusion of some of its contents in the form of a fluid tumour." It is nearly always met with in the middle line of the back, but very exception- ally the protrusion has occurred through the bodies of the vertebrae instead of posteriorly through the cleft spines. It is due to an arrest of development of the laminae of the vertebrae (mesohlastic elements)^ and their consequent failure to unite in the middle line to form the spinous processes. This non-union may possibly be sometimes owing to an excess of cerebro-spinal fluid. A spina bifida may occur in any part of the spine, but is most common in the lumbo-sacral region, where the laminae are the latest to unite. It may be associated with other deformi- ties, especially club-foot. Pathology.—Three chief forms of spina bifida are de- scribed :—1, spinal meningocele, 2, meningo-myelocele, 3, syringo-myelocele. 1. In spinal meningocele the sac (I^ig. 248) consists of dura mater and arachnoid blended to- together, and consequently communicates with the sub- arachnoid space and contains cerebro-spinal fluid. The cord and nerves remain in the spinal canal. Yery rarely the sac is said to consist of dura mater only, i.e., dura mater and so-called parietal layer of arachnoid; it would then communicate with the subdural space and contain arach- noid fluid. 2. In the meningo-myelocele (Fig. 249), the most common form, the sac also consists of dura mater and arachnoid, but contains in addition to cerebro-spinal fluid the spinal cord and nerves, which are often spread out over and intimately blended with the posterior part of the wall of the sac. As the cord passes through the650 DISEASES OF REGIONS. sac some of tlie large nerve-cords given o& from it run forwards across the interior of the sac to re-enter the spinal canal. Hence those nerves that are given off from the cord where it is adherent to the sac-wall, appear to arise from the sac, and were in former times wrongly described as being distributed to it (see Fig. 249). 3. In the syringo-myelocele (Fig. 250), the most rare form, the central canal of the cord is greatly distended with fluid. Fig. 248.—Spinal meningocele. Fia. 249.—Meningo-mjelocele. In the three. diagrams (Figs. 248, 249, and 250) the letters have the same reference, a. Dura mater, b. Parietal, and c. visceral arachnoid, d. Pia mater, e. Cord. the expanded cord being thus spread out over the sac- wall, with which it is intimately blended. The nerves in this case pass through the walls of the sac to their destination. The coverings of the sac may be healthy skin ; but more commonly normal skin is only found at the sides, the central portion consisting of a thin bluish membrane. Sometimes a slight depression is seen on the lower part of the sac at the spot where the cord terminates in the wall. This is called the umhilicus, and at its bottom the central canal of the cord has at times been seen to open. In rare instances there has been no protrusion, but651 SPINA BIFIDA. rather a depression in the situation of the cleft between the vertebrae [spina bifida occulta), the cleft being occupied by the blended membranes, cord, and skin, and the spot covered with a tuft of hair. Symptoms.—The swelling is usually of a globular or oval shape, translucent, sessile or slightly pedunculated and flaccid, but becomes tense and distended on coughing or crying. Pressing upon it sometimes causes the fontanelles to swell up, and may produce convulsions. When the spinal cord and large nerves are involved, Fig. 250.—Syringo-myelocele. 1 there may be paralysis of the extremities or of the bladder or rectum. The gap between the laminae of the vertebrae I may at times be felt on pressing on the sac. As a rule ' these tumours show a great tendency to enlarge, and rupture spontaneously, in which case death usually 1 follows from the draining away of the cerebro-spinal j fluid, and septic meningitis. Death, however, is some- I times due to marasmus and defective nutrition. When a j spontaneous cure takes place it is usually due to the I gradual shrinking of the sac. I Diagnosis.—Its congenital origin will at once distinguish I a spina bifida from a new growth developed subsequently to birth ; and its situation in the middle line, translucency.DISEASES OF REGIOIS'S. 652 increase of tension on straining, and the gap between the laminae when this can be felt, will nsually serve to diag- nose it from other congenital tumours. Treatment.—As there are no means of accurately deter- mining that the spinal cord is not in the sac, it is not safe to attempt,excision or ligature, although these operations have at times been attended with success. Eepeated tap- pings are very fatal. The best treatment, except when the spina bifida is very small or is apparently undergoing a spontaneous cure when it should be left alone, is to inject the sac with Dr. Morton's iodo-glycerine fluid. This method when successful causes the tumour to shrink, and most closely follows the process of nature when a sponta- neous cure occurs. The injection is best performed when the child is two months old; but it may be done earlier if the sac threatens to burst. "The best results maybe expected when there is no hydrocephalus or paralysis, and the sac is covered by healthy skin." It is contra-indicated when there is " advanced marasmus, great and increasing hydrocephalus, and intercurrent disease." The child should be placed on its side, and the puncture made obliquely through healthy skin on one side of the base of the tumour, and not through the thin and imperfectly formed skin which nearly always covers the sac in the middle line, " the object being to avoid wounding the expanded spinal cord, and the subsequent leakage of the cerebro-spinal fluid." About a drachm of the iodo- glycerine fluid (iodine, grs. x.; iodide of potassium, grs. XXX. ; glycerine, Ji.) should be injected, and the injection repeated in a fortnight if the first trial is not successful. The fluid contained in the sac should not be drawn off before the injection. The advantage of Morton's fluid over tincture of iodine alone is that owing to the glycerine it contains it becomes uniformly diffused over the sac walls. The injection of iodo-glycerine is not unattended with danger; therefore when the sac is small and its walls are thick, and it is not increasing in size, beyond protecting it with a metal or leather shield, no further treatment should be attempted.653 INTESTINAL OBSTHUCTION. I SuKGiCAL Diseases of the Intestines. I ' INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. I j The pathological conditions that may give rise to intes- tinal obstruction are very various, and may be considered under the following heads :— i 1. Impaction of f^ces or foreign bodies in the INTESTINES.—Accumulation of hardened faeces may occur as the result of habitual or accidental constipation, and is ' then nearly always met with in the large bowel, and ' especially in the region of the caecum or in the sigmoid flexure and rectum. The impaction of gall-stones or intestinal concretions, though more rare, is also met with in the small intestines. Obstruction from these causes is more common in women than in men. I 2. Internal strangulation or internal hernia.— These terms are applied to obstruction of the intestine by some constricting agent within the abdomen. The strangulation may be effected by : 1. Bands produced by the stretching of old inflammatory adhesions, the result of former peritonitis. These are more particularly common about the mouths of old hernial sacs. 2. The remains of some foetal structure, as the omphalo-mesenteric duct, Meckel's diverticulum, &c. 3. A coil of intestine slipping through a hole in the mesentery or omentum. 3. YoLYULUS is a twisting or kinking of a coil of intes- tine, so that its calibre is completely obliterated at the twisted or bent spot. Accumulation of flatus, constipation I and unequal distension have been assigned as causes. Volvulus is said to be most common in the sigmoid flexure; and always to be situated towards the back of the abdominal cavity. The intestine may be—1, simply bent upon itself; 2, twisted round its mesentery; and 3, wound round another coil of intestine. The first form only occurs in the colon; the second in the small intes- tine ; the third form usually consists of the colon wound round a coil of small intestine, the sigmoid flexure, or the caecum. 4. Intussusception (Fig. 251) is the invagination of a portion of intestine into the lumen of the intestine imme- diately below. The intestine thus forms three tubes, one within the other, an outer, middle, and inner (Fig. 252). The external tube is called the sheath, or intussuscijpiens, the innermost the entering tube, the middle the recedingDISEASES OF REGIONS. 654 or inverted tube, the last 'two together being further called the intussuscepted portion, or intussusceptiim. Thus there are two peritoneal and two mucous surfaces of the intestine in contact (Fig. 252), and between the inner and middle tubes is a portion of the mesentery or meso-colon, which is necessarily drawn down with the intestine. The dragging of the mesentery causes the intussusceptum to assume a greater curve than its sheath, and hence to become puckered along its concavity; it also causes the orifice of the intussusceptum to be directed towards the Fig. 251.—Intussusception. (St. Fig. 252.—Diagram of in- Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) tussusception. mesenteric attachment and to be slit-like in shape. The intussusception nearly always increases at the expense of the lower portion of the intestine, the sheath becoming more and more infolded, so that, if the intussusception occurs at the lower part of the ileum, no more of the ileum will be involved, but the caecum and colon may be gradually drawn in. More rarely, however, the ileum is protruded through the ileo-csecal valve ; the intussus- ception then increases at the expense of the upper portion of the intestine, more and more of the ileum being pro- truded through the valve'. This variety is known as the ileo-coUc in contradistinction to the former which is called the ileo-ccecal. At first the invagination is reducible, and is not attended with any serious obstruction to the lumenINTUSSUSCEPTION. 655 of the intestine. In this condition it may remain, in chronic cases, for several weeks or months. Or the mucous membrane of the intussusceptum may become congested and swollen, rendering reduction difficult or impossible without rupture or other injury of the intes- tine. In the majority of cases, however, especially in infants, if the intussusception is not soon relieved, the blood-vessels of the involuted mesentery rapidly become constricted where the latter enters the sheath, causing acute obstruction to the circulation in the receding tube. As a consequence of this, the mucous membrane becomes intensely congested, and pours out the sanious discharge so diagnostic of the disease. In the meanwhile the contiguous peritoneal surfaces of the inner and middle tube become inflamed and glued together, rendering re- duction impossible. Grangrene of the intussusceptum now ensues, and the patient usually dies of collapse or peritonitis in a few days. In adults, however, and in children of six or eight years and upwards, the gangrenous IDortion may slough oft at the constricted part and be passed per anum, but in children under two years of age the disease, unless relieved by treatment, is almost invg^tiably fatal. Should recovery take place in this manner, the patient may subsequently succumb to stric- ture of the intestine, from contraction occurring at the spot where the intestine has united. The intussusception may measure only two or three inches in length, or it may involve the whole of the large intestine and protrude at the anus. It is attributed to worms, the dragging of a polypus, an elongated mesentery, irregular peristalsis, diarrhoea, and external violence. Its most common situation is at the ileo-c8ecal valve, then in the small intestine, and then in the colon. It is rare in adults, but common in children, especially in infants. 5. Steicture oe the intestine consequent upon DISEASE OF THE INTESTINAL WALL.—This Condition is I generally due to the growth of a carcinoma or other I tumour, more rarely to contractions following ulceration } or injury, or operation on the intestine. It is most fre- I quently met with in the large intestine, especially the j rectum and lower part of the colon, and is rare in the I small intestine. I 6. Contractions of the intestine consequent upon I disease beginning external to the intestinal WALL.—This condition may depend on chronic peritonitis^DISEASES OF REGIONS. 656 or on carcinoma of the omentum or mesentery. It is more common in the small than in the large intestine, and not only narrows the calibre of the bowel, but also obstructs the peristaltic action by gluing the coils of in- testine to one another and causing contraction of the mesentery. 7. Acute peritonitis and enteritis are not un- common causes of intestinal obstruction. Peritonitis is a frequent termination of the other conditions that cause obstruction, but is perhaps most often due to inflammation spreading from the region of the caecum [peri-typhlitis), or the bursting of a peri-typhlitic abscess into the peritoneal cavity. This inflammation about the caecum is not infrequently started by the impaction of a foreign body, as a fruit or gall stone or little mass of hardened faeces, in the vermiform appendix, and is apt to recur from time to time [recurrent typhlitis, appendicitis). In such cases, moreover, ulceration or gangrene of the appendix may take place. The peritonitis may then remain localized and terminate in a peri-typhlitic abscess, or it may spread to the general peritoneal cavity and be- come diffuse. Enteritis is most common in the caecum [typhlitis). 8. Congenital malformation of the intestine.—- Amongst the chief of these may be mentioned imper- forate anus, deficiency of the rectum, absence of the colon, termination of the colon in the bladder, &c. Ob- structions from such and like causes are only met with in the infant (see Diseases of Eectum, p. 709). 9. External hernia.—All forms of external herniae when strangulated, and generally when incarcerated or inflamed, are productive of intestinal obstruction [see Hernia, p. 676). Terminations of intestinal obstruction,—Whatever the cause of the obstruction, the intestine above becomes sooner or later enormously distended with faecal matter and flatus, and if the obstruction be not removed the case will terminate fatally from exhaustion, peritonitis, or ulceration or rupture of the intestine followed by collapse and peritonitis. The SYMPTOMS of intestinal obstruction vary according to the pathological conditions upon which the obstruction depends. The symptoms common to all may be said generally to be pain, vomiting, constipation, and more or less distension of the abdomen. When the obstructionSYMPTOMS OF lOTESTmAL OBSTRUCTION. 657 occurs suddenly, and is attended by strangulation of a portion of intestine, as in 1, the various forms of constric- tion produced by bands; 2, a portion of intestine slipping through a hole in the mesentery or omentum; 3, volvu- lus, and 4, external strangulated hernia, the symptoms are also sudden in their onset and acute in their course, as is likewise generally the case when they depend upon intussusception, the impaction of a gall-stone or other foreign body, the sudden accumulation of fseces above a stricture, or acute enteritis or peritonitis. Thus the pain is severe and violent, and occurs suddenly in a person in previously good health; the vomiting comes on early, and may rapidly become faecal; the constipation is com- plete from the first; flatus will not pass by the anus; the urine may be scanty or suppressed; there is frequently hiccough and tympanites ; and the patient soon falls into a state of extreme collapse and dies. When, on the other hand, the ohstrudion comes on more slowly, and a portion of intestine is obstructed rather than strangulated, as from (1) progressive stricture of the rectum or colon; (2) the pressure of an abdominal or pelvic tumour; (3) the gluing of the intestines together by chronic peritonitis or cancer; (4) the gradual accumulation of faeces, due to habitual constipation, and (5) chronic intussusception, the symptoms are also insidious in their onset and chronic in their course. Thus, obscure abdominal symptoms may have existed for some time. The pain is less severe, more diffused, and may be intermittent, but increases with the distension. Yomiting only occurs late in the course of the affection, and does not become faecal till towards the last. Consti- pation is not complete at first, the motions may be scyba- lous, and there may be a history of alternating constipa- tion and diarrhoea. The distension of the abdomen is gradual and is, perhaps, more marked in the lumbar and epigastric regions. The abdomen appears broad, and coils of intestine may be visible owing to increased peri- stalsis consequent upon hypertrophy of their muscular coat. The urine is normal. A stricture may perhaps be felt in the rectum by the finger or in the sigmoid flexure by passing the hand. Collapse does not come on till the end. Such, broadly, may be said to be the sjmiptoms attend- ing acute and chronic intestinal obstruction. But it must not be forgotten that the conditions which commonly give rise to chronic symptoms may, at any time, suddenly ter- minate in complete obstruction and strangulation, when u u658 DISEASES OF REGIONS. the symptoms will at once become acute. Thus a slowly contracting stricture may become suddenly obstructed by the impaction of faeces, or by a portion of intestine im- mediately above becoming invaginated into it; or acute peritonitis may suddenly supervene, owing to the giving way of an ulcerated portion of intestine above a stric- ture, &c. The DIAGNOSIS of the various pathological conditions causing obstruction or strangulation of the intestines, though sometimes comparatively easy, is often very diffi- cult, or even impossible. Your first care, when called to a patient with signs of acute abdominal obstruction, i.e.^ pain, vomiting, constipation, and possibly distension of the abdomen, should be to exclude external strangulated hernia, not merely contenting yourself with examining the femoral and inguinal rings, but also making a careful search in the less common situations of hernia, as the ob- turator foramen and sciatic notch. Should there be any fulness, or the least suspicion of strangulation in any of these regions, an exploratory incision should be made. Having satisfied yourself of the absence of external her- nia, you should next carefully examine the abdomen by inspection, palpation, and percussion, and explore the rectum and vagina with the finger; whilst the former canal may, in some instances, be further examined by carefully passing a long enema-tube or even by intro- ducing the whole hand. At times something may be learnt by inflating the colon with hydrogen gas or by slowly distending it by the fountain syringe with fluids, the patient being in the genu-pectoral position. Senn has shown that gas will pass the ileo-ceecal valve, causing as it does so a distinct rushing sound with diminution of pressure as indicated by the mercurial manometer attached to the inflating rubber-bag. If there is no obstruction the gas can be forced through the whole intestine and out at the mouth. Should a hernia be discovered exhibiting well- marked local signs of strangulation, or on introducing the finger into the rectum a stricture be felt or the bowel be found loaded with hardened fseces, or blood and slime escape from the anus and a sausage-shaped tumour be detected in the abdomen or rectum, the diagnosis of strangulated hernia, stricture of the rectum, impaction of hardened faeces and intussusception respectively can be readily made. But when, on the other hand, the her- nial rings are found free, the rectum empty, and nothingDIAG-N-QSIS OF INTESTINAL OBSTHTJCTION. 659 can be felt in tlie abdomen, the difficulty of localizing the cause of the obstruction is great, and even after the most careful examination and thoughtful consideration of the symptoms it may only be possible to arrive at an approximate guess as to the nature of the case. Thus, if the symptoms are acute, the obstruction will probably be due to some form of internal strangulation or to a volvulus ; but it must not be lost sight of that it may be due to peri-typhlitis, acute enteritis or peritonitis, or pos- sibly to the impaction of a gall-stone. If the symptoms are chronic it may be due to stricture in the upper pai't of the rectum or lower part of the colon, malignant disease of the omentum or intestine, or chronic peritonitis. If acute symptoms have been engrafted on chronic, it may then be caused by the impaction of fseces above a stric- ture, peritonitis following perforation above a stricture or impaction of a foreign body in the vermiform ap- pendix, typhlitis, or peri-typhlitis. Although it may be impossible to make a diagnosis, the following considera- tions may help us. Thus, if the onset of the symptoms is sudden and the patient is an infant or a young child, the*cause of the obstruction will probably be intussus- ception or peritonitis. If the patient is elderly or middle- aged, and the symptoms are chronic, malignant stricture or impaction of fseces is the most probable cause. In middle age intussusception is rare. The tendency to vomit is in proportion to the nearness of the obstruction to the stomach, the tightness of the constriction, and the persistence with which food or fluid has been taken by the mouth. Early vomiting implies tightness of the stricture; violent retching or bile-vomiting points to gall-stones; fsecal vomiting only occurs when the obstruction is mode- rately low down. Vomiting may be absent in the case of obstruction of the colon or rectum. Einally, if peristalsis is visible, the case is almost certainly not one of acute peritonitis. 1. In impacted fmces there may be a history of previous . constipation, the rectum will probably be found distended, or feeces will be passed on the use of enemata. A swelling may be felt through the abdominal parietes, and . if so will be soft, and can perhaps be indented with the 'fingers. In ohstrucUon from gall-stones, there may be pain in the region of the gall-bladder, perhaps jaundice; gall-stones may have passed, or similar attacks have been previously suffered from, and the bowels may have acted uu 2DISEASES OE REGIONS. 660 irregularly. The vomiting is gastric or bilious, and is attended with violent retching. • 2. In internal strangulation the attack is very sudden, and is probably attributed to a strain; the pain is intense, and is referred to one spot, or to the umbilicus ; vomiting comes on early; the constipation is sudden; there is no desire to def secate; the urine is scanty; there is no visible peristalsis; no tumour can be felt; there is no haemor- rhage from the bowel; and no tenesmus. There is pro- bably a history of some affection which might produce bands of adhesions, as peritonitis, typhoid fever, or a former hernia; or there may have been previous attacks of abdominal obstruction with intervals of perfect health. 3. In volvulus, the signs are similar to the foregoing, but if anything still more severe. 4. In intussusception, when acute, there is a discharge of mucus and blood from the anus; the abdomen is not much distended; the abdominal parietes are usually lax, and through them a sausage-shaped tumour, doughy to the feel, hardening on handling, and perhaps changing its position from time to time, may be detected; and the invaginated bowel can possibly be felt in the rectum. Collapse soon ensues. When chronic, there may have been attacks of localized pain lasting for months before stran- gulation occurs, the patient having been in good health in the intervals. There is straining and tenesmus; the constipation is not complete; vomiting is absent or intermittent; the distension is not marked ; and collapse does not come on till the end. The tumour will have characters similar to those mentioned above. 5. In stricture the patient is usually old or middle- aged ; the symptoms come on very insidiously; there are alternating attacks of constipation and diarrhoea; the constipation gradually becomes more and more pro- nounced; the motions are probably lumpy {scybalous), pipe-like, or flattened; dyspepsia is complained of; the pain is diffused and depends upon the distension of the abdomen; the distension comes on slowly, and is greatest in the flanks ; peristalsis is visible; the urine is copious ; the pulse quiet; and vomiting only occurs late in the case. Having diagnosed the case as one of stricture, the next point to determine is whether it is situated in the sigmoid flexure or rectum, and consequently that opening the de- scending colon in the left loin or the sigmoid flexure in the left groin will be well above the stricture; or whetherTREATMENT OE INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 661 it is situated in tlie descending or transverse colon, so as to necessitate tlie opening of the ascending colon. To begin ■with, it should be remembered that stricture is most com- mon in the sigmoid flexure and rectum, next in the colon, then in the caecum, and is very rare in the small intestine; indeed, it is so rare in the two latter situations, that when its exact position is not known, it is generally safe to assume that right colotomy will sufiice. Again, if the stricture is in the rectum or sigmoid flexure, the disten- sion will be equal on the two sides; when in the de- scending or transverse colon, greater on the right than on the left side. The amount of distension on the two sides may be more accurately estimated by the cyrtometer than by mere inspection and palpation. If a clyster-pipe will pass for some distance, say a foot or so, and a large quantity of fluid can be injected, the stricture is probably high up; but too much importance must not be attached to this sign, as the clyster-pipe may have bent upon itself and the rectum and sigmoid flexure are often very capacious. Further, something may at times be learnt by ausculting the colon whilst the injection is being given, and*by passing the whole hand into the rectum. 6. In contractions there is pain of a paroxysmal nature of short duration and of frequent occurrence ; peristalsis may not be visible on account of the matting together of the intestines, but gurglings may be heard. There is no vomiting or distension except during the attacks of pain. Constipation is not complete ; def secation is painless ; the motions are not compressed or pipe-like as in stricture ; and there is no distension in the flanks. The symptoms may at any time suddenly become acute. 7. In acute peritonitis the abdomen is distended from , the first, hard, and board-like; peristalsis is not visible ; the pain is great and increased on the least pressure; the pulse is small and wiry; the temperature may or may not be raised. (See Peritonitis^ p. 422). There will pro- bably be a history of previous attacks of typhlitis or peri- typhlitis. For the signs of enteritis, typhlitis, and peri-typhlitis, - see a work on Medicine, t Treatment.—Supposing any of the above conditions to have been diagnosed with tolerable certainty (see above), the indications for treatment will be clear. Where no diagnosis, however, can be made, the treatment may at first be expectant, but no long delay is admissible if662 DISEASES OF BEGIONS. surgery is to have a fair chance of saving the patient. Thus in acute cases, nothing should be given by the mouth save small pieces of ice to suck, the stomach should be emptied by irrigation with warm water with the syphon stomach tube, and the patient placed under the influence of morphia injected subcutaneously. An enema may be given, but purgatives must of course be avoided. The relief, however, obtained by these means is often deceptive, and if the obstruction continues it is worse than useless to waste further time in giving drugs. It is better at once to open and explore the abdomen before irreparable harm has been done. If when first seen the patient is already collapsed and his condition such that he could not bear the shock attending exploration, a small incision may be made through the abdominal wall, and the first piece of distended intestine that presents secured to the edges of the wound, and opened [Enterotomy). In chronic cases, the diet should be restricted, only small quantities of the most digestible food being given at a time, and as soon as a diagnosis can be made, measures should of course be taken for relieving, if practicable, the obstruction. 1. In impacted faeces when medical means and enemata have failed, the rectum may require clearing with a scoop or other suitable instrument. In obstruction from im- pacted gall-stones or other foreign bodies, after the usual remedies have been unsuccessful, the abdomen may be opened, and the gall-stone or foreign body removed through an incision in the intestine, or else made to pass by gentle manipulation through the ileo-csecal valve. The incision should be made in the longitudinal axis of the gut, and not opposite the impacted body where the coats may be damaged, but a few inches lower down. The gall- stone or other body may then be removed, breaking it first if necessary, and the wound be afterwards united by Lem- bert's suture. Or should the walls of the gut be softened by ulceration, a portion of the intestine may be resected, and the continuity of the tube restored by circular enteror- rhaphy or by means of Senn's bone plates (see page 417). An impacted gall-stone may sometimes be broken up with a needle without opening the intestine. 2. In internal strangulation, abdominal section is the only procedure of any avail, and ought, like herniotomy, to be undertaken early and not merely as a last resource (see Laparotomy),TREATMENT OF IN"TESTINAL OBSTRUCTIOIS'. 663 3. In volvulus of the sigmoid flexure, insufflation witli air or hydrogen or a large enema will at times succeed in untwisting the intestine. If these means fail no time should be lost in opening the abdomen (see Laparotomy). If there is great distension, Treves advises that the inflated coil should be punctured through the abdominal parietes. 4. In intussusception, when acute, copious injections of warm water to empty the lower bowel, followed by in- sufflation of air or hydrogen with the patient inverted and thoroughly relaxed under chloroform, will often succeed in the early stages and should be given a fair trial. In the meantime opium should be given in doses suitable to the age of the patient, food withheld, and the stomach emptied by an emetic or irrigated with warm water. These means failing, laparotomy must be performed (see Laparotomy), If the signs of strangulation are well marked, too much time should not be lost in trying injections and insufflation, lest the bowel become so damaged or the intussusceptum so adherent to the intussuscipiens as to render the prospect of success hopeless. Indeed, I have come to the conclusion that unless laparotomy for intussusception in an infant is undertaken within twenty-four to thirty-six hours from the onset of the symptoms, reduction will be found next to impossible without so injuring the intestine as to render a fatal result almost inevitable. In chronic cases, although there is less need for early operative interference than in acute, as the bowel may remain incarcerated for some time before becoming strangulated, it should not be delayed too long, lest the intussuscepted portion become adherent to the sheath. Should it appear probable that this has already happened, two courses are open: either to open the abdomen, or to keep the patient under the influence of opium in the hope that the intussusceptum may slough off and be passed per anum. In infants intussusception, unless relieved by injections, inflations, &c., or by early operative means, may be said to be. almost invariably fatal. 5. For stricture of the large intestine, left inguinal or left lumbar colotomy should be performed when the obstruction is in the rectum or lower part of the sigmoid flexure, and right colotomy when in the transverse or de- scending colon. Should the strictured portion be readily reached in performing the operation, it may, if the disease is localized, be cut out {colectomy) and the bowel securedDISEASES OP BEGIONS. 664 to the wound, or the two portions of bowel united by suture. In stricture of the small intestine, enterotomy may be performed as a palliative, or, under suitable con- ditions, enterectomy with union of the intestines by one of the methods already described. 6. In contractions, where the intestines are matted together by chronic peritonitis or cancer, when medical means have failed, enterotomy may prove of temporary benefit by relieving the distension. 7. The treatment of acute peritonitis is given at page 423. For an account of the treatment of typhlitis and peri-typhlitis a work on Medicine must be consulted. Should, however, the inflammation terminate in sup- puration and an abscess form, it should be opened and drained, or should such an abscess burst into the general peritoneal cavity, the peritoneum should be washed out and a glass drainage tube left in the wound. The appendix, if found inflamed, plugged with a foreign body, ulcerated or gangrenous, should be amputated, and the stump sutured by Lembert's method. When it appears that recurring attacks of typhlitis are due to mischief in the appendix {recurring appendicitis), the question of removing the appendix after the acute attack has sub- sided may be raised. Laparotomy, abdominal section or opening the abdomen, is an operation that may be required for the purpose of exploration in doubtful cases of intestinal ob- struction, or for the relief of volvulus, strangulation of the intestines by bands or diverticula, intussusception, reduc- tion of hernia en masse, &c. The room should be at a temperature between 70° and 80° Fahr. and the patient placed on a rubber bed filled with hot water. The greatest care should be taken that nothing septic comes in contact with the wound or peritoneal cavity. The stomach may be irrigated with warm water before giving the anaesthetic. This prevents vomiting and may remove some of the con- tents of the upper part of the intestine and relieve dis- tension. Some Surgeons give a hypodermic injection of ^^th of a grain of atropine and a rectal enema of brandy to increase the heart's action. Having thoroughly cleansed the skin with soap and water and afterwards well sponged it with perchloride of mercury lotion (1 in 1000), make an incision in the middle line of the abdomen, mid- way between the pubes and umbilicus (Fig. 253, a), and having rapidly exposed the peritoneum and stopped allLAPAROTOMY. 665 hseinorrhage, carefully open the peritoneal cavity on a director. Some Surgeons advise that the incision should be limited and only long enough to at first admit one or two fingers. I prefer myself for the purpose of saving time to make it long enough to at once admit the whole hand if found necessary. If a distended loop presents in the wound the obstruction is in the large or lower portion of the small intestine; if this loop contains fluid, faeces or gas, it is probably near the obstruction; if only gas. Fig. 253.—Lines of incision in certain operations on the abdomen. A. Laparotomy, Ovariotomy, b. Supra-pubic cystotomy, c. Liga- ture of external iliac artery, d. Inguinal colotomy. E. Gfas- trostomy. p. Cholecystotomy. some distance off. Pass one or two fingers or the whole hand into the abdominal cavity and first explore the j hernial rings from within, and if these are free the region 1 of the caecum, taking care to prevent the intestines from protruding by placing over them a warm flat aseptic sponge. If the caecum is found distended, the obstruc- tion must be in the large intestine. Carry your fingers or hand, therefore, along the course of the colon until the obstruction is met with. If, on the other hand, the caecum is empty, the obstruction must be in the small intestine. Pass your fingers or hand in this case into the pelvis, and search for an empty loop of intestine below the obstruction and follow the intestine by passing it through666 DISEASES OF EEGIOIS'S. the fingers piece by piece till tlie obstruction is discovered. If after a search of some twenty minutes the obstruction is not found, enlarge the wound and allow the intestines to prolapse, keeping them warm by the continual applica- tion of aseptic gauze wrung out of hot water. When the intestines are much distended Mr. Grreig Smith advises that the distended loop should be drawn into the wound, opened and drained, the Surgeon waiting for hours at the bedside if necessary till the distension is relieved. After this he treats the case as circumstances suggest. (a) If a loop of intestine is found strangulated in one of the hernial rings, or in a hole in the mesentery, it must be released from within the abdomen, dividing any stricture if necessary. (&) If a volvulus is discovered an attempt must be made to untwist it, and as a prophy- lactic against retwisting, the mesentery may be shortened by folding it upon itself parallel to the intestine and fix- ing with sutures. If the volvulus cannot be reduced, the contents may be let out, the wound sutured and another attempt made. This failing, the volvulus may be excised and the intestine restored by circular enterorrhaphy or lateral approximation with bone plates. If the patient is too collapsed to admit of excision, the volvulus may be left and the intestine short-circuited by means of Semi's plates. If gangrene has occurred, the volvulus must be excised and circular enterorrhaphy or lateral approxima- tion with bone plates performed, (c) If a band is met with it must be divided, {d) If a large diverticulum is the cause of the obstruction it must be cut across and the bowel end united by Lembert's suture, (e) If a small diverticulum is producing the constriction it must be severed and the two ends ligatured. Should the intes- tine give way in dividing the obstructing band,' &c., or have already given way—if the perforation is small and the coats are in a fairly healthy condition, the wound in the intestine may be closed by sutures in the way described under wounds of the intestine. But if the coats are in an inflamed or sloughy condition or gangrenous, the diseased portion may be excised, and the upper and lower portions of the intestine united by circular enteror- rhaphy or by Senn's method of lateral approximation by bone plates. Only when the patient is much collapsed should the ends of the bowel be fixed to the external wound and an artificial anus made. Before uniting the intestine however it may be well in some cases to fix the667 LAPAROTOMY. I intestine temporarily in the wound and let tlie contents of tlie distended portion drain away for several hours or even days. (/) If an intussusception is discovered, first squeeze out some of the inflammatory oedema by steady uninterrupted manual compression with an aseptic I sponge and endeavour to reduce, the intussusception by i gentle traction on the bowel just above the neck of the i intussuscipiens and by counter-traction just below the Fig. 25-1.—Diagram of the method of short circuiting the intestine for irreducible intussusception. A c. Ascending colon, c. Csecum. I. Ileum. ; apex of the intussusceptum; or better try to squeeze out the intussusceptum by kneading and pressure from below. Eeduction may possibly be aided by insufflation of the j rectum with air or hydrogen. If adhesions have formed try to break them down by gently insinuating a probe between the contiguous serous surfaces. After reduction search for any rent in the peritoneal coat and bring it to- gether by suture and seal with an omental graft. Beduction failing, the following courses are open. 1. Exclusion of I the intussusception by leaving it in situ and short circuit- ing the intestine (Fig. 254) by forming a communication between the bowel above and below the intussusception by means of Senn's approximation method, 2. CompleteDISEASES OF REGIONS. 668 or partial excision of tlie intussusception and restoration of the bowel by circular enterorrhaphy or lateral approxima- tion. Complete excision is a most serious operation, especially where a long length of bowel is involved. In such a case if there is no sign of gangrene the sheath may be opened, the intussusceptum excised just below its neck, the stump ligatured and the continuity of the intestine restored by lateral approximation by bone-plates or lateral implantation. When gangrene has occurred, the intussusception must be excised. Since the introduction by Senn of these more rapid methods of restoring the continuity of the intestine the need of making an artificial anus should seldom occur. After any of the above operations, carefully cleanse the aba omen from blood by gentle sponging and close the wound in the parietes with the two surfaces of the peri- toneum in contact by sutares passed through the skin and peritoneum. If in spite of all care the peritoneum has been soiled by fsecal matter or septic changes have already started, flush out the peritoneal cavity with gallons of warm water to which some antiseptic as salicylic acid (5 per cent.) or boracic acid (2 per cent.) may be added. In flushing out pass the irrigating tube amongst the intestines to the back of the abdominal cavity and into the pelvis so that the water may flow out- wards. If the intestines have been allowed to prolapse there may be some difliculty in getting them back. Cover them with antiseptic gauze wrung out of hot water, tuck- ing the margins of the gauze beneath the edges of the wound. Introduce the sutures and when they are all in situ make uniform pressure on the gauze as the sutures are tightened and tied from above downwards. Withdraw the gauze before the last sutures are tied. Drawing forward the edges of the wound with retractors will materially aid the replacement of the intestine. If they cannot be replaced draw a distended loop away from the wound, open it, evacuate as much of the contents as possible, suture the wound by Lembert's method, and again endeavour to replace the prolapsed intestine. When fgecal soiling or septic changes have occurred, place a glass drainage tube in the wound (see Ovariotomy), [g) If the obstruction is found to depend on a peri- typhlitic abscess or acute peritonitis a glass drainage tube should be placed in the wound in the abdominal parietes, after the abscess or peritoneal cavity has been washed out,669 EOTEROTOMY. Enteeotomy, or Nj^latok's operatiok, consists in opening the abdomen by a short incision in the middle line or in the right or left groin, seizing the first piece of distended intestine that presents, and securing it to the wound by sutures and then opening it. This operation is employed in cases where the diagnosis of the situation of the obstruction is uncertain, or where though it appears probable that it is in the small intestine or m the colon too high to be relieved by right colotomy, the patient's condition is such that the severe shock and the prolonged manipulation that necessarily attends laparotomy (the operation otherwise indicated) would probably be fatal. It may also be employed in cases of obstruction due to contractions consequent upon the matting together of the small intestines from chronic inflammation, cancer, &c. It should be thoroughly understood, however, that the operation is only intended to relieve the distension of the intestines and prevent their rupture. It does not attack the seat of obstruction. Bat by relieving the acute symptoms it may give time for a diagnosis m doubtful cases to be arrived at; and the patient's condition after it may so far improve as to allow of a more radical course of treatment being undertaken on a future occasion. The method of Grreig Smith (p. 666) is likely to largely replace the above operation. EiS'TEEECTOMY consists in opening the abdomen and excising a portion of the intestine. It may be required ! for irreducible intussusception, carcinomatous stricture, gangrene from strangulation by bands, the closure of fsecal fistulse, wounds of the intestine, &c. Open the abdomen as in laparotomy; draw the portion of intestine I to be removed well out of the wound, and pack it round with moist antiseptic gauze; clamp the intestine with a rubber tube passed through a small incision in the mesen- tery above and below to prevent the escape of faeces; cut out the diseased or damaged part; tie all bleeding vessels; I and then unite the intestine by one of the methods al- ! ready described (page 416). Or if the intestine is much distended and the patient in a state of extreme collapse secure both the proximal and distal portions of the intestine to the wound in the abdominal parietes by I sutures. After the contents of the over distended bowel ■ have been evacuated and the gut has regained its tone the two portions may be united and returned into the* abdomen.670 DISEASES OF REGIONS. Inguinal colotomy is tlie operation of opening the sigmoid flexure of the colon in the left groin [Littre^s operation)» It has been much employed of late in place of lumbar colotomy, especially for carcinoma of the rectum before distension of the colon consequent on the stricture has occurred. The chief advantages claimed for it are : 1, that there is less difficulty in finding the gut; 2, that there is less danger of peritonitis, in that, as the peritoneum has to be opened, all proper precautions can be taken ; 3, that the wound is more superficial, and con- sequently there is less risk of infiltration of the tissues and septic poisoning; and 4, that the groin is a m.ore con- venient situation for an anus than the loin. An oblique incision (Fig. 253, d) about two inches long is made one inch from the anterior superior iliac spine at right angles to a line drawn from the umbilicus to the iliac spine, one inch of the incision being below and one inch above the line. Divide the skin, superficial and deep fascia, muscles, fascia transversalis, and peritoneum on a director. If the gut does not present in the wound carefully search for it with the fingers. It may be known by the longitudinal bands of muscular fibres, by the appendices epiploicae, and by its mesentery running to the left, whereas that of the small intestine runs to the right. Having found the colon, draw it down until the meso-colon is taut so as to avoid prolapse of the bowel subsequent to the operation. Pass two ligatures through the peritoneal and muscular coats of the colon to act as guides, about 1^ inches,apart, drop the bowel back into the peritoneal cavity, and introduce a sponge into the wound to prevent blood entering the peritoneal cavity whilst the peritoneum is being sewn to the skin. Eemove the sponge, draw the colon well into the wound and secure it to the parietal peritoneum by sutures passed through only the peritoneal and muscular coats. Apply an antiseptic dressing, and at the end of three to five days, when adhesions have had time to form, cautiously open the gut. Some Surgeons, for the purpose of forming a spur, and thus preventing the fseces from going down the distal end of the intestine, draw the gut forward by a ligature passed through the mesentery. Others, with this aim in view, divide the colon and secure both open ends to the wound, whilst others again close the lower end by means of Lembert's sutures, and drop it back into the peritoneal cavity. These procedures, in my opinion,LUMBAR COLOTOMY. 671 add to the risks of the operation, and are, I think, un- necessary if the bowel is drawn well into the wound. Lumbar colotomy is the opening of the colon in the left lumbar region [QalUsen^s operation), or in the right (Amussafs operation). The former should be chosen when the disease is in the rectum or lower part of the sigmoid flexure; the latter when there is any doubt whether it may not be in the transverse colon. That on the left side, the commpn operation, need only be described. Place the patient on his right side, slightly inclining towards his face, with pillows under his I abdomen, or beneath his loin, in order to make his left side prominent. The outer border of I the quadratus lumborum, the ; guide to the colon, should then be marked: it is situated half an i inch posterior to a line drawn ver- I tically upwards from a point mid- ! way between the anterior superior , and posterior superior spines of i the ilium. Then make an incision i about four inches long between the last rib and crest of the ilium I from the erector spinse obliquely i outwards and downwards. Di- I vide the skin, fascia, and various j layers of muscles, viz., the latis- j feimus dorsi, external oblique, internal oblique, and trans- versalis, and the transversalis fascia on a director (Fig. 255), and the quadratus lumborum will now be exposed at the inner part of the wound, and may be known by its fibres running upwards and inwards. When the colon is distended it will bulge in the wound; when contracted, however, it may be sought in the wound by carefully scratching through the fatty tissue covering it with two pairs of dissecting forceps. If there is much difficulty in finding it, pass per rectum a small catheter, if practicable, through the stricture, and inflate the colon. The colon may be distinguished from the peritoneum, which sometimes pre- sents in the wound, by its situation immediately external to the quadratus lumborum and below the kidney; by the presence of the longitudinal bands of muscular fibres; by the thickness of its coats on nipping it up by the fingers; and, at times by in this way feeling scybalous i i Fig. 255. — Diagram of parts divided in left lumbar colotomy.672 DISEASES 0^ tlEGlOJ^S. masses of faeces in its interior. The peritoneum, on the other hand, may generally be known by the absence of the above characters, and if it is nipped up by the intestine being felt to slip away from between the fingers. Having found the colon, secure it to the skin. This is usually done by passing a silk suture by means of a curved needle on a handle, first through the skin, then through the bowel, and then through the skin on the opposite side of the wound, and repeating the procedure at the other end of the wound. The bowel is then opened in a longitudinal direction, the loops of suture by which it is transfixed hooked out by the finger and divided, and the bowel secured to the integument by the four sutures thus formed. A better and more convenient way of passing the sutures, which should then be of wire, is by Smith's cleft palate needle. If this is used a series of sutures are passed, first through the skin, and then through the wall of the bowel, and tied before the bowel is opened. Should the peritoneal cavity be opened by mistake, it must be carefully closed by suture before the incision is made into the colon. Some perform lumbar colotomy in two stages, like gas- trostomy; but if the operation is carefully done in the way described above, such is hardly necessary. The bowels should be kept at rest by means of opium for four or five days, and no food given by the mouth for twenty-four hours. An enema may subsequently be required if the bowels do not act spontaneously. It may also become necessary to clear that portion of the bowel which is beyond the wound. Indeed it has been proposed to close completely this part of the bowel by operation so as to prevent faeces passing down it. OPERATIOKS ON THE. LIVER, GALL-BLABDEE, STOMACH, SPLEEN AND PANCREAS. Aspiration of the liver may be required for the purpose of diagnosis in the case of a suspected hydatid cyst or abscess in the liver, or for the removal of the j fluid from a hydatid cyst. Having thoroughly cleansed the skin with an antiseptic and placed the patient if nervous under an anaesthetic, introduce the aspirating needle at the most prominent part of the swelling, taking care to avoid the colon and intestines. When operat- ing for hydatids stop the aspiration if blood escapes, ifCIIOLECYSTOTOMY. 673 the patient becomes faint, or if violent cough comes on. Otherwise continue the- aspiration till the cyst is emptied. On the removal of the needle place an antiseptic pad over the wound. The operation is not free from danger, several patients having died suddenly on the in- troduction of the needle, apparently in some cases from . plugging of the pulmonary vein by a portion of a hydatid that has escaped into the circulation through a ^ wound of one of the hepatic veins. Incisiois" oe the liter may be required for evacuating a hydatid cyst, or abscess. Make an incision over the most prominent part of the swelling, and having divided the abdominal parietes and stopped all bleeding, open the abdominal cavity. If the liver is adherent to the abdominal walls carefully incise it, first introducing an aspirating-needle to determine the situation of the pus. If non-adherent the liver may be stitched to the abdominal wall and an aspirator introduced to determine the situa- tion of the cyst or abscess, and the liver substance then incised. Or the opening of the cyst or abscess may be delayed till the liver has become adherent to the parietes. Great care should be taken, if the cyst or abscess is ' opened at once, to prevent any fl.uid or pus escaping into the peritoneal cavity, and the strictest antiseptic pre- cautions should of course be observed. Place a drain tube in the wound and ai)ply antiseptic dressings. Tapping the abdomen eoe, ascites should be done in the linea alba, midway between the umbilicus and the pubes (Fig. 253, a). The bladder having been emptied, a I small incision should be made through the skin; and the trocar and cannula, with a tube attached to convey the fluid into a vessel, should be thrust into the abdomen. The fluid should be drawn off slowly, and a many- tailed bandage, previously passed round the body, gradually tightened as the fluid flows, in order to keep up pressure on the abdominal vessels, and so prevent syncope. Oholecystotomy is the opening and draining of the gall-bladder, consequent upon the impaction of a calculus in the cystic duct. Make a vertical incision in the linea semilunaris, beginning just below the ninth costal carti- lage, or over the tumour when the gall-bladder is dis- tended (Fig. 253, f). Having divided the abdominal parietes and stopped all bleeding, open the peritoneum. Search for the gall-bladder with the finger beneath the W. X XDISEASES OF REGIONS. 674 liver, if it does not present in the wound, and bring it to the surface if practicable. Pack the wound with sponges to prevent any fluid escaping into the peritoneal cavity, and introduce an aspirator-needle into the gall-bladder, which, as the fluid escapes, should be well drawn into the wound. Enlarge the opening in the gall-bladder and remove any gall-stones found loose. If a stone is found impacted in the cystic duct, extract it, if possible, by forceps, by gentle manipulation with the fingers in the abdomen, by careful crushing with padded forceps, by breaking it with a needle passed through the wall of the duct, or by chipping off fragments as it lies in the duct. Secure the edges of the aperture in the gall-bladder to the abdominal wall by sutures, with its peritoneal coat well in contact with the parietal peritoneum; leave a drain- tube in the gall-bladder ; and close the rest of the abdo- minal wound in the way already described. The biliary fistula thus left will close in a few weeks if the cystic duct has been cleared. Cholecystectomy, or extirpation of the gall-bladder, may be required: 1, where perforation following suppura- tion and ulceration has occurred, and the coats are, found too softened to admit of suture; and 2, where chole- cystotomy is indicated, but on opening the abdomen the gall-bladder is found so contracted that its fundus cannot be drawn into contact with the abdominal walls without tearing it. Make an incision similar to that for chole- cystotomy, prolonging it or dividing the muscles trans- versely a little below the ribs if more room is required. Having well packed the wound with sponges to prevent blood escaping into the general peritoneal cavity, dissect the gall-bladder from the liver, clamping or tying any bleeding vessels, divide the cystic duct between two liga- tures, cleanse the wound, remove the sponges, and unite the abdominal walls in the usual way. Pylobectomy, gastro-enterostomy, duodenostomy Ara JEJUNOSTOMY.—Pylorectomy, or removing the pylo- rus for carcinoma, was formerly done by uniting the severed duodenum to the stomach by suture. Now the cut ends of the stomach and duodenum are usually sewn up by a continuous Lembert suture, and the stomach united to the duodenum or the jejunum by Senn's plates (Pig. 256). Gastro-enterostomy, or forming a fistula between the stomach and small intestine to allow fluids to pass out of the stomach, is employed where the disease of the pylorus675 GASTRO-ENTEROSTOMY. is too extensive for removal. It is usually done by placing one of Senn's plates in the stomach and the other in the duodenum or jejunum in the way shewn in Fig. 256. Daodenostomy and jejunostomy, or the opera- tions for forming an artificial opening into these portions of the small intestine respectively, are so rarely required that they are not here described. Neither is the operation of opening the stomach, securing it to the abdominal walls, and then scraping away with a curette portions of the carcinoma blocking the pylorus. In- deed, gastro-enterostomy by the improved method with Fig. 256.—Part of the stomach and jejunum from a case of gastro- enterostomy. A. Stomach, b. Jejunum. The bone plates are still in situ. The plate in the jejunum is seen. (St. Bartholo- mew's Hospital Museum.) Senn's plates, has practically replaced these operations. The necessity for the large number of Lembert's sutures formerly employed in gastro-enterostomy is now done away with, and the operation can consequently be done in a very much shorter time, and hence with much less, shock. Many successful cases have been recorded. Dilatation oe the cardiac and pyloric ends of THE STOMACH FOR SIMPLE FIBROUS STRICTURE {Loreta's operation) consists in opening the stomach and then dila- ting the cardiac or pyloric end, as the case may be, with the finger. The wound in the stomach is then closed by a Lembert's suture, and the abdominal parietes united, as X X 2676 DISEASES OF REGIONS. after ovariotomy. The strictest antiseptic precautions must of course be taken. In the successful operations there has been no return of the stricture at present. Splenectomy, or extirpation of the spleen, may be required for rupture of the viscus, and for some cases of hypertrophy. An incision is made either in the linea alba, the linea semilunaris, or, still further to the left, and the spleen having been thoroughly exposed, adhe- sions carefully broken down, and the organ, if enlarged, drawn out of the wound, the pedicle is transfixed in several places, and the ligatures interlocked and tied. The pedicle is next severed well to the splenic side of the ligatures, the organ removed, the peritoneum thoroughly cleansed, and the abdominal wound united and drained. Grreat care should be taken not to tear the splenic sub- stance, an accident attended with fearful haemorrhage. Drainage of pancreatic cysts due to obstruction to the duct or to injury may be required. These cysts give rise to a tumour in the epigastrium, which is often at- tended with severe neuralgic pain, and from which may be obtained on aspiration an alkaline fluid having the properties of turning starch into sugar and of emulsi- fying fats. Fat may be present in the faeces and sugar in the urine. The abdomen should be opened and the cyst stitched to tbe abdominal wall and drained. hernia. The term Hernia, though often used in conjunction with other terms to signify the protrusion of any viscus from its containing cavity, as, ''Hernia cerebri,'" or ''Hernia testis,'' when employed alone is applied only to such a protrusion from the abdomen or pelvis, and is equivalent in this sense to the term Eupture, the name by which the affection is popularly known. Description of hernia in general.—A hernia may occur at almost any situation, but is most common at the inguinal and femoral rings, spots at which the abdominal parietes are,naturally weaker than elsewhere. It gene- rally consists of intestine, or of omentum, or of both; but almost every one of the abdominal or pelvic viscera have at times formed the protrusion. The causes of hernia are predisposing and exciting. The ])redisposing may be divided into : 1. HereditaryANATOMY OF HERKIA. 677 and congenital malformations, such as an elongated con- dition of the mesentery, a patency of the funicular portion of the tunica vaginalis or canal of Nuck, and congenital defects of the abdominal parietes. 2. Acquired elonga- tion or downward displacement of the attachment of the mesentery. 3. A relaxed condition of the abdominal muscles, such as is induced by pregnancy, and by rapid emaciation in persons previously stout. 4. The rapid forma- tion of fat in the omentum or mesentery. 5. Any injury or operation that has weakened the abdominal walls. 6. Occupations involving severe muscular exertion; and 7. The male sex, inasmuch as men are more subject to the exciting causes. The exciting causes are such as produce a diminution in the size of the abdominal cavity by the contraction of the muscles forming its walls and the con- sequent compression of the contained viscera. They may be divided into those that act suddenly, and those that act slowly. Amongst the former may be mentioned sudden and violent exertions, straining at stool, lifting heavy weights, &c. Amongst the latter, continual strain- ing, as from stricture of the urethra, enlarged prostate, phimosis, or a narrow meatus, constant coughing occa- sioned by chronic bronchitis and emphysema, &c. Anatomy of hernia.—As the viscus is protruded through the abdominal or pelvic parietes, whether at one of the so-called rings or elsewhere, it generally forces that portion of the parietal peritoneum, which lies over the aperture, before it in the form of a pouch. When it escapes at the internal inguinal ring, however, instead of thus protruding the peritoneum in front of it, it may pass into the tubular prolongation of peritoneum which naturally descends in front of the testicle in the foetus, and which from some cause has remained unobliterated. The pouch of peritoneum in which the protruded viscus is thus enclosed is called the sac. In the former case it is spoken of as an acquired, in the latter as a congenital sac. In some forms of csecal hernia the sac may be incomplete, i.e., the viscus may be only covered by peritoneum in front, and in contact with the tissues behind; and in dia- phragmatic hernia, and in hernia following a wound of the abdominal walls where there is no parietal peritoneum covering the aperture, there will be no sac. The pro- truded viscus enclosed in its peritoneal sac forms a swelling surrounded by the tissues of the part into which it has escaped. The tissues superficial to it, i.e., betweenDISEASES OE REGIONS 678 the sac and the skin, form what are called its coverings. We have to consider, therefore, 1, the sac, 2, its contents, and 3, its coverings. 1. The sac is said to consist of a body, neck and mouth, terms which sufficiently explain themselves. It is at first thin and membraneous, resembling the peritoneum ; but in old herniee may become thickened and indurated, or else, as for example in umbilical hernia, attenuated or in places absorbed. It is usually globular or pyriform, but may take almost any shape. Thus it may be fusiform, hour-glass-like, or divided by adhesions into two parts, the lower part, perhaps, containing fluid and forming what is known as a hydrocele of the sac. The neck is at first generally slightly puckered, but as the res alt of inflammatory consolidation becomes in old hernise smooth, thickened, and often indurated. The mouth may be wide and expanded, or, in the case of congenital hernise, in which the neck is frequently elongated, narrow and contracted. 2. The contents of the sac maybe intestine alone {enter o- cele); or omentum alone {epiplocele); or both, the omentum then generally descending in front of the intestine {entero- epiplocele), or more rarely the intestine in front of the omentum {epiplo-enterocele). In exceptional instances the bladder, the ovaries, and other of the abdominal or pelvic viscera, have been met with in the sac. The small intestine, and especially a portion of the lower three feet of the ileum, most frequently descends. When the large intestine descends it is generally the csecum; but any portion of the small or large may do so. There may be but a small knuckle of intestine in the sac, or a part only of its calibre; but when once a portion has escaped there is generally a tendency for more to follow, and in old hernise to the extent of several inches or even feet. The protruded intestine and mesentery in long-standing cases become hypervascular and thickened, and the omentum hypertrophied and matted together. A small quantity of serous fluid is also generally found in the sac, and in rare instances loose or attached fibrinous bodies somewhat similar to those met with in bursse. Where the neck of the sac has become obliterated by the long wearing of a truss, the sac has been found filled entirely with serous fluid, thus forming a cyst. 3. The coverings of the sac necessarily vary according to the situation of the hernia. They will be enumerated679 I REDUCIBLE HERmA. under each special form, and little more need be said about them here farther than that they often become thickened, blended together, thinned, or absorbed, so that in actual practice they can seldom be demonstrated. The conditions oe a hernia.—A hernia may be : (1) reducible; (2) irreducible; (3) strangulated; (4) in- carcerated, and (5) inflamed. . 1. A REDUCIBLE HERNIA is One that can be returned into the abdominal cavity; i.e., it either goes back when the patient lies down; or it can be made to do so by the patient himself, or by the Surgeon making pressure upon it in a suitable direction. The sac, except perhaps in Fig. 257.—Spica bandage for the groin. (Bryant's Surgery.) quite recent cases, cannot be put back into the abdomen in consequence of its adhesions to the surrounding tissues, but remains empty m situ. Symptoms.—At first there may be a mere fulness or pro- trusion, commonly at one of the abdominal rings ; the pro- trusion becomes more prominent when the patient stands up, strains, or coughs, but it completely disappears on his lying down. If neglected it gradually increases in size, forming a prominent non-translucent swelling, in which a • distinct impulse is felt on coughing. If the hernia contains intestine (enteroceh), it will be tense and elastic, and reso- nant on percussion; whilst a peculiar gurgling is heard from the displacement of gas and fluid on returning it into the abdomen. If on the contrary it contains omentum [epi- plocele), it will be dull to percussion, doughy and inelastic, or hard and resisting, and lobulated, whilst the cha-DISEASES OE REGIONS. 680 racteristic gurgling is not heard on returning it into the abdomen. The diagnosis will be given under the head of Special Hernice, as it is from other diseases of each special region that a diagnosis has to be made. The treatment may be palliative or radical. The palliative treatment consists in reducing the hernia and applying some form of truss. A pad and spica bandage Fig. 258.—Inguinal truss. Fia. 259.—Femoral truss. Fig. 260.—Umbihcal truss. should be applied (Fig. 257), till a truss can be procured. The form of truss will vary accord- ing to the position, size, &c., of the hernia. Fig. 258 is an inguinal truss of the ordinary shape, and maybe distinguished from a femoral (Fig. 259), by the pad of the latter being placed more vertically. Fig. 260 is an umbilical truss. In measuring for a truss the following notes should be taken and sent to the maker :—1. The dimensions round the pelvis midway between the crest of the ilium and the great trochanter. 2. The kind of hernia. 3. The side on which it is situated. 4. The size of the ring. 5. The age and sex of the patient. 6. The strength of the spring required. The truss should be worn con- stantly, and never on any excuse left off. A lighter681 IRREDUCIBLE HERNIA. truss may be provided for the night, and one covered with india-rubber or made of vulcanite for the bath. The radical treatment consists in reducing the hernia, and in ' some way obliterating the sac and closing the ring. In young children the wearing of a truss may do this, but in older children, and in adults, the ring is then usually too large and otherwise altered for the hernia to be thus cured, and some further procedure, if thought advisable, must be undertaken. Of the various methods that have been proposed, those of Wood, Spanton, Warren, and Banks, are, perhaps, the most iu vogue at the present time. Briefly, 1, Wood's consists in freeing the sac from its scrotal connections, invaginating it into the inguinal canal, and then subcutaneously sewing the canal, ring, and sac together. In Spanton's, the sac is also invagina- ted, but the consolidation of the parts is effected by twisting them together by an instrument shaped some- thing like a cork-screw which is introduced subcutane- ously, and left in situ for a week or ten days, or until sufficient inflammation has been set up to glue the parts together. 3. Warren and Heaton, amongst others in America, have revived the method of obliterating the sac by injections. 4. Banks'method consists in cutting away the sac after ligature of its neck, and then sewing up the ring. Ligature and excision of the sac is applicable to femoral and umbilical as well as to inguinal hernise. In femoral hernia, however, the ring is too unyielding to admit of its being closed by suture. 2. An IRREDUCIBLE HERNIA is One that cannot be returned into the abdomen. The causes of the irreducibility, which are many, may be conveniently classified according as the impediment to the return of the contents of the sac exists:—1. Outside the sac, from inflammatory thickening and contraction of the tissues forming the ring or other aperture through which the hernia has escaped. 2. In the sac ivalls, from inflam- matory thickening and contraction, and from elongation of the neck of the sac. 3. Liside the sac, from (a), the great i bulk of the intestine or omentum due to increased growth. subsequent to their descent; (6), constriction of the omen- tum at the situation of the ring and expansion of the lower part; (c), adhesion of the intestine or omentum to the sac, or to one another; {d), bands of adhesions stretch- ing across the sac and so confining a loop of intestine or knuckle of omentum ; (e), a collection of fluid in the sac;DISEASES OE REGIONS. 682 (/)> ^ portion of intestine (as the csecnm) having de- scended uncovered with peritoneum on one aspect, the uncovered portion forming adhesions with the tissues around it where the sac is absent. The symptoms are similar to those of the reducible form, save that the hernia cannot be completely reduced. Thus, there is impulse on coughing, non-translucency, and when it contains intestine, gurgling on handling, and resonance on percussion. It is, moreover, often attended with dragging or colicky pains and dyspeptic symptoms. When its contents are both intestine and omentum, the intestine can sometimes be returned. A consideration of the above signs should serve to distinguish it from a protect it from injury and prevent it from getting bigger by the descent of more intestine or omentum; and, 2, if possible, to render it reducible. For the first purpose the patient should wear a bag truss (Fig. 261), or the lace-up truss. Trusses are often difficult to adjust. Under such circumstances a cast of the parts should be taken in plaster of Paris, and to this any instrument-maker can then accurately mould the truss. When the patient will submit, an attempt may be made to convert the hernia into a reducible one; and if persevered in will frequently, especially in recent herniae, be successful. The patient should maintain the horizontal position, the diet should be restricted, saline purgatives given, and ice occasionally applied to the part, or continuous pressure may be kept on the hernia by means of the hinge-cup truss. The treat- ment will, of course, only be successful when the irre- ducibility depends upon removable causes, such as an in- crease in the bulk of the omentum or intestine. When hydrocele extending high up the cord with which it is perhaps most likely to be confounded. Fig. 261.—Bag truss for irreducible hernia. Treatment. — An irreducible hernia often attains a large size, and is not only on this account a constant source of annoyance to the patient, but is also one of danger as there is always a risk of its becoming obstructed, strangulated, or inflamed, or ruptured by accidental blows, &c. The treatment may be di- rected to one of two ends : 1, to683 STRAKGTJLATED HERKIA. due to adhesions and the like, it cannot be thus overcome, though with the use of the hinge-cup truss adhesions if not too firm may gradually elongate and disappear. Otherwise the question of an operation for a radical cure maybe raised. 3. Strangulated hernia.—This form of hernia is one in which the protruded portion of intestine or omen- tum is so tightly gripped, that not only is its return into the abdomen prevented, but the circulation through its blood-vessels is so impeded, that congestion, followed by inflammation and gangrene, speedily ensues, if the stran- gulation is not soon relieved. Causes.—1. The sudden forcing of intestine or omentum through a ring or aperture so small that it is tightly gripped from the moment of its descent. This is usually the cause of strangulation in a recent hernia or in an old hernia which has suddenly descended through the patient's neglect to put on his truss. 2. The increase of bulk in the hernia subsequent to its descent, and its consequent constriction where it passes through the aperture or ring. This is usually the cause of strangulation in irreducible hernia, or in hernise that have not been kept up by a truss. Such an increase in bulk may be induced by: (a), the sudden protrusion of a fresh portion of omentum or intestine on the top of that already down; (&), the swelling of the intestine from catarrhal inflammation of the mucous membrane, or from its becoming obstructed by faeces or flatus; and (c), congestion and inflammation of the omentum. The seat of constriction, or as it is technically called the stricture, is generally either (1), outside the sac, i.e., at one of the tendinous rings, or other aperture through which the hernia has passed; or (2), m the neck of the sac itself; whilst (3), in very rare instances, it may be inside the sac, the intestine having slipped through a hole in the omentum, or become entangled by a band of adhesions. Mechanism of strangulation.—The compression of the veins at the seat of stricture impedes the return of venous blood from the protruding portion of intestine or omentum, and congestion followed by inflammation and gangrene ensues more or less quickly according to the completeness of the obstruction. The congestion, moreover, induces paralysis of the muscular coat and consequent cessation of its peristaltic action and the onward flow of the intestinal contents. For strangulation to occur it is not necessaryDISEASES OF EEGIONS. 684 for the whole circumference of the bowel to be included in the stricture. An inclusion of only a small portion of its circumference [Richter^s hernia sometimes incorrectly called Littre^s hernia), in consequence of the venous con- gestion and subsequent inflammation which it induces, is sufficient. Indeed, symptoms of strangulation are said to occur when omentum only is contained in the hernia, a fact somewhat difficult to explain, as constriction of omentum by a tight ligature certainly gives rise to no symptoms. It is possible that in these cases the signs of strangulation have depended on reflex irritation of the omental nerves, or on a small knuckle of intestine having been strangulated at the neck of the sac and slipped back unperceived. That strangulation may produce a severe impression on the nerves, is evidenced by the pain reflected to the umbilicus, and by the general nervous symptoms. Pathological condition of the strangulated part.—^When the constriction is very tight, the circulation may be completely arrested, and gangrene ensue in a few hours. But as a rule the arrest is only partial, and the gangrene is preceded by congestion and inflammation. The intestine at first appears red and, perhaps, slightly swollen, but not otherwise altered; whilst clear serous fluid in greater or less quantity is poured out between it and the sac. It next assumes a mulberry colour, and as the congestion increases it becomes darker and darker, and finally black or ash-grey. At the same time it becomes more swollen, and loses its bright shining appearance, becoming sticky, then doughy in consistency, and pitting on pressure, whilst the fluid gets darker and turbid, and feculent in odour; finally the intestine sloughs, and its contents are extravasated into the sac. Sloughing or ulceration, frequently begins at the seat of stricture, and in the mucous coat, where, even at an early stage, an impression of the stricture is often seen. The omentum undergoes similar changes, passing gra- dually into a state of gangrene. The intestine above the strangulated portion for a variable distance is congested and distended with faecal matter, whilst that below is empty and contracted but otherwise natural. Simul- taneously with these changes a local peritonitis is set up about the neck of the sac, gluing the intestine to the peri- toneum, so that as a rule there is no extravasation into the peritoneal cavity. The sac becomes inflamed, a faecal abscess is formed, and, if the patient survives, opens on685 TREATMENT OF STRANGULATED HERNIA. the surface, leaving him with a faecal fistula. In other cases general peritonitis supervenes, or the intestine gives way above the stricture and so peritonitis results. The symptoms are local and general. Local symptoms.— The hernia, if previously reducible, is no longer so ; it becomes tender or painful on handling, tense, and often tympanitic; and the impulse on coughing is lost. Pain may be present in the hernia, but is generally referred to the region of the umbilicus. The skin is usually natural, but where gangrene has occurred, it may become mottled, or brick-dust red, and emphysematous, and exhale a fsecal odour. Cessation of pain may then occur, but is a delusive sign. The general symptoms are those of intes- tinal obstruction, the two chief being vomiting and constipation. The vomiting is of a peculiar gushing cha- racter, with little or no retching. The vomit at first consists of the contents of the stomach, but soon becomes bile-stained, and finally fsecal, i.e., thin and brownish- ; yellow, with a distinct odour of faeces. The constipation is complete (except in Eichter's hernia), flatus not even ; passing, although at first the contents of the large intestine i may be voided, either naturally or after an enema. The \ face becomes pinched and anxious, the pulse small and ; wiry, the tongue furred and brown, and if strangulation I is not relieved, the patient may die of collaj)se, general I peritonitis, or exhaustion from constant vomiting. Very I occasionally a faecal abscess may form and the patient j recover with a faecal fistula. Space will not permit of a ' description of the variations in the symptoms that may ' be met with, and it must suffice to say that as a rule in young patients with recent hernia they are more acute, and call more imperatively for immediate relief than in older patients, the subjects of irreducible hernia of long standing in whom they assume a more chronic character. Treatment,—It cannot be too strongly impressed on the mind of the student that it is of vital importance to release the strangulated intestine; that this as a rule admits of no delay; that every hour adds to the danger I (gangrene may occur within twenty-four hours) that the result of the case will depend to a great extent upon the length of time the strangulation has existed; I that purgatives for overcoming the obstruction are not only useless but absolutely injurious; and that pro- longed and forcible attempts to return the bowel by the taxis are unjustifiable and wholly to be condemned.686 DISEASES OE REGIONS. "What should be done, therefore, in a case of strangulated hernia ? The taxis should as a rule be applied for a few minutes ; if this is unsuccessful the patient may in some forms of inguinal hernia be put in a warm bath for twenty minutes, and another attempt then made to return the bowel. This failing, he should be placed under an anaesthetic, and should the bowel then not slip back readily on again gently trying the taxis, the operation for dividing the stricture should at once be proceeded with before he is allowed to recover from the anaesthetic. If the Surgeon is not prepared for the operation, or requires help, a full dose of opium should in the meantime be given, and ice, if at hand, or warmth in the form of a large poultice, be applied to the tumour. But it is better not to attempt the reduction under an anaesthetic till prepared to proceed with the operation. We have then to consider the method of applying the taxis, the cases in which it should not be used, the cases suitable for the hot bath, and the operation of herniotomy. The taxis.—The method of applying the taxis, which is merely the technical term given to the various manipula- tions used in returning the hernia into the abdomen, can only be learned by practice. The pelvis should be slightly raised, and the thigh in femoral hernia flexed and adducted A so as to relax as much as possible tha constricting ring. I With one hand, slightly raise the hernia, and grasp it I gently so that some of the flatus or fluid may be squeezed I out and the bulk lessened. With the finger and thumb of 1 the other hand, gently compress the neck laterally to pre- vent its bulging over the margin of the ring, and at the same time draw the hernia a little downwards to dis- engage its neck. The pressure should be applied steadily, not spasmodically, and its direction varied according to H the kind of hernia. No violence should be used, and if after a few minutes the intestine does not slip back with the characteristic rush, further attempts should not be made. Violent or prolonged efforts are strongly to be condemned, as not only are they unlikely to be successful, but may lead to the rupture of the intestine, or stopping short of this may cause so much bruising, ecchymosis, or inflammation, that they jeopardize its recovery after ope- ration. How long should the taxis be applied r Certainly not more than ten minutes at the outside. The length of time, however, may vary in different hernise. Eoughly j it may be given at about two minutes for a small tightTJREATMEOT OF STRAT^GULATED HERNIA. 687 femoral kemia, and five minutes for a large femoral, inguinal, or umbilical hernia. It should be remembered that the taxis is more successful in recent than in old femoral hernise; in inguinal than in femoral, and espe- cially in old inguinal under chloroform; and that when successful it is the safest method of overcoming the strangulation. The taxis should not be applied—1, when other Surgeons have already employed it for long periods; 2, when the hernia is very tense, tender, or inflamed; 3, in femoral hernia where feecal vomiting has existed for some time, or where hiccough has supervened;—m short, whenever it appears questionable whether the intestine has not passed into a condition beyond recovery, or whether actual gangrene has not taken place. The hot hath is more likely to succeed in acute than in chronic cases, in young muscular patients, and in inguinal hernise. It should not, as a rule, be given to the old or feeble, as it has then a tendency to induce severe syn- cope, and renders them liable to take cold. Little can be expected from it in femoral hernia on account of the fibrous and unyielding nature of the ring. The operation.—Herniotomy or kelotomy has for its object—1, the liberation of the strangulated intestine or omentum by dividing the stricture, and 2, the returning it into the abdomen if proper or possible. The parts having been shaved and thoroughly cleansed with soap and water and sponged with some antiseptic lotion, an incision should be made over the sac in the long axis of the tumour, and its coverings carefully and successively divided till the sac is exposed, any bleeding vessels being- tied. The sac may be known by the arborescent arrange- ment of its vessels, its tenseness and smoothness, and when thin by intestine, omentum, or fluid being seen through it. It may further be distinguished from the intestine by the shining appearance of the latter, by the circular arrangement of the intestinal vessels, and by a little fluid usually escaping when the sac is opened. If • still in doubt, the questionable structure should be picked up with the thumb and fore-finger if not too tense, when, if it is sac, the intestine will be felt to slip away. Before opening the sac, every antiseptic precaution in the widest sense of the term should be taken. All bleed- iug should be stopped, and the wound, the Surgeon's hands and those of his assistant and the instruments should be thoroughly cleansed from blood with antisepticDISEASES OF REGIONS. G88 lotion. A piece of the sac should be nipped up with the forceps, and nicked with the blade of the knife held on the flat. If too tense to allow of this, it must be cautiously scratched through with the point of a knife. As a rule there is no danger of injuring the intestine, as some fluid generally exists between the sac and its contents. The sac, however, should always be opened with, care, as the intes- tine may be in contact with it. If omentum is seen shining through the sac, it should be opened opposite that spot. The character of the fluid which escapes is a good criterion of the condition of the parts. If pale and serous, the indication is good; if blood-stained and turbid or faecal in odour, bad. A director should now be passed through the small opening, and the sac laid open, the fluid absorbed by sponges to prevent it running into the abdo- men, and the contents examined. If only omentum presents, this should be gently unravelled to search for Fig. 262.—Cooper's hernia knife. intestine, a small knuckle of which will often be found near the neck of the sac. The questions will now arise what shall be done with the intestine, what with the omentum ? Shall they, or can they be returned ? Shall the omentum be cut ofl ? Shall the stricture be divided ? Treatment of the intestine.—If the intestine is merely congested and claret-coloured but still shining and the fluid in the sac is of a serous character there can be no question of replacing it in the abdomen ; or if it is already gangrenous (a condition that may be known by its ash- grey colour, loss of elasticity and not bleeding if pricked), there can be no question on the other hand that it ought not to be returned but must be dealt with in one of the ways to be presently described. Again, if it is adherent to the sac the adhesions when soft and recent may be gently broken down with the finger and the intestine re- turned unless such is contra-indicated from other causes; or when the adhesions are old and fibrous, they may be cut through and ligatured, and the intestine also returned; but when they are thick and fleshy, the intestine must be left in the sac, as any attempt to break them down wouldTREATMENT OF STRANGULATED HERNIA. 689 probably lead to the tearing of its walls. In cases of the above kind the treatment is clear; but when the intestine is black, ecchymosed, doughy, sticky, or coated with lymph, but not actually gangrenous, the impression of the stricture is well marked, and the flaid in the sac is of a dark colour, it becomes an anxious moment for the Surgeon to decide what to do with it, and much must be left to his own judgment in each individual case. As a general rule it may be said that when only a small knuckle of intestine is present, and although black has not lost its shining colour, and there is no appearance of ulceration at the seat of stricture, it should be replaced just within the ring, so that if it subsequently gives way the fsecal contents may escape externally; but that when the intestine is ecchymosed, doughy, &c., or it is feared that ulceration of the mucous coat may have already begun at the seat of stricture, and especially when a large coil is present it should be left in the sac. Some Surgeons, however, if in doubt always leave the intestine in the sac; others stitch the bowel to the parietal peritoneum, so as to leave the most doubtful part in the centre of the ring of sutures. If the gut gives way the fseces will then pass outwards. If the injured part recovers the gut will be left adherent by one surface to the inside of the abdominal wall. When the gut is clearly gangrenous^ it should be opened; and if extensively gangrenous, the dead portion cut away. So far most Surgeons are agreed, but what further should be done is still an open question. Some merely leave the gangrenous part in the sac or stitch the open ends of the gut to the wound. Others prolong the wound into the peritoneal cavity, draw down the gangrenous loop of intestine, protect the rest of the peritoneal cavity with sponges, cut the gangrenous part completely away, empty the distended intestine as much as possible, clamp both upper and lower portions with rubber tubing passed through a small incision in the mesentery to prevent further faecal soiling, irrigate with perchloride of mercury lotion (1 in 2000), restore the continuity of the gut by circular enterorrhaphy or by means of Senn's plates (see page 417), and replace the united intestine in the abdominal cavity. The best course to take, however, must depend in great part on the general condition of the patient. Should the intestine be accidentally wounded either in opening the sac, or, as more commonly happens, in w. Y YDISEASES OF REGIONS. 690 dividing the stricture, tlie edges of the wound should be united in the way described at p. 416. Treatment of omentum,—When small in amount, recently protruded, and only slightly congested, the omentum should be returned. When large in amount, thickened, inflamed, or gangrenous, it should be ligatured, cut off, and the stump returned into the abdomen. Aseptic silk is the best material for ligaturing the omentum. The ligature to prevent slipping should be tied very tightly or made to transfix the pedicle, the latter, if necessary, being gently pulled down to ensure it being tied at a healthy spot. When the omentum forms a large mass it should be carefully unravelled to determine the absence || | of intestine in its midst, and then tied in separate portions. Ligature of the vessels separately is unsafe, as some may Fig. 263.—Wormald's hernia director. be missed, and haemorrhage occur into the peritoneal cavity. The ligatures should be cut off short and returned with the omentum. They become encysted and cause no irritation. If the omentum is adherent to the intestine it may be gently separated from it or returned with the intestine. If adherent to the sac it may be separated and returned or removed with the latter. Division of the stricture at the neck of the sac.—Pass the index finger gently between the intestine and the sac, or if the omentum is spread out between the intestine and the sac (forming the so-called omental sac) between the intestine and omentum. The stricture having been dis- covered insinuate the finger-nail gently under it, and the intestine being held aside by the other fingers or by an assistant, pass the hernia knife, held with its blade on the flat and protected by the pulp of the finger, beneath the stricture, turn its cutting edge towards the stricture, and notch the latter in one or more places by gently depressing the handle. The direction in which the notch should be made will depend upon the situation of the hernia; in extent it should be as limited as possible. The Surgeon, as a rule, will do better to employ his finger than the director, as there is much less risk of wounding the intestine, but if a director is used it should be broad and flat (Fig. 263).TREATMEOT OF STRANGULATED HERNIA. 691 If it is found that the stricture is not sufficiently divided to allow the intestine to slip back on being manipulated with the fingers, a second notch should be made. But if the intestine does not then return easily the stricture should be divided again, as no force must be used. "Where the intestine is gangrenous, some Surgeons who hold that it is better to leave the gangrenous intestine in the sac merely notch the stricture, disturbing as little as possible the adhesions that have formed between the intestine and the neck of the sac, as it is upon these cutting off, as they do, the general peritoneal cavity from the gangrenous gut that the patient's safety depends. The division here is not practised for the purpose of relieving the strangula- tion, as the bowel is already dead; but for the purpose of allowing the contents of the bowel above the gangrenous part to escape externally. This treatment, however, is far from successful; hence many now advise the laying open of the peritoneum and suture of the intestine as described at p. 689. Treatmeiit of the sac-—The next question that arises is what should be done with the sac ? My own practice has been, unless otherwise contraindicated, to dissect up the sac, apply a stout catgut ligature to its neck, and cut the body of the sac away. In inguinal hernia the ring may then be brought together with sutures, and the wound closed. In femoral hernia the parts are so rigid that they cannot well be brought together. In umbilical hernia the sac with the redundant integuments may be removed, and the wound united with the peritoneal surfaces in contact by deep and superficial sutures. Many, however, prefer simply to leave the sac in situ, merely uniting the wound, and applying a pad. The sac should not be ligatured and cut oft:—1. When the patient is weak or collapsed, and it is desirable to complete the operation with as little delay as possible. 2. When the sac is acutely inflamed. 3. When the intestine is in that doubtful condition that it has only been placed just within the ring. 4. When the abdomen contains much serous fluid, or peritonitis is present. After-treatment.—The wound should be dressed anti- septically, and a spica bandage firmly applied. Half a grain of morphia may then be injected subcutaneously, or a full dose of opium given by the mouth, and the patient subsequently kept under the influence of the drug, in order to place the intestine at rest till it has had time Y Y 2692 DISEASES OF REGIONS. to recover from the effects of the inflammation. To further insure rest some wash out the stomach with the stomach-pump. With the same end in view no nourish- ment should be given by the mouth for the first twenty- four hours, but ice in small quantities may be sucked or teaspoonfuls of hot water given occasionally to relieve thirst and allay any tendency to vomit. Nutrient sup- positories or nutrient enemata after the first twelve hours may be given by the rectum. Subsequently milk in small quantities at a time may be taken by the mouth, then, in addition, beef-tea; but no solid food should be allowed till the bowels have acted. This they should be permitted to do spontaneously, as no harm will ensue should they continue confined for a week or ten days. If at the end of this time any distension or uncomfortable sensations are experienced, an enema may be given. Such, however, in my experience is seldom required. Conditions that may give rise to a continuance of the symptoms of strangulation after the taxis or herniotonfiy,— As a rule the symptoms of strangulation cease immediately or soon after the successful application of the taxis, or of herniotomy. Should they persist they may depend on—■ 1. The effect of the anaesthetic. 2. Paralysis of the muscular coat of the intestine. 3. The^ piresence of another hernia. 4. The displacement of the hernia, or reduction en masse. 5. The gut becoming gangrenous and giving way. 6. Enteritis or peritonitis. 7. Internal strangulation of the intestine. If the persistence of the symptoms is due to the anaes- thetic they will usually pass off in a few hours. The vomiting, moreover, is usually attended with much retch- ing, and is not of that gushing nature characteristic of strangulation of the bowel. If due to paralysis of the muscular coat of the intestine, the symptoms will also, as a rule, gradually cease under the influence of opium. Should they not do so, however, a careful search should be made, if this has not already been done, for another hernia, and if one is discovered and appears strangulated, it should be explored. If no other hernia exists the continuance of the symptoms may be due to the hernia not having been properly reduced, to peritonitis, to the persistence of the paralysis of the muscular coat of the gut, or to internal strangulation. If, therefore, the hernia is reported not to have slipped back with the usual gurgle, or there is some fulness felt about the hernial ring, theTREATMENT OF STRANOULATED HERNIA. 693 ring must be cut down upon and explored, or the wound, if an operation has been performed, opened up. It may then be found (a) that the hernia has been reduced en masse, i,e., that the hernia, along with the sac, has been forced between the fascia transversalis and the perito- neum, a condition most frequently met with when the hernia is femoral; (h) that the neck of the sac has become detached, the intestine remaining strangulated; (c) that the posterior part of the sac has been rent and the hernia, still strangulated at the neck, forced into the sub-serous connective tissue; or {d) that the hernia has passed into a pouch at the neck of the sac instead of into the peritoneal cavity. Under any of the above circum- stances the sac should be drawn down, the condition causing the strangulation accurately ascertained, the stricture, wherever situated, divided, and the intestine returned into the peritoneal cavity. Peritonitis following the reduction of a hernia may be known by the signs already given at page 422, and should be treated as there indicated. Persistent paralysis of the muscular coat, or the existence of internal strangulation, may be suspected when along with the continuance of the symptoms of strangulation of the bowel the signs of the other condi- tions that may give rise to such symptoms, are absent. Should the paralysis not pass off under the influence of time and opium, an enema, or even a purgative may, in some cases, be useful to rouse the intestine to action, whilst, in other instances, it may become necessary to explore the abdomen, open the intestine above the para- lyzed part and suture it to the wound in the parietes. Internal strangulation should be treated as described under La'parotomy. Prognosis,—The prognosis in a case of strangulated hernia will depend on the length of time the hernia has been strangulated, the tightness of the stricture, the presence or absence of gangrene or peritonitis before the operation, the amount of bruising inflicted on the gut by the taxis, the degree of exposure and manipulation to which the gut is subjected during the operation, and the general condition of the patient. Moreover, the prognosis is graver in a small femoral hernia, and in a hernia which has recently come down (inasmuch as in these the con- striction is usually tight), than in an oblique inguinal hernia, or a hernia of long standing, in which the con- striction is usually much less.694 4. Obstructed or incaeceeated hernia. — These terms are generally applied synonymously to an irreducible hernia in which the protruded intestine has become ob- structed by a collection of undigested food, foreign bodies, as cherry-stones, &c. The hernia is most frequently met with in old people, and if neglected, is apt to become strangulated or inflamed. Symptoms—A^ in strangula- tion, there may be constipation, colicky pains, nausea, and perhaps vomiting; but the local signs of strangulation are less marked. Thus, there may be little or no local pain and no tension in the sac, though, at times, it may become distended and larger than before the incarceration occurred. The impulse on cough may still be present, and hard faecal masses may, perhaps, be felt. The symptoms, how- ever, may gradually merge into those of strangulation, and it is often diflicult to distinguish mere obstruction from strangulation, especially when the former is asso- ciated with some inflammation of the sac. When in doubt the case should be treated like one of strangulated hernia. Treatment.—A purgative enema, rest in the recum- bent position, warmth or ice to the part, and restriction of diet should be prescribed. When there is no vomiting, a brisk purge is often successful, but before giving such the Surgeon should thoroughly assure himself that strangula- tion does not exist. The application of the taxis is advised by some, and doubtless, in some instances, the intestine may be emptied of its contents by this means. It should be remembered, however, that its use is not unattended with risk. 5. Inelamed hernia.—In this condition the sac and to some extent its contents are inflamed. Inflammation is most common in small irreducible epiploceles, and is generally the result of injury, the pressure of a badly- fitting truss, or of violent exercise. If neglected the hernia is apt to pass into a condition of strangulation. The local symptoms resemble those of a strangulated hernia, but the impulse on cough is not absent, though it may be less marked than in a hernia in its ordinary state, and there is not so much tension in the sac as when stran- gulation exists. The parts are hot, tender, and oedema- tous, and there may be feverish symptoms, vomiting, and constipation. The vomit consists, however, only of the contents of the stomach and is not faecal, the constipation is seldom complete, and flatus will usually pass. Treatment, — An icebag should be applied over the695 INPLAMED HEM^IA. hernia, and tlie patient placed in the recumbent position, with the parts as much as possible relaxed. The diet should be restricted to small quantities of milk and beef- tea, and opium administered in small doses. When all signs of inflammation have subsided an enema may be given if the bowels do not act spontaneously. Should the inflammation run into strangulation, herniotomy must be performed; whilst, should suppuration, a very rare event, occur, the pus must be let out by a free incision. Fcecal fistula and artificial anus after operation for stran- gulated hernia,—Fsecal fistula is due to ulceration of the mucous membrane at the seat of stricture, and subsequent perforation of the bowel; artificial anus to the gangrene of a considerable portion of the strangulated bowel. In both, adhesions form between the serous coat of the intes- tine and the parietal peritoneum, and in this way prevent the extravasation of faeces into the general peritoneal cavity; but in the faecal fistula the perforation of the bowel being small, most of the faecal contents are passed per anum; whereas, in artificial anus, the whole escape externally and the intestine below shrinks and becomes more or less atrophied. In faecal fistula only a fistulous aperture discharging faeces is present; in artificial anus the openings of the upper and lower portions of the intes- tine can generally be seen. The upper opening may be known by its larger size, redder colour, and by faeces issuing from it, whilst at times its mucous membrane may be prolapsed. Treatment.—A faecal fistula will, as a rule, close spon- taneously, and beyond keeping the parts clean, nothing is generally required. In artificial anus the spur-like pro- cess or ejperon formed by the projecting forwards of the posterior wall of the bowel by the coils of intestine which lie in the angle between the upper and lower portions of the intestine, may have first to be destroyed by Dupuy- tren's enterotome, and the lumen of the bowel being thus restored, the artificial anus may be closed by a plastic operation, or the walls of the bowel united by suture. The Surgeon, however, should not be in too great haste to employ the enterotome, as in the course of time, in con- sequence of the dragging of the mesentery, the spur-like process may become gradually retracted, and the two portions of intestine, instead of lying parallel, may be drawn to more or less of an angle with each other. In this way the lumen of the tube may become gradually696 DISEASES OE REGIO]S"S. restored, and the fa3ces again pass down tlie lower tube. A plastic operation will then only be required to close the external opening, if indeed this does not heal sponta- neously as in fsecal fistula. Special Hernim. The three most common forms of hernia are:—the inguinal, the femoral, and the umbilical. Of the rarer forms may be mentioned the obturator, the ventral, the epigastric, the diaphragmatic, the lumbar, the ischiatic, the perineal, the vaginal, and the rectal. Inguinal hernia is one which escapes into or through the inguinal canal. Of this form there are two chief varieties, the oblique or external, and the direct or internal. The OBLIQUE on external variety is so called because it descends oUiquely through the inguinal canal, and leaves the abdomen external to the deep epigastric artery. The hernia enters the canal by the internal abdominal ring, and may remain in the canal, when it is spoken of as incomplete, or, from its resemblance to a bubo, as a hubo- nocele; or it may pass through the canal and out of the external abdominal ring, when it is said to be complete, and is then termed a scrotal or lalial rupture, according as it descends into the scrotum or labium. The coverings of an oblique inguinal hernia differ according as it is complete or incomplete, and occurs in the male or in the female. When complete and in the male they are from without inwards, 1, skin; 2, superficial and deep fascia; 3, intercolumnar fascia; 4, cremasteric fascia; 5, infundi- buliform fascia; 6, subperitoneal fat; and 7, peritoneum, which constitutes the sac. In the female the cremasteric fascia is wanting; otherwise the coverings are the same. In the incomplete the only difference in the coverings is that in place of the intercolumnar fascia there is the aponeurosis of the external oblique, and in place of the cremasteric fascia the lowermost fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis; they are the same in the male and female. The stricture, when the hernia is strangulated, will be situated at the external abdominal ring, the in- ternal abdominal ring, or anywhere in the inguinal canal between the two rings. Varieties of ohlique inguinal These will perhaps be better understood by reference to the accompanying697 INGUINAL HERNIA. diagrams. The following are those most commonly de- scribed :— 1. The common or acquired form {the inguino-scrotal of Birkett). The sac here consists simply of a protrusion of peritoneum through the inguinal canal, and the hernia ■when complete may descend into the scrotum or labium. The testicle can always be felt either below, or below and behind the hernia (Fig. 264). 2. The congenital. In this form the hernia descends into the funicular process of the peritoneum, which has remained open, and comes into contact with the testicle, the funicular process and tunica yaginalis of course forming the sac. The testis is more or less surrounded by the hernia, instead of being felt distinctly behind and below it, as in the former variety (Eigs. 265 and 266). Fig. 264. — Ordinary acquired Fig. 265.—Congenital inguinal inguinal hernia. (Bryant's hernia. (Bryant's Surgery.) Surgery.) 3. The hernia into the fimicular process resembles the congenital, in that the hernia descends into the funicular process of the tunica vaginalis, but differs in that it does not reach the testicle, being cut off from it by a septum at the epididymis. Should an operation be required in this form, the testicle is not seen as in the congenital. 4. The encysted congenital (Fig. 267). In this form the funicular process of the tunica vaginalis is cut off from the peritoneal cavity by a septum at the internal ring. The septum yields to the pressure of the hernia, and be- comes invaginated before it into the unobliterated funi- cular process. Should an operation be necessary, the anterior layer of the funicular process, and the elongated septum forming the spurious sac, will have to be cut s698 DISEASES OF REGIONS. tlirough. Here, as in tlie funicular variety, the hernia is not in contact with the testicle. 0. The infardile hernia is one in which the intestine, enclosed in its sac, descends behind the funicular process of the tunica vaginalis, which has remained unobliterated but is cut off by a septum at the internal abdominal ring from the general peritoneal cavity. Should an operation become necessary, three layers of peritoneum have to be cut through, viz., the anterior layer of the unobliterated funicular process of the tu- nica vaginalis; the posterior layer of the same; and finally the true sac. The last two, however, are generally intimately blended, so that there are apparently only two layers to cut through. Fig. 266.—A congenital inguinal hernia. The roll of paper is that originally placed in the specimen by Percival Pott. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) Fig. 267.—Encysted congenital hernia. (Bryant's Sur- gery.) The DIRECT OR INTERNAL INGUINAL hernia is so called because it escapes directly through the external abdominal ring without traversing the internal ring and the whole length of the canal, and is situated internal to the deep epigastric artery. Before escaping at the ex- ternal abdominal ring it either passes through or under the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and trans- versalis, which is situated immediately behind the external abdominal ring; or it protrudes that structure in front of it. The coverings from without inwards are, 1, skin;BIHECT IKGTTINAL HERKIA. 699 2, superficial and deep fascia; 3, intercolumnar fascia; 4, transversalis fascia ; 5, subperitoneal fat; and 6, perito- neum forming the sac. When the conjoined tendon is protruded in front of the hernia, this of course constitutes an additional covering, and will then be found between the intercolumnar and transyersalis fasciae. It will thus be seen that the coverings of the direct hernia difPer from those of the oblique, in the absence in the former of the cre- masteric fascia, and in the substitution of the transversalis for the infundibuliform fascia. The spermatic cord with its coverings from the cremasteric and infundibuliform fascia lies to the outer side. From what has been said above it will be seen that the epigastric artery is situated on the inner side of the neck of the sac in the oblique; on the outer side in the direct. The stricture when the hernia is strangulated will be situated at the external abdominal ring or at the aperture in the conjoined tendon through which the hernia has passed. Two varieties of direct inguinal hernia are described according as the protrusion takes place internal or ex- ternal to the obliterated hypogastric artery, but are not of sufficient importance to be described here. Signs and diagnosis of inguinal hernia.—There is a swelling in the inguinal region having the general characters of hernia already given. When incomplete the swelling will be in the groin, and has to be chiefly distin- guished from enlarged inguinal glands, a femoral hernia, encysted hydrocele of the cord, non-descended testicle, abscess in the inguinal canal, and, in rare instances, from 1 fatty and other tumours of the cord. When it is complete^ I i.e., has passed into the scrotum, the diagnosis has to be made from hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, solid tumours of the testicle, and varicocele. 1. In enlarged glands the canal is free, the glands are felt in front of it, and some cause is present to account for their enlargement. 2. In femoral hernia the swelling is external to the spine of the pubes, the neck of the hernia is below I Poupart's ligament, the inguinal canal is free but the hernia can be felt through its front wall, and to return it pressure must be made in a direction downwards, backwards, and then upwards. In inguinal hernia, on I the contrary, the swelling is internal to, or covers the I spine of the pubes; the neck is above Poupart's ligament; 1 the inguinal canal is occupied by it; and to return it I pressure must be made upwards and outwards. 3. In700 DISEASES OF REGIOKS. encysted hydrocele of the cord tlie swelling is translucent, tense, oval, and well-defined. There is no expansile im- pulse on cough; and it cannot be returned into the abdomen, 4. In retained testicle ih^i organ is absent from the scrotum ; there is no impulse on cough; testicular sensation can be obtained by pressure on the swelling; aud it cannot be returned into the abdomen. If the testicle is inflamed, vomiting may be present, but it has not the gushing character of the vomiting of hernia, and constipation, if also present, is not complete. There Fig. 268.—Obhque inguinal hernia, with line of incision. may, however, be a strangulated hernia in addition to an inflamed testicle. The diagnosis in such a case is very diflicult. If in doubt an exploratory incision should be made over the tumour. 5. In hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis the tumour is translucent, tense, and semi- fluctuating ; there is absence of impulse on coughing, freedom of the cord, and a history of it having begun at the bottom of the scrotum. In infants, however, a hernia may be translucent, and in a hydrocele of the congenital variety the fluid can be pressed back into the abdomen, but it does not return with the gurgle or slip character- istic of a hernia. 6. In varicocele the dilated veins feel like a bag of worms in the scrotum, and the impulse on cough has a thrill-like character. A varicocele, like a hernia, is reduced on the patient lying down, but if the finger is placed firmly over the ring, the veins, on the701 FEMORAL HERNIA. patient rising, refill notwithstanding the pressure of the finger, whereas a hernia would remain reduced. The ■indirect hernia cannot practically be distinguished from the direct as the rings get dragged opposite one another. The indirect is more common in the young, the direct in the old. Treatment.—What has already been said on this subject with regard to hernia generally, is applicable here, and it need only be added that if an operation is necessary, the incision (Figs. 268 and 269) should be made downwards Fig. 269.—Direct inguinal hernia, with line of incision. and inwards, oyer the long axis of the hernia, beginning just above the external abdominal ring; that the stric- ture, whether the hernia be direct or indirect, should be divided directly upwards, so as to avoid the epigastric I artery ; and that when combined with retained testicle a j truss should be worn if practicable above the testicle. If the truss causes the testicle to become frequently in- flamed, the testicle had better be removed. A FEMORAL HERNIA is One that escapes into the femoral sheath, and nearly always internal to the femoral vessels, though in very exceptional cases it has been found external to them. As a rule, it leaves the abdomen j at the femoral ring, and after passing downwards through I the femoral canal, emerges at the saphenous opening, and then turning upwards and outwards over the falci-702 DISEASES OF REGIONS. form process of the fascia lata, passes, should it further increase in size, over Poupart's ligament on to the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the ab- domen. The neck of the sac is situated at the femmal ring (Fig. 270), and is therefore bounded in front by Poupart's ligament, behind by the bone, internally by the sharp wiry edge of Gimbernat's ligament, and ex- ternally by the femoral vein, from which it is only separated by the innermost septum of the femoral sheath. The spermatic cord is close above it; the epi- gastric artery passes a little external to it; but there is no structure of importance, as a rule, on its inner, and upper and inner side. The obturator artery, however, may be given oflE from the epigastric or external iliac artery, and encircle this part of the ring in its course to the obturator foramen (Pig. 270). It is then in great danger of being wounded in dividing the stricture. Fortunately, however, al- though the artery often rises in this abnormal manner, it does not then, as a rule, take the above-mentioned danger- ous course, but passes along the outer side of the ring where it is out of danger. The coverings of a femoral hernia are—(Fig. 271) 1, skin; 2, superficial fascia; 3, cribriform fascia; 4, anterior layer of the femoral sheath, called the fascia propria; 5, septum crurale; 6, subperitoneal fat; and 7, peri- toneum forming the sac. The fascia propria is often very thin, or in places absorbed, so that little more than skin and one or two delicate layers of fascia ^ cover the sac. But it may be greatly thickened, especially over the neck of the sac, where it may form distinct fibrous bands, which go by the name of the deep crural arch. Femoral hernia is never congenital; and seldom occurs before adult life. It is more common in women than in men. The stricture when the hernia is strangulated is Fig. 270.—The obturator ar- tery given off abnormally from the epigastric, and running round the npper and inner side of a femoral hernia. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.)FEMORAL HERNIA. 703 at the saphenous opening, at Gimbernat's ligament, or more rarely at the deep crural arch. Signs (Fig. 272).—A femoral hernia usually appears as a tense globular swelling at the upper and inner part of the thigh, just below Poupart's ligament internal to the Fia. 271.—Femoral hernia. The coverings dissected off to show the sac. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) Fig. 272.—Femoral hernia, with line of incision. femoral vessels, and external to the spine of the pubes. It is usually small, but may sometimes be as large as an orange, or even larger. It then extends upwards and outwards over Poupart's ligament towards the iliac spine, and appears as an elongated soft and yielding swelling with its long axis parallel to the ligament. Its neck, however, can always be traced below the ligament towards the femoral ring. The characteristic signs of hernia are, of course, present.DISEASES OF REGIONS. 704 The diagnosis has chiefly to be made from enlarged glands, varix of the saphenous vein, inguinal hernia, and psoas abscess. 1. In enlarged glands there is no impulse on cough; they can be raised from the deeper tissues, and there will probably be some evident cause, as a sore on the heel, &c., to account for them. A small piece of irreducible omentum, however, may almost exactly re- semble an enlarged gland in the femoral canal; and it may be impossible to make a diagnosis without exploring the ring, an operation which should always be under- taken if symptoms of strangulation of the intestine are present. At times, there may be an enlarged gland over a hernia. 2. In varix of the saphenous vein the vein is generally also varicose lower down the limb, and the impulse on coughing has a peculiar, thrill-like character, and extends also some distance down the vein. When the swelling is reduced by placing the patient on her back, and the ring is closed by the finger, the vein refills when she rises, whereas the hernia remains reduced as long as the finger is kept in position. 3. In inguinal hernia the neck of the sac is above Poupart's ligament, and inside or over the spine of the pubes; in femoral hernia the neck is below Poupart's ligament and outside the spine of the pubes. In inguinal, the hernia goes back in a direction upwards, outwards and backwards ; in femoral, downwards, backwards and upwards. In inguinal, the hernia occupies the inguinal canal, and may descend into the scrotum or labium; in femoral, the inguinal canal is felt free on passing the finger into it. 4. In psoas abscess the swelling is generally at first ex- ternal to the femoral vessels. There is usually fulness in the iliac fossa, and fluctuation can be detected above and below Poupart's ligament. Some cause for the abscess, such as caries of the spine, is generally evident. Treatmeiit.—All that need be mentioned in addition to what has already been said of the treatment of hernia in general is—1. That the femoral truss (Fig. 259) should have the pad more vertically placed, and the button for the strap should be on the end of the spring and not on the back of the pad, as if placed in the latter situation it causes the pad to rise up and so allows the hernia to escape beneath it. 2. That there is less chance of a radical cure than in inguinal hernia, as the ring on account of its unyielding nature cannot be drawn together by suture. 3. That in applying the taxis the leg should be flexed.UMBILICAL HERmA. 705 sliglitly adducted, and rotated inwards, to relax the falci- form process of the fascia lata. 4. That on account of the unyielding nature of the parts there is but little prospect of reducing the hernia under chloroform or by a hot bath. 5. That should the hernia become strangulated, ulceration is rapidly produced, owing to the pressure of the wiry edge of Grimbernat's ligament. Therefore, if the hernia is not returnable by moderate taxis, an opera- tion should immediately be performed. 6. That the incision (Fig. 272) should be made in a vertical direction over the inner side of the neck of the hernia, the skin being nipped up and transfixed to avoid injuring the sac, as the coverings are often very thin. 7. That the stricture should be divided in an upward and inward direction through the junction of Grimbernat's with Hey's ligament. If made directly inwards the resulting aperture is so large that it is difficult subsequently to keep up the hernia with a truss; while if made directly upwards, the sper- matic cord and epigastric artery, and if outwards, the femoral vein are endangered. 8. Several small notches are preferable to a single and larger incision, as there is less danger of wounding an abnormal artery should one be present. 9. Should such an abnormal artery be wounded it must be tied if possible, enlarging the incision if necessary, otherwise an attempt may be made to twist it or a pressure forceps may be left on. Umbilical hernia (exomphalos, or omphalocele) is one that escapes at the umbilicus. The sac, according to Mr. Birkett, is always an acquired one, and consists of the parietal layer of peritoneum, and never of a natural process of peritoneum like that of the funicular process in the inguinal region. In infancy the hernia passes through the yet unclosed umbilical ring; in adults, through an aperture in the fibres of the linea alba near the umbilicus. It is most often met with in infants; is rare in young adults; and is more common, again, in the old, especially in stout females. The sac is usually very thin, and frequently cribriform or altogether deficient in places; whilst the contents usually consist of omentum and of a small knuckle of intestine which mostly lies concealed in omentum at the neck of the sac. The coverings are— 1, the skin ; 2, the superficial and deep fascia with a thin layer of fat between them; 3, the fascia transversalis; and 4, the peritoneum, which constitutes the sac. They frequently, however, become so thinned, adherent to one w. z zDISEASES OE REGIO^^S. 706 anotlier, or partially absorbed, tbat the contei)ts of the hernia are merely covered with skin and a thin layer of fascia (Fig. 273). Symptoms.—In infancy, the hernia, which is known by nurses as "starting of the navel," consists of a protru- sion at the umbilicus, readily returning when gentle pres- sure is applied, and when once seen can hardly be mistaken for any other affection. It generally undergoes a spon- taneous cure. In adults it forms a globular, lobulated, or sometimes pyriform swelling, on the lower part of which the cicatrix of the navel is seen. It often attains a large size, nearly always ex- tending as it enlarges down- wards towards the pubes, and is frequently in part or completely irreducible. It is very liable to become ob- structed and less often stran- gulated. Treatment,—In infants the hernia generally undergoes a spontaneous cure, bat a pad, consisting of a piece of cork between two layers of lint, may be applied over it, and fixed with strapping or an india-rubber bandage. In adults, an umbilical truss or bandage is necessary, or when the hernia is irreduci- ble, a hollow supporting truss. When the hernia is incarcerated, the patient must be placed at rest and an enema administered. When strangulated, an operation must be performed. The incision should then be made vertically over the swelling in the middle line, and the stricture divided in an upward direction. If the hernia cannot then be reduced, the sac must be opened, in doing which great care is necessary, as the coverings are often very thin. If the omentum presents first, as is usually the case, search must be made for the intestine, and the latter returned; the omentum must then be unravelled, transfixed with a double ligature, tied, cut off, and the stump also returned. The sac should then be cut off with the redundant skin and Fig. 27-3.—Umbihcal hernia, showing the attenuated condition of its covering. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.)707 OBTURATOR HERNIA. the wound sewn up with deep sutures with two peritoneal surfaces in contact. Eadical cure is occasionally called for when a truss fails to keep up the hernia and strangu- lation or obstruction is frequently occurring. An obturator hernia is one that escapes through the obturator canal, i.e., the aperture left in the obturator membrane for the passage of the obturator nerve and yessels. The neck of the sac is bounded by the horizontal ramus of the pubes above, and by the sharp edge of the obturator membrane elsewhere; whilst the fundus either protrudes the obturator externus in front of it, or passes above that muscle or between its fibres and comes into contact with the pectineus, giving rise to a slight fulness in the upper part of the thigh just below Poupart's liga- ment, immediately behind and internal to the femoral vessels. The coverings, therefore, are 1, skin; 2, super- ficial fascia ; 3, fascia lata; 4, pectineus; 5, fascia over the obturator externus; 6, obturator externus (some- times); 7, pelvic fascia; 8, subperitoneal fat; and, 9, peritoneum, forming the sac, which is always an acquired one. The relation of the obturator artery and nerve to the sac is variable. The hernia is always small, and generally consists of the lower portion of the ileum, often of only a portion of the calibre of the gut. Obturator hernia is rare; it is most often met with after the age of fifty, and then generally in women. It has not always been diagnosed during life, and is often accompanied by other hernise. Symptoms.—The chief of these, in addition to those of strangulation which has generally been present, are a slight fulness below and internal to the femoral vessels, perhaps not perceptible unless the two sides are compared; pain down the inner side of the thigh from pressure on the obturator nerve; pain on pressmg over the obturator foramen, and perhaps some increased resistance or swell- ing in this region; pain on rotating the thigh outwards from the obturator muscles, which are then put on the stretch, pressing on the hernia ; and pain and swelling in the region of the obturator membrane on examination by the rectum or vagina. From femoral hernia it may be known by the neck being below instead of above the ramus of the pubes ; and by the femoral ring: being free. Treatment.—The hernia has occasionally been reduced by the taxis, aided in one instance by the hand in the vagina. But this method is dangerous inasmuch as the z z 2708 DISEASES OE EEGIONS. gut may be injured or may be in a state unfit to return into the abdomen. It is better therefore to make an incision similar to that for femoral hernia, but slightly longer, and having divided the various coverings and opened the sac, to incise the stricture in a direction down- wards and inwards, avoiding if possible the obturator artery and nerve. Where the diagnosis is doubtful the ring should be explored either in the way described above or through an incision in the middle line of the abdomen, the hernia, if one is found, being in the latter case drawn out from the ring from within the abdomen, after cautiously dividing the stricture. Diaphragmatic, or phrenic hernia, is one that pro- trudes through the diaphragm into the thoracic cavity. It is very rare. The aperture may be due to a con- genital defect, to the enlargement of one of the natural openings, or to a wound or laceration of the diaphragm. The hernia usually occurs on the left side, the liver tending to prevent any protrusion on the right. There is no peritoneal sac, the viscus, which is usually the stomach or transverse colon, escaping into the pleural cavity. In the Museum of St. Bartholomew's there is a unique speci- men of a hernia of the omentum into the pericardium, the result of a wound. Symptoms.—In some cases there have been no symp- toms ; in other cases unnatural fulness and abnormal resonance of the left side of the chest with gurg:ling on auscultation, excessive thirst, and signs of internal strangulation have been observed. "When the result of a wound, pleurisy or peritonitis, or both, have generally soon supervened and carried off the patient. No treatment, as far as I know, had been attempted until Postempski quite recently reduced the hernia by incision and sewed up the rupture in the diaphragm. This case was successful. The RARER forms of hernia, viz., the iscJiiatic, which leaves the pelvis through the greater ischiatic notch either above or below the pyriformis ; the lumhar, which escapes between the quadratus lumborum and external oblique; the j9eW?2ea?, which presents between the vagina and the rectum; the pudendal, which escapes between the vagina and the ascending ramus of the ischium; the rectal and vaginal, which protrude respectively into these cavi- ties ; and the ventral, which escapes through the linea alba, are, on account of space, only mentioned to be dismissed.709 CONGENITAL MALFORMATIONS. DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. Congenital malformations.—Imperforate anus is the only malformation that needs consideration here. Cause, —The intestinal canal in early foetal life ends at some little distance from the surface of the skin in a blind pouch or cloaca, which is common to it and the genito- urinary organs. In the course of development the cutane- ous tissues (epiblast) become invaginated towards the cloaca at the spot which is to be the future anus. The intervening tissues are then gradually absorbed, and a communication is thus established between the cloaca and the surface of the body, the intestinal portion of the cloaca at the same time becoming differentiated from the genito-urinary. An arrest in the above process of de- velopment is the cause of imperforate anus. Thus :— 1. Should no invagination of the skin occur, the anus will be entirely absent. In such a case the intestine may terminate in a blind pouch at a variable distance from the surface, a thin membrane or a considerable thickness of tissue intervening between the skin-surface and the in- terior of the gut. At times the intestine may stop short of the pelvis, the rectum being then of course wholly absent. 2. Should invagination occur, but the inter- vening tissues not be absorbed, an anus, to all external appearances natural, will be present but will be found to terminate in a cul-de-sac a short distance from the sur- face. Here again either a thin membrane, or a consider- able thickness of tissue, may intervene between the top of the cul-de-sac and the interior of the gut. 3. Should the process by which the intestinal canal is normally cut off from the genito-urinary portion of the cloaca, also fail, the intestine, instead of ending in a blind pouch, may communicate with the bladder, prostatic urethra, or vagina. In rare cases the intestine may open in some other abnormal situation, as the perineum or groin. Treatment.—Where only a thin membrane intervenes its division is all that is necessary; but where there is no appearance of an anus, or evidently a considerable thick- ness of tissues between the gut and the surface, a vertical incision should be made in the middle line at the spot where the anus should be normally situated. If the dis- tended bowel is now seen or felt to bulge in the wound it should be exposed with a few touches of the knife, andDISEASES or REGIOJCS. 710 then cautiously opened by an incision made in the same direction as the wound. Should it not be thus discovered, the dissection must be carried on cautiously in an upward and backward direction for an inch to an inch and a half, of course keeping to the middle line and well towards the sacrum lest the peritoneum be wounded. If the bowel is detected it should be opened; no attempt, however, should be made to bring it down, but a bougie passed daily to prevent the wound re-contracting. If not found in this way the colon may be opened in the left loin {lumbar colotomy) or in the left groin {inguinal colotomy). Opinions differ as to which of these operations is prefer- able. There are advantages and disadvantages attending each which cannot be here discussed. On the whole the operation in the groin in my opinion is the best. Mayo Eobson, however, has recently proposed to continue the dissection in the perineum, open the peritoneum, seek the end of the gut, pull it down, and fix it to the skin. Pruritus ani, or itching about the anus, though often dependent upon constipation, ascarides, pediculi, eczema marginatum, condylomata, piles, or other diseases of the rectum, sometimes occurs without any very evident cause, and has then been attributed to disordered digestion and gouty habit. Symptoms.—The itching is often intolerable and is usually worse soon after the patient gets warm in bed. There may be some slight cracks, a little eczema from the scratching, or a moist and reddened condition of the skin, but occasionally there is nothing to be seen. Treatment.—The cause if possible should be removed. Where none is very evident the general health must be attended to, the parts kept scrupulously clean, and an ointment or lotion of perchloride of mercury, boracic acid, nitrate of silver, cocaine, &c., applied. I have found lactate of lead, made by pouring lead lotion into milk, to have a very beneficial effect. Fissure of the rectum is a small painful crack or ulcer usually situated just within the anus, and seldom involving more than the skin or mucous membrane. Causes.—Almost always constipation; sometimes neglect of local cleanliness, or other source of irritation. The passage of an unusually hard motion is often the im- mediate exciting cause. When the ulcer is once thoroughly established, healing is prevented by the action of the sphincter and the irritation of its surface during the passage of a motion. Symptoms.—The chief of these isPROLAPSUS RECTI. 711 pain, the result of spasm of the sphincter. It is often very severe, and occurs during and after defeecation. It may last for a few minutes or longer, even to several hours, and then ceases till the next motion. The pain may not only be felt in the anus, but may be reflected down the thighs or to other parts, as the uterus, vagina, or testicle. The motions are often slightly streaked with blood, some- times with pus. On examination the sphincters are found spasmodically contracted. On gently everting the margins of the anus the end of the ulcer will be discovered usually at the posterior part, a small external pile or an oedematous fold of skin which is generally present then serving as a guide to it. The passage of the finger is at- tended with great pain. Treatment,—In slight cases the use of laxatives and the application of astringent lotions or ointments may be sufficient. If these fail the sphincter must be forcibly dilated, or the ulcer divided together with half or more of the external sphincter by drawing a straight bistoury longitudinally through the base of the ulcer. The bowels should then be kept confined for four or five days, and the motions afterwards kept soft for a fortnight or longer. Or the sphincter may be divided subcutaneously by passing a tenotomy knife beneath it through the mucous membrane and cutting outwards towards the skin. This little operation may be done with- out pain by painting the mucous membrane at the seat of puncture with cocaine, and does not necessitate the patient's lying up for more than two or three days. Prolapsus recti is the protrusion of the mucous membrane of the lower part of the rectum, and more rarely of the muscular coat as well, through the anus. It is most common in children, but may occur at any age. The causes are either a relaxed state of the sphincter in- duced by general weakness, residence in hot climates, &c., or excessive straining due to stricture of the urethra, phimosis, stone, ascarides, constipation, piles, or polypus. Signs and diagnosis,—It commonly appears as an irregular ring of mucous membrane, or when much is protruded, as a cylindrical elongated swelling. When recent, it has the colour of healthy mucous membrane, but if not soon reduced it may become livid and congested, in consequence of constriction of the blood-vessels by the sphincter. The strangulation may proceed to such an extent that the prolapsed portion may undergo mortification and slough away. In old-standing cases it becomes indurated and712 DISEASES OF REGIONS. leathery from exposure. It may be diagnosed from polypus by the presence of a central aperture, and from intussusception by the mucous membrane being con- tinuous with that of the sphincter. In intussusception a sulcus exists between the protruded part of the bowel and the sphincter. Treatment.—Should the bowel be protruded or strangu- lated, an attempt should be made to reduce it. If it has only been prolapsed a short time, this is easily accom- plished by gentle pressure, the parts having been well smeared with vaseline and the buttocks raised. When of longer standing, firm pressure must be exercised on it for ten minutes or so, or the finger may be introduced into the orifice and the bowel pressed back. If reduction fails and the part is much inflamed, an ice-bag may be applied, and another attempt subsequently made, when, if still unsuccessful, nothing remains but to allow the protruded part to slough off or to excise it. If the muscular coat protrudes, no operation should be done lest the peritoneum be wounded. Having reduced the bowel, the cause of the prolapse should, if possible, be removed, and to prevent a recurrence the nates may be strapped together, or a pad and T-bandage worn, and the motions passed at bed-time instead of in the morning, the patient lying on his side or back during defsecation. Astringent lotions or ointments of sulphate of iron, galls, or tannin should be applied, or the mucous membrane painted with nitrate of silver, whilst any pendulous folds of skin may be snipped off, so as to cause some amount of contraction of the anus. In the meanwhile, the motions should be rendered soft with gentle laxatives. Should these means, after being well persevered in, fail, a more serious operation may become necessary. Thus, portions of the mucous membrane may be removed by ligature; or the , galvano-cautery may be applied in two or three situations, so as to produce lines of burns in the long axis of the bowel, and thus cause the mucous membrane to adhere to the muscular coat by inflammation. HEMORRHOIDS OR PILES, are swellings inside or around the margin of the anus, the result of a dilated or vari- cose state of the blood-vessels. Causes,—The peculiar anatomical arrangement of the hsemorrhoidal veins; the absence of valves in them and in the veins through which they communicate with the portal vein, whereby they have to sustain the whole713 HEMORRHOIDS OR PILES. weight of the column of portal blood ; and their situation between the muscular and mucous coats of the rectum, so that they receive but little support during defsecation, render them exceedingly liable to become dilated or varicose. Anything, therefore, that tends to congest the portal system, and hence obstruct the return of venous blood from the haemorrhoidal veins, such as high living, habitual constipation, cirrhosis of the liver, heart-disease, &c., may be looked upon as a predisposing cause; whilst anything determining local congestion of the part, such as straining at stool or to pass water in cases of enlarged prostate or stricture of the urethra; the pressure of the gravid uterus, distended colon, or ovarian or other pelvic tumour; stricture of the rectum; and the abuse of aloetic purgatives, may be regarded as an exciting cause. Pathology.—Hsemorrhoids consist at first of little more than dilated veins, but after they have existed some time the blood in their interior may clot, the vein-walls hypertrophy, and the connective tissue of the dilated vein become infiltrated and thickened. If a pile is now cut into, it presents a spongy vascular structure, and there is often a small artery in its centre. Piles may be situated external to the sphincter, and are then covered with skin {external or hlind piles); or within the sphincter, when they are covered with mucous membrane (internal or Heeding piles). In many instances, however, they may be covered in part with skin, and in part with mucous membrane {mixed piles). An oedematous and swollen condition of the muco-cutaneous folds and hypertrophied flaps of skin about the margin of the anus, although not produced by dilatation of the veins, is also generally spoken of as piles. External piles occur as soft, globular, pinkish-blue swellings, or as moderately firm fleshy tumours, or as little more than loose hypertrophied folds of skin. Internal piles also present various forms. They may con- sist of small hsemorrhoidal veins, dilated and varicose, giving the mucous membrane a dark purplish colour, and rendering it liable to become prolapsed during def eecation ; or they may form either slightly raised, flattish and oblong elevations, or distinctly globular pedunculated swellings (Fig. 274). They may appear very vascular from the congestion of the mucous membrane covering them, and then constitute the bleeding pile; or they may be firm and fleshy and of a reddish brown colour from the thickening of the mucous membrane, and then do notDISEASES OE REGIONS. 714 readily bleed. The hsemorrliage is usually arterial, and comes from ttie small arteries in the mucous membrane. Piles, whether external or internal, are at times liable to become inflamed and slough. Bym^ptoms.—External piles, beyond causing some amount of itching and unpleasant sensation about the rectum, may give rise to no symptoms unless irritated or inflamed. They are then often a source of much distress. The pile becomes swollen and painful, the pain being reflected to the surrounding parts and increased on sitting, standing, and walking. The acute symptoms usually subside in a few days, but often leave the parts thickened and irritable, and are liable to recur from time to time. Internal piles Fig. •274.—Internal piles. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) are productive of more trouble, the chief symptoms to which they give rise being hoemorrhage, and irritation and pain consequent on their protrusion and constriction by the sphincter, or as the result of their becoming inflamed; whilst the haemorrhage, when severe, may be productive of anaemia and all its attendant constitutional symptoms. The amount of haemorrhage may vary from a few drops—a mere streaking of the motions with blood—to several ounces. When first noticed, the protrusion of the piles occurs only during def aecation ; and although they may at first go back spontaneously, they often require replacement by the finger, as otherwise they are apt to become strangu- lated by the sphincter and irritated or inflamed from the chafing of the clothes. Later the sphincter becomes dilated, and they may protrude at times other than during defsecation, and in long-standing cases the mucous mem- brane becomes permanently prolapsed, and the pile remains constantly protruded. External piles then generally form in addition to the internal, whilst the715 HiEMORRHOIBS OR PILES. mucus exuded from the parts is a constant source of annoyance. The constitutional symptoms to which the loss of blood and the pain and irritation may give rise are pallor, palpitation, breathlessness, fainting and headache. Erom the reflex character of the pain the patient may refer the symptoms to other organs, as the testicle, bladder, kidneys, or uterus. Diagnosis.—External piles may be readily diagnosed from condylomata, polypi, and carcinoma by the characters already given. Internal piles may be suspected from the above-mentioned symptoms, and if not protruded they may generally be brought into view by asking the patient to bear down as if to defaecate, whilst the Surgeon makes gentle traction on the margin of the anus. If this does not succeed and the bowel is loaded an enema should first be given. Examination with the finger, un- less the Surgeon has had some experience, fails to detect the pile, as when neither irritated, inflamed, nor protruded, it is soft and flaccid, like the rest of the mucous membrane. The treatment of piles may be divided into the palliative and the radical. The 'palliative treatment consists in employing such means as are calculated to relieve the congestion of the haemorrhoidal veins. Thus constipation must be com- bated by the use of such laxatives as the confection of senna, compound liquorice powder, the liquid extract or cordial of cascara sagrada, or Pullna or Eriedrichshall water; whilst strong purgatives, especially aloes, high living and alcoholic stimulants, should be avoided and the secretions of the liver promoted by exercise. Where there is haemorrhage, the tincture of hamamelis or of steel will be found very useful. Locally, the parts should be kept scrupulously clean, and astringed by such applica- tions as the liquid extract of hamamelis, the compound ointment of galls, or lotions of sulphate of iron, acetate of lead, or tannic acid, passed through the sphincter; or by injections of ice cold water, to which tincture of hama- melis may be added. When the piles are inflamed, the patient should rest in bed with the buttocks raised, an ice-bag or hot poultice should be applied, and a morphia suppository introduced into the rectum. Where coagula- tion has taken place free incision into the pile and turning out the clots will give relief. The radical treatment consists in removing the piles, but should only be resorted to when palliative measures116 DISEASES OE REGIOjS'S. after a fair trial have failed, or when the piles are more or less constantly down. It need hardly be said that no operation should be performed when they are merely symptomatic of some more serious disease as stricture or cancer of the rectum, enlargement of the prostate, or disease of the uterus, bladder, or liver, or are the result of pregnancy. The method of removing the piles differs according as they are external or internal. External piles may be simply snipped off with the scissors, care being taken, however, not to remove too much of the integument lest troublesome contraction of the anal orifice should ensue. Internal piles may be treated by ligature, the clamp and cautery, crushing, injections with carbolic acid, excision, or the application of nitric acid. Whatever method is employed a purgative should be given the day before, and the rectum cleared on the morning of the operation by an enema; and after the patient is under the influence of the anaesthetic, the anus should be forcibly dilated to bring the parts well into view, and to paralyse the sphincter. If the ligature is employed, the most prominent pile should be seized with the pile-forceps or pile-hook, and the mucous membrane incised with the pile-scissors at its junction with the skin, so as to detach the pile and mucous membrane from the anal margin. A carbolized silk ligature should then be placed in the groove thus formed and tied tightly around the undetached base of the pile, taking care to include as much of the mucous mem- brane above the pile as possible. The greater part of the pile having been excised, the ends of the ligature are cut off and the stump of the pile returned after the others have been treated in a similar way. The parts should be thoroughly dusted with iodoform, a morphia suppository passed through the anus, and a large pad of iodoform wool applied and secured in situ by a T-bandage. The bowels should be kept confined for four or five days by small doses of opium combined with tincture of catechu, and then opened by an enema of olive oil. Should retention of urine occur, as is very common after operations on the rectum, it should be relieved by passing a soft catheter. The ligatures generally come away about the ninth to the eleventh day. Clamp and cautery.—A pile having been seized with the forceps, the clamp is applied to its base, the pile shaved oft*, and the raw surface cauterized.ISCHIO-RECTAL ABSCESS. 717 If crushing is employed, the pile is drawn into the crusher, which is then screwed tightly home, the pile cut off, an,d the crusher removed after a minute or two. Excision has of late been extensively employed by some surgeons. It consists in dissecting away the piles, tying any arteries that bleed, and bringing down the mucous membrane and securing it by suture to the anal margin. Injections of carbolic acid.—The strength usually em- ployed is half a drachm of the acid, to a drachm each of glycerine and water, four or five minims being thrown into the centre of the pile by a hypodermic syringe. The process has to be repeated several times, and takes some weeks to effect a cure. Nitric acid is a useful and efficient application for the sessile vascular pile, and should be applied with a glass rod through a speculum and any excess of acid removed by a weak alkaline lotion. An iscHio-RECTAL ABSCESS (Fig. 275), is one that forms in the loose cellular tissue in the ischio-rectal fossa, and should be distinguished on the one hand from the small abscesses which may occur round the margin of the anus in the cutaneous folds (perianal); and on the other hand from the abscesses which may form between the mucous and muscular coats of the rectum or around the gut in the pelvic cellular tissue. The cause of ischio-rectal abscess is inflammation around the rectum (periproctitis). The inflammation may be due to perforation of the mucous membrane by a fish bone or other foreign body, followed by ulceration and the escape of f seces into the ischio-rectal fossa ; or it may be due to injury from without, as a kick or blow. In tubercular subj ects abscess is common from very slight causes, and is probably then the result of the breaking down of a local deposit of tubercle. The symptoms vary according as the abscess is acute or chronic. The acute begins with pain, which soon becomes throb- bing, and is followed by swelling and redness on one side of the anus, and later by fluctuation. In the chronic the symptoms may be so slight as to escape notice till the ab- scess bursts into the bowel and the pus escapes by the anus. Treatment.—An early incision should be made in order to prevent, if possible, the abscess breaking into the bowel and a fistula resulting. The incision should be free and of a T-shape, to secure a free vent for the discharge and promote the healing of the abscess from the bottom, lest the abscess-cavity, as is very frequently the case, from718 DISEASES OF REGIONS. the constant action of the sphincter, degenerate into a fistula (Figs. 276, 277, and 278). TiSTULA m ANO is a fistulous track by the side of the rectum.. Three forms are described:—1. The complete (Fig. 276), in which the fistula opens internally into the rectum, and externally on to the skin; 2. The hUnd external (Fig. 278), in which it only opens on to the skin ; and 3. The blind internal (Fig. 277), in which it only opens into the bowel. The complete (Fig. 276) is by far the most common form. It generally extends obliquely upwards on one side of the rectum and opens into the bowel within an inch above the anus, or it may take a curved course around the bowel and then open into it (the horsesJioe Fig. 275. — Fig. 276. — Fig. 277. — Fig. 278. — Ischio-rectal Complete Blind inter- Blind exter- abscess. listula. nal fistula. nal fistula. fistula). Frequently it extends up beyond the internal opening by the side of the rectum in the form of a cid-de- sac ; or it may, though very rarely, open into the bowel several inches above the anus. In rare instances there may be two internal openings. Secondary fistulae branch- ing ofit from the main fistula are often found burrowing beneath the skin of the perineum and buttock, and some- times opening at a considerable distance from the anus. The external opening, however, is usually about half an inch from the anus ; but it may be a greater distance from it; or close to it, and then, perhaps, hidden by the loose folds of skin. It may be little more than a minute hole exuding a slight moisture; or it may be encircled by a ring of granulations, and the skin in its neighbour- hood may be red and brawny. The fistulous track itself will generally be found lined with a smooth shining membrane, and its walls indurated when it has existed some time. Causes.—A fistula is generally the result either of the bursting of an ischio-rectal abscess into the bowel, or onVISTULA m A-NO. 719 to the skin, or in both directions; or of ulceration or perforation of the mucous membrane and the extension of the ulcerative track downwards towards the skin, which it may or may not penetrate. It is often seen in phthisical subjects, and occurs as a complication of can- cerous and other strictures of the rectum. The two chief reasons why the fistula does not close are the constant movements of the sphincter and the escape of f secal matter into it. Symptoms,—Uneasiness, pain or tenderness of the parts, especially on defsecation and movement; more or less constant discharge of pus or purulent fluid from the external opening; escape of faeces where the fistula is complete, or a discharge of pus from the bowel if the fistula is of the blind internal variety; mental worry, anxiety and depression; at times exacerbation of the inflammation with pain and increased discharge; and probably the history of a previous abscess having formed in the ischio-rectal fossa. Diagnosis.—In the complete variety (Fig. 276) the dia- gnosis is readily made by passing a probe up the fistula into the bowel, and by feeling the internal opening (which has sometimes the form of a small depression in the centre of a slight papilla-like eminence) with the finger in the rectum. In the hlincl internal (Fig. 277) a sof^ spot in the centre of an indurated portion of the tissues by the side of the anus will be felt, and probably an indurated track will be detected leading from this towards the bowel. The internal opening, which has the characters given above, will be discovered just within the anus on passing the finger into the rectum. Into this opening a bent probe may be passed, and its end made to project under the soft spot on the skin- surface. In the blind external (Fig. 278) the probe cannot be made to enter the bowel on being passed up the fistula, and no internal opening can be felt in the rectum by the finger. In all cases the rectum should be carefully ex- amined to exclude stricture or cancerous disease. From urinary fistulse tracking down towards the anus a fistula in ano is readily distinguished by the characters given above, and by the absence of urethral and bladder trouble, and by no urine escaping through the fistula. Treatment.—Although in exceptional instances fistulae have closed spontaneously, an operation, as a rule, is required. Before operating for fistula the chest ought720 DISEASES OE REGIONS. always to be examined, since should tubercle in tbe lungs be discovered no operation should be done, unless the tubercle is in quite an early stage. The urine should also be tested for albumen, and the absence of stricture or cancer of the rectum determined. Operation,—A director should be passed through the fistula into the bowel, and its point hooked down and brought out at the anus by the index finger, which has been passed up the rectum. The bridge of tissue, which sometimes includes the external sphincter, is then divided by running a curved bistoury along the director. The upward prolongation of the fistula beyond the internal opening (Fig. 276) should next be laid completely open into the cavity of the bowel. A careful search should now be made with a probe for all secondary fistulse or lateral sinuses and these laid freely open. The lining membrane of the fistula should next be destroyed by scoring it with a bistoury, or scraping it with a Yolk- mann's spoon, as otherwise the fistula is apt to re-form. The wound should finally be filled with iodoform wool, and a pad and T-bandage applied. The bowels should be kept confined for about four or five days with small doses of opium, and then relieved by castor-oil or an enema. The wound should be dressed daily with iodoform wool lightly pressed into it to ensure its healing from the bottom. When the opening is very high up, a stout ligature may be passed and made to cut its way out, the fistula healing behind it. But as this takes a long time, it is better to reduce the fistula in this way to reasonable limits and then divide it. The Mind external and the hlind internal should as a rule be converted into complete fistulse by forcing in the former case a director up the fistula into the bowel, and in the latter by cutting through the skin on the point of a bent probe hooked into the internal opening and made to project under the skin. Both are then treated as a complete fistula. In some cases of blind external fistulse a free T-shaped incision will suffice without cutting through the sphincter or entering the rectum. Polypi generally occur as pedunculated growths springing from the submucous tissue, usually of the lower part of the rectum. They vary in size from a pea to a cherry, and in colour from white or pale pink to a deep red. The two chief forms are (1) the soft or vascular which shew microscopically an adenomatous structure with at times some amount of myxomatous721 STRICTUBE OF THE RECTUM. degeneration; and are most common in cliildren; and (2) the hard or fibrous which, are more rare and generally occur in adults. Symptoms.—Polypi are the commonest cause of bleeding from the rectam in children, the blood escaping not only during but also after defsecation. When low down they cause straining, perhaps a mucous discharge, and pain after defsecation from being caught in the sphincter. When large they may produce prolapse or intussuscep- tion. Small polypi beyond the reach of the sphincter may cause no symptoms. They are usually detected by sweeping the finger well round the rectum, the examina- tion being best made after the bowels have been emptied and the polypus brought down by an enema. The treatment consists in ligature of the pedicle, fol- lowed by excision of the growth. They do not recur. YiLLOiJS TUMOURS of the rectum are rare and are most frequently met with in patients over forty years of age. They have a papillomatous structure, and spring from the mucous membrane. Erequent haemorrhages and the passage of a glairy mucous discharge are the chief signs. Eemoval is the treatment. They are apt to recur and then to become malignant. Stricture of the rectum may be divided into the simple and the malignant. 1. The simple or fibrous stricture may be caused by the fibroid contraction of inflammatory products in the mucous and submucous coats, or of cicatrices following simple, syphilitic, or dysenteric ulceration, by injury, or operation on the bowel, or it may be the result of pelvic inflammations {peri- or pari-metritis). Pathology.—The stricture is generally situated from one to two inches from the anus, but may occur at any part. It may involve only a narrow ring-like portion, when it is called annular; or it may include an inch or more of the gut, when it is sometimes spoken of as tubular. The strictured portion of the bowel consists in great part of fibrous tissue. The syphilitic variety is often combined with condylomata or ulceration about the anus, and the mucous membrane between the anus and the stricture is frequently ulcerated. The bowel above is generally dis- tended with fseces, the muscular coat hypertrophied, and the mucous membrane ulcerated; whilst, in the neigh- bourhood of the stricture, the coats are often so thin that the least force causes them to give way. Fistulse often w. 3 aDISEASES OE REGIOl^S. form below the stricture, and lisemorrlioids are a frequent concomitant. Symptoms and diagnosis.—Pain and difficulty in passing a motion, constipation and later, constipation alter- nating with diarrhoea. The motions become small, pipe- or ribbon-like, and streaked with discharge. There is a frequent desire to defsecate, but little passes except wind and discharge, and the bowels feel as if they had not been emptied. In tight strictures or in strictures with ulcera- tion fistulse may sometimes form about the anus, and the patient gets worn out and after many years perhaps of suffering may die of an attack of peritonitis or obstruc- tion. The stricture is readily detected on passing the finger, but is often so tight that only the tip can be got into it. When this is the case on no account should the finger be passed through it, as the slight force of passing the finger may rupture the attenuated walls and perito- nitis and death may follow. Treatment.—As a rule, gradual dilatation by means of bougies, of which the soft flexible ones of Mr. Goodsall are perhaps the best, should be first attempted, and will generally be successful; but the stricture must be kept dilated by the subsequent occasional passage of a bougie. In exceptional cases, where the strictiire is very resistant, a bougie may be tied in. Where the parts are much riddled by fistulse a division of the stricture may be necessary. This may be done by what is called internal or external linear proctotomy. In the former operation the knife, guarded by the finger, is introduced through the stricture, which is then divided in a posterior direc- tion ; in the latter, the stricture together with the external sphincter and other intervening soft parts are completely divided down to the coccyx. 2. Malignant or cancehotjs steicture.—Pathology > —Cancer, in all its forms may occur in the rectum, but the most common is a variety of carcinoma known as the columnar or adenoid. It occurs either as a fun- gating, more or less distinct tumour projecting into the lumen of the bowel, or as a laminar, nodular, or ring- like infiltration of its coats. In either case, it is at first covered by apparently unaltered mucous membrane, which, however, is sooner or later destroyed by ulcera- tion, leaving an ulcer with an uneven, proliferating, or excavated surface, everted edges and an indurated base. As the disease extends it involves the muscular coat, andMALIGNAOT OR CANCEROITS STRICTURIJ. 723; subsequently the sui^rounding structures and organs, gluing -them, as it ?^ere, to the rectum, and finally con- verting the whole into a cancerous mass. The lymphatic glands in the pelvis, and later the inguinal glands and others more removed, become affected, and the carcinoma may finally be disseminated, secondary growths being more especially met'with in the liver. The symptoms are often very insidious. At first there may be merely some uneasiness, hardly amounting to pain, about the anus; then more or less pain on defsecation is noticed; the faeces may be streaked with mucus or with blood ; and a slimy discharge may be present. Later the motions become small, fiattened,. pipe-like or scybalous. The patient strains at stool, and feels as if his bowel had not been emptied; then there is constipation alternating with diarrhoea, and an offensive sanious discharge. Emacia- tion and cachexia now come on, with more local pain, and the patient dies of exhaustion, peritonitis, or during an attack of acute obstruction. The diagnosis can only be arrived at by a local ex- amination. The anus generally appears healthy, though probably patulous, and a healthy strip of mucous mem- brane generally exists between the anus and the growth. When the growth can be felt, its indurated base, and when ulceration has occurred, the everted edges of the ulcer, and the sanious and foul discharge, render the diagnosis generally easy. When beyond the reach of the finger it may at times be brought down by asking the patient to strain. The fungating form may be mistaken for a villous growth; the annular, for a simple fibrous stricture. A villous growth maybe distinguished by its velvety and supple feel, by its not ulcerating and breaking down, by the absence of induration, by the discharge being thin and mucoid, the blood bright and small in quantity, and the rectum not fixed, and by the duration of the disease. A fibrous stricture may be known by its longer duration, by being less indurated than the cancerous form, by the bowel not being fixed, and when due to syphilis by the absence of a healthy strip of mucous membrane between the growth and the anus. Treatment.—If the disease is seen sufficiently early and before it has involved the surrounding parts, if it is not situated too high up the rectum, and if the general con- dition of the patient is otherwise favourable, excision of the growth with the lower end of the rectum should 3 A 2DISEASES OF REGIONS. 721 be nndertaken, as in this way the whole may be removed, and not without reasonable hope in some of the less malignant forms of the disease of its not returning. Some cases have been reported where it has not done so for upwards of four years. Where removal seems im- practicable, or otherwise unadvisable, such palliative measures should be adopted as may render the last few months or years of the patient's life as comfortable as possible. Thus the bowel should be kept gently relaxed, the diet regulated, and the pain relieved by morphia sup- positories. In this way the patient can often follow his occupation in comparative comfort and with little incon- venience. Should, however, there be much pain and irritation on the passage of faeces, or obstruction threaten or have already occurred, colotomy should be performed (p. 670). This operation should not, as is too frequently the case, be regarded merely as a last resource, to be undertaken when obstruction has come on, as then the danger of the operation is greatly increased. Nor should it be undertaken in every instance, since the incon- venience caused by the cancer is not always sufficient to justify the patient undergoing the risk. Excision of the rectum may be performed if the finger can be passed beyond the growth; if the growtli is moveable ; if the glands are not involved, and if the patient is otherwise fairly healthy. The patient having been placed in the lithotomy position and a staff intro- duced into the bladder, a curved bistoury should be passed along the finger up the rectum, and its point made to emerge near the coccyx, and the intervening tissues cut through in the middle line. By this incision a free exposure is obtained. Lateral incisions are next made on each side of the anus, meeting in front, and the bowel is rapidly cleared either with the finger or with the handle of the scalpel from the tissues of the ischio-rectal fossa. The lower part of the rectum is now dissected more carefully from the urethra and prostate, and when it has been sufficiently freed, the ecraseur is placed above the growth, and the rectum removed, care being taken that the cord when tightened is not pulled down below the spot where it is intended to sever the bowel. If preferred the scissors may be substituted for the ecraseur, the vessels being then tied as they are cut. When the growth does not involve the whole of the bowel, a strip of mucous membrane should, if possible, be left. The wound shouldSUKGICAL DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS. 725 be plugged for twenty-four hours with, iodoform gauze if there is much oozing, and the p^rts subsequently irrigated frequently. Diseases of the Urinary Organs. SURGICAL diseases OF THE KIDNEYS. Nephritis, or inflammation of the kidney, as met with in surgical practice, is commonly the result of long- standing disease of the bladder, urethra, or prostate, or of the impaction of a calculus in the ureter or pelvis of the kidney. Traumatic nephritis has already been alluded to under Injuries of the Abdomen. The inflammation when secondary to other diseases of the urinary organs may be produced in several ways. Thus, it may be due to—1. Tension in the tubules of the kidney, resulting from obstruction to the outflow of urine consequent upon long-standing stricture of the urethra or prostatic enlargement. Under these circumstances the inflammation falls chiefly on the cortical and medullary substance of the kidney {interstitial nephritis). 2. The presence of septic matter in the pelvis of the kidney due to (a) the spread of inflammation up the ureter from the bladder, or {h) decomposition of pent-up urine behind an impacted calculus in the ureter or pelvis of the kidney. In this case the inflammation is of a septic or suppurative character, and although it may chiefly affect either the lining membrane of the pelvis {pyelitis) or the substance of the organ [suppurative nephritis), it more generally in- volves both {pyelo-nephritis). At times, the pelvis and calices become distended with the pus, and the kidney is finally converted into a suppurating cyst [pyo-nephrosis). 3. Eeflex irritation of the kidney through the nervous system, as from the passage of a catheter in stricture or enlarged prostate, or the performance of some operation on the urinary organs, as lithotomy or lithotrity. Here the inflammation is usually transitory, unless the kidneys are already suffering from the effects of urinary obstruc- tion, when it may run on to suppuration. Simple interstitial nephritis usually begins in an in- sidious manner, the symptoms of the kidney mischief being obscured by the primary affection of the urinary organs from which the patient is probably suffering. It may be suspected, however, where there is continual lossDISEASES OE REGIONS. "726 of strength, increasing pallor, and gradual wasting. The urine is passed.in large quantities, and is of low specific gravity. Albumen at first is absent, or only present in small quantities, and although later it may be increased in amount, it is often difficult to estimate in consequence of the pus, mucus, or blood which may be present, owing to the diseased bladder or other urinary trouble. Should these troubles not be relieved, the symptoms of the kidney affection become more marked; there is loss of appetite, a furred tongue, nausea, perhaps vomiting, increase of temperature at nights, a hot skin, thirst, and emaciation. This condition may last for months, when the symptoms may gradually subside if the primary trouble can be. removed ; or it may terminate in exhaustion and death ; or in an acute attack of suppurative nephritis. The treatment consists essentially in removing the cause, where this is practicable, and carefully avoiding all sources of irritation that may re-act through the nervous system on the kidney. Thus, all instrumentation must be done in the gentlest possible manner, and decomposi- tion of the urine prevented by washing out the bladder with antiseptic solutions. The patient at the same time should be kept in bed, and restricted to a non-stimulatmg and chiefly fluid diet; whilst hot flannels and occasionally^ dry cups should be applied to the loins. Suppurative or septic nephritis.—Under this head is included suppuration of the pelvis and of the substance of the kidney, since both, as a rule, are simultaneously affected, and the symptoms are similar or identical. Pyonephrosis is considered separately. Suppurative nephritis generally occurs suddenly in the course of long- standing disease of the lower urinary organs, attended with septic decomposition of the urine in the bladder. It is probably almost always due to the septic micro- organisms reaching the kidneys from the bladder by the ureters. It is usually preceded by simple interstitial nephritis. The symptoms, which frequently first come on after some operative procedure on the urethra or bladder, are usually ushered in by a rigor followed by sweating and fever. The tongue becomes dry and red; the lips and teeth covered with sordes; the appetite is lost; nausea, vomiting, or diarrhoea sets in, and the patient usually sinks into a typhoid state and dies. There is no oedema, and the uriiie usu^^lly continues abundant and loaded727 HYDBONEPHROSIS, ■with pus to the end, though it may at times be diminished in quantity or even suppressed. It may or may not contain blood. Treatment as a rule is of little avail; but the same general plan should be followed as described under simple interstitial nephritis. Where the cause can be effectually removed recovery may at times take place. Circumscribed abscess may occur in the kidney substance or in the cellular tissue around [peri-nephritic abscess). It must be distinguished from pyonephrosis, in which the pelvis and calices are distended with pus. Cause.—It is: generally due to injury, jDysemia, or renal calculus. When it occurs in the peri-renal tissue, it may be consecutive to abscess or other disease of the kidney itself; or it may be due to causes independent of the kidney, as cold, disease of the spine, and other conditions leading to the formation of abscesses. The symptoms are those of deep suppuration, attended with certain peculi- arities on account of its situation, which however cannot be here discussed. The treatment consists in making a free incision into the abscess through the loin. Hydrojs'ephrosis is an over-distension of the pelvis of the kidney with altered urine. Cause.—Any condition in the bladder, ureter, or pelvis of the kidney, producing mechanical obstruction to the outflow of urine. These conditions may be divided into the congenital, such as twists of the ureter, smallness of its vesical orifice, &c., and into the acquired, such as impaction of a calculus in the ureter, enlarged prostate, stricture of the urethra, &c. Pathology.—The pelvis, and subsequently the calices of the kidney, become distended with urine, the cortical sub- stance is destroyed by the pressure of the retained urine, and the whole organ finally converted into an irregular cyst. The hydronephritic fluid consists of altered urine, and may contain hardly a trace of urea. Sympto ms. —When the obstruction is complete, a tumour is found in the ab- domen, and often attains a great size. It may then be mistaken for an ovarian cyst, a hydatid cyst of the liver or omentum, a distended gall-bladder, a splenic tumour, a solid tumour of the kidney or pyonephrosis. From these a hydronephrotic kidney may generally be distinguished by the colon being in front of it, by the presence of fluctuation, by its dulness to percussion, by its situation in the flank, by its projection more or less in the loins, by the uterus being free and not displaced, and by the728 DISEASES OE REGIONS. absence of febrile symptoms. Treatment.—Aspiration, unless the tumour is small and painless, when it may be left alone, should first be tried ; but if the fluid rapidly re-accumulates, nephrotomy will usually be required. Pyonephrosis is the distension of the pelvis and calicos of the kidney with pus, and the subsequent de- struction more or less complete of the medullary and cortical substance, the whole kidney being at length con- verted into a large multilocular cyst. This cyst may rapture into the peritoneal cavity or colon, or into the surrounding tissue, causing a perinephritic abscess. Causes.—It may follow pyelitis, owing to the blocking of the ureter with a clot of blood or pus; or it may be engrafted on hydronephrosis consequent upon tapping or injury. At times it may be the result of tubercle, or of a direct injury of the kidney. Symptoms.—In addition to a tumour, in the abdomen with characters similar to those of hydronephrosis, there will be pain in. the tumour, especially on pressure, febrile disturbance, and if the obstruction of the ureter is incomplete, pus in the urine from time to time. Treatment.—Having aspirated the tumour, and discovered the presence of pus, nephro- tomy is generally indicated, especially if the tumour rapidly refills, and there is much pain or febrile disturb- ance, or rupture of the cyst appears imminent. If after nephrotomy, however, the cyst does not shrink and cease to suppurate, nephrectomy must be done, as otherwise lardaceous disease or hectic may carry off the patient, or blood-poisoning may ensue from the discharge becoming septic, or, as sometimes happens when the obstruction of the ureter is relieved to some extent by the nephro- tomy, the decomposing pus may make its way into the bladder, set up cystitis, and the other kidney become affected. Under some circumstances, as where the kidney is reduced to little more than a shell, it will be better at once to perform nephrectomy. Eenal calculi generally consist of uric acid or of oxalate of lime, and are formed by the deposit of the urinary salts, either in the tubules or calicos of the kidney. Whilst still small, they may pass down the ureter into the bladder, and subsequently form the nucleus of a vesical calculus, or be voided with the urine. Or they may remain in the kidney, either in its substance, or in the pelvis or one of the calicos, and there increase in size by the successive deposit upon them of the urinary729 RENAL CALCULI. salts. They may be single or multiple, and vary in size and shape, from tliat of a small rounded body tbe size of a mustard-seed to a large branched mass filling the pelvis and calices(rig. 279). Their presence may set up inflam- mation of the pelvis of the kidney [calculous pyelitis), or of its substance (simple or suppurative nephritis). Or they may block the ureter, in which case the kidney may become distended with altered urine [hydronephrosis), or Fig. 279.—Renal calcnhis blocking np pelvis of kidney and com- mencement of ureter. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) with pus (pyonephrosis); whilst at times, they may exist for years causing little or no damage. Not infrequently there may be a stone in both kidneys. Symptoms.—At thnes there may be no symptoms, even although the stone is of large size. Generally, however, there will be pain, retraction of the testicle, increased frequency of micturition, and the presence of blood or pus in the urine. The pain, which is worse after exercise, is usually situated in the loin of the affected side, and is often felt shooting down the course of the ureter to the groin and front of the thigh. Blood is generally present in the urine from time to time, especially after violent730 DISEASES OF REGIONS. exercise, and pus and mucus in varying quantities, if pyelitis has been set up, may also, as a rule, be detected. The urine, notwithstanding the presence of the pus, is generally acid, and the bladder, prostate, and urethra are found free from disease. Should hydronephrosis or pyonephrosis have been produced, a tumour will then be discovered in the abdomen, and there may no longer be any pus or blood in the urine. In the latter instance there may be in addition constitutional signs of suppura- tion (see hydro- and pyonephrosis). Should the stone escape from the pelvis and enter the ureter, its passage down that tube will be attended with intense pain (renal colic). The pain occurs suddenly and darts towards the groin, testicle, and thigh, and is accompanied by nausea or vomiting, syncope, profuse perspiration, and blood and urates in the urine. After lasting a few hours to several days the symptoms suddenly cease, owing to the calculus dropping from the lower end of the ureter into the bladder, or if too large to pass beyond the infundibulum, becoming displaced into the pelvis of the kidney. Hence successive attacks of renal colic may be due either to the same stone blocking up from time to time the entrance of the ureter or to the passage of different stones. Treatment.—For an account of the preventive treat- ment a work on medicine must be consulted. When a stone has formed and medical treatment has failed to give relief after long-continued trial, and the patient's life is rendered unbearable from constant pain or compulsory recumbency, an operation must be undertaken for his relief. This may consist in nephrolithotomy, nephro- tomy, or nephrectomy. Where the kidney is but little if at all damaged the first is clearly indicated; but if, on exploring the kidney, the stone cannot be felt even on puncture with a needle, or incision and exploration with the finger, it becomes a question whether nephrectomy should be done, or the kidney left in situ and the wound merely closed. If hydronephrosis or pyonephrosis has supervened nephrotomy is required, or possibly nephrec- tomy. Eor renal colic hot baths, hot fomentations, and opium, or morphia injections must be given to assuage the pain. The tuberculous kidney need only briefly be re- ferred to here, as it is more fully described in works on Medicine. This affection may occur in the course of general tuberculosis, or involve the kidney secondarily731 SUPPRESSION OF UEINE. to tTie bladder or prostate; or it may begin primarily in the kidney and thence spread downwards. Tbe symptoms to whicb. it gives rise are very similar to those of renal calculus, and it may be impossible to distinguish them. Thus, there is increased frequency of micturition, pus, and at times blood, in the urine, and often pain in the loin; whilst later there will be a tumour in the abdomen with characters like those described under pyonephrosis. The presence of tubercle elsewhere, and of hectic or emaciation, and the discovery of the tubercle bacillus in the urine, will point to the nature of the case. Treatment.—The constitutional remedies for tubercle should be employed, and when pyonephrosis or a peri- nephritic abscess has formed, nephrotomy may be resorted to; but nephrectomy should never be undertaken unless it seems clear that the disease is limited to one kidney, the exception rather than the rule. Cysts of the kidney.—Serous and hydatid cysts may occur in the kidney as elsewhere, but the question of their diagnosis, which is often attended with much diffi- culty, cannot be discussed here. They are very rare. Cysts of small size are common in connection with some forms of chronic Bright's disease; but these only concern the pathologist. The so called cystic degeneration, due to urinary obstruction, pyelitis, pyonephrosis, &c., has already been alluded to. Tumours of the kidney.—Sarcoma and carcinoma are the only tumours which need be referred to. They are characterized by a swelling in the region of the kidney, dulness in the flank, the presence of the colon in front of them, the absence of fluctuation unless they are of a cystic character, blood in the urine, and rapid emacia- tion. Treatment.—If the tumour is diagnosed whilst still small nephrectomy may be done, though an early recurrence is only too probable. "When the tumour is of large size it is beyond the reach of legitimate surgery. Suppression of urine is the term applied to the non-secretion of urine by the kidneys, and must not be confounded with retention of urine, in which the urine is secreted as usual, but its passage from the bladder is obstructed. In the former the bladder is empty; in the latter distended. Suppression as met with m surgical practice is generally due to the shock following an opera- tion or injury on the urinary organs in a patient suffering from chronic renal disease. If not relieved, coma, convul-732 DISEASES OF HEGIOI^^S. sions, and death from uraemia quickly ensue. Treatment. —Dry or wet cupping the loins, hot vapour baths, free purging as by elaterium and croton oil, injections of pilocarpine, and hot enemata per rectum, are at times successful in relieving the congested kidney. Operations on the Kidney, Aspiration" of the kidney may be performed either for the purpose of diagnosing a renal swelling., or for the relief of such affections as hydronephrosis, pyonephrosis, or hydatid or blood cysts. It should be done with the ordinary precautions, any prominent or fluctuating spot being chosen for the puncture. Nephrotomy consists in making an incision into the kidney for the purpose of evacuating and draining the fluid or pus in the case of hydronephrosis, pyonephrosis, hydatid cyst, abscess, &c. The tumour may be exposed by the lumbar or lateral incision as described in nephrec- tomy. An incision is made into the kidney, the fluid allowed to run out, the wound thoroughly irrigated with some antiseptic solution, and insufflated with iodoform, a large-sized drainage-tube inserted into it, and voluminous dressings of absorbent cotton and the like applied to receive the subsequent discharges. Nephro-LITHOTOMY consists in cutting into a kidney for the purpose of extracting a calculus. The kidney may be exposed either by the lumbar or lateral incision as described in nephrectomy. If a stone is felt, an incision should be carefully made over it, the finger or forceps introduced, and the stone extracted. If one cannot be felt a needle should be thrust into the kidney at several situations, and this failing, an incision should be made into it, and the finger and a probe introduced to search for the stone. A drainage-tube should be placed in the wound, and an antiseptic and absorbent dressing applied. The urine will at first escape through the wound, but will cease to do so as a rule after a longer or shorter interval. Nephrectomy, or removal of the kidney, may be done for—1. A large renal calculus. 2. Tuberculous disease with exhausting discharge. 3. Hydronephrosis. 4. Malignant and other tumours. 5. Moveable kidney attended with severe neuralgic pain. The operation may733 "be done without opeDing the peritoneum, either by a lumbar or a lateral incision, or through the peritoneal cavity, the incision being then made either in the linea alba or linea semilunaris. The extra-peritoneal operation.—If the incision is made in the lumbar region it may be yertical, oblique like that of colotomy, or "["-shaped. If the lateral incision is chosen it should be made obliquely from near the tip of the last rib, towards the anterior superior spine of the ilium. It is the one I have always employed myself, and one now in common use at St. Bartholomew's, its advantages being that it combines the facilities of the intra-peritoneal and the greater safety of the lumbar incision, as it does not involve opening the peritoneal cavity. The kidney having been exposed by any of these incisions, the capsule should be opened, the finger intro- duced, and the kidney enucleated from its capsule; the renal "artery and vein should then be securely tied with a silk ligature passed round them by an aneurysm needle, and the ureter secured separately in a similar way. The kidney may now be removed by cutting through the pedicle with scissors, and the wound drained and dressed antiseptically. The intra-peritoneal operation.—This consists in opening the peritoneal cavity by one of the incisions mentioned above, drawing the intestines aside and then exposing the kidney by cutting through the peritoneum in front of it external to the colon. The vessels are then tied sepa- rately, the kidney removed and the peritoneum united, the same precautions being adopted as after an ovariotomy. A drain-tube is passed by some surgeons through a counter-opening in the loin, and the end of the ureter brought out of the wound. The dangers of nephrectomy are—1. Severe shock. 2. Excessive hsemorrhage. 3. Suppression of urine from disease or absence of the opposite kidney. 4. Peritonitis from wounding the peritoneum. o. Laceration of the colon. 6. Inclusion of the vena cava in the ligature of the pedicle and injury of the duodenum in operating on the right side. Nephrohbaphy is an operation for fixing a floating or moveable kidney by exposing the kidney in the loin, and attaching it with sutures to the parietes. It should only be done where there is intense pain and constant suffering which palliatives have failed to relieve.DISEASES OF EEGIOIfS. 734 Urinary Deposits and Calculi^ Urinary deposits are divided into the unorgaiiized and the organized. A. The unorganized consists of the urates, the uric acid, the oxalate of lime, the phosphates, the cystic oxide, the uric oxide and the carbonate of lime. Only the more common of these are described. 1. The urates formerly called lit hates, are the most common of the urinary deposits, and are formed by the combination of uric acid with ammonia, soda, or lime. They occur in acid urine as an amorphous sediment, varying in colour from a white or a pale fawn to a brick- FiG. 280.—Urates. (Bryant's Surgery.) dust red. They only appear as the urine cools, andl disappear again on the application of heat, or on adding alkalies. Though generally amorphous they sometimes present the crystalline forms seen in Fig. 280. 2. The uric acid deposits, which are the next most common, occur only in very acid urine, as a yellowish- pink, red, or brick-dust red crystalline sediment. The crystals are often of large size, and the deposit is then known as red sand or gravel. They usually occur as rhombic prisms, or long oval plates with acute angles, and are often mixed, forming rosettes. The various kinds735 UHINARY DEPOSITS. Sire seen in Fig. 281. They are soluble in alkalies. The causes of the presence of uric acid, as well as of the Fig. 281.—Uiic acid crystals. (Bryant's Surgery. urates, are : 1. Eapid tissue waste, as in fevers, ; 2. Over- indulgence in animal food; 3. Dyspepsia ; 4. Congestion Fig. 282.—Crystals of oxalate of liine. (Bryant's Surgefy.) of the kidney; 5, Gout; and 6. Deficient action of the skin. 3. The oxalate of lime is a crystalline deposit and736 DISEASES OE REGIONS. assumes two forms, the octahedral and the dumb-bell crystals (Fig. 282). On holding the urine up to the light the crystals as minute shining particles are seen in it. The causes are : 1. Nervous exhaustion from overwork or sexual excesses. 2. Dyspepsia induced by saccharine food, excess of alcohol, or vegetable diet. 4. Fhosphatic deposits occur in three forms, (a) phos- phate of lime, (&) phosphate of ammonia and magnesia, or triple phosphates, (c) the two former mixed, or the fusible phosphates, (a) Phosphate of lime forms a white cloud or Fig. 283.—Phosphates of hnie. (Bryant's Surgery.) amorphous deposit of pale granules or spheroids, two of which adhering form the so-called false dumb-bell; or a crystalline deposit of six-sided prisms collected into sheaths or bundles (Fig. 283). It may be mistaken for albumen, or when in considerable quantities for pus or mucus. The urine is always alkaline, {b) The ammonio- magnesium phosphates occur in the form of large triangular prisms with truncated extremities; as four-sided prisms ; as six-sided plates; and as foliaceous stellar prisms on adding ammonia (Fig. 284). The urine is natural in colour, neutral or alkaline, and has a foetid ammoniacal odour. Causes.—Phosphatic deposits are due to local disease or injury of the urinary organs, such as may be induced by spinal mischief, a foreign body in the bladder, &c. The mucus from the bladder decomposesURUsTARY CALCULI. 737 the urea into carbonate of ammonia, which converts the soluble acid into insoluble alkaline phosphates. Carbonate of lime, cystic oxide, and uric oxide, are too rare to require description. B. The organized deposits.—To these belong pus, blood, mucus, epithelium, renal casts, spermatozoa, and fungi. Pus occurs as a thick sediment and may be recognised by the urine containing albumen, and by the microscopical appearance of the pus-corpuscles (p. 25). It may be due to cystitis, pyelitis, gonorrhoea, leucorrhoea, and abscess Fig. 284.—Phosphates of ammonia and magnesia (triple phosphates). (Bryant's Surgery.) in any part of the urinary tract. Urine containing mucus becomes gelatinous and ropy on adding liquor, potassrje. Blood may be recognized by the urine being smoky or red, by the ozonic ether test, and by the microscope. See Hoematuria (p. 762). Epithelium, renal casts, spermatozoa, and fungi may be detected by the microscope. Urinae-Y calculi are commonly spoken of as renal ,- vesical and prostatic, according as they occur in the kidney, bladder or prostate. Renal calculi are formed in the kidney and have already been described (p. 728). Prostatic calculi are formed in the racemose glands of the prostate, and will be further referred to under diseases of that organ (p. 767). Vesical calculi may originate in the bladder, or, as is more commonly the case, in the kidney, w. 3 bDISEASES OF REGIONS. 738 whence they pass into the bladder, and there increase in size by the successive deposit upon them of the same or other of the urinary salts. The calculi most frequently met with in this situation are (1) the uric acid; (2) the oxalate of lime, and (3) the fusible or mixed phosphates. The rarer forms are (4) the urate of ammonia; (5) the cystic oxide or cystine; (6) the phosphate of lime; (7) the phosphate of ammonia and magnesia, or triple phos- phate ; (8) the carbonate of lime ; (9) the xanthic or uric oxide; (10) the fibrinous; (11) the blood; (12) the uro- stealith; and (13) the silicious. The last seven being exceedingly rare, are not described. 1. The uric acid calculi are the most common. They are generally of moderate size, oval, and laterally Fig. 285.—Oxalate of Ume Fig. 286.—Section of oxalate of calculus. lime calculus. compressed, of a nut-brown colour, smooth or finely granular, moderately heavy and hard, and laminated on section. They are completely destroyed in the blow-pipe flame, giving off a smell of burnt feathers. They are insoluble in nitro-hydrochloric acid, but soluble in warm alkalies. When treated by nitric acid and evaporated to dryness, on the addition of a drop of ammonia a purple colour is produced [murexide test). The nucleus is gene- rally composed of uric acid, sometimes of oxalate of lime, and is generally formed in the kidney. These calculi occur most frequently in youth and middle age, 2. The oxalate oe lime, or mulberry calculi (Eigs. 285, 286), as they are often called from their resem- blance, when first removed covered with blood from the bladder, to a mulberry, are generally of moderate size, globular in shape, usually of a dark-brown or mahogany colour, rough and tuberculated, very hard and heavy, and crystalline on section. They are only partially destroyed739 DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. in the blow-pipe flame, the residue being alkaline and effervescing with an acid. They are insoluble in acetic acid, but soluble in hydrochloric acid. The nucleus is generally composed of oxalate of lime, but may consist of uric acid or urate of ammonia. It is usually formed in the kidney. These calculi are most frequent in middle age, 3. The phosphatic calculi are of three kinds:—(a) the phosphate of lime or earthy phosphate; {h) the ammonio-magnesian or triple phosphate, and (c) the phos- phate of lime with the ammonio-magnesian phosphate, the mixed or fusible phosphate. Of these the last is the only common form. It is usually of large size and of white colour, smooth, soft, friable, earthy and lami- nated on section, and of irregular shape, taking that of the nucleus on which it is formed ; it fuses when heated in the blow-pipe flame; is insoluble in warm alkalies, but is soluble in acetic acid. The nucleus is composed of uric acid, oxalate of lime, or of some foreign body other than a calculus, as a piece of catheter, hair-pin, blood, or fibrin. It occurs most frequently in the later periods of life, and is then generally produced as follows:—A calculus or other foreign body irritates the mucous mem- brane of the bladder, and a secretion of mucus is, in consequence, poured out. This mucus decomposes the urea contained in the urine into carbonate of ammonia and water. The carbonate of ammonia unites with the acid phosphates, and an insoluble mixed phosphate of ammonia, magnesia and lime is thrown down and deposited on the foreign body. Hence these calculi are only met with in alkaline conditions of the urine. Although calculi may be chiefly composed of one con- stituent, they are more often composed of several, which may be arranged in alternate layers {alternating calculus). The formation of these layers is due to the varying state of the patient's health and of the condition of the mucous membrane of the bladder. DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. ExTROYEPvSiON or ECTOPIA VESICA is a malformation in which, in consequence of an arrest in the development of the anterior wall of the bladder and the corresponding part of the abdominal parietes, the posterior wall of the bladder is pushed forward by the pressure of the abdominal 3 B 2DISEASES OF REGIONS. 740 viscera, and protrudes as a red velvety tumour. It is associated with epispadias or absence of the upper wall of the urethra, and with failure of union of the pubic bones at the symphysis. The testicles are frequently retained in folds like the labia on either side. It is attended with extreme discomfort from the constant dribbling away of the urine from the mouths of the ureters, which can be seen on the surface of the tumour. Treatment.—Many operations having for their object the closing in of the bladder by flaps of skin taken from the adjacent abdomi- nal wall, have been performed for the relief or cure of the deformity. Various attempts have also been made to turn the ureters into the colon or rectum, but without success. Eecently Trendelenberg has succeeded in re- ducing the gap between the pubic bones by separating the sacro-iliac synchondroses, so that he was enabled at a subsequent sitting to bring the mucous surfaces of the bladder in contact, and then unite them by a plastic operation. The newly formed bladder is in this way lined with mucous membrane instead of having its front wall closed in by skin, the objection to which is the growth of hair into the bladder at puberty and its incrustation with phosphates. Cystitis, or Inflammation of the Bladder may vary from the mildest catarrh to the most intense inflamma- tion involving not only the mucous membrane but the other coats of the organ as well. For the purpose of description, however, it may be divided into the Acute and Chronic. Acute cystitis. Causes.—In its most intense form it is nearly always the result of injury or operation, as the passage of instruments, irritation of sharp fragments of a crushed calculus, &c. In its milder forms it may be due to the extension of inflammation from the urethra as in gonorrhoea, or from the ureters in calculous pyelitis ; to the exhibition of certain medicines, as cantharides; and occasionally in gouty subjects to exposure to cold. Symptoms.—In the acutest forms there is intense pain, and strangury, i.e., a continual desire to void urine, which is passed drop by drop in a spasmodic manner; whilst there is high fever, rapidly running into a typhoid type. In the less acute or more common forms micturition is still very frequent, with increased pain, as soon as a little urine has collected in the bladder, in consequence of the stretching of the inflamed mucous membrane. The urine741 CHRONIC CYSTITIS. is scanty, high-coloured, often blood-stained, and mixed with mucus and pus. The fever, though generally high, is less marked than in the acuter cases, and may be of a mere transitory character. Pathology.—In the milder forms the inflammation is limited to the neck of the bladder and to the mucous membrane only. In the worst forms it involves the whole bladder, and extends to the muscular or even the peritoneal coat. It may terminate in 1, resolution; 2, chronic cystitis ; 3, ulceration or gangrene of the mucous membrane; 4, abscess in the walls of the bladder; 5, inflammation of the kidneys, or more rarely of the peri- toneum ; and 6, saprsemia, produced by the absorption of the products of the decomposing urine. Treatment.—The cause, if possible, should be removed. Thus, if there are fragments of calculus in the bladder, they should at once be extracted by the large evacuating catheter, any that cannot be got away being crushed; or perhaps better, the bladder may be opened by a median incision in the perineum and thoroughly washed out. If a catheter has been tied in, it should at once be withdrawn. Hot sitz-baths should be given night and morning, leeches applied to the perineum, suppositories of morphia placed in the rectum, and hyoscyamus and alkalies, if the urine be acid, administered to relieve strangury. All stimulants should be avoided, the diet restricted to milk, and the bladder washed out with hot water, or when the urine is decomposed, with a weak antiseptic lotion. If washing out increases the irritation, the bladder should be drained by an incision in the perineum. Chronic cystitis is much more frequent than the acute variety, and in its mildest form is known as catarrh of the bladder. Causes.—It may be a sequel to an acute attack; or it may be chronic from the commencement, and may then be due to a stone or other foreign body or a growth in the bladder, obstruction to the urinary out- flow, as from an enlarged prostate or stricture of the urethra, the extension of gonorrhoea, paralysis, over- distension or atony of the bladder, or the spread of in- flammation from the neighbouring organs. The symptoms are similar to those of acute cystitis, but are much milder in intensity. Thus there is increased frequency of micturition, the patient, perhaps, having to make water every hour or half-hour, the desire to do so being generally so urgent that he is unable to control it.DISEASES OF REGIONS. 742 This, as in the acute variety, is due to the stretching of the inflamed mucous membrane as soon as a few ounces of urine collect. The pain usually ceases immediately the bladder is relieved. The urine is characteristic; it generally contains large quantities of ropy mucus and pus, which form, on standing, a distinct layer at the bottom of the containing vessel. It is often alkaline, and sometimes highly ammoniacal and offensive from the decomposition of the urea into carbonate of ammonia. This decomposition is brought about by fermentation, probably set up by the presence of micro-organisms [micrococcus urece) that have gained admission either by the use of a contaminated catheter, or by making their way along the stringy mucus that may hang about the urethra. Pathology.—The mucous membrane is thick- ened, velvety, mottled with patches of a dark slate, or red colour, and may be covered with muco-pus and sometimes with a deposit of phosphates, or it may even, in places, be destroyed by ulceration. The muscular coat, where there has been obstruction to the outflow, becomes thick- ened and fasciculated, the hypertrophied fibres giving the interior of the bladder a columnar and rugose appear- ance. In places the mucous membrane may protrude between the fasciculi of the muscular coat forming sacculi which may become receptacles for urine, and in which calculi may form. If the cystitis is allowed to con- tinue the kidneys may subsequently become affected. Treatment.—As in the acute form the cause, as stric- ture, stone, &c., must first be removed, as where this is impracticable the treatment at best can only be pallia- tive. The diet should be unstimulating, and alcohol in any form, as a rule, forbidden. A purely milk diet is at times most successful. Internally, such medicines as buchu, uva ursi, balsam of copaiva, salol and chlorate of potash should be given where thick ropy mucus is passed with the urine; and benzoic acid, which in its passage through the system is converted into hippuric acid, may be tried when the urine is alkaline. Locally, the bladder should be washed out twice a day with some antiseptic solution, as boric acid, nitric acid, corrosive sublimate, quinine, &c. The best results are sometimes obtained from water as hot as can be borne. Great care should be taken that all instruments are rendered thoroughly aseptic before use. In se^vere cases, where other means have failed, the bladder should be placed743 ATONY AIS'D PARALYSIS. at rest by perineal cystotomy and subsequent drainage for some weeks.. Irritability of the bladder, by wbich. is meant a too frequent passing of water, is often spoken of as a disease ; but is no more so than is pain, since it is only a symptom either of disease of the urinary organs, or of some general state of the system, as hysteria, Bright's disease, &c. The cause should be sought and treated. Inversion- of the bladder, and hernia of the bladder, are both very rare, and are not here described. Atony and paralysis of the bladder. Both these terms are applied to a want of sufficient contractile power in the muscular coat to expel the contents of the bladder; but in atony the want of power is the result of loss of tone in the muscular fibres, while paralysis is due to the failure of nervous influence. Both conditions must be dis tinguished from the mere inability of the bladder to empty itself on account of obstruction to its outlet. (See Retention). Atony may be due to, 1. Simple over-distension, conse- quent upon the patient having voluntarily or compul- sorily held his urine for too long a period, whereby the musular fibres are over-stretched and unable to recover themselves. 2. It may be the result of gradual dis- tension owing to enlarged prostate or stricture. In con- sequence of the obstruction, the bladder does not empty itself, but some urine remains after every act of mic- turition ; the amount retained gradually increases, the bladder becomes distended, and its fibres, if the patient is old, become stretched, and lose their tone instead of becoming hypertrophied as commonly happens in a young and healthy person. 3. Again, atony may be due to cystitis, owing to the inflammation having spread to the muscular coat, which then undergoes fibroid or fatty changes. Symptoms.—The patient complains of inability to hold his urine, or that it constantly dribbles away, or that he has to pass it very frequently. The involuntary flow' occurs at first during sleep; afterwards on any exertion causing contraction of the abdominal muscles. These symptoms, although often spoken of as incontinence, are really those of retention, the bladder being fully distended, but unable to empty itself, and the excess flowing in- voluntarily away. The treatment consists in passing a catheter at regularDISEASES OF BEGIOXS. 744 intervals and as often as may be necessary to completely empty the bladder; whilst in the meantime, the con- dition leading to the atony must be treated by appro- priate means. Thus, if the result of over-distension, strychnine and galvanism may be tried; if the result of gradual distension from enlarged prostate or stricture, these conditions must be treated in the way mentioned under their respective heads. In both paralysis and atony, cystitis, dilatation of the ureters, pyelitis, and dis- organization of the kidney rapidly ensue if the cause of the bladder trouble cannot be relieved. True paralysis of the bladder is nearly always the result of disease or injury of the brain or spinal cord, and is not met with except in general paralysis. The bladder being paralysed cannot empty itself, and becomes dis- tended as in atony ; and when it can hold no more, the excess overflows through the sphincter, which is also paralysed. Reflex paralysis^ however, often occurs after an injury or surgical operation, especially that for haemor- rhoids. The local treatment consists in the regular passage of a catheter two or three times daily. Tubercle op the bladder is rare, and is nearly always secondary to tubercle in other parts of the genito- urinary tract. There is pain, haemorrhage, and other signs of chronic cystitis; but the diagnosis will depend rather on the exclusion of other diseases such as stone, tumours, &c., and the presence of tubercle in other organs. Treatment.—The general constitutional remedies for tubercle should be employed together with such local remedies as are indicated for cystitis, and for the assuag- ing of the pain. These failing to relieve, cystotomy may be done and the bladder washed out, and such caseous masses of tubercle as permit of it removed. Vesico-intestinal fistula may be known by the occasional passage of faecal matter and gas by the urethra, and is usually a source of great discomfort. It commonly depends on malignant or other form of ulceration of the intestine involving the bladder. Treatment.—When the fistula is thought to be low down the intestine the abdo- men may be explored, and the colon above the fistula united to the abdominal wall and then opened. The tumours that may be met with in the bladder are :—1. The fibrous. 2. The mucous. 3. The villous or papillomatous. 4. The malignant. The fibrous and mucous spring from the sub-mucous coat, and protruding theTUMOURS OF THE BLADDER. 745 mucous membrane in front of them assume a polypoid or warty shape. They are very rare. The villous or papillomatous, spring from the mucous membrane, and appear as soft, flocculent growths resembling the villi of the chorion. They are the most common of the innocent growths. The malignard either spring from the mucous or the sub-mucous coat, and may form a large mass often nearly filling the bladder, or assume a villous appear- ance, or merely infiltrate the walls. They have either a carcinomatous or sarcomatous structure. Fig. 287.—Villous tumour of the bladder. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) The symptoms common to all are those of a foreign body in the bladder, with heematuria and absence on sounding of stone. In the fibrous there are signs of obstruction to the urinary outlet, but little or no hsematuria, and the tumour may sometimes be felt with the sound. In the villous (Fig. 287) there is usually more or less continuous haemorrhage without any other cause being discoverable to account for it; there is seldom any marked obstruction to the urinary outflow; and shreds of the growth may come away spontaneously or in the eye of the catheter. In the ^malignant there are usually sudden attacks of severe haemorrhage from time to time ; and a growth may be felt by the sound, orDISEASES OF REGIONS. 746 by the finger in the rectum, or by palpation above the pubes. There are commonly moreover other signs of malignancy, as rapid growth of the tumour, cachexia, &c. Tumours of the bladder, however, especially the villous, are often difficult to diagnose; some aid, it is true, may at times be gained by the electric endoscope, but a diagnosis cannot always be made without a digital exploration of the bladder, which should be undertaken where symptoms such as the above are persistent unless they point to a malignant growth. In using the endo- scope a measured quantity of fluid should be left in the bladder, which should be previously irrigated if the urine contains blood or pus till the fluid returns clear. Treatment.—The removal of the tumour, except it is malignant, should generally be attempted. In the female the urethra may be dilated for this purpose. In the male the incision into the bladder should be made either above the pubes or through the perineum as for lateral or median lithotomy. The supra-pubic incision, however, has the advantage that a more thorough extir- pation can by its means be generally made. When removal is contra-indicated, relief where there is obstruc- tion to the urinary outlet may be obtained by supra/- pubic puncture; haemorrhage should be restrained by astringents; and pain assuaged by opium. Stone tn the bladder may occur at any age, but is said to be most frequent between the ages of fifty and seventy; next, between the ages of two and six ; whilst, between the ages of twenty-six and thirty-six it is rare. It may occur in both males and females, but is decidedly more common in the former. The causes are not altogether known; but residence in certain districts or countries, poor living, abuse of alcohol especially in the form of malt liquor, excess of nitro- genous food, want of sufficient exercise and anything that induces the excessive formation of uric or oxalic acid in the urine, are regarded as predisposing causes. Retention of urine from prostatic enlargement and the presence of a foreign body in the bladder are exciting causes. In a few cases a nucleus has been formed for a calculus by a piece of necrosed bone which has reached the bladder from a fractured pelvis or carious spine. Varieties.—The three most common varieties of calculi met with in the bladder are the uric acid, the oxalate of lime, and the phosphatic. They may occur almostSTONE m THE BLADDER. 747 pure or they may be mixed. According to Sir Henry Thompson the nric acid and urates form one half of the number met with; the phosphatic one quarter; the mixed one quarter; and the oxalates only three per cent, of the whole. The uric acid and the oxalate of lime are generally formed on a nucleus of one of these substances which has descended from the kidney. The phosphatic is formed in the bladder itself, either on a nucleus of phosphates deposited on some insj)issated mucus or a foreign body, or on one of the other forms of stone which has descended from the kidney and which sooner or later acts as a foreign body. The oxalate of lime is the most slow of formation and is consequently the hardest and most compact. The phosphatic forms very rapidly, is soft and friable, and often of very large size. Sometimes alternate layers of uric acid, oxalate of lime, and phosphates, occur in the same stone {alternating calculus), a condition probably due to varying states of the patient's health, effects of medicines, bladder irrita- tion, &c. A description of the various forms of calculi is given in the section on Urinary Calculi (page 737). The character of the stone may to some extent be guessed at by the state of the urine. Thus if the urine is acid it will probably be either oxalate of lime or uric acid; if alkaline, phosphatic. Calculi vary in size from that of a hemp-seed to a large mass weighing many ounces; but large stones, at the present day, in conse- quence of improved diagnosis, and the diminished dread a patient has of an operation, are the exception. They generally occur singly, but there may be two, or even more; they are then usually facetted from rubbing against one another. Spontaneous fracture sometimes happens, and has been attributed: 1, to the swelling or chemical alteration of the cementing material with which the particles of the calculus are held together; 2, to two stones coming into collision; 3, to the compression of the calculi by the hypertrophied muscular coat of the bladder. The calculus may be variously situated in the bladder. It is usually free just behind the prostate, but it may be in the upper fundus behind the pubes, or in one of the sacculi so often found in long-standing disease of the bladder. Calculous matter may sometimes be deposited upon growths in the bladder or upon the ulcerated mucous membrane.748 DISEASES OF REGIONS. The terminations of stone,—If neglected, cystitis is set up, and inflammation may spread up the ureters to the kidneys, leading to the changes described under Surgical Diseases of the Kidneys, In consequence, moreover, of the obstruc- tion to the urinary outlet, the bladder may become hyper- trophied, and the ureters and kidneys dilated in the way described under stricture. Symptoms,—The three chief symptoms are—1. Pain, generally referred to the end of the penis, and worse after micturition on account of the stone then falling on the sensitive trigone and the walls of the bladder contracting upon it. 2. Frequent micturition; and, 3. A little blood in the urine. These symptoms are increased on exercise, especially riding, and after the jolting of a railway journey, &c., and are least marked at night when the patient is at rest. Other symptoms that may be present are the passage of gravel; sudden stoppage of the stream during micturition; the presence of muco-pus in the urine owing to cystitis; piles in adults and prolapse of the rectum in children, due to straining; and elongation of the prepuce in boys caused by the constant handling to relieve pain after micturition. Stone in the bladder may be simulated by cystitis, an enlarged prostate, a long or adherent prepuce, a narrow meatus, a growth in the bladder, calculous or other disease of the kidney, a peculiar choreic condition of the bladder (the stammering bladder of Sir James Paget), tubercle of the bladder, and ascarides in the rectum. An accurate diagnosis, however, can only be made by sounding the bladder; though in boys the stone may be felt by the finger in the rectum whilst pressure is made with the other hand above the pubes. Sounding the Madder.—The ordinary sound (Pig. 288) is a solid steel instrument with a short bulbous beak. Thompson's sound is hollow to allow some of the urine to be drawn off if desired, and has a handle like that of his lithotrite, to facilitate the necessary movements in the bladder. Having warmed and oiled the sound, pass it like a catheter, letting it glide into the bladder by J Fig. 288.—Ordinary sound.SOUNDING THE BLADDER. 749 its own weight without using any force. When the sound is in, gently push it onwards to examine the posterior part of the bladder. Then turn the beak alter- nately to either side ; and depress the handle between the patient's thighs to search the upper fundus. Then turn the beak downwards to examine the base or lower fundus. If the stone is not detected, let out a little of the urine, or change the patient's position, or raise his pelvis and try again. The stone may not be felt, because it is of small size, or has become encysted, or entangled in a fold of mucous membrane. A guarded opinion, therefore, should be given, and a further examination made another day. A. stone may be known to be present by the peculiar ring which is both felt and heard on striking it. This ring is quite unlike the sensation given to the sound by its coming into contact with phosphatic deposits on a roughened or fasciculated bladder, or with one of the pelvic bones. Having discovered a stone, the next care should be to determine approximately—1, its probable size and composition; 2, whether it is free or encysted; 3, whether there is one stone or more; and, 4, the condition of the bladder and urethra. 1. The size of the stone can be roughly estimated by the amount of resis- tance offered on pushing it before the sound or by passing the sound over it, and by feeling it through the rectum with the other hand pressing on the hypogastrium. Its exact size can only be ascertained by seizing it with the lithotrite, the distance the blades are then apart being indicated by the scale on the handle. The composition of the stone may be approximately arrived at by (a) the character of the ring on striking it—the clearer the ring the harder the stone, [{b) the condition of the surface, which is rough in the oxalate of lime, smooth in the phosphatic, (c) the re-action of the urine, and {d), the general health of the patient. 2. A stone, luhen encysted, is always felt at the same spot in the bladder, and when seized with the lithotrite cannot be moved. The sound cannot be passed all round it. There is no blood present, and the symptoms are usually less severe, and are not increased by exercise. 3. The presence of a second stone can only be determined with certainty by seizing one stone with the lithotrite, and then sb'iking the other. Treatment.—The stone may be removed by crushing {lithotrity), or cutting (lithotomy). In adults, lithotrity, with but few exceptions, should be the rule. In children.750 DISEASES OE REGIONS. up to twelve or fourteen years of age, lithotomy has hitherto been the recognized operation ; but I believe that when the brilliant results obtained by Surgeon-Major Keegan and others come to be better known, that even in very young children, lithotrity, as in adults, will also be the rule, lithotomy the exception. I have myself crushed six or seven stones in young male children, some as young as three years, and successful cases are now being fre- quently reported. In adults, lithotomy should be practised in place of lithotrity, when 1, the stone is very large and hard; 2, when the urethra is the seat of intractable stricture ; 3, when the stone is encysted; and, 4, when the bladder is sacculated. A large stone, if soft, should be crushed; and a hard stone, if not too large, is no bar to the operation. Surgeon-Major Keegan has crushed a uric acid stone, the fragments of which weighed two ounces and three quarters, and an oxalate of lime which weighed one ounce and three drachms. And in a boy, aged thirteen, I crashed and successfully removed a very hard stone weighing only a few grains less than an ounce. Hard stones, however, weighing above an ounce, and especially in boys, had better be removed by cutting, unless the Surgeon is experienced in lithotrity. Cystitis and kidney disease render the prognosis of both operations unfavourable; but in these affections it does not appear that crushing with complete removal of the fragments is attended with more risk than is lithotomy. A large prostate renders lithotrity difficult no doubt, but does not, as a rule, contra-indicate it. Stricture of the urethra is only an impediment to lithority when the stricture cannot be dilated. The conditions, however, most favour- able for success in lithotrity are, as well expressed by Sir Henry Thompson, '' a capacious urethra, a bladder capable of retaining three or four ounces of urine, absence of ordinary signs of renal disease, and fair general health." Lithotrity, Litholapaxy, or Bigelow's operatioi^ consists in crushing the stone in the bladder, and removing the whole of the fragments through a large evacuating catheter. .Formerly, it was taught that the presence of the lithotrite in the bladder for more than a few minutes at a time was productive of great irritation, and it was consequently advised that the crushing of the stone should be extended over several sittings of only a few minutes each, and the fragments allowed to be jDassed by751 LITHOTBITY, LITHOLAPAXY. the natural efforts of tlie patient. To the late Professor Bigelowis undoubtedly due the credit of having enunciated the principle that the bladder is not so intolerant of instru- ments as was formerly supposed, and that it was to the presence of the fragments, rather than to the lithotrite, that the irritation, cystitis, &c., so common after the old method, should be ascribed. The operation.—The patient, having been prepared for the operation by careful attention to the general health, rest, and such local means for allaying chronic cystitis as were pointed out under that head, should be placed under an anaesthetic, with the pelvis raised a few inches, the thighs slightly apart, the knees supported on a pillow, and the body and legs well wrapped up in blankets to avoid a chill. The rectum should be emptied by a purge the day Fig. 289.—Thompson's lithotrite. before, and by an enema on the morning of the operation. A few ounces of urine in the bladder is desirable. If necessary, incise the meatus (a stricture, if present, should have previously been dilated), warm and oil the lithotrite (Fig. 289), and pass it with all gentleness, letting it glide by its own weight through the spongy and membraneous portion of the urethra, and do not depress the handle till the blades have reached the prostate. Then bring the shaft to an angle of 35° with the horizon, and it will glide through the prostatic urethra, over the trigone of the bladder, and may possibly be felt to graze the stone. The blades now rest in the lowest part of the bladder and point upwards (Fig. 290). Hold the handle tightly with the left hand, and, without moving the instrument, open the male blade by drawing out the wheel-shaped end with- the right hand. Pause a few seconds to allow the currents set up in the urine by this movement to subside. Then gently press in the male blade, and the stone will pro- bably be caught. If so, continue the pressure on the wheel to retain the stone between the blades, whilst the button is moved by the thumb to convert the sliding into the screw movement. Eotate the instrument slightly to make sure that the mucous membrane is not caught by the blades ;DISEASES OF REGION'S. 752 slightly depress the handle to raise the blades from the wall of the bladder, and screw home. The stone will probably be felt to crack and break into fragments. If the stone cannot be seized in this way, systematically explore the bladder thus :—Open the blades and rotate 45 degrees; pause and close. Do this first to the right, then to the left. Then raise the blades slightly by depressing the handle ; rotate alternately to right and left 90 degrees; further Fm. 290.—Lithotrite in sUii. (Listen's Surgery.) raise the blades and rotate 135 degrees. Finally, reverse the blades by rotating half a circle. In this way the stone will probably be found. In these manoeuvres the blades should be opened before rotating them in order that the stone may not be displaced by the male blade, and after rotating a pause should be made before closing them to allow the currents to subside. Having crushed the stone and larger fragments, withdraw the lithotrite, first screwing tight home to ensure complete closure of the blades in order to prevent laceration of the urethra. Next introduce a large evacuating catheter (No. 16, or larger); let the urine escape and inject two or three ounces of warm water. Attach the aspirator, previously filled with water at a temperature of 98°, and compress the india-rubber753 LITHOLAPAXY. bulb, driving some of the water into the bladder. Let the bulb expand and the outward current will bring away some of the fragments and debris which will fall into the receiver and be prevented from returning into the bladder by the trap (see Fig. 291) on again compressing the bulb. Continue compressing and relaxing till fragments cease to come away. Then if any are felt by the evacuating catheter, reintroduce the lithotrite, or a smaller one, and crush again and aspirate as before, repeating this till all the fragments are removed. The operation frequently lasts for an hour to an hour and a half or longer. Fig. 291.—Thompson's improved evacuator and trap. After-treatment.—Opium, if no serious kidney disease is present, may be given; and hot hip-baths if there is much pain. If there is retention the catheter should be used at regular times, or tied in if its passage causes much irritation and pain. Complete rest for a few days or longer should be enjoined. If cystitis follows the opera- tion. Sir Henry Thompson strongly recommends a weak injection of silver nitrate (gr. i. to f^i-)- As a rule, however, I have found no after-treatment required, even in young boys. Indeed in several cases the child has been up and playing about the ward the day after the operation. After'Comj)licaUons.—1, Eigors and fever, 2, retention . of urine, 3, acute cystitis, 4, prostatitis and abscess, and 5, orchitis and epididymitis, occasionally occur. More rarely, 6, haemorrhage, 7, suppression of urine, and 8, phlebitis of the prostatic plexus of veins, followed by pyaemia. The impaction of a fragment of the calculus in the urethra (formerly common when the fragments were left in the bladder), cannot occur if the bladder has been thoroughly evacuated. w. 3 c754 DISEASES OE REGIONS. Causes of death.—Deatb. may occur from 1. Acute nephritis; 2. Pyelitis; 3. Cystitis; 4. Perforation or rupture of the bladder; 5. Peritonitis; 6. Sapreemia or pyaemia, or 7. Exhaustion. But a fatal termination is rare except when there is some chronic kidney disease. Lithotomy, or cutting for the stone, may be per- formed through the perineum or above the puhes. Perineal lithotomy may be done in many ways; the lateral, as usually performed, and the median will only be described. Lateral lithotomy.—The patient should be prepared by rest in bed for a few days, and the rectum cleared by a mild purgative the day before, and by an enema on the morning of the operation. The bladder should contain five or six ounces of urine, or if the patient is unable to retain so much an equal quantity of warm water should Fia. 292.—Lithotomy knife. be injected. Anaesthetize the patient, introduce a full- sized staff with a groove on the left side into the bladder, and try to strike the stone. If the stone is not felt, with- draw the staff and pass a sound. If still unsuccessful, send the patient back to bed as the stone may have been passed per urethram or become encysted. If felt by the sound, re-introduce the staff, but do not operate until the staff itself strikes the stone that you may be sure that the staff has passed into the bladder, and not into a false passage. It is usual to ask an assistant to strike the stone also. Next, place the patient in the lithotomy position, i.e., with the soles of the feet secured in the palms of the hands by the lithotomy shackles, and bring his nates well over the end of the table. Entrust the staff to an assistant, who should hold it perpendicularly with its concavity hooked well up under the pubes and exactly in the middle line. Seat yourself in front of the patient, and having introduced the left forefinger into the rectum to make sure that it is empty, and to induce it to con- tract, enter the knife (Fig. 292) which should be held horizontally, a little to the left of the middle line and about an inch and a quarter in front of the verge of the anus, and carry the incision downwards and to the left to755 LATERAL LITHOTOMY. a point one-third nearer to the tuberosity of the ischium than to the margin of the anus. Pass the left forefinger into the upper angle of the wound and feel for the staff ; divide with the knife the superimposed tissues; insert the finger-nail into the groove in the staff, the back of the finger being to the patient's left; and guided by the nail press the point of the knife into the groove just in front of the membraneous portion of the urethra (Fig. 293). Now run the knife with the point pressed firmly Fig. 293.—Parts cut in lithotomy. (Fergusson's Surgery.) in the groove onwards into the bladder, keeping its blade well lateralized, directed downwards and to the left. Take care not to depress the handle too much for fear of cutting the prostate too widely, nor to hold it too hori- zontal lest the point slip out of the groove and penetrate the tissues between the bladder and the rectum. Having entered the bladder, slightly enlarge the wound in the prostate in withdrawing the knife, and pass the left fore- finger, which is in the wound, onwards along the staff into the bladder. If the stone is felt by the finger ask the assistant to withdraw the staff. Take the forceps in the right hand, pass them along the left forefinger towards the bladder, and, on withdrawing the finger, 3 c 2756 DISEASES OF REGIONS. open the blades, and the stone will probably be driven by the gush of urine between them. Having assured your- self that the stone is grasped by the forceps in its smallest diameter, extract it by making traction downwards and backwards in the axis of the pelvic outlet. Re-introduce the finger into the bladder to ascertain whether there may not be another stone, and if in doubt nse the searcher. Inject two or three syringef uls of cold water into the bladder ; dust the wound with iodoform; apply no dressings; tie the legs to- gether if the patient is a child, and send him back to bed as quickly as possible. If there is haemorrhage, tie any bleeding point which is seen, or if the blood comes from the deep part of the wound, introduce the petti- coated tube (Fig. 294), assur- ing yourself that the end is in the bladder by injecting water and passing a probe through it. Then plug firmly round with strips of lint be- tween the petticoat and the tube. At Guy's Hospital lateral lithotomy is performed on a straight staff, by the opera- tion known as Key's. A good description of the me- thod will be found in Bryant's Surgery. The structures divided in the operation are—1, the skin ; 2, the superficial and deep fascia; 3, a few branches of the external hoemorrhoidal vessels and nerves; 4, the transversus perinei muscle, vessels, and nerve; e5, a few fibres of the accelerator urinee and levator ani muscles; 6, the compressor urethrse muscle; 7, the membraneous portion of the urethra; and 8, the prostate. The dangers of the operation are : — A. Before the point of the knife has entered the groove in the staff— 1, wounding the rectum, either from cutting too perpen- dicularly, or from not having had it cleared out by an Fig. 294.—Petticoated tube.DANGERS OP LITHOTOMY. 757 enema; 2, wounding the artery of the bulb in conse- quence of beginning the incision too high, or directing the point of the knife subsequently too much upwards; and 3, missing the groove in the staff. B. On entering the bladder—1, letting the point of the knife slip out of the groove in the staff and enter the cellular tissue between the bladder and rectum; 2, cutting the pudic artery from holding the knife too much lateralized; 3, sending the point of the knife through the posterior wall of the bladder; 4, cutting the prostate too widely, and dividing its capsule, whereby the urine may be ex- travasated into the cellular tissue of the pelvis; 5, wounding the prostatic plexus of veins; 6, tearing the urethra across, and feo pushing the bladder off the end of the staff, whilst trying to pass the finger into the bladder (this accident is due to not making the opening into the urethra large enough, and is most common in children in whom the tissues are readily lacerable); 7, making too small an incision in the prostate so that the parts are bruised or torn in removing the stone, and inflammation is set up ; 8, seizing the walls of the bladder by the forceps. These dangers may be best avoided by observing the following rules—1, feel the stone with the staff before you begin the operation; 2, see that the rectum is empty, and make it contract by introducing the finger; 3, make the external incision free; 4, feel both edges of the groove in the staff with the finger, and place the point of the knife betiveen them ; 5, keep the point of the knife well pressed into the groove of the staff; 6, take care that the finger is pushed into the bladder in contact with the naked staff; 7, do not remove the staff till the finger touches the stone. The difficulties of the operation.—In adults the chief difficulty is to extract the stone ; in children to get into the bladder. A. The difficulty in entering the bladder depends chiefly on—1, not making the opening into the urethra free enough, and so pushing the finger between the bladder and the rectum; 2, a deep perineum so that the finger cannot reach the bladder; in such a case a blunt gorget must be substituted for the finger. B. The difficulties i7i extracting the stone are—1, the stone may be too large ; 2, it may get behind the prostate; 3, it may be lodged in a pouch in the upper fundus ; 4, it may be encysted; 5, it may break or crumble up ; 6, it may be so small that it slips from between the blades of theDISEASES OE REGIONS. 758 forceps ; 7,there maybe an enlargement of,or tumour in, the prostate, whereby the urethra is greatly lengthened; 8, there may be some rickety or other deformity of the pelvic bones. When the stone is behind the prostate, curved forceps, with the blades turned down, must be used; when the stone is above the pubes, the blades must be turned upwards, the handle depressed, and the stone pressed down by the hand above the pubes. When too small to be seized, the scoop must be substituted for the forceps. If the stone breaks, the fragments must be removed by aid of the scoop and syringe. If encysted, it may be scratched out with the finger-nail, or freed with a probe-pointed bistoury. If too large to be ex- tracted, the wound should first be slightly enlarged; or, this being insufficient three expedients remain—1, to make an incision in the opposite side of the prostate; 2, to crush the stone ; 3, to do the suprapubic operation. The first of these is probably the best. To overcome the difficulty of an enlarged prostate, the blunt gorget must be used and the forceps slid along it. A fibrous tumour in the prostate may be previously shelled out. Where the pelvic outlet is too small to allow of extraction, suprapubic lithotomy must be done. Causes of death after lithotomy. — 1. Diffuse septic inflammation of the cellular tissue of the pelvis due either to infiltration of the urine from too free cutting, or to bruising of the parts in extracting a large stone through a small incision ; 2, peritonitis due to the spread of the inflammation to the peritoneum, or to a wound of the back of the bladder ; 3, shock from too prolonged an operation; 4, exhaustion from primary or secondary haemorrhage; 5, blood-poisoning, due to the absorption of the products of putrefaction (saprsemia), or to septic phlebitis of the prostatic plexus of veins and pyaemia; 6, cystitis; and 7, suppression of urine. The state of the kidneys is of the most serious import. Where these are healthy as in children, lateral lithotomy is one of the most successful operations in surgery; but in adults in whom grave kidney mischief often exists, it is liable to be followed by one or more of the above complications, especially diffuse pelvic inflammation. Thus, in boys, when death occurs it is generally the result of some one of the accidents liable to occur during the operation; in adults the cause is usually dependent primarily on kidney mischief.SUPRAPUBIC LITHOTOMY. 759 The after-treatment is very simple, and consists in little more than keeping the patient clean, and in regulating the secretions and diet. Adults may be placed on a mattress, with a hole opposite the perineum, for the pur- pose of letting the urine drain through. During the first few hours it is essential to see that the wound is free. Should the urine not escape from it, it is probably plugged with a clot of blood; the finger must then be passed into the wound, or if a tube has been introduced, this must be cleared by a probe or feather, or by syringing. Prom the third to the fifth day, in consequence of in- flammatory swelling, more or less of the urine is passed by the urethra, but as this swelling subsides, the greater part may again pass by the wound; more, however, is gradually passed by the natural way and less by the wound, as the latter slowly heals. Should secondary haemorrhage occur, the wound must be plugged ; or if this fails to arrest it, per chloride of iron or the actual cautery must be used. For the treatment of the other complication see Cellulitis, Peritonitis, &c. Median lithotomy.—Pass a staft:, grooved on its convexity, into the bladder, and with the left fore-finger in the rectum, feel for the apex of the prostate. Make an incision with a straight bistoury, with its back towards the rectum, in the median line of the perineum, beginning about half an inch in front of the anus. Insert the point of the knife into the groove of the staff just in front of the prostate, notching the apex, and cut a little upwards, opening the membraneous portion of the urethra. With- draw the knife, slightly enlarging the external incision upwards if necessary, and pass a long bulbous probe along the groove of the staff into the bladder. Withdraw the staff, and gently work the forefinger into the bladder along the probe, thus dilating the prostate. Extract the stone in the usual way. The operation is suitable—1. For small stones or foreign bodies; 2. When it is im- portant that there should be but little loss of blood; 3. For the removal of new growths ; and 4. For exploring the bladder in doubtful cases of disease. All the cutting is done entirely in the median line where no vessels exist; the deeper parts of the wound are merely dilated, not cut. SuPEAPUBic lithotomy consists in opening the bladder between the pubes and the peritoneal fold. It is the method that should be employed for the removal of very760 DISEASES OE REGIONS. large stones, and for certain forms of tumour in the bladder. First, pass a Petersen's india-rubber bag into the rectum, and dilate it with water, and distend the bladder with a weak antiseptic solution, it will then rise well into the abdomen and appear as a prominent tumour, dull to percussion, above the pubes. Make an incision in the middle line immediately above the symphysis (Fig. 253, b), and having divided on a director the tissues forming the linea alba, expose the wall of the bladder by gently separating the fatty tissue that lies in front of it with the finger or director, avoiding the peritoneal fold and, if possible, the large veins which ramify in this situation. The bladder having been fixed by inserting a sharp hook into its walls, make an incision into it; intro- duce the finger to ascertain the size of the stone; enlarge the wound, if necessary, by cutting on a director towards the pubes, and extract the stone with the finger and scoop, or with the forceps. The wound in the bladder may be left open, and the patient placed on his side to ensure an efficient drain and prevent the tissues being infiltrated with urine ; or it may, if the bladder and urine are healthy, be closed by suture. Some tie in a full-sized catheter, but it is not necessary and is perhaps harmful. Calculus i^^ the eemale bladder is much less common than in the male, a fact in great part due to the shorter and more dilatable urethra in women, to the absence of a prostate and consequent exemption of the female from chronic retention and phosphatic deposits, and perhaps also to the more regular habits of women. The symptoms are similar to those in the male, but are sometimes apt to be accompanied by incontinence of urine. They may at times be simulated by vascular growths in the urethra, by uterine disease, and by hysteria. Treatment.—1. When the stone is small, rapid dilatation of the urethra with the three-bladed dilator or dressing forceps is the best method of extraction. 2. When of larger size (above three-quarters of an inch in children and one inch in adults), lithotrity with removal of the fragments at one sitting should be done. 3. When too large for removal by dilatation, and the bladder is too contracted to allow of crushing, the suprapubic operation is called for. Slow dilatation, dilation with incision (urethal lithot- omy), and incision through the vagina [vaginal lithotomy)761 mcOIS'TIN'ENCE OF tJRINE. are very liable to be followed by incontinence of urine, especially in cliildren. Ij^-contijstence of urine or ENUEESis.—Involuntary escape of urine from the bladder may occur under several conditions. Thus—1. The urine may dribble away as fast as it enters the bladder, in consequence of paralysis of the sphincter vesicae and inability to close the urinary outlet {true inGontinence). 2. The urine may be passed involun- tarily during sleep without any organic change in the urinary apparatus being discoverable [nocturnal or active incontinence). 3. The urine may constantly flow away, in consequence of the bladder being over-distended and capable of holding no more {retention ivith incontinence, or false incontinence). This last condition which usually depends on obstruction to the outflow will be described under Retention of Urine (p. 791). The importance of recognizing that it is one of the nature of retention rather than of incontinence cannot be too strongly insisted upon. Whenever, therefore, a patient complains that he is unable to hold his water, or that it is continually dribbling away, an over-distended bladder should be suspected, the abdomen examined for suchj and a catheter passed. 1. True incontinence of urine is very rare. In males, it may be due—(a), to a peculiar form of enlargement of the middle lobe of the prostate, whereby the 'urethra is rendered patent instead of being obstructed as is more commonly the case in enlarged prostate; (h), to a like patency of the urethra from the impaction of a calculus at the neck of the bladder or from a prostatic calculus; (c), to disease or injury of the spinal cord, implicating the lumbar enlargement, and inducing the bladder to become so contracted and thickened that it cannot hold any urine. In females it may be due—(a), to over-dilatation of the urethra, as in extracting a calculus from the bladder; (6), to injury of the parts during parturition ; and (c), to vesico-vaginal fistula. The treatment consists in removing the cause, or if this is impracticable, in rendering the patient's condition as comfortable as possible under the' circumstances by a urinary convenience. 2. Nocturnal or active incontinence generally occurs in children, and must be distinguished from the involuntary passage of urine which is an occasional symptom of thread-worms, calculus, long prepuce, or growth in the bladder. In nocturnal incontinence proper, beyond that the child wets his bed, no sign of disease of any kind is762 DISEASES OE REGIONS. discoverable. Treatment, —Presupposing that tlie absence of thread-worms, calculus, long prepuce and growth in the bladder has been ascertained, the treatment should consists in tonics, cold baths, and the administration of belladonna in increasing doses till symptoms of bella- donna poisoning appear. The child should lie on his side, not on his back, and be awakened at regular intervals to pass water. I have found the continuous galvanic current of service; one pole should be applied over the urinary centre in the lumbar region, the other to the perineum. In obstinate cases, Sir Henry Thompson advises the appli- cation of a solution of silver nitrate (grs. x to gj) to the neck of the bladder. HEMATURIA or bloody urine is generally a symptom of disease or injury of the urinary organs, but may also occur in certain constitutional conditions, as scurvy, pur- pura, malaria, the h^emorrhagic diathesis, and in some fevers. "When blood is present in large quantities, the urine will be bright red or coffee or porter coloured; when in smaller quantities, of various shades of brown to which the term " smoky " is applied. Blood may be simulated by urates, indican, bile, or rhubarb or other colouring matter which may have been introduced by impostors. The dark greenish colour of the urine which is produced by the absorption of carbolic acid from a wound must not be mistaken for blood. Blood may be distinguished by blood-globules being seen under the microscope ; or by the ozonic ether test. Add a few drops of tincture of guaiacum to the suspected urine, and then an excess of ozonic ether, shake the mixture and allow it to stand; it will assume a blue colour if blood is present. Albumen will, of course, be detected in the urine if blood is present in quantity. Source of the hlood.—The blood may come from—1, the kidney or ureter; 2, the bladder or prostate; or 3, the urethra When from the Iddney or ureter it may be due to (a), injury, (&) congestion or inflammation, (c) Bright's disease, [d) the administration of turpentine or the appli- cation of a cantharides blister, (e) the presence of a para- site, the Bilharzia hsematobia, in the pelvis of the kidney in persons who have been in Africa, (/) the impaction or passage of a calculus, {g) the passing of a catheter up the urethra, or {h) malignant disease. When from the Madder or prostate it may be due to (a) injury, (6) calculus, (c) cystitis or prostatitis, or {d) villous or malignant763 DISEASES OF THE PBOSTATE. I growths. When from the urethra it may be due to {a) i injury, (I) gonorrlioea or chancre, (c) erectile growths, j {d) calculus, (e) rupture of the corpus spongiosum in ! chordee or sexual interoourse. Diagnosis.—Blood from the urethra comes before the urine, is frequently pure, and may continue flowing I between the acts of micturition. From the bladder or prostate, it generally comes after the urine, or the urine contains more blood at the end than at the beginning of micturition ; it is often clotted from remaining some time in the bladder, and the urine then is of a porter-like colour. From the kidney it comes with the urine, with which it is intimately mixed (smoky urine). The urine may then contain blood-casts of the renal tubes, or when it comes from the ureter, fibrinous casts of the ureter. The treatment resolves itself into remedying where possible the cause (see Diseases of Kidney, Bladder, &c.). When clots have collected in the bladder, they may be washed out with a stream of water; but when they are decomposing, it may be necessary to open the bladder through the perineum and remove them. DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE. Acute peostatitis.— Causes.—Generally gonorrhoea, or stricture of the urethra; less frequently cystitis, im- pacted calculus, and passage of instruments. Occasion- ally in gouty subjects it appears to occur idiopathically. Symptoms.—Micturition is frequent, and attended with pain, especially at the end of the act ; there is throbbing and continuous pain in the perineum and neck of the bladder, and pain during defsecation. When examined by the finger in the rectum, the prostate is found hot, swollen, and painful, and the passage of a cathether causes great pain. The febrile disturbance which accompanies it, is perhaps ushered in by rigors. Terminations.— Eesolution, abscess, or chronic inflammation. Treatment,' —Six or more leeches to the perineum; hot hip-baths ; hot poultices to the perineum; and a purgative at the onset, followed by alkaline medicines. A catheter is only to be passed if there is retention of urine. Abscess oe the prostate is generally preceded by acute inflammation ; but chronic abscess may be produced by catheterism in chronic enlargement of the organ.764 DISEASES OE REGIONS. Acute abscess may be suspected, when in tbe course of acute prostatitis rigors and retention of urine supervene. Fluctuation can at times be felt through, the rectum, but the abscess is generally first discovered on passing a cathether for the relief of the retention of urine, when a quantity of pus escapes from the urethra. At times the abscess may burst into the rectum or perineum. Treat- ment.—Free incision in the middle line of the perineum to let out the pus. When the pus forms around the pros- tate instead of in its substance, a 'periprostatic abscess is said to have occurred. The cause, symptoms, and treat- ment are similar. Cheonic prostatitis generally occurs as a sequel to the acute. The symptoms are similar but of much less intensity; and there is a glairy discharge with, sometimes, a drop or two of blood in it. The urine is cloudy and contains pus and prostatic casts. Nocturnal emissions are frequent. If the inflammation is not relieved, cystitis may follow, and the bodily and mental health become seriously impaired. Treatment,—Blisters to the peri- neum, gentle laxatives, tonics especially iron, change of air or a sea voyage, sea-bathing, a generous diet, and the avoidance of stimulants, horse-exercise and sexual indul- gence. The application of silver nitrate to the prostatic urethra is recommended by some Surgeons when there are nocturnal emissions. Hypertrophy, or chronic enlargement of the prostate, must be carefully distinguished from the enlargement due to inflammation. It seldom occurs under the age of fifty or sixty, and is a common, though not an invariable, disease of old men. It may be due to hypertrophy of all the tissues forming the prostate ; or the glandular, muscular, or fibrous tissue only may be affected, then often forming distinct masses in the substance of the organ. The enlargement may involve the whole prostate, or may be confined to one or other of the lateral lobes or to the so-called middle lobe (Fig. 295). The causes are not known. The effects of chronic enlargement of the prostate are very serious when the out-flow of urine is impeded, similar changes occurring in the bladder, ureters and kidneys as described under stricture. The bladder behind the enlargement forms a pouch in which some urine may remain, after each act of micturition, unexpelled, and there, mixed with pus and mucus from the walls of theCnHONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTATE. 765 I inflamed bladder, undergo decomposition, probably owing I to the action of micro-organisms, the urea being converted j into ammonium carbonate, and the phosphates in conse- I quence precipitated. / I Symptoms.—Increased frequency of micturition, espe- cially at night; inability to propel the stream to the same distance as formerly, owing to the muscular fibres of the bladder being involved in the disease ; and difficulty in commencing the act. Later, the bladder is imperfectly Fig. 295.—Enlargement of the middle lobe of the prostate. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) emptied; the retained urine becomes ammoniacal and alkaline in reaction ; cystitis is set up, and retention of urine may finally occur. Diagnosis.—These symptoms may depend upon causes other than enlarged prostate. It is only by a physical examination that the nature of the disease can be accu- rately made out. On introducing the finger into the rectum the prostate is felt enlarged, unless the middle lobe only is involved. On passing a catheter no obstruc- tion is met with in the urethra ; i.e., the catheter passes six or seven inches without meeting with any, and then has to be well depressed before it can be made to enter the bladder. Or an ordinary catheter may not be long enough to enter the bladder, and a prostatic catheter may have to be used. Treatment.—In the early stages, as long as the bladder766 DISEASES OF KEGIONS. can be completely emptied by tbe patient's own efforts, tbe treatment should be directed to improving the general health. If it is found, after urine has been passed, that the bladder still retains some ounces, then catheterism must be commenced. A soft catheter, or when the middle lobe is enlarged, a coude or bi-coude (Figs. 296, 297), should be used at regular intervals, and any cystitis which may exist should be treated as already described. As the disease advances the passage of the catheter may cause a very irritable condition of the bladder. Under Fig. 296.—Coude catheter. such circumstances it becomes a question whether the bladder should be tapped above the pubes, and a cannula kept permanently in; or whether an incision in the middle line of the perineum should be made to drain the bladder. I prefer the latter method. When retention occurs, and it cannot be relieved by a catheter, the bladder must be tapped above the pubes. Eecently the obstruction has been overcome by punching out a piece of Fig. 297.—Bi-coude catheter. the prostate with an instrument invented for the purpose, by boring a new channel with the galvano-cautery, and by opening the bladder above the pubes and removing with the knife or cautery the obstructing portion of the middle lobe {prostatectomy). The removal of the ob- structing middle lobe holds out the best prospect of success. Tubercle oe the prostate may occur in the course of general tuberculosis, or in connection with tubercular disease of the genito-urinary tract. It gives rise to in- flammation, and sometimes suppuration, in or about the organ; but its diagnosis will depend on the presence of tubercle in other parts, as the testicle, bladder, vesiculse seminales, &c. The local scraping away of caseous material may give some temporary relief.767 DISEASES OE THE URETHRA. Malignant disease.—Carcinoma in the old, and sar- coma in the yonng, may occur in the prostate, but both are rare. Pain, increased frequency in micturition, with passage of blood, often pure, at the end of the act; the presence in the urine of shreds of the growth ; the detec- tion in the rectum of a swelling of the prostate of unequal consistency and of rapid growth; enlargement of the lumbar and often also of the inguinal glands; and wasting and cachexia, are the symptoms by which it may be known. The treatment can only be palliative; i.e., morphia to subdue pain, astringents to check haemor- rhage, and catheterism or supra-pubic puncture to relieve retention. Prostatic calculi are often found in abundance in the prostate of old men in the form of small, brown, seed-like bodies. They are composed of phosphates, with a little carbonate of lime and a large proportion of animal matter, and are believed to be formed by the inspissation of the prostatic secretion, and the subsequent deposit upon it of the earthy salts. Usually they give rise to no symjptoms ; but occasionally one or more en- croach upon the urethra, and may attain such a size as to project into the bladder, then causing painful and fre- quent micturition, involuntary erections and escape of semen, or perhaps, retention or incontinence of urine. A grating sensation, but no true ring, may be elicited on the passage of a sound. At other times the calculi may escape into the bladder and there collecting in con- siderable numbers give rise to symptoms of stone. Moreover, one or more may be periodically passed by the urethra. Treatment,—Unless the symptoms are severe, the calculi are better left alone; but should they attain a large size, or give rise to retention, &c., they should be removed through a median incision in the perineum. Extraction by the urethral forceps is not likely to suc- ceed ; but there is no harm in trying, if all gentleness is used. Where they have collected in the bladder they may be washed out by Bigelow's evacuator. diseases oe the urethra. Simple urethritis, or inflammation of the urethra of a non-specific character, may be due to injury, catheter- ism, gout, the irritation of worms, the abuse of alcohol,768 DISEASES OE REGIONS. or contact with leiicorrlioeal discharges. Signs.—Simple inflammation of the urethra is attended by a catarrhal, and at times, by a muco-purulent discharge, and except in the mildest forms, it cannot always, without taking into account the history of the case, be distinguished from gonorrhoea. Like the latter affection it may, though much more rarely, be complicated by cystitis, prostatitis, epididymitis, nephritis, synovitis, and oph- thalmia. The treatment is similar to that for gonorrhoea. Gonorrhoea is an infective, and probably specific in- flammation, attended with a muco-purulent discharge. In the male it is most common in the urethra, in the female in the vagina and about the vulva; but it may attack any mucous membrane exposed to contagion. Cause.—In the male it is nearly always due to direct contagion, and in the female it is also commonly con- tracted in this way; but in the female it may possibly be developed de novo, i.e., evolved from a non-pathogenic organism through want of cleanliness and the decompo- sition of retained and foul discharges. Pathology. — Gonorrhoea is by many regarded as a specific and infective inflammation, in that it has a dis- tinct incubative period, is highly contagious, extends along the mucous tracks it attacks, and may secondarily affect the fibrous tissues of the body generally, as in gonorrhoeal rheumatism and sclerotitis, and in that the micro-organism (gonococcus), found in the discharges after gelatine cultivations to four generations, will set up a similar inflammation in any mucous membrane to which it is applied. In the male, gonorrhoea usually begins in the mucous membrane of the fossa navicularis, and if allowed to run its course, extends backwards along the urethra, and thence may spread to the vesiculse seminales, prostate, bladder, and testicle. In the female it usually begins about the vulva, whence it may extend to the vagina, and more rarely to the urethra, bladder, and uterus. Symptoms.—Gonorrhoea is generally divided into three stages." In the first stage, usually lasting from a few days to a week, there is some itching about the external meatus followed by a yellowish-white discharge. In the second or acute stage, there is great pain on urination, a thick yellowish-green discharge, and redness and swelling about the lips of the meatus. In the third or chronic stage, which, when prolonged, is known as gleet, theCOMPLICATIOlSrS OF GONORRHOEA. 769 discharge becomes thin and watery, and there is no longer pain on urination. The treatment varies according to the stage of the dis- ease. Generally it may be said that at the onset a smart purge should be given, and the bowels subsequently kept slightly relaxed by saline aperients; whilst, throughout its course, stimulants of all kinds must be withheld, demulcent drinks freely taken to dilute the urine, the parts kept scrupulously clean, the testicles supported in a suspensory bandage, and active exercise and exposure to cold and wet avoided. In the first stage the so-called abortive treatment is often successful. It consists in the use of astringent injections, and the internal administra- tion of such drugs as copaiva, cubebs, or sandal oil. An excellent plan is that suggested by Mr. Cheyne of passing a bougie composed of iodoform, oil of eucalyptus, and oil of theobroma, into the urethra after the patient has passed water, and allowing it to dissolve there, and sub- sequently injecting freely with a lotion of sulpho-car- bolate of zinc. The bougie should be repeated if neces- sary. In this way the disease may often be cured in a few days. In the second stage most Surgeons recommend a soothing plan of treatment, merely keeping the bowels relaxed, and giving such medicines as hyoscyamus, bicarbonate of potash, &c. Unless, however, the inflam- mation is very intense, injections of sulpho-carbolate or sulphate of zinc, or of tannic acid, may be safely used and will greatly lessen the duration of the disease. In the third stage, astringent injections, combined with the internal use of copaiva, cubebs, or sandal oil are indi- cated. This stage is often very difficult to cure, and where one remedy or injection fails, another must be tried. The passage of a full-sized bougie is at times of much service. Spring bougies coated with thallin have been lately highly recommended. Complications of Gonorrhcea. — Complications of some kind frequently occur during an acute attack of gonorrhoea. They may be conveniently classified accord- ing as they depend upon :—A. The local inflammation of the urethra—1, balanitis; 2, chordee; 3, phimosis; 4, paraphimosis ; 5, lacunar and perineal abscess; 6, reten- tion of urine; 7, warts; 8, stricture; 9, induration of the penis (rare). B. The extension of the inflammation along the genito-urinary mucous membrane—1, prostatitis; 2, cystitis; 3, Cowperitis ; 4, vesiculitis ; 5, epididymitis ; w. 3 bDISEASES OF REGIONS. 770 6, pyelitis and nepliritis (very rare); and in tTie female : 7, metritis; 8, salpingitis; 9, pelvic peritonitis and cellu- litis. C. The extension of the inflammation to the lym- johatics of the urethra—1, lymphangitis ; 2, bubo ; and 3, blood-poisoning. D. The local inoculation of distant mucous membranes tuith the discharge—1, gonorrhoeal conjunctivitis; 2, nasal catarrh; and 3, catarrhal inflammation of the rectum. E. The absorption by the blood-vessels of the septic proditcts—1, gonorrhoeal rheuma- tism ; 2, gonorrhoeal sclerotitis; and, 3, septicaemia and pyaemia. Of these complications, some are exceedingly rare, whilst others, as balanitis^ chordee, phimosis, para- phimosis, epididymitis, bubo, and stricture are common. Most of these complications are described under diseases of the various organs in other parts of the book. Here a short account of the following only will be given. Balanitis, or inflammation of the glans penis, often occurs in gonorrhoea. The glans is red and swollen, of a bright red colour, and often excoriated. Cleanliness and astringent lotions are all that is necessary. Chordee or painful erection of the penis, is very common in gonorrhoea. The erected penis has often a downward curve, which is generally believed to depend on the inflammatory products in and around the urethra preventing the corpus spongiosum from becoming dis- tended equally with the corpora cavernosa. Some, how- ever, attribute the chordee to spasm of the urethral, muscles. It occurs chiefly at night-time when the patient, is warm in bed, and greatly disturbs his rest. The treat- ment consists in the administration of such sedatives as potassium bromide or of camphor and opiam in the form of a pill or suppository, and the local application of cold, or a hot bath before going to bed. CowPERiTis, or inflammation of Cowper's glands, some- times occurs, and then usually late in the second stage of gonorrhoea. It may be known by the formation of a painful swelling on one or both sides of the middle line of the perineum. The swelling, at first hard, subsequently becomes soft and fluctuating as pus forms. It may be distinguished from ordinary perineal abscess by its one- sided position. Treatment.—WsiTrnth to the perineum, and when suppuration has occurred, a free incision. Lymphangitis and bubo.—The inflamed lymphatic vessels appear as red streaks running along the dorsum of the penis to the inguinal glands, the penis itself,Ill STRICTURE OF THE UHETHRA. especially the glans, being swollen, turgid, and dusky red in colour. It may terminate in suppuration of tlie inguinal glands, or even in blood-poisoning. In the ordinary gonorrhcaal hubo, inflamed lymphatics are not as a rule visible on the penis, and the inflammation which may occur both in and around the gland generally termi- nates without suppuration. Treatjtient.—Eest, and atten- tion to the bowels, is all that is usually required. If, however, suppuration threatens, hot linseed poultices and fomentations must be applied, and a free incision in a vertical direction made as soon as pus forms. Stricture of the Urethra, True, or organic stricture of the urethra is a cicatricial narrowing of the canal at one or more spots due to disease, injury, or congenital defect. A temporary narrowing of the urethra may also occur from spasm of the muscular tissue surrounding it, or from congestion of its lining membrane, conditions to which the terms spasmodic and congestive stricture are sometimes applied. Such, however, seldom occur without the co-existence of organic stricture. Obstruction of the urethra by a calculus, an enlarged prostate, or by pressure from without, as from an abscess or fractured pelvic bone, should not be spoken of as stricture. Cause and formation of stricture.—A stricture is generally the result of chronic inflammation, such as a neglected gonorrhoea or gleet, or more rarely, a simple urethritis in a gouty subject. In such cases the mucous and sub- mucous tissue become infiltrated with inflammatory pro- ducts, which are ultimately organized into fibrous tissue ; and this again slowly contracts, narrowing the canal. More rarely a stricture may be caused by the contraction of a cicatrix following laceration or rupture of the urethra, produced by injury inflicted either from within by the careless passage of instruments or the use of too strong injections, or from without by kicks, falls, &c., on the perineum. Occasionally it may be due to the contraction of the cicatrix following a urethral chancre. In some instances no cause can be ascribed. A few cases are congenital. Varieties.—Organic strictures have been divided (1) according to their cause, into idiopathic and traumatic; 3 D 2772 DISEASES OF EEGIONS. (2) according to their anatomical appearances, into linear, annular, irregular or tortuous, bridle or pack-thread, and tunnelled, terms whicli sufficiently explain themselves; (3) according to whether an instrument can or cannot be passed, into permeable and impermeable; (4) according to their behaviour, into simple, sensitive or irritable, and con- tractile or recurring ; and (5) according to their structure into fibrous, elastic, and cartilaginous. Situation, — Stricture may occur in any part of the urethra save the prostatic. It is generally said to be most common in the bulbous part of the spongy portion, but Otis and others maintain that it is most often found in the anterior part of the urethra, and that what have been considered deep strictures are only spas- modic conditions conse- quent upon the reflex irritation of the true stricture in front. In the penile portion of the urethra strictures are usually multiple. Results.—When a stric- ture, or indeed any me- FiG. 298. —The effects of obstruc- chanical obstruction to the tion to the outflow of urine f^ee flow of urine from from the bladder on the urinary bladder, such as a apparatus. ^ong prepuce, an enlarged prostate, a narrow meatus, &c., has existed some time, serious structural changes (Fig. 298) occur in the urinary apparatus on the proximal side of the lesion, i.e., in 1, the urethra behind the stric- ture ; 2, the bladder; 3, the ureters; and 4, the kidneys. Thus :— 1. The urethra behind the stricture becomes dilated, and ulceration may occur leading to perforation, urinary abscess and fistula ; or rupture may take place suddenlySTRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 773 during straining, and be followed by extravasation of urine. 2. The bladder, in consequence of its efforts to expel the urine, becomes thickened from hypertrophy of its muscular coat. The mucous membrane may become in- flamed and thickened; or owing to the pressure of the urine may be protruded through the muscular fasciculi, forming sacculi, in which stale urine may collect or a calculus form. 3. The ureters become dilated, their muscular coats hypertrophied, and their lining membrane sometimes inflamed. 4. The kidneys become disorganized, in part from the backward pressure of the retained urine and in part from the spread of inflammation from the bladder up the ureter to the pelvis. See Diseases of Kidneys, p. 725. Symptoms.—A gleety discharge, increased frequency of micturition, and perhaps, some pain in the act, twisting or forking of the stream, or the escape of a few drops of urine after the stream has ceased are early signs of stricture. Then the stream gets gradually smaller, and is passed with increasing difficulty and straining till finally the urine may only be voided drop by drop, or complete retention may set in. In some instances an attack of retention is the first sign of the disease. In neglected cases the straining may produce piles or prolapse of the rectum ; or cystitis may be set up and the urine become ammoniacal and turbid from the presence of pus and mucus; or the bladder may become over-distended, and the urine dribble involuntarily away. This condition of over-flow should be carefully distinguished from incon- tinence (see p. 761). At first there are usually no con- stitutional symptoms; but as the obstruction begins to tell on the bladder and kidneys, dyspeptic troubles are developed; the patient loses weight, his countenance becomes anxious, he suffers from chilliness and occasional rigors, from pain in the loins, and later, from feverish attacks and unmistakable signs of kidney mischief. Thus a stricture which in itself, if kept properly dilated, is not a serious disease, becomes so when neglected and chronic bladder and kidney trouble is allowed to be set up. It may then end fatally from an intercurrent attack of acute cystitis or nephritis, or from extravasation of urine and its consequences occurring during an attack of retention.DISEASES OF UEGlOiCS. 774 A diagnosis can only be made with certainty by ex- amining the uretbra with instruments. First take a No. 8 or 9 black bougie or catheter and if this passes easily try successively larger sizes till the obstruction is met with. If on the other hand it will not pass, try a smaller bougie till one is found that will go into the bladder. If the obstruction to the passage of the bougie is met with within six inches of the meatus, a stricture exists; but if it is further than this the case is one of enlarged prostate. Do not mistake the catching of the Fia. 299.—Bulbous stem. end of the bougie in a lacuna or at the triangular ligament, or the spasm that may be present on the first trial for a stricture. Having discovered the stricture, measure the distance from the meatus on the catheter or bougie. Next pass a bulbous stem (Fig. 299) through the stricture, and then withdraw it, noting on the stem where the bulb is Fig. 300. —Otis' urethrometer. caught in the act of withdrawal. This, when compared with the distance noted on the catheter, will indicate the length of the stricture. In the same way the existence of other strictures can be discovered. The calibre of the stricture may be measured by Otis' urethrometer (Fig. 300). The method of passing a bougie or catheter can be much better learnt by five minutes' practice than by any written instructions. Here only the general rules for passing such will be given. 1. Carefully examine the instru- ment to see that it is quite clean, perfectly smooth, not defective in any part, and, in the case of a catheter, that it is pervious, in order to avoid respectively the dangers of septic infection, laceration of the urethral mucous mem- brane, the breaking off of the end of the catheter in the775 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. stricture, and the annoyance of finding that when the catheter has been passed it is choked and urine will not flow through it. 2. Warm and oil the instrument; a cold catheter is unpleasant to the patient and tends to produce spasm; an unoiled catheter does not glide easily along the urethra. 3. Place the patient in the recumbent position if instrumentation is to be practised for the first time lest faintness be produced. In old-standing cases, where the urethra is callous, the patient may stand with his back against a wall. 4. Pass the instrument with the greatest gentleness and use no force. The difficulties that may he met with in ^passing an instru- ment are : 1. The point may catch in a lacuna or fold of mucous membrane. This is best ayoided by keeping the point at first on the floor of the urethra. 2. It may hitch where the urethra passes through the triangular ligament. Should it do so, withdraw it a little, and direct the point against the roof of the urethra. 3. It may enter a false passage. This may be known to have occurred (a) by the handle being deflected from the middle line, [h) by the catheter being felt to be out of the right passage by the finger in the rectum, (c) by free bleeding if the false passage is recent, (c?) by no urine escaping, (e) by the point not moving freely as it does when in the bladder. The formation of a false passage may be prevented by using no force; and entering an old one may be avoided by using a silver catheter and directing its point along the wall of the urethra opposite to that in which the opening into the false passage is situated. The local and constitutional effects that occasionally folloiu the introduction of instruments,—Among the local effects may be mentioned—1, haemorrhage; 2, false passage; 3, abscess ; 4, extravasation of urine, and 5, inflammation of the prostate, testicle or bladder. Among the con- stitutional effects—1, syncope ; 2, rigors ; 3, urethral fever; 4, suppression of urine; and 5, pyaemia. Local effects— 1. Haemorrhage may be due to laceration of the mucous membrane of the urethra by the careless passage of the instrument, or to congestion of the urethra in the neigh- bourhood of the stricture; in either of these cases the blood may flow on the removal of the catheter, the point of which, moreover, will be blood-stained. Haemorrhage, however, may come from the kidney consequent upon reflex congestion due to the irritation of the neck of the bladder by the catheter. The blood will then only appear776 DISEASES OE REGIONS. in tlie urine after some time has elapsed (see Hcematuria, p. 762). 2. A false passage may be produced by using too mucli force, or by applying force in the wrong direc- tion. It is known to have been made by the catheter being felt to slip suddenly onwards, by the handle deviating from the middle line, by the point being felt out of the urethra by the finger in the rectum, and by the patient complaining of severe pain. The catheter should be at once withdrawn and not passed again for a week or more to allow the wound to heal. 3. Abscess; 4, extravasa- tion of urine; and 5, inflammation of the prostate, testicle and bladder require no comment here. General effects.— 1. Syncope occasionally occurs on the first passage of a catheter. It is best avoided by passing the instrument with the patient in the recumbent posture. 2. The rigors which sometimes follow the first introduction of an in- strument appear to depend upon some nervous shock, and may occur where all gentleness has been employed and no local injury whatever has been inflicted. 3. TJrethral fever is most frequent in old people and may supervene within a day or two of the first catheterization. It begins with rigors followed by high fever, and usually terminates in a few days with profuse sweating. Occasionally, how- ever, it may end fatally, in which case there is nearly always some chronic kidney disease discovered at the autopsy. Sir Andrew Clark has called attention to the possible occurrence of death after the passage of an instru- ment in old men without any kidney or bladder trouble to account for it. 4. Where suppression of urine has been observed there has always been some pre-existing kidney mischief. 5. Pyaemia is rare, but has occasionally been noted. The treatment of organic stricture resolves itself into restoring the patency of the urethra by causing the ab- sorption and destruction of the inflammatory or cicatricial material producing the obstruction, and subsequently preventing recontraction. The methods employed for re- storing the patency of the urethra are : 1. Bloiv dilatation, 2. Rapid dilatation, 3. Forcible dilatation or splitting, 4. Division of the stricture from ivithin (internal urethro- tomy). 5. Division of the stricture from without (external urethrotomy). 6. Destruction of the stricture hy caustics. 7. Electrolysis. Treatment by caustics may be said to have now become obsolete, and will not be further re- ferred to. Of the other methods slow dilatation is noTREATMENT OE STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 777 doubt the simplest and safest, and is the one that in the large majority of cases should be used. Where, however, time is an object, or the stricture cannot be dilated by the slow metht)d beyond the size of a No. 4 or 5 catheter, or severe constitutional or local symptoms are set up on each occasion that a catheter is passed, rapid dilatation may be tried. Where again the continual presence of a catheter in the urethra cannot be borne on account of the local irritation which it causes, or the stricture is resilient and rapidly recontracts after it has been fully dilated, internal urethrotomy or electrolysis may be practised, especially if the stricture is in the penile portion of the urethra. Further, when the stricture is of cartilaginous consistency, and will not yield to dilatation, or the peri- neum, in addition, is riddled with sinuses, external ure- throtomy by Syme's or Wheelhouse's method may be performed. Lastly, when after persistent attempts, it is found that an instrument cannot be passed through the stricture, electrolysis may be attempted, or external urethrotomy by Wheelhouse's method may be under- taken. When the symptoms are urgent, as from retention or extravasation of urine, other measures may be required. See Retention and Extravasation of Urine (pp. 791 and 787). Forcible dilatation or splitting does not commend itself to my judgment, and should not in my opinion be em- ployed. If a catheter will not pass on the first attempt it must not at once be assumed that the stricture is impervious, as it may yield on a future occasion; but gentle and persevering attempts with fine catgut bougies, filiform bougies, French silk bougies, or whalebone bougies, should be made. The patient, presupposing there is no retention, may be asked to pass water, and, whilst the urine is flowing, and the stricture is in consequence dilated by the stream, a bougie one or two sizes smaller than the stream may sometimes be slipped in. If the point of a catheter is firmly grasped indicating that it is in the mouth of the stricture, gentle force may then be used to push it onwards. If in any of these ways a fine bougie can be got in it should not be removed till the patient is compelled to pass water, when a small catheter may be subsequently substituted for it, or a railway catheter slid over the bougie before the latter is removed. If after persevering attempts, even with the patient under the influence of chloroform, success is not attained, the778 DISEASES OF EEGIONS. patient should be prepared for a further trial by rest in bed for a week or so, daily hot baths, purgatives, and the administration of opium. When other means have failed, before resorting to a cutting operation, electrolysis under some circumstances may be tried. Slow or intermittent dilatation is the simplest and safest method of treatment, and does not usually necessitate the patient leaving his ordinary employment. The various catheters and bougies employed are so well known as hardly to require description here. All that need be said is that the soft, flexible, black French bougie, with a bulbous end, is now as a rule generally preferred to a metal or gum-elastic instrument. A bougie or catheter should be passed once or twice a week, beginning with the largest instrument that can be intro- duced without using force. On the next occasion the same instrument should be again passed and at once withdrawn, and the next size substituted for it, and allowed to remain for a few minutes. In this way the urethra is gradually dilated to its full size. Formerly it was not thought necessary to pass a larger instrument than No. 12, English scale; now, however, few surgeons are satisfied till the dilatation has been carried to the size of No. 14. To prevent recontraction the patient should be taught to pass a catheter for himself, and instructed to do so at first about every month or six weeks, and subsequently two or three times a year, according to the tendency the stricture may show to recontract. Eapid or CONTINUOUS DILATATION is very useful: 1, when time is an object; 2, when much difiiculty has attended the introduction of an instrument owing to the tightness of the stricture or presence of a false passage ; 3, when the passage of an instrument causes great pain, irritation, heematuria, or rigors; 4, when gradual dila- tation has failed. It consists in tying in a silver catheter for twenty to forty-eight hours, and, on removing it, tying in a size or two larger, and so on till the urethra is fully dilated. The instrument should not fit the stricture too tightly, and its end should not project far into the bladder. It is better, as soon as the stricture begins to yield, to substitute a gum-elastic for a metal instrument. This method necessitates confinement to the couch or bed for ten days or a fortnight, and is not unattended with risk. It frequently causes great pain ; and rigors, fever, urethritis, cystitis, epididymitis, and ulceration of779 INTERKAL rHETHROTOMY. the bladder from the irritation of the point of the catheter, may be induced by it. If the catheter merely causes pain, opium may be given, or the urethra be injected with a solution of cocaine; whilst if it produces rigors, fever, cystitis, &c., it must be removed. It is generally believed that the mere presence of the catheter in the stricture causes the absorption of the inflammatory material in the submucous tissue, and that this result is not effected by mechanical stretching, since a catheter that does not fit the stricture tightly answers better than one that does, and causes less irritation. The method of tying in a catheter will be learnt by every student whilst dressing. FOBCIBLE DILATATION, SPLITTING, OR RUPTURE, haS been much advocated by Mr. Holt. He passes through the stricture an instrument consisting of two parallel blades with a central stem fixed between them, and then over this stem forces a tube the size of the urethra, thus separating the blades and splitting or rupturing the stricture. A full-sized catheter is then passed. The operation is not unattended with danger, and is more liable to be followed by an early relapse than either rapid dilatation or internal urethrotomy. Indeed internal urethrotomy has now to a great extent taken its place in the treatment of linear, contractile, and penile strictures (the strictures to which splitting is said to be especially adapted), since the cicatrix following laceration of the tissues is much more prone to contract than that follow- ing a clean cut. Internal urethrotomy, or division of the stricture from within the urethra, is an excellent operation, but should only be undertaken when the simpler and safer method of treatment by dilatation has failed. It consists in making a clean longitudinal cut with a guarded knife completely through the stricture, and subsequently in keeping the edges of the wound apart by the passage of a full-sized bougie till the ovoid gap thus left has been filled with new tissue—the cicatricial splice of the American Surgeons. The cicatrix following a clean cut shows much less tendency to contract than a cicatrix following a laceration or rupture ; hence the superiority of internal urethrotomy over the method of splitting or rupture. It is a less severe operation than external urethrotomy, and when a urethrotome can be passed through the stricture should generally be performed inDISEASES OF BEGIONS. 780 preference to the latter. The cases suitable for it are : 1. Intractable strictures that cannot be dilated beyond the^ size of a No. 5 or 6 catheter. 2. Strictures which rapidly recontract after dilating instruments are dis- continued. 3. Cases in which the passage of instruments is constantly followed by retention of urine, heematuria, rigors, urethral fever, or other constitutional symptoms. It is especially applicable to strictures within three or four inches of the meatus. Anaesthesia of the urethra should be induced by injection with a 20 per cent, solution of cocaine. The operation may be done by cutting—1. From before backwards; and 2. Erom c Fm. 301.—Teevan's urethrotome. A, staff; b, b, stylets ; c, olivary bougie ; t>, knife ; e, knife-sheath. behind forwards. The latter method requires that the stricture should be dilated up to the size of a No. 4 or 5 catheter to enable the sheathed blade of the instrument to be passed through it; the former can be done if the stricture will admit a No. 2 catheter. There are many ways of performing both methods. The following appear to be the best:— 1. Internal division of the stricture from hefore hack- luards.—If the stricture is sufficiently near the meatus it may be simply divided by a straight blunt-pointed bistoury; otherwise Teevan's urethrotome, which is a modification of Maisonneuve's, should be used (Fig. 301). It consists of a slender staff A with an open slot running along it to within two inches of its end. Within this staff is fitted a stylet B. The slender olivary bougie c is first wriggled through the stricture into the bladder; the staff A is then screwed on to the bougie and made to follow it, the bougie coiling up in the bladder. When the stylet is withdrawn the urine will escape if the in-781 INTERNAL URETHROTOMY. strument has passed into the bladder and not into a false passage. The knife D, covered by the sheath E, is then placed inside the slot, and the stem of the sheathed knife is pushed down to the stricture. The knife is next protruded to half an inch, and then withdrawn in its sheath, which is pushed forward to see if the stricture is completely divided. If it be not, the process is repeated. Teevan divides the roof of the urethra to avoid the bulb, and the consequent danger of haemorrhage from that structure. As soon as the canal is free from one end to the other he passes a full-sized silver catheter to prove that the calibre of the urethra has been restored, and completely empties the bladder. He advises that a Fig. 302.—Thompson's modification of Civiale's urethrotome. catheter should not be left in, and no instrument passed for four days. 2. Internal division of the stricture from hehind for- wards,—(a.) Sir Henry Thompson uses a modification of Civiale's urethrotome (Fig. 302). He first dilates the stricture to the size of No. 4 or 5 bougie; then passes the bulb of the urethrotome, which contains the guarded knife, about a third of an inch beyond the stricture; protrudes the knife by a suitable arrangement in the handle, and draws it firmly towards the meatus for about an inch and a half, dividing the stricture along the floor of the urethra, and a little of the healthy mucous mem- brane at each end of it. He then passes a No. 14 or 16 bougie, and if this is felt to be held at any point, re- introduces the urethrotome, and divides what remains of the stricture. A No. 12 gum-elastic catheter is then tied in for twenty-four to forty-eight hours, {h.) Dr. Otis uses what he calls a dilating urethrotome (Fig. 303). It is introduced beyond the stricture, the screw at the handle is turned, dilating the instrument up to a milli- metre or two beyond the normal calibre of the stricture in order to make the latter completely salient. Then the blade is drawn through the stricture dividing it from behind forwards. Otis claims that when the stricture has been completely divided, re-contraction does nOt782 DISEASES OF REGIONS. occur. This, however, would appear to be contrary to the experience of Surgeons generally, the stricture re- turning (though less rapidly), as it does after all methods of treatment, if a bougie is not occasionally passed. For strictures in front of the scrotum, internal urethrot- omy is a yery successful operation; but in deeper situa- tions it has been followed by abscess, severe haemorrhage, extravasation of urine, cystitis, nephritis, and pyaemia. It would appear to be attended with a mortality ranging from 1 to 3 per cent. External urethrotomy, or opening the urethra from the perineum, may be required for two distinct conditions. 1. For certain strictures which, though pervious to instruments, are of an intractable nature. Fig. 303.—Otis' urethrotome. Here the operation known as Syme's should be done. 2. For strictures, through which even after the utmost perseverance, an instrument cannot be passed. In these cases the stricture may be divided by Wheelhouse's modification of the old method of perineal section; or the urethra may be opened by Cock's method, i,e,, behind the stricture at the apex of the prostate, and the stricture left undivided in the hope that, relieved from the pressure and irritation of the urine, it may become pervious to instruments. Syme^s method of external urethrotomy or perineal section.—Syme advised this operation for—1, irritable, and 2, contractile strictures "that are indomitable by the ordinary means of treatment." For such, however, internal urethrotomy is now generally preferred, and Syme's operation reserved for 3, indurated and cartila- ginous strictures, complicated by intractable perineal fistulae where dilatation has failed. Introduce Syme's shouldered staff (Fig. 304) so that the slender part passes through the stricture into the bladder, and the shoulder of the thicker part rests against the face of the stricture.EXTERNAL URETHROTOMY. 783 Place the patient in the lithotomy position, and make an incision one inch and a quarter long through the middle line of the perineum over the stricture. Having felt the staff distinctly in the wound, take it in the left hand, "and guarding the knife with the right forefinger, insert its point into the groove on the bladder side of the stric- ture, and divide the stricture from behind forward. When completely divided, the thicker part of the staff can be pushed on into the bladder." A full-sized catheter should be tied in for twenty-four hours. The difficulties attending Syme's operation are—1, to be sure that the staff is in the bladder, and not in a false passage ; and 2, to pass a catheter afterwards. These are obviated by the modification suggested by Teevan. He advises a catheter- FiG. 304.—Syme's staff. staff with a groove on its convexity, along which the knife can be run to divide the stricture. When intro- duced, it is known to be in the bladder by the escape of urine on removing the stylet. A bougie is then screwed on to its end, and a gum-elastic railway catheter is passed over the bougie and staff till arrested by the stricture, and is there fixed by a screw. When the stricture is thought to be divided, the catheter is advanced over the staff; and if all is divided, will pass on into the bladder. The catheter-staff can now be withdrawn, and the catheter, if desired, left in the bladder. Syme's operation is very useful, but like other methods is liable to be fol- lowed by recontraction if a bougie is not occasionally! passed. Perineal section must not be confounded with Syme's - operation to which this term is sometimes applied. The older operations of perineal section were performed. by cutting into the urethra either in front of or behind the stricture, and then trying to divide the stricture without a guide. They were the most difficult operations in Surgery. The stricture was often missed altogether and an incision made by its side, and the greatest difficulty was experienced in finding the proximal end of the urethra.,DISEASES OE BEGIONS. 784 Indeed, after a long search, the Surgeon had often the mortification of having to send the patient back to bed without haying succeeded in reaching the bladder. These difficulties have to a great extent been overcome by Mr. Wheelhouse, who, instead of cutting down upon the end of the sta:^ on the face of the stricture, opens the urethra half an inch in front of it, and passes a director Fig. 805.—Wheelhouse's staff. Fig. 306.—Wheelhouse's method of opening urethra. (Bryant's Surgery.) through the opening thus made in the urethra into the stricture and divides the latter. Wheelhouse^s modification of perineal section. — Pass Wheelhouse's staff (Fig. 305), with the groove down- wards, to the stricture. Place the patient in the litho- tomy position with the pelvis raised so that light may fall into the wound. Make an incision in the middle line of the perineum, and open the urethra on the groove, (not on the point of the staff) so as to be half an inch in front of the stricture. Seize the edges of the healthy urethra on each side by artery forceps, and hold them ,cock's operation of perineal section. 785 apart. Withdraw the staff a little, turn it so that the groove looks towards the pubes, and catch up the upper angle of the opened urethra by the hooked end. The urethra is thus held open at three points (Fig. 306). Search for the stricture, and pass a slender probe-pointed director through it into the bladder. Divide the stricture with a probe-pointed bistoury run along the groove in the director. Pass the point of the probe-gorget (Fig. 307) along the groove of the director towards the bladder, dilating the divided stricture. Introduce a gum-elastic catheter from the meatus into the wound, and guide it by the gorget into the bladder. Withdraw the gorget, and retain the catheter in the urethra for three or four days. The catheter should allow a catgut bougie to pass through it to act as a guide when it has to be changed. CocVs operation of perineal section^ or tapping the dilated urethra at the apex of the prostate '' unassisted by a guide staff." Secure the patient in the lithotomy position. Pass the left forefinger into the rectum, and place its point on the apex of the prostate. Plunge a double-edged scalpel (Cock's knife) boldly into the median line of the perineum, and carry it towards the tip of the finger in the rectum. Enlarge the incision by an upward and downward move- ment of the knife, but do not withdraw it. When the point is felt near the tip of the finger, pass it onwards into the urethra. Withdraw the knife, keep the finger in the rectum, and guide a probe-pointed director into the bladder. Withdraw the finger from the rectum, and pass a cannula along the director into the bladder, and tie it in for a few days. This appears to be a good opera- tion for impervious stricture with fistulae and much induration of the perineum, and is held in considerable favour by some of the Gruy's Surgeons. Por such stric- w. 3 E Fm. 807.—Wheelhouse's probe-gorget.786 t)ISEASES 01^ REGIOKS. tures, however, Wheelhouse's operation is more generally performed. Electrolysis lias recently been advocated for stricture, and several successful* cases in this country have been re- ported by the late Dr. Steavenson and Mr. Bruce Clarke. It consists in passing a catheter-electrode down to the face of the stricture, connecting it with the battery, and applying the other electrode to some other part of the body. It is believed to act by causing some chemical change in the cicatricial tissue, thus leading to its absorption. It has been employed for stricture where an instrument after persistent attempts cannot be passed, and as a substitute in some cases for dilatation. Sufficient time has not elapsed to judge of the results that may be expected from this method of treatment. It is certainly not unattended with danger—extravasation of urine and even death having followed its employment. Urethral or URiisrARY abscesses may occur at any part of the urethra, but the most common situation is in the perineum. Cause.—They are most often formed in connection with stricture, and are then due to ulceration and local extravasation of urine behind the seat of ob- struction. They may also result from injury inflicted either from without or from within, as passing an instru- ment along the urethra, or the impaction of a calculus; or they may occur during an attack of gonorrhoea from inflammation extending to one of the urethral follicles; or to Cowper's glands. The signs of a urethral abscess in the perineum, its most cominon situation, are the presence of a hard, brawny, deeply-seated swelling, generally beginning in the middle line just in front of the anus, and as it increases in size, making its way to one or other side of the perineum in the direction of the groin. At first, while the pus is bound down by the deep fascia, there is no fluctuation, and it is only as it approaches the surface that this sign of abscess can be detected. The abscess is attended with throbbing pain, often with sharp constitu- tional disturbance, and occasionally with a rigor; it may also cause retention of urine. Treatment.—Fluctuation must not be waited for, but a catheter passed down the urethra, and a free incision made in the median line of the perineum into the swelling. If the abscess is not opened, it may break externally on the perineum, or it may burrow amongst the tissues and break into the rec- tum ; and if not already in connection with the urethra,EXTRAVASATION OF URINE. 787 as when the abscess forms external to it, it may break into that canal. Urinary fistula are generally the result of urinary abscess in connection with stricture of the urethra. They may also be due to wounds of the urethra, made acciden- tally, or by surgical operation, or to ulceration following impaction of a calculus. They are commonly divided into three kinds :—1, The perineal; 2, the scrotal ; and 3, the penile.—The perineal may be single or multiple; the scrotal are nearly always multiple; and the penile single. In long-standing cases the fistulse may burrow among the tissues of the groin, nates and thighs, and may even open into the rectum. Treatment.—^When due to stricture, the fistulse will generally readily heal when the stricture is cured and a free natural passage is established for the escape of urine. Should they not do so—1. A perineal fistula when small may be induced to close by passing a soft catheter to prevent the contact of urine whenever the patient mictu- rates, or by inserting into the fistula a hot wire or a probe coated with silver nitrate. If these means fail, the edges of the fistula may be pared and brought together by sutures. When the parts are indurated and the stric- ture is of the cartilaginous kind, external urethrotomy and laying open of the fistulee should be practised. 2. Scrotal fistulce nearly always require freely laying open, and when secondary fistulse extend to the groin or buttock they should also be treated in this way. 3. Penile fistulce when large, and especially when the result of sloughing consequent upon the impaction of a calculus, usually require a plastic operation. Extravasation of urine is commonly, though not always, the result of stricture, and is then due either to the dilated urethra behind a stricture ulcerating and giving way, or to a lacunar abscess bursting into the urethra. In either case, the urine is forced by the contraction of the bladder into the surrounding cellular tissue. The urethra may give way (1) in front of the anterior layer, (2) between the two layers, and (3) behind the posterior layer of the triangular ligament. In the first and by far the most common situation, it is the bulbous portion of the urethra that gives way. Here the urine is prevented from passing—1, backwards into the pelvis by the anterior layer of the triangular ligament being attached to the rami of the pubes and ischium and sub-pubic ligament; 3 E 2DISEASES OE HEGIOKS. ?8B 2, downwards into the iscliio-rectal fossa by the anterior layer of the triangular ligament being continuous around the transverse perineal muscle with the deep layer of the superficial fascia from the perineum ; 3, laterally on to the thighs by the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the perineum being attached to the rami of the pubes and ischium. Hence it passes in the middle line into the cellular tissue of the scrotum and penis, and laterally on to the abdomen, where it is prevented from passing down the thigh by the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the groin (which is continuous with the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the perineum) being attached along the line of Poupart's ligament. When the membraneous portion of the urethra is ruptured, the urine is confined at first between the two layers of the triangular ligament, and if not let out will make its way (1) forwards, through the anterior layer, and take the course as given above, or rarely (2) backwards, through the pos- terior layer, and then, as when the urethra gives way behind the posterior layer, will make its way around the neck of the bladder, and will be almost inevitably fatal. Wherever the urine spreads, it causes inflammation and sloughing. Symptoms.—The history of a case of extravasation is not uncommonly as follows. A patient with a tight stricture is straining to pass water, he feels something give way, experiences a sensation of relief, and perhaps owing to the tension being removed by some urine being forced into the cellular tissue, the superadded spasm for a time ceases, and a few ounces of urine are passed through the urethra. In half an hour or so a pricking or burn- ing sensation is felt in the perineum, soon followed by pam, and by rapidly increasing swelling of the perineum, scrotum and penis. If the urine is not let out by timely incisions the swelling extends to the groin, and in some cases has been known to reach as high as the axilla. The skin now appears dusky or purplish-red and oedema- tous, and gangrene and sloughing of the infiltrated tissues rapidly ensue. The absorption of the septic products gives rise to constitutional disturbance and fever, which though it may at first run high, soon assumes a low typhoid character, and the patient, especially if the subject of chronic kidney disease, frequently sinks into a comatose state and dies. When the extravasation occurs between the two layers of the triangular ligament, it maySTONE IN THE URETHRA, '789 remain localized, giving rise to a hard circumscribed swelling in the perineum, which may slowly make its way towards the scrotum; and lastly, when the extrava- sation occurs behind the posterior layer of the triangular ligament and the urine is extravasated into the pelvic cellular tissue, the symptoms resemble those of extraperi- toneal rupture of the bladder. Treatment.—A catheter should be passed into the bladder, or where this is impossible, down to the stricture, and in either case a free incision in the middle line of the perineum extending into the urethra made on the cathe- ter. Eree incisions through the skin of the scrotum, penis, and groins, in fact wherever the urine has pene- trated, should likewise be made to allow of it draining away, and the wounds rendered as far as possible aseptic by the free application of iodoform or other antiseptics. The patient's strength at the same time must be sup- ported by fluid nourishment and stimulants; whilst opium should be given, unless contra-indicated on account of kidney disease. Stone in the urethra.—A small calculus or frag- ment of one may become impacted in any part of the urethra, but most frequently in the membraneous portion (Fig. 308), or just within the meatus. When sharp and .angular it causes much pain, and when large enough to Fia. 308.—Calculus hupacted in urethra. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.)DISEASES OF REGIONS. 790 obstruct the urethra gives rise to retention, and, if not soon removed, to ulceration followed by~extravasation of urine. Treatment,—If far forward, it may often be expelled whilst straining to pass water, by holding the meatus and suddenly letting go; or gentle manipulation, aided, if necessary, by incision of the meatus, may suffice. Ex- traction by the urethral forceps should next be tried (Figs. 309 and 310), and this failing, a free incision over the stone must be made, Thus^ if impacted in the mem- FiG. 309.—Urethral forceps (Arnold's). braneous portion, it should be removed through an incision in the middle line of the perineum; if in the penile portion just in front of the scrotum, it should be pushed back if possible into the membraneous portion and removed through the perineum, as an incision in the penile portion of the urethra is apt to be followed by a Fig. 310.—Hogan's urethral forceps. fistula, and should, if possible be avoided. If compelled to incise the penile urethra the incision should be free so as to prevent laceration of the tissues in extracting the stone. The edges of the wound should then be united by suture, and a soft catheter tied in the urethra for a few days till the incision has healed. Yasculae tumours are much more frequent in the female than in the male urethra. In the female, they occur as small florid excrescences usually situated about the entrance of the urethra, often surrounding it like a ring and perhaps extending some distance up it. They give rise to increased frequency of micturition, pain during the act, and intermittent attacks of haemorrhage, thus somewhat simulating the symptoms of a calculus; but inspection will at once reveal the nature of the affection.BETENTION OF URINE, 791 Treatment.-^JAgSiiure, or the application of nitric acid or the thermo - cautery, generally suffices for their cure. Eetention of uri^^e, or inability to pass water, must be distinguished from suppression of urine in which none is secreted by the kidneys. Cause.—Eetention may depend upon either {a) obstruction to the outflow of urine from the bladder, or (b) inability of the bladder to expel its contents consequent upon atony of its muscular coat or paralysis. Eetention, therefore, is a symptom of several diseases. 1. In the old, it is commonly due to enlarged prostate with superadded congestion, combined with atony of the bladder from over-distension. 2. In adult men it may be due to organic stricture with temporary spasm of the unstriped muscular fibres of the urethra, or to congestion of the mucous membrane owing to gonorrhoea, a drinking bout, or cold and wet. 3. In women it may be the result of hysteria, or the pressure of an enlarged uterus or ocher pelvic tumour or of the foetal head in parturition. 4. In children it is commonly caused by an impacted calculus or ligature of the penis, and more rarely by phimosis. 5. At all ages and in loth sexes it may be due to reflex spasm after an operation on the rectum, shock following any severe injury or operation, a tumour in the neck of the bladder or urethra, and an abscess in any part of the urethra. It may also be due to paralysis consequent upon disease or injury of the brain or spinal cord, and to atony of the muscular coat of the bladder. In the two latter conditions, however, after the bladder has become distended and will hold no more, the excess of urine passively overflows, dribbling constantly away; and this condition of false incontinence must be dis- tinguished from trae incontinence in which the urine runs away from the bladder as fast as it is secreted by the kidneys. Symptoms and signs.—When retention has come on slowly, as from the gradual contraction of an organic stricture, there may be but little local pain and no constitutional disturbance, even although the bladder may be distended by many ounces of urine. Where, however, it is produced suddenly there is usually great pain followed by severe constitutional symptoms—a small and frequent pulse, a dry and brown tongue, and, perhaps delirium, symptoms probably due to the sudden check to secretion by the kidneys, and to the stretching of theDISEASES OE REGIONS. 792 bladder. The bladder itself, unless greatly bypertropbied and contracted rises out of tbe pelvis and may be felt as a distinct tumour, dull to percussion, and at times ex- tending as bigb as tbe umbilicus, or in extreme cases even to tbe ensiform cartilage. Tbe patient, unless drunk, usually complains of inability to pass water. Wben, bowever, tbe bladder bas become gradually distended and urine is passively flowing away, be may complain of inability to bold bis water and be quite unaware tbat tbe bladder is full, and may object to bave a catbeter passed till tbe condition bas been explained. Tbe presence of a swelling in tbe abdomen, and tbe flowing of urine tbrougb tbe catbeter immediately after tbe patient bas passed water and believes tbat be bas emptied bis bladder, sbould serve for tbe diagnosis. In suppression, tbe bladder is found empty on passing a catbeter. Results of retention.—If tbe bladder is soon relieved no apparent barm may ensue. If neglected, bowever, tbe over-distension may lead to—1, atony of tbe muscular coat; 2, cystitis; 3, nepbritis; 4, rupture of tbe uretbra bebind tbe obstruction; 5, (rarelj^), rupture of tbe bladder itself; and, 6, passive overflow of urine, tbe bladder remaining full. Treatment.—Tbe distended bladder must be relieved, and if tbe distension is extreme and tbe symptoms urgent, at once. Tbe way of doing tbis will vary according to tbe cause, and will be considered under tbe following beads:— 1. Retention from spasm of the tmstriped fibres sur- rounding tbe uretbra, sometimes called spasmodic stricture. Spasm is rarely, if ever, suflicient, alone, to cause reten- tion. Generally some sligbt organic narrowing of tbe uretbra is also present. Tbe usual bistory of retention from spasm is a drinking bout, or exposure to cold or wet in a gouty or rbeumatic subject; wbile on careful questioning, tbe patient admits tbat tbe stream bas been noticed to be small or forked, or tbat a similar attack of retention bas previously occurred. If tbe retention bas existed for some time, and tbere is mucb pain and considerable distension of tbe bladder, a full- sized flexible catbeter (No. 8 or 9) sbould be passed, if necessary under cbloroform. Wben, bowever, tbe symptoms are not urgent, and an instrument bas never been passed, a bot batb and a full dose of tincture of opium will generally suffice, In retention due to spasmRETENTION OF URINE. 793 following operations, a well-oiled soft rubber catheter should be passed. When the spasm is associated with a severe organic stricture other means may have to be taken. See TreaU ment of Eeteyition from Organic Stricture. 2. Retention from congestion of the mucous membrane of the urethra, sometimes known as congestive stricture. Con- gestion, like spasm, is seldom sufficient of itself to pro- duce retention; and is nearly always associated with at least a slight organic stricture or with some enlargement of the prostate. It is usually the result of gonorrhoea, or other conditions causing inflammation of the urethra. The treatment is similar to that of retention from spasm. 3. Retention from hypertrophy of the prostate only occurs after middle life. It is then generally due to congestion induced by cold, the abuse of alcohol, &c., causing the already existing obstruction to become complete, i^irst, try to pass the French single coude catheter (Fig. 296), then the double coude (Fig. 297), and these failing, a gum-elastic catheter with a large curve. Should the point hitch at the middle lobe of the prostate, withdraw- ing the stylet for half an inch will cause the end to slightly tilt up, and it will then often readily glide into the bladder. If not successful in this way the silver prostatic or the beaked catheter must next be tried, but serious mischief may be done by these instruments unless the greatest gentleness is used. They should never be em- ployed until other forms have failed. If a catheter passes easily it may be withdrawn after the bladder is relieved; but if passed with difficulty it had better be left in, as more harm may be done by having to pass it again than by leaving it in situ. When the bladder is greatly distended all the urine should not be drawn off at once, lest syncope be induced. A catheter failing, the retention may be re- lieved by: 1, puncture above the pubes; 2, puncture through the rectum ; and 3, forcing a catheter through the prostate {tunnelling). The first method is decidedly the best. The second is seldom applicable, as the en- largement, as a rule, leaves no room between the pros- tate and the pouch of peritoneum for puncture, which, if attempted, will probably wound the peritoneum. The third method is attended with extreme danger, and is seldom practised at the present day. 4. Retention from organic stricture.—The symptoms and diagnosis of stricture have already been described. HereDISEASES OF REGIONS. 794 only need be mentioned tlie treatment to be adopted in cases of retention from this cause. An endeavour should first be made to pass a catheter, if necessary under an anaesthetic. If this fails, and the symptoms are not urgent, a hot bath and a full dose of tincture of opium may be given, and another trial made in a few hours. Where, however, there are signs of grave kidney mischief, opium must be withheld or given with great caution. Should these means not succeed, or if from the first the symptoms are urgent, one of the following methods may be resorted to, viz.: 1. Aspiration, or puncture of the bladder above the pubes; 2. Wheelhouse's operation; 3. Puncture of the bladder through the rectum; 4. Cock's operation of open- ing the urethra behind the stricture through an incision in the perineum; and 5. Forcing a catheter into the bladder. The last method is highly objectionable, and should on no account be practised. Of the other methods aspiration above the pubes, repeated, if necessary, should the stricture not quickly yield after the spasm has been removed by emptying the bladder and thus reducing the tension, is in my opinion the best. Puncture through the rectum is strongly recommended by some Surgeons ; but it is open to the objection that suppuration between the bladder and rectum, extravasation of urine, and a permanent recto-vesical fistula, are liable to follow, to say nothing of the annoyance to the patient from the pre- sence of the cannula in the rectum, and the excoriation of the parts by the urine, which, notwithstanding care, is apt to occur. The vas deferens, moreover, may be injured and atrophy of the testicle ensue. Cock's opera- tion is difficult to perform, and does not appear to possess any advantage over aspiration or puncture above the pubes. Should the passage of a catheter not be effected after the bladder has been aspirated on several occasions, Wheelhouse's operation should be undertaken. Aspira- tion, though as a rule attended with excellent results, is not absolutely free from danger. Thus it should not be practised when the urine is unhealthy or the walls of the bladder are thinned and atonied lest a drop or two escape through the puncture and set up septic inflammation and suppuration, which may be followed by extravasation of urine. 5. Retention from hysteria should be combated by such moral and physical treatment as is applicable to that disease. A catheter should not be passed if it can bePUNCTTJEE OF THE BLADDER. 795 possibly avoided. A hot sponge applied to the pubes is 1 often successful. 6. Retention from paralysis or atony of the Madder, from abscess or tumour of the urethra or bladder, from impacted i calculus, and from ligature of the penis, is discussed under the heads of Paralysis of the Bladder, Impacted Cal- I cuius, &c. ! Puncture of the bladder above the pubes (Fig. 253, b).—Make a small incision through the skin imme- diately above the pubes, having first ascertained by percus- • sion that the bladder has risen well out of the pelvis; and thrust Cock's curved trocar and cannula downwards and backwards into the bladder. Withdraw the trocar, secure the cannula in situ and pass through it a soft catheter connected with a long rubber tube to carry away the urine. In a few days, when the parts are consolidated, the cannula should be changed. When the bladder is distended, a good inch rises above the pubes uncovered by peritoneum, but when contracted and hypertro- phied it may rise but little if at all. Under these latter circumstances the trocar and cannula must be passed close to the pubes for fear of wounding the peri- toneum. Aspiration is performed in a similar way, except that the aspirating needle or trocar is thrust in without any preliminary incision of the skin. If a small aspirating needle or cannula is used there is no danger of extravasa- tion, as on its withdrawal the puncture in the bladder is closed by the contraction of the muscular fibres; and even should a drop or two of urine escape no harm will ensue provided the urine is healthy. It is a most useful emer- gency operation, and, if necessary, may be repeated on several successive occasions. Puncture of the bladder through the rectum. —Place the patient in the lithotomy position. Pass the left forefinger into the rectum, and place its tip just beyond the back of the prostate. Take Cock's long curved trocar, and cannula, with the point of the trocar slightly with- drawn within the cannula. Introduce it through the anus, and guide it by the finger in the rectum to a spot immediately behind the prostate exactly in the middle line. Press the cannula firmly on the fluctuating trigone of the bladder, and plunge the trocar boldly into the bladder, in a direction upwards and forwards towards the umbilicus. Withdraw the trocar and secure796 DISEASES OF REGIONS. the cannula in situ with suitable tapes. Do not plug the cannula, but fix an india-rubber tube on its end and con- vey this to a vessel beneath the bed. Paraphimosis is the strangulation of the glans penis by a tight prepuce which has been drawn back over it, and cannot be replaced. Thus, it is notinfrequently met with Fig. 311.—Method of dividing the stricture in paraphimosis, (Bryant's Surgery.) in boys, from the accidental uncovering of the glans and neglect to draw the prepuce forward again. In adults it is generally due to swelling, caused by gonorrhoea or venereal sores, but it may occasionally occur during coitus. It is attended with great oedema of the glans and prepuce, and if not soon reduced may lead to ulceration at the line of constriction or even to sloughing of the penis. Treatment.—Seize the penis between the first and second fingers of each hand, press the blood and oedema out of the glans with the thumbs, and at the same time push the glans backwards and try to draw the prepuce forwards over it. If this fails, divide with a knife (Fig. 311) the constricting band, which lies just behind the fold of oedematous prepuce at the bottom of the furrow on the dorsum of the penis, Diseases of the Genital Organs. DISEASES OF THE PENIS.PHIMOSIS. 797 Phimosis is a condition in which, the prepuce is elon- gated, and its orifice contracted, so that it cannot be drawn back over the glans. It may occur as a congenital affection ; or it may be acquired, and is then usually due j to the cicatricial contraction of the orifice following I syphilitic ulceration or repeated attacks of gonorrhoea. I The orifice when very small may cause difiiculty of micturition or even retention of urine ; whilst the strain- ing to pass water may induce prolapse of the rectum, hernia, irritation of the bladder, and symptoms of stone, and if not relieved may produce the harmful effects on the urinary organs described under stricture; or the Fig. 312.—SeiziDg the prepuce preparatory to the operation of circumcision. (Bryant s Surgery.) deposit of the urinary salts beneath the prepuce may lead I to the formation of preputial calculi. The inability to uncover the glans may cause pain and difficulty in coitus, and by preserving a mucous membrane-like character to the glans predispose to venereal disease ; whilst the secre- tion which collects beneath the prepuce may, in conse- sequenceof the irritation it is apt to set up, induce priapism, habits of masturbation, inflammation sometimes simula- ting gonorrhoea, adhesion of the glans to the prepuce, or even as age advances the formation of an epithelioma. The treatment may be considered under the heads of 1, cirmmciston; 2, slitting the prepuce; and 3, dilatation of the preputial orifice, 1. Circumcision.—Lay hold of the prepuce tranversely with a pair of polypus forceps, on a level with the corona;798 DISEASES OF BEGIONS. let the glans slip back, close the forceps, and shave o& all the prepuce in front of them with a clean sweep of the knife. Eemove the forceps, slit up the mucous lining of the prepuce in the middle line quite back to the corona, break down any adhesion between the prepuce and glans, wash away the secretion, twist or tie any spurting vessels, and stitch the flaps of mucous membrane to the skin with interrupted horse-hair sutures. Dress with boracic lint or iodoform. 2. Slitting the jprepuce may be done with scissors, or with a curved bistoury guided by a director, introduced between the glans and prepuce. In either case the mucous mem- brane should be united to the skin-flaps with fine sutures after twisting or tying any bleeding vessels. Care should be taken not to pass the director into the meatus, and to ensure that the mucous membrane is slit quite back to the corona. 3. Dilatation of the prepuce may be accomplished in slight cases by a daily endeavour to draw back the con- tracted prepuce over the glans. It may also be done by the preputial dilator, or by forcible separation of the blades of the dressing forceps, though such means are not often successful. Peimary yenereal SORES OR CHANCRES.—Two chief varieties of venereal sore or chancre occur, the syphilitic or infecting, and the local contagious or non-infecting. Either of these may be accompanied by sloughing or phagedsena, and are then spoken of as sloughing or phagedeenic sores or chancres. 1. The primary syphilitic chancre has already been described in the section on syphilis (p. 58). 2. The local contagious or non-infecting sore, the soft chancre or chancroid as it is sometimes called to dis- tinguish it from the hard or syphilitic chancre, is a specific form of ulceration probably depending upon a distinct variety of micro-organism.. Though the ulcer, like the syphilitic, may occur on any part of the body that is inoculated with the specific virus, it is so much more frequently met with on the genitals that it is described with diseases of these organs. It is not followed by constitutional symptoms. Signs.—Non-infecting or soft chancres are most frequent at the juuQtion of the glans and prepuce, where they often take the form of a ring of small ulcers around the corona glandis. More rarely they are met with on the muco-PRIMARY VENEREAL SORES OR CHANCRES. 799 cutaneous or cutaneous surface of tlie organ. They usually begin as a small pustule or slight excoriation within a few days of inoculation, and when fully established, appear as small oval ulcers, with sharply-cut edges and a slightly depressed base covered with a greyish slough, and surrounded by a red areola of inflammation. When irri- tated, as by the rubbing of the clothes, or the retention of the secretion beneath a long prepuce, they may become indurated; but the induration has not the sharply- defined character of the syphilitic sore. The inguinal glands become enlarged {huho), and matted together into a single mass, often of considerable size, and have a marked tendency to suppurate. The pus taken from them apparently contains the same micro-organism as that of the sore, since when inoculated on the same or another person, a similar sore is produced. Diagnosis,—The main differences between a non-infect- ing or soft sore, and an infecting or hard, are the following : —The soft sore is generally unattended with induration ; in the hard the induration is well marked; the soft occurs within a few days of inoculation, the hard not till after three to five weeks ; in the soft the secretion is abundant and purulent, in the hard scanty, and often consists of little more than epithelial debris; the soft can be re- inoculated on the same patient, and hence is frequently multiple; the hard cannot be re-inoculated on the same patient, and hence is single unless, as very rarely happens, the patient is inoculated in two places at the same time. The bubo following the soft sore is single, soft, and very liable to suppurate; that following the hard sore is multiple, hard, and shotty, and very rarely suppurates. A patient, however, may be inoculated with syphilis at the same time that he receives a soft sore. Hence, when the incubative period of syphilis has passed, the soft sore may take on the characters of the hard sore. Till this period is ov-er, therefore, a cautious prognosis as to the probable occurrence of secondary symptoms should be given. It is consequently not uncommon to find a patient with a chancre which presents characters both of the hard and soft sore. Treatment,—Local treatment only is necessary, and con- sists in scrupulous cleanliness, protection of the sore from irritation, and the application of blackwash, zinc lotion, or iodoform. Should the glands become inflamed, rest in the recumbent posture is essential. If suppuration threatens,DISEASES OF REGIONS. 800 hot poultices must be applied and a free incision in a vertical direction made as soon as pus has formed. Should any intractable sinuses, as frequently happens, be left after the bubo has suppurated, they should be laid freely open, and allowed to granulate from the bottom. 3. The sloughing sore is due to want of cleanliness or the retention of irritating discharges by a long foreskin, and generally occurs in weakly or debilitated subjects. The sore, which is covered with a yellow slough and is surrounded by an angry areola of inflammation, spreads rapidly and is attended with considerable swelling and oedema of the penis. The general appearances of the ulcer and its appropriate treatment have already been given in the section on Ulcers (p. 37). 4. The phagedenic sore.—Phagedsena may attack both the hard and soft sore, but is said by Mr. Hutchinson to be a more frequent complication of the former than of the latter. Like the sloughing sore, it may be due to want of cleanli- ness and neglect, or to the irritation of the discharges retained by a long foreskin. It seldom, however, occurs to any serious extent, except in those whose constitutions are broken down by want of food, abuse of alcohol, de- bauchery, or exhausting disease. For a description of the character and treatment of this ulcer see p. 38. Epithelioma of the penis generally begins as a warty growth or as an ulcer on the glans or inner surface of the prepuce. Old age is looked upon as the chief predis- posing, and the irritation of retained secretion under a long prepuce as the common exciting cause. The in- durated , sinuous and everted edges of the ulcer, the warty base, sanious and foul discharge, rapid growth, advanced age of the patient, and later, the involvement of the inguinal glands, will generally serve to distinguish it from warts or venereal ulcers for which it may be mistaken. If allowed to run its course the whole penis becomes infiltrated with the growth; the lumbar, as well as the inguinal glands, become involved; sloughing and ulceration ensue, and the patient generally dies of ex- haustion or haemorrhage. The internal organs are not usually affected. Treatment,—If seen early, the growth alone may be removed. As a rule, however, the penis should be amputated in front of the scrotum unless the glands are much involved or the disease extends back- wards beyond this point. In such a case the scrotum may, under certain conditions, be split, the whole penisj.801 EPITHELIOMA OF THE SCROTUM. witli the crura, removed, and the urethra stitched to the perineum. The inguinal glands if not too extensively diseased should be also removed. Amputation" or the penis is often performed by one swoop of the knife; when thus done the urethra is liable to retract and cause subsequent trouble in micturition. It is best therefore to divide the corpus spongiosum about half an inch further forward than the corpora cavernosa, and then split the urethra and secure it by suture to the skin. The skin should be drawn weil forward before it is divided, as otherwise it is apt to obscure the more retractable stump, and render the securing of the arteries difficult. Too much skin more- over is liable to obstruct the orifice of the urethra. Hae- morrhage during the operation should be restrained by Clover's clamp or by the fingers of an assistant. The two dorsal arteries and the arteries of the corpora cavernosa and of the septum usually require ligature. Amputa- tion by the galvanic ecraseur is strongly advised by some, but is open to the objection that it may be followed by secondary haemorrhage on the separation of the sloughs. diseases of the sceotum, spermatic cord, and testicle. Epithelioma of the scrotum, often called sweep's cancer from the frequency with which it occurs in chimney-sweepers owing to the irritation of the soot, generally begins as a dark wart or tubercle which ulti- mately ulcerates, producing a sore with hard sinuous everted edges, and an irregular watery tuberous base. At times it begins as a chronic eczema. The irritant would appear to be not merely the carbon of the soot, but one or more of the products of the destructive distillation of coal, as the cancer does not occur from soot produced by the burning of wood, and is found amongst workers in coal-tar and its products. The inguinal glands become involved, and occasionally the testicle, but the disease does not, as a rule, affect internal organs. Death is commonly due to the exhaustion produced by the ulcera- tion in the inguinal glands, or haemorrhage from the opening of a large blood-vessel in the groin. Treat- ment,—Free and early excision with the knife, and W. 3 FDISEASES OE REGIOI^S. 802 removal of the inguinal glands if enlarged and hard. If the testicle is involved it should be excised at the same time. The skin of the part is very lax, and although the testicle may be denuded it rapidly becomes covered in. QEdema oe the scrotum, owing to the laxity of the tissues, is common. It may occur in kidney and heart disease as part of the general dropsy, or it may be caused by inflammation of the neighbouring parts, as the tes- ticle. It is also met with in extravasation of urine, and may occur after an operation for hernia, varicocele, &c. Erysipelas oe the scrotum may be the result of slight injuries, abrasions, &c., or may occur idiopathi- cally. It is attended with great swelling, redness and oedema, and is very liable to terminate in extensive sloughing and gangrene. The same general and local treatment should be adopted as described under Ery- sipelas, with free and early incisions should suppuration threaten. Eczema and prurigo of the scrotum require no special mention. Elephantiasis scroti is an enormously hypertrophied condition of the skin and connective tissue of the scrotum, and probably depends (like a somewhat similar condition known as lymjph-scrotum^ in which a milky fluid exudes from the skin), on the presence in the blood of the filaria sanguinis hominis. The disease is common in the East, but is seldom met with in this country, and then hardly ever except in those who have lived in the East. The penis is sometimes a:ffected in a similar manner. Treatment,—The hypertrophied mass may be dissected o& the testicle and penis, after elevating it for some hours before the operation in order to drain it as much as possible of blood. The base of the mass during the opera- should be constricted by an elastic band. Hydrocele is a collection of serous fluid in connection with the testicle or spermatic cord. There are several varieties of hydrocele. Thus, the fluid may be contained in the tunica vaginalis {common or vaginal hydrocele); and this is further spoken of as congenital when the tunica vaginalis communicates, through the non-obliteration of its funicular process, with the general peritoneal cavity, or as acute when associated with acute inflammation of the testicle or epididymis. Again, the fluid may be contained in a cyst in connection with the testicle or epididymis [encysted hydrocele of the testicle or epididymis), or con-- . COMMON OR VAGINAL HYDROCELE. 803 taiiied in a cyst formed in connection with the spermatic cord {encysted hydrocele of the spermatic cord). The con- dition described by Pott and Scarpa as diffuse hydrocele 0/ the spermatic cord, appears to be a general dropsy of the loose connective tissue of the cord, and is so rare that it may be dismissed without further comment. Common or vaginal hydrocele is a collection of serous fluid in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. Causes.—Infancy, middle age, heredity, gout, and malaria are said to predispose to it; whilst slight injuries, repeated strains, the presence of loose bodies in the tunica vaginalis, and certain chronic diseases of the testicle are sometimes exciting causes. Often however no apparently eflicient cause whatever can be discovered. Pathology.—By some it is looked upon as a passive dropsy, due to the loss of balance between the secreting and absorbing power of the tunica vaginalis; by others it is believed to be due to chronic inflammation. The fluid is of a pale straw colour, with a specific gravity of 1020 to 1030, and contains a large quantity of albumen. The dilated tunica vaginalis is usually thin ; but in long standing cases it is occasionally greatly thickened, and may be of cartilaginous consistency. The coverings are the same as those of the testicle, viz., skin, superficial fascia, dartos, and intercolumnar, cremasteric and infundi- buliform fasciae. Symptoms.—Ordinary hydrocele forms a smooth, tense, elastic or fluctuating swelling in the scrotum, of a pyri- form, globular or oval shape, and is frequently slightly constricted at its middle or at its lower or upper part. The chief diagnostic sign is its translucency. If the walls are very thick it may appear opaque when examined for translucency in the usual way by the light of a candle ; but I have never met with a hydrocele, however thick its walls, which was not found translucent when a powerful light, as that of an ophthalmoscopic lamp, was used. The cord is free, and there is no impulse on cough- ing, signs which serve to distinguish it from a hernia. When the hydrocele extends up the funicular portion of the tunica vaginalis into the inguinal canal there may however be a transmitted impulse from the abdominal wall; it might then be mistaken for an irreducible hernia. The dulness on percussion, the history that it began at the bottom of the scrotum, and the translucency, if the light be powerful enough, will distinguish it. The 3 E 2DISEASES OE REGIONS. 80i testicle is situated behind and near its lower part, save in exceptional cases, where adhesions have been con- tracted to the anterior wall, or the testicle has descended retroyerted. The treatment may be palliative or radical. Palliative treatment consists in tapping the hydrocele with a trocar and cannula, and repeating the operation from time to time as required. Before tapping a hydrocele the situation of the testicle should be made out, lest it be injured by the trocar. This can usually be done by marking the opaque spot whilst examining for translucency, and by the patient's sensation on handling it. If the sac is not very Fig. 313.—Tapping a hydrocele. (Bryant's Surgery.) tense the testicle can be felt. Choose a spot for puncture near the bottom of the swelling, free from scrotal veins which can readily be seen through the skin, and having made out the situation of the testicle, grasp the tumour from behind with the palm of the hand so as to make it tense, and plunge the trocar and cannula,- held as in Eig. 313, sharply into the sac to ensure perforating the wall. The trocar should be directed at first backwards, and then immediately turned upwards to avoid wounding the testicle. Having withdrawn the fluid, remove the cannula, and apply a small pad of lint or strapping. The radical cure is commonly effected by injecting tincture of iodine into the sac through the cannula after having withdrawn the fluid. The quantity injected is usually about two drachms. If ten drops of a 5% solu- tion of cocaine are injected before the iodine no pain generally is felt. The iodine sets up some slight amount of inflammation, and generally cures by restoring theET^CYSTED HYDROCELE OE THE TESTICLE. 805 balance between the secreting and absorbing power of the tunica vaginalis, or occasionally by causing adhesions between the two layers of the tunica vaginalis. Should the injection fail, it may be repeated; or the tunica vaginalis may be laid open, a portion cut away, and the remainder united by suture and drained. But even this treatment cannot always be depended on for curing the hydrocele. The only absolutely certain method is to lay open the sac and allow it to granulate up from the bottom. The hydroceles so frequently seen in young children generally undergo a spontaneous cure, and nothing be- yond a discutient lotion is usually necessary. Should the hydrocele prove intractable, however, it may be punctured with a fine trocar and cannula, and, if neces- sary, afterwards injected with a weak solution of iodine. Congenital hydrocele is a collection of fluid in the sac of the tunica vaginalis, the funicular process of which through an arrest of development has remained un- obliterated. The fluid, therefore, unless the aperture of communication is very small, can be readily pressed back into the abdominal cavity, and an expansile impulse is given to it on coughing or crying. In this respect it resembles a hernia ; but its translucency and the fact that the fluid goes back slowly and without the sudden slip or gurgle as is the case in a hernia, should serve to distinguish it. It should not be forgotten that a piece of omentum or intestine may descend into the sac of the hydrocele. At times, the aperture of communication between the funicular process and the general peritoneal cavity is closed, and though the hydrocele still extends more or less up the inguinal canal, the fluid cannot be pressed back into the abdominal cavity. To this condition the name of infantile hydrocele has been given. Treatment,—A truss should be applied over the inguinal canal to cause obliteration of the funicular portion of the tunica vaginalis, and to prevent the descent of a hernia, and subsequently the hydrocele may be treated in the ordinary way. As a rule, however, when the obliteration of the funicular portion has been accomplished, the hydrocele imdergoes a spontaneous cure. Encysted hydrocele or the testicle.—-This term is applied to a cyst or cysts formed in connection with the testicle or epididymis, but having no communication with the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. Cysts in connectionDISEASES OE REGIONS. 806 with the testicle itself are very rare, and require no further description here. Encysted hydroceles of the epididymis, however, though still rare, are more often met with, and may be divided into (1) the subserous cysts, which are of no clinical importance, and (2) the sper- matic cysts. The latter are thin-walled, membraneous cysts lined with tesselated epithelium, and containing a watery, slightly opalescent or milky fluid, in which there is often an abundance of spermatozoa. The pre- sence of the spermatozoa may be due to the rupture into the cyst of one of the seminal ducts; or to the cyst being developed in connection with a seminal duct. The origin of these cysts is doubtful. They are generally believed, however, to be developed from some of the foetal remains (Wolffian body, Miillerian duct, &c.) so abundant in the situation of the epididymis. Signs.—They appear as tense, fluctuating, translucent, moveable, globular, smooth or lobulated swellings, with- out impulse on cough, and situated immediately above or behind the testicle. The cord is generally free. They are often combined with an ordinary hydrocele. The treatment is like that of ordinary hydrocele. Encysted hydrocele of the spermatic cord is a collection of serous fluid in an unobliterated portion of the funicular process of the tunica vaginalis. The fluid is similar to that of an ordinary hydrocele. The cover- ings of the cyst are those of the funicular process, viz., the skin, and the superficial, intercolumnar, cremasteric, and infundibuliform fasciae ; the vas with the arteries and veins are behind it. Signs.—An encysted hydrocele of the cord appears as a well-defined, tense, oval or globular, fluctuating, freely moveable swelling in the course of the spermatic cord. It is unconnected with the testicle below, and cannot be reduced into the abdomen above although it may be pushed back some distance up the inguinal canal. It is translucent, and gives no impulse on coughing. But when high up in the inguinal canal, it may be difficult to distinguish from a small irreducible hernia, as an impulse is communicated to it from the abdominal walls, and it may be impracticable to detect its translucency. A cautious puncture, with a grooved needle, may then be necessary to diagnose it. Treatment.—Painting with tincture of iodine may first be tried. This failing, the cyst should be punctured with807 VARICOCELE. a small trocar and cannula. Should it refill, it may be injected with iodine, like an ordinary hydrocele, or it may be laid open by an antiseptic incision. But before undertaking its radical cure, it must be ascertained that there is no communication with the peritoneum. This may usually be done by noting that no decrease in size takes place on applying steady pressure for some little time. Yaeicocele is a dilated and varicose condition of the spermatic plexus of veins. The causes of varicocele are not really known. ^ It has been attributed to an extra lax state of the parts, induced by debility and general want of tone; congestion from too early or continual excitement of the sexual organs ; occupations invol- ving long standing; and to certain anatomical peculiarities (all of which, however, are present in every healthy male), such as the great length of the spermatic veins, the dependent posi- tion of the testicle, the plexiform ar- rangement of the veins in the scrotum, &c. But it often occurs in men in good health, and in whom the parts are not lax. The reasons given for its much greater frequency on the left than on the right side are—1, that the left vein is longer than the right; 2, that an obstacle is o:ffered to the outlet of the left vein by its opening at right angles into the renal vein; 3, that the blood pressure is less in the vena cava than in the renal vein ; 4, that the left vein is crossed by the sigmoid flexure, and is hence liable to be pressed upon by fsecal accu- mulations. Mr. W. Gr. Spencer, who has recently worked at this subject, believes that the presence of the large veins is due to a congenital variation from the normal process of development, whereby many of the veins of the Wolffian body (from which the spermatic veins are formed) remain unobliterated, and capable of being dilated by anything obstructing the return of venous blood from the testicle. More of these veins, he says, are normally obliterated on the right than on the left side. Fig. 814.—Varico- cele. (St. Bar- tholomew's Hos- pital Museum.)808 DISEASES OF REGIONS. Symptoms and diagnosis.—There may be merely a sense of weight and fulness in the scrotum, or dragging or even severe pain, worse after the day's work but relieved by recumbency. The symptoms, however, are often more mental than physical, the patient fearing impotence or sterility, and sometimes becoming hypochondriacal in consequence. The varicose veins, which may sometimes be seen through the skin of the scrotum, form a soft, irregular, opaque, knotted, pyriform mass, in which there is a distinct expansile thrill or impulse on cough. The swelling is confined to the scrotum, and, although it may be reduced on the patient lying down, it does not go back with a gurgle or slip like a hernia, and gradually returns when the patient rises, notwithstanding that the finger is placed over the external abdominal ring. The testicle, though perhaps, as a rule, a little smaller than natural, is seldom much atrophied. ThQtreatmentmsijhQ either palliative or radical. The palliative treatment consists in cold sponging, the use of shower-baths, healthy exercise, regulation of the bowels, and the administration when indicated of fer- ruginous tonics ; whilst the mental anxiety of the patient should be relieved by the assurance that atrophy or im- potence need not be feared. Locally, a suspensory bandage should be worn, or the veins braced up by drawing the lower part of the scrotum through a Wormald'^s ring. The radical treatment should only be undertaken (1) when the varicocele is large or causes much pain; (2) when it acts as a bar to entering the public services; or (3) when it appears to be inducing atrophy of the testicle. Whether it should or should not be undertaken for the cure of mental distress, must be left to the judg- ment of the Surgeon in each individual case. The operations for the radical cure, which have for their object the obliteration of the enlarged veins, are many. Here only is described the method by subcutaneous ligature and division. Separate the vas, which can always be felt as a rounded cord, from the veins; pass with a nsevus needle a thread of catgut or kangaroo-tail tendon between the veins and the vas, and then back again between the veins and the skin, and tie the veins, allowing the knot to slip through the puncture in the skin. Bepeat the procedure three quarters of an inch above, and then divide the veins between the ligatures with a809 tenotomy knife. The spermatic arteries escape injury as they slip away with the vas, to which they are attached- Other methods consist in the subcutaneous division of the veins with the galvano-cautery wire ; excision of the veins; compression of the veins by hair-lip pins and figure-of-8 sutures; division of the veins with the elastic ligature, &c. The method described above can be recom- mended as safe, painless, efficient, easy of performance, and as necessitating the minimum amount of rest subse- quent to its performance. Tumours of the spermatic cord, though occa- sionally met with, are too rare to require any description in a work of this character. HEMATOCELE or COMMON HEMATOCELE is an effusion Fig. 315.—Hsematocele. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) of blood into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. Blood may also be effused into an encysted hydrocele of the testis, epididymis or cord, into the substance of the testicle itself, or into the tissue of the scrotum; and to such the terms heematocele of the testis, hgematocele of the cord, &c., have been applied. All of these conditions, however, are too rare to admit of any description here. Causes,—An ordinary heematocele maybe due to a blow on the testicle, or a strain in lifting heavy weights, or a like injury to a hydrocele; to puncture of the testicle or blood-vessel in tapping a hydrocele ; or to the giving way of a weakened or varicose vessel in consequence of the alteration in tension on removal of the hydrocele-fluid by tapping. At times, however, it may occur sponta- neously, and is then probably due to some atheromatous810 DISEASES OF BEGtOKS. or other cHange in the vessels or chronic inflammation of the tunica vaginalis. Pathology.—The effused blood may be absorbed, or it may clot and be deposited on the walls of the sac, giving the hsematocele an appearance like an aneurysm (Fig. 315) ; or the central portions of the clot may break down into a chocolate-coloured fluid, which under the microscope is seen to consist of disintegrating blood-corpuscles and hsematin and cholesterin crystals. At times suppura- tion may take place, the fluid in the sac then consisting of a mixture of broken-down blood and pus. Calcification of the walls in old-standing cases may occur. Signs and diagnosis,—Hsematocele comes on suddenly, appearing as a smooth, tense or semi-fluctuating, oval or globular, non-translucent swelling in the scrotum. At first there may be considerable pain in the testicle and ecchymosis of the scrotum; but later, neither as a rule will be present. Testicular sensation is generally dis- covered behind the swelling. The freedom of the cord and absence of impulse on coughing should at once serve to diagnose it from a hernia, and its non-translucency from a hydrocele. But from malignant or other growths it is often difficult to distinguish it; and, indeed, in some cases it is only after puncture with a grooved needle or even after an exploratory incision, that this can be done. The history of its sudden onset, its shape, the absence of the varying consistency noted in malignant disease, the non-involvement of the glands or of the cord, and the presence of testicular sensation posteriorly, should help in the diagnosis. On puncture a chocolate-coloured fluid escapes in the one case; arterial blood, or nothing at all, in the other. Treatment.—When the hsematocele is recent, rest in bed, the application of cold or of evaporating lotions, and the elevation of the part on a pillow, may lead to the absorp- tion of the blood. If this fails, the blood may be with- drawn with a trocar and cannula. When such is done, however, the sac in my experience generally refills, and I believe time is gained in the end by at once making a free incision into the sac, turning out the clots, securing any bleeding vessel that may be seen, and allowing the wound to heal by granulations. In long-standing cases, and especially when the walls are much thickened, this treatment is clearly indicated, but if, on laying the sac open, the walls are found of cartilaginous consistency,ACUTE lOTLAMMATlOK OF THE TESTICLE. 811 perhaps calcified, and the patient is old or broken down in constitution, excision of the testicle is then called for, I as otherwise long-continned suppuration, which may ter- minate in exhaustion and death, may ensue. Where suppuration has occurred, a free incision should, under I any circumstances, at once be made, i Acute inelammation oe the testicle is generally i spoken of as orchitis, or as epididymitis according as the body or the epididymis is primarily or chiefly affected. Causes.—Gonorrhoea is the most frequent cause; but ' injury of the testicle, or irritation of the prostatic urethra, as from the tying in of a catheter, or from the impaction of a calculus or fragment of a calculus, are not uncommon I causes. Orchitis sometimes occurs during an attack of mumps, and is then said to be due to metastasis. It has also been attributed to the use of strong injections for the cure of gonorrhoea. How inflammation of the testicle is induced by the irritation of the urethra is a disputed j question. It is variously taught, however, that it is due to—1, inflammation spreading along the vas; 2, reflex irritation; and 3, metastasis. Pathology.—The walls of the tubules and the inter- j tubular connective tissue become infiltrated with inflam- I matory products, and the tubules filled with desquamated i epithelium. Eesolution usually occurs, leaving the I testicle little or not at all impaired either in structure or function. Suppuration, however, is occasionally induced; I and when the epididymis is chiefly involved, the inflam- I matory material, in place of being absorbed, may be converted into fibrous tissue, which, subsequently con- tracting, may cause obstruction of the tubules of the epididymis. Such may be known to have occurred by the presence of a small hard lump in the region of the globus minor or major. An effusion of fluid into the i tunica vaginalis {acute hydrocele) is very common, but I more so in epididymitis than in orchitis, because the I visceral layer of the tunica vaginalis is in contact with the inflamed tissue in the former case, but is separated ! from it by the thick tunica albuginea in the latter. I Signs,—In a well-marked case there is intense pain in j the testicle, with a dragging or aching pain in the groin and along the course of the cord. The testicle is swollen, and exquisitely tender on handling ; the cord feels slightly thickened; and the skin of the scrotum is oedematous and I of a dusky-red colour. When the inflammation falls onDISEASES OE HEGIONS. 812 the epididymis, the pain and swelling will be chiefly con- fined to the upper and back part: of the testicle—the region of the epididymis—and fluid will often be detected in the tunica vaginalis. The discharge, if the inflammation of the testicle occurs during an attack of gonorrhoea, gene- rally ceases or becomes less when the inflammation is at its height. The local signs are often accompanied by sharp febrile disturbance, raised temperature, furred tongue, nausea or even vomiting, and constipated bowels. Treatment.—When the attack is acute, rest in bed with the testicle supported on a pillow is necessary. Hot fomentations, and in the intervals hot linseed-meal poultices, applied to the testicle and groin, give the most relief. Internally a brisk purge should be given at the onset, followed by saline laxatives and small doses of antimony. If the pain is very severe, opium may be given; or a vein of the scrotum opened; or the tunica vaginalis or testicle punctured to relieve tension either with a needle in several places or with a tenotomy knife. If suppuration occurs, a free incision should be made to let out the pus. In subacute attacks, where the patient is unable to leave his work, a suspensory bandage should be worn. Chrois'ic infla^I]\iatio]S^ of the testicle may be a sequel to the acute disease; or it may begin as a chronic or sub- acute affection, and like the acute form may involve either the body of the testicle or the epididymis, or both. The two chief causes of chronic inflammation are un- doubtedly syphilis and tubercle; but it may occur quite independently of either of these affections, and should hen, for the sake of distinction, be called simple chronic orchitis or epididymitis. The syphilitic and tubercular forms are described separately under those heads. Signs.—The testicle appears enlarged, smooth, laterally compressed, egg-shapecl, hard, heavy, and painful on pressure ; the testicular sensation is not lost; the vas is but slightly thickened; the skin is non-adherent, and the epididymis (except when the disease is limited to that part) is not distinguishable from the body of the organ. In chronic epididymitis an indurated, painful, and tender lump is felt in the situation of the globus minor or major. Treatment.—Mercury or iodide of potassium should be given internally, and strapping applied to the enlarged organ when the body is chiefly affected. In chronicTUBEECLE OE THE TESTICLE. 813 (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) epididymitis, in addition to internal remedies, inunction with, mercurial ointment may be of service. TuBEECULAH DISEASE OF THE TESTIS, also known as strumous orchitis, or strumous sarcocele, is variously believed to depend upon the presence of tbe tubercle bacillus, or upon a chronic inflammation in a strumous subject, and to begin either as a tubercular affection in the intertubular connective tissue, or as a catarrhal inflammation in the interior of the tubules. Pathology.—Opportunities for examining the testicle in the early stages of the disease are not common. Hence, the uncertainty as to the origin and exact nature of the inflammation. Typical nodules of tubercle, how- ever, have been found, and tubercle bacilli have been demonstrated either in sections of the organ or, when few in number, after cultivation. The disease generally begins in the epididymis, and thence may spread to the body of the organ. It may also extend up the vas to the vesiculee seminales and prostate, and thence to the bladder, and even to the ureters and kidneys. In some cases the testicle appears to be the starting point of a general tuberculosis; in others, merely to be involved in common with other organs in the general disease. In many instances, however, the disease may remain localized to the testicle, and no other manifestation of tubercle Fig. 316.—Tubercle of the testicle.814 DISEASES OF REGION'S. occur in the body. The inflammatory products infiltrating the epididymis and testicle, have a great tendency to undergo caseation, forming the yellow masses of cheesy- looking material so characteristic of the disease (Fig. 316). Signs.—The disease usually begins very insidiously and with little pain. The epididymis, especially the head, and later the body of the testicle, are found enlarged. The testicle is usually but slightly tender on handling, and the testicular sensation is not lost; a hydrocele may be present, or part of the tunica vaginalis may be obliterated. Subsequently the cord, especially the vas, becomes thickened and the skin adherent; whilst still later, the skin may give way and a fungus composed of the in- filtrated tubules protrude, or a discharging sinus be produced. The vesiculse seminales or prostate may now be felt enlarged on examining by the rectum, and bladder or urinary troubles may set in; whilst symptoms of tubercle in the lung, larynx or other organs may super- vene and the patient succumb to tubercular disease. At other times no constitutional signs manifest themselves, and the patient may completely recover. Diagnosis,—From syphilitic orchitis it may generally be distinguished by the enlargement of the epididymis, thickening of the cord, adhesion of the skin, enlargement of the vesiculse seminales, and concomitant signs of tubercle elsewhere. Treatment.—In the early stages, before the vas or vesi- culse seminales have become involved, some Surgeons advise the removal of the organ for the purpose of pre- venting, if possible, general dissemination of the disease, and where both testicles are affected, even the removal of both. Others, however, rely on constitutional treatment, and only advise the removal of the testicle should it be- come destroyed by the disease. If the vesiculse semi- nales are found a:ftected in the early stages, or signs of tubercle are discovered in other parts, the testicle should of course on no account be excised. The constitutional treatment is that already described under Struma and Tubercle (p. 49). The local treatment consists in suspen- sion of the organ, avoidance of horse or other violent exercise, and recumbency during an exacerbation of the inflammation. Should the tubercle soften and suppura- tion occur, the abscess must be opened and the wound dressed with iodoform or other antiseptic. If intractable sinuses remain, they should be scraped with a Volkmann'sSYPHILITIC DISEASE OF THE TESTICLE. 815 spoon. If a fungus forms it will frequently recede under rest in bed, cleanliness, and the application of a stimu- lating ointment or of iodoform. Should the testicle become completely disorganized it had better be excised. Syphilitic disease of the testicle occurs during the late secondary and the tertiary stages of syphilis. Pathology.—The lesion in the earlier stages of syphilis usually takes the form of a small-cell-infiltration of the intertubular connective tissue; in the later stages, of distinct gummatous masses, resembling gummata in other Fig. 317.—-Syphilitic testicle. Grummatous variety. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) situations. The body of the testicle alone is usually affected, and though, in some instances, syphilitic epididymi- tis is met with, the cord and epididymis generally escape. In the secondary stage both testicles may be implicated, either simultaneously, or, as more often happens, one after the other, the disease here, as in other secondary affections, manifesting its tendency to be symmetrical. Under appropriate treatment the small-cell-infiltration may be completely absorbed, leaving the testicle apparently little, if at all affected ; or it may undergo fibroid changes, and the subsequent shrinking of the fibrous tissue produce more or less atrophy of the organ. But it seldom breaks down and suppurates as the gummatous form in patients with undermined constitutions is apt to do. In the ter- tiary affection one testicle only is, as a rule, involved, the asymmetrical character of tertiary syphilis being thus816 DISEASES OF EEGIONS. borne out. The gummatous masses may clear up under treatment, but where the constitution is impaired they are liable to break down and suppurate. The typical appear- ance of a gummatous testicle on section is seen in Fig. 317. The organ is occupied by large yellowish-white nodules of a tough, fibrous, non-vascular material; some of the gummata are distinct; the remainder have coalesced into a mass which occupies the anterior part of the organ, A loose fibroid tissue, which is very vascular and of a pink colour in the original specimen, surrounds and separates the nodules. Signs,—Syphilitic disease is very insidious and painless in its onset, the testicle often attaining some size before the patient's attention is directed to it. The testicle is enlarged, very hard, not tender on handling, and, as a rule, absolutely painless; the testicular sensation is completely lost; the skin is not involved, but appears natural, and is freely moveable over the swelling. The signs, however, vary somewhat according to the stage of syphilis at which the testicle is affected. Thus, in the secondary stages, the testicle is smooth, oval, and often laterally compressed ; in the tertiary, nodular and irregular, and the tunica vagina- lis frequently contains fluid [vaginal hydrocele). In the secondary, usually both testicles are affected; in the ter- tiary, often only one. In the tertiary, moreover, the gummata, in neglected cases, or where the constitution is undermined, may break down, the skin become involved in the inflammation and give way, and a sore having the characters of a tertiary syphilitic ulcer, result. More rarely a fungus may protrude. The characters of the secondary and tertiary disease, however, often merge into each other. A syphilitic testicle may have to be diagnosed from simple orchitis and from tubercular disease. The freedom of the cord and epididymis, the absence of all pain and tenderness on handling, the loss of testicular sensation, the hardness of the organ, the non-implication of the skin, the presence of a vaginal hydrocele, the history of syphilis, the fact that the patient has not had gonorrhoea or a previous attack of acute orchitis, nor received an injury to the testicle, and the absence of signs of tubercle in other organs, point to the disease being of a syphilitic origin. It must not be forgotten, however, that syphilis may occur in a strumous subject; and that the characters of the two affections may then be more or less combined.MALIGNANT DISEASE OF THE TESTICLE. 8l7 Treatment,—The earlier the testicle is affected in the course of constitutional syphilis the more marked will be the effect of mercury; the later, of iodide of potassium. Often the best results are obtained from the two drugs combined. Locally, the testicle may be merely suspended; or it may be strapped in the earlier stages with advantage. Any fluid in the tunica vaginalis will commonly be ab- sorbed during the treatment, though sometimes tapping may be required. Should the skin give way, and an ulcer be produced, it should be treated like other syphi- litic ulcers. In rare instances, where the testicle is totally disorganized, extirpation may become necessary. Fig. 318.—Enchondroma»of the testicle. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) Enchondromata OB, CARTILAGINOUS tumours of the testicle are very rare. A beautiful example, however, is shown in the accompanying illustration (Fig. 318). They j may be known by their extreme hardness. Eemoval of I the testicle is the proper treatment. I Malignant disease of the testicle generally occurs I in the form of round-celled sarcoma, more rarely in the i form of soft carcinoma; but, without a microscopical exa- mination, the two diseases, even on section, are often quite indistinguishable. Sarcoma begins in the inter tubular connective tissue, and most frequently occurs in early life; carcinoma in the tubules, as a proliferation of the epithelial lining, and is most common after the period of middle age. In both, the body of the organ is pri- w. 3 a818 DISEASES OF REGIONS. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) marily affected, and all distinction between it and tlie epididymis is soon lost. Some effusion into the tunica vaginalis may at first occur; the two surfaces, however, rapidly become adherent, the skin is implicated, and a fun- gating mass protrudes externally. The lumbar glands are generally affected, the inguinal only becoming in- volved after the skin has been reached. In a typical case (Fig. 319) the growth appears, on section, like a mass of brain-matter, blotched in places with blood ; whilst fibrous bands, the remains of the trabeculse testis, are generally seen traversing the growth. Masses of cartilage are often found in the sarcomata, and cysts, sometimes containing intracystic growths, are not un- common {cystic sarcoma). The disease formerly described as cystic sarcocele would generally appear to be of such a nature. Signs.—The swelling is at first generally uniform, smooth, elastic or tense, and hard, and no distinction between the body and the epididymis can be made out; but later the cord becomes thickened and the lumbar glands enlarged, and the tumour may feel hard in one place and soft in another. Ultimately the skin becomes adherent, gives way, and a fungating mass, covered with a sanious discharge, protrudes. Diagnosis.^The rapid growthj large size, and more or Fig. 319.—Soft carcinoma of the testicle.3aXCISlOlf OF THE TESTICLE. 819 less globular shape of the tumour; the lancinating pain; the implication of the skin and lumbar glands; the en* j largement of the scrotal yeins; the protrusion of a bleed- i ing fungus ; and later, the constitutional cachexia, will indicate malignancy. In the early stages, however, a puncture or even an exploratory incision may be neces- sary to distinguish it from chronic orchitis, hsematocele, I and syphilitic orchitis. Thus, in malignant disease, arterial ; blood will generally flow; in hsematocele, a chocolate- coloured fluid containing hsematin crystals and broken- down blood corpuscles will escape ; and in chronic orchitis, ; whether simple, syphilitic, or tubercular, nothing beyond ; perhaps a drop or two of blood will be withdrawn by 1 the cannula. At times a piece of the growth may come j away in the end of the cannula, and a microscopical ex- j amination of this will further aid in the diagnosis. Treatment.—Unless the glands are much affected, the cord is thickened, and great emaciation or cachexia is I present, with signs of the disease in the internal organs, excision of the testicle should be performed. When this appears undesirable from the above-mentioned reasons, ail that can be done is to give opium to relieve pain and tonics to keep up the general health, and to apply some disinfecting lotion to remove the foetor attending the fungating mass. After removal of the testicle an early recurrence of the disease in the lymphatic glands or in the internal organs is only too probable. Excision of the testicle.—The parts having been shaved, make an incision over the growth from the ex- ternal abdominal ring to the bottom of the scrotum. Free the cord from its connections, and having clamped and divided it, enucleate the testicle with a few touches of the knife, taking care not to cut through the scrotal septum, and so remove the other testicle at the same time, a danger best avoided by giving the sound testicle into the charge of an assistant. Next tie the spermatic artery in the stump of the cord, and the cremasteric and deferential arteries, if seen; and having secured the cord by a Spencer Wells' forceps in order to prevent it slipping into the inguinal canal, loosen the clamp, and tie any other vessel that may then bleed before finally releas- ing it. Atrophy of the testicle may be simply the result of old age ; or it may be due to—1, inflammation, especially that occurring during an attack of mumps; 2, interfer* 3 G 2DISEASES OE HEGIOi^S. 820 ence with its blood supply as from the compression of the spermatic artery by a new growth or aneurysm; 3, ob- struction to the venous return as in varicocele; 4, direct pressure on the organ, as by an old hsematocele, or by the abdominal muscles or by a truss when the testicle is retained in the inguinal canal. Neuralgia of the testicle is occasionally met with, but pain in the testicle should not be pronounced neural- gic till the various diseases of the kidney, rectum, bladder and prostate, which may give rise to reflected pain in the testicle, have been excluded. "When no cause for the pain can be discovered, the ordinary neuralgic remedies should be given, although the prospect of success from their use is not great. Eetained testicle.—Non-descent of the testicle is said to be due to—1, the formation of adhesions in any part of its course into the scrotum; 2, disproportion be- tween the size of the testicle and the abdominal rings; 3, paralysis of the gubernaculum testis; and 4, too short a condition of the spermatic cord. At times, the union between the vas deferens and the testicle, ^.e., the union of the Wolffian duct and the portion of blastema from which the body of the testicle is developed, does not occur, and the vas descends alone. The testicle may be retained in one of three situations, viz., 1, in the abdominal cavity; 2, in the inguinal canal; and 3, just outside the external alDdominal ring. In the two latter situations it is often associated with a congenital hernia. Treatment.—In the first situation nothing can be done. In the third, the testicle should be coaxed into the scrotum by gentle and oft-repeated manipulations, and a truss applied over the inguinal canal should there be signs of a hernia. When the testicle is retained in the inguinal canal, time should be given it to descend, and a truss applied if possible over the internal ring. Should it not descend as the child grows older, the question of its removal must be raised, as in this situation atrophy of the organ is nearly sure to ensue, and it is liable to be frequently attacked by inflammation, and to be affected by malignant disease. Moreover, it exposes the patient to the risks of hernia. In some cases, however, it may be returned into the abdomen^ and kept there by a truss.821 PISEASES OF THE YULYA. SuBGicAL Diseases op the Female Genital Organs, DISEASES OF THE YULYA. Adhesion of the labia majora sometimes occurs as a congenital affection. The labia should be separated by p' forcibly drawing them asunder, with the assistance, if necessary, of a probe, and a piece of iodoform gauze placed between them to prevent re-adhesion. If neg- lected, it may be a source of inconvenience at puberty. j The parts are then more firmly adherent, and may require I division by the knife. I Vulvitis, or inflammation of the vulva, is in adults j most usually the result of gonorrhoea, but occurs in young children, from other causes, such as cold, in- jury, the irritation of thread-worms, &c. Sometimes j the sebaceous glands and hair-follicles of the labia are I chiefly affected, the parts then appearing dotted over with small red pimples, and later, if suppuration occurs, with small pustules. There is usually much redness and oedema, and an offensive discharge. It is of some importance to recognise the fact that the disease may occur in children from simple causes, as, amongst the ; poor, mothers are apt to think their child has been tampered with. Treatment,—In addition to the removal of the cause, cleanliness, rest, attention to the general health, and the use of a mild astringent lotion, is all that is usually required. Abscess occasionally follows inflammation of the vulva. It is often due to the extension of inflammation (generally ' gonorrhoeal) to Bartholin's gland, or to suppuration in a labial cyst. A free and early incision should be made to prevent burrowing of pus, which is otherwise apt to occur, leading to the formation of obstinate fistulae. Cysts in the labium are generally due to the obstruc- tion of a mucous follicle or the duct of Bartholin's gland, as the result of irritation. Dermoid and sebaceous cysts are more rarely met with. The mucous cysts generally contain a glairy fluid, and as their walls are thin, appear as semi-translucent, oval, elastic swellings. They occa- sionally suppurate. Excision of a portion of the wall, and cauterization, plugging, or scraping away the lining membrane to ensure healing from the bottom, is all that ! is usually necessary.DISEASES OE REGIOIS'S. 822 TuMOUES.—Fibrous tumours are occasionally met witli in the labium. They are usually of the soft variety, and often contain myxomatous elements. They are frequently allowed to attain a large size. Eemoval is the only treatment. Fatty tumours and ncevi are also met with; sarcomata but rarely. Epithelioma is not uncommon, and may generally be distinguished from venereal warts and syphilitic, tuber- cular or lupoid ulceration by the surrounding indura- tion, the sinuous and everted edges of the ulcer, the history of the case, the age of the patient, and the early enlargement of the inguinal glands. Early and wide removal of the growth, together with any inguinal glands that may be felt enlarged, holds out the only prospect of success; but when the growth has attained any size, a rapid recurrence is but too frequent. Condylomata and yeneheal waets are very con- mon in this situation. They require no special descrip- tion, and should be treated as described under Venereal Diseases in the Male, Pruritus may depend on various causes. These should be sought, and, if possible, removed, the irritation being allayed in the meantime by such remedies as are men- tioned under Pruritus ani (p. 710). Elephantiasis of the labium is rare. Like the similar condition of the scrotum, it may attain a large size. It may be removed by the knife, or better, as the haemorrhage is free, by the galvano-cautery. Noma is an infective inflammation of the vulva, attended by phagedsenic ulceration, and is not infre- quently met with in the ill-fed, weakly children of the poor, especially after the exanthemata. Like cancrum oris, it probably depends upon the presence of a specific micro-organism. It begins as a dusky-red, indurated patch on one labium, with much swelling and oedema, and spreads rapidly, the central parts often becoming gangrenous. It is attended with severe constitutional dis- turbance, which soon assumes the typhoid type, and death from exhaustion or septicaemia frequently ensues. The treatment should be energetic. The affected part should be completely destroyed by fuming nitric acid or the gal- vano-cautery, and an antiseptic dressing applied ; whilst fluid nourishment, stimulants, and iron should be freely given, and opium cautiously administered in doses suit- able to the age of the child. In milder cases the ap-823 PISIlAgES OT THE plication of boro-glyceride may suffice. In very severe cases, the continuous warm bath has been found of gre^t gervice, DISEASES OE THE VAGIKA. Acute vaginitis is generally due to gonorrhoea, but may occur as the result of the use of strong injections, the introduction of foreign bodies, cold, and the exanthe- mata. It is attended with the signs of inflammation, and with a profuse, generally purulent, and sometimes blood- stained discharge. There is pain on urination and defse- cation, and tenesmus. The inflammation may spread to the uterus, and thence to the Fallopian tubes, or to the urethra and Bartholin's glands. Saline purgatives, rest, warm hip-baths, and cleansing the part with Condy's lotion, followed by astringent injections, is the proper treatment. Tumours of the vagina are rare, and require no special notice. Cysts of the vagina are occasionally, though rarely, met with as the result of the distension of the mucous follicles; and others are described as originating from remnants of the Wolffian duct, or from the dilatation of lymphatics. They should be treated by the excision of a portion of the cyst-wall, combined with cauterization. Yesico-vaginal fistula, when not due to malignant disease, are generally the result of sloughing, consequent upon the pressure of the child's head in a prolonged or I instrumental labour, though they may be occasionally produced in other ways, as from the impaction of a foreign body in the vagina or urethra, injury, &c. They give rise to incontinence of urine, and are productive of great inconvenience. They may be so small as merely to admit a probe, or nearly the whole of the anterior wall of the vagina may be destroyed. The common situation is just below the neck of the uterus. Treatment,—Where the fistula is very small, touching it with the actual cautery may succeed in closing it; but an operation is usually necessary. The rectum having been cleared by an enema, the patient should be placed in the lithotomy position, and i a duck-bill speculum introduced. The edges of the fistula I should then be pared, and brought together with silver- I wire or silk-worm gut suture. The sutures should be 1 placed sufficiently close to prevent the passage of urinQ824 DISEASES OF EEGIONS. between them. A good way of testing if they are close enough, is to inject milk into the bladder, so that should any escape through the fistula, its colour will make it visible. Smith's needle will be found very convenient if wire sutures are used. The bladder should be emptied by a catheter at regular intervals; the vagina syringed out with an antiseptic solution, and dusted with powdered iodoform; and the bowels kept confined for a week or more. Becto-VAGINAL FISTULA may occur from causes simi- lar to those leading to the vesico-vaginal variety; they are also sometimes congenital. They are commonly situated just within the entrance to the vagina, and may be closed in the same way as the vesico-vaginal fistula. Utero-vesical and utero-rectal FiSTULiE may also occur, but are too rare to require any description here. Imperforate hymen, if overlooked till after puberty, is a serious affection, as the vagina, and later the uterus and Fallopian tubes, may become distended with the re- tained blood, conditions known respectively as hcemato- holpos^ hcemato-metra and hcematO'Salpinx. If relief is not obtained, enormous distension may occur, and the tubes or uterus give way, setting up peritonitis. Or the hymen itself may yield, and all end well; or saprsemia may occur from putrefaction of the blood and absorption of the septic products on the admission of air; or septic perito- nitis may be produced by the sudden alteration of pres- sure or the contraction of th3 uterus causing rupture of the tubes and escape of fluid into the peritoneum. Treat- ment.—Before puberty, division or excision of a portion of the hymen is a simple and safe operation; but when distension has occurred, it is attended with great risk, as if a free opening is made there is danger of peritonitis from the same causes as when spontaneous rupture takes place, and if a small opening is made, of sapreemia from decomposition. The safest plan, perhaps, is to make a small opening, and to keep the parts aseptic by iodoform or the like. Malformations of the vagina.—Atresia or imper- forate vagina. The vagina may be completely absent, or divided by a transverse or horizontal septum. The uterus and ovaries may also be absent, and no trouble will then result; but when these are present, similar results to those described under imperforate hymen may follow. Atresia of the vagina may also be due to adhesions or theOYARIAN TUMOURS. 825 contraction of cicatrices following ulceration, &c. The I absence of the uterus may be determined by introducing I a catheter into the bladder, and the finger into the rec- tum, when the two will be felt to be in close apposition. In such a case no operation should be undertaken,^ as all I that would be achieved would be to open the peritoneal cavity. Where the uterus and ovaries are present, and dissension has occurred, if the vagina is only partially absent an attempt may be made to form a vagina by dissecting carefully through the tissues between the ! bladder and the rectum in the direction of the os. When this is found, the parts must then be prevented from re- adhering by introducing laminaria tents, frequent digital examinations, &c. Where the vagina is completely absent the uterus may become distended, and may then either be punctured through the rectum, or in some instances together with the ovaries be removed. Cystocele and "rectocele are the names given ^ to a prolapse of the anterior and posterior wall of the vagina respectively. In the former the bladder of course pro- trudes ; in the latter the rectum or the pouch of Douglas which may contain some small intestine. Partial prolapse of either wall is a frequent accompaniment of extensive ruptures of the perineum. These affections generally fall under the care of the Obstetrician, but at times the Surgeon may be called upon to perform a plastic operation for their cure. This consists in removing a por- tion of mucous membrane from the upper or lower wall of the vagina as the case may be, bringing the raw sur- faces together with sutures, and keeping the bladder empty with a catheter till firm union has taken place. diseases of the oyaeies and fallopian tubes. Ovarian tumours.—Ovarian tumours may grow either from the ovary itself, or from the broad ligament, j and may be either solid or cystic. Amongst the solid tumours, which are rare, carcinoma and sarcoma are the most common. Amongst the cystic the so-called multi- I locular cysts are most frequently met with; but other i forms, as the unilocular, the dermoid, and the parovarian cysts, may also occur. For a description of these tumours I and of their pathology, which, at the best, is but im- 1 !DISEASES OF REGIONS. 826 perfectly understood, the student must be referred to a special work on tlie subject. Symptoms.—There may be no symptoms.at first; but as the tumour increases in size, it gradually encroaches On the space normally allotted to the pelvic and abdominal viscera, giving rise to one or more of the following symptoms. Thus, from pressure on the bladder and rectum there may be increased micturition and constipa- tion ; from pressure on the iliac vessels, oedema of the lower limbs and genitals; from pressure on the sacral and lumbar plexus, pain in the back, pudenda, and legs; from pressure on the stomach, nausea and vomiting; on the intestines, diarrhoea or colicky pains ; on the portal vein, ascites and haemorrhoids; on the kidneys and ureters, albuminous and highly-concentrated urine rich in urates. Later, as the tumour extends upwards, there will be embarrassed breathing and dyspnoea from pres- sure on the heart and lungs; whilst finally emaciation sets in, and the patient dies of exhaustion, if not carried off by an intercurrent attack of peritonitis from rupture of the cyst. The physical signs vary according to the size of the cyst, and the diagnosis at first may be attended with some difficulty. But as the cyst rises out of the pelvis, and the abdomen becomes gradually distended, the con- dition known as ovarian dropsy is produced, the physical signs of which somewhat resemble dropsy of the peri- toneum (ascites) depending on visceral disease. In ovarian dropsy the abdomen is dull in front, resonant in the flanks; the dulness is not altered by position; and the distension is greatest in the hypogastric and um- bilical regions. Whereas in ascites the abdomen is resonant in front, dull in the flanks; the dulness is altered by position, the dull flank becoming resonant when the patient is placed on the opposite side ; the dis- tension is most marked laterally; and the circumference of the abdomen is greatest at the level of the umbilicus. In both a percussion wave or thrill generally exists, but in ovarian disease it is usually limited to the dull area, whilst in ascites it is as a rule felt all over. In ascites, moreover, there is probably other evidence of the visceral disease which is producing the dropsy; and if the abdomen is punctured the fluid will be found to be of a thin and serous character. In ovarian disease the uterus is usually displaced. An ovarian tumour may also haveOYARIOTOMY. 827 te be distinguislied from pregnancy, tympanites, encysted dropsy of the peritoneum, tumours ^ of the omentum, subperitoneal cysts and tumours, fibroids of the uterus, pelvic heematocele and abscess, extra-uterine pregnancy, and a distended - bladder; but the differential diagnosis cannot be attempted in a work of this character. Having, ^however, determined that the disease is an ovarian cyst, the' next poitit to make out is whether it is unilocular or multilocular ; free or adherent. The muUilocular cyst is usually irregular; fluctuation is absent, or more marked in some parts than in others; and there is no thrill or fluctuation waVe on percussion, unless one of the cysts has attained a preponderating size. The unilocular cyst is smooth, rounded, regular, and elastic; fluctuation is felt equally over the whole tumour; and the percussion thrill or wave is equally distributed over the whole of the dull area. If adhesions are present the cyst is fixed, unless they take the form of elongated bands, in which case a friction rub or sound may be felt or heard. The umbilicus moves' with the cyst; but no movement is detected on examination by the rectum or vagina. If there are no adhesions the cyst moves on respiration, but the umbilicus does not move with the cyst, and the cyst is not found fixed on examination by the rectum or vagina. Such are the^chief points to be attended to; but often the signs are-delusive, and where a tumour is expected to be of a unilocular character and free, it may be found to be multilocular or solid and extensively adherent to the neighbouring parts. Treatment.—The only effectual treatment is to remove the tumour by the operation of ovariotomy, an operation which, though formerly attended with a high rate of mortality, may now be said to be one of the most suc- cessful of the major operations in surgery. Eepeated tappings, and tapping and injecting with tincture of iodine, have now very rightly almost ceased to be em- ployed, although tapping may still at times be called for under exceptional circumstances, which cannot here be discussed. Before ovariotomy is undertaken, however, the patient should J)e very carefully prepared by attention to the bowels and kidneys, any congested condition of the latter being relieved by aperients, diaphoretics, warm baths, and the administration of citrate of potash, lithia, &c. OYAjiiOTOMy.—The patient having been ^ell wrapped828 DISEASES OE REGIONS. up, with woollen stockings on tlie legs, &c., the bladder emptied by a catheter, the skin of the abdomen pre- viously cleansed with soap and water and antiseptics, and the anaesthetic administered, a mackintosh cloth with an oval opening is placed over the abdomen and secured round the opening to the skin by adhesive material. The parts should then be again sponged with antiseptics, and an incision made in the middle line about three inches long midway between the pubes and the umbilicus (Eig. 253, a). This incision may be afterwards prolonged if necessary. The peritoneum having been reached, and all haemorrhage stopped with pressure forceps, the peri- toneal cavity is carefully opened on a director, the hand introduced, and adhesions felt for. If the cyst is free. Spencer Wells' trocar and cannula are thrust through the cyst-wall, the fluid evacuated, and the cyst gradually drawn out through the wound as it is reduced in size by the escape of the fluid. The pedicle is now transfixed by a long needle armed with a suture of China silk, the suture severed, and the needle withdrawn. The two portions of suture are nexfc twisted, and the pedicle firmly tied on both sides. The pedicle is then divided on the cyst aspect, and the cyst removed, care being taken to prevent any of its contents escaping into the abdomen. If the cut surface of the pedicle appears dry, the sutures by which it is tied are cut o& short, and it is allowed to slip back into the pelvis ; but if any bleeding point is seen, this must first be secured. Should adhesions be felt on opening the abdomen, they should be carefully broken down by the hand, or divided if necessary, care being taken not to injure the intestines, and to secure all bleeding vessels. After the cyst has been removed, the other ovary should be examined, and if diseased, also removed. The sponging-out or irrigation of the abdomen is now begun, and must be continued as long as any blood-stained fluid can be squeezed from the sponges. The sponges, or better Gamgee's pads, should be thrust down deeply into Douglas's pouch, and when all the blood-stained fluid has been removed from this part of the peritoneum, a sponge attached by a string should be left there until just before closing the wound to ensure that no collection remains in this dependent situation. If irrigation is employed, an india-rubber tube attached to a can containing the irrigating fluid should be passed in various directions into the abdominal cavity, and the fluid829 OVARIOTOMY. allowed to flow until it runs away perfectly clear. The irrigating fli^id may consist of water at a temperature of 98°, containing some antiseptic. Mr. Tait uses pure water, A large soft sponge is finally placed over the sur- face of the intestines whilst the deep parietal sutures are being introduced. These should be j)assed about half an iich'apart, and made to include the skin and peritoneum, but not the muscles, so that when tied two free surfaces Fig. 320.—Method of draining after ovariotomy, a a. Kiibber sheet. D D. Dressings. s s. Integuments. t. Drain-tube. I I. Intestines, p. Pipette. of peritoneum are in contact. The sutures being all in sitUy the flat sponge and the sponge in Douglas's pouch are withdrawn, and the wound is closed by tying the sutures. Superficial sutures are next introduced between the deep to ensure the accurate apposition of the skin. The mackiiStosh is now removed, a gauze-dressing firmly secured by strips of sti^pping, and a flannel bandage applied over all. Under some circumstances, as where many adhesions have been broken down, and there is likely to be oozing into the pelvis, or where the peri- toneum has been accidentally soiled by septic material of any kind, a drain tube should be placed in the wound.830 The tube is passed through a tightly-fitting hole in the centre of a sheet of thin rubber (Fig. 320). The end of the tube should be then placed in the bottom of Douglas's pouch, and the parietal wound closed except at the situa- tion of the tube, and dressed with antiseptic gauze placed between the skin and the rubber sheet. Over the mouth of the tube a sponge is laid, and the rubber sheet wrapped around it so as to prevent any discharge from the tube reaching the permanent dressing. The rubber is unfolded at intervals, the sponge removed, and a capillary pipette passed down the tube to draw off any discharge that has collected. The tube is retained till the discharge ceases to collect in it and becomes of a serous character. The after-treatment consists in keeping the patient at rest, soothing pain and procuring sleep by morphia, emptying the bladder at regular intervals by the catheter, and. allaying vomiting if present by ice or teaspoonfuls of hot water, or if intractable by washing out the stomach. Tympanites is greatly relieved by the occasional passage of a long rectal tube. No food should be given for the first twenty-four hours; then nutrient enemata should be admmistered, and after three days a return to slop diet should be cautiously made. The stitches may be re- moved from the third to the seventh day, and the wound then supported by strapping. If signs of peritonitis appear, Mr. Tait gives a turpentine enema and saline purge. See Peritonitis (p. 422). Salpingitis—Hydro- salpinx—Pyo- salpinx—H^- MATO-SALPINX.—As the result of gonorrhoea, inflamma- tion of the uterus or pelvic peritoneum, and occasionally of parturition, the Fallopian tubes may become inflamed [salpingitis), and their orifices adherent, and as a conse- quence they may become distended with serum {hydro- salpinx) (Fig. 321) or with pus {pi/o-salpinx); whilst much more rarely, as the result of an injury or from obstruction in the uterus or vagina, they may become distended with blood {hcematO'Salpinx). The symptoms are pain, worse on exertion, straining, or coitus; and intensely painful,irre- gular or profuse menstruation, together with a history of uterine or ovarian trouble. On examination an ovoid, generally tender, perhaps fluctuating swelling will be felt externally and through the roof of the vagina, and on both sides if both tubes are affected. The swelling will be moveable or immoveable according as it is free or adherent, and may be distinguished from an ovarian cyst831 OOPttORECTOMY. "by its shape, and by being felt anteriorly ratber than on either side of the neck of the uterus. Pyo-salpinx may generally be distinguished from hydro-salpinx by the occurrence of rigors and fever; but a diagnosis is often iinj)ossible. , Treatment.—The removal of the tube and ovary in the case of hydro- or pyo-salpinx is the treatment that has been adopted; but it should only be done when the Fia. 321.—Double hydro-salpinx. B. Bladder. k. Rectum. R T. Right tube opened, l t. Left tube. o. Ovary, u. Uterus. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) symptoms are severe. Tapping through the vagina has not been attended with success. The operation of re- moval may b^done in a manner similar to oophorectomy. Heemato-salpinx, as a rule, requires no active treatment. Oophorectomy, or Battey's operation, consists in the removal of the ovaries, and has been done for inflamma- tion, neuralgia, amenorrhoea, mollities ossium, &c. The operation is performed like ovariotomy. A small incision being made in the linea alba, midway between the umbi- licus and the pubes, two fingers are introduced into the peritoneal cavity, and first one, and then the other ovary832 DISEASES OF REGIONS. brought out of tlie wound. The pedicle, which consists of broad ligament and its contained structures, is trans- fixed and ligatured as in ovariotomy, the ovary cut off, and the pedicle dropped back into the abdomen. Hysterectomy, or removal oe the uterus, may be done through the vagina {Schrceder^s operation) or through an incision in the abdominal walls {FreuncVs operation). In the former, an incision is made through the vaginal mucous membrane around the cervix, the peritoneal cavity opened, the broad ligament transfixed and liga- tured, and the uterus severed from its connections and drawn out through the vagina. In the operation though the abdominal wall, the peritoneal cavity is opened, as in ovariotomy; the broad ligament transfixed and ligatured ; and the uterus drawn up from the pelvis and carefully severed from its connections. For a detailed account of these operations, however, the student is referred to a larger work. DISEASES OE THE BREAST. Paget's disease oe the nipple, sometimes spoken of as eczema, is an intractable form of ulceration around the nipple. It lasts for many years, and yields to no treat- ment. A considerable proportion of cases develop carci- noma of the breast. Eecently small vegetable parasites known as psorosperms have been found in the tissues sur- rounding the ulcer, and are supposed to be the exciting cause of the disease. Treatment.—When all mild measures are unavailing, many Surgeons recommend amputation of the breast for fear of cancer subsequently forming. Neuralgia of the breast is not uncommon in young unmarried women, and appears to be frequently due to some ovarian disturbance. The pain is often severe, per- haps shooting down the arm, and may be constant or periodic; whilst the skin over the breast, as well as the gland itself, is exceedingly sensitive onhandling. Nothing, except at times a slight fulness, can be detected on ex- amination. The treatment consists in improving the general health by tonics, cold baths, and outdoor exercise, and in regulating the ovarian functions. No local treat- ment is necessary; indeed, the patient's attention should be taken off the breast as much as possible. Inflammation of the breast may occur at any age, and in the male as well as in the female. In infants it is833 ABSCESS OF THE BREAST. Sometimes attended with a serous" or milky discharge from the nipple, and is often made worse by ignorant nurses applying friction to " rub away the milk." At or ahqut puberty it is met with in boys as well as in girls, but more frequently in the latter. Often beyond the patient appearing somewhat out of health no cause can be dis- covered, although in hospital patients a history of a blow is not uncommon. The inflammation may clear up, or terminate in an abscess. Acute inflammation, however, most frequently occurs during lactation, especially in primiparse, and generally during the first month after parturition. It then appears to be most often due to the irritation of the nipple by the child sucking, particularly when the nipple is shrunken or retracted, or is in a cracked condition. Occasionally it is the result of excessive secretion of the milk, and con- sequent hypersesthesia of the ducts ; or it may not appear till later during the period of lactation when the patient's powers have been pulled down by long suckling. Symptoms.—A feeling of uneasiness in the breast, then a chill or slight rigor, followed by fever and the local signs of inflammation and often subsequently of abscess* Treatment.—The breast should be placed at perfect rest by slinging it in a handkerchief passed over the shoulder j and by taking away the infant from the sound as well as from the affected side; the milk, if the tension is great, should be drawn off regularly by the breast-pump; and belladonna and glycerine applied to diminish the secretion, and opium or poppy fomentations to relieve pain. Signs of abscess must be watched for and an early incision made. A smart saline purge, followed by saline laxatives and a light nutritious slop diet, is usually necessary. Abscess of the breast may occur in three situations : '—1. Superficiahto the gland (si(j9m-mammar?/a&scess); 2. In the substance of the gland [intra-mammary abscess); and 3. Behind the gland (pos^-mammar?/ abscess). 1. The supra-mammary variety resembles an abscess in any other situation and requires no further comment. 2. The intra-mammary, which is generally the result of in- flammation occurring during lactation, may be confined to one part of the gland ; or pus may be formed in several situations at the same time, and if not let out by timely incisions may riddle the breast in all directions. 3. In the post-mammary the inflammation begins either in the cellular tissue behind the breast, or in the posterior lobes w. 3 HDISEASES OE BEGIONS. 834 of the gland, the resulting abscess then bursting into the cellular tissue behind the breast. The whole breast is pushed forward and presents a characteristic conical appearance. There is deep-seated and throbbing pain, increased on moving the arm, and some oedema and mottled redness of the skin. The pus usually gravitates towards the lower and outer part of the breast, where the abscess commonly points; or it may burrow through the gland, producing fistulous tracks which are often very difficult to heal. Treatment.—In all varieties an early and free incision should be made, preferably under an ansesthetic. In the intra-mammary the incision should radiate from the nipple, so as not to cut across the galactophorous ducts; and should be free, not a mere puncture, lest the abscess cavity degenerate into a sinus. In the post-mammary the incision should by preference be made at the most dependent part to ensure an efficient drain, though of course pus wherever pointing must be let out. Should sinuses or fistulse form, they should be laid freely open and thoroughly drained, after being scraped by a Yolk- mann's spoon, The strength should be supported by a generous diet, and ammonia and bark, or quinine and iron given, together with stimulants, if indicated. Chronic lobular inelammation of the breast, which has been described by various names, as lobular indura- tion, chronic hypertrophy, chronic interstitial mastitis, &c., affects generally one lobe, or limited portions of the gland, and is of much interest in that it is liable to be mistaken for a tumour. It is said to be most, frequent in married women beyond the child-bearing period of life; but my own experience is that it is as often met with in young and unmarried women. Cause and Pathology.—It is generally attributed t ovarian disturbance. A small-cell-infiltration occurs i the connective tissue of the a:ffected lobe with increase proliferation of the epithelium. Later the cells develo into fibrous tissue, which contracts, pressing upon an obliterating the ducts and acini, and causing fatty de- generation of the epithelium lining them. Should some of the acini escape the pressure which has obliterated the ducts leading from them, small cysts may be formed; but such cysts never attain a large size in consequence o the unyielding nature of the fibrous tissue by which the are surrounded.LOBTTLAB INFLAMMATION OF THE BBEAST. 835 Symptoms.—The patient usually complains of a swell- ing, and sometimes of pain in the breast. On grasping the breast between the fingers the hypertrophied portion feels like a tumour, but on drawing it from the nipple so as to make the lactiferous ducts tense, it is found to be part of the mamma, and on pressing the breast back on the ribs with the flat of the hand no distinct tumour is felt, nor anything like the resistance of a new growi;h. Further, the swelling is usually of a wedge-shape, with its apex towards the nipple, and has not the stony hardness of scirrhus ; and there may be a second nodule in the same breast, or in the breast of the opposite side. The axillary glands are sometimes enlarged, but are not indurated, and the pain often follows, as pointed out by Mr. Birkett, the distribution of one or more intercostal nerves, the slightest pressure upon which as they issue from the thorax causes acute pain. The above signs will usually serve to distin- guish the affection from scirrhous carcinoma. Should, however, as occasionally happens, the nipple be retracted, the skin dimpled from the contraction of the fibrous septa, the surface of the gland rendered nodular by the presence of several tense cysts, and the patient moreover be about the age at which carcinoma is common, it may be difficult to diagnose between them, especially if the breast is voluminous, so that the characters of the swell- ing are obscured. Under such circumstances it is quite justifiable to make an exploratory incision, after having explained the importance of a correct diagnosis to the patient. Treatment.—Iron and quinine or the mineral acids are often indicated, and with these some combine the iodide of potassium. J^ocally a belladonna plaster may be applied, or the stays dispensed with to prevent friction, or a thick layer of cotton-wool placed between them and the breast. Inunction with iodide of potassium ointment, or with oleate of mercury, is also recommended. What- ever treatment is adopted, it should be presevered in for several months. There is a condition of Hypertrophy often met with in lads about the age of puberty, and in girls a little below that age. The breast enlarges slowly, often painlessly, generally on one, but sometimes on both sides. There are no signs of inflammation. Under the influence of a belladonna plaster applied for some months, which probably owes its efficacy to the fact that it prevents the 3 H 2836 DISEASES OF REGIOKS. patient irritating the breast by constantly feeling it, the hypertrophy usually subsides. Of its exact patholo- gical condition I am not aware, but it appears probable that it is of a chronic inflammatory nature. TuMOUES OF THE BREAST.—The tumour by far the most frequently met with in this situation is the acinous carcinoma (scirrhus), which is due to the proliferation of the epithelium lining the acini or the small ducts. Certain of the connective-tissue tumours {fibromata, sarcomata)^ springing from the periacinous connective tissue, are also of frequent occurrence. They seldom, however, occur pure, but are nearly always mixed with elements re- sembling the tissue of the breast- itself {adenomatous tissue), and hence are spoken of as adeno-fibroma, adeno- sarcoma, adeno-myxoma. Whether these adenomatous elements are the normal breast-tissue, which has become surrounded and enclosed in the fibrous or sarcomatous growth as the case may be, or whether it is an abortive formation of the gland-tissue, is not agreed upon by pathologists. Most, however, believe that it is a new formation. More rarely the gland-tissue may constitute the chief bulk of the tumour {pare adenoma). The tumours composing this class were formerly spoken of collectively as chronic mammary glandular tumours. At times cysts are developed in connection with them, and they are then designated cystic adeno-fibroma, cystic adeno- sarcoma, cystic adeno-myxoma, &c. Various other forms of tumour, viz., tumours composed of fat, cartilage, vessel-tissue, nerve-tissue, &c., have also been met with in the breast, but are exceedingly rare. Pure adenomata are very rare. They occur as cir- cumscribed ovoid tumours surrounded by a capsule of connective tissue. On section they appear smooth, lobed, white or tinged with pink, with here and there small cavities and occasionally distinct cysts. Their general characters have already- been given under Tumours, All that need here be repeated is that they consist of acini and ducts surrounded by a small amount of vascular con- nective tissue; in short, that they resemble the breast preparing for lactation, save that the acini and ducts do not form distinct lobules with an excretory duct, as in the lactating breast. Further, the epithelium does not pene- trate the membrana propria and grow into the inter- tubular and inter-acinous connective tissue, a point of importance as distinguishing them from carcinoma.ADENO - SARCOMATA. 837 Signs.—•tThey are most often met with in women between the ages of thirty and thirty-five who have borne children, as small ovoid, firm but elastic, distinctly circumscribed ' and moveable growths in the breast, with a nodular or slightly bossed surface. They are of very slow growth, do not cause retraction of the nipple or enlargement of the axillary glands, and do not return if completely re- moved. Enucleation is the treatment. Adeno-FIBROMATA are of frequent occurrence. They consist of fibrous and adenomatous tissue, and are styled fibromata by those pathologists who regard the gland- tissue as merely the remains of the normal breast-tissue surrounded by the new growth. They occur as firm, circumscribed, slow-growing and distinctly encapsuled tumours in the substance of the breast, and on section appear lobulated and of a pinkish-white colour, and do not yield a juice on scraping. Signs,—They usually occur in the breast of young and healthy women as freely moveable, firm, ovoid, slightly nodular, generally painless growths, and are often indis- tinguishable without puncture from a tense cyst. From carcinoma and sarcoma they may be diagnosed by the age of the patient, their slow growth, well-defined outline, non-retraction of the nipple, non-adherence of the skin, and the absence of glandular enlargement. From pure adenoma, adeno-sarcoma, and adeno-myxoma, it may be impossible to distinguish them before removal. Enuclea- tion is the only effective treatment. I Adeno-SARCOMATA differ from the adeno-fibromata in that in place of an increase of fibrous tissue around the acini and ducts vai?k)us kinds of sarcomatous elements are found mixed with more or less mature fibrous or myxo- matous tissue; they often contain cysts. Hence the terms adeno-fibro-sarcoma, adeao-myxo-sarcoma, adeno-cysto- sarcoma, fibro-cysto-sarcoma, &c., which have been applied to them. They occur as circumscribed growths in the breast, resembling the adeno-fibromata, from which it is often impossible to distinguish them without a micro- scopic examination. The signs vary according to the amount of sarcoma- elements the growth contains. Thus, when this is small they approach in their clinical character and behaviour the adeno-fibromata. On the other hand, when sarcoma- elements abound, they may grow rapidly, and behave like the pure sarcomata. Frequently they grow slowlyDISEASES OP REGIONS. 838 for many years and then suddenly rapidly increase in size as the patient approaches the middle period of life. When occurring between the ages of thirty and forty they often grow rapidly from the first. Treatment.—^The slow-growing and more fibrous forms may be enucleated, but if in proceeding to do this the growth is found to be soft and succulent the whole breast should be excised, an operation that should invariably be undertaken when the tumour has grown rapidly. PuEE SARCOMATA.—All forms of sarcoma mixed with fibrous and adenomatous elements may occur in the breast, the large spindle-celled variety being the most common. Sarcomata are most frequent between the ages of twenty and thirty-five. They begin in the periacinous and peritubular connective tissue, and at first are always en capsuled, but later they infiltrate the surrounding parts and may perforate the skin and fungate. Their malig- nancy depends upon their structure, the round-celled and large-spindle-celled being highly malignant, the small- spindle-celled much less so; indeed the latter may recur again and again in situ before finally becoming dissemi- nated, or its tendency to recurrence may completely wear itself out. The small-spindle-celled is usually firm like the adeno-sarcomata, and on section greyish-white, smooth and succulent. The round-celled and large- spindle-celled are soft and elastic owing to their richness in cells and blood-vessels and their scanty amount of intercellular substance. On section they appear of ^ a pinkish-white colour, often blotched with blood, while cysts from hsemorrhages and mucoid softening sometimes occur in them. Symptoms.—The small-spindle-celled sarcoma can hardly be diagnosed before removal from the adeno-fibroma and adeno-sarcoma. The large-spindle-celled and round- celled varieties form smooth elastic tumours, oval or rounded in shape, and are lobed or bossed when cystic; whilst the veins of the breast are often enlarged and tor- tuous. They grow rapidly, and may perforate the skin and protrude as a fungus; but, unlike carcinoma, they do not infiltrate the skin or cause retraction of the nipple, and the glands are not usually enlarged. The tumour, moreover, is commonly larger than scirrhus, and the patient's age below that at which carcinoma is usually met with. The only effectual treatment is the removal of the wholeSERO-CYSTIC SARCOMATA. 889 I breast. If there is any doubt whether the tumour is an I adeno-fibroma or a sarcoma it is better to have the con- I sent of the patient before the operation for the removal j ' of the whole breast should the tumour when cut into I appear to have malignant characters, i Cysto-SARCOMATA, adeno-cystomata, sero-cystic sarco- niata, and glandular proliferating cysts, are terms applied to tumours in the breast in which the growth in the peri- j acinous connective tissue projects^ into the interior of I dilated acini and ducts in the form of papillary or cauli- [ flower-like masses. The periacinous growth, which may consist of fibrous tissue, spindle or round cells, or of I Fig. 322.—Cystic adenoma of the breast, j (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) a mixture of all these, protrudes the wall of the dilated acinus or duct in front of it, but does not penetrate the epithelial lining, and may ultimately fill the whole acinus, which is thus converted into a mere slit-like space lined i with epithelium. On section the tumour may present one or more larger cysts, containing variously-shaped cauliflower-like growths sprouting from their walls. Or it may appear completely solid from the cysts having been entirely filled with intra-cystic growths; on dis- section, however, the spaces between the growths and the cyst-walls can always be demonstrated. When the growth, which is at first encapsuled, attains some size, the skin may give way and the growth protrude in the form of a fungus. The skin, however, does not become infiltrated as in carcinoma. Signs.—They generally occur in women between the ages of thirty and thirty-five, as distinctly defined, lobu-840 DISEASES OF REGIONS. lated, usually painless growths, hard in some places and soft and fluctuating in others, and often of large size. The veins over them are enlarged, but the skin is not adherent, the nipple is not retracted, and the glands as a rule are not aftected. They commonly grow slowly, but at times rapidly, and seldom become disseminated. Their chief distinguishing characteristic is the presence of one or more prominent fluctuating cysts in the tumour. Should a fungus protrude it may be distinguished from carcinoma by the non-implication of the skin around, non-adherence of the growth to the side of the chest, and the absence of the other signs of carcinoma above pointed out. Eemoval of the breast is the proper treatment. Cysts.—The cysts met with most frequently in the breast are the serous cysts, and certain of the retention cysts. Serous cysts are formed in the breast, as in other situations by the distension with fluid of the lymphatic spaces of the connective tissue (see Serous cysts). The retention cysts that occur in the breast may be divided into the galactoceles, which are produced by the dilatation of the galactophorous ducts, and the glandular cysts, due to the distension of the smaller ducts and acini. The former contain a milk-like fluid, or when, as occasionally happens, the watery parts have been absorbed, an in- spissated caseous material. The glandular contain a yellowish or brownish-yellow mucoid fluid, sometimes blood-stained, and at times intracystic papillary growths, formed by the ingrowing of the cyst-walls. When they occur in elderly people they are spoken of as involution cysts. Their frequency in chronic lobular inflammation of the breast has already been alluded to. Signs.—Cysts in the breast form painless, tense or semifluctuating, smooth, rounded tumours, evidently con- nected with the breast tissue. Serous cysts may occur in any part of the breast. They are often very tense and hard, and breasts with such in them have been removed for cancer. Hence the valuable rule of making a pre- liminary incision if in doubt as to the nature of the tumour. The galactoceles occur during lactation; they are situated near the nipple, from which a milk-like fluid may sometimes be squeezed out on pressing the cyst. They are soft and fluctuating, and usually single, form quickly, and may attain a large size. Glandular cysts occur chiefly in women of from thirty-five to fifty. They are tense and painless, form slowly, may occurSCIRRHOUS CAIS'CER OF THE BREAST. singly, but are often multiple. A sanious fluid some- times escapes from the nipple. Treatment.—Simple serous cysts may be laid freely open and allowed to granulate from the bottom, or better be dissected out. Galadoceles with semi-solid contents, may also be laid freely open and their contents squeezed out. Glandular cysts, when numerous, call for the excision of the affected lobule, or if the whole breast is affected and they contain proliferating growths, excision of the entire gland. Involution cysts require no treatment. Carcinoma of the breast is nearly always of the acinous form, of which both varieties, the hard (sc?VrAoi(s) and the soft {medullary), are met with. The hard variety, however, is by far the more common. The general and microscopical characters of carcinoma have already been given under tumours. Here only the special characters which it presents when occuring in the breast will be referred to. Scirrhous carcinoma.—Pathology.—Scirrhus of the breast generally appears as an indurated, nodular, non- encapsuled, tuberous mass, of moderate dimensions, with long processes extending in various directions in the gland-substance and the fatty tissue around, and later, involving the skin and subjacent pectoral muscle. On section (Fig. 323) the tumour gives a characteristic creaking sensation to the knife, and the cut surface appears slightly concave from the contraction and shrinking of its fibrous stroma thus set free from the traction of surrounding tissues. It is of a hard resisting consistency, of a uniform close texture, semi-translucent, of a greyish-white colour often tinged with pink, and has been likened to the section of a potato or unripe pear. Sometimes it is intersected in every direction by short wavy glistening white fibres, with here and there yellow dots and streaks due to section of the epithelial columns which have undergone fatty degeneration ; whilst in other places, little masses of the surrounding fatty tissue and of muscle are seen enclosed by the pro- cesses of the growth, and patches of caseous-looking material or white creamy fiuid, due to the growth having surrounded some of the ducts which have become only partially obliterated, may be scattered through its sub- stance. The section on scraping yields a juice containing cells, free nuclei, and granular material. Signs,—Scirrhous carcinoma generally begins as a small842 DISEASES OF REGIONS. hard lump in the substance of the breast; it grows slowly at first, afterwards more rapidly, and then involves the skin and pectoral muscle; finally the skin gives way, and a foul ulcer is produced. In the meantime, the lymphatic glands in the axilla become involved, and as they increase in size press upon the axillary vein and brachial plexus of nerves, producing oedema of the arm and intense neuralgic pain. Later the cancer becomes disseminated through the internal organs and tissues of the body. The health, which on the first appearance of the growth is generally good, Fig. 323.—Scirrhous carcinoma of the breast. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) now gives way, the skin becomes sallow and earthy in appearance, the patient wasted, and cancerous cachexia is said to be present. The foul and profuse discharge from the ulcer, the intense pain, the mental suffering, and the implication of internal organs, lead to exhaustion, and death soon steps in to put an end to the patient's misery. Such is a brief outline of the course of the disease when not subjected to surgical interference. Let us now study the characters of the tumour as presented in a typical case. It is usually situated in the upper and outer quadrant of the breast, or just below the nipple. Its surface is hard and irregular, its margins ill-defined. The skin at first, when gently pinched up between the finger and thumb, shows a sUght dimpling, and later appears distinctlyi SCIRRHOUS CANCER OF THE BREAST. 843 puckered and unmistakably adherent to the growth. In the earlier stages the tumour glides freely over the pec- H toral muscle ; later a slight resistance is felt on moving it from side to side; whilst finally it becomes firmly fixed to the walls of the chest. The nipple, when the growth is behind it, is retracted, in consequence of the traction which is made by the carcinoma upon the lacteal ducts (Fig. 323); but when the growth is situated in the circumference of the breast, there may be no retraction, or the retraction may occur only on one side; whilst when the cancer begins as an infiltration of the nipple itself, the latter will be harder and more prominent than natural. On raising the arm and drawing the finger-tips transversely across the inner side of the axilla, a hard cord or cords— infiltrated lymphatic vessels—may often be felt extending from the tumour into the axilla, while in the space itself large glands will be discovered if the case is sufficiently advanced. The glands are at first soft, single, and dis- tinct, later, hard and matted together, forming an in- durated irregular mass which is often adherent to the chest-walls and in advanced cases extends as high as can be felt beneath the clavicle. In the supraclavicular space the enlarged glands may sometimes be detected, first as a mere fulness, subsequently as distinct swellings. After the skin over the tumour has given way, an ulcer with sinuous, irregular, everted, and indurated edges, and a foul, cavernous, irregular, and indurated base is formed, from which is exuded a foul-smelling and sanious discharge. The skin around is indurated from infiltration with the growth ; or distinct, circumscribed, hard nodules of carcinoma are scattered here and there through it. Diagnosis.—When the above signs are present there is no difficulty in pronouncing as to the nature of the disease. In the earlier stages, however, whilst the tumour is still small and has not yet become adherent to the skin or to the pectoral muscle, where the breast is large and there is no retraction of the nipple and as yet there is no en- largement of the axillary glands, the diagnosis from an innocent tumour, a tense cyst, or lobular inflammation will be, to say the least, difficult. The age of the patient, the rate of growth, and the history of the case must then to a great extent be relied on for distinguishing it. But where the patient, as is occasionally the case, is young, the diagnosis may then be impossible without making an ' incision into the growth, a proceeding which, under such844 DISEASES OF REGIONS. circumstances, after the difficulty lias been explained to the patient, is not only justifiable but imperatively called for. Rarer forms of scirrhus in the breast are occasionally met with. Thus—1. The cancer may begin as a general infiltration of the entire gland, when its course is usually very rapid; 2, it may chiefly affect the skin, the whole side of the chest in such a case becoming infiltrated, hard, brawny and leathery in consistency, a condition some- times known as "hide-bound;" 3, it may begin as an infiltration of the nipple, or may be engrafted upon chronic eczema around the nipple; 4, in elderly women it may run a very chronic course, often remaining stationary, if not interfered with, for many years; and, 5, in very ex- ceptional instances, the carcinomatous mass has apparently undergone complete atrophy, even, it is said, after ulcera- tion has occurred, and a spontaneous cure has thus been brought about. Treatment.—In the breast, as elsewhere, the only hope of cure lies in the early and complete extirpation of the carcinoma. Unless, therefore, the Surgeon is consulted before the skin, pectoral muscle, and lymphatic glands are more than slightly involved, he can hold out but little prospect that the disease will not return, and return shortly, that life will be materially, if at all, pro- longed by an operation. Under such circumstances, therefore, there are some Surgeons who hold that an operation with the disease thus advanced ought not to be undertaken, as it can only bring discredit on surgery and may possibly prevent other patients seeking advice whilst there is yet a probability that a free and complete removal of the breast and axillary glands may eradicate the disease. While admitting that this may be true, we must not lose sight of the fact that even although the growth may soon recur either in the cicatrix or glands, or in internal organs, and although life may not be pro- longed, still removal of the growth may rid the patient of a foul and loathsome disease and often of great pain, at any rate for a time, and death may occur in a less dis- tressing way from dissemination of the carcinoma in internal organs. In the meanwhile the patient's mind will be relieved, even if she is not buoyed up with the hope that there may still be a chance of a non-return. Hegarding the question of operation, therefore, it may be briefly said that—\, Where the skin is not involvedj or845 DtJCT CABCIKOMA OP THE BREAST. to a very slight extent, the tumour not adherent to the pectoral muscle, and the glands are not felt enlarged, or if enlarged are not hard, free removal of the breast and, in the last case, clearing out the axilla is imperatively called for. 2. Where, on the other hand, the skin is extensively inhltrated, the tumour is firmly adherent to the pectoral muscle, the glands are enlarged, hard, and adherent to the side of the chest, enlarged glands can also be felt above the clavicle and perhaps have already caused oedema of the arm, marked cachexia is present and there is evidence of dissemination of the carcinoma in other organs and tissues—then no operation should be performed. In cases such as the above, there can be little question as to the propriety of operating or not operating. But there are a large class of intermediate cases in which some Surgeons would, and some would not, operate. Much will then depend upon the presence or absence of pain, and each case must be judged on its own merits. Medullary carcinoma is much less common in the breast than the scirrhous form, and generally appears at an earlier age. It occurs as a soft, non-encapsuled, compact, white or blood-stained, brain-like mass infil- trating the gland and surrounding tissues. Its growth is much more rapid than the scirrhous variety, and it sooner involves the skin, pectoral muscles, and axillary glands, and rapidly becomes disseminated through in- ternal organs. Early and free removal of the whole breast, and of any glands in the axilla that may be felt enlarged, is the proper treatment. Other varieties of carcinoma in the breast, as the so- called villous, or duct cancers, and the colloid, require only a brief notice. D UCT CARCINOMA occurs as one or more rounded masses lying in the breast tissue not far from tlie nipple. On section these masses appear as red, encysted and definite tumours. Microscopically they consist of cysts, often con- taining blood, and into which papillary growths, covered by columnar epithelium, sprout. The growths have an alveolar structure, and closely resemble, especially when the disease has recurred, ordinary encephaloid carcinoma. The nipple is not retracted, but there is usually a history of a discharge of blood from it, often before a tumour is noticed. The skin is not infiltrated, the axillary glands are not enlarged, and secondary deposits are very rare. The tumour is firm and elastic, and may contain one or more846 DISEASES OF REGIONS. cysts. It usually occurs in middle-age, is of slow growth, and not accompanied as a rule by pain. The treatment consists in amputation of the whole breast. If this is done, no further trouble usually occurs. Colloid Carcinoma of the breast is very rare. Its structure is like that of scirrhus or encephaloid cancer, but here and there large epithelial cell-masses have undergone colloid degeneration. It is of slower growth, and less frequently affects the glands than either scirrhus or encephaloid, and has a less tendency to recur after re- moval. The prospective length of life is said to be three or four times that of ordinary scirrhus. Excision of the breast.—The arm being held out from the side by an assistant so as to put the pectoral muscle on the stretch and well expose the axilla, an elliptical incision should be made below and another above the nipple, cutting widely of any adherent or infiltrated skin. The skin above and below should now be reflected from the breast, and the latter dissected the pectoral muscle, taking care to remove the pectoral fascia and any portion of the muscle that appears affected with the disease. Should any gland be felt in the axilla, the incision should be prolonged in an upward and out- ward direction, the axillary fascia opened by the scalpel, and all the glands that can be felt enucleated in part by the fingers, and in part by the handle of the scalpel, care being taken not to injure the axillary vessels or large nerve-cords, both of which are situated at the upper and outer part of the space. The skin should now be drawn together by sutures, a drainage tube having been placed in the deeper part of the wound. "Where the skin cannot be made to cover in the wound, the flaps should be drawn as much together as possible by stout silver sutures, and the remainder of the wound left to granulate. The arm should be secured to the side with the forearm and hand across the chest. DEFORMITIES OF THE NECK, KNEES AND FEET. Wry-neck or torticollis is a distortion chiefly de- pendent upon contraction of the sterno-mastoid muscle. It may be congenital or acquired. Causes,—The congenital form is attributed to—1, spastic contraction of the sterno-mastoid muscle due to disease847 WBY-KECK OH TORO^ICOLLIS. of the nervous system; 2, malposition in titero; or, 3, injury at birth, as, for example, rupture of the sterno- mastoid in a breech presentation. The acquired form is due to—1, the head having been held for a long time in the distorted position as a consequence of stifi neck following cold, injury, or inflamed cervical glands; 2, hysteria; or, 3, spasm set up by irritation of the spinal accessory nerve consequent upon central nerve-trouble. Signs.—The head, supposing the right sterno-mastoid to be ai^ected, is drawn forwards and towards the right shoulder and also rotated, so that the chin points to the left. The right mastoid is prominent, the right side of the neck concave, and the left convex. In long- standing cases some lateral curva- ture of the dorsal spine is generally acquired. The congenital form may be distinguished from the spasmodic not only by its history but by the sterno-mastoid becoming tense in the former, and yielding in the latter, on attempting to straighten the head. The hysterical variety will be known by the presence of other signs of hysteria. Treatment.—In congenital tury- neck, unless the patient is treated by position while still an infant, division of the sterno-mastoid is generally required, followed by a course of systematic exercises in the slighter cases, and the use of some such instrument as that shown in Fig. 324, m the more severe. The sterno-mastoid is best divided im- mediately above the clavicle, as here it is furthest removed from the important structures that lie beneath it. A puncture should be made at the inner side of the tendon, a director passed behind it, and the division made towards the skin with a blunt-pointed tenotome. The tense bands of cojntracted cervical fascia which now start forward will yield to stretching; it is not safe to divide them. The puncture should be given three or four days to heal before the exercises are begun or the instrument is applied. Some advise the division of the muscle about the middle on the plea that such is a more safe procedure; Fig. 324. —Wry-neck apparatus.DISEASES OF REGIOIS'S. 848 whilst others again recommend the division of the tendon by open antiseptic incision, as in this way the danger of puncturing and admitting air into a vein is avoided. If the subcutaneous division, however, is carefully done in the manner here adyised, I do not believe there need be any fear of air entering the veins. I have now performed this little operation many times and have never ex- perienced any difficulty or trouble. In spasmodic cases conium, Indian hemp, bromide of potassium, &c., maybe tried. These failing, the spinal accessory nerve may be stretched just above the spot where it enters the sterno-mastoid. In very intractable cases a piece of the nerve may be excised, and if the posterior cervical muscles are also involved in the spasm, excision of portions of the posterior division of the first four cervical nerves may be simultaneously or subsequently undertaken. Tenotomy of the sterno-mastoid should in these and in hysterical cases on no account be done. In the latter, hysterical remedies should of course be used. Knock-knee or genu valgum is a deformity in which, when the knees are placed together in the extended position with the patellae looking directly forwards, the legs^iverge. One or both knees may be affected, or there may be genu valgum on one side and genu varum on the other. Cause,—Knock-knee is generally the result either of rickets, when it occurs between the second and the seventh year; or of carrying heavy weights, long standing and the like, when it is most common in growing, underfed and overworked lads and girls from fourteen to eighteen. The deformity is variously believed to depend on :—I, an overgrowth of the internal condyle of the femur, and a corresponding uprising of the inner tuberosity of the tibia; 2, the relaxation of the internal lateral ligament; or 3, the contraction of the biceps tendon. In the majority of cases the osseous lesion is certainly present, and I have no doubt in my own mind that it is upon this that the deformity in rickety cases usually depends, though I admit that in some of those rapid cases induced by ex- cessive weight-bearing in weakly lads, a relaxation of the ligaments may be the principal factor. The contraction of the biceps tendon when present I regard as the result, and not as the cause of the affection. Treatment—In slight rickety cases keeping the child entirely off its legs, the application of splints, and the internal use of appro-849 OSTEOCLASIA—OSTEOTOMY. priate remedies, will generally effect a cure. In confirmed cases, and in older patients, however, little must be ex- pected from splints or instruments. By their use the limb can no doubt be straightened, but only at the expense of stretching the external lateral ligament, the legs being rendered flail-like, and the patient being unable to walk or even stand without his irons. Eor such some form of osteo- clasia or osteotomy is usually required. Osteoclasia consists in breaking the bone either with the hands or with the osteoclast. Manual osteoclasia is seldom employed except for the correc- tion of rickety bow-legs or knock-knee in young subjects when the bones are moderately soft. For fracturing larger and stronger bones the osteoclast is required. The limb is properly ad- justed between the arms of the instru- ment and the force applied by means of a screw in Grrattan's osteoclast, or by levers in that of Thomas. Osteotomy is usually done by Mace wen's or Eeeves' modified Og- ston's method. 1. Macewen^s operation consists in chiselling through the femur just above the epiphysis, but leaving the posterior surface, which is in contact with the popliteal artery, intact, and snapping this across by forcibly bending the bone. 2. In Reeves' modification of Ogstones operation the internal condyle is first loosened with a chisel, and then made to slide upwards on the shaft of the femur by forcibly straightening the leg. The chisel is introduced behind the synovial membrane and should not be driven so far into the condyle as to endanger the opening of the joint. The line of incision through the femur in these operations is shewn in Fig. 325. The incision in the soft tissues which in either operation should be merely long enough to admit the chisel, may in each be made vertically two fingers' breadth above the patella and mid- way between the inner edge of the rectus and the tendon of the adductor magnus. The operations should be per- formed antiseptically and the limb secured to a long Fig. 325. — A, fine of section in Macewen's; B, in Ogston's ; and C, in Reeves' modified Og- ston's opera,tion. W. 3 IDISEASES OF REGIONS. 850 splint, or placed in Bavarian plaster splints in a straight position for about a month, and subsequently kept in an ordinary plaster case for six weeks to two months till sound union has taken place. Genu varum, or bow-legs, is the opposite deformity to genu valgum, and what has been said of the latter as regards pathology, treatment, &c., will apply to it if external be substituted for internal in the phraseology. It is frequently associated with a bowing of the shaft of the tibia, either at its upper or its lower third, and some- times with a bowing of the femur. Genu recuryatum orEXTRORSUM is a condition of over- extension at the knee. It is frequently present in a slight degree in cases of knock-knee. It sometimes occurs as a congenital affection; the hyper-extension may then be extreme, the feet touching the groins. When it is com- bined with knock-knee the irons for the latter affection should have a front stop. In congenital cases division of the quadriceps may be necessary, but continual attempts at flexion and the use of an instrument with a cog-wheel at the knee will usually suffice. -^Talipes or club-eoot is a distortion in which the relations of the tarsal bones to each other and to the bones of the leg are variously altered, and the bones held in their abnormal position by alteration in the shape of the bones and by the contraction or shortening of certain of the muscles, ligaments, and fasciae attached to the foot. Cause,—Talipes may be either congenital or acquired. The congenital form has been attributed to—1, spastic muscular contraction induced by some lesion of the nerve- centres ; 2, malpositions of the foetus in utero; 3, struc- tural alteration in the form of some of the tarsal bones. The supporters of the first view maintain that the bones are drawn into their abnormal position by muscular con- traction, and regard any alteration in the shape of the bones as the result and not as the cause of their malposi- tion ; whilst those who uphold the second and third views deny that spastic contraction occurs, as no lesion of the nerve-centres has been found to account for it, and look upon the contraction of the muscles as merely due to adaptive shortening consequent upon the altered position of the bones. The congenital variety is sometimes here- ditary, very occasionally occurs in several members of the same family, and is frequently associated with other con-851 TALIPES EQUmUS. genital malformations as spina bifida, meningocele, &c. The acquired form is generally the result of infantile para- lysis, the bones being then drawn into their abnormal posi- tions by the contraction of the muscles antagonistic to those paralysed, the weight of the body in standing and walk- ing tending more and more to confirm this faulty position. Amongst other causes may be mentioned long-continu- ance of the foot in the extended position, disease of the ankle or tarsus, yielding of the ligaments, &c. Varieties.—There are five principal forms of club-foot:— Talipes equinm, varus, calcaneus, valgus and cavus. But these may be variously combined, producing compound CongenitacL AcquirC'd- Fig. 326.—Talipes equiniis. (Bryant's Surgery.) forms, which are then called equino-varus, equino-valguSf calcaneo-valgus, &c. 1. In talipes equinus (Fig. 326), which is nearly always an acquired affection, and generally due to infantile para- lysis, the heel is drawn upwards by the tendo Achillis, and the anterior part of the foot is in consequence de- pressed and held in the extended position. The weight of the body is thus transmitted through the heads of the metatarsal bones, which together with the anterior part of the tarsus are bent downwards and backwards from the transverse tarsal joint and fixed in this position by the adaptive shortening of the plantar fascia, ligaments and muscles thus rendering the sole of the foot unnaturally concave, a condition known as pes cavus. The patient walks with fatigue and lameness on the balls of his toes, and if both feet are affected he may be unable to walk at all. In long-standing cases, in consequence of the con- 3 I 2852 DISEASES or REGIONS. traction being greater on tlie inner than on tlie outer side of tlie sole, an inward twist is given to tlie foot {equino- varus). At times the tendo Achillis is not snfficiently shortened to draw up the heel, but at the same time is so contracted as to prevent the foot being placed beyond a right angle with the leg. This condition is spoken of as right-angled contraction of the tendo Achillis or as red- angular talipes. 2. Talipes varus is the most complicated variety of club- foot, and is the most common of the congenital forms. By some the distortion here described as varus is called equino-varifs. I prefer, however, to apply the simple term varus to the form under consideration, and equino-varus to cases of equinus in which there is added a secondary twist- ing inwards of the foot. In varus (Fig. 327), the os calcis is drawn up by the tendo Achillis, tilting the astragalus partially out of the ankle-joint, and the bones in front of the transverse tarsal joint are drawn inwards and upwards by the tibialis anticus and posticus, so that the scaphoid is placed in- ternal to the astragalus instead of in front of it, whilst its tube- rosity is in close contact with the.internal.malleolus. The liga- ments on the inner side of the sole and between the tibia and astragalus are shortened, and are often the chief agents holding the bones in their deformed position. In severe cases, however, the astragalus is itself deformed, its head looking almost directly inwards instead of forwards and slightly inwards. Thus, in a well-marked case (Fig. 328 A and b), the heel appears drawn up, the anterior part of the foot inverted, the inner border turned upwards, the outer border downwards, so that the sole looks backwards and the dorsum forwards, the long axis of the foot being at the same time shortened and bent upon itself, the sole un- naturally concave, and the plantar fascia tense. In severe cases (Fig. 328 c), the inner border of the foot may be in contact with the leg, and when the foot has been walked upon the sole looks upwards as well as backwards. Fig. 327. — Congenital talipes varus. (St. Bar- tholomew's Hospital Museum.)853 and tHe dorsum downwards as well as forwards; whilst the sole is narrowed by the approximation of the fifth metatarsal bone to the first, and a bursa often forms over the outer border of the dorsum. In the acquired form, which is generally due to infantile paralysis, the history A B c Fig. 328.—Congenital varus. Three grades of severity. (Bryant's Surgery.) Fig. 329.—TaHpes calcaneus. (Bryant's Surgery.) of the case, the wasting, shortening, coldness and passive congestion of the limb, and often the absence of rigidity, will commonly serve to distinguish it from the congenital. 3. Talipes calcaneus is rare. In the congenital variety (Fig. 329) the anterior part of the foot is drawn up and often a little everted, and generally held rigidly in this position by the contraction of the extensor muscles. In the acquired form (Fig. 329), which is commonly the result of infantile paralysis of the calf muscles, the heel is placed first on the ground in walking, but there is no drawing up of the foot by the extensors. The anterior part of the foot drops downwards from the transverse tarsal joint, and the tendo Achillis, instead of standing out j tensely, can often hardly be felt.854 DISEASES OP REGIONS. 4. In talipes valgus or flat-foot the longitudinal and transverse arches of the foot are flattened and the anterior part of the foot is more or less everted. Though rare as a congenital, it is very common as an acquired deformity, and as such is, perhaps, most often due to the yielding of the ligaments of the sole and the relaxed state of the muscles which normally support the plantar arches, in consequence of general debility and want of muscular tone, combined with long standing or carrying heavy weights. Hence its frequency in growing and under-fed lads, errand-boys, policemen, waiters, housemaids, and the like. Amongst other causes may be mentioned rheu- matism, gonorrhoea, rickets, sprains of the plantar liga- ments, and spasm or paralysis of certain muscles of the leg. The calcaneo-scaphoid ligament and plantar fascia, and to a less extent the other ligaments of the sole, are elongated, and the bones on the inner side of the foot, instead of form- ing an arch, are depressed and in contact with the ground. The bones in front of the transverse tarsal joint are at the same time more or less everted, leaving the head of the astragalus, which is itself depressed, partly exposed on the inner side of the foot. In severe, and generally in congenital cases, the heel and front of the foot are drawn up by the tendo Achillis and the anterior muscles respectively, whilst the outer border of the foot is raised from the ground. The acquired form is often productive of so much crippling and pain as to render the sufferer unable to follow any employment which necessitates much standing or walking. The foot (Fig. 330) looks broader and longer than natural, the sole is flat, the inner border in contact with the ground, and the internal malleolus depressed ; whilst two prominences, formed by the tuberosity of the scaphoid and the partially exposed head of the astragalus, can be seen and felt projecting on the inner side of the foot. In slight cases the foot can be made to assume its natural form on manipulation or on standing on tip-toe, but in severe cases it is rigidly fixed in the deformed position. Pain and stiffness of the metatarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe [Hallux dolorusus) is a common concomitant of flat foot in boys and young adults. 5. In talipes cavus the sole is unnaturally arched and the plantar fascia is tense. The toes are often extended at the metatarso-phalangeal joint, and flexed at the first interphalangeal joints, giving them a clawed appearance855 TREATMENT OF TALIPES. {hollow claio-foot). This condition is frequently due to infantile paralysis affecting the interosseous muscles. General treatment of talipes.—The indications are—1, to restore the deformed foot to its natural position ; and 2, to retain it in this position until the normal func- tions of the joints and muscles have been so far restored that there is no tendency to a relapse. In the congenital and in many of the acquired forms these indications can be successfully fulfilled if appropriate means are taken and sufficient time and care are given to the case. But in the paralytic varieties, where the muscles have under- gone complete atrophy and degeneration, these, of course, cannot be restored, and the foot can only be maintained in the normal position by the use of instruments. Por the fulfilling of the first indication both operative and mechanical or manipulative treatment may be necessary. For the second, the use of mechanical supports and physio- logical after-treatment should be employed. The operative treatment, when this is necessary, will generally consist in the subcutaneous division of certain tendons (tenotomy), in the division of contracted liga- ments {syndesmotomy), and in inveterate cases in the ex- cision or section of some of the tarsal bones [tarsectomy or tarsotomy). Tenotom,y is indicated where there is much rigidity and the foot cannot be brought into its natural position by manipulation. Its object is the lengthening of the shortened tendon, not its mere division. The lengthening is effected by the organization of the small-cell-exudation Fig. 330.—TaUpes valgus or flat-foot. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.)856 DISEASES OP EEGIONS. wliicli is poured out between tlie divided ends of the tendon. Hence the importance of subcutaneous division, that is, of making a mere puncture in the skin and pre- venting the entrance of air lest suppuration ensue and the tendon become adherent to its sheath and fail to unite. The tendon having been made tense by an assis- tant, pass the tenotome beneath it with the blade on the flat; then whilst the tendon is slightly relaxed, turn the edge of the tenotome towards the tendon and cut towards the skin, the assistant again making it tense to facilitate the division, but relaxing the moment it is felt to give way lest the skin be severed and the puncture be converted into an open wound. The puncture should be covered with a dossil of antiseptic gauze, and the foot secured to a splint or in a plaster-of-Paris bandage. It was formerly the custom to place the foot in a splint in the deformed, or in only a slightly improved position for a few days until the puncture had healed and the tendon had united before beginning mechanical extension to stretch the new material between the divided ends. It was thought that if the foot was at once rectified and the ends of the divided tendon consequently much separated, there was grave risk of the tendon not uniting, or of the uniting material remaining weak. I have not, however, found this to be the case, and I now invariably place the foot immediately after tenotomy in the best position possible, often leaving a gap of a quarter of an inch to half an inch, or even more, between the ends of the divided tendon. By at once rectifying the position of the foot, after dividing any contracted ligaments that may still hold the bones in their deformed position, much time is saved and the necessity of expensive extension-apparatus is avoided. In dividing the posterior tibial tendon, after a puncture has been made with a sharp-pointed tenotome, a blunt-pointed tenotome should be substituted for it lest the posterior tibial artery be pricked. Should this vessel be wounded, all that is necessary is to apply firm pressure to the foot and ankle by a pad and bandage. On no account should an attempt be made to tie it, as this would convert the subcutaneous into an open wound. Even where the anterior as well as the posterior tibial artery has been wounded in tenotomy, bleeding has been readily arrested by pressure, and no harm has ensued. In the fat ankle of an infant the posterior border of the tibia, the guide to the tendon of the tibialis posticus, cannot857 TKEATMENT OF TALIPES. be felt; tbe tenotome should then be entered midway between the anterior and posterior border of the leg, and at right angles to the surface. Syndesmotomy consists in dividing the contracted liga- ments which, after tenotomy, are frequently found to hold the foot in the deformed position. It is performed by passing a tenotome deeply into the foot over the situation of the ligaments to be divided, and cutting freely through them whilst they are put on the stretch by an assistant manipulating the foot. The position of the foot should then be rectified by wrenching, and a plaster-of-Paris bandage applied. Tarsedomy has for its object the removal of certain bones or portions of bones from the tarsus, so as to allow the foot to be at once restored to its normal position. It should only be undertaken in inveterate cases after milder measures have failed. The operations most fre- quently performed are Davy's, or the removal of a wedge-shaped piece of bone from the tarsus; and Lund's, or the excision of the astragalus. Tarsotomy is the operation of dividing the tarsus trans- versely with a chain saw, and, like tarsectomy, should only be done in inveterate cases. Mechanical treatment.—Until recently it was usual to keep the foot in the deformed position till the tendon had united, and then bring the foot slowly into its normal position by gradually stretching the divided tendon. The apparatus usually employed was some form of Scarpa's shoe {Fig. 331) or other cog-wheel contrivance. By the majority of Surgeons, however, plaster of Paris is now substituted for such expensive apparatus, the foot being secured at once in the plaster in the best possible position. In slight cases division of the tendon will alone be sufficient to allow of this; in more severe cases the division of the ligaments will also be necessary, whilst in very severe cases removal of a portion of bone will be required. If plaster of Paris is used a cotton- wool bandage should always be employed beneath the plaster to prevent injurious pressure on the parts. The Fig. 331.—Scarpa's shoe.858 DISEASES OF REGIONS. medianical supports necessary after the foot has been rectified will be briefly mentioned under the treatment of each variety of talipes. Physiological after-treatment is most important for the purpose of restoring the natural movements of the joints and the functional activity of the muscles. It consists in active and passive exercises, massage, Faradization, hot and cold sponging, and lastly in teaching the patient the proper use of the restored foot. It now remains to mention the special treatment appropriate to each variety of talipes. In talipes eguijiiis, tenotomy of the tendo Achillis is usually all that is required; but if there is much con- traction of the sole (talipes cavus), the plantar fascia, or any tense band that can be felt, should first be divided, and when the sole has been straight- ened out by keeping the foot for a fortnight or so in plaster of Paris, the tendo Achillis may then be cut, and the foot again placed in plaster in the restored position for another two or three weeks. A boot with double Fig. 332. — Boot leg-irons and toe-raising spring must with double leg- be subsequently worn in paralytic irons to above cases, the irons being carried above knee, outside the knee and the outer iron above the iron continued l^ip to a pelvic band if the flexors or to pelvic girdle. extensors of the leg are also affected (Fig. 332). In talipes varus, except in slight cases, the tibialis anticus and posticus should first be divided, and the inversion of the foot overcome by some form, of varus splint, or plaster of Paris. When this has been thoroughly done, the tendo Achillis should be cut, and the heel brought down as in equinus. Where there is much contraction of the sole, the plantar fascia, or other tense band, should be divided after the tibials but before the tendo Achillis. A similar instrument to that described for equinus should then be worn for six months to a year or more; or as long as any tendency is shown to relapse. In paralytic cases, where the whole leg tends to twist inwards from the hip-joint, the outer iron should be carriedTREATMENT OF TALIPES. 859 to the pelvis. In very severe cases the ligaments on the inner side of the sole and the posterior ligament of the ankle may be divided subcutaneonsly, as suggested by Mr. E. W. Parker {syndesmotomy); or, if this is not enough, the whole of the soft tissues on the inner side of the sole may be divided subcutaneonsly down to the bone {Buchanan's operation), or the contracted tendons and ligaments below and in front of the internal malleolus may be divided by an open incision [Phelps' operation), or as a last resource a wedge-shaped piece from the trans- verse tarsal joint, or the astragalus, may be removed. In talipes calcaneus, the extensor tendons, in the congenital form, must be divided if the foot cannot be rectified by plaster of Paris alone. In the acquired form a boot and irons, similar to that used in equinus but with a toe-depressing spring, may be worn. In paralytic cases the tendo Achillis may in some instances be shortened by removing half an inch or more and splicing the divided ends. In talipes valgus or flat-foot, such Fig. 333.—Author s exercises as alternately raising the boot for flat-foot, body on tip-toe, or walking on the outer edge of the foot, will in slight cases of the acquired variety when combined with the use of a valgus pad and a properly shaped boot, generally be successful. In severer cases a boot with outside leg-iron and rubber band to brace up the sunken arch (Pig. 333), should be worn; whilst where there is much rigidity, the foot should be wrenched into position with the patient under an anaes- thetic and placed in plaster of Paris for a month. The wrenching may be repeated if necessary, and the boot above described subsequently worn. In very severe cases excision of Chopart's jomt {Ogston's operation), the removal of a wedge-shaped piece of the neck of the astragalus and osteotomy of the tibia just above the ankle have been performed, and are said to be at- tended with success. I have on only one occasion had to do Ogston's operation, having always found wrench- ing sufficient. By some Surgeons, division of the peronei tendons is recommended, a procedure which in my opinion is quite unnecessary, and contrary to the prin-860 DISEASES OP EEGIOKS. ciples whicli should guide us in the treatment of the deformity. Hallux valgus is the dislocation of the great toe in- wards at the metatarso-phalangeal joint. It is frequently connected with an enlarged bunion (see Bunion) over the inner side of the joint. In the way of treatment a sock with a separate stall for the big toe should be worn and the boots should be straight along the inner edge and square at the toes. Krohne's lever or Bigg's bunion spring- will be found useful in correcting the inward displacement; for advanced cases, excision of the head of the metatarsal bone is attended with the best results. Hammer toe is a condition in which usually the second toe is hyperextended at the metatarso-phalangeal joint and flexed at the first interphalangeal joint. Wrenching the toe, dividing the ligaments subcutaneously, excising the joint, or amputating the toe according to the degree of the deformity, is the proper treatment.APPENDIX. ♦ AMPUTATIONS. Amputations.—The objects that should be kept in view in performing an amputation are :—1, to remove the whole of the injured or diseased part that is beyond the reach of recovery, with as little sacrifice of the healthy tissues as possible ; 2, to prevent all unnecessary haemor- rhage; 3, to secure a sufficient covering for the end of the bone; 4, to avoid adhesion of the cicatrix to the bone; 5, to divide the large blood-vessels and nerves transversely, and leave their cut ends in such a part of the stump that they may be little exposed to pressure; and 6, to ensure an efficient drain and aseptic condition of the wound. Amputations may be performed by the circular or by the flap method. In the circular metJiod the integuments are first divided by a circular incision round the entire circumference of the limb. They are then retracted, and the muscles divided higher up the limb by a similar circular sweep of the knife. The muscles are next in their turn retracted, and the periosteum is divided still higher up the bone, which is finally sawn through at that spot. This method possesses the advantages that the vessels and nerves are divided transversely, and that the wound is of moderate dimensions; but the cicatrix is opposite the end of the bone, the coverings for the latter are apt to be deficient, and the stump is liable to assume a conical shape. The circular method is now seldom employed, except for amputation of the arm. In the flap method, double flaps, or a single anterior or posterior flap, are provided for the covering of the bone. The flap or flaps may consist of integuments alone, or of more or less of the muscular and other soft tissues as well. In the former case the flaps are cut and reflected, and the muscles and other soft parts are then divided at the level of the base of the flaps in a .circular inanner down to theAPPENDIX. 862 bone, wliicli is sawn througli a little higher up. By this method most of the advantages of the circular amputation are secured without its disadvantages. When on the other hand, the muscles are included in the flaps, the vessels and nerves are liable to be split, or notched, or divided obliquely instead of transversely, whilst the mass of muscle in the flap tends to prolong the healing of the wound. These muscular flaps may be cut either from without inwards, i.e.^ from the circumference towards the bone, or from within outwards, t.e., by the method of transfixion. In whichever way the flaps are cut, and whether they consist of integuments only, or of integu- ments and muscle, they may as regards position be antero-posterior or lateral, or one may be antero-ex- ternal, and the other postero-internal, or vice versa. As regards length they may be equal, or one may be long, the other short; and as regards breadth they should be half the circumference of the limb. As a rule they should be cut square, but with rounded angles. The follow- ing modifications of the flap operation may be briefly mentioned. TeaWs method consists in making a long and a short rectangular flap (Fig. 334). The long flap, which is gene- rally anterior, or antero-external, is quadrilateral in shape, and its length and breadth each equal to half the circum- ference of the limb ; it includes all the soft parts down to the bone. The short flap is posterior, or postero-internal; its length is one-fourth the anterior, and its breadth equal to half the circumference of the limb; it also includes all the soft parts down to the bone, and contains the large vessels and nerves. When the operation is completed and the wound closed the stump presents the appearance shown in the lower half of Fig. 334. The advantages claimed for Teale's method are:—1, freedom from tension; 2, a complete covering for the bone free of large vessels and nerves; and 3, a dependent position of the wound. It is applicable to amputations through the leg and lower third of the thigh. Cardenas method, designed for amputating through the condyles of the femur, consists in reflecting a semi-oval flap of integuments, half the circuroference of the limb in length and breadth, from the front of the knee-joint, dividing everything else down to the bone by a circular sweep of the knife, and sawing the bone across slightly above the plane of the divided muscles.SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. 863 Special amputations.—Amputation at the shoulder- joint may be performed either by the flap or by the oval method. In either case the subclavian artery should be compressed above the clavicle, or in some instances the axillary tied before the amputation is begun. The flap method.—A large flap consisting of integuments and deltoid muscle is usually taken from the outer aspect of the joint, either by transfixion or better by cutting from without inwards. In transfixion, the deltoid having been grasped and raised by the Surgeon's left hand, the knife should be made to transfix the limb on its upper and I FiOt. 334.—Teale's amputation. (Bryant's Surgery.) ! outer aspect just below the acromion, and a flap 1 formed with rounded angles about four inches long. 1 The flap is turned back, the head of the bone freed I from its connections, and the knife passed behind I it, and made to cut its way out towards the axilla, the axillary artery being seized as it is divided. In cutting a flap from luithout inwards, the incision is made from a point just external to the coracoid process and I carried in a circular sweep downwards as low as the insertion of the deltoid, and then upwards to the posterior fold of the axilla just behind and below the acromion. In the oval method {Spencers modification), an incision ! is made from just external to the coracoid vertically downwards as in excising the joint through the clavicular fibres of the deltoid and pectoralis major"864 APPENDIX. to tlie humeral attaclinieiit of the latter muscle, which is then divided. The incision is next carried with a gentle curve through the lower fibres of the deltoid towards the posterior border of the axilla. A second incision is then made through the skin and fat only, from the point where the straight incision terminated across the inside of the arm to meet the incision at the outer part. The outer flap is next dissected up with the trunk of the posterior circumflex artery, the head freed from its connections, disarticulated, and the remaining soft parts cut through on the axillary aspect, the axillary artery being divided last of all. Amputations of the arm and forearm are usually per- formed by double skin-flaps and circular division of the muscles. The circular method, however, or amputation by single or double transfixion or by Teale's method, may be employed. Amputation at the wrist may be performed by two short flaps, by a long palmar flap, or by an external flap taken from the thumb. In the double-flap method the incision is commenced half an inch above the styloid process of the radius or ulna. The flaps should be cut square, with rounded angles, and about two inches in length. The joint should be opened on the dorsal aspect, and on the completion of the disarticulation the styloid processes of the radius and ulna sawn oif. The thumh at the carpo-metacarpal joint may be ampu- tated by transfixion or by an oval incision. In the trans- fixion method the point of the knife in operating on the right side is entered at the web of skin between the first and second metacarpal bones, and made to emerge on the palmar aspect of the carpo-metacarpal joint. A palmar flap is then cut from the tissues forming the ball of the thumb, and the knife drawn obliquely across the back of the thumb from one extremity of the flap to the other. In operating on the left side, the oblique incision across the back of the thumb is first made, then the point of the knife is thrust down through the web and made to transfix as on the right side. In the oval or circular method, the knife is entered midway between the base of the meta- carpal bone and the styloid process of the radius, and the incision carried obliquely along the dorsum of the meta- carpal bone to the first phalanx, and then round the palmar surface and back again to the former incision. The fingers may be amputated by double flaps or by a865 SPECIAL AMPUTATIOKS* long anterior flap. In amputating a finger it slionld be remembered that the joint is in front of the knuckle. If the whole finger requires removal, the head of the meta- carpal bone should be nipped off with bone forceps, unless breadth and strength of hand is the chief desideratum, when it should be left. Am,putation at the hip-joint may be done by transfixion or by Furneaux Jordan's method. Although the former can be performed with greater celerity, the latter is by far the better operation, as it is attended with less hsemor- I rhage and provides a much more useful stump. In the transfixion method a long anterior flap is made by trans- fixion and cutting towards the surface. The knife is 1 entered midway between the anterior superior iliac spine I and the great trochanter, and is made to emerge as near to the tuberosity of the ischium as possible. A flap about I ten inches long is then cut, the vessels being seized by j the fingers of an assistant, who grasps them with the flap I and turns it upwards. The limb is then everted and ' extended by an assistant, the joint opened, the head of the bone and great trochanter freed from their connections, and the knife carried straight out posteriorly. Hgemorrhage should be controlled by Davy's lever in the rectum, or by Lister's abdominal tourniquet. In Furneaux Jordan''s method, Esmarch's cord tourniquet having been applied, a circular amputation is first done through the upper third of the thigh, and all the vessels secured. The tourniquet is then removed and an incision carried up the outer side of the thigh to the great trochanter, the soft parts with the periosteum separated from the bone, the joint opened, and the disarticulation completed by freeing the remaining connections with the knife kept close to the bone. Amputation of the thigh is usually done by double skin- flaps and circular division of the muscles. The flaps may I be antero-posterior, or lateral; or one flap may be antero- j external and the other postero-internal. I Amputation of the leg may also be done by two skin- I flaps and circular division of the muscles, or by Teale's I method. The posterior flap is sometimes cut by trans- I fixion. The sharp edge of the tibia should be cut off obliquely, lest it subsequently protrude through the skin. The division of the fibula should be completed before that of the tibia to prevent splintering. Should the arteries retract, as they are apt to do in this situation, they may ! be conveniently drawn down by a tenaculum.APPENDIX. 866 Amputation of the foot may be done by one of tlie following methods :— Disarticulation at the ankle-joint {Syme^s amputation) consists in removing ttie foot at tlie ankle joint, cutting off tbe ends of the tibia and fibula, and retaining the integuments of the heel as a covering for the bones. An incision down to the bone is made across the under surface of the heel from the tip of the external malleolus to a little behind and below the internal malleolus, i.e., to a point exactly opposite its commencement. This incision ij-houldincline slightly backwards, so as to cross theoscalcis just in front of the tubercles (Fig. 335, 0 to 1'). A second incision is next made across the front of the ankle (Fig. 335, I to 0), the joint opened, the lateral ligaments divided, and the OS calcis cleared from its posterior and lateral connec- tions by cutting from above downwards. Syme, however, formed his heel-flap by dissecting it from the bone from below upwards, a more difficult procedure than cutting from above downwards as is now always done at St. Bar- tholomew's. The knife should be kept close to the bone to avoid injuring the posterior tibial artery or button- holing the integuments. The malleoli and a thin slice of the tibia are finally sawn oft (Fig. 335, a). The anterior tibial and the plantar arteries require ligaturing; the latter are situated at the extremity of the inner side of the heel-flap. Firogoff^s operation is a modification of Syme's. It differs in that the posterior part of the os calcis is left in the heel-flap to unite with the sawn end of the tibia. It is performed in a similar manner, save that the sole- incision is carried slightly forward instead of backward (Fig. 335,0to4), and after the ankle-jointis opened, and the OS calcis exposed, the posterior part of the latter is sawn off (Fig. 335 d) instead of being dissected out. The sawn surface of the os calcis is then turned up and placed in contact with the sawn end of the tibia, to which it may advantageously be fixed by an ivory peg driven through the heel-flap and os calcis into the lower end of the tibia. The Medio-tarsal amputation {Choparfs) consists in amputation of part of the foot through the transverse tarsal joint, i.e., the joint formed by the os calcis and astragalus behind, and the cuboid and scaphoid in front (Fig. 335 b). a curved incision with its convexity for- wards is made across the dorsum of the foot from imme- diately behind the tubercle of the scaphoid to a pointi SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. 867 i ^ . inidway between the tip of the external malleolus and tlie base of the fifth metatarsal bone (Fig. 335, 2 to +). The extremities of this incision are connected by tracing out j from the sole a flap which should reach just short of the j balls of the toes, and should be longer on its inner than on I its outer side (Fig. 335, + to 2'). The dorsal ligaments are ! now divided, and the knife is passed beneath the bones and made to cut its way outwards, thus completing the Fig. 335.—Diagram of tlie articulations of the foot and the lines of incision in the various amputations. A, line of incision through malleoli in Syme's amputation, 1 to 0, 0 to 1', lines of incision through soft parts in Syme's amputation. D, line of incision through os calcis in PirogofF's operation. 1 to 0, 0 to 4, lines of incision through soft parts in Pirogoff's operation. B, line of articulation between os calcis and astra- galus behind and cuboid and scaphoid in front. 2 to +, + to 2', lines of incision in Chopart's operation. C, line of articulation between tarsus and metatarsus. 3 to f, f to 3', lines of incision in tarso-metatarsal operation. flap already marked out on the sole. The astragalus and OS calcis are, of course, left in the stump. The chief objection that has been urged against the operation is the tendency of the tendo Achillis to draw up the os calcis, and consequently so depress the anterior part of the stump that the cicatrix becomes the lowest part. If care, however, is taken to make the dorsal incision nearly 3 K 2868 APPENDIX. straight across the foot, this drawing up of the heel can to a great extent be prevented and an excellent and use- ful stump may be obtained. The Tarso-metatarsal amputation consists in removing the anterior part of the foot at the joints betv/een the tarsus and metatarsus (Fig. 335, c), leaving the tarsus intact. It may be done—1, by disarticulating the metatarsal bones; 2, by sawing across the bases of all the metatarsal bones ; 3, by disarticulating the four outer metatarsal bones and sawing across the projecting internal cuneiform bone ; 4, by disarticulating the three outer and the first metatarsal bones, and sawing across the prominent base of the second. The disarticulating method is usually called Lisfranc's operation; the disarticulating, with sawing across the internal cuneiform or base of the second metatarsal bone, Hey's. Hey, however, it appears, performed all of the first three operations, but not the last; and so much confusion has arisen as regards wh^t-is meant by Lisfranc's and what by Hey's operation' that the terms had better be dropped. In the disarticulating method, which only need be described, an incision is made across the tarsus from the fifth metatarsal bone to an inch in front of the prominence of the Scaphoid (Fig. 335, 3 to t); a sole-flap is next traced out, as in Chopart's amputation, but it should reach as far as the web of the toes (Fig. 335, t to 3'). The metatarsus is then disarticulated from the tarsus, the only difficulty in doing this arising from the second metatarsal bone dipping in between the cuneiform bones. The knife is now placed behind the bones and made to cut its way out, thus completing the sole-flap. The great toe may be amputated at its tarso-metatarsal joint by a flap taken from the inner side of the foot; or by an oval incision which is carried along the meta- tarsal bone to about the middle of its shaft, then made to diverge to the web between the first and second toes, and carried round the plantar surface of the big toe and back to the spot at the middle of the metatarsal bone. The incision should extend down to the bone, which should be next freed from its remaining connections and dis- articulated, the knife being kept close to the metatarsal bone to avoid injuring the communicating branch of the dorsalis pedis with the external plantar artery. When the operation is completed merely a single longitudinal scar remains on the inner side of the foot.INDEX. Abdomen, abscess of, 410 — contusions of, 409 ^ — injuries of, 409 — protrusion of viscera of, 421 — rupture of muscles of, 409 — — viscera of, 411 — tapping of, 673 — wounds of, 412 Abdominal parietes, abscess of, 410 — — wounds of, 413 — section, 664 — viscera, wounds of, 414, 422 — — protrusion of, 421 — — rupture of, 411 Abscess, 22 — acute, 22 — alveolar, 582 — anal, 717 — of bone, 234 — of brain, 373, 504, 519 — of breast, 833 — causes of, 25 — clironic, 28 — cold, 28 — complications of, 28 — fsBcal, 685 — Hilton's method of opening, 28 — iliac, 644 — iscliio-rectal, 717 — of kidney, 727 ■ — lachrymal, 529 — lumbar, 643 — mediastinal, 410 —• metastatic, 160 — of orbit, 549 — of prostate, 763 — perineal, 786 — perinephritic, 727 — postpharyngeal, 606, 641 ^ psoas, 643 Abscess, residual, 29 — spinal, 643 — symptoms of, 26 termination of, 29 — of tongue, 566 — treatment of, 27, 29 —• urinary, 786 Acetabulum, fracture of, 425 Acinous carcinoma, 90 Acne rosacea, 591 Acromegaly, 243 Acromion, fracture of, 454 Actinomycosis, 156 Actual cautery in hcemorrhage, 131 Acupressure in haemorrhage, 134 Adenoid cancer, 94 — vegetations, 604 Adenoma, 87 — acinous, 87 — of breast, 836 — cystic, 88 — tubular, 88 Adeno-fibroma, 87, 836 — -sarcoma, 88, 836 Air in veins, 212 Air-passages, foreign bodies in, 391 — operations on, 620 — wounds of, 384 Alveolar abscess, 582 Amblyopia, toxic, 545 Amputations, 861 ' Amussat's operation, 671 Anal abscess, 717 — ulcer, 710 Anel's operation, 306 Aneurysm, 290 — by anastomosis, 336 — arterio-venous, 210 — of bone, 250 — causes of, 290IjS^DEX. 870 Aneurysm, circumscribed, 293 — cirsoid, 336 — classification of, 292 — contents of, 291 — diagnosis of, 297 — diffused, 293 —■ dissecting, 293 — effects of, 295 false, 293 — formation of, 290 — fusiform, 292 — - galvano-puncture in, 309 — irritation of interior of sac by needles, 308 — ligature in, 302 — manipulation in, 308 — pressure in, 299 — rupture of, 294, 296 — sacculated, 283 — signs of, 295 — special, 309 — sphygmograph. in, 296 - spontaneous, 290 — structure of, 291 — suppuration of, 294, 306 — terminations of, 293 — traumatic, 209 — treatment of, 297 — true, 293 Aneurysms, aortic, 309 — axillary, 311 — carotid, 310 — femoral, 313 -- gluteal, 312 — inguinal, 313 — - internal, 309 — - in neck, 309 — orbital, 311 — popliteal, 313 Aneurysmal A^arix, 210 Angioma, 79, 334 Angular curvature of spine, 641 Ankle, amputation at, 866 — dislocation of, 479 — excision of, 278 — sprains of, 465 Ankyloglossia, 566 Ankylosis, bony, 271 — fibrous, 271 Annular stricture, 772 Anthrax bacillus, 155 Antiseptic treatment of wounds, 111 Antrum, abscess of, 584 — cysts of, 586 I Antrum, diseases of, 584 — tumours of, 586 Antvllus, operation of, for aneu- rysm, 303, 308 Anus, artificial, 695 — diseases of, 709 — fistula of, 718 — imperforate, 709 — painful ulcer of, 710 — prolapse of, 711 — pruritus of, 710 Aorta, aneurysm of, 309 Aphasia after head injury, 371 Aphthous stomatitis, 562 Appendicitis, 664 Arch, palmar, wounds of, 434 Argyll-Eobertson pupil, 269, 555 Arm, amputation of, 864 Arterial varix, 336 Arteries, atheroma of, 286 — calcification of, 289 I — contusions of, 203 j -- diseases of, 286 ! — fatty degeneration of, 289 I — injuries of, 203 I — laceration of, 203 ! — ligature of, 206, 314 ! — repair of wounds of, 126 I -- rupture of, 203 I — pyphilitic disease of, 288 I — torsion of, 133 — treatment of wounds of, 206 1 — wounds of, 205 ! Arterio-venous aneurysm, 210 Arteritis, 286 — plastic, 286 — obliterative, 288 — septic, 286 — suppurative, 286 i — syphilitic, 288 I Artery forceps, 131 Arthrectomy, 273 I Arthritis, acute, 255 i — chronic rheumatoid, 265 j — — strumous, 258 I -- — tubercular, 258 I — deformans, 265 I — osteo-, 265 I Artificial anus, 695 I — drum, 516 Ascites, tapping abdomen for, 673 , Aspiration in abscess, 29 I — of bladder, 795 I — of kidney, 732I i INDEX. 871 Astigmatism, 552 Astragalus, dislocation of, 480 i — fracture of, 500 Atheroma, 286 Atlo-axoid disease, 648 Atony of bladder, 743 I Atrophy of bone, 239 I — — muscle, 279 — optic nerve, 545 — — testicle, 819 Auditory vertigo, 522 ! Aural exostosis, 514 I — forceps, 508. 513 — polypi, 517 — specula, 508 I Axillary aneurysm, 311 i — artery, ligature of, 319 1 Bacillus, 9 I — anthracis, 155 — of tetanus, 170 — of tubercle, 50 Back, injuries of, 394 — sprains of, 394 Bacteria, parasitic, 11 — pathogenic, 11 — pyogenic, 12 — saprophytic, 10 Bacterium termo, 10 Baker's, Morrant, cysts, 252 — operation on tongue, 573 — tracheotomy tube, 626 Balanitis, 770 ' Bands, strangulation bv, 653, 660., 662 Bank's operation for hernia, 681 Base of skull, fracture of, 361 Battey's operation, 831 Bedsores in spinal injuries, 400 Bellocq's sound, 593 Biceps tendon, rupture of, 202,434 Bigelow's dislocation of hip, 467 — operation, 750 Bl^ick-eye, 379 Bladder, aspiration of, 795 — atony of, 743 — calculus of, 737, 746, 760 — cancer of, 745 — diseases of, 739 — extroversion of, 739 — foreign bodies in, 431, 433 — inflammation of, 740 — irritability of, 743 — malformations of, 739 i Bladder, paralysis of, 743 I — puncture of, 795 i ^ rupture of, 426 — sacculated, 742 — in spinal injuries, 398 stone in, 746 — - in stricture, 773 — tubercular disease of, 744 — tumours of, 744 — ulceration of, 741 Bleeding, 19 Blepharospasm, 528 Blood, transfusion of, 124 Blood-tumours of scalp, 353 Blood-vessels, diseases of, 286, 327 — injuries of, 205, 211, 405 Boils, 347 Bone, abscess of, 234 — atrophy of, 239 — cancer of, 249 — caries of, 227 — cysts in, 250 ■— diseases of, 218 — fracture of, 173 — hypertrophy of, 239 — inflammation of, 218 — injuries of, 173 — mollities ossium, 241 — necrosis of, 229 — pulsatile tumours of, 249 — rickets in, 238 — sarcoma of, 246 — sclerosis of, 224 — struma of, 227, 239 — syphilis of, 239 — tubercle of, 239 — tumours of, 243 Bo:ie-plates, 419 ]?ow-legs, 850 Bowel {see Intestines). Brachial artery, aneurysm of, 312 — ligature of, 320 Brain, abscess of, 373, 504, 519 — compression of, 365 — concussion of, 364 — contusion of, 369 — extravasation of blood on, 367 — injuries of, 364 — intlammation of, 373 — irritation of, 371 — hernia of, 376 — laceration of, 370 — suppuration in, 373INDEX. 872 Brain, surgery, 504 — topography of, 372 — tumours of, 504 Brasdor's operation, 303, 307 Breast, abscess of, 833 —■ adenoma of, 836 — adeno-fibroma of, 836 — adeno-sarcoma of, 836 — cancer of, 841, 845 — cysts of, 840 — cysto-sarcoma of, 839 — chronic mammary glandu- lar tumour of, 836 — diseases of, 832 — excision of, 846 — galactocele in, 840 — inflammation of, 832 — lobular induration of, 834 — neuralgia of, 832 — sarcoma of, 838 — tumours of, 836 Broad ligament, cysts of, 825 Bronchocele, 633 Bruises, 118 Bryant's line, 468 — splint, 489 Bubo, 59, 770 Buchanan's operation, 859 Bunion, 285 Burns and scalds, 119 — degrees of, 119 — treatment of, 121 Bursse, diseases of, 284 — patellae, 28-5 — semi-membranosus, 285 Bursitis, 284 Calculus of bladder, 737, 746 — in female bladder, 760 — of kidney, 728 — of prostate, 767 — salivary, 564 — in urethra, 789 — urinary, 737 Calculous pyelitis, 729 Callaway's test for dislocated shoulder, 439 Callisen's operation, 671 Callous ulcers, 38 Callus, 177 Cancellous exostoses, 243 Cancer {8ee Carcinoma). Cancrum oris, 563 Carbuncle, 348 Carcinoma, 88 — acinous, 90 — adenoid, 94 — of bladder, 745 I — of breast, 841, 845 i — of bone, 249 I — colloid, 92 i — columnar-celled, 94 I — cylindrical, 94 I — dissemination of, 89 i — encephaloid, 91 — epithelial, 92 — hard, 90 — of jaw, 586, 590 — of lip, 557 — medullary, 91 — of nose, 601 — of oesophagus, 608 — of penis, 800 — of rectum, 723 — rodent, 561 — scirrhous, 90 — of scrotum, 801 — soft, 91 — spheroidal-celled, 89 — squamous-celled, 92 — of testicle, 817 i — of tongue, 570 ! — of tonsil, 582 ! — treatment of, 94 — varieties of, 89 — of vulva, 822 Caries, 227 — of skull, 502 —• of vertebrae, 641 j Carotid aneurysm, 310 I — artery, ligature of, 316 I Carpus, dislocation of, 449 j — fracture of, 464 ! Cartilaginous tumours, 76, 245 ' Castration, 819 Cataract, 540 ■ Catarrh, chronic nasal, 594 I — of bladder, 740 i of ear, 514, 520 I Catheters, passage of, 774, 778 — — of Eustachian, 509 Cautery, in haemorrhage, 131 Cellulitis, 152 Cephalhaematoma, 353 Cerebral convolutions, 372 Cerebro-spinal fluid, 362 Cerumen in ear, 513873 INDEX. I Cervical vertebrae, disease of, 648 j Chalazion, 528 I Chancre, 58, 798 Charbon, 154 i Charcot's joint disease, 268 I Cheeks, diseases of, 556 ! Chemiotaxis, 12 i ! Chemosis, 531 ; Che.-t, contusions of, 401 — injuries of, 401 — operations on, 408 — wounds of, 402 I Chilblains, 346 I Cholecystectomy, 674 L Cholecystotomy, 673 ! Chordee, 770 Choroiditis, 538 Cicatrices, diseases of, 34, 118 Ciliary blepharitis, 527 Ciliary body, inflammation of, 538 I Circular enterorrhaphy, 417 i Circumcision, 797 Cirsoid aneurysm, 336 Clavicle, dislocation of, 435 — fracture of, 450 Clavus, 346 j Cleft palate, 575 Cline's splints, 498 CloacEe in bone, 233 Clove-hitch, 442 Club-foot, 850 Cock's operation for stricture, 785 Cold in inflammation, 17 — in haemorrhage, 129 Colectomy, 663 Collapse {see Shock). Collateral circulation, 320, 322 Colles' fracture, 461 — law, 68 Colloid cancer, 92 Coloboma, 528, 537 Colotomy, 670 Comminuted fracture, 174 Common carotid artery, ligature of, 316 Compound dislocation, 197 — fracture, 186 Compression in aneurysm, 299 — of brain, 365 Concussion of brain, 364 — of spinal cord, 400 Condylomata, 61 Congenital dislocations, 198 — hernia, 697 Congenital syphilis, 65 Conical cornea, 535 Conjunctiva, diseases of, 530 — wounds of, 533 Connective-tissue tumours, 73 Continuous suture, 110 Contraction, Dupuytren's, 283 Contractions in intestinal obstruc- tion, 655, 661,664 Contrecoup, fracture by, 356 Contusions, U8 — of arteries, 203 — of brain, 369 — of chest, 401 — of face, 379 — of joints, 192 — - of larynx, 386 — of muscles, 201 — of nerves, 217 — of scalp, 353 Convulsions in head injuries, 368, 370, 375 Convulsive tic, 344 Coracoid process, fracture of, 454 . Cord, spinal, injuries of, 394 Coredialysis, 537 Cornea, diseases of, 533 Corns, 346 Coronoid process of jaw, fracture of, 381 — of ulna, fracture of, 464 Coryza, 594 Cowperitis, 770 Cranial nerves, injuries of, 363 Craniectomy, 507 Craniotabes, 67 Cranium {see Skull). Crepitus, 175 Croup, 616 Crutch-palsy, 190 Crystalline lens, disease of, 540 Curvature of spine, angular, 641 — — lateral, 636 Cut throat, 384 Cyclitis, 538 Cycloplegia, 555 Cylindrical carcinoma, 94 Cystic disease of breast, 840 — — kidney, 731 — — ovary, 825 — testis, 818 Cystitis, acute, 740 — chronic, 741 Cystitome, 542 Cystocele, 825INDEX. 874 Cysts, 95 — atheromatous, 96 — blood, 98 — in bone, 250 — congenital, 98 — dentigerous, 586 — dermoid, 99, 565 — extravasation, 97 — exudation, 95 — hydatid, 98 — Meibomian, 528 — milk cysts, 840 — mucous, 97 — pancreatic, 676 — parasitic, 98 — proliferous, 98 — retention, 96, 840 — sarcomatous, 85 — sebaceous, 96 — serous, 97 Deformities of nose, 602 — ^ of feet, 850 Delirium, traumatic, 140 — tremens, 141 Dentigerous cysts, 586 Deposits, urinary, 734 Depressed fracture of skull, 359 Dermoid cysts, 99, 565 Diabetic gangrene, 48 Diaphragmatic hernia, 708 Diathesis, strumous, 55 — haemorrhagic, 69 Diffused aneurysm, 293 Dilatation of stricture, 778 Diphtheria, laryngeal, 616 Diplopia, 553 Direct inguinal hernia, 698 Dislocations, 193 — causes of, 193 — compound, 197 — congenital, 198 — extensionin, 196 — manipulation in, 196 — special {see Special Ee- GIONS). — symptoms of, 194 — treatment of, 195, 200 — unreduced, 194 — varieties, 193 Dissecting aneurysm, 293 Dissection wounds, 115 Distal ligature, 307 Dorsalis pedis artery, ligature of, 326 Dorsum ilii, dislocation on, 437 Douche, nasal, 597 Drainage tube, 109 Drill-bone, 279 Dropsy of antrum, 586 Duct cancer, 845 Dugas' test for dislocation of humerus, 439 Dumb rabies, 166 Duodenostomy, 674 Dupuytren's contraction, 283 — splint, 500 Dura mater, blood beneath, 367 — fungus of, 503 — inflammation of, 373 Ear, bleeding from, in fractured skull, 363 — catarrh of, 514, 520 — cerumen in, 513 — diseases of, 507 — examination of, 507 — foreign bodies in, 379 — wax in, 513 Ecthyma, 60 Ectopia vesicae, 739 Ectropion, 528 Eczematous ulcer, 39 Elbow joint, dislocation of, 445 — excision of, 275 Electric stroke, 122 Electrolysis in noevus, 335 — in stricture, 786 Elephantiasis scroti, 802 — of the labium, 822 Embolic abscesses, 162 Embolism, fat, 190 Emmetropia, 551 Emphysema, surgical, 402, 407 Emprosthotono^, 171 Encephalitis, 373 Encephaloceie, 502 Encephaloid cancer, 91 Enchondroma, 76, 245 Encysted hernia, 697 — hydrocele, 805 Endarteritis, 286 Enterectomy, 669 Enteritis, 656 Enterocele, 678 Entero-epiplocele, 678INDEX, 875 Enterotomy, 669 Entropion, 528 Enuresis, 761 Epiblastic tumours, 85 Epicanthus, 528 Epididymitis, 812 Epiglottis, wounds of, 385 Epilepsy, trephining in, 377 Epileptiform neuralgia, 341 Epiphora, 529 Epiphyses, separation of, 185, 457, 459, 462, 490 Epiphysitis, 257 Epiplocele, 678 Epiplo-enterocele, 678 Epispadias, 740 Epistaxis, 591 Epithelioma, 92 — of bone, 249 — of lips, 557 — of oesophagus, 608 — of penis, 800 — of rectum, 723 — of scrotum, 801 — of tongue, 570 Epulis, 583 l:!lrasion of joints, 273 Erysipelas, 147 — cellular, 152 — cellulo-cutaneous, 150 — cutaneous, 149 — phlegmonous, 150 i — simple, 149 j Esmarch's bandage in aneurysm, I 301 Estlander's operation, 408 Ethmoidal sinuses, catarrh of, 605 Eustachian catheter, 509 Excision of breast, 846 — of joints, 274 — of larynx, 631 — of rectum, 724 — of testicle, 820 — of tongue, 572 Exomphalos, 705 Exophthalmic goitre, 634 Exostosis, aural, 514 — cancellous, 243 — compact, 244 Extension of the spine, 400 External carotid artery, ligature of, 317^ ^ External iliac artery,ligature of,322 Extra-capsular fracture of femur, 484 Extra-capsular fracture of hu- merus, 455 Extravasation of blood in brain, 367 •— in tissues, 118,192 — of urine, 787 Extroversion of bladder, 739 Eye, diseases of, 523 — enucleation of, 550 — examination of, 523 Eyelids, diseases of, 527 — injuries of, 379 Face, injuries of, 379 Facial artery, ligature of, 317 — carbuncle, 556 Facultative parasites, 11 — saprophytes, 11 Faical abscess, 685 — fistula, 695 Faeces, impaction of, 653, 659, 662 Fallopian tube, diseases of, 830 False joint, 181 — passage, 775 Farcy, 164 Fasciae, diseases of, 283 — contractions of, 283 Fat-embolism, 190 Fatty tumour, 74 Fauces, diseases of, 575 Feet, deformities of, 850 Female genitals, diseases of, 821 — — injuries of, 430 — bladder, stone in, 760 Femoral aneurysm, 313 — artery, ligature of, 324 — hernia, 701 Femur, dislocation of, 465 — iE*racture of, 482 — — of condyles of, 490 — — of neck of, 482 — — of shaft of, 478 — — of trochanter of, 4S6 — separation of epiphyses of, 486, 490 Fever, hectic, 30 — inflammatory, 13 — traumatic, simple, 140 — — septic, 144 — urethral, 776 Fibre-cellular tumours, 73 Fibroma, 73 Fibula, fracture of, 494 Filaria sanguinis hominis, 802"INDEX. 876 Fingers, amputation of, 864 First intention, union by, 102 Fissure of anus, 710 Fistula, 31 — - fffical, 695 — in ano, 718 — recto-vaginal, 824 — salivarj^, 380 — urinary, 787 — vesico-intestinal, 744 — vesico-vaginal, 823 Flap amputation, 863 Flat-foot, 854, 859 Flexion in aneurysm, 302 Focal epilepsy, 506 Follicular pharyngitis, 605 Foot, amputation of, 866 — injuries of, 480, 496, 500 Forceps, artery, 131 — aural, 508, 513 — pharyngeal, 391 — torsion, 133 Forcipressure in haemorrhage, 134 Forearm, amputation of, 864 — fractures of, 460 Foreign body in air-passages, 391 — in bladder, 431, 433 — in ear, 379 — in intestine, 653 — in larynx, 391 — in nose, 379 — in oesophagus, 389 — in pharynx, 389 —- in rectum, 429 — in trachea, 392 ~ in urethra, 431, 433 — in vagina, 430 Fractures, 173 — causes of, 173 — complications of, 189 — compound, 186 — crepitus in, 175 — with dislocation, 189 — general pathology of, 173 — greenstick, 174, 451 — implicating a joint, 190 — malunited, 184 — reduction of, 178 — signs of, 174 — special {see Eegions). — treatment of, 178 — union of, 176 — ununited, 181 — varieties of, 174 — vicious union of, 184 Freund's operation, 832 Frontal sinus, catarrh of, 605 Fungating caries, 228 Fungus of dura mater, 503 Furneaux Jordan's operation, 865 Furuncles of meatus, 512 Furunculus, 347 Fusiform aneurysm, 292 Gag, Smith's, 577 Galactocele, 840 Gall-bladder, draining the, 673 — extirpation of, 674 — rupture of, 411 — stones, passage of, 653, 659, 662 — wound of, 415 Ganglion, 280 Gangrene, 41 — causes of, 43 — diabetic, 48 — dry, 47 — from constriction, 191 — from ergot, 44 , — from obliteration of artery, 44 — hospital, 153 — line of demarcation in, 41 — minute changes in, 41 — moist, 43 — Eaynaud's, 48 — senile, 47 — signs of, 45 — spreading, 46 — symmetrical, 48 — traumatic, 45 — treatment of, 44 — of bowel in hernia, 684 •— varieties of, 45 Gastro-enterostomy, 674 Gastrostomy, 610 Gastrotomy, 610 Genital organs, diseases of, 796 — — injuries of, 433 — - female, diseases of, 821 — — — injuries of, 430 Genu recurvatum, 850 — valgum, 848 — varum, 850 Gland disease, strumous, 338 Glanders, 163 Glandular tumour, 87 Glaucoma, 547877 INDEX. Gleet, 768 Glenoid cavity, fracture of,'455 Glioma, 81 Glossitis, 566 Glottis, oedema of, 615 — scalds of, 389 Gluteal aneurysm, 312 Goitre, 633 — acute, 635 Gonorrhoea, 768 — complications of, 769 Gonorrhoeal ophthalmia, 530 Gordon's splints, 463 Gouty ulcers, 40 Graft, omental, 421 Granular pharyngitis, 605 Greenstick fracture, 174, 451 Greig Smith's operation, 666 Gumboil, 582 Gummata, 62 Gums, diseases of, 582 Gustatory nerve, division of, 571 H^M ARTHROSIS, 192 Haematocele, 809 Hsemato-kolpos, 824 — -metra, 824 — -salpinx, 824, 830 Hsematoma, 98 — amis, 511 — of labium, 430 — of scalp, 353 Hsematopnoea, 404 Hsematuria, 762 Haemophilia, 69 Hsemothorax, 406 Haemorrhage, 123 — arterial, 125 — capillary, 123, 137 — effects of, 123 — infusion of saline solution in, 124 — intermediary, 134 — internal, 123 — ligature in, 131 — natural arrest of, 126 — parenchymatous, 123 — primary, 125 — reactionary, 134 — recurrent, 134 — secondary, 135 — surgical, arrest of, 129 I Haemorrhage, transfusion in, 124 — treatment of, 124, 129 — venous, 137 Haemorrhagic diathesis, 69 Haemorrhoids, 712 Hallux dolorosus, 854 — _ valgus, 860 Hamilton's test for di!?located shoulder, 438 Hammer toe, 880 Hand, amputation of, 864 — injuries of, 435 Hare-lip, 558 Hart's method of flexion, 302 Head, injuries of, 353 Healing by first intention, 100, 102 — by granulation, 105 — by second intention, 105 — process of, 100 — by third intention, 106 — under a scab, 106 Heart, injuries of, 404 Heat in haemorrhage, 130 Hectic fever, 30 Hernia, 676 — causes of, 676 — cerebri, 376 — congenital, 697 — diaphragmatic, 708 — femoral, 701 — incarcerated, 694 — infantile, 698 — inflamed, 694 — inguinal, 696 —■ into funicular process, 697 — internal, 698 — irreducible, 681 — labial, 696 — lumbar, 708 I of lung, 407 I — obstructed, 694 1 — obturator, 707 — perineal, 708 — phrenic, 708 '■ — pudendal, 708 — radical cure of, 681 I — rarer forms of, 708 i — reducible, 679 i — reduction of, 679 i — Eichter's, 684 — sac of, 678 j — sciatic, 708 i — scrotal, 696 ! — strangulated, 683 i — taxis in, 686878 INDEX. Hernia of testis, 817, 820 — umbilical, 705 — ventral, 708 Herniotomy, 687 Herpes of the lip, 556 Hey's amputation, 868 Hilton's method of opening an abscess, 28 Hip, tubercular disease of, 262 Hip-joint, amputation at, 865 — disease of, 262 — dislocation of, 465 — excision of, 276 His's duct, remains of, 565 Histrionic spasm, 344 Hodgkin's disease, 339 Holt's operation, 779 Hordeolum, 528 Horny growths, 86 Hospital gangrene, 153 Housemaid's knee, 285 Howse's method of suture in gas- trostomy, 612 Humerus * dislocation of, 437 — fracture of, 455 Hunter's operation, 303 Hutchinson's lines, 66 Hyalitis, 547 Hydatid cyst, 98 Hydrencephalocele, 502 Hydrocele, 802 — congenital, 805 — of cord, 806 — encysted, 805 — infantile, 805 — of the spermatic cord, 806 Hydrocephalus, 507 Hydro-nephrosis, 727 Hydrophobia, 164 Hydrops articuli, 252 Hydrosalpinx, 830 Hymen, imperforate, 824 Hyoid bone, dislocation of, 387 — fracture of, 387 Hypermetropia, 551 Hypertrophy of bone, 239 — of breast, 835 — of muscle, 279 — of prostate, 764 — of toe-nail, 352 — of tonsil, 580 Hyphsema, 536 Hypoblastic tumours, 85 Hypopyon, 534 Hysterectomj^, 832 Ichthyosis of tongue, 567 Iliac arteries, ligature of, 322 Impaction of faeces, 653, 659, 662 Imperforate anus, 609 — hymen, 824 Impermeable stricture, 772, 777 Incarcerated hernia, 694 , Incontinence of urine, 761 Infantile hernia, 698 — hydrocele, 805 — syphilis, 65 Infective processes in wounds, diseases due to, 143, 147 Inflammation, 1 — acute, 1 — causes of, 6 — chronic, 20 — fever in, 14 — infective, 15 - minute changes in, 2 — process of, 1 — septic, 15 — signs and symptoms of, 12 — terminations of, 2 — theory of, 6 — treatment of, 16 — varieties of, 14 Inflammatory delirium, 141 — fever, 14 Infusion of saline solution in haemorrhage, 124 Ingrowing toe-nail, 352 Inguinal aneurysm, 313 — colotomy, 670 — hernia, 696 Injuries, general pathology of, 100 Insect stings, 117 Intention, union by first, 102 — — second, 105 Intercostal artery, wounds of, 405 Internal carotid artery, ligature of, 324 — strangulation, 653,660,662 — urethrotomy, 779 Interrupted suture, 110 Intestinal anastomosis, 418 — obstruction, 653 Intestine, short circuiting the,, 667 Intestines, surgical diseases of, 653' — foreign bodies in, 653 — malformation of, 656 — rupture of, 411 — strangulation of,653,660,662 — stricture of, 655,663INDEX. 879 Intestines, suture of, 416 — wounds of, 414 Intracapsular fracture of femur, 482 — — humerus, 455 Intracranial hsemorrhage, 367 •— inflammation, 373 — suppuration, 374, 519 Intraocular tension, 527 Intubation of larynx, 630 Intussusception, 653, 660, 663 Iridectomy, 536 Irideremia, 537 Iris, disease of, 536 — wounds of, 536 Iritis, 536 — serous, 540 — quiet, 536 — syphilitic, 61, 536 Irreducible hernia, 681 Irritable bladder, 743 — ulcer, 39 Ischiatic hernia, 708 Ischio-rectal abscess, 717 Ivory exostosis, 244 Jacksonian epilepsy, in tumour of brain, 504 Jaw, abscess of, 583, 584 — closure of, 584 — diseases of, 582 — dislocation of, 382 — excision of, 588, 590 — fracture of, 381 — necrosis of, 584 — subluxation of, 384 — tumours of, 586, 589 Jejunostomy, 674 Joints, ankylosis of, 271 — Charcot's disease of, 268 — contusions of, 192 — diseases of, 250 — dislocations of, 193 — erasion of, 273 — excision of, 274 '— injuries of, 192 — loose bodies in, 269 — neuralgia of, 273 — resection of, 274 — rheumatoid arthritis of, 265 — sprains of, 192 — tubercular disease of, 258 ■— wounds of, 198 Kelotomy, 687 Keratitis, 533 Keratoconus, 535 Kidney, abscess of, 727 — aspiration of, 732 — calculus of, 728 — cysts of, 731 — excision of, 732 — inflammation of, 725 — injuries of, 411 — operations on, 732 — rupture of, 411 — strumous, 730 — surgical diseases of, 725 — tuberculous, 730 — tumours of, 731 Knee, dislocations of, 478 — excision of, 277 — sprains of, 465 Knock-knee, 848 Kj^phosis, 640 Labium, abscess of, 821 — adhesion of, 821 — cysts of, 821 — elephantiasis of, 822 — epithelioma of, 822 — hsematoma of, 430 — tumours of, 822 Laceration of brain, 370 Lachrymal abscess, 529 — apparatus, disease of, 527 Laminectomy, 648 Langenbeck's operation, 589 Laparotomy, 664 Lardaceous disease, 31 Laryngitis, 614 — acute, 614 — chronic, 614 — membraneous, 616 — oedematous, 615 Laryngoscope, method of usino^, 613 Laryngotomy, 627 Laryngo-tracheotomy, 629 Larynx, contusions of, 386 — disease of, 613 — examination of, 613 — extirpation of, 631 — foreign bodies in, 391 — fractures of, 387 — inflammation of, 614 — injuries of, 386880 IKBEX. Larynx, intubation of, 630 — syphilis of, 618 — tubercle of, 618 — tumours of, 618 Lateral curvature of spine, 636 Lateral lithotomy, 754 Leg, amputation of, 865 — fracture of bones of, 494 Lembert's suture, 416, 427 Lens, diseases of, 540 Leptomeningitis, 374 Leucoplakia, 567 Ligature in aneurysm, 302 — of arteries, 131, 206, 314 — dangers of, 305 — distal, 307 — double, 308 — gangrene after, 305 — in haemorrhage, 131 — Hunterian, 303 — rules for, 315 — secondaryhsemorrhage after, 135, 305 Lightning stroke, 122 Linear proctotomy, 722 Lines of incision in abdominal operations, 665 Lingual artery, ligature of, 317 Lipoma, 74 — nasi. 591 Lips, adenoma of, 557 — carbuncle of, 556 — chancre of, 557 — — diagnosis of, 557 — cysts of, 557 — diseases of, 556 — epithelioma of, 557 — fissures of, 556 — herpes of, 556 — hypertrophy of, 556 — malformations of, 558 — nsevus of, 556 — tumours of, 557 -— ulcers of, 556 Lisfranc's amputation, 868 Lister's abdominal tourniquet, 301 — excision of wrist, 276 Listen's splint, 488 Lithic acid deposits, 734 Litholapaxy, 750 Lithotomy, 754 — lateral, 754 — median, 759 — supra-pubic, 759 Lithotrity, 750 Littre's hernia, 684 — operation, 670 Liver, aspiration of, 672 — incision of, 673 — rupture of, 411 — wound of, 415' hocked jaw, 169 Loose bodies in bursje, 285 — — in ganglia, 281 — — in joints, 269 Lordosis, 641 Loreta's operation, 675 Lower extremity, injuries of, 465 Luer's forceps, 131 Lumbar abscess, 643 — colotomy, 671 Lung, contusion of, 403 — hernia of, 407 — prolapse of, 407 — wounds of, 403 Lupus erythematosus, 351 — vulgaris, 350 Lymph-scrotum, 802 Lymphadenitis, 338 Lymphadenoma, 339 Lymphangiectasis, 337 Lymphangioma, 79 Lymphangitis, 336, 770 Lymphatic fistula, 337 — varix, 337 Lymphatics, diseases of, 336 Lymphorrhoea, 337 Lympho-sarcoma, 81, 340 Macewen's operation,308, 849 Macroglossia, 566 Malgaigne's hooks, 492 Malignant pustule, 154 Malunited fracture, 184 Mammary gland {see Breast). Manipulation in aneurysm, 308 — in dislocations, 196 — — — of hip, 472 — — of shoulder, 437 Manning's splint, 492 Mastitis, 832 Mastoid disease, 518 Mayo llobson's treatment of frac- ture of patella, 493 Meatus, diseases of, 512 Meckel's ganglion, excision of, 343 Median lithotomy, 759 Mediastinal abscess, 410881 INDEX. Medio-tarsal amputation, 866 Medullary cancer, 91 Meibomian cyst, 528 Melanotic sarcoma, 82 Membrana tj^mpani, appearance of, 508 ■— artificial, 516 — perforation of, 516 Membraneous laryngitis, 616 Meniere's disease, 522 Meningeal artery, rupture of, 367 Meningitis, 373 — in ear disease, 519 Meningocele, 502 — spinal, 649 Meningo-encephalitis, 373 — -myelocele, 649 Mercurial teeth, 68 Mesoblastic tumours, 73 Metacarpus, dislocation of, 449 — fracture of, 464 Metastatic abscess, 160 Metatarsal bone;?, fracture of, 500 Microcephaly, 507 Micrococci, 9 Micro-organisms, 9 Mikulicz's operation for removing thyroid gland, 635 Milk cysts, 840 Mixed calculus, 739 — sarcoma, 85 Mollities ossium, 241 Molluscum fibrosum, 74 Morbus coxae {see Hip Disease:). Morrant Baker's cysts, 252 Mortification, 41 Mouth, diseases of, 556 Mucocele, 529 Mucous cysts, 97 — membranes, syphilitic af- fections of, 61 — tubercles, 61 — tumours {see Myxoma). Mulberry calculus, 738 Mumps, 631 Muscles, atrophy of, 279 — contusions of, 201 — degenerations of, 279 — diseases of, 278 — gummata in, 278 — hypertrophy of, 279 — inflammation of, 278 — injuries of, 201 — ossification of, 279 — rupture of, 201, 434, 465 Muscles, sprains of, 434, 465 — tumours of, 279 — wounds of, 201 Muscle-tumours, 78 Muscular tic, 344 Mydriasis, 536 Myeloid sarcoma, 84 Myo-fibroma, 79 Myoma, 78 Myopia, 552 Myositis, 278 Myxoma, 77 N^vus, 334 — capillary, 334 — venous, 334 ^^'ails, diseases of, 352 — ingrowing, 352 Nares, plugging the, 593 Nasal bones, fracture of, 380 —- catarrh, 594 — cavity, examination of, 593 — douche, 597 — polypi? — specula, 594 ■— spray, 597 — tumours, 603 Naso-pharyngeal tumours, 604, 607 Natiform skull, 67 ^^eck, injuries of, 384 — wounds of, 384 Necrobiosis, 42 Necrosis, 229 — central, 223 — in ear disease, 518 — of jaw, 584 — of nasal bones, 601 — phosphorus, 585 — quiet, 234 — of skull, 502 Needle in palm 435 Needles, palate, 577 — Smith's, 571 — surgical, 109 Nekton's line, 468 — splint, 462 — operation, 600, 669 Nephrectomy, 732 Nephritis, 725 — simple interstitial, 725 — suppurative or septic, 726 Nephro-lithotomy, 732 3 LINDEX. 882 Nephrorraphy, 733 Nephrotomy, 732 Nerve-grafting, 216 — stretcMog, 343 — suturing, 215 Nerves, compression of, 216 — contusion of, 217 — degeneration of, 213 — - d iseases of, 340 — foreign bodies in, 217 — injuries of, 213 ■— rupture of, 216 — transplantation of, 216 — tumours of, 343 — wounds of, 213 Nervous traumatic delirium, 141 Neuralgia, 341 — ot breast, 832 —• epileptiform, 341 — of joints, 273 — of testicle, 820 Neurectomy, 342 Neuritis, 340 — retro-bulbar, 544 Neuroma, 343 Neurotomy, 342 Nipple, Paget's disease of, 832 Nodes, 221 Noma, 822 Nose, diseases of, 591 •— foreign bodies in, 379 — fracture of bones of, 380 —• polypus of, 599 Nothnagel's test, 417 Nystagmus, 555 OBLiauE inguinal hernia, 700 Obstructed hernia, 694 Obturator heruia, 707 Occipito-atloid disease, 648 Ocular paralysis, 553 (Edema glottidis, 615 — solid, 328 CEsophagotomy, 394 (Esophagus, cancer of, 608 — diseases of, 607 — foreign bodies in, 389 — injuries of, 388 — rupture of, 388 — stricture of, 607 — wounds of, 388 Ogston's operation, 849 Olecranon, fracture of, 463 Omental graft, 421 Omphalocele, 705 Onychia, 347 Oophorectomy, 831 Operations, treatment of patient before and after, 112 Ophthalmia, 530 — catarrhal, 530 — gonorrheal, 530 — granular, 532 — membraneous, 531 — muco-purulent, 530 — neonatorum, 531 — phlyctenular, 532 Ophthalmoplegia externa, 555 Opisthotonos, 171 Optic nerve, diseases of, 544 — neuritis, 544 Orbit, diseases of, 549 Orbital aneurysm, 311 Orchitis, simple, 811 — strumous, 713 — syphilitic, 715 — tubercular, 713 Orthopsedic surgery, 846 Os calcis, fracture of, 500 Osseous tumours, 77, 243 Osteitis, 224 Osteo-arthritis, 265 — -malacia, 241 -- -myelitis, 222 — -porosis, 67 — -sarcoma, 246 — -sclerosis, 226 Osteoclasia, 849 Osteoma, 77, 243 Osteophytes, 267 Osteoplastic osteitis, 226 Osteotomy, 849 Otomycosis, 513 Otorrhoea, 515 Ovarian dropsy, 826 — tumours, 825 Ovaries, diseases of, 825 Ovariotomy, 827 Oxalate of lime calculi, 738 — deposits, 735 Ozsena, 601 Pachymeningitis, 374, 643 Painful subcutaneous tumours, 74 Palate, cleft, 575 — diseases of, 575883 INDEX. Palate, operation for closure of, 576 Palm, needle in the, 435 — wounds of, 434 Palmar arch, wounds of, 434, — fascia, contraction of, 283 Pancreatic cysts, drainage of, 676 Pannus, 533 Panophthalmitis, 538 Papilitis, 544 Papilloma, 85 Papillo-retinitis, 544 Paracentesis abdominis, 673 — of pericardium, 409 — of pleura, 408 Paralysis of third nerve, 555 Paraphimosis, 796 Parasitic bacteria, 11 Paronychia tendinosa, 281 Parosteal sarcoma, 248 Parotid gland, diseases of, 631 — tumours of, 632 Parotitis, 631 Parrot's nodes, 67 Pasteur's treatment of hydro- phobia, 168 Patella, bursa over, 285 — dislocation of, 477 — fracture of, 491 Pathogenic bacteria, 12 Pelvis, fracture of, 424 — injuries of, 424 Pemphigus, 60 Penetrating wounds of abdomen, 413 — — chest, 402 Penis, amputation of, 801 — diseases of, 796 — epithelioma of, 800 — injuries of, 433 — ligature of, 433 — venereal sores on, 58, 798 Perforating ulcer of foot, 345 Pericardium, incision of, 409 — injuries of, 404 — tapping, 409 Perineal abscess, 786 — fistula, 787 — hernia, 708 — section, 782, 784, 785 Perinephritic abscess, 727 Perineum, rupture of, 431 Periosteal abscess, 219 — node, 221 ^ sarcoma, 246 Periostitis, 219 — acute, 219 — chronic, 221 — diffuse, 219 — infective, 219 — simple, 219 Periprostatic abscess, 764 Peritoneum, inflammation of, 422 — injuries of, 410 — laceration of, 410 Peritonitis, 656 — traumatic, 422 Peritomy, 533 Phagedsena, 153 Phagedsenic chancre, 800 — ulcer, 38 Phagocytosis, 12 Phalanges, dislocation of, 449 — fracture of, 464, 500 Pharyngeal abscess, 606 Phar3'iigitis, 605 Pharyngotomy, 394 Pharynx, burns of, 388 — diseases of, 605 — foreign bodies in, 389 — injuries of, 388 — stenosis of, 607 — tumours of, 607 Phelps' operation, 859 Phimosis, 797 Phlebitis, 329 — adhesive, 329 — suppurative, 330 — in ear disease, 519 Phleboliths, 328 Phlebotomy, 19 Phlegmasia dolens, 328 Phlegmonous erysipelas, 150 Phosphatic calculi, 739 — deposits, 736 Phosphorus-necrosis, 585 Phrenic hernia, 708 Piles, 712 Pinguecula, 532 Pirogoff's amputation, 866 Plantaris muscle, rupture of, 465 Pleura, incision of, 408 — injury of, 403 —• tapping, 408 Pleurosthotonos, 171 Pneumothorax, 406 Pneumotomy, 409 Poisoned wounds, 115 Politzer s bag, 509 Polycoria, 537 3 L 2884 INDEX. ' Polypus, aural, 517 — of bladder, 744 — of nose, 599 — of rectum, 720 — snare, 517 Popliteal aneurysm, 313 — artery, ligature of, 325 Port-wine marks, 334 Post-mortem wounds, 115 Post-pharyngeal abscess, 606, 644 Pott's disease of spine, 641 — fracture, 495 — puffy tumour, 355 Prepuce, dilatation of, 798 — operations on, 797 — slitting of, 798 Presbyopia, 553 Pressure in lisemorrliage, 130 — in aneurysm, 299 Priapism, 397 Primary union of wounds, 101 Prolapse of rectum, 711 Proptosis, 549 Prostate, abscess of, 763 — calculi of, 767 — diseases of, 763 — enlargement of, 764 — - inflammation of, 763 — malignant disease of, 767 — retention of urine in en- larged, 793 — tubercle of, 766 Prostatitis, 763 Pruritus ani, 710 Psammoma, 81 Pseudarthrosis, 181 Pseudo-glioma, 539 Psoas abscess, 643 Psoriasis, 60 Pterygium, 533 Ptomaines, 7 Ptosis, 528 Pubes, dislocation on, 471 Pudenda, injuries of, 430 Pulleys in dislocation, 196, 442, 475 Pulpy degeneration of joints, 258 Pulsatile tumours of bone, 249 Punctured fracture of skull, 358 — wounds, 115 Puncture of bladder, 795 Purulent catarrh, of ear, 515 Pus, characters of, 25 — formation of, 22 Pus, varieties of, 25 Pustule-, malignant, 154 Putrefaction as a cause of inflam- mation, 7 — prevention of, in wounds, 111 Pyaemia, 158 Pyelitis, 725 Pyelo-nephritis, 725 Pylorectomy, 674 Pyogenic zone, 24 Pyo-nephrosis, 728 — -salpinx, 830 Quiet iritis, 536 — necrosis, 234 Quinsy, 580 Rabies, 166 Eadial artery, ligature of, 321 Eadical cure of hernia, 681 Radius, dislocation of, 446, 448 — fracture of, 460 Railway spine, 400 Ranula, 564 Rarefying osteitis, 227 Raynaud's disease, 48 Reaction after shock, 139 — of degeneration, 214 Rectocele, 431, 825 Recto-vaginal fistula, 824 Rectum, cancer of, 722 — diseases of, 709 — excision of, 724 — fissure of, 710 — foreign bodies in, 429 — injuries of, 429 — malformations of, 709 — malignant stricture of, 722 — polypus of, 720 — prolapse of, 711 — - stricture of, 721 — syphilis of, 721 — ulcer of, 710 — villous tumour of, 721 Reduction " en masse," 693 Reef-knot, 132 Reeves' operation, 849 Renal calculus, 728 — colic, 730885 Renal heematuria, 762 Eepair, process of, in fractures, 176 — in wounds, 100 Eesection of joints, 274 — — upper jaw, 589 Residual abscess, 29 Retained testis, 820 Retention of urine, 791 Retina, detachment of, 546 — diseases of, 544 Retinitis, 546 Retinoscopy, 525 Retro-bulbar neuritis, 5 i5 — -pharyngeal abscess, 606 Rhagades, 61 Rheumatoid arthritis, 265 Rhinitis, 594 Rhinoliths, 599 Rhinoscopy, 594 Ribs, fracture of, 401 Rickets, 238 Rider's bone, 279 Risus Sctrdonicus, 171 Rodent ulcer, 561 Rouge's operation, 601 Roughton's splint, 499 Rupia, 60 Rupture of abdominal viscera, 411 — of aneur3^sm, 295, 296 — of artery, 203 — — in fracture, 191 -- of bladder, 426 — of oesophagus, 388 — of perineum, 431 — of urethra, 428 Sacro-iliac joint, disease of, 264 Sacculated aneurysm, 293 — bladder, 742 Saline solution, infusion of, 124 Salivary calculus, 564 — fistula, 380 Salpingitis, 830 Saprsemia, 145 Saprine, 8 Saprophytic bacteria, 10 Sarcoma, 79 — alveolar, 81 — of bone, 246 — of breast, 838 — giant-celled, 84 Sarcoma, glio-, 81 — lympho-, 81 — melanotic, 82 — mixed-celled, 85 — myeloid, 84 — osteo-, 247 — round-celled, 81 — spindle-celled, 82 Sayre's jacket, 647 — method of treating frac- tured clavicle, 451 Scab, healing under, 102, 106 Scalds, 119 Scalp, abscess of, 501 — cellulitis of, 501 — contusion of, 353 — diseases of, 501 — erisipelas of, 501 — hsematoma of, 353 — injuries of, 353 — sebaceous cysts of, 501 — tumours of, 503 — wounds of, 354 Scapula, fractures of, 453 Schizomycetes, 9 Schrapnell's membrane, 508 Schroeder's operation, 832 Sciatic notch, dislocation into, 468 Scirrhous carcinoma, 90 — of breast, 841 Scleritis, 535 Sclero-corneal wounds, 535 Sclerosis, 224 Sclerotic, disease of, 533 — wounds of, 535 Scoliosis, 636 Scorbutic ulcers, 41 Scotoma, 545 Scrofula {jiee Struma). Scrotum, diseases of, 801 — epithelioma of, 801 1 — elephantiasis of, 802 — erysipelas of, 802 i injuries of, 433 — oedema of, 802 Scurvy rickets, 241 Sebaceous cysts, 96 '; — deep, of neck, 565 — on scalp, 501 Second intention, healing by, 105 Secondary hsemorrhage, 135 Senile gangrene, 47 Senn's method of gastro-enteros- tomy, 674886 Senn's method of uniting divided intestine, 417 — bone-plates, 419 Separation of epiphyses, 185, 457, 459, 462, 486 Sepsine, 8 Septic fever, 14 — infection, 157 — intoxication, 145 —- processes in wounds, diseases due to, 143 — traumatic fever, 144 Septicseniia, 157 Septum nasi, deflection of, 602 — diseases of, 601 — injuries of, 380 — malformation of, 602 Sequestrotomy, 234 Sero-cystic disease of breast, 839 Serous cysts, 97, 840 Serpents, bites of, 117 Shock, 138 Shoulder, amputation at, 863 — compound dislocation of, 445 — dislocation of, 437 — excision of, 274 Sinus, 31 Skin grafting, 36 Skin, surgical diseases of, 345 Skull, caries of, 502 — contusions of, 355 — diseases of, 501 — fracture of, 356 — — of base of, 361 — injuries of, 355 — necrosis of, 502 — trephining the, 377 — tumours of, 502, 503 Sloughing phagedaena, 38, 153 — ulcer, 37 Smith's gag, 577 — needles, 571 Snake-bites, 117 Snellen's test-types, 527 Soft sore, 798 Sounding for stone, 748 Spanton's operation, 681 Spasm of the oesophagus, 607 — of the urethra, 771 Spasmodic stricture, 771 Specula, aural, 508 Spermatic cord, diseases of, 801 — — hydrocele of, 806 — — tumours of, 809 Spermatic cord, varicocele of, 807 Sphacelus, 41 Sphenoidal sinus, catarrh of, 605 Spica bandage, 679 Spina bifida, 649 Spinal cord, injuries of, 395 Spine, caries of, 641 — concussion of, 400 — curvature, a?igular, of, 641 — — lateral, of, 636 — diseases of, 636 — dislocation of, 395 — fracture-dislocation of, 396 — fractures of, 395 — injuries of, 394 — Pott's disease of, 641 — railway, 400 — sprains of, 394 — trephining, 399 — wounds of, 395 Spleen, extirpation of, 676 — rupture of, 411 — wound of, 415 Splenectomy, 676 Sponge-grafting, 36 Spong}" gums, 582 Spontaneous aneurysm, 290 Sprains, 192, 434, 465 Squint, 553 Staphyloma, 552 Staphylorraphy, 576 Staphvlococcus pyogenes aureus, 26 \ Stasis in inflammation, 3 Sterno-mastoid muscle, contrac- tion of, 846 — division of, 847 Sternum, fracture of, 402 Stiff-joint, 271 ! Stings of insects, 117 Stomach, rupture of, 411 — dilatation of the cardiac and pyloric ends of, 675 — opening the, 610 — wound of, 415 Stomatitis, 562 Stone {see Calculus). Stop-needle, 543 ; Strabismus, 553 : Strangulated hernia, 683 Strangulation, internal, 653, 660, 662 Streptococcus pyogenes, 26 Stricture of oesophagus, 607 — of intestines, 655, 660, 663INDEX. 887 Stricture of pharynx, 607 — of rectum, 721 — of urethra, 772 Stromeyer's cushion, 459 Struma, 54 — in bone, 227, 237 — causes of, 55 — symptoms of, 55 Strumous glands, 338 — testicle, 813 — ulcer, 39 Stye, 528 Styptics in haemorrhage, 130 Sub-astragaioid dislocation, 481 Sub-clavian aneurysm, 309 — artery, ligature of, 318 Sub-clavicular dislocation, 440 Sub-coracoid dislocation, 439 Subcutaneous wounds, 117 Sub-glenoid dislocation, 439 Sub-hyoid pharyngotomy, 630 Sub-lingual cysts, 564 Subluxation of jaw, 384 Sub-spinous dislocation, 440 Superior thyroid artery, lig:iture of, 317 Suppression of urine, 731 Suppuration, 22 — diffuse, 30 — effects of, 30 — in bone, 234 Suprapubic lithotomy, 759 Suture-catcher, 577 Sutures, 109 — by Senn's method, 417 — continuous, 110 — interrupted, 110 — Lembert's, 416 Symblepharon, 528 Syme's amputation, 866 — operation for aneurysm, 312 — — for stricture, 782 Symonds' tubes, 611 Sympathetic inflammation of eye, 539 — irritation, 539 Syndesmotomy, 857, 859 Synechia, 535 Synovitis, acute, 250 — chronic, 254 — strumous, 258 Syphilides, 60 Syphilis, 56 ^ — bone disease in, 67, 237 — congenital, 65 Syphilis, primary, 58 — secondary, 59 — tertiary, 62 — in tongue, 569 — treatment of, 63 Syphilitic gummata, 62 — iritis, 61 — teeth, 68 — ulcers, 40 Syringo-myelocele, 651 Talipes, 850 — calcaneus, 853, 859 — cavus, 854 — equinus, J551, 858 — valgus, 854, 859 — varus, 852, 858 'J'apping abdomen, 673 — hydrocele, 804 — pericardium, 409 — pleura, 408 Tarsectomy, 857 Tarso-metatarsal amputation, 868 Tarsotomy, 857 Tarsus, fracture of, 500 Taxis, 686 Teale's amputation, 862 Teeth, mercurial, 68 — syphilitic, 68 Temporal artery, ligature of, 318 Tendons, injuries of, 201 — diseases of, 279 — dislocation of, 202 — division of, 855 — evulsion of, 203 — rupture of, 203 — wounds of, 202 Teno-synovitis, 279 Tenotomy, 855 — of rectus, 554 — of tibials, 856 — of tendo Achillis, 856 Testis, atrophy of, 819 — diseases of, 801 — enchondroma of, 817 — encysted hydrocele of, 805 — excision of, 819 — inflammation of, 811 — inj uries of, 433 — malignant disease of, 817 — neuralgia of, 820 — retained, 820 — syphilis of, 815888 INDEX. Testis, tubercle of, 813 Tetanus, 169 Thigh, amputation of, 865 Thomas' splint for knee, 254 — — for hip, 253 — — for spinal caries, 646 Thoracoplasty, 408 Thorax, injuries of {see Chest). Thrombosis, 327 Thrush, 563 Thumb, amputation of, 864 — dislocation of, 449 Thyroid body, diseases of, 633 — foramen, dislocation into, 471 Thyrotomy, 630 Tibia, fracture of, 494 Tibial arteries, ligature of, 325 Tic, convulsive, 344 Tinea tarsi, 527 Tinnitus aurium, 523 Toe-nail, hypertrophy of, 352 — ingrowing, 352 Toes, amputation of, 868 Tongue, diseases of, 565 — abscess of, 566 — epithelioma of, 570 — excision of, 572 — gumma of, 569, 572 — hypertrophy of, 566 — inflammation of, 567 — n on "differentiation of, 566 — syphilis of, 569, 572 — tumours of, 571 — ulcers of, 568 Tongue-tie, 565 Tonsil, diseases of, 579 — excision of, 581 — hypertrophy of, 580 Tonsillitis, 579 Torsion of arteries, 133 Torticollis, 846 Tourniquets, 129 Toxic amblyopia, 545 Toynbee's drum, 516 Trachea, foreign bodies in, 392 — wounds of, 384 Tracheotomy, 622 Trachoma, 532 Transfusion of blood, 124 Traumatic aneurysm, 209 — delirium, 140 — fever, 140, 144 — gangrene, 45 I Trephining bone, 236 — skull, 377 —• spine, 400 Trichiasis; 529 Trusses, 680 Tubercle, 49 — bacillus, 50 — causes of, 51 — development of, 50 — - dissemination of, 52 — in bone, 237 — localization of, 52 — secondary changes in, 51 — structure of, 49 — treatment of, 53 Tubercles, mucous, 61 Tubercular ulcers, 39 Tuberculosis, 49 Tumor albus, 260 Tumours, 70 — of bladder, 744 — of bone, 243 — of brain, 504 — causes of, 71 — classification of, 72 — development of, 70 — dissemination of, 72 — innocent, 71 — of kidney, 731 — malignant, 71 — of nerves, 343 — secondary changes in, 72 — of tongue, 571 — varieties of, 72 Ulceration, 32 — causes of, 34 — minute changes in, 33 — treatment of, 34 Ulcers, 35 — anal, 710 — callous, 38 chronic, 38 — dental, 568 — dyspeptic, 568 — eczematous,. 39 — exuberant, 36 — fungous, 36 — gouty, 40 — healing, 35 — inflamed, 37 — inflammatory, 37 — irritable, 39889 INDEX. Ulcers, oedematous, 37 — perforating, 345 — phagedaenic, 38 — rodeut, 561 — scorbutic, 41 — simple, 35 — sloughing, 37 — strumous, 39 — syphilitic, 40 — tuberculous, 39 — varicose, 39, 332 — varieties of, 35 Ulna, dislocation of, 445 — fracture of, 460, 463 Clnar artery, ligature of, 321 Umbilical hernia, 705 Ungual exostosis, 244 Union of wounds, 100 — of intestine by Senn's plates, 418 Unreduced dislocations, 195, 197 Ununited fracture, 181 Upper extremity, dislocation of, 435 — — fractures of, 450 — — injuries of, 434 Uranoplasty, 578 Urates, 734 Ureter, dilatation of, 773 — rupture of, 412 Urethra, calculus in, 789 — dilatation of, 772, 778 ~ diseases of, 767 — foreign body in, 431, 433 — inflammation of, 767 — injury of, 428 — rupture of, 428 — stricture of, 771 — tumours of, 790 Urethral lithotomy, 760 Urethritis, 767 Urethrotomy, external, 782 — internal, 779 Uric acid calculi, 738 — deposits, 734 Urinary abscess, 786 — calculus, 737 — deposits, 734 — fistula, 787 — organs, diseases of, 725 Urine, blood in, 762 — extravasation of, 787 — incontinence of, 761 — retention of, 791 — suppression of, 731 Utero-rectal fistula, 824 Utero-vaginal fistula, 824 Uterus, extirpation of, 832 Uveal tract, diseases of, 536 Uveitis, 538 Uvula, elongation of, 575 Uvulitis, 575 Vagina, diseases of, 823 — fistula of, 823 — foreign bodies in, 430 — injuries of, 430 — malformations of, 824 — tumours of, 823 — wounds of, 430 Vaginal lithotomy, 760 Vaginitis, 823 Varicocele, 807 Varicose aneurysm, 210 — ulcer, 39, 332 — veins, 331 Varix, aneurysmal, 210 Vascular tumour of urethra, 790 Vault of skull, fracture of, 356 Veins, diseases of, 327 — entrance of air in, 212 — injuries of, 211 — rupture of, 211 — varicose, 331 — wounds of, 211 Venereal disease, 56, 798 — sore, 798 Ventral hernia, 708 Verruca), 345 Vesico-intestinal fistula, 744 — -vaginal fistula, 823 Vesicocele, 431 Vicious union, 184 Villous growth, 85 — of bladder, 745 — of larynx, 618 — of rectum, 721 Viscera, injury of, 414 — rupture of, 411 Vitreous, diseases of, 547 Volvulus, 653, 660, 663 Vulva, diseases of, 821 — injuries of, 430 — pruritus of, 822 Vulvitis, 821 Wallerian degeneration, 213 Wardrop's operation for aneuryj 303,307890 INDEX. "VYarren's operation, 681 "Warts, 345 — venereal, 345 "Warty tumours, 85 Wax in ear, 513 Wens, 74 Wheelhouse's operation, 784 White swelling, 260 Whitehead's operation for re- moval of tongue, 573 "Whitlow, 281 Wire-twister, 578 Wiring the patella, 493 Wood's operation for hernia, 68b "Wound-diphtheria, 153 Wounds, closure of, 109 — cleansing of, 107 — constitutional treatment of, 112 — contused, 114 — dissection, 115 —■ drainage of, 107 — healing of, 100 W^ounds, incised, 114 — lacerated, 114 — open,100 — poisoned, 115 — prevention of putrefaction in. 111 — punctured, 115 — repair of, 100 — subcutaneous, 117 — treatment of, 107 — varieties of, 114 Wrist, amputation of, 864 — dislocation of, 448 — excision of, 276 Wryneck, 846 Yearsley's drum, 516 ZooGLCEA masses, 9 THE END. BRADliURY, AONEW, & CO. LD., PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS.1 [Catalogue C] LONDON, June, 1892. J. & A. CHUECHILL'S MEDICAL CLASS BOOKS. ANATOMY. BRAUNE.—An Atlas of Topographical Ana- tomy, after Plane Sections of Frozen Bodies. By Wilhelm Brafne, Professor of Anatomy in the University of Leipzig. Translated by Edward Bellamy, F.H.C.S., late Surgeon to Charing Cross Hospital, and Lecturer on Surgery in its School. With 34 Photo-lithographic Plates and 46 Woodcuts. Large Imp. 8vo, 40s. i^ZOTF^i^.—Diagrams of the Nerves of the Human Body, exhibiting their Origin, Divisions, and Connexions, with their Distribution to the various Regions of the Cutaneous Surface, and to all the Muscles. By William H. Flower, C.B., F.E.C.S., F.R.S. Third Edition, containing 6 Plates. Royal 4to, 12s. GODLEE.—An Atlas of Human Anatomy: illustrating most of the ordinary Dissections and many not usuall> practised by the Student. By Hickman J. Godlee, M.S., F.B.C.S., Surgeon to University College Hospital; Teacher of Operative Surgery, and Assistant Professor of Clinical Surgery in University College; With 48 Imp. 4to Coloured Plates, containing 112 Figures, and a Volume of Explanatory Text, with many Engravings. 8vo, £4 14s. 6d, HEATH.—Practical Anatomy: a Manual of Dissections. By Christopher Heath, F.R.C.S., Holme Professor of Clinical Surgery in University College and Surgeon to the Hospital. Seventh Edition, revised by Hickman J. Godlee, M.S. Lond., F.R.C.S., Teacher of Operative Surgerj^ and Assistant Professor of Clinical Surgery in University College, and Surgeon to the Hospital. With 24 Coloured Plates and 278 Engravings. Crown 8vo, 15s. 11, NEW BURLINGTON STREET.J. 8f A. ChurchilVs Medical Class Books. 2 AN AT OM-Y—continued. HOLDEN.—A Manual of the Dissection of the Human Body. By Luther Holden, F.KC.S. Fifth Edition, by John Langton, F.R.C.S. and Member of the Court of Examiners; Surgeon to St. Bartholomew's Hospital. With 208 Engravings. 8vo, 20s. By the same Author. Human Osteology : comprising a Descrip- tion of the Bones, with Delineations of the Attachments of the Muscles, the General and Microscopical Structure of Bone and its Development. Seventh Edition, by Charles Stewart, Conservator of the Museum, K.C.S., and K. W. E.EID, M.D., Professor of Anatomy in the University of Aberdeen. With 59 Plates and 75 Wood Engravings. Royal 8vo, 16s. ALSO, Landmarks, Medical and Surgical. Fourth Edition. Svo, 3s. 6d. MORRIS.—The Anatomy of the Joints of Man. By Henry Morris, M.A., F.R.C.S., Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Ana- tomy and Practical Surgery at, the Middlesex Hospital. With 44 Plates (19 Coloured) and Engravings. Svo, 16s. TOOTH.—An Atlas of the Central Nervous System and Cranial Nerves, from the larger work of Hirschpeld and Leveille. Edited by Howard H. Tooth, M.D., F.R.C.P., Assistant Physician to the National Hospital for the Paralysed and Epileptic. 37 Coloured Plates. Imp. Svo, 40s. WAGSTAFFE.—The Student's Guide to Human Osteology. By Wm. Warwick Wagstaffe, F.H.C.S., late Assistant- Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Anatomy at, St. Thomas's Hospital. With 23 Plates and 66 Engravings. Fcap. Svo, 10s. 6d. WILSON — BUCHANAN — CLARK. — Wilson's Anatomist's Vade-Mecum: a System of Human Anatomy. Eleventh Edition, by (Jeorge Buchanan, Professor of Clinical Surgery in the University of Glasgow, and Henry E. Clark, M.R.C.S., Lecturer on Anatomy in the Glasgow Royal Infirmary School of Medicine. With many Engravings and Coloured Plates. Crown Svo. [In the press. 11, NBW BURLINGTON STREET.J. ^ A, ChurchilVs Medical Class Books. 3 BOTANY. BENTLEY AND TEIMEN.—Medicinal Plants: being descriptions, with original Figures, of the Principal Plants employed in Medicine, and an account of their Properties and Uses. By Robert Bentley, F.L.S., and Henry Trimen, M.B., F.R.S., F.L.S. In 4 Vols., large 8vo, with 306 Coloured Plates, bound in half morocco, gilt edges, £11 lis. BENTLEY.—A Manual of Botany. By Robert Bentley, F.L.S., M.KC.S., Emeritus Professor of Botany in King's College and to the Pharmaceutical Society. With nearly 1178 Engravings. Fifth Edition. Crown Svo, 15s. By the same Author. The Student's Guide to Structural, Morphological, and Physiological Botany. With 660 Engravings. Fcap. Svo, 7s. 6d. ALSO, The Student's Guide to Systematic Botany, including the Classification of Plants and Descriptive Botany. With 357 Engravings. Fcap. Svo, 3s. 6d. CHEMISTRY. BERNAYS.—l^otes on Analytical Chemistry for Students in Medicine. By Albert J. Bernays, Ph.D., F.C.S., F.I.C., late Professor of Chemistry, <fec., at St. Thomas's Hospital Medical School. Third Edition. Crown Svo, 4s. 6d. BLOXAM.—Chemistry, Inorganic and Organic ; with Experiments. By Charles L. Bloxam. Seventh Edition, by . John Millar Thomson, Professor of Chemistry, King's College, London, and Arthur G. Bloxam, Demonstrator of Chemistry, Royal Agricultural College, Cirencester. With 2S2 Illustrations. Svo, ISs. By the same Author. Laboratory Teaching; or, Progressive Exercises in Practical Chemistry. Fifth Edition. With 89 Engravings. Crown Svo, 5s. 6d. BOWMAN AND ^ZOJT^lf.—Practical Chemistry, Including Analysis. By John E. Bowman, and Charles L. Bloxam, late Professor of Chemistry in King's College. Eighth Edition. With 90 Engravings. Fcap. Svo, 5s. 6d. 11, NEW BURLINGTON STREET.J, 8f A. ChtirchilPs Medical Class Books. 4 CH.'E'M.IST^Y—continued. CLOWJES.—Practical Chemistry and Qualita- tive Analysis. Adapted for use in the Laboratories of Colleges and Schools. By Fkank Clowes, D.Sc. Lond., Professor of Chemistry in the University College, Nottingham. Fifth Edition. With 57 Engravings and Frontispiece. Post 8vo, 7s. 6d. CLOWES AND COLEMAN.—Quantitative Chemi- cal Analysis. Adapted for use in the Laboratories of Colleges and Schools. By FRANK CLOWES, D.Sc. Lond., Professor of Chemistry in the University College, N'ottingham, and J. Bernard Coleman, Assoc. R.C.Sci. Dublin, Senior Demonstrator of Chemistry in the University College, Nottingham. With 83 Engravings. Post 8vo, 7s. 6d. i^OTriV:^;.^.—Manual of Chemistry.—>Sfee WATTS. FEANKLANDAND LAPP.—InorganicChemistry. By Edward Frankland, Ph.D., D.C.L., F.R.S., and F. R. Japp, M.A., Ph.D., F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry in the University of Aberdeen. With Lithographic Plates and Wood Engravings. 8vo, 24s. JfOi^Z^r.—Outlines of Organic Chemistry. By H. FORSTER MORLEY, M.A., D.Sc, Joint Editor of "Watts' Dictionary of Chemistry." Crown8vo, 7s. 6d. RAMSAY.—Elementary Systematic Chemistry. For ITse of Schools and Colleges. By William Ramsay, Ph.D., F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry in University College, London. With Engravings^ 4s. 6d. (or Interleaved, 5s. 6d.). By the same Author. A System of Inorganic Chemistry. With Engravings. 8vo, 15s. VALENTIN—Chemical Tables for the Lecture- room and Laboratory. By William G. Valentin, F.C.S. In Five large Sheets, 5s. 6d. VALENTIN AND HODGKINSON.—A Course of Qualitative Chemical Analysis. By the late W. G. VALENTIN F.C.S. Seventh Edition, by Dr. W. R. Hodgkinson, F.H.S.E., Professor of Chemistry and Physics in the Royal Artillery College, and Royal Military Academy, Woolwich; assisted by H. Chapman-JoNES, F.C.S., Demonstrator in the Royal School of Mines, and F. E. Matthews, Ph.D., of Cooper's Hill College. With Engravings and Map of Spectra. Svo, 8s. 6d. [The Tables separately, 2s. 6d.] 11, NEW BURLINGTON STREET.J. 8f A, ChurchiWs Medical Class Books. 5 dLKMlSTHY—contimced, WATTS—Manual of Chemistry, Theoretical and Practical. (Based on Fownes' Manual.) By Henry Watts, B.A., F.R.S. YoL. 1.—Physical and Inorganic Chemistry. Second Edition (Fourteenth of Fownes'). By William A. Tilden, D.Sc, F.K.S., Professor of Chemistry in the Mason College, Bir- mingham. With 122 Wood Engravings, and Coloured Plate of Spectra. Crown 8vo, 8s. 6d. Vol. 11.—Chemistry of Carbon-Compounds, or Organic Chemistry. Second Edition (Thirteenth of Fownes'). Edited by Wm. A. Tilden, D.Sc, F.KS. With Engravings. Crown Svo, 10s. CHILDREN, DISEASES OF. DAF.—A Manual of the Diseases of Children. By William H. Day, M.D., Physician to the Samaritan Hospital for Women and Children. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 12s. 6d. ELLIS.—A Practical Manual of the Diseases of Children. By Edward Ellis, M.D., late Senior Physician to the Victoria Hospital for Sick Children. With a Formulary. Fifth Edition. Crown Svo, 10s. GOOBHART.—The Student's Guide to Diseases of Children. By James Frederic Goodhart, M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician to Guy's Hospital and Lecturer on Pathology in its Medical School. Fourth Edition. Fcap. Svo, 10s. 6d. SMITH.—A Practical Treatise on Disease in Children. By Eustace Smith, M.D., F.KC.P., Physician to H.M. the King of the Belgians, and to the East London Hospital for Children. Second Edition. Svo, 22s. By the same Author. Clinical Studies of Disease in Children. Second Edition. Post Svo, 7s. 6d. Also, On the Wasting Diseases of Infants and Children. Fifth Edition. Post Svo, Ss. 6d. STjEINER—Compendium of Children's Dis- eases; a Handbook for Practitioners and Students. By JOHANN Steiner, M.D. Translated by Lawson Tait, F.E,.C.S., Surgeon to the Birmingham Hospital for Women, &c. Svo, 12s. 6d. 1], JSrjEW BURLINGTON STREET.J, ^ A, ChurchilVs Medical Class Books, 6 DENTISTRY. GORGAS. — Dental Medicine: a Manual of Dental Materia Medica and Therapeutics. By Ferdinand J. S. Gorgas, A.M., M.D., D.D.S., Professor of Dental Surgery and Science, &c., in the University of Maryland. Third Edition. 8vo, 16s. HARRIS. — The Principles and Practice of Dentistry; including Anatomy, Physiology, Pathology, Therapeutics, Dental Surgery, and Mechanism. By Chapin A. Harris, M.D., D.D.S. Twelfth Edition, revised and edited by Ferdinand ,T. S. Gorgas, A.M., M.D., D.D.S. With over 1,000 Illustrations. 8vo, 33s. iST0(7A^^i\^.—Elements of Dental Materia Medica and Therapeutics, with Pharmacopoeia, ByJAMESSTOCKEN,L.D.S.R.C.S., late Lecturer on Dental Materia Medica and Therapeutics and Dental Surgeon to the National Dental Hospital; assisted by Thomas Gaddes, L.D S. Eng. and Edin. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 7s. 6d. TOMES (C. aS.).—Manual of Dental Anatomy, Human and Comparative. By Charles S. Tomes, M.A., F.U.S. Third Edition. With 212 Engravings. Crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. TOMES (/. and C. S.).—A System ot Dental Surgery. By Sir John Tombs, F.K,.S., and Charles S. Tomes, M.A., M.R.C.S., F.B.S. Third Edition. With 292 Engravings. Crown 8vo, 15s. EAR, DISEASES OF. BURNETT.—The Ear: its Anatomy, Physio- logy, and Diseases. A Practical Treatise for the Use of Medical Students and Practitioners. By Charles H. Burnett, M.D., Aural Surgeon to the Presbyterian Hospital, Philadelphia. Second Edition. With 107 Engravings. Svo, 18s. DALBY.—On Diseases and Injuries of the Ear. By Sir William B. Dalby, F.R.C.S., Consulting Aural Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Aural Surgery at, St. George's Hospital. Third Edition. With Engravings. Crown Svo. 7s. 6d. 11, NEW BURLINGTON STREET.J, A. Churchillh Medical Class Books, 7 FORENSIC MEDICINE. ABERGROMBIE. — The Student's Guide to Medical Jurisprudence. By John Abercrombie, M.D., E.E.C.P., Physician to Charing Cross Hospital. Fcap. 8vo, 7s. 6d. OGSTON.—Lectures on Medical Jurisprudence. By Francis Ogston, M.D., late Professor of Medical Jurisprudence and Medical Logic in the University of Aberdeen Edited by Francis OGSTON, Jun., M.D. With 12 Plates. 8vo, 18s. TAYLOR.—The Principles and Practice of Medical Jurisprudence. By Alfred S. Taylor, M.D., F.Il.8. Third Edition, revised by Thomas Stevenson, M.D., F.H.C.P., Lec- turer on Chemistry and Medical Jurisprudence at Guy's Hospital; Examiner in Chemistry at the Hoyal College of Physicians; Official Analyst to the Home Office- With 188 Engravings. 2 Vols. 8vo, 31s. 6d. By the same Authoy. A Manual of Medical Jurisprudence, Twelfth Edition, revised by Thomas Stevenson, M.D., F.K„C.P. With 56 Engravings. Crown 8vo, 14s. also, On Poisons, in relation to Medical Juris- prudence and Medicine. Third Edition. With 104 Engravings, Crown 8vo, 16s. TIDY AND WOODMAN.—A Handy-Book of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology. By C. Meymott Tidy, M.B. ; and W. Bathurst Woodman, M.D., F.R.C.P. With 8 Lithographic Plates and 116 Wood Engravings. 8vo, 31s. 6d. HYGIENE. PARKES.—A Manual of Practical Hygiene. By the late Edmund A. Parkes, M.D., F.R.S. Eighth Edition, by J. Lane otter, M.D., Professor of Military Hygiene in the Army Medical School. With 10 Plates and 103 Wood Engravings. 8vo, 18s. WILSON.—A Handbook of Hygiene and Sani- tary Science. By George Wilson, M.A., M.D., F.R.S.E., Medical Officer of Health for Mid Warwickshire. Seventh Edition. With En- gravings. Crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. 11, KJEJV BURLINGTON STREET.J, Sf A, Churchill^s Medical Class Books. 8 MATERIA MEDICA AND THERAPEUTICS. LESCHEB.—Recent Materia Medica. Notes on their Origin and Therapeutics. By F. Harwood Lescher, F.C.S.,, Pereira Medallist. Fourth Edition. 8vo, 2s. 6d. OWEN,—A Manual of Materia Medica; in- corporating the ^Author's "Tables of Materia Medica." By Isambard Owen, M.D., F.E.C.P., Lecturer on Materia Medica and Therapeutics to St. George's Hospital. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. 6d. ROYLE AND HARLEY.—A Manual of Materia Medica and Therapeutics. By J. Forbes Royle, M.D., F.R.S., and John Harley, M.D., F.KC.P., Physician to, and Joint Lecturer on Clinical Medicine at, St. Thomas's Hospital. Sixth Edition, including addition and alterations in the B.P. 1885. With 139 Engravings. Crown 8vo, 15s. SOUTHALL.—The Organic Materia Medica of the British Pharmacopoeia, Systematically Arranged. By W. Southall. F.L.S. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo 5s. THOROWGOOD. — The Student's Guide to Materia Medica and Therapeutics. By John C. Thorowgood, M.D., F.R.C.P. Second Edition. With Engravings. Fcap. 8vo, 7s. WARING.—A Manual of Practical Therapeu- tics. By Edward J. Waring, C.I.E., M.D., F.H.C.P. Fourth Edition, revised by the Author and Dudley W. Buxton, M.D., M.KC.P. Crown 8vo, 14s. WHITE,—Materia Medica, Pharmacy, Pharma- cology, and Therapeutics. By W. Hale White, M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician to, and Lecturer on Materia Medica and Therapeutics at, Guy's Hospital; Examiner in Materia Medica to the Conjoint Board of England. Fcap. 8vo, 7s. 6d. MEDICINE. OHARTERIS.—The Student's Guide to the Practice of Medicine. By M. Chartbris, M.D., Professor of Thera- peutics and Materia Medica, University of Glasgow. With En- gravings on Copper and Wood. Sixth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 9s. 11, NEW BURLINGTON STREET,J, 6^ A, ChurchilVs Medical Class Books. 9 WKDICWE—continued. FAGGE.—The Principles and Practice of Medi- cine. By the late C. Hilton Fagge, M.D., F.R.C.P., Edited by PHILIP H. Pye-Smith, M.D., F.R.S., F.H.C.P., Physician to, and Lecturer on Medicine in, Guy's Hospital. Third Edition. 2 Vols. 8vo. Cloth, 40s., leather, 46s. FJENWICK.—The Student's Guide to Medical Diagnosis. By Samuel Fen wick, M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician to the London Hospital. Seventh Edition. With 117 Engravings. Fcap. 8vo, 7s. By the same Author. Outlines of Medical Treatment, including Foreign as well as English Methods. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 10s. FOWLER.—A Dictionary of Practical Medicine. By Various Writers. Edited by James Kingston Fowleii, M.A., M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician to Middlesex Hospital and the Hospital for Consumption, Brompton. 8vo., cloth, 21s.; half-calf, 25s. HARRIS.—The Student's Guide to Diseases of the Chest. By Vincent D. Harris, M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician to the Victoria Park Hospital for Diseases of the Chest. With 55 Engravings, plain and Coloured. Fcap. 8vo, 7s. 6d. NIXON.—Handbook of Hospital Practice and Physical Diagnosis. By Christopher J. Nixon, M.D., LL.D. Professor of Medicine in the Catholic University, Dublin; Examiner in Medicine, K.Q.C.P.I., and for the Conjoint Examinations of K.Q.C.P. and S. Irel. With Plates and Engravings. Svo, 9s. ORMEROD.—Diseases of the Nervous System (Student's Quide Series). By J. A. Ormerod, M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician to the National Hospital for the Paralysed and Epileptic. With 66 Illustrations. Fcap. 8vo, 8s. 6d. TAYLOR.—A Manual of the Practice of Medi- cine. By Frederick Taylor, M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician to, and Lecturer on Medicine at, Guy's Hospital. Second Edition. With 24 Illustrations. Crown Svo, 15s. WEST. — How to Examine the Chest: a Practical Guide for the Use of Students By Samuel West, M.D., F.R.C.P., Assistant Physician and Medical Tutor to St. Bartholomew's Hospital. SecoDd Edition. With 46 Engravings. Fcap. 8vo, 5s. 11, NEW BURLINGTON STREET.J, 8f A. ChurchilVs Medical Class Books. 10 MIDWIFERY. BARNES.—Lectures on Obstetric Operations, including the Treatment of Haemorrhage, and forming a Guide to the Management of Difficult Labour. By Egbert Barnes, M.D., F.R.C.P., Consulting Obstetric Physician to St. George's Hospital. Fourth Edition. With 121 Engravings. 8vo, 12s. 6d. BURTON.—Usindhook of Midwifery for Mid- wives. By John E. Burton, M.H.C.S., L.E.C.P., Surgeon to the Liverpool Hospital for Women. Second Edition. With Engrav- ings. Fcap 8vo, 6s. GALABIN.—A Manual of Midwifery. By Alfred Lewis Galabin, M.A., M.D., F.R.C.P., Obstetric Physician and Lecturer on Midwifery, &c,, to Guy's Hospital, Examiner in Mid- wifery to the Conjoint Examining Board for England. Second Edition. With 249 Engravings, Crown 8vo, 15s, REYNOLDS —l^otes on Midwifery: specially designed to assist the Student in preparing for Examination. By J. J. Reynolds, L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S. Second Edition. With 15 Engravings. Fcap. Svo, 4s. ROBERTS.—The Student's Guide to the Practice of Midwifery. By D. Lloyd Roberts, M.D., F.R.C.P., Lecturer on Clinical Midwifery and Diseases of Women at Owen's College, Phy- sician to St. Mary's Hospital, Manchester. Third Edition. With 2 Coloured Plates and 127 Engravings. Fcap. Svo, 7s. 6d. ^TT^riV^;.—Obstetric Aphorisms for the Use of students commencing Midwifery Practice. By Joseph G. Swayne, M.D., Lecturer on Obstetric Medicine at the Bristol Medical School Mnth Edition. With 17 Engravings. Fcap. Svo, 3s. 6d. MICROSCOPY. CARPENTER.—The Microscope and its Revela- tions. By William B. Carpenter, C.B., M.D., F.R.S. Seventh Edition. Edited by Rev. Dr. Dallinger, F R.S. With 21 Plates and 800 Woodcuts. Svo, 26s. LEE. — The Microtomist's Vade-Mecum; a Handbook of the Methods ot Microscopic Anatomy. By Arthur BOLLES Lee, Assistant in the Russian Laboratory of Zoology at Villefranche-sur-Mer (JSice). Second Edition. Svo, 12s. 6d. 11, NEW BURLINGTON STREETJ, A, 0/iurchtWs Medical Class Books. 11 OPHTHALMOLOGY. GOWERS.—A Manual and Atlas of Medical Ophthalmoscopy. By W. R. Gowers, M.D., F.H.S., F.R.C.P., Physician to the Is'^ational Hospital for the Paralysed and Epileptic. Third Edition. Edited with the assistance of Marcus Gunn, M.B., E.R.C.S., Surgeon to the Koyal London Ophthalmic Hospital; Ophthalmic Surgeon to the National Hospital for the Paralysed and Epileptic. With 12 Autotype Plates and 83 Engravings. 8vo, 16s. HARTRIDGK—The Refraction of the Eye. By GUSTAVUS Hartridge, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to the Royal Westminster Ophthalmic Hospital. Fifth Edition. With 98 Illustrations, Test Types, &c. Crown 8vo, 6s. By the same Author. The Ophthalmoscope : A Manual for Stu- dents. With 2 Coloured Plates and 63 Engravings. Post 8vo 4s. HIGGENS.—l:i'ints on Ophthalmic Out-Patient Practice. By Charles Higgens, F.R.C.S., Ophthalmic Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Ophthalmology at, Guy's Hospital. Third Edition Fcap. 8vo, 3s. MAGNAMARA.—Diseases and Refraction of the Eye. By Charles Macnamara, r.E,.C.S.,ana Gustavus Hartridge, E.R.C.S., Surgeons to the Royal Westminster Ophthalmic Hospital. Fifth Edition. With 156 Engravings. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6d. iV^ATTX^>Si^/P.—The Student's Guide to Diseases of the Eye. By Edward Nettleship, F.Pv.C.S., Ophthalmic Surgeon to St. Thomas's Hospital, Surgeon to the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital. Fifth Edition. With 164 Engravings, and a Coloured Plate illustrating Colour-blindness. Fcap. 8vo, 7s. 6d. POLLOCK.—The Normal and Pathological Histology of the Human Eye and Eyelids. By C. Fred. Pollock, M.D., F.R.C.S.E., and F.R.S.E., Surgeon for Diseases of the Eye, Anderson's College Dispensary, Glasgow. With 100 Plates, containing 230 Original Drawings by the Author, Lithographed in black and colours. Crown 8vq, 15s. WOLFE.—On Diseases and Injuries of the Eye : a Course of Systematic and Clinical Lectures to Students and Medical Practitioners. By J. R. Wolfe, M.D., F.R.C.S.E., Senior Surgeon to the Glasgow Ophthalmic Institution, Lecturer on Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery in Anderson's College. With 10 Coloured Plates, and 120 Wood Engravings, 8vo, 21s. 11, NETV BURLINGTON STREET.«/. Sf A, ChurchilPs Medical Class Books. 12 PATHOLOGY. BOWLBY.—The Student's Guide to Surgical Pathology and Morbid Anatomy. By Anthony A. Bowlby, F.R.C.S., Assistant Surgeon to, and Demonstrator of Practical Surgery and Sur- gical Pathology at, St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Second Edition. With 158 Engravings. Fcap. 8vo, 9s. JONES AND SIEVEKING,—A Manual of Patho- logical Anatomy. By C. Handfield Jones, M.B., r.K,.S., and Sir Edward H. SiBVEKiNG, M.D., F.R.C.P. Second Edition. Edited, with considerable enlargement, by J. F. Payne, M.B., Physician to St. Thomas's Hospital. With 195 Engravings. Crown Svo, 16s. LANCEREAUX,—At\sLS of Pathological Ana- tomy. By Dr. Lancereaux. Translated by W. S. Greenfield, M.D., Professor of Pathology in the University of Edinburgh. With 70 Coloured Plates. Imperial Svo, £5 5s. MOORE.—Pathological Anatomy of Diseases, arranged according to the Nomenclature of Diseases of the R.C.P* Lond. By Norman Moore, M.D., Assistant Physician and Lecturer on Pathological Anatomy to St. Bartholomew's Hospital. With 110 Illustrations. Fcap. Svo, 8s. 6d. .SUTTON.—Lectures on Pathology delivered at the London Hospital. By the late Henry Gawen Sutton, M.B., F.B.C.P., Physician and Lecturer on Pathology at the London Hos- pital, &c. Edited by Maurice Eden Paul, M.D., and Revised by Samuel Wilks, M.D., LL.D., F.E.S. Svo, 15s. SUTTON. — An Introduction to General Pathology. By John Bland Sutton, F.E.C.S., Sir E. Wilson Lecturer on Pathology, B.C.S. ; Assistant Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Anatomy at, Middlesex Hospital. With 149 Engravings. Svo, 14s. WYNTER AND WETHERED.—A Manual of Clinical and Practical Pathology. By W. Essex Wynter, M.D., Medical Registrar and late Demonstrator of Anatomy and Chemistry at the Middlesex Hospital; and Frank J. Wethered, M.D., Assistant Physician to the City of London Hospital for Diseases of the Chest. With 4 Coloured Plates and 67 other Illustrations, Svo, 12s. 6d. 11, NEW BURLINGTON STREETJ. Sf A, Churchill's Medical Class Books. 13 PHYSIOLOGY. CARPENTEE.—Principles of Human Physio- logy. By William B. Carpenter, C.B., M.D., F.R.S. Ninth Edition. Edited by Henry Power, M.B., F.R.C.S. With 3 Steel Plates and 377 Wood Engravings. 8vo, 31s. 6d. DALTON.—A Treatise on Human Physiology : designed for the use of Students and Practitioners of Medicine. By John C. Dalton, M.D., Professor of Physiology and Hygiene in the College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York. Seventh Edition. With 252 Engravings. Royal 8vo, 20s. FREY.—T\ie Histology and Histo-Chemistry of Man. A Treatise on the Elements of Composition and Structure of the Human Body. By Heinrich Frey, Professor of Medicine in Zurich. Translated by Arthur E. Barker, Surgeon to the University College Hospital. With 608 Engravings. 8vo, 21s. SANDERSON.—li2indihoo\L for the Physiological Laboratory : containing an Exposition of the fundamental facts of the Science, with explicit Directions for their demonstration. By J. Burdon Sanderson, M.D., F.R.S.; E. Klein, M.D., F.E.S.; Michael Foster, M.D., F.E.S., and T. Lauder Brunton, M.D., F.R.S. 2 Vols., with 123 Plates. Bvo, 24s. SHORE.—Elementary Practical Biology. Vege- table. By Thomas W. Shore, M.D., B.Sc. Lond., Lecturer od Comparative Anatomy at St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Svo, 6s. YEO.—A Manual of Physiology for the Use of Junior Students of Medicine, By Gerald F. Yeo, M.D., F.H.C.S., F.H.S., late Professor of Physiology in King's College, London. Second Edition. With 318 Engravings (many figures). Crown Svo, 14s. PSYCHOLOGY. BUCKNILL AND TUKE.—A Manual of Psycho- logical Medicine : containing the Lunacy Laws, Nosology, ^Etiology, Statistics, Description, Diagnosis, Pathology, and Treatment of Insanity, with an Appendix of Cases. By John C. Bucknill, M.D. F.R.S., andD. Hack Tuke, M.D., F.E.C.P. Fourth Edition, with 12 Plates (30 Figures). 8vo, 25s. CLOUSTON — Clinical Lectures on Mental Diseases. By Thomas S. Clouston, M.D., and F.R.C.P. Edin.; Lec- turer on Mental Diseases in the University of Edinburgh. Third Edition. With 13 Plates. Crown 8vo, 14s. 11, NEW BURLINGTON STREET,J, Sf.A. Churchiirs Medical Class Books, 14 SURGERY. BELLAMY.—The Student's Guide to Surgical Anatomy; an Introduction to Operative 8urgery. By Edward Bellamy, F.R.C.S., late Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Surgery at, Charing Cross Hospital. Third Edition. With 80 Engravings. Fcap. 8vo, 7s. 6d. BRYANT,—A Manual for the Practice of Surgery. By Thomas Bryant, F.E.C.S., Consulting Surgeon to Guy's Hospital. Fourth Edition. With 750 Illustrations (many being coloured), and including 6 Chromo-Lithographic Plates. 2 Vols. Crown Svo, 32s. DRUITT AND SOFD.—Druitt's Surgeon's Vade- Mecum; a Manual of Modern Surgery. Edited by Stanley Boyd, M.B.,B.S. Lond., F.U.C.S., Assistant Surgeon and Pathologist to the Charing Cross Hospital. Twelfth Edition. With 373 Engravings. Crown Svo, 16s. HEATH.—A Manual of Minor Surgery and Bandaging. By Christopher Heath, F.R.C.S., Holme Professor of Clinical Surgery in University College and Surgeon to the Hospital. Ninth Edition. With 146 Engravings. Fcap. Svo, 6s. By the same Author. A Course of Operative Surgery: with Twenty Plates (containing many figures) drawn from Nature by M. Levbillb, and Coloured. Second Edition. Large Svo, 30s ALSO, The Student's Guide to Surgical Diag- nosis. Second Edition. Fcap. Svo, 6s. 6d. JACOBSON.—The Operations of Surgery: in- tended especially for the use of those recently appointed on a Hospital Staff, and for those preparing for the Higher Examinations. By W. H. A. JACOBSON, M.A., M.B., M.Ch. Oxon., F.R.C.S., Assistant Surgeon to Guy's Hospital, and Lecturer on Anatomy in the Medical School. Second Edition. With 235 Engravings. Svo, 30s. 11, NEW BURLINGTON STREETJ. ^ A. ChurchilVs Medical Class Books, 15 S'U'RQc'EiRY—continued. MOULLIN.—Surgery. By C. W. Mansell Moullin, M.A., M.D.Oxon., F.R.C.S., Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Physiology at, the London Hospital; formerly E,adcliffe Travelling Fellow and Fellow of Pembroke College, Oiford. With 497 Illustra- tions. 8vo, 34s. WALSHAM,—Surgery: its Theory and Practice (Student's Guide Series). By William J. Walsmam, F.E-.C.S., Assistant Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Anatomy at, St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Third Edition. With 318 Engravings. Fcap. 8vo, 10s. 6d. TERMINOLOGY. MAXWELL.—Terminologisi Medica Polyglotta : a Concise International Dictionary of Medical Terms (French, Latin, English, German, Italian, Spanish, and Russian). By Theodore Maxwell, M.D., B.Sc Lond., F.E.C.S. Edin. Uoy. 8vo, 16s, MAYNE.—A Medical Vocabulary: being an Explanation of all Terms and Phrases used in the various Departments of Medical Science and Practice, giving their Derivation, Meaning, Application, and Pronunciation. By R. G. Mayne, M.D., LL.D. Sixth Edition, by W. W. Wagstaffe, B.A., F.E.C.S. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6d. A Short Dictionary of Medical Terms, 2s. 6(1 TREVES AND LANG.—A German-English Dic- tionary of Medical Terms. By Frederick Treves, F.R.C.S., Sur- geon to the London Hospital, and Hugo Lang, B.A, Half-bound in calf, 12s. WOMEN, DISEASES OP. BAENES.—A Clinical History of the Medical and Surgical Diseases of Women. By Robert Barnes, M.D., F.R.C.P., Obstetric Physician to, and Lecturer on Diseases of Women, &c., at, St George's Hospital. Second Edition. With 181 Engravings. Svo, 28s. DUNCAN.—Clinical Lectures on the Diseases of Women. By J. Matthews Duncan, A.M., M.D., LL.D., F.R.C.P., F.R.S., late Physician Accoucheur to, and Lecturer on Midwifery at, St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Fourth Edition. 8vo, 16s. 11, NEW BURLINGTON STREETJ, & A, Churchill^s Medical Class Books. 16 WOMET^", DISEASES OT—continued. GALABIN.—The Student's Guide to the Dis- eases of women. By Alfred L. Galabin, M.D., F.R.CP., Obstetric Physician to Guy's Hospital, Examiner in Obstetric Medicine to the University of Cambridge, and to the E. C. P. Lond. Fourth Edition. With 94 Engravings. Fcap. 8vo, 7s. 6d. REYNOLDS.—Notes on Diseases of Women. Specially designed to assist the Student in preparing for Examination. By J. J. Reynolds, L.KC.P., M.E.C.S. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 2s. 6d. ' SAVAGE.—The Surgery of the Female Pelvic Organs. By Henry Savage, M.D., Lond., F.R.C.S., one of the Con- sulting Medical Officers of the Samaritan Hospital for Women. Fifth Edition. With 17 Lithographic Plates and 52 Woodcuts. Royal 4to, Coloured Plates, 35s.; Uncoloured, 15s. WEST AND DUNCAN—"Lectures on the Dis- eases of Women. By Charles West, M.D., F.R.C.P. Fourth Edition. Revised and in part re-written by the Author, with numerous additions by J. Matthews Duncan, M.D., F.R.C.P., F.R.S., late Obstetric Physician to St. Bartholomew's Hospital. 8vo, 16s. ZOOLOGY. CHAUVEAU AND FLEMING.—The Compara-| tive Anatomy of the Domesticated Animals. By A. Chauveau, Professor at; the Lyons Veterinary School; and George Fleming, C.B., late Principal Veterinary Surgeon of the Army. Second Edition, With 585 Engravings. 31s. 6d. HUXLEY.—Manual of the Anatomy of Inverte- brated Animals. By Thomas H. Huxley, LL.D., F.R.S. With 156 Engravings. Post 8vo, 16s. By the same Author. Manual of the Anatomy of Vertebrated Animals. With 110 Engravings. Post 8vo, 12s. WILSON.—The Student's Guide to Zoology: a Manual of the Principles of Zoological Science. By Andrew Wilson, Lecturer on Natural History, Edinburgh. With Engravings. Fcap. 8vo, 6s. 6d. 11, NEW BURLINGTON STREET