SYNOPSIS OF THE STRUCTURE OP THE HEART, A^J) THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. The Organs of Gircuiation—\st. Tlie Heart, ^nd. Arteries. 3rd. Capillaries. 4th. Veins. looks downwards, forwards, and to the left. Ventricles especially the left, towards the apex respectively the Eight and Left Auricle, ana tne Kignt ana-Lett Ventricle. 3—The Ciivities on the right side have no direct communication with those on the left, being separated by a vertical partition called a " Septum ;" that portion which separates the Auricles being termed " Septum Auricularum," while that which separates the Ventricles is called " Septum Ventriculorum." When the term "Septum" Cordis is employed in an absolute manner, the Septum of the Ventricles is invariably meant. 4.—Between the cavities of the same side there is a free communication by an opening called the Auriculo-Ventricular, through which the blood passes. 5—The cavities on the right side of the Septum, consistino- of the Eight Auricle and Eight Ventricle, frequently known by the name of the "Pulmonic" Heart, contain venous blood, while that portion on the left, containing the Left Auricle and Left Ventricle, is styled the " Systemic " Heart, and contains arterial blood. 6. —Into each Auricle there are five openings ; by four of these, the mouths of veins, blood enters, and by one, the Auriculo-Ventricular, blood passes out into a Ventricle. 7. —Lito each Ventricle there are two openings, viz: the Auriculo-Ventricular and the Arterial. By the former the blood enters, by the latter it leaves the Ventricle. 8. —At each opening of a Ventricle is placed a valve, one of which called the Auriculo Ventricular, allows the blood to enter the cavity from the Auricle, but prevents it from passing back ; the other, named Ai'terial, allows the blood to leave the Ventricle, but prevents it from returning. 9. —It thus appears that there are four valves employed in the transmission of the blood through the Heart, viz. : one between the Eight Auricle and Eight Ventricle, called " Tricuspid," another between the Left Auricle and Left Ventricle, named " Mitral," and sometimes " Bicuspid." The two other valves are situated in the Pulmonary Artery, and Aorta, and are known respectively as the " Pulmonic " and " Aortic " valves. 10. —The contraction of the waUs of a cavity is called its " Systole," and the relaxation its " Diastole." When we speak of the " Systole " and " Diastole " of the Heart, we invariably refer to the condition of the Ventricles. 11. —The contraction and dilatation of cavities of the same generic name are synchronous and isochronous, while those of different generic names are alternate. Thus, the two Auricles are in a state of contraction and dilatation at the same time, as is also the case with the Ventricles, but when the Auricles are contracting the Ventricles are dilating, and vice-versa. 12. —On listening over the region of the Heart, two sounds are heard, known as the " First " and "Second " sounds. When the first sound is heard the Ventricles are contracting j.nd the Auricles are dOating, while during the second sound the Auricles are contracting and the Ventricles are dilating. 13. —During the fii'st sound of the Heart the Auriculo-Ventricular valves are shut and the Arterial valves are open ; while during the second, the Auriculo Ventricular valves are open, and the Arterial valves are closed, 14—When an abnormal sound proceeds from a valve that should be shut, it shows that the blood is taking a retrograde direction, and is called Eegurgitation; when proceeding from a valve that should be open, it then is said to be " Obstruction." 15.—With regard to the course of the blood through the Heart, it may be stated in general terms that when the blood leaves an organ whose name begins with V, it enters one whose name begins"with A, and vice-versa ; while in the tissues, when it leaves an organ beginning with A, it enters one beginning with C, and passes into one beginning with V, as shown by the following diagram. CD., C.A., C.V., & F.T. L.V. Pulmonary Veins. Aorta. Syst. Cap.