The foramina are arranged in regular order from before backwaras, anterior ff^, 8 in the middle fossa, and 6 in the posterior tossa, ^' " A TABLE EEPRESENTING THE FORAMINA COMMUNICATING WITH THE INTERIOR OF THE CRANIUM, AND THE ORGANS WHICH THEY TRANSMIT. SINGLE. FORAMINA. I. Anterior Fossa. 1. Forameu Caecum ... II. Posterior Fossa. 2. Forameu Maguum ANTERIOR FOSSA. 5 pairs. I. Ethmoidal Fissure II. Olfactory Foramina 3. Anterior Ethmoidal Canal (Fronto-Ethmoidal) 4. Posterior Ethmoidal Canal (Fronto-Ethmoidal) 5. Optic Foramen .PARTS PASSING THROUGH THE VARIOUS FORAMINA. A small vein from the lining membrane of the nose to the superior longitudinal sinus, sometimes one from the frontal sinus, and a fold of the dura mater. Medulla oblongata and its envelopes, the vertebral arteries, and the spinal accessory nerves. The nasal nerve. Filaments of the olfactory nerve, and the nasal branches of the ethmoidal arteries. Anterior ethmoidal artery and nasal nerve. Posterior ethmoidal artery and vein. Optic nerve and ophthalmic artery. MIDDLE FOSSA. 8 pairs. Foramen Lacerum Fissure) ... Orbitale (Sphenoidal or Spheno-Frontal 2. Foramen Rotundum 3. Foramen Yesalii . . 4. * Foramen Ovale ... 5. Foramen Spinosum 6. Foramen Lacerum Medium (Spheno-Petrosal) 7. Small Foramen (not named) 8. Hiatus Fallopii r 1. Meatus Auditorius Internus ••• I 2. Aqueduct of the Vestibule . 3. Forameu Lacerum Posterius(Occipito-Petrosal) POSTERIOR FOSSA. J 6mirs. - 14. *Ma8toid ••• ••• 5. Anterior Condyloid . 6. * Posterior Con lyloid dyloid The third, fourth, and three branches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth, and sixth cranial nerves ; the opthalmic vein, a branch of the lachrymal artery, and sometimes the lachrymal artery itself, and a process of the dura mater. Superior maxillary nerve, or second branch of the trifacial or fifth cranial nerve. A small vein, one of the emissary veins of Santorini. The two roots of the inferior maxillary nerve or third branch of the fifth, the lesser petrosal nerve, and the small meningeal artery a branch of the internal maxillary. Middle meningeal artery, the two meningeal veins, and filaments of the sympathetic nerve from the cavernous plexus. Internal carotid artery, the carotid plexus, the large petrosal nerve, and a meningeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal artery. Lesser petrosal nerve. • u + i Large petrosal nerve, a branch of the middle meningeal artery, which anastomoses with the stylo- mastoid a branch of the posterior auricular. Facial, and auditory nerves, and the auditory artery, a branch of the basilar. A small artery and vein, and a process of the dura mater. Glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory nerves ; the internal juguiai vein, ana meningeal branches from the ascending pharyngeal and occipital arteries. A small vein, which opens into the lateral sinus and occipital veins, and occasionally a small aiteiy a branch of the occipital. , , , t -u i f The hypoglossal nerve and a meningeal branch from the ascending phalangeal ait«^^^ Posterior condyloid vein, establishiog a communication between the vertebral vem and lateral smus. Of the former one on each side of the sagittal suture transmits a VIZ. the t^en c'^mf^Uhe fo,i;.>;gnum. ofthe .-emainiug 38:6 F«r. are fouud in the The number of foramina coranmnicating with the interior of the cranium are from 36 to 42 •mall vein, and horaetimes a Hmall artery. Of the remaining 40, 2 are in the mesial plane The ^Im^'^prinwr'in red indicate the Foramina through which one or more of the Cranial nerves pass ; those underiined in red indicate the Foramina of exit of branches