MOTOR NEKVES OF THE INTEINSIC MUSCLES OP THE UPPER EXTREMITY. By WILLIAM DARLING, M.D., F.R.O.S., Professor of Anatormj in the University of New York. — ■ Nei'ves. Muscles of the Scapulo - Humeral Reg"., or Muscles connecting the Arm with Shoulder. 1 Humeral Reg., or Muscles situated on the Arm. Muscles of the Forearm. Muscles of the Hand. Total. Muscles. i 5th and 6th SUPRA-SCAPULAR< Cervical ( Nerve. 2 2 2 Supra-spinatus, and Infra-spinatus. Subscapular - O From Pos- 1 terior Cord Circumflex •••1^ of the 1 Brachial Musculo-SpiralJ Plexus. 2 2 ... 2 3 ... 2 2 5 2 2 14 Subscapularis, and Teres Major. Deltoid, and Teres Minor. Triceps, Anconeus, Subanconeus, and Eadialis Longior. Supinator Longus, Extensor Carpi J. V^o L\Jx A-lL Ij^XV'i3oCWU.O • • • 9 q J Extensor Carpi Eadialis Brevior. Do. Communis Digitorum. Do. Minimi Digiti. Do. Carpi Ulnaris. and Exten Supinator Brevis. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis. Do. Primi Internodii Pollicis. Do. Secundi do. do. sor Indicis. Musculo-CutaneouSjEx. Cord 1 2 3 3 Coraco-Brachialis, Biceps, and Brachialis Anticus. Median, Ex. and In. Cord • . . 4 - 11 Pronator Teres. Flexor Carpi Eadialis. Palmaris Longus. Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. Abductor Pollicis. Opponens Pollicis. First and Second Lumbricales. 1 1 of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis 1 (outer head). Anterior Interosseous ... • . • Pronator Quadratus, Flexor Longus PoUicis and outer half of the Flexor Profundus Digitorum, UiuNAii, Inner Cord Flexor Carpi Ulnaris, and inner half of the Flexor Profundus Digitorum. Superficial PaJmar ... 1 1 16 Palmaris Brevis. Deep Palmar \ Abductor Pollicis, Abductor Minimi Digiti, Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti, Opponens Minimi Digiti, 3rd and 4th Lumbricahis, 7 luterossei, and inner half of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis (iuuer head). 7 4 20 19 50 50 X.B.—The above table, constructed for the purpose of showing the Motor Nerves of the Intrinsic Muscles of the Upper Extremity, indicates at the same time the name and number of the muscles situated on the dififerent segments of the limb. It should be borne in mind that the Flexors and Pronators of the forearm and hand are situated on the anterior, while the f^xtensor and Supinator Muscles are on the posterior surface of the limb. By reference to the table it will also be fouud that of the former (27 in number) 11 are supplied by the Median, 16 by the Ulnar Nerve and its V)ranches, and of the latter (11 in number) 2 are supplied by the Muscule-Spiral, and the remaining 9 by the Posterior Interosseous. The Brachialis Anticus u«ually receives a fikmeut from the Musculo-Spiral, as well as from the Musculo-Cutaneous Nerve.