12 are certain instances when the surgeon can only get at the effects of disease, and in some kinds of distortion, this, I be- lieve, more paiticularly obtains. However, it is not my pur- pose to discuss the views of Mr. Bishop, but simply to state that he has done good sei-vice to surgery by his patient and philosophic researches, and has shown that the very beautiful expedient of tenotomy may be carried too far, and that in many cases deformities, both of the spine and of the extremities, may be effectually remedied, in the former by attention to position, and by the combination of extension with position in numerous instances of the latter. Whilst on the subject of deformities and malformations of the body, my mind naturally reverts to one of the most beautiful discoveries which have of late years occurred in connexion with that depai'tment. I allude to the discovery of the true condition of the parts in cleft palate, and consequently of an im- proved and certain method of effectually remedying this sad deformity, in endeavoming to ascertain which, the research and skill of many great surgeons and anatomists were baffled. It remained for Mr. Fergusson to point out the real condition of the parts, and to indicate the remedy as well, and it is with feelings of great pleasure and pride, that I can refer so happily to the labours of one, to whose teaching and to whose pationage I am so largely indebted. After a careful dissection of the parts in the cleft state, Mr. Fergusson discovered that certain muscles of the palate had such an influence over the moveable textures, that it was useless to attempt a cure by operation, unless the action of such mus- cular fibres was first paralysed. Before his researches, the proceeding adopted consisted in making haphazard incisions through poi'tions of the palate, and subsequently paring the edges of the cleft and bringing them together by sutures. Here however obtained what Mr. Bishop complains of in the treat- ment of certain distortions of the extremities, effects and not causes were merely looked to, and attempted to be remedied, for the very simple reason, that the real origin of the influence on the moveable flaps was not understood, consequently the operation could not be expected to be attended with success. Now, however, Mr. Fergusson has clearly ascertained by his beautiful dissection of the parts in the cleft condition, that the levator palati muscle acts powerfully in drawing the soft palate