17 obtain any satisfactory statistics of the treatment of stone in the bladder by lithotrity, and I question very much whether, in the end, lithotrity is a more satisfactory proceeding than lithotomy ; still it must be looked upon as a great improvement, even if it only does away with cutting, and thu^ removes a great som'ce of dread and anxiety to those who have to undergo operation, and who always attach more real danger to the use of the knife than to any other instrument. Very lately, much attention has been paid to the study of the pathology and ti'eatment of one of the most interesting and important diseases which man can laboiu- under, viz., stricture of the urethra; this disease has indeed at all times commanded much attention at the hands of sm-geons, but at no period so much as at the present time, when one may say, men's minds have been violently agitated upon what has proved to be a bone of bitter contention ; but this very circumstance has proved how interesting and how difficult a disease we have to deal with, and how much more we have to learn regarding its pathology and treatment. The subject in question has been ably considered by several Fellows of this Society, by Mr. Guthrie in his Lett- somian Lectures, by Mr. Hancock, and by Mr. Wade. The demonstration by Mr. Hancock of the involuntary muscular fibres surrounding the urethral canal, is an interesting and im- portant fact, whether considered in a pathological or in a prac- tical point of view, for their existence will explain phenomena, which were certainly well known beforehand, but which could not be satisfactorily accounted for. Various attempts have been made to add to our means of treating stricture; the proposition of laying open the urethra, by an external incision upon a grooved sound previously passed through the stricture, has been recommended by one of the best surgeons in Europe, and Mr. Syme avers, that he has him- self had a large amount of success; but other surgeons, and especially those in this metropolis, have tried the plan of ti'eat- meut, and the results have been such that it is not very likely to be generally practised. Mr. Thomas Wakley, a Fellow of this Society, has strongly recommended a mode of treating strictures, by the use of some very ingenious instruments, capable of effecting dilatation very rapidly.