15 hernia in a state of sti'angulation, might be rendered more satis- factory by a modification of the process ordinarily employed; this consisting in the retm'n of the tumour into the abdomen, by dividing the stiicture, and not opening the peritoneal sac. This method of treatment has now been adopted by many sur- geons, and with very advantageous results. Still, very lately, there has been another step in advance in connection with this procedure, and it is with great pleasure that I can again refer to a Fellow of this society, as having improved the operation for hernia. Mr. Gay considered that the operative proceeding might be still further simplified, and that much greater success would at- tend it if it were adopted much more early, and if the manipu- lations necessaiy in the employment of the taxis were not carried on so vigorously, or for a period so prolonged as usually obtained. He in fact considered, that prompt reduction of the strangulated intestine with as little interference as possible witli the parts ah*eady injured, Avould prove to be the most speedy, as well as the most effectual and scientific method of treatment; he therefore recommended, that after the taxis has once been fairly applied, the surgeon should divide the strictiu'e, but that in so doing, he should make the incision as limited as possible, and that instead of carrying it over the tumom* itself, and con- sequently through tissues more or less diseased, he should make a species of subcutaneous incision by the side of the neck of the mpture, by this means get at the stricture and divide it. and return the hernia without opening the sac, and scarcely in- terfering with the tumour or the paiiis immediately covering it. This modification of the operation which is especially adapted for femoral hernia, must be looked upon as an improvement in the surgeiy of this disease, for herein is combined simplicity with safety, and if an operation can be rendered more simple, at the same time that it is effectually performed, it is surely an improvement. In connexion with the subject of hernia, I may also mention the name of another eminent Fellow of this Society, Mr. Han- cock. He has instituted some useful researches into the pathology and treatment of hernia, and although his views are at variance with those of his fellow-labourer Mr. Gay, inasmuch as he advocates the old operation of opening the sac, the pro- fession is vmder great obligations to him for so ably discussing