stances of excision, both of upper and lower jaw, and has made a gi-eat improvement in the operation for the former, by so planning the external incisions, that very slight deformity is produced after the parts have cicatrised. In the more special department of the surgery of the eye, much has been done of late; in former years, Travers, Law- rence, Guthrie, and Mackenzie, investigated the pathology and treatment of diseases of the eye ; and more latterly have there grown up men who have become equally energetic labourers in the same field. Daliymple, Bowman, White Cooper, and an honom-ed fellow of this Society, Haynes Walton, who, in the operative siu'gery of the eye especially, is, I believe, nulli secundus. His discovery of the true condition of the parts in enti'opium, and of the method of remedying this very trouble- some affection by the operation of removing a portion of the highly developed orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, may, per- haps, be considered next in importance and beauty to the divi- sion of the internal rectus muscle in squint. With reference to the surgery of the ear, those who have more especially distinguished themselves by their researches in this department, are Fellows of this Society. Much of our knowledge of the pathology and of the treatment of the affec- tions of the ear passages, has been contributed by the laborious investigations of Mr. Pilcher, Mr. Harvey, Mr. Toynbee, and Mr. Yearsley. Having just spoken of the progress which has been made in operative surgery, it is impossible for me not to make some reference to the great discovery of late years, viz., the use of chloroform. Most of us can recollect what used to take place in the operating theatre of an hospital before the occurrence of this great fact, and can contrast the present state of things with those dreadful scenes; and although the weekly and almost daily experience of the use of chloroform has made us familiar with its effects, it is to be hoped that this familiarity has not deadened our appreciation of its vast benefits, but has made us more sensible of one of the greatest blessings which has been vouchsafed to suffering man. It is impossible that we can be too grateful, for not alone is the subject of a severe surgical operation the recipient of this blessed boon, but the operator himself is wonderfully assisted by it, and he can now set about the most terrible operations without doing violence to those