9 medy was obviotis, and the result has necessarily followed upon its application, for we no longer hear of violent outbreaks of hospital gangrene or of uncontrollable erysipelas requiring whole wards to be closed, and consequently a much greater proportion of patients, who have undergone operations, or have received severe injuries, recover from their effects. It is true that even now, with our advanced knowledge and means of preventing, to a great extent, the supervention of such serious complications, many patients in our public institutions die annually from that poisoning of the blood, properly termed pyoemia, which, indeed, is merely an aggravated and unhealthy foim of inflammation coming on after injury is inflicted by ac- cident, or by the surgeon's knife. Nevertheless it has been made the subject of special investigation by an earnest inquirer after truth, Mr. Henry Lee, a Fellow of this Society, and I be- lieve that its ti'ue pathology has been explained by that gentle- man. We are taught by these researches, that the best mode of preventing this dreadful afiection is to do everything to for- tify the system, and keep the blood in as healthy a condition as possible. I think that Mr. Lee has, by his researches on pyoemia, contributed really to surgical science. All must admit that it is the characteristic of the surgery of the present day, to place a greater reliance upon the resources of nature, in bringing back the restitution of parts, which have been injured or diseased, to a sound condition. This is emi- nently observable in instances of compound fracture and in- flamed and ulcerated joints. This is mainly due to our know- ledge of pathology being more advanced, to a clearer recogni- tion of the powers of nature, to a more simple use of the means of art, and especially to a more suitable employment of mecha- nical appliances; and possibly in the whole round of surgical means and adaptations for the treatment of disease or injury, there is not a greater improvement than that aflbrded by the use of the suspending splint in cases of fracture. Mr. Luke, I believe, chiefly introduced this method into tliis country ; but, perhaps, the most ingenious and most usefril apparatus of the kind is that invented a few years ago by my old fellow-student, Dr. James Salter. By the use of the swing splint, in instances of fractures, I believe many limbs and many lives are saved, for the injured parts are kept at perfect rest in the the most com- fortable position, consequently thei-e is much less likelihood of u 5