feelings which will always animate the really good surgeon; who, although he must occasionally show an apparent in- sensibility, is, at the same time, conscious from his own and others' experience, that the greatest firmness of pm-pose is not incompatible wdth the most generous and most gentle sympathy. It is tnie, that to Dr. Simpson, of Edinburgh, the profession is indebted for the introduction of chloroform ; and with its dis- covery, as an anaesthetic agent, his name must ever be honour- ably connected. But next to Dr. Simpson, I hesitate not to say, that we owe the deepest debt of gi-atitude to a Fellow of this Society, Dr. Snow, for he has most laboriously investigated the action of this most powerful agent, both upon man and upon the lower animals; he it is who has taught us the exact nature of its peculiar effects, and shoAvn us how to exhibit it with the greatest safety. Too much commendation cannot be given to Dr. Snow for his valuable researches upon the employ- ment of chloroform, for experience has shown that it is an agent which is powerful for evil as well as for good, and that unless the utmost caution is used, the most disastrous results might ensue; but that, if employed with care, it may be in- haled with compai'ative safety. The introduction of anaesthetic agents must be placed side by side with the discovery of the circulation of the blood, and that with which the name of the immortal Jenner is connected. I might say much more on this interesting subject, but must now bring this imperfect sketch of the progi'ess of surgery to a conclusion. I trast, however, I have shown that much, very much has been done, to improve the science within the last few years, and that this improvement is advancing day by day; for we have amongst us yet the Nestors of sm-gery, the men whom we look upon as the great teachers of the present generation. It is impossible that surgery can do otherwise than progress whilst such men as Brodie, Travers, and Lawi'ence, are leading in the van, and their doctrines are being disseminated by those who are worthy to be the pupils of such masters of their ar t and there need be no fear of surgical science reti-ograding so long as there is amongst us a Paget capable and willing to direct his powerful mind to the investigation of the most abstruse and interesting points of surgical pathology, and whilst there is a Druitt able to analyse and sift conflicting