20 much difference of opinion regarding the applicability oi' ex- cision to the hip and knee joint; but the experience of numerous surgeons has proved that resection of the head of the femur is a measure which is followed by most excellent results in certain instances of disease of the hip, and it has now become a recognised operation, thanks, chiefly, to the efforts of Mr. Fergusson, and to others who have investigated the merits of this proceeding. Excision of the knee joint is looked upon by the profession as a more questionable measiu-e; the propriety and expediency of this operation has been much discussed, but experience has shown that it is a measure which should not be hastily rejected, and further trials will, I hope, prove that the results attending the ojjeration may be as fortunate as those following amputation of the thigh. In connexion with this subject, it gives me the greatest pleasure to refer to the labours of my friend, Mr. Jones, of Jersey, who has operated no less than five out of six times with success, and who, indeed, has contributed more than any provincial surgeon of the present day, to advance Conservative Surgery. I think it may be stated that, in what may be called " Bone Surgery," to use a familiar expression of one of my old teachers, there has been more improvement in practice than in any other department. This is exemplified by the many instances of excision, and more especially by the effectual operations, now-a-days, per- formed for the removal of dead and diseased portions of bone, in cases too, where, not many years ago, it would have been deemed necessary to remove the whole member, or suffer the patient to drag on a miserable existence. Much improvement has been effected within the last few years in the surgery of the jaws, the excision of the whole, or of portions of the upper and lower jaw, is now readily under- taken by the sui-geou with complete success, in instances where not very long ago such operations would have been thought unjustifiable or impossible. We are indebted to Mr. Lizars, to Mr. Syme, and to the late Mr. Liston, for the intro- duction of these truly formidable ojierations. Mr. Hancock has distinguished himself by his skill and success in these cases; and Mr. Fergusson has had many most remarkable in-