19 of tlie differences between healthy and diseased sti'uctures, the possessor must be looked upon as one, who is in the best possi- ble position to undertake the cure of surgical diseases. I have not time to dwell at any length upon the particular improvements in connexion with this department of surgery within the last few years, and I have already referred to some subjects, but I may just call your attention to the manner in which the various amputations are now performed, to the sim- plicity and precision which are observable in the process. The introduction, or rather revival of the flap operation, must be looked upon as a great improvement over the old circular method, although, as regards the ultimate formation of the stumps, there is a difference in opinion as to which method is followed by those which are most serviceable. I may here refer to amputation of the foot at the ankle joint, which operation has within the last few years become recog- nised, and justly considered as a gi'eat improvement compared with the old method of amputating through the leg, and taking away a considerable portion of healthy stmcture, and leaving the patient a most insufficient means of progression. To Mr. Syme the profession is entirely indebted for this. The prin- ciples upon which the operation is adopted are strictly in accordance with the spirit of conservatism which is now so happily the characteristic of the Surgery of the present day. It is chiefly as regards the operative treatment of diseased joints and bones that there has of late years been so much pro- gress in true conservative surgery. Amputations are now rarely perfonned in comparison with their frequency of occur- rence in former years. Excision, and resection of joints and bones, the removal of disease alone, without taking away healthy structure, are now-a-days by good surgeons substituted for amj)utation in all cases, where, fonnerly, such extensive mutila- tion would have been deemed expedient and necessary; by these partial and limited operations disease is thoroughly re- moved and lives are preserved, at the same time that useful substitutes for the original joints and members are left. How beautiful arc the results which have followed the excision of the elbow joint, which has now been performed upon a very large scale ! The same mode of proceeding has been adopted in the instance of all the principal joints of the body ; there has been