262 The number of beds in the House, exclusive of the de- tached ' New Building,' or Fever Wing, has not been the same at all times. It was, I believe, 134 in 1850, at the time I was appointed Surgeon. In the course of the 4 or 5 following years various alterations were made in the wards, — cupboards removed, partitions taken down, ceilings raised, and fire-places opened, — and the number of beds was increased to 146. In 1862 the number was reduced to 131. At a Meeting of the Medical Officers, I suggested that, before considering the question of reducing the number, information ought to be given to us what bad consequences, if any, had arisen from the number of beds then in the House. But a majority were of opinion that we had only to obey the order of the Governors that the number of beds was to be reduced. When the new ward for Accidents was added to the House, the number was reduced to 130, excluding M., which was taken for the use of children. At first 13 beds were placed in M. This number was afterwards reduced to 8. Jatiuary 1875. At the Weekly Board, 21 May, 1851, I proposed :— ' That it would be to the greater airiness of the wards and to the health of the Patients generally, if the convalescent were discharged more fre- quently than at present, and if it were made a general Rule of the House that no bed should be occupied until 24 hours after the last Patient had left it, and in case of a death not till after 48 hours ; and that the Medical Officers should be allowed to report at each Weekly Meeting of the Com- mittee, any Patients who will be fit to be discharged before the next Weekly Board ; — or that they should be at liberty to discharge such Patients in the intervals of the Meetings of the Committee, reporting their names at the next Weekly Board.' After some discussion it was rejected ; and it was Resolved that no note of it should be entered on the Minute Book. To Dr. a. The particulars you give me to correct, so as to represent the chief objections I made, require correction: the chief of all, — urged by Dr. Ogle and myself, and held, I believe, by nearly all the Governors regularly attending the House,— you omit: — That the badness of the existing ventilation