73 The proposal to cut short the progress of venereal diseases by excision of the primary sore does not find favor. Mr. Evans pointed out, many years ago, that the diseased action of the sore, 'which,' he says, 'is more frequently met with than all other ulcerations on the parts of generation put together,' extends in many instances a considerable distance beyond the seat of the sore, and that, if leeches be applied to the groin for the reduction of bubo, the wounds made by them often become sores of the same form. (Pathological and Prac- tical Remarks on Ulcerations of the Genital Organs, 1819.) But, in truth, the Patient generally applies too late for excision to give a fair chance of removal of the disease: the poison has taken effect by the time he discovers the sore which gives rise to his anxiety. We are not aware that the vaccine vesicle has ever been excised. Dr. Walker's experiment was the nearest approach to this; and he considered that the con- stitution was sufficiently infected, notwithstanding the strange proceeding. The subject of Poisoned Wounds is treated by Mr. Poland. The wounds frequently received in dissection are not ordinarily attended with any peculiar or specific disease, or, we may add, with any characters which should separate them from other incised or punctured wounds. It is otherwise with the wounds — the 'pricks' or 'scratches,' — received in the examination of bodies recently dead. More alarming symptoms follow these, — in rare cases, it is true; but still they do happen with sufficient frequency to receive, as they require, a large amount of attention, and the more so, as they do also sometimes lead to a fatal result. These alarming symptoms, we think, arise more frequently in cases of inflamed serous membranes, especially the peritoneum. Mr. Poland proceeds to consider the wounds received from healthy animals, the stings and bites of 'venomous beasts' and those from diseased animals, of which hydrophobia and glanders are the best known and most frequent, and, — we suppose we may add, with the general consent of our readers, — the most uniformly fatal in their results in the human subject, as well as in the brutes from which they are derived. In an essay by Mr. Moore, upon Wounds of Bloodvessels^ he