203 other children, he fell out of a ' swing,' and in the fall received a blow upon the swelling, or some slight injury to the prominent part. About 40 years ago, when the Tumor had become large enough to attract his own attention and that of his friends, he consulted a Medical Practitioner. From him he learned that the swelling could not be dispersed ; and that the only means of removal was by a Surgical operation. He was alarmed by some undefined fear of the loss of blood attending an operation, and the length of time required for recovery: and he did not afterwards seek other advice. In 1846 I saw him for the first time, — meeting him in company at the house of a relation. At that time the Tumor was in front of the ear, upon the parotid gland, or a little below the zygoma. To the best of my recollection, it was about 3 inches long 'in a transverse direction, and in its thickest part it projected about an inch from the general surface of the cheek, being partly covered by the hair of the whisker. During the following 12 years the Tumor increased slowly in size, falling or gravitating downwards toward the angle of the jaw. His brother, who was a member of our Profession, observed with anxiety the steady increase in size, and often mentioned it, in conversation with me and other Professional friends; but the Patient himself never referred to the subject. In 1858 he left Oxford, where he had re- sided for about 35 years,—first as a Student, and afterwards as Fellow and Tutor of a College, and Incumbent of one of the largest parishes in the City,—and went to live in a village in the country, with the charge of a small church and parish. It seemed to me, and to his friends generally, that the Tumor increased in size more rapidly after this change of residence and new mode of life. In October 1868 he suffered from an attack of pain, with temporary increase of swelling, in the upper part of the Tumor, and slight fever. This was followed by suppuration in what was thought to be a cyst in the substance of the Tumor. Some weeks passed before the discharge ceased, and the skin became sound. On Sunday the 28th. of May (1876), in the afternoon, when sitting in his drawing-room, he held out his fingers with blood on them^ and made the remark,—'There; I have done it