253 oefore the mother's visit. I can understand that 'she ex- jerienced great relief from warm fomentations,' used at home, n an early stage of the complaint, when the disease was more imited in extent, and at a time when she was herself less disabled by the inflammation, I have no reason to think that my local application, while in the Infirmary, would have been successful in giving relief in any sensible degree, — except as it might have diverted her attention, while the complaint continued its progress unabated. Some ' small comforts,' as they may be called, — chicken, ielly, fish, fruit, condiments, aromatics, — often seen in a sick- room, the suggestions of the friends, the Nurse, the family Practitioner, or others in immediate attendance, but more usually omitted in Hospital practise as not having visible effect in the treatment of disease, — were not ordered. I did not see the need for them. Notwithstanding the omission, and although there may not have been the exhibition of the same sympathy and solicitude as at home, I am satisfied that there was not any want of attention or kindness, on the part of the numerous persons about her, in any matter really im- portant to her state. In submitting this Report to the Committee, I take the liberty of offering with it the following suggestions :—That there should be a Medical Committee, consisting of the Medical Officers and Governors who are Members of the Medical Profession, — to whom questions such as these could be referred. That Ladies, who are willing to undertake the work, should be appointed as Visitors to the wards. That there should be some superintendance of the Nurses in the regular discharge of their duties in the wards, — such as the ' Sisters' in the Hospitals in London. The Visiting Ladies, and the Nursing Sisters, would serve as means of com- munication with the Officers of the House on many of the small wishes of the Patients, which are often overlooked as being matters not really affecting the course of disease, or the treatment necessary for it. That the friends of Patients should be permitted to attend them in the wards as Nurses. February 1873.