407 as Physicians. But your question is^ — What should we (Medici) say to them? For myself, I can only say that I should not trouble myself to say anything. I should leave it to othersj—the titulo-philists and the titulo-phobists, if I may use such words. My printed letter, as you will see, was addressed to Dr. W., and also to Dr. C. It calls upon them to give an authority for the opinion they have published. They have not done so. I shall be happy to consider it, if they do. 29 November^ 1879. To Dr. H. Dear Sir, — The great difficulty, as it seems to me, of carrying out any plan for the union and efficiency of the Medical Officers, and the formation of a Hospital Corps of Orderlies, is — to find the money which will be wanted for the purpose. The expense of holding a Commission in the Volunteer Service is so great, that you will hardly be able to obtain the services of a retired Medical Officer of the Regular Forces, unless where it may happen that such a man has retired, in good health and still young, and has entered into Medical practise as an ordinary competitor with other mem- bers of the Profession. The Medical Officers of the Volunteer Service are the only members of the force who give Pro- fessional services, with their time, and money. Here and there a waggon, or an Orderly, may be provided: but in most cases, if the Medical Officer thinks these necessary, he must find them as best he can. Your enquiry m^ay do good. You will find what objec- tions are likely to be made, and what difficulties have arisen; and, perhaps, how they have been overcome. When I joined as a Private, 20 years ago, there was abundance of Medical Officers in each corps: it is not so now. After 6 years' service as Ensign, I was appointed Surgeon to the battalion. I was requested to instruct the members of the Corps in 'the first treatment,' as it is now called, of the injured. I gave two Lectures, printed them at my own expense, and circulated about 3000 copies. . While others were discussing the wants of the Volunteer