83 membranous part through which an opening can be made below the chordae vocales ; and a penknife or a pair of scissors can serve for the occasion. In the large majority of cases of dyspnea,—in the greater number of emergencies,—the most eligible spot in the trachea, we have no doubt, is that pointed out by Mr. McWhinnie, above the thyroid gland, rather than below it. Mr. Poland contributes a short essay on Injuries of the Chest. Contusions of the parietes (the effects of different degrees of violence inflicted), if simple cases of contusion— i. e., without injury to the structures peculiar to this region —are seldom of a serious nature, requiring prolonged treat- ment. Complicated with fracture of the ribs, they are of very frequent occurrence, presenting themselves almost daily in the Hospitals in London. From the reported statistics of Guy's Hospital, Mr. Poland tells us they form a ninth or a tenth part of all the fractures admitted. For the treatment of these cases, often cases of great suffering to the Patient, as they disable him for the time from following an active life, we readily add the testimony of our own experience in favor of the plan which Mr. Poland terms ' by far the most preferable,' the application of long strips of adhesive plaster, extending from the spine to the sternum, applied to some distance both above and below the fracture—in fact, so as to embrace the greater part of the affected side. Strips of sticking plaster are retained more easily than any kind of bandage; and they have the advantage of restraining the motions of the injured side of the chest, without interfering with the free action of the other side in breathing. From the consideration of these, and the less frequent frac- tures of the cartilages or of the sternum, Mr. Poland passes to the injuries and wounds of the contents of the chest. Of the penetrating wounds,—those involving the pleura and lungs, with their attending complications,—it may be observed in general that, notwithstanding all the modern helps to aid the Surgeon in his investigations, and with the increased knowlege acquired in modern times of the diseased conditions of the thoracic viscera, the diagnosis is often most obscure. A foreign Student, meaning to kill himself, took a long G 3