200 above the inner malleolus, dividing the skin and subcutaneous fat and areolar tissue only. The flap of skin was raised, the fascia opened on each side of the fibula, the peronei muscles separated from the fibula, and the bone divided with cutting pliers about 2 inches above its extremity. The fragment of the fibula was seized with strong forceps, and drawn forwards, the ligaments were divided, and the bone removed. After dividing the ligaments at the inner side of the joint, the foot could not be everted sufficiently to throw the inner malleolus out of the wound, so as to use the saw for its removal. I therefore applied the cutting pliers to the lower end of the tibia above the malleolus. The blades were not equal in length to the whole thickness of the bone: the gouge was, therefore, used in cutting away so much of the cancellous structure and articular surface as seemed necessary. With my finger in the joint, I felt the articular surface of the astragalus to be rough and bare of all cartilage, and I cut it away with the gouge. About 2 ounces of blood were lost. One artery, in the situation of the external malleolar, bled freely on being divided. No vessel wanted tying. The foot, which before the operation was in a state of permanent extension, could now be flexed without difficulty. The wound was brought together with sutures; and the man placed in bed on his back, with the limb supported on one of the back-splints, in common use in the Infirmary for fractures of the leg. About a week after the operation Erysipelas appeared upon the knee and lower part of the thigh : this subsided favorably. The wound in front of the joint healed within a fortnight. The discharge from those at the sides was healthy and moderate in quantity. In the middle of March the swelling about the foot and ankle, which subsided after the operation, had again slowly increased. Toward the end of April it was observed that he became weaker, and began to lose flesh; the swelling of the soft parts on the inside of the ankle and about the heel, was more firm and solid; the discharge in- creased in quantity, though it continued good in quality. Altogether his health was in a less satisfactory state than in the beginning of the month. In the middle of May it is