196 appearance of the eyelids was natural. Upon making firm pressure over the trunk of the left carotid artery, the globe returned to its proper position ; the man smiled, and said that his sight was clear, and that all pain and throbbing had ceased. Upon relaxing pressure, the globe again protruded, and the other symptoms returned. The man said his father died ' in a decline.' His grand- father lived to the age of 70. He had never been ill himself. About 2 years ago, being much tired by hard work through 4 days and nights in driving a waggon and team of horses, as he lay on the waggon at night, ' between sleeping and waking,' he was suddenly alarmed by some of the team going wrong ; he jumped off the waggon on to his feet, and immediately felt pain deep at the bottom of the left eye, and singing in the ear. He afterwards passed some bloody urine, and spit some blood for 3 or 4 days. The pain in the orbit, and the noise in the ear, lasted without perceptible intermis- sion for about a month : since then, he had seldom been free from it for any length of time together. Latterly the pain had been more severe when it returned. The sight began to grow dim in the beginning of the last winter. It was afterwards learned that he had been rather a free drinker; and that he had been subject to 'fits' for many years. The belief of his family was that the accident he mentions, as the cause of his present suffering, happened during a fit. On the 3nd of June, he came to me again : the eye was less prominent. He had had several days rest, — the consequence of a recommendation I made to his Master, On the 4th of July he came to me with the globe prominent generally, — not outwardly, as before. He had returned to his work, and to his ordinary habits of life. On the 30th he came to me, alarmed by finding that the eye had become closed. He was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary on the 1st of August. He now complained of constant pain in the top of the head and the left temple. He could only raise the left upper eyelid a little, by the occipito-frontalis muscle : the levator palpebras did not act. On separating the lids with my finger, the pupil