24 a flannel roller. The compress produced so much pain in and around the knee, that the Patient removed it in the course of the night. The large veins of the leg and thigh were observed next day to be distended; the i-oUer was therefore removed, and the Patient was trusted to keep the limb fully bent, the best way he could, by his own efforts. On the 26th, about 11 o'clock in the morning, a narrow bag of canvas, having the pointed end filled with sand, was loaded with shot (to the weight of 11 pounds and a half), and suspended from the rod which supported the curtains at the head of the bed. A piece of wash-leather was laid loosely over the groin, and the weight, placed upon the artery where it passes over the pubes, was trusted to the Patient, as on the former occasion. With the weight in position, the circulation was fully controlled. The pressure was continued with more or less efl^ciency during the day and in the night. The weight was not easily kept in place over the artery, nor was the pulsation in the tumor completely stopped, with the limb in the bent position. After a trial of 3 or 3 hours the bent position was abandoned, and the limb was allowed to rest in an easy position, lying rather on its outer aspect. About 3 o'clock in the following morning the Patient thought that the pulsation in the tumor had ceased, and he took the weight off the groin. After breakfast he found the beating had returned, and he replaced the weight. In the middle of the day the swelling was examined by the House- Surgeon. He found that the pulsation had ceased altogether, and he removed the weight. From this time there was not any return of it. Although the Patient was an intelligent man, taking an interest in the treatment, he became restless under a con- tinuance of pain and confinement. A pill with Morphia was given to him before the weight was put in position; it was repeated during the day, and again at night. During the treatment, Morphia in solution was also several times injected under the skin, ' On April 7 the Patient was allowed to get out of bed, and to lie on the settle in the ward. He found the left foot to