it; could be drawn through the prostate without tearing open the deep pelvic fascia. You will not pass through life without having frequent occasion to administer chloroform, to pass a catheter, or to sound a Patient; and you may be called upon to assist at the operation of Lithotomy, to bind the garters, or to hold the staff. To these necessary adjuncts, therefore, requiring abundant Surgical skill, you should direct attention, rather than to the difficulties of the mere operation itself of Litho- tomy, which, in all likelihood, few of you will ever be called on to perform. The after-treatment of this, as of other great operations, may be left to you; and to that you must give attention in the wards. {Association Medical Journal, March, 1856.] One other case, in a man between 30 and 40 years of age, has since been under my care. The man was admitted in a stage of disease too late to be submitted to operation. It is not often that a stone is found in the bladder of so large a size as in these two cases. A man, 35 years of age, complained of symptoms which left no doubt that there was a calculus in the bladder. I told him my opinion to that effect; and I advised him to come without delay into the Infirmary for treatment. His Master recommended him to me as a steady man; and he readily made arrangements by which the man could leave off work, and come into the Infirmary. His courage, I suppose, failed him at the thought of an operation: for I did not see him again for 18 months or more. He was admitted into the Infirmary 3 June, 1863, with incontinence of urine, and symptoms of general failure of strength. He was too much out of health, for me to enter- tain the question of any operation. He was attacked with diarrhea; and he died on the 20th of July. A large mulberry calculus, thickly coated with phosphates, weighing ^ij gv gr.xxxiij, was found in the bladder. The coats of the bladder were thickened, and the mucous membrane superficially ulcerated in places. The ureters were dilated.