205 by dividing the pedicle with the first incisions, and taking up the vessels separately,—trusting an Assistant to restrain the hemorrhage while the ligatures were being applied. A better way, I thought, would be by putting a ligature round the whole of the root, so as to include all the structures, after dividing the common integument to a sufficient extent to reach the parts. I thought that the pedicle could be laid bare sufficiently, without much dissection, and without any great loss of blood ; and that if I could get my finger under- neath, it would serve as a director on which a strong thread could be guided by means of a short probe : or, if the parts were too much matted together to be separated easily, that a thread could be carried round the vessels by an aneurism needle having a large curve. At all events, a strong needle could be thrust through ; and if the sharp point and cutting edge were ground off, the needle could be passed without danger to any important part. On the 28th of June Mr. Prescott Hewett saw the Patient, in consultation with Mr. Forster and me. At this visit, I observed that one of the projecting knobs on the upper surface of the Tumor had grown very much since my last visit, 4 weeks ago. Mr. Prescott Hewett agreed in the opinion already given; and as the Tumor was now growing rapidly, with an evident tendency to ulceration and sloughing, with the liability to constantly recurring hemorrhage, it was thought advisable that the operation should be performed with as little delay as might be. The operation was performed on the 13th of July, with the help of Mr. Forster, and Mr. Mallam of Oxford. Before the operation, these measures were taken; — round the neck of the Tumor, near the jaw, 11 inches, round the Tumor itself, in the middle, 18 inches, —lengthways, from the upper to the under surface, measuring from the line taken round the neck or root, 16 inches. While the Patient was being brought under chloroform, the lines of incision were marked in ink with a camel-hair pencil. The Tumor was raised, with the view of emptying the superficial vessels by allowing the blood to flow back to the cervical veins. The collar, or pedicle, before division of