276 move him from place to place, upstairs and downstairs. He recovered, however, favorably. J. E. D. was transferred to my care in a precarious state, with several abscesses in different parts, and extensive disease still in progress in those tissues in which the effects of Erysipelas are generally seen. The Erysipelas was slow in its course, but not other- wise severe. He was at first in the E. A., and then in the N. A, After the distinct appearance of Erysipelas, I do not think he could have been moved from the Attic to an other part of the House or Out-Buildings without great risk. C. D. was admitted in a state of senile decay, making some scarcely intelligible complaint of obstruction of the bowels. Some few days before death, an unhealthy inflammation resembling Erysipelas made its appearance. Having lost whatever notes I took of her case, I am unwilling now to charge my memory with particulars. But I remember that she was placed at first in L., then moved to M., and afterwards back to L.,—without, as far as I remember, my opinion being asked beforehand. Although I am not inclined to say that she was injured by being moved, I think that, — considering her frail tenure of life, — those who advised the removal and are responsible for it, did well in abstaining from farther interference with her repose. M. C. was a young, but unhealthy subject, — bed- ridden and in a workhouse for several years. Erysipelas appeared two or three days after amputation of the leg. Though tedious in its progress, it was not severe in its character. The healing of the stump went on without in- terruption. It would have been a dangerous proceeding to have moved her upon the first appearance of the disease. M. W., a small, weakly child, with paralysis of the legs, and an abscess discharging freely after having been opened in one of the Hospitals in London, was admitted, — because there was an empty bed, and because there were some symptoms of the formation of an other abscess. He was placed at first in M., then moved to the L. ward, then back to M., — both of them wards for men. I do not remember whether in this case, as in several others, I expressed my disapprobation of male babies, or men-children, being placed in a ward with men, rather than among women. If I did not, it was because