34 finding any bleeding vessel to which a Hgature could be applied. The bleeding seemed to be venous in character. I passed a tenaculum deeply through the structures on the inner side of the limb, at the spot from which the bleeding chiefly came, and tied a knot with a firm thi'ead. There was not any further hemoi'rhage. For some days the man continued low in general power, though without actually losing strength. His pulse was quick and weak, and his general temperature high. It was now observed that the ankle-joint was open, and that the bones generally were bare of cartilage and periosteum. There was little ground for hope of his recovering a useful limb. Ampu- tation being the only course which offered a reasonable chance of saving the man's life, I waited for some evidence of restora- tive power,— such as suppuration or healthy secretion,— before proceeding to the operation. The man's general state having somewhat improved, and his consent having been obtained, I amputated the leg below the knee on March 21. On the 37th an other collection of matter showed itself, on the inner side of the knee. This was punctured with a lancet, and about 6 ounces of matter removed. The disposition to hemorrhage now appeared in the stump. Considerable oozing took place, and the blood escaped through the dressings. The stump had been opened on the 36th to arrest the flow of blood; and it was opened again on the 27th. On the 30th, at 9 o'clock at night, the stump was opened for the third time. A large clot was cleared out, and a pad of lint soaked in Ruspini's styptic introduced : a compress of lint was laid over the femoral vessels, and the whole retained by a bandage up the thigh. A dose of Ruspini's styptic was also taken by the Patient. After this there was not any further loss of blood. The man became weaker by degrees, and died ex- hausted on April 17. Upon examination of the body, a large abscess was found at the back of the knee, extending round the inner side and to the front, as well as about half-way up the thigh among the muscles. In one or two places the thigh-bone was bare of periosteum. The articular' cartilages of the knee-joint had disappeared, and the cavity of the joint communicated with