366 been appointed one of the Surgeons, and the deceased was under his care. This is not the first time I have had reason to complain of want of care at the Infirmary in providing the attendance of necessary witnesses. 31 October, 1878. Memorandum.—The case mentioned was one of those which, under recent regulations, are to be reported to the Secretary of State. It was desirable that the best Medical evidence of the cause of death should be taken. For that purpose I directed that the proper Medical Officer who had attended the deceased in the Infirmary should be called. Upon his refusal to attend, the Jury would not have the inferior officer called, to give the evidence instead of him. It has since been publicly suggested in a newspaper, by one of the Medical Officers of the Infirmary that they should not be called personally to attend, because it is the custom of some Hospitals for the House-Surgeon to give the Medical evidence required at Inquests. It will be enough to point out that in the Hospitals in London the House-Surgeon is appointed on the recom- mendation of the Surgeons, and that on the loss of their good-will he would be removed. He attends the Surgeons in the wards at all their visits, he receives their directions for the treatment of the Patients, and he sees them carried out. He is in constant communication with the Surgeons, and he makes it his business to learn their opinion of the cases under their care. In a case of death, he is able, — if only the Coroner is wilHng to hear it at secondhand, — to say correctly what in the opinion of the Surgeons is the cause of death. It is not so at the Radcliff"e Infirmary. There it, may happen that the House-Surgeon may give an opinion of his own, that the death was caused by a course of treatment, or an operation, which he did not see, did not understand, or did not remember. He is not responsible for the treat- ment of the Patients. The rules of his office, not less than the orders of the Governors, forbid him to undertake it. He