344 the Quarterly Court, and that the matter had been handed over to the Committee ; that he had called a Meeting of the Committee, and he hoped I could be at the Infirmary at the time. During the Meeting my attendance was requested, and some 3 or 3 questions, evidently prepared beforehand, were put to me. These I answered : and the interview ended, without any explanation being asked of me, then or after- wards. . . . The Committee have not made any Report. The discourteous reply of an individual Officer can not be accepted as an answer to a charge of non-observance of Rules mutually applying to all the Officers. The question arising in the correspondence is of the con- sistent obedience to the Rules laid down by the Governors, and the treatment of the Patients in accordance with the promise publicly given in the printed Rules. The Rules in question were revised at the Quarterly Court in January 1859, when the whole of the Medical Officers were present. Some additions were made at the Quarterly Courts in April and July i860. Stated shortly, they are, — That no Capital operation shall be performed without a previous Consultation of all three Surgeons, except on sudden or ur- gent consideration: That the Consultation shall be a simul- taneous Meeting of all the Surgeons; and that it shall be held in the Surgeons' Room : — That the Surgeons shall sign the Register of Consultations at the time of consultation, as evidence that the Consultation has taken place: — That all Capital operations shall be entered by the House-Surgeon in the Register of Operations ; and when an Operation has been performed without consultation, the reason why it was so performed shall also be entered. Notwithstanding these Rules, many Capital operations have been performed without Consultation, in cases not of urgency. Some such have been performed which are not entered in the Register of Operations. The Register of Con- sultations has been signed by some of the Surgeons when the required Consultation has not been held; and (when I last saw the Register of Operations) there was not one instance in which the fact of an Operation being performed without Consultation, — or the reason for it, — was entered.