3i6 required of the Medical Officers has increased. Dr. A. wishes to be relieved from attending the Out-Patients; and he sug- gests that a paid Assistant should be provided for the purpose of attending the Out-Patients who are placed under his care. It seems to me that the duties expected from the Medical Officers of a Hospital ought not to be such that any one of them is unequal to the regular and constant performance of his full share of the work required, — whatever the cause of his inability or indisposition: and that if the duty of attending Out-Patients is too great a labor for any one of the Medical Officers, it ought not to be expected from the others. If additional assistance is provided, — such as that suggested by Dr. A., — it should be common to all the members of the Staff, and should not be restricted to one only of the Physicians. Dr. A. has been a member of the Committee of Manage- ment for several years : and during all the time he has taken a full share of the work of the Committee, including the office of House Visitor. I venture to suggest that the labor to which he refers, would not be felt so heavily, if he confined his attention at the Infirmary to duties which are strictly Professional, — visiting the wards regularly ' twice in the week at fixed times,' as required by the Rules, and pre- scribing for the Out-Patients, watching their cases throughout the continuance of their attendance. It is not likely that the number of Out-Patients will be great during the next 4 months: nor is it likely that Dr. A. will find the necessary task of attending them more laborious, than during a similar period in former years. The necessity, therefore, for any immediate change, without taking full time for deliberate consideration, is not urgent at this season. In the absence, however, of any suggestions from my Colleagues, I venture to recommend, that no more ten-day tickets, or three-week tickets, should be issued: and that the liberty of exchanging turns of In-Patients for Out- Patients shall cease: — that casual applicants shall not re- ceive treatment without the sanction of the Physician or Surgeon of the week, except in the case of persons applying, in their absence, suffering under urgent and recent illness or