411 Begley. Mr. Ley's minute knowlege of morbid anatomy and ability to detect shades of difference in diseased structure, at once gained the respect of all who met him at the exami- nations in the dead-house. When the Asylum for the united counties of Oxford and Berks was instituted in 1845, he was appointed to the ofiEice of Medical Superintendant then created. To form such an establishment, and to bring the different Officers — all alike new to their duties, — to work together in harmony, to main- tain the requisite discipline, and to enforce it by example, was a task which he executed with remarkable skill; he gained the affection of those under him, while he commanded their respect. Few people were more competent to advise, to guide, and to direct. He was seldom absent from the Asylum ; indeed, he denied himself the moderate relaxation which others in similar office find necessary as a relief from the monotony of the work. The view he took of madness, as it came under treatment, was, that the diseases of the mind, as shown in the Insane, were generally dependent on constitutional causes. He pointed to the Pathological evidence that they were most' frequently found in connection with diseases of the chest, or the respiratory system. It was a special feature of his system of management that the Patients were invariably treated with gentleness. On one occasion an Officer from an other Asylum applied to the Head Nurse to lend a ' strait waistcoat.' The Nurse, not being able to understand the name or the nature of what was wanted, came to Mr. Ley and reported the request. There was no such thing at Littlemore. Mr. Ley sought consistently to carry the humane system far beyond what was common. He succeeded, he said to a friend, ' only as far as the Attendants could comprehend.'' In the task he set himself to accompHsh, he felt that he had to take all the duty upon his own back, — or too much of it. It need not excite wonder that his health broke down, ' It took more out of a manl he said shortly before his death, ' than any man is justified in giving' . . . ' What a pity,' was the re- mark of more than one of his friends, ' that he did not try rest sooner.'