142 thrust into it. The trocar was withdrawn, and an elastic catheter passed through the cannula. About two quarts of urine, clear in coloi', and healthy in appearance, were drawn off,—some of it escaping through the cannula by the side of the catheter; the catheter not being of a size to fill the cannula completely. The cannula was left in position, with the catheter through it in the bladder. A flannel cloth was placed in the hypogastric region, about the projecting end of the catheter, and the Patient was instructed to let the urine flow into the cloth, and to remove it when saturated,—taking care not to disturb the instrument. Upon our recommendation, a pardon was obtained for the man; and he was released from prison on the 31st, and admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care. Before he left the prison Mr. Cowcher removed the catheter, cleaned it, and replaced it. A small quantity of urine had passed by the urethra. Next day (the 32nd) I removed the cannula, and inserted a large elastic catheter through the wound into the bladder. In the evening this escaped from the bladder. The House- Surgeon drew off a moderate quantity of urine, loaded with mucus, with a metal catheter, through the wound ; and after cleaning the elastic catheter, replaced it. Hydrarg. cum cretd, and Pulv. Ipecac, co., 5 grains of each, were given at bed-time, and some castor oil the next morning. When the bowels acted after this, he passed a considerable quantity of urine by the urethra. 35.—-The urine has less mucus in it. I ordered Hydrarg. c. cretcl, and Pulv. Ipecac, co., two grains and a half of each, at night, and Potassse bicarb., with Spiritus Etheris nitr., 3 times a day. 37. —About a pint of urine has been passed by the urethra since yesterday. I removed the catheter altogether; and dressed the wound with simple cerate. He was put into a warm bath. 38. —He was allowed to get up, and move about the ward. September i.—A little urine oozes at times through the wound above the pubes. I passed a small silver catheter into the urethra: it was stopped by a stricture about 5 inches