382 with personal considerations.' The remark outside was, that it was the squabbles of the Local Board introduced there. The Senior Physician, who is also a Professor of the University, did not sit in silence. Had he, it might have been asked, discharged the duties of his two offices in such a manner that he should be a man to call public attention to the way in which other Officers did their work ? He was one of the largest contributors to the testimonial lately raised to the Chairman of Committee. If it belongs to the Governors to enquire into duties discharged outside the House, how is it they do not look to the mode in which duty is done within it? An other Member of the University, the neighbor and friend of the Promoter, came to the support of the Judge, whose extra-judicial remarks were a subject of discussion. A Lawyer by profession, he did not tell them that there were on the Bench men of different Professional fame; nor did he tell them that the opinion of the ablest Judge is not much esteemed, when given on a question not before the Court, and without a hearing of the party affected. An other Member of the Universit}'-, one of the Honorary Physicians of the Infirmary, the paid Officer of Health, and a Justice of the Peace, talked of ' incompatible' offices, and of his own anxiety to get out of such. It did occur to some persons that he, — a public servant, receiving public money, and having a seat on the Bench to administer public funds,— was not a man to be giving his opinion of what is ' altogether incompatible' in other public Officers. Would it not have been well, too, if he and his fellow Justices, who had fallen under the lash of the JudgCj had set themselves right, before one of them came there to try and set others right ? The Junior Member of the Committee, the Bursar of a College, announcing that he had been an Office-bearer in a Hospital in London, standing among them the greatest man there, — the proverbial ^ last man from Loftdon;—told them that it would not be tolerated in any Hospital in London, or in any place of any size, that the two offices should be held by one of the Medical Officers. Did he know that within 60 miles, in a town nine times the size of Oxford, there was