4 blood he had sustained before admission into the Infirmary. A man of his age and constitution could not rally from sg severe an injury. After making the necessary dissection to expose the artery, it was secured with ease. The deep muscles, having been divided by the reaping-hook in its passage to the interosseous membrane, had retracted somewhat, carrying with them the extremities of the divided artery, which were nearly an inch distant from each other. This retraction probably,—aided by the man's flagging circulation after the hemorrhage,— saved him from immediate death. The hemorrhage which continued was chiefly venous. The interosseous membrane had turned the point of the reaping-hook upwards toward the knee, and thus protected the Anterior Tibial vessels from injury. The chief point of interest in the case is, that it shows with what ease the Posterior Tibial artery may be exposed in the upper part of its course, by cutting through the muscles covering it. The operation, I venture to suggest, may be done by cutting upon the edge of the Gastrocnemius muscle, and then through the substance of the Soleus, with less difficulty, — as it seems more directly in the course of the vessel, which there lies at less depth, — than by cutting through the belly of the Gastrocnemius as well as the Soleus; though that operation seems more practicable than the older mode of cutting upon the edge of the tibia, and reflecting the muscles attached to it. This mode of operating Was sug- gested to me some years ago by Mr. Coote. On the dead subject it appeared undoubtedly to be preferable; but I had not till now had an opportunity of putting it in practise on the living. In July 1845, a boy 14 years of age was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under the care of Mi'. Cleoburey, with a wound in some respects similar, which had been inflicted with a scythe. Hemorrhage was effectually restrained by a compress and bandage, and did not return till 2 or 3 days after his admission. Mr. Cleoburey then made an incision about 6 inches long in the middle of the calf, and cut through