51 minuted. He was leaning, with his hands crossed, his wrists being one over the other, upon the muzzle, when the powder exploded, and the contents passed through the joints. Free suppuration followed, and pieces of bone were discharged from time to time. The man left the Infirmary on the 7th of April following, with the wounds nearly healed. Mr. Briscoe had the opportunity of seeing him some years afterwards. The hands were permanently extended. The ring finger and little finger were contracted on the palm. The wrist-joints were firmly anchylosed. There was no power of flexion, nor of pronation and supination ; but the man had considerable power of grasping objects by the lateral movement of the thumb and fingers. Gunshot Wound of Foot, Secondary Hemorrhage—Ligature of both Anterior and Posterior Tibial Arteries at the Ankle. A young man, 23 years of age, was admitted into the Rad- clifife Infirmary, under my care, % May, 1857, with a gunshot wound of the left foot. A fowling-piece, loaded with small shot, was accidentally discharged within very few inches of him; and the whole of the contents passed through the foot, at the junction of the tarsal with the metatarsal bones. On the 13th profuse hemorrhage of an arterial character occurred from the wounds. It was not stopped until I had tied the Anterior Tibial artery on the dorsum of the foot, and the Posterior Tibial at the heel, by means of incisions through the sound parts, as well as several small vessels in the wound. The ligature from the Posterior Tibial artery came away on the 2ist, and the last of the other ligatures on the 25th. He was discharged from the Infirmary on the ist of July. The upper wound was healed, and the lower one nearly so. I saw him 3 or 4 years afterwards. The foot was sound, but more susceptible than the other of the influence of cold. ■ Contusion of Foot. Swelling —Puncture —Hemorrhage — Ligature of Plantar Artery—Return of Hemorrhage—Ligature of Anterior Tibial Artery—Further Hemorrhage — Ligature of Posterior Tibial Artery. A young man, 20 years of age, a shoemaker, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care, 12 May, 1868, E 2