346 known to him. Every attempt I have since made to get a hearing has been refused. You say that I have ' committed great inaccuracy of state- ment.' If you will be kind enough to point it out, it shall be corrected. You observe, — in this instance rightly, — that I have not published the Minute of the Committee. You do not observe that I have not answered it. If greater pub- licity is given to it, it shall not long be without an answer. As to the correspondence, the printing of which does not please you, you should bear in mind what was in your hands before the Meeting of the Committee. I understand you did not produce it. It will not escape an impartial observer that I have avoided all personality. However you or others may desire to import such into what is a purely public question, it is not my intention to follow you. 30 June, 1868. Memorandum.—The question arising in the correspond- ence, and which the Committee of Management chose to entertain when referred to them, is simply a question of the consistency of the management with the Rules,—and whether the treatment of the Patients is in accordance with the pro- mise publicly given in the printed Rules. The attempt to make out of it a personal question among members of the Medical Staff, in a matter of Professional misunderstanding, is an evasion of the question. It simply indicates a deter- mination not to meet the real question at all. The Governors have a right to expect that a due regard shall be shown to Rules they have announced; and the Medical Officers are bound to be satisfied when they receive an assurance that the Rules shall be equally and consistently enforced. In seeking the opinion of my Colleagues and Professional brethren, it does not seem to me that I acted otherwise than in conformity with Professional propriety; or that I in any respect went beyond the bounds of the duty expected in the Surgeon of a Public Hospital. To their judgement I sub- mitted the correspondence. It was the proper course for a Professional man to take in the circumstances of the case. If it was in any way wrong to call the attention of a Colleague