154 Mr. Briscoe, and also with Mr. Byass, and the late Mr. Harris, who were in attendance on him. He had not passed any urine since the previous night. The bladder was distended; and it could be felt above the pubes. Catheters of different sizes and curves were tried by Mr. Briscoe and myself, but we could not succeed in passing an instrument beyond the prostate. It was then resolved that the bladder should be punctured ; and I proceeded to perform the necessary operation. An incision about 2 inches long was made through the skin above the pubes. Passing my finger between the muscular fibres, the globular form of the enlarged bladder was felt distinctly. I then pushed a trocar into the substance of the tumor. On withdrawing the trocar, a small quantity of urine flowed through the cannula ; but before I could pass an elastic catheter through the cannula, the bladder contracted, and I could not find the opening I had made. All attempts failed to reach the cavity of the bladder. The urine continued to escape freely through the external wound above the pubes ; and the distress from the distended bladder was relieved. No urine passed by the urethra. The patient became weaker, and he died on the nth. There was not any appearance of gangrene or sloughing. The body was not examined. Remarks.—The cannula used in this case was 2 inches and five eighths in length. The escape of the urine through it, on withdrawing the trocar, showed that it was of suflficient length to reach through the substance of the bladder into the cavity after it was punctured. I have used instruments of the same size and description in former operations, and I have always found them perfectly efficient, — that is, of sufficient length to reach the interior of the bladder, and thus allow an elastic catheter to be introduced through the cannula into the cavity. But these cases were in younger subjects, or persons of middle age, in whom the bladder was not unhealthy in structure, or under the effects of old disease. In such cases there was not any difficulty in placing the' catheter in proper position. As the body was not examined, the degree of