141 pletely closed, and that the prepuce was adherent everywhere to the glans. Taking the penis between my finger and thumb to hold it steady, I made a slight incision with a bistoury through the extremity of the prepuce on each side, sufficiently to expose the meatus of the urethra. Upon relaxing the com- pression of the penis a large amount of clear urine was ejected forcibly, flowing over the table on to the floor. The bladder was completely and suddenly emptied. At the same time the bowels acted most freely as the child lay on the table. The child, upon this relief, fell into a state of collapse, from which he recovered slowly. He was then carried home by his parents. He did not suffer any further inconvenience. Retention of Urine. Stricture after injury to Perineum — ■ Puncture of Bladder. A travelling hawker, 49 years of age, a prisoner in the jail at Abingdon, had suffered with Stricture of the urethra for several years. The account he gave of the complaint was, that about 8 years ago he received a kick on the perineum. The injury was severe, and he was ill for some weeks after it. His urine at the time was mixed with blood, and it was drawn off several times with a catheter. He had found a difficulty in passing urine ever since. On 15 August, 1851, I saw him in the prison with the late Mr. Cowcher, the Medical Officer. The bladder was greatly distended, and the man was in much pain. Mr. Cowcher had made several attempts to pass catheters through the urethra, but had failed. Opium had been given, and the man had been put into a warm bath. The bowels had been emptied freely after castor oil; — all without relief. The efforts which I made to pass catheters of different sizes and curves were equally unsuccessful. I decided, therefore, to puncture the bladder. The man was put under chloroform, and an incision about an inch and a half in length was made with a scalpel through the skin and subjacent adipose tissues above the pubes. The distended bladder being felt with the finger^ a trocar was then