384 Supreme in power, though small in number, what the Governors resolve, it is the duty of an Officer to receive. I asked them by letter to tell me how and why the two offices were ' not proper to be held by the same person.' The only answer they gave, was — that I was to go. The new Rule was, in fact, made for that purpose. I ventured to point out, during the short time I was present at one of the Meetings, that in making a new order restraining the Medical Officers from the right they always had of taking an appointment or employment outside the House, it was the universal practise of the Infirmary, as of all Hospitals and other Public Institutions ' in London, or in any place of any size,' that the new Rule should not be applied to the Officers on the Staff at the time a new order of things was to be established, different from that on the faith of which they had accepted their appointments; and that there was not any case in which an Officer was called upon to resign when the change was made. It was a waste of time to talk of the faith the Governors of a Public Institution ought to keep with an Officer. It seems a pity that persons in a public position, engaged in the duty of ministering to the wants of sick and lame poor, talking—as it seems by the published report of the Meeting, — of 'conscience,' of 'justice/ of 'shame,' of 'scandal,' of ' indecency,' of what is ' immoral,' and ' untruthful,' should take so little trouble to find the thing which is, and should be blinded so readily by the thing which is not. April 1880. • To Dr. L. My Dear Sir,—Your 'Protest' reached me duly. But, what of it? The Members of the University look on the Infirmary as a little place of private patronage. No attention is paid to anything coming from an 'outsider.' The Com- mittee of Management, consisting of 37 Governors, is to be formed from the County, the City, and the University,—a third of the number from each. Yet it now has 18 members of the University, —just two thirds of the whole number. But there is a 'previous question,' as I told you,—that