251 he symptoms, and desired her to write to the mother,— vhich she promised to do. It seems to me that the daughter's altered state and general ippearance, after an absence of three weeks from home, was \ sufficient intimation to a mother with ordinary powers of )bservation, that ' the nature of her complaint' was one of 'anger; and that there was not any duty on the Officers of ne House to give any clearer intimation of it. There was lot any concealment on the subject. It is to be regretted lowj — however late, — that the mother, the Recommending jovernor, and the benevolent persons who took interest in ler welfare, did not put themselves in communication with he House, or with me, during the time she was under treat- nent, — a course which is often taken, and which is generally atisfactory: explanations could have been asked and given, ir suggestions made, at a time when they could have been of ise to the Patient. They would have learned on enquiry hat the case was considered from the first to be of a serious lature; although a lingering and exhausting illness was to be xpected, rather than a sudden and early termination. When L appeared, — upon the expiration of the appointed time for isitors on Monday, — that the mother did not come, a special nessenger might have been sent to fetch her. The mother complains that when she saw her, 'her bed- lothes, — the sheets &c. of the bed, were not clean.' If this neans that the sheets had not been changed that day, it may )e true. From personal observation, as well as from enquiry, am satisfied that there is no foundation for a belief that they /ere ever unclean. The nature of the case rendered repeated )bservation on my part desirable. At every, or almost every, 'isit, the bed-clothes were opened for me. I do not remember hat I ever saw or smelt anything ofiensive or unclean: and ' do not believe that anything of the kind escaped my ibservation. The rest of the mother's complaint refers to the treatment dopted, -T- in diet, and otherwise, — and to the want of ' small omforts,^ — 'arrow root' being the only one named. Two ir three days after admission I prescribed a portion of solid neat on four days of the week, in addition to the ' liquid food'