32 of old fibrine cling firmly to the interior everywhere. This, examined under the microscope, resembles disorganised fibrine. There is not any opening of communication with the artery.' Remarks.—The aneurismal sac offers, I think, an example of one of those cases in which an Aneurism has undergone a spontaneous cure, with obliteration of the opening of commu- nication with the trunk of the artery from which it arose. The quantity of fluid blood found in the chest must have come from an opening into a blood-vessel. No amount of inflammation could have produced it. The aneurismal tumor had closed spontaneously. The blood must have had an other source, — probably an undiscovered aneurism. It is most likely that the hemorrhage under which the Patient's strength failed came at different times in the last few days of life, rather than by one sudden flow from the bursting of an aneurism or a rupture of some part of the arterial system. A remarkable feature in the case is the severe dyspnea, recurring suddenly each night at the same period, with complete re- lief in the intervals during the day. For this it is difficult to suggest a satisfactory explanation. In part it may have been — as Dr. Tuckwell has suggested to me, — from pressure of the aneurismal tumor on the recurrent laryngeal nerve. [Medical Times and Gazette, ii January 1879.] In January 1841, Mr. Skey tied the Subclavian artery on the left side in a Clergyman, about 50 years of age, for Aneurism ; the symptoms of which had been observed about 2 months. The disease began, as the Patient thought, with a sudden pain in the shoulder or armpit, when upon one occa- sion, in play, he tossed his little boy up in the air, and caught him in his hands. (The Principles and Practice of Operative Surgery, and Edition, 1858.) He recovered completely after the operation ; and lived for many years in good health. In the latter years of his life I • saw him frequently. I attended him in several attacks of retention of urine, arising from enlarged prastate. He died in March 1866, under an attack of bi'onchitis, in