40I Since that conversation, I have observed that there is one question by no means unHkely to be thrust on the Council; I know not whether it is ripe for discussion,—the admission of women into the Medical Profession, There are two points I see in the question in its present aspect,—the necessity for it, and the propriety of it. As I understand the law, the College of Surgeons is a voluntary Society, to which no one need belong unless h'e likes it. All persons, — men and women indifferently,—have the right to practise Surgery, if they can find subjects for their practise. It is true that the Managers of the Army, the Navy, the Hospitals and Schools, Charitable Institutions, and other public bodies, require that their Surgeons shall be Members of the College, as they in some cases require also other qualifica- tions in their Ofiicers. Still, the right to practise Surgery remains ; and I look on it as a waste of time to attempt to stop it: for the practise will continue, as long as dupes can be found for it, or profit can be made from it. The College of Surgeons,—as I understand the objects of the foundation, —was established to supply the country with that help in sickness and injury which women are not able to give. There is not any precedent that I know for admitting women into the Society. If any law is to be made or enforced for the admission of women, as the first of them enters the College by one door, I will leave it by the other. I will not be a party to the perversion of the College, — nor to the de- gradation, as I think it, of the women. We have heard of the cases of female sailors, of female soldiers, and even of female husbands. These, we know, have been the exceptions. The mass of the sex remains true to the high purposes for vvhich they were sent into the world : I will not be a party to lower- ing it. 27 June, 1876. After the Annual Election of Members of the Council, in July 1877, a large party of the Fellows dined together, according to annual custom at the Albion Tavern, under the presidency of Mr. E. L. Hussey. D d