402 Mr, Holden, on behalf of the Council of the College of Surgeons, returned thanks for the toast of ' the Medical Corporations:' and he afterwards proposed ' the Health of the Chairman.' The Chairman, in reply, said : It is, I believe, the established custom of the Festival that the Chairman's chief duty shall be to propose what may be called the introductory toasts, and to return thanks for his own health, if you should pay him the compliment of receiving such a toast. The first part of this duty I have discharged; the other part remains, and it is by no means an easy one. It is a task requiring some skill, and more than an average amount of practise, to acknowlege in fit terms such a compliment as you have paid me, and paid too with a grace more due, I suspect, to the favorable opinion of my friend Mr. Holden, than to any merit of which I am conscious as arising from services I have rendered to you or to the Profession. I trust you will accept these few words as the expression of my grateful sense of the honor you have done me, and the kindness with which you have received my name. I hope I shall not start a subject of dissension. I wish to make a suggestion for the future occupation of this Chair. You can see that there are around me many men, my seniors in Professional standing, to say nothing of their right of pre- cedence from reputation. I can not help thinking that we might go on as smoothly hand-in-hand through the Register of Fellows, if we took the Chairman of the Annual Festival from among the country Fellows every third year, instead of every other year as we do now. There are, I believe, now on the Register, between the Chairman of last year and myself, not less than 20 Fellows resident in London, who have claims which ought not, I think, to be lightly regarded, or set aside without sufficient reason in favor of a junior from the country. I merely throw out the suggestion for the con- sideration of future Stewards. If the question has been con- sidered, and the present rota established on principles which past Stewards have thought best, I do not suggest that it should be reopened. After several other toasts, The Chairman rose to propose the last toast, and said : As