392 will be refused, as not competent instruction in Physic for the amount of it required of Students in Surgery ; and an ' equal number,' which you say can be given by the Surgeons without difficulty, will be equally refused, as it will come short of the new requirements. With reference to an other question, — of shortening the time of attendance in London, I am one of those (the minority perhaps at present,) who think that, with the improved modes of conferring instruction, it is no longer necessary to exact from parents and guardians the heavy pecuniary outlay re- quired for a 3 years' residence in London ; and that, for many reasons, it is desirable to shorten it. With many thanks for the trouble you have taken in reply- ing to my letter, and with deep regret that you do not agree in opinion with me on the subject of it. 7 October, 1854. To The Editor of the Association Medical Journal. Sir, — In Sir Charles Hastings's last letter on 'Medical Legislation,' he alludes with approbation to a wish for ' uni- formity of quahfication' throughout the United Kingdom. Will he, or Sir J. Kay Shuttleworth, whom he quotes as a supporter of the theory, point out how this is to be obtained through uniformity of cdiication "> Will he kindly tell us how a country Practitioner, out of his hard-earned £100 ox £\oo a year, is to give a son the same Professional education that a Court Physician or Serjeant Surgeon gets for his sons or nephews .-^ Perhaps Sir J. Kay Shuttleworth, while sitting in his easy chair, calmly comparing the pleasures and the profits of his present happy estate with the struggles and anxieties of the Profession he left, is going to use his influence in behalf of this part of the ' great university of learning;' and we may hear that the next Parliamentary vote for education will include some small sum for the advancement of that educa- tion on which alone can be founded the right to require uni- formity of qualification. Though this, after all, is not the same with uniformity of practise, or uniformity of profits.