138 the ward. On the i^th I withdrew the remaining thread. Severe inflammation followed. On the 27th I punctured the swelling with a grooved needle, and let out 6 ounces of serum slightly turbid. Fresh effusion took place, and on the 30th I punctured it with a trocar and let out 16 ounces of clear fluid. On the 7th of April I tapped it again, and let out 10 ounces of turbid fluid. On the 13th the sac was again distended. The upper opening made by the thread reopened, and a large quantity of purulent matter was discharged. After this the swelling subsided. The man left the Infirmary on the 24th of April. Remarks. On the first occasion, the symptoms following the introduction of the thread were so slight, that I had no reason to expect the severe attack of inflammation which followed on the next occasion. It is uncertain whether a cure followed. In May 1878 Dr. Atkinson of Bampton ascertained that the Patient had been dead 4 years. His Widow told him that she believed he was cured on one side,—she did not know which. Hydrocele. Paracentesis — Malignant Disease of Testis. A man, about 55 years of age, of gouty constitution, a carpenter by trade, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care, 18 March, 1874, with a Hydrocele of the left testis, which he had observed to be slowly increasing since the Spring of last year. On the 21st I tapped it, and let out 6 ounces of dark straw-colored fluid. The man being re- lieved, left the Infirmary on the 25th. On the i6th of May he came to me; I tapped the sac again, and let out 7 ounces of dark yellow fluid. The testis appeared to be rather larger than the other. On the 25th of July, I tapped it again ; and let out 12 ounces of fluid; rather darker in color. The glands in the groin were enlarged: and the man complained of frequent pains in the back. The testis had increased in size. The man's health seemed to be failing;: he was unable to follow his work. In September the sac was punctured by an other Prac- titioner ; and 8 ounces of dark fluid were removed. The man afterwards consulted Dr. Giles, and from him I learned that