286 in my letter to the Chairman and Members of the Committee of Management. The correctness of what I wrote has not been called in question. That letter (of the 4th of December,) was read at the Meeting of the Committee on the 5th, at which you were present; a printed copy of it was afterwards sent to you. The Medical Officers, though ' Members of the Com- mittee,' have not the full power of other Members. They do not in general take part in the business : there is not any duty calling them to do so. They were not among the four Mem- bers who invited you. 2. ' Communication with the Medical Officers' implies an interchange, or mutual intelligence. I am not aware of it; or that you sought it. 3. I believe I was, as you say, the first of the Medical Officers whom you saw. I saw you only once. Among the ' sources of information I considered you should consult, — which sources had due attention from you/ were the Reports made by the Medical Officers to the Committee. When I mentioned them, you told me you had not received a copy,—that you had not seen them, or heard of them. I see no sign in your report that you paid any attention to them. I sent you a printed copy of mine,—with others upon the ventilation, drainage, arrangement of beds, and other matters in the Infirmary. 4. Of this I have no knowlege. 5. I never heard of such a Meeting, — or of any request, or any wish, on the part of the Committee, or yourself, that the Medical Officers should meet you, or consult with you. I re- ceived the Secretary's printed notice,—that 'desired to meet the Committee,'—appointing a day and hour when the Medical Officers are all specially engaged with their own Pro- fessional duties. At that Meeting my letter of the 4th of December was read, — pointing out the irregularity of the proceeding, and the want of authority in the Committee : and that it was without the concurrence of any of the Medical Officers. A stranger, — a Professional man, — would not enter any Public Institution in London for the purpose of making a Professional enquiry or investigation, without the concurrence