23 The throbbing in the tumor was not continuous; it sometimes intermitted for several days. The swelHng did not increase much in size, or did not seem to him to be so large as the former aneurism in the other leg. He did not suffer from cold in the left foot, as he had in the right. Toward the end of February he became unable to continue at his work, and he applied to Mr. Drinkwater. On Saturday morning, March 3, Mr. Drinkwater applied a tourniquet over the Femoral artery in the middle of the thigh, and left the management of it to the Patient himself. The tourniquet was kept on the thigh during the whole of the night; but the throbbing in the tumor was not completely stopped at any time by the pressure. Next morning the Patient removed the tourniquet. During the two or three following days it was re-applied at different times, and for varying periods. On Monday, March 12, a, bag filled with sand and pieces of iron, weighing 5 pounds and 3 quarters, was placed in the groin over the artery, and kept in position, under the super- intendence of Mr. Drinkwater, by a relay of Assistants, and at times by the Patient himself. This was contmued without intermission for 8 hours. The pressure was attended with great pain in the leg and foot. The throbbing was not effectually stopped during the pressure. The pulsation con- tinued after the weight was removed. Under Mr. Drink- water's advice, the Patient came to the Infirmary for farther treatment. At the time of admission the skin of the thigh and groin seemed to be too tender to bear farther pressure ; the Patient was therefore ordered to remain in bed, with the limb bent at ^ the knee and resting on a pillow. By degrees he became able to bend the leg fully, so as to bring the heel almost to the tuber ischii, and to keep it in that position for several hours at a time. The pulsation in the swelling was checked, but never completely stopped. March 19. A large compress of flannel was placed under the knee upon the Popliteal space, with the intention of making additional pressure upon the tumor; and the leg was bound, in the bent position, to the thigh by several turns of