198 discharge from the conjunctiva, tinged with blood ; the re- sult, as it seemed, of the irritation caused by continually poking his left fore-finger into it at the inner canthus. The eyelids were tightly stretched over the globe, which had become rather enlarged and hard. He was able to stand, but hardly able to walk without support ; and he had recovered some little power over his right arm. He died in the Workhouse, on the a5th of July (1856)—14 months from the time of his first visit to me. Mr. Stone tells me that for some time before death the globe had lost all its natural appearance, and protruded from between the eye- lids, a large, hard and raw substance. The skin of the upper eyelid was ulcerated superficially. A stream of blood flowed almost without intermission, over the cheek, from a depression in the middle of the globe, which seemed to be the site of the iris. Free bleeding also took place many times from the nose. The Patient's friends would not allow the body to be examined. [Ophthahnic Hospital Reports, Vol. 2.] Mr. Ley, of Littlemore, has given me the following notes of a case under his charge :— A man, aged 42 years, formerly a baker, many years insane, and subject to fits, was admitted into the County Asylum in October 1848, having, with other symptoms of impaired health, protrusion of the right globe. The man did not complain of the state of the eye ; he said that his sight was good. In 1857 his left arm, and in 1858, his left leg became paralyzed. He died in August 1859, in an apoplectic fit. The whole brain and cerebellum were soft. The right middle cerebral lobe was washed easily away, by a gentle stream of water flowing over it. About the middle of the right hemisphere, near the surface, was a hard spot of a deep reddish brown color, with the surrounding parts puckered over it. The optic thalami were dark green in the centre, —the color gradually merging to the surface. With the exception of some atheromatous deposit, no disease was observed in the vessels. Disease of Ankle. Excision—Amputation. A gardener, aged %6, of strumous aspect, but without any known history of phthisis in his family,—his Father living,