79 The gun-projectiles of civil life are not meant to be sent so far, nor to inflict wounds at a very great distance; and the severity of them generally arises from the proximity of the unlucky Patient at the time of their discharge. The smooth bullet or the slug may traverse the body or lodge in it. Yet the tightly-fitting bullet of the modern ' revolver' is, in its destructive effects, as much more powerful for mischief over the old pocket pistol as the Enfield rifle over Brown Bess ; and as these weapons become more frequently handled by the careless or the idle, and the mischievous, we must look for corresponding increase in frequency and severity of the gun-shot wounds of civil life, and the study of this branch of Surgery becomes of corresponding importance to the civil Pi-actitioner. Mr. Prescott Hewett, contributes an essay upon Injuries of the Head. Trifling as some injuries of the scalp may seem at first sight, they all demand watchful care on the part of the Practitioner. 'All injuries of the head,' Mr. Hewett remarks, ' of whatever kind, may lead to inflammation within the cranium.' In many instances—in most, we might say,— the wounds of the scalp heal readily; the great vascularity of the integument commonly saves the lacerated and con- tused flaps from sloughing. Though supplied so freely with bloodvessels, it is seldom, Mr. Hewett observes, that the hemorrhage in such wounds is troublesome. In the temporal fossa it has been found so, and the question of even tying the common carotid artery in such cases has been entertained. In the days of our pupilage, we remember a case of very troublesome hemorrhage in an other region of the head. A chimney-sweeper, half-drunk, in falling backwards received a deep wound behind the mastoid process, dividing the occipital artery, and causing considerable loss of blood. In this state, rendered more excitable by the loss of blood, he was brought into the accident ward of St. Bartholomew's Hospital. It was a very difficult matter at night, in such a subject, to secure the two branches of the divided artery; it was before the days of chloroform, and the lad could scarcely be kept still. The numerous difiiiculties in forming a diagnosis of the full