373 till after this, — two months, in fact, after the warrant; and the ' legal proceedings' were limited to issuing a writ, and sending a copy to a SoHcitor for me. It can not be necessary to remind your Readers of the general principle of justice that, when a man injures an other, he should bear the expense, or a reasonable part of it. This case offered no exception ; and I readily agreed to the pro- posal made on behalf of the Practitioner supposed to be in- jured, that I should pay something toward the charges of his Solicitor. I have no knowlege of any ' disagreements be- tween the Coroner and the Medical Profession.' Whatever they may have been, they were confined to the two junior Medical Officers of the Infirmary, neither of whom had been a twelvemonth in office. lo March, 1879. From the Home Office to the Chairman of the Committee of Management, in reply to his letter soliciting the intervention of the Secretary of State :— ' Sir, — I am directed by the Secretary of State to acknowlege the receit of your letter of the 5th inst., stating that the Committee of Management of the Radcliffe Infirmary have accepted the Secretary of State's proposal with regard to cases of inquest held at that Infirmary, and I am to request that you will lay the following recommendation before the Committee for their consideration. ' The Coroner is not only entitled, but bound, to summon any witness whose evidence he considers essential to the enquiry ; and in the exer- cise of his discretion in this respect he is not to be interfered with. At the same time it is his duty to conduct the enquiry with the least amount of inconvenience to those concerned, and especially to the Officers of so useful an institution as the Radcliffe Infirmary. ' In special cases, where the cause of death in the Infirmary after an operation can not be ascertained without investigating both the neces- sity and also the effect of the operation, the presence of the Surgeon who performed the operation is properly required. ' But in ordinary cases, where, though there has been an operation, no question arises concerning it, and the evidence of the House- Surgeon is sufficient for the purpose of proving the cause of death, the presence of the Surgeon who performed the operation should be dispensed with.