263 should be shown, before any change is made: The Governors have nowhere assented to it: the recorded observations of the House Visitors disprove it. What I said, was meant to caution the Governors from too readily admitting, as data for the affairs of a Hospital, statistics derived from Asylums. I said that the doors proposed would hinder the free cir- culation of fresh air. I said that the system proposed would give more trouble, and would be a source of greater expense, than I thought they contemplated ; that, to give it fair play, to keep it fairly in action, they ought to provide an other servant: as to the hoppers themselves, they would never be moved ; as they were put up, so they would remain, and the locks would get rusty. The ' New Building' was mentioned as being well ventilated. It was said that the air was warmed on entering by a stove. Of the stove I said that it was never lighted. Of the building itself, I say that it is close, offensive, and unwholesome, — not fit for any case of fever. Though capable of improvement, I hope to see it pulled down, and the North wing extended in that direction. I said I thought it would be more consonant with the courtesy which distinguished the intercourse of the Governors with us, if they had first referred the matter to us. Also in commenting on the Report, — on the part of it which puts forward 'the opinion of the House-Surgeon,' — I did say that we had reason to complain that the Committee had taken the opinion of the House-Surgeon and had not consulted the Surgeons; and, between ourselves, I think that the Lay Members should have had a hint that official information on the Medical affairs of a Hospital was to be sought from the Medical Officers, of whom the House-Surgeon was not one; as well as that they were treading on tender ground in re- commending the numerous alterations in the wards without consulting the Medical Staff. 27 October^ 1851, To T, T. Esq. We are about to introduce gas into the Radcliffe Infirmary, — at least into the passages and staircases. One of my col-