40 three ounces of matter; blood of an arterial character escaped with the matter. It was evident, by the flow, that a vessel of some considerable size was wounded. The bleeding was checked by firm pressure with the finger; but it returned when the pressure was relaxed. I pressed the edges of the wound together with a piece of lint and a strip of sticking- plaster, and bound them on the limb by several turns of a roller. The child was then taken home by its mother. After some 3 or 4 days the child was brought to me again; I removed the compress and opened the wound with a probe. There was no further bleeding. The rest of the contents of the abscess were afterwards discharged in a poultice. In March, 1863, a widow lady, about 60 years of age, not of strong constitution, was under the care of Dr. Freeborn, with diffused swelling of the subcutaneous tissues in the region of the right clavicle, above the mammary gland. The gland itself was not involved in the general mass. Sloughing of cellular tissue followed, with much suppuration. One evening the lady was alarmed by a sudden and profuse loss of blood from the open surface. I saw her, with Dr. Freeborn, soon after the occurrence. The bleeding had ceased before my visit. The wounds healed slowly without further hemorrhage. The lady lived several years afterwards in good health. In June, 1864, a man between 50 and 60 years of age, of intemperate habits and of broken health, was under the care of Dr. Acland and Mr. Martin, with sloughing and suppuration of the parts on the side of the neck, after an attack of erysi- pelas. In the course of the complaint, bleeding came on from the wound of so profuse a character as to lead to the opinion that some large artery deep in the neck had given way. I saw the Patient in consultation with the above-named gentlemen. The bleeding had ceased of its own accord at the time of my visit, and it did not return. After some weeks the man died, exhausted by general constitutional disease rather than by the local complication. There was not any further hemorrhage. In June, 1878, a boy 4 years old, of weakly constitution,