252 which she was taking: and afterwards I ordered a liberal supply of milk, — the best food in all respects for her. The food was given by the Nurse with great discretion, — at varied times, as appetite prompted, or as she could be persuaded to take it, or to try it. The broth, or soup, made in the House, of mutton, and sometimes of mutton and beef together, and seasoned with vegetables, is highly nutritious, and easy of digestion, and is, generally speaking, found to be more palateable than ' beef tea.' I did not prescribe arrow root: in her case I thought it indigestible, and not likely to be nutritious. When she was depressed by the sudden pain on Sunday night, brandy was given ; and after the abscess burst, Port wine and beef tea: before that time these would not have been beneficial. The mother complains that 'her ear was never syringed,' and that ' the discharge was on the pillow-case.' There was a slight discharge from one ear, — not constant and not offensive; a little of it was now and then observed on the pillow, — an accident it is impossible to hinder. The ear was ' kept clean' with cotton wool. I did not allow it to be syringed. The disease about the ear was of trifling import- ance in comparison with the serious disease in other parts. The mother complains that ' no local application was used to comfort her,' — and that 'splints were applied to the great increase of pain.' The question of seeking relief by local ap- plications, — fomentations, poultices, leeches, cupping-glasses, blisters, — presented itself, and was considered by me through- out the progress of the case, — as well as the question of cutting, to give issue to the products of inflammation. The only local means, as it seemed to me, of giving temporary relief, would have been the occasional application of a small number of leeches, — a mode of treatment which might have shortened her sufferings by hastening the fatal termination. Some days after admission I ordered a splint to be applied to the thigh, with the view of keeping the limb steady, and so to give relief. It failed : and a second, of a different form, was applied. This was not successful: it was removed; and no other applied. I do not now remember how many days it was on : but it had been removed long