1 C history of the House, should have been made to me through the President of the Infirmary. However wilHng I may be to help the Managers of the Infirmary in any matter under deliberation, or to grant any request properly made, there are no means of doing so in the present case. No reason is given for the request, none that I can take into consideration, or submit to the Town Council, from whom, some months ago, I received the appointment of Coroner by a unanimous vote. As far as the special office of Surgeon, in attendance on the sick in the Infirmary, is concerned, I do not understand how the office of Coroner of the City is related to an office for the treatment of the sick, or is incompatible with it, more than the office of Coroner of the University, or Radcliffe Librarian, both of which offices have long been held by two other of the Medical Officers ; nor, — if I may be allowed to say so, — do I understand that the Governors of the Infirmary have any special concern in the office of Coroner of the City, or are en- titled to meddle with the Officer who holds it. The duty of the Surgeon, as well as that of the Governors, is at an end before the duty of the Coroner begins. It seems to me, in- deed, that the office of Coroner of the City has even less to do with the treatment of the sick and the general affairs of the House than the office, which I also hold, of a member of the Local Board of Public Health. 20 November^ 1877. To A Member of the Medical Profession in London. Dear Sir,—In answer to the request you made some weeks ago, that -I would give you the facts of the case, and the question raised upon them, I now do my best to answer your enquiries. In a late case, where a Coroner applied to the Court of Queen's Bench, the Chief Justice asked, ' Does Dr. P. — (the Coroner) seriously think that his conduct requires vindication?' Mr. Justice Mellor asked, ' Is not life too short to treat this as a serious matter?' The Chief Justice added, that it was one of those charges which a strong Medical man would look down- upon with contempt. A a