15 The man is left-handed. About seven years ago, after some hard work, he found a swelling in the palm of his left hand. As it continued to increase in size, he showed it at different times to Mr. Byass, of Dorchester, and his assistants. They informed him of the serious nature of the case, and of the necessity for treatment; telling him that he might some day bleed to death from it. About twelve months ago the swel- ling was punctured by a Practitioner in the neighborhood ; some slight flow of blqod followed the puncture. The wound healed ; but the swelling grew more rapidly in size afterwards. The Patient described it as becoming raised, and even pendu- lous ; the apex of the. swelling became softer. His fingers were permanently flexed ; and he had a difficulty in opening the hand enough to hold his tools for work in the fields. On the morning of admission, after fomenting the hand with flannel and warm water, he tried to straighten the fingers forcibly. The swelling burst, and before he could obtain help, he lost, by his own estimate, about 3 quarts of bright florid blood. The friends about him tied a cord round his arm, and sent for Mr. Byass. Mr. Harris, Mr. Byass's Assistant, who was acquainted with the nature of the case, attended at once. A thick compress of lint was placed in the palm, and a bandage applied round the hand and wrist; and a tourniquet was buckled on the arm above the elbow, with the pad over the brachial artery. The Patient was then sent in a cart to the Infirmary. Upon admission he was sent to bed, with his hand and arm raised on a pillow. Next day I saw him. Upon examining the Patient, and hearing the history, I formed the opinion that the swelling was an aneurism of the Palmar arch ; and I determined to try the effect of pressure. The bandage, which had become hard and dry, was cut away, leaving the compress adherent to the palm. The thumb and fingers were bandaged separately with narrow strips of calico, carried evenly from their extremities upwards toward the hand. These were fixed, with the fingers flexed upon the hand, and firm pressure made by carrying several turns of a calico roller over the compress and round the hand. Compresses of lint about four inches in length, were laid along the line of the Radial and Ulnar