119 care of Dr. Acland in the RadclifFe Infirmary. The history given by his Parents was that he had had a fall about 2 months before admission, and that he had since passed some blood with his urine. At the request of Dr. Acland I ex- amined the bladder. Upon passing a silver catheter a small rough calculus was felt. On the 17th of August I proposed to perform the operation of Lithotomy. The boy was placed under chloroform, and a grooved staff passed into the bladder: but I could not detect the calculus : nor were the other Surgeons who were present able to feel it. Such being the case, I resolved to put off the operation to a future day; and the other Surgeons, who were prepared to assist at the operation, left the room. Before the child was removed from the table, I made an other attempt to find the calculus. Having passed the fore- finger of my left hand into the rectum, I took the staff in my right hand, and after much searching I succeeded in striking the stone with the staff: I heard it, and felt it distinctly. To make more sure, I struck it forcibly several times with the staff, hold- ing the calculus steady in position with my finger in the rectum. Two days afterwards the Nurse reported that small pieces of stone were observed in the bath after being used by the child, and also in the chamber-pot after passing urine. I examined some of these under the microscope. They had the appearance of being small square pieces of stone with rough edges. The child continued to pass similar pieces until he was taken home in the beginning of September,— relieved, if not cured. In October 1881 the Father told me that the boy had been in good health ever since he left the Infirmary, without any return of the former symptoms. A sickly undersized boy, 18 months old, suffering under symptoms of stone in the bladder, was admitted into the Radclifife Infirmary, under my care, in October 1853. The Father of the child died with general anasarca, some 3 or 4 months before he was born. I had an opportunity, with Mr. Briscoe, of examining his body. The kidnies were in an advanced stage of granular degeneration. There was fluid in the pericardium, and hypertrophy of the heart.