i8o heard and saw of the case, he went to the late Dr. J. H. Lakin, of Kineton, and requested him to visit the Patient. Dr. Lakin found that the right femur was fractured in its upper third; that the fragment nearest the trochanter was prominent, with the skin tightly stretched over the projecting end of the bone : and that the limb itself was four inches and a half shorter than the other. On 7 July I saw the lady, in consultation with Dr. Lakin. There was nothing in the Patient's appearance and general state to make us think that bony union was impossible ; and we resolved to make an attempt to bring the parts into a more favorable position, with a view to obtain union. We were not able to bring the limb to its proper length by ex- tension. But, making extension and counter-extension as well as we could in so feeble a subject, we applied on the outside of the limb a long wooden splint, with joints at the hip and knee ; and we placed her on her back, with the limb well supported by pillows. A bedstead of a convenient form having been obtained, with support for the back, and a double inclined plane for the limbs, we placed the lady upon it on the 14th. Dr. Lakin then took charge of the case. In the middle of Septem- ber (ten weeks after the application of the splint,) the limb was rolled in bandages stiffened with a solution of gum and starch, and the Patient was moved from the bed on to a sofa. At the date of my last visit (24 September) firm bony union had taken place. The ends of the bone were firmly united by ossific matter, which was deposited in abundance around them. The limb was much shortened. After Dr. Lakin's attendance had ceased, I was informed that the lady was too much crippled to be able to walk with- out help. She was, in fact, discouraged by those about her from making the attempt. With the help of crutches she moved from one room to an other on the same floor, and in suitable weather she went out in a carriage or a Bath chair. She died in the spring of 1863, having lived without discomfort for nearly 3 years after the accident. No oppor- tunity was afforded for examining the limb after death.