236 tioned in the Rules has not met since my connection with the Infirmary. There is a small endowment for the benefit of the Physicians, and a large one for the Professor of Clinical Medicine. The Dispenser resides in the House. The pre- sent Dispenser does not hold any Qualification. It is some years since there has been an Indoor pupil. The number of other pupils varies. Some of them are pupils of the Clinical Professor; others are the private pupils of the Surgeons. The advanced pupils do the duties generally discharged by Clerks and Dressers. There are 152 beds in the Infirmary, and 13 Nurses, who sit up at night in rotation. When the duty in the Wards has been unusually heavy, other women, selected by the Matron, have been employed. The duties discharged by the present Secretary are not very burdensome. They are described in the printed Rules. A small library is attached to the Clinical Professor. There is not any collection at the Infirmary which can be called a Museum ; but a valuable Museum is attached to the Reader in Anatomy in Christ Church; and there is a pro- spect of an other being formed in connection with the Lecture rooms about to be built by the University. The Chapel is within the House. A part of the salary of the Chaplains is paid from the General Fund. They have the control of all the books supplied to the Patients. 15 March, 1853. To THE Same. Sir, — A Rule has lately been made enabling Out-Pupils, upon the request of any of the Medical Officers, to be ap- prenticed to the House-Surgeon as ' Apothecaries.'' It was the custom at our Hospital till very lately, to choose as Surgeons those only who are what are known in London as Pure Surgeons. We were not able to qualify our private pupils to offer themselves for examination at Apothecaries Hall, if they should at the conclusion of their education desire it; and yet it was desirable that a young man, not knowing at the beginning of his career what branch he might hereafter follow, should be prepared for this.