282 wards themselves, and of their connection with the Operation Room, will, I think, lead an observant visitor to doubt this. We are not told where the Committee obtained the evidence they furnished as the authority for the statement. Whatever the prevailing theories of ' overcrowding,' ' insufficient ward- space,'' 'air-space,' 'bed-space,' 'cubic-space,' 'floor-space,' — the Committee have long been aware that the Surgeons, with the best means of observing, have no reason to be dis- satisfied with the progress toward recovery of the Patients under ' treatment of serious Surgical cases' in those wards, or with ' the provision for ventilation in the Attics.' It has been, hideed, a matter of observation that, when a person enters these wards the first thing in the morning after being shut for the night, there is less evidence in them than in others of closeness, or ' unwholesomeness,' — if one sense (that of smell,) may be taken as the test. There is not any evidence, as far as I have examined the existing records of the House, that the Attics were ever ' designed,' or used, for any purpose but wards for Patients: they were certainly in use as wards before February 1778. There is not, I venture to submit, any more authority for the statement than for a similar statement we have heard of the wards on the ground floor. These are mentioned in the Register of Minutes as being in use as Wards in less than la months from the time the House was first opened ' for the reception of Patients.^ Among the errors, which might have been avoided by an examination of the Reports of the Medical Officers, reference is made,—among other cases,—to that of T,, in whom an abscess was opened,—'(date not recorded).' The date was recorded by me the day the operation was done. If it was of importance enough to be noted, and attention directed to it, the proper course would have been to ask me for the date. The man, it is added, ' had been attacked with severe ery- sipelas' on the 8th of September :—the fact being, as stated correctly in an other part of the Report, that the man left the Infirmary on the 12th of August. The case was not one of those which I define as erysipelas. In the case of D., the particulars of her case, and of the cause of her death are given in the Report I made to the Committee. She had not