I03 Certainly, nodes may be seen where there can be no sus- - picion of venereal taint, and, as in the well-known case of Dr. Baillie's pupil, without sexual intercourse. The ' ulcerative or gangrenous affections' constitute caries and necrosis, some of the destructive effects of phagedena, and are seen among the constitutional symptoms, irregular in the order of their appearance, sometimes even coexisting with the primary symptoms, in company with the ' horse-shoe sore.' The complicated structure of Joints presents various tissues for examination as the subjects of diseased action : these are treated by Mr. Athol Johnson. It is only since the investi- gation of these diseases has been pursued in relation to their origin in each separate structure that any 'precision of dia- gnosis ' has been arrived at, and that any really physiological system of treatment has been adopted. In advanced stages of disease, all the structures become involved, and the distinc- tive symptoms of disease peculiar to the separate tissues can no longer be recognized. Almost from the time when the synovial membrane was recognized as a distinct structure, it has been found to be the tissue most prone to disease of all the structures in a joint, while presenting at the same time the most extensive surface for the spread of diseased action. After the consideration of the diseases of the synovial membrane, Mr. Johnson proceeds to those which originate in the articular extremities of the bones, — more frequently seen in young children, or in subjects under puberty, than in full- grown people. Although the prospect of a successful issue depends greatly on the treatment being commenced at a very early period, Mr. Johnson coincides in opinion with other observers of the schools of 'conservative Surgery,' as it has been called. He says that when disease is most advanced,—- ' when the joint has become implicated, and suppuration has taken place, care and perseverance on the part of the Surgeon and Patient will usually be rewarded ultimately by success.' This was the teaching many years ago of Mr. Abernethy: ' However complicated the disease of a joint may be, if the Patient's health continue good, we ought not to despair.' (Lectures on Surgery, 1830.) Though the prognosis in the