391 To THE Same. My dear Sir, — The effect of the Regulation I beheve I have stated fairly, though not perhaps so fully and in so explanatory a manner as might be. I can believe that the Council do not themselves know what will be the effect of it beyond the Hospitals in which they individually hold appointments. If the Regulation had said that certificates would not be received from the Radcliffe Infirmary and certain other Hospitals, naming them, — or that they would only be re- ceived from Birmingham, Liverpool, etc., — it would have been speaking openly. But, instead, it says that these cer- tificates must be accompanied by certificates of certain speci- fied Lectures ; and these lectures, in my opinion, will not be given in the County Hospitals, except in 8 (I think this is the number): and I say it is unjust in the Council to ask it. In 1826 certain Regulations then lately issued, which would have injured the Surgeons of the County Hospitals, in com- mon with other teachers, were rescinded, after a large meet- ing of the Members of the College. The Chairman of that meeting has for 20 years held a high and honorable position in the Council, and can correct me if I am wrong. Not many years ago the attendance required in London was 12 months; indeed, I believe it was once 6 months; it is now 3 years. This I call increasing the attendance in London; and the effect of it has been to lessen the number of Pupils at the Radcliffe Infirmary, and most other County Hospitals. In alluding to the Radcliffe Infirmary, you forget that, however long a man may attend, the 3 years' attendance in London is still required, as this is not one of the Hospitals to which a school is attached. And what you say of the existing Clinical Lectures on Physic, exemplifies the effect of the new Regulation ; for these lectures, given by the Clinical Professor (the only endowed Clinical Professor in England, I believe), are recognized for Students in Physic by the Univer- sity which grants degrees in Physic : while now, by the new Regulation of the Council of the College of Surgeons, they