185 rubbish of a house which was being pulled down, and con- tinued to do so, though warned to keep away from the danger. There was a transverse wound of the scalp an inch and a half long across the frontal bone, where it is thinly covered with hair, about an inch from the margin of the forehead. The outer plate of the bone was broken, but without being much depressed. The injury was attended with slight symptoms of concussion. She rallied soon after admission. On the 31st I ordered 4 ounces of port wine to be taken daily, and next day it was increased to 6 ounces. This was continued for 5 or 6 weeks; after which a pint of ale was given instead of the wine. On August 4, Erysipelas appeared on the head and face. Quinine with Tincture of Cardamoms was given ; and on the 8th, Sp. Chlorof. vix. added to each dose. This was taken twice a day till the 29th. The Erysipelas subsided favorably. During the month of August she sufTere.d much from con- stipation, for which repeated doses of castor oil were adminis- tered. In the beginning of September the bowels acted naturally, and apei-ient medicine was not wanted afterwards. In the middle of September several small pieces of bone, which were loose, were removed from the wound. She was taken home on October 25, the vy^ound being then nearly healed. I have since been informed by her daughter that she continued in good health for some years afterwards, and that she died in August 1878, having reached the age of 90 years. Remarks. — These Patients were some of the most aged of those who have been under my care in cases of similar in- jury. Notwithstanding the severity of the injury in these cases, recovery followed, with union of the bone in all of them, without unusual delay, and without anything remarkable being observed in the progress. In the course of the treat- ment I did not find it necessary to prescribe more animal food than is provided for the Patients in the ordinary diet of the Infirmary; nor in private practise did I see reason to advise any alteration of the usual meals, or to give any