4H House-Surgeon on the nomination of Mr. Vincent. During the time he held the office he pointed out, as the result of his reading and observation, that the Sloughing Phagedena of the Civil Hospitals, which prevailed so severely in the foul wards among young and otherwise healthy subjects, was the same disease as the Hospital Gangrene of the Military Hospitals, attacking the wounds and operations in the Soldiers after a battle; and he suggested that the treatment which had been found successful in the army should be adopted at home, — namely, the complete destruction of the diseased parts by the free application of caustic, — the potential rather than the actual cautery, — and that Nitric Acid, from its greater affinity for animal matter, was the best agent. Mr. Vincent at first refused to allow of its use: but he was at length induced, in a case which seemed hopeless, to allow the application of an equal part of the Acid with water. Happily the sloughing was checked, and the Patient recovered. In subsequent cases the pure acid was used. The application of the pure acid was found to be less painful than when diluted ; the disease was cured ; and Sloughing Phagedena ceased to be a source of terror in the Hospital. Before the introduction of this treat- ment, Mr. Aberncthy has been known, in going round the wards, to clasp his hands, and to mutter as he passed on to the next bed, '/ don^t hioiv tvhai to do:'' — constitutional treatment had failed. Mr. Welbank entered on private practise in Chancery Lane, — highly respectable in its character, and sufficiently remu- nerative for the wants of a man who, by natural disposition as well as by choice, was a recluse and a scholar. At that time public appointments in the Profession were neither numerous nor easily obtained ; they were confined to the few who pos- sessed either wealth or influence: none were open to Mr. Welbank. Unhappily for his own reputation and advance- ment, his engagements with his uncle hindered him from accepting an offer by Mr. Abernethy, who, finding that his health began to fail, was desirous of obtaining the ser- vices of Mr. Welbank as his general Assistant in private practise. He took an active part in the affairs of the Medical and