359 two offices of Coroner and Surgeon he would retain.' The Motion had been proposed by two Officers of the House — the Treasurer, and Dr. R., one of the honorary Physicians. He did not see how the question concerned the Treasury of the House, and it could not be the personal feeling of Mr, S. (the Treasurer), because soon after his appointment as Coroner he met Mr. S. in the House and he addressed him voluntarily and offered him his congratulations. As to Dr. R., it was not often in a Hospital that one of the Medical Officers took an active part in the attempt to turn out a Colleague. He was requested by the Minute to make the option in a month. He had heard the remark made, that the Governors who proposed the Resolution in question seemed to look on turning a Surgeon out of a Hospital as a man did on turning a menial servant out of his house, — with a month's wages, or a month's warning; and as they could not give the Surgeon a month's wages, they gave him a month's warning. Did gentlemen think that a Professional man, with any proper respect for his character, would accept office, or would be willing to hold it, on such terms .-^ It was remarkable that the Minute was not the act of the majority of the Governors who attended ; for it appeared from the Minute-book that 27 Governors were present, and that only 13 of them voted in favor of it. Mr. Hussey referred to his letter in reply, which was read at the adjourned Court in November. He had pointed out the irregularity of the proceedings, that notice of the question proposed ought to have been given to the Governors at the April Court, at the time he received the appointment. It had been a matter of common conversation some months before then, that he had been named as the probable suc- cessor, if the office should become vacant. The question ought to have been brought forward at the July Court; and, if then passed, the confirmation would have been considered in the regular course in October. But in reprinting the Rules, they had left out those two safe-guards against hasty and inconsiderate orders,—'notice beforehand and confirmation afterwards. He had asked the Court for a reason. Surely an Officer