38o mittee have been such, that,— if I am not misinformed,—he has had more than once to send a written apology. It was upon his bidding, six months after I had been appointed to the office in question, that the Chairman of the Committee now ' took the matter up.' It is the custom at the ordinary Weekly Meetings, for the Committee to take business relating to the regular affairs of the House: important business is not taken without previous notice. This, however, was brought forward, without notice, at the next Weekly Meeting, when only ten Members of the Committee were present; and, after some of them, who did not agree in it, had left the room, a Resolution was passed, and afterwards declared publicly by the Chairman and the Professor upon whose bidding it was proposed, to be the ' unanimous ' vote of the Committee, although the private act of less than a third of the number. The Chairman sent me a copy; and I wrote to him at once, that, as it was a matter affecting one of the Medical Officers, it was not a subject within the discretion allowed to the Committee. The letter I sent was not read at any of the Meetings. The business to be considered at the Quarterly Courts is advertized in the newspapers on the two Saturdays next before the Meeting. But there was not time for this : so it appeared only once,—three days before the Meeting. The Resolution of the Committee was adopted at the Court: 13 Governors voted for it,—less than half of those present. A month's warning was to be given to me to quit their service; and the Court was adjourned for a month, to com- plete the work they had begun. When the month was out, the Governors met again. They took for Chairman the Head of a College, and former Vice- Chancellor, who had on some occasions taken the same post, and who between two and three years ago begged leave to decline taking it again; and now, at a public Meeting, . . . when the question before the Governors was, that certain offices were 'incompatible' and 'not properly tenable' to- gether, ... he took the two posts of Chairman and Advocate, — posts which everywhere else are held to be incompatible, and not properly tenable together: and, while referring, as a