52 having bruised his left foot by falling among some pieces of timber shortly before admission. After the first effects of the injury had passed off, and the general swelling of the foot and the ecchymosis had subsided, a small swelling was observed deep on the inner side of the sole under the tarsal bones. It was tense and elastic; it did not become smaller on pressure. There was no pulsation or throbbing in it; but it was attended with almost constant pain. The House-Surgeon punctured it with a narrow double-edged scalpel, and afterwards passed a probe into the opening. No matter of any kind escaped. The Patient expressed himself as being relieved by the puncture. A bread poultice was applied to the foot. On the 1st June the puncture had healed. The swelling was the same sis before. The Patient complained again of the pain in the foot. An incision was made into the swelling. This was followed by free hemorrhage of an arterial character. The flow of blood was not stopped by pressure. To get at the source of it, I enlarged the opening by making a transverse incision at the inner side, at right angles with that first made; and I tied an arteiy which I supposed to be one of the large Plantar branches of the Posterior Tibial artery. After this the hemorrhage ceased. A draught of Liq. Amnion. Acet., with 15 minims of Vinum Antimonii, 35 of Vinum Opii, and 30 of Sp. Etheris nitr., was given to him at bed-time. On the 7th the hemorrhage returned. I then made an in- cision on the dorsum of the foot, and tied the Anterior Tibial artery. This stopped the flow of blood. On the iith the bleeding returned again from the wound in the sole. I enlarged the wound in a direction toward the heel, and passed a needle threaded with some fine iron wire deeply through the soft parts, under the course of the Posterior Tibial vessels, and secured the artery by twisting the wire over the needle in form of a figure 8. No hemorrhage occurred after this last opera- tion. The wounds healed slowly. The twisted wire had become buried deeply under the soft parts, and I had some difficulty in removing it. The parts were not quite healed when the Patient left the Infirmary.