327 supposing there was any neglect of duty on the occasion to which their Resolution refers. The Resolution itself appears to me a perfectly harmless vote, and one which may well be left without farther notice. 5 September^ 1875. To THE Rev. E. M. My dear Sir,—In the newspapers to-day I see your Notice of Motion for the Quarterly Court. Forgive me, if, after long acquaintance with the Institution, I ask whether it is worth while to be trying to check the wasteful expenditure, or to be making new Rules, as long as the management is left to a small number of persons, led by the present Governor General, or driven by a certain other Governor Occasional ? Are two House-Surgeons necessary ? What are the duties discharged by those two costly Officers? To me it seems that one has little to do, and the other helps. When the second was added, we were told it was that one might always be present in the House. Yet I have myself several times seen both at the same place of entertainment, and I have heard that on an occasion, when one was in Wales, the other went on the river, his boat was overturned, and he nearly drowned. Is even one wanted? During the last 15 years, or more, of my service in the House, I can hardly call to mind the nature of the help given to me in my duties. I have heard the remark made that the only use of the House- Surgeon was to hinder the Nurses from carrying out the directions of the Surgeons. You may perhaps remember that in the course of an en- quiry in Committee, it came out that the House-Surgeon did not report to the Surgeons the complaints made to him by the Patients, that he did not inform the Medical Officers what cases had been admitted, and that he did not take charge of the body of a Patient after her death. Are you aware that during the absence of the Officer, his work, — such as it is,—has been done by an occasional visit during the day of one of the Practitioners in the town^ and at night by the Assistant of an other Practitioner sleeping in the