144 In the beginning of January, 1857, he came into Oxford, where he took lodgings, for tjie purpose of undergoing treat- ment for relief of his stricture. His general state was not promising. The meatus of the urethra was contracted and scarcely visible. The prepuce was gone, from the effects of former disease. There was a large cicatrix on the glans, and the glans itself was so tender that it would hardly bear the small amount of compression necessary to hold it steady in attempting to pass a catheter. The urethra was very sensi- tive, and the canal much contracted. After some days of partial rest, and such moderation of diet as the Patient could be persuaded to follow, I succeeded in passing a small silver catheter into a rigid stricture about 5 inches from the meatus. Great constitutional irritation followed, with swelling and tenderness of both testes. The Patient declined farther attempts at dilatation of the canal, and soon afterwards returned to his home in the country. The urethra being thus closed, there was nothing left for him, but to allow the urine to escape through the opening above the pubes. I obtained for him a silver tube with a stopcock, to be worn permanently. He found this in some measure more convenient than the elastic catheter, which he had worn from the time of the operation; and he learned to relieve his bladder when necessary with this tube, or with an elastic catheter passed through the opening. He died under an attack of scarlatina about 13 months afterwards. Retention of Urine, after Injury to Perineum. Puncture of Bladder—Extravasation — Death. A laboring man, 42 years of age, unmarried, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, zi April, 1858, under my care, with retention of urine, the bladder being greatly distended. The history he gave of himself was, that on February 19, as he was about to get on horseback, having the bridle in his left hand and his left foot in the stirrup, he fell back a httle as the horse started, and, while the perineum was thus ex- posed, he received a kick from the horse ' behind the testicles,'