358 Clerk. With a proper knowlege of these, and a due attention to the duty required by them, prosecutor, recognizances, and depositions would not be wanting. It is not part of the duty of a Coroner to provide them. However odd it may seem to you at a distance, it is notorious here, that the question raised at the meeting of Governors at the Infirmary was a personal one, and a question of local interest only. It was simply whether one of the former Physicians, who is now one of the Professors in the University, — a man who had been known to declare that he would never rest till I was turned out, — was at length strong enough, with the help of the Chairman of the Committee of Management, to turn me out of the office of Surgeon to the Infirmary. But the talking, — to which nobody paid much attention, — went to the point, whether a Medical Practitioner should in any case hold the office of Coroner, either in the Infirmary, or out of it. 23 November, 1877. At the Quarterly Court of Governors, 23 January, 1878,— Mr. Plussey said that formerly the Rules required that no Order should be put in force until it was confirmed at the following Court, and it was then open to Governors to speak upon that question. He understood that that was now altered. Mr. S. said that it was so. Mr. Hussey said he had given notice of a Motion,— 'That the Order in question should be cancelled,' — and in doing so he said he would keep closely to the Minute read by the Chairman, as it stood on the Register, from which it might be quoted hereafter and used as a precedent, and without reference to the arguments by which it had been placed there. There was an excellent rule in the chief popular assembly — the House of Commons, — that no reference should be made in a subsequent debate to what had been said in a former debate; reference was only allowed to what had been recorded in writing. He would keep close to that rule, which he thought was generally beneficial. He then referred to the request made at the October Court, that he would ' make his option as to which of the