43 had walked home,—little or no notice being taken at the time of the hemorrhage which followed the extraction. As the bleed- ing had continued ever since, the Patient nowappHed for help, Mr. Andrews moulded a small piece of softened gutta percha with his fingers, and after clearing out the clots, thrust it into the opening in the gum. Pressure with the finger on this plug stopped the hemorrhage effectually. We then directed the Patient to keep his jaws firmly closed, as well as he could : he was going to walk home, and he did not wish to have a bandage round his head to support the pressure. Cyst in the Lower Maxilla. Puncture—Hemorrhage. A farmer, about 60 years of age, a man of intemperate habits, consulted me in 1851, on account of a bony growth from the lower jaw on the left side, near the symphysis. It had been some years in progress ; and it was about the size of a large marble. He declined any operation for its removal. During the following 4 years, the tumor increased slowly in size, — chiefly toward the angle of the jaw. One spot at the outer side of the molar teeth was soft, and contained fluid. He thought this was a ' gum-boil,' and wished me to open it; this was the only operation to which he would submit. Accordingly, I punctured it with a lancet, and let out about an ounce of serous fluid, tinged with blood which seemed to flow from the edges of the wound in the gum. He was a man of broken health, not likely to bear a large loss of blood. I therefore touched the bleeding surfaces freely with nitrate of silver : this stopped the hemorrhage. He walked home after- wards. In the evening, he called on Mr. Ley of Littlemore, who lived near him, telling him that the wound had been bleeding ever since he left Oxford. He was evidently suff"ering from loss of blood. Styptics of various kinds, and caustics were applied ; but without checking the hemorrhage. A compress of lint was applied outside the cheek, on the edge of the jaw, over the course of the vessels supplying the gum, and several turns of a roller were bound tightly over the head and under the chin, to keep the compress in place. The