92 the trunk as well as the extremities, receives due notice at Mr. Smith's hand, as being by far the most general in its application. The rules given in most manuals of Surgery for the application of it,—upon the leg, for instance, — are few and simple, and, with the aid of an illustrative engraving, are in- telligible enough to the Student. Yet they seem made chiefly for model legs, or for Patients who can be kept for a consider- able part of their day in the recumbent position, or under a limited allowance of bodily exercise, for the purpose of clinical demonstration. There is a rough and ready way of doing the job, not very easily reduced into a systematic treatise. The Nurse often manages to make the bandage hold on for a longer time than her master. One of the best practical lessons on the subject we remember to have received in our early practise was from a gouty Patient,—a large, powerful man, with a lower extremity of proportionate size. Neglecting the ortho- dox rule to reverse the roller, folding it upon itself in making each time the circumference of the limb, where it increases in size, he had learned on his own person, when the turn became necessary above the ankle, to carry the head of the roller by one spiral turn above the muscles of the calf, and to bring it spirally downwards from that part toward the ankle. From this reversal of our accustomed practise, he was not conscious of having found inconvenience from the distension of the veins. The practise may be adopted where we are able to allow the Patient his usual exercise. To give the requisite amount of support above the knee,— in the thigh, for instance, as in the trunk,—a towel, which is always at hand in a sick-room^ forms a very efficient bandage. It is easily applied, and with a few stitches from a needle and thread, the necessary variety of pressure can be always ob- tained. In the hypogastric region, the most urgent call for pressure is after parturition, for the purpose of securing con- traction of the uterus, when it is inclined to dilate with internal hemorrhage. The spiral bandage, in the form of a double figure of eight, passing round the groins, is here most useful in keeping the bandage and compress in place, and restraining the partially-contracted uterus within its proper pelvic resting- place.