J 73 she wandered from the house, not knowing, in fact, where she went. She tried to cross a brook. The water was be- tween 3 and 4 feet deep, and she could not get out on the other side. After a time, her cries for help were heard ; and help was obtained. She was then pulled out of the water, and taken back to her sister's in a wheelbarrow. She re- mained there without receiving any Medical attendance. On the 12th she was taken home to her husband's cottage, when the foot and ankle were observed to be much distorted, and the parts red and swollen. On the 13th she was seen by Dr. Hemming, the Medical Officer of the parish. He de- tected a fracture of the malleolus, and he placed the limb in splints. These were removed by the Patient. Under Dr. Hemming's advice she was afterwards removed to the Asylum. On the a 1st, I saw her in consultation with the Medical Superintendant, the late Mr. Ley. The right leg was partially paralytic. The foot was inverted, and had the general ap- pearance of talipes equino-varus. There was a large slough- ing ulcer on the dorsum and outer aspect, exposing the bones, and laying open the ankle-joint. Both malleoli were broken ofif. The astragalus was loose and almost separated from its connexions : the articular cartilage on the inner side was worn away by the pressure of the broken end of the tibia. There was a free discharge of thin pus. On the 36th, with the help of Mr. Ley and Mr. Sankey, the leg was amputated below the knee, the Patient being placed under chloroform. The stump healed favorably. The Patient's recovery was retarded by the formation of an unusually large slough on the sacrum and the back of the pelvis. This healed eventually. Her general health im- proved"; and she was sufficiently recovered to be discharged from the Asylum in May 1867. On 22 March, 1867, a gentleman, 50 years of age, was driving himself in a light carriage on four wheels. The horse became troublesome, and, escaping from control, ran away with the carriage. In the attempt to restrain the animal by forcibly pulling at the reins, with his feet pressed for sup-