209 he died in the following April. There was not any repro- duction of the growth. In other regions of the body pendulous Tumors of a much larger size are now and then seen. Several of such cases are on record. Dr. Freeborn of Oxford told me of the following case, which he saw many years ago, with Mr. Hyde of Bloxham :— The Patient was a farm-laborer, 70 years of age, and then dying of exhaustion under the constant irritation. He gave the following history of his case. When his attention was first directed to the Tumor as a permanent source of discomfort, it was situated about the middle of his neck, a little behind and below the ear. Some 40 years before the visit, at a time when the Tumor was small, he consulted a Medical Practitioner ; and upon the assurance supposed to be given by him, that the Tumor ' would never trouble him,' he had allowed it to grow without interference. He had been for many years confined to the house. During the latter part of the period he had spent his time sitting day and night "in a chair, with the Tumor, partly suspended in a bag buckled round his neck, resting on a table in front of him. The table was hollow, to receive the Tumor, with a ball-and-socket joint, and a rack movement, by which the position could be shifted by the Patient himself. The skin was sound, without ulceration or discharge. The pedicle was small, — scarcely larger than 2 fingers in breadth and thickness : the fingers could easily be placed under it, between the Tumor and the neck. The Patient was too far exhausted for the question of an operation to be entertained. Since the Patient's death I have been informed that the Tumor was found to be of a ' fibro-cellular consistence'; and that it weighed between 20 and 30 pounds. VACCINATION, AND SMALL-POX. To Dr. Hue, Registrar of the National Vaccine Establishment. My Dear Sir,—On Wednesday, the 31st of May last, three children, named S., were brought to my Station from' a house in B. gardens, in which Small-pox was said to be then prevailing. I inoculated them with fresh vaccine lymph taken on the eighth day from a healthy child. On the eighth P