io8 as he thought the boy had a stone in his bladder. The boy- had suffered from disease of the urinary organs for about 8 montlis; he was also subject to diarrhea. Upon passing a lithotomy staff, I thought it struck a stone. He was admitted into the Infirmary, ii July, 1855. The lateral operation was performed on the 30th ; and a calculus, something in shape like an olive, was extracted, composed of triple phosphate, and weighing 41 grains. In passing the knife (a straight scalpel,} along the staff, it accidentally slipped out of the groove, and wounded the rectum ; and the forefinger of my left hand followed it within the gut. No fecal matter escaped, and the accident was not observed by the bystanders. Aug. I. The Nurse reports that, since the operation, the boy does not sleep soundly; he wakes suddenly, and in a fright. His pulse is very quick, generally between T30 and 130,—quickened perhaps by his timidity, and by the appear- ance of attention given to it. This morning he has diarrhea. A powder, consisting of Hydrarg. c. creta gr. iij, Pulv. Cretae comp. c. Opio gr. v, and Sodae sesquicarb, gr. v, was given, and repeated in four hours. In the evening, he passed some urine by the urethra. 2. The diarrhea returned to-day, some fecal matter being discharged by the wound. He passed a little urine by the urethra; and it continued to flow freely by the wound. The powder ordered yesterday was given again to-day. On the 6th, he passed the first solid motion since the operation. With the exception of slight return of diarrhea, and on one occasion (Aug. 20) some clotted blood passed per ajtum, he went on well till the end of the month, when the scrotum was obseived to be much swelled. The right testis and cord were slightly enlarged, and painful to the touch. He had been allowed to get up, and walk about the ward: he was now ordered to bed again. On the 5th of September, a small collection of matter was discharged through the scrotum; after which he recovered quickly. He left the Infirmary on the 19th of September, and he has continued in good health. A carpenter, 36 years of age, unmarried, living in the country, applied to me on account of irritability of the