69 As might be inferred in a state sometimes resulting from atmospheric contagion, or inoculation, the local condition often precedes the sympathy of the system days, — aye, weeks. In the wards of the Hospital where Mr. Coote gained his chief experience of the disease, constitutional treatment, most carefully followed out, failed 40 years ago to cure a single cas.e of the disease, every one of which in its utmost fury was instantly and permanently checked by local treat- ment. Pure Nitric acid was ' generally preferred,' then, as now, for the reason that no known caustic has such an affinity for animal matter. This was the reason given, for the prefer- ence, by Mr, Welbank, at whose suggestion the first applica- tion of the acid was made in St. Bartholomew's Hospital. If applied in its full strength, it is found to be less painful than when diluted. To some extent this is the case with other caustics, and applied in other cases. Indeed, we have heard it suggested that a strong caustic might not inaptly be called an anodyne. The subject of Ulcers is treated by Sir James Paget,— limiting his essay to the consideration of those forms of ulcer which appear in the integuments,—as being of chief interest from the Surgeon's point of view. It simplifies a work to have some mode of arrangement and classification for purposes of description ; and Sir James Paget describes each of the chief varieties of ulcers, of which sufificiently numerous instances are seen to allow of such arrangement, according to their origin and character; and when not of specific origin, they are named from some prominent or distinctive characteristic. Many of these ulcers, so indicated as inflammatory, eczema- tous, &c., are also capable of classification as simple ulcers, without constitutional vice, to which accident has added some complication,—as local inflammation, eczema, &c. Among the Patients presenting themselves at public Institutions, such complications are often epidemic, if we may judge from the number of Patients in whom they are seen. An essay upon Erysipelas is by Mr. De Morgan. ' The term,' he observes, ' has been applied to a variety of forms of inflammation which probably have no true connexion with one an other.' Of the two chief varieties now universally