228 drains were then examined : and it was found that the main drain was blocked by some pieces of timber, used in the work, which had fallen in, and had been overlooked. These were taken away, and the drain cleared : Fever did not return. Now and then there was a case: but it did not spread. It was no longer ' endemic': its home was broken up. ZoMay, 1875. To THE Editor of the Association Medical Journal. Sir,— Cases of sudden paralysis, such as Mr. T. has re- corded, are not uncommon in young children ; at least, I speak from my own, experience. Such cases often, come under my observation, both at the time of their first happening, and also, in after life, upon the resulting deformity and permanent loss of power, where a cure has not been obtained at first. In one case, the mother, an, intelligent woman, described the attack as having come on suddenly, actually under her own eye, as the child lay on her lap. It i^. often, attributed by parents to some supposed carelessness of a nurse, or to some imaginary fall. I have thought it is caused by irritation, — perhaps, in some cases, inflammation, — of the spinal cord ; but I have not had the opportunity of testing this by examination post mortem, or of tracing any effusion or deposit. Sickly or delicate children may need preparations of bark or iron; but with the robust and well-fed alterative doses of mercury, with small doses of antimony, are desirable. A stimulating liniment, along the whole course of the spine, is beneficial; and wherever there is suspicion of irritation about the teeth, the gums should be freely divided. The Medical attendant will not overlook the possibility of the attack being due to the presence of worms in the alimentary canal. Paralysis of this kind must be carefully distinguished from the sudden loss of power in an arm or leg, coming on from an injury which would be trifling in a grown person, such as a fall in running over uneven ground, or a sudden twist or jerk of the arm by dragging the child hastily. This generally gives little trouble in the treatment. Rest is all that is wanted. Xv, 1855.,