361 and to treat with marked disrespect Medical Officers to whose services they are so much indebted, I am far more likely to withdraw my subscrip- tion than to exert myself in behalf of an Institution so conducted.' Mr. Hussey then referred to the Minute of the adjourned Court in November, which declared 'that the offices of Surgeon to the Infirmary and Coroner of the City are not proper to be held by the same person.' He asked why this should be; especially as the Minute allowed the Phy- sicians to hold the office of Coroner. There was no other Hospital where there was any restriction upon the Medical Officers holding offices outside the Hospital. The Governors here gave no reason for it; he was bound to accept it simply as being their will and pleasure. He submitted that were it so, the new Order ought not to apply to existing Officers, who had been appointed without any knowlege of the wishes of the Governors on the point. This had been admitted on former occasions of new Orders; — as when partnerships among the Medical Officers were forbidden. The Officers then in partnership were not dis- missed : and when the number of Surgeons was reduced from 4 to 3, one of the 4 was not called upon to resign. It was for the Governors that day to say whether this new Order was consistent with the course they wished, to be fol- lowed in questions affecting those Officers of the House who gave their Professional services to the charity without fee or reward, — and, he might add, without thanks from them. Of the power of the Governors to dismiss a Surgeon there could not be any doubt. They could also to-day dismiss the Treasurer, and appoint an other in his place. He was not sure that they could dismiss a Physician: the Physicians were paid Officers. It would be enough to refer them to one instance — the dismissal of the Head Master at Rugby by the Trustees of the School. Their President was one of the Trustees, so that they ought to be well acquainted with it. That case was much discussed in public, and was after- wards carefully considered in the Court of Chancery, and the judgement of the Court went with public opinion — that, whatever might be thought of the conduct of the Trustees, there ought to be, and there is, inherent in every Society,