348 by the vote of a private Meeting. A reflection by the Com- mittee on an Officer is not an answer to a notice he has given to an other Officer that he did not observe the Rules laid down by the Governors, as his Colleagues are entitled to expect from him. The Resolution of the Committee leads to the belief that the Committee are of opinion that it is a breach of duty to call attention to the Rules, and that the Officers are not bound to obey them. The Resolution does not appear to have been a unanimous vote. It is not of a nature to deter enquiry into the general question,—whether the Patients have that consultation and Pro- fessional opinion which the Governors award them,—whether they are operated on with that amount of knowlege of the circumstances of their own case which the Governors and the public require. The moral question, — whether the Patients had that amount of consideration which the Governors require? — does not appear to have formed part of the enquiry under- taken by the Committee. In short, the investigation which the Committee profess to have made, was partial and insufficient; and the opinion they have given is not an opinion of that deliberate nature which is entitled to the acceptance of the Governors. ... It has not received the sanction of the Governors to whom the appeal was made. The original appeal was for the observance of Rules. The mischief follows on that appeal not being satis- factorily responded to. The enquiry can not be closed except by the public announcement that, the Committee will vin- dicate the Rules and privileges which the Governors have made before the Committee was appointed. To refuse pre- viously iS; in fact, only to agitate the question by inviting disagreeable imputations. The fact that the Committee declines the settlement of the question referred to them,—which their unwillingness indi- cates as important, — throws on me the necessity of giving a full explanation of the whole question. Whatever damage arises to the reputation, or the best interests of the House, through the greater publicity of the facts, the responsibility is with those who brought the question under the notice of a General Meeting of Governors, and those who, having under-