t 281 The number of cases in 6 months of the past year, in which Patients 'admitted for other forms of disease or for injuries, had been attaclced with erysipelas,' and the number of cases in which a Patient ' had died in consequence of the super-induced malady,' are assumed in opposition to the written statements of the Medical Officers who had the charge of the Patients,—the Officers, consequently, who alone are able to give correct information on the subject of their cases. From the Reports addressed by them to the Committee of Management, it appears that the number of such cases was not more than 23, and that the death of the Patient from the effects of erysipelas, happened in only one of the cases. Governors will, I think, be of opinion, that it was the duty of the Chairman of the Committee in his official communi- cation with Mr. R., to see that he was properly supplied at the earliest moment, — or, at all events, before he began to write his Report, — with a copy of these important documents. It need not be a matter of surprize that an Officer of a Public Board, accustomed to a regular and methodical mode of transacting matters of official concern, — not having so re- ceived the Reports of the Medical Officers, — does not refer to them in any way; but that he has drawn his Report from the imperfect materials supplied through the Committee. Whether this was a course likely to gain their confidence. Governors will form an opinion for themselves. Whether it was right for a Professional man engaged in such an investigation, to' pursue it without the concurrence of the Medical Officers, may be left to the judgement of his Professional brethren. Mr. R. refers, — without authority from the Medical Officers, — to certain other cases which ' there seemed to have oc- curred' in 1873, 'for which year he has recovered some of the facts.' We are not told from what source the Committee derived them. The Patients are not named : no clew is given, by which the cases can be traced by the Medical Officers, and all the facts recovered. We are told, — for the first time I believe, — that 'the Attics were not originally designed for the reception of Patients.-' A visit to the Attics, and an examination of the