199 but said to be 'ailing,' his Mother rheumatic,—was re-ad- mitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, 6 January, 1858, under my care, with disease of his left ankle, beginning after a ' sprain' received at Michaelmas 1856. The foot is extended, the toes being pointed downwards; the muscles of the leg are generally wasted, the gastro-cnemius and tendo Achillis contracted. There is much swelling about and behind the malleoli, with a large ulcerated opening at each side, directly over the malleolus : a probe, passed in different directions into each of these openings, did not detect any exposed bone. The front of the joint and the dorsum of the foot do not present any appearance of disease. The tarsal bones seem healthy. He had been for 5 months under my care in the In- firmary in the summer and autumn. When first admitted (June 25), he complained of pain in the foot, which hindered him from his work. The ankle-joint was a little swollen, and rather hotter to the hand than the other. The treatment at first was a bread-poultice round the joint at nights; after- wards, strips of lint, spread with Ceratum Hydrargyri comp. and Ung. lodinii, were applied round the joint, the foot and leg being rolled with a starch bandage. His general health was supported by nourishing diet and quinine. During the latter part of his stay in the Infirmary he complained of greater and more constant pain, and of frequent starting of the limb at night; the swelling increased ; an abscess formed at each side of the joint, the discharge from which soon became watery ; he lost flesh, and was attacked with trouble- some diarrhea. After an absence of 3 weeks in the country he came back, rather better in general health, but without relief to the local' disease; and he asked to have the leg removed. In the hope of saving the limb, and restoring the usefulness of the foot, I determined to try the effect of opening the joint, and, if possible, removing the articular surfaces of the bones. The operation was performed on the 15th of January. A semilunar incision was made over the front of the joint, from behind and above the outer malleolus, to a point a little