356 for the prisoner, refused it, with the remark that he did not see what advantage it would be to her, — a reason clear enough from the prisoner's point of view. The period of ad- journment would have given time for enquiry, for the action of the Police, and the Magistrates ; and with other evidence, at an other Assize, an other verdict might have been found. In the case of the Welsh fasting girl, in 1870, the omission to return depositions and bind over witnesses was discovered on the eve of the Assizes, and the trial was adjourned by order of the Chief Justice Bovill, to enable the Magistrates to complete the necessary investigation. After some loose and inaccurate evidence of the nature of the operation, and the effects which followed, had been given in Court, it became necessary to say what was the operation really performed, and what was the cause of death ; and there was no other course but to call me as a witness. It would have been overloading the case with Medical evidence, to call the Surgeon who assisted me at the operation, to confirm the evidence I gave. While I was under examination the Judge, without asking for any explanation, told me that instead of holding the Inquest myself I should have called in one of the Coroners from the County. A Solicitor, who was present, instantly corrected the Judge, Turning again to me, the Judge said I could have appointed a Deputy. I said I was not aware that a Deputy could act, except in case of my illness or unavoidable absence. The Solicitor interposed again with the remark that the former Coroner had a Deputy, and that I could have appointed one in eight and forty hours. In truth, if the occasion served, as it did with my predecessor, I could havfe done it in eight and forty minutes. Afterwards, a book supposed to be of sufficient authority was found and handed to the Judge; and the doubt I had expressed was openly acknowleged. It would be well that a man should inform himself fully before he takes on himself, as Amims Cnrice, to guide an erring Judge. The maxim of the lawyers, Igiioraniia legis neminein excusat, does not apply to themselves. Moreover, says Dr. Johnson, ' Ignorance can not be certainly inferred from inaccuracy. Knowlege is not always present.' . . . ' The