l62 She was readmitted in July, and she remained a month in the ward. She was able to hold a teacupful of urine during the day. She can tell by her own feelings when it becomes necessary to empty the bladder, and she has a vessel ready for the purpose. It escapes at night during sleep. Her bowels were generally confined. The catamenia had not appeared since the opera- tion. I prescribed a shower-bath daily, and Ferrum tartaratum, with Dec. Aloes comp., twice a day. Dr. Freeborn has since informed me that she recovered perfectly, and that she regained the full control over the bladder. She afterwards married ; and she died in London in 1873 with some internal disease. A girl, 14 years of age, rather below middle height and size, complained that she was not able to hold more than a tea- spoon of urine in her bladder, and that she suffered much pain after passing the urine. She has suffered more or less from these or other symptoms of irritability for five years. She was admitted, 2 June, 1858, into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care. The existence of a calculus in the bladder having been ascertained by sounding, I proceeded to remove it on the 9th. The orifice of the urethra was too small to allow of the in- troduction of the same dilator which I had used in the former case. A pair of common forceps was therefore passed into the urethra, and, upon allowing the blades to expand, I passed the dilator into the bladder between the expanded blades of the forceps, and the forceps were then withdrawn. The branches of the dilator were opened ; and, on introducing my finger into the bladder, the calculus was felt. It was seized with a pair of lithotomy forceps, and extracted without difficulty. There was rather free oozing of blood, which ceased after she was put back in bed. The calculus weighed 3vss., and was composed of lithic acid, coated with phosphates, A draught of Liq. Ammon. acet. with Vini Opii 111.xv. was given at bedtime. She slept well all night. June 15. — She is able to retain the urine during the day, but it escapes at night.