85 directions and about half an inch apart. There was some slight ecchyniosis at the spot; and also in the mesentery. The frequency with which the Clavicle is broken^ and the loss of power generally following immediately on receiving the injury, give a claim to the attention received from Mr. Flower, Prominent as the bone is, and thinly covered at the seat of fracture, it is wonderful how many cases come under notice at various periods after the fracture, for which no treatment has been received, the injury not having been detected. In children it often happens that the injury is overlooked. The child has had a fall or a blow, and will not move its arm from its side. Union takes place readily. After two or three weeks, perhaps, an odd-looking lump is observed upon the clavicle, and medical advice is sought by the parents for removal of this deformity. In the adult, it is not so often that the fracture is overlooked. Inability to move the limb, following immediately on the accident, or the pain that attends the attempt to use it, drives the Patient at an early period to the Surgeon. Though this may be generally the case, it is not universally that ' the Patient is unable to lift the arm to the head, or to move it extensively forwards or backwards, at least without much suffering.' ... A gentleman, who had been engaged in business in the country, where he had been thrown from a horse, applied to us on his return, complaining of the Practitioner in the country, who told him he had broken his collar-bone, and put his arm in a bandage. Swinging his arm about freely,—over his head, among other motions,—he insisted on a condemnation of the opinion given. Upon examination, we found the fracture clear enough ; there could be no mistake about it. Having readjusted the bandage, we sent the Patient home, promising to pay him a visit before bed-time. We then found the Patient had stripped his clothes-off,—bandage, of course, included, which he thought of little use,—and had given himself a shower-bath, as the best means of recovering from the fatigues of his journey. . . At one of the Hospitals in London, a question arose in the Committee of Management about the real nature of an injury, in the case of a casual Patient, who had applied for treatment of a recent injury of the shoulder. This had been reported