7 the limb, which I proposed, I cut through the calf of the leg lengthwise, rather to the tibial side of the mesial line, and as well as I could judge, directly over the course of the Pos- terior Tibial vessels. Turning out a large mass of coagula, I endeavored to clear the parts, and trace the artery. The hemorrhage from the various vessels seemed uncontrollable. Rather than run more risk fi'om such a cause, in the ex- hausted state in which the patient lay, I proceeded, with Dr. Morris's assistance, to amputate the leg below the knee. The patient recovered favorably. The parts in the amputated limb were much disorganized ; and the different tissues were not easily recognised in the dissection. There were two large openings in the Posterior Tibial artery in the upper part of its course, about Z inches from each other. Aneurism in the Gluteal Region after A punctured Wound. A man, aged 53 years, a clerk and warehouseman in a large china shop, in fairly good health, but not of strictly tem- perate habits, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care, on the 37th of April, 1877, with a large aneurismal swelling in the left Gluteal region, about the size of two doubled fists, the result of a wound received on the loth of January \ On the evening of the 10th of January, during some alter- cation about drink, his Wife,—a woman of violent temper, a confirrned drunkard, and then under the influence of drink,— struck him in the left Gluteal region with a short broad dagger. He was on his feet at the moment, trying to avoid the blow as she was pursuing him. He ran out of the house, ^ In the Register of In-Patients at the Infirmary, the day of this man's admission is entered by the House-Surgeon as being the 25th of April,— Wednesday, the regular Admission-day. He entered it on the card in the ward correctly, as the 27th,—the day on which the man was brought to the Infirmary. The Consultation of the Surgeons, required by the orders of the House, was held next day, Saturday : and the operation was performed on Monday.