412 Beyond his Annual Reports, which were regularly printed by the Committee of Visitors, he was not the author of any printed work, except a single pamphlet, — 'An Address to the Governors of the Warneford Asylum, upon the distribu- tion of the Warneford gifts.' He wrote a paper in one of the Medical Journals upon Cannabis Indica, which he was the first to bring to the notice of Practitioners in England ; and one in the Asylum Journal, upon a case of Fractured Ribs. He was one of the early Members of the Association of Medical Officers of Asylums. He served the offices of Presi- dent and Treasurer, and for some years he took an active part in the afTairs of the Society. At different times of late years Mr. Ley had shown symp- toms of hypertrophy of the heart; and, without admitting to himself the extent or the full consequence of the lesion, he felt the need of being released from the charge upon him. Con- scious of failing health, and doubtful of his power to continue the duty to his satisfaction, he more than once requested to be allowed to resign his office. At the urgent desire of the Committee of Visitors he consented to remain. Frequent and lengthening periods of illness, without perfect recovery in the intervals, made retirement necessary. The Committee acknowleged in most complimental terms his just and honorable discharge of duty through more than 20 years, — ' Tivcnty yeai's^ said one of the Committee^ ' and there has never becji a scandal.^ As a farther acknow- legement of the services he had rendered, the Committee awarded him a pension, which was conferred unanimously by the Quarter Sessions of both counties and the boroughs in union. When he was finally released from the labors under which his once strong health had given way, he spent some months in Devonshire, looking forward to a home among the scenes of his early life. He had lately returned to the neighborhood of Oxford, and was upon a visit to former friends at Littlemore, —purposing after a short stay to pass on again to Devonshire, to try whether the warmer climate would be more suitable to his increasing difficulty of breathing. His strength failed too rapidly to allow of his removal from Littlemore, and there, on