roo had taken up. Whether the distinguishing feature of chylous urine arises from a rupture of a lacteal vessel^ and the conse- quent escape of some of its contents, concurring with a breach of surface in some part of the tract of the urinary organs, as suggested by Dr. H. V. Carter, must remain to be settled by further enquiry and pathological examination. The diseases of Veins form the subject of an essay by Mr. Callender. Historically speaking, these diseases seem to have received attention from an early period : they were suffi- ciently well known by their effects, at a time when the circu- lation of the blood was unknown. When it was not known that the veins, though containing blood, carried it only in one course, toward the heart, it is not a matter of wonder that little real knowlege should exist on the subject, or that what was observed should be explained only by vague theory. The diseases of Arteries form the subject of an essay by Mr. Moore, Mr. Holmes, and Mr. Hart. The part of the essay occupied by the subject of aneurism, is contributed by Mr. Holmes,—a chapter here and there being the work of Mr. Hart. Though from its etymology the aneurism might, perhaps, with propriety be restricted to a general dilatation of an artery, the word has long been ac- cepted as defining a tumor containing blood, and communi- cating with the cavity of an artery. Various classifications have been attempted. ' The most natural nomenclature ap- pears to me to be,' Mr. Holmes remarks (and we think the majority of practical Surgeons will agree with him), ' that which calls an aneurism formed by the coats (one or more) of the artery a true aneurism, and one formed by the surround- ing cellular tissue a false aneurism.' It is a matter of import- ance to know whether the blood is contained in a sac or not, and whether the aneurism is of spontaneous origin, or the result of injury: the minute anatomy of the sac can not be known before dissection. Dr. Little contributes an essay on Orthopedic Surgery. Though Scarpa first directed the attention of Surgeons to a better knowlege of this class of affections, the strictly Surgical treatment received its chief impulse by the publication of Stromeyer's labors in 1831. Grateful for services rendered