I 387 the right to summon whom he thinks proper, to give evidence of the cause of death, and to make the necessary p, m. ex- amination. It does not rest on any Act of Padiament: it depends upon the will of the Coroner, I told the Coroner that his new practise seemed to me to be in opposition to the ' Medical Witness Act/ which requires the Coroner to take the Practitioner in attendance, and only allows him to call an other Practitioner, when somebody makes oath before him that he suspects the Practitioner in attendance has helped the deceased out of the world. If the Coroner of the City adopts the practise, he must (when he has an Inquest at a certain Infirmary), take some Practitioner not on the Staff, to give evidence, make p. m. examination, &c. The Workhouse is, I think, partly in the County, and partly in the City, of course a similar practise must be followed there. I have not seen Mr. D. since I heard all this. You have to consider whether the Order of the Coroner can give the right of admission to the Dead-house against your will. 15 ytme, 1880. To J. M. D., Esq. My dear Sir, — Many thanks are due to you for the trouble you have so kindly taken. As a general proposition there can be no doubt of the correctness of the opinion given by the Secretary of State to the Committee at the Radcliffe Infirmary,—that 'the Coroner is not only entitled, but bound, to summon any witness whose evidence he considers essential to the enquiry; and that in the exercise of his discretion in that respect he is not to be interfered with.' Whether the power is not limited by the ' Medical Witness Act,' 6 & 7 W. 4, c. 89, is open to question. It seems to me that the Coroner has not the power claimed by Mr. R., — except in case of oath made before him of improper or negligent treatment, I have told Mr. S. that he has to consider whether the order of the Coroner can give a strange Practitioner a right of entry, — and if, as assumed by the Coroner, the Medical Officers of the House are not the fit persons to examine the C c «