248 the consideration of the Committee. The" Committee, I pre- sume^ have had before them the recommendation made in November 1854 by some of the Medical Officers, that a Pharmacopoeia of the Infirmary should be drawn up. Such a measure, properly carried out, would do much to lessen the labor of the Dispenser. Not being acquainted with the qualifications of Druggists of the Pharmaceutical Society, I am unable to advise on that part of the first of the plans under consideration. Without knowing what arrangements are proposed for instruction and superintendance, I can not recommend that the dispensing should be done by Pupils; or that Pupils should be again admitted to reside in the House. An ' Assistant Apothecary,' properly qualified, if such a one can now be found, would be a proper person for the ofiice. If none of these plans should be adopted, I beg leave to submit a fourth. — Taking the House-Surgeon's duties from the printed Rules and Orders, I have to suggest for the consideration of the Committee whether the work now done by that Officer under those Rules is such as to hinder him from doing the necessary dispensing and compounding. With a continuance of the help which has for some time past been furnished in the shop, I think the necessary duties of Dis- penser can be discharged by the House-Surgeon; and I recommend that plan of replacing the present Dispenser. 24 February, 1869. In acknowlegement of the statement upon the general expenditure submitted to me as one of the Medical Officers, I have to ofifer the following remarks, — assuming that the Report is made upon a sufficient examination, and that there is not any suspicion of waste in the different articles con- sumed. The Committee desire to lower the expenditure, but they have not proposed any plan for the purpose. It is worthy of consideration whether the Committee have touched all the sources of expenditure, in which a saving is possible ; and whether any practical result will follow from taking the opinion of the Medical Officers separately, rather than in consultation.