272 would satisfy you and me, as long as the Patient remains in it. If you, or others, wish her retained there, experimeriti causd, it is not for me to object. A Governor, who is fully competent to form an opinion, said to me that the case was one which ought never to have been put into the ward. I do not see why we should wish to cast a slur on those who did it; and it is useless now to discuss it, Ubi lapsus, &c. On Saturday [night, I think,) I had, by Mr. E's letter, the first intimation of the subject. On Sunday morning I was with you, as you know, and you appointed to meet me near the ward, at a quarter to 11: I was there till a quarter past 11, without your coming. On Monday morning I wrote to Mr. E. expressing my opinion that the House Visitors should remove the Patient. I went to the Infirmary, and did not see you. On Tuesday I saw you. I then wrote again to Mr. E., with your opinion and mine, that the Patient should be moved, and added my hope that she would be moved before the Committee met next day. Afterwards I saw Mr. Combe, talked with him, and, telling him I supposed the matter was ended, gave him my opinion of how the Committee ought to have acted on the Wednesday, upon hearing of the complaint; i.e. summon the House-Surgeon, —'Can you tell how this odor arises?' 'Yes: from such a case.' ' Under whose care' ' Mr. Hussey's.' 'Is he in the House?' 'No: he is gone for to-day.' 'In your opinion [not, in Mr. Hussey's,] is the Patient fit to be moved to an other ward?' 'Yes.' Then take the opinion of the Com- mittee on the question ; and, if in the affirmative, say, ' Let it be done at once,' and proceed to the next business on their paper. On Wednesday morning I found the Patient still in the ward ; and to-day I found the same. So this morning I begged the Secretary to communicate with Dr. R., the ' acting' House Visitor. I have seen Mr. Dry, the other Visitor; he does not act, as I understand. I have reason to-day to believe that Mr. E. is absent. What have you to suggest ? Tell me. This occurs to me, as an ultimatum. When I visit the Infirmary to-morrow, if the woman is still in the ward, and still fit to be moved, that I should take her myself over to the New Building; if the