6i as at Exeter and Glasgow,—had been published before these. Other reports, with a larger number of cases, and more exten- sive in the particulars given, have been published since ; and the various causes of the mortality after these and other capi- tal operations, have often been publicly discussed. To an American author one looks naturally for a full account of Anesthesia: it is due to American surgery that we should acknowlege our obligation for this great and wonderful inno- vation in practise. An interesting history is given of the unhappy originator, Dr. Wells, whose first experiment was made on himself with Nitrous oxide gas in 1844. The know- lege that inhaling the gas rendered the Patient insensible to the pain of a surgical operation had been publicly taught in one, at least, of the medical schools in London nearly 30 years before this. But we were told no more than that it had been ' tried,'—so had other means. . . . Dr. Hue told me that he mentioned the subject in his Lectures at St. Bartholomew's Hospital. He had learned the fact from Sir Humphry Davy. ... Large doses of Opium had been given by Practitioners,— rather, we suspect, with the view of overcoming the expected resistance of the Patient in a given case, than with the inten- tion of relieving the pain of the operation. Dr. Gross went beyond this. He was in the habit of employing it, either alone, or with antimony, for many years in almost every case that fell into his hands. ' I became very fond of the practise, and never, so far as I could determine, experienced any bad effects from it. On the contrary, I know that it was com- monly productive of great benefit, not only blunting sensibility, but preventing shock, and consequently severe reaction.' The effect of drunkenness in deadening pain had been observed. Many an amputation has been done during drunk- enness-, and the Patient has known nothing of it. But experi- ence testified that it was far from being universally so. In one of the Midland counties, a family of ' bone-setters,' who had great reputation in restoring contracted joints, used to make the Patient drunk before applying forcible extension to break down the adhesions: and it has been known that midwives have had recourse to the same practise to relieve the pains of labor. Drunkenness was too uncertain in its action as an