229 To THE Same. Sir, In the Association Jotirnal of the nth inst., on the subject of ' Resection in Diseases of Joints,' you remark that, from the result of cases in the practise of certain operators, ' resections of the knee succeed best in children up to ten or twelve years of age.' Will you kindly extend your enquiries into the result of such cases treated without resection ? My own belief—founded .. on a pretty extensive experience,—is that such operations are : never necessary in children ; that those who recover their life, and regain their health after resection, would equally have ! recovered, and with more useful limbs, without the mutilation ; of this elegant operation, or the older one, for which it is I proposed as a substitute, — namely, amputation. October 1856. ■ I To THE Editor of the Medical Times and Gazette. Sir,—In the Lectures which Sir W. Fergusson has just (delivered at the Royal College of Surgeons, he has spoken I of the excellence and success of excision of the articulation i in diseases of the knee; and he talks of the great personal i interest he takes in the operation. Will you allow me, through } your columns, to enquire whether he thinks such an operation, as a mode of treatment,—is better than that recommended \ by his predecessor (Mr. Hilton), and in what respects he com- I mends it in preference ? With some considerable field of observation in public and . private practise, I can speak with confidence of the excellence of the treatment by rest and position. The principles of curative treatment which were long ago recommended by Mr. Abernethy and Sir Benjamin Brodie have been more lately enunciated with earnestness by Mr. Hilton ; and he has ' supplied, more efficiently and with more minuteness than any preceding writer, the particulars of every matter of detail necessary for conducting the Patient to recovery. In estimating the success of the operation he so strongly recommends, Sir W. Fergusson leaves out of sight altogether the Patients who are treated by rest and position and con-