114 Practitioners, does not wander from the Patient's chest, and your finger from his pulse, to the more interesting features of the case, lest you smother the Patient with the napkin on which you dropped some small dose of the drug. Remember, such a death must not be set down to the chloroform which was at first put on the napkin. The staff having been introduced, the hands and feet bound together in the usual manner, and the Patient brought under the influence of chloroform, the lateral operation was per- formed. If the Surgeon could rely on his Assistants to keep the Patient's thighs properly abducted and flexed on the abdo- men, so as to expose the perineum sufficiently, he might with advantage dispense with the customary formality of binding the hands and feet together,—a proceeding to which it may be objected that the forced position of the hand, and the garter round the wrist, hinder the Assistant giving chloroform from feeling the pulse, and that the Patient, when brought under chloroform, often looses his hold of his feet and slips from the exact position in which he was at first placed on the table, thus causing the Operator to pause before completing the incision into the bladder. To put the garters on well requires a great deal of care. At one time we had a Porter in the Infirmary who was very useful in holding a young Patient steady on the table at the time of operation. He was a tall, thin man, with long arms. He would sit astride the table, with the child's head in his ' lap.' In this position he could hold the knees of the child, with the legs well bent; he kept the thighs drawn up and flexed on the abdomen. No garters or bandages were wanted. The pelvis of the child rested on the edge of the table, or rather projected over it a little, and the perineum was well in view of the Operator. The child's hands were free; so that the pulse could be felt at the wrist, during the administration of chloroform. Such a practise succeeded well with children. But a man must be a giant indeed, who could hold a grown person of ordinary stature in the position. It is also of importance that the staff should be held properly. When it has been passed into the bladder, and