311 contemplated. The arrangements proposed were thought by everybody to be sufficient. Nobody doubted that the engage- ments publicly undertaken by the Governors would be faithfully kept. These sums were all paid to the Treasurer of the Infirmary, without any written instruments acknowleging the Trusts, — except in the case of the Lancashire Fund. No privilege was granted to the Trustees of the Lancashire Fund in return for the Benefaction, beyond what they could claim, under the Rules of the Infirmary, if they kept the fund in their own hands. The Capital {£1,2,1^,) if invested in their own names would produce a yearly dividend of 39 guineas. This, paid over annually to the Treasurer of the Infirmary, as 'Annual Subscriptions,' would give them the right, as Governors of the Infirmary (13 in number,) to recom- mend 26 In-Patients every year, beside Out-Patients. This allowance of 26 In-Patients would be enough for the cases of Fever likely to be applicants for admission and gratuitous treatment under the Trust. As a matter of pecuniary calculation, it is known that the ' Annual Subscriptions' are not of themselves enough for the necessary work of the House. The dividends of the funded Capital (^^50,000,) the result of former Benefactions and Legacies, 'for the relief of the Sick and Lame Poor,' are used as supplementary to the Annual Subscriptions and Donations. I venture most respectfully to submit for the consideration of the Commissioners that a larger number of Trustees should be appointed; that they should be persons inde- pendent of influence by the Treasurer and Governors of the Infirmary, and the University; and that these should be added to the 3 persons proposed, — the Ex-Mayor of the City, the Sheriff of the City, the Chairman of the Local Board, and the Chairman of the Trustees of the City Charities, with power to add 6 other persons, being Ratepayers within the district, — or that the persons, now about to be appointed to be the future Trustees of the City Charities, should be also the Trustees of the Lancashire Fund. 14 7une, 1881.