343 To THE President and Governors of the Radcliffe Infirmary. My Lord Duke, and Gentlemen,—It is a duty which I owe to you as the Managers of this valuable Institution, and to the Public as represented by the Patients who are admitted to the benefits of it, as well as to myself as the Senior Surgeon, to direct your attention to the breaches which have from time to time occurred in some of the most important Rules of the Infirmary. It is a general Rule in Hospitals that no Capital operation, — that is, an operation recognised among Surgeons as putting life in danger, — shall be performed, unless in cases of urgency, without a previous consultation of all the Surgeons of the House. It was included among the original Rules and Orders of the Radcliffe Infirmary, printed in 1770, and has been con- tinued down to the present time, and printed among the amended Rules of 1866. In the last few years I have several times remonstrated upon the non-observance of the Rules respecting Consultations before Surgical operations, and re- presented the impropriety of the proceedings. Ungracious and delicate as is the task of bringing charges against a Col- league appointed to the same engagements in a Public Insti- tution, I venture to submit to your impartial consideration the facts I here lay before you. After the receit of the notes (of the 15th of April and the aoth of May, 1867), in reply to my letters of the preceding days, it became my duty to the Infirmary to take other steps. I proceeded to lay the correspondence before my Colleagues and some Members of the Medical Profession, (in print,) with this heading, ' Mr. Hussey requests the attention of his Col- leagues to the following correspondence,' and a short note of the results of the operations in the last two cases which had occurred. Of that Professional paper, I sent a copy to the Chairman of the Committee of Management, and to his im- mediate predecessor in office ; — the only persons, not members of the Medical Profession, to whom I sent it. The Chairman of the Committee afterwards informed me by letter that Mr. S. had sent a copy of it to the Chairman of