284 considers one of ' the conditions which admitted of infection becoming an active agent in the diffusion of erysipelas within the wards ;' and he dismisses the curtains with a nickname,— ' infection traps.' The Members of the Committee could have told him, — for it is within their knowlege, — that the one ward which has always been without curtains is the one best known to them for the ' unwholesomeness of the ward,' and for the frequency with which it has been necessary to have it ' vacated for cleansing,' as well as for the general want of success in removal of the ' infectiveness,' or ' persisting infection ' of the ward. If ' isolation,'' ' systematic isolation,' — a new term, and not defined with exactness, — is to be taken as meaning ' strin- gently applied,' the collection in one ward of all the cases at one time in the House of a disease liable to spread by con- tagion, it is not in any sense to be considered the proper way of doing what the Medical Officers have more than once recommended. Such a concentration in one ward is not a safeguard to the Patients, or to the Attendants. It is a heap- ing together of the materials of contagion, causing ' pollution of its atmosphere,' and ' fouling it to a most injurious extent' The removal of each Patient from the wards, and the separa- tion at once of single cases from others, in every case when required by the Medical Officers, is different from such ima- ginary 'isolation,' and — as the Committee have long been aware, — the means for it have not yet been provided. However slight the materials forming the foundation on which his opinions and theories are raised, — and however irregular, and uncourteous to a large majority of the Medical Officers, the mode in which the enquiry was at first directed, and afterwards followed, — it will not have been without a beneficial effect, if . . . when they see there is so much that a Stranger finds to condemn, ... it should produce in the Governors, who take upon themselves the control of the House, a greater readiness than heretofore to seek, and to' follow, the advice of those whose long experience of the Infirmary best enables them to give it. April 1875.