394 the sacrifices required are not readily made, — under a va<Tue impression that they may delay, ever so little, a single com- petitor in the race he is preparing to run in the active business of life ; that others who have entered on their strictly Profes- sional studies at an earlier period have gained some positive advantage from that circumstance ; and that all parties do not start fair in the race. In your Letter to R. E. C. you suggest that, in the case of Candidates for Medical Degrees, the last year of residence in the University should be substituted for the first year of Pro- fessional work in London ; and that in that year the Candi- date should devote himself to the Sciences, — now well taught here, — of Chemistry, Anatomy, Physiology, and Botany. Upon this allow me to say a word or two. Let me suggest that he should give some part of his time in that year, (if he has not before,) to Clinical Medicine — and Surgery. That Chemistry and Botany can be thoroughly learned here, and better than in London, I readily believe: that it is desirable that a Student should have acquired his knowlege of them before coming to London, is an opinion I have often heard expressed by the Teachers in the Medical Schools in London. That Comparative Anatomy and Physiology, — so much at least as is necessary for the Physician and Surgeon,— can also be learned, may be admitted. But I am not of opinion that Human Anatomy, — that full amount of it which is necessary for the practising Surgeon, or the well-informed Physician, — is, or can be, acquired here : yet the elementary branches, — necessary alike for the Physician and Surgeon,— may be satisfactorily mastered. Although the University has not within itself the means of giving all the instruction it exacts in Medicine, and for that purpose rightly sends its Candidates elsewhere to get it, there has long existed within its precincts a Hospital contain- ing 158 beds in constant occupation, — a Hospital, of which you and I both are Officers, — and Teachers, will you allow me to add? — affording ample means for giving some really valuable Clinical instruction in Physic and Surgery, which will materially lessen the Student's labor, when he enters the large and comprehensive field presented by the Hospitals in