74 urges the importance of clearing away the clots which have collected, and exposing the bleeding surface freely to the air. The effect of such treatment is sometimes exemplified in a remarkable degree when it becomes necessary to lay open the integument, and even the more deeply-seated parts. It seems as if the blood, being injected into the areolar tissue, hinders the vessels from retracting efficiently within their sheaths. Many years ago, a man was brought into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, shortly after receiving a kick in the groin from a horse. A large swelling arose at the part; and it was in- creasing rapidly in size. Upon consultation among the Sur- geons, it was resolved to lay the swelling open, and to search for any bleeding vessel. The swelling was opened by Sir William Lawrence, the clots were cleared out, the hemorrhage ceased, and no vessel required ligature. Free suppuration followed ; and the wound eventually healed well. The readiness with which arteries ' escape threatened injury' is generally attributed to their great elasticity, or to the firmness of their outer coats. We think that some share of this freedom from danger may be attributed to the twigs from the sympathetic system which abundantly surround the tubes. The large arteries have been known to escape injury when a bullet, or a piece of shell, has passed through a limb close to their natural course. A pitchfork has often been thrust through the neck immediately in front of the vertebree without any bad consequence. In the riots in Paris in 1848, a cavalry soldier thrust his sword through a man's neck in this part, inflicting an injury from which the man recovered after a few days' rest in hospital. Collapse, and the general effects of shock upon the system, are treated by Mr. Savory. To estimate the real effects, it seems to us that we must take 'shock' in a vastly different number of cases. The effect will be different in the shock from an operation and in that from an injury; for one the Patient is prepared, not so for the other. The effects will also be aggravated by loss of blood. Much obscurity still attends the cases of what are called ' Death from Shock.' Something more is required to be known beyond the facts, or absence of facts, discernible on a pathological examination, to enable us