62 anesthetic to be admissible as an agent of acknowleged efficacy. The apparent removal of consciousness by mesmeric 'passes' (whatever its success with the ' mild Hindoo,') failed, with us, to temper the sharpness of a serious operation: the single case brought publicly before the profession at a Meeting of the Medico-Chirurgical Society, having been afterwards acknow- leged to be an imposture. But that the imagination can be so far abstracted as to allow some degree of pain to be inflicted unfelt, the case of the late Lord Metcalfe will show. Besides, many of us, since the introduction of ether and chloroform, have seen a patient quieted during the latter part of an ope- ration, by breathing through the empty sponge of the inhaler. Tetanus has been found fatal under Dr. Gross's care. ' In an experience of 31 years I have seen but two cases where the Patient escaped with his life ; and then only after a pro- tracted and painful struggle.'. . . To this I can add, that in 35 years I have myself seen only two cases of recovery;—both of them in boys. In an acute disease so formidable and so fatal, when the anesthetic effects of ether and chloroform were fully established. Surgeons naturally looked to inhalation as the one remedy yet untried, and from which benefit might be hoped. The experience of each individual Surgeon is neces- sarily limited ; and none can have had many opportunities of watching its effects. It does not appear that Dr. Gross has himself used it. He says, notwithstanding the reports pub- lished by different observers, ' it is certain it has generally signally failed to cure.' Under my own observation, it has seemed to me that the violence of the spasm and the parox- ysms of pain have been lessened ; but the attacks returned at shorter intervals, and the Patient has become sooner exhausted by their repetition. The euthanasia was successful. The subject of Fractures, he regards as the most trying and difficult branch of Surgery to practise successfully. Perhaps his anxiety may arise in part from his knowlege of the fre- quency with which law-suits are waged about charges of mal- practise. Indeed, the whole of the long section is written with a caution, and an amount of closeness of observation, likely to be the result of long and extensive practise in con-