191 a party of friends. He was not perfectly sober at the time of admission. A dose of Opium (Tinct. Opii in.xxv.) was given at night. I saw the man next morning (Saturday). He then seemed as if scarcely recovered from the effects of his yesterday's drinking bout. The ulna was broken rather above the middle; the carpal end of the upper fragment was prominent, but did not protrude through the skin. The radius was broken in its lower third. The wound in the integument was on the dorsal aspect, near the prominent point of the fractured ulna ; it was not large, and very little blood had come from it. There was some swelling, but not excessive, about the thick part of the arm at the point of fracture, but none about the wrist, nor above the elbow. I applied two well-padded splints, reaching from the elbow to the distal extremity of the meta- carpal bones, as in ordinary cases of fracture of the fore-arm, adjusting them so as to allow for any increase of the swelling, and supported the limb on a pillow by the man's side. A draught with Vini Opii n^xxx. was given at night. Nothing worthy of note was observed on Sunday. The Opium was given again at night. On Monday, at 13 o'clock, the back of the hand was gangrenous, discolored, and moist; the fingers were flexed, and he was not able to move them. Sensation was lost in the hand and wrist. In answer to enquiry he said the hand was ' nummy'; but he did not make any other complaint. Pulsation could not be felt in the vessels at the wrist, or at the bend of the arm. The question of amputation in the upper part of the limb, at a distance from the seat of injury, presented itself for consideration. But the man was in a low and unsatisfactory state,—certainly not fit to bear such an operation'. He had been in service in a gentleman's family as butler; and having been dismissed for some offence, he was waiting to take his trial at the Sessions the next day. Since his dis''- missal, he had been drinking freely. I asked him whether he was not worrying himself about these affairs; he said he was. Upon my telling him that he must not think of such things now, and that he must remain in the House, and be kept quiet