i65 suffered severely. Within a day or two after leaving her bed, at the moment of rising from a chair, she felt a sensation of something having suddenly given way; and she found that her clothes, and the floor beneath, were deluged with a fluid of watery appearance. From that time she lost all power of retaining her urine. Mr. Crookes saw her 12 July, 1844. The vagina, as she lay in bed, was found to be full of urine ; the mucous mem- brane was superficially ulcerated in irregular patches, and encrusted generally with the salts of the urine. An inch, or rather more, from the ostium vaginae, and on the upper sur- face^ there was an opening through which the urine could be seen trickling, and escaping in little gushes whenever the abdominal muscles were suddenly called into action. A full- sized male catheter passed through this opening, with perfect ease. The margins of the opening were irregular and thick- ened ; the lower or posterior border was especially thick and fleshy, and presented on its under surface three irregularly triangular mamillary projections, which were excoriated and acutely sensitive. With a view of tracing the relation of this opening with the internal orifice of the urethra, Mr. Crookes proceeded to pass a catheter by the urethra into the bladder. The meatus urinarius, however, could not be found ; and, on closer inspection, it was evident that the whole tract of the urethra had disappeared — its ordinary course presenting nothing but a smooth uniform mucous surface. The opening in the vagina was, in fact, the natural opening into the bladder at its point of junction with the urethra ; and the irregular and fleshy margin was composed of the thickened fragments of that canal, or the neck of the bladder. July 16.—Under the sanction of Mr. Perry, Inspector of Prisons, and in the presence of Dr. Baly, Mr. W, A. Sumner, and myself, Mr. Crookes performed the following operation. The Patient was placed upon a table, and tied in the ordinary position for lithotomy; and Beaumont's speculum was in- troduced into the vagina. By this instrument a good view of the parts was obtained, and space procured for the necessary manipulation. The state of the vagina was found to be much improved since the former examination, the calcareous matter