3^5 better treated at home is about one-tenth of the whole; though it is not by any means constant: e. g. one Saturday in March, when about 30 attended, I thought as many as 8 of them would have been better treated at home. The number attending during the last 4 months, with more or less regularity, is rather more than 100. The number on a Satur- day is in general from about 25 to 30. About once a month the number is over 40, — without any cause, as far as I have 'seen. I have not observed that the number is less in bad weather, than when the day is fair. The cases which I think would be better treated at home are those of habitual ulcers of the legs, especially those de- pendant on enlarged veins ; ulcerations about the toes; ■ diseases of the hip, knee, and ankle, abscesses in those parts; diseases of the spine, and, generally speaking, all cases in chil- dren during the winter and spring, and at other times when brought by older children, or by persons not standing in the relation of a mother. To these should be added the cases of Patients who are not able to obtain for themselves proper clothing and food, and persons in receit of Parish relief. It does not seem to me that they are included in the enquiry made by the Committee. Among ' habitual ulcers ' of the legs, or other regions, I do not include cases of tedious ulcer- ation of a bad constitutional character. They often want a long course of treatment with expensive medicines. The number of Out-Patients has been increased very much of late years. The Committee will not, I hope, think it un- becoming, if I point out that this increase has been made without taking the opinion of the Medical Officers beforehand, and without thanking them for their services afterwards. Among the latest additions have been the Patients who have been treated by the House-Surgeon. I venture to submit for the consideration of the Committee, that the Medical Officers ought not to be called upon to take charge of such: but that all persons who apply for relief ought to be placed at once under the care of the Physician or Surgeon of the week, in every case where continued treatment is required. 8 July, 1874.