269 t Your plan, (if I remember right,) proposes an extension at the west end of the building. Would it not be better to begin extension from the west end of the north wing of the House, and to remove altogether the existing building, which is, in truth, an obstruction to the enlargement of the Infirmary. Forgive me if I suggest. That the north wing of the House should be extended westwards, either in its present lines, or a little set back. This can be done to an extent which will allow any number of additional beds,—50 or 500. A stair- case could be carried up in the junction; and it would give the opportunity for some additions, much wanted, to the wards in that wing, a bathroom, scullery, and ' lift.' The outer walls should be of a thickness and strength to carry a second floor, if hereafter wanted. This would allow of all the windows being in a recess as now in M., L., and other wards. There should be a good cellar under the basement; the ground floor should be raised, above the level of the floor of the present kitchen ; the ceiling should be higher than in the basement in the House ; and the first floor would therefore be higher than the floor of L. You see it is not much I have to say, except that I think it is not worth while to lay out much money in altering the existing building; and that if you wish for additional accommodation, and are about to spend money for the pur- pose, there is an other way of obtaining it. 20 April, 1866. The Chairman of the House Committee wrote TO me, 2 November, 1865 :—' On enquiry I found there would be great inconvenience in the transfer of your Patient from the N. A. ward ; and all attempt at removal is now made impossible by the large influx of new Patients at the admission yesterday.' Letter to Him. As to the man in the N. A., I think his case can be easily settled. As there is not any separate place to which he can be moved, I do not see why he should not be discharged. It may be (as I can well believe,) to the benefit of those who remain ; and he can go without detriment to himself. As to