36? is not the proper witness at an enquiry into the cause of death. A specimen of what kind of evidence may be given by a House-Surgeon can be seen in a published report of a case at the Assizes last year. When a suggestion is publicly made at a meeting of the Governors, — without contradiction by any of the Medical Officers, — that the Patients are sent there for their bodies to be experimented on ; — that there are ' mis-haps' in Me- dical practise; — when the Registrar of Deaths is asked by the Governors to alter an entry made under the authority of a Medical certificate from the House-Surgeon ; — and when it is publicly stated, without contradiction, that in a case of death there were three entries in the books of the Institution of a conflicting character, it can not be a matter of wonder that a question has arisen whether the Medical evidence, which it has been customary to give, is that evidence which ought to be laid before an Inquest by the Managers of the Institution. In the interests of public justice, I know no claim which the Medical Officers of the Radcliffe Infirmary have to be exempt from the duty of attending personally to give evidence touching the death of Patients under their care, more than other general Practitioners of Medicine have, who hold office in a Workhouse, or a Prison, a Dispensary, or a Benefit Club. 3 December, 1878. To THE Editor of the Oxford Chronicle. Sir, — In the Oxford Chronicle of Saturday last, after a report of what you call some ' Extraordinary Proceedings at the Infirmary,' these words are attributed to Mr. S., the Chairman of the Committee of Management; — ' Mr. Hussey has been offered, on the part of the Committee, every kind of courtesy to facilitate the working of his Inquests here; and he has taken no notice of that courtesy.' Be kind enough to allow me to say that the statement so attributed to Mr. S., — like other statements of his to which, on former occasions, I have more or less publicly called atten- tion, — is not true. 23 December, 1878.