55 a high reputation, as a consulting and operating Surgeon throughout an area of many hundred miles, he has lately- been appointed to the chair of Surgery in Jefferson Medical College, in Philadelphia. He has published shorter treatises on different subjects of Surgery, and he has contributed some valuable papers to the periodical publications in America. This, his largest work, is founded upon the lectures he has delivered as Professor of Surgery; ' it should be regarded,' he says, ' as embodying the results of a large personal, if not a ripe experience, of extensive reading, and of much reflec- tion.' Upon subjects where his personal experience has been limited, he gives a clear account of what his predecessors have done ; and his criticisms upon new or unti'ied modes of practise are candid and satisfactory. In speaking of Hereditary Disease, he says : ' There are family diseases, just as there are family likenesses, manners, and peculiarities; and what is remarkable, they are more liable to be communicated by the Mother than the Father, as if it were her special prerogative to impress her vices, as well as her virtues, upon her descendants.'' Possibly, disease transmissible from either parent is more likely to be de- veloped in those of the children who partake most of the vis iiisita, as of the physiognomy, of that parent; but we do not know that the observation of our readers will be found to confirm this statement of the Author. While reading different parts of the work,—those relating to different diseases as he successively treats of them,—it has seemed to us that the Author maintains with too great favor the practise of abstracting blood, as a powerful means for removing the activity of disease. Former writers have often told us that the diseases affecting our brethren in North America are of a more inflammatory type, and require for their subjection a freer use of the lancet, and a more liberal use of leeches. The frequency with which allusion is made to taking away blood seems to show that this practise is more prevalent there than here. The habits of the people (to say nothing of the air they breathe, or of the cheapness of alcohol), must have had some influence upon the material of disease, and upon the frequency of it. We might think