102 one representing this severe degree of deformity. The near- est approach to it (Case XXX, PI. 8), though by no means representing the extreme degree which we now know to be curable, is that of a young lady aged 8 years, who passed from his care, and was not permanently cured. Perhaps he did not undertake such cases. It appears to have been his doctrine that ' if the cure is not attempted till the bones are completely ossified, it can not be effected.' The teaching of the present day is very different from this. Doubtless, the earlier the age at which the treatment is undertaken, the less difficult is the cure. But we do not find the complete ossi- fication of the bones a very serious difficulty : adult age is far from beiii'g an insuperable obstacle to the cure. With reference to the multiplicity of new and complicated apparatus so freely recommended by different writers, Dr. Little quotes with approbation the remark of Stromeyer, that ' every Practitioner will select that of which he best under- stands the action and mode of application.' In an essay on diseases of the Bones, Mr. Holmes makes a separate class of ' syphilitic affections of bone,' without speci- fying to which of the numerous forms of Venereal disease, — pustular, papular, scaly, &c. — he restricts the term syphilis. The ' chronic limited inflammation of the periosteum alone,' which he mentions as peculiar to syphilis, will be recognized by the character of the nocturnal pains, in the long bones chiefly, which accompany the constitutional symptoms of the scaly form, in regular sequence. These pains being aggravated by exposure to cold and wet are ordinarily attributed by the Patient,—and sometimes by the Practitioner, not always in- formed of the other attendant and more characteristic symp- toms of venereal infection, — to rheumatism. The' node,'as generally described, we venture to say is rarely seen in the scaly form of disease ; being most frequently seen in connection with papular or pustular eruptions. Whether a node is ever seen except in persons who have been the sub- jects of a free exhibition of mercury,—we mean to an extent materially disturbing the circulating system,—and, if so, in what constitutions, and in company with what other symp- toms, is a question worthy of more extended investigation.