139 he died in the following December; and that the testis ex- hibited clear signs of malignant disease. The following note is from a MS. book of' Cases' left by- Mr. Welbank. 'December, 1824.—I saw a Greek, about 25, who had had Hydrocele 13 months, coming on after the Plague. He told me it was a common disease at Alexandria and in Egypt. It had been once in his own case ruptured by accident; and the water absorbed from beneath the skin of scrotum. ' I tapped him with trocar, and threw in one third wine. It caused pain, slight at time. Skin in a day or two, tumified and like hydrocele in form. On fourth day, absorbed. Testis hard and enlarged as in Hernia humoralis : teguments lax, though thickened. January 27, still doughy teguments, and chronic sarcocele lessening very slowly.' [In different ink : without date.] ' The sarcocele has been and is in this case tedious and annoying.' Enlargement of Testis. Abscess.—Death from cholera. A young man, about 22 years of age, of strumous con- stitution, a clerk in a large retail shop, came to me 30 October, 1853, with an enlargement of the left testis, which he had observed about 8 or 10 days without any known cause. It was painful at night; and also after much standing. It was not tender to the touch. He complained also of pains in the loins. He suffered from piles: his bowels were generally loose; but lately they had been confined. His Father died with stricture of the rectum : and a Sister died with phthisis. I prescribed a dose of Rhubarb, Magnesia, and Hyoscyamus, to be taken immediately,—and Liq. Ammon. Acet., with Tinct. Camphorae comp., Spir. Etheris nitr., and a small dose of Antimony, twice a-day. I told him to have a warm bath, and to wear a suspensory bandage. On the 10th of July following (1854) the testis was in the same state; except that in one part it yielded to pressure, as if there was a collection of matter. There was also some fluid in the tunica vaginalis. He was wasted and much out of health. He told me he had relations at the sea-side in Devonshire; and he proposed to go into the country to them.