i8 A man, 35 years of age, marked with variola, a tailor by trade, was admitted into the RadclifFe Infirmary, under my care, in the night of the 36th of June, 1875, with a deep wound recently inflicted in the palm of the left hand. He was tiying to shut a window, when he put his hand through it, and a piece of the broken glass entered the hand. The wound bled profusely. The man and his wife tried to stop the bleeding by tying the hand up in a handkerchief; and he came straight to the Infirmary, which was not far from his home, where the accident happened. The wound was irregular in shape, about 3 quarters of an inch long, in the line of the metacarpal bones, passing deep under the skin. The House-Surgeon removed the handker- chief, which was saturated with blood, and applied a compress of lint upon the wound, and bound the hand and fingers firmly upon the compress with several turns of a roller. The man was placed in bed, with the fore-arm flexed, and the limb raised on a pillow. The next morning I saw him. The outer roller had become loose: it was removed and narrow bandages were wound round the thumb and fingers separately, and firm and uniform pressure was made upon the compress, over the hand and round the wrist, and along the fore-arm, as in the other two cases: and the same precautions were taken to secure rest. The compress of lint was left as it had been placed. A draught of Liq. Amnion. Acet., with 15 minims of Vinum Antimonii, 2$ of Vinum Opii, and 30 of Spir. Etheris nitr., was ordered, to be taken at bedtime, and repeated the next night. On the 2nd of July the bandages had become loose. They were removed, and fresh bandages applied, with the same care to maintain the pressure. The compress of lint was left adherent. On the 8th the bandages were changed. The compress of lint was removed, and an other applied in the same place. The wound was observed to be healing by granulation. There was not any purulent discharge from it. The dressings were changed on the loth, on the 15th, and again on the 19th. After which the Patient went home. He came to me on the 6th of October. The cicatrix was