72 .... Other Practitioners, I have since heard, have suc- ceeded. Mr. Lee's investigations confirm the observation of some former writers of the great numerical frequency of sores followed by irritation of the absorbents, and extensive sup- purating buboes, without constitutional infection, or' secondary' symptoms; and also that there are constitutional affections, slow in progress, and not in general preceded by visible contamination of glands. The irritation and enlargement of the lymphatics often escapes the Patient's observation ; as, we think, the original sore of the scaly form will sometimes. Mr. Lee's investigations also go to support the opinion long and publicly maintained, that there is a steadily progressive Ve- nereal disease, though of (pathologically speaking) a mild character, not tending to ulceration, — a disease which it has been too much a fashion in the present day to doubt and even to deny. We think the distinction proposed between a ' sup- purating sore,' and an ' infecting chancre,' is a good and practical one. ... That the appearance of adherent matter is not uniformly noted in real chancre was observed by Mr. Wclbank. (Practical Commentaries on the present knowlege and treatment of Syphilis, 1835.)... The'suppurating sores' require a further separation into those which are harmless, and those which are followed by phagedenic or other secondary affections.... If the Practitioner takes notes, for the purpose of investigating the progress of a case of Venereal disease, and the constitutional or other symptoms which arise, these are points to which he should give attention on the first visit ' of the Patient. His general constitution ; whether of scorbutic habit, or liable to eruptions of any kind ; the constitution of the Parents, and that 'of brothers and sisters: — the date of first appearance of the original disease, and how long after connection: — the form of first appearance, whether pustular, abrasion, fissure:—the progress of the original sore; and the treatment before the visit: — the present number and character of sores, if more than one; the situation, the size, form, base, edge, and secretion : for these will be found to vary, on the corona glandis, or fossa, on the prepuce, or the com- mon integument: — and whether the absorbents are affected.