156 caused, as he thought, by a piece of stone lodged in the passage. Without any previous symptom to attract his attention, he perceived, on passing urine a few days before admission, that a small light-colored substance, which he took for a stone, was ejected forcibly with the urine, the stream becoming almost immediately narrowed by an other piece, which stuck fast in the passage, and which he was not able to remove with his fingers. The day after admission, the orifice of the urethra was observed to be slightly contracted; and there was a slight puriform discharge. The urine passed on the morning after admission was made turbid by mucus. A metallic sound, No. 8 in size, was passed into the bladder, without detecting a calculus; but great pain was caused by the instrument stretching or twisting the urethra, about 3 inches from the meatus, where a foreign body was felt to be impacted. Several ineffectual attempts were made to extract the foreign body with forceps of different kinds. Though recog- nized easily as a solid rough substance, it could not be moved either forwards or backwards. Great pain was produced by every kind of manipulation. November 28. — The Patient having seated himself (with some difficulty,) on the edge of a table, in a convenient posture for operation, a straight staff was passed into the urethra, and an incision about half an inch long was made through the integument and corpus spongiosum into the urethra. Through the opening thus made, a rough spiculum of bone was, with some difficulty, extracted. It was about three quarters of an inch long, pointed at each end, and eaten away at the sides, where it varied in width, being about a fifth of an inch in its greatest diameter. In answer to farther enquiries, the following history was then obtained from him. Between 9 and 10 years ago, he was knocked down by a horse and cart; and as he lay on the ground, with his face downwards, one of the wheels passed over his pelvis. He rested from work, and remained in bed for about 3 weeks or a month, without receiving Medical treatment. He was then brought to the Radclifife Infirmary,