158 through the cicatrix of the former operation. The tissue of the urethra seemed to be rather hard and cartilaginous; but I did not find any foreign body. He was completely relieved by the operation ; and left the Infirmary on the 27th. About 13 or 15 months afteinvards, he came under the observation of Mr. Dixon, of Watlington. A fresh succession of abscesses had formed about the perineum ; and he died exhausted under the profuse discharge. The body was not examined after death. In this man's case, the early symptoms had been in a great measure forgotten, the Patient being an uneducated laborer; his sufferings under a very severe injury not having made a very lasting impression on his memory. In the second operation—when the piece of bone which he expected to see removed was not found — it seemed to me that a tough cica- trix existed in the urethra at the seat of the first operation ; and that the relief he obtained was from the free division of the hardened tissues which was made by the incision from without. \British Medical Journal, March 1867.] From Sir William Lawrence. i8 Whitehall Place, April 5, 1867. Dear Mr. HusSEY,—Accept my best thanks for your obliging present. The case was interesting to me, as I have had some experience of in- stances in which long suffering by suppuration and fistulae resulting from necrosis of bone after external violence not accompanied by wounds, the original injury having been forgotten, and the source of mischief therefore overlooked. Several years ago I was consulted by an elderly lady for a fistula at the lower labium. She had met with a violent blow on the part men- tioned, and its immediate neighborhood, without external wound, more than 30 years previously, and had been for some time under the late Mr. Cline. She had more or less trouble from this affair from time to time, avoiding local examination as much as possible from motives of delicacy, being unmarried. There had been suppuration, from which the fistula was the result. This sometimes discharged ; at others dried up, and remained closed for weeks. This lady, who of course continued unmarried, was able to conduct a school. Being persuaded that there