217 foot. The leg had rotted off nearly as high as the knee, when he was attacked with confluent Small-pox, and died on the 19th day. A married woman, aged 40, with some functional disease of the female system, was attacked with confluent Small-pox, and died in about 3 weeks. These 3 Patients all exhibited on the arm the cicatrix of former vaccination; it is believed they had not been re- vaccinated. One Medical Practitioner caught the disease, the wife of an other, and several children in the family of a third,—all in a mild form. The first case, of which I have any note, was in the parish of St. Ebbe's, in a girl 3 years old, the child of a stranger resting in the town,—admitted a Patient of the Dispensary, on the 17th of July, 1854. The last case, also in a Patient of the Dispensary, was in St. Thomas's parish, in a man, aged 25, admitted a Patient on the iith of April, 1855- In the Quarterly Returns published by the Registrar- General it is said that, among the deaths in Oxford, 80 cases of Small-pox had been registered in the last 5 months of 1854 {Qiiarterly Return^ ^854, No. 34, p. 37), and 25 in the first quarter of 1855 [Quarterly Retttrn, 1855, No. 25, p. 25). But this probably does not include the deaths in the whole district popularly known as forming ' Oxford.' For notes of 32 fatal cases, I am indebted to the Prac- titioners under whose care they fell. Of these 32 Patients, 24 had never been vaccinated ; 4 ' probably not,' at least there is not any reason to believe that they had been ; 4 presented marks of vaccination : — A young gentleman, aged 17, in St. Mary the Virgin's, died under a severe attack of confluent Small-pox. He had been vaccinated in childhood, but not revaccinated. A brewer's man, aged about 50, in Jericho^ was revaccinated; 4 days after the operation, he was attacked with confluent Small-pox, and died in 3 days. A girl, aged 21 months, the child of a tramp staying in Jericho, had a single cicatrix on the arm, — a doubtful sign at best of the previous vaccine disease. A baby, aged 2 months, one of a