188 On the 30th, her pulse had more power, the tongue was clean and moist, and the edges of the slough were beginning to separate from the sound skin. She seemed altogether in a fitter state to undergo a severe operation; and I did not think that anything would be gained by longer delay, with the certainty that she would be lowered by the free suppura- tion which would arise from so large a surface of ulceration. She was laid upon the operating table in the recumbent position, with her head a little raised, and the right shoulder projecting over the edge. She was quickly brought under the influence of chloroform; and by a smaller dose than I have ever before seen efficient in a grown person,—10 minims dropped on the sponge of the inhaler in common use in the In- firmary. The fore-arm partly flexed was held by an Assistant across the abdomen. The subclavian artery was compressed by the House-Surgeon, standing at her head, thrusting his finger from above downwards upon the vessel where it passes from between the scaleni muscles over the first rib. She was a thin woman, and effectual compression was easily made. Standing rather behind her, and keeping the scapula steady with my left hand, I entered the point of a catling deep into the flesh near the acromion (as far forwards as the sound skin reached), and cutting inwards to the bone in a semilunar direction downwards toward the posterior border of the axilla, made a large flap from the sound skin at the back of the arm, including the posterior portion of the deltoid muscle and the triceps. The upper and posterior part of the fibrous capsule was freely opened by cutting upon the round head of the humerus, which was made more prominent, as the elbow was drawn forwards to facilitate the dislocation of the bone. Then passing the thumb of my left hand through the joint between the glenoid cavity and the head of the humerus, I held all the soft parts in the axilla between my thumb and fingers (carefully including the vessels in the grasp), and cutting through them, severed the limb from the trunk, carry- ing the catling in a direction downwards and forwards between my thuinb and the head and neck of the bone. The pos- terior flap was made large to allow for the contraction of the cicatrix which would follow the healing of the slough