351 power of a Deputy to act in the case, and that I was entitled to the benefit of the doubt. There was no need for me to add that I had also a doubt whether I could appoint a Deputy before I had done any act of acceptance of Office; the Inquest in question being the first act of such acceptance, testifying that I had undertaken the office to which I had been lately appointed. . . . More than 20 years before this, it had been said by a writer of authority, that a Coroner, being a Medical Practitioner, and wishing to attend as a Witness, ' has no power to appoint a Deputy, inasmuch as the circumstances do not satisfy the conditions on which alone the power to appoint a Deputy can be exercised.' The state of things which became public may be due to the defective state of the law regulating,—or neglecting, — the office of Coroner. Whether it is creditable, is a question in which a Coroner has no concern. One lesson may be learned ; and I commend it to those of our Professional brethren who hold the office of Coroner. It is : in a case where the inquest finds a verdict involving a criminal charge, not to commit the accused to prison for trial at the Assizes, but to order his apprehension for the purpose of being taken before a Justice of the Peace, and to report the case at once to the Secretary of State, as is done in cases of accidents on railways. This will relieve the Coroner from farther question, and secure the public against a miscarriage of justice. 28 August, 1&77. To THE Rev. J. S. Dear Mr. Chairma.n, — Your letter, received late last night, refers to two subjects. One was brought by me lately, — for the second time, — under the notice of the Committee; —the danger attending the use of the present inhaler for chloroform. I do not understand from you that the Com- mittee have done anything. The other is a subject altogether new to me, as one at any time under the notice of the Committee, or in any way within the discretion allowed to them by the Governors. Are you serious in expecting me to do more than thus acknowlege the receit of the note you have sent of it ? II October, 1877.