355 only disabilities allowed by law, — absence and illness, — I had no power to appoint a Deputy, or to call an Assessor. I was the only Coroner having jurisdiction. Upon the best consideration I could give, it seemed to me that I had no choice, but to take the duty of the Inquest upon myself. No witness was brought by the Police. The information given by the two or three persons who attended was scanty in every sense of the word. But there was enough to satisfy the Jury of the nature of the death, and the person who caused it, and to justify them in referring the case to a tribunal of larger jurisdiction. As the woman was at large, I gave a warrant to arrest her, and take her before a Justice of the Peace. After arrest by the Police, it appeared that, however willing the Justices might be to act, their Clerk was not at hand, and they could not act without him. The woman must be kept by the Police for two days and nights, till all things were in readiness for the enquiry to be made by the Magis- trates. The Inspector of the Police came to me in the diffi- culty. He appealed to my personal knowlege of the character of the woman, and of the place where she would be confined, and he asked for my authority to transfer her to a fitter lodging within the Castle. It seemed to me an act of kindness which I could not refuse to a poor woman whose husband had been lately under my care ; and I gave a warrant for the purpose. I never doubted that the Magistrates would act on the warrant under which the arrest had been made. It may be doubted whether a lawyer, if Coroner, would have done as much. It is more likely that he would say to the Police, ' You have the prisoner in custody on suspicion of felony. My duty is done.' In the'charge to the Grand Jury the Judge pointed out the omission on the part of the Justices of the Peace to investigate the case, and he called their attention to the consequences which might follow through neglect of the legislative enact- ments on the subject. ' This is a most extraordinary case,' the Judge afterwards said, ' in consequence of no depositions being returned.' Application was made on behalf of the prisoner for an adjournment of the trial. The Judge, the proverbial Counsel A a a