49 once, a compress of lint, with a roller applied to the limb, would have stopped the loss of blood. Under such an amount of injury,—destruction of the vein and injury of the artery, attended with great destruction of the soft parts in the Popliteal region,— mortification of the leg might have been expected, if the Patient rallied from the first effects of the injury. The question of amputation through the thigh, above the seat of injury, would have arisen then. The operation would have offered a fair prospect of recovery. Gunshot Wound of Hand. Gangrene of Fingers—Erysipelas —Pyemia—Death. A laboring man, half-witted, 53 years of age, of temperate habits, not of sound constitution, was admitted into the Rad- clifife Infirmary, under my care, on Sunday morning, 16 March, 1851, with a gunshot wound of his left hand, received by the accidental discharge of a fowling-piece about an hour before admission. He was standing with his hand on the muzzle of the gun, which was loaded with powder only. This exploded, and the wadding, which was a piece of paper, was blown through his hand. There was a small wound in the palm, between the metacarpal bones of the fore and middle fingers, and a larger wound, of irregular shape, on the back of the hand, with the edges torn aside in different directions. The bones were not broken. Two large vessels which bled freely were tied, and the wound was dressed. 18. — He was tremulous, and in a low and depressed state. I ordered a pint of ale daily in addition to his regular diet, and a dose of Opium at night. This was continued for ten days, and he improved much in his general health. The index, middle, and ring fingers afterwards became gangrenous. On the 17th of April I removed them, with the heads of the three metacarpal bones. Much blood was lost at the operation from the granulating surfaces and the small vessels; but no vessel required a ligature. After a week's continuance of northerly and north-east winds, Erysipelas appeared on the head and face, on the 26th. E