244 To Dr. a. My dear a,—Do you remember that some few weeks ago you called my attention to one of the printed Rules : — 'That all Patients be and continue under the care of the Physician or Surgeon (and, in mixed cases, of both) whose turn it was to attend when they were admitted' ? Perhaps you were then thinking of some remarks—which I did not see till afterwards, — in one of the Medical Journals :—' So inuch of the comfort of the Staff of any Hospital depends upon the observance of Rules, and upon their being considered as contracts on which the tenure of office depends, that we can not do otherwise than call attention to the circumstances of this particular case.' \T]ie Lancet^ 29 October, 1870.] An Officer of a Public Institution is entitled to call upon his Colleagues to observe the Rules the Governors have laid down. The question came afterwards under the notice of the Members of the Committee of Management. The Secretary will show you the Minute made by the Committee, upon ascertaining, by enquiry, the breach of the rule to which you referred. I told him to show you, at the same time, the Minute made on a former occasion (z5 June, 1862,) when one of our Colleagues brought under notice what he thought was the disobedience of certain other Rules. The Board at once recorded their ' disapproval' of the irregularity. Notice is now given of a motion to be made at the next Quarterly Court for the repeal of the Rule to which you referred. It is proposed to rescind the Rule which requires the Physician and Surgeon of the week to act together as the Professional advisers of the House. An other question will come before the Court,—the con- firmation of the Order made in October,—' That no one shall be allowed to occupy more than 15 minutes in addressing the Court on any subject under discussion.' Is the proposer pre- pared to show how such an Order can be carried into practise, — and how disobedience can be treated?—Will he speak of what has been done in past years on occasions of disobedience of Rules,—and what he thinks should be done in future ? Surely it would tend more to the credit of a Public Institution, and to the harmonious working of its various parts,