i66 having been almost wholly removed by the assiduous attention of a good Nurse. When the blades of the speculum were fully expanded, and the opening into the bladder fully exposed, it was seen to be transverse in direction, somewhat of a half- moon in shape, less defined in its lower or posterior border than in the anterior or upper, and rather more than an inch in transverse measurement. Through this opening, when fully distended by the speculum, the inner surface of the bladder was visible, and the orifices of both ureters could be clearly seen distilling the urine. By slow and cautious steps, the edges of the opening were pared away completely, and a thorough abrasion of the surface effected. This part of the proceeding proved to be extremely tedious and wearisome. More blood was lost than was an- ticipated ; and the necessity for constantly clearing the vagina from the accumulated clots and urine added much to the length of the operation. The edges being sufficiently pared, two double sutures, introduced without much difficulty by means of Beaumont's needle, enabled Mr. Crookes to bring the parts together, and they adapted themselves in the way desired most completely. A small-sized gum elastic catheter was then passed into the bladder, and the Patient laid upon her back in bed. The instrument was secured in its position by tapes; and, a folded draw-sheet having been placed be- neath the buttocks, the urine was allowed to dribble away as soon as it entered the bladder. The operation lasted altogether for about two hours; and, although tedious and irksome, the Patient did not appear to suff"er from pain. The bowels were subsequently kept in a free state by the use of castor oil, and no unfavorable symptoms occurred. On the third day the sutures were removed. The catheter was kept in the bladder till the tenth day. The vagina was cautiously syringed out with warm water several times daily ; and every attention was paid to keep the parts in a quiet and cleanly condition. Three weeks after the operation the surfaces were found to have united perfectly, and a thick and short portion of urethral canal was thus formed. The incontinence of urine, however, still continued. The use of a sponge pessary was now tried, in the hope that, by pressure on the newly formed portion of