The man's general health, however, began to fail rapidly. He complained of a constant cough and diarrhea. He was removed from the Infirmary on the 17th April by his own desire, and he died at home three days afterwards. Remarks.—Under failing health, with a consciousness of the decline of strength, a poor person seeks in a Hospital the rest which he can not find at home. A disease which is not of itself of a serious nature is the complaint, or the excuse, under which he applies for admission, and death follows an operation which in other circumstances would not involve dangerous consequences. In many of the cases which have come under my observa- tion, the Hydrocele has been in persons of a gouty or rheumatic constitution, without any cause known for it. In a large number of the cases it has followed some local injury, and the disease has been attributed to that by the Patient. In some few cases, after the fluid has been removed by puncture of the sac, it has happened that there has not been any subsequent accumulation ; or, at least, none to an extent to be a source of inconvenience to the Patient. The late Mr. Murchison, of Bicester, told me early in his practise that he was in the habit of puncturing the tunica vaginalis at three or four points with a common needle, so that the fluid should escape slowly into the proper tissues of the scrotum, from which it was absorbed readily. He treated all cases alike. Later in life, after many years of experience, he told me that he had only known one case in which there was no return of the disease. In examining a case presented for treatment, it has seemed to me impossible to tell beforehand what amount of local irritation will be sufficient to effect such a change in the serous membrane lining the tunica vaginalis that it shall cease to secrete a larger amount of fluid than can be absorbed from the cavity. Nor is it possible to foresee what amount of local inflammation or constitutional disturbance will follow an operation in a given case. The symptoms are not uniform in their course, or regular in progress. I have not observed that there is a difference in cases where the disease was de-