26 smooth; but more prominent at the back. The pulsation can be observed with the eye, over the whole extent: it is synchronous with the pulse at the wrist. It disappears on compressing the External Iliac artery over the pubes ; and reappears immediately when the artery is free. In the An- terior alid Posterior Tibial arteries pulsation can scarcely be felt. In the Left leg the pulsation is natural. An inch above the patella the circumference on the Right side is i8 inches : at the same part on the Left it is 15 inches. The veins of both legs are varicose : but those of the Right are the largest. The lower part of the limb is edematous. There is no discoloration from ecchymosis. He complains of the throbbing pain in the leg; but he can perform the movements of flexion and extension without inconvenience. His pulse is full and jerking: the tongue foul, and the bowels confined. No disease of the chest was recognised. The impulse of the heart was natural; and its action regular. The Patient was formerly a Coal-heaver; for several years working hard, and drinking freely,—frequently working in the wet all day. He suffered occasionally from rheumatic pains in his knees, and was at times troubled by varicose veins in the legs. With the exception of these ailments,—which he thought trifling,—he considered himself a healthy man. For the last year or two he has worked as a Gardener, using his Right leg much in digging. About three weeks ago he first became sensible of a dull continued pain, with throbbing, at the back of the Right knee,—where, at the same time, he felt a small tumor about the size of an egg. Although any exertion caused great pain, he did not give over work ; as he took it for a rheu- matic affection. The tumor continued gradually to increase: but on the 20th of November, when engaged in wheeling a heavy barrow up a steep plank, he suddenly felt something give way in his leg. From this time the tumor increased more rapidly: the pain became more severe, and the throbbing more evident. He became unable to work; and he applied to Sir William Lawrence, who sent him to the Hospital. There being no doubt that the swelling was a diffused Aneurism, the operation of tying the Femoral artery, below the origin of the Profunda, was performed by Sir W. Lawrence