137 pendent, as I supposed, on constitutional causes, and those where it is attributed by the Patient to local injury. The same train of symptoms which in one case are followed by a cure, in an other are followed by a return of the disease. The treatment is not certain in its result. In cases of relapse the period of return is various. ... In some of the cases in which I treated the Hydrocele by passing a seton through the sac, I used at one time the silk thread in general use among Practitioners for ligatures and sutures. Although I do not remember accurately in which of the cases I used it, I know that I gave up the use of that material very early in practise ; and that I took for operation in Hydroceles, as in all other cases, the flax thread used by tailors, and known in the trade as No. 35. [Si. Bartholojnew's Hospital Reports^ Vol. 14.] Hydrocele, on Both Sides. Seton—Return of Disease— Seton — Suppuration. A laboring man, 55 years of age, of rheumatic constitution, was admitted 28 September, 1864, into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care, with Hydrocele on both sides. The sac on the right side had been tapped in February, when 10 ounces of fluid were let out. On the 30th I tapped the cyst on the left side, and let out 6 ounces of fluid. I then passed a double thread through the sac on the right side. No fluid passed off by the thread. I therefore withdrew it; and on 3rd of October I tapped the cyst, and let out 10 ounces of fluid slightly purulent in appearance. No swelling or other symptom of inflammation followed. The man was discharged on the 12th. He was readmitted 13 March, 1867, with the tunica vaginalis of the right side greatly distended. During the preceding summer, he had undergone some treatment by an other Prac- titioner for the Hydrocele on the left side; I do not know of what nature. On the 15th I passed a double thread through the sac on the right side. On the i8th I removed one of the threads. On the 22nd I allowed him to get out of bed, and move about