266 To THE Same. To continue the subject of our conversation,—the tangible objections to the Long ward, if of a permanent kind, and due to the actual construction of the ward as a building. What I understand to be the chief objection, is the great heat in very hot weather, (such as part of last summer,) with the variable temperature, and the draughts of cold which come from the windows. It must be borne in mind that the needs of a ward require that every window should be sometimes, indeed frequently, opened; and that the operation of opening and shutting should be done without difficulty, and by a Nurse (i. e. a woman). The pullies for opening these large windows work well; but the cords break now and then,—a trifling matter you will say, and easily set right by supplying stronger cords. Do what you will, you will not succeed, in getting such windows made airtight. The air which comes in, is obstructed by the linen blinds now used, and passes out at the sides with a rush. Inside Venetian blinds should be put, as in M. and other wards. As the windows are flush (or nearly so,) with the inner walls, the laths should be set within a projecting frame, to turn the current of air away from the beds. The expense was, I think, what stopped Mr. Combe from proposing it. Outside blinds would, no doubt, keep the heat off most effectually: but they are a constant source of trouble and expense,—and in our summer only wanted for a very short time. It is, I think, worthy of consideration whether two of the windows on the north side might not be permanently closed with brick-work,—or boarded over. There has been some trouble in working the gas : I do not think the alteration lately made has altogether removed it. Considering the limited use to which gas-light can be applied in a ward, I think that two single burners with clear glass would be enough even for this large ward, and that they would be better placed over the fire-places. The boilers are defective from the spouts being too low for the pails in common use. This can be remedied, by putting new boilers, when the grates come under repair. It would be a great convenience, I think, if the door lead-