364 was a Special Court. But the question had been lately ruled dififerently; and it was clear that the Governors in a General Court had full power to turn out any Officer at their mere will, without giving any reason, and without giving any notice beforehand of their intention. The printed Rules were, in fact, mere rubbish, in no way binding on the Governors. They were aware that he had himself been very lately removed from his Office by this summary process. Mr. S. had given as a reason for it that the Office of Surgeon was incompatible with an other office outside the House to which he had been lately appointed ; but nobody said how it became so. Mr. S,, when asked, who declared it to be so,—referred to a Judge at the Assizes. Mr. Hussey said that he did not feel himself called upon to take notice of what had been said by the Judge in question, unless the Governors desired him to do so. He would simply say that what Mr. S. had quoted,or misquoted, as such, was simply, wholly, absolutely false. And he submitted to them that an Officei who could show such disregard for the truth, ought not to be allowed any longer to hold office in the House. Also, when it had been publicly mentioned that Mr. Hussey had never broken a rule nor disobeyed an order of the House, Mr. S. had stated that there was one rule he broke habitually, weekly, every time he came to the House, that was in not certifying in some way his opinion to the Committee. Mr. Hussey said there was no more truth in this statement of Mr. S.'s than in the other; that there was no such rule, and that he had never failed, when called upon by the Committee upon any subject, to make a full report to them. Mr. S. had also stated that the House had experienced great inconveni- ence from Mr. Hussey holding the two offices. It was impos- sible to imagine what that was. Mr. S. when called upon, could not suggest any. Mr. Hussey believed this statement of Mr. S.'s to be as destitute of foundation as the other ; and he concluded by moving that Mr. S. be removed from the office of Treasurer, — to which is now attached, that of Chairman of the Committee of Management.