213 three past visitations of Cholera, there would be only a small number of Patients under treatment in Hospital at one time. There is no pretence that proper accommodation has been found or will be found elsewhere, for all who have the mis- fortune to be seized with it. That others, whose duty it may be equally with ours, to provide for ' the sick and lame poor,' are backward, is not a reason that we should cast off from our care those who, as fit objects, seek relief at our hands, —that we should add to the number of the sufferers without lending a hand to lighten the burden fallen on the community at large. The law of the land, assuming and enforcing the duty of Christian charity, provides for the destitute. For that large number who, though not destitute, yet have to seek foreign help under the infliction of sickness, there is some provision in the funds of which you are Trustees, — the gift of those who have felt they are not absolved from the duty of charity by the more urgent pressure of the obliga- tion of the national law. But the objection made is to the disease, and not to the number of the sick who would be brought to the Infirmary with it. An other important question should be considered, and some authoritative decision made. If Small-pox or Cholera appears in the House among the Patients admitted with other diseases, what is to be done with those who are attacked? Are they to be moved from the wards to any separate place which you will keep always ready for such cases, and for such only? If they are to be discharged, where are they to be sent, and how are they to be taken ? You have undertaken the care of them, and you are answerable for the proper exercise of the duty. Will you be content with requiring the Recommending Governor to remove them,—and leave the Patients in the wards till such Governor—not more charitably disposed perhaps towards the unhappy sufferers—moves them at his leisure, and finds a home for them ? Will you send them to their homes—the homes of the poor!—such places for the treatment of acute disease? That the admission of severe diseases, in giving an extended field for clinical observation, affords facilities for instruction in the science and practise of Physic and Surgery—that it