172 A farmer, 36 years of age, while occupied, 6 July, 186r, in disengaging the machinery of a mill on his farm from the steam-engine, which he thought was at rest, had the calf of the leg pinched between the end of the horizontal piston and the brickwork in which the end of the rod worked. The limb was also scalded by an escape of steam. A large and hard swelling afterwards formed in the back of the leg. This was punctured on the 25th of August by a Medical Practitioner with a trocar in two places. On the 30th the two openings were united by an incision; and a probe was passed, to as- certain the nature of the swelling. On the 3rd of September a sudden and profuse rush of blood took place from the v/ound ; and a large amount was lost before any Professional assistance was obtained. The Patient became delirious under the loss. In the emergency I was summoned, in consult- ation with the late Dr. Morris of Deddington. I had no doubt that the swelling was a false aneurism, from rupture of one of the large arteries; and that the proper course was to amputate the limb. With Dr. Morris's assistance, I amputated the leg below the knee. The Patient was so much exhausted by the pre- vious loss of blood, that I did not think it prudent to put him under chloroform. On examination of the amputated limb, the soft parts appeared to be much disorganized, and the different tissues were not easily distinguished ; but I discovered two large openings in the Posterior Tibial artery. There was not any fracture of bone. The Patient recovered. He is now living and in good health, A married woman, 52 years of age, wife of a laboring man, was admitted, 19 January, ] 866, into the County Asylum at Littlemore with a recent attack of mania. She had suffered from an attack of fever about 12 months ago ; and after re- covery, it was observed that her right leg had become almost useless. On 6 January she went from home by railway to a village eight miles distant, on a visit to her sister. In the afternoon