296 are not submitted to the Auditors for examination. But there are mistakes in the Totals, not easily seen on a superficial examination; and it is not more than a super- ficial examination, I believe, that Governors give to these matters. In the Annual Report for 1853, the average of Disburse- ments, shown in the ' Comparative View of Receits and Disbursements/ is stated to be ;^3,889.- this is a mistake for ;^3>389- In the Comparative View in the Annual Report for 1854 are the following mistakes. The amount of' Benefactions, &c.' is put at '0.0.0.': it was £8^2 los. This mistake has arisen, I presume, from its being thought by those who prepared the Table, that the figures in this column are the sums spent during the year in the purchase of Stock. But, being under the general head of ' Receits,' they denote the sums received during the year, which are not appropriated to the Expen- diture, as part of the Income of the year, but invested in the purchase of Stock, under the orders of a General Court,— not always within the year in which they are received, but as soon as the pressing nature of the demands on the finances allows the investment to be made, without bringing too low the balance which it is always desirable to have in the Treasurer's hands. In one year (1851), a larger sum than here shown was invested: the amount of' Benefactions, &c.' received, and invested, during the year, being increased by the investment of a sum of about £4.00, an accumulation of a balance, from the Income having been for some years greater than the Expenditure. The sum received is rightly called £']1'^ 'id.: the sum invested during the year was ;^i,rio 15J. ^d. The year 1853 ended with a deficiency of ;^400. The ordinary Income of that and the preceding year had been heavily taxed for substantial repairs and other works, which could not be delayed longer without permanent injury; and these ought properly to have been paid out of Capital. While the 'Benefactions, &c.' of those years had been in- vested in Stock, without applying them to Expenses, which (strictly speaking) ought not to have been thrown a burden