ii8 The kidnies were double the natural size, with the pelvis and calyces much enlarged. The liver also was much enlarged, and pale in color, with the general appearance of fatty degener- ation. The pleura on both sides was adherent from old inflam- mation. There were also tubercles in parts of the Right Lung. In one Patient under my care in June 1854, a dehcate, strumous boy, between 5 and 6 years of age, the wound was very slow in healing. The boy had passed blood with his urine during an attack of Scarlet fever when about 18 months old. He had suffered from symptoms of disease of the urinary organs from that time; but Medical advice was not sought till shortly before his admission into the Infirmary. Upon sounding him, a calculus was readily detected, always resting in the same position, — that of the left sacro-iliac symphysis. At the operation, the calculus seemed to be held in a cyst of the bladder. I found difficulty in the attempt to dislodge it with forceps, and I removed it with the scoop. An abscess formed in the perineum, and discharged through the wound ; the left testis afterwards swelled, and discharged a small quantity of matter through the scrotum. The boy remained 3 months in the Infirmary after the operation. The wound having then closed, he was sent home. He was brought back in a fortnight; his Mother reporting that a full stream of urine passed through the perineum when he emptied the bladder. As he had been exposed to the contagion of smallpox, I vaccinated him in the arm. The vaccine vesicle rose slowly; the eruption of variola appeared, and the disease ran its course with some degree of severity. The only treat- ment, with a view to the closure of the wound in the perineum, consisted in seeing that the bladder was frequently emptied, night as well as day; the orders given for the purpose being well executed by the Nurse. He was discharged after a stay of rather more than 3 months, during which time I could not discover that a single drop of urine had passed through the perineum. He regained his health perfectly: and in 1878 I heard that he was a Serjeant in a Regiment of Foot. In the summer of 1871 a boy, 3 years old, was under the