3i8 Surgeon of the week was there. I understand that this refers to me as the Surgeon ; and that the occasion was late one evening, at a time when there was no special call upon the Dispenser for attendance in the Apothecary's shop. It is only just toward an Officer, who has my confidence, with (I believe,) that of my Colleagues, that I should inform the Committee that he was in the ward with my sanction, waiting for my orders, and that therefore he was rightly so present, and in attendance, until he had my permission to withdraw to other duty. It is stated that 'he was told by the House- Surgeon that he ought to remain in the Dispensary.' If the House-Surgeon had said that in my presence, I should have reprimanded him at once, for the impertinence. The Com- mittee are aware, — and it would be well that all their Servants should know it — that the House-Surgeon's autho- rity exists only in the absence of the Medical Officers. I take the liberty of adding my opinion that it would be well if the House-Surgeon (as well as the Dispenser and others,) ' would confine himself to his own department,' and attend to it, I should not then have reason to complain of his frequent absence, and the necessity laid upon me of my- self rendering those services in the wards, which in other Hospitals are rendered by the House-Surgeon, under the direction of the Surgeons. An other statement is that ' a Patient remained in acute suffering from 8 p.m. to past midnight for want of a remedy which was ordered, and which the Dispenser was not at hand to prepare.' As I understand ' the circumstances,' the House- Surgeon went to an entertainment, and remained out till near midnight, at a time when the Dispenser was absent; it being one of the standing orders of the House that he and the Dispenser shall not both be absent at the same time. It is a part of the duty of the House-Surgeon, — as I un- derstand it, — to see that all remedies ordered are duly pre- pared and administered ; and as a Member of the Medical Profession, it is his duty to see that Patients do not suffer from want of them. At a time when he knew the Dispenser was not at hand, it was his duty to the House, himself to prepare the remedy ordered, and to see himself that it was