212 in a mild form, — if it can ever be said to be mild in any phase,—was engrafted on the rich by inoculation; and it spread in a virulent form by contagion among those who were too poor to pay for the luxury of inoculation, and its accom- panying Houses of Separation. If the poor now neglect vaccination, it is little to the detriment of the rich. The mis- chievous effects of the disease are felt almost wholly among themselves and in their own families. The disease, in a virulent form, is seldom conveyed to their well-protected richer neigh- bors and visitors. Whatever can be done for spreading the benefits of vac- cination, for removing prejudices connected with it, and for extending among the poor the greatest blessing ever con- ferred through the office of Medicine, should be done by encouragement,—by acts which, done with kindness, will be received with thankfulness,—and not enforced by an appear- ance of compulsion. 'It is a poor sophistry to call that charity which has in it no kindness. That can be no charity which brings no blessing back from the receiver. Sullenly is it given, sullenly is it received.' It is also open to you to order that every Patient, not already protected, shall be vaccinated after admission. Is it likely that such an order would be executed.'' In 1840 it was ordered that vaccination should be made one of the charitable dispensations; it was to be performed frequently, at stated times, — lymph was to be furnished to Medical Practitioners requesting it, — and the number of the vac- cinated was to be published in the Annual Report;—an excellent order, and no more thought of it. Why Cholera should be forbidden, as a disease unfit to share your bounty, no reason has yet been urged. No clause in the Rules of 1770, or 1788, can produce a sentence of exclusion : there was none introduced on the last revision of 1848, though the disease had been then known in England for 17 years, and had once visited this county. That there is abundant accommodation, and that it can be provided (if desired,) apart from the other Patients in the House, is well known ; though this is a question of detail. Judging from the experience of the special Hospitals hastily prepared on the