93 However skilfully applied, all these bandages sei-ve only a temporary purpose. The ^immovable apparatus,' which is required for chronic cases, should answer its purpose without needing frequent application or readjusting, and should not offer any obstacle to the Surgeon's examination, if he wish to make one. The ease with which the Surgeon can remove the apparatus, or can open it in part, is a circumstance requiring consideration in the choice of material, quite as much as the ease with which he can apply it in the first instance, or the efficiency of its purpose to keep the confined parts at rest and immovable. The materials mentioned by writers are as various as are the diseases or lesions to which they are applicable. . . . Mr. Dawson, of Bicester, a man of extensive experience, told me that it had long been his practise, when summoned to a simple case of fracture of the leg, to desire some paste to be made, and to ask for an old newspaper or two. With these materials he made a very efficient 'immovable apparatus'; and the Patient's progress was in every way satisfactory under the treatment. Vaccination is entitled to the prominent place it holds in professional estimation from the importance now given to the operation in the curriculum of the Examining Boards. It seems to be one of the numerous operations which each Practitioner performs most successfully in his own way. The attempts which have been made to prescribe a ' normal' mode of performing the operation, and of preserving the lymph, do not appear to be attended with uniformity of prac- tise more than attempts at one line of practise in the greater operation of amputation. Mr. Lister contributes an essay upon the operation of Amputation of the limbs. He traces the history of the operation and the different improvements in this department of Surgery. What always kept the old Surgeons back in this operation was, the fear of hemorrhage. It was not the want of the tourniquet only; for at an early period a bandage of some kind was used to check the flow of blood during the operation. It was the want of the modern ligature, or other means to seal effectually the open mouths of the divided vessels, after the part had been removed.