350 rather to encourage than to check consultations, and the con- sequent publicity. 24 April, 1871. To THE Editor of the British Medical Journal Sir, — My attention was called yesterday to an article in the British Medical Journal, — 'Medical Coroners acting as Medical Witnesses.' In it, you refer to some parts of what is reported to have been said by a Judge at the late Assizes here, during the trial of a prisoner on a charge of murder. The case altogether was of an unprecedented kind, involving many questions of the line of duty. Your readers may, per- haps, be willing to receive this short explanation from me. As there had not been any investigation by a Justice of the Peace, nor any prosecution by the Police, it appeared to be necessary, — late on Saturday evening, — that the Solicitors acting on behalf of the family of the deceased should prepare a bill of indictment to be laid before the Grand Jury early on Monday morning. If there had been more time, for the Solicitors to collect full evidence, and to summon a suffi- ciency of witnesses, it would not have been thought necessary that I, who had acted as the Coroner upon the preliminary enquiry, should be called as a witness. It can hardly be necessary for me to add that it was not by my own wish, nor with any good will of my own, that I was thus called forward in Court as a witness. While I was under examination, the Judge, — Mr. Baron H., — without asking for any explanation, began his address to me by telling me that I could have called in one of the Coroners for the County to hold the Inquest. With due sub- mission, I said I was not aware of it. The Clerk of the Peace for the County then informed the Court that the Coroner of the City could not do so. The Judge then said that I could have appointed a Deputy to hold the Inquest. I said I did not know that a Deputy could act, except in case of my illness or unavoidable absence. Afterwards, the Judge referred to a book handed to him by the Clerk of the Peace ; and he then said there was ground for the doubt I had of the