59 discussion has taken place with so little approach to uni- formity of opinion, but makes no estimate of their compara- tive value as therapeutic agents. In his own practise he prefers the operation by flaps; he thinks it more easy of performance. The circular operation, as now performed by double in- cision, is that which for the longest period of time has re- ceived the general approbation of Surgeons. By it a smaller amount of injury is inflicted on the soft parts, and it makes a smaller wound. Generally it is attended with less flow of blood, the mouths of the divided vessels contract more per- fectly, and a smaller number of vessels require ligature. But it requires the exercise of a little more judgement on the part of the Surgeon,—a nicer calculation in admeasurement, to secure an efficient covering for the end of the bone. It certainly is not according to our experience, what some instrument - makers tell us, as quoted by Dr. Gross, that stumps made by the circular operation seldom answer well for the adaptation of an artificial substitute. If it was, we should be tempted, when the difficulty arose, to seek the aid of others who had the faculty of being able to fit an artificial substitute to the stump presented to them. The operation by flaps is done more readily; it takes some few seconds less in time, and there is less danger of the in- experienced operator failing to secure a sufficiency of soft parts for protection of the end of the bone,—the one thing above all others required for the future comfort of the Patient and the adaptation of an artificial limb. ' Many amputations have I seen villainously done,' said a late In- spector of Army Hospitals ; ' but they all turned out well, if only the bone was sawn high enough.'' Dr. Gross remarks:—' It has long been known that the danger of the operation is greater in proportion to its prox- imity to the trunk, and the size of the limb.' We are inclined to think that the danger to the Patient arises rather from the injury or disease, for which the operation is undertaken, having its seat so near the trunk. If it should ever become the fashion—and who shall say it will not.^—to amputate at the hip-joint for disease of the knee, we venture to say