159 must be dead bone, though I could not ascertain its presence, I slit up the sinus, exposed and removed a piece of bone perfectly black. It was rather more than an inch long, and about half as wide ; m thickness equal to that of a crown-piece. The exposed surface healed rapidly ; and the annoyance of between 30 and 40 years' duration was at an end. Believe me always, yours very sincerely, Wm. Lawrence. E. L. HussEY, Esq. Large Sinus in the Perineum. Exposing the Urethra— Operation. A man, 55 years of age, formerly a farmer, reduced by debauchery and extravagance, was admitted into the RadcHffe Infirmary, under my care, 25 August, 185a, with a large open sinus in the perineum, communicating with the urethra. It was the result of sloughing; but whether this was connected with stricture and disease of the urinary organs, or whether it was, as I rather think, from the effects of injury, I did not obtain a very clear account; nor did I learn how long it had existed. The urine was constantly dribbling frorn the sinus; and when the Patient attempted to empty the bladder, the greater part of the urine escaped by this opening. Upon being placed on a table with the perineum exposed, a large funnel-shaped cavity between the scrotum and the anus was seen, having much the appearance of the female vulva. Upon separating the sides of this, a large opening was observed in the urethra, and the interior of the canal was bare to the extent of about an inch and a half. At first I thought that the chasm might be closed, and union of the opposed surfaces obtained, by stimulating the granulations. To this end I applied Acetum cantharidis freely several times ; but the treatment had no beneficial effect. I therefore proceeded to further operation. The man being placed in the usual position for lithotomy, the sides and edges of the opening were freely pared all round with a scalpel, and a new surface made by the removal of the whole of the granulating parts. A full-sized elastic catheter was then passed into the bladder through the jpenis, and the sides and edges of the wound were drawn together and closed