288 To THE Rev. J. S. My dear Sir, — In the printed paper you have addressed to the President and Governors, upon the subject of some of the late proceedings at the Infirmary, you say of the letter I addressed to them,—that it 'is calculated to produce most erroneous impressions on those who are ignorant of the facts;' and that you ' have undertaken, on your own responsibility, to lay before them the materials which are needful to enable them to form a correct judgement of the matter.' The first instance you give is, — referring to the Report made by Mr. R. to the Committee of Management, — that I have informed the Governors that the notice taken of it at the Meeting on the 2nd of March was ' irregular.' It is not unnatural that you, the elected Chairman at that Meeting, should desire to uphold the proceedings, and to impress 'on those who are ignorant of the facts,' that what was done was orderly. When they hear, however, that at the last Quarterly Court the proceedings of that Meeting were, after due notice given beforehand, publicly declared to be invalid, and erased from the Minute Book, they will not, I think, care to hear more about them. At page 3 of my letter, I have said that ' the enquiry of which the Report is the result, was made by a Stranger, in- vited privately, as I have before pointed out to you, by four Members only of the Committee of Management, in defiance of the Order of a General Court of Govei'uors, which directs that all Medical or Surgical enquiries shall be referred in the first in- stance to an especial Medical Committee.' In quoting this sentence, you have left out the words here printed in Italic. You add, ' This again it is easy to disprove by the documentary evidence of the Minutes.' At a Meeting of the Committee on the 5th of December a letter from me was read, pointing out the irregularity of the proceeding, and the want of authority in the Committee, — that it was in defiance of the Order of a General Court of Governors, — that the appointment of a