Retention of Urine. Rupture of Bladder—Death. A laboring man, 48 years of age, but older in appearance, thin, spare, and ' asthmatic,' was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care, a6 April, 1870, complaining of inability to empty his bladder by his own efforts, and of the necessity for frequent relief by catheter. At the time of admission, an elastic catheter was in the urethra, where it had been fixed with tapes by Mr. Hemingway, of Steeple Aston, two or three days before admission. Mr. Hemingway had been called to him ten days before admission; and he had been passing a full-sized catheter twice a day for about a week. He never found any difficulty in passing the instru- ment into the bladder. The Patient lived at a distance ; and as Mr. Hemingway was not able to pay him frequent visits, he tied an elastic catheter in the canal, for the man to relieve himself at will. The Patient had suffered from a difficulty in emptying his bladder for six years ; but he had never had a catheter passed, and he had not applied to any Medical Practitioner for assist- ance. In February 1837 he met with an accident, by which he had been run over by a cart. Both thighs were broken, and he was much injured about the body. He was taken to the Infirmary, and remained under treatment for 3 months. The day after admission I withdrew the elastic catheter, and passed a silver one. No. 9 in size, in place of it. The urine drawn off was thick and purulent. Upon examination per anum I did not find that the prostate was enlarged. A catheter of fvdl size was passed, by myself or the House- Surgeon, three times each day. But the Patient complained so much of the collection of even a small quantity, that an elastic catheter was afterwards (on the 38th) left in the urethra, and fastened with tapes, so that he might relieve himself by drawing the urine off at his own pleasure. The urine drawn oiif was thick, stringy, and purulent, and so offensive that the attendants in the ward removed it speedily. A little blood was observed in it once. This, when placed under the micro- scope, had the appearance of being mixed with cancer-cells.