227 There are few, I take the liberty of adding, where it is con- venient to treat a case of severe injury. The young men are at an age peculiarly liable to the infection of fevers, and peculiarly liable to various severe injuries in the numerous exercises, or pastimes, in which they take part. Yet there is no proper place to which they , can be taken in such cases, where they can have the care, or e even the comfort, to which they have been accustomed at h home. 3 March, 1875.. To Dr. B. Dear Sir,—Thanks for your 'Oration,' — in a form and = style more easy to read than in the closely printed columns of the weekly Journals. It is well to keep these things before ; the eyes of Medical Practitioners :—so many now hold ofifice in Public Institutions. They are the best judges: they best kknow the defects of the Institutions in which they practise. I It is not the result of my observation that they are in general ugnorant, or unwilling to advise. What is wanted, — as it seems to me, — is, a Public Opinion t to hold the Governors responsible when they turn a deaf ear : to the suggestions of the Medical Officers. There are few : places, I suspect, out of London, where this exists. The ' skilled Observer' may trace the Government in the work J done by the Machine. You do not mention Vaccination and re-vaccination as a ) preventive of Small-pox. Perhaps you do not think it is (to be trusted. Much of it is done badly enough, no doubt. You refer to a question at the General Lying-in Hospital ' a quarter of a century ago.' I am not sure that you mean \ the one which I investigated on the spot, when I was House- • Surgeon 30 years ago. The new Hospital suffered under «repeated attacks of Fever. Many plans were tried for relief. \At last Dr. Rigby,—the most active of the Medical Officers, — persuaded the Committee to adopt Dr. Reid's system of >ventilation. A long time afterwards he referred to it as having nbeen a permanent cure. At the Hospital I learned this of it. 'That Fever came again; and worse than before. That the Q a