371 by the same person.' When requested by me to point out how, or why, the two offices are not proper to be so held, they did not give any answer. Mr. S. calls attention to some remarks made the year before last by one of the Judges, He does not quote them correctly, and he does not name the individual Judge who so far forgot his position as to make ' animadversion' publicly on the con- duct of an Officer of the Crown, without first calling on him for explanation. It was the extra-judicial dictum of a newly- appointed Judge, imperfectly informed of the law as well as the facts, and, but for the artificial importance given by two or three Governors at a meeting in the Infirmary, such remarks would not be worth notice. Of the Judge himself, and the occasion he took for his remarks, it was well said by one of the Governors present, ' that he came into Court with a small allowance of temper, and that he had lost that little before he had completed his sitting.' If any remarks reflecting on the conduct of one of the supe- rior Officers of a 'public Institution' were deserving of the attention of the Governors, their duty, on every recognised principle of justice, would be to call the attention of their Officer to them, and to receive explanation from him, before further notice was taken. To this, it may be said in reply, that it is not the custom in the Infirmary for the Governors to ask for explanation from persons whom they condemn, or to hear more than one side of a case. But in truth, the eager advocacy of two or three persons of narrow views and slender judgement failed to procure attention for remarks which might well be passed over, as having been words of indiscretion and altogether out of place. The mention by Mr. S. of the ' Honorary Medical Officers' is an other mistake. Those Officers have no duty in relation to the Patients. They do not attend them, and they are not able to give evidence. I never proposed to call any of them as witnesses. But of the acting Medical Officers — those who attend the Patients, — the ' superiors, under whose instructions the H ouse-Surgeon must act,' as declared at an Inquest by a former House-Surgeon, now one of the Medical Officers of B b 2