67 which has been allowed to disappear without active inter- ference, it will many times be a question after all, which can never be solved, whether it was indeed pus. The bleeding lancet, if made, as lancets are now usually- made for the pocket-case, sufficiently strong in the blade not to bend, and strong enough in the point not to break, we have generally found the most satisfactory instrument for opening the abscesses under the common integument; and these are the abscesses for which an opening is most fre- quently needed, or, perhaps we should say, is most frequently made. It is a less formidable instrument to produce in the sick-room ; and we think it may be commended as doing the work sufficiently well. For chronic suppuration, for the ab- scess under the deep fascia, ' a thin, yet broad-shouldered, sharp-cutting, double-edged knife, or scalpel,' recommended by Mr. Coote, will be found more serviceable,—greatly superior, according to our observation, to the curved cutting instrument, the bistoury, or the old-fashioned ' abscess lancet.' The rapid division of inflamed tissues, such as those generally lying over an abscess, of the integument especially, is attended with severe pain ; and a ' rapid and bold plunge' of the instrument will often be found to give unnecessary pain in the beginning of an operation, at the end of which Mr. Coote justly condemns all probing and squeezing, as ' a proceeding extremely painful' to the Patient. The poultice, after the first application, may well be dispensed with; for it tends to keep up the suppuration, and by weakening the vessels, so far interferes with the recommendation to ' leave the remainder of the cure to Nature.' Under the head of Gangrene, Mr. Coote includes the different terms which have been applied to mortification, or ' the doing to death,' of different textures of the body. Ulcer- ation and mortification are often mingled; the ulcerative and sloughing processes may go on, as it were, hand in hand. Still, surgically speaking, there is a wide difference between ulceration and gangrene, beyond the extent of the part involved in the spreading destructive disease, and the more intimate sympathy of the constitution with one than in the other; however difficult it may be to frame a definition