still existing in the subclavian region and inner flap. This slough, though partly detached, I left to be thrown off by- suppuration, instead of dissecting it away at the time of the amputation. The axillary and other vessels were then tied : they were all in a healthy state, and not plugged by any coagulum. There was not more than an ounce of blood lost during the operation, and none of it came from the axillary artery or vein. As the effect of the chloroform went off, the woman became very violent, but was easily subdued by the exhibition of more. The flaps were brought together, and held in place with compresses of lint, and long strips of adhesive plaster, and an elastic flannel bandage passed over the shoulder, and under the other axilla. After taking some wine she was carried back to bed, and the left hand was restrained by a strap confining the wrist to the side rail of the bedstead. She did not seem to have suffered any kind of shock from the operation. About 4 hours afterwards she became very violent, upon the Nurse offering her some beef-tea; she threw herself over in the bed on to her face, and displaced the dressings by jerking the muscles of the scapula violently, and rubbing the shoulder on the pillow. In the evening she took a small cup of beef-tea, and afterwards some gin and water. At night some Opium was given in toast and water, being poured into the nostril as before. She had about 5 hours quiet and continued sleep. On waking she still refused all food ; but her violence was cha- racterised by decreasing strength. About 11 o'clock she took some wine. Becoming weaker and weaker she died quietly between 4 and 5 o'clock in the afternoon,—about 28 hours after the operation. Remarks. At the time of the woman's admission into the Infirmary the period for primary amputation was passed, and the necessary operation for removal of the local cause of irritation was delayed in the hope of a more favorable opportunity than was afforded by the state in which she first came under observation. Yet, if the information which was afterwards obtained had been furnished by the friends when