148 it was only after several efforts at his different visits that I was able to pass a silver catheter, No. 8, into the bladder. He attended at intervals of a week or ten days. But he was relieved by the instruments being passed, and he ceased to attend. He was again admitted in January 1861 ; and he remained in the Infirmary for several months. Catheters of different sizes were passed ; and he left the house again, with the full power of passing his urine without difficulty in a full stream. In May 1863 he was again admitted, with a sinus in the perineum, through which the urine dribbled. He was more feeble in appearance. He had a large Inguinal hernia; and he walked with knock-knees. Catheters were passed at intervals. The sinus eventually healed; and he left the Infirmary in December, having again recovered the full power of retaining his urine and passing it in a full stream. On 8 June, 1866, he came to the Infirmary; and I passed a silver catheter. No. 7, into the bladder through a firm stric- ture. In his way home, he stopped at a public-house, where he had some beer. In the evening, he came with the bladder distended. He was admitted at once. A draught of Liq. Amnion, acet. with Opium was given, and repeated, — followed by a dose of castor oil. After this he passed urine freely. On the 14th I was able to pass a silver catheter, No. 9. He left the Infirmary on the 20th. In April 1867 he was again admitted. The prostate was much enlarged; and there were several openings in the perineum, through which the urine escaped in all attempts at micturition. Two days after admission I succeeded in passing a silver catheter, No. 6, into the bladder, and withdrew about twelve ounces of urine. On the 39th I passed No. 12. He was discharged on May 15. All the sinuses were healed, and he had full control over the flow of urine. On 3 May, 1869, he was again admitted, with the blad- der distended. He was put into a warm bath; a dose of castor oil was given ; followed by a draught of Liq. Amnion, acet., with Opium, some Vinum Antimonii, and Sp. Etheris nitr. The urine was afterwards passed in sufficient quantity