19 scarcely visible in the palm of the hand. The skin moved freely over the fascia. The use of the hand was perfect. The Radial and Ulnar arteries were both beating at the wrist: but the Radial more powerfully than the Ulnar. Remarks. In the first of these cases, in the absence of accurate knowlege of the exact nature of the aneurismal swelling and its anatomical relations, an attempt to reach the source of hemorrhage by operation in the palm was not one hkely to be attended with success. In the other cases, where the patient came under notice at an earlier period after the injury, a less unfavorable case presented itself for an attempt to tie the wounded vessel at the seat of injury. It can not be said that wounds of the Palmar arch form an exception to the known rule that in a case of hemorrhage from an artery of sufficient size to require a ligature, both ends of the divided vessel should, in all cases where possible, be tied at the seat of injury. But it is an almost insuperable objection to an operation for such a purpose, even in a healthy condition of the palm, that it involves a tedious and difficult dissection among parts which can not be divided or separated without risk of permanent injury. The cases which have been reported by former observers, show that stopping the current of blood by ligature of the trunks supplying the Palmar arches,—whether the Radial and Ulnar at the wrist, or the Brachial at a greater distance, —has not secured the Patient from a return of hemorrhage. These cases are instances of the success of pressure care- fully and efficiently applied. The object of the pressure is to check the force of the whole circulation in the limb ; not only the current through the larger arterial trunks,—the Radial, Ulnar, and Interosseous, in the fore-arm and at the wrist,—but a?lso through the smaller vessels and capillaries in the hand and fingers, until the injury is repaired. This is not done effectually unless the pressure is made equally on the distal side of the Palmar arches^ beyond the aneurism or other seat of injury. {Medical Times mid Gazette, August, 1874.] C %