56 there was nothing moderate in American life. Taking root in a new soil, the human plant rapidly grows to maturity, and rapidly passes into decay. The Consulting Practitioner often retires upon a competence at a time of life when, in the old country, he has scarcely begun to fix himself firmly in the estimation of the public and his professional brethren, or to get a footing within the circle of remunerative practise; and the highest officers of a kindred profession are superannuated before the grand climacteric brings the evidence of a decay, which here we do not acknowlege as accompanying it. The juvantia and Icsdentia of treatment are pointed out with minuteness. He advises attention to the temperature of the room, and to ventilation; he insists strongly on cleanli- ness, a frequent change of bed-clothes and body-linen, and washing or sponging of the Patient's person, as means of subduing inflammation,— matters not receiving (he thinks) sufficient attention from Practitioners. ' Even the arrange- ment of the furniture should be attended to, on the principle that an agreeable impression, of whatever kind, is more con- ducive to comfort and recovery, than one of an opposite character.' If the wall-papers could be changed to colors and patterns more pleasing, with as little trouble as the bed- hangings and the chair-covers, it might cheer the sufferer onward in his progress to health. Who has not heard of a Patient complaining that he sees faces on the walls, or that the figures are starting from their places? 'No persons should be permitted to be about the Patient, except such as are absolutely necessary to nurse him. Many a Patient is killed by the kindness of his friends and relatives.' Indeed, un- reflecting, misjudging kindness is often in its effects far worse than the want of it. In the treatment he recommends for inflammation, and the fever attending it, his directions are minute; his practise in- clining rather to a polypharmacy, constitutionally as well as locally. His list of local applications is long, and the in- gredients are active; and we think he trenches too much on what would be thought the province of the Physician, in England. But perhaps practise is tending in the West to a single faculty as rapidly as it seems to be with us.