41 was SLififering under an attack of scarlatina anginosa. On Saturday afternoon (the 15th) the child was in the mother's lap, when a large abscess in the left orbit burst through the upper eyelid. On Monday morning, about a o'clock, he was restless and was taken out of bed by the mother. While he was in the mother's arms, leaning with his head against her shoulder, a sudden and profuse rush of blood burst from the opening, flowing over the mother's shoulder. Mr. Druce saw the child soon after 6 o'clock. The bleeding had ceased before he arrived. He estimated the loss of blood at a pint. He applied a compress of lint, and a roller round the head. After Mr. Druce's visit, the child tore off the bandage and compress. They were replaced by the mother without further hemorrhage. I saw the child with Mr. Druce about 12 o'clock. He never rallied from the effects of the loss of blood. He died early on Thursday morning (the 20th). Disease of Hip. Abscess—Hemorrhage. In January, 1854, a boy, 12 years old, was admitted into the Radclifife Infirmary, under my care, with disease of the left hip-joint. The head of the thigh-bone was on the dorsum of the ilia, and a large abscess was presenting in the posterior part of the thigh. This was afterwards opened. The boy was taken home in the beginning of May. In the course of- the summer an elder sister came to me in great alarm, begging my immediate attendance on account of sudden and profuse bleeding from the wound. This had ceased when I arrived. The boy had been taken out of bed; and he was standing, for the dressings to be changed. His nurses were his mother and sister. I advised them to change the dressings at an earlier hour in the day, and to do the necessary operations as the boy lay in bed. Some weeks afterwards the sister came to me again with a similar request for immediate attendance. Upon enquiry, I learned that the bleeding had come on, as before, while the boy was out of bed, standing up for the dress- ings to be changed. I told her to go home and lay the boy down in bed, and that the bleeding would stop. When she found that I would not go with her, she tossed up her head