lOI to him personally, and enthusiastic in spreading the benefits of the instruction derived from a master he loved, Dr. Little was the channel through which the knowlege of this new branch of Surgery came among us in England. That joints became stiff when the bones were not used, was a piece of practical knowlege soon obtained. It was a pathological fact receiving illustration during a fracture, when the limb was kept at rest; and it was remedied by passive motion. Ex- amples were furnished by the elbow and the knee, when the limb was kept for any length of time in the bent position ; the permanently flexed condition, or ' contraction,' was not so easily cured by the ordinary attempts to straighten the limb, even when aided by the Patient's own attempts at exer- cise, if at an age to give such aid. The permanent contrac- tion of muscles, accompanied in many cases with a paralytic state of the opponents,—was more than could be cured by the incomplete mechanical contrivances of the instrument- maker, to whose care, in default of the Surgeon, such cases were generally consigned. The common club-foot [Talipes varus) is the deformity which exhibits in the greatest degree the incidents of ortho- pedic experience. Dr. Little takes this as the example by which to illustrate best the principles on which the manage- ment of other deformities should be conducted. Many of the slighter cases of congenital varus may almost be left to the manipulations of the Nurse. The more severe cases need an amount of patience and persevering attention on the part of the Surgeon, in conjunction with skill and ingenuity on the part of the instrument-maker,—to say nothing of the co- operation of the Patient,—which can hardly be appreciated by Practitioners who are seldom called upon to treat a case. We refer now chiefly to cases where there is a very great increase of the lateral, or transverse, arch of the foot, in which the fifth metatarsal bone becomes approximated to that of the great toe, with a deep furrow between,—cases, 'in which no reasonable effort of the Surgeon's hands will temporarily extinguish the contraction and deformity.' These cases were, probably, never cured before Stromeyer's time. Among the plates in Sheldrake's £ssay on Distortion (t8i6), there is not