362 the power to dismiss any Officer at their will and pleasure • and practically it was a matter of little importance what formalities were observed in doing so. Of what value then, it had been asked, were our printed Rules, which were made with such parade and hedged in with such formalities ? Why, none, as affecting any question between the Governors and their servants. The Rules were merely a public notice of the plan on which it was proposed, — or hoped, — that the work of the House would be carried on by those who took the management; they were a state- ment, on the faith of which subscriptions were publicly solicited, and they were so far necessary in a Charitable Institution that the funds might suffer by Governors with- drawing their subscriptions in case of any arbitrary exercise of power, or a glaring breach of faith. But if so, there was no right of appeal; there was no Visitor. The power to give redress rested with the Governors themselves. [The Oxford Chronicle, 26 January, 1878.] To THE Rev. J. S. My Dear Sir, — In the Oxford Chronicle of the 27th of October last these remarks are reported to have been made by you at a meeting of Governors at the Infirmary: — 'The Judge of the Assize (Mr. Baron H.) pointed out to Mr. Hussey the indecency of uniting in his own person the two offices of Coroner and Surgeon to the Infirmary;' and in the Oxford Chronicle of the 24th of November, in answer to the question put by one of the Governors,—' Who had declared it to be incompatible that the two offices should be held by the same person?' — this is reported as having been said by you : —' That it was declared incompatible by the Judge at the last Assizes.' Assuming the report to be correct, will you be kind enough to tell me when, where, and to whom the Judge in question, or any other of the Queen's Judges, said what you have reported from him} It is within my own knowlege that it was not said at the last Assize. 2, In the Oxford Chronicle of the a4th of November, it is reported that you said,—'There was a Rule which Mr.