13 The wound in the vessel was exposed without difficulty by- laying the sac open. By passing the hand at once to the bottom of the sac, in the line in which the stream of warm blood was felt by the fingers, the further hemorrhage was checked by pressure, and the flow of blood was under com- mand. The amount of blood lost at the time of operation was not greater than I have seen in some cases where a large artery has been wounded, or an aneurismal sac opened. In the cases recorded by Mr. John Bell (Principles of Surgery, vol. i. 1801), and by Mr. Syme (Observations on Clinical Surgery, 1861), the patients recovered. There was not, therefore, an opportunity of learning by dissection whether it was, as they supposed, the trunk of the Gluteal artery itself that was wounded, or one of the primary branches, as in this case. Some of the difficulties mentioned by other Surgeons may perhaps have arisen from that circumstance, if the main artery was wounded. The shorter trunk of the main artery outside the pelvis allows less space for compression with the fingers during the operation undertaken for securing it, and less space, of course, for placing a ligature round it. In the case mentioned by Mr. Guthrie (On the Diseases and Injuries of Arteries, &c., 1830), the particulars are not given with sufficient clearness to show what vessel was injured, or whether the wound was that of a single branch; and the short note of the examination after death does not afford information upon either of these points. Mr. Briscoe has told me of the following case, which was under treatment in the Infirmary when he was the House- Surgeon :— A woodman, 41 years of age, was admitted on the 9th of July 1846, under the care of the late Mr. Fisher, with a large and deep incised wound in the right gluteal region, behind the trochanter, received five days before admission. The man was at work with other men felling timber in a wood about twelve miles from Oxford. As he was stooping down, he received a blow upon the buttock with the axe from one of the other mqn. The wound bled profusely; but the bleeding soon stopped. With very little delay the edges of the wound were brought together with strips of plaster by a neighboring practitioner, who was quickly in attend-