250 medicines. Many, on the other hand, from Town and Country, are too poor to buy sufficient clothing or food ; to these it is of little use to give what are called ' tonic medicines' without more substantial relief. That the Medical Officers should have a share in the management of the House, — either collectively, or as a Committee in conjunction with Governors who are members of the Medical Profession. It may be a question, generally, whether costly drugs, and Medicinal pre- parations, or other articles expensive to purchase or giving additional trouble in preparation or distribution, should be allowed unless with the sanction of a Medical Committee. 17 April, 1869. To THE Committee of Management. Gentlemen, — In pursuance of the request of the Com- mittee, I have enquired into the case of S. B., with reference to the complaint made by her mother. The mother complains that she 'was not informed by any one at the Infirmary,' (when she visited her daughter on Sunday.) ' that she was in danger,' — and that ' no notice of the real nature of her com- plaint' was given to her, nor any notice 'sent on Monday, when she was dying,' — except that ' she received a note from a young girl who is living in Oxford,' with information to that efifect from the Nurse. The mother only visited her daughter once, — and that was on Sunday, (the day before she died,) — the twenty-second day of her being in the Infirmary. She did not make any enquiry about her daughter's case of anybody in the House. The symptoms of early danger did not come on till afterwards, — about 2 o'clock on Monday morning, — when the Patient called the Nurse on account of a sudden accession of severe pain which preceded the bursting of a large abscess. Though she rallied to some extent in the course of the day, from the first shock, and the exhaustion which followed, she dfed about II o'clock at night. A young woman, who visited her fre- quently during her illness, was the only person who came to see her on Monday, (which was the regular visiting day.) The Nurse told her of the increased and urgent danger of