312 To THE Chairman of the Committee of Management. In acknowleging the receit of the Minute of the 6th inst.,— as I do not know the circumstances out of which the matter in question arose, — I can only express the hope that in this, (as in all other matters,) I shall continue to obey every order made by competent authority for the observance of the Medical Officers. At the same time, — if the Committee do not think it stepping beyond my proper department, — I will take the liberty of pointing out respectfully for their con- sideration that any restriction of the power of the Medical Officers in prescribing for persons properly recommended is a diminution of the privileges of Subscribers. The Committee are, no doubt, aware that while the number of'Turns' allowed for Out-Patients has been diminished by late Regulation, many persons come to the Infirmary without the usual recommendation of Subscribers, and without being the object of any recent accident or sudden illness, nor laboring under any form of acute disease or other kind of injury, and receive advice and medicines without presenting themselves to the Board, and without reference to the Phy- sician or Surgeon of the week, as directed by the notice affixed to their Consulting Rooms. That many of these per- sons, as well as the regular ' Out-Patients,' are (as I think), able to pay a Medical Practitioner for advice and medicines, is a matter which the Committee may perhaps think is not quite within the province of one of the Medical Officers to suggest to them. II February, 1867. To THE Rev. J. S. My dear Sir, — As the original question did not concern me, I doubt whether I should have written, if I had not heard that others would write. I am sorry to see what is proposed. It seems to me to be superseding the Medical Officers. Of course, unless my opinion is asked officially, I shall not come forward officially: though I do not mind thus writing to you. I can not help thinking that the difficulty has arisen from departing from what should be the correct practise, — holding