9 prominent and pointing. The long axis of the swelling was in the transverse direction. The outline was not so clearly- defined. In other respects the character of the swelling was not altered. On the 30th of April the patient was put under chloroform, and Lister's large clamp or tourniquet placed on the aorta below the umbilicus. An incision about 8 inches long was made through the integument over the swelling, in a line from the anterior part of the crest of the ilia toward the middle of the sacrum, and passing through the cicatrix. A thin, but tough, membrane covering a cyst was then exposed in the middle of the line of incision, bulging forwards in a globular form. In attempting to deepen the incision the cyst was punctured^ and a great mass of arterial blood, — fluid and in clots,—was immediately ejected with great force. The opening in the cyst was enlarged, and my left hand thrust to the bottom, making pressure with the fore and middle fingers upon the spot from which the blood issued, against what seemed to be a strong fascia or ligament. The flow of blood was stopped by the pressure. The original incision through the integument was then lengthened toward the front by about 3 inches ; the clotted blood was cleared from the cyst, and the wound wiped out with a sponge. At the bottom of the cavity an opening or slit about a quarter of an inch long was seen, from which arterial blood was ejected in a full stream with a strong impulse, upon slackening the pressure made with my fingers. The cavity was evidently the sac of an aneurism; and the slit or opening was a wound in a large artery. The edges of the slit were rather thickened, and were not so clearly defined as in a recent wound of a large artery made with a sharp instrument. The wounded vessel, and the part of the sac immediately around it and connected with it, was raised with two pair of forceps; the tough mem- branous lining was a little cleared or scratched away with the point of the scalpel, and an aneurism needle, armed with a double thread of strong twine, was passed underneath^ using some degree of force in passing it. The two threads were theii tied separately, one on each side of the opening. The one toward the sacrum, — the proximal in the course of the