70 distinguished, — simple and phlegmonous, — Mr. De Morgan thinks that there is no real boundary between them. The various modifications of these he regards as phases of one disease, which has its seat not merely in the part, but in the system : ' The form which the disease may take is determined by the state of the system, the temperament, habits, &c., of the individual, or the external causes which produce it.' There are, we think, some prominent points of distinction to be noted between the two more commonly observed forms, which tend to make a boundary between them less open to question. If we may believe the Practitioners, in the purer air of the country, and in the county Hospitals, Phlegmonous Erysipelas is rare, while simple Erysipelas is of frequent occurrence. The phlegmonous form, if contagious, must be slightly so in comparison with the simple. The phlegmonous species is not often seen at Hospitals in its early stages, at the period when local depletion, or a milder treatment than free incision, is likely to be beneficial and to arrest its progress. We think it may be open to question whether the phlegmonous form is not in reality an inflammation of the areolar and adipose tissues, of a specific character, spreading rapidly with gangrene inwards to the fascia and muscles, and outwardly to the common integument, rather than a disease of common origin with the simple form,—a disease ' not of itself a formidable complaint.' Putting full confidence in constitutional treatment, he gives in detail the many local applications recommended to relieve or cut short the attack ; but he has not found them realize the merits claimed for them. Indeed, it almost seems that the more nearly these approach to harmlessness, the greater is their merit as medicinal agents. A short essay on Delirium Tremens, by Dr. Barclay, con- tains a good description of the special characters of the disease in its most striking form. 'The moral management of the Patient' is recommended as 'the point of most im- portance in practise,' — coercive measures being justifiable only under unavoidable necessity. This necessity unfortunately too often exists in the circumstances in which the unhappy Patient is placed. Where quiet can be secured, and complete separation from all continuance of excitement, as in the