176 was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care, 26 May, 1871, with a fracture of both bones of the left leg: the tibia was fractured in the middle third, and the fibula at a point rather higher. The injury was received on the 22nd, in a fall, when drunk, in a public-house at Bicester. The limb was placed in splints by Mr. Croft. The man was afterwards attacked with delirium tremens. He frequently jumped out of bed, and when in bed he was continually pulling the splints about. As the persons in attendance could not control him, he was brought to the Infirmary. For relief of the delirium Opium was administered in regu- lar doses. Meat diet was ordered, with two pints of ale daily. Wine, eggs, and beef-tea were afterwards added. At intervals he was quiet; but during periods of restlessness and excite- ment the limb was much disturbed. A large abscess formed, and burst in the upper and outer part of the leg, about the spot where the fibula was broken. On 17 June, at midnight, sudden and profuse hemorrhage of an arterial character came from the abscess. This could not be controlled ; and I was summoned. As the only course to save his life I amputated the leg immediately, separating it through the knee-joint. Little relief to his general symp- toms followed. On the 20th, early in the morning, there was some smart hemorrhage from the stump ; it was stopped, however, by moderate pressure. The tongue became dry, and the pulse weaker. He no longer had strength to throw off" the bed- clothes or other things within reach. He died exhausted on the morning of the 22nd. Remarks.—The amputation of a leg below the knee,—or, even, of both legs, — immediately after a severe injury, or soon after the Patient has rallied from the first eff"ects of the shock, is not generally, according to my experience, attended with a fatal result, in a person of sound constitution, and in cases where the effects of the injury are confined to the limb amputated. Three fatal cases only after the operation have come under my care. An engine-driver 27 years of age, a man of delicate con-