383 a Hospital as large as the Radcliffe Infirmary, where the two offices had been held together for ao years? He did not tell them that in London the duties of the Coroner are too heavy for a Professional man to be able to discharge at the same time the duties of an other appointment; nor, that there is in London a public opinion which will not ' tolerate' the discharge of public duties in the way in which they were done in the Radclifife Infirmary, by one, — at least, — of the Medical Officers. An other Member of the University also talked, — a Go- vernor who lately recorded in the books of the Infirmary a false statement of the symptoms of one of the Patients, with his own opinion that a different course of treatment ought to have been followed in the case:—And a Fellow of the same College as the Promoter, suggested that Patients were sent to Hospitals to have .their bodies experimented upon; and that it would not do to have a person from behind the scenes to sit as Coroner over them. If these Governors had said or done such things in ' a Hospital in London, or a place of any size,' it may be confidently said that they would have found the Committee Room too warm to ' tolerate' them again. With all the efforts made by the promoters to bring the Governors to the Meeting, only a score,—out of 600 or more,—voted in the majority. If not overawed by the fierce- ness of one of them, or misled by the .... of the other, some may have acted under the influence of an old Statute of the University,—that no Officer, or Deputy, nor any Servant of the University, shall hold at the same time any office in the City. So large a number of the Governors are Members of the University, and so few others are willing to take part in such scenes and to oppose, no wonder that they sometimes think and act as if they alone were the Managers, the Medical Officers their Servants, and the Infirmary an Institution of the University. Having the privilege of naming their own Coroner, they resent the intrusion of the Coroner of the City, ... ' an Officer,' said the Chairman of the Committee (himself a member of the University), ' having a jurisdiction which derives its power from a source entirely independent of the Governors, and superior to them.'