35 the abscess. The viscera generally were pale and bloodless, but did not present any morbid appearance. On the right side of the chest the pleura at the upper part was adherent by old adhesions. Remarks.—The man was patient in temper, but not of strong constitutional power. There was never any swelling around the injured parts, nor were the common local signs of inflammation present, which generally precede the formation of matter. No unusual symptom was observed until the sixteenth day after admission. From that time the Patient's strength began to fail. He was supported, as far as his power of taking food allowed ; and ale, wine, and brandy were administered. Quinine and cod-liver oil were also given. Scirrhous Breast. Amputation—Hemorrhage after Operation —Wound opened three times—No Bleeding Vessel observed. A married woman, aged 43 years, was admitted into the Radclifife Infirmary, under my care, i6th September, 1857, with a scirrhous tumor of the left breast, which had been observed for 6 months. She had borne several children,— the last in June, 1856, She was a low-spirited woman ; and she had been much depressed lately by trouble in her family. Her father died 'asthmatic'; her mother lived to between 80 and 90 years of age; some of her sisters died with phthisis. She had an abscess in the breast after her first confinement; and she did not suckle any of her children afterwards with that breast. She first felt a pain in the organ six months ago, and on examination found a 'lump' in it. This has continued to grow in size up to the present time. Lat- terly it has never been free from pain. The skin round the nipple is adherent to the tumor, and the nipple is re- tracted. The gland itself is not adherent to the pectoral muscle. An enlarged lymphatic gland can be felt deep in the axilla. The breast was amputated on October 2, and the enlarged lymphatic gland was removed from the axilla at the operation. The amount of blood lost was inconsiderable; only 3 or 4 D a