i67 the urethra, the flow of urine might be in some measure con- trolled. The pressure of the pessary was completely efficacious. The bladder became capable of retaining urine until the Patient felt a desire to pass it; and a slight change in the position of the pessary enabled her to relieve the bladder of its contents at will. Her clothes, and the cell in which she was confined, lost their former urinous odor; and she was enabled to mix among the other prisoners, and take the usual exercise with comfort. After wearing the pessary for several weeks, she began to find that she could retain a portion of her urine without its use; and in a short time afterwards that she could dispense with it altogether. In accordance with the terms of her sentence, she was afterwards removed to one of the penal colonies; and at the time of her removal she was wholly free from any trace of her former loathsome affliction. Remarks. — Sudden local violence of an unusual character, — a single blow, as in this case, — though one of the possible causes of a fistulous communication between the bladder and vagina, has been less frequently so, than the pressure caused by delay of the child's head, — perhaps of unusual size, — in lingering labor. In this case the whole of the ure- thra had perished by sloughing as a consequence of the injury. The instruments used in the operation were obtained from Messrs. Ferguson of Giltspur Street. The speculum vaginae, as well as the needle, had been made under the direction of Mr. Beaumont of Toronto, when residing in London. The speculum consists of Several small blades, which can be fixed separately by screws at the distance required. One great advantage of the instrument is, that it can be kept in place without the help of an Assistant. A common scalpel and dissecting forceps were used for paring the edges of the wound; and the silk thread in general use for ligatures was taken for sutures. A large brass syringe was found the most convenient instrument for keeping the vagina clear during the operation. The Patient was not a very tractable subject; and she complained more than once of the length of time she was