354 Do you think the oldest Judge on the Bench remembers having tried a case of murder, where there was no prosecution by the Police, no attempt to take the evidence of the dying man, no investigation by the Justices of the Peace, no prose- cutor or witnesses bound over by them, no recognizances or depositions returned by their Clerk ? It was the case here. That a drunken woman, whose habits were matter of public notoriety, should provide herself with a strange weapon, and inflict a wound which was followed by a lingering illness and death, that neither Police nor Magistrates should give any help in the attempt to bring the offender to justice is, it seems, consistent with our habits of administering the law; and the Surgeon who, while he failed in the attempt to save life, succeeded in lengthening it; the Coroner, who went be- yond the strict line of his duty to do an act of kindness, is the one person supposed to be at fault. The Medical history can be given in very few words. The man had a traumatic aneurism in the gluteal region, the result of a wound given by his wife. I saw him at his own house in consultation with the Medical Practitioner in attendance on him. We advised treatment at home; he refused this, from fear of a repetition of the violence. Some time afterwards he came into the Infirmary. I performed the usual operation, and applied a ligature on each side of the wound in the artery. Sloughing with hemorrhage followed, and the man died. In the meantime I had been appointed Coroner of the City, and on the death of the Patient in the Infirmary within the City, it became my duty as Coroner to hold the Inquest. The man's own house, where I had first seen him, was beyond the boundary of the City; if he had died at home, one of the Coroners for the County would have acted. I mentioned the case to the Coroner of the district, and warned him of the possibility of the man's death in his district; and I told him, from the in- formation I had received, the serious nature of the case which might perhaps come before him. At the time of the man's death his home had been broken up; it was not possible, therefore, to remove his body to the place, and so bring it within an other Coroner's jurisdiction. The Inquest was the first act of office on my part. Not being under either of the