147 Retention of Urine, stricture after injury to Pelvis—Relief by Catheter—Relapse. A laboring man, between 50 and 60 years of age, of feeble appearance, and much out of health, was admitted into the Radclifife Infirmary, under my care, 20 August, 1857, with a distended bladder. Many years ago he had been knocked down by a waggon, and one of the wheels passed over the right side of his pelvis. He had suffered from difficulty in micturition from that time. He was put into a warm bath; and a draught of Liq. Ammon. acet. with Opium and Sp. Etheris. nitr. was given. During the night he passed urine in small quantities. The bladder was thus partly emptied, and the more urgent symp- toms were relieved. On examining the perineum, I discovered a fulness, with tenderness on pressure. I punctured this on the 22nd, and let out some matter smelling strongly of urine. The draught with Opium was repeated, and he was put into a hip-bath. The urine flowed continuously through the opening in the perineum ; more escaping in that direction than by the urethra, without his having the power of restraining it, and without his being conscious of its passing. September 8. — I introduced a small silver catheter into the urethra, and found two strictures — one about two inches from the meatus, and the other, more rigid, at the membranous portion. Catheters gradually increased in size were passed at regular intervals. Toward the end of September, he became able to retain his urine : a small quantity only escaping by the wound in the perineum, at the time of micturition. On December 3, I was able to introduce a full-sized wax bougie into the bladder ; and two days afterwards he was able to pass a full stream of urine by the urethra. His health improved. The sinus in the perineum healed. A large silver catheter could be passed into the bladder without difficulty. He was discharged 20 January, 1858, to all appearance cured. In the spring of i860 he again presented himself, with difficulty of micturition. The urethra was so contracted, that L 2