223 of the Board when the recommendation of the Medical Practitioners came before them: though he does not quote correctly the terms of the motion. The object of it was that the Nuisance Removal Committee should be allowed to con- tinue their labors without the 'supervision' of injudicious advisers. The constant agitation and incomplete discussion weakened the authority of the Board, and lessened the power to do good. A month afterwards the Vice-Chancellor of the University published his view of the 'epidemic,' and he advised that precautions should be taken. ' There has been Small-pox in Oxford during the Long Vacation, not of a very serious character ; and the disease is now much abated.' . Still, for security, he required that the younger members of the Uni- versity, who had not been properly re-vaccinated, should undergo the operation before their return. The result, as far as I have been able to learn, was that only one case of Small- pox happened in an Undergraduate. 14 August, 1872. ' Note. — As far as I could learn from the reports received at the Nuisance Removal Committee, there was never at one time more than one case of Small-pox under treatment in each thousand of inhabitants within the district. Even this proportion might have been less, if the course advised by the Mayor had been followed, — for the division of the town into districts, with Medical Practitioners assigned to each. The first effect would have been the detection by visitation from house to house of all unvaccinated persons. These are the real source of danger; though, one that can be removed. Every case of the disease, and every person sickening with it, would have been detected, through the Medical Visitors. Immediate information would have been received, so as to ensure removal at once. The Patients would have been moved in an early stage of disease, before they became unfit for the journey,—with less danger of spread- ing the disease in being taken through the public streets. Often the only infected person removed was some one who had the external manifestations of the disease upon him too