^51 The treatment was directed to relieve the pain under which he suffered ; and it consisted chiefly of small doses of opium frequently repeated. He became weaker by degrees; and died on May 12. Some days before death, a swelling was observed in the umbilical region, a little to one side of the mesial line. It was tender on pressure; the skin over it was slightly reddened; and in general appearance it was like a collection of matter in course of formation in the parietes. This subsided without suppuration. Upon opening the abdomen after death, there was an escape of thick and foul urine,—about a pint in quantity. It was contained in a sac formed in front by the parietes, and behind by the mass of intestines, which were matted together with lymph. This sac was lined throughout with a thick layer of false membrane, not unlike the cavity of an abscess. On examination, a round opening, large enough to admit the finger, was found, communicating with the fundus of the bladder. The bladder was contracted : on its inner surface were observed some projecting nodules; these, examined under the microscope, were thought to present the appearance of cancer-cells. No other deposit of cancer was observed. Remarks.—How the opening in the bladder, which led to the escape of the urine, was caused, and when it was made, are questions not easily settled. It is likely that it was made by the Patient himself in rudely handling the catheter, during the time he was allowed the use of it for his own relief. Retention of Urine. Enlarged Prostate—Relief by Catheter- Retention three years afterwards—Paralysis—Death. A laboring man, 63 years of age, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care, 20 May, 1864, with retention of urine. The prostate gland was much enlarged.. The man had also cataract in his left eye, mature, and fit for operation. For this complaint he did not desire treatment. The bladder was emptied twice a day with a catheter. He was slow in recovering the power of emptying his bladder by