298 went,) gave to my figures, I thought I would again look over them, and, as I have found, —what we did not succeed then in finding, — a mistake in one of the sums in my letter, I hasten to tell you of it. It arises from relying too much on the figures in the printed Reports. It appears there are more mistakes than I supposed in them. The Report for 1856, in the Comparative View, sets the average expenses at ^. ^d. I supposed this to be correct. I now find the correct sum is £%,S9S i5-s"- 7^-; and consequently the Expenditure exceeded the Income by about 5j. ^d., instead of being (as I said,) within it. 13 Apnl, 1857. To THE Chairman at the Quarterly General Court. Sir, — In acknowleging the receit of a copy of the Minutes of the Special General Court of the 30th of April, I have to request that these observations upon them may be submitted to the Court. Of the part relating to the deficient stock of instruments, I have to observe that probably it escaped the attention of the Governors present that, as that subject was not comprized in the Notice summoning the Special Court, it was not compe- tent for the Court to entertain the question : and, having come under discussion irregularly, the Resolution passed can not be taken as a deliberate expression of opinion on the part of the Governors. If the Governors will refer again to Mr. Hansard's letter, they will see that the opinion he gave is not to the effect that the present supply is ' fully sufficient,' as stated in the Minutes : nor has Mr. Hester given such an opinion in a letter on the subject lately addressed to the Weekly Board. With reference to the Resolution itself, I have to observe thatj the enquiry, by which the Court satisfied themselves, was carried on without reference to me, — that, so far from there being ' no foundation ' for the statement I made, (that there is not a proper supply of Instruments,) I beg leave, with due submission to a General Court of Governors, to say that the statement I made is true, and that I am ready to prove it; — and that though it may literally be true that no application for what are generally known as ' Surgical Instruments' has