29 on section presented no other character than the tissue of ordinary cicatrix. Below this, the vessel was plugged by a coagulum about 2 inches long, which was partially adherent. For a short space it was free,—and then again occupied by an other coagulum partially adherent, but not so completely filling it. Below the impervious portion, the artery was lined in its whole extent by a false membrane, which could be easily stripped off, leaving the inner coat distinct and natural in appearance. ■ The outer coat could be traced over the whole extent of the Aneurism ; the surface of which was even, except at one point toward the outer side, where it was irregular and rough. The Aneurism was completely filled by fleshy-looking coagula, not arranged in concentric lamellce, but in an oblique direction from below upwards. The opening in the artery was at the inner side of the tumor, and was full half an inch in extent: the edge was abrupt. The Vein passed over the inner side of the Aneurism, and was nearly obliterated by adhesion of its inner surface. The coats were much thickened for some distance above the swelling ; the inner coat presented one or two groups of white deposit similar to that found in diseased arteries. Aneurism in the Chest. Spontaneous Cure. Dyspnea — Fluid in Pleura—Puncture — Discharge of Blood—Death—Old Aneurismal Sac. A country gentleman, 76 years of age, of strong and mus- cular frame, and of gouty constitution, although suffering at times from difficulty of breathing under exertion, had led an active life without having been known among his friends and neighbors as a sufferer under any chronic ailment or general illness. Early in life he had served in the Navy. Among other perils, he had been at the battle of Trafalgar, and at a later period he had been taken prisoner by a French ship. At the end of November, 1866, during a morning's visit at his house for an other purpose, Mr. Cresswell (now of Wol- verhampton), who had attended him once or twice for ail- ments of a trifling character, observed in him, as he moved