46 piece, loaded with No. 5 shot, held in the horizontal position with the muzzle close to him, as he was stooping down to alter a dog's chain. Profuse hemorrhage followed immedi- ately ; but it soon ceased. There was not any hemorrhage during the journey to the Infirmary, nor afterwards. He never rallied from the effects of the injury and the loss of blood. Gangrene followed, and he died at 5 o'clock on the morning of the 2nd of January, 4 days after the accident. The muscles were torn, leaving a wound in which a man could put his fist. The periosteum was torn from the bone, but the bone was not broken. The Femoral artery and vein were both torn across. The proximal end of the artery was drawn in, and contained a small clot, which was adherent to the coats of the vessel; the structure of that part was healthy. The distal portion was soft in structure and discolored. The sciatic nerve was gangrenous, but not divided. The formation of a line of demarcation had begun in the skin. Gunshot Wound of Thigh and Leg. Hemorrhage— Gangrene — Death on the Fifth Day. A carpenter, 19 years of age, was admitted into the Rad- cliffe Infirmary, under my care, on the evening of Sunday, the 18th of July, 1H58, with a gunshot wound of the right thigh and leg, received at a late hour the night before by the acci- dental discharge of a fowling-piece loaded with a wire cartridge of small shot. He was going home on Saturday, near midnight, with a friend, and carrying the gun on his right shoulder. As he was lowering it, and stooping to help a drunken man who was lying on the ground, he stumbled forwards, or was pushed by his companion over the man, and fell on his knee with the leg bent under him : the charge exploded when the muzzle was close to the thigh. The cartridge passed through the muscular substance of the outer side of the thigh, into the calf of the leg. He did not feel the infliction of the wound, but he found that his foot was ' numb,' and that he could not move the limb. Profuse hemorrhage followed immediately ; this stopped as he became faint. When seen^ about % hours after-