225 provide Professional attendance and medicines for them,— perhaps also for their wives and families, —of course at the expense of the rate-payers. It was a defect of former proposals (as it is of these ' Reasons') for the creation of a new office, that the duties to be discharged were not defined: we were not told what work was to be done by the new Officer in return for the public money he was to receive, —and that no opportunity was afforded, by 'enquiry and advertizement,' of learning what Candidates would come forward, and which would be eligible. It does not appear that the new Inspector is to be a Medical Engineer, with the power, — which he ought undoubtedly to possess, — of stopping any part of the works, if he thinks proper, during an unfavorable season, — such as unsuitable weather, — any unfavorable constitution of the atmosphere. The ' mournful probability' of an other panic is put before us. In the year just past we have had two: two more are now shadowed out. If the proposed Inspector can ' preserve' us, as we are told an Inspector ' has for many years preserved a certain other Town from ignominious panics and costly epidemics,' when he 'prevented the cholera, which slew 5000 persons in London in 1866, from ever attaining any great head there,' — how can the Board refuse to appoint one ? No pressure ab extra can be needed to compell them. In reciting this wonderful instance of mastery over epidemic influences which have generally baffled Professional skill in other places in past years, we are not told how the numerous Medical Officers of Health in London failed to 'prevent' the slaying of the ^000, in that fortunate district which possesses so many of them, — some half hundred or so. Were there too many ? With that ' spirit of contradictoriness which is usual,' did they antagonize each other, and let the manslayer in ? The Local Board of Oxford, — with four members of the Medical Profession at the Board, — 'prevented' any slaughter at all. To speak correctly, we had no case of cholera : we had no Medical Inspector. The Professor gives 'a financial statement of the cost, as measurable by money,' — an expenditure he had a large share Q