45 tated the thigh in the middle third, by double circular incision. The stump healed well, and the man recovered without a bad symptom. The bowels acted for the first time on the 30th. The last ligature came away on the 12th of November, and the man left the Infirmary, by his own wish, some few days afterwards. Remarks.—The shock of the injury was great, and it was complicated with a large loss of blood,— a circumstance occurring almost always in gunshot wounds, and tending to lengthen the period of prostration. The patient was young, of sound constitution, and of calm temperament. In every point of view he was a favorable subject for treatment under a severe injury. For his safety, an early removal of the limb was desirable. The operation was delayed until he had rallied from the first effects of the shock and the loss of blood, and had thus far shown his power of recovery. This is the only case coming under my personal observation in which I have known a Patient recover after undergoing primary amputation for a compound fracture of the thigh- bone. In other cases, the injuries requiring primary amputa- tion have been such that the Patient has not recovered. One exception—and only one,—perhaps ought to be made. About 30 years ago, I saw a boy in St. Bartholomew's Hospital, under the care of Sir William Lawrence, in whom the thigh had been cut off clean in its middle by the action of a circular saw driven by machinery. The wound was dressed as in a case of an amputation by surgical operation. Sir W. Lawrence did not interfere with the wound left by the injury. The wound healed, and the boy left the Hospital with a useful stump. Gunshot Wound of Thigh. Hemorrhage—Gangrene—Death —Femoral Artery and Vein divided. A young man, 21 years of age, was admitted into the Rad- cliffe Infirmary, under my care, between 2 and 3 o'clock in the afternoon of the 29th of December, 1873, with a gunshot wound in the upper and back part of the right thigh, received 8 miles from Oxford, about 11 o'clock that morning. The wound was caused by the accidental discharge of a fowling-