3o8 To THE Same. My dear Sir, — Thanks for your letter of yesterday. It is easy work on paper to make a ' deficit,' by adding together the bills of four quarters, and showing that the money re- ceived in three quarters is not enough to pay the expenses of the year. At the end of 1877 there was a balance of ;^i64 standing to the credit of the Treasurer in the Banker's pass- book. He began this year with that sum in his hands. The bills of the past year have been paid ; as well as those for the first half of the present year ; £ 500 has been added to the funded capital; and there is no ' debt' beyond the bills of the quarter just ended. Is it dealing fairly with the Public to ask for more money, and to keep this out of sight ? I October, 1878. At a Meeting of the Local Board, March 1878, Mr. Hussey brought forward the following resolution, notice of which had been previously given :— ' That the attention of the Charity Commissioners be re- quested to the Trusts upon which the Lancashire Fund was given to the RadclifFe Infirmary.' He said the question he proposed to them referred to a subject which received attention now in consequence of the large sum they were called upon to pay to the Infirmary for the treatment of the sick in the past year,—about £200 he believed. They were aware that until lately all cases of sickness were taken into the Infirmary and treated as a matter of charity, the only thing required being a recommendation from a Subscriber. But about 18 months ago the Managers of the Infirmary put an end to this, which had been their practise ever since the Infirmary was founded, 100 years ago; and they required that in future all cases of Fever should . be charged to the ratepayers, and this, notwithstanding an engagement made about 8 years ago that a certain number of beds should be kept free for such cases from the town, to be admitted free, that is, without recommendation from Subscribers, or any promise of payment from friends or others on behalf of the Patients. A sum of money, between