178 the injury. I then amputated the leg, immediately below the knee-joint, by double circular incision. There was scarcely any hemorrhage during the operation. The chief arteries of the limb were ossified. A draught with Vinum Opii and Spin Etheris nitr. was administered afterwards. The man lingered on, without rallying further, although strong beef-tea, wine, and brandy were taken freely; and he died exhausted 36 hours after the operation. A laboring man, 67 years of age, of feeble constitution, with prominent sternum and contracted chest, was admitted into the Radclifife Infirmary, under my care, August, 1871, with his left leg crushed in the middle and lower third, by a log of timber falling on it, about 5 hours before admission. Much blood had been lost. He did not rally till next morn- ing; and I then amputated the leg — about 18 hours after the accident. The arteries of the limb were cartilaginous in structure, with atheromatous deposit. He became weaker by degrees, and died on the 39th. The operation of secondary amputation under my care has not been so successful. The only cases in which I have found it necessary to perform a secondary amputation in the leg are those now related,—seven in number. Of the first four cases, one was in a special Hospital; the others were in private practise. All of the Patients recovered. The last three cases were in the Radclifife Infirmary, and were all fatal. An other fatal case in the same institution might, perhaps, have been added, — if the Patient had given her consent to an operation. A married woman, 57 years of age, a large fat woman, of general unhealthy appearance, was admitted on Sunday, 4 February, 1877, under my care, with a compound fracture of both bones of the right leg, extending into the ankle-joint. The injury was received the morning before, by falling down in the street at Witney when drunk. She rose and tried to walk; but being unable to do so, she was taken home in a chair. Next day, when the nature of the injury was seen, and understood, the attendance of Mr. Hyde was obtained; and