i83 pressure on the trochanter and over the hip-joint, crepitus could be felt distinctly. The limb could be brought to its proper length by making extension with moderate power, and it could be rotated without difficulty. But when the extend- ing power was relaxed, the limb resumed its former appear- ance of retraction and inversion, falling by its own weight on to its inner aspect. We formed the opinion that the neck of the bone was fractured and comminuted, with much effusion of blood. In such a subject, with habits known to us, we had no reasonable hope of the recovery of a useful limb, with bony union ; nor had we much hope that our efforts for the pur- pose would receive corresponding attention on her part. We placed her in bed, with pillows under the limb to support it in an easy position. A draught of Liq. Ammon. acet, with some Morphia, was prescribed. Much fever with depression followed. She was greatly reduced, and at one period it seemed as if her strength would fail altogether. A superficial sore formed on the sacrum, and an other on the right trochanter. They seemed to be from the direct effects of the fall, and they healed favorably. An attempt was afterwards made to bring the limb per- manently into a better position by means of a weight attached to the foot with a pulley at the lower end of the bedstead. This was discontinued, in consequence of the determined re- sistance of the Patient. No other mechanical contrivance was used. The limb was supported by pillows, and every atten- tion was given in the way of nursing. A restricted^ but generous, diet was administered. The large quantity of blood effused at the seat of fracture became absorbed by degrees ; and several small pieces of bone made their way to the surface without suppuration, and without leaving an open wound. In the middle of December she was placed daily on;a sofa, and toward the end of the month she was able to move about her room, but without resting on her left foot. The limb was nearly two inches shorter than the other. The foot was in a middle position between inversion and eversion. With a thick sole to her boot, and with the help of crutches, she used