277 I have so often done it without effect that I have become tired of repeating my remarks. I think separation from the men would have been an advantage to the child. W. D. was knocked down by a bullock and severely injured about the chest, the thigh, and leg. I saw him in Christ Church Meadow immediately after the accident. He died from the effects of mortification. I do not consider his to be a case of Erysipelas. He might have been moved to B. — if the ward had been empty at the time. While I do not desire to call in question the judgement of those who, being responsible for the domestic arrangements, place the Patients on admission in particular wards, and move them afterwards to others, or leave them where they were placed at first, I am aware of some of the difficulties with which they have to contend, from the want of wards in which the Patients can be placed in isolation. The only ward for the purpose is not one to which I should have advised, if asked, that any of these Patients should be moved ; although in former cases when I have thought it desirable, I have re- commended the ward for the purpose. Remembering, as I do, the amount of trouble and personal exertion which I found necessary in order to obtain the removal of the Patient in the last of such cases, I am not willing, without some unusually urgent motive, to undertake a similar task again. Some of these Patients (J., F., W.,) belong to a large class of cases not needing Professional skill, which for the most part are sent to the Infirmary to be fed, as they recover from illness for which they have been treated out of the House. They are taken in, because there are empty beds. I referred to these at the Meeting of the Committee on the 14th inst.; and I suggested that they ought not to be admitted, and that the Medical Officers ought not to be expected to take charge of such cases. Although the question referred to us is not of the general state of the House, I take the liberty of calling the attention of the Committee to an important part of it, — the want of coal fires generally throughout the House, especially in what is called ' unseasonable' weather. I venture to suggest, — for the sake of the health of the Patients and the ventilation of