317 injury, and (if required), in trivial cases, or such as may be safely treated at once and dismissed: — and that more effi- cient attendance, or supervision, should be given in the Out- Patients' Hall, on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Saturday, in passing the Patients to and from the consulting Rooms of the Medical Officers, and afterwards to the window for medicines. It will hardly escape the attention of the Committee that there is not any recognition in the printed Rules of any duty on the part of the Medical Officers to attend the Out-Patients. The custom, as it exists, has grown by degrees. Whenever the question of making new regulations comes under consideration, I have to suggest these subjects for enquiry, in addition to others which may be raised : — That the Medical Officers, — one each week, — shall take their turn of duty in rotation, indifferently, whether Physician or Sur- geon ; and that there shall not be any recognized distinction of Medical and Surgical cases, or mixed cases. That there shall be a Resident Medical Superintendant, having the general care of all the Patients, — In-Patients and Out- Patients both, — and responsible to the Committee of Management, with one or more qualified Assistants, as may be necessary; and that the Physicians and Surgeons should become the consulting Officers, and attend and act only in important and urgent cases, upon notice from the Resident Medical Superintendant. 6 May, 1873. , To THE Same. Gentlemen, — On Saturday the Dispenser called my attention to a paper in the handwriting of Mr. S., and signed by him: I enclose it, for the inspection of the Committee. It seems to be a fit subject for reference to the Medical Com- mittee. I have since learned that the subject was brought before the Committee of Management on Wednesday last, without the usual notice in the Secretary's letter summoning the meeting. The first statement in the paper is a complaint that the I^ispenser appeared in one of the wards at a time when the