207 stump of the Tumor. The mouths of three arteries could be recognized, each of them larger than the radial at the wrist. It seemed to me that their coats, though tough and cartila- ginous, were thinner and less elastic than is usual in arteries of the same size in younger subjects. After the oozing of blood had ceased, the edges of the wound were brought together, and fixed by interrupted sutures. The ligatures were cut short, and the ends left within the wound. A compress of lint was laid on the cheek, and moderate pres- sure made by two or three turns of a roller round the head. By this time the Patient had recovered sufficiently to be able to help himself in moving to his bed from the table on which he had been placed. He took chloroform without difficulty, and was well under the influence of it during the whole time of the operation. Rather less than 2 drams was used. The substance of the Tumor had the usual appearance of what is generally known as 'fibrous,' or 'fibro-cellular,' with some cysts here and there in it: one of these, about the size of a large marble, was filled with clotted blood of recent date. The older part of the Tumor, — that which had been nearest to the parotid gland, — was much firmer in texture than the rest, and of a pale cream color; it was easily distinguished from the parts which from their relative position were known to be of later growth. There was not any appearance of bone, or cartilage, nor of malignant de- generation ; nor any deposit of pus. When put together, the weight was a little short of 3 pounds avoirdupois. The Patient passed the afternoon and chief part of the night quietly, but without sleep. The skin felt hot to the hand and was without moisture. The pulse was quick and weak. He took fluid food, — beef tea and milk, — readily, as it was offered ; but without asking for it, and without complaint of thirst. He vomited once or twice, when it was first given; but retained it afterwards when given in smaller quantities. About 4 o'clock in the morning he asked for water; and I gave him a glass, fresh from a d^ep well and perfectly cold. Soon after this he went off to sleep, and continued asleep for