20 Aneurism of the Popliteal Artery.—Pressure. A man of middle size, with pale complexion and light hair, 31 years of age, a plate-layer on a Railway, was ad- mitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care, on the 30th of July, 1873, with an Aneurismal Swelling of the Popliteal artery of the Right leg, about the size of a common billiard ball. The pulsation can be controlled by making firm pressure upon the Femoral artery in the upper part of the thigh; but it is more readily controlled by making pressure in the groin, upon the External Iliac artery, as it passes over the ramus of the pubes. It is not controlled by bending the limb at the knee. The swelling can not be emptied by direct pressure. The man has formerly had an attack of rheumatic fever; but has generally enjoyed good health. In the last winter he found that his right foot was often numb and cold, and he would sit at the fire in the Station-house to warm it. About three weeks before admission he suffered from pains about the knee, which he thought rheumatic. After some few days he found the swelling at the back of the joint. On the 38th of July he gave up work, and applied to Mr. Drink- water, of Bicester. Mr. Drinkwater detected the nature of his case, and recommended the man to apply without delay for admission into the Infirmary. The Patient was ordered to rest in bed, with the limb in an easy position, partly flexed at the knee, and supported on its outer side upon a pillow. He was taught how to stop the pulsation by making pressure in the groin; but his hand became tired, and he could not continue the pressure for any great length of time. Pressure by weights and by different tourniquets was tried; but the skin became too tender to allow the continued application. A relay of Assistants having been provided for the purpose of making pressure with the fingers, the treatment was begun on Thursday, August 14. A little after 12 o'clock the fingers were placed upon the Femoral artery above the upper edge of the Sartorius muscle. The circulation in the limb was effectually