l82 fracture of the right thigh in its middle third, received in a fall from a tall horse on which he was riding. Upon recover- ing from the shock he tried to rise, and to walk with the sound limb; but, to use his own words, he 'found the other was left behind him.' The leg of the same side was shortened from the effects of a fracture received many years ago. The limb was put up, as in other cases under my directions, with a long splint on its outer side, and the Patient was placed on his back. The old man suffered much from a chronic cough : and the medicines administered for three weeks were directed to the relief of his sufferings from that complaint. The usual meat diet of the house was taken ; and on May 22 I ordered a pint of ale daily in addition. The fracture united favorably, and the man went home on June 4. The limb was shortened by about an inch and a half. He did but little work afterwards ; and he was removed to the Workhouse in the autumn. He employed himself merely in moving about with a stick and a crutch; and he died in March 1875, under an attack of senile bronchitis. Comminuted Fracture of Neck of Thigh-Bone. Inversion of Limb. An unmarried lady, 64 years of age, of thin and spare frame, rather above the middle height, formerly a governess, living in lodgings away from her relations in consequence of her inveterate habit of drinking, fell down a steep flight of stairs when going up to bed on Sunday night, 6 September, 1868. She was not perfectly sober at the time. With some difficulty she was raised, and taken to bed by the landlady and her servant. About an hour after midnight I saw her, with Dr. Freeborn, who generally attended her. The soft parts in the left Gluteal region were greatly swollen. The limb on that side was shortened, and it was lying on its inner aspect, with the knee and foot inverted, having the general appearance of disloca- tion of the head of the bone backwards. The shaft of the femur could be traced in its whole length. Upon making