99 spot where the deformity once existed, does not oppose any obstacle to the freedom of their limbs. The diseases of the Nose, as one of the organs of special sense, form the subject of an essay by Mr. Ure. The affec- tions of the special sense of smell, — which has been some- times lost without regret, and for the recovery of which a Sureeon is seldom consulted,—are not included. Belzoni the traveler thought it an advantage that he had not such a sense. But, among those whom I have known to have lost it after injury, I have more than once heard an expression of regret for the loss, and of longing for the recovery: the con- nection with the sense of taste must not be overlooked. The Surgical diseases of the air-passages are brought under notice in a short article by the late Mr. H. Gray, upon the diseases of the Larynx. Though generally falling under the care of the Physician, there are many circumstances con- nected with the mechanical obstructions of the upper part of the breathing apparatus which imperatively demand the atten- tion, and claim the experience and treatment, of the Surgeon, Mr. Moore contributes a short essay upon the diseases of the Absorbent System — the glands as well as the vessels, which, closely associated in disease, can not be conveniently or advantageously studied apart from one an other. Of the wounds of lymphatic vessels there is but little to be said ; they must be injured in every considerable wound, yet we take little notice of the circumstance. It does not seem to inter- fere with the healing process of the wound of the other tissues. The clear lymph coming from the injured tube is mixed with the flow of blood, or with the subsequent oozing of interstitial fluids, and escapes separate notice. Mr, Welbank told me that, being in attendance on a gentleman with extensive ecchymosis and discoloration about the foot and ankle after an injury, he made several small punctures with the point of a lancet. At his next visit to the Patient, he found a con- siderable discharge of yellow fluid staining the dressings. This came from one of the punctures on the dorsum of the foot, and continued to flow for several days. He considered that it must be from a wound of one of the lymphatics, which was thus emptied of some of the dark extravasated blood it H %