95 the operation was that practised by Cheselden, of so making the necessary incisions that the soft parts, especially the integument, should be of a greater length than the bone. This was effected in the circular method by the ' double in- cision,' the skin and fat being turned back before the muscular substance was divided. Of the different modern modes of performing the operation (in all of which this important object is attained), Mr. Lister, following the teaching of the Scotch schools (if he will allow us to use such an expression), gives the preference decidedly — too decidedly, we think, — to that by flaps. The objections, however, that have been urged against this mode of perform- ing the operation are stated by Mr. Lister : and he tells us that Mr. Listen, ' the most strenuous' advocate of the flap operation, in the latter period of his practise changed that method, and adopted a mode by which ' the skin and fat are divided by two crescentic incisions, with the convexity down- wards^ so as to form short antero-posterior flaps of the inte- gument, which is then dissected up considerably higher than their angle of union ; after which the operation is completed as in the ordinary circular method. This modification of the circular operation,' he adds, ' was also suggested independ- ently by Mr. Syme, and was used by him for many years.' It is only a just tribute to' the memory of an excellent practical Surgeon that we should inform our readers that this mode of operating was commonly practised between 40 and 50 years ago in St. Bartholomew's Hospital by the late Mr. Vincent. The dressing of the stump—'a matter quite as important to the successful issue of amputation as the manner in which the limb is removed,''—receives attention. The principles to be borne in mind are, that, when the operation has been pro- perly performed, so that the soft parts may meet over the bone without any tension, the primary dressings should retain the parts in apposition, without opposing any obstacle to the discharge. This being done under the eye of a competent operator, I can hardly say I know better directions for the subsequent dressing than I once gave to a young Practitioner, whom I left in charge of a Patient at a distance :—' Keep the