66 English schools of Surgery were to be known by their well- earned title to safe and successful practical knowlege,— the pride, as it is thought, of the practical Englishman; rather than by any claims they could put forward to higher honors gained by toil in the more laborious fields of original investi- gation. At all events, there was no single work, as a written record of the results of such labors, by which their claim to pre- eminence could be tested, or from which it could be proved. "Where the possession of such a title was not known, it could safely be called in question ; and the claims of the English schools could be challenged by others who, perhaps, looked around them from .a lower standing on the slopes of the surgical Olympus. The projectors of the work, now before the profession, have undertaken to supply the deficiency ; and for this purpose they have formed into a ' System' a collection of essays or treatises by different writers on the numerous subjects comprized in the general term of ' Surgery.' The difficulty of obtaining qualified contributors to unite in the general plan of a work which should be a complete expression of the opinions and experience of many men ; and, still more, to act in concert in the execution of it, and to perform with punctuality their en- gagements with their common Editor and the professional public, has been an obstacle in the way of the completion of former undertakings of a similar nature, though the hope of it has often been conceived by active minds. Mr. Coote contributes two short essays,—one of them on Abscess. He gives the modern doctrine of the origin of pus ; in behalf of which it must be said, as of much other learning that we labor to accumulate, that it seems a weak part of the doctrine that a writer is forced to confess that some of what is most necessary to the support of it ' has yet to be proved.' The possibility of the absorption of pus, though now known to be of frequent occurrence, rather than an occasional and rare exception to a pathological law, is not yet universally admitted, if we may judge by the practise, still followed by some Surgeons, of incising every fluctuating swelling. Where there is room for a doubt, there will generally be found some ground to support it; and of a soft and fluctuating swelling.