97 In the seventh volume of the ' Medical Facts and Observa- tions' (1797), is a paper by Dr. R. Pearson, recommending the inhalation of sulphuric ether, alone or impregnated with cicuta, in cases of pertussis. He says that ' children, and even infants, can be made to inhale this by wetting a handkerchief with ether, and holding it near the nose and mouth , . . The only unpleasant circumstance,' he adds, ' attending the in- halation of this ethereal tincture of cicuta is a slight degree of sickness and giddiness, which, however, soon go off.' The mode of administration is here shadowed out, and some of the narcotic effects are noted. But the honor of the practical application of the anesthesia so obtained, to purposes of Surgery, remains with the American dentist, Dr. Wells. Great as are the benefits conferred by Chloroform, Mr. Lister regrets, with others, that it is many times either with- held altogether, or given so scantily as to be nearly useless. This arises from the fear inspired by several fatal cases that have happened. The thousands of cases in which it has been given with success, should teach us that it may be used so as to be practically free from risk. ' How, then,' asks Mr. Lister, ' are the fatal cases to be accounted for ?' The causes which have long been recognized by the Profession as leading to a fatal termination, or, at all events, accompanying it, and the cases, as related, in which fatal accidents have happened, are examined, in order to furnish an answer to the question. One cause, we can not help thinking, has not been made the subject of sufficient investigation. From the recorded cases where death has happened, it does not seem that anything which can be called an ' overdose,' is by any means of uni- form occurrence. One circumstance, however, strikes the reader, from the frequency with which it is found in the pub- lished reports. In the greater number of those cases, where the means by which the anesthetic was administered is noted, it was by a napkin, a towel, or some other material impervious to the atmospheric air, — an instrument, in short, which might be thought to pass under Mr. Lister's general condemnation of ' any apparatus which has the effect of preventing the free access of the atmosphere.' In the 'only death ever witnessed under chloroform," by Mr. Lister, it was given on a ' cloth.' We are II