337 permanent harmony. I think I have on several occasions submitted to you individually whether it is desirable to retain Rules which, though clear and easy of observance, have been from the first (to speak courteously,) habitually disregarded. 25 October, 1867. To THE Chairman of the Quarterly Court. Sir, — According to the usual custom in such cases, the Committee of Management will, I presume, report to the Court to-day upon the Correspondence referred to them by the Quarterly Court in October. The Chairman has sent me a copy of their Minutes, which I conclude will be their Report. In the interests of the Infirmary, not less than in justice to myself^ I feel bound most respectfully to ask the Court to pause before they adopt that Report, or give any sanction to those Minutes. All I know of the proceedings of the Committee, and the investigation which it is stated in their Minutes was made, is that at the request of the Chairman I attended one Meeting, at which some few questions, apparently prepared beforehand, were put to me,—which I answered. Neither then, nor after- wards, was any other explanation asked of me. If I had been so asked, I should have shown that the letters and instances known are a part only of the correspondence which has taken place, of repeated irregularities, and of the representations I have felt it my duty as an Ofiicer of the Infirmary to make on the subject. I am prepared to show that there have been very many instances of irregularities, extending over several years. It was for the sake of the Institution itself, and the Patients, —to serve whom it is maintained,—that I addressed one of my Colleagues on the subject of the Consultations before Surgical operations. After the receit of the last note in reply, it became my duty to the Infirmary to take other steps, and I proceeded to print the correspondence which is before you, and lay it before the Medical Officers and some members of the Medical Profession. I sent it also to two Governors, not members of the Profession; but whose activity in the affairs of the Institution seemed to warrant the exception. z