8i post-mortem examinations. . . . The following case occurred in the Asykmi at Littlemore at a time when I happened to be on a visit to the Superintendant,—Mr. Ley. One of the Patients, a heavy, fat man, 68 years of age, formerly a black- smith, in getting out of a window, fell to the gravel walk below, a height of 30 feet, striking the right side of his head, and tearing down a large piece of the scalp. He was im- mediately jpicked up, insensible, and died in very few minutes. A fracture of the bones of the skull extended through the right parietal and sphenoid bones into the middle fossa: there was no hemorrhage, no contusion or laceration, of the substance of the brain, or cerebral vessels. In the left pleura there were about two quarts of fluid blood,—the source of it being the aorta, which was torn across in its whole circumference about half an inch beyond the origin of the left subclavian artery. What is ' concussion' of the spinal cord ? The term is recognised in systematic works of Surgery; yet it is difficult to assign a definite signification to the word, excluding from consideration those cases where injury to the cord is combined with injury to the bony structures. A lad, of strumous constitution, in good health, one sum- mer's day, having stripped for bathing, jumped from a bridge, head foremost, into the stream below,—a height of about 12 feet. Finding himself immediately disabled, he managed somehow to get to the bank; and he recovered sufficiently to be able to walk home. Next day he was brought to the Radclifie Infirmary, paralysed in his lower limbs. He was admitted, under my care. The usual symptoms of injuiy to the spine followed ; and he sank, with ' bed-sores,' at the end of 3 months. The gentleman who examined the body in my unavoidable absence, reported that there was no injury to the bones of the spine ; nor any discernible lesion of the medulla or its membranes. Looking back to this case with the ex- perience of subsequent yearsj I think it an omission that the state of the chest was not made an object of special examination. An essay upon the Injuries of the Neck is the contribution of the late Mr. H. Gray. Of the wounds in this region, the ' cut throat' is the one most frequently brought to the notice G