89 be removed altogether: it is no longer wanted for the purpose of making counter-extension. The comparison of the two limbs has been made by Mr. Holthouse, as by other observers, by measuring 'from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilia, to the lower bor- der of the patella, to the extremity of the outer malleolus, and also to that of the inner malleolus.' We have been in the habit ourselves of taking the measures from the trochanter major to the centre of the knee-joint, at the point where the outer condyle is in contact with the tibia, where the articular surfaces of these bones meet, and to the centre of the outer malleolus. It wants, perhaps, a practised eye and hand to obtain a correct measurement, taking it from these points; but it seems to us to be the only way in which the length of the thigh-bone itself can be measured with accuracy. When a man breaks the patella, — if he knows it, for he does not find it out invariably,—he is not always wilhng to submit to the amount of rest which the Surgeon tells him is neces- sary ; he has not ' broken his leg,' and he soon thinks he has been confined long enough. Union by bone does not follow, and the fragments are widely separated. The resulting disa- bility of the limb, however, is not so great as might be ex- pected. Mr. Lonsdale observed that as long as the upper fragment of the bone remains within the trochlea of the femur, the Patient will have a comparatively useful limb. Mr. Verrall of Brighton, who had the medical charge of the servants at a large station on a railway, told me how he once treated a transverse fracture of the patella in one of the porters. He went to the engineer's workshop, and himself superintended the construction of the apparatus he wanted. The workpeople entered well into his views, and, with excellent mechanical skill, fitted a large wooden splint to the back of the limb, with an ample supply of leather straps well padded. He described it as being ' not a splint, but a piece of timber.' The machine answered its purpose ; and bony union followed. Among the dislocations of the lower extremity, those of the hip are the most important, not only from the frequency of their occurrence, but also from their liability to be confounded with other injuries,—such, for instance, as fracture about the