204 at last.' He had long been in the habit of pressing, or scratching, the Tumor with his fingers; and he had been warned that some day he would make it bleed. Blood was now observed to be flowing freely from the Tumor down his neck, and on to his shoulder. The blood continued to flow freely, notwithstanding the attempts made by himself and his servant to stop it. At night Mr. Forster of Daventry was called. He applied a compress of lint; and the flow of blood then ceased. On the ist of June I saw him, with Mr, Forster: and then for the first time I examined the Tumor,—or rather, handled it. The Patient was weak, and seemed to be suffering from the lowering effects of the loss of blood. The surface of the Tumor was uneven, with several pro- jecting knobs of different sizes. The skin over it was generally thin, and could be moved freely, except at one part, — the site of the former suppuration. Several large veins could be traced in the skin passing over it. The pedicle was thick and firm : it seemed to be formed by a prolongation of condensed tough fascia, in which two very large arteries could be felt pulsating. The lobe of the ear was spread out and lost in the skin on the surface. The Tumor hung down far below the ramus of the jaw ; and, as the Patient moved the position of his head and shoulder, it fell sometimes in front of the clavicle and sometimes behind it, resting now and then on the shoulder, as he sat in a chair for examination. There was not any fluctuation perceptible in it. That the Tumor could be removed, was perfectly clear : the only question being that of the loss of blood likely to attend an operation ; and this, in a man of the Patient's age, was a matter for the most serious consideration. As the Tumor was not a part of the proper system, but rather a foreign body causing irritation, I did not think the shock of an operation for the removal likely to be a source of danger, except as it arose from the loss of blood at the time of operation. To control this, it would be necessary to secure the vessels in the pedicle as they passed to supply the circulation in the Tumor, or its capsule, before proceeding to separate the Tumor from its coverings. This could be done