335 Note. — In the case of S., no mention was made at the Consultation on his case of any Capital Operation, — which, if he then had it in mind, was a breach of Professional propriety in Mr. S.; nor was any fresh Consultation held on his case with reference to the operation which was performed 2 months afterwards. In the case of B., — while the printed Rules require that in such a case a Consultation of all the Surgeons shall be held, •— it is the fact that such a Consultation was not held ; and there is no Rule, or customary practise, known to me, the Senior Surgeon of the Infirmary, allowing any of the Surgeons to dispense with it. As I was going into the Surgeons' Room, some very few minutes after the time named in the House- Surgeon's notice, — the short time given in this case not allowing greater punctuality, — I met Mr. S. at the door: he said the Consultation was over, and walked quickly away. I was at the Infirmary the day before, and was in communica- tion with him and the House-Surgeon upon other subjects. I was not requested to visit the Patient, nor was I told of the Consultation about to be held. The Rules require that the Surgeon shall, through the House-Surgeon, give notice to his Colleagues as soon as he thinks the question of operating arises. I had copies printed of the letters of 14 April, 1867, and 19 May, 1867, and the short notes in reply, with this heading : ' Mr. Hussey requests the attention of his Colleagues to the following correspondence,' and this note at the foot, —' The operation was done in both cases. The woman (B.) died. In the young man, (S.) the limb being, after operation, an in- cumbrance without reasonable hope of cure, was removed by amputation through the thigh ; and he went out of the Infir- mary alive.' I sent copies to the Medical Officers, and some members of the Medical Profession. I sent a copy also to Mr. S. and Mr. B., one of them the Chairman of the Com- mittee of Management, and the other his predecessor in office, being the only persons not members of the Medical