347 to the non-observance of the Rules mutually applying to all the Officers, it would be the informality of not courting full publicity by appealing at once to the Governors, with whom the whole question ought to rest. The ultimate decision must be theirs. I preferred that unnecessary publicity should be avoided ; and I adopted the more Professional course. Medical Practitioners, like other Professional men, will differ in opinion. Medical Officers of a Public Institution have a right to protect themselves from animadversion and adverse criticism; and they are entitled to ask for their opinion that fair publicity which is felt to be just toward the Patient. Cor- respondence is liable to misinterpretation. In bringing it to the notice of my Colleagues and Professional brethren, it may be perhaps, — if it was not already a matter of public notoriety, —that I gave it that slight amount of additional publicity which has brought it to the notice of the Governors, — its proper place. If a Medical Officer objects to the action of an other Medical Officer, calling his attention to neglect of public duties, and refuses the appeal to the judgement of a Professional tribunal, it seems rightly to have been proposed by a Governor at a General Court, and wisely referred, — as a fit subject for enquiry, or even for adjudication,—to a private Board. And, if only the investigation had been complete, — or, at all events, fair and impartial, — it would have been ungenerous to object to the action of the Committee on the merely formal ground that they exceeded the bounds of the discretion allowed them by the constitution of the House. It is to be observed that it is not one of the duties of the Committee of Management, as at present constituted, to enquire into the duties of the Medical "Officers in the discharge of any part of their duty, nor to define in any way what their duty is, nor to entertain any question concerning it. The Medical Officers, who are now excluded from the Committee, are not appointed by the Committee, and are not accountable to them for their conduct. It is not consistent with the practise of a Public Hospital that the conduct of those Officers should be impugned, without notice, without hearing, and without asking any explanation,—