8o extent of the injury — often more obscure, though not less serious, when the scalp is unbroken, or where, as sometimes happens in the bone, the violence has not been direct,—have received Mr. Hewett's attention, and the importance of the different classes of symptoms is estimated. In compound frac- tures, the danger is not to be estimated by the extent, or ap- parent severity, of the wound. Large wounds of the scalp, with extensive comminution of bone, where all the violence is spent upon the part, will often present less unfavorable results than the fractures of the inner table, and may not improbably be attended with favorable recovery. In the pimcttired fracture, in which sharp splinters of the inner table are driven inwards, inflammation within the cranium almost always arises sooner or later; and of all compound fractures, this is on that account the most dangerous, and the one which most im- peratively calls for the use of the trephine and the elevator— to raise, or remove altogether, the fragments which are driven down. The former teaching of some schools, — or perhaps we should say more correctly, the opinion of some former writers, — was that in death after injury of the head, in cases of simple concussion of the brain, there might be nothing found in the brain itself to prove that it had suffered any injury, the substance of the brain and its membranes appearing perfect, without any deviation from healthy structure. Mr. Hewett points out that these conclusions have been drawn from insufficient premises; that in the few cases recorded — for there are not many, — on which such an opinion has been made to rest for support, there has not been a sufficient examination made of other parts of the body, to show the real cause of death, and that modern investigation has cleared the way for more accurate conclusions in cases once doubtful or obscure. In all cases of sudden death from injury, he thinks the parts to be examined should be the upper poi'tion of the spinal marrow and the heart, — whether there is any indication or not of any injury having happened to the chest. In a case,'at St. George's Hospital, a rupture of the heart might have escaped detection but for the rule they have there of examining the various parts of the body in all the