i6i was not more than an ounce of urine in the bladder; and this escaped at once. The stone was struck with the point of the instrument as it entered the bladder. The blades were expanded, and on introducing my finger a large calculus was felt. It was seized with a strong pair of lithotomy- forceps, and brought almost to the orifice of the urethra, when it slipped from the grip of the forceps, and fell back into the bladder. By pressing firmly above the pubes, where the calculus could be felt, it was kept steady, and a firmer hold taken with the forceps. When brought again to the orifice of the urethra, so that its large size could be seen, and an opinion formed of the laceration Hkely to follow from per- severance in the attempt to drag it through, I made an incision less than half an inch in length, in the mucous membrane, dividing it directly upwards, towards the symphy- sis pubis in the mesial line. By continuing the dilatation gradually, moving the forceps from side to side, the parts yielded, and the stone was extracted. It was observed during the operation that the soft parts yielded more readily by raising the Patient's knees toward the abdomen, as in the position chosen for lithotomy in male subjects. The calculus weighed ^iij. 9ij., and was composed of lithic acid. It was a thick oval in shape, or rather in the form of a flattened heart. In its long axis it was two inches and six tenths, in its short axis one inch and eight tenths, and one inch and four tenths in thickness. Its greatest circumference was seven inches and a quarter; its short circumference was five inches and an eighth. There was rather free oozing of bright florid blood from the inside of the bladder during the operation and afterwards. A draught of Liq. Ammon. acet. with some Vinum Opii, some Antimony, and Sp. Etheris nitr. was given at bedtime. The girl slept all night. The urine escaped freely, without her being able to retain it. On the 25th I directed her to bathe the parts frequently with cold water. On the 29th she was able to retain the urine during the day ; but a little escaped at night. June 9.—The Nurse tells me that less of the urine escapes. Soon after this date she returned home by her own wish. M