91 practise and the theory are still to be found lingering among us. Much of our existing knowlege of the pathology of the eye, and (as a necessary accompaniment) a large part of the im- provement in our practise in the treatment of its diseases, has arisen from the better acquaintance we have only lately ob- tained with the appearances of the living structures and of the progress of disease, or of reparative action. The ophthalmo- scope is an innovation for which the Patient has as much rea- son to be thankful as the Surgeon. Valuable as the help is, derived from such an instrument, it is not to be expected that it can clear up all previous difficulties in diagnosis, or that it can show every morbid change in all diseases of the eye, when so considerable a part of the sight-giving apparatus is within the cranium. An essay by Mr. T. Smith is upon subjects oi Minor Surgery. Of the many implements, — unimposing in appearance,—which the Surgeon has at hand in his consulting-room, or carries with him in his pocket in going his rounds, few are of more importance, from the frequency with which they are brought into use, than the ordinary calico roller,—' roller,' we presume, in the Surgeon's hand, the ' bandage' when applied upon the person of the Patient. Elastic materials are less generally useful as 'binders '; they fail in one of the chief purposes of a bandage,—that of making sufficient pressure for the purpose of keeping the muscles steady, or, as Mr. Smith describes it, that of ' maintaining uniform pressure on subjacent parts.' A sufficient amount of firmness is needed in the cloth from which the bandage is made, provided the texture is not too close to hinder the use of pin and needle to fix it when applied. In these days of labor-sparing machinery, we have often wondered to see in our Hospitals that the rollers, which are dispensed with no sparing hand in the wards and out-patient rooms, continue to be made by manually tearing the cloth into strips, and rolling these strips one by one into shape. A machine of very simple construction would do all the work. In Madrid we have understood that such a machine has long been in use. The spiral bandage, taking his example from its use upon