409 in the first list of the new class of Fellows created under the provisions of that Charter. Mr. Cleoburey never obtained extensive practise as a Con- sulting Surgeon. Possessed of competent private means, his retired habits and not robust health did not qualify him for the active competition necessary to ensure success in that struggle. But he was far from being inattentive to the wants and requirements of the Profession. He read with a critical eye all the approved publications of the day, and he treasured well in his memory the best modern discoveries deducible from Pathology. To the public he was favorably known as an Oculist, and during his whole career he maintained de- servedly a high reputation in diseases of the eye, with the Ophthalmic practise of Oxford and the neighboring counties. His operations on the eye, whatever their nature, were beautifully and skilfully executed, and were remarkably suc- cessful in their results. A 'good diagnosis/ he used to ob- serve, was the most important element of success. Among his Professional brethren, especially his Colleagues at the Infirmary, his reputation was not so limited. He was known to be a good Anatomist, retaining minute Anatomical knowlege with accuracy. His diagnosis was justly appre- ciated. It was cautiously formed ; and of its general cor- rectness it is sufficient to say, that his Colleagues have not recorded a case where his opinion was shown to be erroneous. During 35 years^ few, if any, operations were performed in the Infirmary without his presence and assistance. Residing near the House, he was generally selected by his Colleagues to supply their places when absent; and at whatever incon- venient hour an additional head or an additional hand was required, everybody looked to Mr. Cleoburey to supply it. As an Officer of a large charitable Institution, dispensing its benefits to numerous poor, his conduct to the Patients was kind and benevolent in the extreme; no harsh or unkind word ever escaped from his lips; and perhaps few Hospital Surgeons have descended to the grave having made a more honorable use of their talents and experience, and having done more positive good in their day, than Mr. Cleoburey. • . . Mr. Cleoburey was the Author of a short work, — An