323 To THE Same. My dear Sir, — In acknowlegement of your invitatiorij — though such an invitation was not needed, — I have considered your letters with every degree of kindness and forbearance ; and I see nothing in them but a fixed determination not to meet the question I have put to the Committee. If what you now add is meant for an answer, it ought to have been given at the time, i.e. in December 1873. You now say, that you ' deny my statement.' There is no statement in my letter: and none, therefore, which you or others can deny. There is a question submitted to the Committee, which they have not considered, and a request, which they have neither granted nor refused. What must be the relations of the Committee of Management to the Medical Officers in a Hospital of which this can be said ? 20 March, 1875. To THE Same. My dear Sir, — If I am wrong in saying that the question submitted by me to the Committee, —' What help the Medical Officers are to expect from the House-Surgeon in the regular discharge of their duties in the wards,—the treatment of the In-Patients, and the investigation of their cases; — and espe- cially, who is to do the House-Surgeon's work, when he is otherv/ise engaged ?'—has not been considered by them, — be kind enough to show me, as the result of their enquiry into it, any opinion they have recorded, or any act they have done. Remembering how the Committee, — you sitting as Chair- man,— received a statement of the House-Surgeon's neglect of duty, in failing to report to me any one of the repeated complaints made to him by a Patient, — coming, though it did, in connection with two other cases of scandal, to which I need not now refer, — are you serious in asking me to bring before them anything which could be thought ' a cause for dissatisfaction'} You put a question to me about my ' sense of duty as a Medical Officer of an Infirmary.' Whatever the relative position of the Medical Officers and the Managers of a Public Institution,—here (at the Radclifife Infirmary,) the Medical Y 2