84 amputating knife, and passed it slowly through the left side of his chest, with the intention of transfixing his heart. The blade was passed completely through the chest up to the handle; and it made a considerable wound where it passed out below the point of the scapula. He withdrew the knife, and was greatly surprised to find himself still living, and breathing. As he was feeling for the wound, in order to pass the knife again, and to transfix his heart effectually in a second attempt, he was disturbed by the servant coming into the room. Mr. Parish was summoned to his assistance. Under, his care, in conjunction with Mr. Stanley, the Student recovered, and returned to his own country. The chief treat- ment consisted in low diet and free bleeding. Was the lung transfixed ? It was thought not. Probably the air entered the chest as the pleura was opened by the point of the knife, and the lung collapsedj and escaped the direct passage of the blade through its substance. ... It was a remark, I have heard, among the soldiers in the Crimea, that a man would re- cover after a wound above the waist, but seldom after one below. . . Injuries of the Ahdomcn are treated by Mr. G. Pollock in an essay, in which he introduces them to the notice of the reader as ' accidents generally of a grave character, with the effects of which tjie Surgeon has frequently, but too often hopelessly, to combat.' In treating of contusions, Mr. Pollock gives a caution that in case of a blow or any violence received on the walls of the abdomen, even a slight contusion must not be regarded too lightly. Many circumstances must be fully enquired into in the first instance before we can decide on the probability, as well as on the extent, of deep-seated mischief. ... A lad, aged 19 years, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary in December, 1855, under my care, shortly after being knocked down by a cart, the shaft of which hit him just under the liver. He complained of great pain in the abdomen. Symp- toms of peritonitis followed, and he died the fourth day. Upon examination, signs of severe peritonitis were seen. There were two lacerations of the peritoneal coat of the parietes of the abdomen, each about an inch long, in parallel