4o6 In strictness of Law, perhaps^ the Universities can not make a Physician: as they can not make a Gentleman. But their Graduates in Medicine, — Bachelors and Doctors equally,—were recognized, if they wished it, as Physicians: and those to whom the College of Physicians gave the right, under charters confirmed by Parliament, tain docendi, quam exercendi, scientiam et artem Medicam, wgre recognized in society, and were addressed, as Doctors, without a thought or suspicion that there was anything dishonorable or illegal in the practise. No more falsehood was seen in it than in the courtesy by which the younger sons of a Duke, or a Marquis, were called Lords, or the Judges of your Courts, — Lord Monboddo, Lord Auchinlech, and Lord Medwyn, — were honored with a similar designation, without being in possession of a Peerage. 22 February^ 1876. To Dr. J. B. G., M.D. ^ Dear Sir,—Thanks for your letter. The right of a Member of the College of Organists to call himself Dr. of Music might depend on several points,—e.g. the power given to the College under their Charter. I never saw the Charter; and I never heard of their College. The title might be attached to some office under the Crown,— perhaps, that of Organist to the Chapel Royal. The Crown, of course, has the right to grant the Title. Or, it might be in some other right, of which I have not any knowlege. Of one thing I am sure,—that there is not any custom in England, under which the title is given by courtesy to Organists, whether Members of the College, or not. The only Doctors of Music with whom I am acquainted are those with degrees from the Universities, or the Archbishop of Canterbury. There are many such. Of the other question you put, I am even less able to speak. I never heard of a Licentiate in Theology. The Archbishop of Canterbury and the Universities give the degrees of Bachelor and Doctor in Divinity. There are many such. The Bachelors in Divinity are not called ' Drs.,' — as Bachelors in Medicine are, almost universally, if they practise