87 ' dislocation into the axilla,' described as the most common. Sub-clavicular; very rare, the most difficult of reduction, sometimes resisting every attempt, even in the hands of the most experienced. Sub-spinous, backwards, on to the dorsum of the scapula; the rarest form of all, the most easy of reduc- tion, and though not likely to be confounded with any of the others, yet sometimes overlooked : though rare, opportunities in sufficient number have been found to study the effects of this accident in its anatomical relations. A Surgeon, now of large experience, once told us that, having started in life with the approved knowlege of this subject,—'the wide-spread error,' as Mr. Flower would say,— he was much puzzled with the first cases of dislocation of the shoulder he had to treat in private practise. He met with the sub-coracoid form again and again, many times in consul- tation, where the first attempts at reduction had failed. The sub-glenoid variety, he told us, he had seen but rarely; it is most frequently reduced without difficulty, we incline to think, in an early attempt. Some other varieties,—few in number, we think, when un- attended with fracture,—may now and then be seen, in the position of the head of the bone, which can not be arranged under these four heads. The particulars of the late Lord Langdale's accident, which happened when attending a meet- ing of the Trustees of the British Museum, have not, we believe, been laid before the profession. If we understood rightly the description given by the former President of the College of Physicians (Dr. Paris), who was the only person present (if we may except the noble Patient himself), with medical knowlege, the head of the bone was in the axilla, and the arm held immovable in an elevated position, with the elbow above the shoulder-joint. It seems to us an omission that the bending of bones has not been included among the injuries to which the upper extremity is obnoxious. Although the literature on the sub- ject is not extensive, there is no doubt of the occurrence of such a lesion. In Surgical writings the fact requires to be noted. It would seem uncertain at what age a cartilaginous bone exists that is liable to bend; and it is an interesting