174 port against the footboard, the floor of the carriage gave way. To save himself from falling through, with the certainty of being dragged at the horse's heels, he jumped out. In alight- ing on the ground, he received a compound fracture of the right leg. A carrier's cart happened to be passing at the time. He was lifted into this, and taken to an Inn in the neighbor- hood. Mr. Marshall of Wallingford was here called to his assistance. He secured the limb in splints, for greater safety in making the journey home. A carriage was then obtained, and the Patient was taken to his own house, about ten miles distant. He then placed himself under the care of Mr. Stone of Abingdon. On April 3 I saw him, in consultation with Mr. Stone. There was a deep and extensive wound leading down to the fracture. The tibia was fractured in the middle third, and the broken extremities of the bone could be seen at the bottom of the wound without any appearance of repair. The course of the fibula could not be traced in the middle of the limb in consequence of the general swelling; but there was no doubt, from the relative position of the malleoli, that that bone was broken as well as the tibia. The foot was everted, and firmly fixed between the malleoli; and it was not pos- sible, by any efforts we made, to bring it to its proper posi- tion. There was a free purulent discharge, but not of a good consistency; and the Patient's general health was be- ginning to suffer. It was manifest that there was no other course to pursue but to remove the limb. This was done on the 26th, with the assistance of Mr. Briscoe, Mr. Stone, and Mr. P. Martin. Upon dissection it appeared that the fibula was broken in its middle third, and that the sharp point of the lower piece had been forced obliquely upwards into the shaft of the tibia, on its outer aspect, where it remained firmly fixed in the compact tissue about an inch above the spot where the tibia was broken. It required the exertion of a considerable degree of force to withdraw it. The Patient recovered. He is still living, and in good health. A married woman, 58 years of age, the mother of a large