149 for his immediate relief: but it was purulent and stringy. On the loth I passed a silver catheter, No. 6, into the bladder; and on June aa I passed No. 9. He went home on July 7, relieved of much of his suffering, but not able to pass urine freely. In the following winter his general health failed, and he became unable to follow his work. He was admitted into the Workhouse at Abingdon, and died there in July 1870,— thirteen years after he first came under my care. Remarks.—The history of this poor man, thus given through 13 years, is the history of many men in his humble station, having their daily bread to earn by their daily labor. They can not spare the time which is necessary for the visit to a Medical Practitioner, though it is to receive from him that attention without which they can not keep in health and con- tinue at work. It is a matter of common observation among Surgeons that where stricture of the urethra is established,— from whatever cause,—the disposition to contraction is also permanent; and it becomes necessary that a catheter should be passed at stated and regular periods. Without it, a con- tinuance in health is impossible. Many Patients may be trusted to perform the necessary operation themselves. With a person of education there is seldom a difficulty in giving such instruction as will enable the Patient to pass a bougie in his own person, if he is unable or unwilling to avail himself of the regular assistance of a Practitioner. With the Patients usually seen at a county Hospital, this is out of the question. They can not do it for themselves ; and, unhappily, it is only in rare and exceptional cases that they are able to avail them- selves of the help of the Surgeon with the regularity which is essential. Even a residence in a Hospital at irregular inter- vals, when driven to seek relief by temporary aggravation of their sufferings, is not enough to restore them to health for more than a short time. They obtain relief; they are not ' cured.' This poor man's health failed at length under a state of disease, for the relief of which the regular attendance of a Medical Practitioner is absolutely required.