58 ulcers of other specific diseases are often confounded, and from which they are sometimes with difficulty distinguishable. The subject of metallic sutures comes under his considera- tion when treating of wounds. He says, in his own ex- perience, he has not realized from them the advantages which other Surgeons have been led to ascribe to them. ' The introduction of the wire is easy enough; but its withdrawal is often attended with great inconvenience, and even risk of tearing the imperfectly-united edges of the wound completely asunder. Nor am I satisfied that it is less irritating than the properly-prepared silk or linen thread.' The inconvenience we have ourselves found in withdrawing it has arisen from the less yielding character of the wire; and the removal, especi- ally in highly sensitive parts, as the lip, is often attended with very great pain to the Patients. The word Syphilis he applies, as other writers do, to all forms of disease,—penal diseases they might be called,— supposed to have their origin from impure sexual intercourse. He does not distinguish with more accuracy than many of his predecessors, the sequelae of the different primary sores which are followed by secondary affections;—the character- istic eruption, for instance, loss of hair, and noctui-nal pains of the hard primary sore, which does not produce pus, from the protean secondary symptoms of the phagedenic poison, less regular in their course, and more formidable in their ravages. A chapter on Venereal diseases in a comprehensive work on Surgery would not be complete without some reference to John Hunter. Accurate observer as he was. Hunter no doubt confounded together several primary sores of different specific character. A more accurate observation should endeavor to establish a separate diagnosis; and, before attempting a cure by a single remedy, or by a routine administration of remedies of acknowleged virtue, should be able to point out with accuracy the sequelae of each, the course of the original sore, and,—where there are such, — the appearances and order of the several sequelae. The different methods of Amputating the Extremities, and the mortality after the operation, occupy some space. The Author describes the different methods, on which so much