293 bound by their duty to the Governors, and to the pubh'c, as the recipients of the charitable dispensations of the House, to do the best they can for the Patients with the materials placed at their command by the Governors, yet the interference of the Governors in the treatment, in an important matter of detail, removes from them the responsibility which attaches to them as the Professional Officers to whom the treatment of the Patients is entrusted. 24 October, 1877. To THE Rev. J. S. My dear Sir, — In the Oxford Chronicle of to-day, in a report of remarks made by you, — 'on behalf of the Com- mittee of Management,' — at the late Quarterly Court, I see that you refer to the case of the death of a Patient under chloroform, adding, that ' in such cases it has been the custom in this Infirmary to hold an Inquest, as it is in all the London Hospitals.' Of the present custom in the Hospitals in London, I am unable to speak; but I believe it is not the custom to hold Inquests in such cases in private practise. At the Infirmary I never heard that there had been more than one such case: that was in 1871. In that case the Patient died before any Surgical operation was begun. In the late case, the death happened, as I understood, after the operation was ended. Information was given to me. I re- ferred the informant to the Registrar of Deaths; and I heard no more of it. It seems to me that you can not be aware of the change which has taken place in the need for Inquests under the operation of the late Amended Act for the Registration of Deaths. In this case, I heard afterwards that there were 10 Medical doctors present. Surely there was Medical evidence enough to justify the Registrar in registering the death, and to satisfy any reasonable person that an Inquest was not wanted to make the cause of death clear. No application for an Inquest was made to me by the friends of the deceased, nor by the Officers of the Infirmary. In all the cases at the Infirmary in which I have held an Inquest information has been given to