36o was entitled to ask an assembly of gentlemen for a reason for a request which was without precedent in that or any other Hospital; but they had refused it. The Town Council could have no wish to be brought into collision with that Institution. They might have thought it desirable to connect themselves with the Infirmary by choosing one of the Officers of the House. The Members of the Council would be likely to say to him that he ought not to have accepted the office of Coroner when he was disqualified by his office at the Infirmary from holding it. There was an other body to be considered. There was, within a hundred miles of them, a large borough town, sending two Members to Parliament, and with a large Hospital. The Coroner of the Borough was a Medical man, but not at present one of the Officers of the Hospital. In that borough they were required under their charters to con- form to the customs of Oxford, and if the Coroner should ever be a candidate for office at the Hospital, he would have to be told that by the customs of Oxford he could not hold the two offices. He had referred to a Minute formerly made on the motion of Dr. R.; this had been read at the last Court, but they had not read what was in fact the answer to it, — a letter from one of the ablest men in the county, the late Rev. R. Pretyman,— to Mr. S., the Treasurer of the Infirmary: — 'Sir, — I received your circular dated 2nd August, and did not intend to take any notice of it ; but your second application received this morn- ing induces me to reply to it. I therefore beg to inform you that I am by no means satisfied of the correctness of the statement you have put forth, and I hope to find time to examine the few last reports. ' I have also read with astonishment a Resolution passed at your last Quarterly Court, recommending your Senior Surgeon to abstain from calling attention to the accounts ; it being well kno^vn that that same gentleman had for some time most efficiently filled the office of Auditor, and that other Medical Officers are in the habit of making observations upon the accounts without being subject to such an insulting recommen- dation. I have been equally disgusted at the uncourteous reply which was sent to a very simple and respectful application from the same gentleman. ' So long as the Committee of Management choose to stifle enquiry,