375 failed to attend. The Jury did not think his attendance of importance, and they gave a verdict without it. In an other case the Surgeon having failed to attend on a summons, the Inquest was adjourned, and he was brought up on a warrant. Under the advice of Counsel that the arrest was informal, he threatened legal proceedings. The Managing Governors of the Infirmary took the part of their Officers ; and one of them wrote to the Secretary of State, soliciting his intervention to hinder me from calling the Medical Officers in future. A copy of the Secretary of State's letter in reply is enclosed. In cases where the death has happened from accidental causes, I have no wish to call unnecessary evidence. But, where the information points to violence likely to become the subject of investigation in a Criminal Court, it seems to me that such evidence ought to be laid before the Jury as will be satisfactory to the advisers of the Crown as prosecutors, and not open to censure from the Judge of Assize. The facts, — that the deceased was admitted a Patient into the Infirmary on a given day, with certain injuries, and that certain appearances were observed after death — might be given by the House-Surgeon, by a Pupil, or perhaps by a Nurse. But, if scientific evidence is required, — such as a Profes- sional opinion, — it seems to me that it ought to be taken from the Surgeon who had the proper care of the deceased as a Patient, the proper Officer who himself gave orders for the treatment during life, and who is himself directly answerable to the Governors and the public. To take the opinion of the House-Surgeon would be asking a Medical man to give a Pro- fessional opinion on a case which was under the care of an other Practitioner, — a proceeding which is not agreeable to the usages of the Medical Profession. It seems to me that the Surgeon himself ought to give the scientific evidence ; and that, knowing as I do the difference between him and the House-Surgeon, I should be liable to censure from the Judge of Assize if I failed to call the Surgeon himself. A distinction is to be drawn between cases in the large Hospitals in London, and those in the country. In London the • House-Surgeon is appointed on the recommendation of