222 when % Medical Practitioners, and in some cases more, had been assigned to each district. The proposal was adopted unanimously; but, at my suggestion, it was left to the Prac- titioners to arrange among themselves for the supervision of the several districts. A meeting of the Medical Practitioners was hastily sum- moned ; and, with some difference of opinion upon the ques- tion referred to them by the Committee (the number of Practitioners to be assigned to the several districts), certain Resolutions prepared by Dr. R. were adopted by the majority of those present, namely, that there should be only two dis- tricts, and that each should have only one Medical Inspector. Such an arrangement seemed little likely to be sufficient for any real Medical supervision of a district so large as that of Oxford, under the visitation of epidemic disease. In the face, however, of the alarming reports which had been cir- culated,—the 'exaggerated rumors,' as they have since been publicly styled, — it was satisfactory to those members of the Board who had been steadily giving their time and attention to the general sanitary state of the town, to find from these resolutions how little ground the assembled Practitioners thought there was for so strict a Medical supervision as was contemplated by Aid. Carr's proposal. No recommendation came to the Board through Dr. R. to extend vaccination and re-vaccination, nor to ascertain how far the defects in the working of the laws for enforcing vaccination could be ascertained and remedied, nor any sug- gestion for the discovery of—what was, in truth, the real source of danger,—the existence among us, and the place of abode, of all who were not protected by vaccination. It seemed as if he and some others thought that little trust was to be placed in the protective power of vaccination and re- vaccination, as a safeguard. . . . The subject of vaccination and re-vaccination was not mentioned in the report made by the Meeting of Medical Practitioners. . . . The inhabitants were to be allowed to catch the disease,—if it should so happen, and ' remedial measures,' as they have been called, were to be applied to the treatment afterwards. Dr. R. refers to the motion made by me at the meeting