20I noted that the line of incision in front of the joint has opened in several places, from which there is a free discharge. The whole leg is much swollen, the edema extending as far as the knee. He is much thinner and weaker; the pulse is generally about 140; his hands become hot in the evening, and his face flushed. He was moved to an other bed, and the quantity of wine given was increased. In a day or two the pulse had fallen under 130. On the 1st of June the leg was amputated in the upper third by double circular incision. The last ligature came away on the 14th, The man regained his health rapidly, and was discharged from the Infirmary on the 7th of July. Remarks. From the history and progress (it being thought that the disease affected the synovial membrane and cartilage, rather than the bones), this seemed a fit case for the operation of making a free opening into the joint, or for removal of the articulation, — if such an operation is admis- sible for the large joints of the lower extremity. However little hope there might be of saving the limb,—and there was not ground for much,—I was anxious to make the attempt, because I had not before found it necessary to amputate a limb for disease of any joint but the knee. The first incision was made in accordance with the pub- lished description of former operations: it was not found here to assist in rendering the other steps of the operation more easy of execution. In order to remove the malleoli, it was necessary to enlarge it at each side, so as to make it into the form of an H, with the transverse line curved, instead of straight. In a joint distended with fluid from chronic disease, the eversion might perhaps be more easily effected: the contents in this case were little more than the remains of the articular cartilages, and the pulpy and degenerated synovial membrane. The operation here failed to restore to the Patient any use of the limb, nor did it succeed in rendering a farther opera- tion unnecessary. It seemed as if the disease went on steadily from bad to worse, neither checked nor aggravated by operative interference, or by the other treatment adopted.