152 his natural power. In fact, he had not completely regained it when he returned home on June aa. He was readmitted i6 May, 1867, with the bladder dis- tended ; and also with symptoms of paralysis of the right side of the body. He was brought in a cart from a village about 12 miles from Oxford. The persons who came with him re- ported that the symptoms of paralysis came on while he was riding in the cart. The bladder was relieved by the frequent introduction of the catheter. The symptoms of paralysis became more marked. He grew weaker by degrees, and died on the i^ih,— nine days after admission. Retention of Urine, inflamed Prostate —Puncture of Bladder. A man, 25 years of age, shepherd on a large farm, applied to Mr. Box, of Abingdon, for relief of a frequency and diffi- culty in passing urincj which had come on after an attack of gonorrhea six weeks ago. Mr. Box formed the opinion that the man was suffering from an inflamed prostate, and ad- vised him to apply at once for admission into the Radclifife Infirmary. Upon presenting himself at the Infirmary, he was refused admission by the House-Surgeon. He returned home ; and under the advice of a friend, who confidently promised him a cure, he took at intervals several doses of Epsom salts and nitre. Not obtaining relief, and his sufferings becoming known to his master, he requested Mr. Box to see him. Mr. Box found the bladder greatly distended. No urine had been passed during the last 24 hours. The bowels had not been moved for four days. He tried to pass catheters of different sizes, but without success. 7 April, 1858, I saw him in consultation with Mr. Box and Mr. Baker, and, failing in the attempts I made to pass a catheter, I resolved, with their concurrence, to puncture the bladder above the pubes. A small incision was made with a scalpel above the pubes; and, the distended bladder being felt with my finger, I passed a trocar into it. Then withdrawing the trocar, an elastic catheter was passed through the cannula, and the bladder