249 The chief heads of expenditure named by the Committee J are the Diet, — and the Drugs, — (or the Dispensary). It Is •not stated what is the consumption of expensive things (whether in diet, or drugs,) in each ward, or under each Medical Officer separately. Information on this point is wanted for the purpose of comparison. The Committee : may perhaps be of opinion that it is for the Governors to . consider whether persons who feel the want of many or i expensive indulgences, are fairly admissible to the Infirmary as subjects for relief. The Committee call attention to the large outlay for Tea : and Sugar. If an allowance of Tea is continued, the expense c can hardly be lowered. At the present rate, it comes to less t than 6d. a-head a-week. The consumption of Coal for fire in t the wards is, according to my observation, too little rather t than too much. Fish I have never prescribed, — nor fruit. ; On one occasion when some fruit was brought to me at the ' Infirmary, I ordered it to be given to a Patient. The next I day I heard that it was taken away from him, after I had left t the House. The Committee refer to the great and rapid increase of I expense under the head of ' Dispensary.' The increase, they say, is attributable rather to the Out-Patients than the In- " Patients. The Committee do not refer, by name specially, ' to the cases treated without the prescription of the Medical ' Officers: — perhaps they include them under the general ; head of ' Out-Patients.' Of these I have no positive know- : lege; but I believe them to be numerous. In obedience to the request of the Committee appended to • their Report, I take the liberty of offering these sugges- • tions: — That greater facilities should be afforded for the : admission of In-Patients in early or acute stages of disease, — as in accidents, and as now with young children. From ' neglect, or want of timely attention, cases become chronic, ; and more costly in all ways; giving less satisfaction to Patients themselves, and their friends in the result. That the number of persons attending as Out-Patients, — especially those residing in the City, — should be reduced. Many of them are able to pay a Medical Practitioner for advice and