4IO ■Account of the System of Friction, adopted in cases of con- tracted Joints and Lameness, by Mr. Grosvenor, This reached a third edition. He also wrote, A Review of the different Operations on the Eyes. [The Medical Times and Gazette, February 1853.] Mr. William Ley, who had only lately retired from the office of Medical Superintendant of the Asylum at Littlemore, was born in 1806, and at the time of his death, in March 1869, had not completed his 63rd year. He was the son of a Clergyman in Devonshire, and received his early education at the Grammar School at Ottery St. Mary. He was apprenticed to Messrs. Lawrence and Warner, of Cirencester, Practitioners of good reputation and experience; and completed his Professional education at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, where he was a Dresser under Mr. Earle. He was admitted a Member of the College of Surgeons in 1831, and a Licentiate of the Society of Apothecaries in 1835. The first public appointment he held was that of Resident Medical Officer of the Fever Hospital. After holding it about 4 years, he began practise in Crawford Street, and about the same time he was elected Surgeon to the Western General Dispensary, — an office which gave him much work among the poor. His Colleagues remember that he did the work with ability, with good feeling, and with most conscientious up- rightness of purpose. In his own opinion, however, he was more fitted by his tastes for the duties of a Physician than for the more strictly Surgical part of the Profession. After some few years,—at the instance of Sir William Lawrence and other private friends, — he determined to quit the general practise of Medicine, and to enter on the special department of Lunacy, which was then receiving attention from active members of the Profession. With this view he took lodgings at Hanwell, for the purpose of studying the diseases and general management of the Insane. Ample opportunity was afforded at the Asylum under the personal superintendance and instruction of Dr. Conolly and Dr.