143 from the meatus. About an hour afterwards he had a shiver- ing fit. At night he was put into a warm bath; and a dose of Opium was given. II _He tells me that the wound 'weeps' a little at times. I passed a wax bougie, No. 4, into the stricture ; it was held firmly, and I allowed it to remain for some minutes. 17—The wound is healed. The man does not desire any farther treatment for the stricture. He was discharged at his own request. About 2 years afterwards I met him at a distance from Oxford. He told me that for some months after he left the Infirmary the wound had occasionally discharged a little, but that it was then firmly healed. The difficulty in micturition continued. Retention of Urine, stricture after injury to Perineum — Puncture of Bladder—Permanent Opening. A Farmer, 63 years of age, rather a free liver, had long suf- fered with Stricture of the urethra. About 15 years ago, when riding on horseback, he was thrown violently on the pommel of the saddle. The injury was followed by partial retention of urine, and blood was passed with the urine. He had suffered ever since with difficulty of micturition. Late at night, 6 November, 1856, I was called to him, with Mr. C. A. Barrett, of Wallingford. The bladder was greatly distended. Mr. Barrett had failed in several attempts to pass a catheter. The efforts I made were also unsuccessful. No other course remained but to puncture the bladder. After making a small incision with a scalpel through the skin and superficial fat above the pubes, I passed a trocar into the distended viscus. Withdrawing the trocar, and leav- ing the cannula in position, I passed an elastic catheter through it into the bladder. The bladder was thus emptied. The use of the cannula and catheter thus introduced was continued several days. The cannula was afterwards removed by Mr. Barrett, and an elastic catheter left in its place. The general management of the instrument was left to the Patient, with an occasional visit from Mr. Barrett, who lived at a distance.