4i6 Mr. Simon Murchison of Bicester was in his 6oth year at the time of his death, — in June 1871, He was born in India, His father, an indigo-planter, died comparatively young, at the early age of 36 years. The son received his early education at the Grammar School at Bath, where some of his father's family resided. He was apprenticed to Mr. Nicholls of Wells, a Practitioner of considerable local reputation. He attended as a Pupil at the United Hospitals, (Guy's and St. Thomas's,) and afterwards at the Seamen's Hospital, the old Dreadnought, under Mr. Busk. Of the value derived from the instruction under such a Master, he ever spoke with feelings of respect and affectionate remembrance. He passed the College of Surgeons in 1834, and the Society of Apothe- caries in 1835 ; and he began his Professional career at Bath, where he engaged in general and family practise. After some few years he removed to London ; and he joined as a partner in a practise which he did not find altogether suited to his tastes. As a Fellow of the Medico-Chirurgical Society, he attended the meetings of the Society; but without taking part in the discussions^ or contributing any paper to the Transactions. Soon after his marriage, he left London, and settled at Steeple Aston in Oxfordshire : from that place he shortly afterwards moved to the neighboring market town of Bicester, where he remained to the close of his life. Upon the first occasion of a vacancy, he was appointed Medical Officer of the Union Workhouse, with a large district of parishes. The duties of such an office, added to the laborious work of an extensive private practise told upon a constitution by no means strong. Though he was seldom disabled by illness, his intimate friends observed that his sti'ength was far from being equal to the demands made upon it: and he was told of their fears that he was suffering under degeneration of the muscular substance of the heart. At the beginning of the year he had agreed on terms of partnership with Mr. Drinkwater. But before these had come into full operation, he sank, after 4 days' illness, under the exhaustion attending an acute inflammatory affection of the fauces and larynx. As a Practitioner he was careful and painstaking,—judicious