240 Matron, or the House-Surgeon, from leaving the House, till competent relations or friends come to take them. Beyond this, which, in my opinion, is an act of kindness, nobody can hinder a Patient from leaving the House at his own free will. Assuming that the child was taken by some relation, I am unable to say (for I forget the fact), whether my consent was given by myself personally before she was removed. If not given by me, it may have been given by the House-Surgeon. Long ago I begged the House-Surgeon, in every case where, in my absence, my consent was wanted to the admission or discharge of a Patient, that he would give it in my name; for I did not wish that any unkindness should be done under color of my name. Perhaps some mistake has happened through the House-Surgeon's place having been lately sup- plied by a Deputy, who, —competent to all his Professional duties, — may not have known what were my wishes, or those of the Board. My opinion is that the child was sufficiently recovered to be taken home: and I think that I told the Recommending Governor as much. My consent to the child's removal (if not already given by the House-Surgeon), may therefore be assumed. Since the Weekly Board assumed the power to admit and reject Patients without reference to the opinion of the Medical Officer, I have ceased to meddle in those matters: I have neither admitted nor discharged any Patient. In former years I did it often; believing that I acted for the best interests of the House, and in the true spirit of the Rules framed for our guidance: if there seemed anything unusual in any such case, I reported it to the House Visitors, if in attendance, — or at the next Meeting of the Weekly Board. Now that I have for some time ceased to attend the Meetings, and since new and more active Governors have taken the lead in managing the affairs of the House, I am no longer intimate with the many new forms, certificates, and such things expected from the Medical Officers. But when they are wanted, the nature of them, and the circumstances of the case in which they are desired, ought, I think, to be made clear to us. 16 October, 1857.