321 To THE Rev. J. S. Dear Mr. Chairman, — The only question I find in your letter calling for an answer is that implied in the con- cluding words, asking on behalf of the Committee for ' the grounds of my dissatisfaction,' without which ' they will feel at a loss how to approach the matter.' If this letter is not a sufficient answer, you must be kind enough to tell me in plain English what you mean by the phrase. I do not under- stand it. One thing is clear to me,—that it has nothing to do with the subject of my letter. Do the Committee wish me to put down in writing all I have seen wrong in the House for some time past, — some lo or 15 years, perhaps? Are they ready to have it made public The request in my letter is made in such plain terms that there can not be a Member of the Committee who is unable to understand it. Do you think that your letter in reply will be allowed as an answer by the Local Government Board whom you have lately resolved to invite to the supervision of the House ? You refer to ' the present altered situation of affairs.' I see, — I regret to say, — the interference of Governors in the work of the Medical Officers to an extent unknown till lately; and injurious, as I believe, to the credit of the House, and to the welfare of the Patients : and I see that, while one of the Medical Officers receives some ^^200 a year for his work, a Deputy is appointed to do it, at the cost of an other ;^200. I have been unwilling, without necessity, to thrust upon the attention of the Governors the deficiencies in the department entrusted to me. I begged the attention of the Committee, only when the question of appointing a Second House- Surgeon was brought forward. The Committee at that time set the matter aside. They did not ask me to meet them. They did not refer my letter to the other Medical Officers. Now that a proposal for appointing a Third House-Surgeon is being publicly discussed, I return to the subject. The occasion calls for it. The subject is not one to be trifled with. If the Members of the Committee are content, — since the question is brought before them, — that the work which ought to be done by a Professional hand, or under the super- vision of a Professional eye, should be all done by a Nurse, Y