368 To THE Secretary, Radcliffe Infirmary. Dear Mr. Secretary, — Mr. S.'s letter [of which you have sent me a copy,] is a request to the Secretary of State, to give his authority to a pecuHar interpretation of the Medical Witness Act, and to enforce the observance of it in the Infirmary. No application has been made to me by Mr. S., or by the Medical Officers: and I am not aware that any attention has been paid to the letter on the subject addressed by me to the President, and referred by his Excellency to the Committee. If any such authoritative interpretation can be obtained, and one which will be ac- cepted by the Judges, it will, I am sure, be adopted by all Coroners, and by none more cheerfully than by me. As far as I understand the question raised, the objection to attend an Inquest, is only made on the part of the two junior Medical Officers, neither of whom has been a twelve-month in office. The Senior Surgeon has declared to me and to others, his readiness to attend when his opinion is wanted. Through private sources I have heard that Mr. Brunner was not in all cases satisfied with the Medical testimony furnished by the House: and I bear in mind that, in one case at least, a public correspondence with Mr. S. followed, not very friendly in character. It is a matter of public notoriety that the present Coroner for the County has not, any more than I have, followed in all cases the practise of his predecessor. Since I have been Coroner, 21 cases have been referred to me from the Infirmary. In two of them I did not think an Inquest necessary. In one of these Mr. S. afterwards publicly gave his opinion that an Inquest ought to have been held. In the other, I summoned a Jury in obedience to the printed application received from the Infirmary. The Jury agreed with me that an Inquest was not necessary. In about one third of the number the Patients were admitted in a dying state; and one body was brought in dead. One case of death of an Out-Patient was referred to me. In the in- formation given at the Inquest in that case, I did not see any