405 that I do not call myself Dr. But I claim the right to do so; and I certainly should, if I wished it, notwithstanding Dr. C.'s assertion that it is a 'false title/—an assertion, I take the liberty of adding, without a particle of evidence to support it. In your letter,—written as the Secretary of the College,—you say that you always tell the Licentiates that the title of Dr. legally belongs only to those who hold-the degree of M.D. from a University.' Be kind enough to refer them to the Statute, or Judicial decision, which declares the Law to be so. The Secretary of the College ought to be aware that the Archbishop of Canterbury has long had the power, and still holds it, of creating Doctors of Medicine; and that the Doctors so created have as full a right to the title of M.D. and Dr. as ' those who hold the degree of M.D. from a Uni- versity.' The honor so conferred by the Archbishop,—whether title, degree, or position, . . . status, gradus, or dignitas,—is not now, as before the Medical Act of 1858, a qualification for practise; but the right to the title is the same as ever: it is unquestioned, and it is valid in Law. The worth of it,— or, indeed of any title,—is not the matter in question. Dr. C,—if he wishes to make good what he has written,— should point out for the information of Physicians generally, and especially for the correction of ' the wilful error,' as he calls it, ' of those Licentiates who have taken the false title,' why it is more false for a Physician to style himself Dr., than for a Surgeon, Apothecary, or other Professional man, to call himself Mr., without holding the degree of M.A. from a University. There is surely less falsehood in it than in styling himself, or any of his friends Esq., or in allowing himself to be so styled by others, without being in possession of an ofJice of honor under the Crown, to which only such a title belongs of right. It has always been the custom in England to call a Physician practising medicine Dr.; as it has also been the custom to call a Surgeon, or Apothecary,—or a Gentleman, — Mr. It is a title, or mark of designation, given by courtesy; and surely, it may be said without fear of contradiction, that those who do not give it are not courteous. This is the sum of it.