82 of the Surgeon, These wounds vary much in situation and extent, and the amount of danger varies in a corresponding degree. Wounds at the back of the neck are less frequently made with the intention of destroying life, and are generally far less dangerous than those at the ' throat,' and at the side. Yet now and then a suicide manages to accomplish his pur- pose from behind. Several years ago, a man in St. Bar- tholomew's Hospital, who had once tried to destroy himself by cutting his ' throat,^ succeeded in destroying his life with a penknife at the back of his neck. Other injuries in the neck from external violence, such as a blow or a violent squeeze upon the larynx or trachea, come in for a share of consideration. Some of these have been known to cause death. It is not every one who is so fortunate as to escape from such violence with benefit, to the same extent as was the case with the late Dr. Turner. In the serious and embarrassing cases of children who have scalded the fauces and glottis in trying to drink boiling water from the spout of a kettle, it has long been the practise of Surgeons to advise an artificial opening into the larynx or trachea upon the accession of well-marked symptoms of obstruction of the breathing, or upon urgent and increasing dyspnea. We confess to have been much struck by some remarks published in one of the Medical journals, (by Mr. Wright, of Nottingham, we think), in which he gives it as the result of his observation of many cases, that those in which tracheotomy was performed were almost always fatal, and that a different course of practise, leading generally to a favor- able result, consisted in the early administration of an emetic, applying a small number of leeches according to circumstances, and blisters to the sternum, with calomel and very small doses of antimony, repeated at short intervals. In some of these, as in those far more embarrassing cases where foreign bodies have passed the rima glottidis, and have lodged in some part of the air-passages, an artificial opening will be imperatively required. When to operate and where to make the opening, will often tax the Surgeon's powers to the utmost. On an emergency, no doubt an opening is made most speedily in the larynx through the crico-thyroidean membrane, the only