289 Stranger had been brought forward without notice at the ordinary Weekly Meeting of the Committee: — that it ap- peared, by the Minutes that 9 Members only of the Committee, out of 27, were pi^esent, and that 4 only of them voted in favor of it, — not half the number present; and that it was done without the concurrence of any of the Medical Officers. The correctness of what I wrote rests on 'the documentary evidence of the Minutes,' to which you appeal: it has not been called in question. The last instance you give requires a fuller notice from me, — because you and Mr. R. are at variance ; and I can not say which of you is to be taken as the one ' to lay before the Governors the materials which are needful to enable them to form a correct judgement of the matter.' You say that, ' At the foot of page 3 (of my letter,) there occurs a paragraph which commences with a complaint against the Chairman of the Committee for negligence in faiHng to supply Mr. R. with the needful material for his report.' ' If you will be so good as to read again the paragraph referred to,' you will find that my words are,—'those important documents,— the Reports addressed by the Medical Officers to the Com- mittee of Management.' No other ' material' is mentioned. You give your view of your duty as the Chairman of the Committee, — 'that all, which the Chairman had to do, was to place unreservedly before him, (Mr. R.,) all the documents connected with his enquiry,' — 'which was done,'—you add: 'and that Mr. R. immediately put himself in personal com- munication with the Medical Officers, and first of all with Mr. Hussey.' As I read this, it is a clear and distinct state- ment by you that you gave those Reports to Mr. R., before he called upon me. When I saw him, I mentioned these Reports, — never think- ing that they had been kept back. It was, I assure you, ' a matter of surprize and regret to me to learn' from him, that he had not seen them, or heard of them. Allow me to add a little more. While many persons may, perhaps, be inclined to agree with you that it was the duty of the Chairman ' to place unreservedly before the person em- ployed, all the documents connected with his enquiry,'—with- U