54 more than a hundred years' growth,—has advanced in his own day with at least equal strides with other departments of human knowlege, the accumulating literature of the Profes- sion would recall him to a just sense of the position in which modern Surgery stands. For much of this we are indebted to those who have already passed away; some, to whom our obligations are not less, are still among us. The old Treatises on Surgery, the work of Authors too numerous to mention here, were good in their way; they were faithful records by the writers, of their own practise and observation. Often, no doubt, the writer of earlier times took from other sources, as modern Authors do, facts unsupported by authenticity; but a careful examination will show, that he distinguishes honestly between his own work and what he has acquired at second hand. What is practical and true holds good. These more laborious compilations of a past genera- tion have been superseded by monographs, and by abridge- ments and handbooks, which have been called into existence by the wants of the day. In them the Student finds what he wants; and the Practitioner consults the book he had in use as a Student. The monograph, the rival in popular favor, shows the class of experience of the individual who writes. Each artizan in his specialty accumulates experience, and the result is shown in many valuable works. Books, it must be acknowleged, are made in many different ways. Not many years ago we heard two members of the Profession discussing the merits of a volume lately published. ' Why;' said one of them, ' the man has written the book from two cases.' ' Most men," replied the Author's friend, 'write from a single case.' A ' System of Surgery' is necessarily to a certain extent a compilation. The Author of such a work, like a Lecturer, endeavors to collect all the scattered knowlege that has been obtained, and incorporating with it the additional information gained by his own observations, to arrange and display the whole in a clear and accessible form. For such a work Dr. Gross is eminently fitted. After being for several years Professor of Surgery in the University of Louisville, and Surgeon to the Hospital there, enjoying at the same time