68 which shall separate them by a broad line. The causes of gangrene are numerous ; the attempts to interpret them aright have been conflicting, and the interpretation not always satis- factory. The death of an inflamed part, it has been remarked, is a very complex matter. The rules for the treatment of mortification, Mr. Coote says, are simpler than in times gone by; but the means we possess of controlling it are few in number. Surgeons do not often witness death from the unchecked progress of traumatic gangrene, in a part destroyed by direct violence. The amount of local injury, of which it is thought that gangrene will be the certain termination, is too clear an indication for the immediate removal of the injured member, and it is seldom that the Patient is not himself sensible of the necessity for an operation, or that he refuses to be guided by the judgement of the Surgeon when he advises immediate amputation. Yet we do find now and then that he refuses; and we do find sometimes that gangrene in almost hopeless circumstances will stop short of the extinction of life; as we also find that the amputation of a limb, even at a distance from the injury, and far out of reach, as one would think, of all contaminating influences, does not always save life. The cases in which, in the absence of constitutional causes, predisposing or exciting, the gangrene is most frequently seen to run its course with rapidity, are those where the injury has been to a large nerve or primary bloodvessel, and where the indication for amputation was not sufficiently distinct. The secondary mortification following injury less severe in its character is less rapid in progress, and more frequently stops, or performs a spontaneous amputation. Mr. Coote gives a full and faithful description of Hospital Gangrene, — the 'good example' of the disease which forms the subject of his essay. Constitutional symptoms, he correctly says, may be generally observed; and where the disease attacks large wounds, such as stumps after amputation, it will often seem as if they were really the precursors of the local manifestation of the disease ; though we suspect a more careful observation of the wound and its secretion would have shown early enough that there, at least, all was not right.