30 about the room, a difficulty of breathing which was not usual with him. Mr. Cresswell advised him to go to bed, and to remain in the recumbent position. Upon examination next day, Mr. Cresswell found that there was not any respiration in the right lung. From this, combined with dulness over the whole of the side, he con- cluded that that part of the chest was filled with fluid. The Patient was afterwards seen by Sir William Gull, who was a friend of the family. He agreed in the view taken by Mr. Cresswell, and he advised that the fluid should be removed by tapping; if relief was not obtained after the administra- tion of other remedies. On December 3, I was summoned by telegraph for the purpose of performing the operation. At the time of my visit the Patient was in bed. As he lay there at rest, I did not observe any remarkable difficulty of breathing, nor any urgent symptom requiring immediate relief. The right side of the chest was dull on percussion. He made no complaint, and he was able to converse freely. But I was not called for the purpose of diagnosis; I was required simply to perform the operation of tapping the chest. For the convenience of operation, the Patient moved from the bed, and walked without distress to a sofa in the room. After dividing the integument with a scalpel, I passed a trocar through the intercostal space below the sixth rib. Upon withdrawing the trocar, dark-colored fluid — either pure blood, or serum strongly mixed with blood — flowed through the cannula without impulse. After about an ounce and a half had escaped, I withdrew the cannula, and passed the trocar again into the chest through the space above the sixth rib. Fluid of the same character flowed through the cannula, rather more freely than from the opening first made. After about six ounces had been withdrawn, I removed the cannula, with the concurrence of Mr. Cresswell, who assisted me at the operation. No perceptible alteration in the general state of the Patient followed. At night, after he had been moved back to bed, the difficulty of breathing returned. It increased in severity as the night advanced. Under strong stimulants administered