57 The diagnosis of Chronic Abscess, however easy in theory, is not always established without mistake, as the experience of too many of the best Surgeons testifies. Indeed, we doubt whether there are many operators who would not acknowlege that once, or even more than once, they have found themselves doing something more than making a mere puncture for the evacuation of the contents. The history, if it could be always had, might aid the diagnosis. The Patient seldom has the amount of observation necessary to guide the Surgeon unerringly; and if the fluctuation of purulent matter could be always felt, there would be no need of a puncture with the exploring-needle,—an instrument, of which he tells us in an other place that ' a large volume might be filled, if one had time, with a rehearsal of the mischief that has been committed by it in the hands of careless and unscrupulous Practitioners.' ... A young man, aged 24 years, lately serving in a draper's shop, was confined to the sofa for relief of the pain attending a weakly condition of his feet, which were in an advanced stage of valgus. He called my attention to a large swelling, which he supposed to be of recent formation, in the lower part of his left thigh. It had not been preceded by rigors, or other usual symptoms of suppuration. It occupied the whole circumference of the limb, and was tightly bound down by the fascia. It was without distinct fluctuation. The swelling had the general appearance of a large collection of matter. This was not the Patient's opinion. He had been the subject of several deep abscesses; and he was familiar in his own person with the symptoms preceding the formation. I punctured the swelling with a scalpel, and let out a pint of thick purulent matter. The swelling was evidently a chronic abscess. The puncture healed; but afterwards reopened: and the abscess continued to discharge at intervals, to the time of his death \i months afterwards. His description of the Scroftilous Ulcer, the surface, the secretion, and the parts around, is a clear and accurate de- scription of an ulcer strongly marked, of frequent occurrence. Specimens are to be found in every ward of a Hospital; and, common as it is, worthy of study, being one with which the