211 was slight, and the mischief done was small. It was hoped that the disease was wholly superseded by vaccination. It was not thought necessary to make any reference to the Medical Officers for their opinion whether the old restriction could be safely removed, and an unlimited number of cases admitted,—or whether any precautions should be taken in case of a future epidemic visitation, when it might be expected that an unusually large number of applications would be made for beds in the House. Until lately, only a very small number of Patients had been recommended as applicants for relief; and the disease did not spread within the walls by contagion. In the last winter, when the City of Oxford was visited to an unusual extent by the disease, several persons laboring under it were admitted, as was to be expected when it became known that the Rule was rescinded. There was frequent intercourse with infected districts, and free communication was allowed between the Patients in the House and their friends in the town. It can not be a matter of wonder,—however much a subject of regret, and however painful to the Medical Officers to witness, — that the disease made its appearance in every ward of the House. But it is a matter for which we ought to be thankful to the Providence that watches over the sick, that so little mischief followed in the train of the pestilence. When there is a protection against so virulent a disease, which there is not against any other, one obvious precaution suggests itself, namely, to make a Rule that no Patient shall be admitted unless he has had Small-pox, or has been pro- perly vaccinated. But on what ground can a proposal so distasteful to the poor be supported ? Before vaccination was known, when the Rules of 1770 were framed, and Patients with Small-pox were excluded, it was not required that those who were admitted should be protected by one of the only then known modes of protection,—the disease already taken by contagion or inoculation. We ought not to be too strict with the poor who seek our charity. In the days of inocula- tion—when it was thought scientific (such is the changeable nature of opinion) to check a disease by sowing it, — the rich protected themselves at the expense of the poor. The disease p 3