27 on the 6th of December. The Patient being very fat and muscular, the artery lay at some depth ; and the sheath of the vessels was overlapped to a greater extent than usual by the Sartorius muscle, which appeared of greater breadth than common. No other difficulty occurred. A ligature of strong silk thread was passed round the artery. Upon tying it, the pulsation in the tumor ceased immediately. One end of the thread was cut off close to the knot; and the sides of the wound were drawn together by strips of plaster. Though he proceeded on the whole favorably, it was slowly. A day or two after the operation, on sitting up in bed he fainted. Sir W. Lawrence ordered meat diet and Porter. Subsequently, on getting out of bed, he used the limb rather freely. Some heat and redness appeared around the wound,—disappearing, however, quickly by rest in bed for a time. The ligature came away on the 28th day: and the wound healed kindly. The tumor gradually subsided, so as to be felt only on deep pressure in the ham. The circumference of the Right leg above the knee did not exceed that of the Left, when he quitted the Hospital. On the 39th of October, 1844, he was re-admitted into the Hospital, under the care of Dr. Hue,—suffering from bron- chitis, with severe dyspnea. At that time I was acting as Clinical Clerk. His breathing was much hurried and laboring, attended with a loud blowing noise,—evidently from pressure on the trachea ; his lips were blue, his pulse small and weak, and his head and face bathed in perspiration. He was re- lieved by profuse expectoration. About 10 days ago, he found that his breathing had become difficult. He had not observed any want of strength in his Right leg. There did not seem to be any difference of size in the limbs. The superficial veins were still varicose, as before the operation. Pulsation could be felt at the ankle, in the Anterior and Posterior Tibial arteries. I could not feel the tumor in the Popliteal space, which existed when he left the Hospital. The paroxysms of dyspnea occurred subsequently 2 or 3 times. The expectoration was generally free, and latterly