220 child throve well; and never had any symptoms of the disease then or since. II. I have not any reason to think that vaccinated persons become, after vaccination, more susceptible of any disease ; or that their health is in any way disadvantageously affected. On the other hand, I have observed that persons marked with Variola are slow in recovering from general disease. Whether it is that the attack of Variola has injured the powers of the constitution, or that those of bad constitution suffer most from the attack, and that in such subjects the marking, or ' pitting,' is most frequently seen, more extended observa- tion may be required to say. But, of the fact stated,—that those who are marked with Variola are slow in recovering from disease,— I am perfectly sure. III. I have not any reason to think that lymph from a true vaccine vesicle has ever been a vehicle of any infection but the vaccine disease. In 1854, a boy, 6 years old, on whom I had performed Lithotomy, was re-admitted on account of an abscess which formed in the perineum. As he had been exposed when at home to the contagion of Small-pox, and had never been vaccinated, I vaccinated him in the arm. W^hen the vaccine vesicle rose, lymph was (incautiously, I think,) taken from it, and inserted in the arm of one of the Nurses, who, although having a clear vaccine cicatrix, wished for a repetition of vaccination. The boy had rather a severe attack of Variola, which appeared about the eleventh day after the vaccination. A spurious pustule formed in the Nurse's arm: but she had no other symptom. The brother and sisters of the boy, who had Variola about the same time, and had never been vaccinated, are deeply scarred by it. The boy is not marked. Medical Practitioners are now, I think, so well acquainted with the vaccine vesicle in its different stages that they are not likely to take lymph from an impure source. I can be- lieve that the mistake may have happened formerly. Such a thing is mentioned in the Report of the Committee of the House of Commons in 1833. IV. In every case which has been before me professionally,