268 sashes. When a window is opened, the air entering, not being able to pass throitgh the linen blind, (as between the laths in Venetian blinds,) rushes out at the sides, and so, on to the beds; the side walls at the windows not being deep enough (as in the old wards in the House,) to turn the current again, away from the sides. The light also comes in at the time — when it is not wanted. 15 October^ 1866. To A Member of the Committee of Management. Your enquiry for an opinion of the proposed plan for altering the 'New Building' is rather a comprehensive one. You must forgive me if I send you the opinion on more points than you mean the enquiry to comprise. With some altera- tions, chiefly in matters of detail, which I mentioned when you showed me the plan, and which could be done without difficulty, it will no doubt be a great improvement on the pre- sent state of the building. The Committee, I assume, are satisfied that the walls will bear the amount of knocking about, to the extent which will be necessary for carrying out the plan effectually: I should be inclined to doubt it. But there are objections, as it seems to me, to laying out any large sum of money upon the building, which deserve consideration before the work is undertaken. The staircase I do not think can be altered, except at a great expense, so as to make it fit for carrying' bad cases' (as we call them), to the upper wards. In the basement, the wards are on the ground, without a cellar underneath; and. they are too low in the ceiling. The building itself is at the extremity of our own land, — the back wall forming the boundary. This was a fault in the original construction. There ought to be a space beyond the building, as there is between the North wall of the ' House,' and the adjoining, property. The existing building, however much improved, will remain, what it has long been found to be, only a makeshift. It can not be enlarged if hereafter wanted. The outer walls forbid this in breadth, and their weakness will not allow it in height, so as to bear an other floor.