304 Great Western Railway Company,) to which, as I understand, the attention of the Committee has been directed. At the last Quarterly Court a Member of the Committee declared positively that the statements in it were not supported by facts. The statements in question are, that the permanent Capital has been increasing for many years, and is now nearly ;£'6o,ooo; — that thei-e has always been a good Balance ap- plicable to the general purposes of the Trust; — and that there is a Surplus, large enough for special attention. I respectfully beg to be informed whether the Committee think any of those statements, — and, if any, which of them, —. inconsistent with the facts. From the Annual Report it appears that the invested Capital consists of ;^58,89o Stock, (exclusive of some turnpike bondsj said to be worth about ;^i,ioo); — that the receits for 1864 were .^5,039 3^. 6d.^ and the payments £4,794 i8s.— leaving a Balance of £244 ^s. 6d.; — and that the Surplus, which at the end of 1863 was £444 17s. gd., amounted to £()o<) 16s. gd. at the end of 1864. 18 August, 1865. To THE Editor of the Oxford Clironicle. Sir, — In the Oxford Chronicle of last Saturday is a letter from 'A Ratepayer, a Governor of the Radcliffe Infirmary, but not a Victim of Fever.' Perhaps you will be kind enough to allow an other member of the same three classes to give some of the information which he tells you will be thankfully received. The Radcliflfe Infirmary, he reminds you, 'has wards adapted for the reception of fevers.' This may be so. But the new wards have been built without first obtaining the approbation of the Medical Officers, or that of the Local Board; although the rules of the Local Board, ' empowered by the recent legislation,' to which he refers, require that the plans of all new buildings within their district shall be first laid before the Board. You are next told that 'the income of the Radcliffe Infirmary is unequal to its annual expenditure.' It is a matter of public notoriety that the tradesmen's bills are punc-