94 The history of the tourniquet, the invention of it, the im- provements and the disuse of it, are matters as curious as the history of the operation of amputation itself. Louis, it seems, was the first operator who, after the general adoption of the tourniquet, avoided the use of it in muscular parts (in the thigh, for instance), and preferred compression made by the finger of an assistant at a point nearer to the trunk, where the flow of blood could be effectually checked, without (as he thought,) hindering the contraction of the divided muscles. Such a mode of controlling the hemorrhage has been thought to have the additional recommendation that it does not so much interfere with the return of the blood by the veins. The late Mr. Listen, to whom we are indebted for many im- provements in practical Surgery, was one of the most per- sistent advocates of this practise of digital compression. Before his death, we have been informed,—but after the publication of the latest editioji of his writings,—he aban- doned this practise, and adopted' the tourniquet. The objec- tions made to the use of the tourniquet apply, we think, with less force to the instrument itself, than to the mode in which it is adjusted at the time of operation,—often, it may be observed, with an evident want of appreciation of the ele- mentary principles of mechanics. If the strap is properly passed through the lower platform, so as to tighten easily by turning the screw, and if the pad is placed so as to make due counter-pressure against the screw, it will seldom be found that any considerable amount of blood is lost, or that the pressure required to hinder that from happening has inter- fered, to any appreciable extent, with the retraction of the divided muscles. When it became a matter of certainty that the Surgeon could control the hemorrhage during the performance of his operation, and that he could secure the Patient against the recurrence of the bleeding from the divided bloodvessels, the operation itself lost part of its terrors. It was an easy matter to cut the soft parts of a limb with a knife, and to divide the bone with a saw; but something more was required to secure one of the two great objects proposed in amputation —the usefulness of the stump. The earliest great improvement in