241 To THE Revd. T. B. Dear Sir,—The weight allowed to any expressed opinion of a Board or Committee depends much upon its being known who were present when any given subject was brought forward, and who among them assented to what was done. This important piece of information your letter, telling me of the 'general feeling' of the Weekly Board of the 2ist inst. does not give. A still more important piece of information is omitted, — namely, what service it is expected I can render by attending the Quarterly Court on the occasion you mention ? As far as the entry in the General Visitors' Book goes, it may perhaps be well to spread the knowlege of the fact that the admission of Patients now depends on the will of the Weekly Board. Many Governors are, I believe, still under the delusion, (as I was myself formerly,) that it depends on the opinion of the Medical Officers. Beyond this, I do not see that any good can come from ' drawing the attention' of the Quarterly Court to the subject. Long attention and observation has taught me that our Quarterly Courts are not good places for deliberation ;—that, if it is desired to have their opinion on any subject, it is necessary to submit a regular ' motion/ prepared beforehand, in such a form that Governors can say clearly, yes, or no, to it But there is, I think, a stronger objection to the course proposed. The entry in the General Visitors' Book is in February 1857. The entries there, and in the House Visitors' Book are, or ought to be, read at each Meeting of the Weekly Board. Formerly they were, I believe, read at the Quarterly Courts.. If it was desired to bring this entry under the notice of a General Court, the Quarterly Court in April last was the proper Court for the purpose. This is a principle which I have always urged should be observed as a general rule. I do not see that the present subject should form an exception. 22 October:, 1857. To THE Same. Dear Sir, — Reporting to strangers a conversation (or an opinion expressed,) among Professional men engaged in an R