50 Quinine was administered, with port wine, eggs, and beef tea. The Erysipelas subsided favorably, and the wounds in the hand healed. 12 May.—He was attacked with diarrhea. By a continu- ance of this for several days his strength was much lowered. Toward the end of the month he recovered sufficiently to be able to get out of bed and to sit up during the day; but at night he passed his urine and feces under him as he lay. Very generous diet, with wine and brandy, was provided, and taken with an appetite ; but he became weaker by degrees, and died on the 17th of June. There was a large slough on the sacrum. In the left wrist- joint the articular cartilages had disappeared. The left shoulder- joint was full of stinking pus. This communicated with a large abscess under the pectoral muscles. The right shoulder-joint was also filled with stinking pus. The articular cartilage in both shoulders had disappeared, in parts, from the head of the bone. Remarks.—The collection of matter under the pectoral muscles had been observed; but the symptoms of a more serious nature had come on so insidiously that they almost escaped notice. The man made no complaint. When admitted, the injury did not present an unfavorable appearance. Although contraction was to be expected from sloughing of fascia and tendons, there remained good ground for hope that a useful extremity would be preserved. The hand and the fingers are seen so often to recover after more severe injuries, that recovery in this case might fairly be ex- pected. In a younger man, the hope might have been fulfilled by the more speedy healing of the original wound. Mr. Briscoe has told me of the following case, which was under treatmen*- in the Infirmary when he was the House- Surgeon:— A farm laborer, 28 years of age, admitted i November, 1846, was under the care of Mr. Cleoburey, with a gunshot wound of both hands, received eleven miles from Oxford, by the accidental discharge of a fowling-piece loaded with small shot. Both wrist-joints were laid open. The carpal and metacarpal bones of both hands were fractured and com-