297 on the ordinary Income, unless under the beh'ef that the Income was able to bear it, — as was, in fact, the case. Upon the publication of the Annual Report showing this deficiency, a panic arose about the state of the Finances: and, without making an accurate investigation, it was as- sumed that the House must be ' in debt,' — although all the proper Expenses of the year had been paid, and the House had never been without a large balance in the Treasurer's hands. At the end of 1854, ;^5oo was borrowed. It was not wanted ; for there was at the time about 1,300 to the credit of the Treasurer in the Banker's pass-book. After paying all the expenses of the year, there was a balance of £s5° in favor of the House, — without, however, any abatement of the panic. In May 1855, a Special Appeal was publicly made in aid of the Funds; and an abstract of the accounts was published, showing the Expenditure, and part of the Receits, of the pre- ceding year. Upon this statement there seemed to be a deficiency of 1,001 13J. ^d., at the end of 1854. This deficiency is made by excluding from the calculation the sum of received in that year as 'Benefactions &c.;' and which had not been laid out in the purchase of Stock at the time the Appeal was issued. The result of this Appeal was, that an unusually large sum (about 1,200} was received before the end of the year, as Donations and Benefactions. The money borrowed was repaid ; 1,000 was laid out in the purchase of Stock; and at the end of 1855 there was a balance of £6^ in favor of the House. In 1856 the sum of £212 10s. was laid out in the purchase of Stock, and at the end of the year there was a balance of ;^447 IS. lid. in favor of the House. It may be worth while to mention that, since the end of the year (i.e. in February last) the Treasurer has laid out a farther sum of ;i^47o iis. 6d. in the purchase of Stock. March 1857. To THE Rev. J. S. Mv DEAR Sir, — After I got home on Saturday, not satis- fied with the confirmation which our examination (as far as it