22 October 33 I saw him. The limb was then all but straight; he had nearly recovered his power over it. The Posterior Tibial artery could be felt behind the inner malleolus, but not the anterior. He complained that there was pain at times in the calf of the leg, and numbness in the foot. Soon afterwards he returned to his work. 18 April 1874 I saw him again. He could straighten the limb fully. He had complete power over it; he was able to walk and to do his work. The calf of the leg is not so full and muscular as the other. A soft swelling can be felt, about the size of a small marble, upon the Popliteal artery. The Posterior Tibial artery can be felt behind the inner malleolus. A feeble pulsation can be felt between the meta- tarsal bones of the first and second toes, but not on the dorsum of the foot. He was readmitted into the Infirmary, 14 March, 1877, under my care, with an Aneurismalj swelling or enlargement of the Popliteal artery of the Left leg, about the size of a common hen's egg. It was hard, and could not be emptied by direct pressure. The deep parts around it in the Popliteal space were somewhat thickened, and rather served to obscure the extent and character of the enlargement of the vessel. The pulsation can be stopped by making firm pressure over the Femoral artery in the middle of the thigh; it is more, easily stopped by making pressure in the groin. It is checked by bending the leg at the knee, but not completely controlled. Upon examination made of the chest by Dr. Acland, a strong double blowing sound is heard over the region of the heart, extending along the course of the Aorta and the Innominata ; but not any ordinary aneurismal whiz. In other respects the Patient, seems to be in good general health. In the summer of last year, without previous symptoms to attract his attention, he was passing his hand down the back of his Left leg, and found a small swelling under the knee. On making pressure with his fingers he found that it beat or throbbed in the same manner as the former swelling in the other leg. During the winter the foot was much swollen, and he suffered at times from pain in the back of the leg.