208 about 3 hours. His skin was observed to be in a moderate perspiration. By the middle of the day he had rallied well. The pulse was about 80, soft and regular; and, except that his complexion was paler than usual, there was little in his general appearance to show that he had so lately undergone a serious operation, and one attended with a large loss of blood. During the very hot weather which followed, he had an attack of diarrhea with vomiting, under which he was much lowered in general strength. For about 10 days or a fortnight after the operation he complained of stiffness in the jaw and pain in the attempt to take bread or other solid food. A small soft swelling formed in front of the wound : this burst of itself; and through the opening so formed matter was discharged, and afterwards one of the ligatures. A clear watery fluid, having the general appearance of saliva, continued to flow from this opening for 6 or 7 weeks. It was observed in greater quantities when taking food, and shortly after it. The line of the wound healed quickly, except at the upper part, behind the ear. Through that opening I withdrew the double ligature round the pedicle, on the 12th of September. It was held firmly under the skin; and I found it necessary to divide, with the point of the scissors, the tissue, — whatever it was, — that held it within the wound. Six days after- wards, the last of the ligatures on the small vessels was discharged. The points in the case worthy of remark, are — the very large size of this Parotid Tumor, its thick, tough pedicle, with its large arteries, — the unusually long period during which a gentleman of education allowed a Tumor in such a situation to grow, without seeking the removal of it, and without taking the opinion of any Medical Practitioner, as the incumbrance and the deformity increased, — and the re- covery of a Patient at an advanced age from what was, indeed, a formidable Surgical operation. He continued in good health until the severe cold of January 1881. After that, his strength began to fail: and