lO circulation, — was tied first, and the end left long: a feeble pulsation was observed to be communicated to this ligature. The hemorrhage continued, though without arterial jet or impulse, until the other ligature,— that toward the trochanter, the distal in the course of the circulation, — was drawn tight; it then ceased. The knot of this ligature was cut off short, and left in the wound. One muscular branch continued to bleed after the man had recovered from chloroform, and was tied with a fine thread. The edges of the wound were brought together, and fixed with interrupted sutures and strips of plaster. A compress of lint with cerate was laid over it, and a flannel roller bound round the pelvis. During the operation the man lay on his right side, with his knees partly bent; and the tourniquet slipped from the posi- tion in which it had been placed. It seemed to me, however, that the bleeding was to some extent checked when the instrument was properly in position. The blood which escaped from the sac, fluid and in clot, was about a pound and a half in quantity. In the further steps of the operation very little more was lost. Some of the outer part of the clot from the cyst was in layers re- sembling the 'laminated coagula' in the sac of an ordinary aneurism, though not so tough in consistence. The man recovered quickly from the effects of the operation, and was carried at once to the ward. On the morning of the 6th of May, the ligature applied on the sacral side of the wounded arteiy was seen to be lying loose between the edges of the wound, and by the side of it a thin piece of sloughing tissue about an inch long. The outer dressing was changed without anything unusual being observed. About two hours afterwards, — between ii and 12 o'clock,— the Patient called the attention of the Nurse to some blood which he found was flowing from the wound. Before the House-Surgeon reached the ward, several ounces had escaped. The patient was put under chloroform. The sutures were divided, and the edges of the wound separated. Some clots were cleared away, and a small vessel was found to be bleed- ing. A ligature applied to the bleeding point did not hold, and the hemorrhage continued. An other ligature was applied,