65 fellow : he goes on drinking and whoring still. But I'll be hanged if a man with a rheumatic inflammation of his urethra is so.' As his practise extended, Sir B. Brodie must have seen cases among the educated classes in society which puzzled him. I am far from meaning to say that all difficulties in the course of such a severe malady can be smoothed by getting rid of the disgusting assumption of a morbus Gallicus. Undoubtedlj^, it is a disease, as you say, 'of a peculiar character.' There is much of goutiness about it. This needs investigation. Moreover, is it not said of Gout, that it seldom occurs until after sexual intercourse, i. e. after the active exer- cise of the genito-urinary organs ? The female system seems, from some cause or other, to be less liable to gout, than the male. Less liable to such a con- stitutional malady, women are less liable, perhaps, to this form of arthritis^ and are less frequently charged (by the attending and consulting Practitioners) with such a questionable cause of it. 15 Jtme, 1881. A System of Surgery, Theoretical and Practical ; IN Treatises by various Authors, Edited by t. holmes, Surgeon to St. George's Hospital, i860, i, 2. The appearance of a new work, which is to comprize the whole range of Surgical practise as understood in the present day in England, naturally leads us to enquire how it happens that such a work is new, and how it is that the want of it is only now to be supplied. It had long been felt that however high the standard of Surgery had been raised in this country, it was not to the credit of the Professors and Practitioners of the science, that there was no modern work sufficiently com- prehensive in its pages to compare with the productions of other countries, which at once gave a view of the whole range of the science and practise of Surgery, and was at the same time the production of individual research and experience, rather than a compilation from the labors of other men. Con- tented to take their stand on ground they knew they could hold, it seemed as if the leaders and the teachers in the F