75 to say what was the real cause, physiologically speaking, of the fatal termination. The symptoms during life should be known, — the ' history of the case,' as we are in the habit of saying. The influence of respiration on disease, especially in its effects upon a severe surgical accident, has not been suffi- ciently noted. In the case of death from shock, what is the state of the lungs at the time of the injury? If slightly expanded, or, in common language, ' empty,' the little air is suddenly expelled by muscular contraction, and the Patient dies ; if full, emphysema follows. A carriage shall run away, and four ladies be thrown out as it is overturned; each will have her power of resistance to injury, in proportion as she has breath, or is without it. Cases of death from ' sudden and powerful emotions of the mind' are now and then reported in the Medical Journals. What happens when the Patient does not die ? Is recovery, as it is called, complete ? Are no permanent traces left upon the system ? A Serjeant in a Regiment of Dragoons, on re- tiring from service, was appointed Superintendant of a railway station. One day he attempted to pass his own child into the arms of the stoker of an engine which was passing the station; the child fell, and the truck following the engine went over it, causing immediate death. The father, up to that time a strong man, became so forgetful and inattentive as to be unfit for his duties. He was discharged, and removed to the Lunatic Asylum at Littlemore. In a few months he died, from the general paralysis of the insane. The cause of death was shown to be emphysema of the lungs, with conges- tion of the brain. An essay upon Gun-shot Wounds, is from the pen of Mr. Longmore. The special nature of injuries by fire-arms, though liable to arise, in common with other violence, in every region of the body, mark them out as a fit subject for a separate essay. In treating of these, Mr. Longmore re- stricts himself to the consideration of gun-shot wounds as they are met with in the operations of actual warfare. Although wounds possessing some of the leading charac- teristics of those inflicted by bodies projected by gunpowder, may result from objects driven by any sudden expansive