96 edges of the wound together with strapping; and don't give a purgative.' ' What of the hgatures ?' said he. ' Leave them alone; they will come away with the discharge,' Some observations of a general nature are added by Mr. Lister upon the instruments necessaiy for the performance of an amputation, and the mode of using them. These, we think, must depend much on the peculiarities of hand of the individual operator, and its special adaptation to his eye. With a light hand, with flexible fingers and wrist, with full power in every one of their many joints,—while it is certain that 'the knife must be held firmly in the hand,' as Mr. Lister remarks,— the true position of the amputating-knife in the hand of the Surgeon is, we should say rather, as the fencer holds fhe foil. In order to make sure of the vitality of the integument reflected in the circular operation, by retaining its proper supply of nourishment from the vessels in the fat, Mr. Stanley proposed to reflect the deep fascia of the limb, retaining its connexion with the skin, before dividing the muscles. It was a tedious dissection, it was an unsightly proceeding; and he abandoned it after making trial of it, as he did not think there was any commensurate benefit. A short essay on Anesthesia follows, also by Mr. Lister, restricting his subject exclusively to anesthesia produced by the inhalation of chloroform :—' The first really valuable sug- gestion,' Mr. Lister remarks, 'was made in the year 1800 by Sir Humphry Davy, who having himself experienced relief from pain when breathing nitrous oxide gas, threw out the hint that it might probably be employed with advantage to produce a similar effect in Surgical practise.' In the seventh edition of his ' Dictionary of Surgery' (1838,) Mr. Cooper refers to the subject. In the article on ' Amputa- tion,' he mentions ' the laudable attempts, made at different periods, to render the Patient less sensible of the agony pro- duced by the removal of a limb . . . The inhalation of stupe- fying gas has been tried, and so has magnetism.' Yet the knowlege of such a fact remained without being reduced to practise, till Dr. Horace Wells proved its correctness in ex- periments upon himself with sulphuric ether.