397 Surgeon engaged in practise. In the absence of Collegiate Institutions for the care and special training of all persons being educated for the Medical Profession, the moral and social relation of Master and Pupil is beneficial, and under it a young man most readily obtains a familiar knowlege of the ordinary handicraft of the Profession, and its every-day duties. The commencement of the pupilage (in whatever way), should be certified to the Council, or Court of Examiners, and registered for future reference. The nature of the Pupil's em.ployments and studies depends much on the position and duties of the Master, and the opportunities he thereby has of giving practical instruction. Practical pharmacy should be studied during the time. As far as I am able to judge, there is not any advantage gained by a Pupil who is only able to give 4 years to his Professional education in beginning his Professional studies at a Hospital. If he is under the pupilage of a Master who holds office in such an Institution, the Pupil may gain some advantage from the circumstance. But I can not think that the Council of the College will give the sanction of their authority to any scheme so manifestly unjust, which will restrict the right of taking Pupils to those members only of the College who hold office in Public Institutions, to the exclusion of others equally fit, who have ample opportunities and equal ability for training Pupils in the elementary work of the Profession. Attendance on Lectures at a Medical School, where the instruction is usually Professorial, should not be the only mode in which Professional study should be commenced. Unless a Pupil has seen something of disease, and of the method on which treatment is conducted in practise, he will not under- stand what the Lecturers talk about : his attendance will not be profitable to himself. The practical instruction and training to which reference is made, should extend through all seasons of the year, and should not be confined to the summer : and it is more to the PupiFs advantage that he should undergo it before he enters at a Medical School. I incline to doubt whether Pupils will readily undergo the practical training required for the rough and, ready work of their future duties, — and which is a thing