157 complaining of lameness, with pains in the hip : these were attributed to rheumatism. He remained ] i weeks under the care of Dr. Wootten, and was discharged without deriving relief. A succession of abscesses afterwards formed about the left side of the perineum, and one in front of the left thigh, below the bend of the groin. He knew nothing of the escape of any pieces of bone. At the end of about 18 months from the time of the injury, he had recovered sufficiently to be able to return to his accustomed work as a laborer on a farm, without finding any hindrance, except from stiffness in his left hip. The cicatrices of several of the abscesses were visible, — all firmly healed. The left lower extremity was about an inch and a half shorter than the right; the muscles of the buttock, the thigh, and the leg, were much wasted ; and the hip-joint was firmly anchylosed by bony union, so that he could not sit in the usual position on a chair. The conclusion to be drawn from such a history was, that the two portions of bone—the only pieces which had been observed,—had been detached from the pelvis, as the result of the injury (probably fracture), and, instead of being dis- charged externally by means of the abscesses, had passed into the bladder. December 5,—The wound was healed. He was allowed to get up and walk about the ward. He had slept well since the operation ; which, he said, had not been the case for a long time. There was still a little pain in passing urine. He was discharged on the 9th. A small quantity of mucus was still observed in the urine. On 6 August, 1851, he was re-admitted, complaining that there was an other piece of bone, or something like it, near the seat of the former operation. The day he left the In- firmary, he passed some bloody urine; and he had been in more or less pain ever since. A full-sized bougie was passed with some difficulty, without finding any actual obstruction, and without producing pain. No foreign body could be felt by external manipulation. August 13. — He had continued to complain so severely, especially of the straining in passing urine, that to-day I passed a director into the urethra, and cut into the canal.