63 sultation, in a country where we hear of Practitioners requiring a bond of indemnity from a Patient, before undertaking the treatment of his case. In the division of fractures, as in dislocations, he adopts the French distinction into simple and complicated, in preference to the two long adopted in England. We confess we prefer the terms so well known in England. To us it seems that the word complicated adds nothing definite to the term fracture, beyond saying that there is other mischief beside the ' solution of continuity in the osseous tissue.' It is not sufficiently de- scriptive, and it would seem objectionable, because ' it is easy to comprise under this denomination every form of accident that can possibly arise, either at the moment of the injury or during the progress of the treatment.' Trusses form an important article in the palliative treatment of reducible Hernia, in some cases leading, though slowly, to the permanent cure. Dr. Gross gives the preference to Chase's. We see the same objection to this as to most of the trusses for inguinal or femoral hernia which are formed of a spring encircling the pelvis. While great mechanical inge- nuity is applied to the construction of the pad, that it should fit itself exactly to the rings, and to the curve and the neck that it should rest exactly in the groin and bend of the thigh, it seems to us that the necessity for fitting the spring to the pelvis is overlooked. This object would be better attained if the posterior part of the spring were bent, so as to describe a transverse section of a cone rather than a section of a cylin- der, which is the form of most of the serpent trusses. The value of a truss as a preventive of the more serious evils of strangulation has been tested at one Hospital on a large scale. In a large town in an agricultural county, where the operation for strangulated hernia was not uncommon, the Governors resolved to supply trusses to every Patient applying, if recom- mended by the Surgeon in attendance. We have been told that the operation for strangulated hernia has very rarely been performed in the Hospital since this order has been carried into execution. The Author's style is easy in the reading; he seems to have a clear understanding of what he means, and his language is