I 12 ance of such an operation. The other two Patients were not sounded till they had been some days in the house. Although searching the bladder with a metallic rod is not generally thought an operation of a formidable character, it is one re- quiring more than an average amount of dexterity, and, in an unhealthy subject, it is not by any means free from danger. The passing of a catheter or a staff, if done with skill, does not give pain; and if it were not for the Patient's fear of pain, chloroform need not be given, — unless in young children, wlaose fears are not in general to be controlled by other means, and in whom quietness under a Surgical examination is not easily obtained. As the stone was not felt distinctly in the two boys the first time of sounding, a sound was passed a second time. In the Infirmary, they were in the same ward. Partly for this reason, lest either should be frightened by what he saw done to the other, and partly that they might not fear the repetition of the operation, they were both put under the influence of chloroform. The man was not put under chloro- form. He was rather of a timid nature; and, on seeing the catheter, cried out hastily that he would rather be cut at once than have such a thing passed. He was calmed by my assur- ing him that he would not be hurt; and, on my feeling the stone, was himself satisfied by the sound of the catheter striking it. The Patient is in the best position for passing an instru- ment into the bladder when he stands, leaning for support against the wall of the room: the Surgeon sits on a chair before him. In this position, less resistance is found from the contractile structures around the mucous canal of the urethra ; and where a stone is free in the bladder, it lies at the base, and is readily struck as the end of the sound passes over it in entering the bladder. It often happens, however, that a Patient becomes sick or faint the first time a catheter is passed. This is less likely to happen in the recumbent position. For this reason, and because the operation can be done with less appearance of formal, — or formidable,—preparation, I gene- rally in a new case like to pass the instrument as the Patient lies in bed, with his legs ' drawn up' a little toward the pelvis, —the position chosen in each of these cases.