90 head and neck of the thigh-bone, Mr. Holthouse adopts the generally accepted arrangement of those dislocations which happen in sufficient numbers to admit of a regular classifica- tion ; two backwards^ one where the head of the thigh-bone is thrown upwards and rests upon the iliac bone, above the margin of the ischiatic notch, and the other, where it rests in the notch, upon the muscles or ligaments which close the opening; and two forwards, one where the head of the bone rests upon the foramen ovale, and the other upwards, where it rests on the pubic bone. The question, discussed by several previous writers, whether these four species are more than varieties of two large and easily distinguished classes, — dislocations back- wards on the ilia, and forwards (or inwards) on the ischium and pubes, is considered by Mr. Holthouse; and he has given a full description of the symptoms and anatomical characters of each of these injuries, with their peculiarities, as well as the various methods of effecting reduction, not only in simple cases, but in those where the dislocation has been complicated with other injury to the neighboring structures. He refers with approbation to the modern method, or rather the old one revived, of reduction by manipulation, which has been prac- tised, he says, ' from the earliest times.' A treatise on the Diseases of the Eye and its Appendages, is from Mr. Dixon, As a matter of history, he refers to the severe antiphlogistic treatment once practised in London in diseases considered to be inflammatory, and recommended by writers of acknowleged authority, early in the day when the knowlege of diseases of the eye first began to be cultivated as a branch of professional study in England. When the fact became recognised that the severest form of purulent inflam- mation of the conjunctiva could be of local and not of consti- tutional origin, the treatment became simplified, and the local application of astringents superseded the bleedings, the mer- curials, the counter-irritants, and the thin dieting, under which success had scarcely ever been attained. This ' contra-stimu- lating ' system of treatment in other forms of disease, and pre- paratory and subsequent to operations, and the theories which gave countenance to the practise, did not so rapidly lose favor. Indeed, Mr. Dixon's observation tells him that the