177 stitution, subject to fainting fits, was admitted into the Radclifife Infirmary, under my care, 22 August, 1861, with his left kg crushed in its upper third, and with a large lacerated wound of the scalp. He had fallen from his engine in the night, without being observed, and the train had passed over him. He had lost much blood : and he did not rally sufficiently to warrant the performance of an operation till 14 hours after admission. I then amputated the leg below the knee. His progress was at no time satisfactory. About the end of the second week he had one or two slight shivering fits. He be- came slowly weaker, with difficulty of breathing. A slough formed on the sacrum ; and he died exhausted on October 7. The stump had healed some time before death. Both lungs were emphysematous. In the lower lobe of the right lung was a mass, half the size of the fist, hepatized ; and in the middle of it a small deposit of pus, about the size of a pea. The pleura contained two ounces of bloody fluid. The heart was pale in substance, with much fat about it. There were old adhesions of the liver to the diaphragm and to the parietes of the abdomen. In the left knee-joint was about an ounce of thin purulent fluid. The articular cartilages and synovial membrane were healthy. A railway-porter, 54 years of age, not a man of strong con- stitutional power, was admitted into the Radclifife Infirmary, under my care, early in the morning, 31 December, 1870, with his left leg completely shattered by a loaded truck, or 'goods-waggon,' weighing 8 tons, passing over the limb at Bletchley during the night. The night was unusually cold, and the thermometer fell to 10° Fahr. Both bones were much comminuted; and several large fragments were pro- truding tTirough the skin. The soft parts were extensively lacerated and contused. The Patient was much depressed, and he was slow in recovering from the shock. Steps were taken, as in similar cases, to hinder any further bleeding, and to supply warmth. Sustenance and stimulants were adminis- tered ; but he did not rally sufficiently to justify the perform- ance of an operation until late in the afternoon,—8 hours from the time of admission, and 14 hours from the receit of N