71 Lunatic Asylums, (where cases often happen,) personal re- straint is not found to be necessary; the Patient, if violent, is put into a small ward by himself, from which the light can be excluded, with padded floor and padded walls, where he can not hurt himself; and it is found that he obtains rest, and the cure follows. Mr. H. Lee contributes a treatise on Syphilis. He canvasses the opinions which have been published by foreign Practitioners upon the subject of inoculation, and the conclusions which have been drawn from them. Much of this experimental inoculation has been made with matter taken from various sores, not all probably of the same specific character, or in the same stage of progress. It is an objection that the experiments have been made upon the diseased subject. In order to show the natural progress of the original disease, if a constitutional affection, an other subject should be taken, in good health,... an expedient which it is not likely will ever be adopted ex- tensively, — at least, in this country. Moreover, we think these experiments, even on the person of the Patient, are not so free from danger as is generally supposed. We have known the ulcer produced by inoculation continue to spread, and proceed unchecked, till the death of the unfortunate Patient put a period to farther observation. The scaly form of disease can perhaps be always introduced by inoculation from the secretion of the primary sore ; and it may proceed on its regular course, through known stages, little (if at all,) modified by peculiarity of constitution. Not so the phagedenic; this takes I'oot less readily, unless when engrafted on a fit stock. At all events, we seldom see it, either hereditary or acquired, in its full characteristic virulence, except in what may be called rotten constitutions, or if in young and (what might be thought,) healthy subjects, young rakes, fair people with thin skins and thin bloodvessels. It need not be a matter of surprize that some forms of known constitutional disease, or cachexia, can not be engrafted by inoculation; — Cancer, for instance; and experiments have been abundant on the persons of Surgeons engaged in operations. A pro- fessional friend told us many years ago that he an,d others of his acquaintance had tried in vain to inocujate measles