21 controlled, and the pressure was continued without inter- mission. Soon after 5 o'clock the Patient complained sud- denly of heat in the tumor, then of cold, and in a few minutes of intense pain in the calf of the leg. He became restless, and could scarcely be kept quiet in bed. It appeared that all pulsation in the limb had ceased ; the pressure was therefore omitted. Some Morphia in solution was injected under the skin of the thigh, and at night a draught of Liq. Ammon. Acet., with Morphia, Antimony, and Sp. Etheris nitr. was given, and repeated the 4 or 5 following nights. No pulsation could be felt in the tumor or in the trunk of the Femoral artery for about 48 hours. After that period, a feeble pulsation could be felt in the line of the artery. This increased, and by the following Tuesday the circulation through the Popliteal artery was completely re-established, and the aneurismal swelling was beating as fully as at the time of admission. Though the pulsation could be checked by making pressure on the Femoral artery in the thigh, it could not be fully controlled except by pressure on the artery as it passes over the pubes. On Thursday, the aist, pressure was again made. A narrow bag of canvas, loaded with shot, having the pointed end filled with sand,—the whole weighing 8 pounds,—was suspended over a pulley, fastened to the iron rod which supported the curtains above the head of the bed. A piece of wash-leather was laid loosely over the groin, and the Patient was en- trusted to make the pressure himself, without the help of any Assistant. At 12 o'clock the weight was placed upon the External Iliac artery, where it passes over the ramus of the pubes, and the Patient himself kept it steady with his finger and thumb. At 5 o'clock he complained of severe burning pain in the back of the leg, similar to what he had felt under the former pressure. Upon examination it was found that all pulsation had ceased. No swelling of the leg followed, or other inconvenience, except that the knee remained stiff, and the Patient was not able to straighten the limb completely, so as to put the foot flat.to the ground. He left the Infirmary on September 10, walking with the help of crutches.