3IO To THE Secretary to the Charity Commissioners. Sir,—Under the Scheme proposed to be made by the Commissioners, the dividends of the Fund will be paid over to the Treasurer of the Infirmary, and will be disposed of at the discretion of the Committee of Management, as was the case before the intervention of the Commissioners. The only change made is that the funded Capital is safe,—having been transferred to the Official Trustee. No security is obtained against future attempts by the Governors of the Infirmary to evade their obligations, nor against a repetition of the breach of trust lately committed, — and even now contemplated again. At a Meeting of Governors in January last, the Treasurer gave notice that he intended to raise the question of the obligation of the Infirmary to take in cases of Scarlet Fever; and at a Meeting on the and of June, a Motion was carried, — to close the new Fever Wards against the admission of free Patients. The power to withhold the dividends will not be sufficient to restrain the Governors: nor is it likely that that power,— or any other power in defence of the objects of the Trust,— will be exercised by the proposed 3 Trustees, if, as I presume, they can act by a majority, without unanimity. The Vice- Chancellor of the University has no interest in the question : and it is not to be supposed that he will ever act otherwise than in support of the Treasurer of the Infirmary. He was not one of the Trustees of the Fund, when it was collected and paid to the Infirmary: nor was the Treasurer of the Infirmary one of them. The City, as represented by the Mayor, has a direct interest in the Fund, on behalf of the sick who are resident within the district, and on behalf of the ratepayers on whom much of the expense of the treatment of the sick will fall, if they are excluded from the Infirmary. When the collection was made, to enable the Governors of the Infirmary to build the new wards for the gratuitous treat- ment of cases of Fever, which were to be admitted without letters of recommendation, large sums were contributed from various sources, from public bodies, and from private persons, — the largest contribution in one sum being the Lancashire Fund. These contributions were sufficient for the purposes