259 mary on the 13th of June, — a Saturday. The regular and proper course was, to refer him to the Surgeon of the week ; who was in attendance on that day. This was not done. The regular admission day (Wednesday), to which the House- Surgeon referred the man, passed twice before he came with an Out-Patient's turn as directed. In the mean time, and after one of these admission days had passed, the House- Surgeon signed a Certificate of the man's health, and of his continued attendance on him ;—an irregular proceeding : but one which the Committee may be willing to excuse, as the act of a young man, done from kindness, without considera- tion of the effect. It is not so easy to find an excuse for the Patient's concealing this, when he asked me to sign a paper for him. The Patientj—a bailiff—has been seeking compensa- tion from a Society under a claim, which involves a statement on his part, that he earns a week. He brings a Governor's letter stating that he is ' poor and a real object of charity and the Recommending Governor certifies his belief that the man is so. The acting Members of the Committee on the admission day refer him, without enquiry,—perhaps with- out a knowlegeof the circumstances,—to the Medical Officers of the Charity, for advice and treatment. The case was referred to me on the 20th of August by the Assurance Society, with this remark;—'It appears to be one of those cases which agitate Philanthropists in this city, namely, the abuse of Medical Charities ;'—that such a man goes to a Hospital and accepts charity. In answer, I wrote;—'No doubt, as you suggest, the case is one of abuse of a Medical Charity. The man's admission would not, I am sure, receive the approbation of the Medical Officers, or the Medical Pro- fession. But we have not here the public opinion you have in London to support us, (as Professional men,) in our at- tempts to check the continued imposition and abuse in the administration of Medical Charities. Now that I am in pos- session, of the facts of the case, I shall mention it at the next Meeting of our Committee.' In conclusion, I take the liberty of adding my opinion that if the man had followed the advice which I,—the proper Officer appointed by the Governors, — gave him on the ist of S 2