275 knowlege myself responsible for the statements in it, or the inferences drawn from it. As one of the Senior Ofificers of the Infirmary, I think it my duty to point out that the proper course for the Managing Committee of a Pubhc Institution would be, to refer such a document to the Medical Officers, or the Medical Committee, for examination, before proceeding to draw inferences from it, or to ' base recommendations on it;' — and that, while the Committee acknowlege ' feeling themselves responsible to the Public for the state of the Infirmary,' the general responsibility of the Governors of a Public Institution rests upon a belief that they act in Medical questions under the advice of their Medical Officers. The cases under my care, to which the Committee have referred, are these: — G. T. was admitted with extensive and spreading inflammation, five weeks after an injury, from which a more healthy man might have recovered without the formation of an abscess. Without wishing to criticize the nomenclature adopted by others, I should say that this was not a case which I should be disposed to class among cases of Erysipelas strictly so defined. I did not prescribe the treatment which I generally direct in such cases. Removal of the man from the ward where he was first placed to an other would have been, I think, injurious rather than beneficial. J. J. was admitted in my absence by the House-Surgeon, after treatment, during some lo days or more out of the House, of severe and extensive inflammation of the hand, followed by abscesses. It was of a nature peculiarly liable to be attacked by Erysipelas; and, if the disease was not in his system at the time of admission, it appeared soon afterwards. His bed was in the best part of one of the best wards ; some improve- ment was made in its position at my suggestion. I think it was best for him to be left in the ward where he was first placed. H. F. was admitted with disease of the bone of the tip of one finger, after treatment during several weeks out of the House. Fie might have been placed with advantage in a room where he would not have been alarmed by the anxiety shown for his case by those around him. After the disease appeared, he was in too feeble a state to make it prudent to T 2