264 leagues ' protests' against it, unless certain tubes or caps lately recommended by Faraday are applied to each burner to carry off the ' products of combustion,' which, it seems, are very deleterious. My answer is, if these tubes are desired for the purpose of a scientific experiment, I have no objection; but I can not admit Medically that there is any necessity for them in our staircases and halls, —large, open places, freely communicating with the outer air by numerous windows and doors: or that the Governors need fear that the health of the inmates is likely to be endangered by the introduction of the gas. I am ready to admit that in some places, — for instance, the compositors' rooms of the London daily papers, — the health may suffer from the ' products of combustion ': but the question now is the staircases and passages of the Radcliffe Infirmary. What are these terrible ' products of combustion' ? The composition of coal gas, (carburetted hydrogen,) I understand to be carbon and hydrogen chiefly, with some nitrogen, a dash of oxygen, and possibly some other impurities of various kinds derived from the different coals from which the gas is obtained. Does the combustion generate much impurity beyond carbonic acid, water, and carbon ? and does it generate more deleterious products than would arise from tallow, wax, or oil, with cotton wicks, in number sufficient to give the same light? The chief objection to gas in a house I have always thought arose from the escape, — not the combustion, — of it. I never heard that the products of combustion were generated to a sufficient extent to injure the health of the residents. IS November, 1851, From Him, in reply. Your remarks on the composition of coal gas are so complete, that I need only add that sulphurous acid is the principal, and probably the most disagreeable and noxious emanation that is produced by the com- bustion of the gas. If the gas be moderately purified, I can not agree with your friend that anything noxious or prejudicial to health results from its use ; most certainly not, under the circumstances and with the limitations you mention. With regard to Faraday's lamps, the principle consists in carrying away the products of combustion by a down-draught through a double