145 as he described it. He fainted under the violence of the blow. Next day, as he had not passed any urine since the accident, a Medical Practitioner was summoned. He introduced a silver catheter, and drew off about three pints of urine, the first two pints being mixed with blood, and the last pint clear, according to the account given by the Patient. After this the urine dribbled away by the urethra without his being able to control it. At a subsequent visit, on April 19, the Practitioner made an unsuccessful attempt to pass a catheter. After this, the urine ceased to flow so freely; the bladder became distended, and the Patient was sent to the Infirmary. Upon his admission, I tried to pass catheters of different sizes; but without success. The man was then put into a warm bath and sent to bed. A powder, consisting of 2 grains of Calomel, 3 grains of Opium, and 5 grains of James's powder, was given to him. On visiting him at night, I found that about a pint and a half of urine had dribbled away. The distension of the bladder was less, and he expressed himself as being much relieved. A draught of Liq. Ammon. acet. with Vini Antimonii XV. and Vini Opii ii], xv. was given, and a dose of castor oil was ordei'ed to be taken in the morning. He passed a good night; but during the day (aand) very little urine flowed, and in the evening the bladder was dis- tended. His countenance was anxious, and he was restless under the pain. Having again failed in the attempt to pass a catheter through the urethra, I passed a straight lithotomy staff" along the urethra, and, having the forefinger of my left hand in the rectum, I made an incision with a scalpel in the mesial line in front of the anus, and, dissecting upwards, I endeavored to trace the injured part of the urethra, and to open the canal. I did not succeed in the attempt. I then determined to puncture the bladder above the pubes; and I proceeded as in former operations. An elastic catheter was left in the bladder, with the cannula, as in other cases. The urine drawn off" was dark in color, with a slight am- moniacal smell, and was about two pints in quantity. A dose of Opium was given. Much of the urine dribbled away by the urethra after the operation. L