i86 special directions on the subject of diet. In some of the Patients in the Infirmary, as in other aged persons, whether in local diseases or constitutional affections, it seemed to me that the addition of wine was beneficial during the period they were confined to bed ; and that recovery was promoted by an allowance of stronger beer at meals than is given with the diet as the ordinary drink of the Patients. If an opinion may be formed from the subsequent history of the Patients, it does not appear that life was shortened by the accident. It is a melancholy fact that among these aged persons, three of the number were not sober at the time of the accident. [Medical Times and Gazette, November 1879.] Severe Injury of Arm in an Epileptic Woman. Amputation at Shoulder-joint.—Maniacal exhaustion. — Death. A woman, aged 45 years, the wife of a laboring man, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care, on the 24th of April, 1855, on account of a severe injury to the soft parts of the right arm and shoulder, caused apparently by fire, though said to be the eff'ect of boiling water, three days before admission. A large round patch of integument, in the subclavian region, extending upon the shoulder over half the breadth of the deltoid muscle, was blackened, hard and dry; on the inner aspect of the humerus, the integument was white and gangrenous ; around and below the elbow, the limb pre- sented the appearance of moist gangrene. The tendons at the wrist were all exposed, and the fingers were contracted upon the palm of the hand. The history given by the friends who brought the woman to the Infirmary (a distance of ao miles), was, that she had been found in this plight in her cottage, laughing and tearing the ragged skin from her hand. Afterwards, upon further enquiry, we learned that she was subject to ' fits,' which came on at irregular intervals, from various trifling causes of irrita- tion or excitement. During the attack, she was generally very violent, sometimes for 5 or 6 days together; and the fit