206 the skin, was found to be too tough to allow of the Tumor being rotated, or twisted, so as to check the circulation through it. The point of the scalpel, for the first incision, was entered behind the ear, about the middle of the mastoid process. Upon cutting through the integument, one of the superficial veins was divided, and bled freely from the upper end, — that nearest the cheek: this was compressed with the finger, and did not bleed again. The second incision was then made, so as to include between the lines a broad piece of skin, which was adherent by a firm cicatrix to the capsule or substance of the Tumor. The integument was reflected at the upper and back part; and with a little farther dissection, the root or pedicle was exposed. I then tried with the forefinger of my left hand to separate the skin, and pass the finger under the pedicle: but the parts were too tough, and too firmly ad- herent, to allow me to force the finger through. Nor could I pass a short iron probe I had provided. A.steel aneurism needle bent under the force used in the attempt to push it through : I feared it would break. After an ineffectual attempt to pass a silver probe, a large curved needle, 4 inches long, armed with a strong thread, was passed, — not without great difficulty, — internal to the skin, through the rigid parts. In the mean time arterial blood flowed profusely from the upper part of the wound: the countenance became pale, the pulse could not be felt at the wrist, and the breathing ceased ; the sphincter ani relaxed, and death seemed impending. Upon tightening the ligature the bleeding stopped at once, — except from the small vessels of the skin ; some of these bled freely, and required tying. The separation of the Tumor from the investing skin or capsule was made without difficulty, except at the under and back part of the original lump ; it was more adherent there than at other points. Some parts, or tuberosities toward the front and lower part were soft in structure, and loosely connected with the general mass ; they broke away in handling, and fell off in pieces: and some small pieces, or shreds of the capsule, were left adherent. A needle with double thread was afterwards passed through the middle of the pedicle, and each half tied separately. The former ligature round the whole was then cut away, with the