17 inch in length, in the line of the metacarpal bones, passing Ob- liquely through the skin and palmar fascia. It was caused by his accidentally sticking his knife into it when seated at his work. A profuse loss of blood followed immediately,—to the amount, he said, of two quarts, A fellow-workman tied some handkerchiefs round the hand, and the man came to the Infirmary,—a distance of about two miles. Having laid the man down in the horizontal position, the cloths, which were saturated with blood, were removed, so that I could examine the wound. I had no doubt that the injury was a puncture or division of the Palmar arch, and I deter- mined to make use of pressure, which had been so successful in the former case. A compress of lint was placed on the wound in the palm; narrow bandages were wound round the thumb and fingers separately, and also round the hand. Compresses were laid along the line of the Radial and Ulnar arteries, and a bandage carried round the wrist and fore-arm up to the bend of the elbow; firm and uniform pressure being made over the fingers, hand, and fore-arm. The fore-arm was flexed upon the arm to rather more than a right angle, and confined in a sling across the chest. The Patient was placed in bed, with directions that he should not be raised, nor the arm moved from the position in which it was placed. March 4, the bandages having become slack were removed, and the compress taken from the wound without any loss of blood. A fresh compress of lint was placed upon the wound in the palm, and others along the Radial and Ulnar arteries, and the bandages reapplied, in the same manner as before, over the fingers, hand, and fore-arm. The fore-arm, flexed to a right angle, was replaced in a sling, with the same directions for keeping the arm at rest. The wound healed without suppuration. The man left the Infirmary March 13, and soon afterwards returned to his regular work as a shoe- maker. In June, 1874, Dr. Spencer, the Medical Officer of the Sick Club of which the Patient is a member, saw him. He tells me that both arteries can be felt at the wrist; the Ulnar, he thinks, beats more forcibly than the Radial. The man has continued at his work, with the free use of his hand. C