i87 often ended in her rushing to the fire and raking the burning coals out with her hands, and cHnging to the hot bars of the grate when her neighbors tried to remove her. In some of these former fits she had burned her hand and fore-arm severely. It seemed as if great part of the true skin of the fore-arm and back of the hand had been destroyed; and as if the only covering before the present injury had been the cicatrix formed of the fascia and superficial layer of muscles. There was some feverishness about her, and the circulation was depressed. The usefulness of the limb seemed clearly to be lost beyond hope of recovery. From the appearance of the integument in the upper part of the arm, an effectual covering for a stump could not be ensured, unless by remov- ing the limb at the shoulder joint,—an operation I was not willing to urge in her state at the time. Good diet, with a little wine, was ordered, and Opium was given at night. The limb was wrapped in cotton wool, and a bandage applied round it. Her manner was odd, but without exciting any special attention, till between % and 3 o^clock in the morning of the 28th ; when, after tossing the bed-clothes about in a rest- less state, she jumped out of bed, frightening the other Patients in the ward, and broke the glass of the nearest window. After carrying her back to bed, the Nurse summoned the House- Surgeon. She continued her violence in his presence : she threw the injured arm about like a flail, and gave him several blows in the face with it, trying to scratch his face with her contracted fingers. At length she was subdued by the inhalation of chloroform, followed by Tincture of Opium, which, as she refused to take it by the mouth, was poured through a tube into one nostril, while the other was com- pressed : two doses (60 minims and 40 minims of Tinct. Opii) were thus swallowed. In the afternoon she was moved to a separate room. She was here watched without inter- mission by a man and his wife, who have been often engaged in that duty in the Infirmary, being relieved now and then by two other Nurses. She was supported with strong beef tea, wine and gin. She spent the next day without any other violence than refusing to take the Opium at night, which was therefore given through the nose as before.