417 in treatment, and^ as a consequence, successful. Honorable and straightforward in all his conduct, he gained the respect of his Professional brethren, as he gained the respect of others. A gentleman by habit and education, he was one of the few men who can ill be spared from the ranks of the Profession. [The Medical Times and Gazette.'] Mr. John Ludford White, who died recently at Bath, had retired from practise for some years. He was born in London in 1814. His father, who had been engaged in mercantile pursuits in the City, retired with a moderate fortune at a com- paratively early age, and settled himself at Stoke Golding, near Hinckley, in Leicestershire. The son was sent to the Grammar School in the village, and he there received the rudiments of a good general education. At 14 years of age he was apprenticed to Mr. Brydges, of Narborough. After serving the usual time, he went to London for the completion of his Professional studies. He entered as a Pupil to the lectures at the School in Aldersgate Street, and attended the practise at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, where he was a Dresser under Mr. Earle. He passed the College of Surgeons in 1836 ; and subsequently he was appointed by Mr. Skey to be Demonstrator of Anatomy in the School in Aldersgate Street. He established himself in practise in Charterhouse Square, and for 2 or 3 years was the Acting Surgeon to the Charitable Dispensary in Fore Street. With the concurrence of his friends in London, he accepted the office of Surgeon to the large iron-works at Dowlais, which was offered to him by the late Sir John Guest. He held the appointinent for about 18 years ; when, having married a Lady with a fortune sufficient to justify him in retiring from the more laborious duties of the Profession, he took a house in the neighboring town of Cardiff, for the purpose of private practise as a Consulting Surgeon. He had previously, during his residence at Dowlais, passed the examination for the Fellowship of the College of Surgeons. A good Anatomist, and a good Surgeon, his opinion was valued by his Professional E e