113 The existence of the stone being clear, the operation of cutiing was chosen in all three cases. In boys the operation is not one of much danger. Besides, the cutlers have not yet given us instruments for crushing a stone within the bladder strong enough for the purpose, yet small enough to pass the urethra in boys under puberty. In the man, the size of the stone presented one great objection to an attempt at crushing. But a greater, I think, existed in his peculiarity of constitu- tional temperament. He was a bad subject for any Surgical operation, especially for one which, by the necessity for fre- quent repetition, calls for so much patient endurance, and so much calmness of disposition, as lithotrity. Lithotomy was, therefore, proposed to him as the best way of getting rid of his enemy. After taking some days to think about it, he agreed to the proposal. The operation was done,—as all operations here are,—with the help of chloroform. A question is often asked about the danger of administering this new medicine — whether it is right to give it, or to advise the use of it in any case ? In Lithotomy, where the actual pain of the operation is not great, and not of very long continuance, there is a sufficient reason for us to give chloroform, when we know that the wish to be free from pain is natural with all sick persons. While people are not hindered from taking their meals by the fear that any mouthful they swallow may choke them, I do not know why a Surgeon should be stopped from administering chloroform by the fear that the Patient should be choked in trying to breathe it, or be poisoned by its effects afterwards. I do not know any morbid state of the heart, the lungs, or the system in general, which should constitute a valid objection to the use of chloroform in an operation which is advisable in such a state of health. More care in the use of it may be needed in one subject than in an other; but this may be said of almost eveiy medicinal agent of acknowleged power. The ' accidents,' as they are called, which have happened now and then, have arisen, in many cases, I think, — I hardly like to utter my fears,—from some want of care in the person giving it. If the administration of it is entrusted to you, take care that your attention, while Students, and hereafter as I