3^9 reason why the death might not have been registered^ without Inquest, on the customary Medical certificate. It seems to me that in future, under the new system of Registration of deaths, with the help of the Medical Officers of Public Health, with the modern efficient system of Police, and with the prospect at an early period of a Public Pro- secutor, the cases for the Coroner will be fewer. But whatever the number, I think that the Medical Practitioner who visits the Patient, and prescribes the treatment, is the person whose opinion ought to be submitted to the Jury in a case where there is a doubt of the cause of death, and also in all cases likely to become the subject of a criminal prosecution. It seems to me that I should be liable to censure from the Judge, if knowing who the Practitioner was, I failed to call him. With the exception of one case, (altogether of an unpre- cedented kind,) which happened immediately after I was appointed Coroner, the case mentioned was the first in which I have held an Inquest on a Patient after an operation. You may remember that in a former case I did not think it ne- cessary ; though Mr. S. afterwards publicly declared his opinion that an Inquest ought to have been held. Bearing in mind the discussion which arose in some of the public Journals upon a misunderstanding, as I thought it, of the law applicable to those cases, I ventured to remind the Jury of what the law was. If I have stated it erroneously, or imperfectly, I shall be thankful to have my opinion corrected by the Legal advisers of the House. In the notes you give, there are two or three mistakes, of which it may be worth while to point out one. In referring to the view of the body, I said to the Jury, ' You see that the limb is not torn off.' In a late case the Jury had seen that a limb was crushed and torn off. It was apparent to them, as men of the world, that the injuries were the cause of death. No Professional opinion was wanted. Mr. S.'s letter is the first intimation I have had of the sug- gestion of the unskilfulness of the treatment: I do not believe that any of the Jury thought of it. If Mr. S. (the Surgeon) had attended, or given in his letter to me an outline of the Medical particulars, the proceedings would have been shorter, with less chance of the stupid notion being started. B b