H ance. The hemorrhage, however, returned more than once, though not to the same alarming extent, and the man was brought to the Infirmary. There was not any bleeding at the time of admission, but at different times afterwards, in the course of the next three or four days, the bleed- ing returned to an extent to make it clear that a large artery had been wounded. After about a week, the late Mr. Cleoburey took charge of the patient during Mr. Fisher's illness. The wound was opened. The spot from which the House-Surgeon had observed that the bleeding issued was where the gluteal artery comes out from the pelvis, and turns forward. This was examined carefully, and search made for an open vessel; but none could be detected. As a matter of precaution and security, a curved needle armed with a strong thread was passed deeply through all the tis- sues, and the ligature drawn firmly round the needle ; the needle was then left in the wound. No fiirther hemoiThage took place. The wound healed slowly ; and the man left the Infirmary on the i6th of September, in no way the worse for the injury. [Si. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, Vol. 13.] In a MS. book of 'Cases/ left by Mr. Welbank, is the following short note:— In May, 1820, a man was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital with repeated hemorrhage from the urethra. He had been in an other hospital for Venereal affection,—perhaps gonorrhea. The bleedings could not be controlled in their recurrence; and the man died. On examination, the External Iliac artery was found ulcerated. A diffused aneurism had taken place evidently, and partly relieved itself by the blood flowing out of an ulcer in the urethra. There was also a pouch like a false passage, and a caruncle. ' Caruncles' are described by the older Surgeons as loose flesh arising in the urethra. They were thought to be one of the frequent causes of stricture. Hemorrhage from the Palm of the Hand. Pressure. A farm laborer, 48 years of age, living at Warborough, about 9 miles from Oxford, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary under my care on the iith of September, 1868, on account of sudden and profuse loss of blood from a swelling in the palm of the left hand.