303 scribe to Provident Societies and Sick Clubs, for the benefit of their families, and the existence of two large and well- managed Societies under the immediate patronage and en- couragement of the Directors of the Great Western Railway, ought to remove any groundless alarm that the workmen or their families, when attacked by sickness, are likely to be- come a burden on the funds of the Charitable Institutions of this city. The arrangements now being made for the erection of im- proved dwellings on an extensive scale, and in a healthy spot, give reason for the belief that the workmen will obtain a more healthy residence here than they now have in London: and the new residents, it may be confidently said, will be found well able, for the most part, to bear their own burdens in sick- ness as in health. Yet there may happen some unexpected emergency,— there may come some infliction beyond the means their own foresight has prepared : if so, I hope you will allow me to ex- press an opinion that there will not be found any deficiency of proper accommodation in Hospital for this supposed influx of : sickness and Surgical accidents. Upon the subject of that accommodation, it may be well to : remind your readers that—whatever the 'present condition' ' of the Radcliff"e Infirmary—the resources at the command of 1 the Governors are amply sufficient for a large extension of ' the benefits of that useful Institution. The permanent in- vested capital — now nearly ;^6o,ooo—has been steadily in- i creasing for many years past; and there has always been . a good balance in the hands of the Treasurer, applicable to '. the general purposes of the Trust,—'the relief of the sick and 1 lame poor, from whatever county recommended.' The surplus, indeed, is now so large as to call for the special ; attention of the Governors. 20 June, 1865. To THE Committee of Management. Gentlemen,—Enclosed I take the liberty of sending a ^ copy of a letter lately published by me, (upon the subject of ' the removal to this City of the Coach-building Works of the