242 act of Professional investigation, — such as a Pathological examination,—is an act generally considered 'unprofessional,' and exhibiting a want of courtesy. It is scarcely possible to carry away more than a part of such a conversation, often the part only which makes an impression on the person who carries it away, — possibly the part which it was least agree- able to himself to hear, as not being consonant with his own opinions; and such is seldom reported from goodwill toward those who took part in it. If in the instance to which you allude, it was done with the view of urging the Board to reconsider their opinion upon allowing instruments, it may have been from a good and honorable motive, T think. What- ever report has been made was without my authority : and I thank you for giving me the opportunity of saying so. You write to me yourself: so I send an answer at once. I know not what passed at the Boai'd : and I must leave it to you as the best judge of the propriety, or otherwise, of com- municating what I say to those who were present. 3 June, 1858. To THE Editor of the Medical Times and Gazette. Sir,—The Hospital at Liverpool is not the only one where the petticoat influence, of which your correspondent, the House-Surgeon, complains, is made to be felt. At the Hospital of which I am an Officer, one of the Pupils asked my permission to give some grapes to a Patient under my care. I saw the grapes, and told him to give them. He did so : they were taken away ; and he was reprimanded by the Matron for giving them. Upon saying he had my per- mission, he was told that I had no power to do such a thing. The following Board-day a written report of the circumstance was made by the Matron, in, which no mention was made of the Pupil's having said he had my permission, nor of my having told her (as I did when I heard of her interference) that she had no business to meddle in the matter ; and, with- out any enquiry being made of me or the Pupil, the Matron's conduct received the approbation of the Board. December i860.