396 tured to suggest that there is one important matter not included in the scheme you put forward as an improvement on Mr. P.'s. Probably you have not overlooked the ad- vantage to be derived from Clinical instruction here: but rather have assumed as a matter of course that it will be included in any new curriculum, or that it will be sought without that. April 1858. To THE Secretary of the Royal College of Surgeons. Dear Sn<,—The Council of the College express a general opinion, that the ordinary course of education in Medical Schools, — however complete for the purposes it is intended to accomplish, — is not of itself a sufficient preparation for the responsibilities of practise in all the circumstances of difficulty with which a Surgeon in general practise has to contend. Of the 4 years to which the Professional education of persons qualifying themselves for Surgeons in general practise is (per- liaps unavoidably,) limited, the Council of the College prescribe a years and a half (3 winter sessions and 2 summer,) as the period to be spent at a Medical School and Hospital. How the rest of the 4 years may be most profitably occupied, and especially at what period of his pupilage it is best that a Pupil should enter a Medical School or Hospital, are the points to which the Council direct attention, and on which they solicit an opinion. The College of Surgeons, it seems to me, has more reference to the fact of a man being a Surgeon, than to the mode in which he is educated for it. The College might grant facilities for acquiring knowlege and Surgical handicraft ; but they should interfere as little as possible to restrict the means by which a man gains his information. The diploma, it must not be forgotten, is only a proof that a man is sufficiently qualified to begin the practise of his Profession. In answer to your first question, I think it would be well, in eveiy case where practicable, that entrance into the Profession should be by pupilage under the direction and supervision of a