London. This preliminary Clinical instruction will enable him to derive full advantage from attendance on the Profes- sorial Lectures in London. The more he has learned before he enters the Professor's Class, the more he will find he learns there. To use the language of the place, our instruction here must be TutQrial; in London it is Professorial. With what profit can a Student who has never seen disease attend Professorial Lectures on the principles of Physic and Surgery? ' Let him see cases, no matter wherebut see cases/ I once heard Sir William Lawrence observe, when asked about the education of a Pupil, ' or he will not understand what the Lecturer is talking about.' That there is not given here the tvhole of the instruction required for a Degree, or comprized in the mrricuhim of the Examining Boards in London, is not a reason that a Student should decline to avail himself of what is taught. It has often been a subject of regret to me, — as to others, — that so few of the Students in the University who propose to enter on ' the Physic line,' avail themselves of the advantages offered by attendance at the Infirmary; and, of those few, that scarcely any seek instruction in the department with which I am most conversant. Since I have been attached to the Infirmary (now between 8 and 9 years) only 4 Members of the University have been Pupils in Surgery, 3 of them having been introduced by myself. Surgery being chiefly concerned with the outward forms of disease should be studied first, — before the Student enters on the examination of diseases affecting the system generally, or the internal organs. The attention of the unpractised eye is more readily fixed in learning a Science more easily capable of denionstration, — though far enough removed from the rank of the exact Sciences, — and on treatment much of which consists in the application of mechanical principles to the relief of suff"ering. The beginner, who has watched the for- mation of an abscess in the areolar and adipose tissues of a limb, — or inflammation in the iris, or the vessels of the con- junctiva, — is led with less difficulty to study the effects of the same process in the viscera or the internal membranes. Thus, while I agree in much of what you say, I have ven-