214 enables the Medical Officers more fully to execute that other part of their office which you have declared to be as much the object contemplated by the Founders and Benefactors of the Infirmary as the treatment of the sick—has never been thought a reason that injury should be done to those suffering under milder ailments, — that their health should be injured, or their lives endangered. The history of our own Profession tells us that the Hospitals of this country were not built as Schools of Medicine. They were founded for a much higher purpose,—ad honorem Doinijti nostri. ' How rose the Building ? Piety first laid A strong foundation ; but she wanted aid ; To Wealth unwieldy was her prayer addressed, Who largely gave, and she the donor blessed : Unwieldy Wealth then to his couch withdrew, And took the sweetest sleep he ever knew. Then busy Vanity sustained her part,— " And much," she said, " it moved her tender heart ; To her all'kinds of man's distress were known, And all her heart adopted as its own." Then Science came, his talents he displayed, And Charity with joy the dome surveyed ; Skill, Wealth, and Vanity obtain the fame, And Piety the joy that makes no claim.' Will any harm be done if the settlement of the question is put off till unanimity prevails ? Time is not pressing : some years, we may hope, will pass before either disease appears again in an epidemic form. Many Governors are now absent who would wish to be present when the question is discussed. Perhaps, after all, it may be that proper accommodation can not be found, or there may be sound objections to the admission within the walls even of a single case of either disease; and, though ' the comforter's head never aches,' the Medical Officers may be unable, it is to be hoped they are not unwilling, to undertake the charge of the Patients. But these are all questions of detail — they have not been considered in consultation ; and it is not an individual Medical or Surgical opinion that should be taken as a guide in a matter of such importance. The Medical Officers can not, unasked, offer a recommendation that any disease should be excluded ; it is not for them to shut the door against the objects of your