ii6 withdut any mishap, and he did not suffer any ' shock' from the immediate effects of it. Yet after the first 34 hours it seemed pretty clear that he would sink. The old Surgeons on visiting a Patient after the operation of lithotomy, were in the habit of asking, ' Does he wet well ?' Their attention was directed to the secretion from the kidnies as one of the most important signs of a successful event. This mair did not ' wet well.' Very little urine was secreted after the first 13 or 14 hours,—a clear indication that what- ever inflammatory action was in progress in the kidnies was increased. In such a state of disease, any Surgical operation, —especially on the urinary organs,—is attended with great danger; a low form of erysipelatous inflammation, with peri- tonitis (of which an early stage was seen here), is particularly to be feared. It is not unlikely that the continued and in- creasing discomfort produced by this state of kidnies was (as much as the calculus) one great cause of his at length seek- ing advice; and much of his irritable temperament may have been dependent on such a state of health. If the kidnies had been sound, would the man have re- covered ? The question is suggested by the examination of the body. The small calculus encysted in the bladder would not have hindered recovery; though it might have rendered an other operation necessaiy at a future time. The question arises from the appearance of the cellular tissue, — the modern areolar and adipose tissues,—about the bladder, behind the peritoneum. The short time snatched for the examination, hindered us from making such a dissection of the perineum as would have shown whether that most important structure, the deep fascia of the pelvis, was opened. It was not wounded by the knife, but probably it was torn in drawing the stone through the prostate; thus allowing the effusion of blood, and possibly urine also, to pass freely into the surrounding cellular tissue. Profuse suppuration would be the certain result, and, perhaps, fatal peritonitis. It may, I think, be fairly doubted whether so large a stone, even if happily seized lengthwise, in its smallest diameter,— that diameter being increased by the thickness of the blades of forceps powerful enough to hold the stone in its chops,—