124 cele of the right testis. He wished the swelling to be tapped ; he did not desire any other operation. He told me that many years ago, when bathing, he had jumped into the water and bruised the scrotum very con- siderably; he called the injury a 'severe concussion.' When he afterwards discovered the swelling of the testis, he consulted his brother, who was in practise as a Surgeon. His brother took him to Sir Benjai^in Brodie for the purpose of obtaining an opinion from him upon the question whether the swelling should be tapped from time to time as the fluid accumulated, or whether an attempt should be made to effect a radical cure. Sir B. Brodie gave his opinion that if a radical cure was obtained on the one side, the other testis would become affected with a similar disease. Under this opinion the swell- ing was tapped on several occasions. After the death of his brother, the Patient came to me. I punctured the swelling with a fine trocar. The wall of the cyst was unusually thick ; and I became sensible that the point of the instrument had pricked the gland. A day or two afterwards the Patient came to me, and complained of a pain in the testis, which had not followed any of the operations performed by his brother. The next day he was confined to bed with pain in the right loin, swelling of the testis, and general ecchymosis of the scrotum. These subsided under rest and moderate diet. In about a fortnight he was able to return to his usual habits of business. In the course of the following la months he told me that the fluid was collecting again. But he did not seek advice upon the subject at the time. I punctured the swelling again once, if I remember right, in November 1861. In the summer of 1863, and again in 1864, he came under my care for an injury to his foot. While under treatment for that complaintj I examined the scrotum at his request. The right testis, — the one first affected,—was free from disease; but on the left side there was a perceptible amount of fluid in the tunica vaginalis, though not enough to make him desire relief on that account. In January 1866 I punctured the swelling on the left side. The cyst was thin ; the fluid evacuated was clear and almost