1 lO the day, he took some beef-tea and a little wine ; and also several small doses of Opium with Spin Etheris nitr. At night, he complained most severely of pain about the pubes. He had not passed any urine during the day; and as the bladder could be felt enlarged, though not distended, I passed a catheter by the urethra, and drew off about two or three ounces of urine. Some warm water was then injected, and withdrawn, slightly tinged with blood; some of it escaping by the wound. A pill (Opii gr. iij) was given. He passed a quiet night, apparently sleeping well. During the next day, he became weaker, and he suffered much from hiccup. He was scarcely sensible when I saw him at night; and he died quietly about 3 o'clock in the morning of the 8th. The body was examined 30 hours after death. The skin of the lower part of the abdomen, in the hypogastric region, presented an unusual appearance; in fact, it had been ob- served before he died. It was not the natural color of the rest of the body, but whiter; it seemed as if the cuticle was dry, and without the common secretion. This appearance extended on the left side into the Gluteal region. The peri- toneum was more vascular than usual; and in several places the convolutions of small intestines, where they touched, were slightly adherent by recent lymph. The kidnies were in an advanced stage of granular degeneration ; in the right, there was scarcely a spot in which the proper structure of the gland could be traced. The bladder was contracted, and much thickened ; the mucous membrane seemed healthy. At the fundus, a papilla projected, with a minute opening, in which a small oval calculus was embedded, composed of phosphates, and weighing 8 grains, three quarters of an inch in length, and half an inch in breadth. The wound in the bladder was small, and did not extend beyond the limits of the prostate. Some blood was effused about the base of the bladder, and along the course of the ureters, behind the peritoneum. Clinical Remarks. The symptoms of stone in the bladder were well marked in each of the cases. In the first,