6o that the mortality following that operation will be much les3 than in the cases to which the operation is now for the most part restricted,—those, namely, in which the disease can not be removed by any operation through the thigh itself, and where the amputation is, often of necessity, done through unsound parts. In the great operations, where an opportunity is afforded by the publicity attending cases occurring in the public Hospitals, it might be worth while to institute an enquiry into the amount and causes of the mortality arising among cases in similar circumstances under the hands of different Surgeons of the same Institution, where there exists the same atmosphere, the same general routine of domestic ecpnomy, the same nurses, the same dressers and pupils, the same governors controlling, or may be helping, the adjiroantia. The field of enquiry has been too restricted. Fuller authentic reports from the larger Hospitals should be periodically laid before the Profession, We wish to see the causes of death after these operations investigated with the zeal and industry and the success with which the mortality in Hernia has been investigated, in the belief that it may equally lead to im- provements in practise. ... The 19th Vol. of the Transactions of the Provincial Medi- cal and Surgical Association (1853) contains a Report compiled by me of cases of Amputation, and other opei'ations, performed in the Radcliffe Infirmary,—with the cause of death in the cases which ended fatally. In Vol. 39 of the Medico- Chirurgical Transactions of London (1856), is a fuller Report, extending over a longer period, compiled from the Registers at the Infirmary, of cases of Amputation of the limbs. The cases are arranged in classes, according as the operation was performed for disease, or for injury,—in cases of disease, where it has been of different character, constitutional or local; and in cases of injury, whether the operation was immediate and primary, or secondary. In cases of disease of Joints, I have given the subsequent history of the Patients, after being dis- charged from the Infirmaiy, upon recovering from the operation. Reports of the cases of Amputation in some Hospitals,—