22 1 ; I have recommended vaccination at" an early period. But if people are to be forced by process of law to submit their children to the operation, and to take them twice to the place of operation,—on one of those occasions on a day which can not be changed,—a longer time than 3 months from the . child's birth, ought, I think, to be allowed. 29 October, 1856. To THE Editor of the Oxford Chronicle. Sir, — My attention has been called to two letters in the Oxford Chronicle, one by Dr. R.,the other by Mr. W.,—both of them members of the Local Board of Public Health in •. this city. The letters have a subject in common—the neces- : sity for 'Government interference,' or some 'supervision' of . our local authorities in dealing with sanitary affairs. When a member of the Board publishes an opinion that the Mayor 1 (Mr. Alderman Carr) ' had upon several occasions exerted ; himself, and not always unsuccessfully, to thwart the efforts I of individual members of our own Local Board,' and professes ; to support it ' from the history of the late epidemic of Small- ; pox,' some of your readers may perhaps like to know more ' of the facts than is supplied by the two letters you have ; published. In the month of February 1871, at a time when Small-pox ■ was prevalent in Abingdon, Mr. Alderman Carr and I were : two members of the Board who visited and approved (and, ; as I thought, permanently secured), a site for a Hospital, I on the side of the town nearest to Abingdon. This was, after some discussion, set aside for an other; and that, in '■■ its turn, set aside in favor of a third,—the one which was afterwards used. At a later period,—no efficient means having been taken : in the meantime to prevent the spreading of the disease, in I case it should appear in Oxford in a more active form,— . Alderman Carr proposed to the Nuisance Removal Com- I mittee that the town should be divided into districts, with ^ Medical Practitioners allotted to each. Such a plan had been I followed in 1849 and 1854 upon the visitation of the Cholera;