290 otit keeping back the Reports of the Medical Officers, — some may, I venture to think, be of opinion, that it was part also of the duty to Va^y something before the Medical Officers,—• namely, the expression of his own wish, or that of other Mem- bers of the Committee, that they, — the representatives of the Governors in their highest office, — would join heartily with Mr. R,, and help him in a matter in which some, at least, of the Committee took an interest. We never had this from you. The conclusion is, — that neither you, nor he, desired the co-operation of the Medical Officers. , May 1875. To Dr. Seaton. My dear Sir,—A short notice in some of the Medical Journals has called my attention to a Report made by one of the Officers of your Department, and reprinted in your Annual Report. I observe that it is there without the pre- liminary heading, ' Strictly Confidential,' which was in large type on the cover and on the title-page of the Report itself. The Report was the result of an enquiry at the Radclifife Infirmary, undertaken privately, without the authority of the Local Government Board. I venture to submit that if it was reprinted at the public expense, under your inspection, it ought to have been accompanied by the Letter addressed by me, as one of the Medical Officers of the Infirmary, to the Governors, when they called our attention to it. If I re- member right, I sent a copy to you, and to Mr. S. at the time, as well as to the writer of the Report, A Post-script has been added to the Report; and cases are quoted from the Infirmary without communication with the Medical Officers. I venture to submit to you that it is not in accordance with the usage and the courtesy of the Profession for a Member of the Profession to publish notes of a case under the care of an other Practitioner without previous communication with him: and that the Medical Officers of Public Institutions, and the cases under their care, are not excepted from the operation of this rule of courtesy. 13 March, 1878.