111 the parents, who were very poor people, had not regarded them : in fact, the boy had not received much care of any kind. His hair swarmed with lice. He had a large opaque patch on the cornea of each eye,— the result of old strumous disease ; and in the right, the cornea had given way by ulcera- tion, and the iris protruded. In the man, symptoms more strongly marked had not been heeded, and more severe suffering had not led him to seek medical advice, till alarmed by his Father passing some small stones; one of which, having been impacted in the urethra, was removed by a Medical man. Absorbed as the energies of the honest and hardworking portion of the laboring poor are by the necessity for earning their daily bread, no wonder that in this, as in other disease, the early stages often pass without notice; and that they seldom allow themselves any intermission of their daily labor till disabled by such an amount of bodily suffering as unfits them for earning their week's wages. In the class of Patients who come for treatment at a Hospital, it is more common to find stone in boys than in men ; in the middle of life, it is comparatively rare. In the last 40 years, there have only been, I believe, 4 cases in the Infirmary beside the present, in which a stone has been found in a man between 30 and 40 years of age. Of the usual constituents of a calculus, Lithic acid forms the least painful concretion, and is that most frequently found of a large size in a healthy bladder. Here it had been allowed to grow to an unusually large size. In cases where a stone exists in the bladder, if it is large enough to cause any suffering, — to give rise, in short, to any symptoms for which Medical advice is sought, — there is seldom any room for doubt about it. Before performing the operation of cutting into the bladder, with the intention of removing it, it is of course desirable to make sure of its exist- ence by feeling it with a metallic sound. In the second of these cases, the boy was brought from a distance, for the purpose of having the existence of a stone proved by sounding; and he was to be taken home afterwards. These were not circumstances to be preferred for the perform-