i6 arteries, and secured by a roller bound firmly round the-wrist and fore-arm, as far as the bend of the elbow. The hand was placed across the chest, and the limb confined in a sling,—the forearm being flexed somewhat beyond a right angle. The man was ordered to remain in bed ; and directions were given to the Nurse that he was not to be raised from the horizontal position; that the arm was not to be moved, nor the forearm straightened. On the 17th some slight amount of blood escaped from under the dressings; but not enough to make me think it necessary to remove them for the purpose of examining the wound. The dressings were all removed on the axst. A compress of lint was again laid on the opening in the palm, and fresh bandages applied to the fingers, hand, and forearm, making firm and uniform pressure as before. These were allowed to remain for about 10 days. The discharge became purulent, and was for some time mixed with clots of putrid blood. The bandages were all removed, and a piece of linen rag with simple cerate was left on the wound. The pressure was dis- continued, and the man was allowed to move about the ward with his arm in a sling. By degrees the suppuration ceased, and the man left the Infirmary on the 38th of October with the wound nearly healed. On the 3oth of July, 1872,1 saw him. A small scar, not so large as a split pea, can be seen in the palm of the hand. The skin moves easily over the palmar fascia, and the tendons play freely. The power of flexion and extension is perfect. The man says the arm is stronger than the other. Both arteries can be felt at the wrist, but the Radial is fuller than the Ulnar. A shoemaker, 50 years of age, was admitted into the Radclifife Infirmary under my care on the 37th of February, 1872, having lost a large quantity of blood from a deep wound recently inflicted in the palm of his left hand. I was in the ward at the time, and saw the man immediately on admission. The wound was in the middle of the palm, about half an