II including within the hgature some of the surrounding tissue ; the hemorrhage then ceased. The wound was then drawn together with strips of plaster, and a roller was applied round the pelvis as at first. The next day,—the 7th,—about an hour after the dress- ings were changed, and before I had left the house after seeing the Patient, the Nurse observed blood flowing freely from the lower part of the wound. The wound was again opened, and arterial blood was seen flowing from the part where the ligatures had been applied. The bleeding seemed to come from the knot of the distal or trochanteric ligature, which still held fast. A sharp-pointed needle, armed with a thread of strong twine, was thrust in, about an inch nearer to the trochanter, so as to pass under the line in which I sup- posed the trunk of the wounded artery lay. On withdrawing the needle, arterial blood issued freely from the puncture made by the needle. The needle, armed again in the same way, was then thrust through at a point about half an inch further off, toward the trochanteric side, and the thread tied. After this the bleeding ceased. The wound was left open,—being merely covered with a piece of linen rag, spread with cerate. On the 9th, between 4 and 5 o'clock in the afternoon, hemorrhage again returned. Upon separating the edges of the wound, the House-Physician observed arterial blood flowing from the point at which the proximal or sacral ligature had been placed. He seized the point with forceps and twisted it. Altogether, about 4 or 5 ounces of blood had escaped. About 6 o'clock I saw him ; and I passed an aneurism needle, with a thread of strong twine, deep under the point from which the blood had been observed to flow, and tied the thread. The patient was too low in general power for me to have any reasonable hope from a further operation, such as ligature of the Iliac artery within the pelvis. On the nth, about half-past 7 in the morning, the House- Surgeon was again called, on account of a fresh loss of blood, to the extent of about 4 or 5 ounces. The bleeding stopped upon a compress of lint being applied, and held for a short time with the finger at the part.