105 he had been employed on a farm looking after cattle. A boy, aged 14 years, was referred to me by Mr. Barrett of Kingston Bagpuize, to whom he had applied on account of a pain in the shoulder. Three years before, he had-received some sharp blows with a stick, about the shoulder, under punishment from his schoolmaster. Pain and stiffness followed, which received but little attention from his parents, and none from anybody else. The head of the humerus was firmly united by bony union to the scapula, without any sign of existing disease. On the subject of the painful startings, which so frequently harass the Patient, and deprive him of sleep^ when the posi- tion of the limb allows the action of the muscles of flexion and extension, where irregular pressure on the articular sur- faces is maintained by the muscles in a state of spasmodic contraction, Mr. Johnson says, that ' Dr. Bauer has proposed to divide the tendons of the contracting muscles, independent of any malposition, as a means of relieving the starting pains.' This operation was proposed, for the same reason, about 45 years ago, to Mr. Vincent, at St. Bartholomew's Hospital) by Mr. Welbank, then House-Surgeon. Worn out with suffering, without other known means of relief, the Patients gladly submitted to amputation. The division of the ham- string tendons could not, he said, put them in a worse position. Much discussion used to be held formerly upon questions of ' proper position ' in cases of anchylosis. Mr. Johnson has not entered much into these, beyond directing that the limb should be placed in the position in which i}: may be employed to the greatest advantage. In the elbow, it used to be said that the proper position was at about a right angle; at least, the test was that the Patient should be able to put his hand to his mouth. Some years ago, Mr. Welbank had under his care a gentle- man of education, who had the misfortune to suffer from anchylosis of longstanding in the right elbow-joint,—the limb being extended much beyond a right angle. Pitying his helpless state, — unable to put his hand to his mouth, Mr, Welbank enquired into the amount of disability which he suffered from the faulty position (as it was thought,) of the