115 the stone felt with it, when the garters are safely bound, and the Patient under the influence of chloroform, — you may stand at his right side or his left,—if the staff is entrusted to your care, hold it firmly by the handle, and take care that the beak is in the bladder. It will be a help to the operating Surgeon, in making the first incision, if you will with your other hand raise the scrotum and testes, and so make the skin of the perineum tense. In the boys the operation was done with the knife I have generally used,—a scalpel with the back rather straighter than the one known among cutlers as ' Key's knife.' In the man, after opening the urethra with this scalpel, the incision into the bladder was completed with an other having a blunt beak at the point. I did not wish to run the risk of doing harm by thrusting a sharp-pointed knife into the bladder through so deep a perineum. In the second boy, the rectum was wounded by the knife slipping from the staff after the urethra was opened. When such an accident happens, if the opening in the gut is not large, and if no other mischief is done, the wound generally heals well. Some urine finding its way into the rectum may irritate the mucous membrane (in this case it may have increased the tendency to diarrhea) ; and fecal matter passing through the wound may perhaps delay the healing. Where the groove in the staff is well polished, and the back of the knife well rounded, so as to slide easily within the groove, there is less risk of its starting out of its proper course. It is a safer practise, no doubt, in all cases, after laying bare the groove in the staff, to change the scalpel with which the incision has been made for a narrow straight bistoury, or a knife with a blunt point; this can be passed on to the stop at the end of the groove. But the change of instrument should be made, by one of the Assistants taking the scalpel from the Surgeon, and at the same time putting the other knife into his hand. The Operator will not then have to shift his eye from the deep part of the wound he has just made. In the man it might be said, as far as the mere operation is concerned, that it was successful. The stone was removed I 2