295 In retiring from the office of Auditor, I feel I shall not be doing my duty if I do not call your attention, more than is done in the Annual Reports, to the state of the Finances. It is right you should know that they are in a thriving state; and that for at least the last ten or twelve years, they have never been otherwise. In the year just past the Expenditure of the year exceeded the Income appropriated to the year by about £2^. But in 1855, the Expenditure was within the Income by £856; — the Income of that year having been increased by unusually large' Miscellaneous' receits, amounting to ;^i,2oo, given by numerous charitable persons, — most of them under the idea that the funds were failing. During the last ten years, the Capital Stock (of funded property) has been increased at a rate of between £S^o and ;^6oo a year. The yearly Income from funded capital is greater now by ;^300 than in 1847 ; and the yearly Subscriptions greater by about £100. The average yearly Expenditure has been within the average yearly Income, The alteration of the form in which the Annual Report for 1853 was printed, was attended (as was foreseen) with many mistakes, especially in the accounts. Among them are two, to which I beg your attention. Under the head of ' Shop Accounts' are two items, which, — as well as I could learn from examination of the bills, — are wrong: — ' Surgical Instruments and repairing ditto, ;^35 4^-. 4^/.; Instruments for the use of Patients, ;^30 i6j-.' The correct sums, I believe, are, 'Surgical Instruments, and repairing, £1'^ 16s. 2d.; for Patients, £42 3^.' There is great liberality in the gifts of Instruments for the use of Patients; and it is only right that the extent of this beneficence should be known. But there has not always been, .1 regret to say, the same liberality in furnishing things so important for their health and safety, as the instruments used by the Surgeons in the treatment of the Patients. In almost all operations in the House I use my own instruments, in preference to those belonging to the House. Of late years some few new ones have been bought; but the supply is still wretchedly short. Whether the accounts printed in the Reports of subsequent years- are less incorrect, I have no means of knowing; they