2 it without sending to Mr. Hitchings, whose week of attend- ance it was. A tourniquet being thrown round the thigh, and the man placed on his side, with the limb partly flexed, I made an incision about 4 inches long through the skin upon the inner edge of the Gastrocnemius muscle, over the course of the Posterior Tibial vessels, meeting the tibial extremity of the transverse wound at about a right angle. Then, cutting through the other tissues interposed, the divided extremities of the Posterior Tibial artery were seen : both ends were seized with forceps, and tied without difficulty: the distal extremity, though easily recognized, was not bleeding. The artery, as well as the nerve, was completely divided by the original injury. The clots in the wound were then turned out, and some muscular branches were tied. Profuse hemorrhage still continued, but of a dark venous character, welling up from the bottom of the wound; this, however, became lessened on removing the tourniquet. To get at the source of it, I enlarged the wound upwards toward the knee; and some bleeding points were tied upon a tenaculum, — an operation of great difficulty, from the patient's i-estlessness and the depth of the wound. One vein, larger than the rest, and apparently in close connection with some tendinous structure, seemed to be wounded at more than one point. Ultimately, the hemorrhage was stopped by passing three ligatures, at intervals of about half an inch, under this vessel and the surrounding tissues by means of a needle in a firm handle. The wound was drawn together with strips of plaster, a compress of lint placed on it, and the whole secured, and even pressure maintained by a bandage round the leg; and the patient, cold and pulseless, replaced in a blanket in bed. Wine and brandy were administered freely during the operation, and on his return to bed he was supplied well with hot brandy and water. About 9 o'clock at night Mr. Hitchings saw him. He was then warm ; the pulse was weak, but perceptible at the wrist. The finger placed on the dorsum of the foot, recognized, for the first time, the anterior Tibial artery; the Posterior could not be felt. He was still restless, throwing himself about,