393 The opinion of a former President (Dr. Ogle) is not yet proved to be erroneous. ' "VVe shall do well to bear in mind, that so long as in His inscrutable wisdom, the all-wise and all-benevolent Author of every blessing sees fit to distribute with unequal hand the gifts of talents, means, and opportuni- ties, so long, must inequalities exist among us, which it is neither practicable nor desirable to efface.' February 1856. To Dr. C. My dear Dr. C, — The difificultiesjn the way of Mr. P.'s plan seemed to me to be so many, that I have not speculated, as you have, upon the effects likely to be produced upon the Medical Profession, — if it is adopted. When the University, throwing out tentaaila to bring within its touch those who owe it no allegiance, offers to all comers a stains, — a dignity at all events, — in the Faculty of Arts, it seems reasonable to think that a way will be found to bring the Profession at large within the sphere of its legitimate in- fluence, and to extend to Students generally increased oppor- tunities and facilities for availing themselves of the advantages offered, — advantages which can not be too highly prized. The expense of an education in the University is too great to be within the reach of any but a small portion of those who enter the Profession, (as most have done,) with the view to earn their bread in it. It is this expense chiefly, — the want of capital for early investment, — which confines the benefit of that education to those who are able to put off the necessity for earning their bread till the middle period of life, — till (as the proverb goes,) they have lost their teeth to eat it. The expense is present and certain ; the return is doubt- ful, and will be distant. With all the solid prizes offered at the Bar as the reward of success, it is not found that a larger number than formerly go through the airricnbim of the Uni- versities, — once thought a necessary preliminary in the edu- cation of the accomplished English Lawyer. However much those who receive an education in the University may be fitted to adorn the seats they may one day fill on the Bench or in Council, the advantages are not sufficiently present to view,—