131 14 ounces of clear fluid. The operation was repeated at in- tei-vals in the following years. Upon one occasion, in July 1873, the fluid was dark in color, and, as I thought, mixed with blood. Upon all other occasions it was of the usual pale straw color. The last time the man came to me was in September 1877 ; he was then in his Sand year, and failing in general strength. He told me that he had never been to any other Practitioner for treatment of the Hydrocele since he first came under my care. Hydrocele, injection—Return on both sides—Seton—Suppuration. A laboring man, about 40 years of age, of rheumatic con- stitution and of general feeble appearance, was admitted into the Radcliff"e Infirmary, % November, 1853, under my care, with Hydrocele of the right testis, which he had observed between 4 and 5 years. He applied for admission on account of an abscess in the scrotum, attended with eczema, spreading to the groins and the perineum over the tubera ischii. The next day I punctured the Hydrocele, and let out 15 ounces of clear fluid; and I then injected the sac with Port wine. He complained much of the pain in the testis and groin, and he fainted under it. I withdrew the injected fluid immediately. Very slight swelling or inflammation of . any kind followed. He was discharged on the 23rd. In July 1857 he came to me with a return of the swelling. I tapped it, and let out ao ounces of fluid. In February i860 I tapped it again, and again drew off" 20 ounces of fluid. I observed that there was a small collection on the left side. In October 1861 I tapped the swellings on both sides, and let out lo ounces from that on the right, and about \% ounces from the left. He fainted before the operation was com- pleted. On the 18th of May, 1863, he was admitted into the In- firmary, under my care, with several contused wounds, after a squabble in an alehouse. The Hydroceles having again be- come inconveniently large, on the ist of June I passed a needle with a double thread through the tumor on each side. Next day the scrotum was red and swollen, and I withdrew the threads. K 2