372 the Infirmary, — it should be borne in mind that they do not stand in the same relation to the Governors and the public as former Officers. They no longer hold their office for life, or for good behavior. These 'valued Officers' — as Mr. S. calls them, — are now liable to be dismissed at will, with less for- mality than the menial servants. They can be ' removed ' at any General Court, without notice to them or to the Governors, — without cause found or complaint made. Five votes are enough for the purpose. The two last elected of the Officers have accepted their office on such terms; and the others have shown that they are not unwilling to continue under them, 17 April, 1879. To THE Editor of the Medical Times and Gazette. Sir, — In some remarks in the Medical Times and Gazette, referring to what you call ' the differences between the City Coroner and the authorities of the Radclifife Infirmary,' are some statements which need correction. The ' chief causes of these differences ' was that one of the Surgeons (not the one you mention), after receiving the usual notice to attend an Inquest, did not attend, and did not give any reason for being absent. I brought the subject imme- diately to the notice of the Governing Body by a letter to the President. The letter was referred by him to the Chairman of the Committee ; and — as far as I have been able to learn, — no notice was taken of the subject. Afterwards, at an other Inquest, one of the other Surgeons, who failed to attend under a summons, was brought as a wit- ness under a warrant. Upon complaint made in due course by a Solicitor on his behalf, the warrant and the proceedings under it were submitted to the lawyers. Under their opinion that the numerous legal formalities required had not all been properly observed, a written acknowlegement was immediately made by me that I was not legally justified in issuing the warrant, , . . No notice that that acknowlegement had been received, ever reached me. No ' action at law' was commenced