215 bounty. By waiting for a well-considered Report from the Medical Officers, you may avoid the mistake which some of you think was made in rescinding the Rule of 1770. Surely you are not unwilling to hear the opinion of those Officers whom you do not pay, and whom you have never thanked — your fellow-laborers in the same cause of charity, giving to the service the best years of the prime of their life. For my part, I should be glad to see the final decision referred to a subsequent Court. Still, if the motion in its present form is put to a vote on Wednesday, my vote, as an individual Governor, will be given against it; chiefly because I believe it is only the beginning of a system of exclusion, which is opposed to the intentions of the Founders and early Benefactors of the Infirmary, and because such a course is a denial of charity to those who are deserving objects, — a denial not required by existing circumstances of charitable offices, which should be extended rather than contracted. June 1855. Small-pox in Oxford in 1854-5. Before the epidemic Cholera appeared in Oxford in 1854, several cases of Small-pox had occurred; and while the Cholera was still raging, and after its ravages were at an end, Small-pox spread in the city and neighborhood more widely than on any former occasion,—at least of late years. Scar- latina, in a severe form, was also extensively prevalent at the same time, and there were many fatal cases. Fever of a low type was also prevalent, and in many cases fatal; measles and whooping-cough were also epidemic. Dr. Ogle wished that some record should be made of the prevalence and severity of the Small-pox, and of the circumstances incident to its occurrence; and he purposed to draw up a statistical report of the cases. Not being satisfied with his efforts, he gave over to me the few notes he had collected. The resident Medical Practitioners formed a general esti- mate, that more than 4,000 persons were attacked with the disease in different degrees of severity. The population at that