38i matter of ' scandal,' to ' the stringent remarks,' as he called them, of the Judge of Assize, he did not refer to the fact that the Judge said publicly that I was right. An unpardonable offence had been committed. In a case wholly unprecedented, and overlooked in the amendments made by modern legis- lation, I had, in the discharge of a public duty, acted in obedience to an imperfect law. For this I was to be con- demned without being asked for explanation;—though the Chairman, having sat as a Judge in a criminal Court, ought to have known that if there is one principle in the adminis- tration of 'justice ' more firmly held than any other, it is that no man shall be condemned without a hearing. The Chairman of Committee now led the way. Of him and his statements it is enough to say, that I have, publicly in his presence, without contradiction, denounced his state- ments,— as being simply, wholly, absolutely false. The Professof*, by whose direction the question was raised, now came second. In an unguarded moment, — and wander- ing, like all the other speakers, from the question before the Court,—he told the Governors he had been in opposition to me at the Local Board, when some cases of small-pox were in the next County. The fact is, that, as a member of the Local Board, I supported a proposal made by the Mayor, for dividing the Town into districts, to be allotted to the Medical Practitioners, for house-to-house visitation, so as to find out all the persons un-protected by vaccination, and to see that all should be vaccinated without delay. The pro- posal of the Mayor of the City was not that of the Professor of the University. He did not see that, if it was adopted, any spreading of the disease would be impossible within the Town. ■ He did not also tell the assembled Governors that, at a meeting of the Committee of the Local Board, on a day when I was in the Chair, his behavior had been such that, after in vain calling him to order, I rose from the Chair, and left the room, followed by other Members of the Board. It was not without reason that a Governor present said that the matter before the Court was ' something more than a mere discussion of the merits of the case,'—and an other Governor, that' it had been far too much loaded and crowded