5 the substance of the Gastrocnemius and Soleus muscles. The wound seemed too confined to enable him to reach the Artery ; and he enlarged it in a transverse direction toward the tibial side of the limb, dividing the muscular substance. The Artery was found to be completely divided ; both ends were secured without difficulty. The boy recovered rapidly; the wound uniting well with very little suppuration. I heard of him many years afterwards among his neighbors : that he seemed to be all right, and ' not to go lame.' [Medical Gazette, January, 1851.] Remarks. — An operation for ligature of the Posterior Tibial artery in the upper part of its course is hardly ever required, unless for a wound, or an aneurism the result of an injury. In one mode of operating, an incision is made along the inner edge of the tibia, and the fascia and muscles are freely separated from the bone. The deep fascia covering the vessels is then exposed, and divided with proper precautions to search for the artery under it. This mode of reaching the vessel is easily enough done on the dead body. It has been condemned by Mr. Guthrie as ' difficult, bloody, tedious, and dangerous, — dangerous from the chance of failure,' in the living subject. It is the older mode proposed, and although, as Mr. Guthrie says, ' not very easily accomplished,' has been many times adopted with success. Dr. Harrison, of Dublin (The Surgical Anatomy of the Arteries, 1839), mentions that he was present when the operation was performed many years ago by. Mr. Travers, in St. Thomas's Hospital. Mr. Welbank, who was also present, told me that the ope- ration certainly was ' difficult, bloody, and tedious ;' though not, I believe, in that instance followed by a fatal result. An other mode of securing the artery is by an incision through the muscles of the calf, in the mesial line of the leg. Mr. Guthrie, in his published Lectures (1846), advises that the incision should be made in the mesial line, for an injury or aneurism, when it is not known which of the two arteries, —the Posterior Tibial or the Peroneal, — is wounded; and