258 which caused me to withhold my signature to a Certificate of his inability to work? — it will probably be thought by the Committee a sufficient answer, — That any statement of such disability would be inconsistent with the facts before me. However clear such an answer may be, I am unwilling to give that answer alone, without at the same time laying before the Committee the facts as they have come to my knowlege. The Chairman and some Members of the Committee will remember that, at the Meeting on the'36th of August, I brought the case before them, as one which seemed to me to be an attempt at imposition on the Charity. On Wednesday, the ist of July, T. came before me, as the Surgeon of the week, with the usual Out-Patient's letter. Upon examining into his case, I refused to undertake the treatment. I told him that he ought not to come so far; that he should stay at home, and obtain treatment there. I learned from the House-Surgeon that T. had been to the Infirmary before that day, without a subscriber's letter, and had been told to bring an Out-Patient's turn. Having formed my opinion, and acted upon it, I dismissed the case from my memory. I did not expect to see the man, or to hear of his case again. In opposition, however, to the advice I gave him, he came to me again. He asked me to sign some paper. I supposed it to be one from a Sick Club or Benefit Society: and I told him that the proper person to sign it was the Medical Officer of the Club. On Saturday, the 15th of August, a Lawyer from a distance called on me with reference to the case. From him I learned that the paper offered to me was for the Railway Passengers' Assurance Society, from whom T. was seeking compensation. I also learned that the House-Surgeon had signed such a paper. It is dated the 20th of June, and is a Certificate from him that he has attended T. from the 13th of June, and is still attend- ing him. The Committee will, I am sure, agree with me, that it can not be said with truth of a man who travels so far and so often, that he is wholly disabled from work. Yet this is what is now desired. The Committee will not fail to observe that there are several irregularities in the case. The man came to the Infir-