I04 affluent classes is favorable, it is less so among the poor and needy. Among them, with the many drawbacks of poverty, ignorance, and inattention, the time required for recovery becomes considerably prolonged; we will not go so far as to say that the chance of it is hopeless. We are unwilling to believe that the people of this country, of the agricultural counties in particular, are become such an unhealthy race that they are no longer able to recover from strumous disease, when it affects a joint, except at the expense of an eradicating operation. Where the confidence of the Patient and his natural guardians is gained, as it may be by kindness and attention, combined with skill and professional knowlege,— the possession of which the poor and needy are as well able to discern as the rich,—the best means of ensuring observance of the Surgeon's directions are gained, and his services will not often be thrown away. It is seldom, very seldom we are inclined to think, that in young subjects the treatment, under the personal superintendance of a competent Surgeon, will fail of success, if he does not himself fail in his efforts. Yet we can not deny the truth of some remarks we once heard Mr. Skey make : ' He knew no disease that required more patience, more knowlege, more perseverance, more anxious watching day by day, before the end was accomplished, than joint- disease.' Mr. Johnson adds that, ' in early life, the limb may generally be preserved.' Mr. Hilton, in his ' Lectures' lately delivered at the College of Surgeons, told the assembled members of the College that they would be justified in be- lieving something more than this as the result of treatment. Mr. Tamplin has said that, ' out of the large number of cases of diseased joint in children, which had occurred at the Orthopedic Hospital, he had not seen one that failed to be cured by the most ordinary care and attention.' It is wonderful how little inconvenience the Patient some- times suffers during the long period through which the disease is in progress. We have seen a lad with bony anchylosis of the hip-joint, the result of disease, which had been about two years in progress, without having had any professional treat- ment, and without rest, except for a few weeks of the time after a slight injury. During the greater part of the period