86 by the House-Surgeon to be a fracture of the clavicle,—a diagnosis which had been since disputed by one of the numerous tribe of ' bone-setters.' The Lecturer on Anatomy, sitting at the Board, gave it as his opinion that the House- Surgeon's diagnosis must be erroneous, because the Patient had been able to raise his hand above his head. The Lecturer on Surgery, when he heard of this—jealous for the reputation of his former pupil, the House-Surgeon, — mentioned the cir- cumstance to us, among others of his professional friends; adding his own opinion that the power to lift the hand above the head was not of itself convincing evidence that the clavicle was unbroken. In the cases which afterwards came under our observation we made the experiment; and it happened so rarely that the Patient was unable to make the disputed movement, that we ceased to take any note. The nature and the varieties of fractures involving the shoulder, the elbow, and the wrist joints, are described; and Mr. Flower has not overlooked the difficulty in the way of forming an accurate diagnosis during life, while he points out the necessity of it, as conducive to a satisfactory mode of treatment of these complicated cases. In the elbow-joint, more complicated than either of the others in its osseous relations, such remarkable varieties have been found upon dissection, and the symptoms during life seem so various, that we incline to doubt whether it often happens that any two are exactly alike in anatomical particulars. Common as Dislocations of the Humerus are, 'their patho- logy,' Mr. Flower remarks, 'is still imperfectly understood, and great discrepancies exist in the classification and descrip- tions given by various writers who have directed their attention to them.' With the view to greater precision in describing the different varieties, Mr. Flower proposes a more definite system of nomenclature,—a simplification of that of Mal- gaigne and the modern French Surgeons, — in which the names are derived from the relation of the head of the bone in its new situation to important contiguous osseous structures:— Sub-coracoid, forwards and slightly downwards; the most common form of the dislocation. Sub-glenoid downwards and forwards; a rare form, though often, under the name of