47 wards, by Mr. Gillam of Witney, hemorrhage had ceased, and the man was in a state of syncope, with a pulse scarcely perceptible. I saw him about 3 hours after admission. He was evidently suffering from great loss of blood. The wound in the thigh was in the - lower third ; the upper opening was round, about an inch and a half in diameter, with the edges inverted ; the lower opening was larger, with the edges irregular and everted, and shreds of blackened fascia and muscle were visible in it. There was also a large irregular, contused, and lacerated wound in the lower part of the Popliteal region and the calf, exposing the upper part of the Gastrocnemius muscle, without laceration of its substance, and penetrating deeply between the 2 heads of the muscle. All three openings were much blackened. Both Tibial artei"ies could be felt pulsating at the ankle. The foot was benumbed, and without common sensa- tion on the outer side ; upon the great toe and inner side of the foot sensation was good. A piece of wet lint was applied to the wounds, and confined with a loose bandage. A draught with 20 minims of Vinum Opii was given : this was vomited. A second was given and retained. On Monday morning he did not show any signs of increased power. Simple dressing was applied to the wounds. Some reddish serum was exuding from that in the calf. The Opium was repeated at night. He passed a bad night, vomiting frequently. At 12 o'clock (Tuesday) the pulse was weak and too quick to be counted. Gangrene was visible in the skin at the back and inner side of the leg, between the wound in the calf and the inner malleolus. A pill containing a grain and a half of Opium was given. The vomiting continued with slight intermissions during the day. At night the gangrene was visible upon the inner side of the foot. He passed a restless night, disturbed by almost incessant vomiting. On Wednesday morning the whole of the foot was gan- grenous ; as was also the front of the leg as far as to its middle. Sensation was perfect in the calf of the leg. The large wound had a healthy appearance, and the discharge was becoming purulent. In the middle of the day the vomiting ceased for about three hours; and he had some quiet sleep.