287 of the Officers. Whether he should do so, — especially whether a Medical man should enter a Hospital for such a purpose, without the concurrence of the Medical Officers,—is of im- portance to the Officers, and the Managers, and to the Inmates of all Public Institutions, and to all who take interest in their welfare. I know no reason why a Professional man holding the Public Office you hold should be unwilling that such a question should be ' left to the judgement of his Professional brethren,' — or that any of them, or others to whom the ques- tion is one of interest, should be forbidden a sight of a printed Report of such an enquiry, or the remarks of one of the prin- cipal Officers of the Institution upon it. 10 April, 1875. To THE Same. Dear Sir,—You have courted explanation : you refuse it when offered. From the confident style you assume, a stranger might think you took on yourself to act and write with the authority of the Committee, the Governors, and the Local Government Board. Yet, the fact is, you have not the autho- rity of any one of them: but that you have been simply engaged in a private adventure of your own. You fell into the hands of two or three persons whom you supposed to represent the ruling power. You are unwilling to acknowlege the mishap. The hint I gave you,—a hint I thought it would be a want of courtesy to keep back, when speaking within walls to a Professional brother,—unluckily did not serve to guide you on to a smoother path. You know that you received full courtesy from me ; though your manner and bearing, when you called on me, were not altogether such as I thought gave you a claim to it. Similar courtesy on your part would have made your business here more easy to your- self, and, as I think, more agreeable to others. 1 have treated you and your report with great forbearance. If it had not been for the imprudence,—as I think it, — of those who advised you, in publicly calling my attention, as one of the Medical Officers, to it at the late irregular Meeting, I should have let it pass, without taking any public notice of it. ■ 2 May, 1875.