192 while his arm was bad, he seemed to be relieved immediately, and he thanked me for the assurance I gave him. In the afternoon he became very restless, and wandered much in his mind ; afterwards he had two distinct rigors. In the evening I saw him, when he had just recovered from the second; he was sweating profusely. Gangrene was clearly perceptible as high as the elbow ; and it seemed as if still spreading above that joint. Some mulled port wine was given to him ; and at night he had two doses of Opium. He passed a good night; and in the morning (Tuesday) his countenance was calnl and cheerful, the pulse (felt in the right arm,) with good power, and not too quick. He expressed a wish that the Doctors would take off his arm without delay; though the subject had not been mentioned to him. The gangrene was perceptible on the outer side of the arm about as high as the insertion of the deltoid muscle; and it extended in an irregular line on the inner side, across the axilla, and upon the lateral aspect of the chest. It was in the axilla and upon the ribs only that he felt pain. There was some soft swelling about the shoulder ; but it seemed as if the gangrene had stopped. In the evening his countenance was less animated, and becoming dusky in color; the pulse was very quick and weak ; he lay in a cold sweat, complaining of the heat. The gangrene had not visibly extended. He passed a restless night, vomiting frequently; but was sensible till within a few minutes of his death, which hap- pened about 9 o'clock in the morning (Wednesday),—about 46 hours from the time when symptoms of gangrene were first observed. Rapid decomposition took place; and the body could not be examined. Remarks. — The cause of the gangrene, and of its rapid progress, must remain in uncertainty. Some explanation may perhaps be found in the depressed state of the nervous system in a man under great distress of mind, and lowered by excesses. The man, though often asked, did not complain of any injury but in his arm. He fell on his left hand and fore-arm ;