267 ing Into the ward, — instead of being divided down the middle, half and half, — was divided two-thirds and one-third, and if the handle was some few inches higher. This is from my own observation: I have not heard it from others. 19 June, 1866. To A Member of the'Committee of Management. Without knowing for what special reasons the Outer sashes have been added, it is not easy to say whether they will answer the ends proposed ; or (which is the question you put to me,) whether they ought to be put to the remaining four windows. Of these four, my opinion (if I may be allowed to give it,) is that it would be well if two were permanently closed with brickwork. There is no doubt, I think, that the new sashes can be made to keep off much, if not the whole, of the cold air which used to come in at the sides. But I have some doubt whether it will be done without keeping them always shut: for I incline to think that the proper use of these heavy double sashes can only be had by an amount of care which it is not likely will be given. If the Committee add double sashes to the other windows, I would suggest, for their consideration, that the outside lining, should be of stone, not wood. I do not think that wood can be trusted to keep out the weather permanently; that the parting bead should project more, — so as to make a deeper channel for the sashes; that the glass should be fixed with slips of wood, not putty, — until glaziers have found a way of taking out broken glass without the noise which makes mending a pain of glass a common nuisance. At Littlemore, in some of the exposed windows there are three sashes; Mr. Ley speaks well of them : but the framework was made for the three at first. You are aware, I do not doubt, that in a Hospital it is thought right to fasten the lower sash, so that a Patient under delirium, shall not be able to open it himself, and jump out. The inner fastening of the window has been taken away, and a new one is not yet supplied. The objection I have seen to the present windows, arises in great measure from the linen blinds now in use : and that objection would only be permanently removed by the new