197 was seen to be moderately dilated, and motionless : he had no sight with the eye. Some feverish symptoms were present, unfavorable to the performance of any operation. I ordered that he should be kept quiet in bed. On the i8th he seemed better in general health. He com- plained that the pain in his head was now felt in the right side, as well as the left. Pressure over the right carotid artery relieved the pain on both sides of the head. But the left globe did not return to its proper position, on pressure either on the right side or the left. When he had been about three weeks in the ward, the Nurse, passing by his bed late at night, saw him in a fit: he was flat on his back, struggling violently. Upon making en- quiry among members of his family, I was informed that he was subject to fits : he himself denied ever having had one. On the 19th of September he was discharged from the Infirmary at his own request, with the intention of returning to his work as a farm laborer. His general health improved during his stay in the Infirmary: the local disease did not advance. As I inclined to the opinion that the disease within the skull was of a malignant nature, I did not urge any operation. On the 1st of December I saw the man again, — much altered in general appearance; and not able to follow his work. The left eyelid was closed ; the globe not more pro- minent than when he left the Infirmary. On raising the upper lid with my finger, he was able to see with a fair amount of distinctness. On the 5th he was readmitted into the Infirmary. His health continued to fail. His fits were more frequent. At times his temper was violent; and he became childish and unmanageable. On the 7th of February his right arm was observed to be wholly paralytic. A blister now and then to the back of the neck, when he complained more than usual of pain in the head, often gave relief: and purgative medicine was regularly administered with benefit. In the beginning of April he was removed to the Workhouse at Abingdon, under the care of Mr. Stone. The sight of the left eye was completely gone. There was rather a free serous