8 to a friend's about fifty yards off, with the blood flowing freely from the wound. He fell down in the street, ' in a pool of blood,' and was at first supposed to be dead. He was brought home by the neighbors; and the nearest Medical Practitioner, Mr. Druce, was called to him. Upon Mr. Druce's arrival, the bleeding had ceased ; and there was not any swelling to be felt underneath the skin. Without resting at home, as directed, the man went to his work the next day. The outer wound soon healed. He felt little inconvenience from the injury, and did not make any complaint. Some 3 or 4 weeks afterwards, on rising from his chair, he felt a pain at the part, and on putting his hand there, he found a small substance deep under the skin, —' like a small core,' he described it. He afterwards applied to Mr. Weaving. On the 18th of March I saw him with Mr. Weaving. Behind the trochanter major there was a swelling about the size of a small orange, deep under the skin and muscle, with a cicatrix wide and spread out, rather more than an inch in length, prominent, and almost pointing in the middle of the swelling. The swelling was tense and elastic; it could not be emptied or lessened in size by pressure. The thrill or whiz of an aneurism was clearly detected by the ear applied to the part: there was not any distinct impulse communi- cated to the hand. There could be no doubt that the swell- ing was a false aneurism, the result of an injury; and that there had been a wound of the Gluteal artery, or one of its chief branches. The nature of the case was pointed out to the patient, and the necessity for an operation. Rest in bed was advised, with moderate diet. Notwithstanding the advice so given, he continued at his business ; and walked backwards and forwards to his home, —a distance of a mile and half,—twice a day. Increasing pain and the inconvenience of moving the limb compelled him at length to keep at home and to take to his bed. At the time of his admission into the Infirmary, April 27, the swelling had increased much in size, — it was fully three times as large. The enlargement was most visible at the sides. The shape was oval; and the cicatrix was not so