I09 bladder, and other symptoms indicating the existence of stone. He applied, as it seemed to me, chiefly because his Father had lately, at short intervals^ passed two or three small stones by the urethra. Under my advice, he was admitted into the Infirmary, 14 Nov. 1855. Upon more minute enquiry, it was learned that he had been suffering from disease of the urinary organs for more than three years. Latterly his sufferings had been so great that he often got out of bed in the night, and walked about the room, seeking relief by change of position. A large calculus was readily detected on passing a silver catheter; and on the 4th of December, the lateral operation was performed. The space between the tuberosities of the ischia seemed to be less than usual. The perineum was deep, and much loaded with fat. After cutting through the prostate, I guided the forceps along the staff into the bladder, and with some difficulty seized the calculus,—in the transverse diameter. In trying to withdraw it through the wound, the forceps slipped, and the calculus fell back into the bladder. After some farther delay, it was again seized (this time in its long axis,) and extracted. It was a large thick oval of Lithic acid, ^ij 3iv gr. xv in weight, two inches and three eighths in length, an inch and thirteen sixteenths in breadth, and an inch and three eighths in thickness. Its greatest circum- ference was 6 inches and three quarters ; its smallest, 5 inches. In the evening, and in the early part of the night, the urine flowed freely by the wound. At night, a pill (Opii gr. j) was given, and a draught with Vini Opii 111.xxv. Dec. 5. He complains of pain above the pubes, and in the left iliac region : he is much distressed by vomiting. Little or no urine passed. A pill, composed of Hydrarg. chlor. gr, ij, Opii gr. ij, and Antimon. p. tart. gr. J, was given. Foment- ation with hot flannel gave a little relief. The pain was removed by a hip-bath at night; and a draught with Vini Opii n\xxx was given. He passed a restless night; and I found him in the morning (Dec. 6) lying on his back, with an anxious countenance and a very weak pulse, complaining of pain extending into the right iliac region. In the afternoon, hiccup came on. During