39 She was not in a condition to bear an unnecessary loss of blood; I therefore stopped the flow at once with a compress and piece of sticking-plaster. The next day I removed these, and reopened the abscess with a probe. When I separated the edges of the puncture with the probe, and passed it on without feeling any obstacle to its passage, the Patient com- plained severely of pain in the upper part of the arm. Upon a more careful examination I found that the probe, instead of passing straight into the cavity of the abscess, had entered the wounded vein, and that' it passed upwards in contact with the inner membrane. Whether the pain was due to the sensitiveness of the membrane lining the vein, or to other circumstances, I am not prepared to say. I only record the fact that the passage of the instrument along the vessel was attended with acute suffering. This is the only opportunity I have had of observing such a phenomenon. In December, 1863, a young lady, about 12 years of age, had a small collection of matter in the temporal region. The skin over it was tense and unyielding. There was no pain, or other inconvenience, except the swelling. I thought the swelling would come forward to a ' point'; that if the opera- tion of opening it was delayed for a day or two, a very small puncture would be all that was wanted to let out the matter, and that the healing of such a minute opening would be followed by a scar that would not be visible. In compliance with the wish of Dr. Acland and Dr. Freeborn, who were in attendance, I made a puncture with a lancet. An artery was wounded, and it bled freely. In order to restrain the bleeding it was necessary to draw the edges of the wound together with a piece of sticking-plaster. Next day the edges were separated with a probe without further hemorrhage. A child of weakly constitution, about 6 years old, was under the care of Dr. Acland with enlargement of the leg arising from inflammation of the tibia or periosteum. The parents lived at a distance, and the child was brought into Oxford at intervals for the purpose of treatment. A large collection of matter formed in the middle of the leg over the front of the tibia. I made a puncture with a lancet, and let out two or