88 question to consider the ages, with the pecuHarities of consti- tution and other favoring circumstances, at which persons are liable to such an occurrence. Mr. Holthouse has contributed an essay upon the Injuries of the Lower Extremity, taking the fractures and dislocations for the chief subject of it. Since the general adoption among English Surgeons of the straight position of the limb in fractures of the thigh-bone, the difficulties formerly found in treatment have been much lessened; union takes place more favorably, and the resulting deformity is found to be less. In fractures of the shaft, it still remains a question hov/ to hinder the shortening of the limb which the observation of modern Surgeons shows to be all but universal when the accident happens to an adult. . . . The most frequent cause of the shortening seems to be from the contraction of the large muscles at the back of the thigh. The bone having for the time lost its firmness yields at the point where broken, and bends ; it does not offer its ac- customed resistance to the muscles: their attachments are brought nearer together, and the natural curvature forwards of the thigh-bone is increased, as in a bow when the string is tightened. The distance from the trochanter to the condyles becomes less; and when the splint is removed upon bony union being established, the limb is found to be shortened from the hip to the knee. The best way I have found of avoiding this, is to obtain the help of the Patient himself, and to make use of his natural powers to overcome the flexing action of the muscles at the back of the thigh. I am accustomed to direct the Patient to make extension frequently, and for as great a length of time as he can maintain it. I tell him to raise the toes and fore-part of the foot to a right angle, by the action of the extensors of the foot; and, with the foot so bent, to thrust the heel downwards as far as he can toward the foot of the bed,— in short, to try and make the injured limb longer than the other,... if he can. In about 3 weeks, i.e. after soft or partial union has taken place, this can be done without difficulty. The perineal band should be loosened ; in many cases it may