23L A piece of tubing may be cut into lengths of about an inch or an inch and a half. One of these can be slipped over the joint by the Patient himself after he has been taught how to do it. It should be worn constantly day and night. The Patient will soon learn how to roll it off, and re-apply it after washing his hands. When it has become too loose to give the necessary support, an other length can be taken, November 1878. To THE Same. Sir,—With reference to the remarks of Dr. P., allow me to mention that some years ago a suggestion was made in one of the Magazines, that the animals we take for food, should be killed by puncturing the thorax on both sides at the same time. It was supposed that death would follow instantly upon the admission of air, and the collapse of the lungs. Can any of your readers tell whether the experiment has been made.? A butcher, to whom I spoke on the subject, gave his opinion that the meat would be darker in color than in animals which had been killed in the usual way by loss of blood, and that if exposed in the market, people would not buy it. October 1879. . . . The following ktter in reply appeared soon afterwards :— To THE Editor of the Medical Times and Gazette. Sir,—Many years ago, Dr. Carson, of Liverpool, took out a Patent for a particular method of killing animals for food . . . When Dr. Carson's Patent became extinct by lapse of time, an effort was made to renew it on the ground of its utility. To this end appeal was made to several London Physicians and scientific men, now at least twenty years ago. I recollect dining with Dr. L. in Savile Row, well-known for his pro- ficiency in natural science. The dinner was a good one, and the chief dish was an excellent haunch of mutton. When this had been removed, our host told us that this haunch had been killed in Liverpool by the Carson method, and had been sent to him in order that the opinion of London savans might be taken upon it. We all agreed that the mutton was tender, dark-colored, and very well flavored ; and our