io6 limb. The Patient, long practised in tlie use of the limb, gave his opinion that, if the joint was fixed, his own was at the proper angle. He enumerated the advantages he enjoyed (Mr. Welbank begged him to put the list in writing): he could do this, that, and the other:—he could carve, he could write, he could drive a coach and four, — he could tie his neckcloth, (he showed how he did it). Many other things were within the compass of his power; ' and,' added he with a smile, taking his friend by the collar, ' I can give a fellow a good licking.' Not long since, a lad passed under my observation with his right elbow anchylosed at an obtuse angle. When a boy, he was well able to clean knives and shoes : he is now employed as teacher in a school. Next follows an essay by Mr. Holmes, upon Excision of Bones and Joints. The conclusions deduced from a number of cases, even numerically successful, would be more satisfactoiy if, instead of instituting comparison between the results of two kinds of severe operations (amputation and excision), the comparison was made between the cases which are the subjects of these operations on the one hand, and, on the other hand, those which are treated by position and constitutional treatment. The cases in which this last system of treatment fails, are those only in which either of the two operations in question can be justifiable. ' It may be laid down as a general rule,' observes Mr. Holmes, ' that a large or important joint ought not to be excised, while any reasonable prospect exists of a cure without operation.' Plow often is it that such a pro- spect fails, and what are the circumstances, when it fails, which encourage the hope of restoration to health, or usefulness of limb, from excision of a joint.? These are questions deserving farther investigation. When the question of excision of the knee-joint was before the Medico-Chirurgical Society, in 1858, Mr. Skey said, 'it was a striking fact that these remarkable cases of excision came from comparatively few quarters ; they were confined to a few persons, with whom the practise appeared to be the rule rather than the exception.' It would seem that while one Practitioner cures by ' rest,' an other cures by excision, and a