12 The progress 'of the patient and the appearance of the wound were not satisfactory. There was not any healthy secretion from the wound. After the first few days the odor from it was more Hke that from mortification than from a large open wound or suppurating surface. Under the fre- quent returns of hemorrhage the patient's strength began to fail. From the first he showed little of the strength and resolution which best show the power a patient has to recover after a surgical operation. On the evening of the 15th some slight bleeding was ob- served : it was easily stopped by pressure. A little after midnight the bleeding returned more freely. Upon clearing the bottom of the wound from the threads and the sloughing mass in which they were entangled, the open mouth of a large arteiy was observed situated deep at the bottom. This was transfixed with a tenaculum and tied. No further bleeding took place. The man, whose strength had been failing during the last few days, slowly sank, and died, exhausted, about 3 o''clock the following morning, the i6th. The body was examined next day. The internal Iliac vein of the left side, with several of the tributary branches, was of a uniform dusky red color ; as were also the External and Common Iliac veins of the same side, and the lower part of the ascending Vena Cava. No pus or lymph was observed within them. On the right side, the Iliac veins and their branches were natural in color and appearance, and did not exhibit any morbid signs. The arteries within the pelvis were uninjured. The trunk of the Gluteal arteiy was traced through its course to the point where it divides. The main artery and the ascending branch were not injured. The arteiy which had been wounded was found to be the large descending branch. The various small vessels could not be traced in the mass of sloughing tissue surrounding the site of the aneurism. Remarks.—The operation of securing the wounded artery by opening the aneurismal sac was not found to be of so for- midable a character as I supposed it would be, from having read the cases which have been recorded.