379 that the Deputy had no power to act in such a case. Upon production of an extract from the Statute-book, the Judge openly, and in terms as plain as a Judge speaking from the Bench can use, admitted that I was right in the interpretation I put on a modern Act of Parliament. Some remarks fell from the Bench on the state of the law under which a Coroner, if a Medical Practitioner, was required to hold an Inquest in the case of a person who had been a Patient under his care. These remarks were quoted at the Meeting, and called ' stringent' by the Chairman, and by an other Governor, ' not made with the usual dignity that proceeds from the occupants of the Bench.' The case was in many respects extraordinary. The evidence brought at the Inquest was defective; there had not been any Magisterial investigation ; and the depositions usually taken in such cases, had not been returned for the information of the Court. These things did not escape the observation of the J'-idge. But no thought of any connection of the Infirmary, or its Officers, with the proceedings, entered the head of Judge, or any one else. Some three months afterwards, a Professor in the University, formerly one of the acting Physicians of the Infirmary, and now one of the Honorary Physicians, being abroad during a holiday, writes at some length to the Chairman of the Com- mittee of Management, with his opinion that a Coronership ought not to be tenable simultaneously with the post of Medical Officer of the Infirmary, and desiring that it may be notified to the Committee. He might be smarting, perhaps, under the recollection of the scandal of an Inquest held on a Patient under his care, when he was Physician. He might have forgotten that a similar office was now held by one of the other Medical Officers,—but it was the Coronership of the University; and it was not held by a man with whom he had so often put himself in opposition. I have heard that he had been known on former occasions to declare that he would never rest till I was turned out of the Infirmary. He once told the Committee that he would not submit to have his will controlled by a General Court of Governors ; that he would have his opinion put upon the Minutes whether the Governors liked it or not. His manner and language in Com-