170 some ' thick and stringy stuff,' she suddenly felt complete relief. As soon as she was able to bear the journey, she was brought to London, and re-admitted into the Hospital, under Dr. Hue's care, 36 May, 1846. Next day she was seen by Dr. Rigby, in consultation with Dr. Hue. Upon examination per vaginam and per rectum, the uterus was found to be slightly displaced, but free from disease. The left ovary could be felt, but neither so large nor so painful as formerly; it could also be felt, through the abdominal parietes, smaller in size, knotty, and rather tender on pressure. Small doses of sulphate of magnesia, with dilute sulphuric acid, were ordered to be taken freely, and 5 grains of extract of conium night and morning. An enema of warm water brought away much thick mucus and purulent matter. Six leeches were applied to the groin. Meat diet, with wine, was ordered. A slight attack of menorrhagia followed the examination. She recovered her health rapidly. The pain in the rectum was seldom felt, unless when in the erect position, and after taking much exercise; and she became able to pass a solid motion without pain. She was clischarged from the Hospital ai June. The remains of the enlarged ovary could scarcely be felt by external examination. She continued for some years in good health, without making any complaint, and without any return of the disease. Having removed to a distant part of the county, she passed from Mr. Gould's observation, and she died at Gravesend in the winter of 1861. Dr. Sanders, under whose care she was in her last illness, tells me that she died under an attack of fever, with congestion of the brain. She never complained of any pain upon making pressure over the abdomen or pelvis ; and he did not find any appearance of a tumor. Remarks.—These short notes were taken at the time the Patients were under treatment. In one case, the disappear- ance of the fluid for a time threw some doubt around the diagnosis; the return of the disease, and the examination of the body, showed the real nature of it. In the other case, in