78 in the Crimea, Mr. Longmore gives excellent directions for the immediate treatment of wounds, and for the conveyance of the wounded,—often in a spot still exposed to danger,— to the Hospitals in the rear. He urges the importance of establishing the diagnosis as early as possible; the examina- tion of these, as of most other wounds, being made then more easily than at a later period. Of all instruments for conducting the examination, he gives a preference to the finger of the Surgeon, — long ago pronounced by John Hunter and John Bell the best of all probes. . . Of the fingers, said Ambrose Pare, their judgement is far more certain than the best made instruments. The essay is intended to convey the experience of the military Surgeon, and to be an exposition only of those leading peculiarities which constantly demand his considera- tion, and which spring either from the nature of gun-pro- jectiles, or the circumstances in which this branch of military practise has for the most part to be pursued. In the gun- shot wounds of civil life, inflicted most frequently with small shot or pistol bullets, or even with blank cartridge, severe hemorrhage, as an immediate attendant upon a wound, comes more frequently under notice than happens in military service. In the cases which have come under our own notice, the primary hemorrhage has generally been severe: we have known fatal hemorrhage arise from a trifling wound in a vein, professional help not having been called till too late. The contrast between civil and military experience is probably more apparent than real. Mr, Longmore remarks that we have no data to guide us in determining the proportionate frequency of fatal hemorrhage; nor can we have them until proper examination and classification of the particular causes of death on the field of battle are instituted. We have heard it said, indeed, that hemorrhage is one of the accidents feared by the Officers when going into action more even than death or mutilation ; and that they look with a pleasing confidence toward the medical Officer, as able to save them from what they look upon as a preventable accident. They must have had evidence, one would think, of the loss of blood upon the field.