98 not told whether it happened, — as in an other case of danger (happily not fatal,) where the risk was observed by a bystander —' at a time when the administrator was gazing with interest upon the proceedings of the operator.' Whether ' watching the breathing carefully,' as directed by Mr. Lister, or the state of the circulation, as directed by others, are we sure that, in the cases of this unfortunate occurrence, the administrator was watching the Patient} Are we sure that he was not watching the operation ? The Boston Society for Medical Improvement, in condemn- ing chloroform as being in every way inferior to sulphuric ether, denounce everything in the shape of an inhaler. ' Ether should never be given from any inhaling apparatus;'—we are not told why. A towel is recommended instead. Yet fatal cases happen in the United States of America, as well as in Europe. Mr. Coote contributes an essay on Plastic Sw'gery, taking the chief examples for his subject from the operations per- formed on the face and neck. In discussing the treatment for the contracted cicatrices of burns, Mr. Coote urges the principle of gradual extension, which has been practised by Mr. Tamplin, as one of the greatest improvements in modern Surgery. The failure of every kind of cutting operation which has been suggested for the permanent cure of these unsightly deformities, has led to their being discarded in many of the large Hospitals in London. We are inclined to doubt whether these operations are necessary so often as is supposed. At all events, it is certain that in those regions of the body where flexion and extension are easily made, and where requisite muscular force is continually in active exercise, — as in the groin, the ham, and the elbow,—the cicatrix often disappears., or be- comes loosened, during the growth of the Patient. . . . Mr. Briscoe has made the remark to me that young subjects, active healthy children, who, after the healing of large sores, have been left with extensive bands of contraction, and have not received any Surgical treatment, will be found some years afterwards, when grown up, with little remains of these un- sightly bands beyond the scar, which, while it marks the