3 and with difficulty kept in bed : he had twice torn the bandage ofif the leg, without, however, any return of hemorrhage. The muscles could be seen acting spasmodically under the bandage. A dram of Spiritus Etheris Sulph. Comp., with 40 minims of Vinum Opii, was administered in Mist. Camph. It was speedily vomited ; when a grain and a half of Opium in sub- stance was given, and retained. He continued very restless till toward 3 o'clock in the morning, when he went off to sleep. Next day he seemed on the whole in a favorable state, and he had rallied from the first effects of the injury and the subsequent operation. The pulse was still very weak and quick. The bowels had not acted; and he had not passed any urine. The dressings being saturated with blood, and smelling offensively, I removed them, and applied fresh. There was a slight watery discharge from the wound scarcely tinged with blood. During the day he took beef tea with a relish, and brandy and water. In the evening the House- Surgeon drew off about half a pint of urine with the catheter. He passed a quiet night; but in the morning (Wednesday, 14th) it became clear that he was sinking; he became weaker rapidly, and died quietly about 11 o'clock, 48 hours after receiving the wound. The body was examined next day. The transverse wound inflicted by the reaping-hook was % inches in length; the incision I had made was ^\ inches, the upper extremity of it being on a level with the tubercle of the tibia. The ligatures were correctly placed on the divided extremities of the Pos- terior Tibial artery. The vein round which the three addi- tional ligatures had been placed was one of the venae comites. The tendon of the Plantaris muscle lay immediately over this, and thus appeared to have caused the chief difficulty in applying the ligatures; division of it would no doubt have rendered the operation more easy of performance. The viscera of the abdomen seemed healthy ; on the left side was the sac of a femoral hernia, for which he had undergone operation in the Infirmary in January 1849. The head and chest were not examined. Remarks.—The man's death arose from the great loss of B %