i6g Enlargement of Ovary. Contents discharged through the Rectum. A woman, 40 years of age, mother of several children, the wife of the President's gardener in Kent, was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, 31 December, 1845, under the care of Dr. Hue, complaining of occasional attacks of obstruc- tion of the bowels, with great pain in passing solid feces. Before admission she had been under the care of Mr. Gould, of Wateringbury, who considered that she was suffering from disease of the uterus or ovary. The left ovary, much enlarged, and very tender on pressure, could be felt in the Iliac region as she lay in bed. It was nearly of the size of the fetal head at birth. Pills of calomel and colocynth, and afterwards calo- mel and jalap, were prescribed. These caused great pain in action ; as did also an enema of warm water administered by the Sister of the ward. On 26 January she was seen by Dr. Rigby in consultation with Dr. Hue. Upon examination per rectum and per vagi- nam, the left ovary was felt, enlarged and inflamed, pressing on the rectum, and pushing the fundus uteri into the right Iliac fossa. Small doses of sulphate of magnesia, with dilute sulphuric acid, were prescribed, to be taken twice a day, and some leeches were applied to the groin. Dr. Rigby wished the leeches to be applied within the rectum, by means of a tube; but from the difficulty in keeping the tube steadily pressed against the tumor, this could not be done effectually. The motions, being liquid, now passed without pain. A com- mon enema was also occasionally given without causing any pain. She improved in health, the pain ceased, and she thought herself well enough to return to her home in the country on 14 February. The tumor of the ovary, though no longer tender on pressure, was little, if anything, less in size. She continued in good health till the end of April; when Mr. Gould was summoned to attend her under a fresh and more severe attack of pain and constipation, attended with acute fever. This continued without relief for about a fort- night, when, after passing, per anum, what she described as