'35 Hydrocele, without increase of size, A laboring man, 59 years of age, was admitted into the Radclifife Infirmary, under my care, 30 May, 1855, complain- ing of dimness of sight. He had cataract in the right eye, mature and fit for operation, except that I had much doubt whether the retina was sound. He had also Hydrocele of the right testis, and varicocele of the cord on the left side. For these'complaints he did not desire treatment. He was subject to fits of an epileptic character ; and he had undergone amputation of the right leg below the knee about three years and a half ago, after an accident in a thrashing-machine, which happened from his falling down in a fit when at work. On the 5th of June I punctured the capsule of the lens with a needle, and endeavored to drill a hole through the lens. The following night he had two ' fits.' He left the Infirmary on the 13th. I saw the man about twelve months afterwards; he did not desire any treatment for the Hydrocele. In March 1878 I heard from Dr. Atkinson, of Bampton, that he had not had any treatment since I saw him. Upon his return home he encountered the formidable opposition of his wife, who refused to allow him to be rid of his Hydrocele. It had not increased in size. The varicocele was much in the same state; it had not given him any trouble. He died in May 1879 from the effects of an accident with fire. Hydrocele. Broken Health—Diarrhea—Death. A pale, sickly man, 42 years of age, but much older in appearance, of rheumatic constitution, and not, I think, of temperate habits, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, 6 March, i86j, under my care, with a Hydrocele of the right testis, which he had observed about 12 months. On the nth I passed a needle with a double thread through it. Next day I withdrew one of the threads, and the remain- ing one the day following. No symptom of local irritation appeared, except that the scrotum was swollen and the testis was rather enlarged. These symptoms subsided by degrees.