53 About 3 years afterwards, he met with some accident in machinery; and the leg was afterwards amputated. The opportunity of making a dissection of the foot was lost. Remarks. — It may be thought that hemorrhage from the vessels of the foot can be restrained by treatment similar to that which is successful in wounds of the hand. In case of a gunshot wound through the foot, followed by sloughing, it would not be easy to maintain continuous and uniform pressure under the necessity for a frequent change of_ the dressings. I did not make the attempt in this case. In the other case, an attempt might have been made, upon the first occurrence of the hemorrhage, after the puncture of what seemed to be an aneurismal swelling. The Patient, how- ever, was not a favorable subject for treatment, which required rest in bed and watchfulness. He did not readily bear any pressure or confinement before the swelling was punctured. In a man of a different temperament, pressure might have been attempted with more hope of a successful result. [St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, Vol. 14.] Mr. Sarjeant, then of Chepstow, told me the following case as having happened within his own knowlege. A lad, about 16 years of age, got possession of a piece of gas-pipe. He filed a small hole near one end, for a touch-hole, plugged the end with a piece of wood, and mounted it as a gun-barrel on an other piece of wood, which he cut into shape for a ' stock.' Having loaded the piece with powder and shot, he went to shoot a bird. The plug at the breech was blown out by the explosion ; and it entered the left side of his chest, in the region of the heart. He called out to a man near him, who was driving a horse and cart,—' I am shot through the heart;' and dropped dead without a struggle. From the direction of the wound Mr. Sarjeant had no doubt that the heart was wounded. A System of Surgery; Pathological, Diagnostic, Therapeutic, and Operative. By s. D. gross, m.d.. Pro- fessor of Surgery in the Jefferson Medical College of Philadelphia. 1859. If a reader was in danger of forgetting that science is pro- gressive, and that Surgery,—as we understand it, of littlo