326 To W. W. W., Esq. My dear Sir,—You ask for an opinion. It is that, taking an average of the last lo years of my work, I do not think that the medicines, &c., supplied on my prescriptions for 'Casual' applicants, i.e. those without Turns, cost the House half a crown a year. The only trustworthy facts within my knowlege are in a return by the Dispenser. In 3 years, 1870 and 1871, he dispensed 411 prescriptions from the Medical Officers, and 2,897 from the House-Surgeon. Of the 411 from the Medical Officers 42 were mine. Since that return, I believe I gave fewer prescriptions in each year. Of the teeth drawn, I can not tell you much. I do not think that I ever myself drew a tooth at the Infirmary, during the 28 years that I was on duty. Some years ago I made enquiry of the House- Surgeons about the number drawn by them. If I remember right, it was much beyond the 200 you suggest. %Ju7ie, 1878. To H. W. B., Esq. Dear Sir, — As a matter of general Professional conduct, I think it improper that the Medical Officers of a Public Institution should allow any part of their duty to be done by the House-Surgeon : and I do not think they would be justi- fied in applying to the Governors to alter their Rules so as to allow it. In the instance you give, it does not appear that Dr. I.—before deputing the House-Surgeon to the work,— applied to any of his Colleagues to undertake it. In case of emergency, — when they are unable to undertake the duty, — there can not be a question that the House-Surgeon would do right in supplying the place of the absent Officers. It is a general Rule in Hospitals, that cases of emergency must be treated by those who are on the spot. From the letter addressed by the Medical Officers to the Executive Committee, it appears that the Rule of the W. Infirmary is for the Medical Officers to depute the House- Surgeon 'occasionally';—that they do so 'from the very nature of their engagements.' The Medical Officers are more likely than others to know what the Rule is in such cases: and if such is the Rule, the Committee are under a mistake in