305 tually paid at the end of each quarter, and there has never been a want of ready money for them or the other regular expenses. By the latest printed Report (1875) it appears that the receits last year were larger than the disbursements, and that there was a balance of ^579 in hand at the end of the year. We have heard, from other sources, that 'the Infirmary now refuses to receive fever cases with the ordinary In-patient turns.' It can not be necessary to remind a Governor that the refusal is not the act of the Governing Body; nor is it done under the advice of the Medical Officers. It may be worth his enquiring whether it is anything but the private resolution of the Chairman, and one or two other members of the Committee. The Radclifife Infirmary is not a small Charitable Institu- tion struggling for maintenance. It is a Public Institution with duties attached ; having a large funded capital, such as few other County Hospitals possess. Some new duty, no doubt, has been cast on the Local Board by ' recent legisla- tion.' As ' our Sanitary Authority,' it is beyond question their duty to call on the Managers of the Infirmary to make a proper use of the public money in their hands, or to show to the satisfaction of the Board that they are ready to do so. Before the Ratepayers are called upon to contribute to the funds — whatever the pretext may be, and whatever the pressure put upon them,—they ought to be told in plain terms how much has been contributed from the national Exchequer and the local Rate-Book. Year after year — in fact ever since its foundation — the Infirmary has been subsidized from both sources^ by the total remission of parish rates, and in- come and- assessed taxes, and by the partial remission of others. Let the account be fairly stated, that the Ratepayers may see whether there is any duty on their part to contribute more to the funds of an Institution, the Managers of which now repudiate their obligations. 4 October, 1876. To THE Same. Sir, — In your report of the late meeting at the Infirmary one of the Governors (Mr. A.) is reported to say that * the X