28 became mixed with bright florid blood. By degrees he lost flesh, and became too weak to leave his bed. On the evening of the 8th of January (1845) while talking, he brought up about half a pint of bright florid blood, — and immediately died. The body was examined 36 hours after death. The notes were taken by Mr. Reid, now of Canterbury, who was House- Surgeon at the time. The Lungs were generally emphysematous. In one a cir- cumscribed abscess was observed, about the size of a large marble. There was hypertrophy of the heart, with dilatation of the left ventricle. The whole arch of the Aorta was enlarged. In one or two parts the coats were protruded into small pouches filled with coagulated blood, forming true aneurisms. One, larger than the rest, projected from the posterior wall near the origin of the great vessels, pressing on the esophagus and trachea, and communicating with the trachea by four ulcerated openings, each large enough to admit a probe. There was coagulated blood in these, and in the bronchi, and also in the smaller ramifications. The aneurism was filled with dark laminated coagula. There was abundant yellow deposit between the coats of the aorta in its whole length. It was generally enlarged, down to the bifurcation. The Common Iliac arteries were irregularly en- larged and tortuous. The Right Femoral artery was enlarged to about an inch below the Profunda,—whence it became less to the situation of the ligature, inches below the Profunda; at which point it was not larger than a piece of whip-cord for about an inch, — increasing in size again, but less than the part above the ligature. Tracing it through the tendon of the Adductor muscle, it was lost in a firm tumor which occupied the whole space between the ham-strings. There was no trace of blood having been effused around. The branches above the situation of the ligature were enlarged. The artery itself was plugged by an organized coagulum for about an inch above the ligature. This ended abruptly at the origin of a large branch. The coagulum was intimately connected with the inner coat of the artery. The portion immediately below the ligature was impervious ; and