77 comparison of the different effects caused by the bullet of the old smooth-bore musket, and those more serious wounds in- flicted by the modern arms of precision, — the Enfield, Mini6, and other rifles. In bullets of the same weight, the rate of velocity being similar,—as from 'Brown Bess' at 80 yards and the Enfield at 800,—the injury from the conical rifle ball will be far greater than that from the round ball, on account of its shape alone. ' The shape of the bullet,' Mr. Longmore says, ' combined with its momentum, seem sufficient to explain the severity of its effects above those of the round bullet:' and from these in a great measure it happens that the lodgement of balls is now so rare in comparison with the experience of former wars. Grape and canister shot, and penetrating fragments of shells, are frequently found to lodge. These last are often difficult to detect and to extract. The appearance of the wound .seldom indicates to the observer the true size of the body which caused the injury. Such fragments become firmly impacted among the fibres of the tissues in which they are lodged ; the effused blood fills up the inequalities, and rounds off" the edges which might otherwise show themselves promin- ently, and indicate the presence of the foreign body. With the old musket bullet, when it passed out, the open- ing of exit was usually easily distinguished from the wound of entrance ; it was generally larger, its edges more torn and somewhat everted, and with some protrusion of subcutaneous tissues. At the time of its infliction, as well as in its cicatrix after healing, the different appearances of the two openings of the wound were in general easily recognised. With the modern rifle-bullet — the 'elongated expanding cylindro- conoYdal projectile ' of the Schools of Musketry, — Mr. Long- more tells us it is often very difficult to distinguish between them. ' In medico-legal investigations/ he adds, ' it some- times is still a matter of great importance to decide this point; but to the military Surgeon, more especially from the circumstances connected with the new projectiles, it has become a subject of much less practical interest than it formerly was.' Drawing his experience from the field afforded by his service