36 ligatures were applied, none being wanted in the axilla. The edges of the wound were drawn together with strips of ad- hesive plaster. A compress of lint was applied on each side of the wound, and- a roller passed round the chest and over the shoulder. The woman was placed in bed, with the arm supported by a pillow. In the afternoon she complained of the tightness of the dressings, and of pain in the axilla and down the arm. The bandage was therefore cut through, when several clots escaped from under the dressings, and blood began to flow freely from the sternal end of the incision. About 6 o'clock I opened the wound and removed the clots. The bleeding came from the axilla; but no open vessel could be seen, nor any single spot to which a ligature could be applied. A compress of lint was placed in the axilla. The wound was drawn together with a single strip of plaster, and a piece of lint soaked in a strong solution of alum was laid upon it. A pill containing two grains of opium was given. Between 8 and 9 o'clock blood was again observed to be flowing freely. The wound was opened again, without finding any bleeding point. A com- press of lint soaked in a strong solution of gallic acid was inserted into the wound. About two hours afterwards blood was again observed to flow. The wound was opened a third time. The line of incision was extended upwards farther into the axilla ; the lint and the clots were cleared out, but no bleeding vessel could be seen. Two pieces of sponge, soaked in a strong solution of gallic acid, were introduced. A large compress of cotton-wool was placed in the axilla, under the spot, as well as I could judge, from which the hemorrhage came. A turn of a roller was applied round the chest, and a small pillow placed under the scapula. An other grain of opium was given, and cold beef-tea ordered for drink. Blood continued to flow, but not so freely, till about 3 o'clock in the morning. It seemed to be checked by dropping some of the solution of gallic acid into the open part of the wound on to the pieces of sponge. The Patient passed a fairly good night, and slept soundly at intervals. On the 7th one of the sponges was withdrawn from the wound, and on the loth the woman was moved into a fresh