283 ' hemorrhoids'; nor did she die from erysipelas. Of C, in whom erysipelas appeared after amputation of the leg, we are told that ' the attack was a very severe one.' In my Report to the Committee I stated that the attack was not severe, and that the healing of the stump went on without interruption. D.'s case was not one of erysipelas. The cause of the man's death is stated in my Report to the Committee, In S.'s case, though mentioned correctly as one of erysipelas, the Patient's death was not from the effects of that disease, but from an other and a more insidious cause, as stated more fully in Mr. Briscoe's Report to the Committee. It is worthy of note that, in ' a study of all the phenomena of the prevalence,' no reference is made to the agency of the weather, and the connection of atmospherical changes with the production and spreading of epidemic and contagious diseases, — an influence, moreover, which would be ' operative' upon every ward and every person in the House. The ma- terials for an enquiry are close at hand,—r-at the Radcliffe Observatory. The Committee would have obtained them, I am sure, with the readiness and courtesy, with which, — I take this opportunity of acknowleging, — I have obtained them myself, from the present Observer, Mr. Main, and, on a former occasion, from his predecessor, Mr. Johnson. Though it has no connection with the subject he had him- self undertaken to investigate, Mr. R. refers to ' an official enquiry' made by 'his colleague Dr. B.' The Committee could have told him that, as far as the City of Oxford was concerned, many of the Residents know that the enquiry was of a private nature ; that no public notice was given of the visit, or of the intention to make an enquiry; and that the statements made by Dr. B. upon the subject of the water sup- plied to the inhabitants were publicly contradicted at the time by those who were best able to judge of them. ' There is no reason to suppose,' — it is satisfactory to find Mr. R. adding; —' that the water-supply, derived from the public service of the City, contributed to the outbreak.' Among matters of domestic arrangement, to which the Medical Officers have not made any objection, are the light curtains at the head of the beds. The use of them Mr. R.