2l8 delicate and sickly family in St. Ebbe's. The attack is described as 'modified'; an elder sister had it at the same time. In the baby, the vaccine disease had not passed through the regular course, and the only vestige of it was one small mark. Late one evening Dr. Giles was summoned to a commercial traveler staying at an inn. The general symptoms of Small- pox were sufficiently clear, and the characteristic eruption was visible on some parts, though not on the face; his arm presented a good vaccine cicatrix. The Patient was in a state of great alarm, saying if it was Small-pox, he was sure he should die. The next morning he left the town, traveling by railway. It was afterwards learned that he went to his home in the neighborhood of London, and died there. No other particulars are known. The mortality was almost confined to the poor, and among them chiefly were observed the virulent after-effects of the pestilence. Generally speaking, the disease was mild in those who exhibited clear marks of former vaccination ; there were some few severe cases among such, but not many. It is not necessary to seek far for the exciting cause of a disease so highly contagious. Possibly, it did not arise from a single case only. A large town is seldom free for any great length of time from cases scattered here and there among the inhabitants and visitors; London is never free. To danger from such a source we are always liable ; but among a popu- lation protected by vaccination, or by a former attack of Small- pox, the imported contagion soon dies out. It only spreads when the mass of the unprotected swells to such an amount that the disease passes readily from one to an other, the unsecured population being ready to receive the infection. A predisposing cause of so severe a visitation may perhaps be found in the habitual neglect of vaccination among the poor, even more than in the imperfect manner in which the vaccination is thought to have been done. Dr. Ogle often ex- pressed his opinion among his Professional friends, that much of the vaccination formerly performed in the town had been done without proper care, and without due supervision of its effects.