2IO day the three children were brought again. The eldest of them (aged 4 years,) had 3 vaccine vesicles, with perfect areola, and, in addition, febrile symptoms, and an eruption so clearly resembling Variola, that I have no hesitation in expressing my opinion that it was such. The other two children had each 4 vaccine vesicles with areola perfect. 20 June, 1848. To THE Governors of the Radcliffe Infirmary. Gentlemen, — On Wednesday next a Motion will be sub- mitted to you that Small-pox and Cholera shall be added to the number of diseases which are excluded from sharing in the dispensations of your charity. At present—thanks to the munificence of the Founders and Benefactors of the Infirmary, —the number of inadmissible diseases is small. What reasons can be found for enlarging it will then perhaps be urged; and you will be told why it is desired that the channel should now be narrowed in which the streams of charity have hitherto flowed ' for the relief of the sick and lame poor from whatever county recommended.' You may ask what connection there is between the two diseases,—and why they are brought fonvard in one motion ? Can it be from a hope that the votes of those among you who are for excluding one of the diseases will thus be made available for excluding both ? That Small-pox should be excluded you may think reason- able enough when you are told that the original Rules of 1770 excluded it — when you know the disease is highly contagious — and when you have been alarmed by fearful pictures of the late invasion and mortality in this city and neighborhood. But the Small-pox of the present day is seldom seen as the disease of 1770 : modified by vaccination, it is less malignant in its effects than many other diseases which you daily see and hear of without any instinctive dread, and without wishing to debar the unhappy sufferers from the comforts and the blessings,—for Medical aid can be a blessing,—provided for the Patients within the walls of the Infirmary. On the revision of the Rules in 1848 this Rule was rescinded, — from the best motives it is to be hoped. The disease had ceased to be endemic, its visitations were rare, the mortality