4o8 Service, and how to supply them, I told the Adjutant that I would myself undertake the whole care of the sick and wounded in our battalion, in case we were called into active service. My plan was this. I would first, — before the alarm died out, — collect some money. I would see that every man was provided with a bed ' at home,^ to which he could be sent in case of sickness or injury. The rear would be open ; and every sick or wounded man, not actually disabled, could be trusted to find his way home. His uniform, his necessity, or my order, would be a sufficient ' pass' for him by railway. For the cases which could not be sent home, I would find a farm-house, or a Church perhaps, not too far from the ' front,' to be used as a Hospital. I should find my own ' Orderlies,' and Nurses : and I would obtain all necessary drugs and Surgical appliances. The campaign, though short and sharp, would not be long. If the Director General of the Army Medical Department took the direction of the Medical affairs of the force, I should be relieved from much respon- sibility ; and I should be ready to act in all respects under his orders. 24 OctobeKy 1880. Mr. William Cleoburey, whose death took place at Oxford on the 7th of February (1853), in his 6ist year, had held the appointment of Surgeon to the Radcliffe Infirmary for about 38 years, having been elected to it in 1815. He held also the offices of Consulting Surgeon to the County and the Warneford Asylums. He was apprenticed to Mr. Short, of Bedford, one of the Surgeons to the Infirmary there, and completed his studies at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, where he was a Dresser under Sir Charles Blicke. He passed the College of Surgeons in 1813, and, having settled at Oxford, was soon afterwards elected Surgeon to the Radcliffe In- firmary,— an Institution to which he ever remained much attached, and the duties of which he discharged with ex- emplary uprightness till within a few weeks of his death. On the grant of the new Charter to the College of Surgeons, in 1843, his position and reputation obtained for him a place