2l6 time was probably more than 27,000, and it was thought that one person in every six was attacked. Of this large number of cases, it was hardly to be expected that accurate notes should have been kept, at a time when such a heavy demand was made upon the services of the Medical Profession during the prevalence of the other acute diseases then affecting the inhabitants. At the Medical Dispensary, 173 cases were entered on the books, upon recommendations of subscribers. But the Medical Officer, (Mr. Wood,) told me that in many houses where he was visiting he found other members of the family ill, and that he attended them without entering their names on the books of the Dispensary, On the whole, he thought he attended 300 cases. Two of the number had the disease for the second time ; Mr. Wood himself attended them in the former attack. Mr. Hansard kept accurate notes of 37 cases among the soldiers of the Militia and the recruiting parties stationed here. The greater part of these were admitted into one of the buildings in the yard of the Radcliffe Infirmary, which had been hastily fitted up to receive them. He adds ' There were about 30 other cases in the Regiment; but so mild that the febrile symptoms and a half a dozen spots were all the indications of the disease. No particular record was taken of them, because they were not sent to Hospital.' In the Radcliffe Infirmary, 63 cases came under observa- tion ; 27 Patients were admitted with the disease upon them, — 26 from the town, and i from Garsington, a village about 6 miles off; — all of these recovered. 31 Patients, admitted with other diseases, were attacked; 3 of the Nurses caught it, and one of the resident Officers. Of the Patients in the House, in whom the disease appeared after admission, 3 had not recovered from the Small-pox at the time of their death:— A married woman, aged 34, with fistulous ulcerations about the lower bowel, and other symptoms of unhealthy constitu- tion, was attacked with confluent Small-pox, and died after 7 days' illness. A butcher, aged 61, was admitted with mortification of the