378 In the winter of 1876 it was a matter of common con- versation, that, upon a vacancy in the office of Coroner of the City, it was likely that I should succeed to the office. No mention of any objection on the part of my Colleagues, nor from the Governors, reached me; and I do not believe that any was made, either then, or afterwards when I received the appointment. So far from it,—the Governor, who, as Chairman of the Committee of Management, has long ruled the Infirmary, took the opportunity, of his own accord, the first time he met me in the House, to offer his congratulations upon my being appointed to the office. The first occasion on which I was required to discharge the duties of the office, was upon the death of a man, who had been under my care as a Patient in the Infirmary. However objectionable such a proceeding appears to a man who has given attention to matters of judicial investigation, there was no way to avoid it. The poor man's home, where I had seen him before he came into the Infirmary, had been broken up; or I could have ordered his body to be taken there. It was beyond the boundary of the City; and when there, the body would have been in the jurisdiction of an other Coroner. The words of the Statute under which I hold the office are clear,—that no other Coroner shall take an Inquisition within the City, and that no Deputy could act in the present case. In a County, not only can the Coroner's Deputy act for him ; but any one of the other Coroners can do the same: and he can relieve himself from the unpleasant duty which was thrown upon me by operation of law. The Jury found a verdict, attributing the death to a wilful act of violence: and the accused was tried at the Assizes on a bill of indictment found by the Grand Jury. At the Assizes, the Judge, forgetting perhaps that the case was in a Municipal Borough, without asking for explanation, addressed me from the Bench,—that I could have called in one of the Coroners for the County to hold the Inquest. I could only bow, with submission, to that statement of the law. He was instantly corrected by a Solicitor who was present. The Judge again addressed me, — that I could have appointed a Deputy. I ventured, with submission, to say,