i63 She was discharged on the 30th. She was able to retain the urine completely during the day, but some escapes during sleep. I saw her again on July 24. She told me that less urine dribbled away at night. From members of her family I have since heard that she recovered completely from the effects of the operation, and that she died about ten years afterwards under some other complaint. A married lady, 46 years of age, had suffered for two years from irritability about the organs of the pelvis. She was much wasted, and depressed in spirits. She had been treated by different Medical Practitioners; and lately she had paid repeated visits by railway to a Practitioner at a distance. At each visit caustic was applied to the uterus, under the belief that that was the organ affected. She found after each visit that her sufferings were aggravated by the journey, rather than relieved by the treatment. Her father and her father's uncle had both been the subject of calculus. In November 1869, Mr. Cresswell, of Wolverhampton, then of Steeple Aston, was consulted upon her case. He gave the opinion that she was the subject of a large calculus in the bladder. At a subsequent visit he introduced a silver catheter, and assured himself of the fact. On the 18th I was summoned, in consultation with Mr. Cresswell, for the purpose of removing it. A three-branched dilator was introduced into the urethra, and the blades were opened sufficiently to allow me to pass my finger into the bladder ; but I could not at first feel the calculus. The bladder was then syringed with warm water. Upon introducing my finger a second time, the calculus was felt, and seized with a pair of lithotomy forceps. The urethra yielded slowly to the process of dilatation. When the calculus was brought to the orifice, I applied a second pair of forceps, so as to obtain a firmer hold of it. The calculus broke in the passage before it was completely withdrawn. It was 3iij. in weight, and was composed of phosphates. A glass of hot brandy and water, with spice and sugar, was administered by our direction, before we left the house. M 3