31 by Mr. Cresswell, he revived toward morning. His recovery seemed to be complete, and it continued through the day. He was cheerful, and took nourishment of different kinds in large quantities. The next night, the same urgent symptoms recurred, the dyspnea coming on suddenly about the same hour, attended with profuse sweating, and prostration so alarming that he seemed at the point of death. Mr. Cress- well administered between 3 and 4 ounces of Spin Etheris sulph. comp., giving it at intervals in teaspoons. Toward daylight he revived, and, improving by degrees, he remained free from uneasiness throughout the day, moving about in bed without help. The two following nights were passed with similar suffering. The ether was increased in quantity, 6 ounces being taken in one night. The Patient revived each morning, recovering suddenly about daylight. He passed the day without dis- comfort, but he became weaker in general power. The next night (December 7), the dyspnea was more severe ; and he died about 8 o'clock, sinking from exhaustion within an hour after the accession of the paroxysm. Permission was obtained to open the chest, on condition that it was done by Mr. Cresswell himself. A large amount of serum and blood had oozed from the wound in the chest: Mr. Cresswell estimated it at a pint in quantity. The right side was filled with fluid blood and serum. He removed the greater part, taking out four quarts by measure. The lung was collapsed, and the pleura partially adherent toward the spine. An aneurismal tumor, larger than a common hen's egg, was situated under the clavicle, where it was pressing upon the bronchus. He separated this from its connexions, and removed it. The left lung was goi'ged with blood, but there was no effusion into the cavity of the pleura, or into the pericardium. The substance of the heart was pale; the cavities were empty, and the valves thickened. The aneuris- mal tumor is thus described by Dr. Tuckwell, who examined it before it was placed in the Pathological Collection in the Museum at Oxford : —' The coats of the artery are distinct. The inner coat is marked in many parts with small patches of atheroma, to which some calcareous deposit adheres. Masses