256 as with the nature of the reHef administered ; and that the questions for the Committee to consider, under the Resolution of the Quarterly Court, and on which you ask for information, are,—whether those means are capable of extension, — in what direction, and how far, — and whether there is a need for it. The Committee must have observed that before any great extension of the Infirmary can be made, the buildings must be enlarged : for such a purpose it will be necessary to have possession of some of the adjoining land, — either the house and grounds occupied by Mr. Owen, or a piece of the garden of the Observatory. The 'means of Medical relief in the neighborhood have been largely increased of late years. There are now 3 Hos- pitals with beds close to the town (in the Cowley Road, at Bullingdon, and at Headington Quarry), ' maintained by the Local Authorities' under the Poor Law. A Dispensary in St. Clement's has been opened. The Medical Dispensary is now divided into two districts, with a separate Medical Officer to each; and a similar division into districts, with separation of duty, has been made in the Lying-in Institution. A Dis- pensary has been opened at Abingdon, and a Hospital with beds at Banbury. Some ' Cottage Hospitals' have been opened in the County. There are many Sick Clubs and Benefit Societies,—well managed and in active operation: the pecu- niary subscription being small in amount, and within the power of every working man in steady employment. A House of Recovery is established at Shotover Hill. A Hos- pital for Incurable cases is founded, but not yet opened. There is not, however, any place to which Undergraduates living in College can be taken in cases of serious illness, when too ill to 'go down,'—where they can have the ordinary com- forts to which they have been accustomed at home. There is not any permanent provision for epidemic diseases. There is no House of Observation or separation, to which members of families in infected places can be taken. There is no recog- nized accommodation, or place of temporary residence, for menial servants in illness, at a time when more is wanted than can be furnished in the houses of their masters.