237 There is also a special provision of long standing for enabling Members of the University, intending to qualify themselves as Clergymen or Missionaries, to attend the prac- tise of the Officers and the Lectures of the Clinical Professor, with a view to obtain that kind of Medical knowlege which may be useful in their respective walks of life. The Nursing department was till lately in a very inefficient state. Old women were generally taken as Nurses, without (as far as I can learn,) any previous education to fit them •for it. We now prefer hiring women from about 25 to 35. ■ At that age we find they are willing to be taught, and to ■ obey orders. Some of our active Governors have wished for a >provision for teaching women to be Nurses. Desirable as this imay be, — if we could find women wishing to learn, — I think tit is in a great measure secured by the custom now adopted )of taking young women as Nurses ; they necessarily stay but ifew years, and then go out to ' settle' in life, with much . valuable knowlege, and it is to be hoped, in many cases, vwith some little purse, the savings of what are really high i\ wages. 8 ^^r//, 1853. To THE Secretary, Radcliffe Infirmary. Dear Mr. Secretary, — With reference to your letter ■ informing me of the Resolution passed at the Weekly Board, I beg you will have the kindness to communicate my opinion ion the subject to the Board. You will see that the recommendation by some of the ■ Medical Officers in November 1854, upon which the order for preparing a Pharmacopoeia was made, does not bear my name. That recommendation was drawn up without con- sultation with me, and had been signed by some of my colleagues before I saw it. It seemed to me that it would not then be of any use to say that I thought the preparation of the Pharmacopoeia was part of our duty, — and a part of it * which I, for one, was not disposed to request the Weekly JBoard to transfer to the House-Surgeon ; and that I did Nnot approve of the application to the Board for such a iipurpose.