MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. xxxix of the want of Rifts to the poor in this land; but there is a mo<te of relief which would add greatly to their comfort, and which being prepared from superfluity, and such materials as are often thrown away, the cx| ense would not be felt. In the latter part of this work some hints for preparing the above are ghen. By good hours, especially early breakfast, a family is more regular, and much time is saved. If orders be given soon in the morning, there will be more time to execute them: and servants, by doing their work with ease, will be more equal to it, and fewer will be necessary. It is worthy of notice that the general expense will be reduc- ed, and mucn time saved, if every thing be kept in its proper jslace, applieri to its proper use, and mended, when the nature of the accident will allow, as soon as broken. If theeconomy of time was duly considered, the useful affairs transacted before amusements were allowed, and a regular plan of emiiloyment was daily laid down, a great deal might be done without hurry or fatigue: and it would be a most plea- sant retrospect at the end of the year, were it possible to enu- merate all the valuable acquirements made, and the good ac- tions performed by an active woman. If the subject of servants be thought ill-timed in a book upon family arrangement, it must be by those who do not recollect that the regularity and good management of the heads will be insulfident, if not seconded by those who are to execute orders. It behoves every person to be extremely careful whom lie-takes into his service; to be very minute in investigating the character he receives, and equally cautious and scrupulous- ly just in giving one to others. Were this attended to, many bari people would be incapacitated for doing mischief, by abus- ing the trust reposed in them. It may be fairly assertM that the robbery or waste, which is but a miider epithetfor the un- faithfulness of a servant, will be laid to the charge of that master or mistress, who knowing, or having well-founded sus- picions of such faults, is prevail^ upon by false pity, or en- treaty, to slide him into another place. There are, however, some who are unfortunately capricious, and often refuse to give a character because they ate displeased tliat a servant leaves their service: but this is un))ardonable, and an absolute rob- bery, servants having no inheritance, and depending on their fair name for employment. Torefuse countenance to the evii, anil to encourage the good servant, are actions due to society at large: and such as are honest, frugal, and attentive to their riutics, should be liberally rewardeii, which would encourage merit, and inspire servants with zeal to acquit themselves. It may be proper to observe, that a retributive justice usually marks persons in that station, sooner or later, even in this world. The extravagant and idle in servitude are ill jirepared for the industry and sobriety on which their owti future welf ire so essentially liepends. Their faults, and the attendant punish- »neut, come home wlien they have children of their own: and