9 1 OBSERVATIONS FOR THE The ribs are then to be divided into about two lielpinfp; and an ear or jaw presented with them, with plenty of sauce. The joints may either be divided into two each, or pieces may be cut from them. The rilis are reckoned the finest part: but some people prefer the neck end, between the shoulders. Goo^e.—Cut off tlie apron in the circular line a, 6, c, and pour into the body a glass of port wine, and a large tca^spoon- ful of mustard, first mixed at the sidelward. Turn the neck end of the goose towards you, and cut the whole breast in long slices from one wing to another; but only remove them as you help each person, unless the company is so large as to require the legs likewise. This way gives more jirime bits than by making wings. Take off the leg, by putting the fork into the small end of me bone, nressing it to the body, and having passed the knife at d, turn the leg back, and, if a young bird, it will easily separate. To take off the wing, put your fork into the small end of the pinion, and press it close to the body; then put in the knife at d, and divide the joint, Uiking it in the direction d, e. Nothing but practice will ena- ble people to hit the joint exactly at the first trial. When the leg and wing of one side are done, go dh to the other; but it Is not often necessary to cut up the whole goose, unless tire company be very large. There are two side-Kmes by the wing, whkm may be cut off, as likewise the back and lower sidi-- bones; hut the Irest pieces are the breast, and the thighs tifter being dividetl from tire drum-sticks. j ■ Hfit-e.—The best way of cutting it up is. to put the point of (I the knife under the shoulder at o, and .so cut all the way down to the rump, on one side of the back-bone, in the line a, b. Do the same on the other side, so that the whole hare will be di- vided into three parts. Cut the back into four, which, with I the legs, is the part most esteemed. The shoulder must be I cut off in a circular line, as c, d, a; lay the pieces neatly on the dish .Ts you cut them, and then help the company, giving some I pudding and gravy to every person.