MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. xliii will be hardened and useless. It was a mistake of old. to think that the whites made cakes and puddings heavy; on the contrary, if beaten longaud separately, they contrioiitegreatly to give lightness, are an advantage to paste, and make a pretty dish lieaten with fruit, to set in cream, etc If copper utensils lx; useil in the kitchen, the cook shoulil be chargetl to be very careful not to let the tin be rubbed off; and to have them fresh done when the least defect apiwar.s, and never to put by any soup, gravy, etc. in them, or any metal utensil; stone and earthen vessels should be provided for these purposes, as likewise plenty of common dishes, that tlie table set may be used to put by cold meat. — Tin vessels, if kept damp, soon rust, which Wuses holes. Fenders, and tin linings of flower-pots, etc. sliould bepamted every year or two. Vegetables soon sour, and corrode metals and glazed red ware, by which a strong jxiison is produced. Some years ago, the death of several gentlemen w.-is occasioned at Salt-hill, by the cook sending a ragout to table, which she h.ad kept from the precerling day in a copper vessel batlly tinned. Vinegar, by its acidity, does the same, the glazing being of lead or arsenic. To cool liquors in hot weather, dip a cloth in cold water, and wrap it round the bottle two or three times, then place it in the sun ; renew the process once or twice. The best way of scalding fruits, or boiling vineg.ar, is in a stone jar on a hot iron heartli; or by putting the vessel Into a saucepan of water, called a water-b;ith. If chocolate, coffee, jelly, gruel, bark, etc. be suffered to boil over, the strength is lost. The cook should be encouraged to be careful of coals and cinders; for the latter there is a new contrivance to sift with- out dispersing the dust of the ashes, by means of a covered tin bucket. Small coal, wettetl, makes the strongest fire for the back, but must remain untouched until it cake. Cinders, lightly wet, give a great degree of heat, and are better than coal for furnaces, ironing-stoves, .and ovens. The cook should be charged to take care of jelly-bam, t,apes for the collared things, etc. which if not perfectly scalded, and kept dry, give an unpleasant flavour when next used. Cold water thrown on cast-iron, when hot, will cause it to In the following, and indeed all other receipts, thotigh the quantities may be as accurately directed as possible, yet much must be left to the discretion of the person who uses them. The different tastes of people require more or less of the fl.a- vour of spices, salt, garlic, butter, etc. which can never be or- dered by general rules ; and if the cook h.as not a good haste, and attention to that of her employers, not all the ingredients which nature and art can fumisti, will give exouisite flavour to her dishes. The proper articles should be at hand, and she