132 VISITATION. REPORT. Apoth. Soc. responsible for tlie diagnosis indicated in the book, except in * so far as in any particular instance the examiner may have accidentally had cognisance of the case before-hand, either personally or through his assistants. The book above referred to also bears notes of the pathological specimens used on successive days in the oral examinations, the following among others: On November 30, fibroid of uterus, pneumonic lung; November 23, typhoid ulceration of intestine; November 16, specimen of diseased heart and lungs; November 9, specimens of cirrhosis of liver and Bright's kidney, also specimens of urine •with albumen and uric acid. The production of such specimens, therefore, seems to be an habitual, though by no means an in- variable, feature of the examination. Anatomy The ten candidates for the "primary" examination were (Primary), engaged in writing the answers to three questions in anatomy, one in physiology, four on chemistry, two on materia medica, and one on botany, being seated in the same room with those who were writing for the " final." As soon as the ten candi- dates for the final examination had completed their clinical ex- amination of patients in the other room—a proceeding which occupied about an hour—the anatomical candidates were taken in the same manner, that is, called out from their work of writing answers, into the library, one by one, for the purpose of being tested on regional anatomy. In this room there was a couch, on which a man stripped down to the middle was reclin- ing. The examiner who had been superintending the clinical examination of patients in the large room now took the place of the examiner who was superintending the written work. The second examiner then conducted the examination in regional anatomy as follows :— Candidate No. 1 was handed a piece of chalk, and the follow- ing questions were put in succession : Map out the liver. Whereabouts are the internal and external abdominal rings ? Whereabonts is the spleen ? Map it out (with chalk). Map out the position of the heart. Where is the brachial artery ? Where is the transverse colon