VISITATION-RTSPOKT. 10 Limitation OF Studies. Humphry on the influence of Examina- tions in direct- ing study. chemistry, ought not to be more decisively adopted, substituting a smaller portion well done for the whole somewhat imperfectly done. The Colleges of Surgeons, both in England and Ireland, seem to attach an importance, perhaps too great, to the minute details of human anatomy in comparison with the other funda- mental sciences ; and it is through this alone—i.e., by concen- trating the attention of the student upon anatomy at the expense of the other subjects—that they are able to require so high a standard. The question arises, to what extent should other subjects be made secondary to anatomy ? Or, whether it would be at all possible to obtain, with an evenly distributed attention in all the subjects, anything approaching to sufl&cient excellence in anatomical detail. Again, is it right that anatomy, as a subject for examination, should be treated so exclusively from the point of view of human anatomy as to exclude morphology ? This exclusion was observable in all the examinations witnessed by the Visitors. The stringency as to minute detail in examination is un- doubtedly having an injurious reflex effect upon philosophical anatomical teaching. The result is that teaching is becoming more and more bound by the inflexible requirements of the examining bodies which demand such minute knowledge. The extreme importance of the mutual interdependence of examina- tion and teaching is well illustrated by Professor Humphry in his Hunterian oration (p. 32) :—" The Examinations, as I have said, are, and must be, the despots of education. They have probably, for the present at any rate, been made sufficiently severe. What is required is a gradual alteration in their quality. They might well afford to be less exacting in the amount and variety of detail and circumstance, and. to throw somewhat more weight into the scale of intelligent appreciation of the knowledge possessed, so that, by their requirements, they may develop a better adjustment of the balance of work and thought. They should not be considered merely as tests of fitness for certain positions and rewards, but even more as educational agents, as the guides of teaching and of study. Every question put must be regarded as a drop in the educational cun-ent of the future; arid Examiners must recognise that they are not simply judges of the students who come before them, but that they are, in no less degree, directors of, and so, responsible for, the teaching of those who loill