VISITATION-REPORT. 42 Apotii. Soc. LoND. Clinical Examination. the Medical Register as qualified for general practice. Tlie same remark extends also to physiology, which, according to the regulations, onght to be and is marked separately from anatomy. Although, however, there is this separation in the markings, the Visitors did not observe any such separation in the actual examination ; and the few questions put in physiology within a quarter of an hour, as part of an anatomical oral examination, and without any means of practical illustration, cannot be considered to do anything like justice to the range of modern physiology, even where its results are most important. The only effect, iudeed, of this examination is virtually to en- croach on the time given to anatomy, the separate marking of the two having thus no real foundation. These remarks on physi- ology become the more important when it is considered that the written examination in that subject consists of one question only. The Clinical examination of the Apothecaries' Society resembles, in its arrangements, that of the Royal College of Surgeons of England thus far, that instead of the candidates being taken to a hosjaital, and confronted with the sick in their beds, or at least in the wards, selected cases are brought for examination to the Hall of the Society, and are there sub- mitted in succession to several candidates. Having already expressed an opinion of this plan as observed in the clinical examinations of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, the Visitors feel bound to indicate the points in which the method pursued differs in the two corporations. In the College of Surgeons a large number of cases is provided each day of examination, illustrating many points at once of surgical diagnosis and treatment, and admitting of being divided into groups, so that even after such division five or six cases are at the disposal of each pair of examiners, and a candidate is liable to be asked to give his opinion on any or all of these in succes- sion. Further, the candidate is rigidly questioned, viva voce, on the diagnosis arrived at in each case, and thus all the knowledge or ignorance which he may display is instantly brought to the test of actual fact, by asking him to show how he arrives at his conclusions. The examiner, in short, not only elicits from the candidate his ultimate diagnosis, prognosis, or treatment, but also gets an insight into his methods and processes of observa- tion and reasoning: and in genoral into his way, whether skilful