282 REMARKS ON VISITATION-REPOET. Apoth. Hall, The reasons for combining, at the Examination of candidates, Ibbland. cases in dispensary practice as well as cases in hospitals, appear decidedly strong. For in examining such cases the possibility of any previous knowledge on the part of the candidate of the individual cases is very slight. The Visitors' Report continues: "In the Clinical Exami- nation the right method was followed to a very considerable extent; that is to say, the candidate was admitted to examine the case, and was then questioned on it by the Examiner in such a manner as to elicit what he had discovered; but in doing so the Examiners were subject to the obvious disadvantage, that they themselves began the Examination on merely hearsay information as to the cases, and accordingly it was nearly impossible that they should be able to pursue the details in such a way as to test very thoroughly the accuracy of the candidates' conclusions." Owing to this cause, and perhaps also owing to the weakness of one at least of the candidates, the Clinical Examination in Medicine did not impress the Visitors so favourably as perhaps it might, under other circumstances, have done. The recommendation of the Visitors that one of the physicians of the hospital, where the Clinical Examination is held, should be present, has no doubt very considerable reason to recommend it; but the difficulties that appear in obtaining the services of so many professional men to conduct the Exami- nations, and to give up their time to the matter at an hour different from that of their regular hospital visit, are considerable; it might however be met by obtaining the services of the assistant physician or resident surgeon, by an arrangement with those officers at diffisrent hospitals. The observations of the Visitors continue thus : " Allowance being made for these facts, the Examination was most carefully conducted, and the questions put to the candidates were of a strictly practical kind. They were asked to write prescriptions , for one or more of the cases examined, and questioned on the details of these prescriptions, as well as the pathology, diagnosis, and prognosis," &c. The concluding remark by the Visitors, to the effect that there was no Surgical Clinical Examination," was evidently due to the fact of their not being at once made aware of the