86 VISITATION-REPORT, e. coli,. svrq. ' Irel. Final Examination. Opprati ve Surgery. your assistant; I will do whatever yon please, if yon tell me what to do. How am I to stand ? and where will you stand ?" This having been arranged, the operation was proceeded with, the examiner using the spatula, retractors, &c., under the direc tions of the candidate, and asking questions as to the reasons of everything that was done. When the operation was com- pleted, the examiner asked, " Might there be haemorrhage in this operation ? " The answer being " Yes," he then said : " Suppose there was venous haemon-hage before you opened the trachea, would you proceed to open the trachea, or would you stop the hsemorrhage first ? " Th6 answer given to this was wrong ; and it was only after further conversation that the candi- date remembered, or was led to perceive accurately, that the result of opening the trachea in the face of venous haemorrhage would be to put a stop to it. This candidate, however, in con- sideration of the knowledge he had shown on the whole, was passed. The examination of the other candidates was conducted on the same principle. In one instance a remarkable circumstance occurred, which, as indicating the bearings of the practical upon the older method of examination, may be given in detail. The candidate was asked to amputate at the shoulder-joint, and while the exa- miner was otherwise occupied he had completed the operation in a fairly correct manner. The examiner then, taking it up as though not completed, asked him in the most pointed manner what direction he would give to his assistants during the various stages of the operation, and, in particular, during the period of cutting the posterior flap. At this point the candidate evidently became very confused, and, to the surprise of the examiner, seemed totally unable to put into words the directions required, or even to follow up very broad hints given him by the examiner as to controlling the hasmorrhage ; and having spent about five minutes in trying to elicit satisfactory answers, the examiner himself proceeded to perform the operation on the opposite side, telling the candidate to act as his assistant, and to do what was necessary, namely, to follow up the track of the knife so as to compress the vessels, which ultimately the candidate did in such away as to satisfy the examiner, though not, it must be confessed, without leaving a sense of insecurity as to his knowledge and promptitude in applying it. This candidate, in respect of having done otherwise well, was passed.