240 EEMAEKS ON VISITATION-EEPOET. K. Coll. Surg. 2. The application of bandages and splints to be required of every candidate. 3. The examination of normal and morbid urine by every candidate in the Medical Examination. 4. The limitation of time in the Oral Examination, and the method of marking. 5. The economy of time to be obtained by excluding can- didates rejected in the Written from appearing at the Oral Examination. 1. The requirement of the performance of operations on the dead tody ly every candidate. This subject, like the question of dissections in the Primary Examination, has repeatedly occupied the attention of the Court of Examiners and the Council, long before any representations or recommendations relating to it had proceeded from the General Medical Cooncil. For reasons similar to those applicable to the introduction of dissections into the Primary Examination, the Council are of opinion that it is not desirable to make the perfoi'mance of opera- tions on the dead body a necessary part of the Pass Examination at the College. The Council desire to point out that they expressly encourage in the curriculum the performance of operations on the dead body; that, in the practical part of the Pass Examination, can- didates are required to explain,by the aid of instruments of various kinds, surgical operations, as described on page 65 of the Visitors' Report, which method of testing the knowledge of candidates is found to be sufficient. The Council are of opinion, as Sargeons^ that to attempt to give value to so uncertain a test as the capability of a candidate to acquit himself satisfactorily in any actual operation on the dead body, under the peculiar conditions incidental to an Examination, might frequently tend to unjust conclusions as regards his knowledge and merits. The Council believe that any attempt to introduce this test on a large scale, and for every candidate, would end in its becoming either a mani- fest hardship to students, or a delusion. ■ Even if desirable, the Council would indicate that the time, space, material, and outlay, both on the part of the College, the