VISITATION-REPORT. 22 ^^°Eno^"^'^ point it was diflScult to form a positive judgment; bnt, although .' disposed to acquit the examiners individually of any such intention, and even to credit them with consideration for necessary hnman infirmity, it is diflBcult to be sure that an additional quarter of an honi', or another examination, in case of doubt, might not have reinstated some candidates who were condemned on points of detail to which it was only natural for a professed teacher of anatomy to give perhaps an undue importance. It is obvious that the assumption of a perfect knowledge all round, even of human anatomy, is far too great a strain for the average candidate aspiring to the practice of medicine and surgery. But if a degree of necessary imperfection is conceded, then it becomes evident that a quarter of an hour is too short a time to determine the incidence of particular imperfections or errors as regards the status of a doubtful candidate. The Visitors were told that in doubtful cases the examiners were sometimes asked to' reconsider a written paper to see whether it might not deserve a higher mark; and that occasionally it happens that, by an ex 'post facto determination of this kind, a weak candidate, who had been rejected, according to his numbers, in the first instance, is raised to the pass level. It would be more satisfactory, in such cases, to reconsider the candidate's position on the basis of the oral examination as well as of the written ; but the Visitors could not ascertain that a second oral was ever allowed. Much as they admire the unique completeness of the arrange- ments for exact testing in the anatomy of the whole body, the Visitors cannot but express their strong opinion that this examination would be a sounder gauge of the best kind of work, and would also have abetter influence on the teaching in medical schools, were arrangements made for the testing of every candi- date by actual dissection. Admirable for exactness and precision as is the mode of testing by question and answer on the carefully prepared dissections at this College, the Visitors feel that the knowledge thus tested, and prepared for examination, is but one step removed from knowledge obtained through the medium of Importance of books and plates. Besides, no candidate can dissect fairly at an testing examination without having dissected abundantly during his dfsBections. studentship ; and there can be no doubt as to the relative value of anatomy remembered from personal dissection, as compared