90 YISITATION-REPORT. JR. Coll. Phys. LOND. Final Examination. Clinical. tion. Bed 27. Convalescent from left hemiplegia, the attack having been sudden, but without loss of consciousness, thence raising questions as to diagnosis, especially as between h83mor- rhage and embolism. Certain slight cardiac changes might be noted, but were not, in the opinion of the physician, of first-class importance. The cases in the second ward were said to be miscellaneous, and not very dissimilar in character. In this ward there were seven microscopes for purposes of de- monstration. The specimens nnder the microscopes were: Nitrate of urea, triple phosphate, octohedral oxalates, carbonate of lime in circular concentric crystals, tyrosin, trichina spiralis encysted in mnscle, and, lastly, a specimen of the acarus scabiei. The candi- dates were questioned in turn upon the specimens. On a table there were six specimens of urine, illustrating common patholo- gical conditions. One of the examiners saw the candidates actually perform chemical testings, and examined them verbally upon the results. This examiner confined himself in a great measure to this duty, and was practically alone in it; while the other two, after having assigned a case to each candidate, occupied them- selves chiefly in the microscopic examinations, the candidates being successively called up to name, in the presence of the examiners, all the objects under the different microscopes, the answers, right or wrong, being noted by the examiners, and characterised at the time by a private mark, but no further question being put as to any of the objects. In this respect the microscopic portion of the examination differed very much, from that npon urinary testings, where the examiner put a great many questions of a more or less general character, bearing not only upon the details of the examination in hand, but upon the chemistry of the urine, and the forms of disease in which certain conditions of the urine are habitually found. This examiner spent a variable time on tbe different candidates, sometimes twenty minutes or half an bour, so that wben two-thirds of the time was gone, only about one-fourth of the candidates had been tested on the urine, and the other examiners had to join him in examining the remainder of the candidates. As regards tlie general arrangement of this clinical examina- tion, the Visitors were informed that there were altogether twenty-eight candidates. Fifteen of these were being examined