121 PAET 11.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. emetic, and was also imperfectly informed as to iodine, its Fac. Piits. & chemical relations and how it is obtained. Indeed, his examiua- "^^"^ tion on this subject showed almost complete ignorance, besides Primary which, his paper was qnito below the mark. His marks were— (Double)!'"'* paper 35, oral 25. Another candidate, told to combine sugar Chemistry, with sulphuric acid in a test tube, and heat so as to cause char- ring, could not explain what had taken place. He was also asked to test with chloride of barium a solution containing sul- phates, and when questioned as to whether it was a test for sulphuric acid in combination or only free, he answered " only free," further questioning on this subject not improving his posi- tion. He was ignorant of the composition and uses of sulphates generally, and equally so of the composition of the atmosphere. On his paper and oral he got 30. Another candidate, whose paper was marked 40, was asked to test for chlorides, which he did with nitrate of silver. "When ammonia was added, he was quite at a loss to know what took place. "When asked about caibonate of lime, and what would happen to it when burnt, he said calcium would be got. " What 1 the pure metal, calcium?" "Yes." In this respect, however, as in some others in the after part of the examination, a doubt existed as to whether nervousness had not somewhat unhinged the candidate; and as he had answered some questions well, 60 was given him with a query, on the principle that his oral and written together might come near 100, but still be below par unless redeemed by other subjects. This candidate was ultimately rejected in physiology. Another candidate, whose paper was marked 40, was asked about oxygen, its func- tions and importance ; its presence in water ; how much in 91bs. of water (as to which no approximate answer was given) ; its presence in the crust of the globe ; the nature of oxidation as a chemical process ; whether rapid or slow ; how it takes place in the case of sodium and potassium; oxidation of carbon; phe- nomena of combustion; the compounds of phosphorus with oxygen, and of hydrogen with ditto. On all these subjects the answers of the candidate were considered to entitle him only to 30. Another candidate was examined on testing an acid fluid, on the properties of sulphur and its compounds with oxygen, and finally, on water and its boiling point, which he did not know, having apparently no idea of the graduation of the