266 REMARKS ON VISITATION-REPORT. K. Colts. " Another candidate was questioned on a case of fractured rib with Phts. Suhg. hiemoptysis; on pneumo-thorax and its symptoms; on a case of chronic Edin. dit'ease of the elbow, (strumous) in a patient who had had a foot ampu- tated ; and on the operation of excision of the elbow. The instruments he was required to identify were Corrigan's cautery, Volkman's spoon, actual cautery, and probang." On these remarks the Colleges have to observe:— 1. Had the Visitors asked for any explanation as to the mode of conducting the examination, they would have found that their statement, that " the examination is limited to the cases in the wards of the Examiners," is quite incorrect. It is not so limited. Many cases, perhaps the majority, are carefully selected from the out-patient department on preceding days, brought into the hospital on the morning of the examination, and placed in bed or on a chair in the ward. When there is the slightest difficulty in obtaining suitable subjects, cases are lent for the occasion by the other surgeons of the Infirmary. It may be mentioned, that of the fifteen cases mentioned or indi- cated by the Visitors, seven were out-patients, including the so- called " badly formed stump," wHch had been made in another medical sch.ool. 2. Cases are occasionally, but very rarely, used twice, but only when they are thought to be specially suitable. The observation of the Visitors on this point is illustrated by the case of the girl with the sore on her lip. The case, which was not "a rupial excrescence," as th,e Visitors supposed, but a marked Hunterian chancre with bubo and roseola, was perfectly new to the candidate, and was considered by the Examiner to afford an excellent test of knowledge, as presenting typical appearances on an unusual site. 3. The Colleges entirely disagree with the Visitors that it is expedient to have splints ready padded for the candidates. The selection and padding of splints have always appeared to them an important feature of their examinations. Candidates have at their command all the surgical resources of the In- firmary, and not merely " what the nurse chooses to supply." The Visitors are evidently not aware that in the Edinburgh School Surgeons are not in the habit of specially padding the long splint otherwise than by the sheet. 4. The Colleges hold that it is well that a surgeon should, if possible, know the names and uses of his instruments.