197 PART III.—DOCUMENTS CONCERNING EXAMINATIONS. Materia Medica. Three Questions, of which Thoo are to be answered, and not more. 1. State the composition, actions, and doses of the following prepara- tions :—Tartar Emetic, Antimonial Powder, Plummer's Pill and Antimonial Wine. 2. Name the officinal plants belonging to the order Solanaceffi, and state their common properties, various preparations, and doses. 3. Name the different kinds of Senna. How may its gripina: action be prevented ? Name the various preparations of Senna, and their doses. R. C. Puts. EdIN. & f AC. Phy&. & SuKa. Glasg., D. Q, Questions: Materia Medica. Prescription. Write a prescription in unabbreviated Latin for a Hypnotic draught containing Chloral. Surgery. 1. Describe a double harelip, and the operation which you would perform for its remedy. 2. What is meant by pedunculated exostosis ? Describe its clinical characters, usual situation, and treatment. 3. What are the causes and most suitable treatment of ozaena? 4. Describe the anatomy of the principal veins and artery at the flexure of the elbow, and their relation to one another. Detail the various steps of the operation of blood-letting in this situation. 5. What is meant by spermatocele ? In what cavity is the fluid con- tained ? Discuss its probable mode of origin. 6. Detail the symptoms, special dangers, and suitable treatment of a case of enlarged prostate in an elderly patient. Prescription, Surgery. Midmifery. Midwifery. 1. Eimmerate the signs of pregnancy and describe those that are considered certain. 2. Describe the conditions that warrant the induction of premature labour. 3. Mention the various means employed to induce labour, and describe those now commonly in use. 4. Give a short description of the causes which may produce protraction of the first stage of labour. 6. Describe the local impeding on the part of the mother which may produce protraction of the second stage of labour. Medical Jwrisprudence. 1. What appearances would indicate murder by hanging, and subse- quent immersion with a view to the concealment of the crime 1 2. What chemical means might enable you to detect, during life, the administration of the following poisonous substances, viz.:— (a) Phosphorus. (&) Arsenious Acid, (c) Cantharides, 3. Mention the various ways in which it has been proposed to restore suspended animation in persons apparently drowned. 4. Differentiate a post-mortem from a vital wound. '. Jurisprudence,