VISITATION-REPORT. 64 / K.C01.L. SURQ. Eng. Primary Examination. System of Marking. Althoagh 10 is nominally the maximum number, it rarely happens that more than 8 is given, which is practically the maximum, any higher number than five (see ante, p. 27) being of no use in retrieving lost ground where a candidate has done badly in any one of the subjects. In this manner the examination is conducted, twenty-four candidates being examined each day, until the whole number is exhausted. Each candidate is known only by a number, with this excep- tion, that the clerk observes what schools they come from, and if the student happened to come under an examiner from his own school, a mark is put opposite his name, so that he may be examined instead by the colleague of that examiner. At the close of the written examination the papers are divided among the examiners, and it is so arranged that the examiners who read over and adjudicate upon them do not examine the candidates viva voce. Thus each candidate, in his written papers, comes under one set of four examiners, and in bis viva voce comes before the other four examiners. The object of this, and other arrangements indicated, seems to be to secure, as far as possible, absolute impartiality, and to prevent even the appearance of undue favour being shown to the pupils of one or another school at the examination. On Tuesday, April 12th, the Visitors again attended the primary examination of the Royal College of Surgeons. Changes had been made in the materials for examination. Grenerally speaking, the specimens were changed from side to side, reversing their position of the previous day ; the examiners changing along with their own specimens. Fresh specimens also were added to those used on the previous day, such as a clot of blood, bile, a freshly dissected eye; and fresh dissections made on the subject in the middle of the room, viz., the fore- arm, the inner side of the arm, the axilla, the buccal region. But the examination in its general plan and arrangement was similar to that on the previous day. The Visitors did not remain to the conclusion of the examination, but went to the Royal College of Physicians to witness the second part of the primary examination of that body, and therefore did not hear the final decisions upon the candidates they had watched.