PART I.—GENERAL IMPRESSIONS. 21 It is perhaps right to keep in view the fact that the admission E. Coll. Surg, of physiology as a separate subject is comparatively recent. On this point the Visitors were informed that doubts existed in the minds of some of the examiners, whether the increased attention given to physiology and histology of late years had, or had not, been accompanied by decreased attention and accu- racy as regards the details of human anatomy. The Visitors found that the rejections in physiology, although as already noted sufficiently numerous to show the strictness, if not severity, of the test, fell considerably short of the proportion of rejections in anatomy. When it is considered that at least four microscopic Alleged preparations formed the basis of part of the physiological exami- |^"gh^s'{.andLd nation in each instance, and that ordinaiy topographical anatomy in physiology has long been the special care of the college, while histological °f J^^^'^^j^^^^ study has been only making its way during the last quarter of the centmy, a greater proportion of rejections in the latter might have been expected. The truth seems to be that the completeness and the compactness of the field of human topographical anatomy- are such as to lead the examiners to expect a degree of prepa- ration all round which is not demanded in the physiological ex- amination. Still, some of them expressed a fear that the sub- stantive importance given to physiology, by separating it as an independent subject, may have had a detrimental influence upon anatomical study. In connection with this doubt, another arises. Admitting Questionable that the examination in anatomy is a thoroughly searching and i^tility of practical test of a student's detailed knowledge of the topography minute of the human body, i.e., of his knowledge of hundreds or thousands details m of separate anatomical facts, in the order and method of their ex- ^"'^^^^y* position in the school or at the dissecting table, is it not possible that the test may be too exacting as regards this particular series of facts ? and. that, by taking an individual candidate, for a quarter of an hour only, over as large a number of separate details as can be inquired into during that space of time, injustice may be done to good men, whose " forte " does not happen to be the exercise of technical memory sufficient to give readiness and completeness to their answers ; nay, that even inferior men in many of the qualities necessary for a practitioner of medicine may, by dint of good elementary drill, pass through the ordeal with the aid of a ready memoiy, when better men fail ? On this