80 VISITATIOK-HEPORT. K. Coll. Surg. ' LaiiL. Final J']x!imination. Oral. Clinical Examination. sure that the friction was in the pericardiam and not in the pleura; how to distinguish eflPusion in each cavity; pericarditis without friction; endocarditis. Another portion of the medical examination was conducted by Dr. M'Dowell, one candidate being examined almost entirely upon cardiac disease; another candidate upon cancrum oris, purpura, pompbolix, and pemphigus; also upon cardiac murmurs, &c. The third candidate was examined almost exclusively on erysipelas. The two candidates who were thus examined on one subject only, or in the main on one, were rather slow in giving their answers, and pains v/ere taken to elicit knowledge which at first appeared to be deficient, or at least very ill-assorted, but after- vp-ards was found by the examiner to justify a mark of four in the one case and five in the other, the maximum being ten. Both candidates ultimately passed, having good, or at least fair, surgi- cal marks. The scope of the examination in medicine in these cases was really very limited, considering the importance of the decision. Both, however, had written two answers out of three prescribed in medicine, and the answers were considered suflB.- cient for the pass. On Friday, July 29th, the candidates met at four o'clock p.m., at the College of Surgeons. Arrangements had been made so that no student should be assigned to his own hospital for his clinical examination. The ballot for hospitals over, each detach- ment of candidates went ofi" with the surgeons and examiners to the hospital appointed. At each hospital one examiner at least was surgeon to the hospital, and in charge of the cases examined upon, and therefore well acquainted with the clinical facts. The other examiner might or might not be surgeon to the hospital. Three hospitals were selected—the City of Dublin, the Adelaide, and Mercer's Hospitals. Had the candidates been more numerous, a fourth hospital would have been included. At the City of Dublin Hospital, of which Mr. Crolt is one of the surgeons, Mr. Stoker attending as assessor, three cases had been provided specially from the out-patients' department: 1. An unreduced dislocation of the shoulder of some standing, a new glenoid cavity having been formed, and considerable extent of movement existing. 2. A case of combined inguinal hernia and hydrocele on the same side. 3. A case of umbilical hernia.