PART II.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. 83 struments for the purpose, and has to produce them in sufficient K. Colt.Surg, number and iu good condition. Seven examiners were present. One of the examiners (Dr. Frazer) superintended the admis- Final sion of candidates and the working of the examination. The Examination. . . . . , Oral, other six were engaged, two at each subject, m examining the candidates. The candidates were called in by Dr. Frazer, begin- ning with the first number balloted for, No. 50. The candidate who had drawn No. 50 appeared and was given another card marked " 50," with the name of a major operation which he had to perform. The numbered blank cards had been previously distributed equally amongst the four examiners, in order that each might write on the back the operations he required to be performed. This was done throughout the whole series of candi- dates, so that every candidate on admission received a card with his balloted number, and the name of the operation assigned to him. Dr. Frazer, partly at his own discretion and partly by arrangement with the individual examiners, admitted one, two, or three candidates at a time to each subject, being guided some- what by the convenience of the examiners in carrying out the operations or supervising them. Each candidate was then told to select at the side table the instruments required for his operation, and to proceed forthwith with its performance. If the operation were one needing an assistant, the examiner proposed himself as an assistant, and requested the candidate to tell him what he was to do in that capacity, the directions so given forming an important part of the examination. When he had completed this major operation, if he had not done it satisfactorily, he might be called upon to do another major operation dictated at the moment by the examiner. If he did well, he was told to do a minor operation, such as amputate a finger or toe ; or make incisions in various parts of the body for any special object, such as incise the forefinger for thecal abscess along its whole length. If, however, he did not satisfy the examiner in his major and minor operations, the examiner then transferred him to another examiner, who gave him a third operation ; and if he failed to satisfy the second examiner, he was "referred." The examiner marked on the card containing the name of the operation his opinion of the candidate's work; and if he had any doubt, he called in his assessor to aid him in his judgment. As a rule, after the completion of the operation, the candidate f2 ' .