109 PART II. ,—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. the subclavian artery and its branches, and the course of the R.Colls.Phts. internal mammary artery. The diaphragm was next examined ^ Scbo. Edin. on; and, lastly, the branches given off by the abdominal aorta, Double the branches of the coeliac axis, and the distribution of the Qualification. Primary superior and inferior mesenteric arteries. Examination. By the second examiner the candidate was questioned on Anatomy, the muscles of inspiration, on the course and functions of the pneumogastric nerve, on the functions of the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves, and on the effects of section of the same. He was then questioned on temperature, on capillary circu- lation, blood corpuscles, and the changes that take place in venous blood whilst circulating in the lungs; also on the effect of food taken cold or hot. The examination over, the six examiners met together and Adjudication, transferred their marks to the schedule, and then the result was read off as to who had passed and who had not. The president called in first the snccessful candidates one by one, and announced that they had passed. Afterwards the unsuccessful candidates were summoned and informed of the result. The Visitors having asked to see the written papers of these candidates, it was found that they had been destroyed. It is the custom to destroy papers soon after the examination, and the Visitors had not sent notice of their intention to be present until after the decision on the written examination. In this examination no fresh dissections were prepared, nor were the candidates themselves required to dissect, while the range of subjects over which the examination was conducted was so extensive as to preclude the examiners, having regard to the limited time at their disposal, from asking more than the ele- mentary questions. FINAL EXAMINATION. On Friday, April 8th, at five o'clock p.m., the Visitors were -p-^^i present in the Hall of the Royal College of Physicians, in which E^mination. the candidates for the double quali6cation were undergoing the written examination. For this examination they were allowed from eleven to three and from four to six o'clock. Two candidates sat at each table, Dr. John Duncan superintending. The Visitors were