35 PART I.—GENERAL IMPRESSIONS. and at the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow, nor R.Colls.Piiys. were the candidates required to make any dissections themselves, as in the examinations of the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, and in the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons, Glasgow. There were a few dissected specimens in spirit, which were made use of by some of the examiners, but not by all. Indeed the major part of the anatomical examination consisted of questions, which, in the opinion of the Visitors, were of too elementaiy a character for an examination for this qualification. When con- sidered in reference to the time bestowed on the examination of each candidate, the range of topics was so wide as to preclude anything like a searching inquiry into the knowledge of the candidate, as regards any particular topic. This, of course, was the more marked, inasmuch as the questions were in reference to technical memory, rather than to any objects put before the candidate. The physiological examination was carefully con- ducted and satisfactory, the candidates being questioned on histological specimens, with which any average student should be familiar. The Visitors can speak in the same terms as to the chemical portion of the examination ; but there were no arrange- ments for testing the practical knowledge of the candidates by actual experiment. The final examination consists of written papers on surgery. Final double surgical anatomy, practice of medicine, materia medica, mid- qualification, wifery, and medical jurisprudence ; and of an oral examination in these subjects, and a clinical in medicine and surgery. The same arrangement for stopping the candidates whose papers are un- satisfactory exists as in the primary. The examiners, meeting on the evening of the day on which the written papers are answered, read these over in the Examination Hall, and in the course of about an hour and a quarter announce their decisions ; a greater or less number of candidates requiring a proportionate number of examiners. The candidates answer the papers on these six subjects on one day, three hours being allowed for the four subjects of practice of medicine, materia medica, surgery, and surgical anatomy, and two hours for the remaining subjects. The Visitors would suggest that the system of inspecting inspection of the papers is one capable of improvement, seeing that the papers, whole body of examiners must complete the estimate of the |ime for°" °^ written papers almost simultaneously. It seems probable adjudication 0 2 suggusted.