VISITATION-EEPORT. 62 B. Coll. SuHa. normal urine, and also of urine in various diseased conditions, sacli as saccharine and albuminous. One candidate had to put Primary some milk under the microscope, and another to identify it, Examination. When two sets of students had been examined, the series of Details. . ... 1111 . 1 1 microscopical specimens were changed, so that there might be no collusion between those who had been in and those who were coming in for examination. Another candidate was examined on the lower jaw and the various muscles attached to it; on the cuboid bone; on a prepa- ration of the urethra and bladder ; on the ducts opening into the urethra and bladder, which were indicated by bristles; on the trigone, &c. He was next taken to the dissected subjects in the middle of the room, and examined on a dissection of the bend of the elbow, on the origins and insertions of the muscles which were seen there, and on some of the deeper structures ; on a dis- section of the wrist, the tendons, &c., and the distribution of the nerves about it; and then on a dissected ankle in the same manner. There were four specimens under the microscope, one being a section of an artery, showing its muscular coat. The candidate was closely questioned as to the rate of flow of the blood in capillaries ; the rate of the heart's pulsation; the action of the pneumogastric upon the heart; the beating of the heart of a frog and its cause; electricity and its effects on muscles in various forms, and the changes that take place in the muscles during action, illustrated by diagrams of curves on a board. Other candidates were examined on the following topics : A section of the head and neck ; the thoracic viscera ; a dissec- tion of the under aspect of the tongue. They were questioned also on the nerves of the tongue; on the upper surface of the tibia and the semilunar cartilages of the knee-joint; on the astragalus, and on the right first rib. Another candidate in anatomy was examined on the fibula, tibia, and femur, and the attachments of the muscles to them. He was also examined on the popliteal artery, on the occipital region, on the nerves and arteries of the space and their course. Then, taken to the dissected subject, he was examined on the hernial region, on the fold of Douglas, and on the tendons behind the ankle-joint. The same candidate was also examined on a dissection of the posterior mediastinum, the splanchnic nerves,