PART 11.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. 143 cruciferag: in the case of other families, to state the botanical Apoth. Hall, character of the leaves, whether petals or bracts ; to what family genista belongs and what medicinal plants are found in this Primary order. A second candidate was questioned about cryptogamous Examination, and phanerogamous plants ; on exogens and endogens, and he was requested to select a specimen of each from the table. Then a series of questions arose on a picture of the colchicum plant; on a fresh specimen of veronica, flowers of a large lily and a stalk of "wheat or oats. The rest of the examination was of the same character. As a means of testing in botany, in connection with the medicinal uses of plants, the examination appeared to the Visitors to be very well and also very practically carried out. In chemistry Dr. Collins examined, and his assessor was Chemistry. Dr. Montgomery. On the table there was a series of bottles containing chemical fluids and salts. As a rule, the salts were in small bottles, so as to be easily handled. Each bottle had the name of the substance it contained written upon it, so that a candidate started with a knowledge of the subject upon which he was being questioned. The first candidate was given a bottle of black oxide of manganese, and asked, " What is the use of this substance—how would you obtain chlorine according to the rules of the Pharmacopoeia ? " A threepenny piece was then put before the candidate ; he was told that it contained silver and copper: "How would yon prove its composition?" "How would you separate the two, and prove their character ? " The next subject of examination was that of urinary deposits. A specimen of recent urine, wibh the sediments of lithates, was put before the candidate. Questions were then asked on the nature of the deposit, on testing for albumen and for phosphates, on the specific gravity of urine, and on saccharine urine. The Visitors consider that it may be open to question whether this portion of the examination, thongh practical in its character, would not more suitably form a part of the clinical rather than the primary examination for the licence. Another candidate was examined on tests for various salts, such as persulph. antimony, nitrate of bismuth, perchloride of iron, chloride of platinum, &c., and the nature of the reactions had to be explained by the candidate in chemical symbols. The Visitors did not observe that actual manipulation by the candidates themselves formed part of the examination.