PART 1.—GENERATi IMPRESSIONS. 11 follow." In this spirit it is the desire of the Visitors to compare Cunicai> and estimate the various examinations whicn it nas been tneir privilege to inspect. The great importance of clinical examinations, and also their A lever in being comparatively an innovation,lead the Visitors to think that a ^^^g^'^'^j^jj,^ few remarks, conveying the general impressions they have received from the whole of the examinations, may not be ont of place here. They desire most emphatically to bear testimony to the great care and conscientiousness with which these examinations were conducted. The great majority of the examiners were hospital physicians or surgeons of high reputation ; and in some, but not in all instances, they were working in their own wards, where their familiarity with the materials enabledthem to do the utmost justice to all parts of the examination. Not only did the Visitors observe a great desire for fairness and eflficiency as regards testing the merits of the individual candidates, but also, in most instances, an appreciation of the principle that a comprehensive and really clinical test is, as it were, a new leverage introduced into medical education, tending both to elevate its character and to make it more practical in its aims. This test, moreover, secures the general competency of the registered medical prac- titioner for the emergencies of his daily life. The reflex influence of the clinical test upon the quality and character of medical education appears to the Visitors so overwhelmingly important, that they desire to show how it has influenced their judgment, in points of detail, as regards the clinical examinations which they have had an opportunity of describing. It is at once evident that the medical student, having it distinctly before his mind, all along, that he is ultimatelv to be brought into contact with his examiners at the bedside of a patient, must be led to avail himself largely and earnestly of all the opportunities presented to him of learning the actual facts of disease for himself, and of obtaining experience in the methods of investigation used in forming a diagnosis. In like manner, the teacher, having in view that his pupils will be subjected to this test, will be more anxious to place them personally in contact with facts at the bedside, and to give them all necessary oppor- tunities of learning scientific methods. Both upon teacher and pupil, therefore, the influence of clinical examinations for good will be directly in proportion as the examinations are conducted