271 APOTHECAKIES' SOCIETY OF LONDON. however, is expected to ask for it, and failure to do so would not Soc. Apoth. pass unnoticed. The third patient was a little girl who had not '^^o^- brought any urine with her. II. Comment is made upon the recurrence of the same case as a subject for examination, and a case of fibroid phthisis is especially referred to at page 131. Answer. It may be noted that there are intervals of 49, 28, 63, 21, and 63 days respectively between the dates mentioned ; the case being in itself a very suitable one. It is very improbable, and, in fact, impossible, the Examiner being present, that such an occurrence as that suggested by the Visitors could have happened, viz., that a candidate could be informed by a patient as to the nature of the disease under which he was labouring. Supposing, however, the possibility of such an occurrence, simply naming the right diagnosis, without due reasoning and enumeration of the physical signs and symp- toms, would not count for much in the report of the case. With regard to the cases of diabetes insipidus alluded to by the Visitors, as coming to the Hall for examination on two consecutive weeks, this is an error. There were, in fact, on the dates brought forward two different patients, one having mellitus, the other insipidus. Altogether, in the year 1881, diabetes occurred eight times with four different patients. The case of chronic Bright's disease appeared twice in 1879, four times in 1880, and five times in 1881. As there are fifty- two examinations per annum, this does not seem too frequent. The patient appeared on the 23rd of February, and on the 2nd of March of 1881. With this exception, the interval was never shorter than ten weeks. III. It is stated that " it did not appear that the Examiners themselves were in any degree responsible for the diagnosis indi- cated in the book," pages 131 and 132. Ansiuer. It is the invariable custom of the Examiner to test for himself the correctness of the diagnosis sent with the patient, when the case has not been under his own care. This was done on the night in question before the arrival of the Visitors. Although the Examiner, who is present at the clinical exami- nation, may not make any remarks to the candidate who is