76 VISITATION-KEPOUT. COLX. Suiio. Irel. Primary Kxamination. Oral. Examiners. the ligaments of the knee-joint, the lungs, the intestines and other contents of the abdominal cavity, the superficial and deep palmar arch of arteries, the submaxillary, sublingual and parotid spaces, and the Hunterian canal. Occasionally a candi- date, after being asked to identify some of the structures, was told at once to follow them out with the knife to some other important structure. The two examiners on histology pursued somewhat different methods. Mr. Richardson placed a specimen under the micro- scope, and told the candidate generally what it was; for instance, a stained section of the tail of a kitten, display- ing several different structures, ossifying cartilage, muscle, &c. The candidate was then asked to identify the different structures. Another specimen was a section of kidney. He was asked to describe what he saw. Another was a section, of bone. Dr. Frazer's plan was to put some of the more simple structures under the microscope, as a rule not stained, and to ask the candidate to name them, such as yellow elastic tissue, bone, milk, and ordinary urinary dej)osits. The examiners in anatomy spent about ten minutes on each candidate, and the examiner in histology between five and ten minutes. There were twenty-seven candidates. The examination commenced at ten o'clock; the anatomical part of it was finished at 11.30 A.M. ; at 11.40 the examiners assembled in the Albert Hall to adjudicate upon the answers, and by twelve o'clock the whole of the proceedings was completed. Thus in the course of two hours twenty-seven candidates were examined and adjudicated upon. All the candidates passed their prac- tical examination. Six examiners were engaged in the anatomical part, and two in the histological. "When there is a large number of candidates there is a larger number of subjects, allowing six or eight candidates to each subject. The examiners go on with the examination until it is completed, whatever the number. The largest number they have examined recently was in April 1880, when there were sixty-seven who underwent the practical examination. On that occasion five were rejected ; and the whole of the examination was completed in three hours. The examination is continued without inter- mission until completed. In the entire examination witnessed by the Visitors each examiner spent about fifteen hours, exclu-