PABT I.—GENERAL IMPRESSIONS 26 The examination in medicine was well condncted within the R. Coll.Sueg. limits assicned to it: bat it contained no element on which the Visitors feel bound to remark, and, in particular, no clinical or other specially practical department, the wh.ole decision resting upon a written and viva voce examination of the ordinary character. The Visitors also observed the singular want of knowledge of anatomy on the part of the majority of the candidates at the final examination, and which they believe is mainly due to the system of students ceasing to pursue anatomical studies at the end of the first eighteen months of their pupilage. The Visitors venture to suggest whether it would not be desirable, at the final examination, to examine candidates on strictly surgical regional anatomy. By so doing, the probabilities are that students would not altogether lay aside the practical study of anatomy at the end of their second year. The Visitors are aware that anatomical questions in considerable numbers are given at the final examination, but, in their opinion, the ques- tions are not suflBciently restricted to the surgical aspect of anatomy, and many of them might fairly be considered suit- able for a primary examination. The error consists in not having it saflQciently defined what the amount of anatomy required is, and in not limiting that amount strictly to the needs of surgical practice. The system of examination at the two English colleges difiers Points in the materially. At the College of Surgeons the examiners who read at'thTEngHsh over the papers and appraise them, do not, under any circum- Colleges of stances, examine the same candidates in any part of the viva voce. I'liysic'ans » i n 11 r>-ni • • ii • t t and Surgeons At the uollege or Jr'nysicians, the same examiners read the papers compared. and examine both clinically and viva voce at the hospital. Thus a candidate's work in any department of examination, for instance in medicine, is reviewed from beginning to end by the same examiners, who can form an opinion of the whole work. But at the College of Surgeons, each subdivision of the examination is judged and appraised by a difterent examiner, and with com- plete independence and absolute ignorance of what has gone before. Should a candidate break down with any one of these examiners, there is no possibility of his work being reviewed and compared as a whole. Under a system in which merely ten minutes or a quarter of an hour is allowed for each portion of the examination, a candidate who has proved unsatis-