REMARKS ON VISITATrON-REPORT. 280 Apoth. Hall, of the tests by the candidates themselves was not required, Ireland. order that time might be gained for asking a wider range of questions, but the suggestion of the Visitors could be acted on either by extending the time allotted for the Oral Examination, or by limiting its area, as intimated on page 9 of the Report. In making any change, however, the particular duties and requirements of the general practitioner must be carefully considered. The Examiner is strongly of opinion that the important subject of morbid urine should form a part of the Primary Examination as well as of the Clinical, so that the students' early attention may be directed to it. Medicine. Tn reference to this Examination the Visitors remark " that it appeared to proceed upon pretty definite lines; the pathology part of it having been guided by the preparations on the table, and the rest by a short paper of notes previously prepared by the Examiner; that the range of subjects over which the candidates were taken was certainly ample, and such as might, under favourable circumstances, have elicited a very large amount of knowledge : on the present occasion it un- doubtedly failed in doing this; that it appeared in several instances the subjects were rather superficially dealt with, and not so as to elicit any comprehensive or precise knowledge." In reply, the Examiner states that the candidates were very nervous, that the Oral Examination was directed mainly to test their practical knowledge, and was accordingly extended over a wide field of subjects, which, of itself, accounts for the apparent incompleteness of the questions upon some of the subjects; but that this remark of the Visitors certainly does not apply to the questions in the written part of the Examination. See pages 216 and 217 of the Report. Pathology. The Examiner in this department desires to point out a seeming incompleteness in the Report of his Examination, for instance, in the case of Candidate (1), a preparation of