124 VISITATION-EKPOET. Final Exjimination (Single). Cliiiifiil Medicine. Fac. Phts. & invited to percuas, to listen to the heart sounds, &c., and state Surg. Gi.asg. i • , . . i , • , • , . , . . ins genera! impressions, but m most lustauces without having to specify the phenomena in detail. Individual cases will illustrate the character of the examina- tion :—Candidate No. 1 had an average case of phthisis to report upon, in which the left apex was chiefly involved. He made out the main points correctly. He was also examined upon .several specimens of urine, the result of the in.][uiry being satisfactory. Of the two microscopic specimens he recognised the uric acid, but failed to identify the phosphates. Candidate No. 2 was examined upon a case of rather remarkable pigmentation of the skin, which Dr. Charteris, who had seen a good deal of the patient, considered to be one of Addison's disease. However, it differed from the ordinary type of pigmentation in Addison's disease, as being, to a marked extent, patchy, and also peculiar in its distribution. The diagnosis here, of course, must be con- sidered an open question, but on the whole the symptoms, as well as the skin affection, seemed to indicate the true diagrnosis to be as stated. The candidate took this view of the case, and gave a fair account of it from his own personal investiga- tion. He also correctly observed and defined a case of ordinary phthisis. This candidate was decidedly the best of those examined. The Visitors thought that the examination might have been made more searching, though probably not more conclusive, by asking questions of detail as regards the candi- date's knowledge of the usual characters of the discoloration, and the peculiarities of the variations in this case as com- pared with other cutaneous affections resembling it. The candi- date was ultimately rejected on surgery alone, though his marks on all the other subjects were considerably above the average. Candidate No. 3 was examined in the first instance upon a case of purpura, which he designated correctly, but, so far as the Visitors observed, without showing much knowledge of detail. It was evident that he had seen the disease before, and was able to diflferentiate it. The same candidate was shown a case of chorea, and questioned generally upon it, particularly the treatment, his answers being in the main correct. Asked to auscultate a patient, he at once declared that he could not hear anything " with his ears," his explanation being that although he could hear conversation correctly, he could not hear with