PART II.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. 103 distance from each other. There were no assessors ; but mem- k. Q. Colx,. bars, fellows, and licentiates of the college were allowed to be Fhys. Irel. present. The time devoted to each examination is not Pathology, limited, the examiner proceeding with his questions as long as ^^^^^^j*''?^ °^ he thinks fit, and when he has finished with one candidate, Porensic' calhng up another. One half of the candidates are admitted at Medicine, the beginning, and care is taken that they are so sitting apart ^id^feiy. that one candidate cannot hear the examination of another. The result of this is that some candidates are examined for about ten minates, or a quarter of an hour, others for a considerably longer period. Next day, the whole examination occupied four hours for fifteen candidates. The system which previously prevailed, of ringing a bell every quarter of an hour, has been abandoned by this college as being inferior to the present system. It will appear from the schedule of examination, that the viva voce, like the written examination, is subdivided into sections, each of which is supposed to be distinguished by a numerical mark, indicating relative success or failure iu that part, the judgment on the whole being composed of an average or general estimate by the examiner of the value of these separate markings. The system here indicated, however, Marking, is not necessarily rigidly adhered to, the numerical markings being simply private indications for the examiner. It is pur- sued with varying degrees of exactitude by the difierent examiners. Where it is most completely followed, the examina- tion of each candidate proceeds on pre-determined lines ; and the same series of questions is repeated through the whole number of candidates. These lines involve questions under five different headings, to each of which a value is attached, the maximum value—but mainly unattainable—being ten. The Yisitors did not understand that there was any very precise number corre- sponding to "pass" or "reject" under each heading; nor yet is the whole estimate of the examination indicated numerically, the examiner simply placing at the end of the line "pass," or not. The numerical system in this case is, therefore, in a great measure subordinated to what may be called a general mental estimate, and individual examiners do not even affect to consider the numbers as having in themselves any importance. Dr. Benson, in particular, told us that he freely diverges from the ideal plan, makes his examination discursive, according to circumstances, varies it considerably in each case, and practi-