YISITATION-EEPOET. 152 ■"Afoth. Hall, Ibel. Final Examination. Surgery. Clinical Medicins, as to the relation of this to the dangers of typhoid fever, or as to the stage of the fever at which these dangers commonly occur. The surgical examination was conducted by Dr. Chaeles MoOBE and Dr. O'Neill, Only one candidate was required to pass it, the other candidate having already a surgical qualifica- tion. The examination was commenced with histology, and two microscopes were used. The candidate was required to recognise various bodies placed under them—e.g., (1) trichina spiralis, (2) a section of epithelial cancer, (3) a section of a scirrhous breast. The candidate did not appear to be at all familiar with the subject. He was then examined on the opera- tion of cupping ; and having been handed a scarificator, was required to set the blades so that the incision should be of a proper depth. Various questions were asked in reference to the opera- tion generally. The candidate was then handed a syringe for hypodermic injections, and questioned as regards the amount of morphia that may with safety be subcutaneously injected in the case of an adult. He was also questioned on the other agents that are used hypodermically besides morphia. Several varieties of catheters having been handed to the candidate, he was ques- tioned on the mode of employing them. He was then given a few questions on fracture of the lower end of the radius, and on the characteristic signs of its fracture. Dr. O'Neill next examined the candidate on erysipelas, questioning him on the difierent forms of the disease and the classifications that have been made. The etiology of the disease was also discussed, as well as the symptoms and external characters, such as swell- ing, vesication, desquamation, the special dangers that attend erysipelas of the head, and the wounds thab are most likely to be followed by this disease. Questions were also asked on the class of persons that are most likely to be subject to it. The examination concluded with questions on the treatment of the disease in the simple forms of it. On bark in effervescence being suggested, the candidate was handed a piece of paper, and re- quired to write a prescription for it. The Visitors attended, January 12th, at 11 o'clock a.m., in the Meath Hospital, to witness the clinical examination of the two candidates who had been examined in medicine and sui'gery orally on the previous day. The examiners were Dr. Chaeles Mooee and Dr, BOLLAND. By some misapprehension, the Visitors on enter-