166 TISTTATION-EEPORT. E. Coll. Sukg. Irel. Diploma in Midwifery. Diploma in Midwipeey. Qualifications of Caiididateg. Every Candidate must be a Fellow or Licentiate of the College. He shall be admitted to an examination for the Diploma in Midwifery upon laying before the Council the following certilicates:— (a) That he has attended one course of Lectures on Midwifery and Diseases of Women and Children, in some school recognised by the Council; (b) Six months' practice of a Lying-in Hospital recognised by the Council, or of a Dispensary for Lying-in Women and Children, recognised by the Council, and devoted to this branch of Surgery alone ; and (c) That he has conducted thirty labour cases at least. Fees. The Candidate shall pay One pound six shillings for the Midwifery Diploma, provided he takes it out within one month from the receipt of his Letters Testimonial; if that period be exceeded, he shall pay a fee of Two pounds two shillings. Midrvifery Examination. The Examination of Candidates for the Diploma in Midwifery is con- ducted by the Examiners in Midwifery, and such Examinations are held from time to time as the Council may direct. Candidates for the Midwifery Diploma are examined on :— (a) The Organisation of the Female; (5) The Growth and Peculiarities of the Foetus; (c) The Practice of Midwifery; and {d) The Diseases of Women and Children. A rejected Candidate is not again admitted to examination until a period of three months shall have elapsed, and is then obliged to produce satis- factory evidence of his having been engaged during that period in the study of Midwifery. Headings of Answer Book. PAPEKS CONCEENING THE CONDUCT OF THE EXAMINATIONS. Notice. Candidate's number only to be given. Each Examiner to be answered in a separate book. Answers of Candidate No to Mr 's Questions in Directions to the Caiididate. This book is to be returned to the Examiner without mutilation. The blank side of each leaf is meant for your rough work ; the copy which you intend the Examiner to read is to be written on the ruled pages. If you Tvish to make any erasure, draw your pen through the part which is to be struck out. But on no account is any leaf to be cut or torn. The Examiners will give a second book to any candidate who requires it. In each exercise attention should be paid to handwriting and to cor- rectness of expression.