VISITATION-EEPOET. 162 E. Coll. Sued, time until after the expiration of three months from their first Examination, Ihel. if the rejection takes place at any one of the Stated Examinations, or six months if it occurs at a Special Examination. Letters Testimonial. Junior Class Examination. The Candidates shall be examined in numerical order, and the Exami- nation sliall occupy tliree days, thus to be allotted :— 1st day.—Printed Questions on Anatomy, Physiology, Materia Medica, and Chemistry; 2nd day.— Viva voce Examination on the same subjects; 3rd day.—Dissections and Histology. No Candidate will be allowed to proceed to the second day's Examina- tion who has not passed the first; or to the third, who has not passed the second. First Day—(Printed Questions). Four hours shall be devoted to the Examination, which are to be thus ialloited:— 10 to 12 A.M.—Anatomy ; 4 to 6 P.M.—Physiology, Materia Medica, and Chemistry. Morninff.—Twelve printed questions in Anatomy are given to each Candidate. These questions are to be such as all Candidates maybe fairly expected to answer—answers to four of them only being required. If any Candidate has completed his papers before the end of the two hours, he may leave the hall upon handing them to the Examiner. Afternoon—Bming the second two hours (four to six o'clock), four questions in Physiology, three in Materia Medica, and three in Chemistry, are given, which questions also shall be such as all Candidates may be fairly expected to answer. The Candidate shall at least answer two ques- tions in Physiology, one in Materia Medica, and one in Chemistry. Books of ruled paper are supplied to each Candidate, in which his answers are to be legibly written. The Candidate's English and Ortho- graphy to be taken into account in adjudicating his marks. At the conclusion of this day's Examination the Examiners read the answers, and at the expiration of twenty-four hours the whole Court meets to decide upon the marks. Each Candidate is then informed by letter as to whether he has or has not satisfied the Examiners. Second Bay—( Viva Voce). The Oral Examinations commence at four o'clock, and each of four Examiners examines the Candidate for one quarter of an hour, at a sepa- rate table; three of the Examiners on Anatomy and Physiology, and one on Materia Medica and Chemistry. The other Examiners act as assessors. At the conclusion of each examination the Examiner shall express his opinion by a number, and hand same, on paper, to the presiding Councillor. When the Examinations are over, the whole Court of Examiners assembles to count the marks awarded to each Candidate. The Candidate is then informed by letter as to whether he has or has not satisfied the Examiners. Third Day—{Dissections and Sistoloffy). Subjects are provided for this Examination, two Examiners and six Candidates being allotted to each subject, the Examination commencing at 10 A..M. Each Candidate is first to make a dissection of a region allotted to him ; half an hour, at least, being allowed him for this purpose. He is then examined on the Anatomy of that part, as well as upon the regions dissected by other Candidates. Two Examiners, conjointly, conduct tliis part of the Examination. The Candidate is next examined on preparations under the College microscopes by two of the Examiners.