PART n.ѥDETAILS OF EXAMINATION?. 97 Dr. Gervis and Dr. Meadows in turn questioned the candi- R. Coll. Phts. dates. Dr. Meadows examining upon midwifery and Dr. Geevis Lond. on diseases of women. The chief examination was upon defects Final in the answers given in the written papers, each answer being Examination, taken as a text on which an extensive oral examination was conducted. The first candidate was questioned on parametritis and its treatment, and on pelvic abscess. His examination occupied about half an hour. The second candidate was exa- mined first on protracted labour, on the dimensions of the foetal bead and of the pelvis, on haemorrhage before labour, on the treatment of placenta preevia, on conditions that would call for turning in labour, and in what degree of deformed pelvis this proceeding would be admissible. Then by the other examiner the same candidate was questioned on his defective answer on a case of uterine haemorrhage late in life, with cancer of the uterus and perimetritis. This candidate's examination lasted about half an hour. The examination of the third candidate was much of the same kind, and on the same subjects. The Visitors did not witness the examination of the other candidates at this table, but as they had done well in their previous work, their examination was short and rapidly gone through. Two out of the three candidates above referred to were rejected. During the examination by Mr. Lawson and Mr. Bryant in surgery, on the table were specimens of injuries and diseases of bone, a bladder with a large prostate, and a large sacculated aneurism. Each examiner gave a series of questions, and as the three candidates appeared to be insufiSciently prepared, about half an hour was spent upon each. The following subjects were discussed : Fractured clavicle and the displacement of the frag- ments, mode of treatment; Potts's fracture and the methods of its treatment; case of stricture ; the course urine usually takes in extravasation; cataract and its nature ; purulent ophthalmia and its.treatment; the symptoms and causes of acute obstruction of the bowel; the symptoms of intussusception, of inguinal hernia, congenital hernia, diseased bladder with enlarged pros- tate, and aneurism of the aorta. a