VISITATION-REPOET, 82 r. ooll. surq. ' Irel. Final Examination. Oral. Operative Surgery. At Mercer's Hospital, notes of the following cases were taken and submitted to the Visitors : 1. Bruise, probably with fractured rib; 2. Strumous ulceration of the rectum, for which colotomy had been performed; 3. Disease of the knee-joint; 4. Pulsating tumour below right ear, diagnosed by the candidate as aneurism of the carotid ; 5. Necrosis of the head of the tibia ; 6. Case of compound fracture, with protracted recovery; 7. Case of haemorrhoids ; 8. Ditto ; 9. Sinus near left eye; 10. Potts's frac- ture. The Visitors did not see this portion of the examination, but concluded that, in accordance with the rule of the college, every one of the candidates had had to apply a bandage. On Saturday, July 30th, the Visitors arrived at ten o'clock A.M., at the College of Surgeons, and saw the preparations made for the examination. The examiners met in the Albert Hall; and after a short interval, the candidates were called in and, one by one, in the order of their numbers on the examination list, were directed to draw a number from a ballot box. As there had been originally over forty candidates, the numbers balloted for began with 50, in order that the number drawn by ballot might not be confused with the number attached to the candidate's name. Each candidate having drawn his number, retained the card, and the number was recorded opposite his designating number. This process having been completed, the examiners retired to the dis- secting room of the College of Surgeons, in which there were three subjects. These had been injected with preservative fluid, but not with any colouring material, so that the arteries might be as natural as possible. On a table were displayed instru- ments, mostly intended to be used by the candidates during the operation. Additional instruments were on the table, not for use, but to serve the purpose of questioning by the examiners. Amongst the instruments there were about six saws, two dozen of dissecting forceps, eight pairs of scissors, six or eight pairs of artery forceps, five large amputating knives, trephines, catheters, bandages, apparatus for fracture of the clavicle, lithotomy instru- ments, various forms of tourniquets, six or eight in number; cupping instruments, trochars, lithotrites, hypodermic syringe, ophthalmoscope, and stomach-pump. These instruments were in good order, and the Visitors were told that they were supplied by an instrument maker who is paid a certain sum per year for iurnishing the examinations, and who keeps sets of ordinary in-