VISITATION-REPORT. 48 Anatomy. Apoth. Hail, practitioner. This excellent examination leads almost neces- sarily to the remark tliat, considering how much the prevention of disease is in the hands of the ordinary or family practitioner all over the country, it seems nothing less than a dereliction of duty that the subject of hygiene should in no examining board visited in connection with the present report, besides the King and Queen's College of Physicians in Ireland and the Apothe- caries' Hall of Ireland, have obtained that distinct recognition to which it is entitled. It is not enough to urge that separate diplomas in public health are issued by various universities and corporations, for it would be a very serious consequence of the specialisation of that subject were it to be withdrawn practically from the list of subjects on which the ordinary medical advisers of families might be supposed to be well instructed. That there is a possibility of danger at this moment of its being so neglected has been prominently brought before the Visitors by the entirely exceptional importance given to it by this corporation. As regards the anatomical examination, the Visitors con- sider that it is designed upon correct lines. In the viva voce portion of it, the examiners did as much as possible with candidates who were below the average in anatomical attain- ments. The plan of examining the candidates, without entering into any minute detail, was, on the whole, practical and good; and the candidates having themselves to make dissections is another element in the examina*ion which the Visitors com- mend to notice. The actual dissections made by the candidates were not as good as those witnessed at the examinations of the few other Bodies where this method of testing is carried out. In reference to the examination in chemistry, it was, as far as it went, satisfactory, but would have been more so had the candi- dates been required themselves to perform the manipulations, and to explain in symbols the nature of various reactions and show generally that they had a practical knowledge of the subject. In materia medica, pharmacy, and prescriptions, the examination was everything that could be desired. In medicine, on the other hand, whether in the oral or the clinical, the Visitors remarked that there was throughout a want of definiteness apparent both as regards the questions asked and the answers received from the candidate. The range of the examination was extensive; but in no one subject did it seem to proceed upon Chemistry. Medicine.