209 PART III.—DOCUMENTS CONCERNING EXAMINATIONS. The Lecturer on the Principles and Practice of Medicine must be a legally registered Physician. The Lecturer on Materia Medica and Therapeutics must also be a registered Physician, or a Licentiate of tliis Court of four years' standing. The Lecturer on Midwifery must be a member of one of the legally constituted Colleges of Physicians or 8iirgeons in the United Kingdom of four years' standing ; or he must have been a Licentiate of this Court for the same period. Apoth. Soc. LoND. Recognition of Hospitals & Dispeusarios. Hospitals and Dispensaries. No Hospital will be recognised by the Court unless— 1. It contain at least 100 beds. 2. It be under the care of two or more legally qualified Physicians, such Physicians being Fellows or Members of the Eoyal College of Physicians, London; of the Eoyal College of Physicians, Edinburgh; or of the King and Queen's College of Physicians, Ii-eland, and a legally qualified Resident Medical Practitioner. .S. The Physicians give lectures on Clinical Medicine, and instruction in Morbid Anatomy. No medical practice will be available, unless it be attended in con- formity with the course of study prescribed for students. The above Regulations only apply to the two and a half years' study at a recognised school or hospital. By order of the Court of Examiners. THOMAS R. WHEELER, Apothecaries' Hall, Seeretm-y. London, E.C., 1880. For information relative to these Regulations, students are referred to the Beadle, at Apothecaries' Hall, every day betmeen the hours of 10 and 4 o'clock ; on Saturdays, 10 to 2 ; excepting Good Friday and the following Saturday, Easter Monday, WTiit Monday, the first Monday in August, and the 25th and 2&th of December, on jvhich days the office will be closed. It is expressly ordered by the Court of Examiners, that no gratuity be received by amy officer or servant of the Court. Information on all subjects connected with the " Act for Better Regu- lating the Practice of Apothecaries " may be obtained on application to Mr. J. R. Upton, Clerk of the Society, at the Hall, every day (Saturday excepted), between the hours of 1 and 3 o'clock. Name in full. Wednesday, December lith, 1881. Apothecaries' Hall. Questions for the First Examination. Anatomy. Questions: 1. Describe the heart, including its vascular and nervous supply. Anatomy, 2. Describe the superior maxillary bone, and mention the muscles attached to it. 3. How is the stomach supplied with its blood and nerves ? 0