ROTAt COLLEGES OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS OF EDINBURGH. 261 «' The Examination for the Double Qualification of the Glasgow Faculty R. Colls. pertains also to that of the College of Physicians of Edinburgh, but of Phys. Suaa. this examination the primary witnessed by the Visitors was conducted ^mn. almost exclusively by the Glasgow Examiners, those from Edinburgh acting merely pro forma, while, at the final, the Edinburgh examiners took fully an equal part in the examination; and, indeed, performed exclusively the part of it relating to medicine, the examiners of the Glasgow Faculty taking the part relating to surgery."—P. 40. That the statement contained in the first half of this sen- tence is incorrect is shown by the Visitors' own description of the examination alluded to (pp. 118, 119, 120), and it may here be said, that in the primary as well as in the final examination, an eqnal part is taken by the Examiners of each Corporation. The Visitors had manifestly confounded the Single Examination of the Glasgow Faculty with that for the Double Qualification, which usually immediately follows it. The Colleges would next refer to a passage contained in the Remarks on Examinations. " At the Royal Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons, Edinburgh, the very questionable practice still prevails of framing at the beginning of the year the questions for the written part of the several series of Exa- minations, while in the arrangements for each examination the written answers are read and decided upon by examiners who may not have been responsible for the questions put, and the viva voce part is conducted by different examiners who may, and often do, ask the same questions as have been already given in writing. In order to secure co-operation it is obviously desirable, as the Visitors in 1873 observed, that the same examiners should conduct the whole of the examination."—P. 19. The statement of the Visitors gives a very imperfect im- pression as to the manner in which the questions are prepared, and a very little inquiry would have made them aware of this. The written questions are never set by single examiners : they are prepared by the examiners in sections, and are only decided upon when they have been submitted to careful consideration by the whole Court. It is also quite erroneous to say that the examiners at the viva voce part " may and often do ask the same questions as have been already given in writing: " this is rendered im- possible by the fact that the written questions are always laid on the table for the information of the examiners. A com- parison, moreover, of the written questions printed in the third part of the Report, with the outline of questions proposed at