PART I.—GENERAL IMPRESSIONS. 29 iadustry and manipulative dexterity acquired by the candidate E.Coll.Subg. himself in the dissecting room. ' The impulse which this method gives to practical work in Characteristics the dissecting room is evident, as it must soon become known ^^^^3^'^°^'°^' to all preparing for examination that only in the practical work of the dissectiug room can the information and personal skill in manipulation be obtained that it is the object of this examination to elicit. Seeing that one great object of an exami- nation, nay, even the greatest, is to direct study, the Visitors cannot but feel that the method which enforces the most valuable kind of study ought to be an essential factor in the testing of every candidate. They were struck, too, with the courtesy ex- hibited towards the candidates throughout, the main object of the examiners being apparently to elicit the knowledge of the candidates, rather than to discover their deficiencies. They specially remarked the manner in which some of the examiners —evidently experienced in their work—dealt with a candidate who hesitated about an answer. Instead of passing onto another subject, leaving that as a point recorded against the candidate, the examiner told him the answer, and thereby, in many instances, elicited the fact that it was a mere temporary hesitation, and that on the subject on which he seemed at the moment ignorant, he was thoroughly well informed. This seems to have the additional advantage of securing the candidate against the nervousness of feeling that he has missed a point, and is a great economy of time in enabling the examiner more rapidly to go on with his testing. The Visitors did not see any instance in which it helped an inferior candidate to appear better than he deserved to appear. There is another feature in the examinations of the Irish College of Surgeons worthy of serious consideration by other Examining Bodies, although difierent opinions may fairly be held as to its wisdom. To examine thoroughly in every depart- ment of an examination implies a great demand upon the labour and time of the examiners, and upon the funds of the Examining Bodies. It is a serious question how far waste of time and waste of power can be prevented. This difficulty has been solved by the Irish College of Surgeons in a remarkable manner. Although the method may be open to certain objections, and possess dis- advantages, the question which it appears to the Visitors desirable to raise is whether these possible objections are not