VISITATION-REPORT, 20 E. Coll. Subg. Enq. informed, eminent in the particular departments in which they are employed, and apparently of large experience in the work of examination. Each candidate is examined on a considerable variety of objects in a remarkably short period of time, and yet, so far as the Visitors observed, without any want of exactness as regards individual questions. It may indeed be fairly open to doubt whether the strain upon the candidate, as upon the examiner, may not be too great from the attempt to include so much within a quarter of an hour; and one of the examiners spon- taneously indicated that, but for the alternate action of the two at each table, the strain to himself would certainly be too great. The supply of materials for this examination was remarkably complete. At each of the two anatomical tables there was at least the possibility of discussing the anatomy of every important dissection of the human body on th.e basis of actual preparations, moist or dry ; while the fresh dissection of a body in the centre of the room, carried, on by successive stages from day to day by the prosectors, gave material for the consideration of parts in their freshly dissected condition. It might, perhaps, be objected that there was a predominance of spirit preparations over recent dissections; and it is indeed admitted that the preparations, on which the examination is conducted, are open to the previous consultation of students within the college, and are moreover reproduced at most of the anatomical schools. It seems to be a matter of deliberate determination that, in the plan of these examinations, comparative anatomy is excluded. There was nothing that the Visitors observed to suggest a question on homology ; much less was there any approximation to questions intended to elicit knowledge of the ascending and descending scale of typical foi'mations throughout the animal kingdom. The physiological questions were perhaps not so strictly, but still, in the main, similarly limited. The object was clearly to secure that the attention of students, so far as their examination was concerned, should be concentrated on human anatomy and physiology, with the view of securing greater thoroughness of preparation. It may, howevei', be rea- sonably doubted whether a system of examination that practically excludes, or minimises the importance of, philosophical morpho- logy exerts an altogether wholesome influence on the teaching.