ROTAL COLLEGES OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS OF EDINBURGH. 263 " The stringency as to minute detail in examination is undoubtedly R. Colls. having an injurious reflex effect upon philosophical anatomical teaching, '^"^^^j^"'**' The result is that teaching is becoming more and more bound by the • requirements of the examining bodies which demand such minute know- ledge."—P. 10. " It is obvious that the assumption of a perfect knowledge all round, even of human anatomy, is far too great a strain for the average candi- date aspiring to the practice of medicine and surgery."—P. 22. And, again, wifch a passage quoted with the highest approval from Professor Humphry's " Hnnterian Oration " :— " We should strive for good, clear, solid, intelligent, producible, and available knowledge, of the kind that will be useful in after life—not so much the refinements of chemistry, anatomy, and physiology, which, in their aggregate, are likely to perplex, encumber, stupify, and then pass away like chaff before the wind, but the essential, fundamental facts and principles welded together, and so woven into the student's mind that he can hold them firmly and wield them effectually."—P. 17. It may farther be observed, that the depreciatory remarks by the Visitors npon the anatomical examinations of the Colleges are not borne out by any facts stated, as may be readily seen by referring to the details of the examinations at which the Visitors were present (pp. 107, 108), as well as to the written questions (p. 187), and by comparing the Reports, as given by the Visitors themselves, of the Examinations of the Colleges of Surgeons of England and Ireland. From these sources of in- formation the Colleges cannot discover the slightest diflference in the essential character and quality of the examinations, except in the application of the dissection test, and the presence of freshly-dissected material upon which the examination may be based. Very little is said of the Examination in Chemistry ; but the Visitors have fallen into a strange mistake, which says little for the care with which their Report was drawn up. In the " Re- marks on Examinations " on page 35, the Visitors say, " There were no arrangements for testing the practical knowledge of the candidates by actual experiment." This is quite erroneous ; at every examination sets of unnamed substances, reagents, and chemical apparatus are invariably laid out, and every candidate is required to show his knowledge by actual testing. The Visitors must have forgotten, when they made the above state-