PART III.—DOCUMENTS CONCEENINQ EXAMINATIONS. 179 ducted by the Royal College of Surgeons of England, or the Royal College B. Coll. Phts. of Svirgeons of Edinburgh, or the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, Lond. or the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow, after a Course of Study and an Examination satisfactory to the College, will be exempt By-laws, from re-examination on Surgical Anatomy and Pathology, including Licentiates. Morbid Anatomy, and on the Principles and Practice of Surgery. Any Candidate who shall have obtained a Foreign Qualification which entitles him to practise Medicine or Surgery in the country where such Qualification has been conferred, after a Course of Study and an Examina- tion equivalent to those required by the regulations of the College, shall, on production of satisfactory evidence as to age, moral character, and pro- ficiency in vaccination, be admissible to the Pass Examination, and shall be exempt from re-examination on such subjects as shall in each case be considered by the Censors' Board to be unnecessary. Every Candidate before receiving the College License shall be required to pledge himself by subscribing his name to the following words :—" I faithfully promise to observe and obey the Statutes, By-laws, and Itegula- timis of the College relating to Licentiates, and to submit to such j^enalties as may be lawfully imposed for any neglect or infringement of them." Each Licentiate shall have the following Form of Qualification to practise Medicine, Surgery, and Midwifery given to him, under the Seal of the Corporation, signed by the President and by the Examiners :—"I, A.B., President of the Royal College of Physicians of London, with the consent of the Fellows of the same College, have, under the authority given to us by Royal Cha/rter and Act of Parlia/nient, granted to CD., who has satisfied the College of his proficiency, owr License under the said Charter, to practise Physic, including therein the practice of Medicine, Swrgery, and Midwifery, so long as he shall continue to obey the Statutes, By-laws, and Regulations of the College relating to Licentiates: in witness whereof we have this day set our Seal and Signatures. Bated at the College, the y of i» the year of owr Lord ." Signed President. jExaminers. / K.B.—This document shall be signed by the Licentiate with his usual signature, and by the Registrar with the following words:—" 7 certify that CD., to whom this License has been granted by the College, and whose Signature is subjoined, has been duly admitted to practise Physio, as a Licentiate of the College, and that such License is a legal authority to him to practise Medicine, Surgery, and Midwifery, and to dispense Medicines, but only to those who are his own patients." ^ Licentiate Registrar M 2