REMARKS ON VISITATION-REPORT. 262 the Oral Examination (see pp. 107 to 115), will show ttat there is no evidence that such repetition of questions occurred at the two parts of the examination. It is somewhat remarkable, that while the Edinburgh Colleges are blamed for persisting in the practice of having the results of the written and oral examinations decided upon by different Examiners, the same practice, when carried out by the Royal College of Surgeons of England, seems to meet with the commendation of the Visitors. On page 64 the following passage occurs :— " At the close of the written examination the papers are divided among the examiners, and it is so arranged that the examiners who read over and adjudicate upon them do not examine the candidates viva voce. Thus each candidate, in his written papers, comes under one set of four Exa- miners, and in his viva voce comes before the other four Examiners. The object of this, and other arrangements indicated, seems to be to secure, as far as possible, absolute impartiality, and to prevent even the appearance of undue favour being shown to the pupils of one or another school at the examination." The Colleges will now briefly refer to a few of the special subjects of examination referred to by the Visitors. As to the examination in anatomy for the Double Qualifica- tion, the Visitors observe:— " The major part of the anatomical examination consisted of questions which, in the opinion of the Visitors, were of too elementary a character for an examination for this Qualification. When considered in reference to the time bestowed on the examination of each candidate, the range of topics was so wide as to preclude anything like a searching inquiry into the knowledge of the candidate as regards any particular topic. This, of course, was the more marked, inasmuch as the questions were in reference to technical memory, rather than to any objects put before the candi- date."—P. 35. Again, at page 109 :— " In this examination no fresh dissections were prepared, nor were the candidates themselves required to dissect, while the range of sabjecta over which the examination was conducted was so extensive as to preclude the examiners, having regard to the limited time at their disposal, from asking more than the elementary questions." These remarks harmonise strangely with the following clanses in the General Observations of the Visitors :—