PART I.—GENEEAL IMPRESSIONS. 41 question and answer, and without much reference to the objective or experimental method, cover a good deal of ground, ■ and elicit the knowledge of the candidate in a satisfactory manner. Kemarks. The subject of prescriptions receives considerable attention. As in the case of the other Bodies already visited, so in that of the Society of Apothecaries, there are points of excellence from which instruction may be gained, and which are sug- gestive of improvements that might be adopted by other examining boards. It seemed to the Visitors that the plan by which the testing of microscopical specimens was undertaken by one of the examiners, who devoted the whole time of the exami- nation to this department, allowed of its being conducted in a very thorough manner, without hurry, and with due allowance for the varying degrees of readiness of different candidates. Another instructive point was the manner in which the candi- dates were examined on the living subject as to the position of the various organs of the body. The principle of closely question- ing a candidate on the position and size of the various organs of the body seems to the Visitors one of great importance, and capable of being made an instrument of the highest possible value in medical education. This method is, however, more suitable for the final than for the primary examination, inasmuch as to be utilised to its full extent it ought to be carried out with direct reference to the practical uses to be made of it by the exact defi- nitions required in physical diagnosis, as by mensuration, auscul- tation, and percussion of the chest and abdomen. On the other hand, considered as an examination in primary anatomy, and as a substitute for actual dissection, the Visitors are of opinion that it is very inadequate. As a matter of fact, the candidates were required simply to indicate in a general manner the position of the organs without any precision. As an instance of this want of precision, a candidate who very grossly misplaced the spleen and the arch of the aorta, nevertheless received a mark which did not interfere with his passing, this candidate being already a member of a surgical Licensing Body, which had submitted him to full anatomical examination, and the standard of which is generally believed to be very high. The viva voce examination in anatomy witnessed by the Anatomy. Visitors on the second day is, as an anatomical test, wholly insufficient for a Body having the right to place its licentiates on