VISITATION-REPORT. 24 E. Coll. Suhg. necessarily be distributed amongst a large number of cases, some Eng. -prliich are inevitably of inferior value for testing the candi- didates ; fifthly, that there is much, less risk of any collusion between tbe candidates and the patients, sucb as occasionally takes place when the clinical surgical examination is conducted at hospitals known beforehand. This method also contributes to the more systematic carrying out of the details of the examination, enables the bandaging and application of splints to a healthy subject to be conducted at the same time, and allows the examiners to be all in the same building, taking different departments of the work. Moreover, the giving to each candidate the same series of cases to diagnose and report on enables the examiners much more easily to come to a conclusion with regard to the relative mei'its of the candidates. The Visitors think that the system which is worked in so thorough and efficient a manner by the Royal College of Surgeons of England is well worthy the consideration of the other surgical examining boards. A second point observed, with great satisfaction, is the method of testing the students' know- ledge of the various anatomical landmarks on the living subject. The effect upon study of these two methods of examination cannot but be good. The Visitors also thought highly of the oral examination in surgery and surgical pathology, particularly the effective use, in this department of the examination, of the various specimens, illustrating points in surgical pathology, taken from the unrivalled museum of the College. Having thus drawn attention to the points deserving of approbation, the Visitors feel bound, also, to notice those which. Importance of in their opinion, are capable of improvement. In the first place, testing by jfc ^ould be desirable that steps should be taken to test the candi- thrdeaTbody dates by actual operation on the dead body, as it is only by this and of prac- method that their knowledge can be satisfactorily tested in that tion oT^^'''^" important branch of surgery. Another advantage is, that it is bandages. also the best method of testing their knowledge of the use of instruments. The Visitors are also of opinion that every student should be required to apply both a bandage and a splint, as was rigidly enforced by the examining bodies in Dublin, Edinburgh, and Glasgow. In this examination only one candidate was re- quired to apply a bandage, and no candidate was required to apply a splint for a supposed fracture.