apothecaries' society 01'' LONDON. The Court has not thought it advisable that the candidate Soc. Apoth. should be asked any questions during the Clinical Examination, for sucb interference may distract his mind, guide him to the detection of the disease, and give him ideas which may influence the character of his paper. Many of the Examining Bodies adopt a similar practice. At the time of the Visitors, appointed by the GtENERAL Medical Council, coming to the Hall, the Court of Examiners had in contemplation some new regulations with reference to the Clinical Examination, and they are now acting on the following rule, namely, that "the Examiner conducting the Clinical part shall be allowed to question the candidate upon the case, after reading his Report of the same." lY. "With regard to the viva voce Examination in Medicine not being objective (p. 137), the Court would remark that plates on skin diseases and other subjects were on the table at the time of the visit, and are constantly used, but individual Examiners exercise their own discretion when to use them. In Pathology, all the morbid preparations were originally brought and used for examination fresh, and preserved for future use when no fresh specimens happen to have been brought. In addition to this, Microscopical Pathology and the Clinical Examination combine to make the examination on medicine an objective one. The Primary Examination. I. Anatomy. The Visitors find much fault with the Anatomical Exami- nation. They appear, however, to misunderstand its object, which is mainly to ascertain whether the candidate possesses such a practical knowledge both of visceral and regional ana- tomy as to enable him in the first place to profit by the clinical instruction imparted to him at the hospital, and in the second place to localise disease when called upon to do so in the prac- tice of his profession. With this view the examination on the living subject was originally estabUshed by this Society. Members of the College of Surgeons and those who have passed the Primary Examination in Anatomy, though exempt