206 V13ITATI0N-RKP0RT. Apoth. Soc. seven days' notice previous to the day of examination, and must at the LoND. same time deposit all the required certificates with the fee, at the office of the beadle, where attendance is given daily, from Ten till Fow o'clock ; Regulations Saturdays Ten till Two. for Licentiates '^^'^^ certiHcates being found correct, a card to admit the candidate will in England & sent, stating the day and hour of examination. Wales. The examination of candidates is divided into two parts, and is con- ducted partly in writing and partly viva voce. The First Examination, Which may be passed after the second winter session, embraces the fol- lowing subjects:— Physicians' Prescriptions and Pharmacy. Anatomy and Physiology {including an Examination on the living mljcct). General and Practical Chemistry. Materia Medica and Botany. Histology. Testimonials reqiwred of Candidates for the First Examination. Of having passed an examination in Arts, recognised by the Medical Council. (See page 198.) Of having completed the curriculum of study to the close of the second winter session; of having attended three months' practical pharmacy ; and of good moral conduct. Any candidate who presents himself for the first examination and is rejected, may be admitted to re-examination at the expiration of three calendar montht. The Second Examination. At the termination of the medical studies :— Principles and Practice of Medicine {including an Examination of one or more patients'). Pathology and Therapeutics. Midwifery, including the diseases of women and children. Forensic Medicine and Toxicology. Microscopical Pathology. Certificates reqitired of Candidates for the Second or Pass Examination, Of having completed four years' medical study, including the period spent at the hospital: of being twenty-one years of age; and of good moral conduct. Of having passed the first examination. Of having completed the prescribed curriculum of study, including a personal attendance of twenty cases of midwifery,* and of having received instruction in practical vaccination, and vaccinated not less than twenty cases.f Of having served the office of clinical clerk at a recognised hospital during the period of six weeks at least. Of having been examined at the class examinations instituted by the ^■arious lecturers and professors of their respective medical schools and colleges. By the 22nd eection of the Act of Parliament of 1815, no rejected candidate for the license can be re-examined until the e.vpiration of six calendar months from his former examination. • A certificate will be received from any registered practitioner. t This certificate must be obtained from a public vaccinator recognised by the Local Government Board.