213 PART III.—DOCOMENTS CONCERNINQ EXAMINATIONS. The Professional Education and Examinations. Apoth. Hall, Irel. Every Candidate for the License to practise Medicine and Pharmacy must produce Certificates to the following effect:— Professional 1. Of having passed an Examination in Ai-ts recognised by the General Education. Medical Council previously to entering on professional study. 2. Of Registration as a Medical Student from the Registrar of a Branch Medical Council, at least forty-tive months before admission to the final professional Examination. 3. Of being twenty-one years of age, and of good moral character. 4. Of Apprenticeship or Pupilage to a qualified Apothecary, or of having been otherwise engaged at practical Pharmacy for a period of twelve months subsequent to having passed the Examination in Arts. 6. Of having spent/ow years in Professional Study. 6. Of having attended the following Courses, viz.:— Chemistry During One Winter Session. Anatomy and Physiolosy . . „ One Winter Session. Demonstrations and Dissections . „ Two Winter Sessions. Botany and Natural History . „ One Summer Session. Practical Chemistry (by daily in- struction in a recognised Labora- tory) » Three Months. Materia Medica .... „ Three Months. Principles and Practice of Medi- cine „ One Winter Session. Midwifery and Diseases of Women and Children „ Six Months. Practical Midwifery at a recognised Hospital (attendance upon twenty cases). Surgery During One Winter Session. Forensic Medicine .... „ One Summer Session. Instruction in the Practice of Vaccination under a Public Vaccinator, recognised by the Local Government Board. 7. Of having attended, at a recognised Hospital or Hospitals, the Practice of Medicine and Clinical Lectures on Medicine, during two Winter and two Summer Sessions; also the Practice of Surgery and Clinical Lectures on Surgery, during one Winter and one Summer Session. 8. Of Practical Study, with care of Patients, as Apprentice, Pupil Assistant, Clinical Clerk, or Dresser in Hospital, Dispensary, or with a Registered Practitioner. The examination for the License to Practise is divided into two parts :— The first part comprehends Chemistry (including Physics), Botany, Anatomy, Physiology, Materia Medica, and Pharmacy. The second—Medicine, Surgery, Pathology, Therapeutics, Midwifery, Forensic Medicine, and Hygiene. The first part may be undergone after the candidate has passed an examination in Arts, and attended the requisite Courses of Lectures ; and the second, after the completion of his studies at the termination of the fourth winter session. Candidates at the examination in Anatomy are liable to be called on to perform dissections; and, at the examination on Surgery, to perform one or more minor operations. Candidates are required to know the use of the Microscope, and to distinguish diseased structures and morbid products.