PART ir.—DKTAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. 75 demonstrate the superior laryngeal nerve; the fourth, to demon- R.ColuSuro. strata the parts in front of the elbow; the fifth, to dissect the muscles in the front of the thorax ; and the sixth, the muscles of the Primiiry shoulder-joint. At the fourth table, the first candidate was re- p^g^J^g\°onT' quired to demonstrate the sympathetic nerve in the thorax ; the second, to dissect the hollow space in front of the elbow-joint; the third, to dissect the parts in connection with femoral hernia ; and the foarth, to demonstrate the parts on the dorsum of the foot. Each candidate was allowed about half an hour to make his dissection, and the examiner then very minutely examined him in all the structures he had exposed. Moreover, during the progress of the dissection, the examiners put questions at their discretion, and constantly questioned the candidates on the mrgical hearings of the anatomy. On this point, it must be remembered that all the candidates had already attended three courses of surgery, as well as three of anatomy. The origins and insertions of the muscles were discussed. The relative anatomy of the arteries and veins was also considered in detail. The candidate, having been examined on his own dissection was questioned next on the dissection done by another, and sometimes on a third, by the same examiner, who then formed his judgment as to the result thus far. The candidate was then transferred to a second examiner, who also took him over at least two dissections. He was thus tested by two examiners on at least four different regions of the body, one of which he had himself dissected. Mr. ElCHAKDSON and Dr. Frazee conducted the histological Histology, part of the examination, each student being examined by one or other of these examiners, but not by both, each assessing his examination separately and unaided by any assessor. The objects the candidates had to recognise were mainly the simple tissues, such as muscle, bone, and cartilage, and also various urinary sediments. They were likewise examined on the com- position and practical working of the microscope. Each candidate, therefore, received three judgments in this examination, two from the examiners in practical anatomy, and one from one or other of the examiners in histology. The Visitors observed other candidates subsequently being carefully and closely examined on the heart, the pulmonary vessels, the mediastina, the course of the femoral artery and its branches,