REMARKS ON VISITATION-REPORT, 254 .. Colls. In making these changes the Colleges cannot help thinking Edin. ' Visitors have acted injudiciously. In regard to print- ing the written answers, it would of course have been un- necessary to print the whole of them ; but a carefully prepared selection, including some of the best, the medium, and the worst of the answers, would have put the General Medical Council in a far better position for judging of the quality of the candidates than any mere description could possibly do. What object can be served by the answers being "placed in sealed packets among the archives of the General Medical Council," it is difficult to conjecture. The Colleges consider that the determination of the Visitors to refrain from expressing any opinion as to the judgment formed by the Examiners in passing or rejecting a candidate is still more unfortunate, and it is the more remarkable as being in direct opposition to a special recommendation of the Exe- cutive Committee. This Eesolution, of date March 23, 1876, is to the effect that " The duties of the Visitors shall be to inquire into and report to the Council as to the sufficiency of the examinations conducted by the several Licensing Bodies as tests of the candidate's fitness to obtain the respective qualifications." This surely implies that the Visitors shall report to the Council their own opinion as to the judgment formed by the Examiners in passing or rejecting candidates, and if such judgment is to rest solely with those who are responsible for the examinations, it is difficult to see what is the use of visitation. The first part of the V isitors' Report is of a general character, and includes what are called "General Impressions," a comparison between the Clinical Examinations of the three Colleges of Physicians, some Observations on the Physiological Examina- tions, remarks on the examinations of the various Licensing Bodies visited, and certain conclusions arrived at, and recom- mendations suggested, by the Visitors. The second part con- tains a detailed description of the examinations, and the third consists of Documents relating to the examinations, including the printed questions. This arrangement seems to the Colleges decidedly unsatisfactory. The most natural method would have been to have given a description of the examinations visited ; to have expressed an opinion on the merits or demerits of each;