105 PART II.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. the first part of the examination, to adopt on the moment a K. Q. Coll. plan for the rest of it. Dr. Benson decidedly indicated, on J ' ' inquiry, his preference for this method. The examination Final appeared extremely searching, and to be a good test over the ground which it occupied. Another candidate, examined by Midwifery. Dr. Macan, in midwifery, was asked to show on the lay figure the course of the foetus through the pelvis in natural labour. Another candidate was asked to explain the mechanism of breech presentation and the management thereof by the accoucheur, more especially the precautions taken in reference to the cord in order to preserve the life of the child. He was also asked ques- tions on the induction of premature labour; on the nse of Barnes's dilator; and on the disorders of pregnancy. The can- didate was then questioned on some instruments—the ecraseur, various forms of pessary, &c. ; he was also examined on the vas- cular growths of the urethra. It appeared to the Yisitors that throughout this examination, as in the clinical, too little use was made of the microscope. The only instance in which it was employed was by Dr. Smith at the viva vuce. It may be questioned also whether the objective method could not have been more extended in the other subjects. PRIMARY EXAMINATION" FOR LICENCE. Thursday, July 7th, twelve o'clock noon, at the Dissecting Primary Room, School of Physic, Trinity College, the oral examination ^jXilenc'r in practical anatomy was conducted by Dr. Waltee Smith and Dr. T. Little. There were three lady candidates and no others. The examination commenced by questions on human osteology; Osteology, and the first twenty minutes were spent in asking the three in turn to name various bones and the attachments of muscles and ligaments to them. The first candidate was examined, not very minutely, on the os innominatum, the base of the skull and its foramina and the structures which pass through them. The second candidate was examined on a radius, whether right or left; on the temporal bone and its development; on the wrist and structures that could be found beneath the skin. The third candidate was examined on a scapula and on the femur. The examiners and candidates then adjourned to another theatre, where there was a subject with the skin of the anterior portion of the left side of the neck