139 PART II.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. tartar, opium, senna, colocyntb, camphor, &c.; how to make camphor into a pill; how to distinguish between distilled and ' ordinary water ; what preparations of chloroform are in the British Pharmacopoeia. The lozenges of the Pharmacopoeia were questioned on, how much bismuth, how much morphia, how much chlorate of potash, is in each of the Pharmacopoeial lozenges; the preparations into which camphor enters as a constituent were questioned upon ; the preparations of iodine and its mode of manufacture. Iodide of potassium and its doses were examined on; also the Pharmacopoeial preparations that are derived from the coniferae, such as savin and pix ; and the pre- parations of broom and its natural order. Lastly, questions were asked on the various preparations of squills, also of galls and doses of gallic acid that may be given to an adult in cases of hasmorrhage. The Visitors did not observe any further questions than those just mentioned in botany, and no botanical specimens, strictly so called, were used. They were told, how- ever, that specimens are employed in the summer examinations. At another table a junior candidate was examined in che- Chemistry, mistry; and asked for the tests for sulphuric, nitric, and hydrochloric acid ; also the mode of manufacture of each of these three acids, and their physical characteristics. Chloride of mer- cury was then examined on, the candidates being asked as to its mode of preparation and tests. Among others the following questions were given : What is the constitution of the atmo- sphere ? What are the effects of respiration on the blood ? What does the skin do as regards life ? What is the composition of alcohol ? What is the difference between alcohol and ether ? What are the various forms of carbon, particularly its oxides, and the respective weights and volumes of carbonic oxide and carbonic acid ? What is ammonia ? How do you decompose water? What precautions must you take in order to keep phosphorus ? What are the various forms of electricity ? What do you mean by spectrum analysis ? A fifth table was devoted to practical histology. Dr. Crockeb Histology, being the examiner. Two microscopes were used alternately, a preparation being put under the one, while the candidate was examining a specimen, previously put under the other. A very large supply of histological objects, all of them, however, pre- viously prepared and permanently fixed, had been provided,