78 VISITATION-UEl'ORT. R.CoLL.SuRQ. Injuries; perforations of the gall bladder; ruptured bladder; ' perforating ulcer of the stomach. Where is such an ulcer I'jnal usually situated ; whetlier most frequent in the male or female, Examination. ^^^^ what age ; characters of such an ulcer ? Where may the most intense peritonitis be found ? What symptoms are present in perforating ulcer of tlie stomach ? How would you treat such a case ? Reference was made also to perforating cancer; perforation of the stomach by corrosive poison; j^ost mortem softening of the stomach. "Inwhat situations do we find perforations in adults ; in typhoid fever ; the appearance of the glands in typhoid fever ; tubercular ulceration of the intestines and its character ? What are your ordinary rules of treatment of peritonitis ? " He was questioned especially about peritonitis over the liver, near the kidneys and bladder; on the ti-eatment of flatulent distension of the intestines ; on the forms of perito- nitis which are most dangerous in communicating blood poisoning. Second table.—The same candidate was next examined by Mr. Croly on dislocations of the shoulder ; the old terms and the modern^—on the most common form of dislocation; the symp- toms ; the value of the measuring tape ; on the methods of reduc- tion of the dislocation. " What muscles do you relax in rednc- insr the arm over the head ? " The candidate was next examined on fracture of the neck of the humerus; its diagnosis. How does it differ from dislocation ? How would you apply a splint for such a fracture ? Give any three symptoms of strangulated hernia. Then he was questioned on those symptoms, and asked to select the instruments for operation out of a case of instru- ments. " In oblique inguinal hernia, how would you. make the incision at the neck of the sac ? " He was questioned on the details of the operation and on the appearance of the different structures ; on the most common seat of stricture in oblique and direct inguinal hernia; and finally on the after-treatment of hernia. Third table.—The same candidate was then examined by Mr. RiCHAEDSON on hydrocele and its varieties, and on the diagnosis of hernia ; on the various operations, palliative and radical; on the mode of tapping; on the character of the fluid in encysted hydrocele, and on haematocele resulting from tapping a hydrocele. Fourth table.—Finally, the same candidate was examined by Mr. Stokee on stone in the bladder—its symptoms in the adult and in the child; on lithotomy and lithotrity, and