72 VISITATION-UEPOET. ''E. COLI.. SuHG. Ihel. Primary Exiimi nation. Oral. pelvis. This caudidate answered well, and received seven marks, ten being the maximum. The same candidate next went to the physiology table and was examined by Mr. Swan upon the salivary function, and the substances acted, upon by saliva; on ptyalin, pepsine, and the mechanism of deglutition ; on the posi- tion of the stoma.ch, and the microscopical appearances of the lining of the stomach near the cardiac orifice ; on the physiology of the secreting cells; on anastomoses; the gastric fluid and its reaction, and the cause of its acidity ; how pepsine is obtained ; on the ceruminous glands. The candidate did not answer well in physiology, and only got three marks. The same candidate at another table was examined by Mr. Thomson, on the superior maxilla and its articulations and foramina; on the superior dental nerve and its groove; on the puncta lachrymalia and what they lead to; on the temporal muscle and its origin, and the attachments of the temporal fascia ; on the coronoid process of the lower jaw and the attachment of the masseter muscle; on the temporo -maxillary articulation, and the relations of the parotid gland; and on the muscles attached to tbe mastoid process. He received seven marks. Another candidate. No. 88, was examined by Dr. Feazer in materia medica. He was shown a series of specimens in small bottles, like test tubes, easily handled and suitable for exhibiting the character of the specimens. Taken rapidly over a great number of facts on blisfcei'ing and the means of producing it, he was also questioned on the doses of Epsom salts, castor oil, iodide of potassium, sulphate of iron, corrosive sublimate, strychnia; asked to identify buchu leaves, senna, phos- phorus, nitrate of silver ; the doses of liquor arsenicalis, of opium, the dangerous doses of opium ; about cumulative medicines; and to show a specimen of ipecacuanha. This candidate received five marks. "When a candidate hesitated to name any drug or specimen, the examiner told him wliat it was, and then ascertained whether it was simply temporary forgetfulness, or ignorance, or want of power of identification, from the subsequent answers that he could draw out by further inquiry on the same subject. The whole scope of this examination was admirably calculated to elicit what a man knew, and to detect where his ignorance lay, with the least possible risk of mistaking nervousness for Ignorance.