VISITATION-REPORT. lOG K. Q. Coll. Phys. Iuel. Primary Examination. Dissections. Chemistry. reflected, exposing the superficial veins and nerves. The candidates were asked to name the parts in view. Two can- didates were taken to the subject first. One was set to the neck dissection and the other to the dissection of the groin, whence also the skin had been already reflected. The first was asked to expose the crico-thyroid muscle; and the second to show the external cutaneous nerve at the groin. Candidate No. 1 was then asked to show the digastric muscle and subsequently to expose the sub-maxillary gland. The second candidate was asked to cut down on the anterior crural nerve. Subsequently the examiner, placing his forefinger on the tubercle of the scaphoid bone, asked the candidate to name the tubercle. The candidate was then asked to expose the posterior tibial nerve. Candidate No. 1 was asked to show the sterno-hyoid muscle ; subsequently to show the long saphenous nerve; and, lastly, the examiner inserted the scalpel into the calcaneo-cuboid joint, and asked the candidate what articulation it was in. Candidate No. 1 was also asked to point out the situation of the termination of the abdominal aorta, to show the tendo oculi, and, lastly, to expose the inferior oblique muscle of the orbit. She then retired; and candidate No. 3 was asked first to expose the musculo spiral nerve, then to point out the veins at the bend of the elbow, the abductor pollicis muscle, and also the flexor brevis. The candi- dates then retired. Wednesday, July 6th, at eleven o'clock A.M., in the School of Physic, Trinity College, the primary examination in practical chemistry was conducted. For this examination, which was carried on by Dr. Duffy, and occupied an hour and a half, there were only the three lady candidates already mentioned. The reason for the small number has been given before. This was an ordinary examination in practical chemistry, each candidate having two solutions of an acid and a base, the same solutions being given to each. They were allowed ample time for making their tests, undergoing questions by the examiner, and writing down the result of their testing, and the reasons for each step in the process. The salts given were corrosive sublimate and sulphate of zinc. The ex- amination was conducted with great care; and, in employing the various reagents, the candidates were required to give, in chemical symbols, the nature of the various reactions that took place.