VISITATIOK-REPOET. 150 Apoth. Hall, this correctly, the examiner went back on the measles ertiption, whicli, however, still puzzled the candidate. Then a case of Final Examination. Medicine. Bemarks. scalp disease in a child was questioned on. The candidate was next asked the usual causes of diarrha3a, and in various supposed cases of diarrhoea what he would prescribe ; what would be the dose of opium in such cases; how does chalk act as an astringent; how does disease of the liver cause ascites ? In reference to this question, the vena portse and its tributaries came under con- sideration, and the candidate was asked to explain the conse- quences of obstruction ; what treatment would he adopt in such a case ? suppose he had made up his mind to give elaterium, write a prescription. This candidate, like the other, had to read his own prescription. He was then asked about the dose. He said one-twelfth of a grain. Asked how often he would give it, he said once a day. He was then questioned on intestinal worms— the treatment of the round-worm and the tape-worm respectively. Asked—" How would you treat a case of lead colic; and [the candidate not appearing very familiar with the subject] what is the indication of treatment ? What is the patient suffering from ? What two symptoms in particular—pain ? Yes." And what the other ? The candidate answered " diarrhoea," first; then, " cramps," and, at last, was told constipation. How would you proceed to relieve those symptoms ? The same candidate was asked in pathology to identify the preparations of aortic valve disease and of typhoid ulceration. In connection with the latter, he was asked if any other kind of ulceration than this is to be found in the same parts. He was then questioned on the preparations of tubercle of the lung and on that of mitral stenosis. By the admission of the examiners to the Visitors, the two candidates who appeared on this occasion were decidedly below the average in their attainments; and hence it is not easy to judge how far the examination to which they were subjected may have been modified in its details in accordance with this fact. But it appeared to proceed upon pretty definite lines, the patho- logical part of it being guided by the preparations on the table, and the rest by a short paper of notes prepared previously by the examiner ; which accounts for the same subjects appearing in the examination of both candidates. Having these facts in view, the Visitors would remark that the range of subjects over which