VISTTATION-REPORT. ^Eno^"""' adhered to the sac in consequence of repeated tappings; .' • a well marked case of epithelioma of the lip; a second case of Clinicid flat foot: a small bursal tumour situated at the inside of and a •..vimination. \[mQ below the knee ; a case of inguinal hernia. On the second visit about half these cases were present, vnth the addition of a case of dislocation of the lower jaw; a case of dislocation of the head of the radius in a boy; a case of lupus of the nose ; a case of epithelioma of the tongue ; a case of iritis, in which iridectomy had been performed ; a case of hydrocele ; a case of ana3sthesia of the conjunctiva and the skin of the face from paralysis of branches of the fifth nerve. The examiners were: Mr. Birkett, Chairman; Mr. Holmes, Mr. Humphry, Mr. Hdlke, Mr. Holden, Mr. Hutchinson, Mr. Cooper Forstee, Mr. Wood, and Mr. Savory. At one table a candidate was examined on the living model. He was asked questions on the third stage of the subclavian artery, on the relations of the brachial plexus; to mark the course, in chalk, of the subclavian artery ; to name the relations to it of the anterior scalenus muscle, and of the phrenic nerve ; to "name all you see between the eyelids," and he was questioned on the action of the pupil. Another candidate, also examined on the model, was asked whether the trochanter was in its proper place, and how he would prove it by Nelaton's test. Also: " How would you distinguish by the position of the trochanter between fracture of the neck of the thigh bone and dislocation ? Where would you insert a needle in order to inject the sciatic nerve ? With what muscles is this nerve in relation ? Mark in chalk the course of the sciatic nerve and its branches. If the external popliteal nerve were divided alongside the biceps tendon, what would be the result ? " He was told to bandage the left knee; to point out the limits of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint; lastly, to compress the femoral artery. The clinical examination consisted mainly in requiring the candidates to give their diagnosis of two or more of the cases that were presented. They were also required to answer a few practical questions in reference to prognosis and treatment. One candidate was taken to the table containing the instruments, and questioned on two or three of them as to what they were iised for, but as a rule the candidates were not required either to name the instruments, or to show that they were familiar with the