PART 11.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. 145 and Dr. Charles Moore the eKaminer in physiology, with Dr. Apoth. Hall, Leet as his assessor. The written portion had taken place in the forenoon. For the examination in anatomy there were Primary provided a skeleton, a fall series of bones, a lower extremity with innominate bone and dried muscles, ligaments, and physiology. injected arteries, and a series of anatomical plates. All the candidates were examined on the lower extremity, e.g., on the femoral ring and canal, on Hunter's canal and the relations of the structures in it; on the parts passing under Poupart's ligament; the branches of the external iliac artery, their course, distribution, and relations; also the branches of the femoral artery. In addition, the candidates were examined on the occipital bone, on the structures which pass through the foramen magnum; the occipito-atloid and axoid ligaments ; also on the temporal bone. Large anatomical plates were used, especially one of the stomach. The arterial distribution and supply of the stomach, liver, and bowels formed portion of the examination. At a second table. Dr. Charles Moore examined on histology Histology, and physiology, commencing with two specimens under the microscope, one being an injected specimen of lung and the other a section of bone. The candidate was requested to identify them, to describe what he saw, and to illustrate the details by drawing on a piece of paper. From these specimens the exam- ination diverged into questions on the physiology of bone and lung, the development of bone from cartilage, and the various forms of cartilage found in the human body. Subsequently the subject of mastication of food and in salivation afforded an opportunity for a series of questions in this department of physiology. The examination of another candidate consisted in the substitution of a section of skin for the lung, the section of bone remaining. The course of the examination, commencing with what was seen in the section of skin, diverged into the subject of mucous membrane, the different kinds of epithelium, mastication, and the teeth. It seemed to the Visitors that the examination in both Remarks, subjects was carefully conducted, but that, the candidates being considerably below the average in knowledge, it was difficult for the examiners in the time allotted to carry the questioning either deeply or over an extensive range. This portion of the examination over, there was an adjourn- Dissections. K