PART III.—DOCUMENTS CONCERNING EXAMINATIONS. 201 * Syllabus of Subjects for Examination, 1882. Apoth. Soc. LOND. I. The English Language. _ — Including Grammar and Composition. Writing Sentences in Preliminary correct English upon a given tiieme. Writing correctly from Examination Dictation. Explaining the Construction of Sentences. Point- in Arts, ing out the Grammatical Errors in Sentences ungrammatically expressed. Giving the Derivation and Definition of Words in common use. II. English History. The Leading Events and Persons of each Reign. III. Modern Geography. Special attention is directed to Europe. IV. The Latin Language. Including Translations from the Original, and Grammar. January Examination. Horace : Odes, Book III., 1 to 20. April Examination. Virgil: .fflneid, Book IV. September Examination. Livy : Book II., Caps. i. to xl. V. Mathematics. Arithmetic, including Vulgar and Decimal Fractions. Algebra, including Simple Equations. The first two Books of Euclid, or the subjects thereof. VI. Elementary Mechanics. Of Solids and Fluids, comprising the Elements of Statics, Dynamics, and Hydrostatics. The Candidate is allowed to pass this subject either as pre- liminary or before or at the first professional Examination. VII. (a) Greek. Homer: Odysseus, Books I. and II. (ft) French. D'Aubign6 : Histoire de Bayart. Translation from English into French ; Grammatical Questions, (o) German. ' Schiller: Don Carlos. (d) Elementary Chemist')'y, Inorganic. The fee for each Examination is One Guinea,t which in case of rejection will not be returned. A Notice in the subjoined form, and written in accordance with the following directions, must be sent, with the fee, to Mr. James C. Sargeant, at the Apothecaries' Hall, at least one meek before the day of Examination. All that part of the form printed in italic letters, with the blanks duly filled up, must be written out on note paper in the Candidate's usual handwriting; and this must be done in the presence of • [Note.—The Examiners recommend the study of one of the following :— Engluh—A-agvsi's, Adams's, or Mason's Grammar, and, in addition, Trench's Enirlish Past and Present, and Earle's Philology. Enylisli Hutoi-y—Smith's Smaller History of England, or the Student's Hume Modern Geography—CoraweU's or Lawson's Modern Geography. ^/ecA«ni«—Wormell's or Newth's Natural Philosophy, or Girdlestone's Mechanics. t.'A«mtJtrj/—RoRcoe's Elementary Chemistry.] t Post Office Orders are to be made payable at the Ludgate Circus Office, B.C.