REMARKS ON VISITATION-REPORT. 272 Soc. Apoth. investigating the case, yet he is observing the way in which he manipulates and deals with it, and is listening to the mode of questioning the patient. The evidence thus obtained of the candidate's capability of investigating diseased conditions, assists the Examiner in forming his judgment as to the adjudication of the marking after reading the written report of the case. This plan meets the criticism of the Visitors on the reports of the clinical cases at page 44. Although these reports were not quite accurate, yet they indicated, partially at least, the seat of the disease. In corroboration of this, the Examiner who conducted this part of the examination states that Case I. had evidence of consolidation at both apices Two candidates recognized this morbid condition on one side of the chest. Another candidate ■who had examined for phthisis, but failed to find it, got the lowest pass mark ; whilst the fourth, who failed to diagnose the diseased condition of the lungs, was rejected. Case II. had an aortic diastolic and a mitral systolic murmur. Two reports recorded the aortic murmur correctly, but omitted the mitral. The third, which the Visitors remark upon as having a "satis" mark, diagnosed the mitral systolic, but missed the aortic murmur. The fourth candidate alone was quite erroneous, inasmuch as his diagnosis was mitral stenosis. Case III., a girl aged 11, had mitral regurgitation with some stenosis and bronchitis. The candidate who was marked " bene," in the opinion of the Examiner, wrote the best paper. The second candidate, whose report the Visitors appear to prefer, missed the bronchitis, and although his paper was good, the Examiner considered it was not entitled to quite so high a mark. The third candidate only recognised the bronchitis. As there was, however, a good deal of the latter, partly masking the heart murmurs, the Examiner, making allowance for nervousness on the part of the candidate, did not reject him on his paper, and he passed, having satisfied the rest of the Examiners at the viva, voce. Further, the Examiners have always acted upon the principle advocated by the Visitors at page 13, namely, that " it is not so much the accuracy of the diagnosis as the mode in which it i.s arrived at, that ought to influence the Examiner in estimating the position of the candidate "