VISITATION RKPORT. 110 Double Qualification. Clinical Medicine E.Colls.Phys. then told that the examiners would meet at half-past six o'clock & Surg. Enm. ^eod over and adjudicate on the papers, and that, if present about a quarter to eight, or eight, they would see the finishing portion of the reading, and be present at the adjudication. The Visitors arrived at a quarter before eight, that is, an hour and a quarter after the time that the examiners would meet, and they found that the examiners had dispersed, having read over and adjudicated upon the papers of twenty-four candidates, of whom eleven passed in six separate subjects, three or four waiting to show the Visitors any papers they asked for. On Friday, April 8th, the Visitors went to the Royal Infirmary to witness the clinical examination for the final part of the examination for the double qualification. The clinical examination was conducted by four examiners—two physicians of the hospital, each with an assessor. The physician in his own ward examined clinically a candidate, while the assessor in the physician's room examined another candidate simul- taneously on urine. Six or eight specimens of urine were shovm; and the candidate was asked to judge by the appear- ance what the nature of the urine was likely to be; he tested one or two specimens, and was questioned on the various methods of testing the remainder. This examination lasted about twenty minutes. The candidate was required, without questioning the patient, to make a physical examination of the anterior chest wall, for which he had been allowed ten minutes, and was examined by the physician of the ward as to what information was to be derived from inspection, palpation, the expansion of the chest, the pulsation of the heart; on percussion as to whether there were slight dulness or not on the right side about the third rib; on the situation of the cardiac dulness; next on auscultation, and the candidate stated that respiration was rough over both sides, and bronchial in sound on the right side, less so on the left. The heart was also auscultated. The same candidate was then taken to a case of hemiplegia which he had been allowed to examine by questioning; also to a case o£ paralysis agitans of the right side, and questioned as to the distinction between that and sclerosis, which he answered correctly. He was then shown a case of favus and questioned on it. This examination lasted fully half an hour. Clinical The Visitors attended the surgical examination, which began Surgery.