79 PART 11.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. the suitable cases for either ; on difficulties in sounding, and on r. Coix. Subq. Sir Henry Thomson's sound; on iritis ; on synechia posterior IxJ^l. and the mode of its formation; the use of atropine and its Yinai effects ; and on the use of mercury, iodide of potassium, and Examination, turpentine in treating cases of iritis. Candidate No. 28 was subjected at three tables to a surgical examination, similar to that already described, the subjects discussed being—at tbe first table, retention of urine, cystitis; abscesses, hot and cold, chronic and acute; and on opening abscess early or not, and the special dangers in various situations; on Potts's fracture and its treatment. At the second table be was asked by Mr. CROLr what he had been examined on at the previous table. Then a vesical sound was produced—" What instrument is this ? " He was questioned on the shape of it, the object of the curve, the mode of using, &c. ; on symptoms of vesical calculus, especially in children ; how it might be suspected and how ascertained to be present. " What is a 'fit of the stone ' ? what affections in early life may simulate stone ?" Lithotomy—the steps of operation. The instruments being displayed in a case, the candidate was directed to take them out in order as he would use them, and to describe each part of the operation in connec- tion with the instrument. He was examined on dislocation of the hip, a photograph being placed before him for recognition; on indolent ulcer—how to stimulate tbe surface and the edges. At a third table the candidate was examined on piles; specific gravity of urine; Bright's disease in connection with surgery; urinometer—use of ; operations for piles—instruments used, cauterising by nitric avid, &c.; dangers. This candidate had passed a medical examination for the College of Physicians, and was, therefore, accoi'ding to regulations, exempt from exami- nation in medicine; but he elected, nevertheless, to be examined in medicine. He was accordingly examined over a considerable range of subjects by Dr. Frazee, as follows: measles, rotheln, characters of eruption, complications, and capillary bronchitis and pneumonia in the child—relative danger of the two; scarlet fever, complications; pericarditis ; pathology—what appearances on opening the pericardium ; colour and characters of lymph ; heBmorrhagic pericarditis ; the candidate saying that he had personally observed a case, symptoms in this case, pain, dyspnoea, general condition, physical signs, friction ; how to make