38 VISITATION-REPORT. Fac. Phys. & allowed to pass current in the variouB Bodies, depending as it ScHG. Glaso. jjQgg ^j^g individual judgment of examiners, and more or less Primary on the traditions of the place. The Visitors observe, hov?ever, Improvements ^^^^ proportion of rejections in the Glasgow Faculty during noticed in the last three years has risen from 37 to 60 per cent. They take practical this as a distinct proof that the improvements in the examination anatomy; . -n • changes acting With greater stringency upon the large numbers of ill- suggested. prepared candidates, not educated in Glasgow, who are in the habit of coming up for examination to this body, under the impression —which the Visitors believe to be erroneous—that a low standard is adopted. The Visitors can speak favourably of the practical anatomy test recently introduced, in which the Faculty examina- tion is in advance of the London and Edinburgh Colleges. The practical anatomy examination was eflficiently conducted by two examiners ; at the cost, however, of great personal exer- tion. In the first place, one of the examiners had himself, with an assistant, made, in readiness for the examination, a dissection of the superficial regions of one half of the body, and again, after the fatigue of several hours of examination, the same examiner prepared deeper dissections for the second day's examination. In respect of recent dissections, the examination is superior to that of the College of Surgeons, Edinburgh, and equivalent to that of the English College. The other half of the one subject was used for testing all the candidates—eighteen on the first day, and the remainder, including candidates for the double qualification, on^ the second day. In this way about thirty candidates, two at a time, were examined practically on one half of a subject. In order to accomplish this, each candidate was told to expose a particular nerve, or muscle, or artery. Such testing is hardly sufficient, and sometimes, perhaps, not quite fair to the candidate, who may, through nervous- ness, have forgotten the exact site of the particular structures —e.g., the musculo-cutaneous nerve of the leg, which one candi- date failed to find after twenty minutes' search. Slight changes of plan would make this an excellent examination—changes which might be based on the system adopted at the Irish College of Surgeons. Two or three subjects (instead of one) would be ample for every student to dissect a region. The candidates could be admitted eight or ten at a time, instead of two and two, and thus eighteen candidates could be disposed of