151 PART II.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. Medicine. Remarks. the candidates were taken was certainly ample, and such as might, ^pQ^jj_ HALr,, under favourable circumstances, have elicited a very large Ibel. amount of knowledge. On the present occasion, it undoubtedly ^.^^^ failed in doing this, probably owing to the cause already stated. Examination. There did not appear to be any strict limitation as to the time occupied in the examination. Possibly with a greater number of candidates, some limit similar to what exists in other bodies might have been adopted. But in that case it would have been difficult to go over so wide a range of subjects with anything like satisfactory results, as even with the unlimited time it appeared in several instances that the subjects were rather superficially dealt with, and not so as to elicit any comprehensive or precise knowledge. For example, in relation to lead colic, though both, candidates were asked the ordinary conventional treatment of this form of lead poisoning, no question was put to either as to the blue line on the gums, nor as to the general effects of lead in the system, nor, indeed, as to anything except the colic and constipation, nor as to the use of iodide of potassium with a view of removing the lead from the system. In relation to purpura, no question was asked as to the distinction between that disease and scurvy, or as to the pathology of any other form of haemor- rhage. In relation to diphtheria, no exact questions were asked as to the distribution of the false membrane, nor as to its pathological nature and histological characters, nor as to the albumen in the urine, nor as to diphtheritic paralysis. In refe- rence to smallpox, the various stages of the disease were not brought out, nor the relation of the fever to the eruption, nor the distribution of the latter on the mucous membrane, and the dangers thence arising; nor were the varieties of smallpox, such as confluent, discrete, haamorrhagic, &c., clearly defined or alluded to. In like manner, there was a somewhat singular absence of questions as to the physical signs of most of the chest diseases spoken about, and, in particular, no question at all as to the physical signs of cavity in the lung when speaking about phthisis, nor indeed any precise demarcation of the stages of that disease ; nor was there a single question of a precise nature as to the diagnosis of the various valvular diseases of the heart, nor as to the murmurs belonging to each, even in the presence of preparations illustrating those morbid conditions ; nor did the preparation of typhoid ulcer bring out any question of detail