49 PART I.—GENERAL IMPRESSIONS. lines which would have brought out the best kind of knowledge. Ap.ite. Hall 1111- Irel. The questions were for the most part such as could have been answered perhaps better by a candidate who had confined his reading to the most elementary and least satisfactory manuals ; and the examiners did not seem to expect, or, at all events, did not direct the questions so as to elicit, the information that is got from actual personal observation of disease. In short, the im- pression given throughout the oral portion of the examination was that names of things more than actual things were brought under view; while the whole vast and far-reaching developments of mediciue during its later progress through such means of diagnosis as the thermometer, and even the ordinary methods of physical diagnosis, were to a great extent overlooked. It must, however, be admitted that this apparent defect may have been in part due to the deficiencies of the candidates on this particular occasion. In the clinical examination, the right method was followed to a Clinical very considerable extent: that is to say, the candidate was admitted to examine the case, and was then questioned on it by the examiner in such a manner as to elicit what he had discovered ; but in doing so, the examiners were subject to the obvious dis- advantage that they themselves began the examination on merely hearsay information as to the cases, and accordingly it was nearly impossible that they should be able to pursue the details in such a way as to test very thoroughly the accuracy of the candidate's conclusions. Owing to this cause, and perhaps also owing to the weakness of one at least of the candidates, the clinical examination in medicine did not impress the Visitors so favourably as perhaps it might under other cii'cumstances have done. The remark made in the Visitors' account of the primary examination on the micro- scopic testing of urine must be recalled, inasmuch as it is possible for candidates who have passed their primary examination elsewhere, to come up for final examination here. Such candi- dates may not have been examined at all in the use of the microscope as applied to practical subjects ; and from this point of view the amount of evidence required of acquaintance with the microscope, particularly as regards urinary sediments, in the clinical examination was certainly small. On the other hand, the questions put by one of the examiners as to the chemistry of the urine, and the quantities, and physiological relations of its various chemical constituents, were, perhaps, almost too elaborate D