108 VISITATION-REPORT. R.Colls.PuYS. & Surg. Edin. Double Qualification. Primary Examination. Anatomy. The examination in anatomy was completed by a few elementary questions on the dorsal vertebrsB. The second examiner then took the candidate to the table on which the microscopes were placed, and required him to recognise a section of bone, of spinal cord, and of striped muscular fibre. The next topic dealt with was the physiology of circulation ; passing on to the composition of the blood, the effect of change of position on the rate of the heart's action, the blood pressure on the walls of the vessels, the effects of the elasticity of the coats on the current of the blood ; various factors affecting circulation; " Does the heart exert suction power ? " the red and white corpuscles of the blood ; the characters of the white, where they are formed; the relation of the spleen; the malpighian bodies ; the use of the lymphatic glands, the thoracic duct, and the lacteals ; the lymphatic fluid and its composition. He was then questioned on the minute structure of bone, the process of ossification, the development of bone ; lastly, on sections of the spinal cord and striped muscular fibre which had been seen under the microscope. The same candidate was then questioned by the examiners in chemistry on the properties of alkalis, the principal alkalis and alkaloids, the sources whence they are derived, and the chemical tests by which they are distinguished. He was then given a blue solution, which he successfully tested for sulphate of copper. Iodine was then examined on, its sources and tests. The varieties of sugar were discussed, and questions were asked as to the modes of distinguishing between them ; and, lastly, the subject of phosphorus, including its sources and mode of preparation. A second candidate was examined in chemistry by the second examiner on the elementary chemical substances, their division and enumeration. The other subjects considered in this examination were chlorine and its compounds, the salts of potash, barium, ammonia, prussic acid, and morphia. The Visitors then returned to the room where the examina- tion in anatomy was being conducted. The examiners in anatomy commenced by asking a few questions on the muscular attach- ments of the inferior maxilla, the origin and insertions of the temporal, pterygoid, and digastric muscles, the muscles of the tongue, the parts composing the larynx, the blood supply of the larynx, the course of the superior and inferior thyroid arteries,