PART III.—DOCUMENTS CONCEENINO EXAMINATIONS. 171 2. Tartrate of antimony. What dose would you consider dangerous, n. Coll. Sues. the symptoms likely to occur, their treatment, and the mode of detecting Irbl. this poison after death ? .S. What is meant by a child being viable, and state fully the most Questions: conclusive evidences of mature birth ? The Candidate is to write answers to only TWO of the Questions on this paper ; but the Examiner will not read the answers of any Candidate whose number does not appear on tlie front page of the book in ivhioh they are written. Surgery. Surgery. 10 o'clock A.M. to 12. Examiner—Mr, Henry Gray Cboly. 1. What are the symptoms of fractured ribs ? Mention the complica- tions which may arise, and the treatment you would adopt in complicated and in uncomplicated cases. 2. What is the most frequent situation of permanent stricture of the male urethra ? Give its pathology, and mention the complications which may arise; and describe at least two methods of treating permanent stricture. 3. What is epulis, and give its most frequent position ? Contrast the benign with the malignant form, and describe a case in which you would decline operative interference. T7ie Candidate is to wnte answers to only TWO of the Questions on this paper ; but the Examiner mill not read tlie answers of any Candidate whose number does not appear on the front page of the book in which they are written. Surgery, 10 o'clock A.M. to 12. Examiner—Mr. E. Stamer O'Grady. 1. Give the leading clinical and histological features of epithelioma. 2. What is meant by the term " chronic rheumatic arthritis " 1 Give the sjinptoms of the affection, and the pathological appearances, living and post-mortem. 3. What is meant by the term " chilblain " ? Give its causes and treatment. 2Vt<3 Candidate is to write answers to only TWO of tlie Questions on this paper ; but the Examiner will not read the answers of any Candidate whose number does not appea/i' on tlie front page of the book in which they a/re written. Swrgery. 10 o'clock A.M. to 12. Examiner—M.X. B. Wills Kichardson. 1. Describe the sebaceous tumour; mention its varieties, mode of formation, most common situation, and its treatment. 2. Give the ordinary causes, symptoms, the varieties, and treatment of traumatic tetanus. 3. Give the symptoms and treatment of aneurism by anastomosis.