VISITATION-REPORT. 68 Conclusions. General. Suggested Written Examination. Advantages. Medical Council, viz.: Are the general medical practitioners of England and Scotland to be taught and allowed in future, so far as education and examination are concerned, to drop gradually from their consideration the principles and practice of preventive medicine, leaving, in a great measure, the systematic study of these to a limited order of practitioners, who may take a special curriculum and diploma in Public Health, or State Medicine ? or, are they to be enabled through their education and examina- tion to maintain the prevention of disease on a par with its cure in their private practice as well as when specially employed in public health oflBces ? To state the question is, in the opinion of the Visitors, to indicate with sufficient clearness the proper reply. In putting forward the foregoing conclusions, the Visitors wish to be borne in mind two considerations—first, that the effect of an examination must be to guide education and study ; and secondly, that in emphasising all the good points of the various examinations inspected, they have had in view the practicability of the sug- gestions offered as the basis of a future scheme for examinations. A change in the existing practice in medical and surgical examinations has suggested itself to the Visitors as likely to help the solution of many difficulties which at present exist, and of others which might arise to bar the way to the introduction of any general improvement in the mechanism of examinations. They consider that the written portion of the examinations might with much advantage be carried out at the several educa- tional centres, medical schools, &c., thus following the example set in the Oxford and Cambridge local examinations, in the matriculations of the University of London, and the Royal University of Ireland, as well as in the Science and Art examina- tions. South Kensington; and in the Intermediate Education examinations, Ireland. By the adoption of such a plan much would be gained and some of the defects would be remedied. In the first place, time, trouble, and expense would be saved to those candidates who, residing at a distance, have to come up to the examination centre for the written portion, and then have to wait for their turn in the oral examination. In the second place, the supposed necessity for commencing the oral immediately after the written examinations, and the consequently hurried consideration of the papers, would disappear.