PART II.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. 77 sive of the time of conference on the written answers and of the E. Coll. Surg time spent in looking over the papers, which on this occasion would occupy two or three hours. Primary Exiimination. Oral. FINAL EXAMINATION FOR LETTERS TESTIMONIAL. The arrangements of the oral examination were on much Final Exami- the same plan as those for the primary (" first half"), the same bettersTesti- examiners being engaged. The main difference seemed to be monial that in this examination the candidate was required to answer two in each paper of three questions, instead of one only, as in the primary. During the forenoon, from ten to twelve o'clock, three surgical papers of three questions each by three different examiners were given. In the afternoon, between four and six o'clock, three papers were also given of three questions each— one on medicine, one on medical jurisprudence, and a third on prescriptions; the candidates having to answer two questions on each paper, and to write two out of three prescriptions required. One prescription had to be written with the usual symbols, and the other in Latin in full. The written examination took place on Monday, July 25th, and the adjudication on the paper work on the day following, by which seven candidates out of forty-tkree were stopped from proceeding further with their examination. The viva voce was commenced on Wednesday, at the rate of four an hour for three hours. On Thursday, the Visitors were present at the oral examination. There were four tables, at each of which sat an examiner and an assessor. At one table the practice of medicine was examined on by Dr. Frazer and Dr. M'Dowell. The other three tables were devoted to surgery, and the examination was conducted by Messrs. Croit, Richardson, Edward Stoker, O'Gradt, and Thomson— Mr. SwA¥, the other examiner, being unavoidably absent. As before, each examiner examined for an hour, the assessor looking on. At the end of an hour, as a rule, the assessor took the place of examiner, and the examiner became assessor. The following are examples of this examination:—Candi- Details of the date No. 29 was examined at the first table by Dr. Frazer. Examination. " In case of death from peritonitis, on opening the abdomen, what do you see? What may have caused the peritonitis?"