36 VISITATION- UEPO RT. E. Colls. Phys, & SCJRG. EdiN, Clinical Examination in Medicine. Clinical Examination in Surgery: Improvements suggested as to suitable cases and testing knowledge of instruments. that sufBcient time is not allowed for the varying qualities of the papers, and the varying readiness with which the examiners individually are able to get through the work. For instance, on the occasion of the primary, eight examiners looked over the answers of thirty-two candidates, in three subjects— anatomy, physiology, and chemistry. The chemistry papers were distributed among the examiners specially quahfied in chemistry, and the anatomy and physiology among the remain- ing examiners. In this way, each examiner undertook about twelve papers, and in any instance in which a candidate did badly, and deserved to be stopped, the assistance of the examiner sitting with him was called in to aid his judgment. Thus the whole set of papers was looked over and adjudicated on in less than an hour. The Visitors cannot but think that a more de- liberate estimate could be formed of the papers if each examiner could do his share of the work without this practical limitation of time. On the other hand, the arrangements for the clinical examination in medicine, as witnessed by the Visitors in the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, appeared exceedingly satisfactory. Every candidate was, in the first instance, tested in the exami- nation of urine, about ten minutes being devoted by the examiner to each. The examination of the patients in the wards was also conducted on a good plan, and the method of the examiner was calculated to bring out the good training of the candidate by the comparative examination of a patient suffering from disease and of the organs of a healthy person. The examiners spent about twenty minutes upon each candidate. There seemed to be no absolute limitation of time, and certainly no appearance of hurry nor anything calculated to make a candidate feel nervous. This examination, especially from the manner in which the candidate was tested on the physical examination of the healthy body, is worthy of study by those who conduct such examinations. The clinical examination in surgery seems open to considerable improvement, and to show certain weak points which are instructive. In the first place, the examination is limited to the cases in the wards of the examiners, and "when there are many candidates, must be carried out upon many cases that are not the best for such an examination. That such cases are hardly suitable will appear from the fact that candidates were examined on cancer of the lip recently