278 KEMARKS ON VISITATION-REPORT. Soc. Atoth. letter FROM THE APOTHECARIES' SOCIETY OF LONDON ON •l^OND. VISITORS' REPORT. Apothecaries' Hall, Blackfriars, London, E.C., May 26, 1882. Sir,—I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 22nd March, 1882, transmitting to me the "Report of the Visitors of the General Medical Council on the Examinations (1881-1882) of the Medical and Surgical Corporations of the United Kingdom." I forward herewith, on behalf of the Society of Apothecaries of London, the reply of their Court of Examiners, signed by their Chairman, dealing minutely with the observations of the Visitors on the points affecting the examinations as conducted by this Body. The Society of Apothecaries are gratified to learn from the Report of the Visitors of the General Medical Council, that " as regards the subjects specially under the domain of the Society under its legal charter," " the examination is a good and searching one," that it " elicits the know- ledge of the candidates in a satisfactory manner," and that " there are points of excellence from which instruction may be gained, and which are suggestive of improvements that might be adopted by other Examining Bodies." The Society cordially recognise the candid spirit in which the report has been written, and revert with satisfaction to the previous reports of 1866-7 and 1873, as bearing testimony to their efforts to bring the examinations into harmony with the views of the Council. In defence of some of the points in which it is considered by the Visitors to be defective; and first, as to the Anatomical Examinations, they wish to observe that it would be ditScult to have a subject, or even parts of a subject, actually dissected and brought to the Hall for the weekly examinations; but they are ready to increase the number and variety of their anatomical preiDarations and t'o provide recent pathological specimens, in addition to those now preserved in spirit, to as great an extent as possible. In regard to the criticism on the vArd voce Examination in Anatomy, as being " wholly insufficient for a Body having a right to place its licentiates on the Medical Register as qualified for general practice," they would remark that they have hitherto looked upon the Royal College of Surgeons of England as the principal examiners in anatomy for this divi- sion of the Kingdom, and as the Body, in conjunction with themselves, granting the double qualification for English general practitioners. In fact, out of more than 8,000 licentiates of this Society at present on the Medical Register, less than 400 hold such license as their only qualifica- tion, the remainder being members either of that Royal College or of some one of the other colleges giving a diploma in surgery. With respect to Physiology, the Society recognise the importance of testing more fully the knowledge of the candidates in that science, and arrangements are already in progress for instituting a more comprehensive