Gl PART II.—DETAILS OP EXAMINATIONS. dissection of the body. At the physiological tables were wet R.Coll.Sdko. preparations of the kidney, heart, brain, portions of intestines spread ont, and various other parts of the body, including a Primary series showing some portions of foetal development. There were Examination, also specimens of urine and various chemical tests, which were applied by tlie student in the presence of the examiner. At each physiological table there was a black-board, which was used for making rough sketches, and in particular for examining upon the graphic method. The plan of examination was as follows : Four students were admitted at one time, one to each table. One of the two exam- iners questioned a candidate for a quarter of an hour, when the bell rang. The candidate then passed to another table, where he was examined in the second of the two subjects, physiology and anatomy. At the end of the second quarter of an hour the bell again rang, and the four students left the room and were replaced by four others. Thus each student had a viva voce examination of half an hour, one quarter of an hour at the anatomical, and the other quarter at the physiological table. The whole examination occupied three hours, during which twenty-four candidates were examined. The first candidate was examined in osteology, and required to answer on the sphenoid bone, naming the different parts, the bones with which it articulates, and its muscular attach- ments. He was then required to recognise the cuboid bone, to state the side to which it belonged, and the bones with ■which it articulates. Having been shown a dissection of the popliteal space, he was required to name its boundaries, to mention the origin and insertion of the muscles that form those boundaries, and the nervous supply of each of the muscles. The contents of the space were also examined upon. The next region the candidate was examined on was Scarpa's triangle. Lastly, he was examined on a section of the brain, and had to point out minutely the different parts that were presented to him in it. The candidate then passed to the examiners in phy- siology, and was required to recognise microscopical preparations of the kidney and spleen. There were also specimens of villi and different forms of epithelium. He was next required to make a preparation for the microscope of yellow elastic tissue. Lastly, he was examined on the way to take the specific gravity of