253 OBSERVATIONS BY THE ROYAL COLLEGES OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS OF EDINBURGH ON VISITORS' REPORT. In compliance with the request of the President of the General R. Colls. Medical Council, the Royal Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons ^^edin^^*^ of Edinburgh have the honour to lay before the Council the Observations which have occurred to them on perusing the Report of the Visitors with regard to their Examinations. The following Report is a joint one from the two Colleges, because the Visitors have confined their remarks to the Examinations for the Double Qualification, and have not alluded to those held by each College for its single licence. The Colleges do not restrict their comments to the remarks made as to their own examinations, but in compliance with the invitation of the President of the Council propose to make some Observations upon the more general questions which are incidentally, as well as directly, raised by the Visitors. The Colleges would begin by observing that the present Visitors have in the plan of their Report departed somewhat from that of their predecessors. To use their own words, " They have not printed any of the written answers of candidates, not feeling that a commensurate advantage would be likely to result from the publication of such a large mass of manuscript; but they have collected the actual answers, or accurate copies of them, selected from the Examina- tions of each body, and these may at any time be printed if the Medical Council should consider their publication desirable. In the meantime, the answers are placed in sealed packets among the archives of the General Medical Council. In another respect, also, the Visitors have not fol- lowed the precedent of former Visitations. They have refrained from expressing opinions as to the judgment formed by the Examiners in pass- ing or rejecting candidates, feeling that such judgment ought to rest solely with those who are responsible for the examination; and, moreover, that the standard of any examination cannot be fairly taken from the indi- vidual judgment of the Examiner, especially when given in the presence of Visitors who have to report critically upon the examinations."