200 ViaiTATION-KEPORT. Apoth. Soc. England; the Eoyal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh ; and the Royal Col- LoND. lege of Surgeons, Ireland, will have to undergo the two examinations, but —— are exempt from writing on Anatomy and Physiology in their first Regulations. examination. 5. The cases of Graduates of Colonial and Foreign Colleges or Univer- sities will be considered on their respective merits. Each qualified candidate, unless registered, will be required to produce his diploma, Any candidate who presents himself for the first examination and is rejected, may be admitted to re-examination at the expiration of three calendar months. A candidate who presents himself for the second or pass examination and is rejected, cannot be admitted to re-examination until the expiration of six calendar months. Fees.— For the first examination, three guineas, which sum is retained in case of rejection, and accounted for subsequently. For the second examination, three guineas. For an entire examination, six guineas, half of which is retained in case of rejection, and accounted for subsequently. Post Office Orders to be made payable at Ludgate Circus Office, B.C., to THOMAS R. WHEELER, Secrettvry to the Court of Examiners. January 1, 1881. APOTHECARIES' SOCIETY OP LONDON. Examination in Arts. Begulations. Preliminary This Examination will be held at the Hall of the Society on Thursday Examination and Friday, January 26 and 27, April 20 and 21, September 21 and 22. in Arts. The Examination will be conducted by means of printed papers. Candidates will be examined in the following branches ; and no Candi- date will be approved unless he show a competent knowledge of each Branch of the Examination :— I. The English Language. n. English History. III. Modern Geography. T\'', The Latin Language. "V. Mathematics, yi. Elementary Mechanics. Vn. One of the following subjects, at the option of the Candidate :— {a) Greek. (6) French, (c) German. (^d) Elementary Chemistry. The Examinations will take place in the following order :— Thursday Morning, 10 to 11.30. The English Language, Thursday Morning, 11.30 to 1. English History and Modern Thursday Afternoon, 2 to 4. Friday Morning, 10 to 11.30. Friday Morning, 11.30 to 1. Friday Afternoon, 2 to 4. English History Geography. The Optional Subject, The Latin Language. Mathematics. Mechanics. After the conclusion of the Examination, the Examiners will publish Lists of such Candidates as have passed, arranged in two classes; the names in the first class will be placed in order of merit; those in the .second class in alphabetical order. Tn the course of the following week Certificates will be forwarded by post to each of the successful Candidates.