VISITATION-KEPOKT, 40 Fac. Phys. & The Visitors would sum up tlie good points of the examination as SuRc. Glaso. foiiQypg . rpt^g appointment of examiners to special subjects ; (2) The introduction of dissection by candidates; (3) The testing of every candidate for the final examination in bandaging and the application of splints; (4) The clinical examination in surgery on selected cases brought into the examiner's room, instead of in bed in the ward ; and (5) The testing of every can- didate in the examination of urine. On the other hand, the following are directions in which improvements might be made: (1) In the practical anatomy, by dissections of regions rather than the exposition of particular structures, and by conducting the viva voce examination on the dissections made by the candi- date, rather than on those prepared by the examiners ; (2) The nse of two or more subjects, and the employment of additional examiners, so as to diminish the strain suffered at present both by examiners and candidates; and (3) The performance of opera- tions on the dead subject by candidates in the final examination. Double The examination for the double qualification of the Glasgow o^Sbu^gh Faculty pertains also to that of the College of Physicians of and Glasgow. Edinburgh, but of this examination the "primary " witnessed by the Visitors was conducted almost exclusively by the Glasgow examiners, those from Edinburgh acting merely pro forma, while at the final, the Edinburgh examiners took fully an equal part in the examination, and, indeed, performed exclusively the part of it relating to medicine, the examiners of the Glasgow Faculty taking the part relating to surgery. APOTHECARIES' SOCIETY OP LONDON. Society of Apothecaries ot London : Examination on the old lines. The examination of the Society of Apothecaries of London is, in some of its departments, a good and searching one upon the old hnes. As regards the subjects specially within the domain of the Society under its legal charter—e.g., the practice of medicine, materia medica, therapeutics, and forensic medicine —the above remark is particularly applicable. In these subjects the examiners, although for the most part proceeding by way of