VISITATION-RE PORT. 130 Apoth. Soc. through the same proceeding. The candidates to whose lot the ■ case of diabetes fell had to test the urine; those to whom the Written. other cases were assigned were not required to test urine. The written examination of the seniors consisted of five questions on medicine, three on midwifery, and three on toxi- cology. The candidates were expected, but not required, to answer all the questions. In addition to these three papers, they had to write an account of the clinical case which they had previously examined, the time allowed for the whole being three and a half hours. At the end of the examination the examiner took home the papers to read over for adjudication. Clinical. The Visitors found that the custom adopted by the Apothe- caries' Society has been to have from one to three selected cases of internal disease sent to the hall on the first of the two examina- tion days in each week, the leading facts of the cases so sent up being briefly but precisely recorded in a book from week to week. Various hospitals and dispensaries are laid under contribution for this purpose; those chiefly appearing in the book recently being the Victoria Park Hospital and the Western General Dispensary, also occasionally University College and King's College Hospitals. The name and age of each patient, with a brief indication of the disease, are recorded in every instance; and thus the Visitors are enabled to give a rough indication of the class of cases presented since the month of September, viz.:—■ Chronic Bright's disease. Diabetes insipidus, following a fall on the head. Dyspepsia with hepatic enlargement. (First stage of cirrhosis.) Chronic bronchitis, with congested left base of lung. Phthisis, right, 2nd stage. Emphysema and bronchitis. Phthisis, right apex, 1st stage. Rheumatic fever eight years since, with systolic bruit at apex; hypertrophy of heart, throbbing carotids, emphy- sema, lumbago. Gastric disturbance from alcoholism •, urine, very low specific gravity; no albumen. Mitral regurgitation after rheumatic fever, irregnlar action of heart, bronchitis. (The same case on another occasion -was designated mitral murmur and bronchitis.)