PART 111.—DOCUMENTS CONCERNING EXAMINATIONS. 183 2. Give a brief sketch of the nervous mechanism by which the move- K. Q. Coi.l. ments of the heart are maintained and regulated. Pnys. Irel. 3. What are the changes which the blood undergoes in its passage -;— through the lungs ? Give, as far as you can, the way in which eax;h of Questions: these changes is brought about. 4. Describe the changes which a proteid undergoes when submitted to gastric digestion. 5. What do you mean by apnaa ? What is the theory of this condi- tion usually held ? 6. Describe the act of deglutition. Questions foe Final Examination for Licenck. Practice of Medicine. Practice of Medicme. Db. Walter G. Smith, V.P. 1. What diseases are the coecum and its appendix liable to ? Treatment of acute inflammation in or about the coecum ? 2. Mention the different varieties of diarrhoea, and indicate the principles of treatment. 3. In the absence of tumour, how would you endeavour to distinguish between carcinoma of the stomach, gastric ulcer, and chronic dyspepsia ? Pathology. Pathology. Dr. Walter G. Smith, V.P. 1. Pathology of " late rigidity " following a hemiplegic seizure ? What paths do the motor conductors pursue before and after decussation ? 2. What do you understand by Cheyne-Stokes respiration, and how do you account for the phenomenon ? 3. Causes of thrombosis of the cerebral sinuses 1 Mention the chief peculiarities of the intra-cranial circulation. Medical Jwrisprvdence and Hygiene. Jurisprudence Dr. Harvey. Hygiene. 1. Define the terms " irritant" and " corrosive " as applied to poisons. Enumerate some of the most common members in each class. 2. What is meant by the term "fatty embolism " ? What injuries is it supposed to follow ? What are the symptoms of the condition during life,, and the evidences after death ? 3. Give the ■post-viortem evidences of death from sramition. 4. To what is the hardness of water due 1 Give the mode of deter- mining the degree of hardness. 5. What is the law as to the vaccination of infants ? Give the method of performing the operation, the evidences that it has been successful, and the circumstances which would induce you to postpone its performance. 6. How much cubic space is considered necessary for each patient in a Fever Hospital ? How would you heat and ventilate a ward ?