apothecaries' hall of IRELAND. 281 tubercular phthisis in the early stage being placed before him, apoth. Hail, he was asked to recognise the disease, to describe the nature and Ihbland. character of tubercle, to mention the changes of condition it is liable to undergo, to name the other organs it is especially prone to invade, and the diseases to which it gives rise in these parts ; he was also questioned as to other forms of pulmonary phthisis, and asked generally about the treatment, climatic and remedial; and in the instance of valvular disease of the heart, the prepara- tion showing aortic insufficiency with hypertrophy; the same candidate was required to describe the nature of the lesions, the cause of the hypertrophy, and the murmur proper to this form of valvular disease. In the case of Candidate (2) a preparation of hepatised lung passing into the third stage being submitted to him, he was asked to recognise it, to state the significance of the change in colour that the tissue had undergone, to give the stethoscopic sign indicative of this change, and to specify the seat and nature of the pneumonic exudation; he was also asked about the treatment, and as to the object of administering quinia in full dose in the first stage. The Examiner further notices that there is no reference made to the pathological questions in the "Written Examination. Clinical Medicine and Surgery. The Clinical Examination, including the dispensary cases presented to the candidates in January, comprised a considerable field for examination; it was however unfortunate, as stated in the Visitors' Report, that "by some misapprehension, the Visitors, on entering the hospital, were informed that Dr. Moore had not arrived; whereas it appeared afterwards that the Ex- amination was already going on in the out-door department. Upon this part of the Examination, therefore, the Visitors are unable to record more than it seemed to have occupied about half an hour, and was described as consisting in bringing three cases successively under the notice of the candidates." This mistake may have arisen from the hospital attendants not having understood that it was not Dr. John William Moore, Physi cian to the Meath Hospital, that was being inquired for. T