127 PART II.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. allotted to him. All the candidates were questioned on these Fac. Phts. & , .,-11 1 1 1 xi SuiiG. Glasg. three cases. When the examination had concluded, they were dismissed from the hospital, care being taken that no communi- Final cation should take place between those who had been examined and those who were waiting for examination. Clinical On Friday, July 22nd, three p.m., at the Faculty Hall, the '^"^f"^* examiners in surgery were Dr. Hector Cameron—who had taken part in the clinical examination in the morning—and Dr. Ddnlop. The candidates are examined, as a rule, at the rate of eight a day, about twenty minutes being allowed to each, more or less, according to circumstances, and sometimes half an hour in the case of a doubtful candidate. There were bones and dried anatomical preparations on one table, and on a second a series of surgical instruments. Candidate No. 1 was examined on the subject of vesical calculus. He was required to state the symptoms of the disease fully, and the affections for which it may be mistaken. Then from the table on which the instruments .were, he had to select those that are necessary for the operation of lithotomy. He was asked to describe the position the patient is placed in immediately previous to the operation, and to answer a few questions on the operation itself. The next subject that the can- didate was examined on was fracture of the clavicle. He was asked on what portion of the bone it most frequently occurs, the general etiology of the injury, the varieties of the fracture that are met with, and, finally, the most appropriate treatment for the accident. Candidate No. 2 was examined on the subject of popliteal aneurism. He had to define what is meant by an aneurism, and the symptoms that characterise the disease, and the various kinds of treatment adopted, such as pressure, flexion, ligature, and cut- ting into the aneurism, and tying both ends of the artery, &c. The spontaneous cure was also discussed. The next topic was fracture of the base of the skull, and questions were asked on the way in which the injury is produced, the signs of it, and the appropriate treatment. The other subjects questioned on were tumours of bone, fractures of the tibia, fractures of the patella, fractures in the vicinity of the ankle joint, disease of the rectum, hernia, and hydrocele.