43 PART 1.—GENERAL IMPRESSIONS. Clinical Exarainatiou. or the reverse, of sroing: about his work. In the examination of Apotu. Soc the Apothecaries' Society, nothing of this kind takes place. One candidate is set to a selected case for a quarter of an hour, Bemarks on and then writes out such opinions and conclusions as he has been able tn ai-rive at within that rather limited time. It may be conceded that to examine one candidate on several medical cases, or, indeed, on one such case, viva voce, within a quarter of an hour, would be in most instances unsatisfactory, and therefore the ditFerence of method is to be regarded as due, in part, to the differences essentially or usually existing between a medical and a surgical case of disease. But in respect of this difference of procedure, the Visitors wish it to be understood that the remarks made by them as regards the surgical clinical ex- amination are not to be read as involving approval of the same method of procuring the materials in the case of the Apothecaries' Company. In their general observations, comparing the clinical exami- nations in medicine of the several Royal Colleges, the Visitors had occasion to discuss more at large than is necessary at present the relative advantages of the viva voce method and of the written paper. In the Apothecaries' clinical examination the latter method is exclusively followed. The Visitors were not, any more than the examiners, admitted to a knowledge of the steps in detail by which the candidates severally arrived at the conclusions formulated in their papers; nor is it easy, under these circumstances, to judge of the reasons which influenced the examiners in assigning marks to each paper, especially as it was only in a few instances that the Visitors observed notes of any kind by the examiners upon the papers themselves. As prac- tical examples of the difficulties thus arising, the following may be assigned, subject to the remark that the Visitors, not having personally examined the cases, and not having witnessed in detail the performance of the candidates, are obliged to infer the true diagnosis from the papers themselves, which were placed at their disposal. One of the three cases may thus almost cer- tainly be inferred to be one of diabetes mellitus, with all the signs of tubercular consolidation, if not excavation, in the left pulmonary apex. This case was examined in succession by four candidates, who all recorded their opinion of it more or less accurately, after testing the urine, as a case of saccharine