VISITATION-REPOET. 170 The Candidate is to amswer ONE of the Chemistry and ONE of the Materia Medica Questions on this imper; hit the Examiner will not read the answers of any Candidate ivliose nwinber does not appear on tlie front page of tlve hook in which it is written. Chemistry and Materia Medica. 4 o'clock P.M. to 6. Examiner—William Feazbb. Chemistry, 1. Prepare carbonic acid. Give, its tests, and determine the exact amount present in atmospheric air, using symbols. 2. What is quicklime ? State fully its preparation and tests, using symbols. 3. Give all the combinations of oxygen with iron; distinguish those which can form salts, and give their tests, employing symbols. Materia Medica. 1. Stramonium ; describe it fully, with its uses and preparations, and their average doses. 2. Morphia, quinia, and strychnia ; how are they recognised ? Briefly describe the effects of each, and their average medical doses. State also what quantity would be liable to cause dangerous results. 3. What " inhalations " are directed in the Pharmacopoeia ? How are they made, and what are their uses in medicine ? R. Coll. Sued. lUBL. Questions: Chemistry and Materia Medica. Questions set in the Written Examination foe the " Second Half." The Candidate is to write answers to only TWO of the Questions on this paper; but the Examiner will not read the answers of any Candidate wlwse number does not appear on the front ])age of tlie book in which they are written. Prescriptions. Prescriptions. 4 o'clock p.m. to 6. Examiner—Dr. William Frazeb. 1. Prescribe quinine as a tonic. 2. Prescribe bromide of potassium for epilepsy. 8. Prescribe foxglove for heart disease with drbpsy. Write one of these prescriptions with the usual symbols, and the other in Latin in full. The Candidate is to write answers to only TWO of the Questio7is on this paper ; but the Examiner mil not read the answers of any Candidate whose number does not appear on the front pax/e of the booh in jvhich they are written. Jurisprudence. Jurisprudence. 4 o'clock P.M. to 6. Examiner—Dr. William Frazer. 1. What ill effects may carbolic acid cause, and state the treatment you would advise ?