47 PART I.—GENERAL IMPRESSIONS. with only a few bones and dry and wet preparations laid out on Apoth. Soc. a small table, even with the aid of a " practical " examination on the living subject; that chemical and physiological, or toxi- Remarks, cological, testings cannot be very well conducted on a con- siderable scale over a table covered with a green baize cloth; and, finally, that examinations in clinical medicine cannot be adequately conducted except with a minute attention to details, and with an expenditure of time as well as of resources, whicb has not been even attempted in the examinations of the Society. The examiners are men of proved competency and of high character, but they are fettered by the traditions of a system which, whatever merits it may have had, as the Visitors fully believe, in the past, is not in accordance with the advances that have been made both in teaching and examination during the last quarter of a century. APOTHECARIES' HALL OE IRELAND. The examination of the Apothecaries' Hall of Ireland appears Apothecaries to the Visitors to present some features of a distinctive character Ireland, and deserving favourable notice. The method pursued in the botanical examination is instructive as a test of practical observation rather than mere technical memory. The contrast Botany, with the examination of the Apothecaries' Society of London is marked in this respect; for in the latter there was no attempt made to give botany a substantive place in the examination, although it appears in their regulations. Another feature of this examination which the Visitors did not observe in any ex- amination of the other corporations they visited, except the King and Queen''s College of Physicians in Ireland, was, that the impor- tant subject of hygiene is made an independent part of the exami- nation with a separate paper and a separate mark, while the oral examination is exceedingly practical and in all respects a model which is highly deserving of imitation elsewhere, especially considering the great and growing importance of hygiene, not only for the special health officer, but also for the general Hygiene.