VISITATION-REPOET, 118 Fac. Phys. & SURQ. GlASG. Primary ExH mi nation (Single). Primary Examination (Double). Oral. artery to which it is a guide. He was then examined on the adductor longus mnscle, and asked the boundaries, shape, and contents of Hunter's canal. Subsequently he was examined on the inferior mesenteric artery, on the relative anatomy of the common iliac artery; and asked to state at what point it com- mences and at what point it terminates; and the boundaries of the inguinal canal and internal abdominal ring were fully dis- cussed. Dr. CLAiiK examined him on the astragalus, and asked to which side it belonged, with what bone it articulated, and the various ligamentous attachments to it. He was also required to recognise several of the small bones of the carpus. The examination of several other candidates was conducted in the same method and with the same degree of care. The examiner from Edinburgh took the place of one of the other examiners for a time, in order to conduct the examination of the candidates for the " double " qualification. The Visitors returned to the examination in the afternoon, and found that the Edinburgh examiner had been obliged to leave at the end of an hour, and that the examination for the double qualification was being continued by the other two examiners, who were thus at work without intermission from ten o'clock in the morning until four p.m. The examination of the candidates for the " double " qualification was essentially the same as that of the candidates for the " single." On Thursday, July 20th, two p.m., the Visitors were present at the commencement of the oral examination, which was being carried on by the examiners in physiology—Dr. McVail and Dr. Fleming. The examination in histology had been con- ducted in the following way:—During the written examination in physiology, four microscopes were placed in the room, with one microscopical specimen under each. The microscopes were numbered, and each candidate was asked to write down on a sheet of paper the name of the specimen according to the number. This paper was retained by the examiner and counted as the answer to one written question, and marked accordingly. The examiners were sitting at a table, on which were placed a series of Klein's microscopical drawings of the elementary tissues, and there were also various instruments connected with practical physiology. The candidates were admitted one at a time, and had an examination of about twenty minutes each, the