26 VISITATION-REPORT. H. Coll. Surg. Eng. Systems of marking in the English Colleges. factory over a very small area may be rejected, although on the whole well informed. There is another point also in which the two systems differ. In the College of Surgeons each portion of the examination ends with military precision when the bell rings at the end of ten minutes. At the College of Physicians no time is kept, the examiners using their discretion in curtailing or prolonging a candidate's examination. Hence in examining a candidate, who has answered well in his paper, and who in viva voce quickly convinces the examiners that he knows his work, they may spend a very short time; or, in the case of a candidate as to whom they come rapidly to the conclusion that he must be rejected, again a short time is spent. Thereby time is gained for a longer oral examination of those whose cases are doubtful. In making these comparisons, the Visitors bear in mind that the two colleges are dealing with different factors, the one college having a comparatively small number of candidates, and the other a very large number to examine. When large numbers have to be examined elements are introduced which increase the difficulties of examination, and perhaps compel mechanical routine not otherwise required. Again, the proceedings at the two colleges, as to the passing and rejection of candidates may be compared. At the completion of the viva voce examination in each case the examiners assemble. At the College of Surgeons each examiner, from a list that he has, reads out the mark he has adjudged, which is recorded by the chairman against the number of each candidate. These marks are then added up by the president, and the candidate who has not received a rejecting mark, or whose total number has reached the passing number, obtains his diploma. In rare in- stances, where a candidate has done well in one part of his examination and indifferently in another, his case is reconsidered, and occasionally his written paper is read before the whole court. At the College of Physicians the marks are read out by the examiners at the call of the senior examiner, and should the marking leave it doubtful whether a candidate ought to pass or not, the examiners who have given the least marks reconsider their decision on the basis of the good report of the other examiners, and determine whether they ought, under all the cir- cumstances, to insist upon the rejection of the candidate. Under