VISITATION-REPORT. 186 questions on any one of the subjects, he should put the sheets on that subject together, and, fold them twice in half; first with the lower margin, over the upper one, and then with tlie line of folding over the margins. On the back of the folded paper, across its top, he should then, in a legible hand, write the name of the subject, and below this sign his nam^. When the various papers have thus been folded and signed, the Candidate must enclose them together with the India-rubber strap, and hand them to the superintending Examiners before he leaves the room. He must also hand to the Examiners the copies of the printed questions that he has been using. N.B.—It need scarcely be said that any Candidate would render himself liable to be immediately expelled, if he should, whilst in the Examination- room make use of books, notes, or manuscripts; or should talk to another Candidate; or should in any other way attempt either to give or obtain assistance in answering the questions of the Examination, I hereby declare that I have not within the last three months been rejected by any Licensing Board in any of the subjects of the Examination for which I now wish to appear before the Koyal College of Physicians of Edinburgh. Name Address Date This declaration has been in force about one year. Questions set in the Second Professional Examination for the Double Qualification. The printed Questions to be returned by the Candidate along with his written Answers. xir. Practice of Medicine. Four Qaestioni, of which Three are to be answered, and not more. 1. What is the meaning of the terms Peripheral, Spinal, and Cerebral, as employed in relation to Paralysis ? How would you differentiate these varieties of Paralysis from each other, and how would electricity assist you ? 2. What is Haemoptysis? Explain its relation to disorders of the lungs and heart. 3. Name the various vegetable parasitic diseases of the skin, and their chief seat. 4. Describe the rationale of the dietetic treatment of Diabetes Mellitus, stating the kinds of food and drink which may be allowed, and those which must be forbidden. Materia Medica. Three Questions, of which Two are to be answered, and not more. 1. Describe the method of preparation of Bromide of Potassium; the form the crystals assume ; its solubility, its uses, and how it is supposed to produce its hypnotic effect. 2. Enumerate the tinctures of Opium, and give their composition and doses. 3. Give the sources of Colchicum. Name the officinal preparations, their doses and actions,