PART 11.— DETAILS Of EXAMINATIONS. 85 Assigned by Mr. Ceoly.—Tracheotomy; excision of the R.Coll.Scbg, elbow-joint; ligature of the femoral artery in Scarpa's angle ; trephining the head of the tibia for deep abscess (Brodie) ; Final operation for femoral hernia; ligature of the subclavian artery Opemt?vo^°°" in third stage; lateral lithotomy; amputation of the shoulder- Surgery, joint; amputation of the thigh by the rectangular flap method. Assigned by Mr. Stoker.—Ligature of the carotid artery above omohyoid muscle; excision of mamma; the necessary incisions for urinaiy infiltration ; amputation in lower third of forearm ; laryngotomy; ligature of the anterior tibial artery in lower half of leg; excision of the shoulder-joint; paracentesis thoracis. Assigned by Mr. O'Grady.—Amputation of leg by the circular operation below the knee ; removal of a great-toe-nail; amputa- tion of a breast; amputation of a finger through the metacarpal bone ; operation for cancer of lip ; amputation of great-toe at the metatarso-phalangeal articulation ; ligature of femoral artery in Scarpa's space ; amputation of the ungual phalanx of a finger. The following is a brief outline of the plan of procedure: — Candidate No. 1 was required to tie the femoral artery at the apex of Scarpa's space. After that operation was completed, the examiner (in this instance Mr. Croly) questioned more closely on the position of the limb that the candidate had adopted, and his reasons for doing so; on the structures that he was to avoid, stating the position of the nerve and of the vein; the reasons for making a small opening in the sheath and for passing the aneurism needle from within outwards. He ■was also asked to state to what other portions of the vessel a ligature was occasionally applied, and why the apex of Scarpa's space is the situation that surgeons as a rule select. The second operation that this candidate had to perform was an amputation of the great-toe, which was done by the oval method and with considerable dexterity. No questions were considered necessary by the examiners. Subsequently the candidate was brought to the table on which the surgical instruments were displayed, and was asked to name a Syme's staff", a lithotomy staff", a Petit's tourniquet, and a polypus forceps. Candidate No. 2 was required to perform tracheotomy. He selected the high operation, and was questioned as to the alleged merits of this over the operation below the isthmus of the thyroid. The candidate having, in the first instance, selected his instruments, the examiner said to him : " Now, just make me