260 REMARKS ON VISITATION-REPOET. p'hy^^s" BQechanism. The Visitors Beem to have a very exaggerated idea Edin. diflSculty of judging the merits of written papers, and of the time required for doing so. No such difficulties are experi- enced by the Examiners of the Colleges, for it is to be borne in mind that the examination is not a competitive one, but merely a test as to whether the candidate is to be admitted to the oral examination or not, and in doubtful cases it is usual at this stage to give the candidate the benefit of any reasonable doubt. It is also very doubtful whether the interposition of " an ample interval between the written and the oral portions of the ex- amination " would be hailed as a boon either by the candidates or their friends. It now becomes the duty of the Colleges to make some Observations on the descriptions which the Visitors give of their Examinations. In the first place, the Colleges consider that the Visitors have failed in their duty in not describing the single examina- tion of each College, and in not pointing out the peculiarities which distinguish it from the Examination for the Double Qualification. The subject of Conjoint Examination has been constantly before the profession since the passing of the Medical Act (1858), and is certain soon to become an important topic of consideration. The system has been in successful operation among the Scottish corporations for more than twenty years, and surely the way in which it is conducted was worthy of being fully explained by the Visitors ; yet in the descriptions given of the Examinations for the Double Qualification granted by the College of Physicians with the College of Surgeons of Edinburgh, and with the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow, there is almost nothing to show that there is any difference between the Examination for the Double and for the Single Qualification ; whereas in point of fact, in the case of the former, the physicians undertake the whole examinations in medicine, the surgeons in that of surgery, while the other sub- jects are examined upon equally by the physician and surgeon. As an instance of the little care taken by the Visitors in dif- ferentiating the examinations, a very serious misstatement may be alluded to which occurs in the remarks regarding the Double Qualification of Edinburgh and Glasgow, where the following passage occurs:—