91 PART n.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. at St. BarfcholorQew's Hospital, the examination extending from K. Coll. Phys. 1.30 to 5 o'clock. The remainder went to University College the succeeding day, at the same hour. These twenty-eight Final candidates were all to be examined by the same three examiners, ^xamination, '' . J. . J Clinical, who would also read their written papers m medicine, and examine them viva voce in medicine. The system, in this respect, of these examinations, differs very much from that of the College of Surgeons, where the work is sub-divided among a much greater number of examiners. This is the first time in which three examiners have examined orally and clinically in medicine. A third examiner was added to meet the requirement of the General Medical Council that no student should be examined by his own teacher. This require- ment is thus carried out: The three days of viva voce are divided between the three examiners in pairs, each examiner being present on two out of the three days, and the candidates are distributed so as not to be brought before their own teachers. The clinical examination, with which the Visitors were specially concerned, consisted of these three elements :— (1) A single case recorded by each candidate exactly as would be done by a clinical clerk in a hospital journal, observa- tions, however, being added afterwards upon diagnosis, prog- nosis, and treatment. The book of ruled paper received for this purpose is thus headed: , " Candidates are requested to bear in mind that the examination of patients must be con- ducted with gentleness, and so as not to injure them." In some cases, temperature charts were placed at the disposal of the candidate, and, as already mentioned, the urine was placed before him along with the patient. With these exceptions, no special instructions were given as to the method of examination, or of noting the case, nor was any strict limitation of time im- posed. It is to be presumed, therefore, that every candidate had ample time for all that was required of him, and the Visitors were informed that no subsequent oral examination at the bedside formed part of the system, the paper being simply afterwards read and adjudicated on by the two examiners. (2) Microscopical examination as already described. (3) The urinary testings as already described. These three elements involved each a separate mark. The written cases recorded were of varying mei'it, and some