126 YISITATION-REPOET. Surg^Glaso^ ^^^^ Faculty performs its cliuical examinations by the surgeons ■ and physicians to the hospitals, who examine the candidates Final clinically, and report to the examiners their iudcrment on that (Single). P^^^'t °t the examination, bix candidates out of eleven for this Clinical examination were present. The other five were to be examined iirseiy. clinical surgery at the Western Infirmary on the following day. Every candidate, was required to apply a bandage and a splint to a sound limb for a supposed fracture, the necessary appa- ratus being supplied to him. One candidate was told to adjust a fractured clavicle ;. another to apply a splint for Potts's fracture. The candidates were next questioned on some cases in the wards —one a case of un-united fracture of the femur. This case sup- plied a text to the surgeon, from which he questioned the candi- date on the whole subject of pseudarthrosis and its treatment. The candidate was next taken to a boy whose leg had been struck by a cricket-ball about a week before, and was asked to discover the injury, and he rightly came to the conclusion that no sub- stantial injury had been received—at any rate, that no bone was broken. Another candidate was examined on a case of spina bifida in a child about a year and a half old, and also on the case of un-united fracture already mentioned. On Friday, July 22nd, the Visitors arrived at the Western In- firmary at 11.15 A.M., towards the close of the clinical examina- tion in surgery of the remaining candidates, five in number. This was being conducted by Dr. George Buchakan and Dr. Hectok Camekon. The method in this instance was rather different from that at the Royal Infirmary. The candidates had already put up a supposed fracture, and had been questioned on it. The splints and other materials for putting up fractures were arranged in a row close by, and the candidates were told to select from the apparatus what they needed for the particular fracture, and if anything they required was not present, to ask the examining surgeon for it. The candidates were then placed in a room by them- selves, and called out, one by one, into the surgeon's room, and there had to examine and diagnose three cases—one of epithelioma, a second of hydrocele, and a thii*d of perineal fistula with stric- ture. They received a searching examination on the diagnosis, pathology, and treatment of these cases. As a rule, each candi- date got two of such cases to recognise and answer on; but occasionally, in the case of a doubtful candidate, a third case was