194 VISITATION-REPORT. Fac. Phys. & Surg. Glasq. Questions; Midwifery. Jurisprudence. Surgery. 5. Describe the pathological changes usually observed in the course of scrofulous disease of the knee-joint—(<?) when it begins in the synovial membrane; (&) when it commences in the bone. What treatment would be suitable for the various stages, and to what extent would the prognosis be influenced by other conditions ? 6. Describe the general and minute chai-acters of a carcinoma. In what tissues is it more commonly found, and after removal under what conditions does it recur? Midwifery. 1. Give the causes, diagnosis, and treatment of a funis presentation. 2. Describe the various forms of contracted pelvis. 3. State what is meant by " vicarious menstruation," and what treat- ment you would adopt in such cases. 4. Mention the various causes of the protraction of the second stage of labour. 5. Give the causes and treatment of haemorrhage in the third stage of labour. Medical Jn/risjjrudence. 1. What natural diseases simulate poisoning by opium, and how may a diagnosis be made in a doubtful case ? How might you detect the presence of opium in organic mixtures ? 2. What are the comparative rates of putrefaction as it occurs in air, water, earth ? 3. How can you distinguish between coma arising from alcohol and that from opium ? 4. Describe minutely the appearances to be expected upon the neck of a person who has died ftrom hanging. Jurisprudence. FACULTY OF PHYSICIANS AND SUEGEONS OF GLASGOW. Give Swffery. 1. What are the various causes of stricture of the oesophagus ? the suitable treatment in each case. 2. Describe the amputation of the hip-joint, detailing the means by which you would control hemorrhage. 3. In what cases of head-injury would you trephine ? Describe the operation, and state the precautions necessary in performing it. 4. Describe the surgical treatment of a case of empyema, and detail any difficulties likely to be encountered in the course of the treatment 5. Enumerate in order the anatomical structures which form the hairy scalp, and describe the proper mode of treating a scalp wound. 6. What is the most common cause of convergent strabismus in a child ? How is the deformity to be remedied ? Medical Jurisprudence. 1. In cases of cerebral haemorrhage, what characters might enable you to distinguish between that arising from violence and that from disease ?