PABT I.—GENERAL IMPEESSIONS. 27 this system it is improbable that a fairly prepared candidate can E. Coll.Sueo. be accidentally rejected. Perhaps, on the whole, the tendency of such reconsideration is in the direction of leniency. The general impression which the Visitors have received Systems of from what they have observed at the primary examinations of niarking. the Royal College of Surgeons of England is, that there is great risk that a candidate knowing his work fairly may be rejected. The causes they would assign for this are twofold—the strict limitation of time for each department of the viva voce and the method of marking. The Visitors indicate elsewhere that the highest and the lowest numbers are practically invalid, so much so that the habit of the examiners has been in most instances to decline giving a maximnm number, even where the examination was really with- OTit flaw ; while, on the other hand, a 2 in any department, oral or written, stops a candidate just as effectually as a 1 or a 0. For strictly practical purposes the Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, in this examination actually convey the whole opinion of the examiners ; 4 being the level pass, 3 in particular sections the possible pass, 5 the redeeming counterpart of the 3, and 2 the absolutely bad mark, which, in any department, neutralises all good marks in the others. This system of numbers, as worked by the examiners is extremely clear and definite ; but it does not appear to differ much from the older system by which " good," " mode- rate," and " bad " were the only gradations allowed. Judging from their experience, the Visitors consider that it is much too arbitrary, and presents too little elasticity to meet the case of the various aptitudes requiring to be discriminated in an ex- amination. It is, of course, much more applicable to such subjects as anatomy than to the more advanced subjects, because it implies something absolute as regards the standard of attain- ment, which, in the other subjects, would be out of the question. Even in anatomy, and much more in physiology, the Visitors are of opinion that, placing the fate of a candidate in a balance, of which the scales may be tnrned by the difference in one department of one of three unit figures, recorded without fractions, is a system of assaying that tends to discourage refinements of judgment, and to throw too much weight into an individual decision perhaps on too few data. It may be that few ill-prepared candidates pass the ordeal, but it is question-