PART 11.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. 118 valves were diseased. "With renewed observation, he discovered R.Colls.Phts. , ii £ i.1 J. & Suita. Edin. an aortic regurgitant bvmt; he spoke correctly ot tlie water hammer pulse; observed that the arteries in the arm were Donl.le atheromatous ; and answered correctly about the mitral pulse. yI\^^i '^'^ ^ At eleven o'clock the Visitors attended the clinical sur gical r:xamination, examination, by Dr. John Duncan, in his room, with Dr. Inglis ^^^"^^^^ as assessor. The first candidate was questioned on a case of interstitial hernia with the testes in the inguinal canal. He was also examined on hydrocele and its treatment, and required to poiut out the diiferences between congenital and infantile hernia. The second case he was examined on was one of burn, and he was asked some questions on the classification and treat- ment of these injuries. He then adjourned to a neighbouring ward, where he applied a long Listen's splint for a supposed fracture of the shaft of the femur. He was given a bare splint, and had to get the materials necessary from the nurse in the ward. The next candidate was examined on .a. case of strumous disease of the elbow, which had previously been excised. The present condition of the parts was questioned on, and the cases indicating excision of the elbow-joint were also discussed. The candidate was asked his opinion as to the best treatment to adopt for the case in its present condition. He was examined on necrosis of the tibia and the operation of probing. He was also asked the symptoms of abscess in the head of the tibia, and the treatment recommended for that condition. He was then re- quired to recognise an Esmarch's bandage, an aneurism needle, a nsevus needle, a lithotomy forceps, a lion forceps, and a necrosis forceps. H3 was questioned as to the mode of applica- tion of splints in fractures involving the elbow-joint; also on Liston's long splint and Dupuytren's splint. At the surgical examination in the other ward, the Visitors found a candidate being examined on the two cases—one of disease of the os calcis, and the other of rupial sore on the lip of a girl—which had been the subjects of the clinical examination on the previous day. At one o'clock, April 8th, at the Surgeons' Hall, the Visitors Oral, were present at the oral portion of the double qualitication examina- tion. There were three tables, and two examiners to each. At one table a candidate was examined in surgery and surgical anatomy ; H