PART in.—DOCUMENTS CONCBRNINQ EXAMINATIONS. Section II. R.Coll.Phys. Professional Eooammiatimis. Lond. There are three Professional Examinations, called herein the First Ex- By-laws, amination, the Second Examination, and the Third or Final Examination, Licentiates, each being partly written, partly oral, and partly practical. These Examinations will commence on the First, Second, and Third Mondays of the months of February, April, July, October, and December, unless otherwise appointed. Every Candidate intending to present himself for Examination is re- quired to give fom-teen days'.notice in writing to the Registrar of the College, at the same time transmitting the necessary Certificates. Office hours fi-om Twelve to Six; Saturdays from Twelve to Two. The First Examination. The subjects of the First Examination are :— Chemistry and Chemical Physics, meaning thereby Heat, Light, and Electricity. Materia Medica, Medical Botany, and Pharmacy. Osteology. Synopses indicating tTie ra/tige of Subjects in the Examinations, in Chemistry, and in Materia Medica, Medical Bota/ny, and Pharmacy may be obtained together with the Regulations. A Candidate will be admitted to the First Examination on producing evidence of having been registered as a Medical Student by the General Medical Council, and of having complied with the regulations prescribed in Section I., Clauses 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8, page 2. The Fee for admission to the First Examination is Five Guineas, being part of the entire Fee for the License; and if a Candidate be rejected, he will be required to pay an additional Fee of Three Guineas before re- admission to the Examination. A Candidate rejected in the First Examination will not be re-admitted to Examination untO. after the lapse of three months from the date of re- jection. The Second Examination. The subjects of the Second Examination are :— Anatomy. Physiology. A Synopsis indicating the range of.mbjects in the Examination in Physiology may be obtained with the Regulations. A Candidate will be admitted to the Second Examination on producing evidence of having passed the First Examination, of having completed, subsequently to registration as a Medical Student, eighteen months of Professional Study at a recognised Medical School or Schools, and of having complied with the Regulations prescribed in Section I., Clauses 9, 10, 11, and 12, page 2. The Fee for admission to the Second Examination is Five Guineas, being part of the entire Fee for the License ; and if a Candidate be re- jected, he will be required to pay an additional Fee of Three Guineas before re-admission to the Examination. A Candidate rejected in the Second Examination will not be re-ad- mitted to Examination until after the lapse of not le.^s than three months from the date of rejection.