23 PART I.—GENERAL IMPRESSIONS. with anatomy remembered from plates, or from dissections done K. Coll. Suhg. by other persons. Again, the collateral advantages involved in becoming a practised dissector are so obvious that it is unnecessary to emphasise them. However, the qnestion has not been ignored at this College, but held in suspense, owing to the dilficultie.s supposed to attend the practical examination of large bodies of candidates. But the Visitors would remark that the diflSculties have not proved insuperable in the case of the Irish College of Surgeons, or of the Glasgow Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons, in the former of which large numbers of candidates are so examined. The Visitors were struck with the arrangements for the Surgical clinical examination. Typical cases of ordinary occurrence were '^^i^^*^?'^ / _ examinations. brought to the college for the purpose of testing the candidates. The question of the best mode of carrying out a surgical clinical examination may fittingly be discussed here. In the course of their inquiry, the Visitors have witnessed three diffe- rent methods—one, in which the students were examined on patients in the wards and in bed, as in the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, the Adelaide Hospital, Dublin, and the Royal Infirmary, Glasgow ; a second, in which the students were examined on cases at the hospital, but brought from the wards into another room for examination, as in the City of Dublin Hospital and at the Western Infirmary, Glasgow ; and a third, where cases of ordinary occurrence were brought to the examii- nation hall, as at the Royal College of Surgeons, England. The Visitors are convinced that the third plan—that of the English College of Surgeons—is the best, and that the surgical cases most suited for such an examination are those which can be brought to a centre, and which often may be obtained from amongst out-patients. In fact, in many instances, where Out-patient the examination took place in the wards, the cases selected cases suitable could easily have been removed to an examination hall. The caudMatef reasons in favour of this method are :—First, great economy of time to the examiners ; secondly, the avoidance of crowd- ing the hospital wards at irregular times by large numbers of candidates; thirdly, that cases suffering from severe injury and acute disease, or which have recently undergone opera- tion, are decidedly unfit for such an examination; fourthly, the fact that when candidates are taken to a ward they must