VISITATION-REPORT. 216 Apoth. Haxl, iRBh. Questions: Pharmacy. M^iteria Medica. Physiology. Anatomy. Medicine. _ 4. " Ferri et Ammonire Citras." Name the ingredients employed in this preparation ; state its aijpearance and dose; and the preparation it is used in. 5. " Confectio Terebinthinaj." What are the ingredients employed in making it; describe the order in which they are directed to be used ; state the dose. Materia Medica. 1. State the mode of obtaining Kino; mention its characters and test; name its preparations; and give the composition of Pulv. Kino Comp. 2. Describe the process for oblaining «'Saccharum Lactis;" mention some of its characters ; give the composition of the powder containing it, and its dose. 3. State the processes for obtaining OleumyrLsticas and « Oleum Myiistica; Expressum ; " give some of their distinguishing characters, and the preparations in which they are employed. i. Name the different species of " Buchu" mentioned in B. P.; state their distinguishing characters, their preparations, and the supposed active principle. 5. Give the source of " Arsenious Acid; " its Pharmacopoeial prepara- tions, and the strength and dose of each. Physiology, 1. State the physical and leading chemical properties, and the compo- sition of bile and of lymph. 2. What varieties of Cartilage are found in the human body; state whether differences exist in connection with these structures at different ages, and what they are 7 3. Contrast the adult and foetal circulation, stating the several differ- ences of the valves and vessels in each case. 4. State some of the functions attributed to the nerves; how have the nerves been classed in relation to their functions ? 5. State the composition of human milk ; contrast it with that of the cow. Anatomy. 1. Name the relations of the left Subclavian Artery in it-s first stage. 2. Give the divisions of the Duodenum, and the length, position, and relations of each; mention the ducts which open into it. 3. Give the origin, course, and distribution of the Pneumogastric Nerves. 4. Describe the Knee-joint, and give the attachment of its ligaments. 5. Give a general description of the Spleen, and mention the course and termination of the Splenic Artery and Vein. Medicine. 1. Give the chief symptoms and causes of Intestinal obstruction; the indications and means of relief ; and the general prognosis. 2. Name the several forms of Bronchitis, and state the differential diagnosis of the Capillary form, the persons most disposed to it, its patho- logy and treatment. •B. Describe the accompanying signs and morbid anatomy of the ffranular form of Brieht's disea.se of the kidney.