30 VISITATION-REPORT. more than counterbalanced by still more important advantages. In the College of Surgeons, England, every candidate is examined in all the subjects, even though in the early stages be is deserving of being rejected. The evil of this is, that the candidate is kept for many days in painful suspense, and, if be be from the country, is probably detained uselessly in London. Another evil is that the time of the hard-worked examiners, spent upon candidates -who are already condemned, is actually wasted. The same process is repeated when the candidate comes up again ; and, in some instances, over and over again, the candidate goes through the process of rejection, and the whole examination. The plan of the Irish College of Surgeons is as follows : First, the examiners read over and adjudicate upon the whole of tbe written papers, and tbe candidates hopelessly rejected on tbeir written papers are stopped from going further vidth tbe exami- nation. By tbe Edinburgh Colleges the same plan is partially adopted. In tbe next place, the Irish College of Surgeons' ex- aminations are divided into stages—first, written ; secondly, oral; thirdly, in the final, clinical; and, lastly, practical. Each stage is treated, as it were, independently. A candidate who passes tbe written may be rejected in the oral, and so not go through the other stages ; or he may pass the oral and be stopped in the clinical or practical. Further, when a rejected candidate comes np for re-examination, he commences not at the beginning of the whole of the examination, but at the portion of it where he was previously stopped. It is evident, therefore, that by this mechanism, whether right or wrong, there is great economy of the time of the examiners; which tbe Visitors consider to be a serious consideration for those who conduct examinations. The Visitors remarked that the written examination in chemistry and materia medica consisted of one question out of three in each subject to be answered, and that only a quarter of an hour was devoted to tbe oral examination in both sub- jects, there being no practical testing. "Within these limits, however, the examination was in other respects satisfactory, and the same remark applies to the other oral examinations that the Visitors witnessed. Tbe Visitors are satisfied with the final examination, and consider that it affords valuable experience on the method, more especially, of testing candidates in operative surgery. There are