PART II.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. Ill at eleven o'clock, the same candidates being similarly examined R.nons.PHTs, by two sets of examiners with assessors. Each candidate was ^ Surg. Edin. given two cases in the ward to examine by himself, and was then Double called into the surgeon's room and questioned on those cases. Quahfication. The first candidate was questioned on a case in which an Examination, extensive epithelioma of the lower lip had already been excised, Clinical and in which, the wound made was closed by a plastic opera- "^S^^^J- tion. He was asked how he thought such an operation might be accomplished. No questions were given upon the history of the case or the pathology of the disease. The second case was one of hip disease, and a few leading questions were asked as to the signs of the ailment and the appropriate treatment. The candi- date was then required to select the instruments for deligation of the femoral artery, to adjust a Petit's tourniquet, and, lastly, he was sent into the ward to apply a bandage, the result of which was, at the end of the examination, criticised by the surgical • examiner. The next candidate was required to recognise a case of lingual epithelioma, and a few questions were asked in reference to the methods of operating in such cases. A second case was one in which the head of the humerus had been previously excised, and one or two questions were asked in reference to the operation. The candidate was then required to recognise the smaller con- stricting bands of an Esmarch's bandage; to recognise and name an aneurism needle and a Syme's staff. The third candidate also had a case which had been previously operated upon, excision of the OS calcis having been performed sub-periosteally, but the disease had returned in the new bone. His second case was one of callous ulcer. As in the former cases, a few simple, practical questions were put in reference to it. The candidate was then required to recognise a tonsillotome, an aneurism needle, a nsevus needle, a lion forceps, and finally he was required to apply a divergent spica bandage to a knee-joint. The fourth candidate got a remarkable case of rupial excres- cence on the lower lip of a young girl. The case was apparently syphilitic, and was recognised by the candidate as such. There was considerable glandular enlargement in the sub-maxillary region, and a roseolar eruption over the front of the chest which the candidate had not observed, probably because he supposed be was not to ask questions. The candidate was interrogated