TISITATION-REPOET. 196 Fac. Phts. & 3. Describe the dissection required to expose the subclavian artery in Surg. Glasq. the third part of its course, and give the relations of the vessel. ^ ~- 4, Describe the lower jaw, indicating the points where muscles are yuestions: attached to it. Anatomy, 5. Classify the following nerves into motor, sensory, and compound, and state from what trunk each is derived: frontal, phrenic, recurrent, laryngeal, chorda tympani, external saphenous, gustatory, hypoglossal, and musculo-spiral. 6. Give the position, connections, relations, and structure of the spleen. Physiology. Physiology. 1. Give a short account of the functions exercised by the Medulla Oblongata. 2. Describe the mechanism by which the rays of light are brought, to a focus in the retina and accommodation made for near and distant objects. 3. Describe the changes effected by the digestive fluids on (1) common salt, (2) cane sugar, (3) grape sugar, (4) albumen, (5) fat, (6) starch. 4. Mention the various kinds of muscular stimuli, physical and chemi- cal, and describe the changes that occur in voluntary muscle during its contraction. 5. Identify under the microscope specimens I., II., III., IV. Chemistry. Chemistry. 1. Give two distinct reactions by means of which hydrogen may be obtained from water. Give equations for each reaction. 2. How would you test for iodine (1) in the free state, (2) in combin- ation. 3. What chemical changes occur when a candle burns in oxygen ? How may each of the products be identified ? i. In what way does charcoal act a.s a disinfectant ? 5. Give in detail the process by which urea may be obtained from urine. Double Qualification Questions: Practice of Medicine. ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS OF EDINBURGH, AND FACULTY OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS OF GLASGOW. Practice of Medicine. Four QuettioTU, of which Tliree are to be answered, and not more. 1. What are the most common causes and seats of Cerebral Hasmor- rhage ? Describe the symptoms of an Apoplectic seizure. 2. Define Chlorosis. Describe the vascular and cardiac murmurs which accompany it. State how it is best treated. 3. Describe the character of the pulse in the different valvular lesions of the heart. 4. Describe the phenomena fonowing_Vaccination. What precautions are to be observpd in performing it 7 cicatrix. Describe the characters of a good