161 PART III.—DOCUMENTS CONCEENINQ EXAMINATIONS. Also certificates of attendance on— R. Coll. Sobo. (d) A recognised Hospital, for three Winter and three Summer Irel. Sessions*; (e) Of instruction in Clinical Ophthalmology, three months; and Letters Of attendance for one month at the Cow-Pock Institution, or some Testimonial, other institution approved of by the Council; or under the in- struction of a Public Vaccinator specially recognised by this College for that Purpose. Subjects of Examination. This Class shall be examined in Surgery, Operative Surgery on the Subject, and Surgical Appliances, Practice of Medicine, Medical Juris- prudence, and Prescriptions. Bach of these Examinations shall be partly written, partly viva voce, and partly practical. Fees, The fee for the Senior Class Examination shall be fifteen guineas, returnable to the Candidate in case of rejection, or to be allowed to him in case he presents himself a second time for the same Examination. A further fee of one guinea is to be paid to the Eegistrar. Rejection Fees. Every Candidate rejected at any of the Stated Examinations, on apply- ing for re-examination, shall be required to pay to the College, in addition to the regular fees, the sum of two guineas to reimburse the College the necessary expense of his examination. Special Examinations, Candidates seeking a Special Examination must make application to the Council, and, if admitted thereto, must pay five guineas, in addition to the fees for Stated Examinations. . The subjects for Examination, and the mode of carrying out a Special Examination, will be the same as those laid down for the Stated Exami- nations. The fees are the same as those for the Stated Examinations, as set forth above ; and a rejected Candidate will only be entitled to receive back fifteen guineas of the fees lodged by him. Conduct of Examinations. Examinations of candidates for Letters Testimonial are held in April, July, and November, upon such days as the Council direct. Candidates for Examination must return their Names to the Eegistrar of the College, and lodge their Fees and Certificates, one clear week before the day specified for Examination; and no Candidate who has not so returned his name, can be, under any consideration, admitted to these Examinations. Each Candidate shall have a number assigned to him, by which alone he will be recognised during the Examination. Licentiates of a College of Physicians or Graduates in Medicine of a University recognised by the College, shall be examined in General and Descriptive Anatomy, Histology, Physiology, the Theory and Practice of Surgery, Operative Surgery, and Surgical Appliances; and if, after exami- nation on these subjects, they be recommended for admission as Licentiates, they shall be so admitted. Rejected Candidates will not be allowed to present themselves a second • Candidates who have attended recognised Hospitals during three Winter Sessions of tix moniht each, shall be considered to havo performed snfBcient hospital attendance • if they shall be able to produce certificates of regular daily attendance, during a iike number of months at a County Infirmary or Provincial Surgical Hospital, containing at least fifty beds • provided the surgeons of such infirmaries or hospitals shall make returns to this Colleae' in the months of May and Noyember in each year of the number of students bo attending. L