EKMABKS ON VISITATION-REPORT. 274 Soc. Apoth. from the Written Examination, are still examined, both orally LoND. g^jj^ ^}jg living subject, by this Society, instead of being totally exempt as they are at some other Examining Bodies. How necessary this is, is best exempli6ed by the case mentioned in the Visitors' Report, page 134. A degree of leniency was shown to the candidate because he possessed an English surgical diploma, and the Examiner considered that the responsibility of his want of anatomical knowledge should rest with the College which had granted him his qualification to practice. For this reason the candidate was adjudged a mark only just sufficient to admit him to the Oral Examination. The Examiners take different views as to the method of con- ducting the examination on the living body, but the plan recom- mended by the Visitors is generally adopted. The candidate is expected to describe accurately the position and size of the organs, and other parts of the body; to map out with precision, on the surface, their situation, and afterwards to correct this by palpation and percussion. Reference is also made to the changes arising from respiration and altered positions of the body. He is moreover required to show that he is acquainted with the changes caused by the several movements of the body, and to explain by what muscles such movements are effected. This system has been approved by both past and present Visitors, and may be quoted to show that the Society is alive to the prac- tical necessities of modern medicine. The Court has, liowever, no desire nor intention of remaining stationary. The inadequacy of the material for the Oral Exa- mination in Anatomy has already occupied their attention, but inasmuch as Topographical Examinations are living demonstra- tions of an essentially practical character, they are probably more efficient in ascertaining whether the candidate possesses safe and useful knowledge, and have brought to light more effectively the weakest points of the student than the system which relies solely on dissected parts, as adopted by other Examining Bodies. In the words of the Visitors themselves, this plan " brings out in forcible relief what they believe to be a deficiency both in Medical education and Medical examinations " (page 134), and compares favourably " with a large umount of accurate (minute ?) anatomy, much of which is, after all, of little perma-