104 VISITATION-KEVORT. K. Q. Coll. Phis. Ikel. Final Examination. Forensic Medicine. Hygiene. Histology. cally disregards tlie numbers altogether in his general estimate, although placing them on the schedule for the sake of technical uniformity. Some of the other examiners, however, appear to fix the examination much more completely on lines which permit of rigid values being attached to each part of it, thereby acting upon the rule of the college that the viva voce examination of every candidate at any one table shall be the same throughout; that is, that the same questioning shall be repeated throughout the whole number of candidates. One of the candidates, examined by Dr. Haevey in forensic medicine and hygiene, was questioned on the poisonous doses of opium, and on the circumstances which render a dose of opium fatal to children in certain diseases; curare, what used for, what the nature of the poison ; the tests for fresh blood, micro- scopic and by spectrum analysis ; character of the foetal heart— when first heard; the classification of insanity, to distinguish dementia and mania ; what are the legal signs of insanity ? how do you prove a child to have been born alive ? the hydrostatic test and the causes of error in applying it. A second candidate was put through identically the same line of examination. In the examination on pathology, by Dr. Smith, a number of microscopical objects were submitted to the candidates—e.g., urinary mixed calculus, uric and phosphatic; biliary ditto; favus crusts, hairs passing through them, dried in a glass cell; lesion of the mitral valve of the heart, involving rupture of the chordae tendinese and a pouching amounting to incipient aneurism of the curtain of the valve. The candidate was in each case asked to say what the object was, and was then questioned about it and its pathological significance. Besides this he was asked to draw out rudely a sphygmographic tracing, on a pretty large scale, of the pulse, and questioned about dicrotism, &c. There were also questions upon the significance of the signs of excavation in the lung; and other subjects more or less of the ordinary routine. As previously stated, the same order was mainly adhered to in the examination of the several candidates. In Dr. Benson's examination the method pursued was different in various respects as well as in the examination being more discursive and varied throughout. There were no objects sub- mitted to the candidate; but questions were put over a wide range of subjects, and the examiner appeared, in many instances, to be led, by what he had Icaracd of the candidate in