VISITATIO-NREPORT. 16 Physiology. Primary Examination in Physiology, Examination at the College of Surgeons, England. examinations. Without remarking further upon the subject here, the Visitors consider it of importance to indicate their opinion that no clinical examination can be regarded as satisfactory unless chemical and microscopical testings, chiefly, but not exclusively, of urine form sach part of the examination as to secure that no candidate escapes examination altogether in these departments ; and perhaps the actual personal employment of the thermometer, the urinometer, and other instrumental means of research which are in daily use, might also be brought into operation as part of the field of examination to a greater extent than at pi-esent. With regard to the primary examinations in physiology, the Visitors approach the subject with some difficulty, as it is one which has but recently acquired a position of first-rate import- ance, and even at present commands a varying standard. The difficulty of forming a judgment on the attitude of the various examining boards towards physiology is, moreover, increased by the fact that it is a subject which has rapidly extended its area and methods of investigation, and opened out new fields of research. It is but natural that teachers and examiners who are them- selves working in the van of physiological investigation, should press forwards the newest, and to them the most interesting, portions of their science, thus running a risk of imposing a demand which could only be satisfied at the expense either of other subjects, such as anatomy, or of the fundamental portions of physiology itself. In the College of Surgeons of England physiology has recently been made the subject of a sepai'ate paper and questions, and has been assigned to special examiners, and in consequence the standard of requirement has been materially changed. Questions are given upon electro-physiology, on physico-chemical processes of investigation, on stained microscopic preparations, on manipulation of microscopic tis- sues, and on the application of the graphic method. The inquii-y cannot be suppressed, is all this in the case of the average candidate compatible with an adequate knowledge of the funda- mental principles and details of medical science ? It is not to be forgotten that every one of these comparative novelties intro- duced into an examination by the Royal College of Surgeons in England tends to affect the teaching in every school throughout the empire. Thus it may become a question whether unduly insisting