apothecaries' society of LONDON. 275 nent use beyond the mere mental training," while "the most important results of anatomical knowledge in reference to prac- tice are not infrequently missed " (page 134). The value of the examination on the living subject, as a test, is well exemplified by the case quoted by the Visitors, and is brought out also in the Eeport of the Visitors for 1873. The latter considered that the examination, on the whole, was sufl&ciently searching to detect the shortcomings of any candi- date, and afforded a fair test of his general capacity; and, on the occasion of their visit, four candidates, who had passed the Primary Examination at the College of Surgeons, and were deficient in topographical anatomy on the living subject, were rejected. This induced them to make the remarks which follow : " Our attention was also unavoidably called to the want of due prepa- ration on the part of some of the candidates. In some cases his knowledge was evidently wholly superficial ; in other cases it appeared that the knowledge of Anatomy, and especially of Regional Anatomy, which had been acquired with a view to passing the College of Surgeons, had been in a great measure lost in the few months which had elapsed since that Examination ; and on the whole the conclusion was forced on our minds that in many cases the system of instruction had lamentably failed in its main purpose of educating the student for the future practice of his profession." (Page 11.) Thus the Visitors of 1873 make the same complaints as those of 1881 of the failure from a practical point of view of much of the present anatomical teaching and examination. The Society surely, therefore, deserves credit for bringing to light these defects. II. Physiology. The Visitors remark that there is a deficiency in the Ex- amination in Physiology, but much of this deficiency is only apparent, as Histology embraces a wide field, and the objects shown to the candidates are amply suggestive of, and naturally call forth, physiological questions. Justice would dictate that the same remarks should be made in favour of this Examination as those made in approval of the