PART II.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. 63 and the azygos vein. Another candidate was examined on the E. Cm,i,^Surg. microscope, and questioned upon the minute anatomy of the kidney ; a section of a nerve ; the function of the grey matter of Primary the spinal cord, of a nerve centre, and also on the physiology of micturition. He was then required to put a piece of yellow- elastic tissue under the microscope; was examined on a heart laid open, and on portions of intestine cut open, which he was asked to identify. Another candidate was closely examined on the anatomy of the orbit. Several candidates were asked to delineate on a black-board the curve of a muscle in contraction, and were questioned on the significance of different parts of the curve. Punctually at five o'clock the examiners assembled in the theatre under the presidency of the chairman, the Visitors also being present. The chairman read out a number corresponding with an entry in the secretary's book of the name of each can- didate, which, however, was not disclosed ; and four examiners, each with a tabulated statement of marks, gave the number of marks as each number was read out. For instance, say No. 142 ; the examiners first gave the marks for viva voce anatomy, next for viva voce physiology, then for the written anatomy and the written physiology, and so on through the whole twenty-four candidates. The system of marking is as follows : Ten is the maximum System of number of marks in anatomy and physiology respectively, and ■'^^'^^i^S* also in written and viva voce respectively ; so that the total maximum would be 40. Any mark below 3 in any one of the four subjects would reject; but in each subject, anatomy or physiology, a minimum total of 8 must be reached, a fuilure to attain which means rejection; so that a 3 in the oral examination would require to be balanced by at least a 5 in the written to pass in each subject, anything less than 8 in either physiology or anatomy meaning rejection. After all the numbers had been read to the president, he added up and read the totals, and everyone who had received below the standard was rejected. Four were rejected out of twenty-four. The Visitors were told that in rare instances, where a student is just below the passing standard, and has done well in several of his subjects, the examiners confer and pass him by allowing an addition to one of their marks, considering that he virtually has a right to pass.