39 PART T.—QENJSBAL IMPRESSIONS. in two hours at the outside, especially if four examiners, instead Fac. Phys. & of two, were employed. The dissections by the candidates would S"ho- Glask. provide ample opportunity for viva voce questions, and obviate the labour imposed upon the examiner of preparing elaborate dissections, besides setting one half of the subject free for the use of the candidates. The present system, vphereby two examiners are engaged six consecutive hours in testing candi- dates, is too great a strain upon the examiners, and might be objected to by a candidate who was rejected at the end of such an exhausting examination. The oral examination in anatomy, physiology, and chemistry was carefully conducted. On this occasion nineteen, or nearly two-thirds, failed, of whom seven were rejected on chemistry alone, two in anatomy alone, and one in physiology alone, while the remaining nine failed in more than one subject. The plan of the final examination was also in every way satis- Final factory. As in the primary, the examiners are selected for Examination their special competency m the several subjects with which they tures noted are charged, the clinical surgery and clinical medicine being ^J^'^ sugges- entrusted to the hospital physicians and surgeons, even though they are not members of the Court of Examiners. The exami- nation in clinical medicine was conducted partly by short written notes of the case, and partly by oral questioning, the system employed by various examiners differing somewhat in detail. The testing of urine was well done, but the arrangements for the microscopical examination of urinary deposits were not on a level with the other parts of the examination. However, on the occasion of the examination for the " double qualification " this defect did not exist. The examination in clinical surgery was very satisfactory. Every candidate had to bandage a limb and to apply splints for a supposed fracture, padded splints and bandages being supplied to the candidates. At the Royal Infirmary, the candidates were questioned on cases in the wards, and had to be distributed among such cases as were found there. At the Western Infirmary a difierent method was employed. The examining surgeons selected three cases from the in or out- patients, who were brought into their private room, and every candidate in turn was examined upon them, care being taken to prevent the possibility of communication between those waiting for examination and those who had been examined.