VISITATION-REPORT. 142 Ieel. Primary Examination ^^''^^J' ^'^^^^ ^'^^ assessor ; the examiner in chemistry, with the assessor; and the President of the Court of Directors, meet for the vivd voce examination. The candidates are admitted two at a time, one being assigned to the examiner in botany and the other to the examiner in chemistry. At the end of a quarter of an hour, the President rings a bell, and the examiners ex- change candidates. At the end of another quarter of an hour, the President again rings the bell and the candidates depart, accompanied by one of the assessors, who prevents communi- cation with the candidates awaiting examination. Tliis limit of a quarter of an hour is generally, but not rigidly kept, the examiner feeling at liberty in the case of a doubtful candidate to extend the time. On inquiry as to whether special examinations were ever given, the answer was that they were occasionally granted for special reasons, but rarely to men who had no diploma, an extra charge of five guineas being made for the privilege. On this occasion, six candidates presented themselves for the primary examination, one of whom already possessed a diploma. Candidates possessing a diploma, instead of being given the paper on elementary chemistry submitted to the others, are tested with a paper of a more practical kind, a copy of which is printed along with the others in Part III. The examiner in botany was Dr. Harvey, and his assessor Dr. Leet. On the table the Visitors observed a large book with dry botanical specimens, books of large botanical plates, and a series of fresh botanical specimens, such as genista in flower ; primula, wallflower, cineraria, and veronica, all in bloom; roots and leaves of digitalis, primrose and ferns, root of aconite, fresh and dried; bulbs, and various forms of roots, including dried medicinal roots. The general character of the questions given to the various candidates was as follows : A root and leaves of digitalis having been handed to a candidate, he was asked to read a botanical description of digitalis from a book before him, and to identify in the plant the characteristics described in the book. He was then asked to describe the shape of the leaf of the genista. Next, he was questioned on cryptogamic plants and their mode of propagation. He was asked what ferns are used in medicine ; to identify a fresh and a dried root of aconite ; to name the order to which the wallflower belongs; to name the medicinal plants in the order Botany.