96 VISITATION-REPORT. R. Coll.Phys. LOND. Final Examination. Vivd voce. not required to perform any surgical operation. The second candidate was asked: " Where would you tap the abdomen ? How would you void the contents of the bladder? In what position would you tap it ? Where would you perform trache- otomy ? Select the instruments for tracheotomy, and perform the operation." This he did slowly and deliberately, but on the whole correctly. He was then told to perform Chopart's ampu- tation of the foot, which he did in a similar manner; then to pass a catheter and search the bladder for stone ; finally, to mark out, by incisions, an amputation of the leg. The third candidate was told to tie the femoral artery, and asked to point out where he would perform paracentesis of the thorax. This examination was carried out with great care and thorough- ness. At seven o'clock in the evening of the same day, in the large library of the College of Physicians, three tables were arranged, with two examiners at each. At one table Dr. Andrew and Dr. H. Jones examined in medicine. At a second table Dr. Gervis and Dr. Meadows examined in midwifery. At a third table Mr. Lawson and Mr. Bryant examined in surgery. On the first table were several preparations from the museum of the Col- lege, one of pericarditis, one of dilated heart, one of dilated and rough aorta, and one of a small aneurism. These prepara- tions did not present much variety, and were only occasionally referred to in the examination. The examination was con- ducted upon the principle that each examiner discussed a different subject for a time only limited by his own sense of what was right, and it may fairly be presumed that the choice of the subjects was in some degree determined by the previous knowledge of the ground gone over in the clinical examination and in the written papers, the whole results of which, and the papers themselves, were before the examiners. In this way, although there is, perhaps, nothing to remark upon in the method of this special examination, it must be taken as one of a series, and therefore complementary to the others, and from this point of view it was exceedingly important and very efficiently managed, although there was, perhaps, no foi*mal reference in most instances to points on which the candidate may have been weak in his previous trial. Almost every candidate was obliged to write a prescription.