VISITATION-REPORT. 12 compahativk Estimate of Clinicaj. Ex- aminations. Coll. Phys., London. in a thoroughly practical manner, by bringing the candidate as much as possible into the position of a man acting for himself in the presence of disease. The Visitors would here compare the clinical examinations of the Royal College of Physicians of London, and those of the King and Queen's College of Physicians in Ireland, as described in Part II., at the same time interpolating remarks upon the corresponding examinations of the Scottish Bodies. While all these examinations are, in the opinion of the Visitors, well- conducted, substantial differences exist, amounting in some cases to completely opposite methods. Thus there is still room, perhaps, for further development and improvement in the methods of the individual examinations. In the London ex- amination, for instance, each candidate is furnished with a case, and desired to write a detailed report on it, and to state also, in writing, his opinion as to the diagnosis, prognosis, and treat- ment. This having been done, the record forms the sole basis of the examiner's judgment on the performance of the candidate in this part of the clinical examination. So far as this case is concerned, no conversation at the bedside takes place between the examiner and the candidate ; no questions are asked as to how certain conclusions are arrived at; and, therefore, the examiner has no opportunity of personally observing the method of working of the candidate in investigating the case, except as it appears on the face of the document. The facts and inferences may be right or wrong, defensible or otherwise. If right, the candidate has no means of showing the process by which he arrived at his conclusions; if wrong, the examiner is obliged to decide merely from the written report whether the error was accidental, or due to essentially faulty methods of procedure. The Visitors do not assume that this method is the one invariably pursued in the London examinations ; only that, in the point mentioned, it appears to them to be decidedly defec- tive. No doubt it tends in some degree to economise the time of the examiner, and perhaps also affords, to a really excellent candidate, an opportunity of showing how he can produce in a written form an elaborate and well-reasoned commentary on a case. But as a method of distinguishing between competent and incompetent candidates it is not satisfactory; nor does it make the best use of the actual materials employed in a clinical