PART III.—DOCUMENTS CONCERNING EXAMINATIONS. 187 Questions: Prescription. Surgery. Surgical Anatomy. Prescription. E.Colls.Phts. Write a prescription in unabbreviated Latin for a pill containing & Surg. Edin. Belladonna and Oxide of Zinc, for the relief of sweating in Phthisis. Surgery. Four Questiom, of which TTiree are to be answered, and not more. 1. What is the Pathology of the affection known as Enlarged Prostate. Mention its symptoms, complications, and treatment. 2. Describe the operation of amputation at the Knee, known as "Garden's," and contrast it with any of its modifications; also the methods kriown as " Teale's," and by " double-flap," as respects suitability to cases demanding operation. 3. Describe the Symptoms, Pathology, and Treatment of Pulsating Tumours of the Orbit. 4. What are the typical forms of Sarcoma ? With what normal tissues is Sarcoma allied? What degenerative changes may occur in these tumours ? In what respect are they Malignant 1 Surgical Anatomy. Two Questions, of which One only is to be answered. 1. Name the cavities which communicate with the Nares. Indicate the situation of their openings of communication. 2. Describe the anatomical relations of the Lymphatic Glands in the axillary cavity, as bearing on the operation for their extirpation in car- cinoma. Questions set in the First Peofessional Examination. The printed questions to be returned by the candidate along with his written answers. VL Anatomy, Four Questions, of which Three are to be answered, and not more. 1. Mention the structures in immediate relation to the temporo- maxillary articulation, and describe their relative position. 2. Mention the attachments, relations, and actions of the diaphragm. H. Give the origin, relative anatomy, and distribution of the posterior tibial artery. 4. Name the branches of the lumbar plexus. Enumerate the parts supplied by the obturator nerve. Physiology. Physiology. TTiree Questions, of which Two are to be answered, and not more. I. What are the effects of dividing cervical sympathetic, and then stimulating the upper end (a) on the iris, the blood-vessels, and the tem- perature ? 2. State the manner in which (a) lacteal vessels (6) lymphatic vessels commence. State their several functions, and by what means their con- tents reach the heart. Describe their structure and that of a lymphatic gland. What changes are the blood corpuscles believed to undergo in a lymphatic gland ? 3. Describe the minute structure of the retina, and explain colour blindness in accordance with physiological facts. Anatomy.