PART III.—DOCUMENTS CONCERNING EXAMINATIONS. 181 Dr.. Examiner in_ Date,_ .18 The Examiner is requested to insert in the Table the Judgments he allots to the Candidates for their Answers to the Questions put by him, in the Clinical, Writ ten, and Viva Voce Examinations. A separate number is to be recorded for the reply to each Question attempted by the Candi- date. When the Court of Examiners assembles to make their combined Award, the Examiner is requested to take into consideration the Candi- date's Answering on all the Subjects. The Judgment of each Examiner shall be as follows :—" Pass "—" Pass if "—" Eeject unless "—" Reject." K. Q. Phys. Coll. lauL. Instructions to Examiners. lemarks Candidates' Names Clinical Papers Vivd voce Final Judgment on oral and written examination Judgment 1 2 3 4 6 6 Judgment 1 2 3 i 5 Judgment Combined Report of Censors on the Final Examination FOR THE License to Practise Medicine. The Judgment of each Examiner shall be given as follows:—" Pass "— " Pass if "—" Reject unless "—" Reject." " Pass "—shall mean that there is no doubt in the Examiner's mind as to the answering of the Candidate being such as to justify his passing. "Pass if"—shall mean that the Candidate has reached a minimum standard, but no more, and that the Examiner will only agree to his passing if the other Examiners are of the same opinion. " Reject unless "—shall mean that the Candidate's answering has barely reached the minimum standard, and the Examiner will reject him unless the other Examiners are strongly in his favour. " Reject "—shall mean that the Candidate's answering is so far below the minimum standard, that there is no doubt in the Examiner's mind as to his unfitness to pass. When the Court of Examiners assembles to consider their combined Award, each Examiner is requested, before giving his final vote, to take into account the Candidate's Answering on all the subjects of Examin- ation. Names Clinical Medicine Medicine and Pathology Medicine and Therapeutics Midwifery Hygiene and Medical Jurispru- dence Final Judgment of the Court of Examiners Remarks I. II. Date, 18 Signature of the Vice-President, Chairman, Combined Report on Final Examination.