119 PART II.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. time not being rigidly adhered to, but varying according to the Fac. Phys. & course of the examination, and what appeared to be necessary to J satisfy the examiners. Primary Candidate No. 1, examined by Dr. Fleming, was handed a ^00^^°^^'°° drawing of a microscopical section of the skin, and asked to Histology, point out and name the varions elements that were illustrated. He was then examined on the various functions of the skin, on bodily temperature, and how it is regulated by the skin; how the body loses heat; on the mode of estimating blood pressure ; the cause of the pulse-beat, and the effect of the division of the sympathetic nerve of the neck. Candidate No. 2, examined by Dr. McYatl, was asked, when a person took a piece of bread and butter in" his month what changes it underwent. This text opened to the examiner a wide field of examination. The candidate was also asked what sort of information the gustatory nerves give nnder such circumstances. He was then examined on the fifth pair of nerves at some length, and minutely on the physiology of salivation, deglutition, and the functions of the various nerves connected with these pro- cesses :—" How is the glottis guarded ? how are the nares defended ? where is the nerve-centre which regulates these pro- cesses ? what is the chief afferent nerve ? " He was then examined on the constituents of bile:—" What are the bile salts ? what other functions has the liver besides secreting bile ? " Subsequently he was questioned on the muscular tissue of the pharynx and heart, and asked how voluntary and involun- tary muscular fibre difier histologically, and to point out these different structures on a diagram. At 6.30 P.M. the Visitors attended the physiological examina- tion for the "double" qualification. An examiner from Edin- burgh, Dr. Andrew Smart, having taken the place of Dr. McVail, conducted, along with Dr. Fleming, the examination of candi- dates for the double qualification. This examination was similar to that already described. The examination in chemistry commenced at the same time Chemistry, as that in physiology, in another room in the Faculty Hall, and was conducted by Dr. Perry and Dr. Lindsay. On a table were bottles containing various ordinary chemical salts. On another table there were test tubes and various reagents. Each candi- date was examined separately for about twenty minutes.