VISITATION-REPORT. 154 Apoth. Hall, Irel. Final Examination. Clinical Medicine. Remarks. same vagueness attached to tlie account given of the case of chest disease. There was a great want of definiteness in the written statement of this case by the candidates, and the treat- ment accordingly was purely conventional. It is, perhaps, right to observe that the examiners, not being physicians to the hospital, had no previous knowledge of the cases, except what was derived from one of the physicians who attended at the commencement of the visit, but went away immediately afterwards, and did not take part in the examination. To this feature of the examination the same remark applies as in the case of the King and Queen's College of Physicians in Ireland. [See pp. 15, 99, 101.] The time allowed for the examination of each case was, moreover, very short, and, even with an able candidate, would not have per- mitted of his going into great detail. Allowance being made for these facts, the examination was most carefully conducted, and the questions put to the candidates were of a strictly practical kind. They were asked to write prescriptions for one or more of the cases examined, and questioned on the details of these pre- scriptions, as well as on the pathology, diagnosis, and prognosis. One of the candidates was questioned on the urine in a case of pneumonia, the urine being high-coloured and of high specific gravity, allowing of a number of questions as to the quantity of urea, the relation of this to the specific gravity and to the functional efficiency of the kidney, &c. On all these points, however, the candidate showed himself so ignorant, that the examiner did not enter into any farther detail, remarking to the Visitors that it was obviously useless. The other candidate was examined on saccharine and on albuminous urine, and seemed on the whole to show a fair amount of acquaintance with the tests. But beyond this there was very little use made of the specimens of urine or of the urinometer. A microscopic demonstration of a single tube cast had been prepared, but it was little referred to, and no other kinds of microscopic objects were provided. Owing to the case of secondary syphilis being in another ward, and the Visitors not being informed of this portion of the examination at the time, they can only say they were given to understand that the candidate did very well in regard to that case, and gave good prescriptions, as, indeed, both candidates did in the other cases, although showing themselves, as one of the examiners specially remarked, excessively ignorant as regards