REMAEKS ON VISITATION-REPORT. 2(58 REMARKS BY THE FACULTY OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS OF GLASGOW ON VISITORS' REPORT. Fac. Phts. & In response to the courteous invitation of the President of the Spro. Gi-asg. Medical Council, the Council of the Faculty of Physi- cians and Surgeons of Glasgow, after conferring with the Board of Examiners, have to submit the following observations on the Report of the Visitors. The Council have, at the outset, to express their gratification that the general plan and method of the Primary and the Pinal Examination of the Faculty have met with the approval of the Visitors. In regard to those recommendations of the Visitors which have special reference to the Faculty, these have been carefully considered by the Council and the Examiners. To the suggestion that the dissection should be rather regional than with a view to the exposition of particular structures, the Examiners in anatomy will endeavour to give effect. The advice of the Visitors that the viva voce examinations should be con- ducted on the dissections made by the candidates, rather than on those prepared by the Examiners, will also be adopted as far as it can be done. But it must be kept in view that the dis- sections made by the candidates do not always present the best field for oral examination ; and the Examiners are of opinion that these will not supersede the necessity for prosection. The number of subjects required for the Anatomical Examination will be regulated by the number of candidates ; and the Council will take care that the efficiency of the dissection test is not impaired by any lack of examining material. The strain upon the Examiners and candidates to which the Visitors refer will be lessened either by means of extending the period of examina- tion, or, should this prove insufficient, by increasing the number of Examiners. An extension of the period has, in fact, already taken place, this having been rendered necessary by the Exami- ners resolving to allot a longer time to each candidate for dissection. This step they have taken from a feeling of the great importance of the Examination by Dissection. At the same time they are convinced that as a means of ascertaining a