129 APOTHECARIES' SOCIETY OF LONDON. PRIjVIARY and final EXAMmATION FOR LICENCE. On Wednesday, December Mtb, 1881, tbe Yisitors were present Primary and at tbe weekly examination for the licence of the Society of jj^tion for Apothecaries of London. Both the primary and final examina- Licence. tions are conducted simultaneously. The Visitors arrived shortly before five o'clock, and found that twenty-one candidates were undergoing examination—a larger number than usual, as a rule only twenty being taken in one day. Of these candidates, ten were present for their "final" examination, and eleven for their " primary." Of those who attended for the?r final examination, one was a licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians of London ; a second had passed the first M.B., Durham; a third was a licentiate of the College of Physicians and Surgeons, Edinburgh ; and a fourth was a member of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. Besides the twenty-one candidates, there were four others who were marked on the roll as " assistants." Those already qualified are admitted to a modified examination, the particulars of which, will be seen in the regulations printed in Part III. The candidates were engaged at their written examination Clinical, under the supervision of one examiner, a second examiner being in another room superintending the clinical examination of the candidates for the final qualification. In this room there were three patients sitting at a distance from one another, one being a case of diabetes mellitus with phthisis ; a second a case of mitral disease of the heart; and the third a case of disease of the heart in a child. Three candidates were admitted at a time, one for each case, and were allowed a quarter of an hour to take short notes and make inquiries as material from which they afterwards gave a written account of their examination and diagnosis. At the end of a quarter of an hour the three candidates returned to their written examination, and three more were called in to go «