28 VISITATION-REPORT. R. Coll. SxjBG. able on the other hand whether the well-prepared are as secure of passing as ought, if possible, to be the case, having regard to the inevitable variations of individual judgment. A man of average ability, who has worked honestly and Avell, ought to be able to present himself for examination without fear of rejection. In the final examination the system of marking is somewhat, different, a greater effect being given to the higher numbers in counteracting the lower. The Visitors think that a system of percentages, in which a reasonable effect should be given to very high as well as to very low marks, and a reconsideration of doubtful cases on the basis of the oral as well as the written examination, would tend to greater certainty in the results. ROYAL COLLEGE OP SUEGEONS IN IRELAND. Primary Examination, Eoyal College of Surgeons, Ireland. Practical Dissections. Dissections. The Visitors bear testimony to the excellence of the primary examination in anatomy, which leaves, as a practical test, little to be desired. Each candidate is required to perform dissections, and answer questions on dissections, made not only by himself but by other candidates. This is of importance as furnishing an answer to the objections that have been made against such an examination on the ground of the supposed difficulty of carrying it out. The Irish College of Surgeons was the first of the Corpo- rations to adopt this practical method of examination, and the Visitors think it would be well if the example were followed by other Corporations, even though, in order to do so, they were obliged to augment their staff" of examiners, or curtail some other portion of their examination. The Visitors particularly noticed the great advantage of not too rigidly limiting the time spent in this practical examination, so that more time can be devoted to the weaker candidates. The method of actual dissection gives the examiner facilities for determining a candidate's anatomical knowledge far greater than can be obtained from any amount of viva voce, or answers to written questions. It should be remem- bered that the kind of information elicited by so practical a mode of examination is such as can hardly be obtained by any amount of mere reading or grinding, but must be derived solely from the