149 PART H.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. toms, and treatment. He was questioned upon the indications of Apoth. Hall, treatment and npon the i-easons why he would give certain I^"^- medicines which he himself suggested, e.g.—colocynth and pinal hvoscvamus, pill hydrarar., calomel and opium, castor oil and Examination. • :i 1 1 J Medicine, croton oil. At this point, the candidate said he had never seen a case; and the examiner passed to the subject of purpura, asking what were its symptoms, what its dangers, what par- ticular organs were affected, and, finally, how to treat it. The next subject was diphtheria—what is it, what is its pathology, what line of treatment is to be pursued in it, internal or external; how to distinguish between diphtheria and croup; what is the special danger of croup ? Then the candidate was examined on smallpox—how to distinguish it, its different forms, and what class of disease does it belong to. He was asked: " If called to a person with a short cough and a pain in the side, how would you proceed to discover what was wrong ? " Questions were also asked on the comparative diagnosis of pleiirisy and pleuro- dynia ; how disease of the liver produces ascites. "Write a pre- scription for elaterium in a case of ascites. The candidate was asked to read his own prescription after having written it, and in doing so seemed puzzled to give the Latin equivalents for the numbers; the prescription, however, was correct enough. He was then asked to identify some plates of skin diseases, and, in particular, a plate of measles eruption, which he did not seem to be very clear about. The same candidate was thep examined in pathology by the other examiner on the basis of the prepara- tions on the table. In connection with the case of tubercle of the lung, he was asked what is tubercle, whether there was any other form of it; whether there was any other form of phthisis than tubercular; one that runs a longer course ? A fibroid form was ultimately suggested, and questions were put on the treat- ment. In connection with the case of pneumonia, various stages of the disease were asked about, the candidate not appearing clear as to which stage was indicated in the preparation. A few questions were put upon the preparation of valvular disease of the heart. Candidate No. 2 was asked about the classification of diseases of the skin, which he gave in the usual form. Then a number of the plates above alluded to were shown to him ; and on his pronouncing the measles eruption to be scarlatina, a plate of the scarlet fever eruption was next shown. On his naming