34 VISITATION-REPORT. K. Q. Coix. substitutes for words; and it is a question wLicb method expresses HYs. la.L. j^pgj. accurately the judgment of the examiner. The terms em- ployed here are "Pass," "Reject," with two intermediates, "Pass, if " and "Reject, unless." " Pass, if " is defined [VidePart III.] to mean tbat the candidate has reached a minimum standard, but no more, and that the examiner will only agree to his passing if th.e other examiners are of the same opinion. This is apparently equivalent to the "moderate good" of the College of Physicians of London. " Reject, unless" is defined to mean that the candidate's answering has barely reached the minimum standard, and the examiner will reject him, unless the other examiners are strongly in his favour. This seems to be equivalent to the "moderate bad " of the College of Physicians of London, to the " 30 " of the Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons of Edinburgh, and to the " 3 " of the College of Surgeons of England. ROYAL COLLEGES OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS OP EDINBURGH. Colls Pliys & The primary Examination for the Double Qualification in ■Surg., Edinb.: tbese colleges is limited to three subjects—anatomy, physiology, Exami^tion cbemistry—in each of which the candidate is tested orally for double and by written papers. The papers are read over by the qualification examiners, all assembled together in the Physicians' Hall, and limited to ' . ' T , n • Anatomy, at the end of about an hour, the exammers read out their Physiology, decisions. Candidates getting marks below 30, are stopped andChemibtiy. ^^^^ going through the further part of the examination. Those getting marks between 30 and 50 are allowed to pro- ceed to the oral, in which they must answer more than the average to save themselves from rejection. While giving full credit to the examiners for an anxious desire to conduct the examinations conscientiously and efficiently, the Visitors feel bound to notice certain respects in which the examination ap- peared to fall short of the requirements considered necessary by other examining boards that they have inspected. In the examination in anatomy, there were no fresh dissections on which to test the candidate orally, as at the London Colleges,