PART II.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. 73 Next day, Thursday, July 7tli, tbe Visitors again attended the R. Coli,. Suuo. viva voce examination, being present at six o'clock p.m. for the Ik^l- last hour of the three devoted to the examination. The Visitors Primary were much struck with the excellent answering of some of the |^xaminatioi:. candidates in anatomy. Some of the better candidates were carried rapidly by Mr. Stoker over a large extent of the subject during the quarter of an hour. This was partly owing to the promptness with which the answers were given, and partly to Mr. Stoker's method of examination, which was somewhat peculiar in this—that he did not allow the candidate long to hesitate about an answer. If at times the candidate had forgotten the precise answer, he told him, and then soon ascertained whether the candidate was ignorant or only temporarily forgetful. With respect to the examinations in chemistry and materia medica, conducted by Dr. Frazer, the Visitors have a remark to make which is not intended in any degree to reflect upon the examiner, inasmuch as they have not witnessed anywhere an ex- amination managed with more ability, discretion, and considera- tion at once for the candidate and for the duty to be performed. In these respects Dr. Frazer seemed to possess almost instinc- tively the highest qualities of an examiner. But this indicates only more clearly that it is difficult, if not impossible, to bring out to the requisite degree the knowledge of a candidate in these two large and complicated subjects, within the limits assigned by the College to these examinations. To justify this remark the following considerations suffice : One question only in each of these subjects is required to be answered at the written exami- nation, and that is selected by the candidate himself out of three. The oral examination on the two subjects was, as has been mentioned, conducted strictly within the limits of a quarter of an hour. So that seven and a half minutes, on the average, was the very utmost time that could be given to testing a candi- date's knowledge over the whole range of modern chemistry, with its infinitely varied symbols and doctrines, not to speak of its end- less details. Dr. Frazer had a number of chemical objects before him, and, in many instances, candidates were asked to note in symbols the composition of some of these objects. There were also questions upon the manufacture of gases, the simpler pro- cesses of inorganic analysis, &c. But it cannot fail to follow, even from this brief statement, that nothing approaching the testing