VISITATION-REPOET. 122 Fac. Ph7S. & Stjrg. Glasg. Primary Esuminatioii (Double). Adjudication. Fabreuheit or Centigrade thermometer. This candidate was also rejected. A considerable number of these candidates came from other parts of the kingdom, and it may with great probability be inferred that they had failed elsewhere in examinations for their surgical diplomas, in which, perhaps, chemistry may not have formed an essential element, or an element at all. On Thursday, at 6.30 p.m., the Visitors were present at the Faculty Hall, to hear the adjudication on the candidates who had gone through their primary examination. The following exa- miners were present: Dr. Perry (in the chair), Dr. Lindsay, Dr. McVail, Dr. Clark, and Dr. Knox. As each name was called out, each examiner read out the marks he had given. This applied both to the single and the double qualification. If any candidate had got less than 100 marks {i.e., an average of 60 each for paper and oral combined), in any one of the three subjects— anatomy, physiology, or chemistry—he was rejected. There were, however, two exceptions. One candidate had got more than the average marks in anatomy, more than the average marks in physiology, and was 5 only short in chemistry, his written examination in chemistry having been satisfactory. On con- sultation, the examiner in chemistry consented to raise his marks by 5, to enable him to pass. Another candidate had done well in chemistry and physiology, but was below the mark in anatomy both in the written and viva voce. The examiners in anatomy thought that he was very nervous, and probably did not do himself justice. They therefore proposed to the Court that he should be again examined in anatomy with the assistance of one of the examiners in physiology, and that if he satisfied them on re-examination he should be considered as passed. The candidate ultimately passed. Of thirty-three candidates, one bad withdrawn, another had still to be re-examined, leaving thirty- one, of whom nineteen were rejected and twelve passed. Of the nineteen rejected candidates, two were rejected in anatomy alone ; one in physiology alone; seven in chemistry alone ; four in all three subjects ; one in anatomy and phj^siology ; one in anatomy and chemistry; three in physiology and chemistry; so that of the whole number of candidates fifteen failed in chemistry, and would have been rejected in that subject, apart from having failed in others. The Visitors were informed that at this period of the