PART III.—DOCUMENTS CONCERNING EXAMINATIONS. 175 ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS OF LONDON. RColl. Phts. . „ LOND. The Licence of tins College is a Qiudification to practise Medicine, iywrgery, and Midmfery, and is recognised by the Poor Lam Board as a By-laws. qualijication in Surgery as well as in Medicine. The College will, under its Charter, grant Licences to practise Physic, in- cluding therein the practice of Medicine, iSurgery, and Midwifery (which Licences are not to extend to make the Licentiates Members of the Corporation) to persons who shall conform to the following By- laws. By-Laws relating to Licentiates. Licentiates. Section I. Every Candidate for the College Licence (except when otherwise pro- vided by the By-laws) who commenced Professional Study after the 2bth day of March, ^ 880, will be required, at the times prescribed in Section 11. for the respective Examinations, to produce satisfactory evidence : — 1. Of having passed, before the commencement of Professional Study, one of the Preliminary Examinations on subjects of General Educa- tion recognised by the General Medical Council. (^See Regula- tions of the General Medical Council, to be obtained of the Registrar, 315 Oxford Street, London, W.) 2. Of having been Registered as a Medical Student, in the manner pre scribed by the General Medical Council, at least forty-five months previously to admission to the Third or Final Examination, unless specially exempted. Note ^.—Professional studies commenced before registration, except in the cases of Chemistry, Materia Medica, Botany, and Pharmacy, will not be recognised. 3. Of having been engaged in Professional Studies at least forty-five months, during which not less than three Winter Sessions and two Summer Sessions shall have been passed at one or more of the Medical Schools recognised by the College. One Winter Session and two Summer Sessions may be passed in one or more of the fol- lowing ways :— (a) Attending the Practice of a Hospital, Infirmary, or other In- stitution duly recognised as affording satisfactory opportuni- ties for Professional Study; (&) Receiving Instruction as a Pupil of a legally qualified Practi- tioner having opportunities of imparting a practical know- ledge of Medicine, Surgery, or Midwifery ; (f) Attending Lectures on one or more of the required subjects of Professional Study at a duly recognised place of instruction. 4. Of having received instruction in Chemistry, including Chemical Physics, meaning thereby Heat, Light, and Electricity. 6. Of having received instruction in Practical Chemistry. 6. Of having received instruction in Materia Medica. 7. Of having received instruction in Botany. 8. Of having received instruction in Practical Pharmacy. Note jB.—By this is meant instruction in Practical Pharmacy by a registered Medical Practitioner, or by a Member of the Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain, or in a publio hospital, infirmary, or dispensary.