STATKMENT HY MR. TEALE. VUl practical profession, and one which comes into wider con- tact with all kinds of knowledge than any other. It therefore ought to know what ia wanted in the educated practitioner. It ought to know how much the young brain can profitably and without injury to itself acquire in the way of knowledge and training in the period devoted to a medical education; and from this point of view the profession and its education ought to be a model and corrective to education throughout the kingdom. " If I may be allowed a short digression, which seems some- what akin to the subject before us, let me say that I believe that much of the future welfare of the educated classes in the country may be influenced by the guiding action of the medical profession in the question of education. " Examinations have become universal tyrants of education. They have been and are not only potent for good, but I fear very often for evil. We who are practitioners are perpetually fighting the battle of poor overworked young brains, allured by that ignis fatuus of Prizes, Scholarships, and University Class Lists. Examinations at the present time, whether in the Universities or still more in the competitions in Civil and Military life, are becoming one mighty force, of which the result is expressed in their influence upon the brain and nervous system. Tlia outcovie of educational training is about the last thing that seems to be thought of by those who have the 'planning and the con- ducting of these Examinations. " It is, then, for us, the medical profession, first to set our own house in order and show that, with all our experience and know- ledge, we can work out what is good for our own profession, and then to come with force upon the jjublic and rescue those whom we see daily being dragged under the wheels of the great Juggernaut. "And now, gentlemen, having stated to you the aims which the Visitors have kept before them in working out this Report, and the views which they hold as to the function of the Report in relation to the future, I place this into your hands, and into the hands of the profession, claiming that the Visitors have dis- charged their duty in the spirit of the declaration made by the Examiners in the University of Oxford, ' Pro virili parte, sepositis omni odio, spe, et amicitia.' "