117 PART II.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. thirty-tliree candidates. In various parts of the room were dis- F^c. Phys. & played materials for oral examination. On one table was a series of bones, including specimens showing epiphyses; on a second Primary^ table, large models of tbe internal ear; on a third, dry dissections (ghgie)? of arteries ; and on a fourth, dissections in spirit. Practical Two candidates were admitted at a time, being selected on -A-natomy. no particular rule from those waiting outside, and were under examination for forty minutes; half the time being devoted to dissection, and the other half to vivd voce examination, partly on the dissection, and partly on the materials on the various tables, each examiner being occupied ten minutes. In this way, the examiners continued without intermission until four o'clock— that is, for six hours, during which time they examined eighteen candidates. The remaining candidates underwent the same system of examination on the following day, for which some deeper dissec- tions were prepared on the right half of the subject. Candidate No. 1 was taken to the dissected side of the subject, and required to point out the arteries of the fore-arm, to state the course and the relative anatomy and branches of the radial artery, also of the ulnar and anterior interosseous artery ; to indicate the various superficial muscles of the anterior aspect of the fore-arm ; and to make a dissection of the musculo-cuta- neoas nerve of the leg. The candidate spent about twenty minutes in dissecting off the skin and seeicing for the nerve, which he failed to find. He was " referred." Candidate No. 5 having dissected the radial artery in the fore-arm, was examined on the base of the skull and its foramina and the structures that pass through ; on the sinuses ; and on the teeth. He was then examined by Dr. Clark on a dried pre- paration of the internal mammary artery, on the intercostal arteries and muscles, the sterno-clavicular articulation and its interarticular cartilage ; on the recently dissected subject, the coeliac axis and superior mesenteric artery, the transverse colon and its characters, the intercostal arteries, the diaphragm seen through an opening in the thoracic wall, the anterior medi- astinum, the internal mammary artery, and the relations of the phrenic nerve and its course in the thorax. Candidate No. 3 having dissected the Sartorius muscle, was asked the action of the muscle, its nervous supply, and the