ViaiTATION-REPORT, 212 APOTHECARIES' HALL OF IRELAND, The following are the by-laws and regulations, rales relatiug to marking, and the printed questions both at the primary and final examinations visited :— APOTHECAEIES' HALL OF IRELAND. Preliminary By-laws and Regulations regarding the Preliminary and tJie Prih- Examination fessional Education and Examinations required for the License to Practise in Arts. the Profession of Apotheca/ry. The Preliminary Education and Examination. Compulsory Subjects:— 1. English Language, including Grammar and Composition,* Modern Geography,! and the leading events of English History. 2. Arithmetic and Algebra : Arithmetic, including Vulgar and Decimal Fractions ; Algebra, including Simple Equations. iJ. Geometry : First Two Books of Euclid. 4. Latin : The First Two Books of Livy, or the First Two Books of the ^neid of Virgil and Latin Prose Composition. 5. One of the following Optional Subjects:— (a) Elementary Mechanics of Solids and Fluids, comprising the Elements of Statics, Dynamics, and Hydrostatics. (" Elementary Mechanics of Solids and Fluids " if not passed at the Preliminary Examination must be passed at the first part of the Professional.) (S) Greek; (c) French ; {d) German; (<?) Logic; (/) Botany; {g) Elementary Chemistry. The following Books are recommended :—Clyde's Geography; Smith's Compendiiim of English History; Ganot's "Popular Natural Philosophy ; " The First Book of the Anabasis of Xenophon or First Book of the Hiad of Homer; Fenelon's "TeMmaque;" Schiller's "Wilhelm Tell;" Whately's " Logic ; " Silver's " Outlines of Botany ; " Roscoe's " Elementary Chemistry." The Preliminary Arts Examination Will be held at the Hall four times in the year, viz., the third Thursday in the months of January, April, July, and October, at the hour of Eleven o'clock, a.m. Unsuccessful Candidates will be remitted to their Studies for a period of six months. * " The GniNBBAL Medical CouNCir, will not consider any examination in the English languiige sufiacient that does not fully test the ability of the candidate—(1) To writ* sentences in correct English on a given theme, attention being given to sptUing and punc- tuation as well as to composition ; (i) to write correctly from dictntion ; (.S) to explain the grammatical construction of sentences ; (4) to point out the gi-ammatical errors in sentences ungrammatically composed, and to explain their natnre; and (5) to give the derivation and definition of English words in common use." t The geography is made obligatory on students on and after the 1st January 1883.