REMARKS ON VISITATION-REPORT, 256 Colls. they are scarcely prepared to recommend that no Examiner Edin""'** should act for a longer period than five years without a break. Thei'e is an inaccuracy in the Table concerning the appoint- ment of Examiners on p. 54, in regard to the practice of the College of Physicians of Edinburgh. The answer given by the Visitors to the question whether "Examiners are elected to examine in certain subjects " in reference to that College is— " To a certain extent—i.e., after election are assigned to special groups of subjects." The real fact is, that every Examiner is elected on account of his special knowledge of the subjects in which he is to examine, and that none are assigned after election to special groups of subjects. Conclusions. " 1. That every * primary' or < first part' examination should include dissections by every candidate." The strenuous commendation of dissections, introduced repeatedly in the course of the Report, as the best means of testing anatomical knowledge, is hardly consistent with ex- perience. Few anatomists would consider that such dissections as could be made in half an hour by nervous and anxious candi- dates would be a fair test of their manual dexterity or anatomical knowledge, whilst it would be an enormous waste of time which could be better spent in testing their real knowledge. But even admitting the advantage of dissection as part of the anatomical examination, it is difficult to see how, in all cases, it could be applied. The absence of any dissection test in the examination of the Royal Colleges in Edinburgh is not a matter of choice but of necessity; there is a lack of supply of the necessary material. Tears ago the question was carefully considered ; the Examiners had suggested that both dissections and opera- tions on the dead body should form a part of the examination, and the matter was brought by the Colleges under the notice of the Inspector of Anatomy. That official replied, that no material was available for the purpose, as the unclaimed bodies obtainable in Edinburgh were quite insufficient for the require- ments of the dissecting-rooms. In these circumstances the