239 ROYAL COLLEGE OF SUEGEONS OF ENGLAND. rejection of a candidate, tliat, "judging from tlieir experience," E.Coll. Sxjbg. the system of marking is " mucli too arbitrary, and presents too little elasticity to meet the case of the various aptitudes requiring to be discriminated in an Examination." Upon this point the Council are compelled to observe, first, that although at p. 156 the mode of marking in the College Examinations is fully set out, the Report of the Visitors at pp. 27-28 is somewhat am- biguous, as not distinguishing suflBciently clearly between the methods of mai-king in the Primary and in the Pass Examina- tions ; secondly, that the Visitors appear to have lost sight of the object of the Examinations, which are not Competitive but Pass Examinations, and, consequently, are not designed to test by a nice discrimination the " various aptitudes " of the candidates ; thirdly, that rejecting numbers are never given in either the Primary or Pass Examination unless a candidate exhibits such ignorance as to justify his rejection; and, lastly, that in the Primary Examination, which would appear to be more particu- larly referred to by th.e Visitors, it has been the custom for some years to reconsider the case of a candidate whose total number of marks, either in Anatomy or Physiology, is just below the required standard, and, if the Examiners in that subject concur, to allow him to pass, by raising his total number by one mark. 5. TJie desirability of excluding candidates who have failed in the Written part from admission to the Oral part of the Examination. In regard to this question the Council do not agree with the suggestion of the Visitors, but propose to maintain the present system. It is recommended by the Visitors chiefly on the score of "economy of time of the Examiners," p. 57, par. 11; but the experience at the College Examinations is that, at least at the Pass Examination, not more than 5 per cent, of the candi- dates fail to reach, the minimum mark for the written paper. II. Pass Examination. "With reference to the Pass Examination for the Membership, the points specially alluded to by the Visitors are as follow: 1. The requirement of the performance of operations on the dead body by every candidate.