VISITATION-RE PORT. 214 Apoth. Hall, The Professional Examinations Irbl. Will be held quarterly, and will commence on the first and second Monday Examinations, the months of January, April, July, and October. They will be carried on as follows :— The first part, on tlie first Monday, at eleven o'clock a.m. ; and on the Tuesday and Wednesday succeeding, at the same hour. Subjects:—Chemistry (including Chemical Physics) and Botany, Monday; Anatomy and Physiology, Tuesday; Materia Medica, and Pharmacy, Wednesday. The second part or final examination, on the second Monday, at eleven o'clock a.m. ; and on the Tuesday and Wednesday succeeding, at the same hour. On Thursday, Clinical examination. Subjects:—Medicine and Surgery (including Pathology and Thera- peutics), Monday; Midwifery and Diseases of Women and Children, Tuesday; Forensic Medicine and Hygiene, Wednesday ; Clinical examination, Thursday. The first three hours of each day will be devoted to writing Answers to Papers, and afterwards there will be an Oral and Practical Examination on the same subjects. Certificates and Diplomas will be granted to the successful candidates on the Friday following, at three o'clock p.m. Candidates who fail to pass the first part of the Professional Examina- tion will be remitted to their studies for three months, and unsuccessful candidates at the E'inal Examination will not be readmitted until after the expiration of six months. Doctors of Medicine of any of the Universities of the United Kingdom, and Licentiates of a Royal College of Physicians or Surgeons of any of the Royal Colleges of Surgeons, whose qualifications as such appear in the Medical Register, and who, having first passed an examination in Arts, have also spent twelve months at Practical Pharmacy, may obtain the License of the Hall by undergoing an examination-^the former two in Pharmacy,* and the latter in Medicine and Pharmacy. Candidates for the Professional Examinations must lodge their testi- monials and the fees, and enrol their names and addresses with Mr. Charles Wright, the Clerk at the Hall, in Dublin, a clear week prior to the day of examination. Candidates for the Certificate of Assistant must produce satisfactory proof— 1. Of not being less than sixteen years of age. 2. Of having spent two years at Practical Pharmacy, under the super- intendence of a duly registered Apothecary or Pharmaceutical Chemist. 3. Of good moral conduct. N.B.—The examination for the Certificate of Assistant is held on Fridays at the Apothecaries' Hall, in Mary Street, Dublin, at two o'clock P.M., and embraces the subjects of Pharmacy, practical and theoretical, Materia Medica, the British Pharmacopoeia, and the translation and com- pounding of Medical Prescriptions. The Apothecaries' Hall, Dublin, Mary Street: Sejjtember, 1881. • The examination in Pharmacy will include Practical Pharmacy, Pharmaceutical Che- mistry, Toxicology, Medical Botany, and the British Pharmacopoeia.