279 apothecaries' hall of IRELAND. examination therein, with wliich will be combined, as heretofore, the Soc. Apoth. Microscopical Examinations in Histology, both general and pathological, LoNn. which have already elicited the approval of the Visitors. In regard to the method of the Clinical Examinations, as to which objection is made to the comparatively small number of patients brought before the candidates, it must be obvious that it is not possible at a weekly examination, as required by the Society's Act of 1815, to have either such a number or variety of cases as can be presented at examinations held at longer intervals (as is the practice at other Licensing Boards), and that the class of diseases so produced must necessarily partake more of a chronic than an acute character. As to the point of the written clinical pa.pers being set by one Exa- miner, and the subsequent viva voce upon them taken by another, this is fully explained in the reply of the Chairman of the Court of Examiners which accompanies this letter. With respect to Chemistry, Toxicology, and Botany, it is in contempla- tion to make more complete arrangements in the apparatus and appliances for the examinations in these subjects. As to the science of Hygiene, the Society fully concur in the observa- tions made by the Visitors, not only as to its great value and importance generally, but also as to the desirability of its forming a portion of the education and examination of every medical practitioner. In carrying out the somewhat limited powers conferred upon it by the Act of 1815, the Society have no wish to remain stationary, but are anxious to adopt from time to time every improvement in their examinations which the continual advance of medical science may demand. I have the honour to be. Sir, Yom most obedient servant, HUGH W. STATHAM, Master of the Society of Apothecaries. Dh. Acland, President of the Medical Council. REPLIES OF THE EXAMINERS IN THE APOTHE- CARIES' HALL OF IRELAND TO VISITORS' REPORT. Chemistry. In reply to the remarks of the Visitors (page 143) the Apoth. Hali,, Examiner begs to say that it must have escaped the observa- Ibkland. tion of the Visitors that all the salts there alluded to were labelled in chemical symbols only. The actual manipulation