PART n.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. 123 year they generally get an inferior set of candidates, and that Fac. Phys. & many of those examined had been rejected before, some of them Surg. Glasg. several times. FINAL EXAMINATION FOR LICENCE (SINGLE).- CLINICAL MEDICINE. On Friday, July 22nd, the Visitors attended at the Royal Final Infirmary, Glasf^ow, -where a clinical examination in medicine Examination •" ° ' 1 1 n fo*" Licence was being conducted by Drs. M'Laren and Charteeis, both or (Single). them Physicians to that institution. The examination was held exclusively in one large ward. There were only six candidates. This limited number was attributed to the fact that many candidates for the surgical diploma had already obtained a medical qualification elsewhere, in which case no examination in medicine or clinical medicine is required by the Faculty. In this examination each candidate was placed with a sheet of paper at the bedside of a patient, and told to examine and report briefly on the case, the time given not being sufficient for a full report, but only for notes, to be supplemented by a viva voce examination, which was invariably carried out afterwards. In some instances, more than one case was employed in the subsequent part of the examination, but the candidate was generally required to read ofi" his own notes, and questions were asked upon these. Specimens of urine, illustrating morbid varieties, were upon a table. The candidates were questioned upon these, one specimen containing a muco-purulent sediment, and another containing bile pigment, being employed for several of the candidates. The candidates were asked to determine the specific gravity of urine, to test it for albumen, and in various ways to show their knowledge of the ordinary clinical operations on it. Two microscopes were used, one of which had a specimen of uric acid displayed, aud another triple phosphate crystals, somewhat broken and con- fused, in the midst of a number of other possibly foreign sedi- ments. More than one candidate failed to recognise these crystals of phosphates, but perhaps, under the circumstances, the specimen was not quite so definite as mighl; have been desired. The know- ledge of physical signs was tested chiefly by auscultation prac- tised in the presence of the examiner, and the candidate was