VISITATION-REPORT. ■62 E.COLL. Phys, LOND. Final Examination: Operative surgery. registered bodies. The anatomical examination was conducted in a manner similar to that of the College of Surgeons of England —first, by written questions, and, secondly, by oral examination with the aid of dried anatomical preparations, bones, and recent dissections, not specially made for the examination, but brought out of the dissecting room of a medical school. The Visitors witnessed the oral examination at the College of Physicians. This portion of the examination seemed to be carefully and efficiently conducted, but, as it dealt with only a small number, it does not aflFord any material experience. The clinical examination of the English College of Physicians has already been fully considered in the more introductory portion, being there compared with the clinical examinations at the Colleges of Physicians in Ireland and Scotland. On the viva voce examination in midwifery and medicine there is not much to be said beyond the fact that in all its essentials it was satisfactory. In reference to the number of candidates examined at the College of Physicians, it may be mentioned that the rule of the College is, that no more than twelve candi- dates are examined in one evening viva voce; and if the total number does not make exactly twelve, they are so divided as to give an average number each evening. In the final examination for licence the portion dealing with surgery also aflPects but a small number of candidates, the majority having already obtained a surgical diploma. The arrangements for examination in surgery—written, oral, and clinical—were excellent, and included the testing of the candi- dates in operative surgery, a portion of the examination which was conducted with high efficiency. K. Q. Coll. Physicians, Ireland: Primary Examination. KING AND QUEEN'S COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS IN IRELAND. For the Primary Examination there were only three candi- dates, all of them ladies, who were examined by written papers, and orally and practically both in anatomy and chemistry. The candidates were required in turn to make dissections in the