ROYAL COLLEGES OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS OF EDINBURGH. 259 Colleges on the whole agree ; and 12 and 13 refer to a snbject, the propriety of constituting hygiene, ophthalmology, and mental disease, distinct subjects of examination, which is certain to come under the careful consideration of the General Medical Council, and of the Licensing Bodies. The concluding recommendation of the Visitors the Colleges can only characterise as extraordinary. " A change in the existing practice in medical and surgical examin- ations has suggested itself to the Visitors as likely to help the solution of many difficulties which at present exist, and of others which might arise to bar the way to the introduction of any general improvement in the mechanism of examinations. " They consider that the written portion of the examinations might with much advantage be carried out at the several educational centres, medical schools, &c., thus following the example set in the Oxford and Cambridge Local Examinations, in the Matriculations of the University of London, and the Eoyal University of Lreland, as well as in the Science and Art Examinations, South Kensington ; and in the Intermediate Edu- cation Examinations, Lreland. By the adoption of such a plan much would be gained and some of the defects remedied. " In the first place, time, trouble, and expense would be saved to those candidates who, residing at a distance, have to come up to the examination centre for the vnritten portion, and then have to wait for their turn in the oral examination. " In the second place, the supposed necessity for commencing the oral immediately after the written examinations, and the consequently hurried consideration of the papers, would disappear. " In the third place, by rendering it possible to have an ample interval between the written and the oral portions of the examination, the written portion might become more thoroughly than at present a means of sifting out inadequately-prepared candidates. Again, by rejecting them at this stage, valuable time would be gained for the oral and practical portions of the examinations. " In the fourth place, the greater the aggregate number of candidates at an examination, the more conspicuous would be the saving of time, and the greater the economy of expense in conducting the examination. " In the fifth place, the rejection of a candidate on his written examina- tion alone could be more carefully managed than at present, while the candidate, in the event of failure at this stage, would be saved much personal mortification, and, in any event, would be put to no expense beyond the mere fee for the examination." The number of candidates who appear for examination is often small, and to establish written examinations at all the edu- cational centres would involve an extensive and complicated R. Colls. Phys. Suho. Edin.