FACULTY OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS OF GLASGOW. candidate's knowledge of anatomy, the test is not absolutely Fac. PJ^^^ crucial. The Examiners know from experience that not a few students can pass muster at dissection who, on examination by other methods, show an inadequate knowledge of the subject. The last of the special recommendations to the Faculty—and which is also embodied in the general " Con- clusions " as having reference to all the Surgical Examinations —namely, that Operative Surgery should be added as a test at the Final Examination, is one in the propriety of which the Board of Examiners and the Council entirely concur, and to which they intend to give effect. In regard to the general " Conclusions " formulated by the Visitors (page 56), the Council believe that most of them are well considered and judicious. The proposal to restrict and define the range of Examination in Physiology is one which the Examiners have more than once considered, without seeing their way to give effect to it. There are doubtless not a few outlying parts of the science of which a medical student, with the limited period devoted to the subject, cannot be expected to have a minute acquaintance. But no judicious examiner would reject a candidate for imperfection of knowledge on sucb subjects. The Board of Examiners have, therefore, felt that there is no such urgent call for the limitation of the range of Examination in Physiology as there did exist in regard to Chemistry. With the greater part of the other " Conclusions " of the Visitors the Council concur. To one other matter in the Report the attention of the Board of Examiners was directed by the Council. The Visitors (page 23) institute a very interesting comparison between the merits of the different methods of examining in Clinical Surgery which they witnessed at various places ; and they give the preference to the arrangement under which typical cases of sufficient variety are brought to the Examination-room from different hospitals. In the discussion on the subject, at the Board of Examiners, it was pointed out that the method tended in some degree to limit, injuriously, the field of Clinical Examination. But the chief objection to it as regards Glasgow was, that in a city with only two general hospitals there would, under this method, be con- siderable risk of the candidates being able to ascertain by irregular means the cases to bo drafted. After careful consideration, the