REMARKS ON VISITATION-REPORT. 264 R. Coixg. ment, that m the description of the chemical examination, thev Phts. Suro. 1 j j ,1 j ' ^ jjdin had used these words : — " He (the candidate) was then given a blue solution, which he success- fully tested for sulphate of copper."—P. 108. No remarks seem called from the Colleges on the other sub- jects of Examination, with the exception of Clinical Surgery, for in general the notices are extremely brief, and any critical observations are usually of a laudatory nature. The Visitors express a decidedly unfavourable opinion as to the Clinical Examination in Surgery; and as this is a subject of much importance, the Colleges think it right to quote their remarks nearly in full. In the " Remarks on Examinations " the following passage occurs:— " The Clinical Examination in Surgery seems open to considerable im- provement, and to show certain weak points which are instructive. In the first place, the examination is limited to the cases in the wards of the examiners, and when there are many candidates, must be carried out upon many cases that are not the best for such an examination. That such cases are hardly suitable will appear from the fact, that candidates were examined on cancer of the lip recently operated on, an excised shoulder, excision of the os calcis, excision of the elbow, and lastly, on a badly- formed stump. These cases might bring out certain points on a question of treatment, but they do not bring out the essentials of a surgical clini- cal examination—the question of diagnosis aided ty the manipulations of the candidate. Moreover, the Visitors observed, on the second day of the clinical examination, that some of the cases that had been used the pre- vious day were again employed. The objections to this course are obvious. In all these instances the questioning was conducted carefully in the surgeon's room, and was carried on in collateral subjects, but the range of questions was more suitable to an oral than to a clinical examination. Questions were also asked upon various instruments displayed on a table. This, good as far as it goes, only comes out in contrast as defective when compared with the performance of actual operations on the dead body, and the far better testing of knowledge of instruments which the selection for use by the candidate implies. The Visitors observe, that in this examina- tion there is no testing of the candidates in actual operations. Another weak point was, that there was no systematic provision of padded splints for the candidates to select from, as was the case at the Glasgow hospitals; but each candidate had to apply to the ward nurse for the materials he needed, and to make the best of what the nurse chose to supply. The Glasgow plan not only economises time, but appears to be a more adequate test of the efficiency of the candidate. On the oral examination, the Visitors have not much to remark, further than it was fully and carefully carried out as far as it went."—Pp. 36, 37.