VISITATION-REPORT. 146 • Apoth. Haix, Ibel. Primary Examination. Dissections. Adjudication. ment to tlie dissecting room of the Carmichael College of Medi- cine, for the examination in practical anatomy. Here a subject had been partially dissected, displaying the dissection of the axilla and the triangles of the neck, the submaxillary, sublingual, and parotid spaces. Each of the five candidates was first examined viva voce on the structures in those spaces ; one of the candidates, for example, being questioned on the boundaries of the axilla, and asked to point out the different muscles that con- stitute those boundaries; the stages of the axillary artery, its relations and branches. He was also required to indicate the different nerves constituting the brachial plexus. Subsequently this candidate was required to make a dissection, showing the course of the femoral artery. Another candidate was similarly examined in reference to the triangles of the neck; he was asked to indicate and name the boundaries of those spaces ; the course of the carotid artery, and the situation where the common carotid divides into the internal and external carotid, and to name the branches of the external carotid artery; to indicate the external jugular vein, and to state how it was formed and where it went to. He was also asked the origin and insertion of the omo- hyoid muscle and of the digastric; the principal nerves that are found in the triangles of the neck, and the important structures contained in the parotid gland. He was then required to make a dissection of the brachial artery. Another candidate had to make a dissection of the posterior tibial artery and the adjacent structures as it winds round the inner malleolus. On Friday, January 6th, Mr. Stoker was present in the Apothecaries' Hall, when the Court of Examiners and Directors met and adjudicated on the answering of the different candi- dates. There was a full attendance of the examiners and other Directors: Thomas Collins, L.R.C.S.E., Governor; RobertMoxt- GOMERT, M.R.C.S.E., Deputy-Governor ; Charles H. Leet, M.D., Secretary; Charles Holmes, M.D. ; Jerome O'Flahertt, L.R.C.S.L; Arthur Harvey, Sir George B. Owens, M.D., E. J. O'Neill, M.D., James Shaw, George Wyse, Charles MooRE, M.D., F.R.C.S.I.; John Ryan, John Evans, Henry Palmer Nolan, M.D., and Edward H. Holland, M.D. The examiners reported to the combined Court the marks each can- didate had obtained. The votes were then taken. As the result of adjudication, two candidates were passed; two were