92 VISITATION-REPOJIT. E. Coll.Phys. of them very creditable. The followiug remarks indicate in a LoND. general way some of the points as they appear to the Visitors. Final Case in Bed 1 was meagrely and imperfectly recorded in about a cfin^r*^^°"" P^^® ^'^^ ^ quarter of widely-written manuscript. Nothing in the shape of commentary was appended, and although the essential fact of diabetes was brought to light, it was not done so as to show much knowledge of the subject. " I should diagnose the case to be diabetes, with eflTusion into the right pleural cavity." [The basis for this last remark was of the slenderest description, there being perhaps a very slight amount of relative dulness on percussion, but no other sign of pleural effusion.] Case in Bed 4 was very fairly recorded, the diagnosis given being disease, probably malignant, of the stomach. Case in Bed 8.—A fair average report, no refinements, the diagnosis fairly accurate, but not put so as to show with any exactness the grounds upon which it was arrived at. The prog- nosis and treatment in the main were correct. Case in Bed 10, — This manuscript was nearly illegible, so that it was difficult to form an estimate of its merits, which were probably, however, not great. It may be remarked that an extremely loud mitral murmur makes no appearance in the report, that the disease is regarded as being one of organic heart disease, but without any further definition, " It seems the patient is suffering from enlargement of liver in combination with heart disease, which was occasioned by mental excitement," No allusion is made to the presence or absence of rheumatic fever, but as, in point of fact, there was no evidence of this, the question may have been put to the patient and the negative not recorded. Syphilis, on the other hand, is distinctly alluded to as forming part of the previous history. The treatment given is digitalis and compound colocynth pill occasionally. A belladonna plaster was actually on the cardiac region at the time and was approved, but the presence of oedema of the Hmbs and pretty severe dyspnoea is not referred to as a reason for special treatment. Case 27.— This case was very well recorded, and showed a good deal of general knowledge of the subject. With one doubtful exception it was possibly the best of all the reports. There was, however, not much consideration given to the question as between embolism and any other pathological cause of the hemiplegia, and the only remark made as regards the heai't was that no endocardial