visitors' obseevations. 296 (or its extemporised equivalent), the student being allowed time for making and recording his experiment. The Visitors would also notice shortly some complaints of omissions that have been made. A. The King and Queen's College of Physicians of Ireland and the Edinburgh Colleges express disappointment that the Visitors have not, in accordance with precedent, printed specimens of written answers. Their reasons for such an omission were mainly as follow :— 1. That the result to be obtained would not be commensurate with the cost and labour entailed by publishing such a large quantity of manuscript, seeing that at least 3 sets of answers from each of 18 examinations would have been required. 2. That it would be extremely difficult, if not impossible, to make a selection which should fairly represent the standard accepted by each body. 3. That the correction of the press of such a mass of manuscript, much of it badly written, would have entailed immense labour, in order to secure absolute accuracy as to spelling by the candidate—and might have delayed the issue of the Report beyond the recent meeting of the Council. Moreover, the Council has so far endorsed the judgment of the Visitors as not to have ordered the answers collected by them to be printed. B. On the criticism of the Edinburgh Colleges that they " consider that the Visitors have failed in their duty in not describing the single examination of each College, and in not pointing out the pecnliarities which distinguish it from the Examination' for the Double Qualification "—Itemarlis, p. 28 (260)—the Visitors give the following reasons for the course taken:— 1. That the examinations for the Single Qualification are carried out, with but little exception, by the same examiners as those for the Double, and therefore presumably on the same general plan, and not, at any rate, at a lower standard. 2. That the Primary Single Examinations afiect but small numbers compared with the Double, the numbers for five years being: College of Surgeons, Single, 129; College of Physicians, Single, 98; Double Qualification, 1011.