PART III.—DOCUMENTS CONCERNING EXAMINATIONS. 195 2. What are the symptoms and post-mortem appearances likely to result Fac. Phts. & from an overdose of phosphorus ? Sukg. Glasg. 3. Whafc would be the prima fade assumption as to the nature of death—whether suicidal or homicidal—in the following cases, viz.:— Questions: Drowning, Jurisprudence, Hanging, Strangulation ? Give your reasons for the views you may suggest in each case. 4. What are the characters of a male child which has reached the period of seven months intra-uterine life ? Midwifery. Midwifery. 1. Enumerate the causes likely to induce premature expulsion of the ovum. 2. Give the diagnosis of the four breech positions. Causes and diagnosis of inversion of the uterus. 4. Describe the method of using the perforator on cranium, and indi- cate the preferable spot for perforating. 6. Describe in their order the obstetric operations for reducing the size of the head of child. Medicine. Medicine. 1. What are the leading symptoms of delirium tremens, and which dis- tinguish this disease from meningitis and typhus fever? What would be your general treatment of such an illness ? 2. Describe the symptoms in a case of inflammatory croup occurring in a child. How would you combat these, and what symptoms would indicate the necessity of tracheotomy ? 3. What are the signs and symptoms of emphysema, and the results of this disease on the body generally ? What are the outlines of treatment ? 4. What are the symptoms of acute peritonitis, its causes, and most appropriate treatment ? Materia Medica. Materia 1. What are the preparations of bismuth ? State their eiiects, proper doses, and in what diseases you would prescribe them. 2. Give in a tabular form the preparations containing opium, or its chief constituents which are mostly used, adding the proper doses for an adult. 3. Mention the different anthelmintics or vermifuges, indicating against what worms each is most applicable, and in what dose and mode of administration. 4. Write a prescription in unabbreviated Latin for an expectorant mixture. -Anatomy. Anatomy. 1. Describe the articular surfaces and the ligaments at the radio-carpal joint. 2. Enumerate in a definite order the structures which are transmitted into the sole of the foot between the inner ankle and the os calcis. N 2