134 ■VISITATION-EEPORT, Apoth. Soc. LoNn. Primary Anatomy. Eemarks. The eighth candidate ah-eady possessed a surgical quah'fication. He was very confused as regards his knowledge of the position of the viscera. Asked as to the sigmoid flexure, he said it was on the right side. Asked to map out the spleen, after long hesita- tion, he placed it nearly in a direct line below the apex of the heart, half within and half without the line of the left hypo- chondrium, marking it with chalk at the request of the examiner. He placed the arch of the aorta to the left side of the middle line and extending quite up to the sterno-clavicular articulation ; and even when asked by the examiner if it was not too far to the left, he rectified his tracing, still keeping it to the left of the middle line. He showed an entire want of precision in indicating the situation of other organs of the body ; and this was the more appreciable, because in no single instance was any question put which would have brought out more than the most elementary knowledge, e.g., no question was put to him, or to any other candidate, as to the exact position of the cardiac apex, or the limits of its variation in health or disease, the position of any individual valve, the exact position of the upper or the lower edge of any particular organ in reference to the walls of the chest or abdomen, &c. The Visitors have commented somewhat minutely on these questions, not with the view of throwing any special blame on the particular examination passed by this can- didate, as they are aware that with the greatest care anineflicient man will occasionally escape the vigilance of examiners, but because they are convinced that the method of examination which is now described brings out in forcible relief what they believe to be a deficiency both in medical education and medical exami- nations. With all the minute care that is, as a rule, paid to a large amount of accurate anatomy, much of which is, after all, of little permanent use beyond the mere mental training, the most important results of anatomical knowledge in reference to prac- tice are not nnfrequently missed. If anatomy learnt by a student is to be worth anything, it ought to enable him after he has obtained his qualification, at any rate when recently qualified, to form a judgment as to the position of the various organs of the body in health, and to be able to recognise when they are altered by disease. It would seem as if the minute knowledge of anatomy which the Visitors presume he exhibited at his primary examination had been lost, and had not been replaced by even