VISITATION-REPOUT. 210 Apoth. Soc. LOND. Questions: Physiology. Cliemistry. Materia Medica, Botauy. Phys'iology. Describe the minute anatomy of the kidney'. Chemistry. 1. What are the products of the Combustion of Coal 7 How may they be respectively recognised ? 2. How may Cyanogen be obtained ? State its properties. .S. How are Sulphur and Mercury respectively obtained 1 Describe their respective properties. 4. How may the specific gravity of solids, liquids, gases, and powders be 1 e 5pectively determined ? Materia Ifedioa. 1. What are the chief preparations of Opium in the B. P. ? Give the ingredients of any four of the respective preparations. 2. What are the preparations into which Bismuth enters in the B. P., and how are they respectively ordered to be prepared ? Botany. What are the functions of the leaf, root, and the various parts of a flower respectively. Namie in full. Medicine, Pathology, Therapeutics. Midwifery. Wednesday, Beeeviber l^th, 1881. Questions for the Second Examination. Medicine, Pathology, and Therapeutics. You are expected to answerySue questions, one being on Pathology and one on Therapeutics. 1. Describe the causes, symptoms, and treatment of Idiopathic Erysipelas. 2. Mention the causes of Hematuria and the considerations which would aid you in your diagnosis. Give the treatment. 3. Describe the symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment of Inflammatory Croup, and Laryngismus Stridulus respectively. 4. Give some account of the Pathology of Cardiac Dropsy, pointing out the exact seat of the diseases which lead to it. 5. In what diseases may Digitalis and Prussia Acid be advantageously prescribed ? Write your prescriptions in unabbreviated Latin, containing one or other of these medicines, with two or three other drugs suitable for the object you have in view in prescribing them. Midwifery, and the Diseases of Women mid Children. Three questions to be answered. 1. Mention the indications for the use of the perforator; describe that instrument and the mode of operating. 2. Enumerate the causes of obstructed labour from a faulty condition of the soft passages, and give the treatment for each. 3. Describe the symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment of acute Hydro- cephalus in children.