VISITATION-EEPOET. 174 E.CoLX. Phks. 5. A man is brought into the hospital with a penetrating wound of the LoND. belly. State what symptoms would lead you to believe the bowel has -— been wounded. How would you treat your patient if you detected Questions. wounded intestine ? 6. Give the symptoms, progress, and treatment of a case of interstitial corneitis. Three hours. Midwifery. Midwifery and the Diseases of Women. 1. Mention the various causes of delay in the third stage of labour. Give the treatment applicable to each. 2. What are the cases which require the performance of the Ceesarian section ? Describe the operation minutely, and give the after manage- ment. 3. What are the varieties of puerperal convulsions ? Give their diag- nosis and treatment. 4. Describe the varieties of breech presentation, the mechanism of labour with breech presentation, and its management. 5. What are the causes of uterine hsemorrhage in women who have passed the climacteric ? How would you diagnose them from each other ? 6. A woman set. 33 has had five children and two miscarriages, the last three and a half years ago. Shortly afterwards she began to complain of pain, referred to the left lower abdomen, and from this she has never since been free. Her catamenia generally anticipated, and the pain before and during the period was alvyays severe, obliging her to keep her bed for some days. She was admitted into hospital with symptoms of para- metritis occupying the left half of the pelvis. Under the usual treatment these symptoms began to subside, when suddenly she was seized with intense pain in the abdomen, and after some hours became collapsed and died. What was the chronic disease in this case ? How would you have treated the attack of parametritis ? And what was the cause of death ? Practice of Principles and Practice of Medicine, Medicine. 1. Describe an attack of variola confluens; mention what other varieties of the disease are met with, and their chief features. State what conditions most influence the prognosis, and what treatment should be adopted to meet the several exigencies. 2. Describe the diseases designated tinea circinnata and herpes circin- natus, and their appropriate treatment. 3. Describe an attack of delirium tremens, its possible complications and risks, and the treatment you would employ. 4. What are the morbid appearances, the physical signs, and the general symptoms of the several stages of croupous pneumonia? Describe in detail the treatment which you would employ in this disease. 6. Give the causation, symptoms, and treatment of chronic mercurial poisoning. 6. Describe the common forms of constipation, and the treatment which in each case you would adopt. 1