I PART in,—DOCUMENTS CONCERNING EXAMINATIONS, 215 Observe the following rules in marking:— Irki-. 1st Class.—Answers in each subject (written and oral taken together) Marking, up to 60—good mark. 2nd Class.—Answers to each subject (written and oral taken together) up to 40—middling. (These two classes entitled to pass, if approved of by the majority of the Examiners in consultation.) 3rd Class.—When the returns show " Bad " in any one subject (written and oral), the case to be referred to the whole Court for adjudication. 4th Class.—When the returns show " Bad " in more than one subject (written and oral), the candidate to be remitted or rejected. Marks are only used as an aid to memory, and are translated into words —good, middling, bad—it being found that numbers do not express the judgment of the various Examiners so exactly as words. Questions set in the Examination at Apothecaeies' Hall Questions: OP Ireland. General Chemistry. Chemistry. 1. What are the chemical symbols and equivalent weights of Nitrate of Barites, Sulphate of Ammonia and Alumina, Phosphoric Acidj and Chlorate of Potash ? 2. How may it be proved that a solution contains the Sulphates of Zinc, of Alumina, and of Ammonia ? 3. What is Ozone believed to be ? and how may its presence be demon- strated ? 4. How may Uric Acid be obtained from Urine, and what are the tests for it ? 5. Describe the Solar Spectrum, and how it is produced ? Pharmaceutical Chemistry. 1. Why is Acetate of Soda used in preparing Syrup of Phosphate of Iron? 2. When Chlorine, or Iodine, is added to Sulphurous Acid, what chemical changes occur ? 3. How does Sulphuretted Antimony differ chemically from Sulphide of Antimony ? 4. Why is Cream of Tartar now named Acid Tartrate, and not Bi- Tartrate, of Potash ? 5. How may it be proved that a lozenge contains Pulvis Ferri ? Pharm.acy. Pharmacy. 1. " Liquor Hydrargyri Perchloridi." How is it obtained, and what is its dose ? 2. " Extractum Filicis liquidum." Describe the process for preparing it, its appearance ; and state the ordinary dose. 3. " Calcis Hydras." How is it prepared ? and state the preparations in which it is employed.