PART nr.—DOCUMENTS CONCERNING EXAMINATIONS. 185 EOYAL COLLEGES OF PHTSICIANS AND SURGEONS OF EDINBURGH. The following are the instructions for the guidance of exam- iners for the "double qualification," notice to candidates, form of declaration to be signed by candidates, and printed questions given at the examinations in April and October, 1881 :— Instructions for the Guidance of Examiners for the Bouble Qualificatioji. Instructions to Examiners. 1. The value attached to the answers at the Written and Oral Exami- nations shall be expressed in figures: 100 shall indicate a complete answer. Lower numbers shall be assigned according to the value of the answers. 2. In the case of the Fii-st Professional Written Examination, no Candidate shall be admitted to the Oral Examination unless he has obtained at least 50 per cent, in two of the subjects, and not less than 30 per cent, in the third. 3. In the case of the Second Professional Written Examination, no Candidate shall be admitted to the Oral Examination who has obtained less than 50 per cent, in any two of the six subjects of examination ; and should he have obtained less than 30 per cent, in one of the subjects of Medicine, Surgery, or Midwifery, he shall not be admitted to an Oral Examination. 4. No Candidate shall be allowed to pass who has not obtained at least 50 per cent, in every subject of the First and Second Oral Examinations, irrespective of his numbers in the Written Examinations. 5. In the Final Oral Examination, the marks gained in Systematic and Clinical Medicine, and in Systematic and Clinical Surgery respectively, may be added together, but no Candidate shall be allowed to pass whose combined numbers in each of these two conjoined subjects do not amount to 100. And if any Candidate obtains in either Clinical or Systematic Medicine, or in either Clinical or Systematic Surgery, less than 30 per cent., he shall not be allowed to pass. 6. At both the First and Second Oral Examinations, each Candidate shall appear before two Examiners in every subject. While one of the Examiners is conducting the Examination, his colleague shall note down, in a schedule provided for the purpose, the topics of Examination. Notice. The first part of the Written Examination will go on from 11 a.m. till 3 P.M. From 3 to 4 p.m. there will be an interval of one hour. The second part of the Written Examination will begin at 4 p.m., and go on till 6 P.M. Candidates will learn results, and obtain Billets for the Oral Exami- nation, on applying at the College at 9 P.M. Each Candidate is requested to pay particular attention to the following directions as to the folding and signing of his papers:— He should begin his work by signing his name at the top of every sheet of paper that he is about to use. When he has finished his answers to the Notice to Candidates.