19 PART I.—GENERAL IMPRESSIONS. At the King and Queen's College of Physicians in Ireland the examination in 1874 presented, as a feature for favourable com- ment, the testing of the candidate's knowledge of various instru- ments of precision, while in 1881 this method of testing was absent. At the Royal Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons, Edin- burgh, the very questionable practice still prevails of framing at the beginning of the year the questions for the written part of the several series of examinations, while in the arrangements for each examination the written answers are read and decided upon by examiners who may not have been responsible for the questions put, and the viva voce part is conducted by different examiners who may, and often do, ask the same questions as have been already given in writing. In order to secure co-operation it is obviously desirable, as the Yisitors in 1873 observed, that the same examiners should conduct the whole of the examination. An extension of time recommended in the written part, par- ticularly in anatomy and clinique, has not been adopted. At the Glasgow Faculty improvements have been made in the directions suggested, the candidates having each to dissect a region of the body, and to show their skill in bandaging and in the management of fractures and dislocations ; but there remain other suggestions of importance to be carried out, namely, the performance of operations on the dead subject, and the employ- ment during the examination of pathological specimens. At the conjoint examination in Glasgow for the double quali6- cation—that of the Faculty and of the College of Physicians of Edinburgh—the insufficiency of the testing of the application of surgical apparatus pointed out by the Visitors in 1873 has been rectified. Eetrospect of pbhvious Visitations. Results. ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS OF ENGLAND. The merits of the primary examination are great and con- Primary spicuous. Over the field which it covers it is an excellent but Examination severe test, founded upon a comprehensive appeal to actual Colkge^of objects, and hardly to be evaded by mere book study. The Surgeons, examination is conducted throughout by gentlemen thoroughly b2