74 VISITATION-KEPOHT. \{. Coi.L. Suitu. Ihel. Primary Examination. Oral. of a tlioi'ougli knowledge of cbeiniptry, either as regards its principles or its details, could be attempted; and with all Dr. Frazee's oare and scrupulous impartiality, it must be assumed that his markings of individual candidates had reference to a low standard, and formed, to some extent a fallacious estimate. To materia medica these remarks do not apply in the same degree; and, on the whole, the larger proportion of the examinations was on this subject. But even for materia medica, one question out of three to be answered in writing, and seven and a half minutes for oral examination, appear inadequate ; and if more time was given in fact, it only brings into greater prominence the remark upon the inadequacy of the time given to chemistry. The Visitors, on July 9th, at ten o'clock a.m., attended in the dissecting room of the School of the Royal College of Surgeons, where the practical examinations in anatomy and histology were held. The examiners in practical anatomy were : Mr. Edward Stoker, Mr. Henry Gray Croly, Mr. O'Grady, Mr. Thomson, Dr. M'DowELL, and Mr. Swan. There were four subjects on separate tables in one portion of the room. In another portion there was a series of microscopes with various histological speci- mens for the purpose of examination. Before entering the room, each candidate received, a number drawn by lot, indicating the region allotted, to him for dissection. Six candidates were, as a rule, assigned to each subject. At the first table the first candi- date was directed to make a dissection of the digastric space. The second and third candidates were required, the one to make a dis- section of the first stage of the axillary artery, and the other of the inferior thoracic wall; the fourth candidate to make a dissection of femoral hernia; the fifth, to dissect the superficial muscles of the abdomen ; the sixth, to expose all the parts that lie between the inner malleolus and the os calcis; and the seventh, to expose the structures in fi'ont of the ankle-joint. At the second table, the first candidate was required to exhibit all the parts that are seen in front of the ankle-joint; the second, to make a dissection of inguinal hernia; the third, to make a dissection of the parts round the inner malleolus; the fourth, to dissect the triangles of the neck; and the fifth and sixth, to make dissections of the axilla. At the third table, the first candidate was requii'ed to make a dissection of the muscles in front of the leg; the second, to exhibit the course of the internal iliac artery; the third, to