VISITATION-REPOET. 128 Fac. Phts. & Suuo. Glasg. Fin id Examination (Sinsile). Mfdicine: Ma'eria Mtidica. Midwifery. Dr. Scott Orr and Dr. Wood Smith examined alternately in the subjects of medicine and materia medica. Candidate No. 1 "was questioned on coma, on the causes of loss of consciousness, from the heart, from a blow on the head, apoplexy, and kidney diisease; the treatment for poisoning by opium ; the symptoms of acute rheumatism ; and on typhoid fever. By the other ex- aminer in materia medica he was asked to identify sulphate of copper, and specify its uses in medicine, and bow to prescribe it for diarrhoea; questioned about aloes—on the dose, which he said was 2 to 8 grains; about the dose of liquor strychuiee —how much strychnia there is in an ounce of the liquor; about squills ; the dose of powdered elaterium; the dose of infusion of digitalis and of powdered digitalis; and to write a prescription for a diaphoretic mixture. The midwifery oral examination was conducted by Dr. Tannahill and Dr. Stibton, who examined the candidate over an extensive range—the management nf breech presentation ; on flooding; placenta previa; and unavoidable haemorrhage and accidental haemorrhage. On the table were the usual obstetric instruments, a female pelvis, and a foBtal skull. In another room Professor Simpson was the examiner on medical jurisprudence, and Dr. MacEwen acted as assessor. One candidate wb,h examined first on wounds, on the varieties of them, lacerated, punctured, &c. ; the special dangers that attend wounds of the head and of the face; the various causes of death from wounds; and the mode of distinguishing between suicidal and homicidal wounds. The candidate was also examined on the preparations of cantharides. Another candidate, examined by Dr. MacEwen, was required to recognise spermatozoa under the microscope. He was then examined on rape and the mode of recognising a spermatic stain. The candidate was also examined as to the nature of vaginal epithelium ; and on blood—the chemical tests for it, and the microscopical appearances of it. Lastly, the candidate was examined on the differences that exist between wounds inflicted dnrinff life and after death. This examination was satisfactory.