PART II.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. 13ft a fair knowledge of the larger views of topographical anatomy Apoth. Soc. which ought to be displayed at every final examination. Lond, There is this peculiarity about the examinations of the Apothe- Examiners, caries' Society of London. This Body is bound by its charter to hold an examination every week, and therefore to have 50 or 51 ■ examinations every year. Both the primary and final examina- tion are conducted simultaneously by the same examiners. The Court of Examiners is twelve in number, and is appointed by the governing body, the Court of Assistants, annually. The members of this Court are not necessarily members of the Society of Apothecaries, three at least of the examiners being at the present time outsiders. The examiners are re-eligible for an indefinite period, changes in th.e personnel taking place gradually by the introduction of one or two or three new members. The examiners are not appointed to examine in special subjects, but undertake the examination in them for periods of five weeks each. This rotation of five weeks comes about in the following manner: Of the twelve examiners, the President superintends the work of the examination ; a second examiner undertakes, for a period of five weeks, the testing of the students in microscopical prepara- tions. Of the remaining ten, two set the papers of the week, and superintend the written examinations on the first day. One of these is present with the senior candidates whilst they are taking notes of the clinical cases, the other superintending the writing; and when all the clinical cases have been noted, the first examiner takes his turn in superintending the writing, and his colleague repairs to another room and conducts the " practical examination on a living subject," which has already been described. The two examiners afterwards read over and form their judgment on the written papers for the meeting of the Court on the following day previous to the oral examination. These examiners do not take part in the oral examination unless the number of candidates is larger than usual. The remaining eight examiners conduct the oral examination on the second day at four tables, on which are placed the materials for the objective testing of both senior and junior candidates. One table, for Preparations instance, is provided with materials for the midwifery examina- tion, obstetrical instruments, &c.; also with a few materials for the anatomical examination, consisting of a skull, humerus, and pelvis, with the following preparations in wax: a section of the