84 VISITATION-REPORT. R. Coll. Suro. ' I BEL. Final Examination. Adjudication. Operative Surgery: Details of Examination. was questioned at the table of instruments on the use of several of them. He then returned his card to Dr. Frazee and left the room. Other candidates were called in to supply the place of those retiring. Each examiner examined usually on the operations he had himself set; but this v?as not rigidly adhered to, partly because two examiners had not set any questions, and occasionally for greater convenience of working. The whole proceeding in the dissecting room, during which thirty- three candidates were examined in operative surgery by six examiners, occupied less than an hour and a half. As soon as all had been examined, the examiners retired into the Albert Hall for final adjudication. The numbers were read out in order, and "Yes" or "Stopped" was recorded against each number, which now in the list corresponded to the candidates' respective numbers. Three candidates were rejected—that is to say, would have to come back on a future occasion for this the fourth portion of the examination. Finally, the whole proceed- ing terminated at twelve o'clock, in two hours from the com- mencement. For this examination there is generally a larger number of candidates than on the present occasion, and a proportionately longer time is occupied in the examination. Although the thirty-three candidates were examined in so short a time, there was no appearance of hurry, or pressure, or limita- tion of time in the instance of any candidate. The following operations had been prepared for the remaining seven candidates, who were rejected in the earlier stage of the examination, and were therefore stopped from this portion :— By Mr. B. Wills Richardson.—Pirogoff's amputation at ankle ; paracentesis thoracis ; laryngo-tracheotomy; and Syme's amputation at ankle. By Mr. Henry Gray Crolt.—Amputation of the forearm by • the rectangular flap method (Teale's). By Mr. E. A. Stoker.—Excision of the mamma. By Mr. E. Stamer O'Grady.—Castration. The following were the operations performed :— Assigned by Mr. Richardson.—Amputation at middle of leg by double flap; circular amputation of forearm at middle third amputation of leg at junction of middle with upper third Chopart's medio-tarsal amputation; Teale's amputation of thigh amputation (supra-condyloid) of thigh ; extirpation of breast stretching ulnar nerve at elbow.