PART II.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. 95 of the opinion at which he arrived. Several of the reports were R. Coll.Phts. of very remarkable excellence, and the majority ot them were ffood ^'""^^ ° . • • ^^ • t „ „ Examination. The Visitors witnessed the examination m clinical surgery Qii^j^j^i on April 22, at Middlesex Hospital. The examiners were— Surgery at Mr. Lawson, of Middlesex Hospital, and Mr. Bryant, of Gny's ^ispitar Hospital. There were only three candidates to be examined in surgery. The reason of this was that the other candidates for the licence had already obtained a surgical qualification. As a rule, those needing examinations in surgery have received colonial and foreign diplomas. This was the case with the three candidates. They were allowed five or ten minutes with each case to make their own inquiries and observations, and then were questioned by the examiner. The following cases were subjected for exami- nation : (1) Extensive ulcer of the side of the tongue, deemed to be cancer; (2) case of multiple lipomata; (3) ditto of the back of the neck; (4) extensive syphilitic ulceration of tlie throat; (5) genu valgum ; (6) extensive disease of the knee- joint ; (7) syphilitic psoriasis ; (8) a case in which dead bone had been removed from the foot. Of these eight cases, six were able to walk about the ward. About an hour and a quarter was spent on the clinical examination of the three candidates. There was no writing, and each examiner questioned the can- didate on the diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment of the cases allotted to him. In the afternoon, at 4.30, the Visitors again met the same Operative examiners and the same candidates in the theatre of the College Surgery, of Physicians. On a table there was a subject, with a series of instruments at hand. The first candidate was asked the following questions : "At what point would you compress the aorta in a case where you were about to amputate at the hip joint ? Where would you tap the bladder ? Adjust a Petit's tourniquet to the thigh. Where would you perform paracentesis thoracis ? Name the parts in their order going round the inner malleolus. Point out the course of the femoral artery. Where would you compress the brachial artery in a case of amputation of the fore-arm ? Show me the point where the carotid artery commences and where it terminates. Point out the crico-thyroid membrane." The answering of this candidate not being satisfactory, he was