PART III.—DOCUMENTS CONCEKNING EXAMINATIONS, 217 4. What diseases are attributed to the presence of Germs, and how do they gain access into the human system 1 5. Mention the most reliable Antiseptics, and explain their mode of action. Hygiene. 1. Mention the principal contagious diseases; how they are propa- gated ; and state the most efPectual means of arresting their progress. 2. Enumerate the diseases chiefly incident to British residents in hot climates, and the sanitary precautions necessary to prevent their occur- rence. 3. Describe a convalescent ward, with all its requirements for the treatment of patients recovering from fevers, or pulmonary or abdominal diseases. 4. Give an account of the contaminations with which the air we breathe and the water we drink are constantly charged; their deleterious effects upon man ; and how they are analysed. 5. Describe the effects of bad drainage throughout a populous district, and the most approved system of sewerage. Medical Jv/risprudenee. 1. What means would you resort to in a case of drowning to restore suspended animation ? 2. In Arsenical poisoning how may Hydrated Peroxide of Iron be quickly prepared ? 3. In cases of death by drowning, how soon does the corpse usually rise to the surface, and why 1 4. In slow Tartar Emetic poisoning, what are the symptoms; the treatment to be adopted ; and the tests for detecting the poison ? 5. How may it be known that a wound or burn has been produced after death ? SuTgery. 1. Describe the appearance and symptoms of a case of CoUes' fracture of the radius; state the treatment. Mention the appearance of an old case in which treatment had been neglected. 2. What malignant growths of the mamma have you seen ? Describe the more important, and state the treatment. 3 Describe a case of strangulated femoral hernia, giving the symp- toms ; state the treatment required. 4. Name and describe the most approved division that has been made of burns. 5. Describe dislocation of the lower jaw, its varieties and treatment. Apoth. Hall, Irel. Questions: Medicine. Hygiene. Jurisprudence. Surgery. P