147 PART II.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. remitted for three months, one of them having failed in anatomy, ^pg^jj jfj^i^^^ physiology, and pharmacy, and the other in anatomy and phy- Ikel. siology; a fifth candidate was i-ejected, and the sixth had p^j^"" withdrawn. The rejected candidate cannot again present himself Examination, for examination sooner than six months. When the candidates Adjudication, remitted for three months present themselves at the end of that period, they will not be re-examined in the subjects in which at this examination their answering was found suflS.cient. FINAL EXAMINATION. The Visitors attended at the Hall on the 9th January, to Final witness the final examination for the licence of this Body. There Examination were two candidates only. The subjects for examination were medical jurisprudence and hygiene, the examiners being Dr. MoNTGOMERT and Dr. Wyse. Candidate No. 1 was examined on medical jurisprudence. Medical He was asked to state the symptoms that characterise poisoning Jurisprudence, by oxalic acid, the tests that are applied to determine its exis- tence, and the antidotes for it. He was then examined on rigor mortis, on the time that it usually sets in, and how long it lasts, with the influences that protract or shorten its duration. Next, he was asked a series of questions, such as the following: Suppose a girl swallowed sqme marking ink, what antidote he would give ? Suppose a person swallowed some rat's poison, what symptoms would be likely to set in ? The subject of phosphorus poisoning was fully discussed and also the different symptoms and post mortem appearances, as well as the treatment to adopt in such cases. The candidate was asked the test for sulphuretted hydrogen; what plans are adopted for getting rid of the gas in sewers and other places where it accumulates ? How to get free iodine from iodide of potassium ? What is a safe dose of tincture of aconite ; what of tincture of colchicum ? What anti- dote would be given in a case of poisoning by corrosive subli- mate ? How would you know that a child had lived for six days ? This examination, covering as it did so large a field, was one which, considering also its essentially practical character, appeared to the Visitors to be satisfactory. The candidate having then passed to the second table, was Hygiene, examined on hygiene by Dr. Wyse. The following were the topics that came under consideration :—Suppose the examination K 2