VISITATION-REPOET. 138 Apoth. Soc. LOND. Anatomy. Materia Medica. As soon as the senior candidates had been examined, their places were taken at the various tables by the candidates for the primary examination. The examination in anatomy was conducted by Mr. Bullock and Dr. Savage. The candidate was first examined on a heart distended with wax. He was closely questioned on the dijBferent parts of the heart, and told to name them, also upon the superior and inferior cava, on the coronary sinuses, and asked to point them out, to give a general description of the circulation of the blood and of the foetal circulation and its peculiarities. Finally, a few questions were asked on the formation of the blood and its composition. At another table the candidate was asked a few questions on the parts observed at the base of the brain, and to point out the origin of the third pair of nerves; on the muscles of the orbit, on the parts supplied by the fifth, the seventh, and the eighth pair of nerves. The candidate was also examined on the bones entering into the formation of the orbit. The examina- tion on the temporal bone consisted in asking what were the different parts into which it was divided. The candidate answered "the squamous portion and the mastoid portion," but he seemed to be ignorant of everything else connected with the bone. The sinuses of the brain were then inquired into, the only ones, however, mentioned by the candidate being the superior and the inferior longitudinal sinuses. A few ques- tions were likewise asked as regards the arterial distribution at the base of the brain, but the candidate's knowledge on this subject was of so meagre a character that little information could be elicited. The examination concluded by a few questions on the intestines, their division, the arrangement of the muscular fibres in them, the situation and supposed fimction of Peyer's patches, and the uses of the pancreatic juice. Beyond a few incidental questions the Visitors did not observe in any case a separate examination in physiology. At another table, a junior student was examined in materia medica, and was questioned on the following substances, which he was required to recognise: nux vomica, tartar emetic, colo- cynth, aloes, opium, myrrh, calumba. Questions as to doses and effects and nses were asked in the coui-se of the examination. On a supplementary table were various drugs. The candidate was asked to recognise several of them, e.g., jalap, cream of