VISITATION-REl'OHT, Apoth. Soc. LOND. Details of Cliuical Examination. diabetes ; but only two of the four have indicated the signs in the left apex. One of the two, whose report appears to be deficient in that point, has, nevertheless, indicated that he is acqaainted, as a matter of doctrine, with the frequent liability of diabetics to "phthisis, or other disease of an exhausting nature." This report is marked " S. 50 " (Satis 50), which means a level pass. The other paper, which entirely ignores the lungs, is that of a rejected candidate. In the second case there seems to have been, unquestionably, cardiac valvular disease, following an attack of acute rheuma- tism ; but the four reports of it by different candidates differ so much as to anything beyond this, that nothing can be affirmed with even approximate certainty as to the precise character or seat of the valve-disease ; two of the reports, however, indicating it as aortic regurgitation, a third as mitral regurgitation, and the fourth.as mitral stenosis. From internal evidence, the Yisitors infer that the first two concurring reports are probably correct; the third and the fourth presenting confusions in detail vs^hich appear incompatible with exactness of observation. Report 3, however, has been marked " S " (Satis) by the examiner ; and all the reports were by candidates who ultimately passed. In the third case, which was also reported on by three several candidates, the report which, in the opinion of the Yisitors, bears most internal evidence of accuracy of detail, and which, indeed, they would characterise as pivbably very good, gives as the essential fact " a well-marked prce-systolic bruit heard over the apex, with a slight thrill; the first sound roughened, and the second sound somewhat accentuated at the base " ; the diagnosis, in conformity with these statements, being "mitral stenosis, but slight regurgitation as well." The second report gives as the diagnosis "mitral regurgitant disease, with bronchitis," and a systolic murmur at apex. This report is marked " B " \_Bene] by the examiner. The third report excludes the heart altogether from the diagnosis, which is regarded as one of bronchitis, with partial collapse of the right lung follow- ing pneumonia. These last particulars are at variance with all the other reports, as are also the following particulars set down with respect to the heart, and showing that its examination had not been omitted per incuriani; viz. " heart's area of dulness not increased; impulse rather weak, otherwise normal; no murmur