178 VISITATION-REPORT. * R.Coi.l.Phys. The Thvrd or Final Exaviinatwn, LOND, The College does not admit to the Third or Final Examination any By-lawa. Candidate (not exempted from Registration) whose name has not been Licentiates. entered in the Medical Students' Register at least forty-live months, nor till the expiration of two years after the passing of the Second Examina- tion. The subjects of the Final Examination are:— Medical Anatomy and Pathology, including Morbid Anatomy ; and the Principles and Practice of Medicine. Surgical Anatomy and Pathology, including Morbid Anatomy; and the Principles and Practice of Surgery. Midwifery and Diseases peculiar to Women. Porensto Medicine, Public Health, and Therapeutics are subjects included in the Pinal Examination, A Candidate will be admitted to the Third or Final Examination on prpducing evidence:— 1. Of being Twenty-one Years of age. 2. Of Moral Character. 3. Of having passed the Second Examination. 4. Of having studied Medicine, Surgery, and Midwifery in accord- ance with the regulations prescribed in Section I., Clauses 3, and 13 to 23, pages 2, 3, and 4. The Fee for admission to the Third or Final Examination is Five Guineas, being part of the entire Fee for the License, and if a Candidate be re-jected. he will be required to pay an additional Fee of Three Guineas before re-admission to the Examination. A Candidate rejected in the Third or Final Examination will not be re- admitted to Examination until after the lapse of six months from the date of rejection. The Fee for the License is Fifteen Guineas. All Fees must be paid three days prior to the day on which the Exami- nation commences. Any Candidate who shall produce satisfactory evidence of having passed an Examination on any of the subjects of the First Examination, conducted at a University in the United Kingdom, in India, or in a British Colony, will be exempt from re-examination on those subjects in which he has passed. Any Candidate who shall produce satisfactory evidence of having passed an Examination on Anatomy and Physiology, conducted by the Royal College of Surgeons of England, or the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh, or the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, or the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow, after a course of Study and an Examination satisfactory to the College, will be exempt from re-examina- tion on those subjects. Any Candidate who shall produce satisfactory evidence of having passed an Examination on Anatomy and Physiology required for a Degree in Medicine or Surgery at a University in the United Kingdom, in India, or in a British Colony, after a Course of Study and an Examination satisfac- tory to the College, will be exemjDt from re-examination on those subjects. Any Candidate who shall have obtained a Degree in Surgery at a University in the United Kingdom, after a Course of Study and an Exami- nation satisfactory to the College, will be exempt from re-examination on Surgical Anatomy and Pathology, including Morbid Anatomy, and on the Principles and Practice of Surgery. Any Candidate who shall have passed the Examination on Surgery con-