VISITATION-RERORT. 144 ApoTH. Hall, Irel. Primary Examination. Pharmacy. Materia Medica. Anatomy and Physiology. The Visitors were present at the vivct voce examination on Taesday, January 3rd. The candidates to-day, five in number, had already, in the forenoon, written answers to printed questions in pharmacy and materia medica; and were ao-ain examined in the same subjects viva voce, commencing at two o'clock. They were admitted for examination two at a time, one to the table for pharmacy, and the other to the table for materia medica. The examiners were Dr. Montgomeet and Dr. Haevet. In pharmacy th.e candidate was examined on hyo- scyamus, and on the mode of preparing the tincture of hyoscyamus, and subsequently on the mode of preparing the tincture of quinine. Among others, the following questions were asked : What is green extract ? What are the roses of the Pliarma- copoeia ? What is made from the rosa centifolia ? What is made from the rosa canina ? How is the mist, ferri comp. made ? How does the mist, ferri arom. differ from this ? The candidate was also required to read in full certain Latin prescriptions, and to answer various questions suggested by the ingredients in those prescriptions. He was examined on the liq. strychniae, and its mode of preparation. Emplastrum ferri and emplastrum vesicans were examined on, and lastly the linimentum iodi, lin. belladonnie, lin. chloroformi, and lin. opii. Several candidates were asked such questions as : What is maceration, percolation, filtration, &c. On the table was a series of preparations in bottles, and dry specimens. The Visitors observed on the table for materia medica a series of dry drugs in glasses, e.g., rose leaves, hops, senna leaves, kino, catechu, camphor, opium, various barks, aloes, colocynth, guaiacum, myrrh, uva ursi, quassia, cascarilla, gum benzoin, sulphate of potash, chiretta, ammoniacum. These preparations were used in the examination of three or four candidates, who were asked to identify the specimens, to men- tion the preparations in the Pharmacopoeia into the composition of which they entered, and the mode of preparation. The examination was carefully conducted, and drew forth a good deal of practical knowledge of the subjects. On Wednesday, January 4th, the Visitors were present at the examination in anatomy and physiology. The viva voce portion commenced at two o'clock. Dr. O'Neill being the examiner in anatomy, with Sir G. B. Owens and Dr. Bolland as assessors ;