KING AND QDEEN'S COLLEGE OP PHYSICIANS IN IRELAND. 249 Examinations are not in reality an advantage." In this the K. Q. Coti.. College concur, but consider that this " point" should be so Fhys. Ieel. defined as to secure a uniform standard of passing. The Visitors remark (p. 10) on the dangers likely to arise from the " stringency as to minute detail" in Anatomical Examination. The College concur in the opinion of the Visitors upon this subject. The Visitors (on p. 10) quote an opinion of Professor Humphry, to which they again refer on p. 58, to the effect that examinations "should not be considered merely as tests of fitness for certain positions and rewards, but even more as educational agents, as the guides of teaching and study" and go on to say—" in this spirit, it is the desire of the Visitors to compare and estimate the various examinations which it has been their privilege to inspect." The College have the highest possible respect for the opinion of Professor Humphry upon Medical Education, but differ from the Visitors, as they consider that the curriculum is the chief guide to study, whereas the examination is merely a test as to how far the curriculum has been fulfilled and taken advantage of by the candidate. Part n. Referring to that portion of Part II. (p. 98) of the Report which deals with the examinations of the King and Queen's College of Physicians, the College have to remark— 1. With regard to the appointment of Examiners, the Visitors have omitted to state that " additional Examiners " are appointed in each subject to take the place of absent Censors or Examiners. The Visitors are in error in stating that the names of the candidates for election as Examiners are printed "a month before." This is not so: the names are usually, but not neces- sarily, proposed a month before, but are only printed on the notice paper for the meeting at which the election takes place. A candidate may even be nominated on the day of election, but this seldom occurs. The King's Professors are not "ineligible," as stated by the Visitors, but as a matter of fact seldom are B