PART 1.—GENERAL IMPRESSIONS. 33 presence of the examiners, tlie dissections assigned to them being K. Q. Cdll. confined mainly to superficial structures ; bat hardly sufficient hys. rel. time was allowed to show much practical knowledge. Within Practical the limits of the time allowed, however, the examination was, ^^e Labora" on the whole, satisfactory. The examination does not call for tory of Trinity further special remark, except that the practical chemistry was p^^^^j^^^' carried out with great care and efficiency in the School of Physic, Trinity College. This is the only instance in which the Visitors have seen a practical examination in chemistry carried on in the laboratory, and it is a method which they think is well worthy the consideration of other examining bodies. As a rule, there are few candidates for this primary examination, nearly all who present themselves for the licence of the King and Queen's College of Physicians having already obtained a surgical diploma, and having therefore passed a primary examination. Reciprocity in this respect is not displayed by the English or the Irish Col- lege of Surgeons towards the respective Colleges of Physicians. As regards the clinical examination in the final, the Visitors need not here refer to it, having already entered fully on its consideration. In reference to the early part of the final examination, it Final appeared to the Visitors that throughout this examination, as in g^^t-^logy^''"' the clinical, too little use was made of the microscope. The only instance in which it was employed was by Dr. Smith at the mvd voce. It may be a question also whether the objective method could not be more extended in some of the other subjects. The latter remark does not apply to the midwifery examination, which was characterised by a large exhibition of objects con- nected with that subject. This examination struck the Visitors as being essentially excellent and practical. With the reserva- tion already made in refeixnce to the microscope, and criticisms on the method of carrying out certain portions of the clinical examination, the Visitors would express a favourable opinion of the whole scope of this examination, which they consider to have been ably and faithfully carried out. The Visitors would here record their impressions with regard System of to the system of marking employed in. this college. Having m'lrking. carefully observed the various methods in the diS'erent examining bodies, they have come to the conclusion that the marking in all the pass examinations resolves itself into four degrees expx-essed either by words or numbers. Where numbers are used they are virtually 0