15 PART I.—GENERAL IMPRESSIONS. ihe presence of any other candidate. When the candidates are numerous, and when many have to be examined in one or two wai-ds, there may be difficulties of detail; but all the more on this account is it necessary to make these remarks, so that means may be taken to overcome such difficulties. In one point of detail, the London system seemed preferable to that witnessed in Dublin. The examination taking place, one day at St. Bar- tholomew's, on another at University College Hospital, care was taken that one of the examiners, at least, should be the physician responsible mainly for the treatment of the cases em- ployed in the examination. This is desirable, not only in the interests of the patients, but for the sake of the examination itself, the materials of it being thus thoroughly known at least to one examiner. There may be difficulties in carrying out the principle in all cases. But it is obviously undesirable that a number of candidates should be brought into a hospital ward in the presence of examiners who have seen the cases for the first time, and probably learned the particulars about them mainly from the house physician. Besides, it is possible, from the point of view of the patients, that there may be serious objections to an examination so conducted. This point is alluded to in the description in detail of the clinical examination of the King and Queen's College of Physicians in Ireland [See Part II., p. 102]. The Visitors would suggest that, if it be not feasible in all cases to select as examiners the physicians responsible for the treatment, they should at least be associated with the examiners as assessors. But while the London clinical examinations in medicine appear to the Visitors relatively weak, as regards the method of testing through the written case, the portion of the examination which consisted of chemical and microscopical investigation of urine, &c., was efficiently conducted, assuming the position of a much more regular and distinct element in the examination than it did in the Dublin examinations which they witnessed. In the Scottish clinical examinations, urinary testings formed an essential part, and although not always so elaborately performed as some of those witnessed in London no student escaped testing in this way altogether. The urinary examina- tions as conducted in Edinburgh appeared to be particularly good, and in this respect might serve as a model for such compauativb estimatk of Clinical Ex- aminations. Importance of urinary testings.