131 PART U.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. Paralysis agitans. (This case was from University College Apoth. Soc. Hospital, and was the only one produced on September 1st.) Clinical. Psoriasis vulgaris. (This case was the only one produced on August 17th.) Fibroid phthisis. (This case was the only one produced on August 10th.) In several instances, the Visitors noticed that the same case Remarks, was produced again and again at intervals of some weeks, and sometimes on two successive weeks. For example, the above case of i3broid phthisis may be traced in the books on October 12, August 10, July 20, May 18, April 20, March 2, and so on as • far back as October, 1879. Another case of chronic Bright's disease appears in the books in the same intermittent manner back to the beginning of 1879. The case of diabetes insipidus also appears pretty frequently, and sometimes on successive weeks. It is quite evident that with this method of proceeding there is a risk—the Visitors do not venture to say how consider- able or how small—of the object of the examination being more or less defeated by the candidates being able to learn in irregular ways the kind of cases they are to be examined upon, and even the character of the individual case. It seems, more- over, probable that patients so very frequently submitted to examination for this purpose, may have learned the medical features and names of their own diseases, so as to be able to inform the candidates; and it therefore becomes impor- tant to observe how far the examiners rely merely on such circumstances as could be readily got up in this way, aided by book-knowledge, or how far, on the other hand, a tolerably exhaustive examination of the distinctive points of the case is expected, such as to show more than a conventional knowledge of it. The Visitors did not themselves propose to investigate any of the three cases submitted, inasmuch as each of these patients having been gone over in succession by three candidates, it was not expedient to prolong their examination. One of the examiners present assured the Visitors that the utmost pains are taken to secure proper cases for the purpose in view, and to give in the book above referred to a true indication, upon good authority, of the character of these cases. It did not appear, however, that the examiners themselves were in any degree I 2