ROYAL COLLEGES OF PHTSICUNS AND SURGEONS OF EDINBURGH. 257 Colleges approached the Lord Advocate and the Home Secretary Colls. •with the view of having the large amount of unused anatomical Surq. material in Glasgow and other towns of Scotland, made avail- ' able for the examinations in Edinburgh. These representations ended in the request of the Colleges being refused, the trans- mission of bodies from Glasgow and elsewhere being regarded as inexpedient, if not actually opposed to the recognised working of the Anatomy Act. While, then, the anatomical supply in Edinburgh is barely sufficient to aflford material for practical instruction in the dissecting-rooms, it is out of the question to propose to divert any portion of it to the purposes of Examina- tion. During last April nearly 300 students were examined in anatomy before the University and the Colleges, and to obtain material for dissection for all of these candidates would have been simply impossible. "2. That, having regard to the great and increasing range of chemical and physiological science, candidates should be apprised beforehand of the limits of the examination in these subjects." Though it is no doubt desirable to limit the range of syste- matic subjects required for Examination, it is very difficult to do so in the case of physiology, as enough must be required to ensure the candidate's knowledge of as much of it as bears on Medicine, Surgery, and Hygiene. " 3. That at the final examination candidates should be examined orally or practically on strictly regional anatomy, that is, on the parts of anatomy which illustrate surgery and medical diagnosis, and not on purely descrip- tive anatomy." This is an essentially vicious recommendation. The Colleges have yet to learn that surgical diseases and injuries, or their diagnosis, are confined to certain special regions of the body, and the best teachers have always striven to disabuse the mind of the student of the miserably narrow view that regional and surgical anatomy were synonymous. All anatomy, if properly studied and applied, is necessary to diagnosis and treatment. Anything less is to give an imperfect idea of anatomy in relation to surgery. " 4. That in every final examination for a surgical diploma, candidates hould be required to perform operations on the dead subject."