VISITATION-REPORT. 98 APOTHECARIES' SOCIETY OF LONDON. The following are the regulations of the Court of Examiuera relating to examinations, rules affecting students, marking papers, regulations to be observed by students intending to practise as apothecaries in England and Wales, and written questions at the examinations visited:— APOTHECARIES' HALL, LONDON. Regvlations of the Court of Examiners relating to all Candddates for •Regulations. Examiination, 1881. The Court of Examiners meet in the Hall every Wednesday and Thursday, where candidates are required to attend at half-past four o'clock. Every candidate intending to offer himself for examination must give seven days' notice previous to the day of examination, and must at the same time deposit all the required certificates, with the fee, at the OflBce of the Beadle, where attendance is given daily, from ten to four o'clock ; Saturdays, ten to two. The certificates being found correct, a card to admit the candidate will be sent, stating the day and hour of examination. The examination of candidates is divided into two parts, and is con- ducted partly in writing and partly viva voce. The written examination will take place on Wednesday, and the viva voce examination on Thursday. Fi/rst Examiination, Which may be passed after the Second Winter Session, embraces the following subjects :— Physicians' Prescriptions and Pharmacy. Anatomy and Physiology (including an examination on the living subject). General and Practical Chemistry. Materia Medica and Botany. Histology. Second Examination, At the termination of the Medical Studies:— Principles and Practice of Medicine (including an examination of one or more patients). Pathology and Therapeutics. Midwifery, including the Diseases of Women and Children. Forensic Medicine and Toxicology. Microscopical Pathology. CBETIPieATES REQUIRED OP CANDIDATES FOB The First Examination. 1. Of having passed an examination in Arts, recognised by the Medical Council. This Examination must be passed before the commenceKient of Me/tical .''Ivdits. MedirsI studies commenced before the Candidates shall have passed an Examination on the subject 9I General Education will not be recognised.