193 1>ART nr.—DOCUMENTS CONOERXING RXAMrNATIONS. Cheviistry. 1. Describe the methods of preparing mercurous and mercuric chlo- rides, and give the tests for each. 2. How would you test for nitric acid in a dilute solution 1 3. Find the temperature of the following mixture: Two pounds of steam at 114° centigrade; fom- pounds of water at 39° centigrade; ten pounds of ice at 21° centigrade. 4. Uric acid : (1) How would you separate it from urine ? (2) Give the most characteristic test for it. 5. Explain the general constitution of fats, and describe how they may be saponified. Fac. Phys & Surg. Gtla.sg. Questions: Chemistry. Medicine. Materia Medica. Questions set in the Final Examination. Medicine. 1. Give an account of the various morbid breath sounds ; explain their causes and pathological significance. 2. What are the symptoms of Bell's palsj' ? What are the causes of the disease ? Describe the treatment. 3. What symptoms would lead you to suspect cirrhosis of the liver ? In what respects might the history and physical signs confirm your suspicions ? 4. What are the different organic lesions which produce general dropsy ? How do they severally act, and what is the best palliative treatment 1 Materia Medica. 1. Enumerate the chief medicinal agents which affect the movements of the iris, distinguishing those which cause dilatation from those which cause contraction of the pupil. 2. State the ordinary hypnotic dose of chloral hydrate, and the extent to which it may be safely pushed. 3. Mention the botanical source, characters, preparations, and thera- peutical uses of camphor. 4. From what is quinia derived ? How is it best administered ? In what doses is it given as an antipyretic, as an antiperiodic, and as a tonic ? Swrgery. Surgery. 1. What are the various causes of stricture of the oesophagus; and what should be the treatment under the respective conditions 1 Mention any sources of immediate danger as the disease advances, or in the treat- ment that may be adopted. 2. What is spina bifida 1 Mention the symptoms which may present themselves during the progress of the disease, and what treatment might be pursued. 3. Describe the general characters of varicocele, the usual conditions observed in the scrotum and test is in connection with it, and the treatment to be recommended for its relief. 4. When does onychia maligna usually present itself ? With what con- ditions of constitution may it be associated, and what treatment would you prescribe ?