100 VISITATION-REPORT. K. Q. Coll. As a rule, a quarter of an hour or more is given for Phys. Ibbl. preliminary survey ; and, after this interval, the examiner goes Final to one of the beds and examines the candidate upon what he has Clinical**^°°' ^^'^^^''^i^^d in detail, requiring him to display the methods by which he arrived at the facts. The examination is of great value in eliciting the skill and knowledge with which the candidate has investigated the case given him. After this examination, and, in some instances, before it has taken place, he is required to write in the schedule his opinion in detail and the facts on which it is based. The examiner then takes the written report in connection with what he has personally observed at the bedside as the basis of his judgment, so far as this individual case is concerned. In some instances, the examination of the urine for albumen, sugar, specific gravity, . &c., comes under review as part of the details; but it did not appear, from anything the Visitors observed, that the physical and chemical examination of the urine formed an independent or essential part of the clinical examination. The candidate, having been dismissed from the wards of the one examiner, passed to those of the other, where he underwent an examina- tion somewhat similar upon another case. Provision however is made in one or other set of wards for the examination of certain specialties, e.g., eruptions on the skin, two cases of psoriasis being in the present instance employed for the purpose. The examination, which is exceedingly searching, is so con- ducted as to carry the candidate over a wide range of facts connected with the particular objects ujider his observation. The two examiners note, each for himself and quite inde- pendently, the results of the examination, and these are com- bined in the final judgment with the results of the " written " and " oral " examinations. There seems, however, to be no inter-communication between the examiners as to the parti- cular cases to be employed, or the field of examination for each of the several candidates, so that it is quite possible that a candidate might be taken twice over almost identical ground. On the other band, thorough independence of judgment is thus secured, while the probability of the examinations being identical, or nearly so, is of course rather remote. The following are some examples of this examination.— (1) Several candidates were examined on a case of combined aortic and mitral disease in a boy, seven to eight years old,