PART II.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. 137 the subjects of examination. The symptoms and treatment to Apoth. Soc. be adopted in snch cases were fully gone into. Subseqaently ' the subject of belladonna poisoning was discussed, and the symptoms of the poisoning and the antidotes were questioned on. Poisoning by opium was then considered, and questions were asked as to the smallest amount of that drug which has proved fatal. The differential diagnosis of the condition of opium poisoning was also inquired into. Another candidate was examined on death by starvation, with its differential symptoms and diagnosis. In the case of another candidate, the examination was chiefly on wounds, whether inflicted during life or not. Another candidate was examined on the symptoms of phosphorus poisoning. He was asked, " What would you do to determine the existence of phosphorus ?" On the treatment of poisoning by phosphorus questions were asked, and also as to what disease or diseases phosphorus poisoning simulates. The post mortem appearances or phenomena in cases of phos- phorus poisoning were discussed, such, for example, as the appearance of phosphorescence of the tissues, congestions of the fauces, garlic odour, ecchymosis of the stomach, and fatty degeneration of the liver, kidney, and heart. The examination concluded by a consideration of the tests for phosphorus. At the midwifery table (Dr. Savage and Mr. Bullock ex- Midwifery, amining) the candidates were questioned on midwifery instru- ments, e.g., the blunt hook, the cephalotrobe, long and short forceps, and also on the positions of the foetal head during labour. One candidate was examined on uterine heEmorrhage before and after delivery, the management of placenta preevia, and on acci- dental haemorrhage. At a fourth table, Drs. Lee and Burgess examined on Medicine, medicine, for which no objects or specimens were used. One candidate was examined on chorea, the etiology of that com- plaint and the symptoms, and he was required to write a pre- scription for a child affected with it. "With the same candidate the symptoms of tapeworm, its causes and the treatment, were inquired into, and for this also the candidate was required to write a prescription. The next topic questioned on was the subject of empyema, its symptoms and physical signs. The differential diagnosis between empyema and consolidation of the lung was next inquired into, as well as the treatment of both conditions.