PART II.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. 89 was questioned on the effects of the division of the anterior and R. CoLL.PHrs, posterior roots of the spinal nerves. He was asked to recognise ' a section of the cord under the microscope. He was then given ^^'^^y^j..^^ some questions on the physiology of respiration and digestion, p^y^^i^gy^ * and was asked as to the tests for the bile acids. Lastly, he was required to recognise a specimen under the microscope of striped muscular tissue and cartilage. The answers on papers are thus marked: 100 marks is the Marking, full allowance for each answer, and 40 the minimum entitling the candidate to go up for viva voce. In the oral examina.tion, the numerical system of estimating the merits of the candidates was not adopted, but the words "good," "bad," and "indif- ferent " were used. In the decision, the oral and paper work combined were considered by the examiners. This somewhat informal system is possible, where there is a small number of candidates. FINAL EXAMINATION FOR LICENCE. The Visitors arrived on Wednesday, April 20th, at St. Bar- Pinal tholomew's Hospital, to inspect the clinical examination. They ^p*Lieence^° found in the medical ward Drs. Andrew, Handfield Jones, and Clinical. Sydney Ringer, making arrangements for the distribution of patients among the candidates, who were eighteen in number. About twelve candidates were provided with cases in Dr. Andrew's ward, and four candidates in a ward under the care of a physician, not present at the examination. A brief exposition was made, by Dr. Andrew, of the selected cases under his own immediate superintendence. Numbered according to the beds in the ward, these were : Bed 1. Diabetes mellitus—two glasses of urine being supplied at the bedside. Bed 4. Gastric ulcer ; the diagnosis, perhaps, not absolutely clear, but still a strong presumption of simple ulcer of the body of the stomach. Bed 6. Leuchsemia, with enlarged liver and spleen. Bed 8. Carcinoma, probably of the stomach and adjoining parts, involving large tumour in the epigastric and hypochondriac regions. Bed 10. Disease of the heart, with enlargement and loud mitral murmur. Bed 11. Disease of the heart, with ascites. Beds 12 and 13. Aortic regurgitation. Bed 19. Aortic obstruc-