202 VISITATION-RKPOKT. Apoth. Sor. LoND. Preliminary Examiuation in Arts. a Magistrate, Clergyman, or registered Medical Practitioner, who will certify as in the final clause. I, (Write Name in full)_ (Address by post) residing at intend to present myself for tlie PreUmina/i'y Examination in Arts, at the Apothecaries' Hall, London, on the , am,d I intend to take optional subject. Signat'wre_ jis my The above has been written and signed in my presence, by the above- named Candidate, with whom I am personally acquainted. Signature Address Date Certificates in Arts granted by any of the Bodies whose Certificate is recognised by the Medical Council, will be accepted from Candidates who present themselves at the Professional Examination at the Hall, as equivalent to their having passed the above Examination. Candidates are recommended to take particular care of the Certificates, as no second Certificate can in any case be issued. THOMAS R. WHEELER, Secretary to the Board of Examiiners. Apothbcaeies' Hall, London, B.C. Chemistry. Examination Candidates will be expected to show a competent knowledge of the in Chemistry general principles of Chemistry, inchiding the laws of Chemical Comhi- nation. The Atomic Theory. Specific Gravity. The general properties and laws of diffusion of (rases. The constitution of the atmosphere, the construction and principles of Barometers, Thermometers, Air Pumps, and Galvanic Batteries. Latent and Specific Heat;—and the sources or modes of preparation, principal properties, compounds, and tests for all the elements, and such metals as are used in the Pharmacopoeia. Orgastic Chemistry. The general principles of Organic Chemistry. The principles of ultimate Analysis. The laws of Siibstitution. Compound Radicals. The composition, preparation, and chemical properties of Alcohol, Ether, and Chloroform. The principal Vegetable Acids. Cane and Grape Sugar and Fermentation. Starch. Gum. Cellulose. Glucosides Oils. Fats. Glycerine and Saponification. Turpentines and Camphor. Albumen. Fibrine. Gelatine. Cynagon and its compounds. Blood. Milk. Bile and Urine. ^ ^ THOMAS R. WHEELER, Secretary to the Court of Examiners. Apothecaries' Hall, London, 1881.