VISITATION-REPORT. 164 E. Coll. Sueq. who has not satisfied his Examiners upon the first; but all Candidates who Irel. have passed any of these days' examinations shall get credit for same. When presenting themselves upon a subsequent occasion, rejected Candi- Letters dates will be only required to recommence with the subjects of the day on Testimonial. which they have been remitted. One Councillor is summoned to preside at each examination. Declaration to be taken by Licentiates. The Candidates entitled to receive their Letters Testimonial are required to attend a meeting of the Council, specially convened for the purpose, Tipon such day as shall be notified to them, and to take the following Declaration prescribed by the provisions of the Supplemental Charter:— " I, A. B., do solemnly and sincerely declare and promise that I will observe and be obedient to the Statutes, By-Lams, and Ordinances of the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, and that I mill, to tJie utmost of my ■power, endeavour to 2)romote the reputation, honour, and dignity of the said College." They then sign the College roll, and receive their diploma. Fellowship. Fellowship. Qualifications of Candidates. Every Registered Pupil or Licentiate shall be admitted to examination for the FeDowship if he shall have laid before the Council— Fees. (a) A receipt showing that he has lodged in the Bank of Ireland, for the use of the College, if he be a Licentiate, the sum of twenty guineas, or thirty-five in case he be only a Registered Pupil: provided, in either case, be intends to reside beyond ten miles from Dublin. Should the Candi- date intend to reside in Dublin, or within ten miles thereof, he shall lodge, if he be a Licentiate, thirty guineas; or if he be only a Registered Pupil, forty-five guineas. Fellows entering on the country list, who may subse- quently settle as practitioners in Dublin, or vnthin ten miles thereof, shall pay ten guineas to the College ; also CeHificates. (ft) That he is twenty-five years of age; (c) That he is a Bachelor of Arts of some University, or that he has been examined in such manner as the Council may from time to time direct, with a view to ascertain that he has obtained a liberal preliminary education. (d) A certificate of general good conduct during his professional edu- cation ; to be signed by two or more Fellows of the College ; (e) Certificates of attendance on the several courses of lectures, herein- before set forth as being required for letters testimonial, together with— (a) One course of Lectures on Comparative Anatomy ; and (6) One course of Lectures on Natural Philosophy; also (/) A Thesis on some Medical subject, or Clinical Reports, with obser- vations, of six or more medical or surgical cases, taken by liimself. (a) Candidates of the required age, who shall have taken the degree of Bachelor of Arte in a British or an Irish Univerfiity, and have complied with the foregoing regulations in other respects, will be admitted to examination at the end of five years of professional study, of which three years must have been passed in one or more of the recognised schools or hospitals.