45 PART I.—GENERAL IMPRESSIONS. at base or apex." It is impossible, the Visitors think, to avoid Apotu. Soc. the conclusion that one at least (most probably the last) of these three reports of the same case is altogether wrong in detail; but Remarks on they were all regarded as sufficient, in conjunction with the examinations passed in other subjects, to entitle the authors of them to receive the diploma of the Society. The Visitors wish it to be understood that they do not venture to infer from these details that the decisions arrived at by the examiners were wrong, or that any candidate was on the present occasion allowed to pass who ought to have been rejected on account of insufficient clinical knowledge; but they certainly feel bound to express an opinion, that a clinical examination conducted on the plan above referred to is unsatisfactory, and, indeed, quite illusory as a test of knowledge and skill at the bedside. Further, it seems evident that to make the clinical, under these circumstances, a separate and independent element in the final examination, would be unjust to candidates, were it not that in the practical working of the system the clinical examination is, to say the least, very feebly insisted upon in the actual adjudications. The " rules affecting the examination of students," as printed System of at p. 203 of the by-laws, show that a " Male " in the clinical marking, alone will "be sufficient to reject, if the candidate be not sub- jected to any of the written examinations." This means that in the modified examinations sanctioned by the Company for candidates who already possess a licence in medicine, and who, accordingly, are to be otherwise examined only orally in the final subjects, a clinical " Male " (= 0 to 25) out of 100 possible marks, will reject. In all other cases, the clinical ranks as one of nine separate markings in the various subjects, written and oral, and a "Male" must be accompanied by a "vix" (=25 to 50 out of 100) ; or, alternatively, there must be a majority of " vix" marks, in viva voce and written together {i.e., in five out of nine separate adjudications), to reject. And the Visitors cannot but infer, from what is stated above, that the written papers in the clinical examinations are, on the whole, very leniently judged. To give to the clinical element in a final examination anything like its due value as a test of competency to practise, and, still more, to secure for it an influence of the kind which it undoubtedly ought to exercise in the practical