# 248 EEMARKS ON VISITATION-EEPORT. K. Q. Coll 11. " That with a view to economy of the time of the Examiners, it is Phys. Ibel. desirable that when a candidate has obtained rejecting marks in the written portions of an examination, he should not be required to proceed to the oral." The College concur in this opinion, but consider it should be equally applied to the other parts of the examination, viz., the Clinical, Practical, and Oral. 12. « In any future revision of the curriculum, the subjects of hygiene, ophthalmology, and mental disease will demand serious consideration, and perhaps admission, under careful limitation, as distinct elements of examination." The College approve of the principle of requiring knowledge of Ophthalmology, Hygiene, and Mental Disease, and have for some time included Hygiene in the subjects of examination for the license. They think Ophthalmology should be included in the Surgical Examination. 13. "Suggestion by Dr. Gaiedner and Mr. Stokes:—That con- sidering the great imjportance of preventive medicine and hygiene to the general practitioner, these subjects ought to form a more independent part than they do of the Examinations of all Corporations " The College concur in the suggestions of Dr. Gaiednee and Mr. Stokes, and have long since acted on this principle, and included Hygiene in the subjects of Examination. Further arrangements are in progress for conferring a Special Cei'tificate of competence in Hygiene on such licentiates of the College as may desire it, and shall have passed a sjDecial examination in subjects connected with sanitary science. Therefore the College propose to treat this subject in a manner similar to that in which they deal with Obstetrical Science. The College grant a special " Diploma in Midwifery," but also require a knowledge of Midwifery from all candidates for the license in medicine. So in fature it is intended that, while demanding evidence of knowledge of Hygiene from all candidates for the license, they will also grant a special certificate in the same subject. Besides the matters above referred to, which are categorically set out in the Report, the Visitors refer to others which demand notice by the College. The Visitors remark (at p. 9) " That it may be doubted whether, up to a certain point, the differences between the