X t>AET III.—DOCUMENTS CONCERNINQ EXAMINATIONS. 173 Directions to Candidates. R. Coll. Phts. Candidates are prohibited, under pain of instant dismissal, from intro- Lond. ducing auy book or manuscript into the Examination Room, from com- _ —— municating with or copying from each other, and from communicating Diroetions to with any person outside the Examination Room. Candidates. Every candidate is desired to write liis name vcrij distinctly at the top of the tirst page of each of his answer-books, and to give them, before he leaves the room, to the Examiner present. Name Heading to Clinical Answer BooTts. Candidates are requested to bear in mind that the examination of patients must be conducted with gentleness, and so as not to injure them. Questions set in the Examination for the Licence (Second Pabt). Apeil, 1881. Anatomy and Physiology. 1. Describe, in their relative position, the contents of the subclavian portion of the posterior triangle of the neck. (The boundaries of this space are the omo-hyoid and sterno-cleido-mastoid muscles, and the middle third of the clavicle). 2. Trace the great sciatic nerve from its origin to the ultimate distri- bution of its branches. 3. Describe the right auricle of the heart in the adult and in the foetus. 4. Describe ciliated epithelium. In what parts of the human body is it found 1 5. Describe the skin, giving the minute structure of its several parts and appendages. 6. In what structural and functional respects do the anterior roots of spinal nerves differ from the posterior roots ? Describe their several attachments to the spinal cord, and indicate the path of impulses between them and the cerebrum. Questions: Anatomy and Physiology. Examination fob the Licence (Third Part, or Final). April, 1881. Principles and Practice of Surgery. 1. Describe the operation of ligature of the external iliac artery. Under what circumstances would you perform it ? Through what vessels is the collateral circulation in the limb carried on after the vessel has been tied? 2. Describe the operation of left lumbar colotomy. Under what cir- cumstances would you consider the operation advisable ? 3. What are the causes which may produce hfemorrhage from the bladder ? How would you diagnose it from haemorrhage from the kidney ? State your treatment in each case. 4. Describe briefly the various forms of ulceration of the tongue. To what causes are they due ? What would be your treatment in each case ?