VISITATION-REPOET. 148 Apoth. Hall, room were to be converted into a scliool-room, how many pupils might be accommodated in it without any danger to their health ? Final Supposing the room is 25 feet long, 20 feet broad, and 12 feet Exammation. high, how is the cubic space estimated ? What is the least quantity that should be allowed for each child ? What are the dangers to the health of children from overcrowding ? What are the effects of breathing rebreathed air ? What disease or diseases are induced by the faulty posture of children at times in sitting at their desks ? Where should the children's clothes be hung—in the room where they sleep, or not ? How many hours at a time should children be allowed to work in school ? What directions should be given in reference to this point ? What are the various changes that the blood may undergo from over-study, as observed chiefly among young females ? The method of examining for life assurance was then discussed : How would you proceed to examine a person for life assurance ; what are the special condi- tions to look to in the examination of the head, chest, abdomen, and lower extremities ? Supposing you were appointed surgeon to a passenger vessel, what principles would guide you in making your arrangements for the health of passengers ? In reference to this question, the subjects of ventilation, cleanliness, and food were chiefly discussed. What points should be attended to in estimating the quality of beef; also, how to distinguish sound and unsound bacon ; and the symptoms of trichina spiralis and the course of that disease ? Medicine. On January 11th, at two o'clock P.M., the Visitors were present for the final examination in medicine and surgery. There were only two candidates, and one of these possessing a diploma in surgery, was not examined in that branch. The examination in medicine was conducted by Dr. Leet and Dr. Ryan. On the table was a number of specimens :—(1) A preparation of tuber- cular disease of the lung; (2) hepatisation of lung; (3) disease of aortic valves, with hypertrophy and dilatation of left ventricle; (4) mitral stenosis; (5) typhoid ulceration of ileum ; and (6) intestinal worms. There were also available a number of plates from Cruveilhier's "Anatomie Pathologique," separated from the text, and a number of drawings of skin diseases, such as erup- tions of measles and scarlet fever, erythema nodosum, and other typical forms, as given in the ordinary illustrated books. The first candidate was asked about lead colic, its pathology, symp-