199 PART III.—DOCUMENTS CONCERNING EXAMINATIONS. 2. Of having completed the Curriculum of Study to the close of the Apoth. Soc. Second Winter Session; of having attended three months' Practical Phar- Lond. macy; and of good moral conduct. - The course of Medical Study required for a License shall occupy at least four years of Kegulations. which not less than three Winter and two Summer Seasons sliall be passed at any recognised School Hospital. Tlie following will be recognised and considered equivalent to eighteen months' study, in addition to the two years and a half above mentioned. ■ ^ ^ 1. Attendance on the practice of a Hospital or other Public Institution recognised by this Hall for tliat purpose. „ t., i 2. Instruction as the Pupil or Assistant of a registered Practitioner, Physician or Surgeon to a Hospital, General Dispensaiy. or Union Workhouse, or where such opportunities of Practical Instruction are afforded as shall be deemed satisfactory. Second or Pass Uxanimation. 1. Of having completed four years' medical study, including the period spent at the hospital; of being twenty-one years of age ; and of good moral conduct. 2. Of having passed the first examination. 3. Of having completed the prescribed Curriculum of Study, including a personal attendance of twenty cases of midwifery (a certiacate will be received from any registered practitioner); and of having received instruc- tions in Practical Vaccination, and vaccinated not less than twemy cases (this certificate must be obtained from a Public Vaccinator recognised by the Local Government Board). Modified Examinations. 1. All Graduates in Medicine of British Universities will be admitted to a Clinical and General Examination in the Practice of Medicine, Path- ology, and Midwifery. 2. Licentiates of the Eoyal College of Physicians, London; of the Royal College of Physicians, Edinburgh ; of the Royal Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons, Edinburgh; of the King and Queen's College of Physicians, Ireland ; of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons, Glasgow; and of the Apothecaries' Hall, Dublin, will be admitted to a Clinical and rivd voce examination in the Practice of Medicine, Pathology, Midwifery, Forensic Medicine, and Toxicology. 3. Any candidate who has passed his first examination for the License of the King and Queen's College of Physicians, Ireland ; the joint License of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons, Edinburgh; or for the single License of the College of Physicians, Edinburgh ; the License of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons, Glasgow; the first Professional Ex- amination for the Degree of M.B., or Master in Surgery in the Universities of Oxford, Cambridge, London, or Durham ; or the first Examination for the License of the Apothecaries' Company, Dublin; the first and second Examination of the Royal College of Physicians, London; or the second part of the Professional Examination for the Degree of M.B. or Master in Surgery, in the Universities of Glasgow, Aberdeen, St. Andrews, and Edinburgh; or the first and second examination for Medical and Surgical Degrees in the Irish Universities, will be admitted to examination, partly in writing and partly viva voce, in Practice of Medicine (including Clinical Medicine), Pathology, Therapeutics, Midwifery, Forensic Medicine, and Toxicology. And those candidates who have not undergone an examina- tion in Anatomy, Materia Medica, or Botany, will, in addition,be examined viva voce on those subjects. 4. Members of the Royal College of Surgeons, England ; Licentiates of the Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh ; and Licentiates of the Royal College of Surgeons, Ireland; and all Candidates who have passed the first Anatomical Examination of the Royal College of Surgeons,