153 PART II.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. ing the hospital -were informed that Dr. MoORE had not arrived ; Afoth. Hall, whereas it appeared afterwards that the examination was already going on in the out-door department. Upon this part of the Final examination, therefore, the Visitors are nnable to record more Examination. J Clinical than that it seemed to have occupied about half an hour, and Medicine, was described as consisting in bringing three cases successively under the notice of the candidates. In one of the wards of the hospital in which the examination was exclusively conducted there were—(1) a case of mitral stenosis, with a very character- istic systolic murmur and the accentuation of the second sound ; (2) a case of pneumonia in convalescence ; (3) a case of broncho pneumonia; (4) a case of acute or subacute chest disease, the precise characters of which the Visitors did not ascertain. In another ward a case of secondary syphilis, with the usual skin and throat symptoms, was under observation; but owing to a similar oversight to the one above mentioned this part of the examination, which was conducted by Dr. Bolland, took place unknown to the Visitors. Three or four specimens of urine were provided—one being of saccharine, one or more of albuminous urine, and one the urine of one of the cases of pneumonia already mentioned. These were ample materials in themselves, apart from the examination above stated upon the extern cases, for an extremely searching clinical examination. But here, as in the case of the examination on the preceding day, there was perhaps a difficulty, with candidates confessedly weak, in judging how far the method of examination was calcu- lated to develop fully what the materials were capable of afford- ing. One of the candidates was set to examine a case of mitral stenosis for a few minutes in presence of the examiner, who watched him, and occasionally gave him hints as to what he was expected to do. Ultimately he had to write his opinion, which showed that it was a case of pericarditis. Pounded on this mis- taken idea, the treatment as of pericarditis was given very much as might be expected. But there was no attempt at precision in the statement of individual facts—e.g., as to the murmur, still less as to the character of the second sound, or the relation of the murmur to the first sound—and therefore the Visitors, as they did not con- sider themselves at liberty to put any questions to the candidate, were left in doubt as to whether his mistaken diagnosis in reality indicated great ignorance or only an accidental oversight. The