176 VISITATION-REPORT. ^ ^LoNo^^^ ^' attended a course of Lectures on Anatomy, ' ■ 10. Of having performed Dissections during not less than twelve By-laws. . "^"'^t^^- Licentiates. 11> Of having attended a course of Lectures on General Anatomy and Physiology. 12. Of having attended a separate Practical course of General Anatomy and Physiology. 13. Of having attended a course of Lectures on the Principles and Practice of Medicine. 14. Of having attended a course of Lectures on the Principles and Practice of Surgery. 15. Of having attended a course of Lectures on Midwifery and Diseases peculiar to Women. A Certificate must also be produced of attendance on not less than Twenty Labours, which Certificate must be signed by one or more legally qualified practitioners. 16. Of having undergone Systematic Practical Instruction in the Depart- ments of Medicine, Surgery, and Obstetric Medicine. Nole C.—Under this clause the candidate wUl be required to show that he has been per- BOnally exercised in practical details, such as— 1. The application of anatomical facts to the investigation of disease. 2. The methods of examining various organs in order to detect the evidence of disease or the effects of accidents. 3. The employment of instruments used in diagnosis and treatment. 4. The examination of normal and diseased structures, whether recent or in a museum. 5. The chemical examination of morbid products. 6. Operations on the dead body. 7. Post-mortem examinations. 17. Of Instruction and Proficiency in the practice of Vaccination. Note D.—The certificate must be such as will qualify its holder ti contract as a public vaccinator under the regulations, at the time in force, of the Local Government Board. 18. Of having attended a course of Lectures on Pathological Anatomy. 19. Of having attended Demonstrations in the 2}ost-vwrtevi room during the whole period of attendance on Clinical Lectures. (See Clause 22.) 20. Of having attended a course of Lectures on Forensic Medicine. 21. Of having attended, at a recognised Hospital or Hospitals, the practice of Medicine and Surgery during Three Winter and Two Summer Sessions. Note E.—No metropolitan hospital is recognised which contains less than 150, and no provincial or colonial hospital which contains less than 100 patients. A three months' course of clinical instruction in the wards of a recognised lunatic hos- pital or asylum, may be substituted for the same period of attendance in the medical wards of a general hospital. 22. Of having attended during nine months Clinical Lectures on Medi- cine, and also during nine months Clinical Lectures on Surgery, and of having been engaged during a period of Three months in the Clinical Study of Diseases peculiar to Women. 23. Of having discharged the duties of a Medical Clinical Clerk during six months, and of a Surgical Dresser during other six months. Note F.—Tliese duties may be discharged at a general hospital, infirmary, or dispensary, or parochial or union infirmary, duly recognised for this purpose, or in such other manner as shall afford sufiaoient opportunity for the acquirement of practical knowledge. The Certificates of Attendance on the several courses of Lectures mu^ include evidence that the Student has attended Exa/minationt in each Course.