159 PART III.—DOCUMENTS CONCERNING EXAMINATIONS, ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS IN IRELAND. The following are tbe regulations relating to education, examination, and qualification, and directions to candidates, the forms connected with marking, including the voting papers of the examiners, the notification to candidates as to whether the Court of Examiners was satisfied or not, and the printed questions given at the examinations in July, 1881:— ABSTKACT OF REGULATIONS AS TO EDUCATION AND EXAMINATION. Registration. Registered Pujnlsofthe College. A Student of any school of medicine recognised by the Council desiring to be registered as a pupil on the College books shall, if the Council think fit, be so registered if he shall have paid a registration fee of five guineas, for which credit will be given subsequently in his Examination fee. No student can be admitted as a Candidate to any Examhiation for the Letters lestimoJiial, u/itil he has been enrolled as a Registered Pujnl of the College, and has also passed a Preliminary Examination. Privileges of Registered Pupils. Registered Pupils of the College are admitted to the Preliminary Examination withoiit further fee, and are permitted to study eacli week-day in the Museum, from ten o'clock A.M. to three o'clock p.m., and to read in the Library fi-om ten o'clock A.M. to six o'clock p.m. They are also permitted to attend the Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, and to obtain a Certificate for such attendance, without paj'ment of any fee. Registration as a Medical Student. The General Medical Council requires that Students shall be registered at the commencement of their Medical studies. This registration is not undertaken by the College, and the Student must apply to the Medical Registrar, 35 Dawson Street, Dublin, in order that he may be so registered. Preliminary Examinations. All Students are required to pass their Preliminary Examination before entering upon their professional studies; and Certificates of attendance on Lectures, or at Hospital, will not be received by the College, if the com- mencement of those courses of study dates more than fifteen days antecedent to the passing of the Preliminary Examination. The Preliminary Examinations are held Quarterly, viz.:—on the third Wednesday in January, April, July, and October in each year, and are free to Registered Pupils. Subjects of Examination. The following are the Subjects upon which each Candidate for the Preliminary Examination will be examined, viz.:— The English Language, including Grammar and Composition. Arithmetic, including Vulgar and Decimal Fractions. Educational Regulations.