PART 11.—DETAILS OK EXAMINATIONS. 99 by the number "passed." The examination for the second K. Q. Coll. half takes place every month in the year except August and J ' ' September. The primary examination, for which there are few Final candidates, takes place quarterly. Most of the candidates for lamination. the second half or final examination have already received a qualification. The plan of the final examination is as follows :— On the first day there is a written examination of six hours. Four papers are given, to each of which an hour and a half is assigned. In each paper there are six questions, answers to all of which are expected, but not rigidly required; that is to say, two-thirds of the number well answered will pass a candidate. On the second day the clinical examination takes place before two Clinical. examiners. "When the numbers are large, say beyond fifteen, the clinical examination is extended over a second day. The hospital for the clinical examination is selected by ballot, and the name is not divulged to the candidates until half an hour before the examination. Every candidate is set to one case, at least, by each examiner, and more than one, if the examiner sees fit. He writes a short account of the case on a paper divided into three columns : the first column being headed, ^'■Diagnosis "; the second "Reasons for your Diagnosis"; and the third, " Treatment.''^ The candidate is thus compelled to put into a short compass-the results of his examination in a form in which the examiner can easily criticise it, and the candidate's physical observations are verified at the bedside. This examination takes place from ten o'clock A.M., to one or two p.m., there being no special limit of lime. On July 6th the clinical examination of the remaining candidates was held at the "Whitworth Hospital, the examiners being Ur. Benson and Dr. Walter Smith, who had also con- ducted the clinical examination on the previous day. The wards in which this examination was held were chiefly those of Dr. M'DowELL and Dr. Gordon, neither of whom was present on the occasion, and accordingly the examiners approached the cases with only slight previous knowledge of them derived from a rapid survey of the wards with the house physician. The candidates were introduced into the wards in groups of six or seven or more, and a case was assigned to each candidate, the schedule previously referred to being at the same time put into his hand as a guide in writing his opinion and his statements of fact bearing upon the case. G 2