KING AND queen's COLLEGE OP PHYSICIANS IK IRELAND. 247 The College are of opinion that all candidates should be liable K. Q. Coll. to examination in the application of bandages and splints, but do Phys. Irbu not consider that it should be required at " every " examination in Surgery from every candidate. 7. " That the examination of normal and morbid urine should be an essential part of every clinical examination in medicine." The College, while attaching due importance to the knowledge of the condition of the urine in health and disease, are of opinion that it is not advisable to introduce this subject as " an essential part of every Clinical Examination." Every Candidate should be Hable to examination on the urine; but it appears to the College that a specific rale of the kind suggested by the Yisitors would give undue importance to the study of this particular excretion. Further, the College consider that the subject of healthy urine would be more appropriately dealt with in the physiological and chemical departments of the Examination than in the clinical branch. 8. " That the practical examinations in chemistry should, when feasible, be conducted in a laboratory." The College concur in the principle of this recommendation, but consider that the words " when feasible " should be omitted, as every medical authority can make a practical Examination in Chemistry " feasible " if they wish to do so. 9. " That a practical knowledge of the histology of tissues and chief organs should be required of all candidates for medical or surgical diplomas." The College concur in this opinion. 10. " That in oral examinations, where the time allotted is strictly limited, for instance, to ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, there is a serious risk that candidates of average ability who have been conscien- tiously taught and fairly prepared in their work may be rejected owing to misunderstanding or nervousness, and this is a hazard which, reacting as it does injuriously upon study and teaching, ought to be, if possible, avoided by allowing a margin of additional time for satisfying the examiners in all such cases. The actual practice of certain Boards, and especially of the Colleges of Physicians, shows that this suggestion is not impracticable, although it may be more or less difficult to carry out where the numbers are very large. The Visitors think that no mere difficulty of mechanism should be allowed to interfere with its being adopted as a measure of justice to candidates." The College concur in this recommendation.