71 PART II.—Dl'M'AILS Ol'' EXAMINATIONS. next time without doing paper work. In like manner, any can- k.Coll. Suao. didates who passed the viva voce, but were rejected in the prac- Ib^l. tical anatomy, will be allowed on a future occasion to come up Adjudication. for practical anatomy only. So that each stage stands by itself; a student who has passed the first, or first and second stages, not being re-examined in them. As soon as this adjudication was over, notice was sent by post to each candidate to say whether he was rejected or passed, and information was given to those who wished it as to the subjects on which they had failed. In several instances in which the result was doubtful, the examiners conferred as to whether the candidate ought to be passed or not, and in a few instances the reports of individual examiners were modified after hearing the opinions of the others, usually in the direction of a more lenient judgment on the whole examination. On Wednesday, July 6th, at four o'clock p.m., the Visitors were Vim voce present, at the commencement of the viva voce, in the College of jyjg^g^^"^'* Surgeons. The candidates were examined at the rate of twelve Chemistry, a day, four candidates each hour; each candidate having a quarter :^natomy, and . . Physiology, of an hour at each of four tables, and the time being kept by the Chairman of the examiners, who marked each quarter by ringing a bell. At each table sat an examiner and an assessor, the assessor being sometimes one of the Examining Board, sometimes a Member of the Council of the College. Each member of the Board examined for an hour, and then his place was taken by another examiner, who might have been acting as his assessor, or absent at the time. By this plan each examiner was able to rest for one hour out of the three. At one table Dr. Frazer, with Mr. 0'Grady as assessor, examined in materia medica and chemistry, and continued as ex- aminer for the whole three hours. On this table were several small bottles containing various drugs and chemical preparations. Two tables were devoted to the anatomical examination; the fourth to physiology. On each table there was a series of bones. The examiners in anatomy tested the candidates minutely over a limited range. Candidate No. 8, examined by Mr. Crolt, was asked about the foramina of the skull and the sutures, pointing them out on the bone. He was then examined on the dissec- tion of the perineum and the various structures that would be found from the skin down to the deep structures inside the