VlSrrATION-REPUKT. 208 Apoth. Soc. Examination in Ahts. LoND. An Examination in Arts will take place at the Hall three times in the -— year, viz., on a Friday and Saturday towards the close of the months of Examination Januarj', April, and September. in Arts. Testimonials of proficiency in general education will be received from any of the Licensing Bodies under the Medical Act of 1858, viz,:— The Royal College of Surgeons, England. The Society of Apothecaries, London. The Royal College of Physicians, Edinburgh. The Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh. The Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons, Glasgow. The Royal College of Sm-geons, Ireland. The Apothecaries' Hall, Ireland. And also from the following national, colonial, and foreign Educational Bodies., viz.: a Degree in Arts of any University of the United Kingdom, or of the colonies, or of such other Universities as may be specially recog- nised from time to time by the Medical Council. Oxford—Responsions or moderations. Cambridge—Previous examinations. Durham—Examination for students in their second and first years. Durham—Registration examination for medical students. London—Matriculation examination. Oxford, Cambridge, Durham—Local examinations (senior and junior). Certificate to include Latin and Mathematics. The Oxford and Cambridge Schools' Examination Board. Edinburgh, Glasgow, Aberdeen, St. Andrews —Preliminary examination for graduation in Medicine or Surgery. Edinburgh—Examination of (senior) candidates for Honorary Certifi- cates under the local examinations of the University of Edinburgh. Dublin—University entrance examination. Queen's University, Ireland—Entrance examination ; examination for the Diploma of Licentiate in Arts ; previous exainination for B.A. Degree. First Class Certificate of the College of Preceptors. University of Calcutta, Madras, Bombay—Entrance examination, Cer- tificate to include Latin. M'GUl College, Montreal—Matriculation examination. University of Toronto; King's College, Toronto; Queen's College, Kingston; Victoria College, Upper Canada—Matriculation examination. University of King's College, Nova Scotia—Matriculation examination or responsions. University of Fredericton, New Brunswick—Matriculation examination. University of Melbourne - Matriculation examination, Certificate to include all the subjects required by the General Medical Council. University of Sydney—Matriculation examination. Codrington College, Barbadoes—1. English Certificate for students of two years' standing, specifying the subjects of examination. 2. Latin Certificate, or " Testamur." Tasmanian Council of Education—Examination for the Degree of Asso- ciate of Arts, Certificate to include Latin and Mathematics. Christ's College, Canterbury, New Zealand—Voluntary examination, Certificate to include all the subjects required by the General Medical Council. Recognition of Lecturers and Schools. No Lecturer will be acknowledged by the Court who is not connected with a recognised Medical School, or who teaches on more than tico branches of Medical Science,