VISITATION-EE POUT. 70 Primary Kxamiuation. Written. Adjudication. R. CoLL.SuEG. seventh examiner acted as President, not having taken any part in setting or judging the written examination. The ex- aminers for both "First Half" and "Senior Class" were: Mr. Richardson, Mr. Stoker, Dr. Frazer, Mr. O'Geadt, Mr. Ceoly, Mr. Swan, Mr. Thomson, and Dr. M'Dowell. In conducting the examination, the presiding examiner as- signs to each of the four examiners in anatomy a division of the body to which his questions should relate. Each examiner gave three questions, the candidate selecting at his own discre- tion one question out of each set of three, that is, one in each of the four divisions of the body. At the conclnsion of the written examination, each examiner reads over and appraises the answers to his own questions preparatory to the adjudication at five P.M. of the day following the written examination. There were on this occasion fifty-three candidates, and, after deducting six who retired, each examiner bad to look over forty-seven answers to a single question; the exception being in the case of the examiner in materia medica and chemistry, who, having under- taken two subjects, had double the number of answers to read. At the adjudication the President read out the number of each candidate in order, and each examiner in turn declared his judgment on the paper he had read, which, as already mentioned, contained the answer to a single question only. If the judgment was favourable, he answered " Yes " ; if not favour- able, " No " ; if so unfavourable that he thought the candidate ought to be I'ejected absolutely, he gave a " 0." So that a single examiner is able to stop a candidate on his own judg- ment alone. In this way the four subjects were respectively appraised. If there were two " Noes "—that is, for two very indifierent answers—the candidate was rejected, whatever his marks might have been in the other subjects. In anatomy a " No " rejects absolutely. In the other three subjects a "No " did not reject, only a " 0" ; but a " No" in two subjects rejected. The result of the adjudication of the written papers was that on this occasion more than 60 per cent, of the whole number of candidates was stopped, and not allowed to proceed to the remainder of the examination. Those candidates on coming up again will have to be re-examined in all the subjects. Any candidates who passed the written examination, bat were rejected in tne viva voce, will be allowed to come up