VI8ITATION- RE PO RT. 192 Fac. Phts. & Surg. Glasq. Marking. System of Ma/rking. 1. In any part (written, clinical, or oral) of the examination on a subject, the maximum mark is 100. 2. In all parts (written, clinical, and oral) of the examination on a subject, the average pass mark is not less tlian 50. In each subject the arithmetical sum of the marks of a Candidate in the different parts of the examination is taken. 3. In each of the subjects, Anatomy, Plvysiohgy, Chemistry, Materia Medica, Midwifo'y, and Medical Jurisjrnulence, the Candidate will pass if the sum of the marks for the two parts (written and oral) of the examina- tion amount to 100; if under 100, he is rejected. 4. In each of the subjects. Medicine and Surgery, the Candidate will pass if the sum of the marks in the three parts (written, clinical, and oral) of the examination amount to 150; if less, he is rejected. 5. It is left to the Examiners individually to determine the mode in which they shall form their judgment as to what mark shall be given ; whether by assigning a value to each question with reference to the maximum 100, and thus making the mark express the arithmetical sum of the value assigned to each answer; or, by way of making the mark indicate the general impression made on the mind of the Examiners by the answers of the Candidate. [In the written examination the Examiners generally adopt the former method, and in the clinical and oral, the latter.] 6. If the two Examiners on any subject are unable to agree as to the mark to be given, the mark entered in the summation schedule vdll be half the sum of the marks assigned by the Examiners individually. Questions: QUESTIONS SET IN THE Pbimaey Examination. Anatomy. Anatomy. 1. Describe the sternum, mentioning its articulations, and the muscles attached to it. 2. Describe fully the scalenus anticus muscle. 3. Give the origin, course, relations, and distribution of the ulnar nerve. 4. Trace the facial artery from its origin to its termination, and name the branches it gives oflE in its course, 5. The scalp having been dissected, describe the measures necessary to be taken to remove the brain from the cranial cavity, naming in their proper order the structures cut through in the course of its removal. 6. Describe the position, relations, and structure of the prostate gland. Physiology. Physiology. 1. Describe the minute structure of the lung, and the changes which the air and the blood undergo during respiration. 2. Describe the coagulation of the blood; mention the principal con- ditions that accelerate or retard it, and give a short account of the most modern theory of coagulation. 3. What are the physical and chemical actions of the various digestive fluids on the food ? 4. "What effects follow :— (a) Division of both vagi at the middle of the neck; (J) Stimulation of the upper end ; (<j) Stimulation of the lower end. 5. Identify specimens 1, 2, 3, 4 under the microscope.