236 EEMAEKS ON VISITATION-REPORT, E.C01.L. SuHG. 3. The testing of candidates by the performance of Dis- ^^"^^ sections in tlie Primary Examination. 4. The effects of limitation of time in the Oral Examination, and the method of Marking, as being, in the view of the Visitors, possibly prejudicial to the success of "a candi- date knowing his work fairly." 6. The desirability of excluding candidates who have failed in the Written part from proceeding to the Oral part of the Examination. The Council offer the following observations and remarks under each of the foregoing heads:— 1. The nature and extent of the Physiological Examination. The Council agree with the Visitors in their statement that " Physiology has recently been made the subject of a separate Paper and questions, and has been assigned to separate Examiners; and in consequence the standard of requirement has been materi- ally changed." And, in this respect, the Council are of opinion that the Examination has also been "materially" improved. But, as regards the conclusion of the Visitors, that this part of the Examination is too advanced, and excludes a proper attention to the more elementary and fundamental principles of the Science, the Council desire to point out that the Visitors make no mention of the questions put in the Written Examination, which it will be found treat both of the elementary and fundamental parts of Physiology. Moreover, the questions asked, viva voce, in this subject are generally of a rudimentai-y and simple character, and easy to be answered by the well-informed student; and it is only in cases of candidates who have exhibited more than usual intelligence that the questions assume a more advanced character. The Council believe that the Physiological Examination is in accordance with the method of teaching Physiology now adopted in the Medical Schools, and is therefore a fair test of the acquire- - ments of students. It may here be observed that the Visitors (at p. 16) appear almost to complain of the introduction of " stained microscopic preparations," and of " manipulations of microscopic tissues into the Physiological Examinations;" whereas, in their 9th con- clusion (p. 56), they assert that " a practical knowledge of the