PART nr.—DOCUMENTS CONCERNING EXAMINATIONS. 203 Botany. Apoth. Soc. Candidates will be expected to display a competent knowledge of Lond. Structural and Physiological Botany, such as may be obtained from —— Lectures and from any Elementary work. Examination They will be expected to describe and identify typical specimens, and in Botany, to give the distinguishing characters of the following natural orders, viz. : — Natural Order's. 7. Graminacese. 8. Labiatte. 9. Leguminosse. 10. Liliaceas. 11. MelanthaceiB. 12. Papervace^. 1. Compositfe. 2. Convolvulaceze. 8. Cruciferas. 4. CucurbitaceEe. 5. Filices. 6. Gentinacese. Apothecaeies' Hall, London, 1880. 13. Ranunculaceas. 14. Kosaceaj. 15. Rulacece. 16. Scrophulariaceae. 17. Solanacea3. 18. Umbelliferas. THOMAS R. WHEELER, Secreta/ry to tJie Cov/rt of Examiners. Rules affecting the Examination of Students. 1. "Bene," 75 to 100; "Satis," 60 to 75; "Vix," 25 to 50; " Malfe," Marking. 0 to 25. There are to be nine subjects marked, four in the written, and five in the oral examination. 2. A "malfe" in the written examination in any one subject will not prevent the candidate from being admitted to a viva voce examination, unless it be accompanied with a " vix," except in the case of the clinical examination, in wliich the " mal6 " mark will exclude. 3. The subjects in medicine, pathology, and therapeutics to be in one line, and one mark or sign to be adjudicated to the whole. The same rule to be applied to the double subjects of materia medica and botany, and midwifery with diseases of women and childi-en. 4. The anatomy and physiology to be marked separately in the written as well as in the practical, and the practical examination to be estimated in the marking. 6. A "malfe" with a "vix" shall, under any circumstances, reject:— whether they occur in the written, or oral, or the two examinations com- bined. 6. A majority of " vix " marks in viva voce and written, together, will reject. 7. The lowest sign in the microscope to be " vix." The lowest in the clinical to be "malh," which mark shall be sufficient to reject, if the candidate be not subjected to any of the written examinations. First Examination. Written. Name . Anatomy, practical or written Physiology, practical or written Materia Medica and Botany Chemistry Signature of Examiner If rejected, initials of Examiners