VISITATION-REPORT. 88 '^^LoND practically, time was gained to spend upon the less ' satisfactory candidates, who got more than the allotted time. Primary There were three tables. On one was a selection of bones. Anatomy^Lnd second, a series of recent dissections, most of them not Physiology. specially prepared for examination. On the third was a micro- scope with a collection of microscopical specimens and reagents. There were also prepared for examination the base of the brain; a section of the brain ; a dissected foot, the superficial muscles reflected; an arm; the popliteal space; the side of the neck ; the back of the leg ; dry preparations of the various portions of the intestinal tract; the back of the wrist; the carotid vessels. The first candidate in anatomy was examined on a dry pre- paration of the ileo-ccecal valve; a vertical section of the base of the brain ; the back of the wrist; the radial artery, its position, the parts it lies upon; and the posterior interosseous artery. He was asked to point out the extensor carpi radialis longior, and to state its attachments ; and similarly with the brevior. Then, about the radial vein and its destination, and what becomes of the cephalic vein. Taken to the table of bones, he "was asked to pick out the first rib, and to name the muscles attached. He was questioned on the superior maxilla, and asked to name the teeth—" Where is the opening of the antrum ? What other openings are there in the same meatus of the nose ? " Then passing to Dr. Ord for physiology, he was questioned on a section of the spinal cord observed under the microscope. He was shown a section of striped muscle and some potato starch. He was asked about the tests for starch; the action of gastric juice and its composition; the di5"erence between the peptone and the albumen. The candidate then left the room. The second candidate was examined on the femur, and asked to point out the principal muscular attachments and the attach- ments of the ligaments, especially the inferior attachment of the capsular ligament. He was required also to point out the situa- tion of the Y ligament of Bigelow. He was questioned on the muscles which are attached to the sacrum, on the muscular attach- ments of the atlas, the axis, and the occipital bone. Taken to the dissected subject, he was asked to point out the masseter muscle, its nervous supply, its origin and insertion. He was questioned 09 a section of the penis; and was required to point out and name the muscles at the back of the wrist. In physiology, he