PART III.—DOCUMENTS CONCERNING EXAMINATIONS. 207 The examination of candidates for certificates of qualification to act as assistant, in compounding and dispensing medicines, will be as follows :— In translating Physicians' Prescriptions. In the British Pharmacopceia. , t, ± In Pharmacy, Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Materia Medica, and Medical Botany. By the 22nd section of the Act of Parliament, no rojected candidate as an assistant can be re-examined until the expiration of three calendar months from his former examination. Fees. For the first examination, three guineas, which sum is retained in case of rejection, and accounted for subsequently. For the second examination, three guineas. For an entire examination, six guineas, half of which is retained in case of rejection, and accounted for subsequently. For an assistant's certificate, two guineas, which sum is retained in case of rejection, and accounted for subsequently. Apoth. Soc. LOND. Kegulations for Licentiates in England & Wales. Modified Examinations. 1. All Graduates in Medicine of British Universities will be admitted Modified to a Clinical and general examination in the practice of Medicine, Pathology, Examinations, and Midwifery. 2. Licentiates of the Royal College of Physicians, London; of the Royal College of Physicians, Edinbiugh ; of the Royal Colleges of Physi- cians and Burgeons, Edinburgh; of the King and Queen's College of Physicians, Ireland ; of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons, Glasgow ; and of the Apothecaries' Hall, Dublin, will be admitted to a viva voce and Clinical examination in Medicine, Pathology, Midwifery, Forensic Medicine, and Toxicology. 3. Any candidate who has passed his first examination for the License of the King and Queen's College of Physicians, Ireland ; the joint License of the Royal Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons, Edinburgh; or for the single License of the College of Physicians, Edinburgh ; the License of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons, Glasgow; the fii-st professional examination for the Degree of M.B., or Master in Surgery in the Univer- sities of Oxford, Cambridge, London, or Durham ; or the second part of the professional examination for the Degree of M.B., or Master in Surgery in the Universities of Edinburgh, Aberdeen, St. Andrews, and Glasgow ; or the first examination for medical and surgical degrees in the Irish Universities ; or the first examination for the License of the Apothecaries' Company, Dublin, will be admitted to examination, partly in writing and partly viva voce, in Practice of Medicine (including Clinical Medicine), Pathology, Therapeutics, Midwifery, Forensic Medicine, and Toxicology. And those candidates who have not undergone an examination in Anatomy and Materia Medica will, in addition, be examined viva voce on those subjects. 4. Members of the Royal College of Surgeons, England; Licentiates of the Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh; and Licentiates of the Royal College of Surgeons, Ireland; and all candidates who have passed the first Anatomical Examination of the Royal College of Surgeons, England; the Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh ; the Royal College of Surgeons, Ireland, will have to undergo the two examinations, but are only exempt from writing on Anatomy and Physiology in their first examination. 5. The cases of graduates of foreign and colonial colleges or universities will be considered on their respective merits. All candidates, unless registered, will be required to produce their Diploma.