VISITATION-REPORT. 136 Apoth. Soc. head, with the vesBels and nerves, heart and vessels, eye and appendages, ear, &c., sections of brain preserved in spirit. Preparations. A second table was provided with materials for the examination in pathology, such as a heart with diseased valves, a kidney with a large calculus in the pelvis^ a renal cyst, a portion of diseased lung. On another table was a series of spirit preparations for use when required. The second table was also furnished with objects for examining the junior students in materia medlca. There was a specimen of urine containing amor- phous lithates and albumen, which was occasionally used in the examination, means for testing it being supplied. A third table was provided with a series of chemical reagents and apparatus for the examination of senior candidates in toxicology, and junior in chemistry. At a fourth table these candidates were examined, the former in medicine, and the latter in prescriptions, the chief method of testing the latter being that they were required to explain and translate manuscript prescriptions. Each candidate was detained a quarter of an hour at each table, and thus an hour was occupied with each set of four, the quarters being marked by the ringing of a bell. The following is a sample of the examination of a candidate in pathology by Dr. Alfred Carpenter and Dr. Thorowgood. Candidate No. 1 was examined upon the general features of hfemorrhage in various organs and parts of the body, with special reference ultimately to haemor- rhage in the brain, including the symptoms indicating the par- ticular parts of the cerebral structure in which the lesion was situated. Candidate No. 2 was examined on the specimen of urine ; he tested it for lithates and for albumen, and was asked about the relation of lithic acid to gout, about the lesions of the kidney in gouty people, and congestive and other disorders of the liver, nutmeg liver, &c. Candidate No. 3 was questioned on some renal and other preparations, one of which contained a cyst; and also on preparations preserved in spirit, from which the examination diverged into cognate topics. The examiners at each table took the candidates alternately. Forensic At another table Dr. Withers Moore and Dr. Fowler Medicine. conducted the examination in forensic medicine. The candidate was examined on animal and vegetable poisons. Among the former, cantharides, snake bites, animal poisons from the inges- tion of food, as, for example, in sausages, and trichinosis, were