PART I.—GENERAL IMPRESSIONS. 31 certain points which it is well particularly to emphasise. The K. Coll.Sueo. Visitors have already referred to the economy of time by stopping ' students at the written, or even at other subsequent portions of Operative the examination, more especially to the fact that, if a student has ^^^g'^^X- passed any stage, he is only re-examined in the portion in which he was rejected, and in the stages that follow the rejected por- tion. In " clinical" and " operative surgery," the time spent on any particular candidate is not definitely limited, and this want of limitation does not seem in any way to lead to undue protrac- tion of the examination of any candidate, or of the whole exami- nation. Every candidate is required to apply a bandage; and to perform at least one major and one minor surgical operation, selecting his instruments for the purpose. The strictly oral part of the examination, being separated from the clinical, prac- tically admits of limitation of time, and is limited to a quarter of an hour with each examiner. Finally, the Visitors w^ere most favourably impressed by the excellent and efl&cient way in which every candidate was tested in operative surgery, and that without any undue expenditure of time or trouble. In this instance, three subjects amply suflBced for the examination of thirty-three candidates, and probably double the number might have been efficiently examined without an additional subject. The whole proceeding occupied less than an hour and a half. At least in one respect, the final examination of this College stands out as an example worthy of imitation—namely, in operative surgery. The Visitors find it difficult to say much about the method of marking, as being a mixed one; the oral examination is by num- bers, and the rest of the examination by the terms "Yes" or " No "—Pass or Reject. ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS OF LONDON. On the second division of the primary examination in anatomy primary and physiology the Visitors have not many remarks to make. Bxamination, The candidates were not numerous, for the reason that this ^°Phy^icians^ college accepts for its licence the primary examination of the London. College of Surgeons of England, and of other corresponding