14 VISITATION-REPORT. Comparative Estimate of Clinical Ex- aminations. Clinical Examiriations in Edinburgh and Glasgow. the candidate, has immense advantages over the London written case. It conveys, both to the candidate and the examiner, an evident sense of the importance, not only of results, but of methods of working. A few minutes so employed will often suffice to show infallibly whether the candidate has been rightly trained to observe for himself, or has only learned to assimilate the results of observation by others. The directions " Map out the heart, liver, &c. ; demonstrate to me the murmur, the physical facts, in short, on which your diagnosis depends," convey both to the examiner and the candidate, and, by inference, to all future candidates, a strong sense of the value attached by the examiner to precise, as compared with inexact, data of observa- tion. The Visitors would not disparage the value of a written paper upon a case as tending to elicit a candidate's power of giving logical coherence and definiteness to his ideas. But the special province of the clinical examination is far better sub- served by the method of personal and direct interrogation on matters of fact. In the Scottish clinical examinations, both in Edinburgh and Glasgow, an extended written case is not required from the candidate. He is desired to investigate the facts for himself, and allowed, but not enjoined, to take notes in doing so. At all events, the written notes do not form an essential part of the examiner's materials for judgment. But the actual testing through the viva voce conference is, in many instances, exceed- ingly minute and thorough. Hence if it be a defect not to require a written case from the candidate, the Visitors have no hesitation in saying that it is less a defect than to require a written case and nothing else. One matter requires to be stated as suggesting the possibility of abuse in the viva voce clinical examination. In some instances, the Visitors noticed viva voce conferences in presence, not only of the patient who was the subject of examination, but of various other patients and of the other candidates. The Visitors consider that this course is distinctly objectionable in principle. All such conferences ought to be so conducted that no possible oflfence could arise to the feelings of the patient; and the Visitors think it is not too much to require that anything like a discussion of prognosis, or of delicate points of diagnosis, or of pathology, should take place out of the hearing of the patient, and witliout