VISITATION-REPORT. '94 E. Coll.Phts. more exatninersat work simultaneoxiBly, or to make it imperative ' LoND. ^-^^^ every part of the examination should be "witnessed by all Final the three. Esamination. regard to the reports of cases, a few observations may be added to those of yesterday s examination. Ihe reports were generally decidedly better than those of the preceding day. A rather vague case of auasraic and dyspeptic symptoms was very clearly and well stated, the candidate entertaining the question of gastric ulcer, which, although not the diagnosis formed positively by the physician, was a very legitimate ques- tion ; and here the absence of haemorrhage was noted as an important element in the determination. In another case there was an apparently very good statement of the facts of a some- what doubtful diagnosis, the following being the view adopted by the candidate : " This is probably a case of carcinoma of the omentum, implicating the stomach, which is enlarged." On this view of the case the written commentary was very good; but the view was not that entertained by the physician treat- ing the case, who regarded it as probably a case of tubercular peritonitis. It may be remarked, however, that the case was admittedly a rather difficult one, and the report may be con- sidered, whether the diagnosis was right or wrong, to show good average ability, or rather more. In a case of hemiplegia vpith aphasia, the diagnosis was perfectly correct, and even the pro- bable seat of the lesion indicated with considerable accuracy, so as to show good book knowledge of the subject; but the statement of facts in the case otherwise was meagre, though not incorrect. In another case the candidate seemed to have missed altogether the true diagnosis, which, as known to the physicians, was old bronchitis with asthma, there being indeed distinct remains of rales, but only at the extreme base of the right lung —the patient otherwise convalescent. In this case, the candi- date seemed to have been really at a loss for a diagnosis, and gave it, on no very obvious grounds, as chronic peritonitis. The case, however, was well written, and a number of the facts, not directly bearing on the diagnosis,were given in such a way as to show a state of mind very far removed from the ignorance that would be implied in the wrong diagnosis. It would probably have been only justice to the candidate in this instance to have called upon him to point out in detail the method and ground