VISITATION-REl'OKT. 112 R.Colls.Phys. & Surg. Edik. Double Qualification. Final Examination. Clinical Medicine. briefly on this case as well as on a case of cicatrising ulcer. The instruments he was required to recognise were a small metallic probe-pointed catheter, an aneurism and nsevus needle, a Volk- man's scoop, a lever for necrosis, and probangs. Lastly, he was required to apply a bandage to the hand and fore-arm. Another candidate was questioned on a case of necrosis, also on a bad stump, and how he would deal with it. He said he would dissect the skin back and cut off an inch of bone. He was then questioned upon instruments, Esmarch's bandage, oesophagus forceps, Volkman's scoop, aneurism needle, hsemor- rhoidal needle, &c. Another candidate was qaestioned on a case of fractured rib with heemoptysis; on pneumo-thorax and its symptoms; on a case of chronic disease of the elbow (strumous) in a patient who had had a foot amputated; and on the operation of excision of the elbow. The instruments he was required to identify were Corrigan's cautery, Volkman's spoon, actual cautery, and probang. On Saturday, April 9th, at ten a.m., in the Royal Infirmary, the clinical examination in the other series of wards was conducted by Dr. Muirhead, the physician of the ward, and an assessor. The examination of urine in the assessor's room was conducted in the same way as on the previous day. Candidate No. 1, examined by the physician on the chest wall, was questioned about the various regions of the front of the chest, the position of the innominate artery, on palpation and percus- sion ; as to slight dulness on the right side, and his opinion as to what he heard on auscultation of the patient. A second candidate, taken by the same physician to a case of difficult breathing, was asked what he observed by inspection; afterwards by percussion; on hyper-resonance of the chest, indi- cating emphysema ; and also on other signs of emphysema. He was asked the limits of cardiac dulness, both superficial and deep, and the position of the commencement of the aorta; to place the stethoscope for hearing the aortic valves ; also for the mitral. On auscultation, the candidate said he heard coai-se rales. He was questioned about what he heard. He said he thought there was a mitral bruit, the apex was far to the left—2^ inches outwards and downwards—indicating hypertrophy and dilatation from incompetent mitral valve, which he afterwards corrected— and, on a hint from the examiner, suggested that the aortic