PART I.—GENERAL IMPRESSIONS. 37 operated on, au excised shoulder, excision of the os calcis, R.Colls.Phys. excision of the elbow, and, lastly, on a badly formed stnrap. & SueoEdin. These cases might bring out certain points on a question of Remarks on treatment, but they do not bring out the essentials of a surgical Clinical _ , r T ■ •! 1 T ±7 ■ Examinations, clinical examination—the question of diagnosis aided by the mani- pulations of the candidate. Moreover, the Visitors observed on the second day of the clinical examination, that some of the cases that had been used the previous day were again employed. The objections to this course are obvious. In all these instances, the questioning was conducted carefully in the surgeon's room, and was carried on in collateral subjects, but the range of questions was more suitable to an oral than to a clinical examination. Questions were also asked upon various instruments displayed on a table. This, good as far as it goes, only comes out in contrast as defective when compared with the performance of actual operations on the dead body, and the far better testing of knowledge of instruments which the selection for use by the candidate implies. The Visitors observe that in this examination there is no testing of the candidates in actual operations. Another weak point was that there was no syste- matic provision of padded splints for the candidates to select from, as was the case at the Glasgow hospitals ; but each candi- date had to apply to the ward nurse for the materials he needed, and to make the best of what the nurse chose to supply. The Glasgow plan not only economises time, but appears to be a more adequate test of the efficiency of the candidate. On the oral examination, the Visitors have not much to remark further than that it was fully and carefully carried out as far as it went. FACULTY OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS OF GLASGOW. The aim and plan of the examinations of this body are Faculty of essentially good, and are evidently improving on correct lines, ^^y^- ^ Surg., The question on which the Visitors find it most difficult to express an opinion, is as to the standard of answering, that is