vi STATEMKNT BY MR. TEALE. another, must form opinions as to the relative value of different methods and details, and in stating that they consider one better than another they must to some extent touch the amour projjre of the Body that is said to be not equal in some points to the standard of another Body. It is therefore not only an arduous but, to some extent, an anxious duty we have discharged. Yet, however arduous it has been, we feel that whatever we have done we have done with a sense of discharging a public duty, and with the greatest anxiety to state any opinions of this kind in a courteous and moderate manner. It mast be remembered that this Visitation is of its nature less personal than the others, inasmuch as we were not appointed to visit single Bodies, but several, so that the work we have been engaged on has been certainly, in our view, not so much an inquiry as to whether any individual Body was doing its duty or not, but rather a critical study of the present state of examination in the great Licensing Bodies of the kingdom, in order that it may be possible to extract from such an inquiry information that shall be of value in the future as to the best method of carrying on the affairs and details of Medical Examinations and of medical study. " It must be observed that, as a rule, we pick out prominently all that we think excellent in these Examinations, and state, in the very beginning, that ' in every Examination we find features specially worthy of commendation, and a large amount of good work done by earnest and competent men.' Moreover, we are convinced that the struggle between the Corporations is one, not of competition downwards, but of competition upwards. " It will also be observed, in that part of our Report which pro- bably is the great centre of criticism, ' the Conclusions,' that we say, ' The Visitors append the following conclusions as to points they think desirable in the conduct of Medical Examinations.' We bring out these points, as subjects to be selected for study by those who are engaged in regulating medical education. " The function of this Report will be to excite criticism very freely (as it has done already), and its effect will be none the less if it excites hostile criticism. Should it do nothing more than make people study, and try to work out the best system in the future, our labour will not have been in vain. "And now let me express another point of view, in which I