PART II.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. 81 Mr. Ceoly stated that he had selected these from amongst the R- Coli. Sueo. out-patients, because, at the time, the Dublin hospitals being partially empty for sanitary purposes, and therefore somewhat Final stripped of their cases, it was easy for candidates, looking for- q^^-^ ward to their clinical examination, to ascertain in the various Clinical, hospitals what cases were under the surgeons who would examine. The candidates were successively admitted and asked to identify these cases, and to give reasons for their diagnosis, and afterwards in some instances to write a short report of what they had observed. As soon as this portion of the examination was completed, the examiners withdrew to another room, in which a large variety of surgical instruments, bandages, splints, and other apparatus had been displayed. On an attendant the candidates had to apply bandages, while they explained the mode of application of splints, and the precise manner in which they would use particular instruments ; for example, the trochar in puncturing hydrocele, the lancet in performing venesection, &c. In the course of this examination the Visitors were particularly struck with the attention given to minutias of detail, e.g., the precise mode of applying the bandage previous to and after vene- section, and the various possible dangers to be encountered even in this small operation, to which Mr. Ceoly attached great im- portance. Cupping was also the subject of detailed examination. The Visitors also attended at the Adelaide Hospital, where the clinical examination was conducted by Mr. Richaedson, sur- geon to the hospital, and Mr. Thomson. There were eleven candidates. Each candidate was assigned a case. As a rule, there were two or three candidates in a ward, and thus the candidates were distributed over about five wards in the hos- pital. Each candidate was required to make a written report of the case, on which he was subsequently questioned, either during the period of writing or after he had finished, according to the convenience of rotation. He was required to apply a bandage, and, in some instances, strapping, as for an ulcerated leg. One or two candidates were requested to test the urine. The following are illustrations of the cases to which the candi- dates were sent: 1. Varicose ulcer of the leg; 2. Suppurating inguinal glands, non-syphilitic ; 3. Case of strumous abscess and caries of the cervical vertebras; 4. Tertiary syphilis ; 6. Cicatrix from a burn. F