57 PART I.—CONCLUSIONS. 10. That in oral examinations, where the time allotted is Conclusions. strictly limited, for instance, to ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, there is a serious risk that candidates of average ability ■who have been conscientiously taught and fairly prepared in their work may be rejected owing to misunderstanding or nervous- ness, and this is a hazard which, reacting as it does injuriously npon study and teaching, ought to be, if possible, avoided by allowing a margin of additional time for satisfying the examiners in all such cases. The actual practice of certain Boards, and especially of the Colleges of Physicians, shows that this sugges- tion is not impracticable, although it may be more or less difficult to carry out where the numbers are very large. The Visitors think that no mere difficulty of mechanism should be allowed to interfere with its being adopted as a measure of justice to candidates. 11. That with a view to economy of the time of the examiners, it is desirable that when a candidate has obtained rejecting marks in the written portions of an examination, he should not be required to proceed to the oral. 12. In any future revision of the curriculum, the subjects of hygiene, ophthalmology, and mental disease, will demand serious consideration, and perhaps admission, under careful limitation, as distinct elements of examination, 13. Suggestion by Dr. Gairdner and Mr. Stokes :— That considering the great importance of preventive medicine and hygiene to the general practitioner, these subjects ought to form a more independent part than they do of the examinations of all Corporations. The particular circumstances leading to this sug- gestion are indicated at pp. 47-8; and it may be added that in Ireland, under the Public Health Act, all dispensary medical officers are, ex officiis, medical officers of health. The tendency in England and Scotland, on the other hand,is to separate, artificially, preventive medicine from all other medical practice, and thus to erect it into a specialism, which in course of time might easily lead to its being altogether neglected as part of a general medical education. But the issue as to whether hygiene should not necessarily be a part of the final examination in medicine is a very important and far-reaching one; and the Visitors believe that their duty is fulfilled in thus placing it clearly before the