BOTAL COLLEGES OP PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS OF EDINBURGH. 255 and finally, if considered advisable, to have instituted a com- E. Colls. parison between the systems of the difiPerent bodies. This order is absolutely reversed, the comparison coming first, the remarks on examinations second, and the detailed description of ex- aminations last. The Colleges will defer their remarks regarding their examinations until they have considered the other subjects included in the first part. Causes of Rejections. One of the special instructions given to the Visitors was to " inquire into the causes of rejections that appear in the annual returns." They have not been able to form any precise con- clusions upon this point, but attribute the large number of rejections to the action of the following canses :— " (1) In some cases, to the unsatisfactory method of marking adopted, whereby failure to get a certain number of marks may procure a candi- date's rejection, without expressing the judgment of the whole Court of Examiners, that he ought to be rejected. " (2) The minute requirements of details in anatomy, and the im- certainty on the part of the student as to the area over which the examination in physiology will range. " (.3) The very strict limitation of time in the oral-examination of some Bodies, which bears unfairly on doubtful and nervous candidates. " (4) The inadequate preparation of candidates who present themselves at some of the Bodies, supposed to give an easy examination, resulting in a large proportion of rejections in these examinations." The Colleges can of course only speak in regard to the candidates who come under their own observation ; bnt of them they can say without hesitation, that the first three canses assigned by the Visitors have little, if any, influence, while the great majority of rejections are due to insufficient preparation on the part of the candidates. The system of marking and scheme of numbers recom- mended by the Visitors are essentially the same as those which have for some time been followed by the Colleges, and which have been found to work satisfactorily. With the recommendations of the Visitors as to The appoint- ment OF Examiners, the Colleges on the whole concur, though