STATEMENT BY MB. TEALE. vii do not claim any responsibility for my colleagues. Examina- tions properly conducted—that is to say, in the best known methods, in the methods which will elicit from the student the most profitable hind of work and study—are costly and very laborious afEairs. It has taken the full resources of the College of Surgeons of England, up to a late date, to examine in the three subjects of Anatomy, Physiology, and Surgery. What would it have cost them to have raised all the other subjects of medical education to the same standard ? What must we deduce from this ? That any waste of examining power, whether it be by different Bodies overlapping in their subjects—that is to say, by the work being done twice over—or by the neglecting to cut out any portions of examination which can be eliminated without weakening the object of the examination, is a national loss, and must in the future be carefully avoided. It is a waste of power that the College of Surgeons should have to undertake Midwifery, Medicine, Chemistry, and Therapeutics, and stiU leave its candi- date incompletely licensed. It is a waste of power that the College of Physicians, with its ample resources in examining in Medicine, Midwifery, Therapeutics, and such like, should have to provide all the machinery for the parts of examination, so splendidly provided by the College of Surgeons, in Anatomy and Operative Surgery. To my mind the only logical deduction from our Report in this respect is, that these Bodies must combine, for the sake not only of efficiency, hut of economy, and each take their proper natural part, and do it as well as they have always done. Whilst on this point I may express my conviction that there must be more study of economy in carrying out Examinations themselves, and that the suggestion which seems to have startled some of the Bodies, that the written Examinations should take place at the seats of teaching, and not at the seats of examination, must come, before long, to be a subject of serious consideration. " Medical education and medical examination ought to be the most perfect model of professional training in the country. The medical profession is in this rare position, that the profes- sion itself educates its rising members, examines them, and through its Medical Council has the power of deciding what that education and what those Examinations shall be. It educates for the practical work of life in probably the most