PART II.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. 101 somewhat pigeon-breasted, and having, in a perfectly unequivo- K. Q. Coll. cal form, the characteristic systolic apex murmur and systolic I'hys^kl. and diastolic base murmur. This was an admirable test case Final for examination, but it is noticeable that the previous history pJI'^^/g^^J^""' of the case and, in particular, the question of rheumatic origin clinical, or not, was equally unknown to the examiner and the candi- dates. The questioning, therefore, was in a large degree hypo- thetical as to these matters of detail. Subject to this remark, the whole examination was exceedingly satisfactory, and admi- rably calculated to test the skill in diagnosis of the candidate. (2) A case of albumenuria and ascites. This was examined in detail on the actual appearances at the bedside. The urine was tested by the candidates in presence of the examiner, and the examination was thorough. (3) A case of cavity in the left apex. This was subjected in the same way to examination at the bedside and with the actual facts demonstrated by the candidate, and made the subject of examination by the examiner. (4) Large abdominal tumour in an old woman. This was diagnosed as ovarian disease. There was no uterine examination made, but an examination on the external appearances, extend- ing to the white marks on the skin, the result possibly of former pregnancy, and taking in all the more ordinary signs character- istic of different kinds of abdominal intumescence. (5) Case of phthisis with condensation and cavity of the left upper lobe in a young woman. There is nothing special to remark on this case, except that among the questions to the candidate was one to prescribe for the patient. A prescription was written on a card at the head of the bed ; and in this, as in all other cases, the papers containing the prescriptions by the physicians were left in full view of the candidates, possibly per inouriam. Judging from the whole of the facts observed at the par- Instruments., ticular examination, it appeared to the Visitors that apart from the use of the stethoscope the very important assistance to diagnosis derived from instruments was inadequately recognised by the examiners. No instance occurred of any object being submitted to microscopic identification during the clinical ex- aminations. The clinical use of the thermometer, although casually referred to, was by no means systematically insisted on, and, in one instance at least, very gross ignorance appeared on the part of the candidate.