68 VlSITATlON-UKrORT. ' R. CotL. SuuG. ankylosis of fclie hip, and the changes through which the joint had passed; on an impacted calculus in the prostatic urethra, with thickened bladder. He was also questioned on prostatic enlarge- ment. At the end of an hour, during which three sets of candidates ■ had been examined in this second portion, the examiners rested for half an hour, having first assembled all in one room, and added up the marks of the first twelve candidates, and decided upon the result, viz., whether they should get their diploma or be referred. At the end of half an hour, the examiners resumed, ' and in another hour the remainder of the candidates had a second twenty minutes, and the same process of decision as to the results was repeated. Medicine. An entirely separate examination in medicine only, including Therapeutics, therapeutics, was conducted by Dr. Bristowe and Dr. Dickinson. The candidates had previously answered a written examination on medicine, and the viva voce consisted of ten minutes each, the decision as to their being rejected or not being made on the com- bined result of the written and oral examination. There was nothing very distinctive about the character of this examination to call for remark specially upon it, further than that it was well supported by a great variety of preparations from the Hunterian Museum, and by some drawings of skin diseases. The oral examination was not, however, chiefly, or, indeed, considerably upon these, but consisted of questions and answers, in relation to general medical practice, of a miscellaneous character. The written paper contained a distinct therapeutical element, and also some reference to the composition of remedies. The marks assigned were not by numbers, but simply an indication in general terms of the status of the candidate, numbers not being necessary, because this part of the examination stands by itself, a student being able to pass in surgery and stand over in medicine, or vice versa.