REMARKS ON VISITATION-REPORT. 246 K. Q. CoLz, !• "That every < primary ' or ' first part' examination should include Phys. Ihel. dissections by every candidate." The College concur with the Yisitors as to this opinion, which has been the practice of the College for some years past, 2. " That, having regard to the great and increasing range of chemical and physiological science, candidates should be apprised beforehand of the limits of the examination in these subjects." The College consider that there are serioas objections to definite limits of the examination in the subjects of Chemistry and Physiology, and believe that these are sufficiently defined by the scope of the lectures required by the Medical Authorities. In fact the College have never received any remonstrance from teachers or ^candidates regarding the indefinite character of the information demanded on these subjects ; and such remonstrance would be almost impossible in consequence of the strictly prac- tical nature of their examinations. 3. " That at the final examination, candidates should be examined orally or practically on strictly regional anatomy, that is on the parts of anatomy which illustrate surgery and medical diagnosis, and not on purely descriptive anatomy." The College concur in this conclusion. 4. " That in every final examination for a surgical diploma, candidates should be required to perform operations on the dead subject." The College concur in this conclusion. 5. " That for every ' minimum' qualification the examination in operative surgery should be confined to emergency operations, such as any practitioner may suddenly be called upon to perform, e.g., amputation, deligation of arteries, catheterism, urethrotomy, tracheotomj', &;c., and should for the most part exclude complicated operations, not of sudden urgency, such as ovariotomy, excisions of joints, plastic operations, lithotomy, lithotrity." The College do not understand the exact meaning of the term "minimum" as applied to a Surgical Examination in this conclusion; and if par. 5 refers to actual operations performed by the candidate on the dead body, the College concur in this suggestion. 6. " That the application of bandages and splints should be required in every surgical clinical examination."