PART III.—DOCUMENTS CONCERNING EXAMINATIONS. 165 (A) Certificates that he has been engaged in the acquisition of profes- E. Coll. Surg. sional knowledge for a period of not less than six years, during three of Ieel. which he must have studied in one or more of the schools and hospitals recognised by the Council. He may have studied for the other three Fellowship, years in any school or schools of the United Kingdom which shall be approved by the Council, or in any foreign school of repute; it is also required that the Candidate shall have had opportunities of practical instruction as house-surgeon or dresser in a recognised hospital. JExemptions for Licentiates of Ten Yewrs^ Standing. Licentiates of the College, who may not be able to show that they have followed the course of study specified in the preceding regulations, may, at the expiration of ten years fi-om the date of their diploma, be admitted to the examination required for the Fellowship, provided they produce such evidence as shall be satisfactory to the Council that they have conducted themselves honourably in the practice of their profession. In their case the examinations shall be mainly clinical and practical, but in all other respects shall be conducted in the same manner, and occupy the same time, as those of other candidates. Fellowship Examinations. Examinations for the Fellowship shall be held from time to time as the Council may direct. Each Candidate is examined on two days, and five Examiners, at least, together with the President or the Vice-President of the College, and two members of the CouncU, must be present at each Examination. The subjects of the first day's Examination shall be :— (a) Anatomy; (6) Histology; (c) Physiology (human and comparative); and Dissections. * Those of the Second;— (a) Clinical Surgery; (h) Pathology; (c) Therapeutics; (d) The Theory and Practice of Medicine ; (e) The Theory and Practice of Surgery, including operations on the Subject. No Candidate will be examined in " Dissections " and Histology whose answering in Anatomy and Physiology (human and comparative) has not satisfied the Examiners. Nor will a Candidate be allowed to commence the second day's examination unless he has passed in the subjects of the first; and if he fails to pass in Clinical Surgery he will not be examined in the other subjects appointed for this day's examination. But, if successful, he will be examined in these subjects, which he must also pass before he will be examined in Operative Surgery—in this also he must satisfy the Examiners, or he cannot be admitted a Fellow of the College. In addition to the Oral Examinations, Candidates shall be required to give written answers to either written or printed questions. Rejected Fellowship Candidates. Candidates whose answering shall be found insufficient, shall not be allowed to present themselves a second time for examination until after the expiration of one year.