PART I.—GENERAL IMPRESSIONS. 17 upon the most advanced methods of investigation in physiology Phtsioloqt. may not in some cases lead to the result that the more elementary and fundamental principles of the science, those, moreover, which will be of the greatest value to the practitioner, will be less care- fully taught than the newer methods of investigation. In the Humphry on words of Professor Humphry, " What is really wanted, and what Q^^^^rorough teachers and examiners must combine to promote, is, to use the knowledge of words of the Laughing Philosopher, Democritus, who was one of the greatest thinkers of antiquity, that ' we should strive not principles, after fulness of knowledge, but fulness of understanding,' that is, that we should strive for good, cleai', solid, intelligent, pro- ducible, and available knowledge, of the hind that will he useful in after life—not so much the refinements of chemistry, anatomy, and physiology, which, in their aggregate, are likely to perplex, encumber, stupify, and then pass away like chafi" before the wind, but the essential, fundamental facts and principles welded together, and so woven into the student's mind that he can hold them firmly and wield them effectually, and that he is conscious of them not as the goods of other men, or as dogmas which he has because they were imposed upon him, but as his own pos- sessions, of which he appreciates the value, because he knows how to use them, ' The knowledge which a man can use is the only real knowledge, the only knowledge which has life and growth in it, and converts itself into practical power. The rest hangs like dust about the brain, and dries like raindrops off the stones.' "—(Hunterian Oration, p. 33.) The effect of the high Result of the standard of physiology is shown at the College of Surgeons hl^physido^ of England, by the fact that in 1881, of a total of 324 rejections, 98 failed in anatomy, 76 in physiology, and 150 in both anatomy and physiology. With this may be compared the effect of physiology in rejecting candidates at the Royal Colleo-e of Surgeons in Ireland. In the examination inspected by the Visitors, out of 27 candidates who were rejected on their written papers, 22 were rejected absolutely in anatomy, one absolutely in physiology, and, in the case of two others, physiology would have contributed to their rejection had they been weak in a second subject also. It is clear, therefore, that the rejecting power given to physiology in these two colleges is very different. These remarks become even more pointed when it is considered that the decision in physiology in the Irish College, B