VISITATION-EEPORT. 120 Fac. Piiys. & SuEO. Glasg. Primary Examination (Double). Cliemistry. Candidate No. 1 was questioned on milk and its composition, reference being made occasionally to his written paper. He was given hydrochloric acid, and asked to find out by test what it was. Candidate No. 2 was questioned closely on the laws of chemical combination, and was given nitric acid to test. This candidate answered promptly, and got a good mark in viva voce, having obtained but an indifferent one for his paper. Candidate No. 3 was questioned on iodine, its manufacture and tests; also on the various compounds of iodine, such as iodide of potassium, &c. The physical properties of iodide of potassium were discussed. He was also questioned on the com- position of normal urine and on the mode of taking its specific gravity. Candidate No. 4 was examined on carbon and its compounds. He was asked to explain what is meant by binary, ternary, and quaternary compounds, and to give examples; to state what is the general elementary constitution of fats, what elements are in the composition of milk, and what salts it contains. He was also asked how to obtain nitrogen, what its properties are, and to give illustrations of its importance in relation to food. Candidate No. 5, after a series of questions, was given some red oxide of mercury and a test tube, and asked to heat it at a spirit lamp, and then explain the changes which took place. Candidate No. 6 was examined mainly on sulphurous acid and its mode of preparation. Occasionally the candidates were asked to name the subjects in chemistry that they would wisli to be examined on, and from this point the examiner started. At six P.M. the examiner from Edinburgh, Dr. Stevek^son Macadam, arrived, and took the place of one of the other examiners; and then the candidates for the double qualification were examined in the same manner, one at a time. Examples will indicate, to some extent, the range of the exa- mination of candidates who failed in chemistry on the second day of the oral. One candidate, whose examination turned mainly on the composition of fat, received only 30, while in the written examination he had received 65, but the low mark in the oral involved his rejection. Another candidate was unable to state the composition or the mode of combining the ingredients in tartar