VISITATION-REPOKT. 140 Apoth. Soc. so large and miscellaneous, in fact, that an ennmeration is out of the question. The following may be taken as examples Histology. of a few of those actually used: bone, liver, lung, skin, adipose tissue, muscle, voluntary and involuntary, yellow and white fibrous tissue, cartilage, trichina spiralis in muscle, oxalate of lime crystals, cholesterin, phosphates, section of emphysematous lung ; the normal histological specimens being used chiefly for the junior, and the pathological for the senior candidates. Every candidate passed through this portion of the examination, and bad to state tlie nature of five specimens. For each, if righit he got one mark; if wrong a 0. If he answered more than half he was marked as S (saiis) ; if less than half, V (vix), which is the lowest mark allowed for the histological portion ; the object being that it may not have too great an influence in condemning a candidate. For this portion of the examination there was ample time, as the examiner might occupy an average of a quarter of an hour witli each man if he chose. As a rule, for a good candidate, five minutes were found to be sufficient. Marking. The following is a specimen of the marking of seven candi- dates in succession who passed through this histological test, indicating the proportion of instances in which they were considered to be riglit or wrong:— 0 10 10 110 0 0 0 0 111 0 1110 10 0 11 1 0 0 0 1 10 0 10 The examiner in most instances, especially where there was indecision on the part of the candidate, put questions, which appeared to the Visitors to be judiciously framed, so as to ascer- tain whether the ignorance was absolute, or more or less excusable, and in some instances a candidate who might have been marked 0 as regards a particular specimen, was thus assisted up to 1, wbereas in other instances the opposite was the result. The markings, however, as regards individual specimens, admitted of no intermediate position between negative and positive.