114 VISITATION-REPORT. Double Qualification. Final Examination. Oral. R.Colls.Phts. at the second in midwifery and medical jtirisprudence; and at 'uRG. Edin. ^Jj^ third in materia medica and the practice of medicine. To each subject twenty minutes were given. The first candidate examined in surgery was questioned on. rectal affections, fistula in ano, its treatment and causes. He was asked the boundaries of the ischio-rectal fossa, and the different situations of the openings in fistulse. He w&s also questioned on the subject of haemorrhoids, required to give a definition of them, and to describe the symptoms of the various forms of them ; on epithelioma of the rectum and its symptoms ; also on fractures of the neck of the femur, and on the pathology and treatment of surgical aneurism generally. Another candidate was questioned by the second examiner, first on a radius with union of fracture, and on the mode of union of fracture, the mode of putting up a fractured radius, on the minute anatomy of bone, on a preparation of popliteal aneurism, on aneurism generally, on the treatment of popliteal aneurism, and on traumatic aneurism. He was then shown a specimen of warts, a specimen illustrating an osteo sclerosis of the femur; he vf as also examined on the varieties of syphilis, the appearances in the second stage, the appearances in the tertiary stage, and the treatment of a case of syphilis in the second stage. Finally, he was shown a scapula, and asked as to the attachments of muscles. Another candidate at the second table was questioned on the positions in which the foetal head presents, the candidate having a pelvis and a foetal skull to show the various positions. Next he had to show by a dnmiTiy foetus the course of the child through the pelvis in natural labour; he was also required to diagnose the second position, and to describe the mechanism of labour in the first position. He was then examined on instruments for perform- ing craniotomy and other aids to difEcult labour, as to when they should be used; when craniotomy is justifiable; what are the causes of obstructed labour ? The candidate was also questioned upon the perforator, crochet, cephalotribe, and long forceps. In medical jurisprudence, questions were asked as to kinds of poisons—arsenic—symptoms of arsenical poisoning—" How would you set about any suspicious case ? " "I would test the urine." " How would you test the urine ? How would you decide that a wound had been inflicted during life." At the third ta,ble the