VISITATION-REPORT. 160 ^ R. Coix. SuEo. Algebra, including Simple Equations. luiiL. Geometry, lirst two Books of Euclid. • Greek and Latin, including Translation and Grammar, In Greek—The Gospel of 8t, Jolin, or the First Book of Xenophon's Anabasis, or the Dialogue of Lucian, entitled « Menippua or the Necroraancy." In Latin—The First and Second Books of the JSneid of Virgil, or the Jugurthine War of Sallust, or the Third Book of Livy. Students who have passed any of the Preliminary Examination Boards recognised by the General Medical Council (into which Greek enters as a compulsory subject) are exempt from the Preliminary Examination of this College. Non-Registered Pupils, £1. Is. Rejected Candidates, a further fee of £1. Is. for each re-Examination. Candidates are required to enter their names, and to pay their fees to the Registrar, at least six days before the day of Examination. Letters Testimonial. Qualifications of Candidates. Letters Candidates for the Letters Testimonial of the College may present Testimonial. themselves either at a Stated or a Special Examination, as hereinafter set forth. Stated JExaminations. Stated Examinations are held in the months of April, July, and November, commencing on dates of which due notice shall be given beforehand by the Council of the College. Candidates cannot he admitted to these Examinations unless they he Registered Pupils. They will be divided into two classes—Junior and Senior. Junior Class. Curricuhum. The Junior Class shall produce certificates of— (a) Having passed a Preliminary Examination recognised by the General Medical Council (into the curriculum of which ibe Greek Language enters as a compulsory subject), and of having attended the following Lectures :— (J) Three courses of Lectures on Anatomy and Physiology; (c) Three courses of Lectures on Practical Anatomy, with dissections ; (^d) Two courses of Lectures on Chemistry ; (e) One course of Lectures on Materia Medica; (/) One course of Lectures on Botany; and {g) One course of Lectures on Forensic Medicine. Suhjects of Examination. This class shall be examined in Anatomy, Histology, Physiology, Materia Medica, and Chemistry. Fees. The fee for this Examination shall be five guineas (in addition to the Registration fee of five guineas). Neither of these fees are returned in case of rejection, but the Candidate on paying an additional fee of £2. 2s. ■will be admitted to re-Examination. Senior Class. Cu7'9'ieulii7n. The Senior Class shall produce certificates of having attended the following Lectures:— (a) Three courses of Lectures on the Theory and Practice of Surgery; (6) One course of Lectures on the Practice of Medicine ; (p) One course of Lectures on Midwifery;