^PART III.—DOCUMEKTS CONCEENING EXAMINATIONS. 163 Slides of different objects are placed under the microscopes, and five E. Coll. Stjeq. minutes ai-e to be allowed each Candidate to examine them, before being Ihel. questioned upon them. The Examination being concluded, the Court of Examiners assembles Letters and declares their votes. A list of both the passed and the rejected candi- Testimonial, dates is at once posted in the College Hall. Senior Class Examination. The Candidates are examined in numerical order, and the Examination of each Candidate occupies four days. 1st day.—Printed questions on Surgery, Practice of Medicine, Medical. Jurisprudence, and Prescriptions. 2nd day.— Viva Voce examination on Surgery and Practice of Medicine. 3rd day.—Clinical Examination. 4th day.—Operative Surgery. First Day—(Printed Questions'). Four hours are devoted to the Examinations. Surgery 10 to 12 o'clock A.M. Nine printed surgical questions are given, all of them being such as a Candidate may be fairly expected to answer—answers to six of them only being required. Practice of Medicine, Medical Jurisprudence, and Prescrip- tions, 4 to 6 o'clock P.M. Three written questions are given in Practice of Medicine, three in Medical Jurisprudence, and three in Prescriptions, all of them being such as a Candidate may be fairly expected to answer—answers to six of them only being requii-ed. At the conclusion of this day's Examination the Examiners read the answers ; and at the expiration of twenty-four hoTirs the whole Court meets to decide upon the marks. Each candidate is then informed by letter as to whether he has or has not satisfied the Examiners. Second Bay—{Viva Voce). The Viva Voce Examination, on Surgery and Practice of Medicine, is conducted—as in the Junior Class Examination—by four of the Examiners, each of whom examines, at a separate table, each of the candidates for one quarter of an hour ; the four other Examiners act as assessors. Third Bay—{Clinical). At the Clinical Examination, two Examiners are allotted to each set of Candidates (not to exceed ten). Every Candidate draws from a balloting- box, provided for the purpose, the name of the hospital in which he is to be examined, but no Candidate shall be examined in the hospital where he has been educated. Every Candidate is required to take notes of a case, and is questioned either upon it or some other case. He may be also called upon to bandage, or to adjust some surgical appliance. Fowrth Bay—{Operative Swgery). This Examination is conducted by the four Surgical Examiners. The questions are written upon cards, and deposited in the balloting-box, from which each Candidate draws a card and proceeds to perform the operation thereon indicated. He is questioned upon this, and he then performs a minor operation. He is also tested on his knowledge of surgical instru- ments and appliances. The Examination being concluded, the Court of Examiners assembles and declares their votes. A list of both the passed and the rejected Candidates is at once posted in the College Hall. Kejectbd Candidates. No Candidate shall present himself for examination on the second day L 2