PART II.— DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. 93 murranr was present. Case in Bed 6—In this case, wliich was E.Cotx.Phts. an exceedingly plain one as regards the main facts, enlargement " of liver and spleen were detected, and the discussion of the case Final generally was more systematic, and showed, perhaps, more Qi^jji^ja^i^ general knowledge and method than any of the others, bat the true diagnosis of leuchtemia was missed, the other causes of hepatic and splenic enlargements being, however, well considered. The Visitors continued their investigation of the examination Clinical in clinical medicine at University College Hospital, where they f^^u^-^ers?^ met the same examiners as on the previous day. In this hospital College several wards furnished cases for examination, some of these Hospital, having been under the care of Dr. Sydney Ringee, and others of the other physicians. A synopsis of these cases was furnished to the Visitors. The other arrangements did not differ materially from those already mentioned, with the following exceptions. Seven speci- mens were furnished nnder the microscope, namely, (1) nric acid; (2) triple phosphate; (3) acarus scabiei; (4) blood casts ; (5) hydatid (scolex) ; (6) tubercle in lung ; (7) mixed uric acid and octohedral oxalates, with hairs as an accidental ingredient of nrinary deposit. The nrine submitted for testing illustrated the following pathological states : (1) blood and albumen; (2) sugar, specific gravity 1020 ; (3) bile ; (4) mnco-pus ; (5) urates. Another alteration in the method as compared with yesterday was that the candidates were questioned orally both upon the microscope and on the testing operations; and the questions had in some cases a pretty wide range, so as practically to become almost an oral examination in some points of general medicine, as, e.g., diseases and circumstances under which the particular pathological conditions exhibited occurred. In connection with this it is to be observed as possibly open to objection that a candidate might by accident be examined on precisely the same subject and in the same way as at the urinary testing table. A remark applying also to both yesterday's and to-day's examina- tion is that the fact of there being three examiners at work while these two processes of examination were going on, at once implies that at one or other of the tables one examiner must work alone and decide the numerical value of the result, which is opposed to the general understanding under which these examinations are conducted. The remedy would be either to have four or