PART II.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. 65 FINAL EXAMINATION FOR MEMBERSHIP. On April 20ili the Visitors arrived at tlie College to inspect E.Coi,l. Surg. the clinical, the viva voce, operative surgery, and final examina- tions for membership of the College. There were nine examiners, Final one acting as chairman. The examination consisted of two parts. Examination. The first, occupying two hours, from five to seven, took place in the theatre, in which were arranged four sets of tables, with two examiners at each table. Four candidates were admitted at a time, and each candidate had ten minutes at each of two tables, and at the end of twenty minutes was dismissed, when a fresh batch was admitted. Each candidate was examined at Operative one table clinically on patients with some surgical injury or ^"^S®^* disease, brought there from various hospitals or dispensaries. The patients procured for examination were varied from day to day. This plan has been adopted in consequence of the practical difficulties which attend the taking of large numbers of students to various hospitals for clinical examination. Ten minutes were spent on the examination in operative surgery and surgical anatomy, which was conducted in the following manner: A man, stripped of his clothes, lay on a table covered with a blanket. The candidate was questioned on various surgical regions and anatomical land marks. He was asked to mark out, with coloured chalks, the incisions for various operations, and then questioned on the relative anatomy involved in such operations, and was required to answer other anatomical questions. In this part of the examination the candidate was liable to be taken to a table covered with various surgical instru- ments, and a series of wooden knives, used for going through the various manoeuvres for amputations, &c. Arranged round the sides of the theatre was a complete series of splints, bandages, and other surgical appliances, which, however, the Visitors observed, were not much used during the examination. The Visitors paid a second visit to this examination next Clinica], day, and found the same general arrangements as before, except that the patients brought for clinical examination were about double in number. On the first day there were the following cases : case of flat foot; encysted hydrocele ; a second case of hydrocele, in which the lower part was obliterated and the E