125 PART II.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIOKS. the stethoscope in consequence of an injury to his ears from a Fac. Phys. & blow received in childhood. Notwithstanding this alleged in6r- Q^aso. mity he was requested to listen to the sounds of the heart, and Final said correctly that they were normal. He was next examined on two specimens of urine, and in the course of his examination Clinical he could not take the specific gravity, having apparently no Medicine, knowledge of the urinometer, nor of what was to be inferred from the degrees upon it. He volunteered the information that this instrument was not used in the city or the hospital where he studied. To a question, put by one of the Visitors, he answered that one of the physicians of the hospital was rather a specialist in skin diseases, and that he had seen a case of purpura previously under this physician, who gave him a lecture upon it. This candi- date was examined on the urine containing the bile pigment, which lie at once recognised and detected by means of the nitric acid test. He also succeeded in naming one of the two microscopic objects. The examination, as a whole, was carefully conducted, Eemarks. and as ample materials existed and were employed, it might be said to be both fair to the candidates and satisfactory as testing at least average knowledge of clinical medicine. How- ever, more might have been made of the cases employed, had the questioning upon the candidates' observations been somewhat more varied and extended. The presence of six candidates at the same time in a ward is apt to lead to confusion as regards the result, and would do so still more if the number were larger. As a general rule, th.e actual questioning of each candidate should be so conducted as to be out of sight and hearing of the other candidates. In the adjudication of this examination, the examiners expressed their own views of the candidates by mark- ing the majority of them at 50, which was just a bare pass, if satisfactory in other subjects. To the question why none of them were marked below 50, the answer was, because in clinical medicine any mark below 50 was intei-preted as an absolute stop, whatever the marks in other subjects, and the wish of the examiners was to leave a possible chance of passing, if otherwise good. On Thursday, July 21st, 4.30 p.m., the Yisitors attended at the Clinical Royal Infirmary to witness the examination in clinical surgery, Surgery, which was conducted by Dr. Morton and Dr. M'Ewen. These gentlemen are not members of the Examining Board, but