PART 11.—DETAILS OF EXAMINATIONS. G7 application of bandages or tlie varioas surgical appliances R.Coix. Suro. that lay on the table. In fact, only one candidate was seen by the Visitors to apply a bandage. Another candidate, ex- Glinicul amined on the model, was asked : " Mark out amputation Examination. of the shoulder-joint; describe the operation. Where are the teres major and minor attached ? What is the size of the circumflex arteries ? Does the posterior circumflex ever cause trouble ? After dividing the axillary vessels, how do you command them ? What are the relations of the upper part of the brachial artery and of the axillary vein to its artery ? Mark out Hey's amputation of the foot; also the line of the metatarsal joints." Precisely at seven o'clock the examiners adjourned to the Practical library and council-room. Here they conducted a second part of p^^^Qj^g^ the oral examination. Four tables were arranged—two examiners at each table, as before—and on these tables there was a large and well-selected assortment of preparations taken from the Hunterian Museum, illustrating various points connected with surgical pathology and injuries. Every candidate was examined for ten minutes at each of two tables, the examination at one table being directed rather to practical surgery, and at the other to surgical pathology. One candidate was questioned on a piece of spinal column eroded by an aneurism; and on a skull with a deep sabre cut, with edges rounded and thickened—" Was this immediately fatal ? How would you know that inflammation of the brain had supervened ? What symptoms denote compres- sion ? " Shown a specimen of hernia, he was asked for the symptoms of strangulated hernia. Another candidate was questioned on injury of the upper part of the femur—" Has it opened the hip-joint ? What treatment could you adopt ? " Shown a tumour in the eye, he was questioned on it. Shown a specimen of acute periostitis, he was asked, " With what disease is this often confounded ? How do you diagnose it ? " Another candidate was questioned on infantile purulent ophthalmia, its treatment and protection against contagion. Questioned on a specimen of hernia. How to distinguish omen- tum from bowel. Another candidate was questioned on hEemor- rhage, primary and secondary ; on a specimen of internal piles; on fractured neck of the femur impacted; and also on a case of caries of the spine. Another candidate was questioned on E 2