ROYAL COLLEGES OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS OF EDINBURGH. 265 The following is the detailed description of the clinical -R. Colls. ° PllYS. bOEG. examination in surgery :— J<;din. " The Visitors attended the surgical examination, w'iiich began at eleven o'clock, the same candidates being similarly examined by two sets of Ex- aminers, with Assessors. Each candidate was given two cases in the ward to examine by himself, and was then called into the surgeon's room, and questioned on those cases. " The first candidate was questioned on a case in which an extensive epithelioma of ihe lower lip had already been excised, and in which the wound made was closed by a plastic operation. He was asked how he thought such an operation might be accomplished. No questions were given upon the history of the case or the pathology of the disease. The second case was one of hip disease, and a few leading quesi ions were asked as to the signs of the ailment and the appropriate treatment. The candi- date was then required to select the instruments for deligation of the femoral artery, to adjust a Petit's tourniquet; and, lastly, he was sent into the ward to apply a bandage, the result of which was, at the end of the examination, criticised by the surgical examiner. " The next candidate was required to recognise a case of lingual epi- thelioma, and a few questions were asked in reference to the methods of operating in such cases. A second case was one in which the head of the humerus had been previously excised, and one or two questions were asked in reference to the operation. The candidate was then required to recog- nise the smaller constricting bands of an Esmarch's bandage ; to recognise and name an aneurism needle and a Syme's staff. The third candidate also had a case which had been previously operated upon, excision of the OS calcis having been performed subperiosteally, but the disease had re- turned in the new bone. His second case was one of callous ulcer. As in the former cases, a few simple, practical questions were put in reference to it. The candidate was then required to recognise a tonsillotome, an aneurism needle, a ntevus needle, a lion forceps ; and, finally, he was required to apply a divergent spica bandage to a knee-joint. " The fourth candidate got a remarkable case of rupial excresence on the lower lip of a young girl. The case was apparently syphilitic, and was recognised by the candidate as such. There was considerable glandular enlargement in the submaxillary region, and a roseolar eruption over the front of the chest which the candidate had not observed, probably because he supposed he was not to ask questions. The candidate was interrogated briefly on this case, as well as on a case of cicatrising ulcer. The instru- ments he was required to recognise were a small metallic probe-pointed catheter, an aneurism and neevus needle, a Volkman's scoop, a lever for necrosis, and probangs. Lastly, he was required to apply a bandage to the hand and fore-arm. " Another candidate was questioned on a case of necrosis, also on a bad stump, and how he would deal with it. He said he would dissect the skin back and cut off an inch of bone. He was then questioned upon instruments, Esmarch's bandage, oesophagus forceps, Volkman's scoop, aneurism needle, bsemorrhoidal needle, &c.—Pp. 110-112. S