102 VISITATION-BEPORT. K. Q. Coll. One or two remarks may be made here in the way of queries Phys. Ikkl. suggestions. The method adopted of questions put at the Remarks on bedside, and answered viva voce upon the actual facts, is a most CUmcal. excellent one, and unquestionably of the highest value as a security against incompetence on the part of the candidate. But it is an incidental consequence of this method that the written paper being sometimes completed before, and sometimes after the questioning, the candidate may have been guided or not by hints derived from the latter, and therefore the value of the written paper per se, as an index of the candidate's position, is diminished in proportion as the value of the viva, voce examina- tion is increased. At the same time, the Visitors fully presume that the judgment is actually given on the joint value of the two. It is, perhaps, questionable whether the whole of the examination ought to take place in presence of the patient. In one or two instances, it appeared as if questions were put and answered which ought npt to have been put in presence of the patient, and where a certain amount of restraint accordingly may have been imposed upon the examiner or candidate by that fact. It is also a question whether patients, under the present system, are not too much liable to the risk of being unduly handled and unduly exposed as regards their own physical condition. In at least one or two cases, it appeared that this was so, and that complaints might have arisen on this ground, the absence of the physician responsible for the treatment being, so far, an unfor- tunate circumstance. Again, it is a question of detail whether the introduction of seven candidates simultaneously into a small- sized ward and their examining simultaneously seven patients in adjoining beds, windows and doors being all wide open, and each candidate within hearing of the examination of the others, is conducive to the quiet and seclusion which are desirable, both in the interests of the patients and of the examination. On Tuesday, July 5th, at four o'clock, p.m., the Visitors at- tended in the hall of the King and Queen's College of Physi- cians, to witness the viva voce for the final examination. There were four examiners, i.e., the four censors, and the registrar (Dr. Finney) present. Dr. Walter Smith examined on pathology and the practice of medicine ; Dr. Benson on therapeutics and the practice of medicine, at separate tables; Dr. Harvey on forensic medicine and hygiene; and Dr. Macan on midwifery and diseases of women. These tables were at a considerable