PART III.—DOCUMENTS CONCERNING EXAMINATIONS. 205 2. Of having attained the full age of twenty-one years. 3. Of good moral conduct. 4. A certificate of three months' practical pharmacy from some recog- nised hospital or dispensary, or from a qualified medical practitioner. 5. And of having pursued a course of medical study in conformity with the regulations of the Court. The course of medical study required for a license shall occupy at least four years, of which not less than three winter and two summer seasons shall be passed at any recognised school or hospital. The following will be recognised and considered equivalent to eighteen monchs' study, in a,ddition to the two years and a half above mentioned : — 1. Attendance on the practice of a hospital or other public institution recognised by this Hall for that purpose. 2. Instruction as the pupil or assistant of a registered practitioner, physician, or surgeon to a hospital, general dispensary, or union workhouse, or where such opportunities of practical instruction are afforded as shall be deemed satisfactory. Apoth. Soc. Lond. Regulations for Licentiates in England & Wales. Course of Study. Every candidate must attend the following lectures and medical prac- tice ; each winter session to consist of not less than six months, to commence on the 1st and not later than the 15th of October ; each summer session to commence on the 1st and not later than the 15th of May. First Year. Winter Session— Chemistry. Anatomy and Physiology, including Dis- sections and Demonstrations. Summer Session— Botany. Materia Medica and Therapeutics. Practical Chemistry.* Second Ybar. Winter Session— Anatomy and Physiology, including Dis- sections and Demonstrations. Principles and Practice of Medicine. Clinical Medical Practice. Summer Session— Midwifery and Diseases of Women and Children. Forensic Medicine and Toxicology. Clinical Medical Practice. Third Year. Winter Session— Principles and Practice of Medicine. Clinical Medical Lectures. Morbid Anatomy. Pathology and Clinical Medical Practice. Summer Session — Practical Midvriferyf and Vaccination.t Morbid Anatomy. Clinical Medical Practice. No Certificates of Lectures, or of Anatomical Instructions delivered in private to particular students apart from the ordinary classes of recognised public medical schools, can be received by the Court of Examiners. Professional Examinations. The Court of Examiners meet in the Hall et-ery Wednesday amd Thursday, where candidates are required to attend at half-past four o'clock. Every candidate intending to offer himself for examination must give * By Practical Chemistry is intended a specific course of instrnction in the laboratory, with an opportunity of personal manipulation in the ordinary processes of chemistry, and of acquiring a knowledge of the various re-agents for poisons. t A Certificate of Attendance on not less than twenty cases will be received from a legally qualified practitioner. t Certificates of Proficiency in Vaccination must be signed by gentlemen holding appoint- ments, in conformity with the Regulations of the Local Government Board, Whitehall.