ROTAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS OF ENGLAND. 237 histology of tissues and cliief organs" should be required of all E.Coll.Sukg. ° Eng. candidates. 2. The introduction of Comparative Anatomy into the Primary Examination. The Council admit the accuracy of the statement of the Visitors (p. 20) as to the exclusion of Comparative Anatomy, under the heads of "Homology" and "Morphology," as a necessary part of the Primary Examination; and have adopted this course, chiefly on the ground that a student who has had only eighteen months' instruction in Anatomy and Physiology could not reasonably be expected to have acquired such an adequate knowledge of Comparative Anatomy as to justify the introduction of that subject into the Examination. The object of the Council, in view of the fact that the Examinations are instituted expressly for the purpose of testing the knowledge of persons desirous of practising Surgery, has always been, as correctly stated by the Visitors (p. 20), " to secure that the attention of students, so far as their examination was concerned, should be concentrated on Human Anatomy and Physiology, with the view of securing greater thoroughness of preparation; " whilst the Council feel that the proposed exten- sion of the questions to an ill-defined and defective modicum of Comparative Anatomy would frustrate this intention. Neither in regard to this question of adding Comparative Anatomy to the purely Anatomical part of the Examination, nor to the subject of Physiology as a whole, do the Council see their way to adopt any useful form of schedule, feeling more disposed to trust to the discretion of Examiners than to rely upon a restricted basis of examination manifestly open to many objec- tions. 3. The testing of candidates hy the performance of Dissections in the Primary Examination. As regards the requirement of actual dissections by candi- dates in the Primary Examination, the Council have to observe that this question has been for many years past repeatedly unc^er their consideration, both before and since the receipt of any Reports made to, or any Recommendations emanating from, the General Medical Council.