VISITATION-REPORT. 46 Apoth. Soc. LOND. Remarks. training of candidates, which is even a more important con- sideration, would require an entire change in the method of procedure. A greater variety of cases should be at the disposal of the examiners, who ought to be personally acquainted with their details, and thus able to require the candidate to give evidence, especially when the written report is of doubtful accuracy or completeness, that he actually possesses the skill and knowledge necessary not only to make a conventional diagnosis, but to show in detail how he arrives at it. It is perhaps un- necessary to enlarge upon this, as the subject has been so fully treated in connection with the Visitors' report on the examina- tions of the colleges. In this respect, as in some others, the practice of the Apothecaries' Company appears to be a notable instance of the difficulty of putting " new wine into old bottles." In all those parts of the examinations which are conducted mainly on the old lines, viz , by written or oral question and answer, apart from objects, and according to the mere judgment of the individual examiners, the Visitors consider that the examinations of the Company are fully abreast of those of any other corporation. But in the subjects which lend themselves most completely to the objective, or, as it might be called, the direct and realistic method of' examination, e.g.. Chemistry, Anatomy, Toxicology, and, above all, in Clinical Medicine, the Visitors failed to observe any thorough appreciation of the great advances that have been made elsewhere in these methods, towards the perfecting of which, it may be said with confidence, almost all the licensing boards are striving, in various degrees, to contribute. An exception is, perhaps, to be made in favour of the histological examination in the primary, and the examina- tion in microscopical pathology in the final examinations of the Company. These appeared to the Visitors to be conducted so as to show, by contrast, what might be done in the other depart- ments, were the materials of the chemical, physiological, and toxicological laboratories, and the anatomical resources of a well-furnished museum and dissecting room, as well as a better supply of clinical cases, with time to do justice to them, placed at the disposal of the examiners. The Visitors feel confident that the individual members of the Court of Examiners will themselves, in many instances, appreciate the remark, that it is not easy for an anatomical examiner to do much in this direction