ON HUMAN ANATOMY. 149 831 Externally, of Peritoneum; internally, of Mucous Membrane; and, between the two, a Muscular Coat interimxed with Elastic Tissue and Blood-vessels. 332 The Broad Ligaments of the Uterus, which attach this Viscus to the Abdominal Wall and Pelvis. 333 The anterior Ligament of the "Uterus. 334 The Pelvis into two parts, an anterior and a posterior. 335 The Bladder, Urethra, and Vagina. 336 Upper part of the Eectum, and a portion of the small Intestines. 337 The middle or Muscular Coat. 388 Three : an external, internal, and middle. 339 In the impregnated state, particularly at the full period of Utero-gestation, or when the organ is enlarged from other causes, e.g. a Tumour. 340 Transversely, except at the Eundus and sides, where they are obUque. 341 Circularly, and form cones around the Openings of the Eallopian Tubes, and from thence spread out xmtil they meet on the middle of the organ. 342 They are more indistinct and irregular in their course. 343 This Coat lines the interior of the organ, and is contin- uous below with the Mucous Lining of the Vagina, and above with that of the Eallopian Tubes. 344 Several Mucous Eollicles or Glands (tubular) scattered over the surface, but most numerous in the Cervix, between the Eugae. 845 Two firm cord-like Easciculi of Eibres (one on either side) attached to the angle or upper part of the Uterus, just before the Eallopian Tubes. 846 Each between four and five inches in length, and formed of unstriated Muscular Eibres of the Uterus, from which they are derived together with Cellular Tissue and Blood-vessels. 347 Each partly in the Broad Ligament, and partly in the Inguinal Canal. 348 Erom the angles of the Uterus they pass upwards and outwards to the iatemal Inguinal Canals, through • which they pass to the anterior part of the Symphysis Pubis, where the Fibres expand and termiaate in the substance of the Labia and Mons Veneris. 349 Erom the Uterine and Ovarian Branches which are large and tortuous, the former derived from the iatemal Iliac and the Ovarian (which correspond to H 2