ANSWEES TO atTESTIO'S 110 59 The right. 60 To the left side of the Aortic Opening. Gl By a Membranous Fold around the Orifice, which con- sists of two Segments or Processes called the Mitral Valve. 62 The Aorta. 63 The three Semi-lunar or Sigmoid Valves. 64 Similar to those of the Pulmonaiy Ai'terj-, viz. to prevent or arrest the reflux of the circulating fluid into the Ventricle. 65 Yes. 66 Strata of Muscular Fibres and Fibrous Eings. 67 Bands of Fibres, which are chiefly disposed in a spiral or circular direction. 68 Chiefly transverse. 69 In Layers, which run in a spiral direction. 70 In rings around the Ai-terial and Auriculo-ventricular Orifices, and also sends prolongations into the Valves which belong to these openings. 71 The Endocardium, which is continuous with the Linings of the Veins and Arteries. AETEEIES, VEINS, AND NEEVES OF THE HEAET. 72 The Coronary Ai'teries. 73 Two, right and left: they are the first Branches of the Aorta, and arise just above the Semi-lunar Valves. 74 The right or posterior Artery appears on the right side of the Pulmonary Artery, and runs La the Fun'ow between the right Aiuicle and Ventricle to the posterior aspect of the Heai't, where it inosculates with its fellow (the left Coronaiy), in this coui'se Branches are given off' to the right side of the Heart. 75 The left or anterior Coronary Artery passes between the Pulmonary Artery and the left Appendix Auric- vdse, in its coiu'se two or three Branches are given off to the substance of the Aui-icle and Ventiicle, one, in particular, passes in the Auriculo-ventiicular Groove towai'ds the apex, and inosculates with the descending Branch of the right Coronaiy: it supplies the left side. 76 Three : the Great Cardiac or Coronary Vein, the posterior Cardiac Veins, and the anterior Cai'diac Veins. 77 In the substance of the Ventiicles near the apex of the Heart, and passing in the Groove at the back of the Heart, between the Aiuicles and Ventricles, tenninates in the Coronary Sinus (in the right Amicle).