105 Oir HTJMAN AINATOMr. cles, and like the rascia-transversalis is thick and dense below and becomes thinner as it ascends. 21 From the inner surface of the Pubic Bone, and along the margin of the Brim of the Pelvis, where it becomes continuous with the Fascia of the Iliacus and Psoas Muscles, it descends into the Pelvis and divides into two Lamellfe, the Pelvic and Obturator Fascia. 22 The anterior Vesical Ligaments. 23 That portion of the Fascia which has received its name from its situation, and the same "with the Recto-Vesi- cal Fascia, and the other Membranous linings of the Abdominal and Pelvic Parietes already referred to. PEEINEAL TASCIiE. 24 A thin Tendino-fibrous Membrane which covers in the Muscles of the Genital portion of the Perineum, and Boot of the Penis. 25 The thin firm Fibro-cellular Membrane which fills up the space between the Bami of the Ossa Pubis and Ischii of a triangular form, with its base below and apex above, inferiorly it divides into two Layers, one continued forwards with the superficial Perineal Fascia, and the other prolonged backwards to the Bectum, and uniting with the Fascia of the Anus. 26 The Membranous portion of the Urethra, Cowper's Glands, Compressor ITrethraD Muscle, internal Pudic Arteries, Nerves, and a Plexus of Veins. PASCIiE OF THE TIPPEE EXTREMITY. 27 The superficial Nerves, Veins and Lymphatics. 28 Thin over the Pectoralis Major and Deltoid Muscles, and in the Axillary Space, but dense and thick on the Dorsum Scapulae. 29 The Clavicle, Acromion Process and Spine of the Scapula above, and below to the Olecranon Process, the Ulna, and in front of the "Wrist is continuous with the anterior Araiular Ligament and posterior aspect of the Wrist, it forms the posterior Annular Ligament, the Dorsal aspect of the Hand is invested with this Fascia which is continuous with the posterior Annu- lar Ligament. 30 Three parts, a middle and two lateral portions, which latter are continuous with the Dorsal Fascia, whilst the middle portion is attached to the internal Annular Ligament, and divides into several Slips or Processt...