ATTSWEES TO QTJESTIOIfS 120 46 A Fold of Peritoneum, called the lesser Omentum, which is connected with the inferior surface of the Li-ver. 47 Forwards and upwards, and in contact with the Dia- phragm, the Abdominal Parietes, and imder surface of the Liver. 48 Downwards and backwards, and is in relation with the Crura of the Diaphragm, the Pancreas, the Aorta, part of the Duodenum, the Ascending Layer of the Trans- verse Meso-colon, the right Kidney and its Capsule. 49 Two; the Cardiac and Pyloric Openings. 50 The Pyloric is situated lower, and directed more forward, than the Cardiac. 51 It consists of four Coats or Layers—a Peritoneal or Serous, a Muscular, a Fibrous, and a Mucous Coat. 52 It forms a complete covering to the Stomach, except at the margins, which give attachment to the greater and lesser Omentum. 53 The Vessels, Nei'ves, and Lymphatics. 54 Immediately beneath or within the Serous Coat. 55 Three : a longitudinal, circular, and oblique set. 56 Those of the Oesophagus, and continued to the Pylorus and small Intestine. 57 These foim the second Layer extending from the Cardiac to the Pyloric extremity of the Stomach. 58 A Eing or Constriction ai'ound the Orifice (the Sphincter of the Pylorus). 59 They are continuous with the circular Layer. 60 A Cellular or Connective Tissue, which gives strength to the Stomach, and forms a bed in which the larger Vessels and Nerves ramify, ere they are distii- buted to the Mucous or inner Coat. 61 It somewhat resembles a pile of velvet, being smooth and soft to the toiich, and extremely Vascular, and in its natural state of a pale rose coloiu'. 62 Long tubular Glands, existing in eveiy part of the Mucous Membrane. 63 The Mucous Coat (and, according to some anatomists, the two inner Coats) is thrown into Folds called Eugae. 64 Chiefly transverse. 65 The Pneumogastric and Symphathetic from the Solar Plexus. 66 From Branches derived from the Ci?eliac Axis, chiefly the Gaslric or Coronary, and the Hepatic; it also receives five or six Branches (the Vasa Brevia) from the Splenic Artery.