111 ON HUMAN ANATOMY, 78 I^ear the apex of the Heart, and terminate in the Great Cardiac Vein in the right Auricle. 79 In the great Cardiac Vein. 80 A numerous set of minute Vessels in the substance of the Heart, which convey the Venous Blood into its fom Cavities. 81 From the Cardiac Plexus above the right Pulmonary Artery, and behind the Aortic Arch. 82 By the union or convergence of the middle and inferior Cardiac Kerves, and by Branches from the Par-vagum. PEEICAEDItTM. 83 The Fibro-serous Membrane which encloses the Heart. Somewhat conical, and situated in the middle of the Thorax in the interval between the Pleurce. 84 Two Layers: an external or Fibrous one and an internal or Serous one. 85 Above, to the large Vessels at the Boot of the Heart where it becomes continuous with the Thoracic Fascia; and below, to the central Tendon of the Diaphragm. 86 This Layer forms a shut Sac, thus the inner surface invests the Heart and commencement of the large Vessels, whilst the other is reflected on the inner surface of the Fibrous Layer. ! 87 By being lubricated with a Serous Fluid (Liquor Peri- cardii.) ; 88 From the Oesophageal, Bronchial, internal Mammary, and Phrenic Arteries. CIECULATION OF THE BLOOD. >89 By the alternate contraction of the Amides and Ventri- cles : the Diastole and Systole of the Heart. 90 The dilatation of the Ventricles, occasioned by the contraction of the Auricles on their contents. ^»91 The contraction of the Ventricles, by wliich the Blood they contain is propelled through the Arteries. ^92 The Heart, as previously described, consists of two Aui-icles and two Ventricles, which, from their position, are respectively named right and left: the right is the Venous side of the Heart, the Venous Blood from every part of the body is received by the superior and inferior Vena Cava and Coronary Vein into the right Axiricle, which contracts and discharges its contents into the right Ventiicle, which, when filled, contracts and discharges its contents through the Pulmonary Artery and its ramifications into the Lungs;