32 AKSWEES TO QUESXIOKS 102 Two; the floating Ribs. 103 Two; the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth, excepted. 104 The Intercostales, Scalenus Anticus et Posticus, Serra- tus Posticus superior et inferior, Sen-atus Magnus, the Obliqui, Pectoralis Minor, Latissimus Borsi, Ilio- costalis, Longissimus Dorsi, Levatores Costarum Transversalis Abdominis, Quadratus Lumboimn, and Diaj)hragm. 105 The Subclavius, Pectoralis Major, Stemo-Thyroid, Obliquus Internus, Intercostales, Transversalis Ab- dominis, Diaphragm, Triangularis Stemi et Ilectu3 Abdominis. 106 Three; one for the central part or Body, one for the Head, and one for the Tuberosity. 107 In fi'ont of the Chest, forming its anterior and middle part, and about six and a-half inches in length. 108 Plat; broad and thick superiorly, and flattened and somewhat pointed inferiorly. 109 Into three portions or pieces; superior, middle, and inferior. 110 Broad and thick above, and thinner and narrower below, almost resembling a triangle with the angles cut off. 111 An articular surface for the reception of the Sternal exti-emity of the Clavicle. 112 Two Notches corresponding to the Articular Cartilages of the first Eib, and one half of the second. 113 This Piece is the longest of the three, broader in the middle than at either extremity, and has six articular surfaces for the lower halves of the second, third, foui-th, fifth, sixth, and upper half of the seventh Eibs. 114 This Piece is elongated and somewhat pointed (in some cases Bifid), and presents on either side a l^otch for the Articulation of the lower half of Cartilage of the last true Rib. 115 The Ensiform or Xiphoid Cai'tilage CXi^Jios, a, sword; and Eidos, likeness). 116 The Aponeuroses of the Abdominal Muscles. 117 Sixteen; viz. two Clavicles and the fourteen true Ribs. 118 The Pectoralis Major, Stcrno-mastoid, Stcmo-thyroid, Stemo-hyoid, Triangularis Sterni, the Liaphi-agm, and by Aponeiu'osis with the external and internal Oblique, Transversalis, and Rectus Muscles.