Olf HUMAN ANATOMY. 39 It passes round the border of the Subseapularis Muscle, and behind the Neck of the Humerus, where it divides into numerous Branches which supply the Muscles particularly the Deltoid, Teres Major et Minor, and Latissimus Dorsi, also the Integument; it also supplies an Ai-ticular Branch to the under surface of the Shoulder Joint. 40 It descends from its origin in front of the Tendons of the Teres Major and Latissimus Dorsi Muscles, it then winds with the superior Profunda Artery around the Humerus to the outer part of the Arm, beneath the the Triceps Muscle; it then descends between the BrachiaHs Anticus and Supinator Longus Muscles to the outer Condyle of the Humerus, in fi'ont of which it divides into two Branches—the Eadial and posterior Interosseous Jfei'ves. 41 Muscular and Cutaneous Branches. 42 To the Triceps, Supinator Longus, Extensor Carpi Eadialis Lougior, and Anconeus Muscles. 43 This Nerve, the lai-gest of the two Divisional Branches into which the Musculo-spiral divides, passes in front of the outer Condyle of the Humerus along the outer or Radial side of the Forearm to its lower third, under cover of the Supinator Radii Longus, and divides about two inches above the Wrist (where it becomes Cutaneous) into two Branches—an external and an internal; the former supplying the outer border of the Hand and that of the Thumb; and the latter the opposite or Ulnar Border of the Thumb, the Radial side of the Index Finger, and the adjoining sides of the Index and Middle Fingers. 44 The Musculo-cutaneous and Dorsal Branch of the Ulnar Nerve. 45 It lies to the outer side of the Artery. 46 The Tendon of the Supinator Radii Longus. 47 This Nerve, the other Divisional Branch of the Musculo- spiral, separates from the Radial Nerve in front of the outer Condyle, and winds backwards through the Supinator Radii Brevis, and lies between the Super- ficial and Deep Layers of Muscles on the posterior Aspect of the Forearm, as far as its middle part, where it divides into Branches for their supply. 48 The Dorsal Aspect of the Carpus, where it forms an enlargement, from which munerous Filaments are