253 Olf HUMAIf AKATOMr. from the side of the Spinal Cord, as low as the first Cervical Nerve; the Spinal portion arises by several Filaments fi-om the lateral surface also of the Spinal Cord commencing opposite the fourth CervicalVertehra. 153 It unites with the Vagus just below its superior Ganglion, or Ganglion of the Koot, in the Jugular Fossa by one or two Filaments, but the greater part of it becomes blended with the Vagus outside the Jugular Foramen, below the inferior Ganglion, or Ganglion of the Trunk. 154 Some small Filaments to the Pharyngeal and superior Laryngeal Branches of the Vagus. 155 It passes, external to the Foramen, backwards behind the internal Jugular Vein, and perforates the Stemo- mastoid Muscle; it then crosses the Neck obliquely to the Trapezius Muscle, to which and to the Sterno- mastoid it is distributed. NIJTTH PAIR. 156 The Motor Nerve of the Tongue, supplying its Muscular Structure. 157 By eight or nine Filaments from the Sulcus between the Corpus Pyramidale and Corpus Olivare. 158 Two Bvmdles or Fasciculi which pierce the Dura Mater separately, and unite into one Nerve as soon as it has escaped from the Cranium through the anterior Con- dyloid Foramen. 159 It passes forwards between the internal Carotid Artery and internal Jugular Vein, it then descends the Neck into the anterior triangular space, where it passes inwards to be distributed to the Muscles of the Tongue. 160 The Vagus, Sympathetic, Spinal Accessory, and the first two Spinal or Cervical Nerves. 161 Descendens Noni, and a small Filament to the Thyro- hyoideus Muscle. 162 The former lies in the centre of the Tongue, whilst the Gustatory lies near its border. 163 Chiefly in its PapillfE. 164- Into four Sets or Groups : Sensory, Motor, Pi.espiratory, and Spinal. 165 Olfactory, Optic, and Auditory. 166 Motor Oculi, Abducens, and Lingual. 167 Pathetic vel Trochlear, Facial, and Glosso-pharyngeal (which are the Kespiratory Nerves of Sir C. Bell), and the Vagus and Spinal Accessory.