75 OK HUMAK AKATOMT. 38 From the depression or oblique line by the side of the Sj-mphj'-sis of the inferior Maxilla, and is inserted into the Integument of the lo-vver Lip with the Orbicularis Muscle. 39 By a broad surface from the external oblique line on the inferior MaxiUa, and is inserted by its apex into the angle of the Mouth, where it is blended with the fibres of the Elevator Muscles. 40 From the Incisive Fossa, a little below the Alveolar Border of the inferior Maxilla, (near its Symphysis), and is inserted into the Integument of the Chin. rTEETGO-MAXILLAEY EEGION. 41 The Masseter, Temporalis, Pterygoideus Extemus et Internus. 42 The Masseter consists of two portions, divided by an Aponeurosis, superficial and deep, the superficial arises fi'om the anterior two-thirds of the lower Bor- der of the Zygomatic Process of the Temporal Bone and Malar Bone, and is inserted into the angle and lower half of the outer surface of the Eamus of the inferior Maxilla. The deep portion arises from the remaining thii-d and posterior part of the Zygomatic Process, and is inserted into the upper half of the Bamus and external surface of the Coronoid Process of the inferior Maxilla. 43 The Parotid Gland, Stenon's Duct, the Transverse Facial Artery and Nerve. 44 The Temporalis arises from the whole surface of the Temporal Fossa and Temporal Fascia, and is inserted into the inner surface and apex of the Coronoid Process to near the last Molar Tooth. 45 This Muscle arises by two Heads, one from the Ptery- goid Bidge on the greater "VViug of the Sphenoid Bone, below its Crest; the other from the outer sur- face of the external Pterygoid Plate, and from the Tuberosity of the Palate Bone and that of the upper Maxilla, and are inserted into the hollow in the an- terior part of the Neck of the inferior Maxilla, and into the Inter-articular Fibro-cartilage. 46 One of the terminal Branches of the external Carotid, viz.: the internal Maxillary Artery. 47 From the Pterygoid Fossa & internal surface of the exter- nal Pterygoid Plate, and is inserted into the angle and internal surface of the Kamus of the inferior Maxilla.