100 ANSWEES TO aTTESTIOlTS Cuneiform Bone, and the contiguons extremity of the first Metatarsal Bone (its base). 42 From the middle three-fourths of the anterior part of the inner surface of the Fibula and the Interosseous Membrane, and is inserted into the base of the last Phalanx of the great Toe. 43 From the outer Tuberosity of the Tibia, the Head and upper three-fourths of the inner surface of the Fibula, and the Interosseous Membrane and deep Fascia, and is inserted, after dividing into four Tendons, into the second and thii-d Phalanges of the four lesser Toes. 44 From the anterior Border and inner surface of the lower fourth of the Fibula and Interosseous Membrane, and is inserted into the Tarsal extremity of the Metatarsal Bone of the Little Toe. 45 The superficial Layers are the Gastrocnemius, Soleus and Plantaris; and the deep Layers are the Popliteus, Flexor Longus Pollicis, Flexor Longus Digitorum, and Tibialis Posticus. 46 This Muscle arises by two Heads, the inner Head from the posterior surface of the inner Condyle of the Femur, just behind the Adductor Magnus, the outer Head from the external surface of the outer Condyle, just aboTC the origin of the Popliteus, and is inserted conjointly with the Soleus into the common Tendon, the Tendo Achillis, into the lower part of the pos- terior Tuberosity of the Os Calais. 47 A Bursa. 48 The two Heads of the Gastrocnemius. 49 A Sesamoid Bone. 60 From the Head and upper third of the posterior surface of the Fibula, from the oblique line and middle third of the Tibia, and is inserted conjointly with the pre- ceding Muscle into the common Tendon. 51 Tendo Achillis. 52 About the middle of the back part of the Leg, and_ is inserted into the lower part of the posterior Tuberosity of the Os Calcis. 53 The Plantaris. 54 Between the two preceding Muscles, and arises fi-om the outer Condyle of the Femur and posterior Liga- ment of the Ivnee-joint, and is inserted into the inner side of the posterior Tuberosity of the Os Calcis, by the side of the Tendo Achillis.