OIT HTJltAN AITATOMT. 169 93 It is attached to the Groove. 94 By articular Ligaments. 95 By three special Ligaments : thus one extends from the Head of the Malleus to the Boof or upper Wall of the Tympanum; another serves to connect the short Process of the Incus to the posterior part of the containing Cavity, viz: the Aperture of the Mastoid Cells; and the other or third Ligament (which is Orbicular or Cu'cular) serves to connect the base of the Stapes mth the circumference or margin of the Fenestra Ovalis. 96 Yes, by Mr. Tod, who calls them Superior Capitis Mallei, Obliquus Incudis Externus Posterior, et Musculus- Stapedius Inferior. 97 Tensor Tympani, Lasator Tympani, and Stapedius. 98 The Tensor Tympani (Musculus Internus Mallei). 99 This Muscle is contained in a bony Canal in the Petrous Bone, and arises from the surface of this Canal and from a small portion of the Eustachian Tube; and is inserted into the inner border of the Handle of the Malleus, just below the commencement of its long Process. 100 This Muscle arises from the Spinous Process of the Sphenoid Bone, and, passing through the Glenoidal or G-lasserian Eissure, is inserted into the I^eck of the Malleus, just above its long Process. 101 This Muscle arises from the circumference or margin of the Canal lodged in the interior of the Pyramid on the posterior side of the Tympanum; and is inserted into the posterior part of the Neck of the Stapes. 102 Ten: five large and five small. 103 The Meatus Auditorius Externus, Fenestra Ovalis, Fenestra Eotunda, Mastoid Cells, & Eustachian Tube. 104 At the upper part of the inner "Wall of the Tympanum. 105 Its long diameter is directed horizontally, with its convex borders upwards. 106 ThecommunicationbetweentheTympanum &Vestibule. 107 The base of the Stapes. 108 This somewhat triangular Opening is situated in the inner Wall of the Tympanum, a little below the Fenestra Ovalis. 109 The small rounded eminence or projection called the Promontory. 110 The communication between the Tympanum & Cochlea.