ON" HTJMAN ANATOMY. 151 364 At its inner extremity it is continuous with, that of the Uterus, and at the opposite or outer extremity with that of the Peritoneum. 365 Like the Uterus, a thin Cuticidar Layer of Epithelium. 366 From those which supply the Uterus and Ovary. OVARIES. 367 Two oblong flattened bodies in which the rudiments of the Fojtus are formed. 368 "Within the Broad Ligaments of the Uterus,—their posterior aspect. 369 Of a whitish coloiu', and about a quarter-of-an-ounce in weight; their size varies, but in the virgin con- dition of the organ each is about oue-a-half-inch in length, three-quai'ters of an inch wide, and a third in thickness. 370 By its anterior margin, where the Vessels pass. 371 To one of the Eimbrise (its lengthened process) at the outer extremity of the Fallopian Tube. 372 To the upper angles of the Uterus on either side, by means of a round Tibrous Cord, which is derived from the Muscular Fibres of the organ, and called the Ligament of the Ovary. 373 It is composed of a Fibro-vascular Parenchyma or Stroma enclosed within a Pibrous Capsule, which consists of three Layers—an internal or Yascular, a middle or Pibrous, and an external or Peritoneal Coat. 374 Yes; except at the attached margin where the Vessels enter. 375 Pirm, thick, of a whitish colour (hence called Tunica Albuginea), and very adherent to the Parenchymatous Stnicture within. 376 A yeUow spot or Pibrous Cicatrix is sometimes met with in some virgin Ovaries, which is nothing more nor less than a false Corpus Luteum. 377 After conception a yellow spot is found in one or both Ovaries, this isthe true Corj)usLuteum; it is a yellow globular substance, which is produced after the Ovum has escaped from the Ovisac, and as soon as the surface (previously occupied by the Ovum) has closed, it presents the appearance of a Cicatrix. 378 Small rounded transparent bodies, commonly called Graafian Vesicles, situated in the Cells of the Stroma. 379 In Pemales who have not had children, they vary from eight to twenty in number, they also vary in size from a pin's head to that of a pea.