64 ANSTVEES 10 QtTESTIOirS 25 The Vertebral Artery and posterior primary Branch of the first Spinal Nerve. 26 Between the Condyles of the Os Occipitis and the upper articular processes of the Atlas. 27 The Central or Occipito-Axoidean Ligament and the lateral Odontoid, Alar, or Check Ligaments. 28 This broad band extends from the Basilar Process of the Os Occipitis to the Body of the Axis. 29 These two short and strong Fasciculi (one on either side), are attached by one extremity to the apex of the Odontoid Process, and by the other to a depression on the kmer surface of the Condyles of the Os Occipitis. ATLAS WITH THE AXIS. ;}0 The anterior (Atlo-axoid) Ligament, the posterior (Atlo- axoid) Ligament, the Transverse Ligament, (within the Spinal Canal), and two Capsular Ligaments. .31 From the anterior Tubercle and ai-ch of the Atlas to the con-esponding portion of the Body of the Axis. 32 From the posterior arch of the Atlas to the corresponding portion of the arch of the Axis. 33 This strong Fibrous Band crosses the Atlas behind the Odontoid Process, extending from a small Tubercle on the inner surface of the Atlas, to a similar one on the opposite side of the same Bone. 34 To keep the Processus Dentatus or tooth-like process of the Axis in its proper sphere. TEMPOEO-MAXILLAIIY AKTICTJLATlOlf. 35 The external and internal lateral Ligaments, Capsular, Inter-articular Fibro-cartilage, a Stylo-maxillary Ligament, and two Synovial Membranes. 36 This short thick Band extends from the Tubercle at the Boot of the Zygoma to the outer surface of the Neck of the lower Jaw. 37 This thin Membranous Band has no connection with the Joint, it ex:tends from the apex of the Spinous Process of the Sphenoid Bone and Vaginal Process of the Temporal Bone to the Dental Foramen in the lower Jaw. 38 The Mylo-hyoid Branch of the inferior Dental Nerve. 39 The internal Maxillarj^ Artery and inferior Dental Artery and Nerve. 40 This thin Membranous Band extends from near the apex of the Stjdoid Process to the lower Border of the Eamus of the Jaw.