261 OK HTJMAN ANATOMY. ■witli tlie lesser internal Cutaneous Nerve, and ends in Filaments, which, are distributed to the inner and posterior surface of the Arm to the Elbow; and the latter, to the Integument of the Armpit and inner side of the Arm. 18 It perforates the outer Intercostal Muscle of the third Intercostal Space, between the Indigitations of the Serratus Magnus, and divides into Filaments which supply the Integument of the Shoidder. 19 Larger, and does not divide lilce the others, it perforates the external Oblique Muscle, crosses over the Iliac Crest, and supplies the Integument over the Gluteal Kegion. Section LVIII.—LIIMBAE NERYES. 1 Eive pairs. 2 The first, between the first and second Lumbar Vertebrae; and the last, between the last Lumbar and base of the Sacrum. 3 To the Muscles of the Lumbar Region and Integument over the Sacrum, forming frequent communications with each other., 4 Like the posterior Dorsal, into Muscular and Musculo- cutaneous, and distributed as just described. 5 By loops of communication between the anterior Primary Branches of the four upper Lumbar Spinal Nerves. 6 In the substance of the Psoas Magnus Muscle. 7 The Musculo-cutaneous, external Cutaneous, Genito- crural vel external Pudic, anterior Crural vel Eemoral, and Obturator. 8 Two Branches—superior and inferior; the former is called the lUo-scrotal vel Inguinal Branch, and the latter the Ilio-hypogastric Branch. 9 This Branch arises from the first Lumbar Nerve and passes between the posterior Fibres of the outer bor- der of the Psoas Magnus Muscle, its upper part; it is then directed across the Quadratus Lumborum to the front of the Crest of the Ilium where it perforates the Transversalis Abdominis Muscle and divides into two Branches, an Abdomiaal and Scrotal Branch, the former is distributed to Rectus and internal Oblique, also the Integument of the Abdomen, the latter escaping at the external Abdominal Ring, is distributed in the Male to the Scrotum, and in the Female to the