ANSTVEES TO aUESTIONS 202 panying the Spermatic Cord along the Canal to its termination in the Testis, to which it is distributed. 50 They descend into the Pelvis, passing between the two Folds of the broad Ligaments, and are distributed to the Ovaria and Uterus. 51 They anastomose with the Arteries of the TJterus. 52 The Phrenic, Lumbar, and middle Sacral Arteries. 53 Prom the fore part of the Aorta, close to the inferior surface of the Diaphragm. 54 Each passes outwards along the inferior surface of the Diaphragm, and terminate in Anastomotic Branches —an internal and an external Branch. 55 "With its fellow of the opposite side. 56 It anastomoses with the Intercostal Arteries. 57 With the Musculo-phrenic (derived fi-om the internal Mammary,) (Esophageal, Gastric, & Capsular Arteries. 58 To the Diaphragm, Pancreas, and Supra-renal Capsules; the left Phrenic supplies Branches to the Spleen and CEsophagus,the right, the Vena Cava at its termination. 59 These Arteries (four or five on either side) are analogous to the Intercostal Arteries in the Chest in theu* mode of origin, course, and size; they arise from the post- erior part of the Abdominal Aorta opposite the centre of the Lumbar Vertebrae. 60 In two Branches—Dorsal and Abdominal—between the Longissimus Dorsi and Multifidus Spince Muscles. 61 To the deep-seated Lumbar Muscles, e.g. Multifidus Spinae, Erector Spina3. 62 The Transverse Processes of the Lumbar Vertebrae. 63 A Spinal Branch. 64 The Abdominal Muscles. 65 They inosculate with the inferior Intercostal, the Ilio- lumbar (from the internal IHac), and the Circumflex Iliac (from the external Iliac) Arteries. 66 Prom the exti-emity of the Aorta—its Bifurcation; some- times from the posterior part, a little above its division. 67 It passes downwards along the middle line to the Coccyx, where it terminates on either side by anastomosing with the lateral Sacral Artpries ; these latter are derived from the posterior Trunk of the internal Iliac Artery. 68 To the Eectura, the anterior Sacral Nerves, the Sacrum, and Muscles attached to this Bone. 69 The Phrenic, Supra-renal, Eenal,Spermatic, and Lumbar.