78 TO QITESTIOKS 21 The Basio-giossiis, tlie Cerato-glossus, and the Chondro- glossus. 22 The Stylo-glossus and Lingualis, 23 Prom the Os Hyoidcs and is inserted into the apex of the Tongue, (passing longitudinally from base to apex). 24 The Hyo-glossus, and Genio-hyo-glossus. STERXO-HYOin EEGIOX. 25 Stemo-hyoideus, Sterno-thyroideus, Thyro-hyoideus, and Omo-hyoideus. 26 From the posterior and tipper surface of the Sternum and Cartilage of the first Eih, and occasionally the inner extremity of the Clavicle, and is inserted in the lower Border of the body of the Hyoid Bone. 27 Prom the posterior and upper surface of the Sternum, the Cartilage of the first Rib, and sometimes from that of the second Eib, and is inserted into the oblique line on the Ala or side of the Thyi'oid Cartilage. 28 This is a continuation of the preceding Muscle arising from the oblique line on the side of the Thyroid Cartilage, and is inserted into the great Comu, and lower Border of the body of the Hyoid Bone. 29 This is a Digastric or double-beUied Muscle (an anterior and a posterior), arising from the upper Border of the Scapula and the Transverse Ligament, which con- verts the Notch into a Foramen (the Supra-scapular Notch), and is inserted into the lower Border of the body of the Os Hyoides close to the great Comu. PKiEVEETEBEAL HEGIOX. 30 The Scalenus Anticus, Scalenus Medius, Scalenus Posti- cus, Eectus Lateralis, Eectus Capitis Anticus Major et Minor, and the Longus CoUi. LATEEAL EEGION'. 31 Prom the Tubercle on the inner Border and upper sui-face of the fii-st Eib, and is inserted into the anterior Tubercles of the Transverse Processes of four Cervical Vertebrje : third, fourth, fifth, & sixth. 32 Prom the inner Border of the first Eila, and fi'om a Groove on its upper surface, and is inserted into the extremities of the posterior Transverse Processes of the six inferior Cervical Vertebrae. 33 Prom the upper Border of the second Eib, and is in- serted in conjimction with the preceding Muscle, into the three inferior Cervical Vertebrae.