2 AlfSWEES TO QUESTIONS 12 Muscles are composed of Fibres arranged parallel to each, other; towards their extremities, ■\\'hen in the form of a rounded Cord they are denominated Ten- dons, and when expanded as Membranes they are called Aponeuroses: e.g. the Abdominal Muscles. 13 Aj'eolar-tissue is most extensively diffused throughout the body, fonning as it were the basis or original sti'ucture. It consists of a net-work of minute Fibres intermixed with thin Lamina) or Plates of Membranes, so interwoven with each other as to leave numerous interstices, which during Ufe contain a Serous Fluid. 14 It serves to connect together the Muscles. It exists in large quantities between the Muscles and Skin. It forms Sheaths for the Blood Vessels and Nerves. It enters into the structure of all the organs contained in the Trimk, &c. 15 It is better supplied with "Vessels than the other Fibrous Tissues. 16 Vessels consist of three kinds: Ai'teries, Veias, and Lymphatics. 17 The Arteries are Cylindrical Tubes composed of three Coats or Layers, viz.: An external or Cellular Coat, a middle or Fibrous Coat, and an internal or Serous Coat. 18 The Veins invariably accompany the Arteries, with the exception of the Supei-ficial Veins; their Coats are the same as the Arteries, but much thinner, and the inner Coat is at certaia points reflected, forming "Valves." 19 The Lymphatics are small Vessels accompanying the Veins; their Coats are the same as those of the Arteries and Veins, and like the Veins ai-e provided with Valves. 20 The Nerves are white flattened Cords, composed of Filaments which ai-e connected with the Brain and Spinal Cord, possessing Motor, Sensory, and Sym- pathetic Functions, to be hereafter described. _ 21 Adipose-tissue is a Cellular substance witliin which the Fat is deposited. 22 Glands are distinct bodies composed of Blood Vessels, Nerves, and Absorbents, united by Cellular-tissue. 23 Blood, Urine, SaUva, Teai-s, Bile, Gastric-juice, Pan- creatic-juice, Milk, Chyle, Mucus, Aqueous Humoui-s of the Eye, &c. \