106 AirSWEES TO QUESTIONS which are inserted into the sides of the bases of the Phalanges of the fingers. FASCIiE OF THE LOWEK EXTREMITY. 31 The superficial Nerves, Veins, and Lymphatics. 32 Tascia Lata, which surrounds the Thigh and sends processes or Septa between the Muscles. 33 To the prominent borders of the Pelvis externally, the Crest of the Ilium, the lower extremity of the Sacrum and Coccyx, Tuberosity of the Ischium, Eami of the Ischium and Pubes and body of the Pubis, and with Poupart's Ligament; and is inserted in the Linea Aspera of the Femur and prominent parts around the Knee Joint. 34 The Tensor Vaginse Femoris, and the Gluteus Maximus, 35 The Saphenous Opening for the transmission of the large Saphenous Vein and other Vessels. 36 The Iliac portion of the Fascia Lata from its attachment to the IHac Crest. 3 7 The Pubic portion of the Fascia Lata.from its attachment to the Pubes. 38 The Cribriform Fascia for the transmission of Lymphatic Vessels. 39 Integument, superficial Fascia, Cribriform Fascia, Fascia Propria, Septum Crurale, and Peritoneal Sac. 40 By its inner siu'face to the upj)er part of the Tibialis Anticus and Extensor Longus Digitorum Muscles. 41 The anterior Annular Ligament. 42 The external Annular Ligament. 43 The internal Annular Ligament. 44 From the lower border of the anterior Annular Ligament, and continuous on either side with the lateral portions of the Plantar Fascia. 45 Two Layers—superficial and deep—the former is con- tinuous with the posterior Fascia of the Thigh and is thicker on the outer side of the Leg, by an expansion derived from the Biceps Tendon and terminates in the external and internal Annular Ligaments : the deep Layer forms the Inter-muscular Septa or Fascia between the superficial and deep Muscles. 46 Three: a middle and two lateral portions. 47 The central portion. 48 Posteriorly to the inner Tiiberosity of the Os Calcis, and divides opposite the heads of the Metatarsal Bones into five Processes or Fasciculi, each of which divides