OIT HUMAN AKATOMT. 41 73 The second and third or internal and external Heads of origin of the Triceps Extensor Cubiti. 74 The ronnded Head and immediately around its Base a constriction called the Neck, also two Tuberosities. 75 Into the Glenoid Cavity of the Scapula. 76 A perpendicular Furrow called the Bicipital Groove. 77 The greater Tuberosity. 78 The long Tendon or Head of the Biceps Muscle. 79 The anterior and posterior Bicipital Eidges. 80 The insertion of the Pectoralis Major. 81 The insertion of the Teres Major. 82 The insertion of the Latissimiis Dorsi. 83 Supra-spinatus, Infra-spinatus, and the Teres Minor. 84 The insertion of the Sub-Dcapulaais. 85 Tlattened from behind forwards, its greatest diameter being transverse. 86 In an articular surface which is divided by a Eidge into two parts, external and internal, the former called the lesser Head, and the latter the Trochlea. 87 The shallow articular depression on the Head of the Eadius. 83 This concave or grooved-Kke pulley corresponds with the articular surface on the upper extremity of the LTna. 89 The external and internal Condyle. 90 The internal Condyle. 91 The Plexor Carpi Eadialis, Elexor Carpi TILnaris, Pal- maris Longus, and Plexor Sublimis Digitorum, and the Pronator Eadii Teres, it also gives attachment to the internal lateral Ligament of the Elbow-joint. 92 The Extensor Carpi Eadialis Longior et Brevior, Ex- tensor Conmiimis Digitorum, Extensor Carpi TJlnaris, and Extensor Minimi Digiti, the Supinator Eadii Longus, and more posteriorly to the Anconeus, also the external lateral Ligament of the Elbow-joint. 93 The external and internal Condyloid Eidges. 94 The Coronoid Possa which, during Plexion of the Pore- arm, receives the Coronoid Process of the Ulna. 95 The Olecranon Possa which during extension of the Pore-arm, receives the Olecranon Process of the Ulna. 96 The Head is directed inward and backwaj'd, the larger Tuberosity forward and outward, the Groove directly forward, the external Condyle forward and outward, and the internal Condyle backwai'd and inward. I) 2