200 AKSWEES TO QTTESTIONS 21 These Eranclies, five or six in number, ramify in the Coats of the Stomach, and inosculate with Branches of the Coronary and left Gastro-epiploic Arteries,— thus completing on the left side the Vascular Zone which surrounds the Stomach. 22 The Stomach. STJPEEIOE MESENTERIC AETEET. 23 From the anterior part of the Aorta just below the Celiac Axis (about a quarter-of-an-inch below). 24 It descends obliquely to the left, at first behind the Pancreas, and then enters between the two Laminte or Folds of the Mesentery, it then takes a sweep obliquely to the right, and terminates in the right Iliac Fossa; in this course it forms an arch, from which Arch or Cui-ve several small Branches arise. 25 The Kami Intestini Tenuis, the Pancreatico-duodenalis Inferior, Ileo-colica, Colica Dextra, and Colica Media. 26 These Branches, sixteen to eighteen in number, arise from the Convexity or Arch of the superior Mesenteric Artery, commimicating with each other, and are distributed to the Jejunum and Ilium. 27 The Arteria Ileo-colica, Colica Dextra et Colica Media. 28 From the Concavity on the right side of the superior Mesenteric Artery, it descends to the Caecum, and divides into Branches which supply this Pouch, also the last portion of the IHum and the first portion of the Colon. 29 It inosculates with the Terminal Intestinal Branches and the right Colic Branch of the superior Mesenteric Artery. 30 From the Concavity on the right side of the superior Mesenteric Artery, 31 To the right or ascending Colon; and terminates by inosculating with the Ileo-colic and middle Colic Branches. 32 From the Concavity on the right side of the superior Mesenteric Artery. 33 To the Transverse Colon; and terminates by inosculating with the Colicus Dexter of the superior Mesenteric Artery, and the Colicus Sinister or left Colic of the inferior Mesenteric Ai'tery. IlSrFEEIOE MESENTEEIC AETERT. 34 From the anterior part of the Abdominal portion of the descending Aorta, about one finger's breadth below the Spermatic Arteries.