270 AKSWEES TO aUESTIONS 22 This Nerve passes backwards from Meckel's Ganglion, through the Pterygoid or Vidian Canal to the Foramen Lacerum Basis Cranii, and divides into two Branches —the Carotid and Petrosal; the former enters the Carotid Canal to join the Plexus of the same name ; and the latter passes into the Cranium through the Foramen Lacerum Basis Cranii, and backwards in a Groove on the anterior surface of the Petrous part of the Temporal Bone to the Hiatus Fallopii, where it unites with the Gangliform expansion on the Facial Nerve, the Petrosal Branch then enters the Tym- pamim, which it crosses and assumes the name of the Chorda Tympani. 23 From the circumstance of its joining the Facial it is a Compound Nerve—Motor and Sympathetic. 24 A Branch from the Tympanic Nerve. 25 Through the medium of the Petrosal Branch of the Vidian. 26 Sensory, Motor, and Sympathetic; the Sensory derived from the fifth Nerve; the Motor, fi-om the Facial, through the Vidian; and the Sympathetic proceed from the Carotid Plexus. 27 On the inner sm-face of the inferior Maxillary Nerve or third Branch of the Ophthalmic, between it and the Eustachian Tube, and just below the Foramen Ovale. 28 These are Distributive and Communicative; the former supplying the Tensor Tjnnpani and Tensor vel Cir- cuniflexus Palati Muscles and the latter are Filaments to the Motor Eoot of the third Branch of the Oph- thalmic, to the Auricular, to the Facial, the Petrosal Branch of the Vidian, and to the Sympathetic Plexus on the middle Meningeal Artery. 29 Motor, Sensory, and Sympathetic, as described in the preceding answer. 30 On the anterior Communicating Artery (which imites the two anterior Cerebral Ai-teries.) 31 By the union of the Sympathetic Filaments which accompany the ramifications of the two anterior Cere- bral Arteries. 32 The Ganglion of Eibes. 33 In the anterior or Naso-palatine Canal; its existence as a Ganglion has been doubted. 34 These are Distributive and Communicative; the former supplying the anterior pai't of the Palate; the latter