144 ANSWEBS TO QTrESTIOITS 221 The Vessels (^iz: Arteries, Veins, Lymphatics, and Nerves) and the Efferent or Excretory Duct, united together hy the proper covei-ings. 222 At the internal Abdominal Ring and escaping at the external Abdominal Ring, descends through the Scro- tum to the posterior border of the Testis. 223 Like the Scrotum : the Left. 224 The Septum Crurale, the Fascia Propria, the Cremasteric . covering, the Inter-columnar or Spermatic Eascia, the superficial Fascia and Skin. 225 That portion of Sub-peritoneal Layer of Pat Tvhich stretches over the Crural Ring is caUed Septum Cru- rale from its position between the Thigh & Abdomen. 226 A prolongation of the Inter-columnar Fascia, -which is derived from the external oblique Muscle during the descent of the Testis in the Foetus. 227 A thin Muscular expansion derived from the Cremas- ter, which is also earned down by the Testis in the Foetus. 228 This covering is derived fi'om thelnfundibiliform pro- cess of the Transversalis Fascia, and also obtaiued diuing the descent of the Testis. 229 From the Spermatic Arteries. 230 Into the Spennatic Veins. 231 From the Spermatic Plexus of the Sympathetic. 232 The Cremasteric Rranches from the Epigastric. 233 The Genital Branch of the Genito-crural !Nerve which latter is derived from the Lumbar Plexus. PEMAXE ORGANS OP GENEILATIOK-. 234 From their position, into two classes external & internal. 233 The Vulva, or Pudendum consists of the Mens Veneris and external Labia, the Clitoris and internal Labia, together with the Vestibule and the Orifice of the Urethra. 236 The aperture of the Vagina, with the Hymen or some small rounded projections as the result of the rupture of the Hymen called Caruncidse Myi-tiformes. 237 On the front of the Os Pubis the Integument is elevated with Cellular and Adipose Tissue, this is the Mons Veneris, whose surface is covered with hair. 238 Two longitudinal folds of Integument extending from the Mons Veneris to within an inch-and-a-quai'tcr of the Anus, consisting of Cellular and Adipose Tissue, and studded externally with hair.