266 ATTSWEES TO QtrESTIONS Poramen beneath the lower border of the Pyriformis Muscle, it descends into the hollow between the Great Trochanter and Tuberosity of the Ischium to about the middle of the posterior part of the Thigh, where it divides into its two Terminal Branches—the internal and external Popliteal. 39 Yes, Muscular and Articular; the former supplying the Biceps, Semimembranosxis, Semitendinosus, and Ad- ductor Magnus Muscles, and the latter, the Knee-joint. 40 This Nerve passes from the division of the Greater Ischiatic Nerve, through the middle of the Popliteal Space at the back of the Leg, to the lower border of the Popliteus Muscle, where it becomes the posterior Tibial Nerve. 41 Yes; some Articular Offsets to the Knee-joiat, some Muscular Branches to the two Heads of the Gastroc- nemius, to the Soleus, Plantaris, and Popliteus Muscles, and a large Cutaneous Branches to the Leg and Poot —the external Saphenous Nerve, which is sometimes called the Communicating Tibial; this Nerve supplies the outer side of the Poot and Little Toe, and some- times the adjoining side of the fourth Toe. 42 This Nerve lies along the outer boundary of the Ham; it descends by the side of the Biceps Tendon, crossing the inner Head of the Gastrocnemius and origin of the Soleus Muscle, to the Head of the Fibula, just below which it perforates the Fibres of the Peroneus Longus Muscle, and divides into two Branches—anterior Tibial and Muscido-cutaneous. 43 Yes; Cutaneous, Muscular, and Articular Branches. 44 To the Integument in the upper half of the outer side of the Leg. 45 Yes; this Branch communicates with the external Saphenous or Communicating Tibial of the internal Popliteal Nei-ve. 46 To the upper part of the Tibialis Anticus. 47 This Nei've, which is a continuation of the internal Popliteal, proceeds from the lower border of the Pop- liteus Muscle along the posterior aspect of the Leg to the space between the Os Calcis and inner Anhle, where it divides beneath the Aimular Ligament into the internal and external Plantar Branches of the Foot. 48 It lies to the outer side of the Artery. 49 Yes; some Muscular and Cutaneous Branches.