J^-^t) ANSWERS TO QTTJESTIONS 179 On the under surface of the right Lobe of the Liver. 180 Parallel with the longitudinal Fissure to the right of the Lobus Q,uadi-atus. 181 Near the anterior part of the right Lobe. 182 Near the posterior part of the right Lobe; it is in relation with its anterior surface. 183 Two: an anterior and a posterior. 184 This border is fi^ee and thin, and presents two Notches, one indicating the connnencement of the longitudinal Pissure, and the other lodges the Fundus of the GaU Bladder as just stated. 185 The right. 186 The Diaphragm and right Kidney. 187 Hepatic Duct, Hepatic Artery, Portal Vein, Hepatic Veins and Lymphatics. 188 The Hepatic Duct, Hepatic Artery, and Portal Vein. 189 By the minute Eamusculi in the Lobules of the Liver, which ultimately form two Branches, one from each Lobe, which soon become united, and, by their union, form the common Hepatic or Biliary Duct. 190 At its transverse Pissure. 191 The Vaginal, Inter-lobular, and Lobular Branches. 192 The Vaginal Branches, forming the Vaginal-hepatic Plexus. 193 The Lobular and Inter-lobular Branches. 194 Direct from the Vaginal-hepatic Plexus, and some from the Biliary Duct itself. 195 Chiefly from the Inter-lobular, and some from the Vaginal-biliary Plexus. 196 In a sheath called the Capsule of GHsson. 197 A Layer of Cellular Tissue which encloses the Vessels (viz : the HepaticDuct, HepaticArtery&Portal Vein) which enter the Liver through the transverse Fissure. 198 They accompany the small Inter-lobular and Lobular Vessels, and fonn the Capsules of the Lobules. 199 Two : an external or Fibro-muscular and an internal or Mucous. 200 The substance of the Liver, consists of a collection of minute secreting bodies called Lobules vel Acini; a connecting medium called GHsson's Capsule; the rami- fications of the Hepatic Duct, Hepatic Artery, Portal Vein, Hepatic Veins, Lymphatics and Nerves; and the whole organ surrounded and retained in its situation by a Fibrous and a Peritoneal Coat.