AXSWEES TO arESTIOXS 94 passing through, a Groove in the lower end of the liaclius, is inserted into the base of the iletacaqial Bone of the Index Eingcr. 42 From the external Condyle of the Humeiiis and the common Extensor Tendon, and after passing thi-ough the same Groove as the preceding !Muscle, is inserted into the base of the Metacai-pal Bone of the middle Finger. 43 From the external Condyle and common Tendon, and before it passes imder the Annular Ligament divides into three Tendons, and after it has passed thi-ough the most internal Tendon di-sides into two; all of "which are inserted into the bases of the second and third Phalanges of the Fingers. 44 This small Muscle placed between the last named Mus- cle and the Extensor Carpi ITlnaris, arises from the common Extensor Tendon, and is inserted into the base of the second and third Phalanx of the Little Finger. 45 The Aiu'icularis, from the circumstance of the Little Finger being inti'oduced into the Meatus of the Ear, as a means of removing any foreign body which may have been accidentally admitted into it, &c. 46 From the external Condyle, from the common Tendon and upper two-thirds of the posterior Border of the Ulna by Aponeurosis, and passing through a special Sheath in the Annular Ligament, is inserted into the base of the Metacarpal Bone of the Little Finger. 47 This small ti-iangular Muscle ai-ises from the external Condjie, and is inserted into the outer part of the Olecranon Process of the IQna, also the tiiangular surface at the upper thii'd of the posterior surface of the same Bone. DEEP LATEE. 48 From the Orbicular and external lateral Ligament, from the surface on the back part of the Tina below its lesser Sigmoid Cavity, and is inserted into the upper thii-d of the oblique line of the Kadius, as far as the insertion of the Pronator Kadii Teres Muscle. 49 From the posterior siu-face of the Radius immediately below the preceding Muscle, from a corresponding portion of the XJlna and fr-om the Interosseous Mem- brane, and is inserted into the base of the first Meta- carpal Bone. 50 From the Interosseous Membrane and Eadius just below