o>T ntriirAif anatomy. 11 Process of the Temporal Bone, the anterior by a slight depression from the inner side of the base of the in- ferior Maxilla, close to its Sjonphysis, and is attached with its fellow to an Aponeurotic expansion which is inserted into the body and part of the great Cornu of the Os-hyoides. 8 The Mylo-hyoid Muscle immediately under the Skin. 9 The Sterno-cleido-mastoid Muscle, and crosses the Carotid Ai-teries and Jugular Vein. 10 Prom the external surface of the Styloid Process of the Temporal Bone, and is inserted into the Os-hyoides at the union of the body with the great Cornu. 11 No. 12 Prom near the apex of the Styloid Process and the Stylo-maxillary Ligament, and is inserted into the substance of the Tongue. 13 Prom the inner surface of the base of the Styloid Pro- cess, descending between the superior and middle con- strictors, and is inserted into the Pharynx; and upper Border of the ThjToid Cartilage. 14 The Carotid Arteries. GENIO-HTOID REGION'. 15 Mylo-hyoideus, Genio-hyoideus, Genio-hyo-glossus, Eyo-glossus, and Lingualis. 16 Prom the Mylo-hyoidean or Molar Pidge on the inner STirface of the body of the inferior Maxilla as far as the last Molar Tooth, and is inserted into the body of the Os Hyoides, and the Tendinous Eaphe of the two Muscles. 17 Prom the lower of the two lateral Tubercles (inferior Sub-mental Tubercle), on the inner side of the Sym- physis of the inferior Maxilla, and is inserted into the middle of the body of the Os Hyoides. 18 Prom the Tubercle above that of the last-named Muscle on the inner side of the Symphysis of the inferior Maxilla, and is inserted into the under surface of the Tongue, from the base to the apex, also into the body of the Hyoid Bone. 19 The Lingual or Hypo-glossal Nerve. 20 Prom the all length of the great Cornu and external sur- face of the body of the Hyoid Bone, and is inserted by two distinct parts into the back part and side of the Tongue, and by the third part into the upper sur- face of the Tongue, near its base.