ANSWEES TO QTOSTIOKS 192 17 The left. 18 The Vertebral, internal Mammary, Thyroid Axis, the superior Inter-costal, and the deep Cervical. 19 Its upper and posterior part. 20 It ascends through the Apertures in all the transverse Processes of the Cervical Vertebra}, except the last, it then passes upwards through the Opening of the Atlas, and piercing the Dura Mater enters the SkuU through the Foramen Magnum, and finally passes forward to unite with its feUow of the opposite side at the lower border of the Pons Varolii, where it forms the BasUar Artery. 21 The Thoracic Duct. 22 To the posterior Lobes of the Brain. 23 By the Vertebral Arteries and the internal Carotids. 24 The posterior and anterior Cerebral, and the posterior and anterior communicating Branches. 25 The Optic Commissure, Tuber Cinereum, Infundibulum, Corpora Albicantia vel Pisiformia, and the origins of the ]S"ervi Motores Oculorum. 26 The anterior and posterior Spinal, posterior Meningeal, and the inferior or posterior Cerebellar. 27 To the corresponding surfaces of the Spinal Cord. 28 Its fellow of the opposite side, also with the Spinal Branches of the Intercostal and Lumbar Arteries. 29 Its fellow of the opposite side, also the Spinal Branches of the Intercostal and Lumbar Arteries. 30 To the Dura Mater which lines the Cerebellar Fossaa. 31 To the under surface of the Cerebellum, by numerous ramifications. 32 Between the origins of the Hypo-glossal or Lingual Nerves. 33 Its anterior and lower part. 34 It enters the Thorax beneath the Cartilage of the first Rib, and descends behind the Cartilages of the true Ribs to the Diaphragm, whose Pibres it pierces; it then enters the Sheath of the Rectus Muscle, where it communicates "with the Epigastric Artery, a Branch of the external lUac. 35 The Comes Nervi Phi'enici, Mediastinal, two anterior Inter-costal, Pericardiac, Thymic, & Musculo-phrenic. 36 To the Diaphragm, accompanjdng the Phrenic Nerve. 37 The anterior Mediastinum, Thymus Gland, and Peri- cardium.