ON HITMAN ANATOMT. »46 60 Of parallel jSTerve Fibres, wliicli are disposed (longitudi- nally) in bundles, throughout the whole length of the Cord. 61 From the anterior and two posterior Spinal (Branches of the Vertebral Arteries). 62 These small Vessels are remarkable for their length, tortu- osity, and frequent inosculations with each other and with Branches from various parts of the Arterial System in the Cervical, Dorsal, and Lumbar Eegions. 63 They open into the Petrosal Sinuses. 64 From the Ascending Cervical (which is a Branch of the Thyroid), Vertebral, Intercostal, Lumbar, and Lat- eral Sacral Arteries. 65 Through the Inter-vertebral Foramina. Section LIV.—NErEOLOGY. {Neuron, a nerve; and loffos, a discourse.) 1 Into two classes—the Cerebro-Spinalandthe Sympathetic. 2 The ISTerves are the long, white, flattened Cords, which arise from the Brain and Spinal Cord, and which, like the Blood-vessels, are distributed to all parts of the body; communicating to it both sensation and motion. 3 They in general follow the course and distribution of the Arteries,arising in pairs anddividinginto Branches. 4 They anastomose; in some parts they form a Plexus, in others, a knot or Ganglion from which niimerous Branches are given off. 5 It is composed of Fasciculi or bundles of Longitudinal Fibres, closely united by Cellular Tissue, and enclosed in a Neurilemma, which is continuous with that which envelopes the Cord. 6 They are well suppKed with Blood-vessels. 7 Through various Foramina situated in the base. 8 Nine pairs. 9 The Olfactory, Optic, Motores Oculorum, Pathetic^ Trifacial, Abducentes, Auditory, Pneumogastric, and Lingual or Hypoglossal. 10 It lies in a Longitudinal Groove on the under Aspect of the anterior Lobe of the Brain, about four lines exterior to the Longitudinal Fissure. 11 The Olfactory Nerve arises by three Eoots—an external, a middle, and an internal Eoot; the external or long Eoot arises by a long Fasciculus which passes along the Fissure of Sylvius from the middle Lobe of the V 2