ox ntJjirAN' AJfATOMT. 91 except the Cervical part, from the upper side of the Eidge or Spine of the Bone and Tendinous Fascia covering its surface, and is inserted into one of the three impressions (the upper), on the greater Tuber- osity of the Humerus. 13 From the -^'hole smi'ace of the InEra-spinous Fossa (ex- cept the Xeck, inferior Border and lower angle), also fi-om the lower side of the Eidge or Spine of the Bone, and the Tendinous Fascia covering its siuface, and is inserted into one of the three little impres- sions (the middle), on the greater Tuberosity of the Humenis. 14 The Supra Spinatus and Teres Minor. 15 From the rough and somewhat expanded surface on the Dorsum of the Scapula, also the lower tliii'd of its inferior Border, and the Tendinous Fascia covering the Teres Minor, and is inserted into the inner mar- gin of the Bicipital Groove. 16 From the outer siu-face of the Scapula, from the middle thu'd of the Axillary or inferior Border of the same Bone and the Tendinous Fascia, and is inserted into one of the three impressions (the lower or inferior), on the greater Tiiberosity of the Humerus. 17 This triangular-shaped Muscle arises from the lower Border of the Spine of the Scapula, the lower Border of the Acromion Process, and external third of the Clavicle, and is inserted into a rough impression (the Deltoid Eidge), above the Border of the outer aspect of the Humerus. 18 The Trapezius. 19 The Peetoralis Major. 20 Into the anterior and posterior Humeral Eegions. 21 The Biceps, Coraco-brachialis, and Brachialis Anticus. 22 This Muscle arises by two Tendons, the short Head arises conjointly with the Coraco-brachialis, from the extremity or apex of the Coracoid Process, and the external or long Head from the upper margin of the Glenoid Cavity, and is inserted by a rounded Ten- don into the inner part of the Tubercle of the Eadius. 23 From the extremity of the Coracoid Process, conjointly with the short Head of the Biceps, and is inserted into the rough Eidge about the middle of the inner Aspect of the Humerus. 24 From the anterior sm-face of the Humerus, below the