257 ON nUMAIf AKATOMT. 15 The Subscapular, Circumflex, and Musculo-spiral. 16 To the Muscles on the front of the Chest, to some of the Scapular Muscles, the Latissimus Dorsi, and to those of the Upper Extremity. 17 Yes; with one exception—the first Intercosto-humeral, which is derived from the second Intercostal Nerve, and which supplies the inner and posterior surfaces of the upper half of the Arm. 18 The Median Nerve. 19 Muscular Branches of the TJlnar Nerve. 20 By two Boots from the Brachial Plexus; one from the outer and the other from the inner Cord. 21 The Axillary Artery. 22 It Hes at first to the outer side of the Brachial Artery as low as the insertion of the Coraco-brachialis, it then crosses over the Vessel about the middle of the Arm, and descends along its inner side to within two inches of the Elbow-joint, it then passes between the two Heads of the Pronator Eadii Teres and Elexor Sub- limis Digitorum, down the Eorearm, between the Flexor Sublimis and Profundus, and as it emerges from under the Annular Ligament, it divides into two parts (which again subdivide), one part supplying the Muscles of the Thumb, and the other part two Eingers aud a half, viz : the Radial side of the Index Einger, the adjoining sides of the Index and Middle Eingers, and the adjoining sides of the Middle and Ring Eingers. 23 The Abductor and Opponens PoUicis. 24 Eive. 25 Muscular, anterior Interosseous, and Cutaneous Branches. 36 It leaves the outer Cord of the Plexus in common with the outer Head of the Median Nerve, opposite the lower border of the Pectoralis Minor Muscle, and pierces the Coraco-brachialis; it then passes between the Biceps and Brachialis Anticus to the outer side of the Limb, near to the Elbow; it then pierces the Fascia of the Arm and divides into two Branches, which are distributed to the outer part of the Eorearm and to the anterior and posterior surfaces of the Wrist. 27 Yes, to Muscles in front of the Humerus, viz: Coraco- brachialis, Biceps, and Brachialis Anticus. 28 This Nerve arises from the inner Cord of the Plexus in common with the Ulnar and inner Head of the Median, and is the smallest of its Branches; it passes super-