205 ON HTIMAK AITATOMT. 37 To the Integuments and transverse Perinseal Muscles. 88 It inosculates with its fellow of the opposite side. 89 To the Corpus Spongiosum, or spongy structure of the Penis. 40 To the Cavernous stracture; it forms one of the ultimate or terminal Branches of the internal Pudic. 41 The other tei'roinal Branch of the internal Pudic. 42 In the Grlans Penis, distributing Branches in its course to the body of the Organ, also the Integument. 43 The Obturator, Ilio-lumbar, lateral Sacral, and Gluteal. 44 Through the upper part of the Obturator or Thyroid Poramen, where it divides into two Branches—an. internal or Pelvic portion, and an external or Pemoral portion. 45 To the Adductor Muscles, also the Pectineus and Gracilis. 46 To the Obtui'ator and Quadratus Muscles. 47 It divides in the Iliac Possa on either side into two Branches—an ascending or Lumbar Branch, and a txansverse or Iliac Branch. 48 The Psoas, Iliacus, and Quadratus Lumborum Muscles. 49 It inosculates with the last Lumbar Artery. 50 Yes, a small Spinal Branch to the Cord & its Membranes. 51 An Inter-vertebral Poramen, between the last Lumbar Vertebra and the Sacrum. 52 The Iliacus and Abdominal Muscles. 53 It inosculates with the Lumbar Artery, also with the Circumflex Iliac, a Branch derived from the external Iliac Artery. 54 Pour: two on each side, divided into superior and inferior. 55 The Pyriformis and Coccygeus Muscles. 56 They inosculate with each other, also with the Lumbar Arteries, and the middle Sacral Artery. 57 Yes; a small Spinal Branch, which passes into the Yertebral Canal through each Sacral Poramen. 58 The Gluteal Artery. 59 The Terminal Branch of the posterior division or Trunk of the internal Ihac Artery. 60 Through the Great Sacro-sciatic Notch above the Pyri- formis Muscle. 61 The superficial Branch and tho deep Branch, which latter divides into two—a superior and an inferior. 62 To the Gluteus Maximus and Integument. 63 The Gluteus Mcdius and Minimus Muscles. B