ON mjMAN ANATOMT. 911 the Dorsal or convex surface of the Poot (its Tibial side) to the posterior extremity or base of the first Metatarsal Bone. 79 Integument, deep Fascia, and, near its extremity, the inner tendon of the Extensor Brevis Digitorum. 80 The inner row of TarsalBones, viz : Astragalus, Scaphoid, and fii'st Cuneiform Bone. 81 The Tendon of the Extensor Proprius PoUicis. 89 The inner Tendon of the Extensor Longus Digitorum Pedis, and Extensor Brevis Digitorum. 83 The Tarsal, Metatarsal, and Interosseous Branches—the latter including the first or Communicating Branch. 84 It inosculates with the external Malleolar, Metatarsal, and external Plantar Branches. 85 It forms a Curve across the Metatarsal Bones to the outer part of the Eoot. 86 By inosculating with the preceding Branch, also the external Plantar. 87 Prom the convexity of the cuiwe of the Metatarsal Branch the three Interosseous Branches arise. 88 To the three outer Interosseous Spaces, each resting on one of the Dorsal Interosseous Muscles, to which it is distributed. 89 They divide at the cleft between the Toes into two Kamusculi or Collateral Branches which sujDply the adjoining Toes. 90 Through the medium of the anterior and posterior Per- forating Branches ; the former derived fi-om the Digital Branches of the external Plantar, and the latter from the Plantar Arch. 91 The Eamus Dorsalis Pollicis Pedis, sometimes called the first Interosseous Branch. 92 Like the other Interosseous Branches it passes forwards in the Interosseous Space between the first and second Toes, and divides into two Branches, which are distributed to the corresponding Interosseous Muscle, also the inner surface of the gi-eat Toe. 93 The Communicating Branch of the Dorsal Artery of the Poot. POSTEKIOE TIBIAL AETEET. 94 Prom the division of the Popliteal Artery opposite the lower border of the Popliteus Muscle to the inner concave surface of the Os Calcis, where it divides into two Branches, which are distributed to the Sole