82 ANSWEBS TO GTTESTIOITS 6 rrom the Spinous Processes of the six inferior Dorsal Vertebrae, all the Lumbar and two upper Sacral Spinous Processes, the Supra-spinous Ligament, the outer Border of the posterior half of the Crest of the Ilium, and by fleshy Processes from three or four of the lower Ribs, and crossing the inferior angle of the Scapula, is inserted into the bottom of the Bicipital Groove of the Humerus. 7 Levator AnguU Scapulte, Ehomboideus Major et Minor. 8 From the posterior Tubercles or tips of the Transverse Processes of the three or fom- upper Cervical Verte- brae, and is inserted into the base of the Scapula be- tween the upper angle and Spine. 9 From the Spinous Processes of foui and sometimes five upper Dorsal Vertebrae and the Supra-spinous Liga- ment, and inserted into the base of the Scapula between its inferior angle and Spine. 10 Prom the Spinous Processes of the last Cervical and first Dorsal Vertebrae and the Ligamentum Nuchae, and is inserted into the base of the Scapula opposite the triangular surface on its posterior Border. 11 Serratus Posticus, Superior et Inferior, and Splenius. 12 From the Ligamentum Nuchse, the Spinous Processes of the last Cervical, and two and sometimes three upper Dorsal Vertebrae, and is inserted by thi'ee slips or Processes into the upper Border of the second, third, and fourth Bibs, external to their dngles. ] 3 From the Spinous Processes of the two last Dorsal and three upper Lumbar Vertebrae, and is inserted by foirr slips or Processes into the lower Border of the four last Bibs, anterior to their angles. 14 This Muscle consists of two parts, viz.: Splenius Colli et Splenius Capitis, the Splenius Colli arises from the Spinous Processes of the six upper Dorsal Vertebrae, and is inserted into the posterior Tubercles or rips of the Transverse Processes of the three upper Cervical Vertebrae; the Splenius Capitis arises from the Spinous Processes of the last Cervical, and two upper Dorsal Vertebrae and the Ligamentum Nuchae, and is inserted into the rough sui-face of the Os Occipitis be- tween the two curved lines; also the apex & external surface of the Mastoid Process of the Temporal Bone. 15 The Spinalis Dorsi, Erector Spinas (vel Sacro-lumbalis et Longissimus Dorsi), and Complexus.