ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS 248 the Fibres of the posterior Column, communicating sensation. 49 The two Roots pass into the middle Fossa of the base of the Cranium through an Aperture in the Dura Mater, near the extremity of the Petrous Bone, the larger or posterior of these Eoots then forms a Plexus of a semilunar shape, called the Gasserian Ganglion, whilst the smaller or anterior Eoot passes beneath the Gang- lion and unites with one of the three Branches which this Ganglion gives ofp, viz, the inferior Maxillary Nerve. 50 In a small Depression on the extremity of the Petrous Bone. 51 The Ophthalmic, superior Maxillary, and inferior Max- illary. OPHTHALMIC NERVE. 52 It enters the Orbit through the Sphenoidal Fissure. 53 The Frontal, Lachrymal, and Nasal. 54 The Frontal Branch. 55 The Supra-orbital Foramen. 56 Yes; the Supra-trochlear Branch and the Supra-orbital Branch, which latter is the continuation of the Frontal Nerve. 57 The Lachrymal. 58 Between the two Heads of the outer Rectus Muscle. 59 The anterior Ethmoidal Foramen. 60 On reaching the side of the Crista Galli it passes on the Cribriform Plate, where it descends into the Nose through an Aperture in the front of the last-named Bone, and divides into two Branches—an internal and an external Branch, the former ramifying in the Pitu- itary Membrane, and the latter distributed to the Integuments of the "Wing and extremity of the Nose. 61 The Ganglionic, long Ciliary, and Infi-a-trochlear. 62 By the Ganglionic Branch of the Nasal. 63 Two and sometimes three, which are given off by the Nasal as it crosses the Optic Nerve. 64 After piercing the posterior part of the Sclerotic Coat they pass between it and the Choroid to the Iris, to which they are distributed. 65 From the Nasal, just before this Nerve leaves the Orbit through the anterior Ethmoidal Foramen. 66 A Filament from the Supra-trochlear Nerve. 67 To the upper Eyelid, Lachrymal Sac, Caruncula Lachry- malis, Conjunctiva and Root of the Nose. 68 A Sensory Nerve.