ANSWERS TO QtJESTIOKS 104 10 The Temporal Fascia is that strong, white, Tendino- fihrous Membrane Avhich gives attachment to the Temporal Muscle, from the cui-ved line or Temporal Eidge above to the Zygomatic arch belovr. 11 Two; between which may be observed the Cutaneous Vessels and Nerves, e.g. the superficial Epigastric Artery and Vein, the Eadial & Ulnar Veins, Saphenous Veins; Cutaneous Muscles, as the Platysma Myoides, Orbicularis Palpebrarum, &c. 12 Processes of the Membrane, which are prolonged in- wards between the Muscles. In this locality it em- braces the Sterno-Mastoid Muscle, also the Omo-hyoid. 13 The Thoracic Pascia is a CeUulo-fibrous Membrane, which consists of two parts, an external or Sub-cutane- ous Layer and an internal or deep Layer; the former is analogous to that in other parts of the Body, and the internal or deeper one closely invests the Muscles. It is attached to the concave margin of the first Eib and inner aspect of the Sternum, where the large Vessels and Trachea pass through the Thoracic Pas- cia; it divides into two Layers, an ascending and des- cending Layer, the fomier is attached to the Trachea, and is continuous with the Sheath of the Carotid Vessels and deep Cervical Pascia, and the latter des- cends upon the Trachea to its Bifurcation, and con- tinuous with the Pibrous Layer of the Pericardium. 14 The Pascia Transversalis, the Pascia of the Iliacus and Psoas, and the Pascia of the Pelvis. 15 A CeUulo-fibrous Layer which lines the inner surface of the Transversalis Muscle, it is thick and dense in the Inguinal Eegion, and becomes thinner as it ascends to the Thorax. 16 The internal Abdominal Eing. 17 About midway between the Symphysis Pubis and the anterior-superior Spine of the Ilium, and half an inch above Poupart's Ligament. 18 Integument, superficial Pascia, Inter-columnar Fascia, Cremaster Muscle, Transversalis Pascia, and Pexitoneal Sac. 19 Integument, supei-ficial Fascia, Inter-columnar Fascia, conjoined Tendon (of internal oblique and Transver- salis Muscles), Transversalis Pascia, and Peritoneal Sac. 20 A Tcndino-fibrous Layer which covers the two Mus-