ON mrMAir anatomy. 61 243 The insertions of the Peroneus Tertius et Brevis. 244 Thi-ee; the Cuboid, the foui'th Metatarsal Bone, and the last Phalanx of the first row. 245 Six; Peroneus Tertius et Brevis, Plexor Brevis Minimi Digiti, Transversus Pedis, fourth Dorsal and thii-d Plantar Interosseous. 246 Place the Bone in its natural position with the base directed towards yourself; its process will then be on the side to which it belongs. PHALANGES OF THE TOES. 247 Fourteen; three to each of the four outer Toes, and two to the great Toe. 248 Into a shaft and two extremities. 249 Convex on the Dorsal and concave on the Palmar sur- face, and compressed laterally. 250 A concave articular surface corresponding with the Head of the Metatarsal Bone. 251 Two rounded Heads (divided by a pulley-like surface), corresponding to the second Phalanx. 252 Ten; viz., the Metatarsal Bones and the second row of Phalanges. 253 Two small concave articular surfaces corresponding with the Head of the fii'st Phalanx. 254 Two small Condyles corresponding with the base of the last Phalanx. 255 The third or last row of Phalanges. 256 "With the exception of that of the great Toe they articulate with the first and last rows of Phalanges. 257 The second row of Phalanges. 258 Eough and Scabrous. 259 To the great Toe the Extensor Brevis Digitorum, Adductor Pollicis, Plexor Brevis PoUicis, Abductor Pollicis, and Transversus Pedis; to the second, third, and fourth Toes, the first, second, and third Dorsal, the lumbricales Pedis, and to the third and fourth, the first and second Plantar Interossei, to the fifth Toe the fourth or last Dorsal, Lumbricalis Pedis, the third or last Plantar Interosseous, also the Ab- ductor Mitdmi Digiti, & the Plexor Brevis Minimi Digiti. 260 To the great Toe or Ungual Phalanx, the Extensor Proprius PoUicis, and Plexor Longus Pollicis Pedis, to the other Toes in this roAV the Tendons of the Plexor Brevis Digitorum, Extensor Longus Digitorum, and Extensor Brevis Digitorum.