258 ANSWERS TO QTTE8TI0KS ficially down the inner side , in company with the BasUic Vein to about the middle of the Forearm, where it perforates the Fascia, and divides into two Branches, these again subdivide, to be distributed to the Integuments at the inner and forepart of the Fore- arm to the Wrist. 29 The Vein lies over it. 30 They communicate with the Musculo-cutaneous and IJlnar Nerves. 31 This long and delicate Nerve which arises just below the preceding Nerve, descends upon its inner side to the space between the Olecranon Process and inner Condyle of the Humerus, where it pierces the Fascia and is distributed to the Integument on the posterior Aspect of the Joint; some few of its Twigs are also distributed to the Integument on the inner and anterior surface of the Arm. 32 This Nerve also arises from the inner Cord of the Plexus; it descends along the inner side of the Arm, and passes in the Groove between the inner Condyle of the Hu- merus and the Olecranon Process, and enters the Forearm between the two Heads of the Flexor Carpi Ukiaris; it then descends along the inner side of the Forearm, over the Annular Ligament to the Pakn of the Hand, where it divides into two Branches—a Superficial and Deep Palmar Branch; the Superficial first supplies some small Filaments to the Palmaris Longus, and then terminates in three Branches—one to the Ulnar side of the Little Finger, one to the adjoining sides of the Little and Ring Fingers, and a Connecting Branch to the Median Nerve; the Deep^ Palmar Branch is distributed to the Muscles of the Little Finger, and to the Lumbricales and Interossei on the Palmar surface. 33 It lies to the inner side of the Artery. 34 None. 35 Muscular, Articular, Cutaneous, and Dorsal Branches. 36 Three. 37 From the posterior Cord of the Plexus; the first or upper Branch supplies the Subscapularis Muscle; the second or lower also supplies the Subscapularis, and terminates in the Teres Major; and the third or long Branch terminates in the Latissimus Dorsi. 38 In the Circumflex and Musculo-spii'al Nerves.