90 ANSWERS TO arESTIOUS 96 This Muscle corresponds to the Accelerator vel Ejacu- lator Urinte in the Male, and aiiscs from the Tendinous centre of the Perineiim, and is inserted into the Coi-pus Clitoridis. ^ Section XVII.—MUSCLES OF THE UPPEE EXTEEMITY. 1 Into those of the Shoulder, Arm, Forearm, and Hand. 2 Into anterior and lateral Thoracic, anterior and posterior Scapular, and the Acromial Kegion. 3 Pectoralis Major et Minor, Sub-cla^dus and Serratus Magnus. 4 This triangular-shaped Muscle arises superiorly from the Sternal half of the Clavicle, anterior siu-face of the Sternum from the Cartilages of the true Eibs, except the firfst and last, and inferiorly from the Aponeurosis of the Obliquus Externus xibdominis, from this exten- sive origin the Muscle crosses the AxiUa, and is in- serted by a broad Tendon into the outer margin of the Bicipital Groove of the Humerus. 5 This triangular-shaped Muscle arises by fleshy digita- tions from the front and upper Border of the third, fourth, and fifth Kibs, external to their Cartilages, and is inserted into the anterior half of the uj)per surface of the Coracoid Process of the Scapula, near its extremity. 6 Short Head of the Biceps and Coraco-BrachiaUs. 7 By a rounded Tendon fr'om the vinion of the Osseous and Cartilaginous parts of the first Ilib, (anterior to the Ehomboid Ligament), and is inserted into a depression at the under surface of the Clavicle. 8 From the outer surface and lower Border of the eight superior Eibs, by 9 fleshy Serrations owing to two Pro- cesses being attached to the second Eib, and. is in- serted into the rough sm-face along the whole length of the posterior Border of the Scapula. 9 With similar Serrations of origin (four and sometimes five), from the Obliquus Externus Abdominis. 10 The Sub-scapularis, Supra and Infr-a Spinatus, Teres Major et Minor, and the Deltoid. 11 From the whole concave or under siu'face of the Scapula, except the Neck and angles, and is inserted into the inner or lesser Tuberosity of the Humerus. 12 From the whole surface of the Supra-spinous Fossa,