256 ANSWEES TO aXTESTIONS Section LVI.—BEACHIAL OR AXILLARY PLEXUS. 1 By the union of the anterior Primary Branches of the four lower Cervical Nerves with the first anterior Primary Dorsal Nerve. 2 From the lowest part of the Neck to the Axilla. 3 Three; the first is fomed by the union of the fifth and sixth Nerves near the Vertebrce; the second by the seventh Nerve; and the thu-d, by the union of the last Cervical and first Dorsal Nerve, beneath the anterior Scalenus Muscle. 4 By the union of the seventh Nerve or second portion with that formed by the fifth and sixth Nerves. 5 One is formed by the union of the fifth, sixth and seventh Nerves; and the other, as just stated, by the last Cervical and first Dorsal Nerves. 6 Between the two Scaleni Muscles. 7 It is placed at first to the outer side, and afterwards behmd the Artery. 8 According to one class of Auatomists, into those situated above the Clavicle and those below it; according to another class, into Humeral and Descending Branches 9 The Nerves of this Set which terminate chiefiy in the Muscles of the lower part of the Neck, and in those of the Chest and Shoulder ai'e—a Branch to the Phrenic, one to the Subclavian Muscle, one to the Rhomboid Muscle, one to the Serratus, viz : the long posterior Thoracic, vel Expiratory of Sir C. Bell; Branches to the Scaleni and Longus CoUi Muscles, and a Supra-scapular Branch to the Dorsum of the Scapula. 10 Prom the fifth Cervical Nerve. 11 From the Trunk or Cord formed by the fifth and sixth Cervical Nerves. 12 The two short or anterior Thoracic, the Median, Mus- culo-cutaneous (vel external Cutaneous), the internal Cutaneous, the lesser internal Cutaneous vel Nerve of "Wrisberg, the Ulnar, Subscapular, Circumflex, and Musculo-spiral Branches. 13 One of the the anterior Thoracic Nerves (the external), the external Cutaneous, and the outer Head of the Median Nei-ve. 14 The inner anterior Thoracic, internal Cutaneous, the lesser internal Cutaneous, the inner Head of the Median, and the Ulnar Nerve.