88 Airs^VEES TO atTESTIOyS Transverse Process of the first or second Lumbar Ycr- tebrfB, to the apex and lower Border of the last Eib. 67 A fibrous Band or Arch crossing the Psoas Magnus Mus- cle, as it passes from the Pelvis, extending on either side from the Tendinous part of the Pillar of the Diaphi-agm, to the Transverse Process of the fii'st or second Lumbar Vertebra. 68 By fleshy Bands or Fasciculi. 69 The central Aponeurosis of the Diaphragm, in form com- pared by Winslow to a trefoil leaf, the right di^isi()n or process of which is the lai'gest and the left the smallest. 70 The right division. 71 By two Tendinous processes from the bodies of the Lujnbar Vertebrae. 72 This Process, which is the longest of the two, arises from the anterior surfaces of the bodies of the tlu'ce fii'st Lumbar VertebroB and Inter-vertebral substance. 73 From the sides of the first two Lumbar Vertebrte. 74 They foiTQ t-s^-o fleshy Bellies which ascend to their in- sertion in the central Tendon. 75 The Pillars or Crura. 76 The CEsophagus and Pneiunogastric Nerves. 77 In fi'ont of the Aorta between this Vessel and the Qisophageal opening; the right is the most anterior. 78 The opening of the Aorta, between the Crura and Ver- tebral column. 79 By the Tendinous arch thrown from the Tendon of one Crus, to the other across the Vertebral Colimm. 80 The Aorta, Thoracic Duet, and sometimes the Vena Azygos. PEPaNEAL EEGIOIf. 81 Into two groups, those connected with the Organs of Generation and Urethi'a, and those of the Anus. 82 Erector Penis, Accelerator IJrinfE, Transversalis Peiinei, Compressor XJrethrfB, the two Sphincters Ani, and the Levator Ani. 83 Erector Clitoridis, Constrictor vel Sphincter Vaginfe, Transversalis Perinei, Compressor vel Constrictor Drethi'a3, two Sphincters Ani, and Levator Ani. 84 From the internal surface of the Tuberosity of the Ischium and its Bamus, and is inserted into the fibrous Sheath of the Corpus Cavernosum. 85 From the common Tendon along the middle line, and