65 ON HTJMAN AKATOMi'. 41 Between the Masseter and internal Pterygoid Muscles. 42 The Parotid and Sub-maxillary Glands. 43 This thin oval Plate, Concavo-convex superiorly and moulded inferiorly to the convexity of the Condj'le, is situated between the articular smfaces of the Bones. 44 Some Fibres from the external Pterygoid Muscle. ARTICULATIOJTS OF THE TRUNK. 45 The Costo-vertebral or Stellate Ligament, Interarticular Ligament, and two Synovial Membranes. 46 The first, eleventh, and twelfth. 47 The anterior, middle, and posterior Costo-transverse Ligaments. 48 The anterior Costo-transverse Ligaments. 49 Thefii-stEib. 50 The anterior and posterior Costo-sternal, the superior and inferior Costo-sternal and Synovial Membranes. 51 The Lumbo-sacral and the Lumbo-iliac Ligaments. 52 From the Transverse Process of the last Lumbar Vertebra to the lateral Border at the base of the Sacrum. 53 From the apex of the Transverse Process of the last Lumbar Vertebra to the posterior extremity of the Iliac Crest. AJITICTTLATIONS OF THE PELVIS. 54 The anterior and posterior Sacro-iHac Ligaments, another longer than the rest is described as the obHque or long posterior Sacro-iliac Ligament, which descends to the third division of the Sacrum. 55 The anterior or short and the posterior or long, Sacro- ischiatic Ligaments. 56 The greater Sacro-sciatic Foramen. 57 The lesser Sacro-sciatic Foramen. 58 By its broad extremity to the side of the Sacrum and Coccyx, from which it passes outwards to the Ischial Spine of the Hip-bone. 59 From the side of the Sacrum and Coccyx to the inner Border of the Ischial Tuberosity. 60 The anterior and posterior Sacro-Coccygeal Ligaments. 61 The anterior and superior Pubic Ligaments, the Sub- pubic Ligament, and an Inter-fibro-Cartilagq. 62 The upper boundary of the Pubic arch. 63 2^ot a Ligament of articulation, being merely a Tendino- fibrous Membrane, stretched across the Thyroid or Obturator Foramen. 64 The two Obturator Muscles, (internal and external). F 2