268 ANSWEES TO QtrESTIONS Branch to the Extensor Bre-sds Digitorum, also the Interossei. 6 3 This Nerve, which forms the other division of the external Popliteal or Peroneal Nerve, commences just belo-w the Head of the Fibula, descends between the Extensor Longus Digitorum and Peronei Muscles to the lower third of the Leg, where it perforates the Eascia, and divides into two Peroneal Branches—inner and outer; the former supplying the inner side of the Eoot and the Great Toe; and the latter, which divides into three Branches, and these again subdivide to supply the adjoining sides of the four outer Toes. 64 The internal Saphenous (from the anterior Crural) and anterior Tibial. 65 The external Saphenous or Communicans Tibialis of the internal Popliteal. 66 Yes; some Muscular Twigs to the Peronei Muscles. Section LX.—SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM. 1 This Nerve, which consists of a series of Ganglia on each side the Vertebral Column, extends from the Head to the Coccyx. 2 It communicates with all the other Nei'ves of the Body. 3 All the internal Organs and Viscera of our Fabric. 4 From the fourth and sixth Nerves in the Cavernous Sinus. 5 As soon as they have escaped from the Cranium and Spinal Canal, the fourth and sixth excepted. 6 At their terminations or final expansions. 7 They accompany them' to the various Organs and form around them, from their frequent commimications, Plexuses, e.g. Carotid, Cervical, Pharyngeal, Lumbar Plexus, &c. 8 To facilitate their description they may be divided into three parts : superior, middle, and inferior; the first comprising the Cervical and Cranial; the second, the Thoracic; and the third, the Abdominal Region. 9 The Ophthalmic, Ciliary or Lenticular Ganglion, the Spheno-palatine or Meckel's Ganglion, the Ganglion of Ribes, and the Otic or Aimold's Ganglion. 10 This Ganglion, formed by the luiion of Branches _ from the Sympathetic, is situated Avithin the Orbit, its posterior part, between the Optic Nerve and outer Rectus Muscle, and external to the Ophthalmic Artery.