89 OIT nrMAN AlfATOMT. the Tendinous point in tlie centre of tlic Perineum, and is inserted bj- its jjosterior fibres with the Eamus of the Pubis, the anterior iibres into the fibrous Sheath of the Corpus Cavernosum and Pascia of the Penis, and the middle or interyening fibres encircle the Canal of the Trethra (its spongy part), and meet on its upper siu-face where they luiite with those of its fellow. 86 From the imier surface of the arch of the Pubes, near the Tuberosity of the Ischium, and is inserted into the central Tendinous point of the Perineum. 87 This Muscle consists of two portions, the fibres of one portion are transverse and the other perpendicular; the ti'ansYerse portion arises by Tendinous fibres from the Sub-pubic arch, and di\ddes into two Pasciculi or Layers, which encircle the Membranous portion of the Urethra, and are inserted into the middle line by Tendon, upon the upper & lower surfaces of theUrethi'a. 88 Ey two Tendinous points from the inner surface of the Pubic Arch close to the Symphysis, and is inserted into the upper Layer of the transverse portion. MUSCLES OF THE ANUS. 89 Posteriorly by a fibrous Band from the Tip or apex of the Coccyx and the superficial Pascia around the same Bone, and is inserted in the superficial Pascia, and central Tendinous point of the Peiineiun. 90 This Muscle is nothing more than a circular Band of the involimtary fibres of the large intestine : the Eectimi. 91 From the oblique line on the inner surface of the Pubes, the inner sui'face of the Spine of the Ischiimi, and between those two points of Bone from the angle formed by the union of the Obturator and Pelvic Fasciae, and is inserted into the apex of the Coccyx and a fibrous Eaphe, along the middle line into the lower part of the Eectum and base of the Bladder, (Eecto-vesical Fascia). 92 Upper part of the Spine of the Ischium and inserted into the side of the Coccyx, and side and lower part of the Sacmm. 93 Into the Coccyx and Fibrous Eaphe, extremity of the Eectum and Vagina. 91 Laterally into the Constrictor "Vaginse. 95 Into the Fascia of the Corpus Clitoridis, and is analogous to the Erector Penis in the Male.