247 ON HUMAN ANATOMT. 30 That part which is posterior to the Commissure, called the Optic Tract. 31 The Ramus Centralis Retina), a Branch of the Ophthalmic. 32 The Ophthalmic Artery. THIRD PAIR. 33 The Motor Oculi arises from the inner surface of the Crus Cerebri, just before the anterior border of the Pons Varolii. 34 It enters the Canal appropriated to it in the Dura Mater, close by the posterior Clinoid Process, it then passes forwards along the outer Wall of the Cayernous Sinus above the other Nerves (viz : the Pathetic, the Frontal, and Lachrymal Branches of the Ophthalmic), but as it approaches the Sphenoidal Pissure it lies below these N^erves, and there divides into two Branches, which enter the Orbit between the two Heads of the outer Pectus. -1 35 The Muscular Nerve of the Eyeball. J 36 The superior Pectus, inferior Pectus, j'citemal- Eectas, 'f internal Pectus, Levator Palpebrte, and ObHquus Inferior. _x 37 The lower or inferior Branch. 38 The superior Pectus and Levator Palpebrae. 39 The lower Branch, which forms its inferior Poot. POUETH PAIR. i 40 The fourth; Nervus Patheticus vel Trochlearis. ^ 41 Prom the Valve of Vieussens and Testis. '} 42 It passes along the Crus Cerebri to the margin of the | Tentorium Cerebelli, where it enters an Aperture in ยง this Process of the Dura Mater, near to the posterior J Clinoid Process; it then passes in the Cavernous Sinus -^i- along its outerWaU to the Sphenoidal Pissure, through ^ ; " which it enters the Orbit. i 4 ^ 43 It lies below the Motor Oculi. , ^ ยง s^' 44 It is situated higher than the other three Orbital Nerves. ^ i2 ^ 45 To the superior Oblique Muscle. / PIFTH PAIR. 46- The fifth; Trifecial vel Nervus Trigeminus. ~^ 47 Prom the middle of the Crus CerebeUi, close to its junction with the Pons Varolii, by numerous PUa- ments varying from eighty to one hundred. 48 Two distinct parts, one of which is continuous with the Pibrcs of the anterior Column of the Spinal Cord, communicating motion j the other, continuous with