5 Oir HTJMAN- AISTATOSIY. 14 Cavities or clqn-cssions in tlie margins of Bones, e.g. the greater and lesser Iscliiatic Notches of the Ossa Innominata, the Ethmoidal Notch, &c. 15 Depressions or Cavities on surfaces of Bones, e.g. Iliac- fossa, Zygomatic-fossa, &c. 16 Smooth shallow depressions on some Bones, e.g. the Glenoid Cavity of the Temporal Bone, Scapula, &c. 17 The round tops of Bones, as the head of the Humerus, Ulna, Kadius, &c. ' 18 The naiTow portions of Bones beneath their Heads, as the necks of the Humerus, Eadius, Femur, &c. 19 Projections or eminences of Bone, e.g. the Odontoid process of the 2nd Vertebra, the Olecranon, Coronoid, and Styloid processes of the IJlua, the Mastoid and Styloid processes of the Temporal Bone, &c. 20 Long projections of Bones, e.g. the anterior-superior and anteiior inferior Spines of the Ilium, also the posterior-superior and posterior-inferior Spines of the same Bone. 21 Large rough elevations or eminences of Bone, e.g. the greater and lesser Tuberosities of the Humerus, Tuberosity of the Ischiiun, &c. 22 Smaller elevations or eminences of Bone, e.g. Tubercle of the Kadius, Tubercle of a Eib, &c. 23 Deep and long depressions, e.g. the Sphenoidal or Orbital Fissure, the Glenoid Tissm-e of the Temporal Bone, &c. Section III.—AETICULATIONS IIST GENEEAL. 1 The adjustment or connection of Bones with each other, distinguished by Anatomists into tliree kinds or classes 2 Diarthrosis, Synarthrosis, and Symphysis. 3 A moveable connection or Articulation of Bones. 4 Enarthrosis,Amphiarthrosis, Arthrodia, Ginglymus, and Trochoides. 5 The Ball and Socket Joint, e.g. Head of the Os Eemoris with the Acetabulum of the Os Innominatiuu. 6 This kind of Articulation partakes both of Diartkrosis and Synartlu-osis. It is that adjustment or connection of Bones which admit of an obscure motion as on flat or plain surfaces, e.g. the Metacarpal and Metatarsal Bones, &c. V The reception of the Head of one Bone into the Super- ficial Cavity of another, e.g. the Head of the Humerus with the Glenoid Cavity of the Scapula.