OK HTJITAIJ' ANATOMY. 97 . from the Fascia Lata on its anterior part, and is in- serted into the upper and outer surface of the great Trochanter. 5 A Bursa. 6 From the outer surface of the Dorsum Ilii, between the superior and inferior curved lines, and is inserted into the anterior part of the great Trochanter, con- jointly with the preceding Muscle. 7 Ai'ises by three fleshy and Tendinous Fasciculi, from the second, third, and fourth pieces of the Sacrum ante- riorly, and passes out of the Pelvis through the great Sacro-ischiatic Jfotch, and is inserted into the upper Border of the great Trochanter, anterior to the Gluteus Medius. ) The Gluteal Vessels and Werve above, from the Sciatic and Pudic Vessels and Nerves which are below. ') From the upper and posterior Spine of the Ischium and inserted conjointly Avith the Tendon of the Ob- turator Intemus, into the superior Border of the great Trochanteric Fossa. 10 From the upper and posterior part of the Tuberosity of the Ischium, and is inserted conjointly with the Ten- don of the Obturator Intemus into the superior Bor- der of the great Trochanteric Fossa. 11 From the inner sui'face of the Pelvis and around the Obturator Foramen, and passing out of the Pelvis through the lesser Sacro-ischiatic Notch is inserted conjointly with the GemeUi into the superior Border of the great Trochanteric Fossa anterior to the Pyrifonnis. 12 From the anterior half of the outer surface of the Obtu- rator Membrane, and from that sui'face of the Bone internal to the Obturator Foramen, and is inserted into the Pit or Digital Fossa at the Boot of the great Trochanter. 13 From the outer Border of the Tuberosity of the Ischium and is inserted into the rough line (Liaea Quadrati), on the upper and posterior Border of the Femur just above the insertion of the Adductor Magnus. 14 Into the anterior, internal, & posterior Femoral Eegions. 15 The Sartorius, Tensor Vagina) Femoris, Ecctus, and Triceps Extensor, (vel Vastus Extcmus et Internus, and Crureus.) 16 The Sartorius.