98 AKSWEES TO QTTESTIOys 17 EroTii the anterior-superior Spine of the Ilium, and one-half of the Notch between this and the anterior- inferior Spine of the same Bone, and. is inserted below the Knee into the inner surface of the Tibia, opposite the Tubercle just above the insertion of the Gracilis. 18 From the front of the Crest of the Ilium near to the anterior-superior Spine and part of the Notch below, as far as the origin of the preceding Muscle, and is inserted into the Fascia Lata, three, or' four inches below the great Trochanter. 19 This Muscle arises by two Heads or Tendons, one fi-om the anterior-inferior Spine of the Ilium, and the other from the upper Lip of the Acetabulum, and is inserted into the Patella conjointlj'^ with the common Extensor Tendon. 20 From the anterior part and outer sui'face of the base of the great Trochanter, the outer surface of the Linea' Aspera, extending downwards as far as the external Condyle, and from the extenaal Inter-muscular Sep- tum, and is inserted with the Rectus and Vastus In- temus into the common Tendon. 21 From the anterior Inter-trochanteric line, extending downwards to near the ai^ticulai' surface of the Femui-, externally to the Vastus Extemus, and internally to the inner Border of the Linea Aspera, and the line rumiing from it to the internal Condyle, and ai'e in- serted conjointly with the Vastus Extemus into the common Tendon. 22 Iliacus Internus, Psoas Magnus, Pectineus, Adductor Longus, Brevis, and Magnus, and the Gracilis. 23 From the internal concave surface of the Ilium, and is inserted conjointly with the Tendon of the Psoas Magnus into the lesser Trochanter of the Femur. 24 From the front of the Transverse Processes and bodies of the Lumbar Vertebras, the body of the last Dorsal Vertebra, and from a series of Tendinous Bands over the last Dorsal and foui' upper Lumbar VertebrfB and from the Inter-vertebral substances, and is inserted conjointly with the preceding Muscle into the lesser Trochanter of the Femur. 25 From the Ilio-pectineal line of the Os Pubis, and tii- angularsmoothsm-facc in front of this line, &isinserted into the upper pai-t of the line which leads fix»m the anterior Intcr-trochauteric llidge to. the Linea Aspera.