OK HTJirAN ANATOMr. 189 3 8 From the external Carotid, whilst that Vessel is embedded in the substance of the Parotid Gland. 39 No; it sometimes arises from the Temporal Artery, and is distributed to the Muscles and Integument of the Face. INTERNAL CAROTID AE.TEKT. 40 This Artery commencing at the Bifurcation of the com- mon Carotid, opposite the ThjT^oid Cartilage (its upper border) at fii'st inclines outwards, it then passes forwards and inwards, and ascends to the base of the Cranium, where it enters the Carotid Foramen in the Petrous portion of the Temporal Bone, it then passes through the Canal and Cavernous Sinus, forwards by the Sella Turcica, and upwards by the anterior Clinoid Process where it pierces the Dura Mater, and idti- mately divides into thj-ee Branches. 41 The anterior Cerebral, the middle Cerebral, and the posterior conununicating Branches. 42 This Artery arises opposite the inner termination of the the Sylvian Fissure, it then passes forwards to the longitudinal Fissure between the Cerebral Hemi- spheres, where it inosculates with its fellow by a short ti'ansverse Trunk called the anterior communi- cating Branch; each Yessel then passes forwards and turns round the anterior border of the Corpus Callosum, dividing into two or three Branches, which are distri- buted to the anterior and middle Lobes of the Brain. 43 This Artery, larger than the preceding, passes obliquely outwards along the Sylvian Fissure "vvithin which it divides into three or four Branches, which are distri- buted to the anterior and middle Lobes of the Brain. 44 The sides of the Circle of Willis, thus establishing a commimication between the internal Carotid and Basilar Arteries. 45 They inosculate with the terminal Branches of the Basilar Artery (the posterior cerebral) at the anterior edge of the Pons Yarolii. 46 The Choroid arises from the internal Carotid and some- times from one of its terminal Branches—the middle Cerebral. 47 The Ophthalmic Artery. 48 Through the Optic Foramen at first below, and external to, the Optic Nerve, it afterwards passes above and to its inner side along the inner Wall of the Orbit and