83 Oir mjJIAU" AN ATOM r. 16 From the Si^inous Processes of the two upper Lumbar and t-«^o lower Dorsal Vertebrae, and the adjoining Tendon of the Longissimus Dorsi, and is inserted into the Spinous Processes of the upper Dorsal Yer- tebrte, from the fii'st to eighth. 17 The Sacro-lumbalis vel Ilio-Costalis, and the Longissi- mus Dorsi. 18 From the posterior thii'd of the Crest of the Ilium, pos- terior siirface of the Sacrum, the Transverse Processes and Tubercles of the Lumbar Vertebras, and the Pascia Lumborum, external to those Processes, and is inserted by separate Tendons into the angles of the six inferior Ribs. 19 A prolongation of the preceding Muscle fi'om the angles of the six inferior Ribs, and is inserted into the angles of the six upper Ribs, and the Transverse Process of the last Cervical Vertebra. 20 A prolongation of the Musculus Accessorius into the jS'eck arising from the angles of the tliird, foiirth, fifth, and sixth Ribs, and inserted into the posterior Tubercles of the Transverse Processes of the three lower Cervical Vertebras. 21 Prom a common origin with the Sacro-lumbalis, and divides opposite the last Rib, and is inserted inter- nally into the tips of the Transverse Processes of all the Dorsal Vertebrae, and externally into all the Ribs except the two first; between their Tubercles and angles. 22 A prolongation into the Neck of the Longissimus Dorsi, arising fi-om the Transverse Processes of the upper six Dorsal Vertebrte, and is inserted into the posterior Tubercles of the Transverse Processes of all the Cer- vical Vertebrae, the first and last excepted. 23 A prolongation into the Neck of the Longissimus Dorsi, arising from the Transverse Processes of four or five upper Dorsal Vertebrae; also the Articular processes of the last four Cei-vical Vertebrae, and is inserted beneath the Splenius Capitis, into the posterior part of the Mastoid Process near the Digastric Fossa. 24 From the Transverse Processes of the last Cervical and six upper Dorsal Vertebrce, also the Articular pro- cesses of the four inferior Cervical Vertebras, and is inserted into the rough impression between the two curved lines of the Os Occipitis, near to its Spine.