263 ON HUMAN ANATOMY. deep or Muscular set supplies all the Muscles on the front of the Thigh, the Tensor Vaginae Pemoris ex- cepted. 16 To the Integument along the inner side of the Thigh. 17 To the Integument in front of the Thigh as far as the Knee. 18 From its origin to the middle of the inner border of the Foot, and suppHes Branches to the Integument on the inner side of the Leg and Foot to the Great Toe. 19 In the Thigh it takes the course of the Femoral Vessels, thus entering the Sheath of the Femoral Artery it accompanies that Vessel along its outer side to the Aperture in the Adductor Magnus Muscle, it then leaves the Artery, passing between the Tendons of the Sartorius and Gracilis Muscles to the upper part of Leg where it becomes Cutaneous, it then descends along the inner side of the Leg in company with the internal Saphenous Vein to the Foot. 20 Yes, two; one communicating Branch to the internal Cutaneous and Obturator in the Plexus, and the other an Articular Branch to the Ejiee Joint; it also supplies a Patellar Branch. 21 The inner Branch which supplies the inner surface of the Foot and Great Toe. 22 This Nerve arises from the third and fourth Nerves of the Lumbar Plexus, it passes downwards beneath the Psoas Muscle to the inner border of the Pelvis along which it passes to the upper part of the Obturator or Thyroid Foramen where it joins the Obtui'ator Artery, having escaped through this Aperture into the Thigh it divides into four Branches, three of which supply the Adductor Brevis, Adductor Longus, Pectineus and Gracilis, and the posterior Branch, the Adductor Magnus. 23 By the union of the fifth or last Lumbar Nerve with a connecting Branch from the fourth Nerve of the Lum- bar Plexus. 24 The Sacral Plexus. Section LIX.—SACEAL NEEVES. 1 Five and sometimes Six Pairs. 2 Like the other Spinal Nerves into anterior and posterior Branches. 3 Through the Apertures in front of the Sacrum, with the exception of the fifth Nerve which escapes between the Sacrum and Coccyx.