81 OIT HITMAI?' AlfATOMT. 60 From the IVIylo-hyoidean Eidge of the inferior Maxilla, the lovrer third of the inner surface of the internal Pterygoid Plate, and fi'ora the Pterygo-maxillary ligament, and is inserted into the Raphe along the middle line, also by the Tendinous Aponeurosis into the Basilar Process of the Os Occipitis. PALATAL EEGION-. 61 The Levator Palati, Tensor Palati, Palato-glossus, Palato-pharyngeus, and Azygos Tlyula^. 62 From the apex of the Petrous portion of the Temporal Pone, and the inner and under part of the Cartilage of the Eustachian Tube, and is inserted with its fellow of the opposite side along the middle line. 63 From the small depression, the Scaphoid or Navicular Fossa, at the base of the internal Pterygoid Plate of the Sphenoid Bone, the outer part of the Eustachian Tube, the Spinous Process of the Sphenoid, the Tym- panic or Yaginal Process of the Temporal, and is in- serted by its Tendinous Aponeru'osis into the slight Transverse Eidge on the inferior sui'face of the horizontal Plate of the Palate Bone and the Eaphe. 64 From the anterior sm-face of the soft Palate, and is in- serted into the side and Dorsum of the Tongue. 65 From the side of the soft Palate, and is inserted inferiorly into the posterior Border of the Thyroid Cartilage. 66 From the Spine at the posterior Border of the horizontal Plate of the Palate Bone, and is inserted in the tip of the TJvxda. 67 Uva, and by other ancient Anatomical writers, Columella. Sectioit XVL—muscles OF THE TEUI^K. h 1 Into four Eegions; those of the Back, Thorax, Abdomen, and Perineum. 2 Into six, and according to some Anatomists, five Layers. 3 The Trapezius and Latissimus Dorsi. 4 From the Spinous Processes of the last Cervical and aU the Dorsal Vertebrae, the Supra-spinous Ligament, the Ligamentum Nuchae, and from the inner third of the superior curved line of the Os Occipitis, and is in- serted into the posterior surface of the Scapular third of the Clavicle, the posterior Border of the Acromion Process of the Scapiila, and along the upper Border of the Spine of the Scapula. 5 The Deltoid Muscle.