ON' HUMAN AKATOMY. 265 27 This Nerve ai'ises from the lower pai't of the Sacral Plexus as it is about to pass from the Pelvis through the great Ischiatic Foramen below the Pyiiformis Muscle, it then takes the course of the internal Pudic Ai'tery, through the small Ischiatic Foramen, where it ^ves off the inferior Ha3moiThoi(ial and a large Per- inteal Branch, the former suppljdng the Sphincter Ani and Integument and the latter the Perinaeum; the internal Pudic then passes forward along the Perraaeum, pierces the tiiangular Ligament of the Urethra to reach the Dorsiun of the Penis in company with the Dorsal Branch of the Pudic Artery, where it termin- ates in niimerous Branches which supply the Corpus Cavernosmn, Integuments of the Dorsum, the sides and Prepuce of the Penis, 28 Yes; superficial Perineal Branches (anterior and pos- terior) also some Muscular Branches to the under surface of the Erector Penis, the transverse Perinei, Accelerator Urinte; it also gives off a long dcUcate Filament whicb ramifies in the Corpus Spongiosum Penis. 29 The CHtoris, also tbe parts about the Perineum and the Vulva. 30 From the lower part of the Sacral Plexus. 31 It leaves the Pelvis through the great Ischiatic Foramen below the Pyrifoi-mis Muscle, and follows the course of the Sciatic Artery as far as the lower border of the Gluteus Maximus Muscle, it then passes down the posterior part of the Thigh and Popliteal Eegion beneath the Fascia, and terminates in the Integument in the posterior part of the Leg (the middle of the Calf.) 32 Into Muscular and Cutaneous. 33 These Branches, (sometimes called the inferior Gluteal) supply the Gluteus Maximus. 34 To the superficial Fascia of the lower part of the Gluteus Maximus and the Integunaent of the inner side and posterior aspect of the Thigh. 35 This Cutaneous Branch, which is derived from the lesser Ischiatic Nerve, is distributed to the Genital Organs. 36 The Labium. 37 This Ner\-e, the largest in the Body, is formed by the Sacral Plexus, in fact, it appears to be a continuation of the Sacral Plexus. 38 After escaping from thePelvis through the great Ischiatic