ON HUMAN ANATOMY. 157 102 Their terminations have hitherto eluded the researches of the Anatomist. 103 They (two in number, one on either side the Eyeball,) form, by inosculation, an Arterial Circle around the circ\imference of the Iris (formerly called Zona Major), and from this Loop or Circle Branches are given off which pass to the Pupil, forming a second Arterial Cii'cle (formerly called Zona Minor) around its Pupillary Margin. HETINA. 104 The third or inner Tunic of the Eye. 105 Between the Choroid Coat and Vitreous Humour. 106 It coromences at the termination of the Optic ISTerve (of which it is an expansion) and ends near to the Cniary Ligament at the point where the Choroid Coat is reflected to form the Eolds of the Ciliary Processes. 107 Three: an external, middle, and an internal Layer. 108 Jacob's Membrane. 109 It is very thin, and presents a Elocculent appearance when the Eye is immersed in water, and composed (as shown by the aid of a microscope) to consist of minute Granules having a tesselated appearance. 110 This Layer, which is semitransparent and of a bluish white colour, is formed by the expansion of the Optic Nerve, and consists of an immense number of minute rounded Granules, which are collected into two sets, with an intervening portion of a Striated appearance. 111 The minute Fibres of MiiUer. 112 This Layer forms a Plexus of Blood-vessels being the ramifications of the Arteria Centi'alis Eetinae. 113 Through the Optic Nerve, through the Porus Opticus in the centre of the Cribriform Lamella. 114 A circular spot in the centre of the posterior part of the Ketina (Eovea Centralis vel Eoramen Centeale). 115 Limbus Luteus (of Soemmerring). 116 The internal and external Layers of the Eetina. ZONULA CIIIAEIS. 117 The thin Yascular Layer which connects the anterior margin of the Retina with the anterior surface of the Lens Capsule, near to its circumference. 118 The Suspensory Ligament of the Lens. 119 A number of small Plaits or Folds, which resemble the Ciliary Processes of the Choroid Coat, between which they are received. N