9i2 ANSTVEES TO QrESTIOXS insertions of the Deltoid and Coraco-brachialis 3Ius- cles, and is inserted into the rough impression on the anterior part of the Coronoid Process of the Ulna. 25 Triceps Extensor Cubiti. 26 This Muscle arises by three Heads; the long, middle, or Scapular Head arises from the inferior I5order of the Scapu.la, near its Glenoid Cavity; the internal second, or short Head, extends from the imier Condyle along the kmer margin of the Humerus, to the lo-vver Border of the Tendon of insertion of the Teres Major, and the external or third Head extends fr'om the outer Condyle along the external Border and posterior sur- face of the HumeiTis, to the Tendon of insertion of the Teres Minor, and is inserted into the Olecranon Process of the Ulna and Aponeiurotic Tendon of the Porearm. 27 Pronator Eadii Teres, Plexor Carpi Radialis, Palmaris Longus, Flexor Carpi Ulnaiis, Plexor Digitorum Sub- limis vel Perforatus, Plexor Digitorum Profundus vel Perforans, Plexor Longus Pollicis, and Pronator Quadratus. 28 By two distinct Heads, one from the internal Condyle of the Humerus, Pascia of the Porearm, and Inter- muscular Septum, the other or second Head from the inner part of the Coronoid Process of the Ulna, and is inserted into a rough siurface on the outer and back part of the middle third of the Shaft of the Eadius. 29 The Median Kei-ve. 80 Prom the internal Condyle of the Humerus, Pascia of the Porearm and Inter-muscular Septum, and its Tendon is inserted, after passing through the Groove in the Os Trapeziiim, into the base of the Metacai-pal Bone of the Index Pinger. 31 Prom the internal Condyle of the Humerus, Pascia of the Porearm and Inter-muscular Septum, and is in- serted in the Palmar Pascia. 32 This Muscle arises by two Heads, one fi'om the internal Condyle of the Humerus, and the other from the inner side of the Olecranon Process and upper two-thii-ds of the posterior Eidge of the Ulna, and is inserted into the Pisiform Bone and base of the Metacai-pal Bone of the Little Pinger. 33 The Ulnar ISTerve and posterior Ulnar EccuiTent Ai'tery. 34 This Muscle arises by two Heads, one from the internal