246 ANSWEES TO QUESTIONS Brain; the second or middle Eoot arises by a small Papilla of Grey Matter at the posterior extremity of the Groove which lodges the Nerve; and the internal or short Eoot arises from the Substantia Perforata at the inner extremity of the Fissure of Sylvius. 12 By the convergence of the three Boots the Kerve is foi-med, which passes forwards on either side of the Crista Galli, where it fonns an enlargement on the Cribriform Plate of the Ethmoid Bone, called the Olfactory Bulb. 13 About twenty. 14 Thi'ough numerous Foramina in the Cribriform Plate. 15 Into three sets: an internal, middle, and external set. 16 To the Pituitary Membrane, lining the Septum I^arium. 17 To the Roof of the jS'ai'es. 18 To the Lining Membrane of the two superior Turbinated or Spongy Bones, and the plain surface of the Ethmoid Bone before them. 19 The external and internal are Medullary, and the middle Eoot is Cineritious. 20 Its Branches are deficient in the White Matter. 21 Yes; they receive a Neurilemmar Sheath from the Dura Mater and Pia Mater. SECOND PAXE. 22 The Optic Nerve arises from the Optic Thalamus, Corpus Geniculatum Externum, and anterior pair- of the Cor- pora Quadrigemina (Nates) on either side. 23 It fij'st rests on the Cms Cerebri, it then passes forwards towards its fellow of thQ opposite side, and unites ■with it before the SeUa Turcica, where it forms the Optic Commissui-e; the two Nerves then diverge and leave the Cranium through the the Optic Foramen on either side to enter the Orbit, where each pierces the Sclerotic and Choroid Coats, to terminate in the Eetinal Expansion of the Eye. 24 "Within the Circle of Willis, on the Olivary Process of the Sphenoid Bone. 25 The Tuber Cinereum, from which it receives Fibres. 26 Yes, partially; it is only the innermost Fibres which cross each other, whilst the outer Fibres of each pass directly onwards to the Eyeball of the same side. 27 The innermost. 28 That part of the Nerve anterior to the Commissure, 29 The external Coat of the Eyeball (the Sclerotic).