159 ON HUMAN ANATOMY. 146 A series of Concentric Laminae, of which, the most exter- nal are soft, the subjacent ones firmer, and the most internal or central ai-e fij-m and form a hard nucleus. 147 After the Lens has been immersed in boiling water or been hardened in Alcohol, they become detached from each other more readily. 148 From side to side nearly half-an-inch, and from before backwards about a quarter-of-an-inch. 149 Three triangular Segments, whose bases are directed towards the circumference, and their edges towards the centre. 150 Minute parallel Fibres, which are connected by their extremities to the opposite surfaces of the Lens; thus the scalloped convexity on one border of the Lens fitting the concave scalloped border on the other. 151 The one five-thousandth of an inch in diameter. 152 The Capsule. 153 The Canal of Petit. 154 Anteriorly, by the plaited Folds of the Zonula Ciliaris or Suspensory Ligament; posteriorly, by the Hyaloid Membrane; and within, by the margin of the Lens. 155 No Vessels exist in its texture. 156 Almost spherical, and of a reddish colour. 157 Soft, and not perfectly translucent. 158 Firm and transparent. 159 Dense, and of a yellowish colour. 160 This affection may arise from an increase of the refrac- tive power of the eye, or an elongation of its axis, as in over-convexity of the Cornea and Lens; so that in either case the rays of light are brought to a focus ere they reach the Nervous Membrane, or, in other words, they fall short of the Retina. 161 By the use of concave glasses, which tend to disperse the rays of light, and thus prevent their falling short of the Eetina, i.e. coming to a focus so soon. 162 This affection may arise from various causes, as from a diminished quantity and density of the Humours of the Eye, or from a flattened condition of the Lens, thereby diminishing its refi'active powers, the conse- ■ quence is the rays of light are thrown beyond the Betina. 163 By the use of convex glasses, adapting their power to the precise demand of the Eye, and thus correcting ithe transmission of the rays.