ON mjMAN- ANATOMY. »69 11 These are Distributive and Communicative; the former or Ciliary Branches proceed from the anterior part of the Ganglion, and are di\dded into two Fasciculi— an upper and a lower; the former composed of about foiu' Filaments, and the latter of five or six Filaments, they accompany the Ciliary Arteries, and divide into numerous Branches which perforate the Sclerotic Coat around the Optic Iferve, and are distributed to the Coats of the Eyeball. 12 These, three in number, are—a long Ciliary Filament from the Nasal Branch of the Ophthalmic Nerve; a short Filament to the inferior division of the third or Motor Nerve; and a long Filament to the Cavernous Plexus. 13 Somewhat roundish and flattened, of a reddish-brown colour, and about the size of a pin's head. 14 Sensory, Motor, and Sympathetic; the Sensory derived from the Nasal Branch of the fifth, the Motor from the inferior division of the third, and the Sympathetic from the Cavernous Plexus. 15 The Spheno-palatine or Meckel's Ganglion. 16 In the Spheno or Pterygo-maxillary Fossa. 17 Into ascending, descending, anterior and posterior, or inwards and backwards. 18 These two, and sometimes three, small Filaments ascend through the Spheno-maxiUary Fissure into the Orbit, and communicate with the Optic Nerve. 19 These Filaments, three in number,—large, smaU, and external—descend through the posterior Palatine Foramen, and are distributed as follows: the large or anterior Palatine Branch to the Mucous Membrane and Glands of the Eoof of the Mouth, that of the Nose (its middle and lower Spongy Bones) and Soft Palate; the smaU or posterior Palatine Branch to the Soft Palate, Uvula, and Tonsil; and the external or smaller Palatine Branch to the Velum Palati and Tonsil. 20 These Branches, four or five in number, pass through the Spheno-palatine Foramen, and supply the Mucous Membrane of the Narcs, viz: the superior Nasal ^ Branch and the Naso-palatine or Nerve of Cotunnius. 21 These Branches, two in number, are the Pharyngeal and the Vidian; the Pharyngeal Branch passes through the Pterygo-palatine Canal, and supplies the Lining Membrane of the Pharynx, w 2