218 ANSWEES TO QtrESTIONS 65 It foi'ms the continuation backwards on either side of the Cavernous Sinus, and opens into the Lateral Sinus near its termination. 66 The Poramen Laceinina Medium. 67 This Sinus is situated at the anterior part of the Basilar Process, and establishes a communication between the inferior Petrosal and Cavernous Sinuses on either side. Section XL.—YEINS OF THE NECK. 1 By the union of the Temporal and internal Maxillary- Veins in the substance of the Parotid Gland. 2 It descends between the Sterno-mastoid and Platysma to the lower part of the Neck, where it pierces the deep Eascia to terminate in the Subclavian Vein, its course is best described by a line extending from the angle of the inferior Maxilla to a point midway between the Clavicle on either side. 3 Some superficial Branches (Venae Cutaneas), also two large Veins—the Supra-scapular and the posterior Scapular. 4 By the convergence of small Veins from the Integument below the Chin on the anterior part of the Neck. 5 In the Subclavian Vein, near its union with the external Jugular. 6 By means of a Transverse Branch. 7 This Vein is continuous on either side with the Lateral Sinus. 8 Erom the Eoramen Laceinim Posterius on either side the base of the Skull to the Stemo-clavicular Articulation. 9 In the Subclavian Vein at the Eoot of the Neck. 10 The Vena Innominata vel Brachio-cephalic Vein. 11 The Facial, Lingual, Occipital, the superior and middle Thyroid Veins, and Ascending Pharyngeal. 12 It is formed by small Eadicles in the Pericranium and deep Muscles in the back of the Neck, and passes through the Aperture in the Atlas, also through the Apertures or Foramina in the Transverse Processes of the Cervical Vertebras, where it emerges at the Eoot of the Neck, to terminate in the Subclavian Vein. 13 Superficial and deep Cervical Veins, internal and external Spinal Veias. Sectiok XLL—VEINS OF THE TEUNK. 1 The superior Vena Cava, the inferior Vena Cava, the Spinal Veins, the Azygos Veins, the Cardiac Veias, the Pulmonary Veins, and the Vena Portae.