118 AKSWJJES TO ftX7E3TION8 from the most prominent point of the Cartilages of the Bibs on one side to the corresponding point on the opposite side, and, continuing the same line round the body, forms a circular line also. 12 The middle portion of the Stomach with its Pyloric Extremity the left Lobe and Lobulus Spigelii of the of the Liver, the Hepatic Vessels, Pancreas, Cajliac Axis, Semilunar Ganglia, part of the Aorta and Vena Cava, Vena Azygos, and Thoracic Duct. 13 The large extremity of the Stomach, the Spleen, the narrow extremity of the Pancreas, the Eenal Capsule, ujjper part of the left Kidney, and part of the Colon. 14 The right Lobe of the Liver, GaU-bladder, a portion of the Duodenum and of the Ascending Colon, the Renal Capsule, and part of the right Kidney. 15 If a line be can-ied from the highest point of the Crista of the Ilium on one side to a con'esponding point on the opposite side, and the same line continued round the body, it will indicate the middle Zone; this Zone, with the iipper one, forms the boundaries within which is situated the Umbilical and Liimbar Eegions. 16 A portion of the Omentum and Mesentery, the ti'ans- verse portions of the Colon and Duodenum, and some of the convolutions of the Jejunum. 17 The Ascending Colon, lower half of the Kidney, and a portion of the Jejunum. 18 The descending Colon, lower half of the Kidney, and a portion of the Jejxmum. 19 AH that portion below the line which extends from the highest point of the Crista of the Ilium on one side to the opposite one, and to the centre of Poupart's Ligament on each side. 20 Convolutions of the Ilium, the Bladder (if distended), and, in females, the Uterus. 21 The Caecum, Ilio-ctecal Valve, Ureter, and Spermatic Vessels. 22 The Sigmoid Plexure of the Colon, Ureter, and Sperm- atic Vessels. „ no rru T) PEEITONEUM. 23 The Peritoneum. 24 This Membrane is divided into two parts—a Paiietal and a Visceral Layer, the former lines the inner Wall of the Abdominal Cavity, wliilst the other is reflected over, invests and supports all the Viscera, except where the Vessels enter.