103 ON irUJIAN ANATOMY. 80 This Muscle arises by fleshy slips fi'om the Heads of the Metatarsal Bones of the four outer Toes, and is in- serted conjointly Avith the Adductor Pollicis into the base of the flrst Phalanx of the Great Toe. 81 From the base of the Metatarsal Bone of the Little Toe and the Tendinous Sheath of the Peroneus Longus Muscle, and is inserted into the base of the first Phalanx of the Little Toe. 82 The Literossei Plantares et Dorsales. 83 These Muscles arise from the imier and under surfaces of the three outer Metatarsal Bones, and are inserted into the bases of the Metatarsal Phalanges of the same Toes (viz. the thi-ee outer), and into the Aponeurotic expansion of the common Extensor Tendon. 84 They arise from the adjacent sides of the two Bones between which they aa'e placed, and are inserted as follow: the two inner are inserted one on either side the base of the second Metatarsal Phalanx, the third to the external side of the base of the third Metatar- sal Phalanx, and the fourth to the external side of the base of the foui'th Metatarsal Phalanx. Section XIX.—PASCIiE. 1 Fascise are Membranous investments distributed through the various Eegions of the body for the puipose of investing or protecting the Muscles and more delicate parts. 2 Into three classes; Cellular Fasciae, CeUulo-fibrous Fasciae, and Tendino-fibrous Fasciae. 3 The supei-ficial Fascia is a Cellular investment which exists throughout the Body, immediately beneath the Skin and fonns the connecting medium between it and the deeper parts of the body. 4 Similar to Cellular Fasciae, with the exception that it is free from Adipose Tissue in its structure. 5 Fasciaj of the Xeck, Thoracic Fasciae, also the Sheaths of Vessels. 6 The strongest, the most inelastic and unyielding of the three kinds of investing Membrane. 7 The Fasciae of the Pelvis, Knee, Elbow, "Wrist, &c, 8 Like the Muscles; into those of the Head and Neck, the Trunk, the upper extremity and the lower ex- tremity. 9 TheTcmporal Fasciae, Superficial & deep Cervical Fascia).