74 ANSWEES TO QTJESTIONS 29 This Muscle arises from the upper extremity of the Nasal Process of the upper Maxillary Bone, and divides into two Fasciculi, the inner is inserted into the Ala or Wing of the Nose, and the other prolonged into the upper Lip, becomes blended with the Orbicularis Oris. 30 This Muscle arises from the Incisive Fossa of the upper Maxillary Bone, anterior to the Hoots of the second Incisor and Canine Teeth, and is inserted into the Septum and posterior part of the Ala or Wing of the Nose and the upper Lip. STTPEEIOK AND IKFEEIOE LABIAL EEGIOX. 31 Orbicularis Oris, Levator Labii Superioris (Proprius), Levator Anguli Oris, Zygomaticus Major et Minor, the Buccinator, Depressor Labii Inferioris, Depressor Anguli Oris, and Levator Labii Inferioris. 32 This Muscle completely siurounds the external opening of the Mouth, its Concentric Fibres consist of two parts an inner and outer, the inner Fibres are fi'ee and un- attached to Bone, the outer are attached to the sub- jacent Bone and Muscles. 33 From the superior MaxiUary and Malar Bones, im- mediately above the Infra-orbital Foramen, and is inserted into the Integument of the upper Lip. 34 From the Canine Fossa of the upper Maxillaiy Bone, im- mediately below the Infra-orbital Foramen, and is inserted into the angle of the Mouth, its fibres becoming blended Avith those of the Depressor Anguli Oris, the Zygomatici and Orbicularis. 35 From the outer part of the Malar Bone at its union with the Temporal Bone, and is inserted into the angle of the Mouth. 36 From the anterior and inferior part of the Malar Bone, and is inserted into the angle of the Mouth, its fibres becoming blended with those of the proper elevator of the upper Lip. 37 The Buccinator arises fi'om the external surface of the Alveolar Borders of the MaxiUary Bones, extending on either side from the first Molar Tooth to the last, it is also attached in the intei-val between the MaxiUae to a Tendinous Band, caUed the Pteiygo Maxillary Ligament, the fibres of insertion then con- verge to the angle of the Mouth, where they become blended with the other Muscles, and tlie two parts, (inner and outer), of the Orbicularis.