80 ANSTmiS TO QTTESTIONS 48 From tlie anterior and lateral part of the Cricoid Carti- lage, and is inserted into the lesser Comu, also the inferior and inner Border of the Thj-roid Cartilage. 49 From the depression on the posterior aspect of the Cricoid Cartilage, and is inserted into a small pro- jection at the outer part of the base of the Aryta^noid Cartilage. 50 This Muscle is placed in the posterior concave surface of the Aryttenoid Cartilages, it consists of tvro sets of Fibres, superficial and deep; the former extend from the base of one Cai'tilage to the apex of the other, and the latter are inserted into the outer and posterior surfaces of the Cartilages. 51 From the side of the upper Border of the Cricoid Car- tilage, and is inserted with the ThjTo-arytaenoideus, into the projection at the outer part of the base of the Arytaenoid Cartilage. 52 From the Thyroid Cartilage and Crico-thyroid Liga- ment, and is inserted ■with the fibres of the preceding Muscle into the base of the Arytagnoid Cartilage. 53 From the anterior and upper part of the Aryttenoid Car- tilage, and inner surface of the ThjToid Cartilage, and is inserted into the Border of the Epiglottis. 54 TheThyro-epiglottideuSjArytaeno-epiglottideus, superior et inferior. PHAEYNGEAL EEGION. Pharynx. 65 A Musculo-membranous Tube which extends from the centre of the base of the Skull, to a point opposite the fifth Cervical Vertebra, where it terminates in the CEsophagus. 56 Two posterior Nai-es, two Eustachian Tubes, Larynx, Mouth, and CEsophagus. 57 The inferior, middle, and superior Constrictors. 58 From the outer surface of the Cricoid Cartilage, from the oblique Eidge, and the upper and lower Borders of the great Ala of the Thyroid Cartilage, and is inserted with the fibres of its fellow in the Kaphe of the middle of the Phaiynx. 59 From the greater and lesser Comua of the Os Hyoides and the Stylo-hyoidean Ligament, and is inserted with the fibres of its fellow along the middle line of the Pharynx; also by a Tendinous Aponeurosis into the Basilar Process of the Os Occipitis.