ON irCTMAlT ANATOMY. 215 (after passing under the Zygomatic Muscles and cross- ing the Lower Border of the Jaw) in the iatemal Jugular Vein. 5 By the conflux of Branches from the Vertex, Porehead, Eyebrow and 'Nose, the Frontal and Supra-orbital Veins are formed, and the union of these two Veins constitiites the Angular Vein of the Face. 6 Infra and Supra-orbital, Buccal, Masseteric, Labial, ia- ferior Palpebral, Ophthalmic and Nasal. 7 By minute ramifications forming Plexuses upon the Vertex or Arch of the Skidl, which converging to- gether foi-m an anterior and posterior Branch, these then unite and pierce the Temporal Fascia just above the Zygoma and thus form the Temporal Vein. 8 By uniting with the internal Maxillary Vein. 9 Chiefly from the Pterygoid Plexus, which is formed from Branches corresponding to those of the Artery in the Zygomatic and Pterygoid Fossae. 10 By uniting behind the Neck of the inferior Maxilla with the Temporal Vein. 11 Temporo-maxillary Vein. IS The external Jugular Vein. 13 The anterior Auricular, Articiilar, Masseteric, transverse Facial, and Parotid Veins. 14 In the Plexus on the Arch of the Skull and terminates in the Temporo-maxUlary just before this Vessel assumes the name of the External Jugular Vein. 15 Those from the external Ear, also the Stylo-mastoid which passes through the Foramen of the same name in the Mastoid portion of the Temporal Bone. 16 In the Plexus at the back of the Head. 17 In the internal Jugular Vein, and occasionally in the external Jugular Vein. 18 The Lateral Sinus, through the medium of the Mastoid Foramen (the Mastoid Vein,) also with the Veins of the Diploe. 19 Externally in the Pericranial Veins, and internally in the Veins and Sinuses of the Dura Mater. CEJIEBEAL AND CEEEBELLAB. VEINS. 20 Into superficial and deep. 21 On the Cerebral surface placed in the Sulci or Furrows formed by the convolutions of the Hemispheres. 22 ISTo; some run over the convexity of the convolutions. 23 In the superior longitudinal Sinus.