O:?^ HUMAir ANATOMY. 87 54 Linete Transversre vel Liscriptioues TciKliiiece. 55 One at the Umbilicus, one at tlie Xiplioid Cartilage, and the third bet«'een the two. 56 This central or Tendinous line forms the bond of union of the Ai^oneuroses of opposite sides of the front of the Abdomen, extending from the Xiphoid Cartilage to the Tubes. 57 This line extends from the eighth Rib to the external part of the Crest of the Pubis, and corresponds with the outer Border of either Eectus Muscle. 58 Anteriorly for tliree-fourths of its extent, by the Apon- eiirosis of the external oblique, and the anterior Aponeurosis of the internal oblique; and posteriorly by the posterior Aponeuroses of the internal oblique, and Transversalis Muscles. 59 By its base fi-om the Crest of the Os Pubis, anterior to the Eectus, and is inserted into the Linea Alba, mid- way between the Umbilicus and Pubes. 60 2^"o. 61 From the Crest of the IHum and the Ilio-Lumbar or Vertebral Ligament, and is inserted into the Trans- verse Processes of the foiu- upper Lirmbar Vertebrte, the body of the last Dorsal Vertebra, and the lower Border of the last Eib. Branches of the Lumbar Plexus and the last Dorsal Xerve. 62 From the bodies of the last Dorsal and first Lumbar Vertebrte, and Inter-vertebral substance (Fibro-carti- lage), and is inserted by a broad Tendon into the Pectineal line of the Os Pubis. 63 The Diaphragm. 64 Into two portions, the greater and lesser Muscle of the Diaphragm. 65 At the circumference from the posterior part of the Xiphoid Cartilage, from the inner surfaces of the six lower Eibs, indigitating with the Transversalis, and from the two Aponeru'otic or fibrous arches or bands, (Ligamentum Arcuatura Externimi et Internum), from these origins the fibres converge and are inserted into the central Tendon of the Muscle. 66 The upper Border of the anterior fibrous band or Lamella of the Aponeurosis of the Transversalis Mus- cle, extending on either side over the Quadratus Lum- boinim and Psoas Muscles, fr-om the e.xtremity of the