ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS 102 placed, and ai'e inserted into the inner and outer sides of the bases of the second, third, and foui-th Phalanges of the fli'st row, and into the Aijoneurotic expansion of the long Extensor Tendons. 66 Into four Laj^ers. 67 The Abductor PoUicis, Flexor Previs Digitorum vel Flexor Perforatus, and the Abductor Minimi Digiti. 68 This Muscle arises by two Heads, one from the internal Tubercle on the under surface of the Os Calcis, and the other from the internal Annular Ligament and Plantar Fascia, and is inserted into the inner side of the base of the first Phalanx of the Great Toe. 69 From the inner Tubercle on the under surface of the Os Calcis and the Plantar Fascia, and is inserted, after dividing into four Tendons, into the base of the second Phalanx of the four outer Toes. 70 From the external and internal Tuberosities of the Os Calcis, the Plantar Fascia and Inter-muscular Septum, and is inserted into the outer side of the base of the first Phalanx of the Little Toe. 71 The Lumbricales and Musciilus vel Flexor Accessorius. 72 Four. 73 From the Tibial side of the common Tendons of the Flexor Longus Digitoram, and are inserted into the base of the first Phalanx of the foiu' outer Toes, also into the Aponeurotic expansion of the common Ex- tensor Tendon. 74 This Muscle arises by two Heads, the outer or Tendinous slip from the outer and under sui'face of the Os Calcis the inner or fleshy slip from the inner and imder sur- face of the Os Calcis, and is inserted into the common Tendon of the Flexor Longus Digitorum. 75 The long Plantar Ligament. 76 The Flexor Brevis PoUicis, Adductor PoUicis, Trans- versalis Pedis, and Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti. 77 From the inner Border of the Cuboid Bone, and the second and third Cuneiform Bones, and is inserted by two Heads one on each side of the base of the first Phalanx of the Great Toe. 78 Two Sesamoid Bones. 79 From the Tendinous Sheath of the Peroneus Longus Muscle, the Cuboid Bone, and the bases of the third and fourth Metatarsal Bones, and is inserted into the base of the first Phalanx of the Great Toe.