86 ANSWEES TO QTIESTIOIIS 48 By fleshy points from the. anterior surfaces of the eight lower Ribs, the upper five alternate vnth correspond- ing processes of the SciTatus Magnus, and the three lower with those of the Latissimus Dorsi, and is in- serted by a broad Aponem-osis into the anterior half of the outer Lip of the Crest of the Ilium, and the other insertion on the front of the Belly, corresi)onding to the anterior-superior Spinous Process of the Ilium, Pectineal line. Spine and front of Os Pubis, and Linea Alba. 49 This is the middle flat Muscle of the Abdomen, and reverse to the preceding Muscle, viz.: Aponeurotic above and fleshy below, it aiises fr'om the external half of Pon.part's Ligament, the anterior two-thfrds of the middle of the Crest of the Ilium and the Fascia Lumborum, and is inserted into the Crest of the Os Pubis, Pectineal Line, Linea Alba, and the lower Borders of the Cartilages of the four lower Eibs. 50 From the middle of Poiipart's Ligament, fr-om the lower Border of the internal Oblique, and by some Fibres from the Transversalis; the fibres from these origins pass downwards, and form a series of Loops on the Spermatic Cord, and become blended v,nth. the Timica Vaginalis Testis, whilst the rest are inserted with the conjoined Tendon into the Pectineal line of the Os Pubis. 51 From the outer third of Poupart's Ligament, the ante- rior two-thii*ds of the Crest of the IHiun, fr-om the Spinous and Transverse Processes of the Lumbar Yer- tebra3. In the Chest it takes origin by Tendon fr'om the two inferior Bibs, and by fleshy Digitations fi'om the under surfaces of the Cartilages of the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth Eibs, and is inserted with the lower fibres of the internal Oblique into the Pec- tineal line, and forming the conjoined Tendon or Aponeurosis of these two Muscles; its Aponeurosis is also continued into the Crest of the Os Pubis and Linea Alba. 52 The Transversalis Abdominis. 53 By two Tendinous Processes, the internal or smaller one arises fr-om the fr-ont of the Symphysis Pubis, and the external one fr-om the Crest of the same Bone, and is inserted by three fleshy Digitations into the Gai'tilages of the fifth, sixth, and seventh Ribs.