70 AirSTIVEES TO aUESTIONS 26 This Ligament crosses tlie anterior Aspect of both. Bones, projecting a little below their extremities. 27 From the corresponding parts upon the posterior surface of the Joint. 28 This Ligament consists of Transverse yello-w Fibres, which pass posterior to the Joint between the two Malleoli. 29 The anterior or Tibio-tarsal Ligament, the posterior, and the internal and external lateral Ligaments. 30 This thin Membranous Layer extends from the margin of the Tibia to the upper part of the Astragalus. 31 This triangular Layer is attached by its apex or upper part to the inner Malleolus, and by its base to the Astragalus, Os Calcis, and Scaphoid Bone. 32 This strong Ligament, which consists of three Fasciculi, arises from the fore part and inner surface of the outer Malleolus, and inserted as follow: the anterior piece passes forward to the Astragalus, the middle piece to the outer surface of the Os Calcis, and the posterior piece to the posterior part of the Astragalus. AETICiriATIONS OP THE TAXtSUS. 33 The posterior, external, and Laterosseous Ligaments, also two Synovial Membranes. 34 The Dorsal vel Asti'agalo-scaphoid Ligament. 35 The inferior vel Calcaneo-scaphoid Ligament, and the external Calcaneo-scaphoid Ligament. 36 The Dorsal vel superior Calcaneo-cuboid, the inferior Calcaneo-cuboid Ligament, (which consists of two parts, superficial and deep), an Interosseous Ligament, and a Synovial Membrane. 37 The three Dorsal Ligaments, and the Tendinous processes of the Tibialis Posticus Muscle, also a Synovial Mem- brane. 38 A Dorsal, Plantar, and Interosseous Ligament. 89 Dorsal and Interosseous Ligaments, and a Plantar Liga- ment between the two inner Cuneiform Bones, also Synovial Membrane. 40 A Dorsal, Plantar, and Interosseous Ligament. AETICTJLATIOIfS OF THE METATABSAL BOXES. 41 The four outer. 42 Dorsal, Plantar, and Interosseous Ligaments. 43 The Transverse Metatarsal Ligaments. 44 Two lateral and an inferior or anterior Ligament to each Joint, also a Sjmovial Membrane to each.