72 ANSWEES TO QITESTIOXS inserted in the Epicranial Aponeurosis, somewhat below the level of the Coronal Suture: the Fibres of the posterior or Occipital portion, arise from the outer half of the upper cun-ed line of the Occipital Bone and Mastoid portion of the Temporal Bone, and pass- ing upwards are inserted in the Cranial Aponeurosis : its action or use is to raise the Eyebrows, and wrinkle the Integmnent of the Forehead transversely. 13 Just above the Eoot of the Nose. OEBITO-OCULAB, EEGIOlf. 13 Ten; Orbicularis Palpebrarum, Corrugator SupercUii, Tensor Tarsi, Levator Palpebrae Superioris, Rectus superior, inferior, Intemus et Extemus, Obliquus Superior et Inferior. 14 Orbicularis Palpebrarum, Corrugator Supercilii, and Tensor Tarsi. 15 The Orbicularis Palpebrarum arises from the internal angular process of the Frontal Bone, the Nasal Pro- cess of the upper Maxillary Bone and from the Tendo Oculi, and is inserted into the same parts from which it arose : its action is to close the Eye-lid and assist in conveying the Tears towards the Puncta Lachrymalia. 16 The Corrugator Supercilii arises fi-om the inner extremity of the Superciliary Eidge of the Frontal Bone, and is inserted or becomes blended with the Fibres of the preceding Muscle, about the middle of the Orbital arch: its action is to draw the Eyebrows together, and wrinkle the Integument of the Forehead longitu- dinally. 17 The Tensor Tarsi arises fi-om the small Pidge on the Orbital Plate of the Os Unguis vel Lachrymale, and passing over the Lachrymal Sac divides into two slips which lie in the Lachrymal Canals and ai-e inserted in the Tarsal Cartilage. 18 The Levator Palpebra) Superioris arises from the upper margin of the Optic Foramen, and Fibrous Sheath of the Optic Nei-ve; and is inserted into the fore part and upper Border of the Tarsal Cartilage; its action is to raise the Eyelid. 19 The Pectus Superior arises like the preceding Muscle from the upper margin of the Optic Foramen and Fibrous Sheath of the Optic Nerve; and is inserted into the Sclerotic Coat at the upper surface of the Globe of the Eye.