212 ANSWEES TO QTTESTIONS of the Poot and Toes, internal and external Plantar Arteries. 95 At the commencement it is situated between the Tibia and Fibula; it then passes obliquely downwards and inwards, behind the inner Ankle to j^the concavity of the Os Calcis. 96 Tibialis Posticus, Plexor Longus Digitorum. 97 Its upper half is covered by the Soleus and Gastroc- nemius, and, lower down, only by the deep Fascia of the Leg and the Integument. 98 Its accompanying Veins (Venae Comites) and the post- erior Tibial Nerve. 99 The Peroneal, Muscular, and the nutritious Artery of the Tibia. 100 From the posterior Tibial Artery, nearly two inches below the origin of the latter Artery. 101 At first obliquely outwards to the Fibula, it then descends perpendicularly along the inner border of this Bone until it arrives at the lower part of the Inter- osseous Ligament, where it divides into two Branches —the anterior and posterior Peroneal Arteries. 102 "No; according to some, the anterior Peroneal is only a Branch of the Peroneal, whilst the latter is continued over the Joint to the external surface of the Os Calcis. 103 By piercing the Interosseous Ligament at the lower third of the Leg, running on the anterior surface of the Fibula, beneath the Peroneus Tertius Muscle to within about two inches of the outer Malleolus; it then divides into several Branches which pass beneath the Extensor Tendons. 104 To the Dorsum and outer part of the Foot. 105 It inosculates with the external Malleolar and Tarsal Branches; the former derived from the anterior Tibial, and the latter fi-om the Dorsal Arteiy. 106 It continues in its original course along the posterior aspect of the outer ankle to the outer surface of the Os Calcis, where it terminates in small Branches which inosculate with the Tarsal, anterior Peroneal, and external Plantar Branches. 107 To the Soleus and deep Flexors on the posterior aspect of the Leg, e.ff. Flexor Longus Digitorum, Flexor Pollicis Pedis. 108 It enters the posterior surface of the Bone obliquely from below upwards.