ON HUMAK AKATOirr. 185 30 The Trachea, Oesophagus, Thoracic Duct, the Cardiac Plexus, and the Eecurrent Branch of the first Nerve. 31 The left Carotid and Arteria Innominata. 33 The relick of the Arterial Duct, the right Pulmonary Ai'tery, left Bronchus, and Eecurrent Nerve. 33 It divides into two great Branches: the Thoracic and Abdominal Aorta. 34 It is situated to the left side of the Vertebral Column above the Diaphragm. 85 Prom the upper border of the fourth Dorsal Vertebra of the left side to the front of the last Dorsal Vertebra. 36 The (Esophagus, the Eoot of the left Lung, the Peri- cardium, and right Pneumogastric Nerve. 37 The Vertebr£e and smaller Azygos Vein. 38 The Thoracic Duct and CEsophagus. 39 The Pleura throughout its whole length. •40 Itentersthe Abdomenbetweenthe Crura of the Diaphragm and descends towards the left side of the Vertebrae, extending from the front of the last Dorsal Vertebra to the left side of the fourth Ltimbar Vertebra, where it terminates in the common Iliac Arteries. 41 The Solar Plexus, the Pancreas, the Splenic Vein, the transverse portion of the Duodenum, the left Eenal Vein, a Pold of Peritoneum (Mesentery), and the Aortic Plexus. 42 The Lumbar Vertebrae, Lumbar Veins, and Thoracic Duct. 43 Vena Cava, Vena Azygos, and right semilunar Ganglion. 44 The Sympathetic Nerve and left semilunar Ganglion. 45 The Coeliac, two Mesenteric, and the Sacra Media. 46 The Coronary. 47 The Arteria Innominata (Brachio-cephalic, or common Trunk of the right Carotid and right Sub-clavian), the left Carotid, and the left Sub-clavian. 48 The Bronchial, Pericardial, (Esophageal,and Inter-costal. 49 Into two divisions: Visceral and Parietal. 50 The Caeliac Axis (which forms the Gastric, Hepatic, and Splenic Arteries), the superior and inferior Mesen- teric, the Eenal, the Supra-renal, and the Spermatic Arteries. 51 The Phrenic, Lumbar, and middle Sacral Arteries. 52 By dividing into the two common Iliac Arteries, opposite the left side of the body of the fourth Lumbar Vertebra, f 2