267 OK HUMAN AKATOMY. 50 To tlie deep Plexors on the posterior Aspect of the Leg. 51 To the Integument on the inner and under part of the Heel. 52 The internal. 53 That of its Artery, between the Flexor Brevis Digitorum and Abductor Pollicis, and divides opposite the bases of the Metatarsal Bones into four Digital Branches, which supply both sides of the three inner Toes and the inner side of the fourth Toe, similar to the Digital Branches of the Median Nerve. 54 No; the inner Branch to the Great Toe is undivided, whilst the others Bifurcate at the Clefts. 55 Yes; Muscular, Cutaneous, and Articular. 56 Like the internal Plantar Nerve, it follows the course of its Artery, and supplies the two remaining Digital Branches—one of which is undivided and supplies the outer border of the Little Toe, and the other, which Bifiu'cates at the Cleft, supplies the adjoixdng sides of the two outer Toes, similar to the Digital Branches of the Ulnar Nerve. 57 In the Deep Layer of Muscles of the Sole of the Poot. 58 According to some Anatomists, into two Sets—a Super- ficial and Deep; the former supplying the Digital Branches, and the latter accompanying the Arch of the external Plantar Artery, supplies most of the Interossei, the Transversalis Pedis, and the two outer Lumbricales Muscles, and terminates internally in the Adductor Pollicis Muscle. 59 Yes; to the Integument of the Sole and outer border of the Foot. 60 The last Digital Branch of the internal Plantar Nerve. 61 This Nerve, which commences at the Bifurcation of the external Popliteal or Peroneal Nerve just below the Head of the Fibula, courses inwards beneath the Ex- tensor Longus Digitorum to reach the outer side of the anterior Tibial Ai'tery near the middle of the Leg, and follows the course of this Vessel along the Foot . (Dorsalis Pedis Artery) to the first Interosseous Space, where it terminates on the surface by distributing Branches to the adjoining sides of the great and second Toes. 62 Yes, Muscular and Articular; the former supplying in the Leg the Tibialis Anticus and Extensor Longus Digitorum, and, on the Dorsum of the Foot, a Tarsal