231 OIT nUMAN ANATOMY. 3 They accompany the deep Vessels of the lower extremity, and join the various Lymphatic Glands in their course, 4 Into two sets, an upper and a lower, the former situated over the line of Poupart's Ligament, and the latter about the Saphenous opening of the Fascia Lata. 5 Lymphatics from the Abdomen and superficial parts of the Genital Organs, and superficial Lymphatics of the lower extremity. 6 The anterior and posterior Tibial, Peroneal, Popliteal, Gluteal, &c. Sectioit XLIX.—the NEEYOTJS SYSTEM. 1 Into two parts, the Cerebro-Spinal and the Sympathetic. THE BRAIN AKD ITS COVEEINGS. 2 The Cerebrum, Cerebellum, Pons Varolii, Medulla Ob- longata and Membranes together constitute the En- cephalon. 3 The largest part of the Encephalon, and consists of two Hemispheres which are partly separated by the great longitudinal Eissirre. 4 Its upper surface is convex and its lower irregular, the latter divided into three Lobes. 5 Into an anterior, a middle, and a posterior Lobe. 6 Triangular, and rests on the Orbital Plate of the Os Erontis. n The first Cranial Nerve, (Olfactory). 8 It is situated in the middle Fossa of the base of the Skull. 9 A portion of the Dura Mater called Tentorium CerebeUi. 10 This surface is marked by Tortuous Eminences, called Convolutions vel Gyri. 11 The Sulci or Airactuosities of the Brain. 12 Two substances; an external, called the grey, Cortical, or Cineritious substance; and an internal, called the white, or Medullary substance. 13 This substance forms the thin Lamella over the Convo- lutions and dips down into the Afractuosities. 14 Of a milk-white hue, and constitutes the internal Cerebral mass. 15 Into two sets, according to some Anatomists, Diverging and Converging; and into three according to others. Diverging, Transverse, and Longitudinal. 16 They proceed from the three divisions of the MeduUa-ob- longata to every part of the Cerebral surface. 17 The anterior Pyramid, the lateral Tract or Column, and the Eestiform Body.