ON HUMAJT AXATOJir. 95 the i^rcccding iluscle, also a little from the Ulna, and is inserted into the base of the first Phalanx of the Thumb. 51 From the Interosseous Membrane and jiosterior surface of the Ulna, and passing through a separate Cclnal in the Annular Ligament, is inserted into the base of the last Phalanx of the Thumb. 52 From the Interosseous Membrane and the Ulna, internal to and just beloAV the preceding Muscle, and is in- serted with the common Extensor Tendon into the base of the second Phalanx of the Index Finger. MUSCLES OP THE HAND. 53 Into those of the Thiunb, Little Finger, and Palm; or external, internal, and Palmar. 54 Abductor PoUicis, Flexor Ossis Metacarpi vel Opponens Pollicis, Flexor Brevis Pollicis and Adductor Pollicis. 55 From the Os Scaphoides and Aimular Ligament, and is inserted into the base of the first Phalanx of the Thumb. 56 From the Os Trapezivmi and Annular Ligament, and is inserted into the whole length of the anterior surface of the Metacarpal Bone. 57 This Muscle arises by two Heads, the outer or smaller Head from the Os Trapezium and Annular Ligament, and the inner Head from the Os Trapezoidcs, Os Magnum, & the bases of the second and third Meta- carpal Bones, and is inserted into the sides and base of the first Phalanx of the Thumb. 58 From two-thirds of the anterior surface of the Metacar- pal Bone of the Middle Finger, and is inserted into the inner side of the base of the fii'st Phalanx of the Thumb. Palmaris Brevis, Abductor Minimi Digiti, Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti, & Adductor vol Opponens Minimi Digiti. 59 From the Palmar Fascia and passing inwards is inserted into the Integument of the Hand ; its inner side. 60 From the Pisiform Bone where its Fibres are blended with those of the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris, and is inserted conjoiatly with the Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti into the base of the first Phalanx of the Little Finger. 61 From the Unciform Bone and Annular Ligament, and is inserted conjointly with the preceding Muscle. 62 From the Unciform Bone and Annular Ligament, and is inserted into the whole length of the Ulnar or inner side of the Metacarpal Bone of the Little Finger.