OK HUMAK AKATOMT. 213 109 The Tibialis Posticus. riiANTAE ARTEEIES. 110 The Terminal cli^dsions of the posterior Tibial Artery. 111 Trom their position into external and internal. 112 The external, which appears to be the continuation of the posterior Tibial. 113 It first passes obliquely outwards across the Sole of the Foot to the base of the last Metatarsal Bone, it then turns transversely inwards to the first Metatarsal Space, where it terminates by inosculating with the Communicating Branch of the Dorsal Artery. 114 The horizontal, or that portion of the external Plantar Artery, which extends from the base of the last Meta- tarsal I3one to the interval or space between the first and second^Metatarsal Bones, where it joins the Com- municating Branch of the Dorsal Artery and forms the Plantar Ai-ch (called the Great Plantar Arch by Harrison) 115 Between the third and fourthLayers of Plantar Muscles. 116 The Muscular, Digital, and the three posterior Perfora- ting Branches. 117 Pour; which arise from the curve of the Plantar Arch. 118 This a single Branch, and supplies the outer border of the little Toe. 119 These Branches divide at the cleft between the three outer Metatarsal Spaces, and supply the adjacent sides of these three Spaces. 120 Each Digital Artery at its Bifurcation gives off a small Branch called the anterior Perforating Branch. 121 By inosculating with the Interosseous Branches of the Metatarsal (derived from the Dorsal) on the Dorsum of the Foot. 122 From the imder part of the Plantar Arch, 123 They pass upwards to theDorsum of the Foot between the Heads of the outer Dorsal Interosseous Muscles, through the three outer Inter-metatarsal Spaces. 124 By inosculating with the Curve formed by the Meta- tarsal Branch of the Dorsal Artery. 125 It passes forwards from its Bifurcation, along the inner border of the Foot, under cover of the Abductor Pol- licis Pedis to the Boot of the great Toe, to which it is distributed, it also supplies the inner border of the Foot. 126 By inosculating with the external Plantar Artery (so as to form a superficial Plantar Arch; Harrison).