OIT HXTlTAIir AUTATOMY. 67 18 From the anterior surface of the upper part of the Humerus to the anterior part of the Coronoid Process of the Ulna and the Orbicular Ligament. 19 The Brachialis Anticus. 20 From the posterior surface of the Humerus aboYe the Olecranon Fossa to the anterior part of the base of the Olecranon. 21 The Triceps. 22 The Annular or Orbicular Ligament, SjmoTial Mem- brane, Interosseous Ligament, and roimd Ligament. 23 This sti'ong baud -vvhich sxu-rounds the Head of the Eadius is attached by each extremity to the anterior and pos- terior Borders of the lesser Sigmoid Cavity. 24 This broad, thin, fibrous layer, is attached to the con- tiguous margins of the Ulna and Eadius, forming a partial Septum between the anterior and posterior Muscles of the Forearm. 25 The anterior Interosseous which is derived from the Ulnar Artery. 26 This Ligament, sometimes called Oblique, extends from the base (in front) of the Coronoid Process of the Ulna to the Eadius below its Tubercle. 27 The anterior-inferior and posterior-iirferior Ligaments, the triangular Fibro-cartilage, and Sjoiovial Mem- brane called " Membrana Sacciformis." 28 This Cartilage, in place of a Ligament, is attached to the Eidge on the inner surface of the Styloid Process of the Ulna by its apex, and by its base to the edge of the Eadius. 29 The internal and external lateral Ligaments and the anterior and posterior Ligaments. 30 From the Styloid Process of the Ulna to the two inner Bones of the first row of the Carpus, (Os Cuneiforme et Pisiforme). 31 From the Styloid Process of the Eadius to the upper part of the Os Scaphoides. 32 This thin Membranous Layer extends from the lower part of the Eadius to the three outer Bones of the first row of the Carpus, (Os Scaphoides, Os Semi- limare, and Os Cuneiforme). 33 This thin Membranous Layer extends from the lower end of the Eadius to the first row of the Carpus. 34 Dorsal, Palmar, Interosseous, and the anterior Annular Ligament, also five Synovial Membranes.