142 AXSWEES TO QTTESTIONS 183 A pulpy, soft, and dark yellow substance, divided into Lobes. 184 A groat number of minute Tubes, whicli do not com- municate -with each other, but end in Loops or Ctecal Pouches (Tubuli Seminifcri). 185 They vary; some contain only one, others several. 186 According to Monro, between three and four hundred in each Testis, and their length about sixteen feet. 187 By a closed extremity, as just stated. 188 Sti-aight; hence called Tubuli Eecti vel Vasa Eecta, which, according to their, situation, constitute the the second order of Seminal Vessels, between twenty and thii'ty in number, 189 The anterior part. 190 The Blood-vessels. 191 The Kete-testis, from ten to fourteen in number. 192 Vasa Efferentia, which, from their convolutions, form conical masses called Coni Vasculosi. 193 From ten to thirty in number. 194 The common Excretory Duct vel Vas Deferens. 195 The Epididymis constitutes the first part of the Vas Deferens which is in contact with the Testis; it consists of a single tube much convoluted, its fii'st or larger extremity which is called the Head vel Globus Major is opposite to the upper part of the Testis, and the lower exti'emity which is called Cauda vel Globus Minor is opposite to the lower part of the Testis, the narrow intervening part is called the Body. 196 The Testis, by the Vasa Eiferentia which open into it. 197 Small Eibrous Bands derived from the Tunica Albuginea. 198 The Excretory Duct of the Testis which extends from the Testis to its termination in the Urethi'a. 199 The first part of it which is called Epididymis is tor- tuous, & the remainder which forms the Vas Deferens loses this flexuous appearance; it extends fi'om the ter- mination of the Globus Minor of the Epididymis as- cending on the inner side of the Testis along the posterior part of the Spermatic Cord and its canal, through the Abdominal Eing where it passes inwards by the side and under part of the Bladder to termi- nate at the base of the Prostate Gland where it forms with the Duct of the Vesicula Seminalis, the common Seminal or Ejaculatory Duct which opens in the Pros- tatic portion of the Urethra as already noticed.