79 ON HTTirATT ANATOMY. ANTEEIOE EEGIOK, 34 From the Transverse Process of tlie Atlas, and is in- serted into the rough, surface of the Os Occipitis, ex- ternal to the Condjde. 35 From the anterior Tubercles of the Transverse Processes of four Cervical Vertebraj—third, fourth, fifth, & sixth, and is inserted into the Basilar Process of the Occipital Bone, anterior to the Poramen Magnum. 36 Prom the fore part of the lateral mass of the Atlas, and Koot of its Transverse Process, and is inserted into the Basilar Process. 37 This Muscle consists of two parts, internal and external, the internal or lower pai't arises fi-om the bodies of the two upper Dorsal and two lower Cervical Vertebrae; the external part arises from the upper Border of the Transverse Processes of four Cervical Vertebraj, thii'd, foiirth, fifth, and sixth, and ai-e inserted into the anterior Tubercle of the Atlas, and the lower Border of the bodies of the first four Cervical Vertebra. XAfiYNGEAL EEGION. LmyUX. 38 The Larynx is the chief organ for the production of the Voice: it forms a permanently open passage for res- piration, and gives attachment to Muscles. 39 At the upper and anterior part of the Neck, at the base of the Tongue, just below the Hyoid Bone. 40 Cartilages and Ligaments. CARTILAGES OP THE LAETNX. 41 Thyroid, Cricoid, and the two Aiytsenoid Cartilages. 42 Pomum Adami. 43 Epiglottis, on either side of which is the Cuneiform Cartilage. 44 This (somewhat triangular) Pibro-cartilage, is situated in front of the opening of the Larynx, which it closes during the act of Deglutition, assuming a horizontal position; and dming respiration it assumes a vertical position. 45 The opening into the Laryngeal Cavity. 46 These according to some Anatomists are divided into two groups, those which connect it to the Hyoid Bone and the Trachea, and those by which the several pieces are connected to each other. 47 The Crico-thp-oideus, Crico-aryta^noideus Posticus, Crico arytaenoideus Lateralis, Thyro-aryttenoideus, and the single one in the middle, the Aiytsenoideus.