197 ON HtrMAN ANATOMr. 130 Its upper half is in relation with the superficial Muscles of the Forearm, viz: Pronator Radii Teres, Elexor Carpi Eadialis, Flexor Sublimis Digitorum, and Palm- aris Longus, and, below the Artery, hecomes superficial where it lies between the Tendons of the Flexor Carpi Ulaaris and Flexor Digitorum Sublimis, being coyered merely by the common Integument and Fascia of the Arm. 131 Above, the Brachialis Anticus and Flexor Profundus Digitorum; and below, the Pronator Quadratus and Annular Ligament. 132 Flexor Carpi Ulnaris, and the Ulnar 'Nevye at the middle of the Forearm accomj)anies the Ulnar Artery. 133 The Flexor Digitorum Sublimis. 134 The Venae Comites, one on either side the Artery. 135 To its inner side for about one inch is the Median Nerve, which is soon separated from it by the origin of the Pronator Eadii Teres, between the Heads of which Muscle it passes. 136 Like the Eadial, they may be arranged into three sets, viz: those of the Forearm, Wrist, and Hand. 137 The anterior and posterior Ulnar Recurrent, the anterior and posterior Interosseous and Muscular. 138 It inosculates beneath the Pronator Radii Teres with. the Anastomotica Magna of the Brachial. 139 It inosculates with the AnastomoticaMagna and inferior Profunda. 140 The anterior and posterior Interosseous Arteries. 141 It inosculates with the posterior Interosseous, also the Carpal Branches of the Radial and Ubiar. 142 Yes; several ofi'sets—one accompanies the Median Werve, called the Median Artery. 143 It inosculates with the anterior Interosseous and Carpal Branches. 144 Like the anterior Interosseous, it gives off several offsets—the chief of which is the Recurrent Branch, which inosculates with the superior Profunda of the Brachial. 145 The anterior and posterior Carpal Branches (or Palmar and Dorsal,) and the Digital Branches. 146 They inosculate with similar offsets from the Radial Artery. 147 Four; which arise from the convexity of the super- ficial Palmar Arch. a2 •