OIT iniMAN' ANATOMT. 4 By Kamiisculi on the Dorsal and OTiter Aspect of tho Thumb and Index Finger. 5 It ascends along the outer border of the "Wrist and Eadial Border of the Forearm to the bend of the Elbow, ■where it gives rise to the Cephalic Vein, ia which it terminates. 6 No; but from the external Branch of the Median Vein (Median Cephalic). 7 Two : an anterior and a posterior. 8 By Eamusculi on the anterior siu-face of the Wrist. 9 It ascends on the inner side of the Forearm to the bend of the Elbow, where it unites mth the inner Branch of the Median (Median-basilic) to fonn the BasUic Vein. 10 By small Eadicles or Eamusculi on the back of the Hand which unite to form a lai'ge Branch called Vena Sal- vatella. 11 From the fourth Metacarpal Space it ascends along the inner or Ulnar border and posterior Aspect of the of the Forearm to the bend of the Elbow, where it bends forward to terminate in the anterior Ulnar Vein. 12 By the union of several small Branches on the anterior and lower part of the Forearm. 13 It proceeds along the middle of the Forearm to near the Elbow, where it divides into two Branches—an in- ternal and an external Branch, the former is called the Median Basilic Vein, and the latter the Median Cephalic Vein. 14 Tes; a Communicating [Branch from one of the deep Veins beneath the Fascia. 15 From the point of division of the Median Vein its internal Branch passes obliquely inwards, across the Brachial Ai'tery, between the Biceps and Pronator Eadii Teres Muscles, and unites with the posterior Ulnar Vein to form the BasOic Vein on the inner border of the Arm. 16 From the point of division of the Median Vein its ex- ternal Branch passes obliqely outwards, between the Biceps and Supinator Eadii Longus, and unites with the Eadial Vein to form the Cephalic Vein of the Arm. 17 This Vein is continuous with the common Ulnar Vein at the bend of the Elbow. 18 It ascends along the inner border of the Biceps Muscle to the middle of the Arm, and pierces the deep Fascia to reach the ilxilla, where it terminates in the Axil- lary Vein.