228 AiTSWEns to qttestioks 15 It commences in the Abdomen by a triangular enlarge- ment (Receptaculum Chyli) and termijiates in the angle of union formed by the left Subclavian and left internal Jugular Veins. 16 About 18 inches in length, and extends from opposite the Body of the second Lumbar Vertebra through the Aortic opening in the Diaphragm between the Aorta and Vena Azygos, when opposite the second Dorsal Vertebra it passes beneath the Aortic Arch to the left side of (Esophagus along which it ascends to the Boot or lower part of the l^eck, corresponding to the seventh or sixth Cervical Vertebra. 17 At its upper part. 18 Yes; but extremely rare. 19 No, it often Bifurcates opposite the seventh or eighth Dorsal Vertebra, but soon re-unites. 20 By two Semilunar Valves. 21 At its commencement it receives four or five Lymphatic Vessels which unite into one Cavity the Receptaculum Chyli, it also receives the Chyliferous Trunks, and in the Thorax it receives the Lymphatic Vessels of its Parietes {i.e. those from the Sternal and Intercostal Glands), and those of its Viscera, as the Lungs, the Heart; lastly, it receives the Lymphatics from the left side of the Head and 'Neck, left Upper Extremity, Trachea, and (Esophagus. 22 It is situated on the right of the Aorta. BIGHT LYMPHATIC DXTCT. 23 By the union of the Lymphatic Vessels from the right Upper Extremity, and the corresponding side of the Head and Thorax. 24 About three-quai-ters of an inch in length, and opens in the angle of union of the right Subclavian and the right internal Jugular Veins. 25 By two Senulimar Valves. XTJIPHATIC GLAITDS. 26 Small oval or somewhat rounded bodies, thi'ough which the Absorbent Vessels convey their contents, ere they terminate in the common Tninks. 27 In various parts of the Body, e.ff. below the Occiput, behind the Ears, below the Maxilla, side of the Neck, beloind the Clavicle, in the AxiUa, near the Elbow, in the Thorax, in the Abdomen, in the Inguinal Eegion, Pelvis, Popliteal Kegion, &c., &c.