OiSr injlkl-VN AKATOMY. 85 four or five inferior Cer-sical Vertebrfe, and are in- serted in tlie Spinous Processes of all the Vertebrte, bet-ween the Atlas and last Sacral Vertebra. 36 These Muscles are described as existing in the Cervical, Dorsal, and sometimes the Lumbar Regions; in the Cervical they occupy the intervals between the Trans- verse Processes, and composed of seven pairs; in the Dorsal they are single and occupy the intervals be- tween the Transverse Processes of the last four or five Dorsal Vertebrre. 37 These Muscles, twelve on either side, arise each, except the first, from the apex and lower Border of the Trans- verse Process of a Dorsal Vertebra, and is inserted into the rough impression along the upper Border of the Eib below; between the Tubercle and angle. 3 8 From the Transverse Process of the last Cervical Vertebra, and is inserted into the outer siu'face of the first Eib. irtFSCLES OP THE THOEAX. 39 The Intercostales Externi et Interna and the Triangularis Sterni. 40 Eleven on either side. 41 An external Intercostal Muscle is fixed to the outer mar- gin of each pair of Ribs; extending from the Tuber- cles to near the external extremity of their Cartilages. 42 Eleven on either side. 43 An internal Intercostal Muscle is fixed to the inner mar- gin or Border of each pair of Eibs; extending between the true Ribs from the Sternum, and in the rest from the anterior extremities of their Cartilages to the angles of the Ribs. 44 Within the cavity of the Thorax immediately behind the Costal Cartilages. 15 From the inner sui-face of the Xiphoid or Ensiform Car- tilage, lower third of the Sternum, and from the Sternal extremities of three or four Costal Cartilages, and is inserted, by fleshy Digitations, into the second, third, fourth, and fifth true Ribs, at the union of the Bone and Cartilage; also into the Aponeurosis in the Intercostal spaces. 46 The Transversalis Abdominis. MUSCLES OP THE ABDOMEX. 47 Obliquus Extemus et Internus, Cremaster, Transversalis, Rectus, Pyramidalis, Quadratus Lumborum, Psoas Parvus and Diaphragm.