50 ANSWEES TO QTJE6TI0KS 278 These Bones are the shortest, their Dorsal surfaces are smooth for the attachment of the IS ails, and tlieii- Palmar surfaces rough. 279 The Metacarpal Bones and the second row of Phalanges. 280 The first and thii-d rows. 281 Those of the second row. 282 The first Phalanges at their bases or upper Metacarpal extremities. 283 To the base or Metacai-pal extremity of the first Phalanx are the insertions of the Adductor Pollicis Plexor Brevis PoUicis, Abductor Pollicis and Exten- sor Primi Intemodii, to the second, third, and foui'th, the Palmar and Dorsal Interossei, and to the base of the last Phalanx of this row the insertions of Abductor Minimi Digiti, Plexor Brevis Minimi Digiti, and one Palmar Interosseous. 284 To the base or Metacaq^al extremity of the last Phalanx of the Thumb are the insertions of the Plexor Longus Pollicis, and Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis, to the other Phalanges, the insertions of the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum vel Perforatus, and Extensor Communis Digitorum; the Extensor Minimi Digiti joins the common Tendon in the two last Phalanges of the little Pinger. 285 The insertions of the Plexor Profimdus Digitorum vel Perforans, and the Extensor Commimis Digitorum. 286 Into the common Tendon of the Index Pinger. 287 Two : one for the body and one for the base. OSSA SESAMOIDEA. 288 Small Osseous masses developed in certain Tendinous extremities, e.g. in the uj^per extremity two exist in each inserted Tendon of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis at the articulation of the first Metacarpal Bone, with the first Phalanx in the lower extremity is the Patella developed in the common Tendon of the Quadiiceps Extensor Muscle, one exists in the Tendon of the Peroneus Longus Muscle, as it passes through the Groove or depression in the Os Cuboides, another exists in the Tendon of the Tibialis Posticus Muscle beneath the ai-ticulatiou of the Astragalus, two exist in the first Metatarso-phalangeal Articidation on its Palmar surface, developed in the Tendinous insertions of the Flexor Bre^-is PoUicis Pedis Muscle. 289 Flexor Longus Pollicis Pedis.