204 ANSTVEES TO QUESTIONS around its accompanying Vein, and on aniving at the Placenta, divides into numerous Brandies which, ramify throughout this vascular, spongy texture. 19 From their position into superior and inferior. 20 To the body and upper part of the Bladder. 21 The posterior part of the Bladder, Prostate, andVesiculaj Seminales. 22 To the Buttock. 23 Through the great Ischiatic ITotch between the Pyri- formis and Coccygeus Muscles. 24 The Coccygeal, one to the great Ischiatic Nerve called Comes Nervi Ischiatici, and some small Muscular Branches to the back of the Hip and Thigh. 25 The Coccygeus and Pyriformis Muscles. 26 To the Perineiun and Genital Organs, entering the Perinseal Space through the small Sacro-sciatic Notch. 27 It loasses downwards anterior to the Sciatic Artery to the great Sacro-sciatic Notch, where it escapes from the Pelvis, it then winds over the Spine of the Ischium, and re-enters the Pelvis through the small Sacro- sciatic Notch, and is distributed to the Perinseal Space. 28 The Branches within the Pelvis are very small, and are distributed to the posterior part of the Bladder, the Vesiculse Seminales, and Prostate Gland. 29 No; it is frequently supplied by the Pudic ere this Artery emerges from the Pelvis. 30 To the Eectum and Bladder, and in the Pemale to the Vagina. 31 It inosculates with the inferior and superior Hsemor- rhoidal Branches, the former derived from the Pudic, and the latter from the inferior Mesenteric Arteries. 32 The inferior or external Hsemorrhoidal, the superficial and transverse Perineasal, the Artery of the Bulb (Arteria Bulbosi), the Artery of the Cavernous |, Structure of the Penis (Arteria Corporis Cavernosi), and the Dorsal Artery of the Penis (Arteria Dorsalis Penis). 33 To the Muscles and parts around the Anus. ^ 34 By inosculating with the superior Hasmorrhoidal Branch (derived from the inferior Mesenteric), it also communi- cates with its feUow of the opposite side. 35 To the Perineum and Scrotum. 36 By inosculating with the superficial external Pudic Branch, which is derived from the Femoral Artery.