101 ON nUJTAN ASTATOMT. 55 From a depression on the outer snrfacc of the external Condyle of the Peinur below the external lateral Ligament, and is inserted into the posterior surface of the Tibia, above the oblique line and just above the origin of the Soleus. 56 Below the Soleus from the lower two-thirds of the pos- terior surface of the Fibula, Inter-muscular Septum, and is inserted, after passing the Groove in the Astragalus and crossing the Sole of the Foot, into the base of the last Phalanx of the Great Toe. 57 From one half of the posterior surface of the Tibia, i.e. fi'om the oblique line to within three or four inches of the lower end of the Bone, and is inserted, after dividing into four Tendons, into the base of the last Phalanx of the four lesser Toes. 58 From the adjacent sides of the Tibia and Fibula, for about three-fifths of the Bones also the Interosseous Membrane, and is inserted into the iimer surfaces of the Scaphoid and internal Cuneiform Bones, and some of the Fibres are occasionally prolonged to the second and third Metatarsal Bones. 59 The Interosseous Membrane. 60 The Peroneus Longus et Brevis. What is the origin and insertion of the Peroneus Longus ? From the Head and upper two-thirds of the outer sur- face of the Fibula, and is inserted (after passing be- hind the outer Malleolus and through a Groove in the outer border of the Os Cuboides), into the base of the Metatarsal Bone of the Great Toe, and by a few Fibres into the internal Cuneiform Bone. 61 From the middle two-thirds of the outer surface of the Fibula and Inter-muscular Septum, and is inserted into the base of the Metatarsal Bone of the Little Toe. 62 Into a Dorsal and Plantar Kegion. 63 The Extensor Brevis Digitorum, and four Interossei Dorsales. 64 From the outer surface of the Os Calcis (near its articu- lation with the Os Cuboides), and is inserted, after dividing into four Tendons, into the base of the first Phalanx of the Great Toe, and the others into the sides of the long Extensor Tendon of the second, third, and fourth Toes. 65 They arise each by two Heads from the lateral surfaces of the two Metatarsal Bones, between which they are