oil HTUMAN ANATOMY. 73 20 The Ecctus Inferior arises from the Tendon common to it, the internal and external Eectus and the Fibrous Sheath of the Optic Nerve, and is inserted into the Sclerotic Coat at the under surface of the Globe of the Eye, about a quaiier of an inch from the margin of the Cornea. 21 The Eectus Intemus arises from the common attach- ment and Fibrous Sheath of the Oj)tic Nerve, and is inserted into the Sclerotic Coat at the inner surface of the Globe of the Eye, about a quarter of an inch fi-om the margin of the Cornea. 2i2 The Eectus Externus aiises by two Heads (an upper and a lower), the upper (with the Eectus Superior), from the upper margin of the Optic Foramen, and the lower (with the Eectus Inferior) from the common Tendon, and from the lower margin of the Sphenoidal Fissure near to the inner end, and is inserted into the Sclerotic Coat on the outer surface of the Ball of the Eye, about a quarter of an inch fr'om the margin of the Cornea. 23 The Nasal Branch of the Ophthalmic Nerve, and the third and sixth Nerves; also the Ophthalmic Yein. 24 The Obliquus Superior arises fi'om the imier margin of the Optic Foramen and Fibrous Sheath of tlie Optic Nerve, and is inserted into the Sclerotic Coat behind the middle of the Eyeball, near the entrance of the Optic Nerve. 25 The Obliquus Inferior arises from the inner margin of the upper Maxillary Bone, external to the Lachrymal Groove, and is inserted into the Sclerotic Coat at the outer and posterior part of the Globe of the Eye, between the external Eectus and the superior Eectus. NASAL REGION. 26 Pyramidalis Nasi, Compressor Naris, Levator Alse Nasi, and Depressor Alaj N asi. 27 The Pyramidalis Nasi is a small slip of Muscular Fibres which appears as a prolongation of the Occipito- frontalis Muscle, and is inserted into the Aponeurosis common to the Compressor Naris. 28 Triangular, and arises by its apex or point fi'om the Canine Fossa of the upper Maxillary Bone, and is in- serted into the Aponeurosis common to its feEow of the opposite side.