AXSTVEES TO QITESTIOXg 48 243 The second row of the Carpus, viz.: Trapezium, Trapezoides, Os Magnum, and Os Unciforme. 244 The Trapezium, 245 The Trapezium, Trapezoides, Os Magnum, and the third Metacai-pal Bone. 246 The Os Magnum and its fcllo-w on either side, viz.: the second and fourth. 247 The Os Magnum, Os TJncifonne and its fellow on either side, viz.: the third and last. Q48 The Os Unciforme and the fourth Metacarpal Bone. 249 The second. 250 Thefii-st. 251 By its peculiar Concavo-convex or saddle-shaped articu- lar sui'face at its upper exti'emity, con'esponding to the Concavo-convex or saddle-shaped STirface on the Trapezium, also by its shaft or body being shorter and broader than the others. 252 Place the Bone with its base looking towards yourself and the Dorsal aspect upwards; the articular suiface on the side of the base will be dii'ccted from the side to which the Bone belongs. 253 Three; the insertions of the Flexor Ossis Mctacarpi vel Opponens Pollicis, and Extensor Ossis Mctacarpi (vel Abductor Longus) Pollicis, and the origLa of one Head of the first Dorsal Interosseous Muscle. 254 By its base or upper extremity presenting an imeven sui'face, which corresponds to the articular surfaces of the Trapezium, Trapezoides, and Os Magnum, and by its presenting only one lateral Facet which corres- ponds with that on the thii'd Metacaqjal Bone. 855 Place the Bone with the Base looking towards yourself and the Dorsal aspect upwards; the lateral ai'ticular surface will then be on the side to which it belongs. 256 The insertions of the Flexor Cai-pi Eadialis, and Ex- tensor Carju Eadialis Longior, and the origins of Dorsal and Palmar Interossei. 257 By the angular pi-ocess on the radial side of its base or upper extTemity, which gives insertion to the Exten- sor Carpi Eadialis Brevior Muscle. 258 Place the Bone with the base looking towards yourself and the Dorsal aspect upwards; the comer of the base which has no projection will then be on the side to which it belongs.