ON" HUMAN ANATOMY. 171 137 Yes, wHlst that Vessel is within the Temporal Bone. 138 Into the Meningeal and Pharyngeal Trunks, from thence to the internal Jugular Vein. 139 From several sources; its lining Membrane is supplied from the Tympanic Plexns, which is formed by the Tympanic Branch of the Glosso-phaiyngeal (or Jacob- son's jN'erve) with the Sympathetic Nerve; and the Muscles are supplied from the following sources, \iz: the Tensor Tympani is supplied with a Filament from one of the Cranial Granglia, called the Otic or Arnold's Ganglion; the Stapedius is supplied with Branches from the Facial; and the Laxator Tympani is supplied from a Branch of the Facial, viz. the Chorda Tympani Nerve. 140 The Chorda Tympani. lABTKINTH OR INTERNAL EAR. 141 In the Petrous portion of the Temporal Bone, between the Tympanum and the Meatus Auditorius Internus. 142 Two portions : a Membranous and an Osseous portion (the latter enclosing the former). 143 Into thi-ee parts, viz : the Vestibule, the semicircular Canals, and the Cochlea. 144 The triangular or oval Cavity of the Labyrinth. 145 Immediately within the inner Wall of the Tympanum. 146 Anteriorly, the Cochlea; and posteriorly, the Semi- circular Canals, i.e. the Vestibule occupies the middle of the Labyrinth. 147 Fenestra Ovalis, ScalaVestibuli, and the five Openings of the three semi-circular Canals. 148 The Opening of communication between the Tympanum and Vestibule, on its external "VVaU, as abeady adverted to in the descrij)tion of the Tympanimi. 149 The oval Aperture which leads into the Cochlea at the anterior and lower part of the Vestibule. 150 Thi-ee very small Osseous Tubes, which communicate with the Vestibule at both extremities. 151 According to their position, into superior vertical (CanaUs Semicircularis VerticaUs Superior), middle or posterior vertical (CanaHs Semicircularis Verticalis Posterior), and an inferior or horizontal Canal (Can- aUs Semicircularis Horizontalis). 1152 Ampidla. 1153 This Canal crosses the upper border of the Petrous Bone at right angles, and stands out or projects on