22900151299Med K10642THE iHotimt Housetoffe OR COMPRISING NEARLY ONE THOUSAND RECEIPTS FOR THE ECONOMIC AND JUDICIOUS PREPARATION OP EVERY MEAL OP THE DAY, AND THOSE FOR THE NURSERY AND SICK ROOM; WITH MINUTE DIRECTIONS FOR FAMILY MANAGEMENT IN ALL ITS BRANCHES. jFUusJtratcU fotti) iEngvabiiigS, INCLUDING THE MODERN HOUSEWIFE’S UNIQUE KITCHEN, AND MAGIC STOYE. BY ALEXIS SOYER, AUTHOR OF “ THE GASTRONOMIC REGENERATOR,” (REFORM CLUB.) THIRTIETH THOUSAND. LONDON: SIMPKIN, MARSHALL, & CO., STATIONERS’ HALL COURT; OLLIYIER, PALL MALL. 1853.The Author of the Gastronomic Regenerator, anxious to find a Companion for his first and only Son, who has enjoyed an uninterrupted success from his birth, has, after five months of extensive research, met with one in the Modern Menagere (Housewife), who, he trusts, will be deemed equally deserving of praise as her Mate, being confident that they both will live in most perfect harmony in every family where their services may be required. WELLCOME - STilUlE | Lir:!v.-:Y Coll. we If/'' 'mec Call No. Off •TO Begs to introduce herself, and hopes she may prove A Useful Adviser.*THE AUTHOR’S PREFACE. Having, perhaps very ungallantly and ungratefully, nearly ruined my celebrated heroine, Hortense, and obliged her to give up her cheerful villa at St. John’s Wood, where for nearly seven years she so highly enjoyed the pleasures of an easy life, and caused her to reside in a small, though neat little cottage, and be contented with rural simplicity,—will probably appear a very great calamity, and a source of continual unhappiness ; but on perusal of the following letters, exchanged between her and her inseparable friend, Eloise, my readers will perceive that, contrary to their expectation, she is still happy and quite in her element; and more likely from her humble cottage to benefit the lower class, by teaching them the results of her culinary study, of which she gives us so fair a sample in this edition; and probably at the end of the year 1853, she may be able to give the world a very cheap work for the benefit of that class, who really require the most guidance with regard to the eco- nomical management of plain domestic cookery. And no doubt, by the addition of a small piece of land to her property, she will be able to give advice to small farmers and the pea- santry, on the art of rearing poultry, keeping a cow, feeding and curing of pigs, making of butter and cheese, management of a kitchen garden, &c.; where, I am certain, knowing her economi- cal disposition, she will grow almost everything useful, and convert her picturesque habitation into a model farm-house in miniature. Richmond, December 20th, 1852.Camelia Cottage, Rugly, January, 1853. Dearest Eloise,— Excellent friend, it was with extreme grati- fication that I received your last note respecting another edition of the Modern Housewife, which will complete the thirtieth thousand book of our domestic work. Very little did we think, two or three years ago, while corresponding together on our domestic affairs and homely tribulations, that our culinary gossip would meet with such enthusiastic reception by the public at large; however, we cannot but be astonished, and remain grateful. I- beg to say that I am of the opinion of the Publishers, namely, that of introducing several homely receipts, and of illustrating the work, thereby giving it a type of embellishment and luxury worthy of a Christmas present or a New ^ ear s As these gentlemen appear, by your letter, to run very short of books, I shall not delay one moment writing and sending you the new matter, which I would advise them to classify at the end of the book, not interfering with thePREFATORY. bulk of the work, which is stereotyped, otherwise it might delay the printing. Among other novelties, I propose to introduce directions for the Carving of Poultry and Game, with Engravings; followed by some Cottage Re- ceipts for the Labouring Classes, including the Physiology of Tarts, Pies, and Pie-Crust; and, in closing the work, I cannot do better than add the Poor Man’s Cookery Book, and the description of the Great Model Soup Kitchen, erected in Dublin by our friend Mr. S., in the year of the famine, 1847. I shall also send you a Tendon Separator, with directions how to use it. If properly applied, no more turkey will ever be deposited in a lady’s lap by a nervous carver, nor cascade of gravy reach over the table to soil the laced pocket-handker- chief of a very prim lady. It possesses, also, a very great merit on the point of economy; for the Amphitrion who is guilty of carving game or poultry badly, pays dearly for the mangling of it. (See Addenda.) I suppose you have heard from your husband that Mr. B. has obtained a situation as head clerk on the Railway. Though our position, dearest, is far from being so flourishing as it hasPREFATORY. been for the last ten years, I assure you we are quite as happy, and more settled in mind. The comforts of a little cottage have easily made me forget the beautiful, but troublesome elegance of Biff on’s Villa. Here we have no one to pity us, on our recent and serious losses; but we enjoy health, quietness, and rural felicity, With most profound friendship, I am, dearest, always your Hortense. Dear Hortense,— Indeed you are a great woman and a profound philosopher. I am charmed with the spirit and the soundness of your judgment, after so many reverses of fortune, caused by the too bold speculation of your unfortunate but devoted husband. After all, one comfort, I fear, you must miss, and one, too, of daily occurrence—that is, the luxury of your table, in which you used to pride yourself so much; but excuse me, dearest, I perceive that I am following the example of those pretended friends whom you justly despise. They pity you! Useless conso- lation, without relief.PREFATORY. the hard work, and I the cooking. The little we Believe me, Hortense, it is with the heart of a sincere friend that Eloise admires you more than ever. Dear Eloise,— Nothing is more gratifying to the human mind than being able to recognise, among a myriad of acquaintances, a real friend, one whose kind heart follows you with pride, love, and respect through the vicissitudes of life. In you, estimable friend, I have found those extraordinary qualities so rarely bestowed by Providence on human beings —for example, I, by the same post, received two letters yesterday, one from you, the other from Mrs. Forster, the wealthy East India merchant’s wife; the latter was false as yours was sincere; her head and hands wrote to me, while you! your heart dic- tated and your soul wrote. But now to business, as my dear Mr. B. says. You think I miss my semi-sumptuous table of St. John’s Wood. It will astonish you when I say, Not at all! I now keep one servant only; an in- telligent, blooming country girl, who never smiles, but always laughs; she does what is usually calledPREFATORY. have on our table is culinary perfection; no dish is ever spoiled by being either under or over done— or too highly or too little seasoned. We have once a week a capital market at Coven- try, which is about seven miles from our rural resi- dence ; it is my hobby to go there regularly, and with my scientific knowledge of Cookery, I purchase most excellent provisions at a very low price, do you know why ? Because I choose articles that are not in demand; for, as I told you in our former cor- respondence,* every one, even poor men, on Sun- day will have a good joint of meat for his dinner, and leave, as they think, the inferior pieces on the hands of the butcher, who is glad to get rid of them at any price. As I mean to give you receipts how to use these pieces,- it would be useless to describe here the inimitable dishes I make out of a mere nothing; you must try before believing it; but everything eatable I turn to profitable and whole- some food. Knowing how to make much of a little is the first of domestic qualifications; adversity gives birth to genius. In proportion, we live as well and more comfort- ably than we did in London, with the delightful im- provement of possessing a much better appetite; and * See Soyer’s Modern J[oussw’J',jj p, (54.PREFATORY. try them before publishing. — See Addenda (III.) we are not annoyed with a double rap at the door, just as we are sitting to our lunch or early dinner, nor favoured by the attendance of a very intelligent footman, who, while you are talking to a witty neighbour, removes your plate, containing the best of little sweet or savoury tit-bits, for which culinary science has been exhausted in order to gratify your guest, instead of your servant’s palate. In fact, dearest, with the small income we have, and my husband’s present situation, we live, and thank Heaven, we live happily. May you and yours be for ever blest, Hortense. Our Pauline is charming; she is gone to spend the autumn with her aunt in Devonshire. Here are a few of my Cottage Receipts; pleaseBifrons Villa, March, 1850. Eloise, MA CHERE AMIE,— Six months have now elapsed since the publica- tion of our culinary and domestic correspondence. Hardly had I time to correct the numerous mistakes which were in the first edition, before 15,000 copies were issued from the press, and nearly all purchased b} the public. I am confident you will agree with me, that we cannot feel and express too much grati- tude for such extraordinary patronage. You reproach me for being silent so long; the reasons, you must be aware, have been serious illness, and other family troubles, which no human being can be free from; but, thanks to Providence, now all is well; and to prove to you that I have not been indolent, I herewith enclose a very novel, interesting, and useful subject: it is a correct resume of every kind of condiment, its origin, country, nutritive quality, and its effects on the human frame. It has, I assure you, taken some hours of study to arrive at the conclusion of my researches, and I sincerely hope they may be the means of causing to be more fre- quently used those wholesome aromatic plants which nature has so bountifully spread over the globe, and lessen the false manipulations of inexperienced persons, so pernicious to humanity. Having now carefully revised and added new re-iv ceipts to our culinary journal, I beg of you to call this morning upon the printer, Savill, of Chandos-street, and get composed, in good plain reading type, the en- closed ; it will probably make forty more pages. Send me a proof as soon as possible, which I will immediately correct and return to you, as you say our publishers are now getting short of the work. I would not think of going to press this time with less than 5000. Kind remembrances of love and friendship to you and yours, Dear Eloise, Hortense. The extraordinary sale of this work, unparalleled in the history of the book-trade, (for the short time from its publication, the 7th of Sept. 1849,) has caused many to doubt the fact. The author has therefore inserted the following letter, received from his publishers: Stationers Sail Court, Feb. 15, 1850. Dear Sir, "We beg to inform you, that tbe sale of your “ Modern Housewife” is still in great demand, and we would therefore advise you to go to press immediately with 3000 or 4000, as they are certain of being wanted early in March. We remain, your most obedient servants, Simpkin, Marshall, & Co. To M. Soyer, Reform Club. P.S.—The last number mentioned would be preferable, as completing the Twenty Thousandth copy of your last work. Let us know, also, when the 7th edition of your “ Gastronomic Regenerator” can be delivered to us.Bifrons Villa, St. J IF , September 20th, 1849. Eloise, Dearest,— Please in your name, and also in mine, return our sincere thanks to our friends, and especially to the fair daughters of Albion, for the flattering reception they have given to our culinary correspondence, or gastronomic journal, with which I beg of you especially to couple that powerful organ, the public press, which in a few days, like the commotion of an earthquake, has shaken the domesticated nerves of thousands of housewives throughout the United Kingdom, merely to inform them that I, “ Mrs. B.,” and you, “ Mrs. L.,” humble but domesticated women, have had a friendly correspondence respecting housewifery in all its branches; the echo of which, believe me, Eloise, has done more in a few days, than half a century could ever have accomplished for us in our happy but obscure sphere; therefore you must not be too proudVI of our success, for be well convinced that it is more clue to the iron tongue of the press than to the brain that has conceived it. A Second Edition is already wanted, say you—“ I can hardly believe it,”—and that in less than a fort- night. At all events, the only novelty in this one must be confined to corrections, which I can assure you, thanks to you and the printer’s carelessness, are tolerably numerous; therefore, follow your publisher’s advice, and cause the steam-press to issue, as quickly as possible, 6000 copies, which will form the Second Edition. With the greatest esteem, I remain, ever yours, Hortense. P.S.—I have forwarded you one of the Magic Stoves, which I have just received from Gardner’s. I had this morning one on our breakfast-table, and cooked in a very short time, at a trifling expense, two of Soyei'’s new mutton chops (No. 452) four sau- sages, and eight pieces of very thin bacon, and also in the fat fried two slices of bread; we were eight to breakfast, and all enjoyed this extraordinary novelty. You reproach me for not sending you one earlier; that which I intended for you has been taken by the Marquis of N. and party to Egypt, with the view of having a dinner cooked on the top of the Pyramids.The summit of the Pyramid. The Cooking of various made dishes with Soyer's Magic Stove and Pocket Kitchen. (From a drawing on the spot.)Distinguished Gourmets dining out on Ch(e)ops.CONTENTS Introduction. Dialogue between Mrs. B- and Visitor Letter No. I. Letter No. II. Breakfasts First Series of Receipts Letter No. III. . Early Luncheons Letter No. IV. The Nursery Dinner Letter No. V. Comforts for Invalids Puddings for Invalids Pish for Invalids Meat for Invalids Poultry for Invalids Culinary Correspondence Letter No. VI. Letter No. VII. Letter No. VIII. Letter No. IX. Letter No. X. . Letter No. XI. Letter No. XII. Roasting Baking, Boiling Stewing, Braising, Prying Sauteing Broiling Condiments "Water Sauces Soups . Pish Pish Sauces Removes Letter No. XIII. and Mrs. L , her Friend PAGE IX xv xvi 1 1 26 27 ib. 29 ib. 34 51 54 56 59 62 ib. 63 ib. 66 ib. 67 68 ib. 69 70 72 73 74 S6 88 104 128 163 170 1S5CONTENTS. Till Poultry Planes . Entrees, or Made Dishes Letter No. XIV. Letter No. XV. Dishes with the Remains of Lamb or Pork Entrees of Game Eggs . Garniture for Omelettes Roasts—Second Course Savoury Dishes Letter No. XVI. Shell-fish Vegetables Different sorts of Pastry Jellies . Puddings in Moulds Boiled Puddings Baked Puddings Removes—Second Cour Souffle . Dessert Letter No. XVII. Compote Compotes of Fruit simplified Salads of various Fruits Cakes . Letter No. XVIII. Royal St. James s Cake Letter No. XIX. The Dinner Table Letter No. XX. Beverages for Evening Parties Letter No. XXI. Letter No. XXII. Conversation on Household A Bills of Fare . • • Letter No. XXIII.—The Bachelor’s Dinner Letter No. XXIV. Letter No. XXV.—A New Aliment . Carving • • ' . ’ _ . " Letter No. XXVI.—The Septuagenarian Epicuie Letter No. XXVII.—Soyer’s Anti-Cholera Diet • PAGE . 204 . 222 . 223 . 243 . 246 249, 253 . 280 . 286 . 289 . 290 . 300 . 312 . ib. . 321 . 335 . 353 . 358 . 360 . 361 . 364 . 367 . 373 . ib. . 374 . 378 . 388 . 389 . 394 • . ib. . 397 . ib. . 401 . 402 . 403 . 40? . 406 . 413 . 419 - . ib. . 422 . 424 . 425 . . . 447INTRODUCTION. JDIiXOGUE BETWEEN MES. B akd MES. L , HEE FEIEND'AND YISITOE. Mrs. L. I have now, my dear Mrs. B., been nearly •a fortnight at your delightful Villa, and I must say, with all truth, that I never fared better in my life, yet I am considered somewhat of an epicure, as is likewise my husband; but, of course, our means being rather limited, we are obliged to live accordingly. Mrs. B. Well, so must we; and I assure you that during the first few years of our marriage, our pecu- niary resources were but small, but even then I ma- naged my kitchen and housekeeping at so moderate an expense, compared with some of our neighbours, who lived more expensively, but not so well as we did, that, when any of them dined with us, they flattered me with the appellation of the £ Model Housekeeper,* and admired the comforts of our table, but would leave with the impression that I must be the most ex- travagant of wives. Now, believe me, I have always prided myself, whether having to provide for a cere- monious party, or dining by ourselves, upon havingX INTRODUCTION. everything properly done and served, that so, if any friends should come in by accident or on business, they were generally well pleased with our humble hos- pitality, and that without extravagance, as my husband is well convinced; for, when we dine with any acquaint- ance of ours, he is very eager to persuade them to adopt my system of management; though he is no great judge of what is called the highest style of cookery, yet he does not like to live badly at any time, as he very justly says, it matters not how simple the food,—a chop, steak, or a plain boiled or roast joint, but let it be of good quality and properly cooked, and every one who partakes of it will enjoy it. Mrs. L. Nothing more true! Mrs. B. But since you talk of limited income and economy, let me relate to you a conversation which occurred a few years ago between Mr. B. and a friend of his, who declared to him that his income would never allow him to live in such luxury, which he called a comfortable extravagance. u Extravagance!” exclaimed Mr. B., if you have a few minutes to spare, I will convince you of the con- trary, and prove to you that such an expression is very unjust, if applied to my wife’s management. Now, to begin, what sum should you suppose would cover our annual housekeeping expenditure, living as we do, in a style of which you so much approve, but considerXI INTRODUCTION. so extravagant; there are ten of us in family—viz., myself and wife, three children, two female servants, and three young men employed in my business, and including our usual Christmas party, which of course you know of, (having participated in the last two,) also two separate birth-day parties of twenty persons each, and three juvenile petits-soupers and dances for the children upon their natal anniversaries, besides a friend dropping in occasionally, which is never less than once or twice a week.”—“ Well, I do not know,” answered our friend; “but having nearly the same number to provide for, and in a more humble way, my expenses for house- keeping are never less than £ per annum.”—“ Less than what!” exclaimed Mr. B.; “ why, my dear friend, you must be mistaken,” at the same time ringing the bell. “ I wish I were, with all my heart,” was the reply, as the servant entered the room. “ Jane,” said Mr. B., “ ask your mistress to step this way for a few minutes; I wish to look at her housekeeping-book.” But being busy at the time in the kitchen, I sent up a key for him to get it, which happened to be a wrong one; upon discovering the mistake, I sent up the right, with an apology for not coming myself, as I was super- intending the cooking of some veal broth, which the doctor had ordered for our poor little Henry, who was ill at the time. “ Well,” said his friend, “ there is a wife for you; I must confess mine can hardly find theINTRODUCTION. • • XU way to the kitchen-stairs.” “ Now!” said my husband, opening my desk, and, taking up my book, he showed him the last year’s expenditure, which was £ “ No! no! that is impossible,” replied his friend. “ But,” said Mr. B., “ there it is in black and white.” “ Why, good heavens!” exclaimed the other, “ without giving so many parties, and also two less in family, my expendi- ture is certainly greater.” TowhichMr.B.replied, “ Sol should imagine, from the style in which I saw your table provided the few days we were on a visit to your house; therefore I am not in the least astonished. Here, however, is the account for the closing year, just made up to the 28th December, 1848. Let us see what it amounts to, probably to £50 or £60 more.” “ So, so,” replied the other, “ that is an increase.”—“ Let it be so,” said Mr. B., “ but you must remember that we are twelve- months older, and as our business increases, so do we increase our comforts; and this year Mrs. B. witii the children had a pretty little house at Ramsgate for two months, which will account for the greater part ot it. Mrs. L. But, my dear Mrs. B., I am as much astonished as your friend could possibly have been. I should, however, have liked you to explain the matter; but here comes your husband, who will pio- bably initiate me in your culinary secrete. Good morning, my dear Mr. B., I hope I have the pleasure of seeing you well.Xlll INTRODUCTION. Mr. B. Perfectly so, madam. Mrs. L. I have been talking to Mrs. B. about her system of housekeeping, ivlio was relating to me a conversation you had with a gentleman, astonished with its economy. I am also surprised, and should like to take a few leaves out of your most excellent book, if you will allow me. Mr. B. Certainly, my dear madam; in my wife, without flattering her too much, you see almost an accomplished woman, (in hearing such praise, Mrs. B. retired, saying, ££ How foolishly you talk, Richard;”) she speaks two or three different languages tolerably well, and, as an amateur, is rather proficient in music, but her parents, very wisely considering household knowledge to be of the greatest importance, made her first acquainted with the keys of the store-room before those of the piano; that is the only secret, dear madam; and this is the explanation that I gave to my friend, who thought it a good jest, and one of truth. I told him to do the same by his two daughters, which would not only make them more happy through life, but transmit that happiness to their posterity by setting an example worthy of being followed. I always say, give me a domesticated wife, and with my industry, I would not change my position for a kingdom; ££ Very true, very true,” was my friend’s answer, and we then parted.XIV INTRODUCTION. I have never seen him since, nor his wife, who was probably offended at the economical propositions of her husband; for nothing, you are well aware, is more common than for people to be offended when told the truth respecting themselves; or perhaps she was too advanced in years to think of changing her ideas of housekeeping. I see, my dear Mrs. L., the Brougham is waiting at the gate to convey you to the railway; allow me to see you safe to the station; you will not have many minutes to spare, for the train will shortly be up. Thank you, my dear sir, (replied Mrs. L.,) and, in bidding adieu, allow me to express the gratification and delight I have felt during my stay with yourself and your inestimable wife, whose friendship I shall always highly prize. As she took her seat in the carriage, and departed, a farewell was given from the parlour-window by Mrs. B. About an hour after the above conversation, Mrs. L. was seen entering her cottage at Oatlands, fully re- solved to follow, as closely as possible, the economical management of Mrs. B.; but a little reflection soon made her perceive that she possessed only the theory, and was sadly deficient in the practice; she then deter- mined to beg of her friend a few receipts in writing, and immediately despatched the following letter:—XV INTRODUCTION. LETTER No. I. From Mrs. L to Mrs. B . Oatlands Cottage; Jan. 1st, 1849. My dear Uortense,—Upon my arrival at liome, I am happy to say that I found all quite well, and delighted to see me, after (to them) so long an absence as a fortnight, which my husband was gallant enough to say appeared months; but to myself the time appeared to pass very swiftly: for, indeed, every day I felt so much more interested in watching closely how well you managed your household affairs, that, believe me, you have quite spoiled me, especially with your recherche style of cookery, which even now I cannot make out how you could do it at such moderate expense: and, apropos of cooking, Mr. L., expecting me home at dinner, had, I have no doubt, a long interview and discussion with Cook, respect- ing the bill of fare. “ Well, sir,” I will suppose she said, “ what can be better than a fine fat goose, stuffed with sage and ingyons : we have a very fine ’un hanging in the larder.” (You must observe, dear, that my cook is plain in every way.) “ A very excellent notion, that, Cook; nothing can be better than a good goose;” was, no doubt, my husband’s answer, who, although very fond of a good dinner, cannot endure the trouble of ordering it. Well, then, here I am in my little drawing-room (the window slightly open), enjoying the fresh country air, which seems to have been amalgamated with a strong aroma from the aforesaid goose, especially the sage and onions; and I am almost certain that the inseparable apple-sauce is burnt or upset on the stove, from the brown smoke now ascending from the grating over the kitchen win- dow. This style is now to me quite unbearable, and I mean to have quite a reform in my little establishment, and first of all to bring- ud my daughter in the way recommended by Mr. B. to his friend to make her more domesticated than I am myself, as I begin to per- mve that a knowledge of household affairs is as much required as nationnfUallCdrC ; f°r myparfc) 1 W come to the determi- W W d°P g?;0Ur SySJem 0f management as closely as possible; at, you must know, that, without your scientific advice, it willXVI INTRODUCTION. be totally impossible; therefore I beg to propose (if you can afford the time) that you will in writing, give me the description how you lay out your breakfast-table, with the addition of a few receipts for the making of rolls and the other breakfast bread, which I so much enjoyed whilst with you; even how to make toast, and more espe- pecially how you make coffee, chocolate, cocoa (tea, of course, I know). And should this meet with your approbation, I will make a little journal, which may some day or other be useful to our families and friends. Until I hear from you, I shall be waiting with anxiety for your decision upon this important and domestic subject. [Remaining, dear Hortense, Yours very sincerely, ELOISE. LETTER No. II. From Mrs. JB , in reply. Bifrons Villa; Jan. 3rd, 1843. My dear Eloise,—In answer to yours, I agree, with the greatest pleasure, to contribute towards your domesticated idea, which, I must say, is very original, and may, as you observe, prove useful; but why should we confine our culinary journal to breakfasts only ? why not go through the different meals of the day ? that is, after breakfast, the luncheon; then the nursery dinner at one; and here it strikes me that in that series, we might introduce some receipts, to be called, Comforts for Invalids; even our servants’ dinners and teas; then the early dinner at two or three, for people in business, the parlour dinner at six, the coffee after dinner, and even suppers for a small ball or evening party; but all on a moderate scale, leav- ing the aristocratic style entirely to its proper sphere. To show my approbation of your idea, I enclose herewith the first receipt. How to make Toast.BREAKFASTS. When we first commenced housekeeping, we were six in family, five of whom breakfasted together, the three young men in the shop, Mr. B , and myself. The cloth was laid by the servant girl at half past seven precisely; at ten minutes to eight I made tea, and at eight o’clock we were seated. The breakfast, which was composed merely of bread and butter at discretion, fresh watercresses when plentiful, or sometimes boiled eggs; for variation, once a week, coffee ; if in the winter, we had toast, which I never suffered the servant to prepare more than five minutes be- fore we were seated, lor, if kept longer, the dry toast be- comes tough, and the buttered very greasy, and con- sequently unpalatable, as well as indigestible. Twenty minutes only were allowed for breakfast, after which the table was cleared, the cloth carefully folded and put by foi the next morning,—for we kept a separate one for dinner, and imposed the fine of a halfpenny upon any one who should spill either tea or coffee over the cloth by caielessness. Such was always my plan when in business; and you must know as well as myself, it is not only the expense of the washing, but the continual wear and tear of the linen, which make frequent washings so ruinous; but the cloth used always to look clean, and I am confi- dent that not less than five pounds a year were saved on that very trifling matter, washing, and you know we t mught as much then of five pounds as we perhaps now do of twenty. Respecting our present time and method of settin- out our Dreakfast table, you are acquainted with it as well as myself; it would, therefore, bo useless to trouble you with Bo BREAKFASTS. it, but if you consider it worthy of notice you can of course describe it yourself. Now to business : before par- taking of a breakfast, you must provide the materials, (which I always select of the best quality,) and require to know how to prepare them. I shall, therefore, give you a series of every, description of articles which may properly be partaken of at the breakfast-table. FIRST SERIES OF RECEIPTS. 1. TOAST.—Procure a nice square loaf that has been baked one or two days previously, (for the new cannot be cut, and would eat very heavy,) then with a sharp knife cut off' the bottom crust evenly, and then as-many slices as you require, about a quarter of an inch in thickness, (I generally use a carving-knife for cutting bread for toast; being longer in the blade it is more handy, and less liable to waste it.) Contrive to have a clear fire : place a slice of the bread upon a toasting-fork, about an inch from one of the sides, hold it a minute before the fire, then turn it, hold it before the fire another minute, by which time the bread will be thoroughly hot, then begin to move it gradually to and fro until the whole surface has assumed a yellowish-brown colour, then turn it again, toasting the other side in the same manner; lay it then upon a hot plate, have some fresh or salt butter, (which must not be too hard, as pressing it upon the toast would make it heavy,) spread a piece, rather less than an ounce, over, and cut the toast into four or six pieces; should you require six such slices for a numerous family, about a quarter of a pound of butter would suffice for the whole ; but cut each slice into pieces as soon as buttered, and pile them lightly upon the plate or dish you intend to serve it on.3 BREAKFASTS. Yon will find this way a great improvement upon the old system, as often in cutting through four or five slices with a bad knife, you squeeze all the butter out of the upper one, and discover the under one, at the peril of its life, swimming in an ocean of butter at the bottom of the dish. N.B. The warming of the bread gradually through, on both sides, is a very great improvement upon the quality of the toast; it may give a trifle more trouble, but still it is quicker done, and much lighter. All kinds of toast must be done the same way, but if to be served under a bird, eggs, or kidneys, it requires to be toasted drier. Being in every way an economist, I generally save the remnants of the loaf that have become too dry to be eaten as bread, and by just dipping them in wrarm water, toast- ing them gradually, and buttering them, I found that they were eaten in preference ; but their being stale is a secret of my owu, which, if divulged, would prevent their ever being eaten after. 2. DRY TOAST should not be made until quite ready to serve; when done, place it in a toast-rack, or upon its edges, one piece resting against another. Any kind of toast that has been made half an hour is not worth eating. 3. TO TOAST MUFFINS, (see No. 6.) —Just pull open, half an inch deep, the sides of the muffins, exactly in the centre, then put your toasting-fork in the middle of the bottom, hold it a little distance from the fire until partly warmed through; turn and put it again to the fire until it becomes lightly toasted, turn it again to toast the other side: when done, pull it open, spread a thin layer of butter on each side, close them together; lay them upon a plate, and with a sharp knife divide them across B 24 BREAKFASTS. the middle, and serve very hot. If more than one muffin is required, cut them all separately, and pile them lightly one upon another on the plate. When well prepared, they are, in my opinion, a very great luxury, obtainable at a trifling expense. 4. TO TOAST CRUMPETS.—Crumpets stand lower in the general estimation of the public, probably from not being so distingue, and having the misfortune to be cheaper than their sister muffins; but, for all that, the poor ought never to be forgotten, and a crumpet toasted as follows is not to be despised. Choose your crumpets fresh if pos- sible, though they are not bad after having been made three or four days; toast them by first warming both sides, like muffins, then give them a nice light brown colour on each side; lay them in a plate, and spread some rather soft butter lightly upon each side; cut in halves with a sharp knife, and serve; half an ounce of butter to each crumpet is quite sufficient. If you have several to serve, place them separately upon a large hot dish; some people place them one upon the other, which is a very bad plan, as it causes the under ones to eat like a piece of dough, and such food cannot be wholesome. Crumpets require to be toasted rather quickly. 0. MILK ROLLS FOR BREAKFAST.—Here, dearest, I must recommend you the following receipt, which I consider an economical luxury, especially when you have a few friends upon a visit at your house. I shall here describe it so plainly, that I am confident you cannot fail even upon the first trial. (Remark how simple) :— Have a convenient sized basin, into which put half a pound of the best flour, making a hole in the middle; add half an ounce of German yeast, one ounce of butter, a tea- spoonful of powdered sugar, and half ditto of salt, overwhieh pour three large wineglassfuls of lukewarm milk; mix theBREAKFASTS. 5 whole, by degrees, with your hand, (using a little more flour,) until forming a stiffish paste; rub off the paste which adheres to your fingers, and form the whole into a ball, which leave at the bottom of the basin, covered over with a clean cloth, and set it half an hour to rise, or piove, in a warmish place, after which throw a little flour upon a dresser, cut the paste into pieces of the size of eggs, mould them of a round, oval, or any other shape you may fancy, egg over with a paste-brush, and place them upon a baking sheet, or upon the bottom of the oven if clean and not too hot; a few minutes will suffice to bake them, and they may be served either hot or cold. 6. TO MAKE MUFFINS.—Mix a quart of warm water in which you have dissolved three ounces of good German yeast, with sufficient flour to form a stiff batter, which let remain in a warm place four hours, then stir the mixture down, and break it into pieces, weighing a quarter of a pound each, which mould round with your hands, and put into wooden trays containing a round bed of flour for each ; let them remain in a warm place two hours to prove; have your muffin-stove hot; have a round piece of iron, which place on the fire to get hot; set the muffins upon it, and when nicely risen, turn them gently over, baking them upon the stove until sufficiently set, when they are done; they will take about ten minutes baking if the stove is at the proper heat, which is known by a little flour thrown on it becoming brown. Muffins may also be made of brewer’s yeast, but then they would require longer proving, and great care must be taken that the yeast is not bitter. The bitterness of the yeast can be removed by putting a hot charcoal or coal cinder in it. 7. TO MAKE CRUMPETS.—Mix a gill of brewer’s yeast, free from bitter, with two quarts of water, just luke-6 breakfasts. warm, to which add sufficient flour to make a thinnish batter, and let it stand six hours in a warm place, then stn it well with a wooden spoon, and let it remain four hours longer; have the muffin-stove hot, upon which place a number ol tin hoops, the size of crumpets, pour a small ladleful of the batter into each hoop, and when the top is covered with small bladders, turn them quickly over (hoops and all) with a large palate knife, and in about five minutes afterwards they will be sufficiently baked. 8. RUSKS.—Put three pounds of flour upon a dresser, make a hole in the middle, into which put two ounces of German yeast, dissolved in a pint of warm water, mix a little of the flour in, and leave it half an hour in a warm place to rise, then add two ounces of powdered sugar, and a quarter of a pound of butter, dissolved in half a pint of warm water; mix the whole into a dough, and let it remain in a warm place until well risen, when work it down with the hands, divide it in three pieces, each of which form into a long roll about two inches in thickness, place them upon a buttered baking-sheet, four inches apart, and put them in a warm place to prove, occasion- ally moistening the tops with milk; bake them in a moderate oven. When cold, cut them in slices the thick- ness of a penny-piece, which lay upon a clean baking- sheet, and put into a warm oven; when well browned upon one side, turn them over; put them again into the oven until the other side is browned; they are then done and ready for use. » 9. TOPS AND BOTTOMS.—Make a dough exactly as described in the last, but using only half the butter; have a deep-edged baking-sheet wrell buttered, and when the dough is ready, turn it on to a dresser, well floured; divide into small pieces the size of w:alnuts, which mouldBREAKFASTS. 7 into round balls, and place close together upon the baking- sheet; put them in a warm place to prove, and bake well in a moderate oven. When cold, divide and cut each one in halves (making a top and bottom) which brown in the oven as directed for rusks. 10. BUNS.—Put three pounds of flour in an earthen pan, make a hole in the middle, in which put two ounces of German yeast, dissolved in three parts of a pint of warm water, and stir in a little of the flour, forming a thinnish batter, let it remain in a warm place nearly an hour, until well fermented, then add half a pound of sugar, a few currants, and half a pound of butter, dissolved in nearly a pint of warm milk; mix the whole well together, making a soft but dry dough; let it remain in a warm place until it rises very light, then turn it out of the pan on to a board; work it well with the hands, shaking flour over lightly, then mould it into small round balls, double the size of walnuts, which place upon a buttered baking- sheet, four inches apart; moisten the tops with milk; put them in a warm place to prove, not, however, permitting them to crack, and bake them in a hot oven. 11. BRIOCHE ROLLS.—Put four pounds of flour upon a dresser, one pound of which put on one side, make a hole in the middle, into which pour nearly three parts of a pint of warm water, in which you have dissolved an ounce of German yeast; mix it into a stiff but delicate paste, which roll up into a ball: cut an incision across it, and lay it in a basin well floured, in a warm place, until becoming very light; then make a large hole in the centre of the three pounds of flour, into which put half an ounce of salt, two pounds of fresh butter, half a gill of water, and sixteen eggs; mix it into a softish flexible paste, which press out flat, lay the leaven upon it, folding it over and8 BREAKFASTS. working with the hands until well amalgamated, flour a clean cloth, fold the paste in it and let remain all night. In the morning mould them into small rolls; put them upon a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. Unless your breakfast party be very large, half the above quantity will be sufficient. These rolls being quite a luxury, I make them only upon very especial occasions. EGGS. 12. HOW TO CHOOSE EGGS.—New-laid eggs should not be used until they have been laid about eight or ten hours, for that part which constitutes the white is not properly set before that time, and does not until then obtain that delicate flavour; that which is termed milk in eggs being, according to my opinion, very insipid, but that entirely depends upon fancy. Nothing being more offensive than eggs in a state of decomposition, it is very important that every person should know how to detect them, (especially in the winter, when a much greater quantity are used in London;) if, by shaking them, they sound hollow, you may be certain they are not new-laid, and not fit to be boiled for breakfast, but, if broken, they may prove lit for any other culinary purpose, except for souffles, for which eggs must be very fresh. The safest way to try them is to hold them to the light, forming a focus with your hand; should the shell be covered with small dark spots, they are very doubtful, and should be broken separately in a cup, and each egg smelt previously to using them; if, however, in looking at them, you see no transparency in the shells, you may be sure they are rotten and only fit to be thrown away; the most precise way is, to look at them by the light of a candle ; if quite fresh, there are no spots upon the shells,BREAKFASTS. 9 and they have a brilliant light yellow tint; in the spring of the year, it would be scarcely excusable to use any eggs that are not quite fresh. 13. EGGS FOR BREAKFAST, plain boiled.—Put about a pint of water to boil in any kind of small stewpan, (or saucepan,) over the fme; when boiling, put in two or three fresh eggs, gently, with a spoon, being particular not to crack or allow them to boil too fast, or the interior of the eggs would partly escape before they were set, giving them an unsightly appearance, and entirely preventing their cooking regularly; three minutes are sufficient to cook a full-sized egg, but if below the average size, two minutes and a half will suffice. 14. EGGS AU BEURRE, (a new method.)—Let the eggs boil six minutes instead of three, then take them out, dip them for two seconds in cold water, crack and peel off the shells, and lay them in a hot plate, (they will remain quite whole if properly done,) cut each egg in halves lengthwise, spread a little fresh butter and sprinkle a little salt over the interior, and eat them very hot. Eggs done in this manner are delicate and digestible. 15. TO BOIL EGGS HARD.—Never boil eggs for salads, sauces, or any other purposes, more than ten minutes, and when done place them in a basin of cold water for five minutes to cool; take off their shells, and use them when required. Nothing is more indigestible than an egg too hard- boiled. 16. POACFIED EGGS.—Put a pint of water in a stewpan, with four teaspoonfuls of vinegar and half a tea- spoonful of salt, place it over the fire, and when boiling,10 BREAKFASTS. break your eggs into it as near the surface of the water as possible, let them boil gently about three minutes; have rather a thin piece of toast, as described, (No. 1,) upon a dish, take the eggs out carefully with a small slice, lay the slice with the eggs upon a cloth for a second, to drain the water from them, set them carefully upon the toast, and serve very hot. If the eggs are fresh they will look most inviting; but the way of breaking and boiling them must be most carefully attended to, and care should be taken not to boil too many together; if the yolks separate from the white, it may be presumed that the egg is not fresh, but it may be eatable, for the same thing may happen through awkwardness in poaching. Again, the toast upon which they are served may be buttered either with plain or maitre-d’hotel butter, or two small pats of butter may be melted, without boiling it, and poured over, or a little melted butter sauce, or the same with the addition of a little maitre-d’hotel butter poured over when just upon the point of boiling, or a little anchovy butter instead of the other; thus you may be able to indulge in nice little luxuries at a trifling expense. 17. TOAST AND EGGS.—Break three eggs into a small stewpan, add a saltspoonful of salt, a quarter of that quantity of pepper, and two ounces of fresh butter, (the fresher the better,) set the stewpan over a moderate tire, and stir the eggs round with a wooden spoon, being care- ful to keep every particle in motion, until the whole has become a smooth and delicate thickish substance ; have ready a convenient-sized crisp piece of toast, pour the eggs upon it, and serve immediately. 18. EGGS SUR LE PLAT.—Lightly butter a small oval dish, upon which break two, three, or more eggs with-BREAKFASTS. 11 out breaking the yolks, season lightly with a little white pepper and salt, put a few small pieces of butter here and there upon them, and then set the dish in the small oven,, where let it remain until the whites become set, but by no means hard, and serve hot; if the oven is moderately hot, they will take about ten minutes ; if no oven, put the dish before the fire, turning it round now and then until the eggs are set regular. This is a most excellent dish. 19. OMELETS may also be served for breakfast with great advantage, being very relishing, especially the ome- lettes aux fines lierbcs, au lard, and aux champignons, but as they are considered to belong to the dinner, they will be given in that series of receipts. FISH. 20. HERRING- TOAST SANDWICH. — Choose a bloater for this purpose not too dry, which split in two, cutting it down the back; lay them upon a plate and pour a pint of boiling water over; let them soak five minutes, when place them upon a cloth to dry; then broil them very gradually upon a gridiron; when well done, which will be in about four or five minutes, have ready two thin slices of toast, made very crisp, butter them lightly, then take away all the bones from the herrings, lay the fleshy parts equally upon one piece of toast, and cover with the other; serve very hot. 21. TOAST AND EGGS WITH HERRING.—Pre- pare your toast and eggs as directed, (No 17,) but previous to pouring the eggs over, lay the flesh of a herring as directed in the last, and pour the eggs over that. Herring upon toast, with a layer of mashed potatoes over, is also very good.12 BREAKFASTS. Dried haddock may also be served the same, as also may sardines, but they being ready-cooked, are laid over cold without splitting them; they are very delicious: if wanted hot, set them a few minutes before the fire. -'2. BLOATED HERRINGS.—They require to be freshly salted, for if dry they are quite rank and unpa- latable ; scrape them lightly with a knife, and wipe them Avell with a cloth; pass the point of a knife down the back from head to tail, making an incision about a quarter of an inch in depth; place them upon the gridiron over a sharp fire; they will take about six minutes to cook, of course turning them occasionally; when done, put them upon a hot dish, open the backs, and place half a small pat of butter in each; again close them: cooked this Avay they are delicious, especially if they are real bloaters. Another way is to cut them quite open and broil them flat upon the gridiron, and serve quite plain; this way they are done much more quickly. Or, if nice and fresh, oil half a sheet of white paper for every fish, in which fold them and broil fifteen minutes over a slow fire, turning them over three or four times, and serve in the papers. Should you have any that have become dry, soak them about twenty minutes in lukewarm water, and proceed as first directed. (Same process will do for red herrings.) 23. DRIED HADDOCK.—A very excellent thing for breakfast, but they never ought to be cooked whole, for one side being thinner than the other is of course dried up before the other is much more than half done, especially the larger ones ; the better plan is to cut them in halves lengthwise, put them upon the gridiron over a moderate fire, keeping them frequently turned, and taking the13 BREAKFASTS. thinnest half off first; the thickest will require about teu minutes to cook it thoroughly; when done, spiead a pat of fresh butter over, and serve upon a very hot dish. The small Scotch Finnon haddocks are by fai the best, and may be cooked whole, being more equally divided, but the side where the bone is left may, perhaps, want another minute, but not sufficient to spoil the other. Haddocks may also be skinned and broiled in oiled paper, but of course would take rather more time in cooking. 24. WHITINGS.—Of all the modes of preparing and dressing whitings for breakfast I cannot but admire and prize the system pursued by the Scotch, which renders them the most light, wholesome, and delicious food that could possibly be served for breakfast: their method in, to obtain the fish as fresh as possible, clean and skin them, take out the eyes, cover the fish over with salt, im- mediately after which take them out and shake off the superfluous salt, pass a string through the eye-holes, and hang them up to dry in a passage, or some place where there is a current of air; the next morning take them off, just roll them lightly in a little flour, broil them gently over a slow fire, and serve very hot, with a small piece of fresh butter rubbed over each, or serve quite dry, if preferable. Any whitings obtained here might be dressed in the same manner and eat very good, but nothing to equal the Scotch small whiting with the skin on; when cleansed, well wiped with a cloth, salted as before, and broiled, may also be served with a maitre-d’hotel butter spread over them. 25. SLIPS, or SMALL SOLES. — When cleaned, season them with a little pepper and salt, dip lightly into14 BREAKFASTS. Hour, and broil them slowly over a moderate fire about ten minutes, or according to the size; when done, place them upon a hot dish, pour two tablespoonfuls of cream over and serve immediately. They may of course ba served dry, but pouring the cream over is a new and very good idea. Nothing but small white fish could be tole- rated for breakfast. 26. SPRATS when nicely cooked are very commend- able. Dip them lightly into flour, and place them upon a gridiron over a slow fire; when about half done, turn them; when done (which would be in about five minutes from the time you put them on,) serve dry in a very hot dish. 27. SARDINES.—There are but very few of these delicate little things used in England, yet there is .nothing more calculated to give a zest to the appetite at breakfast or luncheon; I suppose it is their high price which pre- vents their coming much in vogue; but when I have a few visitors my table is never without, and they are really very much approved of; the box of twenty-four cost from two to three shillings, depending on the size of the fish. 28. DRIED SPRATS.—Upon these I put but very little praise, being generally so very dry and salt; they may be eaten plain as they are, or broiled slightly. MEAT. 29. SHEEP’S KIDNEYS.—Procure as many as you may require for your party, about one each is generally sufficient; be sure that they are fresh, which any person can ascertain by smelling, if not able to judge by their appearance; cut them open very evenly lengthwise, down15 BREAKFAS TS. to the root, but not to separate them; remove the skin, then have some small iron or wooden skewers, upon which thread the kidneys quite flat, by running the skewer twice through each kidney, that is, under the white part; season them father highly with pepper and salt, and place them upon a gridiron, (the inside downwards,) over a sharp fire; in three minutes turn them over, and in about six they will be sufficiently done; then take them off the skewers, place them in a very hot dish, and serve imme- diately. In opening them be careful to cut them in the centre, for should one half be thicker than the other, one would be dried before the other was sufficiently cooked 80. KIDNEYS ON TOAST.—Prepare the kidneys precisely as in the last, but when done have ready a piece of hot toast, which butter lightly; lay the kidneys upon it; have ready a small piece of butter, to which you have added a little pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon ; place a small piece in the centre of each kidney, and when melted serve. 31. KIDNEYS BREAD-CRUMBED, £ la Maitre- (THotel.—Prepare the kidneys as before, and when upon the skewer, have ready upon a plate an egg well beat up with a fork; season the kidneys with a little salt and peppei, dip them into the egg, then lightly cover them with bread-crumbs, put them upon the gridiron, which place over a moderate fire, broil them about ten minutes, turning them when half done, have ready a little maitre- d’hdtel butter, put about half an ounce in each kidney, and serve immediately upon a very hot dish; by the time it gets upon the table the butter will be melted, and they eat very relishing this way; they may also be served upon toast.BREAKFASTS. 16 32. SAUTEED KIDNEAS.—Should you not have a fire fit for broiling, put an ounce of butter into a saute-pan (which of course must be very clean), cut the kidney in halves lengthwise, remove the skin, and when the butter is melted, lay them in, the flat side downwards, Having previously well seasoned them with pepper and salt; set the pan on a moderate fire three minutes, then turn them; place them again upon the fire until done; when have ready a piece of dry toast, which place upon a hot dish, pour the kidneys with the butter and gravy over, and serve very hot. Care must be taken in sauteing that the butter does not become burnt. Another way is to sprinkle about a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots, or onions, over them whilst being sauteed. This materially changes the flavour, and meets the approbation of many. For the cooking of mutton chops, steaks, cutlets, broiled fowl, broiled bones, or remnants of poultry or game for breakfast, I must refer you to where they are given as Receipts for the Dinner-table. HAM, BACON. 33. BACON AND HAM for broiling.—Ham for broil- ing ought not to be too old or too dry, it would perhaps eat rank. Nothing requires more care than broiling. Either get a slice of ham weighing a quarter of a pound or two ounces, which lay on your gridiron; put it over the fire; it will take perhaps five minutes if the fire is good, and more, of course, if slow; but in that short space of time, turn it three or four times, and it is done. Pro- ceed the same if you want to serve it with poached eggs (see No. 16), but be careful that the eggs be ready at the same time as the bacon or ham, or both would eat badly. If you happen to have a whole ham by you for that purpose only, as is often the case at a farmhouse,BREAKFASTS. 17 begin to cut the slices in a slanting direction, and the same thickness, and proceed to the end of the ham with the remainder. It will prove more profitable to broil with greens, peas, broad beans, &c. &c. To saute, put a little butter or good fat in the pan; set it on the fire with the slice in it, saute very gently, turning very often, and serve on very thin toast. 34. HAM AND EGGS.—While your ham is doing, break two fresh eggs in the pan, season slightly with salt and pepper, set it before the fire till the eggs are delicately done, and slip them whole carefully into your dish, without breaking the yolk. 35. BACON.—The streaked part of a thick flank of bacon is to be preferred; cut nice slices, not above a quarter of an inch thick, take off the rind, put to broil on the gridiron over a clear fire; turn it three or four times in the space of five minutes: this will be all the cooking required. Serve it very hot. Though this is the best part, the whole of the bacon is good, especially if not rank, which can be easily detected by its yellowish colour: if too dry or salt, after it has been cut in slices, dip it into a little vinegar and water three or four times, and saute as usual • it will make it softer and less salt. Serve as usua . anj lemain after a dinner of boiled bacon, it is Broil?/. eTl °r f'ied f0r "ext dar’s breakfast, to dyspepfc haS be“ hiS% reC°mmended "seasoned and not mil ■ °rU P aln*y made, and also better «>ose made inIIdof T T ^ °r’ * * events, London «*>. non,,. Oxford produce,BREAKFASTS. IS not so choice in appearance, but, to my taste, better in flavour; the plainer they are, the better they dress for breakfa st; by all means, never use them except you are confident that they are fresh. Tim skin must be transparent, that the meat should be seen through ; they keep good two or three days in a cold place, in summer, nearly a week in winter (with care.) 37. SAUSAGES,—how to cook them.—Prick them with a pin all round about twenty times, put them on the gridiron over a gentle fire ; turn three or four times, by doing which you will have them a very nice yellow colour; dish them, and serve them very hot. 38. SAUTEED SAUSAGES.—If your fire smoke, it is preferable to saute them. Put some butter in the pan, with four sausages; after you have pricked them as before men- tioned, saute gently; a few' minutes will do them; turn them often. In many instances, a thin slice of bread sauted in the fat they have produced, is a great improve- ment : save the fat, as it is always useful in a kitchen. In case you are in a hurry to do them, throw them into hot water for one minute previously to their being broiled or sauteed; they will then be the sooner cooked, and even eat rather more relishing to a delicate stomach, the oil being extracted thereby from the skin; they may also be fried in the frying-pan. 39. BLACK PUDDINGS.—They are in France a regular standing dish for a winter’s breakfast, and ought to be more in use in England; but I must observe that I mean the home-made ones, or those made d la Franca is, because I consider those that are usually sold in almost every shop are too heavy for breakfast; they may pass at dinner-time, though I must confess the flavour is not at all to my liking. 40. BLACK PUDDINGS, BROILED.—Make about six or eight incisions through the skin with a knife, slant- fwise, on each side of the pudding; put it on the gridiron or about eight minutes, over rather a brisk fire; turn it four times in that space of time, and serve broiling hotBREAKFASTS. 19 I should recommend those who are fond of black puddings to partake of no other beverage than tea or coffee, as cocoa or chocolate would be a clog to the stomach. In France they partake of white wine for breakfast, which accounts for the great consumption of black pudding. Now really this is a very favourite dish with epicures, but I never recommend it to a delicate stomach. COFFEE. COFFEE, which has now come so generally into use, originally came from Arabia, where it has been known from time immemorial, but was brought in^ use in England in the year 1653. As it is not generally known how it was introduced, I will give you the account of it from ‘ 'Houghton’s Collection, ” 1698. “It appears that a Mr. Daniel Edwards, an English merchant of Smyrna, brought with him to this country a Greek of the name of Pasqua, in 1652, who made his coffee; this Mr. Edwards married one Alderman Hodges’ daughter, who lived in Walbrook, and set up Pasqua for a coffee- man in a shed in the churchyard in St. Michael, Cornhill, which is now a scrivener’s brave-house, when, having great custom, the ale-sellers petitioned the Lord Mayor against him, as being no freeman. This made Alderman Hodges join his coachman, Bowman, who was free, as Pasqua’s partner; but Pasqua, for some misdemeanor, was forced to run the country, and Bowman, by his trade and a contribution of 1000 sixpences, turned the shed to a house. Bowman’s apprentices were, first, John Painter, then Humphrey, from whose wife I had this account.” Having examined the renter churchwarden’s book of St. Michael, Cornhill, I find that the house or shed Bowman built is now part of the Jamaica Coffee House ; it was rebuilt by Bowman, after the fire in 1667. It is a very remarkable fact that but few persons in England know how to make good coffee, although so well supplied with the first quality of that delicious berry; but, by way of contrast, I must say that the middle classes of France are quite as ignorant of the method of making tea. I remember, upon one occasion, whilst staying at Havre with Mr. B.. where we were upon a visit at the house of one of his agents, who invited a few of his friends t0 meet ™ at a tea-party d VAnglaise, as they used to call it. About an hour previous to tea, and previous to the arrival of the guests I was walking upon the lawn before the house, when my attention was a traded by a cloud of steam issuing from the kitchen-window, smelling most powerfully of tea; my curiosity led me to the kitchen, where I found c 220 BREAKFASTS. the cook busily engaged making cocoa and most delicious coffee, but pre- paring the tea in a ridiculous fashion, the leaves of which were in an awful state of agitation, attempting as it were to escape from an earthen pot at the side of the fire, in which the delicious soup we had for dinner was made a few hours previously. (See Pot-au-Feu.) “ My dear girl,” said I (in French), “ what process do you call that of making tea? it never ought to be boiled.” “ I beg your pardon, Madame,” says she, “master and mistress like it well done, and it will be another short half hour before it is properly cooked (ce sera alors copieux).” “ You are decidedly wrong,” said I, “ and I shall be most happy to show you the way we make it in England.” “ Yes, I know what you mean, Madame,” replied she ; “ I used to make it that way before, but no one liked it, that is, to boil it one hour in a copper pan over a charcoal fire.” Upon which I retired, making a most comical grimace, to refrain from laughing at her still more ridiculous fashion. You must, however, observe, that this occurred nearly twelve years ago, and I have no doubt but a reform has taken place since then by the continual traffic of the English through that part of the country. I must say with resoect to ourselves, we do not make quite such a blunder respecting coffee, but still our middle-classes very seldom enjoy the aroma of that delicious beverage, which should be made as follows : Choose the coffee of a very nice brown colour, but not black (which would denote that it was burnt, and impart a bitter flavour) ; grind it at home, if possible, as you may then depend upon the quality; if ground in any quantity, keep it in a jar hermetically sealed. To make a pint, put two ounces into a stewpan, or small iron or tin saucepan, which set dry upon a moderate fire, stirring the coffee round with a wooden spoon continually until it is quite hot through, but not in the least burnt; should the fire be very fierce, wTann it by degrees, taking it off every now and then until hot (which would not be more than two minutes), then pour over a pint of boiling water, cover close, and let it stand by the side of the fire (but not to boil) for five minutes, strain it through a cloth or a piece of thick21 BREAK. FAS iS gauze, rinse out the stewpan, pour the coffee (which will be quite clear) back into it, place it upon the fire, and, when nearly boiling, serve with hot milk if for breakfast, but with a drop of cold milk or cream if for dinner. To prove the simplicity of this mode of making coffee, I shall here give a repetition of the receipt as it actually is:— 41. TO MAKE COFFEE.—Put two ounces of ground coffee into a stewpan, which set upon the fire, stirring the p-owder round with a spoon until quite hot, then pour over a pint of boiling water; cover over closely for five minutes, pass it through a cloth, warm again, and serve.* The foregoing proportions would make coffee good enough for any person, but more or less coffee could be used if required; the cloth through which it is passed should be immediately washed and put by for the next occasion. A hundred cups of coffee could be made as here directed in half an hour, by procuring a pan sufficiently large, and using the proper proportions of coffee and water, passing it afterwards through a large cloth or jelly-bag. * This entirely new system of making coffee has never yet been introduced to the public, and was found out by the author of this work through the following circumstance : Whilst travelling by night in a railway train, and arriving in due time at the station, where positively no less than five minutes are allowed to restore exhausted nature after a long and tedious journey, and then obliged to use a certain portion of manual strength in pushing through the crowd to get at what is called the refreshment room, and after waiting for nearly two minutes for my turn to be served with some of the boiling liquid which they called coffee, found it as bad as any human being could possibly make it (they having probably waited patiently by the side of a winter’s fire until the last train made its appearance) ; it tasted anything but palatable ; but having along journey before me, and requiring something to eat and drink, I was obliged to put up with it; but before I could even partake of half, or finish masticating some stale toast or over-buttered muffin, the unsociable bell violently rang to acquaint the passengers that their appe- tites were perfectly satisfied, though that incredulous organ would not let us believe it; and every one being perfectly aware that railway trains, like time, wait for no one, the hurry of which event, fortunately, made me escape the swallowing the thick part which was deposited at the bottom of the cup. Rushing out of the refreshment room, I jumped into the wrong carriage, the fidgety train having changed its place, and the time being too short toVectif? tno mistake, I was obliged to make fresh acquaintance with my new com- pactions de voyage, who happened to be as much dissatisfied with the steam*22 BREAKFASTS. 42. COFFEE, FRENCH FASHION.—To a pint of coffee, made as before directed, add a pint of boiling milk; warm both together until nearly boiling, and serve. The French never use it any other way for breakfast. 43. WHITE COFFEE (a new style.')—Put two ounces of unground coffee, slightly roasted, into a clean stewpan, which set upon a moderate fire, slowly warming the coffee through, shaking the stewpan round every half minute; when very hot, which you will perceive by the smoke arising from it, pour over half a pint of boiling water; cover the stewpan well, and let it infuse by the side of the fire for fifteeu minutes; then add half a pint of boiling hot milk, pass the coffee through a small fine sieve into the coffee-pot or jug, and serve with white sugar-candy or crystallized sugar. It is, as you will perceive, a great novelty, and an agreeable change. But if, by neglect, you ing-hot refreshment as myself who had patronised the steaming Mocha. I was at last much pleased to find a wise man among my new travelling friends, who said, “ I never travel at night without being provided with a spirited companion and pulling out of his carpet-bag a small bottle and gutta-percha goblet of new invention, we partook of a drop of the best com de vie I had ever tasted, which produced on me the pleasant sensation of being relieved of a very annoying pain. Grateful for his kindness, and always desirous to improve the domestic comfort, I told him, in making myself known, that, as soon as I arrived at the Reform Club, I would try several experiments to simplify the present method of making coffee ; and should I be successful in my researches, I would forward him the receipt. On my arrival in London, I found my first travelling friends, who, more unfortunate than myself, got in their proper place, and, consequently, did not meet with the “ spirited” friend I did, vowing they would never take any more coffee at night, espe- cially in a railway train. Having forwarded the receipt to my fellow- traveller, he, after having tried it, wrote me the following note : “ My dear Sir,—I have made an experiment of your new receipt for coffee, which you have kindly forwarded to me, and beg to acquaint you that I never recollect having tasted better.—Yours, &c. “ W. C.” I do strongly advise my readers to give it a trial, and recommend all pro- viders of refreshment at railway stations not to make the coffee boiling hot, but to keep the cafetibre in a bain-marie, which would pi event all the above inconvenience, both as regards quality and heat.23 BREAKFASTS. let the coffee get black, or the least burnt, do not attempt to make use of it: it should only be sufficiently charred to break easily in a mortar if required. 44. COFFEE MADE WITH A FILTER.—To make a quart: first put a pint of boiling water through the filter to warm it, which pour away, then put a quarter of a pouud of ground coffee upon the filter, and upon which put the pressor and the grating lightly, pour over half a pint of boiling water, let it stand three or four minutes, then pour over a pint and a half more boiling water; when well passed through, pour it into a clean stewpan, which set at the corner of the fire until a light scum arises, but not boiling; pour it again through the filter, and when well drained through, pour into the coffee-pot, and serve with hot milk, or a little cream, separately. 45. ANOTHER WAY, (more economical.)—Proceed as in the last, but drain the coffee through once only, and serve; after which, pour another quart of boiling water over the coffee-grounds, which, when drained through, reserve, and boil up for the next coffee you make, using it instead of water; use an ounce less coffee. TEA. TEA is, without doubt, one of the most useful herbs ever introduced into this country: it was in the year of the fire of London, 1666,* and has dis- placed an unwholesome and heavy drink (ale) which used to be partaken of * In that year there were imported into England, at the present day, we learn from the Overland and Friend of China, No. 52, December 29, 1849, that there were exported from Canton to the United Kingdom, 39,362,3001bs.; of this, 36,206,7001bs. was black, and only 3,115,6001bs. green ; of the black, there were 31,677,300 lbs. of congou ; showing the immense increase in the consumption of a plant which has done so much towards the civiliza- tion of mankind, and drawing forth the inventive genius which he possesses.24 BREAKFASTS. previously, and lias created fiabits of sobriety. It is a plant indigenous to China, Japan, and Siam, and consists of many varieties, the proper mixing of which constitutes the great art of a tea-dealer. It is exceedingly useful in many cases of sickness, and particularly after having partaken of any liquor to excess, or after extraordinary fatigue. , When new, it is a narcotic ; but when old it has a different effect ;* in its native country it is never par- taken of until a year old, and not then, unless exceedingly desiccated. I cannot recommend you any one in particular, as that depends on taste ; but this I advise, that when you have a kind to your liking, keep to it. And now, my dear friend, without wishing in the least to offend you, or attempting to aggravate your good nature, I must beg to contradict your assertion, made at the commencement of our undertaking, where you say, respecting tea, of course I know how to make it; you made it whilst staj ing at our house occasionally, and Mr. B. found there was a great difference between it and mine. But to tell you the truth respecting tea, I have a little secret of my own, being a discovery which I made a short time ago by accident. Whilst in the act of making tea, I had just put the dry tea in the pot, when I heard a fearful scream up-stairs in the drawing-room ; rushing there, I found my little girl had had a severe fall in reaching something from the chimney-piece, the stool upon which she stood having upset. twenty minutes at least elapsed before I returned to my tea (which, being alone, I was in no particular hurry for), when I found that the servant, thinking there was water in the pot, and fearing the tea would be spoiled, put it into the oven, which was rather hot; when she brought it to me I was rather annoyed, when all at once it struck me that the leaves being hot through, the tea would not require so long to draw; I then filled the tea-pot with boiling- -vater, and in a minute afterwards had a most delicious cup of tea, since which 1 have adopted the system upon all occasions, and am now having made a small spirit-lamp to warm the pot and leaves, as the oven is not always hot; it may, however, be made hot in front of the fire, but must not be placed too close. I gave the receipt to o£ of our neighbours, who actually laughed * Some few years since, having a great deal of writing to do within a certain time, and which could not be done without employing the night as well as the day, I partook of weak green tea, with a little brandy, sugar, and lemon-juice, as a beverage, and, with light food, I was enabled to do it w i but eighteen hours’ sleep, from eight o’clock on Monday morning to five o’clock on the following Sunday morning.BREAKFASTS. 55 at the idea, but never tried it, saying, “We cannot teach anything to our grandmothers, and that what did for them would do for us.” Now, what could you say to such people 1 why, nothing ; but let them alone, as I shall do for the future. But you, my dear, I know, have better sense ; proceed as I have directed, and you will find it a great improvement. Put your tea in the pot ten minutes before being ready for it, warming both tea and pot, before the fire or in a slow oven ; fill with boiling water, and leave it from three to five minutes to draw, when it is quite ready. CACAO. CACAO was first known in Europe after the discovery of America, and it retains its Indian name; of course, it was first used in Spam, and did not come into use in England until much later; and we find that there was imported into England, in the year 1694, about 13,0001bs weight of it; in 1848, 410,000fbs. It is a long fruit, about five to eight inches, and three or four thick, which contains about thirty nuts: the tree grows to only a few feet in height. During the time of the famine in Ireland, I turned my attention to this valuable fruit, whose nutritive qualities are so great; and from conversation and correspondence with our principal importers and manufacturers of cho- colate, I found that it cannot be had in sufficient quantities to allow of a great consumption, as it is a production which, like all others, is subject to vicissitudes, which, at times, considerably raise the price of the nut; but I see no reason why it should not be made an article of greater cultivation, so as to provide for the great demand which would arise if it were more gene- rally introduced. In the course of my experiments, I have found that the shell is almost as nutritious as the kernel, with less oily particles in it, which, to many, are unpleasant; and I am confident that large quantities might bo imported into this country at a very cheap rate, which are, at the present moment, thrown away in South America and the West India Islands, just in the same way as the tobacco-stalk was, but which is now imported into this country for the purpose of making snuff. If imported in greater quantities, it would be a most excellent article of diet in our workhouses and charitable institutions. 46. CHOCOLATE.—Scrape two ounces of the cake into a stewpan or sa-ucepan, with a gill of water, placeBREAKFASTS. 26 npen the five, keeping it stirred with a wooden spoon until rather thick, when work it quickly with a spoon, stirring in half a pint of boiling milk by degrees; serve very hot, with sugar separate. 47. CHOCOLATE MADE IN THE ITALIAN METHOD. — Procure a regular chocolate-pot with a muller, the handle of which comes through the lid; one might be procured at any brazier’s; put in two ounces of chocolate (scraped), over which by degrees pour a pint of boiling milk, put on the lid with the muller inside, which keep well moving, setting the pot upon the fire, and when very hot and frothy, serve. 48. COCOA.—Put a teaspoonful and a half of canistered cocoa into a cup, which fill by degrees with boiling milk, stir it until dissolved, when it is ready to serve; sugar separately. LETTER No. III. Oatlands Cottage, Jan. 20, 1849. Dear Hortense,—I have inclosed the whole of the receipts which you have sent me for the Breakfasts, properly classified, having omitted the cold meats (as you desired me) from this series, thinking, as you do, they ara more suited for the luncheon. To save useless repetition, I have placed the receipts in numbers, by which references can he easily made, and any dish appearing in the dinner or luncheon series, hut available for breakfast, can he directly found. One thing I remember when at your house was, that when the remains of a joint were rather large, you used to put it upon a side-table, and let any one help themselves from it there ; your idea being, I believe, that very few persons liked to have a large dish of meat before their eyes almost imme- diately after rising from their beds, or at the first meal of the morning. Re upecting the way your table was laid out, to the best of my recollection, it was as°followsFirst, the large table-cloth, over which was laid a smallEARLY LUNCHEONS. 27 napkin before each person, with, cups and saucers for tea or coffee, at choice, small plates for rolls, and a size larger for meat, sausages, eggs, &c., a small knife and fork for each; the butter in a pretty freezing butter-glass, just covered with clear spring-water, and garnished with a few sprigs of parsley or water-cresses ; the cream in a small china cream-jug, and a larger jug con- taining hot milk for coffee; orange marmalade in its original pot, honey- comb, water-cresses, and once a few nice young radishes, which were excel- lent, although a little out of season; one day also dry toast was served, another day buttered, the next muffins, then crumpets, white and brown bread, and small rolls, thus making a continual change, but all so small and inviting. I shall always, when I have company, as you had then, arrange everything in the same manner, especially now that I have your receipts written down. But when you are alone, you tell me you never make any such display, which of course would be ridiculous ; still even then you vary, by having either tea, coffee, or chocolate, which change I like as well as you. I seldom partake of meat, but Mr. L generally likes a little broiled bacon, or boiled eggs, things in themselves veiy simple and pleasant to have upon the table. Yours, in haste, Eloise. EARLY LUNCHEONS. LETTER No. IV. Mr dear Friend,—I feel perfectly satisfied with the manner in which you have classified my receipts respecting the breakfasts, and I must say I felt very much interested in looking over them : I am confident they would prove interesting and instructive to any young housekeeper ; I hope, there- fore, you will preserve the originals, as I do not keep any copies, fearing they would confuse me by making reference to them ; so that, if at any future time I should make a repetition in other series, you would be able to correct me, for I am as willing as yourself that we should complete our Journal by going through eveiy series comprising meals of the day. Ihe next meal, then, to breakfast, in the ordinary course of events, is the luncheon. Although it is a meal we never touch ourselves, I am aware many small families make it a regular one, so our little journal would not be com- plete without some few remarks, which I intend making as short and concise as possible. When wo were in business, our luncheons were comprised of any cold meats which were cooked for previous dinners ; if a joint of cold roast28 EARLY LUNCHEONS. or boiled meat, it requires to be nicely trimmed before making its appearance at table, but reserving the trimmings for hash, if of roast meat, or bubble and squeak, if salt beef, which is an excellent method of disposing of the remainder of a joint to advantage ; if the joint happened to be cold veal, I used to send for a plate of ham to serve with it, unless there was a piece of bacon also left; if mutton, I used to dish up the leg with a pretty little paper frill upon the knuckle, also trimming the joint lightly, for you must be aware that, after four or five have dined from a leg of mutton, its appearance becomes quite spoiled, and looks blackish when cold. Pork I also serve the same ; when parsley was cheap, I always laid a few branches round it, which used, as my visitors said, to make the meat look very refreshing and inviting. Our only addition was sometimes the remainder of game, which at that time used frequently to be presented to us—pheasants, partridges, or grouse ; as it would then have been very extravagant to have purchased them, especially when they were so expensive. As an accompaniment to the meat, I always kept two different sorts of mixed pickles, good bread, butter, cheese, and a glass of excellent table ale ; or, if our guest was some bosom friend or good customer, a bottle of sherry (not decantered), never any port, thinking that more fit for the dinner-table. Such was my plan in the first five years after my marriage : everything upon our table was of the first quality, and every one used to admire the neatness with which the table was laid out. My method now, when luncheon is required (as we do not dine until half- past five o’clock, Mr. B. being engaged until four in the city), I have the cloth laid at twelve, and lunch at half-past; and that time being just after the nursery dinner, we generally have some sort of pudding or tart, made at the same time with theirs. For cold meat, I always serve that up which has been left from a previous dinner, if any, or any remains of poultry, game, ham, or tongue. "When, however, we have six or eight friends from the country, at Christmas, I feel proud to show them my style of doing things well and economically, for they are very intelligent people, and can appre- ciate good living, though at home they really live too plain for their in- comes ; but they say, “ We do not understand how it is that you make a nice little dish almost out of nothing.” For should I have the remnants of any poultry or game not very inviting to the sight, I generally cut it up and show my cook how to hash it in a variety of ways ; and I always remark, that they never partake of any cold meat whilst any of the hash remains. For the methods of making various hashes of fowl, game, hare, rabbit, beef,THE NURSERY DINNER. 29 mutton, as also curries, minced veal and poached eggs, cold pies of game, poultry, mutton, beefsteak, or pigeon, as also plain mutton cutlets, steaks, and broiled bonee, the whole of which may be served for luncheon, I must Refer you to the series of Receipts belonging to the Dinner; any of these articles are placed in order upon the table, with the pickle-stand, two different cruet-sauces, orange marmalade, potatoes, butter, cheese, sherry and port wines. This style of luncheon, will no doubt surprise you, but I can assure you it scarcely increases my expenditure, having the same num- ber to provide for daily, so that the luncheon is generally made up from the remains of dinner, and the remains of luncheon will dine our three servants at half-past one. In the summer, I introduce a few dishes of fruit, and less meat; and when there are several ladies, I often introduce some English- made wine, which once I used to make myself, but which I can now buy cheaper. THE NURSERY DINNER. LETTER No. V. Dear Friend,—Now here I must call your especial attention to the way many people treat this department of domestic comfort, which is often very slight and irregular. Now, for my part, I have made quite a study of it, and could pi ove that health is always dependent on the state of the digestive organs ; and that, if you should improperly treat young stomachs, by over or under supplying their wants, or using them to ill-cooked food, you not only destroy the functionary coating of the stomach, but also impede the develop- ment of the intellect. It is, then, as much a science to manage the food of children, as to cater for the palate of the gourmet, and I shah always con- sider that good food is to the body what education is to the mind. My plan of managing the nursery meals is as follows :—At eight o’clock in the morning, which was my usual time, I used myself to prepare that glutinous food upon which our ancestors and race were first reared, rather unclassically denominated Pap. My method was very simple : . PAP- Put two ounces of rusk, or tops and oottoms, m a small saucepan, with just sufficient water to moisten them; set the saucepan upon the fire until its contents are thoroughly warm through ; pour a little of the water30 THE NURSERY DINNER. aw a}', if too thin, pressing the rusk with a spoon: then ado a teaspoonful of white or brown sugar, and beat the whole with a spoon until quite a pulp; it is then ready for use. I have seen some poor people in the country make it with a stale piece of' bread, previously well dried and lightly toasted before the fire, and you could scarcely tell the difference from rusks; and you must observe, that people in a countiy village cannot always supply themselves with everything in the way of luxury ; but look at the greater part of those country urchins, —are they not a real picture of health ? for, after all, nothing is more ad- vantageous to a delicate child than country air and country food. When Mr. B. and myself were staying at Boulogne for a few weeks, I was astonished to hear that everybody used to put their children out to nurse. I was so surprised, that I made every inquiry, and found it literally true; that even respectable tradespeople sent their children a mile or two out in the country, some to the houses of very poor people : I cannot say that I approve of such a style of bringing up infants, but even there they seem as healthy and as joyful as possible. I also found there something to be learned, and that was, how to make French pap, which I think very nutritious, but which I con- sidered at the time rather heavy for our climate; but having afterwards made a trial of it upon our little Henry, I found him doing so extremely well, that I continued feeding him upon it for nearly eight months, until he was old enough to eat other food. The following is the receipt: 50. FRENCH PAP.—Put a tablespoonful of flour into a pap saucepan, to which add by degrees two gills of milk, mixing it into a very smooth batter with a wooden spoon ; place the saucepan upon the fire, let it boil ten minutes, keeping it stirred the whole time, or it is liable to bum or become brown, then add about half an ounce of sugar and a little salt, put it into a basin, and it is ready for use. A little butter is also very good in it. You will observe, that it is more difficult and troublesome to make than our pap; but when used to it you will expend no more tune over it; and, as the French people say, cooking is all pleasure and no trouble. But what convinces me that it is more palatable and nutritious is, that I have seen a very robust man make a hearty dinner of two plates of it, by intro- ducing bread in it. I have no doubt that our own hasty pudding was takenTHE NURSERY DINNER. 31 from it, for tlie use of children of three or four years old, being thought too heavy for infants. These long details may appear rather insignificant and tedious to you, but I leave them to your good judgment, begging of you to curtail my remarks should you think proper; but, although you may con- sider that every person is acquainted with these domestic habits, you would find upon inquiry that very many persons neglect them almost entirely. Having written thus much upon the food of infants, we must next consider the proper diet for children of twelve months old, commencing with bread and milk. - , 51. BREAD AND MILK.—Cut about two ounces of any white bread into small thin slices, and put them into- a small basin 01 a large breakfast cup, in a little saucepan (only used for that purpose) have half a pint of milk; when upon the point of boiling, pour over the bread; cover over the cup five minutes, and it is ready for use. I much prefer this method to that of boiling the bread and in ill.- together. In first commencing to feed a child upon the above, I always added a little sugar, which I withdrew by degrees, as I do not like to accustom children to too much sweets, as it inclines them when a little older to be always wanting or eatmg sweet stuff, which often spoils the best set of teeth; and here let me remark, that the finest fortmie you can give to your children is health, and as loving mothers, whilst we have them under our control, it is our duty to study their little comforts, and direct their first steps in fife in the road to happiness. 52. PORRIDGE.—When children are delicate, por- ridge is often preferable to bread and milk. Put two tablespoonfuls of Scotch grits or oatmeal in the milk saucepan, which moisten with half a pint of milk; let it boil ten minutes, keeping well stirred, add a small piece of butter and a little sugar, and it is ready for use. When my children were about eighteen months or two years old I used give them a little tender meat, such as boiled mutton, and broth, but in v«y smal quantities, keeping still for the general food the bread and milk bewZe26 d iT T th<3y ^ °ld 6n0Ugh t0 6at anjthin° wllolea°me (ono g ne and the other ten years of age), their meals are composed thus :THE NURSERY DINNER. 32 53. CHILDREN’S DIET FOR THE DAY.—Bread and milk for breakfast at eiglit; the dinner at one, which was composed as follows throughout the week: roast mutton and apple pudding, roast beef and currant pudding, baked apples; boiled mutton with turnips, after which rice or vermicelli pudding; occasionally a little salt beef, with suet dumplings, plain and with currants in them, or pease pudding; or if unwell, a little veal or chicken-broth, or beef-tea (the receipts for which will be found in the series entitled Comforts for Invalids). When in business, the first three years we could not afford to keep a nur- sery—in fact, we had no room to spare ; the children then used to dine with us at one, but at a side-table with their nurse. 54. They then had a little plain meat, cut small in their plates, with potatoes, pieces of bread, and gravy, after which, three times a week, plain rice, bread, or other plain pudding, or rhubarb or apple tart; and, at five o’clock, their bread and milk again, previous to going to bed. But if for people who could afford it, I should recommend the following diet-table, for nursery-maid and all: 55. ROAST MUTTON FOR CHILDREN.—First, about two pounds of mutton, well-cooked, but with the real gravy of the meat in it, which will require about one hour before a moderate fire, dredge it ten minutes before being done; when taken up and in the dish, sprinkle a little salt over the meat, and pour over three or four spoon- fuls of hot water to make a little light gravy. Many persons will, I am aware, quite disapprove of this system of washing the meat, they would serve it as if it were for full-grown people, but you well know what would do for children as well as I—plain, simple, and wholesome food; I always earned out this system, and I now make my cook do the same. 56. Then the next day I would give them a small piece of mutton, plain boiled, with turnips, and apple tart;THE NURSERY DINNER. 34 or a few slices of roast beef, or a small piece roasted on purpose, after which a very plain currant pudding; or, occasionally, a little pickled pork, with pease pudding, or roast pork, with baked apples, and now and then a little salt beef, but very well boiled, with suet dumplings, and occasionally, for change, either bread, vermicelli, or tapioca puddings; in case of illness, and with the approbation of the doctor, veal, mutton, or chicken-broth, sago, gruel, panada, &c., for which refer to the Receipts for Invalids. Now the more I write the more I am convinced that for the method of preparing certain articles for the children’s dinners, we must refer to the kitchen department of Receipts and Receipts for Invalids, especially as regards broth, meat, puddings, &c., or otherwise we should have too many repetitions ; so that it will be better upon the completion of the journal, to make references, either by numbers of receipt or page, more intelligible, and less confused. Many people may, perhaps, imagine that there is too much variety of food for children ; but it is quite the contrary; for change of food is to the stomach what change of air is to the general health, and, of course, with children, these changes must be effected with judgment, and their food administered in small quantities; for you must observe when children are well brought up with regard to their meals, they possess extraordinary organs of digestion, the proof of which is that they require feeding oftener than a full-grown person, and never appear to be tired of eating. Having here terminated my remarks upon the Nurseiy, I shall leave this scene of romp and confusion, to walk on tip-toe to the side-room door and carefully enter, without noise, into the moumfiil abode of human suffering and captivity, in hopes that, by watching over the diet of its occupants my small efforts may improve their comforts, and, by proper management, assist m their restoration to health. I shall therefore proceed to give some receipts, entitled Comforts for Invalids. Nothing is to me more painful than to see any food ill-prepared for sick people, whose sense of taste is partially gone; everything ordered by the doctors as food should be cooked in the greatest perfection, especially as all Urey require is so very simple, and easily done, it is unpardonable to do it badly, although I am sorry to say that this is too often the case, even m D84 COMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. many of our first hospitals and other public establishments, where they have provisions in abundance, and of the first quality. Perhaps you may fancy I am too severe upon this delicate subject, but I can assure you that I have for years been in the habit of visiting some of these institutions for the sick, and can therefore speak with confidence. I have grieved to see it, and often wished that they would follow a system I could lay down, but there are some people who will not change their style, however bad, for a better one, for the world. Now I must here claim all your intelligence, for pointing out those receipts the accomplishing of which is most plain, and will insure success to those who may try to do them, and cause them to persuade others to follow their example. I therefore inclose the following. Yours, &c. Hortense. COMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. i 57. MEAT.—The best meat as food for invalids is, in fact, that which is principally used, mutton and beef, lamb, if not too young (sweetbreads, I Consider, ought oftener to be introduced), and calves’ feet or head, scalded and boiled until tender, are very nutritious; chickens, pigeons, partridges, are also very inviting. All the above-mentioned articles are easy of diges- tion, excepting perhaps the beef, which may require to be gently stewed until tender, if for a delicate stomach just ordered to take meat after a serious fit of illness. 58. PLAIN MUTTON BROTH.—Get one pound of scrag of mutton, break the bone with a chopper, without separating the meat, then put it into a stewpan with three pints of water and a salt-spoonful of salt; boil gently two hours, carefully removing all the scum and fat, which is easily done by allowing it to simmer slowly by the side of the fire; it rvill be by that time reduced to about one quart, and is then ready to serve. This broth cannot be expected to drink very palatable, being deprived of vege- tables and seasoning, it is in fact more like a beverage35 COMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. than a soup: at the commencement of convalescence more strength may be given if ordered by the doctor, by reducing the original quantity to one pint. This broth is often administered by a spoonful only at a time. 59. SEASONED MUTTON BROTH.—Put the same quantity of mutton and water into your stewpan, add two salt-spoonfuls of salt, and a half one of brown sugar, a small-sized onion, very little celery, and one ounce of turnip; set it upon the fire, and when beginning to boil draw it to the side; let it simmer gently two hours; skim off all the scum and fat, pass it through a sieve, and use it when required. When finished, there ought to be about a quart of broth remaining; but if by neglect it has boiled too fast, add more water, and set to boil for a quarter of an hour longer. When the patient is getting better, the medical man will probably order a little of the meat, or even turnips, to be eaten, in which case serve them on a plate separately; should the meat not be required by the patient, it is very excellent for a healthy person, with a few spoonfuls of onions or caper sauce, or even plain. If pearl-barley is required to be taken with the broth, put a tablespoonful of it in with the water when you first put it upon the fire, the whole will then be done together; if the bailey is to be eaten by the patient, take out the meat n vegetables, and skim off every spot of grease; but if the barley is not required, pass the broth, as before, through a sieve. ’ 60. MUTTON BROTH, (with variations.)— With ermicelli. Having made your broth, and passed it through a sieve, as before, put the meat and vegetables uno/a boilb^f ab^ ^ lnt° the Sarae ^wpan; when e, if about a quart, and one or two tablespoonfids of D 236 COMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. vermicelli, depending upon the strength of the patient’s stomach; ten minutes’ boiling will be sufficient to cook vermicelli. 61. With Rice.—One spoonful of best rice in the stew- pan, with mutton and water the same as the barley, as it is better for the rice to be in pulp than underdone.* 62. With Semoulina.—Semoulina is very delicate and glutinous, and I am quite confident that the faculty would approve of it after a trial or two; it is good in any kind of broth or milk for invalids, of very easy digestion, and having also the advantage of being tolerably cheap and quickly cooked; proceed as directed for vermicelli. 63. With Arrow-root.—After having passed your broth, place it again into the stewpan to boil; when boiling, put two teaspoonfuls of arrow-root into a cup, which mix smoothly with a gill of cold broth, or half ditto of water; then pour it into your boiling broth, which keep stirring with a spoon; let it simmer ten minutes, and it is ready for use. 64. VEAL BROTH, (French method.)—The following is much recommended by French physicians:—Put one pound of veal from the knuckle, with but very little of the bone, into a stewpan with three pints of water and a salt- spoonful of salt, place it over the fire to boil; when boiling, take off all the scum; then add a small cabbage-lettuce and a few sprigs of chervil, if handy (this herb is now in greater use than ever, and may always be had for a trifle at Covent-garden Market); let simmer slowly for two hours, it will then be reduced to about a quart; pass itCOMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. 37 through a sieve, letting the meat drain, and it is ready to serve. 65. ANOTHER WAY, (more palatable.)—Take the same quantity of veal as before, which cut into small dice (as you should cut all meat, if possible), put it into the stewpan, with a small pat of butter, half an onion, about the same quantity of carrot and turnip, a little celery, and a teaspoonful of salt; set the stewpan upon the fire, keeping the contents stirred, for about ten minutes, until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a whitish glaze, then add three pints of hot water; let the whole simmer one hour at the corner of the fire, skim well, pass it through a sieve, and use when required. This broth is most palatable and very digestible, but of course only to be given to the convalescent; it may be served with vermicelli, rice, arrow-root, and semoulina, as directed for mutton broth. 66. ANOTHER WAY, (very Refreshing and Strength- ening.)—Put two pounds of knuckle of veal into a stewpan, with a calf’s foot split, the bone taken out and chopped up, add three quarts of water, a good-sized onion, one leek, a piece of parsnip, and two salt-spoonfuls of salt (if allowed by the doctor, if not, the salt must be omitted), set it upon the fire, and when beginning to boil, skim, and let it simmer at the corner of the fire four hours; twenty minutes before passing, again skim off all the fat, and add ten large leaves of sorrel, or twenty small, one cabbage- lettuce, and a handful of chervil; when done pass it through a sieve; it is then ready for use. This broth is very cooling and nutritious when taken cold, as it is then quite a jelly; vermicelli, rice, &c., may be added when38 COMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. served hot, and the veal and calf’s foot is very excellent, eaten with parsley and butter or sharp sauce; but should the patient require any, it must be quite plain, with a little of the broth and only the gelatinous part of the foot. The above also makes an excellent dinner soup, and if put in a cool place, will keep a week in winter and three days in summer. 67. SOYER’S NEW WAY OF MAKING BEEF TEA.—Cut a pound of solid beef into very small dice, which put into a stewpan, with a small pat of butter, a clove, two button onions, and a salt-spoonful of salt, stir the meat round over the fire for a few minutes, until it produces a thin gravy, then add a quart of water, and let it simmer at the comer of the fire for half an hour, skim- ming oft' every particle of fat; when done pass through a sieve. I have always had a great objection to passing broth through a cloth, as it frequently quite spoils its flavour. The same, if wanted plain, is done by merely omitting the vegetables, salt, and clove : the butter cannot be objectionable, as it is taken out in skimming; pearl-barley, vermicelli, rice, &c., may be served in it if required. 68. REAL ESSENCE OF BEEF.—Take one pound of solid beef from the rump, a steak would be the best, cut it into thin slices, which lay upon a thin trencher, and scrape quite fine with a large and sharp knife (as quickly as possible, or the juice of the meat would partially soak into the wood, your meat thus losing much of its strength- ening quality), when like sausage-meat put it into a stew- pan or saucepan, and stir over the fire five or ten minutes, until thoroughly warmed through, then add a pint of water, cover the stewpan as tightly as possible, and let itCOMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. 39 remain close to the fire or in a warm oven for twenty minutes, then pass it through a sieve, pressing the meat with a spoon to extract all the essence. I beg to observe that here you have the real juice of the meat; but if wanted stronger, put only half instead of one pint of water; seasoning may be introduced, that is, a little salt, sugar, and cloves, but no vegetables, as they would not have time to cook, thus leaving a raw, bad flavour. 69. PURE OSMAZOME, or ESSENCE of MEAT. —Take two pounds of the flesh of any animal or bird (the older the better for obtaining the true flavour), as free from sinew as possible, and mince it well; place it in a Florence oil-flask, and cork it; put this in a saucepan filled with cold water, leaving the neck uncovered ; place it on the side of the fire until the water arrives at 160° Fahr., at which temperature it must remain for twenty minutes; then remove it, and strain the contents through a tamrnie, pressing the meat gently with a spoon ; should it require to be kept for some time, put the liquor in a basin or cup, which place in the saucepan ; subject it to a boiling heat until it is reduced to the consistency of treacle, removing the scum; this, when cold, will become solid, and will keep for any number of years. Osmazome is known under various names in different cookery books, as “ fumet,” “ essence,” &c., and is obtained in a different way, which causes the gelatine to be produced with the osmazome ; but by the above plan the gelatine is left in the meat, and the osmazome and the albumen are ex- tracted ; the albumen is afterwards removed as the scum. 70. CHICKEN BROTH.—Put half a raw chicken into a stewpan, with a quart of water, a little leek and celery40 COMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. with a salt-spoonful of salt, and a few sprigs of parsley (if allowed); set the stewpan upon the fire; when boiling, skim well, and let simmer upon the corner for one hour, pass it through a sieve, and it is ready for use. The chicken would eat very nice with a little maitre- d’hotel sauce, or any other from that series would do for the parlour, that is, when the patient is not allowed to eat it. For a change, chicken-broth in the following way is very nutritious; that is, after having passed the broth through a sieve, pour it back again into the stewpan, which place over the fire; moisten a teaspoonful of flour in a cup with a little cold broth or water, and when quite smooth, pour it into the broth whilst boiling, stirring quickly; let simmer a quarter of an hour, and it is ready. Mutton or veal broth may also be varied the same. 71. EEL BROTH, {very strengthening.)—Take a small eel, which skin as described under fish, and wash well, then cut it into slices, which put into a small saucepan, just covered with water, add a little salt, a few spiigs of parsley, two button onions, and a clove; let it simmer very gently until the eels are tender, when skim off all the fat, pass the broth through a very fine sieve into a cup, it is then ready to serve when required, but a spoonful only should be taken at a time. A patient is sometimes allowed to take part of the fish, which being so much boiled, constitutes a lighter food than eels are in general; a little melted butter and parsley might be served with them. 72. LAIT DE POULE, {French remedy for colds.)— This may be made from any of the foregoing broths, and for colds is excellent. Break a fresh egg, separate the4i COMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. ■white from the yolk, put the yolk in a basin, with a quarter of a gill of good cream or milk, which mix well with a spoon; have half a pint of broth boiling, which pour gra- dually over the egg and cream, mixing it (as you pour the broth) with a wooden spoon; it is then ready, and ought to be taken when going to bed, if only for a cold. 73. SWEET LAIT DE PODLE. — This is also reckoned very good for a cold. Put two yolks of eggs into a cup, with two teaspoonfuls of pounded sugar, a few drops of orange-flower water, or the eighth part of the rind of a fresh lemon grated, beat them well together for ten minutes, then pour boiling water gradually over, keep- ing it stirred until the cup is nearly full. Drink this very hot when in bed; I can strongly recommend it from experience. 74. RIZ AU LAIT, or RICE MILK, is a very favourite food, or soup; in France many persons make their suppers of it, even when in a state of perfect health. Proceed as follows:—wash a tablespoonful of good rice in water, which drain and put into a stewpan, with a pint of milk, upon the fire, and when boiling, place it at the corner to simmer, until the rice is quite tender, (for invalids it must be in a pulp); sweeten with a little sugar, and it is quite ready. 75. RICE MILK, {seasoned.)—Proceed exactly as in the last, but when the rice is quite tender add an ounce of butter, two teaspoonfuls of sugar, and a little salt, stir well together, and it is then ready; this must neither be too thick nor too thin, but about the thickness of well- made gruel. In France they always add a few drops of orange-flower water, but that depends upon taste. These last two are very nutritious, especially after a long illness.COMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. 45 76. VERMICELLI AU LAIT.—Boil a pint of milk, and when boiling, add sufficient vermicelli to make it about the thickness of the last article; it may be served quite plain if required, or seasoned as for the riz au lait, omitting the orange-flower water. 77. SEMOULINA AU LAIT.—Boil a pint of milk, and when boiling, add a tablespoonful of semoulina, stirring it gently, to prevent its becoming lumpy; let it simmer twenty minutes, and serve either plain or seasoned, as for the riz au lait. 78. TAPIOCA AU LAIT.—Proceed exactly as in the last, but it will require rather longer to simmer before the tapioca is tender; and, by way of change, add a little grated lemon-peel, or a glass of white wine, if allowed by the doctor, or season as for the last. 79. ARROW-ROOT.—Put two teaspoonfuls of arrow- root, which mix gradually with enough water or milk, stirring it with a spoon, let it boil a few minutes, and if made with milk, add only a little butter, sugar, and salt, or serve plain; but if made with water, add the eighth part of the rind of a fresh lemon to boil with it; when done, add a glass of port or sherry, sugar, a little salt, and a small piece of butter, unless prohibited. 80. GRUEL.—Put two tablespoonfuls of oatmeal or prepared groats into a stewpan, and by degrees add a pint of water, mixing smoothly with a wooden spoon; place it upon the fire, keeping it well stirred, until it has boiled a couple of minutes, then pour it into a basin, add half a salt-spoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of brown sugar, and two ounces of butter, the latter especially; if for a43 COMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. cold in the chest even more than that quantity, should the stomach be strong enough to bear it. Gruel -when properly made, ought to adhere rather thickly to the back of the spoon, but not to be pasty; it ought likewise to be eaten directly it is made, or it becomes thick and unpleasant to eat; if required plain, omit all the seasoning; it might also be made with milk. 81. GRUEL FROM SCOTCH GROATS.—Proceed as above, but add rather more water, and boil a few minutes longer; many people prefer eating it with the rough groats in it, but if objectionable, place a small clean sieve over the basin you intend serving it in, pass the gruel through, and season as in the last. Some add spirits or w7ine; but that I should never recommend any one to do, unless by the doctor’s orders, and that would be very seldom, I should think, especially as regards spirits. 82. SAGO GRUEL.—Put two tablespoonfuls of sago into a small saucepan, which moisten gradually with a pint of cold water, set it over a slow fire, keeping it stirred until becoming rather stiff and clear, similar to a jelly; then add a little grated nutmeg and sugar according to taste, and serve; half a pat of butter might also be added with the sugar, or it might be made with new milk, and a little salt added; a glass of wine in either case makes it more palatable. 83. ARROW-ROOT TRANSPARENT JELLY. — Put a good teaspoonful of arrow-root into a basin, which mix smoothly with two spoonfuls of water, then add enough boiling water to make it about the consistency of starch, stirring all the time, pour it into a stewpan, and stir over the fire until it has boiled two minutes; add a little cream, a small glass of wine, and a little sugar, and serve.44 COMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. 84. FRENCH PANADA (for aged people, invalids, and children.)—Break a stale penny roll into a saucepan, in which pour just sufficient water to cover the bread, stir well over the fire, allowing it to boil five minutes, then add half a teaspoonful of salt, and two ounces of fresh butter, mix them, and take from the fire; have one yolk of egg well beaten, with two tablespoonfuls of milk (if handy) or water, which pour into the panada, stirring very quickly for half a minute, it is then ready to pour into a basin and serve. Any common bread would do for panada, but would not eat so light as when made from a roll. I knew a very aged lady in France who accustomed her- self to eat a basin of panada every night, a few minutes previous to going to bed, for a period of eighteen years, which will prove that, although very substantial in ap- pearance, it is easy to digest. Panada ought to be rather thicker than gruel, and may likewise be made of milk, but water is preferable, especially for bilious people. 85. BARLEY WATER.—Put half a gallon of water into a very clean saucepan, with two ounces of clean (but unwashed) pearl-barley; when boiling, carefully skim it with a tablespoon, and add half the rind of a small lemon, let it boil until the barley is quite tender: sweeten with half an ounce of white sugar, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and use when required. The juice of half a lemon in some cases may also be introduced. 8G. RICE WATER.—Put a quart of water to boil in a saucepan, with a handful of clean rice, (but not washed), place it upon the fire and let boil gently until the rice is quite in a pulp, then pass it through a hair sieve into aCOMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. 45 jug, pressing as much of the rice through as possible; when getting cold, sweeten moderately with honey, which will make it very palatable ; it should be drunk luke- warm. 87. A NEW DRINK.—Put half a gallon of water upon the fire, and when boiling, have ready four pippin apples (quite ripe), cut each apple into eight slices, with- out peeling them, throw them into the water, which keep boiling until the apples are quite soft, pass the water through a sieve, pressing the apples gently against the side of the sieve, but not rubbing them through, add enough honey to make it sweetish, and drink lukewarm. Two apples thrown into the rice-water and boiled the same would be a great improvement. People in good health would much enjoy such drink, during the summer especially; as also would poor people in the country, where apples are plentiful. Any kind of apples would suit, and brown sugar instead of honey, or even without sugar or honey. 88. COOLING DRINK.—Bake four or six apples, without peeling them; when done and quite hot, put them into a jug, and pour over three pints of boiling water; cover the jug over with paper, and when cold it is ready for use; a spoonful of honey or brown sugar added makes it very palatable. 89. ALMOND WATER.—Put five ounces of sweet and two of bitter almonds into a saucepan, with a pint of warm water, which set upon the fire, and, when boiling, strain them upon a sieve, take off their skins, and set them m spring water to cool, then dry them upon a cloth, poundCOMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. 46 them in a mortar until very fine, adding a few drops of water occasionally, to prevent their becoming oily, set a pint of syrup to boil, and throw in the mashed almonds; boil altogether a minute, then set it at the corner to simmer for a quarter of an hour; it is then ready to pass through a fine sieve for use. When required, add any quantity of cold water, according to taste or direction, to make it palatable. 90. BARLEY LEMONADE.—Put a quarter of a pound of sugar into a small stewpan, with half a pint of water, which boil about ten minutes, or until forming a thickisli syrup; then add the rind of a fresh lemon and the pulp of two ; let it boil two minutes longer, when add two quarts of barley-water, from which you have omitted the sugar and lemon; boil five minutes longer, pass it through a hair sieve into a jug, which cover with paper, making a hole in the centre to let the heat through; when cold, it is ready for use. If put cold into a bottle and well corked down, it would keep good several days. BARLEY ORANGEADE is made the same way as above, substituting the rind and juice of oranges; the juice of a lemon, in addition, is an improvement, when taken as a refreshing beverage. 91. A REFRESHING BEVERAGE. — Slice two oranges and one lemon, which put into a jug, with two ounces of sugar-candy, over which pour one quart of boiling water; stir it occasionally until cold, drink it a little at a time, as often as ordered by the medical attend- ant. This drink is also very excellent for persons in health, especially in warm weather.47 COMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. 92. RASPBERRY VINEGAR BEVERAGE.—Put two tablespoonfuls of raspberry vinegar into a cup, over which pour half a pint of boiling water; when cold, use it as you may be instructed or when necessary; any kind of fruit syrup would answer the same purpose, and be equally as good, that is, currants, cherries, strawberries mulberries, &c. 93. A VERY STRENGTHENING DRINK.—Put a teaicupful of pearl-barley into a saucepan, with three pints of cold wTater, the rind of a lemon, and a small piece of cinnamon; boil the whole very gently until the barley becomes tender, then strain it through a fine sieve, and sweeten with a spoonful of treacle: if treacle should be objectionable, honey or sugar will do. 94. FRESH FRUIT WATER.—Fresh fruits, when m season, are very preferable to syrups, which are but seldom well made, except at some of the first confectioners or Italian warehouses. Pick a pottle of fresh raspberries or strawberries, which- ever you may require, rub them through a sieve into a basin, which mix well with half a pint of syrup, the juice of a lemon, and a quart of spring water; pass it through a fine hair sieve, and put it by in a jug for use : both the sjrup and water may either be increased or diminished according to taste. Red or wMte currant icaters are made precisely the same, only omitting the lemon, the currants themselves bein^ sufficiently sharp. ° 99. CHERRY DRAUGHT.—Choose a pound of good eshy cherries, from which take the stalk and stones;48 COMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. have a pint of syrup boiling, into which throw them, to boil as fast as possible for ten minutes; then take them from the fire, and add a good wine-glassful of Madeira or sherry, and a quart of boiling water; put it into a jug, with a cup over; when cold, pass it through a sieve, and it is ready for use. The wine may be omitted if not required. A drink of the same description may likewise be made from mulberries, but then a little lemon-juice must be added. 96. ARROW-ROOT WATER.—Put half a gallon of water to boil with two apples, the same as in No. 87, with the addition of a stick of cinnamon; let the whole boil half an hour, then mix two large spoonfuls of arrow-root with half a pint of cold water, very smoothly, and pour it into the boiling water; let the whole boil ten minutes, and pass it through a sieve; when cold, it will be thickish and drink light. 97 FRENCH HERB BROTH.—This is a very favourite beverage in France, as well with people m a state of health as with invalids, especially m the spring, when the herbs are young and green. Put a quart ot water to boil, but have previously prepared about foitj leaves of sorrel, a cabbage lettuce, and ten sprigs ot chervil, the whole well washed ; when the water is boiling, throw in the above, with the addition of a teaspoonlul of salt, and half an ounce of fresh butter; cover your sauce- pan close, and let them simmer a few minutes, then pws it through a sieve or colander. This is to be drunk co d especially in the spring of the year, after the chanSe winter, I generally drink about a quart per day for a week, at that time ; but if for sick people, it must be made ess strong of herbs, and taken a little warm. To prove thatCOMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. 49 it is wholesome, we have only to refer to the instinct which teaches dogs to eat grass at that season of the year. I do not pretend to say that it would suit persons in every malady, because the doctors are to decide upon the food and beverage of their patients, and study its changes, as well as change their medicines. 98. DRY PLUM BEVERAGE.—Put a quart of water in a saucepan upon the fire, and, when boiling, throw in twelve fresh dry French plums, and let them boil twenty minutes, then pour them in a basin with the liquor to cool; when cold, take out the plums, which put into a basin; add two tablespoonfuls of brown sugar, and a very small quantity of port wine. They are excellent to eat, and the liquor to drink. 99. FIGS AND APPLE BEVERAGE. —Have two quaits of water boiling, into which throw six fresh dry figs, previously opened, and two apples, previously cut into six or eight pieces each; let the whole boil together twenty minutes, then pour them together into a basin to cool, and pass through a sieve, drain the figs, which will also be good to eat. 100. STEWED PLUMS.—Put twelve French plums m a stewpan, with a spoonful of brown sugar, a gill of water, a little cinnamon, and some thin rind of a lemon; let them stew twenty minutes, then pour them in a basin until cold, take them from their syrup and eat them dry , ey are sometimes stewed in wine and water, either port sherry, or claret. ^ * Have^a ^AKED APPLES are very much used by invalids, common yellow dish, such as you frequently sea50 COMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. in farmhouses, into which put about twelve apples (pre- viously well wiped) and about a gill of water, and put them in a hot oven for half an hour, or rather more should the apples be large; when well done, take them out to get cold upon the dish, and eat them cold, either with powdered lump or moist sugar. 102. COOLING LEMONADE.—Put a quart of water in a stewpan to boil, into which put two moist dried figs, each split in two; let it boil a quarter of an hour, then have ready the peel of a lemon, taken off rather thickly, and the half of the lemon cut in thin slices; throw them into the stewpan, and boil two minutes longer; pour it into a jug, which cover closely with paper until cold, then pass it through a sieve: add a teaspoonful of honey, and • it is ready for use. 103. IMPERIAL, (a Cooling Drink for the Spring.)— Two ounces of cream of tartar, two lemons (juice and peel), four ounces of sugar; place in a stone jug, and pour about six quarts of boiling water; allow it to get cold, and bottle for use. Or, instead of sugar, add three table- spoonfuls of raspberry vinegar, and six ounces of honey. This is excellent aerated like soda water. Essence of ratafia, or any other, maybe added, with about half a pint of pure spirit at proof, for those accustomed to spmts. 104. ORANGEADE.—Proceed as for lemonade, but using the whole of the orange, a little of the peel include , sweetening with sugar-candy, and adding a teaspoonful o arrow-root mixed with a little cold water, which pour into the boiling liquid at the same time you put in the orange. The arrow root makes it very delicate.51 COMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. Toast and Water.—The facility of making this popular drink is probably the cause of its not being -well made one time in ten, that is, in private families ; the bread is too much or too little done, or there is too much or not half enough water, or more or less bread ; I venture to say that if any person would take the trouble to go from house to house, where there are patients, and taste toast and water at each, they would not find two of the same flavour, and perhaps not any of it properly made. To make it to per- fection, proceed as follows :— 105. TOAST AND WATER.—Cut a piece of crusty bread, about a quarter of a pound in weight, place it upon a toasting-fork, and hold it about six inches from the fire; tom it often, and keep moving it gently until of a light yellow colour, then place it nearer the fire, and when of a good brown chocolate colour, put it into a jug, and pour three pints of boiling water over; cover the jug until cold, then strain it into a clean jug, and it is ready for use z never leave the toast in it, for in summer it would cause fermentation in a short time. I would almost venture that such toast and water as I have described would keep good a considerable time in bottles. The idea that bread must be burnt black to make toast and water is quite a popular delusion, for nothing nourishing could come from it: if your-house were burnt to ashes, it would be valueless ; and the same with burnt bread, which merely makes the water black, but the nutriment of the bread, in- tended to relieve the chest, has evaporated in smoke by being burnt. PUDDINGS FOR INVALIDS. 106. APPLE AND RICE PUDDING.—Boil half an ounce of Carolina rice in a gill of milk until very tender, then add a very small piece of butter, sugar, a little cinna- mon and a grain of salt; then peel, core, and slice a middling-sized apple, which put into a stewpan, with a small piece of butter, a little sugar, and a drop of water and stew it until tender; when done, put the apple in a E 2COMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. 52 small tart-dish, mix an egg with the rice, which pour over the apple, and bake ten minutes in a moderate oven ; it may also be made quite plain, if preferred. 107. CUSTARD PUDDING.—Boil one pint of milk, with a small piece of lemon-peel and half a bay-leaf, for three minutes; then pour these on to three eggs, mix it with one ounce of sugar well together, and pour it into a buttered mould: steam it twenty-five minutes in a stewpan wTith some water (see No. 115), turn out on a plate and serve. 108. RICE PUDDINGS.—Wash well two ounces of rice in some water, strain, then put it into a pint and a half of boiling milk, with a small piece of lemon-peel, cinna- mon, and half a bay-leaf tied together; let it boil gently, stirring it occasionally until quite tender; then put to it one ounce of butter, a little grated nutmeg, a tablespoon- lul of sugar, and two eggs; pour it into a buttered tart- dish, and bake it hall an hour. 109. MACARONI PUDDING.—Blanch two ounces of Naples macaroni in some water for eight or ten minutes; Strain it, and add it to one pint of boiling milk, in which you have previously boiled a piece of lemon-peel, cinna- mon, and one ounce of butter; when the macaroni is quite tender, add two eggs, and sugar enough to sweeten it: steam it one hour in a stewpan, in a buttered tart-dish. 110. VERMICELLI PUDDING.—Boil one pint of milk, with a piece of lemon-peel, half a bay-leaf, and a piece of cinnamon, then add one ounce of vermicelli; when reduced to half, add two eggs, and a little sugai, pour these in a buttered mould, and steam it half an hour.COMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. 53 HI. TAPIOCA PUDDING.—Boil one pint of milk, with a piece of lemon-peel and a little cinnamon; then add two ounces of tapioca ; reduce to half; add two eggs, and one ounce of butter; pour these in a buttered mould, and steam half an hour. 112. BREAD PUDDING.—Boil one pint of milk, with a piece of cinnamon and lemon-peel; pour it on two ounces of bread-crumbs; then add two eggs, half an ounce of currants, and a little sugar: steam it in a buttered mould for one hour. 113. CABINET PUDDING.—Boil one pint of milk, with a piece of lemon-peel, pour it on one ounce of sponge biscuit, let it soak half an hour, then add three eggs, half an ounce of currants, and very little sugar: steam it in a buttered mould, lined with raisins, one hour. 114. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING.—Butter a tart-dish well, and sprinkle some currants all round it, then lay in a few slices of bread and butter; bo$ one pint of milk, pour it on two eggs well whipped, and then on the bread and butter; bake it in a hot oven for half an hour. 115. A SMALL BREAD PUDDING.—Cut an ounce of the crumb of bread into thin slices, with the least piece of butter spread over each, which place in a small tart- dish ; then break an egg into a cup, with a teaspoonful of sugar and a little powdered cinnamon, beat well; then add about six tablespoonfuls of boiled milk, mix well together, pour over the bread, and bake in a slow oven, or steam it, if preferred, by standing the dish in a stewpan containing about half a pint of water,—that is, the water should be about half way up to the rim of the dish ; set the stewpanCOMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. 54 (covered close) upon the five, and let it slowly boil about ten minutes or longer, until the pudding is properly set, then take the cover from the stewpan, which let remain a few minutes longer upon the fire; then take out the pud- ding, wipe the dish, and serve. FISH FOR INVALIDS. Slips, soles, flounders, whitings, and smelts are the lightest of any fish, and upon that account more to be recommended to invalids in a state of convalescence. 116. WHITING, PLAIN BOILED.—Put two quarts of water into a small fish kettle, with about an ounce of salt; when boiling, put in the whiting, draw the kettle to the corner of the fire to keep it just simmering, and no more; a whiting of the ordinary size would take about ten minutes; when done, which you can tell by trying with the point of a knife whether it leaves the bone easily, take it up carefully, and dish it upon a clean napkin, with a few sprigs of parsley (if at hand) round; although the parsley is of course useless, as far as the stomach is con- cerned, nothing can be more pleasing to an invalid than to see his meals carefully cooked, and invitingly served. At any time, I prefer a whiting with the skin on, whether boiled, grilled, or fried; a little butter just melted, with a pinch of salt, and the least drop of lemon- juice added, makes a very excellent sauce for them. Should you purchase your fish in the country, it will of course require cleaning, by opening the belly, and pulling out the gills and interior; but never wash these fish; merely wipe them with a cloth. 117. BROILED WHITING.—Having cleaned your whiting, and wiped it gently dry with a cloth, flour it all55 COMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. over lightly, rub the gridiron over with a little oil, lay the whiting upon it, and put it over a clear fire, but not too close, turn it carefully three or four times, and when it feels firm to the touch of the finger, it is done; if a large one, it will take about twenty minutes; sprinkle a little salt over, if required, and serve with plain melted butter, with a few drops of essence of anchovies in it. 118. SAUTEED WHITINGS.—Put some fat or butter in a frying-pan, which place over a clear but moderate fire; have your whiting floured as in the last, and when the fat or butter is melted, lay it in the pan; let it saute slowly until it is done, which try as in either of the last two; when done, drain it upon a cloth, sprinkle a little salt over, and serve. If fried, enveloped in bread-crumbs, dip the fish lightly into flour, then egg it all over with a paste brush, and dip in some very fine bread-crumbs, and fry it rather longer, but do not let the fat get black, or it will give the fish a black heavy appearance, and quite spoil the flavour. Fish fried in oil would have a much better appearance than when fried in fat, but probably would be objectionable to a weak stomach. They ought to be completely covered with the fat. 119. SMALL SOLES or SLIPS may be either boiled, broiled, or fried, as directed for whitings, requiring about the same time to cook; serve precisely the same. Smelts are very delicate fish, but ought never to be plain boiled : being confident of the good use they may be turned to as a diet for the sick, I shall here give two receipts for dressing them very plainly yet still very palatably. 120. SMELTS, BOILED.—Choose them rather large, —if so, two would be sufficient for a meal,—having pre- viously drawn and cleansed them, put a gill of water intoCOMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. 5(1 a small stewpan, with a little salt, a saltspoonful of pow- dered sugar, and four small sprigs of parsley; when boiling, lay in your smelts, which let simmer five minutes, or more, if larger than usual, keeping the stewpan well covered; then take them out carefully, lay them upon a dish, and pour the broth over; both fish and broth are excellent. They may be cooked the same way in the oven. 120*. BOILED SMELTS ANOTHER WAY.— Another way is to add a little arrow-root, mixed with a drop of cold water to the above, when half cooked; it makes it very soothing to the chest. Be extremely careful not to let the fish or liquor burn at the bottom of the stew- pan ; there should be about three parts of the quantity of liquor when cooked as you first put in water, allowing one quarter to evaporate whilst boiling. 121. BROILED SMELTS.—When cleansed and wiped dry with a cloth, dip them lightly into flour, and put them upon a gridiron over a slow fire, for five or six minutes, turning them carefully when half done; serve plain, or with a little sauce, if allowed, as many patients are forbidden moist food. I can highly recommend any kind of white fish cooked in this manner; and it is well known that nothing in the way of food is more digestible than fish. Water souchet of flounders, soles, and slips may also be served to invalids, by proceeding the same as above. MEAT FOR INVALIDS. Meat, Game, and Poultry.—These, of every kind, for invalids, ought to ha served as free from fat as possible. 122. A MUTTON CHOP—Choose one from a lean loin of mutton, or if one in the house rather fat, cut theCOMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. 57 greater part of it off; your chop should be about six ounces in weight, and cut of an equal thickness; lay it upon a table, and beat it lightly with the flat part of your chopper, then lay it upon a gridiron, over a good clear Are; season with a little salt, if allowed, and turn it four or five times whilst broiling; it will require about eight minutes over a good fire, but of course longer over an indifferent one; if by pressing it with a knife it feels firm, it is done; serve upon a very hot plate, for if partly cold, the least fat would immediately set, and be very unpleasant, especially to a person unwell. 123. PLAIN MUTTON CUTLET, from the Neck.— An invalid will frequently be tired of a mutton chop ; and for my own part I must say a cutlet is far superior in flavour, and has a much neater appearance ; cut off a rib from the neck, of the same thickness as a mutton chop; cut away the skin upon each side of the bone, to the chine, which chop off; trim away the greater part of the fat, cut a piece at the end of the bone, which scrape offj leaving about half an inch of the bone bare; then beat it lightly with the flat of the chopper; season; broil and serve very hot, as in the last. 124. STEWED CHOP or CUTLET.—Put it into a stewpan or small saucepan, with a pint of water, and a little salt and sugar; let it stew as gently as possible from an hour and a half to two hours, skim off all the scum and fat, and the patient may partake of both chop and broth; if seasoning is allowed, put a teaspoonful of pearl-barley* with a little celery, leek, and turnip, cut up very small* into the stewpan with the water, when you first put the chop on, and proceed as before; serve the broth in a soup asm, with the chop in it; should the meat happen to be58 COMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. tough, let it stew rather longer. The broth should be reduced to about half a pint. 125. RUMP STEAK. — The tenderest part of the rump should be selected, about half a pound, not cut too thick, and very even: place it upon your gridiron over a moderate fire, turning it frequently; when done, sprinkle a little salt over. Ten minutes would cook it thoroughly, but if wanted underdone, as in many cases where the patient only sucks the gravy, less time must be allowed. 126. STEWED BEEF. — Put the same quantity of beef as in the last into a saucepan, with a quart of water, which place over the fire, and when beginning to boil, well skim; then add a little celery, turnip, and carrot, the whole weighing about an ounce, and cut very small; let stew gently about three hours, by which time the broth will be reduced to one quarter; skim all the fat off care- fully ; serve the meat upon a plate, and the broth in a basin. 127. LAMB CHOPS or CUTLETS.— Proceed as just described for mutton, but being more delicate, they will require little more than half the time to cook. 128. LAMB’S FEET are very nutritious; purchase them ready cleaned; lay them ten minutes in boiling water, by doing which you will be able to draw out the leg-bone with facility; then put them in a stewpan (two would be sufficient,) and pour over a pint of water with which you have mixed smoothly a tablespoonful of flour, and half a teaspoonful of salt; place them upon the fire, stirring frequently until boiling, then add a small onion, with celery, parsley, and parsnip; boil gently for twoCOMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. 59 hours, and when done, serve plain upon a plate, or with a little melted butter and parsley poured over. By using a little white broth from any meat instead of water, you make a delicious soft soup, which may be partaken of freely. Calves’ feet are dressed in the same manner, but using a double proportion of everything, and stewing them double the time; they are served precisely the same. POULTRY FOR INVALIDS. 129. ROAST CHICKEN. — Procure a nice plump chicken, which draw and truss, and cut the sinews; pass the spit through under the skewer as usual, and set it down before a clear fire: after being there five minutes, have ready a pat of butter, in the bowl of a wooden spoon, with which rub the chicken all over; if the fire is too fierce, put it back a short distance, that it may roast of a yel- lowish-brown colour; when a light smoke arises from the chicken, which will be in about twenty minutes from the time it is put down, it is done; but to be quite sure whether a bird is done, the better way is to press it lightly with your finger and thumb; should it feel quite set, it is sufficiently cooked. 130. BOILED CHICKEN.—Put a quart of water to boil in a saucepan, with a saltspoonful of salt, and two ounces of butter; when boiling, lay in the chicken, which keep gently simmering for twenty minutes, when it will be done. By adding a few vegetables of each description to the water, and straining it when you take out the chicken, you have a very excellent broth either for the sick or healthy.COMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. GO especially if, after skimming off the fat, you add a little vermicelli, which must be boiled in it five minutes. As it is very improbable that a sick person would eat the whole of a chicken at once, I have annexed a few receipts, by which a chicken would suffice for four meals. First, put a tablespoonful of rice in a stewpan, with half a pint of light broth; let it boil gently until the rice is in pulp, then put in the wing or leg of the previously- cooked chicken, which let remain to warm about five minutes; should the rice be too dry, add a little more broth; serve the fowl and rice together upon a hot plate. Secondly, if wanted plain, set it in a stewpan, with a few spoonfuls of stock, and let it warm gently. Thirdly, it may be folded in a sheet of paper lightly oiled and warmed very gently upon a gridiron; and, Fourthly, plain broiled upon a gridiron, and served with a little light gravy. 131. PARTRIDGE.—Proceed in every manner to roast as just directed for the chicken; a young one would re- quire about ten minutes, or an old one fifteen, but then the breast only ought to be eaten, whatever remains may be served in either of the ways directed for chickens. 132. PIGEONS may be roasted the same as partridges, but would not require so long. A pigeon may also be stewed as follows:—Put half a pint of mutton broth into a stewpan, with a pigeon trussed as for boiling, let it stew gently twenty minutes, if young; both the pigeon and broth ought to be partaken of. Pigeons may also be broiled, by cutting them open from the bottom of the breast to the joint of the wings, but not separating them; rub over with a little butter, broil twenty minutes over a moderate fire, aud serve with a little gravy.61 COMFORTS FOR INVALIDS. 133. LARKS are also very excellent and light food; when cleaned, pass a thin wooden skewer through three or four of them, as many as are required, then broil them a few minutes over a sharp fire, and serve very hot. You will find them superior broiled than roasted, and not so much trouble. 134. PULLED FOWL.—With the remainder of a roast or boiled fowl or chicken you may make a very light dish, by pulling off all the flesh with a fork, and putting it into a stewpan, then in another stewpan place all the bones (previously broken small with a chopper), with a little parsley, salt, sugar, and half a pint of water; let it boil gently until the water has reduced to a gill, then strain it over the flesh of the chicken in the other stewpan, which place over the fire until quite hot, and serve; should it be too thin, a small piece of butter and flour rubbed together may be added, and boiled a minute. Old or young fowls may be used, as it is not always convenient to get a young fowl, especially in the country, where everything must be turned to account and properly used: you would proceed with an old fowl the same as for a chicken, but stewing it three times as much, and adding more water in proportion; it would be here impossible to name the exact time required, as the fluctuation is so great, but by feeling the thigh of the fowl with the finger and thumb, you may ascertain, for if done sufficiently it will feel tender to the touch, and leave the bone with ease.62 CULINARY CORRESPONDENCE. LETTER No. VI. Dearest Eloise,—I here enclose you the last receipt which I intend to give you for invalids. You may, no doubt, fancy that my diet is extravagant; but let me teach you that when we must pay the doctor’s bill, which I con- sider an extra and painful tax upon humanity, it is ours and their duty to try to restore health as soon as possible, and my receipts will, if well coupled with the science of a medical man, cause a prompt restoration to health ; and have the desirable effect of increasing the butcher’s bill by diminishing that of the doctor’s. I must also tell you that I intend this part of our little work, if ever published, to be useful to all classes of society, and that among these receipts, the humble as well as the rich may partake the benefit of them by selecting either according to their means and requirements ; and I am confident that you will agree with me that I have closely studied the rules of economy. I shall now, therefore, close the sick-room door, and open the one of the parlour, to witness the merry faces of the million who have abandoned their industrious occupations for the week, to partake, in the family circle, their simple but substantial Sunday meal. When parents of families are blessed by an increase of business according to that of their family, it is there that you will find genuine domestic happiness and natural love ; and let me tell you, dearest, that the sight of a Sunday’s dinner in a tradesman’s house in England is worthy of being depicted by the pencil of the most meritorious artists of the age, and would not disgrace that of a Wilkie, Goodall, or Ab- slom. Behold, sitting round an inviting table four or five of those healthy and generally handsome faces of the young children of Albion, waiting, until after the usual blessing has been invoked by the eldest, with the greatest anxiety to know who is to be the first served, trying to open their eyes as Large as their appetites, at the disappearance of a cover removed by a clean country servant, who exposes to their view the immortal piece of roast beef, from which a most excellent exhalation escapes as from a crater of happiness, and -which seems to fill the room as wrell as the hearts of the whole party with joy ; and the yet greater anxiety of the still younger branches of the family, who have cunningly reserved their infantine appetites for the appearance of the grandnationaldisli, and more pleasing to their fancies,—the plum pudding, to which, for the occasion, a few spoonfuls of brandy have been poured on the.Children who have cunningly reserved their infantine appetites for the grand national dish, the Blazing Plum Puddinm* • s. ■ \ * » . -CULINARY CORRESPONDENCE. 63 dish, and set on fire the moment of placing it before the mother, who hurries to serve them, in the hope of putting a stop to the unmusical domestic har- mony of the little ones, who do not fear to bum their mouths as long as they satisfy their appetites. Having now, my dear, given my full and due respect for the comfort of their Sunday’s dinner, I have, in many instances, to com- plain of the way most of the industrious classes dine the remainder of the week. I always used to say, when in business, that he who works well deserves to live well,—I do not mean to say extravagantly, but that devoting one hour a day to their principal meal ought to be classified as a matter of business in regard to economy. We, therefore, must be very positive upon this important question, and make them perceive that dining well once or twice a week is really unworthy of such a civilized and wealthy country as ours, whose provisions cannot be excelled by any other, both in regard to quantity and quality. Yours, &e. Hortense. LETTER No. VII. My dear Mrs. B. Your observation upon the way many people live in this country is no doubt very correct, but do you not think that if you were not quite so abrupt on the subject, we should probably be more likely to suc- ceed in bringing our friends round to your style of management ? of which, for my part, I very much approve. But as it is a matter of importance, I should like you to describe in your next communication what are the prin- cipal and most useful joints in a family, and to discourse on them, in pointing out the good to be achieved, and the evils to be avoided. Ever yours, &c. Eloise. LETTER No. VIII. Many compliments to you, my dear Mrs. L.. At your request I here inclose the list you require, and which will show you how circumscribed the middle classes are in respect to the variation of their meals, in the way of meat and manner of cooking it. I do not dis- approve of your idea in wishing me here to give a series or list of those pro- visions ; but, on the other.hand, I must tell you frankly my opinion, it being a subject which for some years I have made a study, indeed quite a hobby! Ifl am wrong, let any one who knows better correct me ; you will allow I am always open to conviction and improvement, no matter how trifling as it often loads to an important one.G4 COLINARY CORRESPONDENCE. I shall therefore name all joints of meat which, though numerous, offer but little variation when continually dressed the same way, and observe that everybody has the bad habit of running only upon a few which are considered , the best. They are as follow : Those in Beef are the sirloin, ribs, round, silver-side, aitchbone. In Mutton—leg, saddle, haunch, loin. Lamb—fore-quarter and leg. Veal—fillet, loin. Pork—leg, sparerib, loin. Every one of these joints are of the most expensive parts, because gene- rally used, although many of the other parts are equally as good, as I shall prove to you, in the receipts which I shall write for the dinner, what can be done in the way of made dishes out of those parts which are rarely or never used in this country by the middle classes, which will more clearly develope to you my ideas on the subject. Besides, there is this advantage, that if a email tradesman were to follow these receipts, and buy every other time he goes to the butcher what he now considers a second-class joint, he would not only be conferring a public benefit, but also one on himself, and be the means of diminishing the price of those now considered the first class, which at the present moment bear too high a price in proportion, but which his pride causes him to purchase. To prove to you that my argument is correct, look carefully over the in- closed list, which contains all the joints that are cut from beef, veal, mutton, lamb, pork, and you will find that ten of the prime are in daily use to one of the other, and principally for a want of the knowledge of cookery, leaving the science of cooking our food to a fierce or slow fire, or plunging our expensive provisions into an ocean of boiling water, which is thrown away, after having absorbed a great portion of the succulence of the meat. Try the receipt for the Pot-au-feu ; taste the broth and eat the meat, and tell me which plan you consider the best. Do not think that I object to our plain joint, because, now and then, I am rather partial to them ; but why not manage to make use of the broth, by diminishing the quantity of water, and simmering them, instead of galloping them at a special railway-train speed ? Were the middle classes only but slightly acquainted with the domestic cookery of France, they would certainly live better and less expensively than at present; very often, four or five different little made dishes may be made from the remains of a large Sunday’s joint, instead of its appearing on the table of a wealthy tradesman for several /65 CULINARY CORRESPONDENCE. days cold, and often unsightly, and backed by a bottle of variegated-coloured pickles, made with pyroligneous acid, which sets one’s teeth on edge merely to think of it, and balanced by a steaming dish of potatoes, which, seen through the parlour window by the customers in the shop, would make them think there was a grand gastronomic festivity taking place at Mr. A.’s or B.’s, the butterman or greengrocer; this maybe excusable once or twice, on a hot summer’s day, with an inviting salad, seasoned with merely salt, pepper oil, and vinegar, but the continual repetition of that way of living in winter is, I consider, a domestic crime. W will, perhaps, say that, in large firms, where forty or fifty, or more young men dine every day, or even in public establishments still more nume- rous, many professed cooks would be required to dress the dinner, if my plan were adopted • not at all, if the kitchen is properly constructed : but in these establishments, joints, of necessity, must be the principal viand, and here veiy httie left ; what there is, is consumed cold for supper; but ev n there an amelioration might take place, although only a plain joint of fiT 301 !, °r r°aSted’ r°aSted °r b°iIed’ Which is generally the yearly bill of fare, and so simple, yet seldom well done, and often badly wLh in , arge establishment, must create great waste, and make bad food out of good eat, and that for want of care or a little more knowledge, which may appear tootlT U a tnfllng matter' but not 80 to thousands of poor old people, with t ess gums and fatigued stomachs, made comfortable within walls erected hy the good feelings of government or by public charitv T V, 7 thus correct the lamentabl^ ^ that the ™nds are proPerIrcooked, and “ Ule lamentable ignorance which exists -+ , , starving poor of the United Kingdom Thesa„ , g eat part ot the in all the provincial towns • and were • ^ ^ *° ^ ad°Pted to .Uowfor good provisions, and leave sufficient ranuneraWor afv Z* able and nor covetous sbou.d M ^ F66 CULINARY CORRESPONDENCE. over, and made as comfortable in every respect as the wish o: those who pay to support them requires ? Besides, it has an effect upon after generations ; for upon the food at the period of growth depends the nature of the mind at a more advanced age, as well as the stature of the man. Do we not evince our care to objects of the brute creation, and feed, with the greatest atten- tion, the racehorse ? Compare him with others of his species not so humanely treated, and note the difference: so it is with the human race ; and I might almost say the prosperity of a country depends upon the food of its youth. You will perhaps think that I am rather sharp in my remarks, and probably longer than is required, but still it will be gratifying to both of us, should we find that these remarks prove beneficial to such establishments as above mentioned ; and it is only by giving notoriety to these important details, and being positive in exposing the truth, that we can be believed and followed, and you must not mind displeasing the few, if you are to be useful to the many. For ever, &e., Hobtense. LETTER No. IX. My Deab Hobtense,—I received your last observations, which, on first seeing, I thought too long, but after having read them over again, I am convinced that I shall not be able to shorten them ; at all events, there is a great deal of truth in them, and, as you justly say, they are the observations yf a person who has constantly studied domestic comfort and economy; I phall therefore copy them in the journal just as you sent them to me. Truly yours, Eloise. LETTER No. X. My Deab Eloise,—I am glad to hear that you will not alter any of my last remarks sent, because I assure you I wrote with a full conviction that I was right, and from facts which experience alone can engrave on the memory; but, however, we will now proceed : but I think it will be necessary to alter our original intention, namely, in order to save any confusion, to class aU the receipts for the dinner together, and thus form a large bill of fare, an follow, on a small plan, what M. Soyer, of the Reform Club, has done on a large scale, in his “Gastronomic Regenerator,” by which the most inex- perienced hands may easily provide a large or small dinner adapted for aU67 CULINARY CORRESPONDENCE. classes, without committing a blunder, and thus make a selection from soups different dishes of fish, and an innumerable number of removes; entrees’ roasts, savoury dishes, vegetables, sweets, dessert, &c.; and, having chosen one or two of each series, by referring to the receipt, an idea of their cost, withm a few pence of the market-price, may be gained. . Let me kn0W; dear> by retu™ of post, if you approve of my new idea, as it is rather deviating from our original plan ; but observe, that having so veiy distinctly given the Breakfast Receipts, and those also for Invalids it will be more clearly understood than by repeating the same over and over which would be unavoidable, if we follow our first proposition. Yours truly, in haste, Hortense. LETTER No. XI. My Dear Hortense, Never were you inspired by a better idea respecting your new plan ; it is so clearly explained, that I fancy our labour is over • but must tell you that, on the receipt of your last, I wrote to M. Soyer to inquire if he would object to our taking a few hints from his “Kitchen at shorthand as follows ^ ^ ^ ^ WaS ‘ Gastroif Wwdd be de^ting from the preface of my Gastronomic Regenerator’ to refuse you anything in my power - and as H-3 Ta that SC0Pe' y0U « to7ake“ MytW f°r ^ 1Htle ^ ^ P- —d 1 - *-— “Reform Club.” “A. Soyer. As you have his book, you, no doubt, know to which part he alludes He " *" P0WC':; “ he l»p‘ «■ weed With ns: «, yon msy d JL 5 ’■ r“l‘"re “• "l;ilc ““ ot “> •»«•. I shall expect, by the next p„,t the :~r °?e Di““r Ee“ipu’ ^ 1 ™ 12 as simple and as short as possible. With kindest reg„d, "*k* P.8.—How is the young infant ? Is he better ? Ewisa. F 2ROASTING. 68 LETTER No. XII. Dearest Eloise,—I cannot but admire your anxiety to begin the Dinner Receipts, which, I must agree with you, will certainly form the most important and principal part of our Domestic correspondence ; but previously I wish to impress upon your mind the foundation and indispensable basis of cockery. No palace has ever been erected without the proper material for the purpose, and the requisite knowledge of the capability and utility of that material. In the like way, every science has its foundation from whence it springs ; but perhaps none so complicated as the science of cookery, in pursuit of which every nation and clime differ in their mode, in order to produce the same results with nearly the same materials, no matter how those results may differ; yet there is no other plan than the following for them to adopt—they are, Roasting, Baking, Boiling, Stewing, Braising, Frying, Sauteing, Broiling, which I shall describe ; and I am confident that, with your intelligence, you will not fail of appreciating them, as well as the minute description of the condiments—and especially that useful element, Water, which assists so much in the proper organization of the materials for producing our food. When you are acquainted with these rudiments, I shall then forward you the receipts adapted for Dinners. P.S.—You kindly inquire after the baby. I am happy to inform you that he is better, and entirely free from pain ; and that it was a false alarm about la petite roufjeole. Trusting that you will not be tired with my long correspondence, Believe me, dear Eloise, yours, IIortensk. Roasting, Baking, Boiling, Slaving, Braising, Frying, Sauteing, Broiling. ROASTING being the most general in use, we will first describe it, although it is not that which was first put in practice in cooking, it being evidently an improvement on broiling: we can easily understand how, in the primitive times, when man, finding that his food got covered with the ashes from the fire with which he cooked his meat, would invent a species of grate upon which he could raise the fire, and so cook his meat before it; this early mode of cooking has continued, in many countries, up to the present day, and even in London to within a few years; for I remember seeing, inBAKING —BOILING—STEWING. G9- the old Goldsmith’s Hall, a fireplace, consisting of stages, on which was laid the wood, and when the meat, &c. was spitted and arranged before it, the wood was lighted, and a man turned the spits. (It was, no doubt, from arranging the wood thus in stages, that the name of range was derived.) In many noblemen’s castles and ecclesiastical establishments, dogs were kept to turn the spit, from whence we have those of the name of turnspit; whilst in others, where there happened to be a person of a mechanical turn of mind, they applied a water-wheel to the purpose, and the water from it formed a stream in the kitchen, which served as a reservoir for live fish. Different opinions exist as to the mode and time required for roasting, but this must all depend upon the nature of the fire and the meat. In the Receipts will be found the time which each requires. My plan is to make up as large a fire as the nature of the grate will allow, because I can place my joint near or not, as may be required, and thus obtain every degree of heat. A new plan of toasting by Gas has latterly come into use, and from the cheapness and cleanliness of the process is likely to become a great favourite. BAKING is a branch of the art of cooking which, although one of the oldest, is the least understood. (As I shall have to refer to this subject a«ain, I will give the reason why in a fiiture letter.) It is performed in various •mds of air-tight chambers, called ovens, the best of which have the same form as in the time of the Egyptians. Of late years an improvement has been effected in the construction of the oven, and to heat it by hot water. One of he first was erected by M. Soyer, in Dublin. Previous to the art of aking being practised, boiled pulse and com were the food of the people • even ome contained no bakers until near six hundred years after it was founded Great improvements were made, some fifty years since, by Count Romford he cons ruction of ovens for baking of meat, called roasting ovens, nch caused great economy in the expenditure of fuel; and, in large public establishments, where a number of the same kind nf • • + ° ? tv . . , , . 8ame °i joints are required, it " tat plan of cooking. In the Heceipts will b. found the time required by each for baking, but in the general way, for meat, hot ovens L the ninrd b1” ™<> P“try, porting to it, kind. I„ iron f°r 0””' “‘I’ to be of galvanized iron, and separate ones for meat and fish. BOILING is the next branch of the art which is nf ™ * • r ■»-» y«t, .t t„e, i ,bu * “bj“i ^ **«—- ^d oo»P;r^“:70 BRAISING—FRYING. volume ; it is one of those easy things which it is supposed everybody can do, no attention is paid to it, and therefore generally done badly. According to the way in which it is done, meat may be rendered hard and tough, or tender, lose or retain its flavour or nourishment. Great difference of opinion exists amongst medical men which are the easiest of digestion roasted or boiled meats. I say it is a subject quite impossible to decide, as it must depend upon the different constitutions and climate ; for we might as well say that the food of the Esquimaux is adapted for the native of Italy. STEWING ought to be the best understood, on account of its economy pieces of coarse meat, subjected to stewing, if properly done, become tender, as the gelatinous parts become partly dissolved: it should be done slowly, the pan partly uncovered, and frequently skimmed. Great cleanliness should be observed in all the vessels used for stewing. BRAISING is the next and most important part of the art of cooking, and, like the saute, belongs entirely to the French school from which it takes its name, braise being the remains of wood burnt in the oven, or live charcoal : this plan of cookery requires the action of the fire under and over the braising pan, which is air-tight, in order that the aromatic flavour arising from its contents may be imbibed by the meat or poultry, and give it that succulence so much esteemed by epicures. The braise is put on the cover, which in some cases, is made deep on purpose to hold it. Its origin is stated to be owing to a gastronomic society which was formerly in existence in Paris, whose object was to benefit and improve the art of cookery, and who offered a reward of a silver gridiron to any culinary artist who would discover a new mode of dressing a turkey. Although a gridiron was, no doubt, intended to be used, yet a young artist named La Gacque, warmed by the offer, directed his imagination to quite a different mode, and used the pan instead of the gridiron, and thus composed the braise, which was unanimously approved of by that scientific, gastronomic, and epicurean body, who awarded him the prize. The chief art in braising is to do it slowly, taking care that the ingredients are well-proportioned, receipts for which wiU be found in their proper place. FRYING.—Of all the apparently simple modes of cookery there is none more so than that of frying, but yet how rare to meet with it done properly. I believe it is to be attributed, in a great measure, to the idea that to do it well is expensive. I have therefore made a series of experiments upon a plan such as may be followed in every private house, and I am convinced that toSAUTEING. 71 do it well is cheaper than doing it badly; but, in the first place, we ought to consider. What is frying ? It is the insertion of any substance into boiling oil, or grease, by which the surface of that substance becomes carbonized, and the heat which effects this object is sufficient to solidify the albumen and gelatine, or, more commonly speaking, until cooked ; to do this properly, the substance ought to be covered by the liquid, so that the heat acts all over it at the same time, or otherwise the osmazome, or gravy, will be dried out of that part which is not covered, and the succulence and flavour of the viand lost; or, should the liquid not be of that degree of heat which would carbonize the surface on the moment of its immersion, it would then enter into the substance, render it greasy, and destroy its flavour, which no degree of heat afterwards could remedy. The articles which are to be fried are generally those which have a coating of materials (such as bread-crumbs and batter) which are quickly carbonized, and thus form a crust which prevents the grease penetrating, concentrates the liquids, and preserve the flavour of the article ; the carbonization once effected, the fire should be immediately moderated, particularly if the article is large, in order that the interior may become properly solidified. All articles properly fried are generally much liked, as they are agreeable to the eye, and afford a pleasing variety. The plan that I recommend you to adopt is, to obtain an iron or copper pan long enough for a good-sized sole, and 6 to 8 inches deep, and fill three to four inches of it with fat—the skimmings of the stock-pot, or, if that should not be sufficient, the kidney fat of beef, cut up, melted, and strained. In wealthy establishments, lard, and, in some, bacon-fat melted, is used, and, for some articles, olive oil, which can only be used once; but in our less luxurious homes I think the above is sufficient, besides it has the advantage of not requiring that great attention which the other does. When you have the fat on, before immersing the substance you intend to fry, see that it is sufficiently hot by dipping your finger (not in the fat), but in a little water, and then hold it over the fat, so that a few drops go into it; if it spits and throws back the water, it is sufficiently hot; or, throw in a small dice of bread and take it out immediately ; if it is firm or coloured, it is hot enough : or, in frying fish, before putting it in, lay hold of the head and dip the end of the tail, and, if it crisps it, then let the remainder go in. I have found if due attention is paid to the pan to prevent it from burning, forty articles may be fried in it before it wants renewing; and I am certain it will be found cheaper than the common way of putting a little fat into the flying-SAUTEING. 72 pan and turning the sole over and over, for you are then almost certain of sending the grease up to the table, where it is not wanted. When the fat is not used, it should be emptied, whilst hot, through a sieve, into an earthen pipkin, and covered with paper to prevent the dust going in it. For the purpose of frying, an iron wire-basket, with a handle, is used, in which the object to be cooked is placed, and thuB inserted in the liquid. The cost of this instrument is trifling. SAUTEING.—You will perceive, dearest, by the following, that the word fried is often wrongly used in cookery instead of the word saute, which pro- cess is totally different, and produces quite another effect on food. Saute means anything cooked in a very small quantity of butter, oil, lard, or fat, on one side of the article at a time, whilst the other requires about a hundred times more of the above-named materials to cook properly. You will see, in these remarks, that it is not flying a pancake, omelette, or still less a chop, steak, or cutlet, but that they are sauteed ; and how to explain that word, to use it instead of the misapplied word fly, puzzles me considerably, as I am quite ignorant of its origin as regards its application to cookery. All the researches I have made in English and French Dictionaries and Encyclo- paedias have not enlightened me in the least on the subject. In French, it means to jump, hop, skip, as understood by boys at school, or by the grass- hopper tribe, called in French sauterelles, from the word sauter, to jump. I well remember at our school we had a French emigre for a dancing-master, who used to get into a passion when we did not dance to his professional taste; and used to say, shaking his powdered wig, holding his fiddle in one hand and his bow in the other, making all kinds of grimaces and con- tortions, which reminded me of the principal figure in the group of the Eaocoon,—“Mon Dieu, mon Dieu, young miss, vous sautez tres bien, mais vous dansez fort malwhich means, “You jump very well, but you dance very badly.” It also reminds me of an expression made by a friend of our* from Havre, who was on a visit to us last November. Seeing some Guy Fawkes carried about the street, he asked me what it meant; when I told him, that in the year 1605 an attempt was made to destroy by gunpowder the king and parliament iu the House of Lords, as well as - ■- Oui, oui, madam ; I know—I remember reading of it in English history ! it was that little brute qui a voulut faire sauler le Parlement,” replied he very quickly. “ Sauter, smter," I said; “ no, sir, not saute—blow up.” “ Oui, oui, madame, I know—it is the same thing.” “Same thing!” replied I.73 BROILING. This of course puzzled my culinary imagination still more ; and I perceived, that if the word was translated to his meaning, it would sound most absurd and ridiculous ; as, for example, on being at a festive board, and a polite young gentleman, or even your own husband, might gallantly offer to give you a blow-up cutlet, instead of a cotelette saute, as they sav in fashionable circles. I can easily conceive, that if the cotelette was blown up, it would stand a chance of coming down on the other side, thus saving the cook the trouble ; but if Guy Fawkes had unfortunately succeeded, it would have produced quite another effect. Having failed in my literary researches, I "ned t0 find !t ln Pra*tice. I therefore went to my kitchen, and put two spoonfuls of oil m a saute pan j I took a nice spring chicken prepared for eroding, put it on the fire; and as the fire began to act upon it, the oil egan to jump, and also slightly the chicken. I then perceived that the way my French friend used the word was right; and that, after all there was not a such a great difference in Guy Fawkes’s plan of cooking the Parlia- ment, and that of a cutlet or chicken ; for both were doomed to destruction, the one by falling in awful ruins on the fire, and the other devoured by a ravenous stomach on the dinner-table. Now, dearest, having found no means of translating it to my satisfaction, I see no other plan but to adopt amongst us, and give it letters of naturalization, not for the beauty of the rd, but for its utility. The process of sauteing is at once quick, simple iL aTfT ’ r n° ^ WeU d°De fUmisheS a PleasinS --tide of food art of doing it well consists in doing it quickly, to keep the gravy and succulence in the meat, which a slow process would nullify it ;! of 7 confined to small articles of eveiy kind of food. BROILING is, without doubt, the earliest and most primitive mode of ItVoT of trg thatwhlChW0uld Present M to man in a state of nature it enf 1 1 6 T PartS °f C0°kery’ aUd therefore should be done well • ? T / P UP°n ^ fire> Whi0h must be exceedingly clear and the’ best gndiron is that having round bars, which should be piled slaliTg 0ter gridiron “ pLd ^ ^ ^ ™ bck, „P„„ the proper lrdi,ng cst, “t74 CONDIMENTS. when turned over, goes into the fire ; by turning it often, so as at first only to set the outside, the gravy goes into the centre, and it becomes evenly done throughout. (See “ Soyer’s Mutton Chop.”) As regards the thickness of the meat to be broiled, that depends in a great measure on the intensity of the fire, but the quicker the better, and also the sooner it is eaten after taken from the fire the better it will be. I have latterly, in broiling rump-steaks, added that which, by a great many, is considered an improvement; it is, on turning them the last time, to dredge them out of a dredger with fine holes, in which has been placed four table-spoonfuls of fine biscuit or rusk-powder, one tablespoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of pepper, a saltspoonful of either eschalot-powder or mushroom-powder, or finely-pulverized salts of celery, well mixed together, and the steak to be placed in a very hot dish, with a little mushroom-catsup, and a small piece of butter, and served imme- diately. ON CONDIMENTS. There is one class of materials which are always in constant use in the kitchen—these are the condiments \ without these, soups, sauces, and all made dishes, would be insipid; and the judicious application of them con- stitutes the good cook. If all kinds of condiments were of the same quality—that is, if all salt, pepper, and mustard, &c., were alike, receipts might be given as in a Phar- macopoeia, with distinct measures for each ; but as nothing differs so much as these simple condiments, everything must be left to the palate of the cook, and on him or her alone depends the flavour of the alimentary substances partaken of. Of all the condiments, that most general in use is SALT; in fact, nothing is perfect without it; the health of every individual depends upon it, being an ingredient in our blood; it is as much required to be partaken of as food or drink ; by many it is supposed to be only required to excite the organs of taste—if so, other condiments could be used, equally as exciting; but salt has a far higher .destiny, and the great Author of all has bountifully pro- vided the whole human race, in every clime and country, with it; even on those continents far away from the shores washed by the briny ocean, we find it in springs, and in crystal globules encrusting tho earth. By all75 CONDIMENTS. species of the human race with which we are acquainted upon the face of the globe, it i3 partaken of one way or the other; and although its use is. beneficial, yet, if partaken of too largely, it causes disease and death. Its composition consists of two elementary principles, earth and water, and is chemically known as muriate of soda, being a combination of soda and muriatic acid. Its use as an antiseptic, and as a condiment, are too well known to be repeated here. Rock Salt is the unpurified salt, as dug from the mines. This is purified by boiling, &c., and is crystallized by heat. Bay Salt is the coarse large crystal salt, taking its name from the salt that formerly used to be made in pits by the overflow or letting in of the sea at the head of Bays, and which was evaporated by the heat of the sun. Almost all the fish cured in France at the present day is by this kind of salt, the duty upon foreign salt being so high. PEPPER, so extensively used at present in Europe, may be said to be but a modem custom. We find in ancient MS. receipts, still extant, that, previous to the introduction of pepper, many plants, natives of England, such as saffron, &c., were used, and which even continued down to modem times, until this West Indian fruit became more general and easy of attainment.* The plant itself is a climbing one (piper nigrum,) and exceedbgly pretty when the fruit is upon it. The difference between the two peppers, black and white, is, that the berry is gathered with the skin or pulp around the stone, and that which is intended for black pepper is allowed to remain on, whilst that intended for white pepper is blanched and rubbed until the skin comes off. There is no doubt but that in the West, where hot dishes are so much in vogue, and where large quantities of this spice are employed, that there would be found some difference in the flavour—the black being more acrid than the white. In all dark sauces use the black pepper. LONG PEPPER, the fruit of the piper longnm, a plant very similar to the former, and, if possible, it has a more aromatic flavour than the black pepper. call It;iai8lnfIar ci^cumstance that this very small fruit should be the J. °f Enf'™d Possessing one of the largest portions of her dominions In he reign of Elizabeth, and during the war with Spain, pepper, which had then become an article of necessity, rose to an exUv^^cTand to am it cheaper the Queen granted Letters Patent to certain merchants Company ^ ^ °rigin °f the P"»«* East India76 CONDIMENTS. I doubt if pepper was known to tbe Romans. If so, it would have been known in Egypt, where we find no trace of it, although some authors have considered it as the ammonium of the ancients. ALLSPICE, or, as it was formerly called, Pimenta, is another of those productions of those climes near the Equator, which has come so much into use into the habits of Europeans. It is the fruit of the pimento. vulgaris. That which is the freshest is the best; as the aromatic oil which it contains is not dissipated by keeping. The essential oil which it contains can be used in very small quantities in cookery, but should not be subjected to long boiling, or it would lose its flavour. GINGER is the root of a plant, a native of the East Indies and Brazils. It has also become naturalized in the West India Islands. The plant grows in moist places, and is of a reed-like form, bearing a yellow flower. The root, when fresh, should be of a light green, solid and heavy. A spongy or woolly root should be avoided. The virtues of ginger chiefly consist in a volatile oil which it possesses. This is best obtained by bruising the root, and making an infusion in spirits of wine or boiling water in a closed bottle ; or, if thinly sliced and infused in vinegar, is pleasant in a salad. The way in which it is usually employed in cookery is by having the root desiccated by the heat of the sun until perfectly dry and hard, and then powdered till its aromatic oil is lost. It should be more often used in cookery than what it is. In 1845-6, those pioneers of colonial produce, Messrs Keeling, had large importations of the fresh root, but not being appreciated, it has ceased. It should be used as a condiment as well as for dessert. CLOVES are the buds of a flower, not arrived at maturity, of an East Indian tree, called caryophillus aromatic us. This, in common with many other buds of flowers of various kinds, contains a large quantity of essential oil. It has a very pungent, aromatic smell. Its nature is stimulating. It should not be boiled too long, or otherwise its flavour is lost in evaporation. NUTMEG is the interior of a fruit belonging to a tree, a native of the Islands of the Eastern Archipelago, called Banda, and known in botany as the myristica moschata. It is strongly aromatic, and very volatile, and con- sidered agreeable. It is used in powder, and not subjected to much heat, which would cause it to lose its qualities, which are heating and slightly irritating, and facilitate the digestion ; but should be used moderately, particularly b}r those whose nerves are not over strong.77 CONDIMENTS. MACE. This is the skin which covers the shell containing the nutmeg. It is cut into small pieces and dried. This is more often used in cookery than the nutmeg, as its essential oil and aromatic flavour is not so soon evaporated, but penetrate into the substances with which it may be em- ployed. Its qualities are somewhat similar to the nutmeg. The essence may be employed to advantage in cookery. CAYENNE is the dried pod of the well-known plant, the capsicum, now 80 often reared m hot-houses. It is, however, a native of the East and West Indies, and South America. It ought to be of a very pungent nature, and of a strongly acrid flavour. The best ought to be of an orange colour! There are several kinds of capsicums. Those known in this country are, the capsicum annum, or annual capsicum ; the capsicum grossum, or hell pepper; and the capsicum ccrasiformc, or cherry pepper. The pods of these are frequently pickled. The essence of cayenne, by infusing in spirit, is a veiw excellent plan of seasoning different kinds of dishes. CliNAMON is the under-bark of a tree, the Imrm cimammwm, a species of bay, with leaves like laurel, found in many East India Islands, nt chiefly m Ceylon. It possesses a very fl„e aromatic flavour and smelL When moderately used, is a very fin,, elegant addition to our culinaiy art. The essential oil, when extracted, 1, better to use than the hark itself. This tree bear, a fruit similar in shape to the acern, but smaller. It neither smell, nor tastes; b„, open boiling in water, yield, an oil which, „» be- coming co,d, .. a, hard a, ; it i, „sed as an ointment, and also to burn. C raid r"‘ yie“S caml>hire “d of samphire. CASSIA „ a ,0 a bark of a si„ii,r kind „f lr,e to ^ ^ 11 <loe* ”>* «““■> =0 much flavour a, cinnamon - but the cTsSrBroT8 " Ito “ “*“> of cinnamon. DUDS are the pods of the seed nf • , . 1 1 tue seea ot the cinnamon tree Thev contam an oil equal in flavour and pungency to the cinnamon. They are not 7 th6iC n0t b6ing *““»% ^own. 7 MLSTARD is the powder of the seed of the plant, the sinapis nigra. It • r m many PkCeS' and be culti-ted in almost any soil It is a strong pungent nature, and is difficult to concentrate. It should be I- 7th ^ «*■ I* derives its name from the Fiench rS."° liVe 5t fr°m the Latin ^rnultum ardet, which became coopted into «*. In France they prepare it in a variety of ^ no our province here to speak about them. That which is called78 CONDIMENTS. Durham is generally considered the best. Its name originated from the circum- stance of that being the first place where mustard was ground like that in use at the present day. Mustard is a condiment easily adulterated; and particular care should be used in selecting of it. There is likewise the seed of a plant which we use greatly in salads, but which differs altogether from the above. The plant is known as the sinapis alba. The seed produces a white powder, and not so strong as the yellow. The moderate use of mustard is good, particularly to feeble stomachs; and, if more frequently used than it is, would obviate the necessity of using the clause cajf6 to assist the feeble digestion. ONIONS, a bulbous root, so much used in cookery, is a native of this country, but grows to a large size in warm and moist climates; but the pungent flavour and aroma is not then so great. By some it is eaten in a raw state; and if partaken of freely, its effects pervade the whole system, and the person who uses them may be known at some distance, from the peculiar odour which belongs to the root. Its moderate use is wholesome, being nourishing, and correcting the acidity of the bile. It is also good against many diseases of the skin; but should never be partaken of too freely by weak stomachs. There are several sorts. The common, called the allium, cepa; the Gaelic, allium stavium; the Shalot, allium, ascaloni- cum; the Leek, the allium porrum; the Rocambole, the allium scordo- prasum ; the Chive, the allium chaenopraswm. The manner of using them, and the way in which they are employed, are given in the various receipts. Onions have been used in cookery from a very early period ; and in Spain and Portugal form the principal food of the lower classes—being, from the nature of the climate, much milder than in this country. The next articles among the condiments are the herbs ; amongst these, MARJORAM is that most in use ; it is a herb which contains a large quan- tity of what may be called essential oil, which is extracted in cooking, and imparts its flavour to the viands in which it may be used. There are several • kinds of marjoram in use, but that known as the pot marjoram, origanum onites, when well cultivated, is the best for general use : there is the sweet marjoram, origanum marjorana; the winter sweet marjoram, origanum heracloticum; and the common marjoram, origanum vvlgare, which grows wild in this country. The essence of this herb may be used in cookery; but the more common plan is to dry it for use, but should be used fresh when attainable.79 CONDIMENTS. SAVORY. There are two kinds, the winter and summer; the latter con- tains the most flavour—it can be easily dried and bottled lor keeping. BASIL is also a herb in great use; it is not a native of this country, but yet grows to great perfection if well cultivated. The aromatic smell which it possesses is very similar to cloves : there are two kinds, the sweet basil, ocymum basdicum; and the least basil, ocymum minimum. The first pos- sesses the most flavour and smell. 1HYME. There are two, the lemon, thymus citriodorus, and the common thyme, thymus vulgaris; the first is the best to use in all dishes wherever this herb is required. PENNY ROYAL is not much in use in cookery, but can be used where mint cannot be had. MINT.— Spearmint or common mint is that which is most in use; it should never be used in large quantities. Some of it infused in vinegar, Ind the vinegar afterwards used with a salad, gives a fine flavour and a novelty to that dish, and is used in vinegar with lamb. SAGE is an important herb, and by many considered an agreeable condi- ment; there are several kinds; that whose leaves have a purple tin-e is considered best for culinary use. PARSLEY, although at present so prominent in use in our kitchens, was unknown to our forefathers ; it is only within a century that it has become so general: it was introduced into this country from Italy. There are three varieties, the common or plain-leaved, the curled or double-leaved, and the broad-leaved; the curled is the best-looking, but has not so much flavour as the common; the broad-leaved is used for its root, which is excellent, cut UfP i, S°UP’ &C' 14 may be obtained a11 tJie year. To keep it well, “ b61dned and cut and placed in well-corked bottles, but should only be used when fresh cannot be procured. • 18 n0t S° mUCh USCd aS H °Ught t0 be J if used “ore in soup, nstead of the stronger herbs, it would be liked; but great care must be serve in using of it, as its aromatic qualities are quickly dissipated by beat. _ It is a native of the north of Europe, and known in botany as the <irtc7m#ia dracuncidus. CLARY is a plant of the sage kind; its leaves are sometimes used to flavour soups, and is liked by a few. ”d ^oten ”thCONDIMENTS. 80 CELERY, which is now grown to such perfection in England, is the cul- tivated wild plant known as smallage. Celery is a great deal used in cookery, but it should not be subjected to too long boiling ; if its flavour is- required, and no root to be obtained, the seed of the Smallage can be used instead. It is generally supposed that the roots and leaves of smallage are poisonous ; we would not recommend them to be used, as the seed can always be obtained, and the flavour is finer. The salts of celery is a modern improvement, and a great addition to our culinary condiments. BORAGE is not much used in cookery ; its flavour is slightly bitter, and is sometimes used to flavour ale, cyder, &c., for a summer drink. HORSE-RADISH is the root of a plant, a native of this country; the aroma which it contains is quickly dissipated by heat—it is therefore used in a raw state by being grated ; an essence may be obtained by infusion with spirits of wine, and which, added to mustard after it i3 made, gives it an agreeable flavour. CHERVIL is getting more into use every day ; its flavour is exceedingly pleasant, and can be employed in soups and salads, especially in made dishes, with the greatest advantage. CAPERS are the buds of a small trailing shrub, a native of the South of Europe ; they are sent to this country in barrels, with salt or vinegar ; those grown on the Rock of Gibraltar are considered the finest in the world. They are very excellent with almost all boiled meats, fish, and salads. BROOM BUDS, when pickled, in some parts replace capers. NASTURTIUMS are sometimes used in the place of capers, being pickled in the same way, but they have not the least resemblance ; they may be used for salads/ The flower of the nasturtium is a very pretty decoration for boiled fish and salads. BARBERRIES is the fruit of a plant, a native of this country; some centuries since, they appear to have been often used in this country, but more modern importations have superseded them ; they have a very acid flavour, and, if pickled, could enter into the composition of many dishes, and also make a good preserve. GHERKINS are the young cucumber, or often the fruit of the uncultivated plant; they are almost always pickled, and are an elegant addition to all salads and many entrees.81 CONDIMENTS. BEET-ROOT is a root of a plant which of late years has been extensively- cultivated for the purpose of feeding cattle ; the colour which it possesses is easily extracted, for the purpose of tinting various articles employed in cookery. When boiled, it is a beautiful addition to eveiy salad. MUSHROOMS are greatly used in domestic cookery, and are a general favourite, but I consider them unwholesome if partaken of too freely; their liquor, when decomposed with salt, is a condiment known under the’ name of Ketchup, is very extensively employed in cookery; this may be consi- dered rather wholesome than otherwise, as it is known to facilitate the digestion. The largest are the best to produce the ketchup, and the small button-ones to use in dishes; they should be nicely trimmed, and put into a jar with lemon juice to blanch them ; should be submitted to very little heat “ tll6lr dellCaCy wiU be lost> and nothing but a tough substance left to eat/ MORELS are a species of mushroom, but which are now seldom used in cookery, but ought to be more used, as they are agreeable in many viands. , luuts’ I,roauced the first of diplomatists-na W ° Was at tbe 8ame time a trreat erourmnt Ti,o 1—1:1.. Ists namely, Talleyrand, may have had an G82 CONDIMENTS. tlie habit of partaking of them say that they enliven the mind, exhilarate the spirits, assist the digestion, and render the reasoning faculties more clear. How far this may be correct, I am not able to say; but I believe them to be irritable, and would not advise too great an indulgence in them. When first known, there was a difference of opinion among the learned, if they were vegetable or mineral, as they appeared to have no origin* ; there is no doubt, however, but what they are a species of fungus, tube, or root. They are generally found within a few inches of the surface of the eartli, and under oak trees; they are known also as the subterraneous “ puff- ball,” tuba cibarium. The best, as we said before, are supposed to come from “ Perigord,” the next from Angoul6me—these are black; the white ones come from Piedmont, and Carolina in America; they are also veiy good, but ought to be partaken of fresh. We have black ones in this country, in the New Forest in Hampshire, and they also exist m the vicinity of the Lakes of Killamey, in Ireland; and if sought for, the woods of Mr. Herbert M.P., would yield large quantities, besides giving employment to the poor. It is in such places where humidity and equality of climate exist that they are most numerous. On the Continent, they are found by mean3 of dogs and pigs, trained on purpose. They should not be subjected to too long ebullition, as the aroma is very volatile. Those found in England have not the same aromatic qualities as those of France, and therefore are sold much cheaper. BAY is the leaf of a species of laurel, but in using of it, care must be taken that the leaf of the bay-laurel, or cherry-laurel, (prunm Imroceraxus,) is not used for it, being a decided poison (prussic acid); but the bay, or sweet bay, (laura snobUis,) an evergreen of the South of Europe, may be used to great advantage in cookery, as it imparts an agreeable and aromatic flavour, differing very widely from any spices that can be used for the same purposes. It is cultivated extensively in our gardens, and should be used according to the directions given in the receipts. SAFFRON was formerly-that is, in the fourteenth century-much used in cookery in Europe. It has bulbous roots, like the onion and flowers ; the fibres grow from the bottom of the bulb, having roots with coats or skin one over the other, and bears naked flowers without stem._ At present it is only used in the kitchen for the purpose of colouring, of which kind it is one of the most wholesome. In Portugal, Spain, and Turkey, it is used at present day to a great extent.83 CONDIMENTS. ANGlSCA, a condiment much used in the confectionery department of the kitchen; it is the stalk of a plant like celery, which grows in our gardens, and is also found wild. When gathered, it is dried, preserved, and candied. Rouen, in France, is very celebrated for it. YANNILLA is used chiefly to impart flavour to various articles in con- fectionery ; it possesses also a very beautiful smell, which has caused it to be used in scenting different perfumes, and thus diminished its use in the kitchen. It is the produce of a climbing tree like ivy, having a large leaf and black flower, which leaves a pcd containing black peas ; the form of the pod is like a scimitar, from which it takes its name, being in Spanish mrgarila. When covered with tin-foil, and kept in a moist place, it will become covered with flakes of silver. It denotes the best quality, and is fit for use; it will do to be infused several times. SUGAR is the concentrated juice of a plant which grows in hot climates, and is also to be obtained from other trees and vegetables, especially from beet-root. It is used very extensively in cookery, it imparting a mellow flavour to all dishes; it is of an antiseptic nature, and ought to be em- ployed more abundantly in preserving of animal substances than what it is. This condiment was unknown to the ancients, who employed honey in place of it. The way it is used in the kitchen is explained in the receipts. ORANGE is the fruit the produce of a tree originally a native of Cliina, but now grown extensively in all warm climates. The juice of this fruit is a sweet acid, differing greatly in flavour to the lemon ; its peel is of use in cookery, and the juice in many dishes of a sweet character for dessert. The Seville and Malta oranges are a variety of this fruit. ORANGE-FLOWER, a distillation from the flower, is used a great deal in cookery. VERJUICE is the juice of a grape of that name, and of other unripe ones, and on the continent was used to a great extent, until the introduction of the lemon. The grape is gathered unripe, and pressed, and allowed to ferment, and then put into large vats to mature ; the older it is, the better the flavour. In England, it has been made from a species of crab-apple, and becomes that known in commerce as malic acid. It enters into the com- position of several of the sauces in use at the present day; if pure, it may be preferable for several dishes to vinegar, G 284 CONDIMENTS. OLIVE is a fruit not much used in this country in cookery ; it grows on a low tree with long narrow leaves, rough underneath ; the fruit contains a long and small kernel; the flesh of the fruit, when pressed, yields the oil known as olive oil. This is a most valuable article in cookery ; it ought to be tasteless and inodorous, but when long exposed to the air becomes rank and unfit for use. ARROW-ROOT is the powder of the root of a tree growing in very warm and moist climates, of about two to three feet in height, known in botany as the maranta arwidinarea. In some countries, the flour of this root is mixed with that of Indian com, and makes excellent bread. It is produced in the same way as the starch from potatoes. TAPIOCA is also a starch, produced from the roots of a Brazilian plant called Cassava, a very elegant and handsome plant, with beautiful white and pink flowers. Though so handsome in its exterior, yet the plant in itself is one of the most poisonous in existence ; it is now becoming general in use, as it is found, when mixed with a little wine or spirit, to be an excellent stimulant to an invalid, without possessing any heating qualities. It should always be well washed in water, and then boiled until it becomes transparent, when it should be well stirred, and whatever is required to be mixed with it should be added. It will, when mixed with other flour, make very good bread. SALSOP is another root of a plant called orchis memo, a native of the East, where it is used as an article of food to a great extent; it is reduced to powder, and readily dissolves in boiling water. It is a light, pleasant drink, and, to persons of a feverish constitution, is exceedingly wholesome. SAGO is another of these starches, similar to Tapioca, made from the pith of the palm-tree, a native of the Indies. It is prepared precisely in the same way as the Tapioca. SOY is obtained from the seed or fruit of an Indian plant, called dohehos soja, or soya; it is produced in a very similar way to ketchup; it enters greatly into use in the variety of sauces that are made for the table, it being of a very strong, sweet-bitter taste ; it should only be used in moderation in cookery. CHETNEY is a production of the East Indies, which, of late years, has come considerably into use; it is the mixing together of a variety of fruits,85 CONDIMENTS. and allowing them to ferment until they become acid : some spices are then mixed with them—they are then bottled for use ; the older it is, the better it becomes. That which is made in the Vale of Cashmere is considered the best; it is endeavoured to be imitated in this countiy, with little success. CURRl -POWDER is another of those Indian condiments which have latterly come so much into use, and it is only to be regretted that it is not cheaper than it is, so as to allow it to be more generally used, as it is one of those stimulating condiments which would be invaluable to the poor ; its use would prevent the habit of taking other stimulants which produce intoxication. LEMON is the fruit of a tree a native of the South of Europe and the Indies; it is a most valuable production, not only in the way it is used in cookery, but to the health of the human race. Its juice, when diluted with water, and sweetened, is one of the most refreshing and wholesome, that it is possible to take. The peel contains an essential oil, which imparts a strong pungent flavour to those dishes to which it is added. The true flavour of this fruit can only be had when fresh and ripe. At the time of Henry VIII., this fruit was a great rarity, and used to be partaken of at dessert with a quantity of sugar mixed with it. The LIME is a species of lemon, the juice of which is more acid. The CITRON is also another species; the juice is sweeter. VINEGAR derives its name from the French vin aigre, or sour .vine, and !s known in chemistry as acetic acid. This antiseptic liquor can be produced from all herbs, plants, vegetables, and fruits, which produce sugar, and even that singular production of nature known as honey, and of which their juices will go into fermentation. Their juices, when first expressed, are called wine, or syrup ; they undergo a fermentation known as the vinous, after which, when exposed to a certain degree of heat, enter into the acetous fermentation, and produce that acid pungent liquor known as vinegar. Of late years, it has also been produced by the distillation of woo , more particularly oak, and known as pyroligneous acid, which is intensely acid, and highly stimulating. When employed in cookeiy it 1°)'' ,®U3ed V6ry Judici°usly, and with great care. The best vinegar is f,C°ntainS the least viable matter, such as colouring, &c. and winch has the strongest acid taste, without being hotWATER. 86* Tlie different flavoured vinegars may be made by infusion, without the aid of heat, of the different substances from which the flavour is required. BOUQUET is a term often used in this book: when expressed alone, without naming the herbs which compose it, means parsley, &c. BOUQUET GARNI means a variety of herbs, and, when mentioned, the herbs which are composed are also named. BAIN MARIE, or, as it is called in the English kitchen, BtamM Pan, is a pan which contains water kept at a boiling state, in which are placed the other saucepans, &c., so that the contents should not be acted upon too strongly by the fire. This term is old, having its origin with the alchymists, who, finding that sea-water boiled at a high temperature, and did not evaporate so quickly, used a pan containing sea-water (mans, in French, of the sea); hence the term Bain Marie, or Sea-Water Bath. WATER. Upwards of 730,000 diurnal revolutions has this earth made round that grand luminary the sun, since one of its chief elements, W ater, attracted the attention of a celebrated philosopher, Hippocrates, who wrote upon the difference observable in that element. At a later period, Celsus gave direc- tions for examining the specific gravity; and Pliny attempted to direct his readers how to distinguish the salubrious from that which is unwholesome. In the middle ages, when the monomania existed for finding the philosopher s stone and the elixir vit«, considerable progress was made in discovering its constituent parts. But till the time of Boyle, or towards the close of the seventeenth century, no means had been discovered of analyzing water, or of pronouncing with certainty on its nature and properties. WATER which in the general way is thought so lightly of, is one of those elements used in cookery which is of the most important character. The best receipts in cookery may often be spoilt in consequence of the water, as it is by it that the flavour of everything is extracted, and upon the quality of the water much depends the nature of that extract. It is only eff late years that the economy of water has attracted die attention of th scientific; and I am fearful that the cook has not given it that attentio which so important a subject deserves.■87 WATER. Good potable water ought to contain to ^ part of its volume of atmospheric air; of this, one is atmospheric air, and the rest carbonic acid gas, and the specific gravity is from 1,00016 to 1,00030; when the solid contents exceed this, the water is what is termed hard, and is less fitted for cookery, and dissolving of soap or other domestic purposes. The solid con- tents in five quarts of water, or 101bs., ought not to exceed 9'65 grs., and in the following proportions :— Carbonate of lime . . Muriate of soda . . Silica Muriate of lime . . Sulphate of potassa . Carbonate of soda . . 5'5 grains. 2-25 5 5 99 99 99 25 99 2 99 with four cubic inches of carbonic acid gas, and two of oxygen gas. It may also contain a little sulphate of lime. Many towns have their favourite teas—that is, what is admired in one is disapproved in another; this results solely from the water with which it is made. Having latterly been employed upon several experiments with this useful element for the Sanatory Commission, and which experiments I am now carrying out with water from various parts of England, I have been exceed- ingly surprised at the results of these experiments, and upon the difference which exists m the waters of this metropolis, resulting from the nature of the soil through which the water percolates, or from the source whence supplied ; but as this is not the place to give the particulars of those expe- riments, I shall merely state that the general result was, that I found there existed a difference between hard and soft water, to the extent of nearly one- thwd, ,n making of tea, or as 41b. of tea is to 61b. ; and in vegetables of all kinds a difference perfectly astonishing, more particularly in roots, and none perhaps, more than in the potato ; the difference was even perceptible in the cutting of it, and the flavour of the water, as well as its hardness was absorbed by that root. In herbs, the aroma and flavour cannot be extracted, even when adding soda to the water, which seems to make it only ■artificial.; and green vegetables lose not only their colour, but their flavour om being boiled in hard water, and soda, when added, destroys their extract tl P“ a ^ aS hard water not ic juices ©r gravy, but causes it to enter and bind the gelatinousSAUCES. 88 parts more closely together; it causes white meat, such as veal and chicken, to boil whiter; In the prosecution of my experiments, I found that the softer the water, the quicker it boiled; and also that salt water would only boil at 213^°, instead of at 212°; the contents of salt being, in 1000 parts, 26-6, chloriate of sodium; 4-66, sulphate of soda; ls^, chloriate of calchium; and 5154, chloriate of magnesia ; and water containing 64 salt in 1000, boils at 2141° Fahr., 96 in 1000, 215£°; 128 in 1000, 216x7a°; 284 in 1000, at 226° Fahr. MILK is almost equally as essential in cookery as water, and a great deal depends upon its quality; but as we have promised to write a small work on Domestic Economy for the Cottage, we shall leave until then those novel particulars concerning it which is the result of our experience. We will now state here, that it consists of three parts—the caseous, the butyrous, and the serous. The first comprehends the gross, earthy particles, being car- bonate of lime, which serve to suspend the butyrous parts, and which, when coagulated by art, forms cheese. The second comprises the oily particles, or cream, which float on the surface of the milk, and can by agitation be con- verted into butter. The third is the watery part, which constitutes whey. The most palatable, wholesome milk is that which contains a due proportion of these three constituent parts. Milk, besides the uses we apply it to in the kitchen, is used for other purposes in branches of various manufactures, but more particularly for altering the colour of wines, as they change dark wines into perfect colourless. SAUCES. Sauces in cookery are like the first rudiments of grammar, which consist of certain rules called Syntax, and the foundation of all languages: these fundamental rules are nine, so Las cookery the same number of sauces, which are the foundation of all others; but these, like its prototype the grammar, have two—brown and white, which bear a resemblance to the noun and verb, as they are the first and most easily learnt, and most constantly in use; the others are the adjuncts, pronouns, adverbs, and interjections; upon the proper use of the two principal ones depends the quality of all others, and the proper making of which tends to the enjoyment of the dinner ; for to my fancy they are to cookery what the gamut is in the composition of music, asSAUCES. 89 it is by the arrangement of the notes that harmony is produced, so should the ingredients in the sauce be so nicely blended, and that delightful concord should exist, which would equally delight the palate, as a masterpiece of a Mozart or a Rossini should delight the ear; but which, if badly executed, tantalize those nervous organs, affect the whole system, and prove a nuisance instead of a pleasure. I will therefore be very precise in describing the two, in order that, when you prepare them, you will not cause your guests to make grimaces at each other, whilst partaking of them at your festive board, aa the present age is a little more refined than at the time of Dr. Johnson, and we are often obliged to swallow that we do not like. It is reported of him, that being at a ceremonious dinner-party, and indulging in his usual flow of wit, he unconsciously partook of a spoonful of very hot soup, which he immediately returned to the plate he had taken it from ; and observing the astonishment of some of his neighbours, he very coolly remarked, “ A fool would have burnt his mouth.” When we are at home alone, I very seldom trouble myself by making white or brown sauce, which I can avoid by selecting simplified dishes, which easily produce their own sauce whilst cooking them. But when I expect a little company, the first order I give my cook is to make half of the quantity of the following receipts for white and brown sauces, which ought to be kept hot in a bain-marie pan, previous to the dinner. No doubt the word bain-marie is new to you, I will therefore tell you what it is. It consists of a pan containing water to the depth of about four inches, generally placed at the side of the stove, in which are placed the saucepans and stewpans, in order that their contents may be kept hot, without injuring the flavour by over heating, and no kitchen from which a good dinner is expected to be sent should be without it. 135. WHITE SAUCE.—Cut and chop a knuckle of \eal, weighing about four pounds, into large dice; also half a pound of lean bacon; butter the bottom of a large stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, add two onions, a small carrot, a turnip, three cloves, half a blade of mace, a bouquet of a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, and six of parsley, add a gill of water, place over a sharp fire, stirring round occasionally, until the bottom of the stew- pan is covered with whitish glaze, then fill up with three90 SAUCES. quarts of water, add a good teaspoonful of salt, and let simmer at the corner of the fire an hour and a half, keeping well skimmed; pass it through a hair sieve into a basin. In another stewpan put a quarter of a pound of butter, with wrhich mix six ounces of flour, stirring over the fire about three minutes, take off, keep stirring until partly cold, when add the stock all at once; continually stirring and boiling for a quarter of an hour; add half a pint of boiling milk, stir a few minutes longer, add a little chopped mushrooms, if handy, pass through a hair sieve into a basin, until required for use, stirring it round occa- sionally until cold. The above being a simplified white sauce, will be referred to very often in the receipts. 136. BROWN SAUCE.—Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, rub it over the bottom, peel two or three large onions, cut them in thick slices, lay them on the bottom, cut into small pieces about two pounds of knuckle of veal,* all meat, or three pounds if with bone, a quarter of a pound of lean bacon, cut small, two cloves, a few peppercorns, a tablespoonful of salt, two bay leaves, a gill of water; set it on a brisk fire, let it remain ten minutes, when stir it well round, subdue the fire, let it remain twenty minutes longer, and stir now and then until it has a nice brown colour; fill your pan with three quarts of water; when boiling, set it on the corner of the stove, with the lid three parts on the saucepan; when boiling, skim fat and all; after one hour, or one hour and a half simmering, pass it through a sieve into a basin. To make the thicken- ing or Roux for it, proceed as follows:—Roux. Put two ounces of butter into a pan, which melt on a slow fire, then add three ounces of flour, stir it with a wood spoon * Half veal and beef can be used ; or if no veal, all beefSAUCES. 9t until getting a thin deep yellow colour; this in France is called Roux, being very useful in cookery, and will be often referred to in these receipts. This process will take ten minutes, when remove from the fire for two minutes to cool, then add at once three pints and a quarter of the above stock, very quickly set it on the fire to boil, remove to the corner to simmer, and skim. It ought to be entirely free from grease, and of a light chesnut colour. 137. DEMI-GLAZE—THIN BROWN SAUCE FOR MADE DISHES.—When I have a small dinner-party, I always, as I told you before, make small quantities of white and brown sauce as above, but this is a nice way of clarifying a brown sauce without much trouble, and makes it a beautiful transparent brown colour; but although I have made it quite a study, that each entree, or made dish for daily use, should make its own sauce, yet I must im- press upon you that this sauce is the real key to cooking a good and ceremonious dinner. Put a pint of brown sauce, in a middle-sized stewpan, add to it half a pint of broth or consomme, put it on the stove, stir with wooden spoon, let it boil as fast as possible, take the skum off which will rise to the surface, reduce it until it adheres lightly to the spoon, pass it through a sieve or tammy into a basin, stir now and then until cold, to prevent a skin forming on the top, put it by until wanted for use. It will keep for a week in winter, by adding half a gill of white broth every other day, and giving it a boil; the addition of a tablespoonful of tomato sauce gives it a beautiful colour ; use where indicated. 138. THIN BROWN SAUCE OF MUSHROOMS. —Put twelve tablespoonfuls of thin brown sauce in a small stewpan to boil, then have six or eight small mushrooms, well cleaned and washed, chop them fine, and place in92 SAUCES. sauce, and boil for five minutes; taste if it is to your liking; the addition of a little sugar is an improvement; a little cayenne, if liked, may be introduced. The sauce is good for cutlets, broiled fowl, and game, &c. 139. ESCHALOT SAUCE.—Chop fine about a good tablespoonful of eschalot, place it in the corner of a napkin, and pour water over; press until dry, and put in a small stewpan with two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one clove, a little mace; boil two minutes, add ten tablespoonfuls of demi-glaze, boil a little longer, add a little sugar, and serve. 140. 1IQUANT or SHARP SAUCE.—Put two table- spoonfuls ot chopped onions, or eschalots, cleaned as above, into a stewpan; put also lour tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and a bay-leaf, and boil; then add ten tablespooafuls of brown sauce, half a one of chopped parsley, ditto of green gher- kins; boil five minutes, skim, add a little sugar, taste if well seasoned, take out bay-leaf and serve. 141. TARRAGON SAUCE.—Put eight tablespoonfuls of demi-glaze, and four of broth, into a stewpan; boil for a few minutes, add a tablespoonful of vinegar, have ready picked twenty leaves of fresh tarragon, put in to simmer two minutes, and serve with any kind of poultry, but espe- cially spring chickens. 142. BROWN CUCUMBER SAUCE.—Peel a small fresh cucumber, cut it in neat pieces, put in a stewpan with a little sugar, add half an ounce of butter, set it on a slow fire, stir it now and then, add twelve tablespoonfuls ol brown sauce, and eight of broth; let it simmer till tender, skim the butter off, remove the cucumber into another stewpan, pass the sauce, reduce it a little, taste it, pour over, and serve.SAUCES. 93 143. MUSCE HERB SAUCE.—Put two tablespoon- fuls of finely chopped onions in a stewpan, and a table- spoonful of oil, place it on the fire, stir a few minutes, add ten tablespoonfuls of demi-glaze, and four of broth or water; boil, skim; if too thick, and the scum should not rise, add half a gill of broth or water; boil, and reduce to a proper thickness, and add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley if at hand, one of mushrooms, and season with a little cayenne; the juice of a quarter of a lemon; serve. I often introduce a little garlic in this. 144. ITALIAN HERB SAUCE.—Proceed in the same way as the above, only add a little chopped thyme, and a small glass of sherry. 145. ROBERT SAUCE.—Peel and cut up two good- sized onions, put them in stewpan with an ounce of butter, till they are a nice yellow colour, then add eight table- spoonfuls of demi-glaze, and two of water or broth; skim boil quickly; when of a proper thickness add a good table- spoonful of French mustard; season rather high; if no French mustard, use English, but it completely changes the fiavotir, though still very palatable. Jdt EA™0TE SAUCE.-P„t in a stewpan one tTvml i 1 7°“ * 1CCd’ 'Titl> a little <’"">«> » link jme, bay-leaf, one clove, a little mace, a little scraped “Sh' *77 b“‘ter, % a few minutes, then add Aree teaspoonfnlsof vmegar.ten tablespoonfuls of brown snoonfMUf °f °th\rh<m b0il“8’ skil“> add a table- spoonful of currant jelly: when melted, pass all through a tammy, and serve with any kind of meat or poultry- with hare or venison it is excellent. 1 7' 147. BROWN MUSHROOM SAUCE.-Clean and94 SAUCES. cut twelve small mushrooms in slices, place them in a stewpan with a little butter, salt, pepper, the juice of a quarter of a lemon, set it on a slow fire for a few minutes, then add ten spoonfuls of demi- glaze ; boil till they are tender, and serve. A little mushroom catsup may be in- troduced. 148. ORANGE SAUCE FOR GAME.—Peel half an orange, removing all the pith; cut it into slices, and then in fillets; put them in a gill of water to boil for twro minutes; drain them on a sieve, throwing the water away; place in the stewpan two spoonfuls of demi-glaze, or ten of broth ; and, when boiling, add the orange, a little sugar, simmer ten minutes, shim, and serve. The juice of half an orange is an improvement. This is served with duck- lings and water-fowl: those that like may add cayenne and mustard. 149. GARLIC SAUCE.—Though many dislike the flavour of this root, yet those that like it ought not to be deprived of it. Put in a stewpan ten tablespoonfuls of demi-glaze, a little tomato sauce, if handy; boil it a few minutes, scrape half a clove of garlic, put it in with a little sugar, and serve. 150. MINT SAUCE FOR LAMB.—Take three table- spoonfuls of chopped leaves of green mint, three table- spoonfuls of brown sugar, and put into a basin, with half a pint of brown vinegar; stir it well up, add one salt- spoonful of salt, and serve. 151. LIAISON OF EGGS.—Break the yolks of two eggs in a basin, with which mix six spoonfuls of milk, or eight of cream; pass it through a fine sieve, and use wnen directed.SAUCES. 95 152. ANCHOVY BUTTER SAUCE.—Put into a stewpan eight spoonfuls of demi-glaze, or three of broth ^ when boiling, add one ounce of anchovy butter; stir con- tinually till melted; serve where directed. 153. SOYER’S SAUCE.—Put six spoonfuls of demi- glaze into a stewpan: when hot, add four spoonfuls of Soyer’s Gentleman’s Sauce; let boil, and serve with either chop, steak, cutlet, poultry, or game. 154. PAPILLOTTE SAUCE.—Scrape half an ounce of fat bacon, put it iu a pan with four tablespoonfuls of chopped onions, stir over the fire for a few minutes, then add ten tablespoonfuls of brown sauce and boil; then add a tablespoonful of mushrooms chopped, one ditto of parsley, a little nutmeg, a little pepper and sugar, a quarter of a clove of scraped garlic; reduce till rather thickish ; put on dish till cold, and use it for anything you may put up “ en Papillotte.” 155. TOMATO SAUCE.—If fresh, put six in a stew- pan ; having removed the stalk, and squeezed them in the hand to remove pips, &c., add half an onion, sliced, a spiig of thyme, a bay-leaf, half an ounce of celei'y, one ounce of ham or bacon, same of butter, teaspoonful of sugar, same of salt, a quarter one of pepper, set on fire to stew gently; when all tender, add a tablespoonful of flour, moisten with half a pint of broth, boil five minutes, add a little cayenne, taste if highly seasoned, pass it through sieve or tammy, put it back in stewpan, until it adheres rather thick to the back of the spoon, and use it for any kind of meat or poultry. If preserved tomato, proceed as for poivrade sauce, respecting the vegetables,? omitting the vinegar, and adding the tomato, instead of brown sauce, with a tablespoonful of flour and broth to96 SAUCES. bring it to a proper thickness; pass it through a sieve, and serve as above. 156. CURR1 SAUCE.—This I generally keep ready-made in the larder, being very fond of what I consider such wholesome food as curry; but not liking to be troubled with making it often, I cause my cook to prepare a certain quantity at a time. Mr. B. is very partial to curry, but he likes it in winter; for my part, I prefer it in summer. After having partaken of some one very hot summer’s day, I felt quite cold. Capt. White, who has been nearly twenty years in the East Indies, tells me that it will produce that refreshing effect; I can enjoy it in any season. Put into a pan four good-sized onions, sliced, and two peeled apples, with a quarter of a pound of butter, the same of lean ham, a blade of mace, four peppercorns, two bay-leaves, two sprigs of thyme; stir them over a mode- rate fire until the onions become brown and tender, then add two tablespoonfuls of the best curry powder, one of vinegar, two of flour, a teaspoonful of salt, one of sugar; moisten it with a quart of broth or milk, or even water, with the addition of a little glaze ; boil till in a pulp, and adhering rather thickly to the back of the spoon; pass all through a fine sieve or tammy, give it another boil for a few minutes, put it in a basin, and use when required. Any kind of meat, poultry, and fish, or parts of game, are excellent warmed in this sauce, and served with well- boiled and dry rice. I have kept this sauce in a cool place in the winter for a month, boiling it now and then. The quantity of powder may be omitted, and a spoonful of curry paste used, or some mangoes. (See Curries.) 157. A VERY GOOD AND USEFUL WHITE SAUCE (quite new).—Put a quart of white sauce in a stew- pan of a proper size on a fire; stir continually until reduced to one-third; put two yolks of eggs in a basin, stir them well up, add your sauce gradually, keep stirring.?7 SAUCES. put back in stewpan, set it to boil for a few minutes longer, then add one pint of boiling milk, which will bring it to its proper thickness; that is, when it adheres trans- parently to the back ol a spoon; pass through a tammy into a basin, stir now and then till cold. If not immediately required, and I have any stock left, I use half of it with half of milk. I also try this way, which is very convenient: when the yolks are in, and well boiled, I put it in a large gallipot, and when cold, cover with pieces of paper; it will keep good in winter for two or three weeks, and above a week in summer: when I want to use a little of it, I only take a spoonful or two and warm it on the fire, ancl add enough milk or white broth to bring it to a proper thickness, and use when required. This sauce is very smooth, and never turns greasy; it lies beautifully on fowl, or any white made dish; the addition of a drop of cream gives it a very fine white appearance. 158. ONION PUREE SAUCE.—Peel and cut six onions in slices; put in a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, one of sugar, a half one of pepper; place on a slow fire to simmer till in a pulp, stirring them now and then to prevent them getting brown, then add one tablespoonful of flour, a pint of milk, and boil till a proper thickness, which should be a little thicker than melted butter; pass through a tammy, warm again, and serve with mutton cutlets, chops, boiled rabbits or fowl; by not passing it, it will do for roast mutton and boiled rabbit as onion sauce. 159. PUREE OF CAULIFLOWER SAUCE —Boil a cauliflower well in three pints of water, in which you have previously put one ounce of butter, one tablespoon. Ul ot salt’ when done, chop it up, having prepared and ii'88 SAUCES. slowly cooked in a stewpan an onion sliced, a little celery, half a turnip, one ounce of liaxn, two of butter, a little bay- leaf, mace, add then the cauliflower, stir round, add a tablespoonful of flour, moisten as above for onions, pass, and finish the same way. 160. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKE SAUCE.—Peel twelve, and well wash; boil till tender, and proceed as above. 161. TURNIP SAUCE PUREE.—Boil six middle- sized ones, press all the water you can out of them, and proceed as the above. 162. WHITE CUCUMBER PUREE.—Peel two, or one large one, cut in slices, put in the stewpan with the same vegetables, &c. as for the cauliflower; when tender, add a tablespoonful of flour, four gills of milk or broth, boil, finishing as the cauliflower. 163. SORREL SAUCE, or PUREE.—Wash well six handfuls of sorrel, put it nearly dry into a middle- sized stewpan, with a little butter; let it melt, add a table- spoonful of flour, a teaspoonful of salt, half one of pepper; moisten to a thick puree, with milk, or broth, or cream; pass it through a sieve, put it back in a stewpan, warm again, add two whole eggs, two ounces of butter, and stir well, and serve where directed. 164. SPINAGE PUREE, (see Vegetables, 2nd Course.) Endive Puree is often used in Franee, and called cliicoree. This Puree may be made like the cauliflower, or only plain boiled, plainly chopped, put into a pan with two ounces of butter, a gill of white sauce, a little grated nutmeg, and a little salt, pepper, and sugar. ib5. STEWED PEAS AND SPRUE GRASS.—For99 SAUCES. cutlets, sweetbreads, fowls, or any dishes, they are appli- cable, (see Vegetables, 2nd Course,) also French beans, only using one-third of the quantity that you would for a made dish, or for an entremet. 166. SCOOPED JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES.— Scoop with a round cutter twenty-four pieces of artichoke, of the size of half an inch in diameter, wash, and put them in a small stewpan with half an ounce of butter and a quarter of an ounce of sugar; put it on a slow fire for a few minutes, add four tablespoonfuls of white sauce, eight of white broth or milk, let them simmer till tender, skim, mix a yolk of an egg with two tablespoonfuls of milk, pour in stewpan, and move it round very quickly, and serve; it must not be too thick, and the artichokes must be well done; they must not be in puree; they are good with or served under any white meat. 167. SCOOPED TURNIPS.—Proceed exactly the same, only serve a little thinner; they will not do if stringy. Use brown sauce instead of white. 168. BUTTON ONIONS.—The same, only make the sauce thinner, and boil longer, according to their size. 169. 10UNG CARROTS.—Scrape and trim to shape twenty small and young carrots, pass in sugar and butter, add white or brown sauce, but keep it thinner, as it re- quires a longer time boiling; when tender, if for white sauce, add a tablespoonful of liaison, stir, and serve. 170. WHITE MUSHROOM SAUCE.—Use small white ones; cut the dark part out and remove the tail, wash m several waters, put in a stewpan with a little butter,' salt, pepper, juice of lemon, saute it for a few minutes' on the fire, add a gill of white sauce, four tablespoon-SAUCES. 100 fuls of broth, milk, or water; boil, and serve under any white meat. 171. WHITE CUCUMBER SAUCE. —Peel two cucumbers, divide each lengthwise into four, remove the pips, and cut into pieces one inch long; add, in stewpan, one ounce of butter, a teaspoonful of sugar, half of salt, let it stew on the fire for fifteen minutes, then add a gill of white sauce, eight spoonfuls of milk, broth, or water, simmer gently and skim; add a tablespoonful of liaison, and serve where directed, but observe that all these garnitures ought to be served under the meat and over poultry. 172. RAGOUT OF QUENELLES.—Make twelve nice small quenelles, (see Quenelles,) warm half a pint of white sauce, in which you have put four tablespoonfuls of milk, and half a teaspoonful of eschalot; when well done, pour on them the liaison, with the juice of a lemon, and serve. A few English truffles or mushrooms may be added to this sauce, allowing them time to cook. 173. MAITRE-D’HOTEL SAUCE.—Put eight spoon- fuls of white sauce in a stewpan, with four of white stock or milk; boil it five minutes, then stir in two ounces of maitre-d’hotel butter; stir it quickly over the fire until the butter is melted, but do not let the sauce boil after the butter is in: this sauce should only be made at the time of serving. Melted butter may be used. 174. GREEN PEAS STEWED.—Put a pint of young peas, boiled very green, into a stewpan, with three table- spoonfuls of white sauce, two ounces of butter, a little sugar and salt, and two button onions, with parslej, tied together; boil ten minutes; add two tablespoonfuls of liaison, stir it in quickly, and serve.101 SAUCES. 175. GREEN PEAS WITH BACON.—Put a pint of well-boiled peas into a stewpan, with five spoonfuls of brown sauce, four of brown gravy, a teaspoonful of sugar, two button onions, and a bunch of parsley; let it boil about ten minutes; have ready boiled about a quarter of a pound of lean bacon, cut it in dice about a quarter of an inch square, add it to the peas, take out the onions and paisley, season with an ounce of butter, and half a tea- spoonful of sugar; mix well together, stew twenty minutes, and serve. 176. BLANCHED MtJSHROOMS.—Get a pottle of fresh mushrooms, cut off the dirt, and likewise the heads, (reserving the stalk for chopping,) wash the heads in a basin of clean water, take them out and drain in a sieve; put into a stewpan two wine-glasses of cold water, one ounce of butter, the juice of half a good lemon, and a little salt ; turn or peel each head neatly, and put them into the stewpan immediately, or they will turn black; set your stewpan on a brisk fire, let them boil quickly five minutes put them into a basin ready for use; chop the stalks and pee very fine, put them into stewpan with three table- spoonfuls of the liquor the mushrooms have been boiled m; let them simmer three minutes, put them into a iar and use where indicated. Observe: Turning or peeling mushrooms is an art that practice alone can attain; if they are very fresh and white wash them quickly, and wipe them on a cloth; throw hem thus into the liquid above mentioned. 177. ONIONS STUFFED.-Peel twelve large onions cut a piece off at the top and bottom to give them a flat appearance, and which causes a bitter flavour if left blanch t era m four quarts of boiling water twenty minutes, thenSAUCES. 102 lay them on a cloth to dry; take the middle out of each onion, and fill them with veal forcemeat, (with a little chopped eschalot, parsley, and mushroom, mixed in it,) and put them in a saute-pan well buttered, cover them with white broth, let them simmer over a slow fire until covered with a glaze, and tender; turn them over, and serve where required. 178. HOT TARTAR SAUCE.—Put four tablespoon- fuls of w7hite sauce in a small stewpan, four of broth or milk, boil a few minutes, then add two tablespoonfuls of the tartar sauce (see Salads) in it, stir it very quick with a wooden spoon, make it quite hot, but not boiling; put it on a dish, and serve where described. 179. MEPHISTOPHELIAN SAUCE.—Do not be afraid of the title, for it has nothing diabolical about it; the first time I tried it was at Mr. B.’s birthday party, when some of his friends, having over and over again drank his health, till he had hardly any health left to carry him to the drawing-room, where the coffee was waiting, about eleven o’clock,— asked for some anchovy sandwiches, but, from a mistake in not having any in the house, I composed this ravigotante sauce, which partly brought them back to their senses. I cut up the remains of the turkey, rubbed some mus- tard over it, sprinkled a little salt and plenty of cayenne, put it on the gridiron on the fire, and made the following sauce: I chopped six eschalots, washed and pressed them in the corner of a clean cloth, then put them into a stew- pan with one and a half wine-glassful of Chili vinegar, a chopped clove, a piece of garlic, two bay-leaves, an ounce of glaze, and boiled all together for ten minutes; then added four tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce, a little sugar, and ten of gravy or brown sauce; boiled it a few minutes longer, then added a pat of butter, stirring it well in, removed the bay-leaf, and poured over turkey, and served.103 SAUCES. 180. HORSERADISH SAUCE.—Take half a stick of scraped horseradish of the usual size, grate it well, add to it a teaspoonful of mustard, a teaspoonful of salt, half a salt- spoonful of pepper; and one teaspoonful of sugar; when mixed, add two tablespoonfuls of vinegar and two tea- spoonfuls of cream, and moisten it, until a proper con- sistency, with a little milk. 181. WILD FOWL SAUCE.—The following is a good sauce; the quantities are given for one wild duck. Walnut catsup one tablespoonful; the same of Harvey’s or Worcestershire sauce, the same of lemon-juice, a wine- glass of red wine, a good slice of lemon-peel, one eschalot, minced, half a salt-spoonful of cayenne pepper, one blade of mace, and a wine-glassful of gravy; boil ten minutes, serve very hot, and pour over the bird when cut up. 182. FUMET DE GIBIER SAUCE.—Take the re- mains or bones of game, (the back-bones of grouse are best,) chop them up small, put them in a stewpan, with a glass of white wine, an onion, a small piece of carrot, and of turnip sliced, a leaf of celery, a sprig of thyme, the same of parsley, a bay-leaf, a clove, half a blade of mace; stir over the fire five minutes, then add a quart of brown sauce, if too thick add some water, boil for about twenty minutes, skim, strain, and serve; a little lemon-juice and cayenne pepper may be added if approved of. 183. CAPER SAUCE.—Put twelve tablespoonfuls of melted butter into a stewpan, place it on the fire, and when on the point of boiling, add one ounce of fresh butter and one tablespoonful of capers; shake the stewpan round over the fire until the butter is melted, add a little pepper and salt, and serve where directed.104 SOUPS. SOUPS. In France, no dinner is served without soup, and no good soup is supposed to be made without the pot-au-feu (See No. 228), it being the national dish of the middle and poorer classes of that country. I think it might be of service to the working classes, as by it they would be oftener able to partake of a hot dinner, the advantages to be derived from which, in a cold climate like ours, I have already remarked upon. Clear light soups are very delicate, and in this country more fit for the wealthy ; whilst the more sub- stantial thick soups, such as mock turtle, ox tail, peas, &c., are more in vogue, consequent upon being better adapted for the million, as a less quan- tity is more satisfying ; therefore, after giving a few series of clear soups, I shall proceed to give a greater variety of the thicker sorts, being careful that every receipt shall be so plain as to give a correct idea of its cost. 184. STOCK FOR ALL KINDS OF SOUP.—Pro- cure a knuckle of veal about six pounds in weight, which cut into pieces about the size of an egg, as also half a pound of lean ham or bacon; then rub a quarter of a pound of butter upon the bottom of the stewpan (capable of holding about two gallons), into which put the meat and bacon, with half a pint of water, two ounces of salt, three middle-sized onions, with two cloves in each, one turnip, a carrot, half a leek, and half a head of celery; put the cover upon the stewpan, which place over a sharp fire, occasionally stirring round its contents with a wooden spoon, until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a white thickish glaze, which will lightly adhere to the spoon; fill up the stewpan with cold water, and when upon the point of boiling, draw it to the corner of the fire, where it must gently simmer for three hours, carefully skimming off every particle of grease and scum; pass your stock through a fine hair sieve, and it is ready for use when required. The above will make a delicious broth for all kinds ofSOUPS. 105 clear soups, and of course for thick soups or purees; by boiling it rather faster about five minutes before passing, you will be better enabled to take off every particle of grease from the surface. In making a stock of beef pro- ceed as above, but allow double the time to simmer-; mutton or lamb, if any trimmings, might also be used; if beef, use seven pounds; if mutton, eight; or lamb, seven, of course bones and all included; with care, this broth would be quite clear. To give a little colour, as required for all clear soups, use a little brown gravy or browning, but never attempt to brown it by letting it colour at the bottom of the stewpan, for in that case you would destroy the greater part of the osmazome. 185. ANOTHER WAY, more economical.—Instead of cutting up the knuckle of veal so small, cut it in four or five pieces only, and leave the bacon in one piece; then, when the broth is passed, take out the veal, which is very excellent served with a little of the broth for gravy, and the bacon with a few greens upon another is 1. This is as I always eat it myself; but some persons may probably prefer a little parsley-and-butter sauce oi piquant sauce, served with it. Should auy of the veal be left until cold, it might be cut into thin slices, and gradually warmed in either of the before-mentioned sauces Should you make your stock from the leg or shin of beef, stew it double the time, preserve the vegetables i e in the stock, and serve with beef, or serve the beef with some nice sharp sauce over; the remainder, if cold mav also be hashed in the ordinary way. If of mutton’ and you have used the scrags of the neck, the breast head, or the chump of the loin, keep them in as large mllZ/t P°SSlble’ and’ when ^rve with a few d turnips, and caper sauce, separately; if any re-SOUPS. 106 maining until cold, mince it. Lamb would be seldom used for stock, being much too expensive; but in case of an abundance, which may sometimes happen in the country, proceed the same as for mutton. 186. BROWN GRAVIES.—Rub an ounce of butter over the bottom of a stewpan capable of holding about three quarts ; have ready peeled four onions, cut them into thick slices, with which cover the bottom of the stewpan; • over these lay about three pounds of beef from the leg or shin, cut into thin slices, with the bone chopped very small; add a small carrot, a turnip cut in slices, and a couple of cloves ; set the stewpan upon a gentle fire for ten minutes, shaking it round occasionally to prevent burning; after which let it go upon a slow fire for upwards of an hour, until the bottom is covered with a blackish glaze; but not burnt; when properly done, and ready for filling up, you will perceive the fat that runs from the meat quite clear, fill up the stewpan with cold water, add a tea- spoonful of salt; and when upon the point of boiling, set it on a comer of the fire, where let it simmer gently about an hour, skimming off' all the fat and scum which may rise to the surface; when done pass it through a fine sieve into a basin, and put by to use for the following pur- poses :—For every kind of roast meat, poultry, or game especially ; also, to give a good colour to soups and sauces. This gravy will keep several days, by boiling it every other day. Although beef is the most proper meat for the above purpose, it may be made of veal, mutton, lamb, or even with fresh pork, rabbits, or poultry. 187. BROWNING.—When in business, and not so much time to devote to the kitchen, I used to make sliifi with a browning from the following receipt, using, how107 SOUPS. ever, but a very few drops: put two ounces of powdered sugar into a middling-sized stewpan, which place over a slow fire; when beginning to melt, stir it round with a wooden spoon until getting quite black, then pour over half a pint of cold water: leave it to dissolve, and take a little for use when required. Burnt onions are used in France for this purpose. 188. GLAZE is an almost indispensable article in a cuisine bourgeoise, and should be kept by all persons in the middle classes of life, the advantage being that it will keep for months together, is very simple to make, and is always useful in cookery, however so humble; in fact, with it you can dress a very good dinner with very little trouble. Make a stock as directed in No. 184, but omitting the salt, which, when done, pass through a cloth into a basin; then fill the stewpan up a second time with hot water, and let boil four hours longer to obtain all the succulence from the meat, then pass it through a cloth the same as the fiist; then pour both stocks in a large stewpan to- gether, set it over the fire, and let it boil as fast as pos- sible, leaving a large spoon in, to stir occasionally and prevent its boiling over; when reduced to about three pints, pour it into a smaller stewpan, set again to boil at the corner, skimming well if required; when reduced to a quait, place it quite over the fire, well stirring with a wooden spoon until forming a thickish glaze (which will adheie to the spoon) of a fine yellowish-brown colour: poui it into a basin, or, if for keeping any time, into a long bladder, from which cut a slice and use where directed. Where, however, only a small quantity is required, re- duce only the second stock, using the first for either soup108 SOUPS. or sauce; but in that case the salt must not be omitted from the first stock, but from the second only. Veal at all times makes the best glaze, but any kinds of meat, game, or poultry, will produce more or less. 189. TO CLARIFY STOCK, if required.—In case, by some accident, your stock should not be clear, put it (say three quarts) into a stewpan, and place it over a good fire, skim well, and, when boiling, have ready the whites of three eggs, (carefully separated from their yolks,) to which add half a pint of water; whisk well together; then add half a pint of the boiling stock gradually, still whisk- ing the eggs; then whisk the boiling stock, pouring the whites of eggs, &c., in whilst so doing, which continue until nearly boiling again, then take it from the fire, let it remain until the whites of eggs separate themselves, pass it through a clean fine cloth into a basin. [This must be taken as a rule for every kind of clear soup, which must be strictly followed by every person wishing to profit by this little work. These principles, once learned, would be useful at all times, and save a great deal of useless reference in the jaerusal of these receipts ; and no persons can make themselves answerable for the success of any individual in making soups if the instructions recom- mended be not strictly followed. The following rule should be therefore punctually attended to.] All clear soups ought not to be too strong of meat, and must be of a light brown sherry or straw colour. All white or brown thick soups should be rather thin, with just sufficient consistency to adhere lightly to a spoon when hot; soups of fish, poultry, or game especially. All purees, no matter whether of meat or vegetables, require to be somewhat thicker, which may be ascertained by its adhering more thickly to the spoon. Every Italian soup109 SOUPS. must be very clear, rather stronger of meat, and the colour of pale sherry. By following the few foregoing observations, experience will teach you volumes; for as there is a great difference in the quality of different materials, (flour, for instance, which, if strong, would tend to thicken, but if weak, actually almost turns to water by boiling,) therefore your judgment, with the above few important remarks, -will make you more perfect than the most precise quantities of weights and measurements upon that important point. 190. CLEAR VEGETABLE SOUP.—Peel a mid- dling-sized carrot and turnip, which cut first into slices, then into small square pieces about the size of dice ; peel also eighteen button onions; wash the whole in cold water and drain them upon a sieve; when dry put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter and a teaspoonful of powdered sugar; set them upon a very sharp fire for ten minutes, tossing them over every now and then until the vegetables become covered with a thin shiny glaze, which may take rather more than the before-mentioned time; caie, however, must be taken, for should you let them get brown, the flavour of the soup would be spoiled;. whilst upon the other hand, if put in whilst surrounded with a whitish liquid, your soup would look white and unsightly. With a little attention, however, success is certain; and, once accomplished, there would be no difficulty in making anj icgetable soups or sauce, therefore it is very desirable to know how to do it properly. When done, pour two quarts of clear broth over them, set it upon the fire, and when upon the point of boiling, place it at the corner to simmer, until the vegetables are quite tender, (the onions especially,) carefully skimming off all the butter as it rises to the surface; it will require about half an hour’s sim-110 SOUPS. mering, and there should be half a pound of vegetables to two quarts of stock; taste if properly seasoned, which it ought to be with the above proportions, but use your own judgment accordingly. The only difference to be made in these descriptions of soup is in the way the vegetables are cut; cutters for the purpose may be purchased at any brazier’s shop, either in London or the country, at a trifling expense. 191. PRINTANIERE SOUP.—Cut a small quantity of vegetables, as in the last, but rather less carrot and turnip, introducing a little celery, leek, and young spring onions, instead of the button onions; proceed exactly as before, but ten minutes before taking it from the fire, wash a few leaves of sorrel, which cut small andputinto the soup, with six sprigs of chervil; in summer, a few fresh boded peas or French beans served in it is an improvement. In whatever shape you may cut the vegetables for soup, always be cautious not to cut some pieces larger than others, and the whole of them rather small than large; for if some pieces should be small and others large, the smaller pieces would be quite in puree, whilst the larger ones ^ould still be quite hard, which would cause your soup not only to eat badly, but give it an unsightly ap- pearance, for the vegetable boiled to a puree would make the soup thick. The above remark, although simple, is still very important. 192. JULIENNE SOUP.—This soup is entirely the hereditary property of France, and is supposed to be so called from the months of June and July, when all vegetables are in full season; and to make it iu reality as originally made, a small quantity of every description of vegetables should be used, including lettuce, sorrel, andIll SOUPS. tarragon; however, some few sorts of vegetables, mixed together, make a most estimable soup. Weigh half a pound of the vegetables in fair proportions to each other; that is, carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and leeks, which cut into small fillets an inch in length, and of the thickness of a trussing-needle; when done, wash dry, and pass them in butter and sugar as before, add two quarts of clear soup, adding, just before it is done, a little sorrel, cabbage- lettuce, and chervil or peas, if handy, but it will be excel- lent without either. 193. CLEAR TURNIP SOUP.—Cut, with a round vegetable scoop, about forty pieces of turnip, of the shape and size of small marbles, which put into a stewpan, with sugar and butter as before, but fry them of a light brownish colour, add two quarts of broth, and finish the soup as in the previous receipts. A tablespoonful of Italian paste, previously half boiled in water, then drained and finished in the soup, is also an improvement. 194. CLEAR ARTICHOKE SOUP. —Peel twelve Jerusalem artichokes, which well wash, then cut as many round scoops as possible, the same as in the last, proceed- ing exactly the same. The remainder of either turnips, artichokes, or carrots, may be boiled, and mashed with a little butter, pepper, and salt, and served as a vegetable, or reserved to make a soup puree; the remains of other vegetables from the previous soups should also be re- served for flavouring of stock, instead of using the fresh vegetables. 195. VERMICELLI.—Put a quart of clear stock into a stewpan upon the fire, and when boiling, add two ounces of vermicelli; boil gently ten minutes, and it is ready to serve.112 SOUPS. 196. ITALIAN PASTE.—Procure some small Italian paste, in stars, rings, or any other shape, but small; put on a quart of stock, and when boiling, add two ounces of the paste ; boil twenty minutes, or rather more, when it is ready to serve. 197. SEMOULINA.—Take one quart of stock, and when boiling add two tablespoonfuls of semoulina; boil twenty minutes, and it is then done. Proceed the same also with tapioca and sago. 198. MACARONI.—Boil a quarter of a pound of maca- roni in a quart of water for ten minutes, then strain it off, and throw it into two quarts of boiling stock; let simmer gently for half an hour, when serve with grated cheese, upon a plate separately. 199. RICE.—Well wash two ounces of the best Patna rice, strain off the water, put the rice into a stewpan, with a quart of cold stock, place it upon the fire, and let simmer about half an hour, until the rice is very tender, but not in pulp. 200. MUTTON BROTH.—Any description of trim- mings of mutton may be used for broth, but the scrag ends of the neck are usually chosen. Put two scrags into a stew- pan (having previously jointed the bones), with three onions, three turnips, and one carrot; fill up the stewpan with a gallon of water, and place it upon the fire ; when boiling, set it at the corner, where let it simmer for three hours, keep- ing it well skimmed ; then cut a small carrot, two turnips an°onion, with a little leek and celery, into small square pieces, which put into another stewpan, with a wineglass- ful of pearl-barley; skim every particle of fat fiom the broth, which pour through a hair-sieve over them; le» the whole boil gently at the corner of the fire until theSOUPS. 113 barley is tender, when it is ready to serve; the meat may be trimmed into neat pieces and served with the broth, or separately with melted butter and parsley, or onion sauce. Half 01 even a quarter of the above quantity can be made by reducing the ingredients in proportion. ' 201. IRISH SOUP MADE OF MUTTON BROTH. —This soup is made similar to the last, adding ten or twelve small mealy potatoes cut into large dice, omitting the other vegetables, which being boiled to a puree thicken the broth; just before serving, throw in twenty heads of parsley, and at the same time add a few flowers of mari- gold, which will really give it a very pleasing flavour. 202 SCOTCH COCK-A-LEEKIE.—Trim two or three bunches of fine winter leeks, cutting off the roots and part of the heads, then split each in halves lengthwise and each half into three, which wash well in two or three waters, then put them into a stewpan, with a stock pre- viously made as directed (No. 184), and a fowl trussed as oi oi mg; let the whole simmer very gently at the corner of che fire for three hours, keeping it well skimmed seasoning a little if required; half an hour before serving add two dozen French plums, without breaking them when ready to serve, take out the fowl, which cut i^ neat pieces, place them in a tureen, and pour the leeks and broth over, the leeks being then parti,- in pLe i sZmL , T7’ add a dl0I> n,0,e Wh or ™ter. Should the leeks happen to be old and strong, it would waterT thGm fiVG minUtCS in a Sallon of boilin- water previous to putting them in the stock. for kith°ngh an °ld COck is usua% procured in Scotland ie above purpose, I prefer a young fowl • but shn u “ °ld °"e -w it a £'£ in the ISOUPS. 114 stock before passing it. This soup will keep good several days, and would improve by warming a second time. 203. OX-TAIL SOUP.—Cut up two ox-tails, separat- ing them at the joints, put a small piece of butter at the bottom of a stewpan, then put in the ox-tails, with a carrot, a turnip, three onions, a head of celery, a leek, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf; add half a pint of water, and twelve grains of whole pepper, set over a sharp fire, stirring occasionally, until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a thickish brown glaze, then add a quarter of a pound of flour, stir it well in, and fill up the stewpan with three quarts of water, add a tablespoonful of salt, and stir occasionally until boiling; then set it upon the corner of the stove, skim well, add a gill of good brown gravy, or a few drops of browning, and let simmer until the tails are stewed very tender, the flesh coming easily from the bones, then take them out immediately, and put them into your tureen; pass the soup through a hair sieve over them, add a head of celery, previously cut small, and boiled in a little stock, if approved of, and serve. Ox-tail soup may also be made clear by omitting the flour, and serving with vegetables, as directed for the clear vegetable soup (No. 190). 204. OX-CHEEK SOUP.—Blanch in boiling water two ox-cheeks, cut off the beard, take away all the bone, which chop up, and cut the flesh into middling-sized pieces, leaving the cheek-part whole; put all together into a stewpan, with six quarts of water, a tablespoonful of salt, ten peppercorns, two carrots, two turnips, one leek, one head of celery, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf; let it stew at the corner of the fire six hours, keeping it well skimmed, then take out the fleshy part of the cheeks,115 SOUPS. and pass the broth through a hair sieve into another stew- pan; mix a quarter of a pound of flour with a pint of cold water, which pour into it, and stir over the fire until boil- ing, when place it at the corner (adding two heads of celery, cut very fine, and a glass of sherry); when the celery *s tender, cut the meat into small square pieces, keep them warm in the tureen, and when the soup is ready, pour over, and seive; give it a nice colour with browning. Sheep’s or lamb’s heads also make very good soup by following the above receipt, and adding two pounds of veal, mutton, or beef to the stock; two heads would be sufficient, and they would not require so long to stew. 205. WHITE MOCK-TURTLE SOUP.—Procure half a calf’s head (scalded, not skinned), bone it, cut up a nfickle of veal, also the boned head, which put into a stew- pan, well buttered at the bottom, with half a pound of lean lain, an ounce of salt, a carrot, a turnip, three onions, a head of celery, a leek, a bunch of parsley, and a bay-leaf, add half a pint of water; set it upon the fire, moving it round occasionally,until the bottom of the stewpan is co- vered with a white glaze; then add six quarts of water, and put m the half head, let simmer upon tne corner of the fire for two hours and a half, or until the head is tender, then take it out, and press it between two dishes, and pass the s ock through a hair sieve into a basin; then in another stewpan have a quarter of a pound of butter, with a sprig of thyme basil, marjoram, and bay-leaf, let the butter get quite hot, then add six ounces of flour to form a roux s r over a sharp fire a few minutes, keeping it quite white; stand it off the fire to cool, then add the stock stir over the fire until boiling, then stand it at the corner’ kirn off a 1 the fat, and pass it through a hair sieve into’ another stewpan; cut the head into pieces an inch I 2SOUPS. ] 16 square, but not too thick, and put them into the soup, which season with a little cayenne pepper; when the pieces are hot, add a gill of cream, and pour it into your tureen. The above quantity would make two tureens of soup, and will keep good several days, but of course half the quantity could be made. 20G. BROWN MOCK-TURTLE.—Proceed the same as in the last article, only colouring the stock by drawing it down to a brown glaze, likewise adding half a pint of brown gravy (No. 186), omitting the cream, and adding two glasses of sherry. If no gravy, use browning, and make a brown roux instead of a white oue. 207. MULLIGATAWNY SOUP.—Cut up a small knuckle of veal, which put into a stewpan,with a piece of butter, half a pound of lean ham, a carrot, a turnip, three onions, and six apples, add half a pint of water; set the stew- pan over a sharp fire, moving the meat round occasionally, let remain until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a brownish glaze, then add three tablespoonfuls of curry powder, one of curry paste, and half a pound of flour, stir well in, and fill the stewpan with a gallon of water; add a spoonful of salt, the half of one of sugar, when boiling, place it at the corner of the fire, and let it simmer two hours and a half, skimming off all the fat as it rises, then pass it through a tammy into a tureen; trim some of the pieces of veal, and put it back in the stewpan to boil, and serve with plain boiled rice separate. Ox- tails or pieces of rabbits, chickens, &c., left from a pre- vious dinner, may be served in it instead of the veal. The ■veal is exceedingly good to eat Taste, before serving, if quite palatable.117 SOUPS. 208. GIBLET SOUP.—Clean two sets of giblets, which soak for two hours, cut them into equal sizes, and put them into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, four pounds of veal or beef, half a pound of ham, a carrot, a turnip, three onions, two ounces of salt, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaves ; place the stew- pan over a sharp fire, stirring the meat round occasion- ally ; when the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a light glaze, add a quarter of a pound of flour, stir well in, and fill up with a gallon of water; add about a pint of brown gravy (No. 18G), stir occasionally until boiling, then set it at the corner of the stove to simmer, keeping it well skimmed; when the giblets are tender, take them out, put them into your tureen, pass the soup through a hair sieve over, and serve; twenty cooked button onions, or any small shaped vegetables served in it, are very good, as is also a glass of port wine. 209. OYSTER SOUP.—Put four dozen of oysters into a stewpan with their liquor, place upon the fire; when upon the point of boiling, drain them upon a sieve catching the liquor in a basin; take off the beards, which put into the liquor, and the oysters into a soup tureen; t len put a quarter of a pound of butter into another stewpan over the fire, and when melted add six ounces of flour, stir over a slow fire for a short time, but keeping it quite white; let it cool, then add the liquor and beards of the oysters, a quart of milk, and two quarts of stock (i o. 184), stir over the fire until boiling, then season with a teaspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, five peppercorns, half a blade of mace, a table- spoonful ofHarvey sauce, half ditto of essence of anchovies; e Boil quickly at the corner for ten minutes, skim it well, overfifp ♦ CrCam\ if handy’ Strain throuSh ^ hair sieve ovei the oysters, and serve.118 SOUPS. 210. THE FISHERMAN’S SOUP.—Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan, and when melted add six ounces of flour, stir well together over a slow fire a few minutes; when cool, add one quart of milk, and two quarts of stock (No. 184), stir over a fire until boiling; having previously filleted two soles, add the bones and trimmings to the souj), with four cloves, one blade of mace, two bay-leaves, one spoonful of essence of anchovies, one ditto of Harvey sauce, half a saltspoonful of cayenne, a little sugar and salt if required; let the whole boil quickly at the corner for ten minutes, keeping it well skimmed; cut each fillet of sole into six pieces, put them into another stewpan, with half a handful of picked parsley* pass the soup through a hair sieve over, boil again ten minutes, add a gill of cream, if possible, and it is ready to serve. Fillets of brill may be used instead of soles. 211. AUTUMN SOUP.—Cutup four cabbage-lettuces one cos ditto, a handful of sorrel, and a little tarragon and chervil, wrhen well washed and drained put them into a stewpan, with two cucumbers finely sliced, and four ounces of butter, place them over a brisk fire, stirring occasionally until very little liquid remains, then add two tablespoon- fuls of flour, stirring it well in, then pour over three quarts of stock, made as directed (No. 184), adding a quart of young and fresh green peas; half an hour’s boiling will suffice for this delicious soup, and the flavour of the vegetables will be fully preserved; season with a teaspoonful of salt, and two of sugar. 212. HODGE-PODGE.—Cuttwoipounds of fresh scrag of mutton into small pieces, which put into a stewpan, with three quarts of cold water and a tablespoonful of salt, set it upon the fire, and when boiling place it at the cornerSOUPS. 119 to simmer, keeping it well skimmed; let it simmer an hour, then add a good-sized carrot, two turnips, two large onions cut into small dice, and six cabbage-lettuces, if in season (the whole well washed), and let simmer until quite tender ; skim off all the fat, and serve either with the meat in the soup or separately. If in season, a pint of green peas boiled in the soup is a great improvement. 213. FRENCH CABBAGE SOUP.—This is a soup very much in vogue amongst the middle classes of the French people. Having tasted some at Boulogne, I could not resist the idea of making it in England, which was pronounced excellent; it is very economical, and may satisfy a numerous family at a trifling expense. Put a gallon of water into a saucepan, with two pounds of streaky pickled pork or bacon, whichever most convenient, to wrhich add a couple of pounds of white cabbage, cut in strips (using every part but the stalk, and previously well washed), two large onions, a carrot, a turnip, and a head of celery; let the whole boil three or four hours, until the pork is tender, skimming off all the fat, season with a little black pepper, brown sugar, and salt, if required (which is not very frequently the case, the pork or bacon generally being sufficiently so), lay slices of bread in your tureen (about one pound), pour the soup over; keep the tureen covered ten minutes, until the bread is soaked, and it is ready to serve. The pork or bacon may be either served separate or cut into small square pieces, and served in the soup. A few mealy potatoes are sometimes introduced, or a quart of large green peas, or a pint of dry split peas. You must observe that vegetables in France are much moie used than in this country, as there are but few poor people there who do not possess a little garden, in which •they grow their own.120 SOUPS, It is also frequently made maigre by omitting the pork or bacon, adding more vegetables of all kinds, and a quarter of a pound of butter, and frequently where they have nothing else but cabbage, they make it only of that: now, setting all national feeling aside respecting the poverty of their meals, I have known strong healthy men make a hearty meal of it, preferring it to meat, of which they scarcely ever partake. 214. PUREE OF VEGETABLE SOUP.—Peel and cut up very finely three onions, three turnips, one carrot, and foui potatoes, which put into astewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, the same of lean ham or bacon, and a bunch of parsley; pass them ten minutes over a sharp fire, then add a good spoonful of flour, which mix well in, add two quarts of stock, and a pint of boiling milk; stir it until boiling; season with a little salt and sugar, rub it through a tammy, put it into another stewpan, boil again, skim, and serve with croutons of fried bread, as for Palestine Soup. It ought to be thickish, but not too much so. 215. PALESTINE SOUP, or PUREE OF ARTI- CHOKES.—Have a quarter of a pound of lean bacon or ham, as also an onion, a turnip, and a little celery, cut the whole into small thin slices, and put them into a stewpan, with four ounces of butter; place them over a sharp fire, keeping them stirred, about twenty minutes, or until forming a whitish glaze at the bottom; then have ready washed, peeled, and cut into thin slices, about twelve artichokes, which put into the stewpan with a pint of broth or water, and stew until quite tender, then mix in two tablespoonfuls of flour quite smoothly, add two quarts of stock made as directed (No. 184), and half a pint of milk; keep it con- stantly stirred until boiling; season with a teaspoonful of121 sours. salt, and two of sugar, then rub it through a tammy, place it again in a stewpan; let it boil five minutes, keeping it well skimmed, and serve with very small croutons of bread (fried in butter, and dried upon a cloth) in the tureen; a gill of cream, stirred in at the moment of serving, is a great improvement, although it may be omitted. 216. PUREE OF CAULIFLOWER SOUP.—Pro- ceed as described for the puree of artichokes, but omitting the artichokes, and substituting four middling-sized cauli- flowers, previously boiled and chopped fine. 217. PUREE OF TURNIP SOUP is likewise made in the same manner as a puree of artichokes, substituting twelve young turnips for artichokes and adding half a tablespoonful more of flour. 218. CRECY A LA REINE, or PUREE of WHITE CARROT.—Procure six large white Belgian carrots, scrape them, and then cut into very thin slices; put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, the same of lean bacon or ham, a large onion and turnip, and a very white head of celery, all cut into thin slices, and proceed as for Palestine Soup, No. 215. 21.9. CRECY SOUP, or PUREE OF CARROTS.— Procure five or six large carrots, as red as possible, which well scrape, then shave them into very thin slices, taking- off all the exterior red, but not using the centre, then peel and slice a large onion, a turnip, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, a few sprigs of parsley, and two bay-leaves; put them into a stewpan, with four ounces of butter fry the whole of a light yellowish colour, then add the carrots, Tvith a pint of water, and let them stew until perfectly tender, mix in two ounces of flour quite smoothly, and add122 SOUPS. five pints of stock (No. 184); season with a little salt and sugar, and stir upon the fire until boiling, a quarter of an houi, when pass it through a tammy, and finish and serve as in the preceding; no cream, however, must be added. This soup ought to be of a red colour. Boiled rice or fried cioutons may be served in it. It must be very smooth, and not too thick. 220. GREEN PEA SOUP.—Put two quarts of green peas into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, cut into small dice, two onions in slices, and a few sprigs of parsley; add a quart of cold water, and with the hands rub all well together; then pour ofF the water, cover the stewpan close, and stand it over a sharp fire, stirring the contents round occasionally; when very tender, add two tablespoonfuls of flour, which mix well in mashing the peas with your spoon against the sides of the stewpan, add two quarts of stock:, or broth from the Pot-au-feu, a tablespoonful of sugar, and a little pepper and salt, if required; boil all well together five minutes, when rub it through a tammy or hair sieve; then put it into another stewpan, with a pint of boiling milk; boil five minutes, skim well, and pour it into your tureen. It must not be too thick; serve with croutons of bread as for Palestine. 221. WINTER PEA SOUP.—Wash a quart of split peas, which put into a stewpan, with half a pound of streaked bacon, two onions in slices, two pounds of veal or beef, cut into small pieces, and a little parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf; add a gallon of water, with a little salt and sugar, place it upon the fire, and when boiling, stand it at the side until the peas are boiled to a puree, and the water has reduced to half; then take out the meat, whichSOUPS. 123 put upon a dish, to be eaten with the bacon, keeping it hot, rub the soup through a hair sieve or tammy, put it into another stewpan, and when boiling, serve. The meat may also be served in the tureen if approved of. Maigre pea-soup may also be made by omitting the meat, adding half a pound of butter, one quart of milk, and omitting a quart of water. 222. LENTIL SOUP.—Cut three onions, a turnip, and the half of a carrot, into very thin slices, which put into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, a few sprigs of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and two bay-leaves, add also one pound of leg of beef, cut into small dice; set the stewpan upon the fire, stirring with a wooden spoon, until its contents are fried rather brown, when add one quart of lentils,and three quarts of water; let the whole simmei until the lentils are very tender, when season with neaily an ounce of salt, and half that quantity of sugar; it is then ready to serve. To make a puree of lentils:—when the soup is made, strain off the broth, add a good spoonful of flour to the lentils, which mash with a wooden spoon against the side of the stewpan; then again put in the broth, boil all up together, keeping it stirred with a spoon ; rub it through a tammy or hair sieve, again boil and skim, and it is ready; serve with a few croutons of bread, as directed for Palestine Soup. 223. MAIGRE SOUP.—Cut two onions into very small dice, and put them into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter; fry them a short time, but not to discolour them; have ready three or four handfuls of well-washed sorrel which cut into ribands and put into the stewpan vnth the onions, add one tablespoonful of flour, then mixSOUPS. 124 well, then add a pint of milk and a quart of water; boil altogether twenty minutes, keeping it stirred; season with a teaspoonful of sugar and salt, take it from the fire, and stir in quickly a liaison of two yolks of eggs mixed with a gill of cream or milk (it must not boil afterwards), put the crust ot a French roll, cut into strips, in the tureen, pour the soup over, and serve very hot. 224. ONION SOUP MAIGRE.—Peel and cut six large onions into small slices, put them into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, place them over the fire until well fried, when well mix in a tablespoonful of flour, and rather better than two quarts of water; boil until the onions are quite tender, season with half a spoonful of salt and a little pepper and sugar; finish with a liaison, and serve as in the last. 225. HARE SOUP.—Put half a pound of butter into a stewpan, and, when melted, add three quarters of a pound of flour, and half a pound of streaked bacon, cut into very small pieces; keep stirring over the fire until becoming lightly browned. You have previously cut up a hare into neat smallish pieces; put them into the stew- pan, and keep stirring round over the fire until they are set; then fill it up with five quarts of water; add two onions, a head of celery, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaves, a blade of macs, and four cloves; when boiling, season with one ounce of salt, and a little pepper, and let it simmer at the corner until the pieces of hare are done, which would be in about an hour if a young hare, but double that time if a very old one; the better plan is to try a piece occasionally. When done, take out the best pieces, and the meat of the inferior ones pound in a mortar, remove the bones, put it back in the soup, and125 SOUPS. pass all through a tammy, put it again into a stewpan, boil for ten minutes, and serve. The above quantity would be sufficient lor two tureens. A glass of port or sherry wine may be added. Rabbit, pheasant, grouse, partridge, and other game soups, may be made in the same way. 226. SEMOULINA GELATINEUSE. — Take four pounds of veal, half-a-pound of gammon of bacon, which cut into small pieces, one calf’s foot, two carrots, two onions, two leeks, one head of celery; cut small, and place in a stewpan, set over the fire; stir until a white glaze is formed at the bottom of the pan, then fill up with lour quarts of water; simmer gently for four hours on the corner of the stove; skim off the fat; strain into anothei stewpan, which set on the fire again to boil; then put two ounces of semoulina into a basin, one ounce of flour; moisten both with half a pint of milk, stirring with a wooden spoon; pour in the broth, and stir well; season with a teaspoonful of salt, half a one of sugar; boil slowly twenty minutes; it is then ready, and very strengthening for weak constitutions. The addition of a few sprigs of fresh parsley, or two of thyme, or bay-leaf, varies agree- ably the taste. It is also very good cold in summer. 227. JENNY LIND’S SOUP.-This is the and often partaken of W fKQ . ... _ • This is the soup invented 5 5 previous to serving eggs, and place the yolk, entirely free to a basin, beat them well with a spoon;SOUPS. 126 add to it a gill of cream; take the pan from the fire, pour in the yolks, stir quickly for one minute, serve immediately; do not let it boil, or it will curdle, and would not be fit to be partaken of. The stock being previously seasoned, it only requires the addition of half a teaspoonful of sugar, a little more salt, pepper, nutmeg • also thyme, parsley, and bay-leaf will agreeably vary the flavour without inter- fering with the quality. 228. FRENCH POT-AU-FEU.—Out of this earthen pot comes the favourite soup and bouilli, which has been everlastingly famed as having been the support of several generations of all classes of society in France; from the opulent to the poorest individuals, all pay tribute to its excellence and worth. In fact, this soup and bouilli is to the French what the roast beef and plum-pudding are on a Sunday to the English. No dinner in France is served without soup, and no good soup is supposed to be made without the pot-au-feu. The following is the receipt:— Put in the pot-au-feu six pounds of beef, four quarts of water, set near the fire, skim; when nearly boiling, add a spoonful and a half of salt, half a pound of liver, two carrots, four turnips, eight young or two old leeks, one head of celery, two onions and one burnt, wfith a clove in each, and a piece of parsnip, skim again, and let simmer four or five hours, adding a little cold -water now and then; take off part of the fat; put slices of bread into the tureen, lay half the vegetables over, and half the broth, and serve the meat separately with the vegetables around. The remains of the broth from the pot-au-feu may be used for any kind of soup instead of the stock, (No. 184.) The best part of the beef for the pot-au-feu is the mouse-but- tock, tops of the ribs, clod and stickings. 228.* CONGER EEL SOUP.—An immense consumption of this fish now takes place in Paris amongst the lower orders, but not gene- rally converted into soup ; but I do not doubt but what the following receipt will find some amateurs.SOUPS. 127 Take four pounds of eels, well washed and skimmed, cut into slices of the size of a five-shilling piece, and half an inch thick; put into a stewpan a quarter of a pound of butter, melt it, add the pieces, and season with a table- spoonful of salt, a quarter of an ounce of pejDper, half an ounce of sugar, two onions chopped fine, a little parsley, a bay-leaf, half a pint of water; cover the pan, set it on a slow fire for about half an hour, without stirring it, then mix two ounces of flour with two pints of water, pour over the fish, let it simmer for twenty minutes, stir the stewpan gently, do not break the fish in taking it out. More or less seasoning may be added, according to taste. This soup, carefully made as above, is very inviting, and though meagre, very nutritive. 228.** ANOTHER CONGER EEL SOUP.—Get six pounds of eels, which skin and bone, save about two pounds of the best part to cut in thin slices, which put by until wanted, cut the rest into pieces, with a pound of lean veal, beef, or lamb, and a quarter of a pound of lean bacon; put in a stewpan, with two ounces of butter; two onions cut in thin slices, a little carrot, celery, one bay-leaf, two sprigs of thyme, four cloves, one ounce of salt, and half an ounce of pepper, set it on a quick fire, stir with a wooden spoon continually, until a white glaze is formed at the bottom of the stewpan, add three quarts of water, let it simmer two hours, skim, pass through a sieve into a basin, take a clean saucepan, and put in a quarter of a pound of butter, three tablespoonfuls of flour, place on the fire, and stir until oiming a white roux, let it cool a few minutes, pour the stock in, boil for twenty minutes, keep stirring, then place the pieces of eel in it and fifty leaves of fresh parsley let it simmer till tender, and serve. The addition of a little Harvey or anchovy sauce will vary the flavour.128 FISH. Of all aliments that have been given to the human race for nourishment, none are more abundant or more easy to procure than this antediluvian species, and yet of how few do we make use, and how slight is our knowledge of their habits, for it is only within the last few years that the idea was exploded that the herrings made an annual migration from the Arctic seas to deposit their spawn on the shores of these islands. Fish possess, according to their kind, a greater or less degree of nourishment, depending, like the animal, in a great measure on those beautiful meadows at the bottom of the ocean, ■where they feed; for even those which live upon some of a smaller kind, as the cod on the haddock, this on the whiting, and this again on the mussel, or other crustaceous fish which move but little from the place where they were originally spawned, derive their nourishment from the herbs and the animal- culse which those herbs produce that grow around them; the cod on the south- east of the Bank of Newfoundland is as fine again in flavour as that on the north-west side. Fish, of course, do not afford the same amount of nourish- ment as meat, as they contain but a slight quantity of osmazome ; but its flesh is refreshing, and often exciting. A curious circumstance has been observed in respect to the animate parts of the creation which draw their nourishment from fish, as in birds and the human race, that they produce more females when doing so than males. It ought to be made an article of diet more often than it is, as the particles it contains tend to purify the blood from the grossness it receives in partaking of animal food ; and when taken at the commencement of dinner, tends to assist the digestion of those substances which form the more substantial part of the meal. In the Receipts will be found those which I consider fit for the table; but, as a general rule to be observed, as in the feathered tribe, all those of beautiful variegated colours (as the wrasse* kind) are more unfit to eat than any other; as if the Great Creator of all, in order to please man, had destined some for his nourishment, and others to gratify his senses by their melodious notes and beautiful plumage. * This fish is eaten in many parts of Great Britain, but I cannot recom- mend it. *FISH. 129 Nothing indicates its freshness so well as fish ; the merest novice outfit to know it; their gills should be difficult to open, be red, and smell well: fin, tight and close; eyes bright, and not sunk ; the contrary to this denotes their being stale. Of the round fish, the salmon is considered the best and most delicate in flavour, but varies considerably, according to the river in which it is caught • for there is no doubt but that it returns to the river where it was original^ spawned, and its time of spawning varies in different rivers. The law as it at present exists, prevents the fishing for it between the 1st of September and the 1st of February, yet there are many rivers where it does not begin to enter unt.l August; and in Loch Carra, co. Kerry, in Ireland, it is in season al the year ; yet in the Lake of Killarney, whose mouth adjoins that of the rra, it begins to be out of season in August. Until it attains the a<m of six yeais, it is not called salmon, but is known and sold under different names - Sth SeC°nd’ SPr°dS; fork-tails; Zte 71 ^ S6a " ^ ^ the b6Stj * b6i^ fetter and -ore tender, these we rarely have, as it is the interest of the owners of salmon- enes to prevent the fishermen fishing for them with seine nets in the open sea, and who do all they can to prevent it. lire male is the finest flavoured fish tffis fis" r1 dT 7 ^ f6male- °f lat6 ^ ^ b6en cons^ered tha; b 7 1 6n 98 fr6Sh " P°SSible’ f-^ich purpose it is crimped when alive, that it may be flaky, and the curd in it. In former times it l considered best * keep it two or three days; that, the curd undergoes a change, which produces a volatile salt and oily and balsamic particles, that render it nutritive and invigorating -77 pectoral, and restorative, and if eaten too profusely produceVvomiting'Vul produces ^m ^ ^ ^ ^ *—I and nth tat for the early,almon, that is, ,he months of February and March I ? h“Vin8 “*,H and bine .pot, on l~hu. b 8'lhe f“ale in season, ,h. ini rbe” °nt °f “ii “ •* i -M—*sh1; t the 2 kn°ra 10 ‘he Aq„i„i,e and K130 FISH. 229. SALMON, PLAIN BOILED.—I prefer always dressing this fish in slices from an inch to two inches in thickness, boiling it in plenty of salt and water about twenty minutes; the whole fish may be boiled, or the head and shoulders of a large fish, but they require longer boil- ing. Salmon eats firmer by not being put into the water until boiling. Dress the fish upon a napkin, and serve with lobster sauce, shrimp ditto, or plain melted butter in a boat with fresh sprigs of parsley boiled a few minutes in it. A salmon weighing about ten pounds will require an hour’s gentle boiling ; a head and shoulders weighing six pounds, half an hour: the remains may be dressed a la creme, as directed for the turbot. 230. SALMON, SAUCE MATELOTE.—Cook three good slices of salmon as directed in the last, or a large salmon peal, trussed in the form of the letter S, dress it upon a dish without a napkin, having previously drained off all the water; put a quart of matelote sauce, No. 302, under or over it. 231. BROILED SALMON.—Dip each piece in flour, put it on a gridiron, turn occasionally; fifteen minutes will give it a nice pale yellow colour; it should be served with Dutch, or caper sauce. Cod. This fish, like the former, belongs to the northern parts of the world ; its flavour and quality, like terrestrial animals, depend greatly on its feeding-place, a few miles making a marked difference: it is exceedingly voracious. I have seen taken from a quantity of white-bait one only three inches long, having a shrimp an inch and a half long in its belly ; and in a large one, three haddocks, weighing, when taken out, almost as much as itself. It feeds also greatly on shell-fish, and seems to have a very powerful gastric juice. We obtain them in London exceedingly fine, perhaps more so than in any other town in the world : they are caught on the Dogger Bank, and brought alive in wells, by boats, to Gravesend, and forwarded to LondonFISH. 131 etili alive, where they are immediately crimped; the flesh then becomes firm and flaky, with a fine curd between each. Those are best with a small head and thick at the neck. 232. TO BOIL COD FISH.—Crimped cod, as I have before remarked, is preferable to the plain; it is likewise better cut in slices than cooked whole; to boil it well, have the water ready boiling, with one pound of salt to every six quarts; put in your fish, draw your fish-kettle to the corner of the fire, where let it simmer slowly from twenty minutes to half an hour; when done, the bone in the centre will draw out easily; if boiled too much, it would eat tough and stringy; should the fish not be crimped, add more salt to the water, it will cause the fish to eat firmer. 233. COD FISH SAUCED OYER WITH OYSTER SAUCE.—Boil three slices of the fish as above, drain and dress them upon a dish without a napkin, blanch three dozen oysters, by putting them into a stewpan, with their juice, upon the fire, move them round occasionally, do not let them boil; as soon as they become a little firm, place a sieve over a basin, pour in the oysters, beard them, put the liquor again into a stewpan; when boiling, add two cloves, half a blade of mace, six peppercorns, and two ounces of butter, to which you have added a tablespoonful offloui, breaking it into small pieces, stir well together, when boiling, season with a little salt, cayenne pepper’ and essence of anchovies, finish with a gill of cream or milk, add the oysters, and sauce over. The remains of the fish may be taken from the bone and placed upon a dish, with a little of the above sauce (to which you have added the yolks of two eggs), then sprinkle over with bread-crumbs, and place it twenty minutes in a hot oven till the bread-crumbs become brown. K 2132 FISH. 234. SALT FISH.—Choose the fish with a black skin, and be particular in soaking it well; to boil, put it into a fish-kettle, with plenty of cold water, place it over the fire, and the moment it boils remove it to the corner, to simmer until done, which, if a piece weighing about three pounds, would be in about thirty minutes; do not let it boil fast, or the fish will eat hard and thready ; dish it upon a napkin, with plain boiled parsnips and parsley round, and serve egg sauce in a boat. Ling, so called from a corruption of the word long. I have known them to be ten feet; they are rarely met with fresh in London, being generally salted, and that for a foreign market. They are a very strong-flavoured fish; but if cooked properly, and in season, are far from being bad; if in season, their liver should be pale or almost white, when it is full of oil ;* but the moment the liver turns red, and the oil leaves it to go into the cellular membranes, then it becomes out of season and rank in flavour : from the 1st of January to the end of May they may be considered in season. Small ones, from eighteen to twenty-four inches, are good eating all the year ; their freshness is known like the cod, and it may be cooked in every way like it; the small ones may be stewed like eels. Hake.—This rarely comes, fresh or salted, into the London market, as it is considered a coarse fish. It is in season in August, September, and October, and the same character which distinguishes the cod is in this : it cannot be cooked too fresh; it rarely exceeds twenty pounds in weight. Many prefer that it should be salted for twelve hours previous to cooking—I differ; others despise it, and call it a mud-fish ; and, when salted, Poor John. Is not a sole a mud-fish, and what has a finer flavour ? I think the reason it is so much despised is, that it comes in such abundance, that the saying of “ toujours perdrix” may be applied to it. I, however, trust that as our friends in Cornwall and Devon have now learnt to send fish up to town by rail, we may be treated with a few hake. It should be dressed like haddock. * Directions for obtaining this pure and cold-drawn I will give you in a future letter.FISH. 133 The Forked Hake never comes into the market; but should it in future do so, it should also be cooked like haddock. Haddock, the callarias and galeris of the Romans. This is also the fish that it is said St. Peter took the tribute money from, and thus gave the impressioR of his finger and thumb, where it remains in confirmation of the miracle. It is a very fine flavour when fresh and in season, which is when the roe is very small; the time depends on the place where taken, but generally about Oc- tober. I think one weighing from six to seven pounds is the best size, although I have had them at twelve pounds. They follow the young herrings and sprats ; and, when feeding on them, their flesh is richer than when feeding on whitings: they cannot be eaten too fresh. Those received in the London market of a large size are called Dublin Bay, but which generally come from the Sussex and Hampshire coast. The same features as in the cod will tell if they are fresh. 235. DUBLIN BAY HADDOCK.—This is a fish winch I can highly recommend, both for its firmness and lightness; it is excellent plain boiled, and served with a cream sauce, or any other fish sauce. But the better plan IS to cut tour or five incisions upon each side of the fish an inch deep, then put it into a deep dish, and cover well with salt, let it remain about two hours, then put the fish m boiling water, to. simmer from thirty to forty minutes; if a fish of five or six pounds in weight, dish it on a nap- kin garnished with plain boiled parsnips and parsley, with egg sauce in a boat. The common haddocks may be dressed precisely the same. ^ fish86;tbBAKiED iIADD0CK-Fi1l the interior of the f tdfii th iSt lng’ SGW, ^ UP With Pa°kthread, and truss J* ;th the tail m its mouth, rub a piece of butter over the diP °l and bread"crurab it over, set it on a baking- BaP n r ^ Warmish ovcn to babe i if a Dublin to l l U W°U d take from three quarters of an hour an hour, but a common haddock would require but half134 FISH. an hour. The better plan is to run the point of a knife down to the backbone, from which, if the flesh parts easily, it is done ; dress it upon a dish without a napkin, and serve a Beyrout sauce, or any other, round. Sturgeon derives its name from the German stocren, to stir, to rake up ; it is from the same word we derive our word stir. It is the accipenser of the Romans. This fish has long been in use in England, but, from its scarcity, it has always been expensive—indeed, it has been considered as a royal fish; for every one caught in the rivers of England belongs to the Queen, with the exception of the river Thames, which belong to the Lord Mayor. A very large one was caught a few years since in a mill-pond above Vauxhall Bridge. They ascend the rivers thus high, in order to avoid pursuit from other fish, though in form and body as large as a shark, yet they are the most harmless of fish, having neither jaw-bone nor teeth: they have been caught eighteen feet in length. The flavour of the young sturgeon is extremely delicate, but that materially depends upon the river in which it is caught, as it feeds upon the insects and plants,—in fact, entirely by suction ; those caught in rapid rivers and sandy bottoms, and where they have the advantage of salt and fresh water, are the best. 237. ECONOMICAL MODE OF COOKING STUR- GEON.—Take a piece of sturgeon about two pounds weight, and on sending a piece of meat to the baker’s to be baked on a stand in a dish, put the sturgeon under it, with a little water, salt, pepper, &c., and a little chopped eschalot may be used; you can also put potatoes round it. Peas, if in season, are a good accompaniment, with melted butter. 238. TO ROAST STURGEON.—Take the tail part, skin and bone it; fill the part where the bone comes from with some stuffing, as for a fillet of veal; put butter and paper round it, and tie it up like a fillet of veal; roast, and serve it with melted butter and gravy. They may be cooked precisely as veal, in large or small pieces, as for frican- deau, papillote, &c., and even salted in imitation of tunny.FISH. 133 Gurnard, Gurnet, or Noud, derives its name from the grunting noise it makes ; the Romans called it cuculus, from the cuckoo, from the similarity of their notes. There are several sorts, called the gray, red, streaked, yellow, and sapphirine. All of them are fine eatrng, yet perhaps the sapphirine is the best, being distinguished from the rest (which are called pipers) by its colour and the long protrusion of the upper jaw; the side or pectoral fins are on the outside green, and a beautiful purple underneath ; its sides are red, belly white and back green, which, when seen in a clear sea, has a most beautiful ap^ pearance. Its freshness is distinguished like other fish. It is cooked as follows: 1 239. GURNETS are best stuffed and baked. Stuff them as directed for haddocks, turn them round in the same manner, lay slices of bacon over, cut very thin, and bake half an hour or more (according to their size) in a hot oven; when done, dress upon a dish without a napkin, and have ready the following sauce :—put a tablespoonful of chopped onions in a stewpan, with one of vinegar, place over the fire a couple of minutes, add half a pint of melted butter, two tablespoonfuls of Harvey sauce, one of catsup, and two of water, reduce until rather thick, season with a little pepper, cut the fillets of a good anchovy, if handy, into strips, put in the sauce, which pour round the fish, and serve. 240. BOILED GURNET.—You may boil it either with or without the stuffing, in very salt water; it will re- quire rather more than half an hour; serve with anchovy sauce separate. The remains are very good to re-warm. Basse.—This, by many, is called the sea-wolf, but it is quite a different fish; it is a species of perch, and is like a trout in shape, except that its head is larger. Its flavour is finest just previous to spawning; it is never caught in rivers, but in bays at the mouth of fresh-water streams, and, when in season, is exceedingly good and very wholesome ; it should be cooked in every way like salmon. Tunny.—I have often been of opinion, and am still doubtful, if this fish is hot the scomber of the Romans, from which the garum was made, this fish136 FISH. being at the present day an article of great consumption on the coast of the Mediterranean, which sea it enters by the Straits in the month of June. It grows to an immense size, sometimes as long as nine feet, and broad in pro- portion. They come off the coast of Cornwall with the first herrings and pilchards in summer, and they follow the sardines into the Mediterranean; they also appear on the west coast of Ireland, but they are rarely caught, as the fishermen are ignorant of the method of doing so ; if followed, it would be a more valuable fishery than the herrings or pilchards. They are exceed- h^gdy good salted, or pickled like salmon, which it resembles in flavour when thus prepared; when raw, its flesh is very red, but turns pale in boiling. The best way to cook it when fresh is to cut it in slices, and proceed as with salmon. Mackerel.—Ttys is generally recognised as the scomber of the Romans, by ■whom it was much esteemed; at the present day it is not held in that high estimation it was some years since: the great supply which is now re- ceived from different parts of the coast at all seasons of the year may have a tendency to cause this. It is a fish which requires to be eaten very fresh, and soon becomes tainted; it is for this reason that it is the only fish-cry allowed by law in the city of London on a Sunday: “Mackerel! fresh mackerel! who’ll buy my fresh mackerel ?” is often heard. The soft roe of this fish is highly esteemed, and I have no doubt but that it was equally so with the Romans, and I believe it was an ingredient of the garum. (See page 163.) When fresh, their skin is of a sea-green colour, and very beautiful; fine bright golden eyes, and gills very red ; they should be plump, but not too large ; they should be cleaned by cutting their gills, so that, when pulled, the interior of the fish will come with them; wipe them well, cut off the fins, and trim the tail. 241. MACKEREL are generally served plain boiled; put them in a kettle containing enough boiling water according to the number, well salted, let simmer nearly half an hour, take them up, drain, and dish them upon a napkin; serve melted butter in a boat, with which you have mixed a tablespoonful of chopped fennel, boiling it a few minutes. 242. MACKEREL A LA MAITRE-D’HOTEL.— Make an incision down the back of a mackerel, close to137 FISH. the bone, season it with a little pepper, salt, and cayenne, if approved of, butter the skin well, and place the fish upon a gridiron over a moderate fire, for about twenty minutes, turning it over when half done; when done, have ready two ounces of maitre-d’hotel butter (No. 306), half of which put in the incision at the back, previously putting the mackeiel upon a hot dish without a napkin; spread the other hall over; place it in the oven a few minutes, and serve very hot. 243. MACKEREL AU BEURRE NOIR.—Split the mackerel open at the back, making it quite flat, season with a little pepper and salt, and butter it all over, lay it upon a gridiron over a moderate fire, turning it when half done for about a quarter of an hour, when place it upon a dish without a napkin, then put six ounces of fresh butter in a stewpan, which place over a sharp fire until the butter becomes black, but not burnt, when throw in about fifty leaves of picked parsley, which fry crisp, and pour over the fish; put three tablespoonfuls of common vinegar into the stewpan, which boil half a minute, season with pepper and salt, pour this also over the fish, which put into the oven five minutes, and serve very hot. offAh4, 1° !STu ^ MA°KEREL, NEW WAY.—Take off the heads, the fins, and tails, and, having opened the clothan<Vf'3? °Ui aH the lmrd IOes’ dr-v thc“ ™th a cloth and dredge them lightly with flour; place three or four of them in a stewpan, with a lump of butter the size fid of a T’ Gmh fiSh’ PUt iut° a sllJa11 basin ateacup- ful of water, a tablespoonful of finely-chopped onions the same of chopped parsley, a blade or two of mace a little pepper and salt, a tablespoonful of anchovy essence and a small teacupful of ale or porter (if not bftter Add a tablespoonful of grated bread-crust, not burnt, L a hght138 FISH. brown; pour all these ingredients over the fish, and let them stew gently for twenty minutes; have ready the yolks of three eggs, well beaten, and when the fish is sufficiently done, take some of the gravy and mix gradually with the eggs, and, pouring them on the fish, shake the stewpan a little over the fire to thicken the whole, but not to curdle the eggs; the soft roes added are an improvement: have ready more grated crust, and having placed the fish whole in the dish, shake a little of the grated crust over the whole, so as to make it of a handsome brown. The receipt requires to be carefully followed. If the gravy is too thick, more water may be added; also a glass of sherry, if liked. Scad, or Horse Mackerel, should he chosen and treated in every respect like the former, and will keep longer, and by some are preferred to the common mackerel. Garfish, Homfish, and Tobacco-pipe Fish may be prepared and cooked like an eel. Skipper, or Saury Pike, must be cooked like the mackerel, which it resembles in flavour. Take care not to confound this fish with the saurus or conger, garfish or girrock, and called by the Italians the imperial eel, which must be cooked like an eel. Whitings, when fresh, are a most delicate fish, their remarkable lightness rendering it easy of digestion to the weakest stomach. This fish is in season all the year on different parts of the coast, and it is caught with spillard lines, instead of, as it ought to be, in nets. The best size, in point of flavour, are those about nine inches long; I have known them twenty-four inches , there is a law to prevent them being taken less than six inches in length. Their goodness is known by the firmness of the flesh and brightness of the eyes and skin. The general way of preparing them is as follows: 245. FRIED WHITING.—The whiting is generally skinned, and the tail turned round and fixed into the mouth; dip it first into flour, then egg over and dip it into bread-crumbs, fry as directed for the sole; for whiting aux fines herbes, proceed as directed for sole aux fines heibes. I prefer the whiting fried with their skins on, merely dipping them in flour.139 PISII. 246. WHITING AU GRATIN.—Put a good spoonful of chopped onions upon a strong earthen dish, with a glass of wine, season the whiting with a little pepper and salt,, put it in the dish, sprinkle some chopped parsley and chopped mushrooms over, and pour over half a pint of anchovy sauce, over which sprinkle some brown bread- crumbs, grated from the crust of bread, place it in a warm oven half an hour; it requires, to be nicely browned; serve upon the dish you have cooked it in. Whiting Pollock, or Glassen.—This is a very tine fisli, when in season, re- sembling in flavour the rook cod, feeding like that, amongst rocks ; the best are those about eight to ten pounds, they should be chosen, prepared, and cooked like cod. Black Pollock, Raw Pollock, or Coal Fish.—In shape like the former, but different in colour, as its name implies ; it should be prepared the same as the former. • Pollard.—These are the young of the former, and may be caught in great abundance with a crooked pin and a small piece of any kind of fish ; they are from five to eight inches in length j they should be cooked like whiting ; the flavour is stronger. Whiting This fish is caught on many parts of the coast, but is little esteemed, yet, in my opinion, is quite equal to the red mullet; it rarely ex- ceeds twelve inches in length, but is of great depth in the body; it is best when taken in rocky places, and should be eaten very fresh; it may be dressed in every way like whiting. Red Mullet, or Swr Mullet, is an inhabitant of the Mediterranean more than of the coasts of Great Britain, although it is caught at times in all parts. It is still held in the same high estimation as in the times of Juvenal and Horace,* and is justly called the woodcock of the sea ; they are in season, like other fish, when the roe is just forming. There is a species of this fish of a reddish brown, sometimes called the striped mullet; the flesh is firmer, but * When I say held, I do not mean we pay so high a price; for Apius Celer paid 6000 sesterces (equal to £46 17s. Gd. of our money) for one • and in the time of Tiberius, three were sold for 30,000 sesterces, or £234 7s GdFISH. 140 the flavour is nearly the same ; choose them as red as possible, rather short, firm to the touch, and with transparent golden eyes. In cleaning, merely scrape them lightly, pull out the gills, and part of the inside will come with them, which is all that is required. Great surprise has been expressed at the number and cheapness of red mullet in the London market this season (1849); it arises from a circum- stance which, though trivial in itself, shows the necessity that exists for some means of giving instruction to fishermen, so as to enable them to prosecute their avocations with more facility and certainty; in no class of industry are the people that are employed in it so ignorant as in this, and it is the duty of a paternal government to see that the resources of the country are properly developed. I would have a person appointed to see that the food of our public institutions is not wasted in cookery (as I suggested in my former letter), and be capable of affording instruction by lectures or otherwise to the different classes who provide that food. The circumstance to which I allude originated with a well-known gentleman in the West of England, who noticing that the mackerel and red mullet arrived on the coast together, and that there was a large fishery of the former and none of the latter, endeavoured to find out the reason : he ascertained that the red mullet obtained its food from the mackerel, and, consequently, they swam lower; he therefore directed the fishermen to have a deeper seine net, by which means they will be enabled to take both kinds at the same time. As science and chemistry are now lending their aid to assist the different branches of our manufacture, I cannot see the reason why they should not do so in so important an article as that of food. 247. RED MULLETS.—Procure two red mullets, which place upon a strong dish, not too large, sprinkle a little chopped onions, parsley, a little pepper and salt, and a little salad-oil over, and put them into a warm oven for half an hour; then put half a tablespoonful of chopped onions in a stewpan, with a teaspoonful of salad-oil, stir over a moderate fire until getting rather yellowish, then add a tablespoonful of sherry, half a pint of white sauce or melted butter, with a little chopped parsley; reduce over a sharp fire, keeping it stirred until becoming rather thick;FISH. 141 when the mullets are done, a little cream may be added, with a little lemon juice ; sauce over and serve 248. RED MULLET EN PAPILLOTE.—Cut a shee. of foolscap paper in the form of a heart, lay it on the table and oil it, put the mullet on one side, season with salt, peppei, and chopped eschalot, folcl the paper over and plait both edges together, and broil on a slow fire for half an hour, turning carefully now and then ; serve without a napkin, the} are excellent done thus, without sauce, but, if any is required, use melted butter, cream Hollandaise’ anchovy, or Italian sauce. 249. RED MULLETS SAUTE IN BUTTER.-Put two ounces of butter in a pan; when melted, put in one or two small mullets, and season with a teaspoonful of salt, half ditto of pepper, and the juice of half a lemon; set it on a slow fire and turn carefully; when done, dish and serve plain, or with any of the sauces named in the former receipt. 250. RED MULLETS, FILLETED, LIVER SAUCE.—Take five very fresh red mullets, scale them, cut off their heads, open them, take out the inside, keep the liver, and throw away the remainder; cut off the fins and remove the bone, and cut them down the back, so’ that each one makes two fillets; egg and bread-crumb them, having some pepper and salt in the crumbs; put a teacupful of oil into a saute-pan, and, when hot, saute the fillets, and serve. The sauce to be made as follows •— Chop up one small onion, put it into the corner of a napkin, hold it under a tap of cold water, and squeeze it well ; put it mto a stewpan with one ounce of butter and place on the fire until brown, then add one teacupful of ^ater, in which has been mixed one teaspoonful onlu of flour; when boiling, add the livers, which have previously142 FISH. been beaten up in a cup with pepper and salt, and some more butter, if approved of. Just previous to serving, add a wineglassful of red wine, and the juice of half a smal? lemon. Serve separate. 251. RED MULLETS, FILLETED, FRIED.— Proceed the same as in the last, then have some batter prepared, as No. 877, dip them into it, and fry in plenty of fat; serve with any sauce you like. Gray Mullet.—Although bearing the same name, is a totally different species from the former, and is not of that fine flavour, yet it is by no means a bad fish when in season ; but it has got into bad repute, no doubt from being taken at those times when it is the easiest, and then it is out of season ; it should be taken in the open sea, in August, September, and Oc- tober, and not in rivers, where they ascend as far as the water is at all nrackish. They should be firm, and eyes bright, like other fish. They may be cooked in every way like mackerel. Herrings, when in season, that is, when the roe is just forming, are most excellent and wholesome fish, when eaten fresh : I have this day (the 25th of April) partaken of some, caught in twenty-four fathom water, about twelve miles off the coast of Folkestone, in which one could just distinguish the formation of the roe. The richness of the fish at this period is extraordinary, and renders it worthy the table of the greatest epicure ; yet, if you were to tell a fisherman on the coast to go and cast his nets at this season of the year in twenty-four fathoms, he would take you to be either mad or a fool; but our intelligent neighbours on the opposite coast and in the port of Boulogne know better, and go out and take them, and sell them for four sous each as bait for the conger.* Their age and size depend upon the coast where caught; but as they are a fish which never take bait, and, consequently, only caught with nets, and those of a certain mesh, we therefore obtain them generally of one size, but I have seen them as small as six inches, and as long as fourteen inches, and in proportion in width and depth, and weighing four pounds : when as large as this, they are generally called the queen or king * We are glad to find that this remark has induced the fishermen on the south coast of England to try their luck ; and this day, April 30, 1850, for the first time in the annals of Billingsgate, herrings have been sold.FISH. 143 herring, but it is only by accident they are caught. Their freshness is dis- tinguished, like other fish, by their gills and brightness. As this fish is now of so great importance as an article of food, I shall refer more at length to it in my letters on pickling and preserving, and give you a description of my new plan of curing and smoking, and also what I consider its medicinal and other properties. 252. HERRINGS BOILED.—Gently boil six herrings about twenty minutes in two quarts of water, in which you are to introduce a quarter of a pound of salt; then have ready the following sauce :—put half a gill of cream upon the fire in a stewpan; when it boils, add eight spoonfuls of melted butter, an ounce of fresh butter, a little pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon; dress the fish upon a dish without a napkin, sauce over, and serve. 253. HERRINGS BROILED, SAUCE DIJON.— The delicacy of these fish prevents their being dressed in any other way than boiled or broiled; they certainly can be bread-crumbed and fried, but scarcely any person would like them; I prefer them dressed in the following way wipe them well with a cloth, and cut three incisions slant- wise upon each side, dip them in flour, and broil slowly over a moderate fire; Avhen done, sprinkle a little salt over, dress them upon a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve the following sauce in a boatput eight tablespoonfuls of melted butter in a stewpan, with two of French mustard * or one of English, an ounce of fresh butter, and a little pepper and salt; when upon the point of boiling, serve. 254. HERRINGS BAKED BOULOGNE WAY. Take six very fresh herrings, scale them well with a knife open the belly about one inch, near the gills, remove the’ gills and the guts, with the exception of the crown or silver gut, which leave in; pull them towards the head so as not to tear the belly, wipe them with a cloth, but by * Dijon is the town in France so celebrated for its mustard.FISH. 144 no means wash them. Cut three slight incisions in the side of each, and lay them in a baking-dish. Scrape half a clove of garlic, chop up two tablespoonfuls of parsley, or half parsley and half tarragon ; mix it well with the garlic, so that it imbibes it all, then add to it two table- spoonfuls of mustard—French, if you have it—and spread it over the herrings; place about one ounce of butter in the baking-dish, and one wineglassful of red wine, place in a hot oven for twenty minutes, turn over when half done, then add bread-crumbs, if preferred, “ Gratine,” or if not, when done, pour out the liquid that is in the dish into a saucepan, add a little melted butter, boil up, and serve separate. Pilchards.—If anything were required as a proof to upset the absurd notion of the migration of the herring from the Northern Ocean, this fish would do so ; but this is a subject we will leave for another occasion. This is a very fine fish when taken, as it ought only to be, when the roe is just forming; they are principally found on the Cornish and the south-western coast of Ireland. They should be cooked and cured in the same way as herrings. Anchovies and Sardines are now found on the coast in the same places as the pilchard, of which they are a species; we never receive them fresh in the London market, but we cannot say what another year’s enterprise, energy, and railroads may do. They should be cooked like herrings. Capeling is a fish about the length of a pilchard, in form like the ling; they are only to be found on the banks of Newfoundland, where they are caught as plentifully as the herring on our shores. They are salted and dried, and imported into this country. To cook them, they should be broiled as dry as possible. Sprats.—These are in season all the year on various parts of the coast; they swim in large shoals or sculls, and may be caught in baskets; large quantities are brought to the London market, where they are sold from 2.?. to 4s. per bushel; they are in season there after the 9th of November ; they should be cooked very fresh, which is easily known by the eyes being bright and sparkling; a tin skewer should be run through the gills of about twenty,145 FISH. toasted before the fire, and served very hot. The manner of curing them according to my new plan, I will give you in a future letter. 7 D°W SUPPlied in Lond™ ^ much greater abundance than for- me! ly as large numbers are brought from Holland, but they are not con- s. ered so fine as those of our own coast. London formerly used to be sup- llf the Medway at -i^ochester, where they were considered the best but whmh 1 think, arose from the facility which the old bridge afforded in catching them, as very few are now taken there ; a custom exists for the cor- poration of Rochester to present the Lord Mayor of London, on his visit to that town, on occasion of the triennial visitation to Yanlet Creek, with a dish are t k ^ ^ ^ °CCaSi°nS ^ W6re hardly to be Procured. They are taken in seme nets, either by hauling on shore, or in boats. They are not much known on parts of the coast, although they exist in great abundance and are not considered worth taking; they were never known in the Dublin market until October, 1848, when they were received from an enterprise Englishman on the west coast of Ireland. Many have confounded them with the salmon-fry or smelt of one year old, whereas the smelt has roe and The y none ; it ascends rivers to deposit its spawn in November, December and i~? - - the, .hoid he very « ZZ^^ ^ ' fish is very delicate and , ■ S and transparent skin. This *«.«i.r:m tt?mer% frandin mistaken for the above but the fiT ^ iS sometimes no e, in Ireland, and forwarded to Dublin"114 ^ alS° prePared abFISH. 14G clear fat melted in a basin, into -which break the yolk of two eggs, with which rub the smelts over with a brush, dip them in bread-crumbs, fry in very hot lard, dress them on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve with shrimp sauce in a boat. White Bait.—This is a fish which belongs especially to London; although it is obtainable in other rivers in Great Britain and the Continent; yet it is not sought for ; great difference of opinion exists amongst naturalists as to what fish this is the young of; in my humble opinion, I think it is a species ■distinct of itself, having a life of short duration. It is caught only in brackish water, floating up and down the river, according to the tide,—in very dry summers as high up as Greenwich, and in very wet as low as Gravesend. They spawn in winter, and make their appearance, about one inch in length, early in March. They should be cooked as follows : 256. WHITE BAIT.—Put them in a cloth, which shake gently so as to dry them a little ; then place them in some very fine bread-crumbs and flour mixed; toss them lightly with the hands, on a dish, to detach them from each other, take them out immediately, put them in a wire basket, and fry them in hot lard; one minute will cook them; turn them out on a cloth, sprinkle a little salt over, and serve very hot. Should you not hc^c a wire basket, sprinkle your white bait into the pan, and as soon as they rise take them out with a slice. Turtle.—It is unnecessary to state that, for many years past, turtle has been esteemed the greatest luxury which has been placed upon our tables. It was introduced into this country in the early part of the last century, and then only at the tables of the large West Indian proprietors, from whom it progressed to those of the city companies. During the time of the South Sea bubble, when the female aristocracy partook of the prevalent feature, and flocked into the courts and alleys surrounding the Exchange, turtle-soup was in the height of fashion, the cost being one guinea per plate. The turtle used in cooking is that known by the name of green turtle: and the finest are found in the small islands and keys in the Bahamas, whichFISH. 147 they frequent for the purpose of laying their eggs : they are not so large as those found on the coast of the Gulf of Mexico, though considered much more delicate. They derive their name from the tinge of green which the flesh possesses, caused by its feeding upon submarine plants. Although having extremely powerful jaws, it is a very harmless fish, and differs from others of its species, which feed upon smaller kinds. The trunk turtle, the logger- head, and the hawk’s bill are unfit for food. Tire turtle of the Ascension Island differs in some measure from either of them, being between the green turtle and the trunk turtle ; its flesh, when old and large, is very rank, A turtle of about 80 pounds weight is the best eating. There was a species of turtle known to the Romans, but which was cohsidered poisonous, and is, I suppose, that which is now found in the Mediterranean, and sometimes on our coast; but as you are likely only to receive the fine green turtle as a present or purchase, I would advise you to send and have it cooked at a house where they are accustomed to do it. I will, therefore, give you no receipts for cooking it; but should you be curious to know how it is done, you must look in “ Soyer’s Regenerator.” Turbct we consider the finest of flat-fish; and so it was, no doubt, con- sidered by the Romans : hence the proverb, " Nihil ad rhombum,” although Linnaeus, from his classification, would make us believe it was the brill or brett, but I do not think so meanly of the epicures of those days as to imagine it. Its flavour depends greatly upon the place where taken, resulting from its food, which is principally young crabs and lobsters ; therefore it is not surprising that lobster sauce accompanies it when cooked. I prefer them of a middling size, not too large, but thick, and if bled when caught, so much the better. Should you be at the sea-side, and buy one rather cheap because it has red spots on the belly, remove them by rubbing salt and lemon on the spot. In my opinion they are better and more digestible, and of finer flavour, forty-eight hours after being killed, than when fresh. -57. 1URBOT. To cook it, cut an incision in the back, rub it well with a good handful of salt, and then with the juice of a lemon; set it in a turbot kettle, well covered with cold water, in which you have put a good handful of salt; place it over the fire, and as soon as oiling, put it at the side (where it must not be allowed to more than simmer very slowly, or the fish would have L 2FISH. 348 a very unsightly appearance). A turbot of ten pounds •weight will take about an hour to cook after it has begun to boil (but, to be certain, ascertain whether the flesh will leave the bone easily); then take it out of the water, let it remain a minute upon the drainer, and serve upon a napkin, with a few sprigs of fresh parsley round, and lobster sauce, or shrimp sauce, in a boat. 258. TURBOT, TIIE NEW FRENCH FASHION. —Boil your turbot as in the last, but dress it upon a dish without a napkin, sauce over with a Hollandaise sauce, or any other way, with a thick caper sauce (having made a border of small new potatoes round it), sprinkle a few capers over the fish and serve. 259. TURBOT A LA CREME is made from the re- mains of a turbot left from a previous dinner: pick all the flesh from the bones, which warm in salt and water, and have ready the following sauce: put one ounce of flour into a stewpan, to which add by degrees a quart of milk, mixing it very smoothly; then add two peeled eschalots, a bouquet of parsley, a bay-leaf and a sprig of thyme tied together; add a little grated nutmeg, a teaspoonful of salt and a quarter ditto of pepper; place it over the fire, stirring until it forms a thickish sauce; then take it from the fire, stir in a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and pass it through a tammy; lay a little of it upon the bottom of a convenient-sized dish, then a layer of the fish, season lightly with a little white pepper and salt, then another layer of sauce, proceeding thus until the fish is all used, finishing with sauce; sprinkle a few bread-crumbs over, and put it into a warm oven half an hour; brown with the salamander, and serve upon the dish it is baked on. Any remains of boiled fish may be dressed the same way.FISH. 149 Dory, or John Dory.—The name of this fish is derived from the French jaune dori (yellow gilded). It also rivals the haddock with the superstitious in some countries, as being the fish from whose mouth €1. Peter took the tribute money; but if we are to credit the fact, then the origin of the marks i3 of an earlier date than the haddock ; for some of the fathers of the church assert that it was St. Christopher, who, wading through an arm of the sea, caught one, cn passant, and left the impression of his fingers as an eternal, memorial of the fact. I cannot find that it was held in high estimation amongst the Romans; indeed, its forbidding appearance is against it. This is the fish of which so many anecdotes are related of the celebrated comedian Quin, who was, par excellence, the gourmet and epicure of the last century. This fish requires to be eaten fresh, and should never be smaller than one foot in length. They are now held in high estimation. 260. JOHN DORIES, BOULOGNE FASHION.— John Dories, though not very handsome, are very delicate eating; choose them from lour to six pounds in weight, the thicker the better, and boil as directed for turbot; one of the above size would require about three quarters of an hour, if any remain, dress like turbot, or with caper sauce, &c. Sole, Blaclc Sole.—This fish is now supplied to the London market in great abundance, principally from the North Sea. Its flavour, like other fish, in a great measure depends upon the ground where it feeds. It lives principally on small crabs and shell-fish, and will take bait, as a lug-worm. The colour of its back depends on the colour of the ground where it feeds ; if on a light sandy bottom, it is the white or lemon sole ; on a muddy bottom, the black sole. They are caught in trawl nets ; that is, a net in the shape of a pocket, from sixty to eighty feet long, and open at the mouth, from thirty-two to forty feet by three deep ; this is dragged along the ground by the vessel; and on the ability of the fisherman depends the quality and flavour of the fish; if he sails slow, the fish is likely to avoid or escape from the net; if very fast* the fish are all swept at the end of the net and get smothered ; and thus it is that we sometimes find at our table a sole with the vein which runs down e side of the bone perfectly black, it being full of congealed blood • this Tem sometimes breaks, and discolours the part round which it does so.FISH. 150 This sole, if it should come to table, is certain of being fresh, as it will not keep for any length of time. If properly fished, they are brought up alive, and put into the.wells of the vessel, and come as far as the mouth of the river, where they are taken out and killed by throwing them down violently on the deck, and are then sent to market in baskets containing about twenty- five pair each. The small-sized soles caught in shallow water on the coast are the best in flavour. Those caught at the Silver Pits, a place about 150 miles off the mouth of the Humber, are larger, but not so good. They are at times caught in great abundance, as much as 1000 pair at one haul, and vary in size ; some are as large as seven pounds each ; the older they are the larger they become, and which may be known by the scales. In a haul (perhaps the first ever made there) in Ballinskellig’s Bay, close in shore, and not far from the residence of the celebrated late Daniel O Connell, made in October, 1818, sixty soles weighed two hundredweight. Those in roe should only be used for fillets, as their flavour is then insipid. Their freshness may be distinguished by their colour as well as their smell, and the middle-sized are preferable. Should they be caught in great abundance, they may be skinned, cleaned, and dried. 261. SOLES, FRIED.—Have about four pounds of lard or clean fat in a small fish-kettle, which place over a moderate fire, cut off the fins of the sole, and dip it into flour, shake part of the flour off, have an egg well beaten upon a plate, with which brush the fish all over, and cover it with fine bread-crumbs; ascertain if the lard is hot, by throwing in a few bread-crumbs; it will hiss if sufficiently hot, put in the fish, which will require nearly ten minutes cooking, and ought to be perfectly crisp, drain it on a cloth, dish upon a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve shrimp sauce in a boat. The above quantity of lard or fat, if carefully used and not burnt, would do for several occasions, by straining it off each time after using. All kinds of fish, such as eels, smelts, whitings, flounders, perch, gudgeons, &c. are fried precisely in the same manner. Regulate the time according to the size of your fish.151 FISH. 262. SOLES, SAUTE IN OIL.—Trim the fish well, ■dip it into a couple of eggs, well beaten, put six table- spoonfuls of salad-oil in a saute-pan, place it over the fire, and when quite hot put in your sole, let it remain five minutes, turn over, and saute upon the other side; ten or twelve minutes will cook it, according to the size; serve upon a napkin without sauce; they are excellent cold. 263. SOLE A LA MEUNIERE.—Cut the fins off a sole, and make four incisions across it upon each side with a knife, then rub half a tablespoonful of salt and chopped onions well into it, dip in flour, and broil it over a slow fire; also have ready two ounces of fresh butter, mixed with the juice of a lemon, and a little cayenne, which rub ’■over the sole, previously laid in a hot dish, without a napkin, turn the fish over once or twice, put it in the oven a minute, and serve very hot. 263.* SOLE AU GRATIN.*—Cut the fins off a fine fresh sole, make an incision in the back, then butter a saute-pan, and put one teaspoonful of chopped onions in it with a glass of white wine, then lay in the sole, cover it with six spoonfuls of brown sauce, and sprinkle some bread-crumbs over it, with a few small pieces of butter; then place it in a moderate oven twenty minutes or half an hour, (try when done,) take it out of the saute- pan, and dish without a napkin; then put four spoonfuls of stock in the saute-pan, boil it five minutes, keeping it stirred, then add the juice of half a lemon, a teaspoonful of chopped mushrooms, if handy, one of chopped parsley, one of essence of anchovies, and a little sugar and cayenne * In France they have silver dishes on purpose for those dishes, in which they are dressed and served to table ; the gratin adhering to the bottom of the dish is a great improvement.152 FISH. pepper; pour the sauce round the fish, place it again in the oven for a quarter of an hour, pass the salamander over it, and serve very hot. 264. SOLES AUX FINES HERBES.—Put a spoon- ful of chopped eschalots into a saute-pan, with a glass of sherry and an ounce of butter, place the sole in, pour nearly half a pint of melted butter over it, or four spoon- fuls of brown gravy or water, upon which sprinkle some chopped parsley, place it in a moderate oven for half an hour, take the sole out of the pan, dress upon a dish with- out a napkin, reduce the sauce that is in the pan over a sharp fire, add a little Harvey sauce and essence of an- chovy, pour over the sole, and serve. Soles may also be plain boiled, using the same precau- tions as directed for turbot, and serve without a napkin, with a cream sauce poured over; or it may be served upon a napkin garnished with parsley, and a little shrimp sauce, or plain melted butter, in a boat. Brill or Brett, by many confounded with the turbot. In some places it is called the pearl turbot; it is longer, and not so round as the turbot, and not so firm when cooked, nor do they attain the size. They should be eaten very fresh. 265. BRILLS are cooked in the same manner as tur- bots, but, being smaller, do not require so long boiling. But, in boiling any description of fish, never take it up until the flesh will leave the bone with facility, which try by placing the point of a knife between the flesh and the bone; if done, the knife will part them easily. Halibut.—This fish, in this country, is principally consumed by the Jew3, who cook it beautifully in oil; it is rather coarse, but very surfeiting. It is best very fresh, and should be very thick and not in spawn. They may be either boiled, baked, fried, or sauteed in oil, in which case the pieces cut across should not be thicker than one inch.153 FISH. Plaice are not considered much of; they are supplied in great abundance in the month of February to the London market. They may be cooked like soles. Flounder—To appreciate this fish it should never be eaten in London, they ought to be placed almost alive in the frying-pan; at any rate, five minutes ought not to elapse from the time they are swimming in water till they are swimming in fat, and five minutes more before they are consumed., There is a difference of opinion with epicures upon which are the best, those caught in fresh or in brackish water; for my part I prefer the latter, or those taken with the white bait. 266. FLOUNDERS, WATER SOUCHET.—Procure four or six Thames flounders, trim and cut in halves; put had' a pint of water in a saute-pan, with a little scraped horseradish, a little pepper, salt, sugar, and forty sprigs of fiesh parsley; place over the fire, boil a minute, then add the flounders, stew ten minutes, take them out and place in a dish without a napkin, reduce the liquor they were stewed in a little, pour over and serve. Half pint ■tthite broth and half water, I much prefer for any kind of souchet, when maigre is not required. To fry flounders, trim them, and proceed precisely as directed for fried soles; three minutes are sufficient. Skate, also called Maid, Ray, is not appreciated equal to what it ought to e , we generally have only the fin part, which is cut off, and put into fresh water where it curls up. It is a very invigorating fish, ami I think deserves the attention of the medical profession. It is best cooked as follows : -6/. SKATE.—Procure two or three slices, tie them with string to keep the shape in boiling, put them into a kettle of boiling water, in which you have put a good handful of salt; boil gently about twenty minutes, (have ready also a piece of the liver, which boil with them •) when done, drain well, and put them upon a dish without a napkin; put three parts of a pint of melted butter in a154 FISH. stewpan, place it upon the fire, and when quite hot add a wine-glassful of capers, sauce over, and serve. 268. SKATE AU BEURRE NOIR.—Boil a piece of skate as directed in the last; when done, drain it well, put it upon a dish without a napkin, and proceed exactly as directed for mackerel au beurre noir. Skate may also be served upon a napkin, with a boat of well-seasoned melted butter, to which you have added a spoonful of Harvey sauce and one of anchovy. Dais and Smear Dais are good from February to June. They should be cooked like Plaice. Pike.—This fish spawns in March and April, according to the season. When in perfection, their colours are very bright, being green, spotted with bright yellow, and the gills are a bright red ; when out of season, the green changes to grey, and the yellow spots assume a pale hue. It may be called the shark of fresh water. Those caught in a river or running stream are far superior to those caught in ponds, which often get too fat, and have a muddy taste. A middling-sized one, weighing about five pounds, would be best; when fresh, the eyes must be very transparent, the scales bluish, and not dry upon the back, or it would not clean well. The dressing is generally the making of the fish, as regards the approbation bestowed upon it. To clean them, have a sharp-pointed knife, put the point carefully under the scales (without piercing the skin) at the tail of the fish, pass the knife gently up the back to the head, dividing the scales from the skin carefully; you may then take off the whole of the scales in one piece (should this process appear too difficult, they may be scraped off in the ordinary way; it will not look so white, but would eat equally as good); then make two incisions in the belly, a small one close to the bladder, and a larger one above ; pull out the gills one at a time with a strong cloth, and if the interior does not come with them, take it out from the incisions, and wash the fish well; the cutting off the fins is quite a matter of taste : it is usually done. 269. PIKE.—Clean as directed above, stuff the interioi as directed for haddocks, only adding some fillets of an- chovies, if handy, and chopped lemon-peel with it; curlFISH. 155 round and put in a baking-dish, spread a little butter all over, put in a moderate oven, when about half done egg over with a paste-brush, and sprinkle bread-crumbs upon it; a middling-sized pike will take about an hour, but that according to the size and the heat of the oven ; when done, dress upon a dish without a napkin, and sauce round as directed for baked haddock above referred to. 270. PIKE, SAUCE MATELOTE. — Cook a pike exactly as in the last, dress it upon a dish without a napkin, and sauce with a matelote sauce over, made as directed for salmon sauce matelote. This fish may also be served with caper sauce, as directed for the skate; the smaller ones are the best; the remains of a pike placed in the oven the next day, with a cover over it and a little more sauce added, are very nice. Carp became naturalized in this country in 1514, since which time the breed has considerably increased ; they might be made of more value if proper attention were paid to them. Choose them of a middling size, with a soft roe, if possible; the scales of a yellowish colour near the belly; the eyes bright; the gills very red, and hard to pull out; should a liard-roed one be preferred, do not choose it too full. In cleaning, take off the scales as in the last; then make a small incision in the belly, close to the bladder; puli out the gills, and the interior will come with them; should any, however, re- main, take it out of the incision without breaking the gall or disturbing the Toe : lay it in spring water half an hour to disgorge, then dry it with a cloth. The large sea carp, some of which weigh from thirty to fifty pounds, are not worth cooking. 251. BAKED CARP.—Procure a good-sized carp, stuff it like the pike, then put it into a baking-dish, with two onions, one carrot, one turnip, one head of celery, and a good bouquet of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf; moisten with two glasses of port wine, half-a-pint of water, salt, pepper, and oil, and put it in a moderate oven about two hours to bake; try if done with a knife, which is the case156 FISH. if the flesh leaves the bone easily; dress upon a dish ■without a napkin ; then have ready the following sauce : mince a large bpanish onion with two common ones, and put them into a stewpan with three spoonfuls of salad-oil, saute rather a yellow colour, add two glasses of port wine and one spoonful of flour, mix all well together, add a pint oi broth (reserved from some soup) or water, with halt an ounce of glaze, or half a gill of brown gravy, or a few drops of colouring; boil it up, drain the stock the carp was cooked in from the vegetables, which also add to the sauce; boil well at the corner of the stove, skim, and when lather thick add a teaspoonfnl of Harvey sauce, one of essence of anchovies, and a little cayenne pepper, pour all the liquor drained from the fish out of your dish, sauce over, and serve. 272. CARP, SAUCE MATELOTE.—Put your carp in a small oval fish-kettle, with wine and vegetables as in the last, to which add also a pint of water and a little salt, wuth a few cloves and peppercorns; put the lid upon the fish-kettle, and stand it over a moderate fire to stew about an hour, according to the size; when done, drain well, dress upon a dish without a napkin, and sauce over with a matelote sauce, made as directed for salmon sauce matelote, or caper sauce, as for skate; small carp are very good- flavoured ; they should, like a whiting, open in two from the back, then bread-crumbed and fried. Trout.—There are several kinds, none of which, it seems, were known to the Romans. This is the salmon of fresh water, and bears a very close resemblance to it in flavour. They grow to a very large size ; I partook of part of one weighing twenty-six pounds, which was caught in the Lake of Killarney, in July, 1848. They have different names in various parts of Great Britain, but there is the common trout, the white trout, and the sea trout; the white trout never grows very large, but the sea trout does, and is of a veiy fine flavour.FISH 157 Hirer Trout, when fresh, have the most beautiful sldn imaginable, the golden and sometimes silvery tint of which makes me term it the sister fish if the red (sea) mullet. Should the gills be pink instead of red, and the skin dry (which is frequently the case on the second day), they may still be eat- able, but their succulence goes with their beauty. Clean them as directed fir salmon. 273. TROUT A LA TWICKENHAM.—When you have cleaned your trout, put them into a kettle of boiling ■u'ater, to which you have added a good handful of salt, and a wine-glassful of vinegar; boil gently about twenty minutes, or according to their size, dress upon a napkin, and serve melted butter, into which you have put a table- spoonful of chopped gherkins, two sprigs of chopped parsley, salt and pepper, in a boat. The remains of trout, salmon, or mackerel, are excellent pickled: put three onions in slices in a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, one turnip, a bouquet of parsley thyme, and bay-leaf, pass them five minutes over the fire* add a pint of water and a pint of vinegar, two teaspoon- fuls of salt and one of pepper, boil until the onions are tender, then strain it through a sieve over the fish; it will keep some time if required, and then do to pickle more fish by boiling over again. 274. TROUT A LA BUKTON.-Boil the trout as in the last, then put half a pint of melted batter in a stem- pan, with two tablespoonfuls of cream, place it upon the lire, and when upon the point of boiling add a liaison of t,W° u ?SS n"“d ,Wlth a ‘Spoonful of cream, (d.ess the fish upon a dish without a napkin), put two ounces of fresh butter, a pinch of salt, and the juice of a emon into the sauce, shake round over the fire, but do Sami'se.re "" ^ ^158 FISH. Perch were known to the Romans, and those they received from Britain were considered the best. They do not grow to a very large size, four pounds being considered a large one. When fresh, are reddish at the eyes and gills. These fish, having a great objection to part with their scales, must be scraped almost alive, forming the fish into the shape of the letter S, and scraping with an oyster-knife; open the belly, take out the interior, pull away the gills, and wash well. When large, they are frequently boiled with the scales on, which are taken off afterwards much easier. 275. PERCH SAUTEED IN BUTTER.—Clean the fish as explained above, dry well, make an incision upon each side with a knife, put a quarter of a pound of butter in a saute-pan over a slow fire, lay in the fish, season with salt, and saute gently, turning them over when half done; when done, dress upon a napkin, and serve melted butter, or shrimp sauce, in a boat. Small ones should be dressed thus. 276. PERCH, HAMPTON COURT FASHION.— Cook the fish as above, and have ready the following sauce:—put six spoonfuls of melted butter in a stewpan, with a little salt and the juice of a lemon; when upon the point of boiling, stir in the yolk of an egg mixed with a tablespoonful of cream ; do not let it boil; steep about twenty small sprigs of parsley in boiling water ten minutes, and some small pieces of rind of lemon for one minute, drain, and put them in the sauce, which pour over the fish and serve. Perch may also be served plain boiled or stewed as directed for tench, with sauce served separate. Tench are considered by modern epicures to be one of the best of all fresh- water fish j they should be caught, killed, cleaned, and cooked almost directly; they may be kept alive in a large bucket of water a few days, as also may carp, feeding them with a few crumbs of bread. They are very difficult fish to clean ; the best way is to form them in the shape of the letter S, and in-FISH. 159 stead of scraping them from the tail to the head like other fish, scrape up. wards from the belly to the back with an oyster-knife, the scales running that way; pull out the gills, open the belly, take out the interior, and wash them quite clean. 277. STEWED TENCH.—Put two onions, a carrot, and turnip, cut in slices into a stewpau, or very small fish-kettle, with a good bouquet of parsley, a few sprigs of thyme, one bay-leaf, six cloves, a blade of mace, a little salt and pepper, and two glasses of sherry; lay your tench over, (it will require four for a dish, and they may be either cooked whole, or each one cut into two or three pieces,) add a pint of water, cover down close, and stew rather gently over a slow fire for about half an hour; take them out, drain upon a cloth, dress upon a dish without a napkin, and pour a sauce over, made as directed for sauce matelote, cream sauce, or Beyrout. 278. TENCH WITH ANCHOVY BUTTER.—Cook the tench as m the last, but they may be plain boiled in salt and water; dress upon a dish without a napkin, then put six spoonfuls of melted butter in a stewpan, with one Place xt uPon fire, and, when upon the point of boding, add an ounce of anchovy butter; shake it round over the fire until the butter is melted, when sauce over and serve. Chidgeon, the gobio of the Romans. From the praise bestowed by many ancent authors on this fish, they must have obtained them remarkably fine, was ong doubtful if it could be the same species of fish, until I ate some that had been caught in the river Colne, near Uxbridge, weighing nearly a pound each. In Paris they take the place of the smelt, and ar! • great favourite ; they are in season in the summer. They should be cooked as soon as caught, and be rather pink under the belly, and very stiff. In cleaning, scrape off the little scales, make a small incision near the bladder pull out the gills, and the interior will come with them.160 fish. 2/0. GUDGEONS are floured, egged, bread-crumbed, or simply floured, and fried as directed for smelts; but being smaller, they require less time to cook. The Bull s Head, or Miller's Thumb, should also be cooked in the same way. In mentioning this fish, it reminds me that there is a sea-fish very much like it, and often sold in the market; on the coast, it is the goby, sometimes called the black and spotted goby. It should be cooked like eels. Char.—This is a very delicious fresh-water fish when obtained fresh, which is exceedingly rare in London. The lakes of Westmoreland and Cumberland boast of having the finest, but I have tasted very fine from those in Wales. The red char has the finest flavour. It should be dressed like trout. Chub I do not think much of, but it no doubt depends on the river where taken; those caught in the winter are the best. They may be cooked like carp. Dace and Roach I esteem about as much as the chub ; but if you have them they are best cooked like the carp, sauce matelote. Barbel should never be eaten ; I have known several very ill effects from so doing, although it is generally supposed it is the roe alone which is noxious and bad ; but should some follower of Isaak Walton be inclined to partake of the produce of his own sport, then it should be well cleansed and put to soak in a good marinade for twenty-four hours, and baked like carp. The Ed is greatly esteemed in all countries, but it differs in taste accord- ing to the river from whence it is taken ; although we have some very fine eels in the river Thames, yet our principal supply is received from Holland, and the fish which come from thence are much improved in flavour by the voyage, and even increase in size. They arrive in the river Thames in vessels called eel scootes (schuyts), of which four have been allowed, for centuries, to moor opposite the Custom House, and the others are obliged to remain in Erith Hole until there is room for them, which greatly improves the fish : the value of those imported into London last year amounted to 132,600L Nothing is more difficult to kill than eels; and it is only by knocking the heads upon a block or hard substance, and stunning them, that they suffer least. Take the head in your hand with a cloth, and just tut through the skin round the neck, which turn down about an inch ; then null the head with one hand, and the skin with the other, it will come off161 FISH. witli facility; open the belly, take out the interior without breaking the fiall and cut off the bristles which run up the back. They are in seaTon all the year round. -SO. EELS, FRIED.—Cut your eels into pieces three inches long, trim them, dip the pieces into flour, egg over W1 \a paste-brush, and throw them into some bread- ci umbs; fry m hot lard as directed for fried soles. 281. STEWED EELS, SAUCE MATELOTE — tWCUre r aVge eels as Possible> which cut into pieces thiee inches long, and put them into a stewpan, wik an onion, a bouquet of two bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme and parsley, six cloves, a blade of mace, a glass of sherry, and wo o water; place the stewpan over a moderate Are, and et simmer about twenty minutes, or according to the size of the eels ; when done, drain upon a clofh, dress them m pyramid upon a dish without a napkin with a mate of °Ver’ made aS directed for salmon sauce in to 7°Ur Gels have been co°hed extlrall the fr065 ^ Wel1 b°^d * to 282. EELS A Lx4. TARTARt? t? above, and serTC „„ some “ This bread-crumb> broil gently. CwSK *in“S’ inTh°mer U ? Eng‘ Perly cleaned, and split down the bTr l ^ ^ V°~ s;sr: t;, >a£‘«=usiti^l= M162 FISH. in which some essence of anchovies has been mixed. The time they take cooking depends on the size, but may be known by the skin turning up. Lamprey.—There are several species of this fish; that called the lesser lamprey, which we get in the river Thames and in the Severn, at Gloucester, is the best; it is a fish which was thought a great deal of, but I am doubtful if it is the munena of the Romans, as the lamprey of the present day lives entirely by suction and swims close to the surface of the water, and could not, by the nature of its construction, feed near the bottom ; and, conse- quently, could not be fed on the bodies of slaves, as is recorded of those with which the Emperor Augustus was treated ; its food (so far as I have been able to ascertain from examination of some thousands) consists of small water insects and animalcule. Those caught when just ascending the river from the sea are the best, which is about Christmas. There is a curious custom still extant, of the city of Gloucester presenting the Queen with a lamprey- pie every Christmas. 284. CONGER EEL is little appreciated in this country, although amongst the working class of om neigh- bours, more particularly the French, it is an article of gieat consumption. If alive, its head should be cut off, and it should bleed as much as possible; but if dead, the pieces should be put into lukewarm water to disgorge previous to being cooked. The young fry are exceedingly good, and may be dressed like fresh-water eels. The large ones may be made into soup, and can also be cooked like sturgeon. 285. —FRENCH ANGLERS’ WAY OF STEWING FISFI.—Take about four pounds or less of all kinds of fresh- water fish, that is, carp, pike, trout, tench, eels, &c., or any- one of them, cut them into nice middle-sized pieces, no matter the size of the fish—let the pieces be of equal size; put them in a black pot or stewpan, season over with a tablespoonful of salt, half one of pepper, half one of sugar, four good-sized onions, sliced thin, add a half bottle of common French wine, or four glasses of port or sherry,163 PISH SAUCES. half a pint of water; set it on the fire to stew, gently- tossing it now and then, when tender, which you may easily ascertain by feeling with your' finger the different pieces, mix a spoonful of flour with two ounces of butter, which put bit by bit in the pan, move it round by shaking the pan, not with any spoon; boil a few minutes longer, and serve, dishing the fish in pyramid, sauce over; if the sauce is too thin, reduce it till it adheres to the back of the spoon; taste; if it is highly seasoned, a few sprigs of thyme or bay-leaf may be added. Some of the fish may be done sooner than the others; if so, take them out first, and keep warm until all are done. The motive of mixing fish is, that it is supposed the flavour of all together is finer than one alone. Conger eel is also done in this way. FISH SAUCES. In all ages and countries at all removed from barbarism, where fish has formed an article of diet, sauces of various kinds have been an accompani- ment.. With the Romans, in the time of Lucullus, great care was observed m their preparation ; amongst others which they used, and the most cele- brated, was the Garum and the Muria. The Garum, was a sauce which the Romans used in almost all their dishes ; the most esteemed was that which came from Antipolis and from Dalmatia. Horace praises that made at Byzance, it was the most esteemed and the most expensive ; its composition is unknown. This is a subject well worth the atten- tion of the epicures of the present day; they should subscribe and offer a pre- mium for that which, in their opinion, may resemble it: it is a subject well worthy the attention of the Professors of our Universities. Perhaps some leaf yetundiscovered, that may have escaped the conflagration of Alexandria, might t row some light upon so interesting a subject. It appears that mushrooms en ered greatly into its composition ; and that parts of mackerel, or of that series, formed another. The question is, at what tfme of the year were M 2FISH SAUCES. 164 mushrooms in season there j and if at that period mackerel, or what species of mackerel have soft roes, as I think it probable that they entered into its composition, as an island- near Carthagina, where they were caught, was called Scombraria, and that which was prepared by a company in that town and which was considered the best, was called Garurn Sociorum. The Mwria was the liquid in which the tunny was pickled, and no doubt very similar to our essence of anchovies. Those most generally in use at the present day are the following; in addition to which there are various kinds made and sold in bottles, some of which are much cheaper to buy than to make. 286. MELTED BUTTER.—Put into a stewpan two ounces of butter, not too hard, also a good tablespoonful of flour, mix both well with a wooden spoon, without putting it on the fire; when forming a smooth paste, add to it a little more than half a pint of water; season with a teaspoonful of salt, not too full, the sixth part that of pepper ; set it on the fire, stir round continually until on the point of boiling; take it off, add a teaspoonful of brown vinegar, then add one ouuce more of fresh butter, •which stir in your sauce till melted, then use where re- quired; a little nutmeg grated may be introduced; it ought, when done, to adhere lightly to the back of the spoon, but transparent, not pasty ; it may also, if required, be passed through a tammy or sieve. If wanted plainer, the last butter may be omitted. 287. ANCHOVY SAUCE.—Make the same quantity of melted butter as in the last, but omit the salt, and add three good tablespoonfuls of essence of anchovies. 288. FENNEL SAUCE.—This is a sauce principally used for boiled mackerel. Make the same quantity of melted butter as in the last, to which add a good taoie- spoonful of chopped fennel; it is usually served in a boat.165 FISH SAUCES. 289. EGG SAUCE is generally served with salt-fish or haddock. Boil six eggs ten minutes, let them get cold, then cut them in pieces about the size of dice, put them into a stewpan, with three parts of a pint of melted butter, add an ounce more fresh butter, with a little pepper and salt; keep the stewpan moving round over the lire until the whole is very hot, and serve in a boat. 290. SHRIMP SAUCE.—Make the same quantity of melted butter as before, to which add three tablespoonfuls of essence of shrimps, but omitting the salt; add half a pint of picked shrimps, and serve in a boat. If no essence of shrimps, some anchovy sauce may be served with shrimps in it as a substitute. 291. SHRIMP SAUCE is also very good as follows: Pound half a pint of shrimps, skins and all, in a mortar, and boil them ten minutes in half a pint of water; pass the liquor through a hair sieve into a stewpan, and add a piece of butter the size of two walnuts, with which you have mixed a good teaspoonful of flour, stir it round over the fire until upon the point of boiling; if too thick, add a little more water; season with a little cayenne and a tea- spoonful of essence of anchovies; serve very hot; a few picked shrimps might also be served in it. 292 LOBSTER SAUCE.-Put twelve tablespoonfuls ? melted mutter in a stewpan, cut up a small-sized lobster into dice, make a quarter of a pound of lobster butter with the spawn, as directed; when the melted butter is upon the point of boiling, add the lobster butter, stir the sauce round over the fire until the butter is melted, season with a httle essence of anchovies, the juice of half a lemon and a quarter of a saltspoonful of cayenne pepper- pass it through a tammy into another stewpan, amUdd the flesh166 FISH SAUCES. of the lobster; when hot, it is ready to serve where re- quired. This sauce must be quite red: if no red spawn in the lobster, use live spawn. 293. NEW & ECONOMICAL LOBSTER SAUCE. —Should you require to use the solid flesh of a lobster for salad, or any other purpose, pound the soft part and shell together (in a mortar) very fine, which put into a stewpan, covered with a pint of boiling water; place it over the fire to simmer for ten minutes, then pass the liquor through a hair sieve into a basin; put three ounces of butter into a stewpan, into which rub (cold) a good tablespoonful of flour, add the liquor from the lobster, place it upon the fire, stirring until the point of boiling; season with a little cayenne, and add a piece of anchovy butter, the size of a walnut; or, if any red spawn in the lobster, mix it with butter, as in the last, and add it, with the juice of half a lemon, just before serving. An anchovy pounded with the lobster shells would be an improvement, and part of the flesh of the lobster might be served in the sauce. 294. LOBSTER SAUCE A LA CREME.—Cut a small lobster into slices the size of half-crown pieces, which put into a stewpan; pound the soft and white parts with an ounce of butter, and rub it through a sieve; pour ten spoonfuls of melted butter, and two of cream, over the slices in the stewpan, add half a blade of mace, a salt- spoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, and a little cayenne; warm gently, and wdien upon the point of boil- ing, add the butter and two tablespoonfuls of thick cream; shake round over the fire until quite hot, when it is ready to serve.FISH SAUCES. 167 095. LOBSTER SAUCE SIMPLIFIED. — Put the slices of lobster, as in the last, into a stewpan, with teir tablespoonfuls of milk; add a little pepper, salt, cayennes two cloves, and half a blade of mace ; set it upon the fire, and when on the point of boiling, add a piece of butter the size of two walnuts, with which you have mixed a little flour; shake round over the fire, and when getting rather thick, add two spoonfuls of cream, if at hand, and serve very hot. 296. BEYROUT SAUCE.—Put a tablespoonful of chopped onions into a stewpan, with one of Chili vinegar, and one of common ditto, a pint of melted butter, four spoonfuls of brown gravy, two of mushroom catsup, and two of Harvey sauce; place it over the fire, keeping it stirred until boiling; then place it at the corner to simmer five minutes, skim well, then place it again over the fire, keeping it stirred until thick enough to adhere to the back of the spoon; add two tablespoonfuls of essence of anchovies, and half a teaspoonful of sugar; it is then ready to serve. The above, although a fish sauce, may be used for meat or poultry, by omitting the anchovy, and adding more Harvey sauce. If no brown gravy, add water, and a little colouring. 297. OYSTER SAUCE.—Mix three ounces of butter in a stewpan with two ounces of flour, then blanch and beard three dozen oysters, put the oysters into another stewpan, add beards and liquor to the flour and butter, vdtli a pint and a half of milk, a teaspoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of cayenne, two cloves, half a blade of mace, and six peppercorns; place it over the fire, keep stirring’ and boil it ten minutes, then add a tablespoonful of essence oi anchovies, and one of Harvey sauce; pass it through a tammy over the oysters ; make the whole very hot without168 FISH SAUCES. boiling, and serve. A less quantity may be made, using less proportions. 298. ANOTHER METHOD.—Put a pint of white sauce into a stewpan, with the liquor and beards of three dozen oysters (as above), six peppercorns, two cloves, and half a blade of mace; boil it ten minutes, then add a spoonful of essence of anchovies, a little cayenne and salt if required; pass it through a tammy, or hair-sieve, over the oysters, as in the last. 299. A PLAINER METHOD.—Blanch three dozen of oysters, which again put into the stewpan, with their liquor, (after having detached the beards;) add six pepper- corns and half a blade of mace; place them over the fire, and when beginning to simmer, add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, with which you have mixed sufficient flour to form a paste, break it in four or five pieces; shake the stewpan round over the fire, and when upon the point of boiling, and becoming thick, add half a gill of milk, or more if required; season with a little cayenne, salt, pepper, and a few drops of essence of ancho\ies. serve very hot. 300. MUSSEL SAUCE.—Proceed exactly the same as for oyster sauce, using only the liquor of the mussels (not the beards) instead of the oysters, and serving the mussels in the sauce ; about four dozen would be sufficient. 301. CREAM SAUCE.—Put two yolks of eggs in the bottom of a stewpan, with the juice of a lemon, a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, a little white pepper, and a quarter of a pound of hard fresh butter; place the stewpan over a moderate fire, and commence stirring with a wooden spoon, (taking it from the fire now and then when getting too hot,) until the butter has gradually melted andFISH SAUCES. 169 thickened with the eggs—(great care must be exercised, for if it should become too hot the eggs would curdle, and render the sauce useless;) then add half a pint of melted butter; stir altogether over the fire, without permitting it to boil; pass it through a tammy into another stewpan; when wanted, stir it over the fire until hot. This sauce may be served with any description of boiled fish. 302. MATELOTE SAUCE.—For about a pound slice of salmon make the following quantity of saucePeel thirty button onions, and put half a teaspoonful of sugar in a quart-size stewpan, place it over a sharp fire, and when melted and getting brown, add a piece of butter, (the size of two walnuts) and the onions, toss them over now and then until rather brown, then add a glass of sherry; let it boil; then add half a pint of brown sauce and a gill of broth; simmer at the corner of the fire until the onions aie quite tender; skim it well, and add a few mushrooms, if at hand; season with a little salt and sugar, and sauce over any kind of fish where described. The addition of a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies is an improvement. Use where directed. 303. MATELOTE SAUCE SIMPLIFIED.—Proceed as above respecting the onions, only add a fourth more butter, and fry them a little browner; then add a glass of sherry and two teaspoonfuls of flour, which stir round gently with a small wooden spoon, add to it about a pint of water, stir now and then till boiling, add three salt- spoonfuls of salt, two of sugar, one of pepper, and a bou- quet garni; simmer and skim, add a few drops of colouring to give it a nice brown colour; when ready to serve, add a good tablespoonful of anchovy essence; it ought to ad- here lightly to the back of the spoon, but not be too thick • sauce over or under, as directed; small pieces of glaze, if170 REMOVES. at hand, put into it is an improvement, as is also using broth instead of water; oysters and mushrooms may be introduced, also a little cayenne pepper. This sauce must be very savoury. 304. LOBSTER BUTTER.—Procure half a lobster, quite full of spawn, which take out and pound well in a mortar; then add six ounces of fresh butter, mix well together, then rub it through a hair sieve, and put it in a cold place until wanted. The flesh can be used for any other dish. 305. ANCHOVY BUTTER.—Take the bones from six anchovies, wash the fillets, and dry them upon a cloth, pound them well in a mortar; add six ounces of fresh butter, mix well together, and proceed as in the last. 306. MAITRE-D’HOTEL BUTTER.—Put a quarter of a pound of fresh butter upon a plate, with one good tablespoonful of chopped parsley, the juice of two lemons, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter that quantity of white pepper; mix all well together, and put in a cool place till required. 307. RAVIGOTE BUTTER.—Proceed as in the last, but instead of parsley, use one spoonful of chopped tar- ragon, and one of chervil, and add half a spoonful of Chili vinegar. removes. These are dishes which remove the fish and soup, and are placed at the top and bottom of the table ; great care should be evinced in cooking them, as they are the “piece de resistance” of the dinner. I must also observe that a few of the receipts appear a little complicated, but which will not171 REMOVES. prove to be the case if tried once or twee. In the entrees will be found how the remains of these removes may be dressed. Since the science of analytical chemistry has become so perfect, and has shown us the elements of which every substance and liquid is composed, it is necessary that, in order to continue them in a state of action, and prevent decomposition, to repair the loss which they are every moment undergoing- from man, through every living thing, even down to earth and water; but I am not going to write you a lecture on chemistry, which will be so much more easy to read in Liebig. In order for you to choose your meat and viands with economy in regard to actual nourishment, I must tell you, that, from infancy to old age, the human race is continually imbibing elements of formation or reparation, from the lime in the mother’s milk, which forms the bones, to the osmazome, extracted from animal matters, which creates a more lively circulation of the blood when it becomes sluggish and dull in old age. Each period, occupation, and station in life requires different substances of reparation, with which we ought to make ourselves intimately acquainted. Amongst the first, and that most generally in use with man, is the ox, the principal nourishment derived from which consists in the osmazome, and is that liquid part of the meat that is extracted by water at blood-heat. It is this which is the foundation and flavour of all soups, which gives the flavour to all meats, and which, on becoming candied by heat, forms the crust of roast meats. The osmazome is found principally in all adult animals having a dark flesh, and to a very small extent in those having a white flesh, such as the esh of fowls; but it is in their back and legs where lies the principal flavour. . The bones of the ox contain gelatine and phosphate of lime. The gelatine is also found in the muscles and other cartilaginous parts of animals, t is extracted by boiling water, and coagulates at the ordinaiy temperature of the atmosphere ; it is the foundation of all jellies, blancmanges, and other similar preparations. . Th® ALBUMEN is aIs0 found in the flesh, and congeals as soon as the heat blw that of the bl00d; this is the scum on the pot when tlie meat is W i °Xen Sh°Uld fa3t fr°m twenty-four t0 forty-eight hours before being killed; when killed and skinned, they are opened and the inside c eaned they are then hung up, and ought to be exposed to a draught until cold, and then divided down the back into two parts, leaving the head172 REMOVES. whole ; these sides are then divided into two, called the fore-and-hind quar- ters : the fore-quarter contains the shin, the clod and stickings, leg of mutton piece, chuck, middle rib, fore rib; the hind-quarter consists of the rump, sirloin, thin and thick flank, the veiny-piece, aitch-bone, buttock or round, and leg and foot; the head contains the tongue, palate, and brains ; the entrails consist of the heart, liver, sweetbread, kidneys, skirts, and the double roll and reed tripe. When the meat is cut up, the following kernels must be taken out, in order to preserve the beef, particularly in hot weather : those in the neck, where the shoulder clod is removed; two from the round, the pope’s eye, and one from the flap ; one in the thick flap in the middle of the flank, and another between the rump and aitch-bone. The flavour and quality of the meat depend on the country whence it comes, and the nature of its food.* As a general rule, the flesh ought to be of a dark red colour, smooth, open-grained, with fat rather white than yellow, running in thin streaks through the flesh. Ox-beef is the largest and richest, but heifer is better, if well fed. It should be hung for two days previous to using, in a cool place, free from draught; it will keep good from three to six days, according to the weather. 308. SIRLOIN OF BEEF should never be less than three of the short ribs, and will weigh more or less accord- ing to the size of the ox from which it is taken; that from a small, well-fed, Scotch heifer, I consider the best; it will weigh about twelve pounds, and take about two hours and a half to roast, depending much on the fire. Having spitted or hung the joint, cover it with buttered paper, and place it eighteen inches from the fire; about one hour after it has been down, remove the paper, and place the joint nearer the fire, put half a pint 01 water, with a little salt, in the dripping-pan; about a quarter of an hour before removing from the fire, dredge it with flour and salt from the dredging-box; when taken from the fire, empty the contents of the dripping-pan into a basin, from which remove the fat; pour the gravy in the * See future Letters.173 REMOVES. dish, and then place the joint on it; serve some scraped horseradish separate. A Yorkshire pudding is very ex- cellent when cooked under this joint. 309. RIBS OF BEEF.—This piece should consist of at least three ribs ; the bones are generally sawn through about three inches from the top; these should be removed, leaving the flap, which fold under and flx with wooden skewers. This, in roasting, should be prepared and ■dredged as the sirloin. A drop of colouring gives the gravy an inviting appearance. « 310- MBS OF BEEF BRAISED.—Take four ribs,* not too fat nor too thick, remove the chine-bone neatly, and four inches of the tips of the rib-bones, run with a laiding-needle several pieces of fat bacon through the thick part, trim over the flap and tie it well round, put it into the braising-pan; put a quarter of a pound of butter, one teaspoonful of pepper, and three teaspoonfuls of salt, into the pan, cover it over, and place it on a slow fire for thirty minutes, stirring it now and then, then add two quarts of water; at the expiration of one hour and a half, add eighty small button onions and sixty small young carrots, or pieces of large ones cut in the shape, which place around the meat; a bouquet of ten sprigs of parsley, three bay- leaves, and four sprigs of thyme tied together; half an lour after, add sixty round pieces of turnip; then place some live coals on the lid, and let it stew gently for one hour and a half longer, being altogether about four hours. I ake out the meat, remove the string, and trim it. Skim off the fat from the liquor in the pan, remove the bouquet, &c., add a few pieces of butter, in which have been mixed a tablespoonful of flour and a teaspoonful of sugar, two of * For a small family, one rib of about four pounds, boned, rolled and braised, 18 an economical dish. ’174 REMOVES. browning, stir gently with a wooden spoon, and, when just on the boil, dress round the meat, and serve. In case it has reduced too much, add water. The foregoing receipt may appear rather complicated, and may perhaps frighten you, and prevent you trying it; but I assure you, if you once try it, you will find it so good as to repeat it, particularly as many other receipts ■will be referred to this one. The vegetables and meat cold, are excellent. 311. STEWED RUMP OF BEEF.—This is a very excel- lent and useful joint to be continually kept in a country-house, where you may be some distance from a butcher’s, as, when hung up in a cool larder, it keeps good for a considerable time, and you never feel at a loss should Borne friends call unawares : after a third of it has been removed for steaks, pies, or puddings, the remainder makes an excellent joint, roasted or braised like the ribs, or stewed as follows: Cut it away from the bone, cut about twenty long pieces of fat bacon, which run through the flesh in a slanting direction with a larding needle; then chop up the bone, place it at the bottom of a large stewpan, with six cloves, three onions, one carrot, a turnip, and a head of celery; then lay in the rump, (previously tying it up with string,) which just cover with water, add a tablespoonful of salt, two burnt onions, (if at hand,) place upon the fire, and, when boiling, stand it at the corner; let it simmer nearly four hours, keeping it skimmed; when done, pass part of the stock it was cooked in (keeping the beef hot m the re- mainder) through a hair sieve into a basin; m another stewpan have ready a quarter of a pound of butter melt it over the fire, add six ounces of flour, mix well to- gether, stirring over the fire until becoming a little brownish; take off, and when nearly cold, add two quarts of the stock, stir it over the fire until it boils; then have four carrots, four turnips, (cut into sma pieces with cutters,) and forty button onions peeled; put hem into the sauce, when again boiling draw it to theREMOVES. 175 corner, where let simmer until tender, keeping it skimmed • add a little powdered sugar and a bunch of parsley ; if it should become too thick, add a little more of the stock; dress the beef upon a dish, sauce round, and serve. Brown sauce may be used, and the gravy will make excellent soup. 312. SALT BOUND OF BEEF.—This magnificent joint is, in general, too large for small families, but occa- sionally it may be used; the following is, therefore, the best method of cooking it: having folded the fat round it, and fastened it with skewers, tie round it, not too tight, some wide tape and a thin cloth, place it in a large stock- pot with plenty of cold water, set it upon a good fire, and when beginning to boil, draw it to the corner, where let it simmer until done ; five hours will be enough for a large one of thirty to thirty-five pounds; when done, remove the cloth and tape, and dish it up, previously cutting a slice two inches thick from the top, pouring a pint of the hot liquor over it when serving. To serve it cold, M. Sover m his “Begenerator,” thus describes it:— * ‘-After receiving the above useful lesson, and being desirous of improving y profession m all its branches, I remembered that, amongst the number of join s boded to serve cold for large civic, agricultural, or benevolent anniver- sary dinners, the round of beef was the most prominent, and having seen it standing in d.shes to get cold, with the dish filled with the gravy that runs lmed P;?ICllkrly if a Httle OVer-done> —d me to hit upon the following expedient to prevent the meat losing so much of its succulence — ' “Fill two large tubs with cold water, into which throw a. few pounds of rough tee, and when the round is done thiow it, cloth and all, into one of the tubs of ice-water ■ let remain one minute, when take out and put it into the or tub; fill the first tub again with water! and continue the above process for about twenty minutes; then set it •pon a dish, leaving the cloth on until tile next day, or176 REMOVES. until quite cold; when opened, the fat will be as white as possible, beside having saved the whole of the gravy. If no ice, spring water will answer the same purpose, but will require to be more frequently changed; the same mode would be equally successful with the aitch-bone.” 313. HALF-ROUND OF BEEF (Silver-side) should be put into cold water, and let it come to a boil; simmer for two hours and a half, and serve the same as a round. 314. AITCH-BONE OF BEEF (or, as I think it ought to be called, EDGE-BONE).—This is a very nice joint for a small family, but not so economical as is generally supposed; it should be pickled carefully, and cooked in the same way as the round; one weighing ten pounds will take two hours and a half; it should be trimmed on the top, and served with some of the liquor under it. It is very good when fresh and braised like the ribs (No. 310). 315. SALT BRISKET OF BEEF.—This is by no means an economical joint, as it loses considerably in cooking; it requires a long time to boil; should it be re- quired as a large cold joint, the following is the best plan : procure a nice brisket with as little fat as possible, detach the whole of the bones from it, make a pickle (see Receipt), where place it in it, previously rubbing it well with two cloves of garlic, leave it in the pickle from seven to nine days, rubbing and turning it every day; when ready to cook, cut it into two parts, (one about two inches longer than the other,) tie them together, and afterwards, in a clean cloth, simmer it for about six or seven hours in a lar»-e stock-pot full of water; when done, take it out and let it drain, have ready a large disli-cover, place it upon a trivet, remove the cloth and string from the meat, and place it in the cover; have ready a piece ol board to htREMOVES. 177 inside the cover, place it on the meat with a half-hundred weight on the top, and let it remain in a cold place unti the next day, when take it out, trim it, garnish it nicely, and serve, dhis will keep good a considerable time, and is excellent for breakfast or luncheon; besides, it always keeps a piece de resistance” in the larder, in case of accidents. It is also, when fresh, very excellent stewed like the rump of beef, or plain salted. 316. TO POT BEEF.—If there are of the remains of ribs of beef, take all the meat from the bones, remove the skin, and separate the fat from the meat, mince the meat into small pieces, melt the fat and strain it. To one pound of meat cut up a small onion about one inch in diameter into small pieces, place it in a frying-pan with a little fat, and fry it; when brown throw in the meat, and give it a turn or two, remove it, and place it in a mortar, pound it well, adding whilst pounding, live ounces of fat, or if not fat enough, fresh butter, to every pound of meat, and a little cayenne, half teaspoonful of grated mace, ditto nut- meg; when well mixed, place it in pots, and cover it over with clarified butter and paper; keep it in a dry place. Poultry and game may be done in the same way, usinre- butter instead of fat. * 37! HAMBURGH BEEF.—The ribs are the best; they should be put to soak in soft water for twelve hour? and then put into cold water and boiled gradually; a piece of three ribs will take three hours; if intended to be served hot, the outside should be cut off, and the joint mcely trimmed and served up with the following garni- ture round it: take four handfuls of brown kale, well Id W • ?Ut n rrPf 0n the fire’With a S^lon of water, ndlet it weH boil; then add two tablespoonfuls of salt and half a saltspoonful of carbonate of soda, put the kale N178 REMOVES. in, let it boil for ten minutes, drain it, and squeeze all the water from it, put it on a chopping-board and chop it fine, then put it into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, half a teaspoonful of pepper, one teaspoonful of salt, a little nutmeg, half a teaspoonful of sugar, and twenty roasted chesnuts cut in half, put it on the fire and keep stirring it for ten minutes: if too dry, add a little milk or gravy, and place it on the side of the fire until wanted. 318. TO BOIL A PICKLED OX TONGUE.—Put the tongue into a large stewpan containing two gallons of cold water, which set upon the fire until boiling, then draw it to the corner to simmer for three hours, if a tongue weighing about six pounds; but the better way to ascertain when done, is to try it with a trussing-needle, or the prongs of a fork, in the thickest part; if tender it is done, but if hard it must boil rather longer. A dried tongue should be soaked twenty-four hours previously to boiling; when done, skin it and trim the root, &c., and use where directed. 319. TO COOK A FRESH OX TONGUE.-Put a tongue in lukewarm water for twelve hours, to disgorge, then trim the root, and scrape the tongue quite clean; have ready twenty pieces of fat bacon two inches long and half an inch square, which introduce with a larding-pm into the most fleshy part in a slanting direction; then rub the tongue all over with salt, and run a long iron skewer through it, which tie upon, surround the tongue with vege- tables, the same as directed for turkeys roasted and braised and roast for two hours before a good fire; twenty minutes before it is done take away the paper and vegetables, to give a nice brown colour; when done trim a little, to keep it steady in the dish,and garnish with any kind of stewed vegetables, or cut it in halves lengthwise to form a heai ,REMOVES. 179 and sauce over with piquante, tomato, or any other sharp sauces found in their series. If no convenience for roast- ing, put into a stewpan a piece of leg of beef (cut small) weighing two pounds, with two onions, one carrot, two blades ol mace, a little thyme and bay-leaf, and a quarter of a pound of butter, saute the whole twenty minutes, keep- ing it stined over a moderate fire, then put in the tongue (previously prepared) and two ounces of salt, cover with water, and let boil gently four hours, skim and serve. The stock would be excellent for soup or brown sauce of any kind. The remains could be served in either of the methods directed for the remainder of pickled tongue. 320. RUMP STEAK BROILED.—Procure a steak cut nice and even, if about half an inch in thickness (if well cut it will not require beating), which lay upon a gridiron over a sharp fire; have a good teaspoonful of salt, and half that quantity of pepper mixed together upon a plate, half of which sprinkle upon the side of the steak upper- most; after it has been upon the fire a couple of miuutes, turn, and sprinkle the remainder of the seasoning upon e other side; it will take about ten minutes to cook it to perfection, turning it occasionally, and serve upon a very hot dish, with a little scraped horseradish round. If pro- perly done, it ought to be full of gravy, but a great deal depends upon the fire, which, if bad, causes the gravy to ooze from the meat and lay upon the top, which you lose servT v?SSteak °ver- A rumP steak may also be served broiled as above, with a little maitre-d’hotel or anchovy butter, rubbed over as soon as done, also potatoes, in CKT °r ShillinS Pieces> aod fried crisp n hot fat; dress round. Or a steak may be served, with I I*™ Cresses’ well-washed and dried, upon a plate sprinkled with a little pepper, salt, and vinegfr, N 2180 REMOVES. nished round; a little oil might also be added. (See Broiling.) VEAL of about two or three months old is the best; the flesh ought to be white, approaching to pink, and the fat firm ; it is cut up the same as mutton, except that, in the hind-quarter, the loin is cut straight, leaving the aitch-bone on it, which may be either dressed on the loin or separate. The fore-quarter consists of the shoulder, neck, and breast. The hind- quarter, the knuckle, leg, fillet, and the loin. The head and pluck consist of the heart, liver, nuts, skirts, melt, and the heart, throat, and sweetbread. The bull-calf is the best, the flesh is firmer grained or redder, and the fat more curdled than the cow-calf, which latter is in general preferred, being more delicate and better adapted for made dishes, as having the udder. Nothing can be worse than veal if not fresh; it should never hang more than two days in summer and four in winter. To be in full perfection, the kidneys ought to be covered with fat, and the veins in the shoulder bright red or blue. It is best from May to September, although it may be had good all the year. The head, when fresh, should have the eyes plump and lively ; if stale, they are sunk and wrinkled. 321. FILLET OF VEAL.—Choose it of the best quality. Procure a leg, saw off the knuckle, take out the bone in the centre of the fillet, and fill up the cavity with some stuffing made as directed, (see Receipt,) fold the under and flap round, which fix with three skewers; place half a sheet of buttered foolscap paper top and bottom, which tie over and over with plenty of string, run a spit through, fixing the fillet with a holdfast; set down to roast, placing it rather close to the fire ten minutes, rub well over with butter, then place it at least two feet and a half from the fire, to roast very slowly, giving it a fine gold colour; a fillet, weighing sixteen pounds would require four hours’ roasting, when done, take it up, detach all the string and paper, trim the top and set it upon your dish; have a pint of melted butter, in a stewpan upon the fire, to which, when boiling, add four spoonfuls of Harvey sauce, and two of mushroom catsup, mix well, andREMOVES. 181 pour round the fillet; have also boiled nicely an ox- tongue, which skin and trim, dress upon a dish surrounded with green or cabbage nicely boiled, and serve as an accompaniment to the fillet. •322. LOIN OF VEAL.—One with plenty of fat and a good kidney, from which the chump and the rib-bone at the other end have been removed; fasten the flap over the kidney with a skewer, run a spit through lengthwise, com- mencing at the thick end, and fixing it with a holdfast, cover it with buttered paper; one of fourteen pounds will take about three hours to roast. Serve with melted butter poured under. Some take out the kidney and fat, and serve separate on a toast. 32j. CHUMP OF VEAL can be either roasted or boiled; one about four pounds will take one hour to roast, and one hour and a quarter to boil; roasted, serve like the loin; boiled, serve with either sauces, Nos. 135 159, 165. 5 324. BREAST OF VEAL PLAIN ROASTED.— Paper the joint, and roast for about one hour and a half, and serve with gravy and melted butter; it may be roasted with the sweetbread skewered to it. Take the tendons off stew them for entrees. •325. SHOULDER OF VEAL.-One weighing four- teen pounds will take about two hours and a half to three lours to roast or braise; if roasted, the same sauce as for the loin (No. 322), and braise (No. 332.) 326. NECK OF VEAL.—Procure about eight pounds o a nice white neck of veal, containing six or seven chops, saw off the under part of the chine-bone, so as to give it182 REMOVES. a nice square appearance; lard it thus: take about twelve pieces of fat bacon, two inches long and a quarter of an inch square, put the larding-needle through the flesh of the veal about one inch and a half, then put one third of the length of the piece of bacon in it, pull the needle out, and it will leave the bacon in the meat, showing a quarter of an inch of the bacon outside. (See Larding.) Then braise as ribs of beef. Two hours will suffice. 327. NECK OF VEAL WITH PEAS.—Proceed as in the former receipt, leaving out the vegetables, and adding, half an hour previous to the meat being done, one quart of peas, twelve button onions, and a little moie sugar; remove the fat, and serve as before. 328. NECK OF VEAL WITH HARICOTS.—Pro- ceed as before, substituting the haricots for the peas, which must have been boiled in plenty of water for three or four hours previously. (See Receipt for Haricots.) 329. NECK OF VEAL WITH NEW POTATOES. As before, using new potatoes in place of the peas. Any other vegetable, as French beans, broad beans, &c., may be served with it in the same way. 330. NECKS OF VEAL can be larded or plain roasted, or braised in plain gravy as before, and served with either sauces, Nos. 155, 140, 142, 170. 331. KNUCKLE OF VEAL is a very favourite dish of mine. Procure two of them, which saw into six pieces, and put into a stewpan, with a piece of streaked bacon two pounds in weight, four onions, a carrot, two turnips, and six peppercorns; place over the ire, and when boiling add a little salt, skim well, and set183 REMOVES. at the corner to simmer gently for two hours, take out; dress them in your dish, surrounded with the vegetables and bacon, and serve with parsley and butter over. Very good soup may be made from the stock it is boiled in, if required, or if not, into glaze, which put bv until wanted. 332. LOIN OF VEAL BRAISED.—This joint gene- rally weighs from twelve to fourteen pounds, when off a good calf. Have the rib-bones carefully divided with a saw, so as not to hurt the fillet, prepare the braising-pan, and proceed as in receipt, (No. 308;) with the addition of one pint more water, but take care not to cover the meat, which might happen if your stewpan was too deep, (this would be boiling instead of braising;) it will take about three hours: be careful to remove the fat, as this joint produces a great deal. Taste the sauce before serving, in case more seasoning is required, which might be the case, depending on the nature of the veal. A good cook should taste all sauces before serving. 333. BREAST OF VEAL STUFFED & STEWED. —Take about eight pounds of the breast of veal, put your knife about half an inch under the skin, and open it about three parts of its width all the way down, then prepare some veal stuffing, and lay it in the opening you have made about one inch in thickness, sew it up, and proceed as receipt for shoulder. Should half the size of either the above dishes be re- quired, use but half the vegetables in proportion, and stew half an hour less. The CHUMP, SMALL SHOULDER, or pieces of the Jillet may be dressed in the same way, but must be larded, like the neck.REMOVES. IS4 All tlie above joints may be stewed in the same way, with less vegetables, and served with sauces Nos. 13C, 140; the gravy in which they are stewed will always he useful in the kitchen, or may he reduced and served with the joint. 334. SHOULDER OF VEAL STUFFED AND STEWED. —This is a very awkward joint to carve to advantage, and equally so to cook; by the following plan it goes further than any other way. Take the joint and lay it with the skin-side downwards, with a sharp thin knife carefully detach the meat from the blade-bone, then hold the shoulder edgewise and detach the meat from the other side of the bone, being careful not to make a hole in the skin; then cut the bone from the knuckle and take it out; you may at first be rather awkward about it, but after once or twice trying, it will become easy; you may also take out the other bone, but I prefer it in, as it keeps the shape better; then lard the lean part like the neck in No. 328; mix some salt and a little mixed spice together, with which rub the meat from whence the bone has been cut, stuff with veal stuffing, or sausage-meat, or suet-pudding; braise, garnish, and serve as No. 310. This being the toughest part of the veal, it should be tried before taking up, to see if it is properly done, by thrusting a larding-needle in it; if it goes in easily it is done. This joint is excellent cold, and should be carved in thin slices cross-wise. 335. CALF’S HEAD.—Choose one thick and fat, but not too large; soak for ten minutes in lukewarm water, then wrell powder with rosin, have plenty of scalding water ready, dip in the head, holding it by the eai, scrape the hair off with the back of a knife, which will come off easily if properly scraped, without scratching the cheek; when perfectly clean, take the eyes out, saw it in two lengthwise,REMOVES. 185 through the skull, without spoiling the brain, which take carefully out, and put to disgorge for a few hours in luke- warm water; pull the tongue out, break the jaw-bone, and remove the part which contains the teeth, put the head into plenty of water to disgorge for one hour; make the following stock and boil for about two hours and a half, and it will be ready to serve. The stock is made by putting into a braising-pan two carrots, three onions, a quarter of a pound of butter, six cloyes, a bouquet of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaves; set it on the fire for about twenty minutes, keep stirring it round, then add a pint of water, and when warm mix a quarter of a pound of flour, add a gallon of Avater, one lemon in slices, and a quarter of a pound of salt, then lay the head in; take care it is well covered, or the part exposed will turn dark; simmer gently till tender. LETTER No. XIIJ. Mr deab Eloise,—Do not make any mistakes in the way you describe the above receipts, which might be made very ridiculous if wrongly explained. Eor example : I once had an old French Cookery Rook in my hand, with the loth edition stamped on its old brown leather cheek, containing a receipt of lete de Veau a la poulette,” (that is, a calf's head, with white sauce,) in which small onions and mushrooms are introduced, that read as follows—but, before describing it, allow me five minutes to indulge in a hearty laugh at the absurd manner in which it is explained : “ First choose your head as thick and fat as you can, then plunge it in two gallons of water, which must be nearly boiled in a pan on the fire ; let your head remain about ten minutes, then take it out by the ears, and, after remaining a short time, scrape your hair off with the back of a knife without injuring your cheek, and pull your eyes out; break your jawbone and saw your head m two without smashing your brains, which take out carefully ; set it in cold water to get clean and white; then pull out your tongue, scrape and dry it, having previously boiled it with your head, which, after two hours’ ebullition^186 REMOVES. ■will feel as soft as possible, when see that your head is in the centre of the ■dish ; your tongue divided in two and placed on each side of it: sharp sauce, according to No. —> is allowed to he served with either head or tongue.” I assure you, dear, although I do not profess to be a first-rate scholar in that fashionable language—French, I believe this to be as near as possible the true translation of the original. Then follow calves’ feet, which is nearly as absurd as the former : “ Pied de Veau au naturel,” Calves’ Feet, the natural -way.—“ Choose your fine feet in the rough state, and, as with your head, place a pan of water on the fire; when hot, but not too much so, put jour feet in the water for about ten minutes, try if you can easily clean them as your head with a knife, if not, add a spoonful of salt in the water, and let them remain a few minutes longer; then scrape like your head; when well cleaned wipe them dry, and they are ready for dressing, which may be done in almost twenty different ways. (See the series ‘ How to cook Pigs’ Feet.’) When your feet are tender, set them on a dish, take out the big bone, surround them with sausage-meat; wrap them up in caul, and form a heart with them; then place your feet on a gridiron, let them gently broil, and, when done, eat them for breakfast or luncheon.” (After which a gentle walk might give you an appetite for dinner.) CALF’S HEAD (No. 335) may be dressed thus Half of the bead will make a good dish for a remove; lay it in the dish very hot, having previously drained it well; have ready about a pint of Hollandaise or cream sauce, No. 301, pour it over and serve. It may be surrounded with a dozen new potatoes if in season, or some quenelles, or quarters of hard-boiled eggs ; a little chopped parsley thrown on the head when the sauce is over it, makes it look very inviting. It can also be served “ a la poulette,” by putting a pint of white sauce in a stewpan; have peeled and cooked about fifty button onions in white broth, to which you have added a little sugar and butter, and a few mushrooms; add the broth, onions, and sauce together, and when on the point of boiling, add a liaison of two yolks of eggs, and the juice of a lemon; stir it well round; it ought to be theREMOVES. 187 thickness of cream sauce; pour over the head and serve. It can also be egged and bread-crumbed, and placed in the oven for twenty minutes to get a nice brown colour, and may be served with sauces Nos. 155, 170. 336. CALF’S HEAD, NORMANDY FASHION.— Having boiled the half head with the skin on, take the brain, which you have already blanched, and beat up with half a pint of milk, a little pepper and salt, add the pulp of two baked apples and two boiled onions beaten up, place them in a stewpan and boil gently for a short time; pass through a sieve, take about a pint of the liquor in which the head has been boiled, and put the brain, &c. in it, give it a gentle simmer, stirring it often; it should be the consistency of thick cream; having removed the skin from the tongue, cut it into slices, and put in the sauce; when ready to serve, stir a whole egg well into it, place the head in a dish, and pour over. MUTTON.—Tlie sheep, when killed, is generally divided into two, by cutting across about two ribs below the shoulder ; these are called the fore- and-hind-quarters : the former contains the head, neck, breast, and shoulder; the latter, the leg and loin; or the two loins together, the saddle or chine; or the leg and four ribs of the loin, the haunch. The entrails are called the pluck, which are the liver, lights, heart, sweetbread, and melt. When cut up, the kernel at the tail, that in the fat in the thick part of the leg, and the pipe that runs along the bone of the chine, should be removed. The flavour depends on the breed and pasture; that is best which has a dark- coloured flesh, of a fine grain, well mixed with fat, which must be firm and white. Wether mutton is the best; the meat of ewe mutton is of a paler colour, and the fat yellow and spongy. To keep a loin, saddle, or haunch, the kidney-fat should be removed, and the place nibbed with a little salt. Mutton should never be cooked unless it has hung forty-eight hours after it is killed; and it can be kept for twenty-one days, and sometimes longer in a severe winter.REMOVES. 188 337. HAUNCH OF MUTTON.—I have already de- scribed the mode of selecting the best for a small family —a Welsh, Devonshire, or Southdown; in cold winter time, a plump Scotch Highland, in Ireland a Kerry or Wicklow is the best; it should have been hung three weeks. Saw or break three inches from the knuckle-bone, remove all skin from the loin, put it on a spit, commencing at the knuckle, and bringing it out at the flap, avoiding the fillet of the loin; then cover it with three sheets of but- tered paper, place it about eighteen inches from the fire, if a large one it will take two hours and a half; half an hour before being done, remove the paper, baste it with a little butter, and dredge it slightly; when done, dish it up with a frill round the knuckle, and pour a pint of hot gravy over. In summer time, French beans should be served with it, but always mashed potatoes. 338. SADDLE OF MUTTON.—The same rule in regard to choice applies to this as to the haunch. Take oft' the skin, run a lark-spit through the spinal marrow- bone, which affix to a larger one with a holdfast at one end and string at the other; then tie the paper over the back, and place it down to roast; it will not take so long a time to roast, in proportion, as another joint; one about ten pounds will take about one hour and twenty minutes; remove the paper ten minutes before taking it from the fire, dredge to give it a nice colour, and make gravy as for beef, No. 308, or serve with gravy, No. 183. 339. SADDLE OF MUTTON, A LA POLONAISE. —This is my economical dish, par excellence, and very much it is liked every time I use it. Take the remains of a saddle of mutton, of the previous day, cut out all the meat close to the bone, leaving about one inch wide on the outside, cut it with a portion of the fat, into small dice;189 REMOVES. then put a spoonful of chopped onions in a stewpan, with a little butter; fry one minute, add the meat, with a table- spoonful of flour, season rather high with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg; stir round, and moisten with a gill or a little more of broth, add a bay-leaf, put it on the stove for ten minutes, add two yolks of eggs, stir till rather thick, make about two pounds of mashed potatoes firm enough to roll, put the saddle-bone in the middle of the dish, and with the potatoes form an edging round the saddle, so as to give the shape of one, leaving the middle empty, fill it with your mince meat, which ought to be enough to do so: if you should not have enough with the remains of the saddle, the remains of any other joint of mutton may be used; egg all over, sprinkle bread-crumbs around, put in rather a hot oven, to get a nice yellow colour, poach six ^&&S) and place on the top, and serve brown gravy round; white or brown sauce, if at hand, is an improvement. You may easily fancy the economy of this well-looking and good dish; the remains of a leg, shoulder, loin, neck of mutton, and lamb, may be dressed the same way, keeping their shape of course. 340. ROAST LEG OF MUTTON.—Choose the same as for the haunch. One about eight pounds weight will take about one hour and a half to roast; run the spit in at the knuckle, and bring it out at the thigh bone; roast it some little distance from the fire at first, bringing it nearer as it gets done; baste it with a little butter whilst roasting, or cover it with a sheet of well-buttered paper, which re- move just before it is quite cooked. The leg of wether mutton is the best for roasting; should it be ewe, and in- tended for roasting, I proceed thus two or three days be- fore I want it. I make a small incision close to the knuckle, pushing a wooden skewer down to the leg-bone190 REMOVES. as far as it will go; I then take one tablespoonful of port wine, if none handy I use catsup, and a teaspoonful of either treacle, apple or currant jelly, and mix them to- gether ; I then remove the skewer, and run the mixture in the hole, closing it with two cloves of garlic. This joint I prefer to dangle, rather than put on the spit. 341. BOILED LEG OF MUTTON.—This I prefer of the Southdown breed, and ewe is equally as good as the wether. Cut the end of the knuckle from the leg, put it into an oval pan, in which there is sufficient water to covei it, throw in about one ounce of salt, place it upon a sharp fire until it is on the point of boiling, then remove to the side, in five minutes remove the scum, and then let it simmer gently; if the turnips are to be boiled with it, peel and slice them, and put them into the pan half an hour before the mutton is done; it must be again put on the fire for a few minutes, as the turnips have stopped the boiling; dress it upon a dish with the turnips round it, or mash separate, and with caper or gherkin sauce; the brotn may be reduced for soup. 342. LEG OF MUTTON A LA BRETONNE.— Choose one about six pounds weight, peel four cloves of garlic, make an incision with the point of a knife in four different parts around the knuckle, and place the garlic in it; hang it up for a day or two, and then roast it for one hour and a half. At the same time you have procured a quart of small dry French haricots, which after well washing put into a saucepan with half a gallon of water, add about half an ounce of salt, the same of butter, set them on the side of the fire to simmer for about three hours or till tender, pour the liquor off into a basin, and keep the haricots hot; peel and cut two large onions intoREMOVES. 191 thin slices, put some of the fat of the dripping-pan into a frying-pan, put in the onions, and fry a light brown, add them to the haricots with the fat and gravy the mutton has produced in roasting, season with salt and pepper, toss them a little, and serve very hot on a large dish, put the leg on it, with a frill of paper on the knuckle. In case the leg is very fat, do not add all of the dripping to the haricots. This, if well carved, is an excellent dish for eight or nine persons; it is very much esteemed in France, and is considered cheap food from the nourishment afforded by the haricots, which can be purchased at six- pence per quart. Shoulder and loin may be dressed in the same way. 343. SHOULDER OF MUTTON is best if well hung; the spit should be run in at the flap and brought out at the knuckle ; this should not be basted in roasting, but merely rubbed with a little butter; it is served occa- sionally with sauce. No. 158. This is sometimes boiled with onion sauce: or, as it is called, smothered in onions. It is also good by having the bone extracted, and its place filled with veal stuffing, and then put it on a trivet, in a baking-dish, with sliced potatoes under, and baked more or less in proportion to its size; one of six pounds will take one hour and a half—or as follows: Put a small shoulder of mutton in a deep saute-pan or baking-dish, season with a little pepper and salt, cover over with thin slices of fat bacon, then put in ten potatoes peeled and quartered, and the same quantity of apples, with half a pint of water, place in a moderate oven and bake for two hours, dress upon your dish, with the potatoes and apples round, skim all the fat from the gravy, which pour over and serve; it requires a little oil or butter over before baking.REMOVES. 192 344. SHOULDER OF MUTTON, PROVINCIAL FASHION.—Roast a fine shoulder of mutton; whilst roasting, mince ten large onions very fine, put them into a stewpan, with two tablespoonfuls of salad-oil, pass them ten minutes over a good fire, keeping it stirred, then add a tablespoonful of flour, stir well in, and a pint of milk, season with a little pepper, salt, and sugar; when the onions are quite tender and the sauce rather thick, stir in the yolks of two eggs, and take it off the fire; when the shoulder is done, spread the onions over the top, egg over, cover with bread-crumbs, put in the oven ten minutes, and salamander a light brown colour, dress upon your dish, put the gravy from it in your stewpan, with a pat of butter, with which you have mixed a little flour, boil up, add a little scraped garlic, pour round the shoulder, which serVe. The shoulder may also be diessed in the housewife’s method as directed for the leg. A little browning may be added. 345. LOIN OF MUTTON—Take off the skin, sepa- rate the joints with a chopper; if a large size, cut the chine-bone with a saw, so as to allow it to be carved in smaller pieces, run a lark-spit from one extremity to the other, and affix it to a larger spit, and roast it like the haunch. A loin weighing six pounds will take one hour to roast. 346. LEG OF MUTTON STEWED WITH VEGE- TABLES.—Have a good leg, beat it a little with a rolling pin, make an incision in the knuckle, in which put two cloves of garlic, then put it into a stewpan, with a pound of lean bacon cut in eight pieces, set over a moderate fire half an hour, moving it now and then until becoming a light brown colour, season with pepper and salt, add twenty pieces of carrots of the same size as the bacon,EE MOVES. IPS fifteen middling-sized onions, find when done add two bay-leaves, two cloves, and two quarts of water, replace it upon a moderate fire, moving round occasionally, stew nearly three hours, dress upon your dish with the carrots and onions dressed tastefully around, take off as much of the fat from the gravy as possible, take out the bay-leaves and pour the garniture round the mutton, which serve very hot. It can be braised like No. 310. A few drops of browning may be required. 347. NECK OF MUTTON.-This is a very recherche dish, if off a good-sized sheep, and well hung; it must be nicely trimmed, sawing the bones at the tips of the ribs, which detach from the meat, folding the flap over; saw off the chine-bone, and carefully detach the remainder of the bone from the fillet; detach the skin from the upper part, fix the flap under with a couple of skewers, run a flat lark-spit from end to end, fix it to a larger one, cover it with buttered paper, and roast like the haunch; if of five pounds, nearly three quarters of an hour to one hour It should be served very hot, the plates and dish the’ same, and not one minute before it is wanted: serve gravy under. 3-18. BOILED NECK OF MUTTON.—Tale one it, divide the chops, taking cave not to cut the fillet, put it into a pan with cold water sufficient *“ pk.Ce "Y* 0TO of salt, one onion, and a small bunch of parsley; boil it gently; when done, dish it up, and serve it with either parsley and butter made from the liquor m which it was boiled, caper or onion sauce, thetoth:UrmPS SePanlte' Pl'00eed “ Under IeCeipt with 349. SHEEPS HEAD.—Though this may be seen in every par. of London inhabited by the working classes!REMOVES. 294 and may be procured ready-cooked, I prefer always to prepare it at home, and very good it is. Choose a line one, as fat as possible, and put it into a gallon of water to disgorge for two hours; wash it well, saw it in two from the top, take ont the brain, cut away part of the uncovered part of the skull, and also the ends of the jaws, wash it well, put into the stewpan, with two onions, one carrot, two turnips cut in slices, a little celery, four cloves, a bouquet of four sprigs of thyme, a bay-leaf, one ounce of salt, a quarter of an ounce of pepper, three quarts of water; set on the fire; when near boiling, add half a tea- cupful of pearl or Scotch barley; let it simmer for three hours, or till tender, which try with a fork; take out vege- tables, cut in dice, remove bouquet, skim ofi the fat, and pour all into tureen. Or, lay the head on a dish, and serve ■with either onion sauce over, parsley and butter, or any sharp sauce; or egg and bread-crumb it over, put it m an oven for half an hour till getting a nice yellow colour, and serve with sharp sauce under. Or, with the brain, thus: havin" boiled the brain for ten minutes m a little vinegar, salt, and water, cut it in pieces, warm it in parsley and butter, season it a little, and put it under the head and serve. 350. SHEEP’S HEAD AND LIVER.—Boil half a sheep’s liver for thirty minutes in a quart of water, cut it into small dice, put two ounces of butter in the stewpan and set it on the fire, then add a tablespoonful of chopped onions, cook it a few minutes, add the liver, season wit 1 salt pepper, grated nutmeg, a spoonful of flour, half-pint of broth! stir when boiling, simmer for a few minutes lay on dish, and put the head over just as it is out ol broth or bread-crumb it, and put it m the oven. lamb may be obtained ail the year round. There are two sorts, the house and grass. The house lamb is in season from Christmas to April, after195 REMOVES. which the grass; the latter has the most flavour, but the former is consi- dered the most delicate. Tlie same rules for cutting up should be observed as in the sheep. The fore-quarter consists of a shoulder, neck, and breast together; if cut up, the shoulder and ribs. The hind-quarter is the leg and loin, lhe head and pluck consist of the liver, lights, heart, nut and melt, as also the fry, which is the sweetbread, bits and skirts, and part of the liver. The fore-quarter should be fresh, the hind-quarter should hang, it should be of a pale colour and fat. The vein in the fore-quarter ought to be blueish and firm; if yellow or green, it is very stale. To ascertain if the hind-quarter is fresh, pass your finger under the kidney, and if there is a faint smell it is not fresh. If there is but little flesh on the shoulder, it is not fine lamb; those that have short wool I have found to be the best flavoured. Nothing differs so much in flavour and goodness as this; much depends upon the kind of pasture on which the ewe is fed; that which is obtained when it is the dearest has but little flavour, and requires the addi- tion of lemon and cayenne to make it palatable. 351. NECK OF LAMB A LA JARDINIERE.— Plain roast the neck, as you would that of mutton; and whilst it is roasting, cut one middling-sized carrot in small dice, the same quantity of turnip, and thirty button onions; wash all in cold water, put them in a small stew- pan, with one ounce of butter and half a teaspoonful of sugar, place on the fire till no liquid remains in the stew- pan ; add to it a gill of brown sauce, half a one of broth, add a small bouquet of parsley and bay-leaf; after once oiling, set it to simmer on the corner of the stove, skim off all the fat; when ready, taste if very palatable; it must be a nice brown colour, and the sauce lightly adhere to the back of the spoon; serve on the dish, place the neck over; white sauce may be used instead of brown, only add a spoonful of liaison when ready to serve. The sauce is equally good with almost any kind of meat, game, and poultry; it will often be referred to, therefore be particular f maklng lt; y°u can shape the vegetables in twenty dif- eient ways, by using either green peas, French beans o 2 *196 REMOVES.. Brussels sprouts; sprue-grass may be added, when in season, but should be boiled separately, and added just previous to serving. 352. SADDLE OF LAMB, RUSSIAN FASHION. —Roast a small saddle of lamb, keeping it pale; having had it covered with paper, take ten good-sized boiled potatoes, mash them with about two ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, a table- spoonful of chopped parsley, and a little grated nutmeg; mix all well together with a fork, adding half a gill of milk and one egg; when cold, roll them into a long shape the size of plover’s eggs, egg and bread-crumb twice, and fry light coloured; dress the saddle, surround it with the potatoes, make a sauce of melted butter and maitre-d’hotel butter, No. 306, put in it, and pour it round, and serve. All joints of lamb can be dressed thus. 353. LEG OR SHOULDER OF LAMB WITH PEAS.—These must be plain roasted; when done, serve with peas in the bottom of the dish, prepared as No. 174. 354. LEG OR SHOULDER WITH FRENCH BEANS. — Plain roast as before; prepare beans as directed. (jStec Vegetables.) 355. BOILED LEG OF LAMB WITH SPINACH. Procure a very small leg, and cut the end of the knuckle- bone, tie it up in a cloth and place it in cold water, with two ounces of salt; boil it gently according to size; when done, remove the cloth, and dish it up with spinach under it, prepared as directed. (See Vegetables.) 356. SHOULDER OF LAMB BRAISED. Take ihe blade bone from a shoulder of lamb, and have ready ten long stripe of fat bacon, which season rather highly197 REMOVES. ■with pepper, salt, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley ; place the pieces, one after the other, in your larding needle, which draw quickly through the fleshy part of the shoulder’ leaving the bacon in the meat; after having used all the bacon, 1 oil the meat round, and tie it up w’ith a piece of string; then put it into a stewpan containing a quarter of a pound of butter, over a slow Are, stirring it occasionally until of a light golden colour, pour in a quart of water or bioth, and add forty button onions and a bunch of parsley; let simmer very slowly until the onions are quite tender, then take up the meat, pull off the string, and dress it upon a dish with the onions round; take the parsley out of the liquor, carefully skim off all the fat, and reduce it until forming a thinnish glaze, when pour it over the meat and serve. Mushrooms may be added ten minutes before sending to table. 357. BREAST OF LAMB BRAISED, BROILED Saw off the breast from the ribs of lamb, leaving the neck of sufficient size to roast, or for cutlets; then put two onions, half a carrot, and the same of turnip, cut into thin slices, in a stewpan with two bay-leaves, a few sprigs of parsley and thyme, half an ounce of salt, and three pruts of water; lay in the breast, which let simmer until tender, and the bones leave with facility; take it from he stewpan, pull out all the bones, and press it between o dishes; when cold, season with a little salt and eZrW 6gS and ,,,rea'1~mnn,i k ligMy over, and broil gently (over a moderate fire) of a nice yellowish colour turning it very carefully; when sufficiently browned upon one side, serve with plain gravy in the dish, and ”*2™ Sepal'atCly’ °r 'Vi,h Stewed Peas or any other aeS wdthi.UOe: t0mat° SaU°e 13 IilWWise ™y good198 REMOVES. 358. LAMB’S HEAD.—See Sheep’s Head (No. 349). This will take half the time to cook. 859. LAMB’S FRY.—Take about a pound and boil for ten minutes in half a gallon of water, take it out and dry- on a cloth ; have some fresh crumbs, mix with them half a spoonful of chopped parsley", salt, pepper; egg the fry lightly with a paste-brush, dip it in the crumbs, fry for five minutes, serve very hot on a clean napkin in a dish, with fried parsley over. 360. LAMB’S HEAD WITH HOLLANDAISE.— If you want it very white, make stock as for sheep’s feet, put it to stew, when done lay on dish with about twelve new potatoes (boiled) round it, pour over some cream sauce (No. 301), and serve. 361. LAMB’S HEAD, WITH BRAIN OR LIVER. Blanch the brain or liver, and mince them as for sheep’s head, introducing only the yolk of an egg; mix with a little milk, stir in quick, add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, the juice of half a lemon, lay it on the dish with the head over, and serve. PORK.—The flesh of no other animal depends so much upon feeding as that of pork. The greatest care ought to be observed in feeding it, at least twenty-one days previous to its being killed; it should fast for twenty-four hours before. No animal is more used for nourishment, and none more in- dispensable in the kitchen; employed either fresh or salt, all is useful, even to its bristles and its blood; it is the superfluous riches of the farmer, and helps to pay the rent of the cottager. It is cut up the same as the ox. The fore-quarter is the fore-loin and spring; if it is a large pig, the sparenb may be cut off. The hind-quarter is the leg and loin. There is also the head and haslet (which is the liver, kidney, craw, and skirts), and also chitterlings, which arc cleansed for sausages and black puddings. For boiling or roastmg it should never be older than six months, and the leg must not weigh more than from six to seven pounds. The sliort-legged, thick-necked, and small- headed pigs are the best breed, a cross from the Chinese. If fresh and young.REMOVES. 199 the flesh and fat should be white and firm, smooth and dry, and the lean break if pinched between the fingers, or you can nip the skin with the nails.; the contrary, if old and stale. 362. LEG OF PORK.—Choose the pork as described at the commencement of this series; if a leg, one weigh- ing about seven pounds; make an incision in the knuckle near the thigh, into which put a quantity of sage and onions, previously passed in butter, sew up with pack- thread, score the rind of the pork in lines across, half an inch apart, place upon a spit, running it in just under the rind, and bringing it out at the knuckle. If stuffed the day pievious to roasting, it will improve its flavour; roast (if weighing seven pounds) about two hours and a half^ eleven pounds, three hours and a half, and serve with apple sauce in a boat. 363. CHINE OF PORK.-Score it well, stuff it thick with pork stuffing, roast it gently, and serve with apple sauce. 1 r o6I. SPARERIB OF PORK.—When spitted,rub some flour over the outside, roast it before a clear fire, not too strong, or cover it with paper; about ten minutes before taking it up, throw some powdered sage over it, and froth it up with some butter in a spoon, and serve with gravy 365. LOIN OR NECK OF PORK A IA PTF MONTAISE.—The „ech or ,„in peel and cut four onions m dice, put them into a stew- pan, with two ounces of butter, stir over the fire until rather brown, then add a tablespoonful of flour, mix well add a good pmt of broth, if any, or water, with an ounce of glaze, boil ten minutes, add two tablespoonfuls ot 1 tench mustard, with a little pepper, salt, and sugar, pourREMOVES. 200 the sauce upon the dish, and dress your joint upon it, serve with a little apple sauce separate in a boat. 366. LOIN OR NECK OF PORK, (Normandy Fashion.)—Procure a neck or loin, put it in a common earthen dish, having previously scored the rind, rub over •with a little oil, place about twenty potatoes, cut in halves or in quarters, in the dish with the pork, ten onions peeled, and twenty apples peeled and quartered, place in a warm oven for an hour and a half or more, then dress it upon your dish with the apples, onions, and potatoes around, and serve. 367. BACON AND HAM.—Bacon-pigs are cut up differently for hams, bacon, &c., but a pole-axe should never be used in killing them, as It spoils the bead. To be good, the fat must be firm, with a slight red tinge the lean a dark-red, and stick close to the bone ; the rind thin, if young ; if old (should it be well fed it is sometimes better), it will be thick. For ams, choose one short in the hock; run the knife close under the bone, when it comes out, if not smeared, and has a pleasant smell, it is good 368. HAM.—This useful and popular dish, winch is equally a favourite in the palace and the cottage, may be dressed in upwards of fifty different ways with as many different dishes, which are described in their place. Of the English hams, the York and Westmoreland are the best: they should be well soaked in water, placed m plenty of cold water, and boiled gently for three or lour hours. If to serve hot, take the skm off, except from the knuckle, which cut to fancy; trim the fat to a nice ap- pearance, glaze, or throw some sifted raspings of bread, S“ed with a little chopped parsley. Serve where recom- me369dBACON.—A piece of good streaked bacon, not too salt should he put into cold water, and boiled for one hour and a lialff and served with broad beans, when in season, round it, or any young peas.REMOVES. 201 370. SUCKING PIG is merely plain roasted, stuffed with veal stuffing, but before putting it upon the spit it requires to be floured and rubbed very dry, otherwise the skin would not eat crisp: the usual method of serving it is to cut off' the head, and divide the body and head of the pig in halves lengthwise, pour over some sauce made ot the brains, and a little brown sauce, or of white melted butter, nicely seasoned with salt, pepper, and sugar; serve apple sauce separate in a boat, if approved of. 371. HIND QUARTER OF SUCKING PIG, (York shire Fashion.)—Cut off the skin, cover with paper, and roast before a quick fire about three-quarters of an hour; ten minutes before being ready, remove the paper and baste it; serve with gravy under, and mint sauce and salad. 372. SALT PORK.—Pork is salted in the same manner as described for beef, omitting the sal-prunella, but of course it does not require so long a time: a leg weighing seven pounds would be well salted in a week, as also would a hand and spring weighing about ten pounds, and either would require two hours’ boiling, putting them in a stewpan with plenty of cold water, and serving with carrots and greens, and pease pudding. 373. PIG’S CHEEK, (A New Method.)—Procure a pig’s cheek nicely pickled; boil well until it feels very tender, tie half a pint of split peas in a cloth, and put them into a stewpan of boiling water, boil about half an hour, take them out, pass through a hair sieve, put them into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, a little pepper and salt, and four eggs, stir them over the fire until the eggs are partially set, then spread it over the pig’s cheek, egg with a paste-brush, sprinkle bread-crumbs over, place in the oven ten minutes, brown it with the salamander, and serve.202 REMOVES. 374. PICKLED PORK, (Belli/ Part.)—Choose a nice streaked piece of about four pounds; it will take about three-quarters of an hour boiling; serve, garnish with greens round it. 375. HAND OF PORK.—Choose one not too salt; boil it for one hour; serve as above. VENISON.—We liaye three sorts in this country. There are, the stag, or red-deer, -which is a native, and of which but few exist in a wild state, except in the woods of Mr. Herbert, M.P. for Kerry, in the vicinity of the lakes of Killamey, where they are most numerous. The second is the fallow deer, which is the common sort, introduced into this country by James the First, and of which we have great numbers in noblemen’s parks; and the third is the roebuck deer, which is found only in the north of Scotland. Of the first, it is rare that any parts of it come to London, nor can I say that it is desirable, the flavour being strong, and having no fat; yet a good steak, broiled over the turf cinders in the Gap of Dunlow, with a good appetite as a sauce, is not bad, as Mr. B. says. But the fallow deer, when fed on good herbage, is the finest meat, the most delicate flavour, and most nourishing that can be put on the table ; a fine haunch of this, well covered with fat, and properly and artistically roasted, ought certainly to be the height of an epicure’s desire. Should you ever have one made a present to you, be careful in following the receipt; but should you be obliged to purchase, go yourself to Groves’s and choose one, or let your husband call at Lever s, in Comhill, or Rich’s, in Ludgate-hill, and you will be able to obtain some of the finest to be had in this country, as they are selected from the best herds. The third, the roebuck, is not often got in London ; it is a fine flavour, tender, but wants fat: when cooked, it should always be covered with mutton fat. Venison is cut up the same as mutton, with the exception of the saddle, which is seldom or never cut; the flesh should be dark, fine-grained and firm, and a good coating of fat on the back. It should be well hung and kept in a dry, cold place. By running a skewer in along the bone, you will know when it is fit for eating; examine, it carefully eveiy morning to cut out any fly-blows. 376. HAUNCH OF VENISON.—A good haunch of venison, weighing from about twenty to twenty-five pounds, will take from three to four hours’ roasting, before a good solid fire. Trim the haunch, by cutting off part ol the knuckle, and sawing off the chine-bone; fold the flap over, then envelope it in a flour-and-water paste rather stiff, and an inch thick; tie it up in strong paper, four sheets m203 REMOVES. thickness, place it in your cradle spit so that it will turn quite even; place it at first very close to the fire, until the paste is well crusted, pouring a few ladlefuls of hot dripping over occasionally to prevent the paper catching fire; then put it rather further from the fire, which must be quite clear, solid, and have sufficient frontage to throw the same heat on every part of the venison. When it has roasted the above time, take it up, remove it from the paste and paper, run a thin skewer into the thickest part, to ascertain if done; if it resists the skewer, it is not done, and must be tied up and put down again ; but if the fire is good, that time will sufficiently cook it; glaze the top well, salamander until a little brown, put a frill upon the knuckle, and serve very hot, with strong gravy and plenty of French beans separate.* 377. NECK OF VENISON should be cut like a neck of mutton, taking the breast off, leaving the neck about nine inches wide; detach the flesh from the chine-bone, and saw it off, leaving only the cutlet-bones; then pass a lark spit through it, cover it with paste and paper, the same as the haunch, and fix on spit and roast, if about eight pounds, for two hours, before a good fire. When venison is plentiful M. Soyer has invented a new joint, called the saddle-back, which is the finest part of the deer, and would have been worthy of the piost distinguished position in the banquet of Anacreon. (See ' Gas- tronomic Regenerator.’) Fawns, when very young, are not good food ; but these should be treated in every way like hare, giving them a little more seasoning. They are, how- ever, better when a little larger, and divided inquarters, and dressed like lamb. Kid, if young, should be treated like rabbits, but if older, may be divided and prepared as lamb. Ihey are considered extremely nutritious, and the pure gravy, or ozmazome, from them is excellent for invalids. * A very handsome and convenient dish has latterly been invented bv Messrs Shaw and Fisher, of Edinburgh, for venison, by which the cravv coming from the joint can be served without the fat. & J204 POULTRY. This is the best and most delicious of the various matters with which man furnishes himself as food; although containing but little nourishment, it gives a delightful variety to our repast: from the sparrow to the turkey, we find everywhere, in this numerous class, that which gives a meal equally as good for the invalid as the robust. Increasing every day in luxuries, we have arrived at a point unknown even to Lucullus; we are not contented with the beautiful qualities which Nature gives this species, but, under pretence of improving them, we not only de- prive them of their liberty by keeping them in solitude and in darkness, but force them to eat their food, and thus bring them to a degree of fatness which Nature never intended. Even the bird which saved the capitol of Rome is treated with still greater indignity,'—thrust into warm ovens, and nearly baked alive to produce those beautiful and delicious livers so well known to gourmets.* In London the poultry and game are sent in so nicely prepared for cooking, that any remark upon the method of killing, plucking, and drawing it, would appear almost unnecessary; but remembering the manner that I have seen poultry and game mutilated in some parts of the country, I have been in- duced to give the following simple directions. The Best Way of Killing Poultry.—Take the bird by the neck, place the thumb of the right hand just at the back of the head, close the head in your hand, your left hand holding the bird, then press your thumb down hard and pull the head and neck contrariwise ; the neck will break in- stantaneously, and the bird will be quite dead in a few seconds: then hang it a short time by the legs for the blood to flow into the head, which renders the flesh much whiter. In France they are usually killed by cutting the throat close to the head; both methods are good with regard to the whiteness of the flesh, but I prefer the English method, not being so barbarous. To Pluck either Game or Poultry.—Lay the bird upon a board with its head towards you, and pull the feathers away from you, in the direction they lie ; . many persons pull out the feathers the contrary way, by which means they are likely to tear the skin, and very much disfigure the bird for the table. * Foie gras dc Strasbourg.205 POULTRY. To Draw Poultry.—After it is well plucked, make a long incision at the back of the neck, take out the thin skin from under the outer containing the crop, cut the neck off close to the body of the bird, but leave the neck skin a good length, make another incision under the tail just large enough for the gizzard to pass through, no larger; then put your finger into the bird, and remove the crop, then loosen and detach all the intestines, taking care not to break the gall bladder, squeeze the body of the bird, so as to force out the whole of them at the tail; it is then ready for trussing, the method of doing which will be given in the various Receipts throughout this series. The above method of drawing poultry is equally applicable to game. TURKEY.—The flesh of this bird depends greatly upon its feeding; it might be made much more valuable for table if proper attention were paid to it. A young one should have his legs black and smooth, and spurs short, his eyes fresh and the feet limber. It is singular that this bird should take its name from a country in which it was never seen ; in other countries in Europe it is called the Indian cock, because the West Indies, on the first discovery of America by Columbus, was supposed to be part of the continent of India ; and this bird, being brought over on the first voyage, it was thus named. By many it is supposed to have been introduced by the Jesuits in Spain and Portugal, and it is pro- bable they were the first who domesticated it, and it is thus called a Jesuit in many parts of Europe. I have seen it stated that it was known to the Romans and was served at the marriage of Charlemagne. Prom my researches I rather think it is confounded with the pheasant. It has more flavour than any other of our domestic birds, and is, consequently, held in higher estima- tion, and commands a higher price. Do not fear these long receipts, as each one contains several. ^ 378. PLAIN ROASTED TURKEY, WITH SAU- SAGES. This well-known dish, which has the joyous recollection of Christinas attached to it, and its well-known cognomen ot “an alderman in chains,” brings to our mind’s eye the famed hospitality of this mighty city. The following is my plan of cooMng it. It must be first trussed as followsHaving first emptied it, break the leg-bone close to the foot, and draw out the sinews from the thi°h, cut off the neck close to the back, leaving the skin long;rOULTRY. 506 •wipe the inside with, a wet cloth, cut the breast-hone through on each side close to the back, and draw the legs close up; fold a cloth up several times, place it on the breast, and beat it down until it lies flat; put a skewer in the joint of the wing, and another through the middle of the leg and body; one through the small part of the leg and body, close to the side bones, and another through the extremity of the two legs. The liver and gizzard should be placed between the pinions of the wings, and the points turned on the back. When thus trussed, singe all the hair olf that may remain, take about one pound of stuffing (see Receipt), and put it under the skin at the neck, tie the skin under, but not too tight, or.it may burst in roasting; put it on to a small-sized spit, and fasten it with a holdfast, or hang it neck downwards from a bottle- jack; put it about eighteen inches from a good roasting fire, let it turn about ten minutes; when the skin is firm and dry, press into the bowl of a wooden spoon, so that it sticks, about one ounce of butter, and rub the turkey all over with it: when all melted, remove the turkey eight inches further from the Are. One of about six pounds will take two hours to roast, without pouring any fat over it. In case your fire is too fierce, and likely to break the skin, draw it back still more: it will, with proper care, be of a golden colour. I do not object to the gizzard being placed under the wing when roasting, but never the liver, which I cook in the dripping-pan, as the gravy which would run from it would spoil the colour of the breast. When done, remove it, cut the strings, lay it on your dish, and pour under half a pint of good brown gravy, or make some with glaze. Or, whilst the bird is roasting, butter the bottom of a small stewpan, pick and slice two onions, lay them at the bottom, cut the neck in small pieces, add half a spoonful of salt, a quarterPOULTRY. 207 ditto of pepper, a little turnip, one clove; set on a slow fire till the onions are of a brown colour, then add a pint of water; let it simmer for nearly one hour, then pass it through a sieve into a basin, skim off the fat, return the gravy again into a stewpan, give it a boil, and when the turkey is ready to send to table, pour it under; add a little beef or veal, if handy, to the gravy, if you require much. This plan of roasting is adapted for all birds, and all my receipts for plain roasting of poultry will refer to this, with the alteration of the time, which each takes to cook. ’ Sausages I seldom broil; I prick them with a needle, rub the bottom of the frying-pan with a little butter, put twelve sausages in, and set it on a slow fire, and fry gently for about fifteen minutes, turning them when required (by this plan they will not burst), and serve very hot round the turkey, or on a separate dish of smoking hot mashed potatoes. To vary the gravy, I have tried the following- plan; takeoff the fat which is in the frying-pan into a basin, then add the brown gravy, mix a good teaspoonful of arrowroot in a cup with a wineglassful of cold water pour in the pan, boil a few minutes, pass it through a sieve and serve with the turkey. The gravy this way is excellent. 370. TURKEY WITH FLAT SAUSAGE CAKE -I-oast as before; fry thirty oval flat sausages (see Receipt), the same quantity of the same-sized pieces of bacon a quarter of an inch thick; make a border of mashed potatoes about the size of a finger, one inch inside the edge of the dish, dress your sausages and bacon on it as a crown alternately, put your turkey i„ the middle, and gravy over, or glaze, if at hand. Plain boiled onguc may, of course, be served with the turkey, or208 POULTRY. * separate on a dish of greens. If any remains of tongue from a previous day, it may be served instead of the sau- sages, cut the same shape as sausages, and warmed in a pan; if so, put a nice green Brussels sprout between each piece. Bread sauce is generally served with this dish; for my own part I never eat it. Boiled Turkey.—This is a dish I rarely have, as I never could relish it boiled as it generally is, by putting it into that pure and chaste element ■water, into which has been thrown some salt, the quantity of which differs as much as the individuals that throw it in. I often reflect to myself, why should this innocent and well-brought up bird have its remains condemned to this watery bubbling inquisition, especially when alive it has the greatest horror of this temperate fluid ; it is really for want of reflection that such mistakes occur: the flavour of a roasted turkey, hot or cold, is as superior to the boiled as it is possible to be. But yet there is a kind of boiling that can be adopted, and which I sometimes practise : it makes a nice palatable dish, and the broth can be used for other purposes. I think, if you try it, you will never again resort to that bubbling system of salt and water. I proceed as follows :— 380. BOILED BRAISED TURKEY.—Truss it thus: cut the neck, leaving the skin on; cut the legs off; then run the middle finger into the inside, raise the skin of the legs, and put them under the apron of the turkey, put the liver and gizzard in the pinions, turn the small end of the pinions on the back, run a packing needle with string through the joint of the wing and middle joint of the leg, and through the body, and out at the opposite leg and win<r, bring it round and tie it on the back, then run the needle and string through the ends of the legs or dium- stick press it through the back, and tie strongly ; it is then ready. When the turkey is trussed, then stuff it; and if intended to have oyster sauce with it, chop about two dozen of oysters into small dice and mix them with the stuffing, and place inside the breast. Then rub the breast209 POULTRY. with half a lemon, and put it into a two-gallon pan, and cover it with cold water, to which are added two ounces of butter, one ounce of salt, four onions, a stick of celery, one carrot, two turnips sliced, a large bouquet of parsley, two bay leaves, two sprigs of thyme; set it on the fire, when beginning to boil skim it, let it simmer two hours, or more if large; try the breast with a needle, if it goes in and out easily it is done; take it out and set it on a dish to drain, remove the string, serve on a fresh dish with a pint of good thick oyster sauce over it. By omitting the oysters in stuff- mg, you may serve the turkey with celery sauce, Jeru- salem sauce, tomato ditto, mushroom ditto, or good parsley and butter; and, as an accompaniment, a piece of about two pounds of nice streaked bacon, which has been boiled with the turkey, and from which you have removed the skin, and serve on some greens, or Brussels sprouts, over which you have thrown a little salt, pepper, and two ounces ot oiled butter, lou see, dear , that this dish can be varied without much expense and trouble; observe that this way, the broth is good for soup the same day’ by the addition of two pounds of veal cut in small pieces' a quarter of a pound of lean bacon, one onion, one blade o mace, one leek, a wineglass of water; put it into a separate stewpan, stew on fire till forming a white glaze then add it to the turkey when on the point of boiling- w ien done, skim off all fat, pass it through a tammy or cloth; you may use it for any clear soup by adding a little brown gravy or colouring, and also for any kind of puree • or by reducing it a little, make white or brown sauce’ adding to the last the proper colour. I must observe, that this will be almost impracticable when you have a Pa-rty; the only plan would be to get the turkey done one hour before you require it, keeping it hot with its breast in some of the stock; but, as the rot i will keep well in small quantities, it can be reserved for the next day.POULTRY. 210 That is my plan of boiling, but the following is my new way of giving the flavour of vegetables to all poultry, which is a decided improvement. The aroma from the bird when the cover is removed is quite inviting, and the appearance of it, which is as white as alabaster, and cuts also full of juice : I call it— 381. ROAST BRAISED TURKEY.—Peel and wash two onions, one carrot, one turnip, cut them in thin slices, also a little celery, a few sprigs of parsley, two bay-leaves, lay three sheets of paper on the table, spread your vege- tables, and pour over them two or three tablespoonfuls of oil; have your turkey, or poularde, trussed the same as for boiling; cut a few slices of lemon, which you place on the breast to keep it white, then cover with thin slices of bacon, and place the back of the bird on the vegetables; tie the paper round with string, then pass the spit and set it before the fire; pour plenty of fat over to moisten the paper and prevent it from burning, roast three hours at a pretty good distance from the fire: capons will take two hours, poulardes one hour and a half, fowls one houi, and chickens half an hour. This way it may be served with almost any sauce or garniture, as stewed peas, oyster sauce, jardiniere, stewed celery, cauliflower, stewed cucumbers, Jerusalem artichokes, which should be turned in the shape of a pear: these should be dished on a border of mashed potatoes; that is, an artichoke and a Brussels sprout alternately, or a small piece of white cauliflower, and a small bunch of green asparagus, or stewed peas, or stewed celery of two inches long, never more, or any other vege- table according to season, which taste or fancy may dic- tate. When I want to serve them with brown garniture or sauce, I remove the paper and vegetables twenty minutes before it is done, and give it a light golden colour, then I serve it with either a ragout financier, or mushroom, or English truffle. I also often stuff it thus: I put two211 POULTRY. pounds of sausage meat in a basin with a little grated nutmeg; I then take two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions, put them in a saute-pan with a little butter, and let them do for two minutes, which add to the meat, also two eggs well beaten up, and a quarter of a pint of white sauce, if at hand, and fifteen fine roasted chesnuts; add this to the stuffing, and fill the bird as usual, not too full at the breast; roast as above, giving half an hour longer for the force- meat; put a quart of demiglaze and a glass of sherry in a stewpan, reduce it to a jfint and a half!, add in it fifty but- ton onions previously stewed, and twenty-five roasted chesnuts; sauce under. o82. TURKEY, IF OLD.—The French stew it exactly like the ribs of beef’ the receipt of which you have; but as this is a large “piece de resistance,” I think I had better give it to you in full as I do it:-Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a convenient-sized stewpan, such as will conveniently hold it; cut one pound of lean bacon in ten or twelve pieces for a few minutes in the pan on the fire, then add your turkey trussed as for boiling, breast downwards; set it on a moderate fire for one hour, and until it is a nice colour; add two table- spoonfuls of flour, and stir well round until it forms a roux, then add two quarts of water or broth; when you have it on the point of boiling, add fifty pieces of carrot the size of walnuts, the like of turnip, ten button onions, a good bouquet of sprigs of thyme, two bay-leaves, and ten of parsley, a small glass of rum, a clove, a piece of garlic, and let it stew gently for four hours. If you use water, season in proportion. Take the turkey out, and put the vege- tables and sauce m a smaller stewpan, which ought to be nearly full; let it simmer on the corner of the fire, so that the lat rises and maybe removed, and reduce it to a dbmi- P 2212 rOULTRY. glaze, dish up the turkey and serve with the sauce over it; small new potatoes, about twenty, when in season, may be added to the sauce, or roasted chesnuts. The remains are excellent when cold, or will warm again with the addi- tion of a little broth or water. The series of Entrees will contain the dishes made from the remnants of the fore- going receipts. FOWLS, in a general sense, mean all kinds of poultry, but, in a limited view, one species of bird, which is exceedingly common in all parts of Europe; there is an amazing number of kinds of this species produced by crossing the breed ; so great attention having been bestowed upon this subject of late years, it is quite impossible to say which is the best. They are not originally natives of this island, but were found here by the Romans, having probably been introduced by the Phoenicians. We distinguish this kind in cookery, as the chicken, capon, pullet, cock, and hen. Chickens from their age cannot be otherwise than tender ; capons should have a fat vein under the wing, thick belly and rump, comb short and pale, spurs short and blunt, and legs smooth. Pullets are best in the spring, just before they begin to lay. Cocks shotdd have their spurs short, legs smooth, and comb short, smooth, and a bright colour.* Hens, legs and comb smooth, and full breast. Black legs are best for roasting and entrees, and white for boiling. For preparing them for table, M. Soyer has invented a plan :—by cutting the sinews of the bird, it not only appears fuller and plumper when cooked, as the heat is liable to contract the sinews, but it also affords facility for carving when the sinews are divided; they are trussed in the usual way, only using string instead of skewers. The following is the ordinary plan of trussing— For Roasting.—Having emptied the fowl and cleaned the gizzard, cut the skin of the wings, and put the gizzard and liver through it, and turn the pinion under; put a skewer through the first joint of the pinion and the body, coming out at the opposite side, and bring the middle of the leg close up to it; run a skewer through the middle of both legs and body, and another through the drumstick and side-bone, and one through the skins of the feet, the nails of which must be cut off. In London, these are removed try the poulterer before being sold.POULTRY. 213 For Boiling.—Prepare as before ; put the finger in the inside, and raise the skin of the legs; cut a hole in the top of the skin, and put the legs under; put the gizzard and liver in the pinions, and run a skewer through the first joint; draw the leg close up, and run a skewer through the middle of the legs and the body, tie a string on the tops of the legs to keep them in their proper place. 383. POULARDS, CAPONS, AND FOWLS.—These are the best at nine and ten months old; if twelve or four- teen, they are only fit to be stewed like the turkey. No. 382, but in less time, or boiled in broth or sauces, but when young serve as boiled turkey, No. 380. Roast (No. 378) less time, but take care to do it well, as white meat with red gravy in it is unbearable. 384. CAPON or POULARD, ROASTED.—Prepare it as you would a turkey, and it may be stuffed with the same kind of stuffing, tie over the breast a large slice of fat bacon, about a quarter of an inch thick, and two sheets of paper; ten minutes before being done, remove the paper and bacon, dredge it, and put a piece of butter on it, so that it is of a nice colour, dish it up very hot with a gravy like the roast turkey. 385. CAPON BOILED.—The same as the turkey. 386. CAPON or POULARD A L’ESTRAG0N.-I are been told many fanciful epicures idolize this dish. 1 he bird should be trussed for boiling. Rub the breast with half a lemon t,e over it some thin slices of bacon, cover the bottom of a small stewpan with thin slices of the same and a few tamnungs of either beef, veal, or lamb, two onions, a little carrot, turnip and celery, two bay-leaves ne sprig of thyme, a glass of sherry, two quarts of water’ season lightly with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, s JTer about one hour and a quarter, keeping continually a little214 POULTRY. fire on the lid, strain three parts of the gravy into a small basin, shim off the fat, and pass through a tammy into a small stewpan, add a drop of gravy or colouring to give it a nice brown colour, boil a few minutes longer, and put about forty tarragon leaves; wash, and put it in the boil- ing gravy, with a tablespoonful of good French vinegar, and pour over the capon when you serve it; it is an im- provement to clarify the gravy. All hinds of fowls and chichens are continually coohed in this manner in France. They are also served with rice. 387. POULARD WITH RICE.—Having been braised as before, have a quarter of a pound of good rice washed, put in a stewpan, with a pint of broth, three spoonfuls of the capon’s fat from the stewpan, a bouquet of parsley, let it simmer until it is tender; tahe the parsley out, add two ounces of butter, a little salt, pepper, nutmeg, stir it round, or form it into a delicate pulpy paste; lay some of it on a dish with the capon on it, put the remainder round it, making it smooth with a hnife, leaving the breast unco- vered; salamander the rice, and serve clear gravy separate; sometimes I add a little curry powder in the gravy, and egg and bread-crumb the rice, and salamander, or mahe the rice yellow with curry powder, and make a border of half eggs round the dish ; it looks well, and that is a great thing; and one fowl done thus will often go as far as two plain. It is generally the custom with us to send either ham, tongue, or bacon, as an accompaniment to poultry. I endeavour to vary it as much as possible; the following is one of my receipts. I , 388. POULARDS or CAPONS, with Quenelles and Tongue.—When you are either roasting or braising, you make about twenty quenelles with tablespoons, out of forcemeat of veal. Proceed and cook the same; when215 POULTRY. done, intake a roll of mashed potatoes, which put round the dish you intend to serve it in; have ready cut from a cold tongue as many pieces of the shape of the quenelles, warm gently in a little gravy, then put the quenelles on the border, having cut a piece off the end so that they may stand properly, with a piece of tongue between each, put the fowl in the centre; have ready made a quart of a new white sauce, which pour over the fowl and quenelles; glaze the tongue and serve very hot. I found this dish at first rather complicated, but now my cook can do it well without my assistance. It looks and eats well, but is only adapted for a dinner of importance. 389. THE SAME WITH CUCUMBERS.—Cut about four nice fresh cucumbers into lengths of two inches, peel and divide them down the middle, take the seedy part out, trim the corners, put about thirty pieces of them into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, a spoonful of eschalot, and the same of sugar; lay them on a very slow fire for half an hour, or till tender; lay them on a border of mashed potatoes, with quenelles as above, and place the tongue between; in another stewpan put a little butter, and the trimmings of the cucumbers, then add a quart of white sauce, boil and pass through a tammy, adding a little sugar, or other seasoning if required, and finish with half a gill of good cream sauce over all except the tongue, which glaze. Cauliflower, sprue grass, Jerusalem arti- chokes, or Brussels sprouts, like the turkey, make excel- lent and inviting dishes. 390. CAPON WITH YOUNG CARROTS.-Scrape two bunches of young carrots, keep them in their original shape as much as possible, wash them and dry on a cloth - put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, a little216 POULTRY. sugar, salt, and pepper, set it on the fire for ten minutes, moving them now and then, add a quart of white broth, simmer gently until very tender and it comes to a demi- glaze; dish the carrots on a border of potatoes, the points towards the centre, cook some small button onions the same way, but very white, and dress them alternately; mix the two gravies together with a quart of demi-glaze, set it on the fire, boil fast, skim it, when forming a bright thinnish sauce pour it over the capon and vegetables; being served with a brown sauce, it ought te be roasted brown like turkey (No. 378); turnips may also be added instead of carrots, or both. 391. FOWLS, ITALIAN WAY.—Prepare and cook the fowls as above, or re-warm some that may be left, cut the remains of a tongue into pieces one inch long and one quarter in thickness, cut three times the quantity of plain boiled macaroni the same way, with a few mushrooms, and add the whites of four eggs to It, with some broth and half a pint of white sauce; when boiling, add a quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan, and half that of Gruyere, shake the stewpan so that the contents are well mixed, add a little salt and cayenne, put fowl on dish, sauce over and serve : or put the macaroni on the dish, mix bread- crumbs and a little grated cheese together and sprinkle over it, put it into the oven until it is a yellow-brown colour, put the fowl on it very hot, and serve with a little white sauce over, and a strong gravy separate. 392. FOWL A L’ECARLATE.—Roast and braise two nice fowls, and boil a fine salted tongue, which tiim so as to be able to stand it in a dish, place it in the middle in a slanting position, place two fine heads of cauliflower at each end and make a pint of cream sauce, pour ovei217 POULTRY. the fowl and brocoli; glaze the tongue, and serve. Fowls may be dressed in any of the ways before described, and dished up thus. GEESE.—We have now arrived at your favourite dish, or, as your better- half said, on your return home from this, “ What is better than a goose stuffed with sage and onion V' Of course many persons are of his idea, and I must say that I for one enjoy them occasionally when in season; yes, indeed, I do, and with the original apple-eauce, too ; this last addition to our national cookery must have been conferred on it by the Germans, who eat sweets or stewed fruit with almost every dish; or, perhaps, from William the Conqueror, who left his land of apples to visit and conquer our shores ; but never mind to whom we are indebted for this bizarre culinary mixture, I sincerely forgive them, and intend to have one for dinner to-day, which I shall have cooked a3 follows : but I must first tell you how they should be chosen. The flesh should be of a fine pink colour, and the liver pale, the bill and foot yellow, and no hairs, or but few, on the body; the contrary will be observed in an old one, which will have the feet and bill red. 393. GOOSE {to truss.)—Having well picked the goose, cut the feet off at the joint, and the pinion at the first joint,- cut off the neck close to the back, leaving all the skin you can; pull out the throat, and tie a knot at the end; put your middle finger in at the breast, loosen the liver, &c.; cut it close to the rump, and draw out all the inside except the soal,* wipe it well, and beat the breast- bone flat; put a skewer in the wings, and draw the legs close up, running a skewer through the middle of both legs and body; draw the small of the leg close down to the side-bone, and run a skewer through; make a hole in the skin large enough to admit the croupion, and when stuffed place it through it, as it holds the stuffing better. For the giblets which have been taken out, see Giblet Pie. tJ,1""13,7°rd iS "0t/°Und in di°tionarie3, but is used by poulterers to denote that small piece of the lungs which is left in the bird.21S POULTRY. 394. ROAST GOOSE.—Peel and cut in rather small dice six middle-sized onions, put in a pan, with two ounces of butter, half a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, a little grated nutmeg and sugar, six leaves of fresh sage chopped fine, put on fire, stir with wooden spoon till in pulp, then have the goose ready trussed, and stuff' it whilst hot, tie the skin of the neck to the back, pass the spit through, and roast two hours before a mode- rate fire; baste the same as turkey (No. 369), give a nice yellow colour, remove it from the spit, take off the string, and serve with half a pint of good brown gravy under, and apple-sauce in a boat. 395. THE SAME, WITH ANOTHER STUFFING. —I have tried it with the liver chopped and mixed with the onions; I also at times add two cold potatoes cut in dice, and a spoonful of boiled rice added to the former stuffing, and occasionally bread-crumbs; it removes the richness of the fat, and renders it more palatable and digestive; and I also sometimes add twenty chesnuts cut into dice. The giblets should be stewed or made into pies. (See Receipt.) Where there is no gravy, broth, or glaze, still gravy is wanted, therefore put into the drip- ping-pan a teaspoonful of salt, half a pint of water, and dredge a little flour on it; when the bird is done, pour the contents of the pan into a cup, remove the fat, pour over the back of the bird, which serve in a very hot dish as soon as taken from the fire. 396. GOOSE ROASTED (another way).—Having the goose ready the day previously to using, take three cloves of garlic, which cut into four pieces each, and place inside the goose, and stuff’ it as follows: take four apples, four onions, four leaves of sage not broken, four leaves of219 POULTRY. lemon-thyme not broken, and boil in a stewpan with suf- ficient water to cover them; when clone, pulp them through a sieve, removing the sage and thyme, then add sufficient pulp of mealy potatoes to cause it to be sufficiently dry without sticking to the hand, add pepper and salt, and stuff the bird, having previously removed the garlic, tie the neck and rump, and spit it, paper the breast, which remove after it has been at the fire for twenty minutes; when done, serve it plain with a thickened gravy. 397. GOOSE STEWED.—If an old one, stew it with vegetables, as duck (No. 401), only give it more time to cook. On the Continent they are dressed in different ways, but which are too complicated for our kitchens. 39S. GOOSE GIBLETS, RAGOUT OF, OR OF TURKEY. Put them into half a gallon of warm water to disgorge for a few hours, then dry them on a cloth, cut into pieces not too small, put into a stewpan a quarter of a pound of good lean bacon, with two ounces of butter* when a little brown, add your giblets, and fry for twenty minutes longer, stirring it together; add a little flour, a good bouquet of parsley, twenty button onions, same number of pieces of carrot and turnip, two saltspoonfuls of salt, the same of sugar, stew together one hour or more until tender, skim off the fat, dish up the meat, reduce the salt if required, take bouquet out, and sauce over the giblets; both goose and turkey giblets take the same time to stew’. If any remaining they will make a capital pie or pudding, or merely warm up with broth or water, and a little flour°’ 399. PRESERVED GOOSE for the Farm or Country House. In case you have more geese in condition and season than what you consume, kill and cut them up into pieces, so that there shall be as little flesh left on the car-220 POULTRY. case as possible, and bone the leg; rub into each piece ■with your fingers some salt, in which you have mixed a little saltpetre, put them into an earthern pan, with some thyme, bay-leaf, spice, a clove of chopped garlic, rub them for a couple of days, after which dip each piece in water, and dry on a cloth; when you have chopped fine and melted all the fat you could get from the goose, and scraped a quarter of a pound of fat bacon and melted with it, pass through a sieve into a stewpan, lay the pieces in it, and bake very gently in a slow oven until a stiff piece of straw will go through it, then lay it in a sieve; when nearly cold put it in a bowl or round preserving jar, and press a smaller one on the top, so that it all forms one solid mass, pour the fat over, when cold cover with a piece of bladder, keep it in a cold place, and it will be good for months together, and is excellent for breakfast, luncheon, or supper, having previously extracted the fat. Last winter I kept some for three months quite sweet; having half a one left, I put it by in the above way, bones and all, in a basin, and covered with the fat produced with roasting, and put it in the larder, and it was excellent. Ducks may be served in the same way. DUCKS.—There are several varieties of this bird, all, however, originating from the mallard. There have not been that care and attention paid to this bird as to the fowl; but I think it is well worthy the attention of farmers, it being one which is exceedingly cheap to rear; great care should be evinced in feeding it twelve days previously to its being killed. Ducklings are con- sidered a luxury, but which, I think, is more to be attributed to their scarcity than flavour : those from Aylesbury are preferred. The drake is generally considered the best, but, as a general rule, those of the least gaudy plumage are the best; they should be hard and thick on the belly, and limber-footed. 400. DUCKS ROASTED.—Prepare them for the spit (that is, the same as geese, only leave the fat on), and stuff them with sage, onion, and bread-crumbs, preparedPOULTRY. 221 as for the goose, roast before a very quick fire, and serve Aery hot. There are many ways o.f cooking ducks, but this is the plainest and the best. 401 STEWED DUCK AND PEAS.-Procure a duck trussed with the legs turned inside, which put into a stewpan with two ounces of butter and a quarter of a pound of streaked bacon, let remain over a fire, stirrino- occasionally until lightly browned, when add a table- spoonful of flour (mix well) and a quart of broth or water stir round gently until boiling, when skim, and add twenty utton onions, a bunch of parsley, with a bay-leaf, and two cloves, let simmer a quarter of an hour, then add a quart of nice young peas, let simmer until done, which mil take about half an hour longer, take out the duck place it upon your dish (taking away the string it was trussed with), take out the parsley and bay-leaf season the peas with a little pepper, salt, and sugar, skim the fat ZdTerve ^ UOt SUffiGient1^ thick> Pour over the duckq 402. DUCKLING WITH TURNIPS G 0 r disbrrg ,he ™fa%roeerC sauce with a little pepper salt ’ ? the rather thir-l- a ii • ^ ’ Sa anc* sugar, reduce until " SaUOe "°‘ Suiti"» a ** of this descrip. > turnips must not, howrever be in nnvc ^ over and serve. , bempuiee; sauce i0r y°0Be) and for variety, shouldPOULTRY. 222 peas be in season, a pint previously boiled may be added to the hash just before serving. The sage and apple must in all cases be omitted. 403. DUCKS A L’AUBERGISTE (or Tavern-keepers' fashion.)—Truss one or two ducks with the legs turned inside, put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter; place them over a slow fire, turning round occa- sionally, until they have taken a nice brown colour, add two spoonfuls of flour, mix well with them, add a quart of water, with half a tablespoonful of salt and sugar, let simmer gently until the ducks are done (but adding forty button onions well peeled as soon as it begins to boil), keep hot; peel and cut ten turnips in slices, fry them in a frying-pan in butter, drain upon a cloth, put them into the sauce, and stew until quite tender; dress the ducks upon your dish, skim the fat from the sauce, which has attained a consistency, add some fresh mushrooms, pour round tbe ducks, and serve. FLANCS. At this part of the dinner there are those dishes which are called F lanes, hy which is understood, those dishes whose contents are not so large as the Removes and not so small as the Entrees, and the Receipts for which may be taken from either of those departments, with this difference;—instead of meat or poultry being cut up, it should be left whole : for instance, a loin of mutton, instead of being cut up into outlets, should be served whole, with some sauce under it; and a duck, instead of being divided, should be left whole, and served with some sauce. It is also a great addition in the appearance of the table, and should always be served in a differently-formed dish to the entrees or removes; and are only required when eighteen or twenty persons dine, and four corner dishes are used.223 ENTRIES, or MADE DISHES. Entrees are, in common terms, what are called made-dishes; of course, these are the dishes upon which, in the high class of cookery, the talent of the cook is displayed. Great care should be observed in dishing them up, fjr the eye is a great assistance to the palate : it often happens that the careless- ness of the servant destroys the labours of the cook, by the manner in which the dish is taken from the kitchen to the dining-room. In some measure to avoid that, I direct a small thin border of mashed potatoes, about half an inch wide and a quarter of an inch deep, to be placed on the bottom of the dish, which keeps each object in its place: they should always be served exceed- ingly hot. . MADE DISHES OF BEEF.—The remainder of any cookerl joint:* of beef may be advantageously and economically dressed m the following ways: 404. HASHED BEEF.—Cut the beef into small thin slices winch lay upon a plate, and to every pound of beef add half a tablespoon fa1 of flour, a little chopped onion or eschalot, two sa tspoonfuls of salt, and a half one of pepper, mix the whole we together, and put it into a saucepan, with half a pint of water, stir it over the fire until upon the point of boilin^ when set it at the corner of the fire to simmer for ten minutes- it t then leady to serve. A great improvement to the appearance by adding n few spcxmf„ls of brown gic y ( o. 186), or a teaspoonful of colouring (No. 187) which might always be kept in a bottle. The flavour of any kind ot hash may be varied, by adding a few sprigs of parsley or thyme butter the size of a walnut, and three small or one lar^e onion cut into slices; put it on the fire until the onion is browned ! add the meat, which warm on one side, turn over when ’ ** through, pour over it a pint of hot water add two niel-1 7 i*™ l™ cu‘ “ witl.Pa tabled224 ENTREES. pickle, let it boil up, and serve; cr place it by the side of the lire until wanted. A few mushrooms put in it is an improve- ment, or a tablespoonful of walnut catsup. 406. MIROTON OF BEEF.—Peel and cut into thin slices two large onions, put them in a stewpan or saucepan, with two ounces of salt butter, place it over a slow fire, keeping the onions stirred round with a wooden spoon until rather brown, but not burnt in the least, then add a teaspoonful of flour, which mix well in and moisten with half a pint of water or broth if handy,, season with three saltspoonfuls of salt, two of sugar, and one of pepper if water has been used, but if broth, diminish the quan- tity of salt, add a little colouring (No. 187), to improve its ap- pearance; put in the beef, which you have previously cut into small thin slices, as free from fat as possible, let it remain a few minutes upon the fire to simmer, and serve upon a hot dish. To vary the flavour, a tablespoonful of vinegar might be added or half a glass of sherry. The above proportions are sufficient for one pound and a half of solid meat, and of course should be increased or diminished accordingly. 407. ANOTHER WAY.—Prepare the meat precisely as in the last, and when done put it into a pie-dish, sprinkle bread- crumbs lightly over, enough to cover the meat, upon which lay a small piece of butter, put the dish in the oven for half an hour, or before the fire, with a screen behind it, turning the dish round occasionally. By grating the crust of bread you would obtain some brown bread-crumbs, which would do equally as well as bread rubbed through a sieve. Should you have any cold from the first receipt, it may be served as here directed ; but being cold, would require to be longer in the oven to become well hot through. 408. ANOTHER WAY.—If any left from a previous dinner, put it in a dish, placing the meat in the centre, rather hi "her, cover over with some delicate mashed potatoes, about tw°o inches in thickness, to form a dome, rub some egg over with a paste-brush, and sprinkle crumbs of bread (either grated or otherwise) upon the top, and set in the oven until well browned, wffien serve. 409. A QUICKER WAY.—Cook a few slices of lean bacon in a frying-pan, but not too much, lay some of them in theENTREES. 225 W’licl‘ V slices of beef «« thin, colouring No. 187, (more seio.uoj’^ie'L l'Il'Sir' '“‘le was used.) set the dish in +i,„ /. . 06 iequired it water «te meat over with mashed potatoes/CSu^oS witlfa ae might be covered receipts, in which a bay-leaf damned n ’ 1 ^ S° mig 1<; ^ of t]le former might be served, ” »» ^pped gherkins, 410. REMAINS OF RIBS OF RFvp ■? , , with a little meat on them Divide i ^ ,lf 0nI7 the hones three inches each, put them in ajt j d Saw.them into P^ces of flour, some pepper and salt two nn' Wlt 1 a tahlespoonful of and one caiToTcut into n Ch?Pped fine’three turnips and one inch Ion" nearwZ JT °f a «uart® of inch colouring, and place on the fire and ■iff*1'1sP°»”f“l of serve with the pieces tastefully laid i„STdSh tf°“‘ '’m 'r’ and broth poured over. J 1 tUe ds’ tke vegetables 411. BROILED BONFS -n.-Tvm pepper, and salt, and broil over a clear Are™’ ^ milstard> <a«oes; and a little gravy 0^ be aided ^ K™ mth frW P- 412. EEEp PALATES \i seldom used in small f-imiHea +i tl0u®p tkls is an article very mended; they may be dossed inT ■“* ^ much to he com! Pensive, about four would be « L -°US 7ajS’ a.nd are not ex- into a large stewpan of lukpwn U C16nt Por a d*sh* Put them four or A. -™S cover again with fresh watfr and nlnee +h P°U1’ °ff the water> fire until the palates become’hart t n HSteWpan uPon the d-pinto cold water, scrape it with J i r tal<(L0Ut one- which oh easily, take out the remainder- hS aad.lf the skm comes short time longer: scrapethem L*? ** ^ ^ a shin, and nothing but the white half Z W g0t °ff a11 tlie 6 poin*of a k”ife- «*•«». Q2*26 ENTREES. dish, covered with a little of the stock, and place another dish of the same size over, to keep them flat, let remain until cold, when they are ready to serve in either of the following ways:—■ 413. BEEF PALATES A LA BRETONNE.—Peel and cut two large onions into slices, which put into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter, stirring them over the fire until lightly fried, when add a teaspoonful of flour, which mix well in, and a gill of broth, season with a little pepper, salt, and sugar, add a lew drops of brown gravy or browning, No. 186, and a spoonful ol mustard; boil the 'whole, keeping it stirred until forming a thicldsh pulp; then cut the palates into square pieces, and put into it; when well hot through they are ready to serve. 414 BEEF PALATES A LTNDIENNE.—Having pre- pared the palates as in No. 412, make some curry sauce as No. 156, cut the palate into square pieces and warm m the sauce, serve with rice separate, and it is delicious. 415. BEEF PALATES A LA POULETTE.—Make a little white sauce as directed, No. 135; after having prepared the palates, cut them into square pieces, and put them into a stewpan, just covered with some of the white sauce, season with a little white pepper, salt, sugar, chopped parsley, and the juice of half a lemon; let them simmer about five minutes, when poiu in a liaison of one yolk of egg, mixed with two tablespooniu s of cream or milk, stir it in rather quickly, and not afterwards permitting it to boil, then turn it upon your dish, place sippets of toasted bread round, and serve: chopped parsley and a little lemon may be added. 416. BEEF PALATES A LA MAITRE-D HOTEL. Proceed as above, using seasoned melted maitre-d’hotel butter. 417 TRIPE.—Select one pound of tripe, thick, fat, and white as possible, the honeycomb part is the most delicate; cut them in pieces of half a pound each, tie them together, put into a con- venient^sized stewpan one pint of milk, one of -ter, put in tbe tripe add six middle-sized onions whole, two teaspoonfuls ot *n t, half one of pepper, let it simmer till the onions are done, and the tripe is tLiw-emly, remove the string, d.sh broth an alll m t tureen. A little nutmeg, thyme, and bay-leaf, added just be227 entrees. fore serving is an improvement. If any remains, warm in curry sauce. 417.* TRIPE, LYONS FASHION.—When there is any remaining from a previous day, dry it on a clean cloth, cut them into pieces an inch square, put into an omelette or saute pan one or two ounces of butter, according to the quantity, slice thin a large onion, which fry in the pan, then add the tripe, saute them for five minutes, season with salt, pepper, and a spoonful of vinegar; serve very hot. 418. OX TAILS A LA JARDINIERE.—Cut and cook two ox tails as directed for soup, but just before they are done skim well, and take out the pieces of tails, which put upon a dtsh, then in another stewpan put two ounces of butter, to w lcb, when melted, add three ounces of flour, stirring it over the fire until forming a brownish roux (thickening), then mix by degrees two quarts of the stock the tails were boiled in, and boil altogether ten minutes, then put in the tails, with one carrot and two turnips (cut into small dice, or any other shape, with a vegetable cutter), and about thirty button onions; let the whole simmer very gently upon the corner of the fire, keeping it well skimmed, until the vegetables are tender, and the sauce suffi- ciently thick to adhere to the back of the spoon, dress the meat upon a dish, reduce the sauce, which pour over and serve. 419. OX TAILS All GRATIN.-Cook two ox tails as and'salt nhavhen ' ’ uPon a chth> season with pepper and salt, have a couple of eggs well beaten upon a plate, into diiil h0fd brS? P16Cl S1Dgl7’ aftervvards throwing them into a ltttlfwRb o kCTmb% t0 C0Ver evei7 Part’ th™ beat them them^mon , ’ and and bread-crumb them, broil them upon a gridiron or place them in a very hot oven until of or agra’v'; “ WWl ““ “V W. 420. OX TAILS, SAUCE PIQUANTF + •, as before, and when done dress them upon your dish pyramid^ cal y then make about a pint of sharp sauce No 140 h t STS.** tb* vineg,And H°’„S Z'" 0k; fas0" ratl,er hiSM7. odd three or (bur eherk ns chopped very fine, pour the sauce over, and serve S Q 2ENTREES. 228 421. OX HEART.—This dish, although not very recherche, is a good family one, and remarkable for its cheapness. Put it into lukewarm water, one hour to disgorge, then wipe it well ■with a cloth, and stuff the interior with a highly-seasoned veal stuffing, tie it up in paper, and pass a small spit through the sides, set it before a good fire for about two hours to roast, keeping it well basted—being almost deprived of fat, basting is thus required; when done, take off the paper, and serve with any sharp sauce, or a little plain gravy. Two hours would be sufficient to roast a large heart; but if smaller, of course less time in pro- portion would be required. I have also stuffed a heart with sage and onion, and even ventured the apple sauce: both succeeded admirably, and it can be baked as well as roasted. I remember, when in business, upon one occasion, having a few friends pop in unexpectedly about luncheon-time upon a Saturday (which is a day I always contrive to keep my larder as short as possible), and having nothing but a heart as a meal to give them, I immediately gave orders to the cook to cut it into slices half an inch thick, dip each piece in flour, and afterwards egg and bread-crumb them, then to put four spoonfuls of oil in the frying-pan, lay part of the pieces in, and saute of a nice colour, then to keep them hot in a dish, and saute the remainder; and when all done, to pour off part of the oil, put a teasponful of flour in the pan, mixing it with the remaining oil and gravy, then pouring in a gill of water, season with a little pepper and salt, four spoonfuls of the vinegar from piccalilly, and a little of the pickle finely chopped; boil the whole a minute, pour over the heart, and serve very hot. It pleased very much, and they made a hearty meal from it; and I have since had some with a little plain gravy, and broiled bacon: in both instances it was very good. 422. POTATO SANDWICHES.—Saute the slices of beef as directed for bubble and squeak, cover one side of each piece with mashed potatoes a quarter of an inch in thickness, egg and bread-crumb over, then proceed the same with the other sides, fry in hot fat of a light brown colour, as you would a sole, and serve. Any kind of fresh meat may be used the same way. 423. BUBBLE AND SQUEAK.—I am certain you must know, as well as myself, our hereditary dish called bubble and squeak; but, like the preparation of other things, there is a good way and a bad; and, as you prefer the former to the latter, proceed as follows:—Boil a few greens, or a savoy cabbage (which has been previously well washed), in plainENTREES. 229 water until tender, which then drain quite dry in a colander or sieve, put it upon a trencher, and chop it rather tine with a knife, then foi a pound of salt beef you have in slices, put nearly a quarter of a pound of butter into a frying-pan, in which saute the beef gently but not too dry; when done, keep it hot, put the cabbage in the frying-pan, season with a little salt and pepper, and when hot through, dress it upon a dish, lay the beef over, and serve. Endive or large cabbage-lettuces may be used instead of cabbage, but care must be taken to drain off all the water. 424. STEWED BEEF OR RUMP STEAK.—Have a steak weighing two pounds, and an inch and a half in thickness -° TCGS ? bUtt1er at the bottom of a stewpan, When melted lay in the steak, with a quarter of a pound of lean bacon cut into very small square pieces, place the stewpan over the file, tui mug the steak over occasionally until a little browned th^huH7 1' UP°n a dlSb’ then add a tablesP°°nful of flour to the butter m the stewpan, which continue stirring over the fire until forming a brownish roux; then again lay in the steak add a pint of water with a glass of sherry if handy, and a little pepper salt, and a bay-leaf, let simmer slowly for one hour skim off a the fat, and add twenty button onions, let it Jala “imm™ untd the onions are very tender, as likewise the steak,°which dress upon a dish, take the onions and bacon out with serve’ a“d ^ them uPon the steak, pour the sauce round, and dispensable.18 mUSt ”0t ala™ 7<>u, as it i in- brains buf Si^^8 pre?ared exactl7 as directed for calf s with strips of bacon broiled and dra^d hiVhZ™7 be,Served over with a highly-seasoned IE ? 1 a border round, sauce mm230 ENTREES. calf's foot, four onions, two carrots, cut in slices if large, a hunch of parsley, two bay-leaves, two sprigs of thyme, two cloves stuck into one of the onions, half a teaspoonful of pepper, one of salt, four wine-glasses of sherry, four ditto of water, and a pound of streaked bacon cut in squares, place the cover over the pan with a piece of common flour and water paste round the edges to keep it perfectly air-tight, and place it in a moderate oven four hours, when take out of the pan, and dress upon a dish with the vegetables and bacon round, skim and pass the gravy through a hair sieve, which pour over and serve. But the above is best eaten cold, when it should not be taken from the pan, or the pan opened until nearly so. A long brown earthen pan for the above purposes may be obtained at any china warehouse, but should you not be able to procure one, a stewpan must supply its place. 427. ANOTHER METHOD.—Have ready six pounds of rump of beef, cut into pieces two inches square, each of which lard through with two or three strips of bacon ; have also two pounds of streaked bacon, which clear from the rind, and cut into squares half the size of the beef, put the whole into an earthen pan, with two calfs feet, (cut up small,) half a pint of sherry, two bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, a bunch of parsley, four onions, with a clove stuck in each, a blade ot mace, and half a pint of water, cover the pan as in the last, and put it in a moderate oven for three hours; when done, do not remove the lid until three parts cold, then take out the meat lay some ot the beef at the bottom of a stewpan, (not too large,) then a little bacon, then more beef, and so on alternately, press them ligh y together, pass the gravy through a hair sieve over, and leave it until quite cold and set, when dip the stewpan into hot water and turn it out upon a dish to serve. The call s leet may be made hot in a little of the stock, to which add two pats ot butter, with which you have mixed a teaspoonful of flour, season with a little chopped parsley and half a spoonful of vinegar, mi serve as an entree. The above is excellent either hot 01 cold. 49R FILLET OF BEEF.—Procure a piece of a fillet of beef weighing about two or three pounds, which may be ob- tained at any butcher’s, being cut from underneath he rump; trim off part of the fat, so as to round the fillet, which cut mto slices the thickness of your finger beat item chopper, and cut the thin skin which covers the top of the fillet,231 ENTREES. to prevent their curling up whilst broiling; place them upon a gridiron over a sharp fire, seasoning with a little salt and pepper, and turning three or four times to preserve the gravy: about sis or seven minutes will be sufficient to cook them. Three or four slices will be sufficient for a corner dish; but if for a principal dish, of course more will be required. Fillet of beef, dressed as above, may be rubbed over with maitre-d’hotel or anchovy butter, and serve very hot. 429. FILLET OF BEEF SAUTE.—After having cut the fillet in slices as in the last, put two ounces of butter into a clean frying-pan, which set upon the fire, and when melted, lay in the meat, seasoned with a saltspoonlul of salt, and half that quantity of pepper to each piece; turn them over three or four times whilst cooking, and, when done, dress upon your dish, with eitner of the butters mentioned in the last spread over. 430. ANOlHER METHOD.—When the fillets are dished up, put a tablespoonful of chopped onions into the iian they were cooked in, which cook for about a minute, but not lettin^ them burn, then pour off part of the fat, if too much, and add two teaspoonfuls of flour; stir with a wooden spoon until becoming brownish, then add nearly a pint of water, a table- spoonful of vinegar, and a few drops of browning; let it boil a tew minutes, seasoning with a little pepper, salt, and sugar; when of the consistency of a thin sauce, pour over the fillets and serve. _ A few chopped pickles of any description (but not too hot) might be introduced, but then half the quantity of vinegar S?? be sufficient A spoonful of Harvey’s sauce may “be added, and a little glaze improves it. Mutton, lamb, or pork-chops, or veal-cutlets, may be dressed in a similar manner. J cooked be1?’0?0 EF;DCut a pound and a half of Ieau cooked beef into very small dice, which put upon a plate; in a stewpan put a good teaspoonful of finely-chopped onions, with firP ce °f butter of the size of a walnut, which stir over the beC°T I!shtly browned’ when stir in half a tablespoonful of flour, with which mix by degrees half a oint of bi.th (or water) to which you have added a 4 drops of bretf it thp dia fea+sp°°nfu of vine^ar; let h boil five minutes, stirrino- with a l n 6 ’ thei\thlT iD the meat’ season rather hffihly with a little pepper and salt, and, when hot, pour it into a deepENTREES. 232 dish, and serve with sippets of toasted bread round, or poached eggs on it. 432. CROQUETTES OF BEEF.—Proceed precisely as in the last, but omitting the vinegar; when done, stir in two yolks of eggs quickly, stir another minute over the fire, then pour it upon a dish until cold; have a couple of eggs well beaten upon a plate, also some bread-crumbs in a separate dish, then divide the preparation into about a dozen pieces, which roll up into round balls, or any other shape, and throw them into the bread- crumbs, move them over until well covered, then roll them into the egg, then the bread-crumbs again, from which take them gently, patting the surface lightly with a knife, put them into very hot lard or fat to fry ot a yellowish-brown colour, being careful not to break them whilst frying; when done, drain them upon a cloth, and serve either upon a napkin, or with tried parsley. 433. A FAMILY FRENCH SALAD FOR THE SUM- MER.—I can assure you that when in France, during the hot weather, I used to enjoy the following salads immensely, having them usually twice a week for my dinner; they are not only wholesome, but cheap and quickly done. Cut up a pound of cold beef into thin slices, which put into a salad-bowl, with about half a pound of white fresh lettuce, cut into pieces similar to the beef, season over with a good teaspoonful of salt, half that quantity of pepper, two spoonfuls of vinegar, and five of good salad oil, stir all together lightly with a fork and spoon, and when well mixed it is ready to serve. For a change, cabbage-lettuce may be used, or, if in season, a little endive (well washed), or a little celery, or a few gherkins; also, to vary the seasoning, a little chopped tarragon and chervil, chopped eschalots, or a little scraped garlic, if approved of, but all in proportion, and used with moderation. White haricot beans are also excellent with it. Remains of cold veal, mutton, or lamb, may be dressed the same way. 434. POTATOES AND MEAT SALAD.—Proceed as in the last, but omitting the lettuce; if any cold potatoes remain from a previous dinner, peel and cut them in halves if small, but in quarters if large, and then into pieces the size of a shilling, but four times the thickness; put them into a salad-bowl with the meat, seasoning as before, but using more oil and vinegar and adding a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. A small quantity233 ENTREES. of any description of pickles might be added to this salad, as also some anchovies or olives. The remains of any fowls or turkey may be mixed in salads, but according to our habits, many persons would fancy they were not nutritious; of that I can assure them to the contrary. The quantity of the meat and vegetable should pretty equally balance with each other; after such a meal, a man’s appetite is perfectly satisfied, and he is ready for an afternoon’s work if required. It also does not require the aid of any fire, which we so ungratefully abhor in hot weather. Mr. B. very much approves of this dish once a week in summer. 435. OX-KIDNEYS.—Cut a nice fresh ox-kidney into slices, each being about the size of a half crown piece, but double the thickness (avoiding the white part, or root, which is tough and indigestible), then put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan upon the fire, and when very hot but not black, put in the pieces of kidney, stirring them round with a wooden spoon three minutes over a brisk fire; then add for each pound weight of kidney, half a tablespoonful of flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, half that quantity of pepper, and a little sugar, moisten with a gill of water and half a glass of sherry, add a little browning, if handy, and let simmer gently for five minutes, stirring them round occasionally; if too thick, add a few drops more water, the same should be sufficiently thick to adhere to the back of the spoon, pour them out upon your dish, and serve very hot. Broth might be used instead of water if convenient, but then the seasoning should be a little diminished, a little chopped eschalot, parsley, or a few mushrooms, would be an improvement. By cutting an ox-kidney lengthwise in three slices, it might be broiled or sauteed; if for gentlemen season rather highly, but it ladies are to be the partakers, season more moderately; a little gravy may be served with it, to which you have added a little catsup; the root of the kidney must not be cut away in this case, although not eatable. Ox-kidneys are also an ex- cellent addition to beef-steak puddings and pies. 436. OX-FEET or COW-HEELS are very nutritious, especially when well-boiled; they may be served in either of the methods directed for tripe, or with a plain parsley-and-butter sauce, to which, for a change, the juice of a lemon or a drop of vinegar may be added. Should any be left from the first day’s dinner it may be served a la Lyonnaise, as directed for cold tripe,ENTREES. 234 437. REMAINS OF OX-TONGUE.—The remains of a tongue from a previous dinner may be again served thus:—Cut it into thin slices, put a small piece of butter into a frying-pan, lay the pieces of tongue over, which warm a few minutes in a saute-pan, and serve with veal or fowl if any; when at home alone, I frequently have it with mashed potatoes under; it makes a very good dish for luncheon. The pieces of tongue might also he egged and bread-crumbed previous to cooking as above, and served with a plain gravy, or any sharp sauce. (See Sauces.) Or should you have any tongue, and veal and beef remaining, sprinkle a little chopped eschalots at the bottom of a pie-dish, lay a layer of meat over, season with a little salt, pepper, and chopped parsley, then a layer of the tongue; have some yel- lowish crusts of bread grated, a teaspoonful of which sprinkle over the tongue, then again a layer of the meat, proceeding thus until the dish is nearly full, when sprinkle more of the brown bread-crumbs over the top, placing a small piece of butter here and there; pour in two wineglassfuls of water, set it in a warm oven half an hour, and serve very hot. Or instead of bread- crumbs, make a little good mashed potatoes, which spread over it smoothly with a spoon or knife, bake half an hour in a warm oven, and serve. Should the remains of a tongue be but small, and if well pickled and boiled, the root and all would be excellent in any kind of beef, lamb, mutton, veal, or pork, hashed, or in pie3 or puddings made from these meats. 438. REMAINS OF SALT BEEF.—The remains of salt beef are very excellent served in the few following ways, no matter from what joint, or from what part of the joint: Cut as large and thin slices as possible, dip each slice into some vinegar from mixed pickles, previously poured upon a plate in small quantities; lay about a pound of the meat thus prepared upon a flat dish, pour a wineglassful of water over, warm it through in the oven, or before a slow fire, and serve. Another way is, after having dipped the beef in the vinegar, roll them in flour, and proceed as above, adding double the quantity ot water. Another way is to saute the slices with a little butter in a frying-pan, have ready some nice mashed potatoes very hot, lay the beef over, and serve. FRICANDEAU OF VEAL.—-This is a very favourite dish of mine. It is generally considered an expensive one, but the way hi which I235 ENTREES. do it i3 not so; besides, it gives a nice piece of veal at table, when a fillet would be too large. I proceed to prepare it thus 439. I select a small leg of veal as white as possible, saw off the knuckle a good length, with which I make stock for sauce, broth, or glaze, and serve the meat as No. 184, then with a sharp knife open the skin under the fat part of the leg, without cutting through the solid meat, then with the hands open the fillet, and lay it quite flat to extract with the knife the middle bone, then let it lie flat lengthway on the skin side, and by placing the left hand on the thick part, (which is called in France “la noix,”) with the knife cut two-thirds of it in a slant- ing direction, leaving from one to one and a half inch of flesh for the fillets (page 159); two fricandeaux may be made of the noix alone, two also of the part called the under noix, but it would destroy the fillets entirely. I then take a chopper dipped in cold water, and beat the veal with the flat part, so as to make it of an equal thickness; I then lard it.* You may not succeed very well the first or second time, but now I am quite an artist in larding, as is also my cook, whom I taught, it being so much like sewing. But should you not be able to manage it, you must send it to the poulterer, dhe remains of the leg make an excellent fillet for another day’s dinner. Having proceeded thus far, I then cook it, in the following manner: 410. I take a stewpan of a convenient size, and lay on the bottom six or eight thin slices of bacon, and place the frieandeau on them; I then take two onions, two small carrots cut in slanting slices which place round it; I then make a bouquet of ten sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, two of bay leaf, which I put in with LARDING, (How to cut the Bacon for it.)—Choose a piece of firm fat bacon not too thick, cut a piece crossways two inches wide if for lardino- fillets of beef or loin of veal; one and a half wide if for frieandeau or poultry; and one inch wide if for sweetbreads or fillets of game or poultry: lay it on the table with the rind under, press it flat, remove the lean part, then cut it in slices across four lines thick and as deep as the rind; when done, press them close together, then cut a slice four lines thick right through, drawing the knife from the handle towards the point, and proceed thus with all the piece, it will thus make every piece of bacon of the same size. Then proceed to lard as follows:—Having the frieandeau trimmed as l •°'i43i)’, ky i<; lenfert'iwise upon a clean napkin across your hand, forming a kind of bridge with your thumb at the part you are about to commence at then with the point of the larding-needle make three distinct lines across’236 ENTREES. two cloves, half a blade of mace, and about a pint of broth or water, so as not to cover the larding: if no broth, use water and a teaspoontul of salt; cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, set it on a moderate fire; when on the point of boiling, put it in a slack oven, where let it remain for two or three hours; be careful every twenty minutes to moisten or baste the fricandeau with the gravy which is in the stewpan: the slower it is done the better. Ten minutes before it is removed from the oven, take off the paper, in order that the top may obtain a nice yellow colour; if the oven should not be hot enough, place live coals on the lid of the stewpan until done, try also if it is tender with a pointed knife. This dish may be carved with a spoon, being so tender; but I prefer to cut it with a very sharp knife, as it is more inviting in appearance; if you have no oven ready, stew gently on a hot plate, or by the side of the stove, with the lid on and live coals on the top. If you let it burn by any neglect or accident, do not tell your fi-iends that I gave you the receipt, as it would eat so very badly, and I should lose iny good name. It pan be served with any sauce or puree, but the one I prefer is as follows : Take the gravy from the stewpan, which ought to be about half a pint, if not so much, add water, pass it through a fine sieve into a basin, remove the fat from the top, put it into a small stewpan, reduce it a little to a demi-glaze, mix half a teaspoonful of arrow-root in a cup, with a little water, put it in the gravy, boil two minutes; it ought to be of a bright yellow colour, and transparent; the fricandeau should be served with gravy under it. The following purees are excellent to serve with it: sorrel, endive, peas, beans, artichokes, and spinach; tomato, mushroom, and cucumber sauces, &c. If a piece of udder can be procured, stew it with the fricandeau, and serve it in the same dish. This receipt will well repay the trouble attending it. The following is very good, and more simple. half an inch apart, run the needle into the third line (at the further side of the fricandeau) and bring it out at the first, placing one of the lardons in it, draw the needle through, leaving out a quarter of an inch of the bacon at each line : proceed thus to the end of the row; then make another line half an inch distant, stick in another row of lardons, bringing them out at the second line, leaving the ends of the bacon out all the same length ; make the next row again at the same distance, bringing the ends out between the lardons of the first row, proceeding in like manner until you have larded the whole surface in chequered rows : proceed in a similar way with every- thing you lard; and in case of poultry hold the breast over a charcoal fire for one minute, or dip it into boiling water in order to make the flesh firm. By following these directions, any cook may be able to lard, if not well, sufficient for general use.ENTREES. 237 441. FRICAIvDEAU BOURGEOISE, in its Gravy.—Cut as before from the fillet, cut the bacon the same as for the neck, and lard with about thirty large pieces, but in a slanting direc- tion, leaving but little of the bacon to be seen, as the object is to give all the advantage of the bacon to the meat; put it into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter; a quarter of an ounce of salt, and one-tenth of that of pepper; set it on the fire for five minutes, turn it with a fork round and round, then rake some cinders over the coals or charcoal so as to make it go slow, and until it becomes of a nice yellow colour; then add a gill of water, a bay leaf, half an onion, stew until quite tender, turning it over and over, now and then; put it on a dish, skim the fat off the gravy, pour it over, and serve. It may also be served thus: by throwing into the stewpan about twenty mushrooms, well washed about ten minutes before serving; if the gravy is too thin, add a little arrow-root, and serve: it can also be served with the sauces named in the former Receipt. Nothing is nicer cold than this; if required to be re-warmed, put it into a little broth or warm water, and heat slowly. 44w. CALF S LIVER SAUTE.—Cut it into slices, put a little butter in the saute, or frying-pan, when melted, lay the liver in, season with salt, pepper, a teaspoonful of chopped eschalot, parsley, and grated nutmeg, saute on a sharp fire- when rather brown on both sides dredge a little flour, add a tablespoonful of French vinegar, or a glass of wine, stir it well and boil for a few minutes; dish the liver in crpwns; if the sauce is too pale, add a little mushroom catsup or colouring and it had better be too thin than too thick; taste if well seasoned, and serve. The above is for about two pounds of liver 443. CALF S LIVER, English way.—Cut the liver into thin slices, dip them in flour, and put it in a saute or frying-pan m winch some slices of bacon have been previously cooked, with sufficient fat left in it; saute the liver until quite brown and ather crisp, when take out and place it upon a dish with the bacon then dredge a spoonful of flour in the pan, or enough to absorb all the fat in it, then add a little broth or water so as make it a thinnish sauce, season it, and add two spoonfuls of Harvev’s sauce or mushroom catsup. If the above is nicely done, and the pieces cut the size of cutlets, it will make a nice entree for an ordinary dinner. It should be served immediately, and very hot.238 ENTREES. 444. CALF’S LIVER DRY.—The same may be served dry with the bacon, or with any sharp sauce. 44.5. STEWED CALF’S LIVER.—Choose a nice fat one rather white in colour, lard it through with bacon, put one quarter of a pound of butter in a pan, when melted, add a table- spoonful of flour, keep stirring until a nice yellow colour, then put in the whole of the liver, turn round now and then until it is a little firm, then add a pint of broth or water, and a glass of anj' kind of wine, a bouquet of parsley, thyme, bay leaves, a little salt, pepper, and sugar, thirty button onions, simmer one hour; take the fat off and the bouquet out, dish the liver with the onions around it, reduce the sauce, so that it adheres lightly to the back of the spoon, sauce over and serve. Any vegetables may be used, as carrots, turnips, peas, haricots; and if a little gelatine or isinglass is added to the sauce, and the liver with the sauce only put into a round basin and pressed down and left until cold, it will make a nice dish for supper, lunch or breakfast. If required to be rewarmed, cut into slices, put it in the pan with a drop of water added to the gravy. 446. CALF’S HEART ROASTED.—Proceed exactly the same as for ox’s heart, only this being more delicate and smaller, requires less time to roast, from half an hour to one hour, depending on the size; it may also be cut in slices, and sauteed like the liver above; or, by having four for a large dish, they may be dressed exactly like the liver No. 443, but white instead of brown; stuff them, and saute-white in butter, which depends on a slow fire, and, adding the flour, just give a few turns and add the broth immediately; season as described in the liver, stew very gently for one hour, take out the hearts, skim off the fat, let it be thickish, boil down a little if required, prepare two yolks of eggs well beaten, with a quarter of a gill of milk, broth, or water, which pour into the same, stir quickly for half a minute, add the juice of half a lemon, trim the hearts, dish them in a dish with the points upwards, pour the sauce over, and serve. 447. ROAST SWEETBREADS.—Take the sweetbreads and lay them in water at blood-heat, to disgorge, for three to four hours; then blanch them for two minutes in boiling water, put them into a stewpan with a few slices of carrot, onions, turnip, a little parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, six pepper-corns, a blade of mace, and a small piece of bacon, cover over with aENTREES. 239 little broth or water, and let it boil for twenty minutes; take them out and dry them in a cloth, egg and bread-crumb them, tie them on a spit, and roast a nice brown colour for ten to fifteen minutes; or they may be browned in an oven, or fried in very hot lard for ten minutes, in which case they should stew a little longer; they may be served with plain gravy and a piece of toasted bread under, or a little melted butter and some of either Harvey’s Reading, or Soyer’s sauce, and a little catsup added to it, boiled and poured round it; or with any of the sauces . for fricandeau. The heart-bread being generally so expensive, I seldom make use of it, but it may be blanched, larded, cooked, and served like the fricandeau, diminishing the larding and cooking according to the size of the bread, or itmay be dressed as above, or, if a large throat-bread, it may be larded. 448. SWEETBREADS SAUTE.—Blanch two throat- sweetbreads as in the preceding receipt, cut them in slices, put some butter in a frying-pan, and melt; then put in the sweet- bread, season over with salt, pepper, juice of a lemon, and a little chopped parsley, and a bay leaf; turn them until done, and serve very hot, with maitre-d’hbtel sauce over. 449. ANOTHER WAY.—Prepare as above; add a little flour and a gill of broth, a few raw mushrooms, stir continually to prevent burning, add a few spoonfuls of cream, and serve. It any remain, do them au grcitin, that is, put them in a pie- dish or flat plated dish, brown, bread-crumb over, add a little broth, put into an oven, and, when very hot, serve. , fp0' y CUTLETS (old English method.)—Cut a steak alt an inch thick from a leg of veal, egg and bread crumb it put into a sautdpan a piece of butter, and when hot lay in the veal cook it quickly, turning occasionally, when done remove to a dish, put a little more butter into the sautepan with a little flour, when brown add a little water and the juice of half a emon, pepper, and salt, let it boil up, pour over the cutlet, and serve with broiled or boiled ham or bacon. 451 VEAL CUTLETS AUX FINES IIERBES. Cut irom the neck the same as you would from mutton, only of course, larger; sprinkle with salt, pepper, and chopped eschalot set them on a gridiron and broil like common chops; serve240 ENTREES. plain, or rub a little maitre-d’hotel butter over them, set in a hot place for a few moments, and serve. They may also be sauteed, by putting them into a sautepan, and saute until of a nice colour, take them out and put in the pan a spoonful of chopped onions, parsley, and mushrooms (if at hand), stir until done, then add a teaspoonful of flour, when it is a little brown, add halt a pint of water, two spoonfuls of Harvey’s sauce and one of vinegar, stir well round, dish up the cutlets, sauce over, and serve. They may also be larded like the fricandeau, and served in the same way, and with the like sauces, only less time in cooking. 452. YEAL CUTLETS EN PAPILLOTE.—Prepare as the last, and put them in a pie-dish and pour the sauce over, and let them remain until cold; then cut a sheet of foolscap paper in the shape of a heart and oil or butter it; lay one of the cutlets with a little of the sauce on one half of the paper, turn the other half over, then turn and plait the edges of the paper over, beginning at the top of the heart and finishing with an extra twist at the bottom, which will cause the sauce to remain in it; broil slowly on a gridiron for twenty minutes on a very slow fire, or place it in the oven for that time, and serve. 453. HASHED CALF’S HEAD.—Put into a stewpan one tablespoonful of chopped onions, and three of vinegar, take the remains of the head winch cut into slices, place them on a dish, add a tablespoonful of flour to them, a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter of one of pepper, put the stewpan on the fire to boil for one minute, add the pieces of head, and moisten with half pint of broth, water, or milk; let it simmer for ten minutes and serve on toast or plain, or with sippets round. The addition of a few gherkins sliced or any mixed pickle is an improvement. A little thyme or bay leaf, if at hand, may be added. If with water or gravy a little colouring will improve the appearance. This receipt is for one pound of meat. It may also be warmed in curry sauce, and is excellent. 454. A MADE DISH FROM YEAL JOINTS THAT HAVE BEEN PREVIOUSLY SERVED.—(If from braised veal, with vegetables, cut it into slices about a quarter of an inch in thickness, then put the remainder vegetables and gravy, if any, in a pan; if not, with water and a piece of glaze; season with a little salt, pepper, sugar, a bay-leaf, and the juice of a241 ENTREES. quarter of a lemon, simmer gently for twenty minutes on a slow fire; dish the slices in the form of a crown, lay the vegetables in the middle, pour gravy over, and serve. Should any remain, cut it into very small dice, leave none on the bones, put it in a pan, shake a little Hour over, season with a little salt, pepper, sugar, bay-leaf, and the juice of a quarter of a lemon, then moisten it with milk sufficient to make a sauce, warm it for ten minutes, add half an ounce of butter, stir it well, and serve very hot: or, if you prefer it brown, leave out the milk and throw a few chopped mushrooms and eschalots in, and moisten with a little water, to which add a few drops of brown- ing, or a little catsup: it ought never to be too thick. Poached eggs may be served with it. 455. CALF’S BRAINS FRIED.—Prepare them as for calf’s head, (p. 184;) cut them in pieces of about two inches square, as for boiling, dip them into batter, and fry them im- mersed in fat, and serve with fried parsley over. Season with a little salt, pepper, and vinegar. 456. CALF’S BRAINS A LA M AITRE-D’HOTEL.— Prepare the brain as before, warm six spoonfuls of melted butter; when hot, add one ounce of maitre-d’hotel butter, and, when melted, pour it over. 457. SHEEP’S BRAINS.—Proceed as for calf’s brains; these being smaller do not require so long to cook; though very good, they are not so delicate as calf’s brains. 458. SHEEP’S KIDNEYS.—For a small’dish, procure six fresh ones, take off the thin skin which covers them, and cut them into slices, put in a sautepan one ounce of butter; when melted and nearly brown, add the kidneys, with half a tea- spoonful of salt, one quarter ditto of pepper, half a tablespoonful of flour, mix well together, add half a wine-glass of sherry and a gill of broth, simmer for a few minutes, and serve very hot; a nice crisp toast is an improvement placed under them; also, a few raw mushrooms, cut in slices, added when being sauted are excellent. For broiled kidney, (see Breakfast.) They’can also be cut in half and cooked the same, and dished in a crown on a thin border of mashed potatoes. . 4f- SHEEP’S FEET, or TROTTERS.-Previous to visit- ing the Continent, I had quite a dislike to these unfortunate pied de mouton w lose blackish appearance in stall and market seemed to be only intended R242 ENTREES. to satisfy the ravenous appetites of the gentlemen with the fan-tail hat. But I must say since I have tasted them in France, cooked it la poulette, I have become of quite another opinion; I have prepared them at home thus I get a dozen of them from the tripe-butcher, all cleaned and ready, and beg of him to extract the long bone from them. I put a quarter of a pound of beef or mutton-suet in a stevvpan, with two onions and one carrot sliced, two bay-leaves, two sprigs of thyme, one ounce of salt, a quarter of an ounce of pepper, put on the fire, and cook five minutes; add two table- spoonfuls of flour, and stir it round; add trvo quarts and a half of water, then put in the feet, stir till boiling, simmer for nearly three hours, or until the feet are perfectly tender; when done, take them out, and lay on a sieve, take a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a teaspoonful of salt, the same of flour, a quarter of one of pepper, a little grated nutmeg, the juice of a lemon, mix all these well together on a plate with the back of a spoon; put the feet with a gill of milk in a stewpan on the fire; when very hot, put in the butter, stir continually till melted, having previously well mixed two yolks of eggs with five tablespoonfuls of milk, which put in the stewpan; keep moving the pan round over the fire continually for one minute, serve in a very hot dish with croutons of fried bread cut in triangular pieces round the dish. The stock may be used for any puree or thick . soup. 460. FRENCH RAGOUT OF MUTTON.—Take about two pounds of the scrag of the neck, breast, chump, or any other part, with as little fat as possible, cut it into pieces of about turn inches square, put into a pan two ounces of butter, or good fat; when melted, add two tablespoonfuls of flour, stir with a wooden spoon till forming a brownish roux, add the meat, and stir it round for twenty minutes, add a little water, but not enough to cover the meat, one saltspoonful of pepper, four ditto of salt, and four ditto of sugar, a bouquet of six sprigs of parsley, stir till boiling, set it to simmer. Having previously peeled a few turnips, cut in large dice of one inch square, about thirty pieces, put some fat in the fryingpan, and fry the turnips until rather brown, take them out, and put them in a stewpan with the meat when it is done, which will be in about one hour from the time it was put on; when ready to serve, take out the meat and turnips, squeeze the bouquet, which throw away, skim off the fat; if too thick, add a little broth or water; or, if too thin, boil243 ENTREES. it a little more, dish it up by the placing pieces in a circle and the turnips in the centre, sauce over, and serve very hot—(if not, it is spoiled.) For those that like it, a small piece of scraped garlicmay be added. Onions, carrots, peas, &c., may be used in. place of the turnips. This is a very favourite dish in France; I learnt it from an old French Emigre, who used to visit us about ten years since. When I have company, I use the chops of the neck, dress them in a crown, placing the vegetables in the centre; I find them very much liked. I have at some houses partaken °f. karico-mutton which has been tolerably good, but nothing in flavour to this plan. If there is any left, it is good warmed again, or even cold. 461. IRISH SPEW.—Cut up about two pounds of the neck of the mutton into small cutlets, which put into a proper sized stewpan with some of the fat of the mutton, season it with half a tablespoonful ot salt, a quarter of an ounce of pepper, the same of sugar, six middle-sized onions, a quart of water; set them to boil and simmer for half an hour, then add six middling-sized potatoes, cut them in halves or quarters, stir it together, and let it stew gently for about one hour longer; if too fat, remove it from the top, but if well done the potatoes will absorb all of it, and eat very delicate; any other part of the mutton may be served in the same way. . ^ k°Pe' dearest ——, that you will not blame my apparent vulgar taste in saying that I am fond of an Irish stew, but I always recommend it to my friends; and often add a bay leaf to it, which varies the flavour. LETTER No. XIV. Dearest Eloise,—I certainly here must avail myself of M. Soyer’s kind permission by taking from his “Gastronomic Regenerator” a ve^y simple 2 i™ ’,wof 7 w,f\iD "y h“ * *«* z* ->* “t fTr” ’7 lik? «»a think I ampins to am far f +1/SU, tnfllng imp0rtance> buf indeed, I assure you that I am for from that, because I have tried it for my dinner to day, and n my opinion it is as far superior to the other as silver is to copper; novelty1 in°the Tv™ era of like ours, that such a ovelty m the culmary department could have been produced; where steam, gas, railways, electric light, suspended bridges, which seem to flv ind° 2 subtaCr0SS thC b0S°m 1 °Ur ™ighty' W6althy’ °ld Father Thames FT*** h“ ^ percba bed, where, ^ rench say, the fishes from their windows make faces at the English It 2244 ENTIiEEo* while walking below, as well as (and more wonderful still) the electrio telegraph, which, even more freely than free-trade itself, carries like lightning the flashes of a genius of a Cobden from our great commercial town of Manchester to Printing-house Square and various offices, the sparks of whose speech, if printers were careless, might set the paper on fire, by acquainting the metropolis not only of his love for freedom, but of his enthusiastic action, motion, commotion, and almost his thoughts; even the cheerings of the convives are actually in print, and read with the greatest anxiety by the multitude in town, while the report of the last and most powerful line just put to press is still roaring with echo throughout the vast cupola of the Free Trade Hall as well as in the ears of thousands of guests present, who have been favoured by partaking of the monster banquet; and as well but not so wonderful, the invention, insurrection, and demolition of the Chartists—the last effected by special order and special constables; the Satanic bottle, double sight, and otherienne suspension of the inimitable Robert le Diable, by mistake called Robert Houdin; Banvard’s Yankee cabinet picture, 3000 miles long, out of which 2999 and three quarters are out of sight; more so than all, the discovery of rocky dust, called gold, in the barbarian land of California, where the humble and convalescent potato would be worth its weight of the precious metal, a loaf of bread three times as much, and a basin of poor man’s soup a guinea instead of a penny as here. Have we not also heard of the great sea serpent, which a very serious American, who appears to have been in company with him, says, that he was so tarnation long, that whilst engaged in dining out upon 4000 or 5000 turtles in Honduras, the end of his tail was at the same time hunting the white bear in the crystallized mountains of the North Pole for his supper, being something of an epicure, and consequently fond of a change! These, dearest, are facts that no one can deny, “I guess;” and still it was to be among al 1 these marvellous wonders that the innovation of a new mutton chop should emanate from the brain of a simple individual, while, for a century previous, the ancestors of our great grandfathers were, as we were till the present day, often obliged to satisfy their voracious appetite with a fat and clumsy mutton chop. Even now, dear, you will hardly be able to comprehend the meaning of my enthusiasm for this simple innovation! it is then for its great simplicity and cheapness, and that if in general use (as I sincerely hope it will be), thousands will be able to partake of it and enjoy it, and probably will keep a friendly remembrance of the name of its inventor, because any one who invents, or tries so to do, attempts to conquer the greatest difficulty to obtain fame and wealth, and which by others is always envied and tried to be surpassed; such is the world. While here, the humble, unassuming, disinterested inventor of the said mutton chop will not even have the honour of opposition, though he may be copied. Believe me, dearest, that is the only cause of my admiration. Now for this wonder.ENTREES. 245 462. SOYER’S NEW MUTTON CHOP. — Trim a middling-sized saddle of mutton, which cut into chops half an inch in thickness with a saw, without at all making use of a knife (the sawing them off jagging the meat and causing them to eat more tender), then trim them to the shape represented in the drawing, season well with salt and pepper, place them upon a gridiron over a sharp fire, turning them three or four times; they would require ten minutes cooking; when done dress them upon a hot dish, spread a small piece of butter over each, (if approved of,) and serve: by adding half a tablespoonful of Soyer’s Gentlemen’s or Lady’s Sauce to each chop when serving, and turning it over two or three times, an excellent entree is produced: the bone keeping the gravy in whilst cooking, it is a very great advantage to have chops cut after this method. At home, when I have a saddle of mutton, I usually cut two or three such chops, which I broil, rub maitre-d’hotel butter over, and serve with fried potatoes round, using the remainder of the saddle the next day for a joint. The above are also very ex- cellent, well seasoned and dipped into egg and bread-crumbs previous to broiling. Lamb chops may be cut precisely the same, but require a few minutes less broiling. You must remark that, by this plan, the fat and lean are better divided, and you can enjoy both ; whilst the other is a lump of meat near the bone and fat at the other end, which partly melts in cooking, and is often burnt by the flame it makes ; the new one not being divided at the bone, keeps the gravy in admirably. If well sawed it should not weigh more than the ordinary one, being about half the thickness. Do try them, and let ma know your opinion. Ever yours, IIortensb.246 ENTREES. LETTER No. XV. Dear IIortense, Tours of last night was received at our supper-table, which was surrounded by a few of our best friends, and I need not tell you the merriment it created respecting your fantastic ideas of this age of wonders. A very sedate old gentleman, who happened to have met you at Mr. H. s party about a week or two ago, and wished to be very courteous to you, (perhaps you did not notice his compliments,) not only would he not give a smile toour hearty laugh, but actually swore that such comical nonsense was very dangerous to expose before the public, and especially if we intended to give publicity to it with the receipts, the last of which he very much approved of. But respecting your fun on the review of our century,—“A woman,” said he, “ ought never to interfere with politics 1” “Politics!'’ we all exclaimed, “ where do you see anything political in it ?” “ In almost every word,” replied he. “ But in what part ?” said we ; “ explain yourself?” Unfortunately our hero stuttered very much. “Now, it-it-it is not one of- of ot you here, perhaps, who-who-who a-a-a-ve been in ann-y pu-pu-public office like me in ma-ma-my youth. I was cla-clacla-derk of the second cla-cla-clerk of the first cla-cla-cla-clerk of the private secretary’s cla-cla- cla-clerk of the Home of-of-oi ” Here, dear, we all burst out laughing, which made the old gentleman so mad, that he rushed from the room into the passage, to the street-door, and out of the house, without his hat, Welsh wig, great coat, and umbrella, while the servant had a regular race to get hold of him. She at last found him talking to himself under one of our willow-trees in the garden, coming back for his tackle with his two hands over his red wig, and his thick head underneath it. Being a wet night, after inquiring of the servant what he had said to her—“Ma-ma-ma-rie,” said he, “you are a ve-ve-ve-very good girl indeed, very good girl, and I-I-I-I am ve-ve-ve-very sorry I have no money with me to gi-gi-gi-gi-give you something for your trouble, especially as you will ne-ne-ne-never see me here again—no, ne-ne- never.” “Never mind, sir, about the money,” said she to him,” I am no more disappointed than usual. Good night, sir.” “Mary, you are a ve-ve-very sau-saucy huzzy, a ve-very saucy huzzy,” was his answer. He then gradually disappeared in the fog. In a few seconds after, she heard some one sneezing most fearfully in the direction he was gone, which she believed to be our stuttering friend. So you see, dear, there is quite an event on a mutton chop. But let me tell you that, though your receipt came Tather late, we still had some for supper, and very good they were; every one was delighted with them; in fact, we eat hardly anything else, being so comically introduced to us. I had them brought up at three different times, broiling hot from the gridiron. I made twelve chops out of a middle sized saddle of mutton, weighing about seven pounds:—is that right ? and I have about three pounds of chump remaining, which, of course, I intendENTREES. 247 making broth, Irish stew, or pies with. But, dearest, let us go through tha remainder of the Receipts without any more interruption. Jly husband begs to be kindly remembered to you both. Ever yours, 3 Eloise. 463. MUTTON CUTLETS.—Trim a neck of mutton by cutting away the scrag and sawing off three inches of the rib- bone, then cut about ten cutlets out of the neck, shape them by248 entrees. chopping off the thick part of the chine-bone, beat them flat to about a quarter of an inch in thickness with a cutlet chopper dipped in cold water, detach an inch of fat from the top of the rib- bone, and trim it like the engraving, season with a little salt and peppei, then ivell beat up one egg, dip a brush into it, and rub it lightly over the chop, dip it into bread-crumbs, form it into shape again and dress in the following way:— Put two ounces of butter into a sautepan or very clean omelette-pan, melt it, and put the cutlets in; put it on the fire foi five minutes till it is a nice yellow colour; turn them, let them remain four minutes longer, try if they are done by pressing with the finger; they ought to be firm and full of gravy; lay them on a clean cloth, and dress them in the form of a crown, that is, by keeping the thick part at the bottom, and the scraped part of the bone at the top, and each one resting half-way on the other. Every dish of cutlets must be served thus. 464. CUTLETS WITH MUSHROOMS. —If for tenor twelve cutlets take about twenty fresh mushrooms, cut off the tails, wash them, and dry on a cloth, put two pats of butter in a stewpan, half a gill of water, the juice of a lemon, a little salt and pepper; set on the fire; boil for a few minutes, then add two tablespoonfuls of white sauce, when very hot add a liaison of the yolk of an egg, made as follows: Put the yolk in a cup, and mix well with two tablespoonfuls of milk, stir well for one minute, put it in the middle of your pan; if no white sauce, add a little milk to the mushrooms, and mix a little flour with half a pat of butter, and put it in; keep stirring until boiling; dish up the cutlets, and the liaison, and serve; or still plainer, take the same number of mushroo is, wash well, cut in thin slices, put into a stewpan, with two pats of butter, half a teaspoonful of flour, a little salt and pepper, the juice of a lemon, and a little water; stew gently for ten minutes, serve, pouring the sauce over, or in the middle of the cutlets They can be served as cutlets a la jardiniere, or with peas, tomatoes, artichokes, spinach, or a la poiverade, a la sauce piquante, with Brussels sprouts, and a la Soubise. 465. CUTLETS A LA MAiTRE-D’PIOTEL.—When the cutlets are done, dish them up, put two ounces of maitre-d’hotel butter in a clean sautepan, keep it moving until melted; put two249 ENTREES. spoonfuls of cream when very hot, pour over, and serve with fried potatoes in the middle. 466. CUTLETS, PLAINER WAY.—Cut them from the neck, beat them down roughly without trimming, put them on the gridiron, when warm through, add salt, pepper, and very fine chopped onions, turn several times; they will take about ten minutes broiling; dish very hot, and serve. They may also be served on very white mashed potatoes. 467. SHEEP’S TONGUE DEMI-GLAZE.—For one dish, take six, put them in water to disgorge, then dry them, put them in a stevvpan with two onions, half a large carrot, a bouquet of two bay-leaves, one sprig of thyme, a quart of broth if handy, or water, half a spoonful of salt, put them on to boil, and simmer for two hours till done; try if tender with a pointed knife, if so take them out, skim them, trim out all the roots, cut the tongue in two, lengthwise, giving it a little the shape of cutlets, skim the fat from the stock, reduce the whole or part to a demi-glaze, put your pieces on a dish; when ready to serve, make a thin roll of mashed potatoes, and dish them round it, add a little sugar to the demi-glaze, and a small piece of butter, stir round till melted, add the juice of half a lemon, pour boiling hot over the tongue, the sauce ought to adhere thickly to the back of the spoon. Observe, dear, bow cheaply this dish may be procured, and I assure you it is very excellent; I have tried it with almost all the sauces I have described tor cutlets and have found it good with all; they are also very good en papillate, like veal cutlets. J h 468. SHEEP’S HEARTS.—Proceed exactly as with the call s heart, only diminish the time of cooking in proportion to the size; about thirty minutes will be sufficient; serve with any kind of sharp sauce or any ragout of vegetables. 469. MINCE LAMB WITH REMAINS.—(See Veal.) Serve with poached eggs over. REMAINS OF ROAST OR BOILED LAMB, ll hi REAS. Cut up about two pounds, bones included, in. rather small pieces, put into a convenient sized stewpan, add to it two teaspoonfuls of flour, one of chopped onions, one of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, a pint of water, stir gently until near boiling, add one bay-leaf, and one pint of very green peas1250 ENTREES. already boiled, simmer and serve. Half an hour is sufficient to prepare this dish; peas left from a previous day can be used, also cauliflower if not too much broken, and gently simmered, also a few mushrooms, or if no vegetables, add a little liaison, and the juice of half a lemon. 471. LAMB’S FEET are much more delicate than sheep’s trotters, but they are cooked and dx-essed the same, only in less time. If there are any left cold, cut them in two, put them in a basin, pour over a glass of vinegar, half a ditto of oil, one onion sliced, salt, pepper, fry them for twenty minutes, dip each piece in a batter, and fry a nice yellow colour in fat; serve on a napkin. 472. LAMB’S HEART.—Six will make a nice dish; stuff like calf’s heart, only adding to it some bits of ham or red tongue; stew and serve with any kind of sauce. 473. LAMB CUTLETS.—Ten cutlets would be sufficient for a dish, for five persons, and might be cut from one neck, as described for mutton cutlets (page 247), but leaving them as large as possible; that is, about one third less than the mutton; season them lightly with salt and pepper, egg and bi-ead-crumb them over, afterwards beating them gently with a knife, to put them again into shape; then have a little clarified butter upon a plate, into which dip each cutlet separately, afterwards throw- ing them into bi-ead-crumbs, giving them another coat, and beat again. Then if wanted of a very nice colour, put four spoon- fuls of salad oil into a saute-pan, lay in the cutlets and set them over a sharp fire, turning when required; six or eight minutes would be sufficient to do them nicely; when done, lay them upon a cloth a moment to drain; glaze, and dish them upright, “ cn courro?ie,” upon your dish, and serve with stewed cucumbers in the centre. Lamb cutlets may also be served with stewed peas, French beans, spinach, aspai-agus, peas, sauce jardiniere, reforme, poive- rade, piquante, or maitre-d’hotel which will be found in the series of sauces; or lamb-cutlets may be broiled instead of sauteed or served a la Maintenon, as directed for veal cutlets. 474. LAMB CHOPS.—Select a fine loin of lamb with the kidney in it, trim off the flap, and with a very sharp knife cut your chops from half to three quarters of an inch in thickness,ENTREES. 253 cutting about eight chops from the loin, three of which should have a piece of the kidney attached. I also cut two chops from the chump, which are very excellent eating, although clumsier in shape. Lay three of them upon a gridiron over a rather brisk but very clear fire, for, if smoky, it would entirely spoil the look and flavour of the lamb; and when just warmed through, season upon each side with a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter of that quantity of pepper; broil of a nice yellow colour, and serve with fried parsley over if convenient; or lay some nice mashed potatoes upon your dish, and serve the chops upon it. 475. LAMB CHOPS IN PAPER WITH FINE HERBS. —Cut a piece of foolscap paper in the shape of a heart, (and sufficiently large to fold a lamb chop in,) rub a little oil over the paper, then season the chop with a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots, one of chopped parsley, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; wrap the chop in the paper, which plait down at the edges, lay it upon a gridiron over a slow fire, turning it fre- quently; it will take about twenty minutes to broil properly, when done serve in the paper very hot. 476. LAMB CHOPS SAUTE.—Put a piece of butter into a clean saute or frying-pan, and when melted lay in two chops rather highly seasoned with pepper and salt; saute it until thoroughly done and but lightly browned, and serve. Should gravy be required, pour oft' the greater part of the fat, and then stir in half a tablespoonful ol flour, add a gill of broth or water, and a little colouring; stir with a wooden spoon, boiling five minutes, finish with an ounce of fresh butter and the juice of halt a lemon; shake the pan over the fire until the sauce becomes rather thick, when pour over and serve. 4/7. PORK CUTLETS.—Choose a small neck, cut eight cutlets out of it of the same shape as the mutton, only leaving a little more fat on it, season, egg, and bread-crumb, saute in pan, serve with either sauces Robert, poiverade, piquante, tartare. 478. PORK CUTLETS WITH PICKLE. — Sautd, broil, or fry the chops, as in the preceding; make about a gill of melted butter, add to it two tablespoonfuls of liquor of piccalilly, and six or eight pieces of the pickle cut small; when very hot put on your dish, and dress your cutlets over, or if for a lar^a dish, dress cutlets in a crown, and sauce in the middle.ENTREES. 479. PORK CUTLETS SAUTE.—Cut six or eight good- sized cutlets from the neck of the same shape as the mutton, lay them in a buttered saute-pan, season well with pepper and salt, place over the fire; when done, lay them upon a plate, pour some ol the fat from the saute-pan, add a good tablespoonful of chopped onions, pass over the fire a minute, then add a teaspoon- ful of flour; moisten with half a pint of broth or water, with a piece of glaze added, season a little more, add a bay-leaf and a teaspoonful of vinegar, with one of mustard, mix well, lay in the cutlets until quite hot, when dress upon a dish, sauce over, ani sftrve. This sauce is good with any kind of cutlets, but especially pork. 480. PORK CUTLETS AUX CORNICHOXS.—Cut six or eight cutlets from a middling-sized neck of pork, season well with pepper and salt, dip in eggs well beaten upon a plate, and then into grated crust of bread (not too brown), put two ounces of lard or butter into a saute or frying-pan, lay in the cutlets and saute very slowly; when done, place them upon a dish; keep hot, pour some of the fat from the pan, add a good tea- spoonful of flour, mix well, moisten with half a pint of broth or water with a piece of glaze, add half a wineglassful of vinegar, a little salt, pepper, and six gherkins in slices, place the cutlets in the pan to warm gently in the sauce, then dress them upon a dish, sauce over, and serve. 481. PORK CUTLETS SAUCE DEMI-KOBERT.—Cut eight cutlets from a neck as before, season well with pepper and salt, sprinkle chopped onions and parsley over upon both sides, beating the cutlets lightly to make them adhere, then dip them into eggs well beaten upon a plate, and then into bread-crumbs; pat them lightly, have some clarified butter in a stewpan, into ’"hich dip the cutlets, and again into bread-crumbs, well cover- ing them, place them upon a gridiron over a moderate fire, broiling a nice light brown colour; when done, dress them upon a dish. Have ready the following sauce: Demi-Robert, cut two large onions into very small dice, put them into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, fry of a light yellow colour, add a teaspoon- ful of flour, mix well, moisten with half a pint of broth and a spoonful of vinegar, season well, let boil, skim, and reduce until rather thick, when add a spoonful of mixed mustard, a little colouring; sauce in the centre of the cutlets, and serve.ENTREES. 253 432. EXCELLENT SAUSAGE CAKES.—Chop some lean pork very fine, having previously detached all the skin and bone and to every pound of meat add three quarters of a pound of fat bacon, half an ounce of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, the quarter of a nutmeg grated, six young green chopped onions, and a little chopped parsley; when the vvhole is well chopped, put into a mortar and pound well, finishing. with three eggs; then have ready a pig’s caul, which cut into pieces large enough to fold a piece of the above preparation the size of an egg, which wrap up, keeping the shape of an egg, but rather flattened, and broil very gently over a moderate fire. 483. PIGS’ FEET.—Procure six pigs’ feet nicely salted, which boil in water, to which you have added a few vegetables, until well done, cut each one in halves, take out the long bone, have some sausage-meat as in the last, and a pigs caul, which cut into pieces each large enough to fold half a foot, well sur- rounded with sausage-meat; when well wrapped up broil slowdy half an hour over a moderate fire, and serve. Or, when the pigs’ feet are well broiled, egg over, and throw them into some grated crust of bread, with which you have mixed a little parsley, broil a nice colour, and serve with a little plain gravy. This is called a la Ste. Menehould. 484. PIGS’ KIDNEYS.—Cut them open lengthwise, season well with pepper and salt, egg over with a paste brush, dip into bread crumbs, with which you have mixed some chopped parsley and eschalot, run a skewer through to keep them open, and broil for about a quarter of an hour over a good fire; when done, place them upon a dish, have ready an ounce of butter, with which you have mixed the juice of a lemon, a little pepper and salt, and a teaspoonful of French or common mustard; place a piece upon each of the kidneys, place in the oven for one minute, and serve. Pigs’ kidneys may also be sauted as directed for ox kidneys. DISHES FROM THE REMAINS OF PORK. 485. HASHED PORK.—Put two spoonfuls of chopped onions into a stewpan, with a wineglassful of vinegar, two cloves, a blade of mace, and a bay-leaf; reduce to half, take out the spice and bay-leaf, add half a pint of broth or water, cut some254 entrees. poik previously cooked into thin small eli/tac, it a dish with pepper and salt d !’ Sh,CeS’ SeaS0n wel1 UP°« over, mix S4K and’putinto ot. fl»“r The remains^Jl 3 ,Wlth,the ™egar is excellent, quiied 1 riv L\V°] ’ ,th°Ugh vei7 P^atable cold, if re- but ered sLtd or W ° la"f thin and placed in a in till,ff* °r frying-pan, with a little broth, or merely fried m the butter, and served with a puree of winter peas made bv boding half a pint of peas until tender (tied up in ShTwhen f one, put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter- season s£ of railk « " s f4r LTJSS or half an hour, butter the inside of a podding basin an,Hay in theSrk Pf86 P“ddi"g round it, and then place in the poik cover it with some of the puddine, place it in a saucepan with a little water to get hot, for about half an hour and then turn it out and serve. Should you not have quite antoSncTof S* ^ “P Wi‘h a Ultle - po^LfS^dte littW? \Uant-ty °f f.?y kind of roast or boiled meat, with a little fat, chop it up like sausage meat, then put your bread in a clean cloth, press it to extract all the water, put into a stew- ] < wo ounces of butter, a tablespoonful of chopped onions, fry for two minutes, then add the bread; stir with a wooden spooJ saH1 hTlfhtT dl}’ thf add the meat’ season with a teaspoonful of salt, half the same of pepper, a little grated nutmeg, the same of lemon peel, stir continually until very hot; then add two e™s one at u time, well mix together, and pour on a dish to ffet cold! Ihen take a piece as big as a small egg, and roll it to the same shape, flatten it a little, egg and bread-crumb over, keeping the shape; do all of it the same way, then put into a saute-pan a q alter of a pound of lard, or clean fat, or oil; when hot, but not too much so, put in the pieces, and saute a very nice yellow colour, and serve very hot, plain, on a napkin, or on a border of masneu potatoes, with any sauce or garniture you fancy. TheseENTREES. 255 can be made with the remains of any kind of meat, poultry, game, fish, and even vegetables; hard eggs, or cold mashed potatoes may be introduced in small quantities, and may be fried instead of sauted, in which-case put about two pounds of fat in the frying-pan, and if care is used it will do several times.— (See Frying, p. 70.) This is an entirely new and very econo- mical and palatable dish, and fit for all seasons, and if once tried would be often repeated; the only expense attending it is the purchase of a small wire sieve for the bread-crumbs. The reason I call it twenty receipts in one is, that all kinds of food may be used for it, even shrimps, oysters, and lobsters. 487. RAMIFOLLE.—These are a little more expensive than the fritadella, and worthy the table of a crowned head. The flesh of fowls instead of lamb or veal, with the addition of one or two fat livers cut in dice. Proceed as in the former receipt, using the crumb of French rolls, and one or two truffles cut fine: then make some pancake batter, and saute two pancakes about one-eighth of an inch thick, cover one with the meat, &c., and lay the other over, and put by until cold; when so, cut them to any shape you like, but if like cutlets add the small bone of fowl or pigeon, or the stalk of a sprig of parsley, egg and bread- crumb them, and saute them in oil or lard of a nice yellow colour, and dish them like cutlets, with any of the sauces or garnitures described for mutton cutlets; or if plain, with fried parsley. They may be made of any kind of meat, fish, or poultry. I have latterly had them sent up to table when we have had a few friends, and they have been very much liked;, and, on inquiring the name, I baptized them Ramifolle, without any particular meaning, which name having pleased as much as the dish, therefore let them be called Ramifolles. I hey may be made a plainer way with various meats or liver, and spread over one pancake, which roll over, and when cold cut it into three equal lengths, egg, bread-crumb, and saute as above. 488. PRUSSIAN CUTLETS.—Take a piece of veal, say one pound, from any part of the calf, free from nerve, with a little fat^chop it up, but not too fine, add to it two teaspoonfuls of chopped eschalot, one of salt, half a one of pepper, little grated nutmeg, chop it a little more, and make it into pieces of the size of two walnuts, to which give the shape of a cutlet; eggENTREES. 256 and bread-crumb each; insert a small bone at the small end, saute it in fat, oil, lard, or butter, give it ten minutes on a slow fire till a nice brown colour, dish and serve with dcmi-glaze sauce, in which you have put a spoonful of Harvey’s, and serve with any brown or white sauce of stewed vegetables you like. Any kind of meat may be used. 469. CUTLETS A LA VICTIMS, or Victimized Cutlets. —Here, ma lelle amie, is a terrific title for a receipt; but do not fear it, as the time of the Inquisition is past, and you are not likely to become one in par- taking of it. I do not recommend it to you on the score of economy, as it is the tip-top of extravagance, but forward it as a curiosity; and also in case similar circumstances should happen which caused its invention, which I must tell you was done by a culinary artist of Louis XVIII., of France, at the palace of the Tuileries, and first partaken of by that intellectual monarch and gourmet, who, at the end of his stormy reign, through a serious illness, was completely paralysed, and, at the same time, the functionary organs of his digestion were much out of order; being a man of great corpulence, and a great admirer of the festive board, much food was required to satisfy his royal appe- tite : and the difficulty which his physicians experienced was to supply thjs want of food in the smallest compass. The head-cook, on being consulted, begged a few hours for reflection before he could give an answer to so important a question, as nothing but mutton entirely deprived of fat was to compose his Majesty’s meal. Alter profound study by the chief and his satellites, a voice was heard from the larder, which was a considerable distance from the kitchen, crying, “I have found it, I have found it.” It was that of a young man of the name of Alphonse Pottier, who, in saying so, made his appearance in the kitchen with three beautiful mutton cutlets, tastefully trimmed and tied toge- ther ; he then, with a small skewer, fastened them to a spit, and placed them, to the astonishment of all present, close to the bars of the grate: two of the cutlets soon got brown (observe, not a word was to be said until the trial was made), from brown they soon turned black; every one gazed at each other in astonishment, whilst Pottier, with quite a composed countenance, terminated his scientific experiment, took them off the spit, drew the skewer out, cut the string, threw the two burnt cutlets away, and merely served the middle one, which seems to have received all the nutriment of the other two; it was served and greatly approved of by the physicians, as well as by the gourmet potentate, who, in consequence of two being sacrificed for one, named it, “Cutlet a la Victime,” and often afterwards used to partake of them when in the enjoyment of health. Cut three cutlets from the neck of mutton, about half an inch thick, trim one very nicely, free from tat, leave the other two as257 ENTREES. cut off, put the trimmed one between the two, flatten them to- gether, so that the fat of the outside ones meet over the middle one; tie them together thus, and broil over a very strong fire for ten minutes; remove it from the fire, cut the string, and dish up the middle one only on a very hot dish, with a little salt sprinkled over it. If wanted roasted, proceed as above. 490. ROAST AND BRAISED CHICKEN, for Entrees. —Have a chicken trussed for boibng; put it on a spit, envelope it as for turkey (No. 381), roast half the time or little less, depending on the fire and the size of the chicken; when done, remove it from the spit, and take off the envelope, and serve with any of the following garniture:—jardiniere, green peas, oysters, cucumbers, Jerusalem artichokes, white mushroom sauce, ragout of quenelles, juice of tarragon (No. 386), Dutch sauce, with a few heads of cauliflower well boiled, and cut small. 491. BRAISED CHICKEN.—If not convenient to roast, put a little bacon in a stewpan, then a chicken, a large onion, hall a carrot, half a head of celery, two bay leaves, two cloves, one peppercorn, one and a half tablespoonful of salt, a little pepper, a bouquet garni, and a quart of water, let simmer till tender; dish up, after having well drained it, take the string oil, pour any of the sauces named in the foregoing receipt over or under them; when the chicken is done, you can make, with the addition of a little more water, a very good puree, and even sauces, and by adding some trimmings of beef, veal, lamb, or mutton, it will make a first-rate clear broth, after beino- clarified giving it a proper colour. 492. CHICKEN PLAIN BOILED.—Put two quarts of water into a stewpan, on the fire, or two ounces of butter, and a tablespoonful ol salt, and a few vegetables; when boiling rub the breast of the chicken with half a lemon, and put it°in to simmer from a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes; if a laro-e iowl, increase the quantity of water, and boil longer; sauce over with parsley and butter, or celery sauce, or any of those for the foregoing: use the broth. The remains of any of the above, or of turkey, capon, guinea- lovvl, or other poultry, may be dressed as hash, by cutting them into neat pieces; put them into a stewpan, put to it half a°table- spoonful of salt, one of flour, half a one of chopped onions ditto ol parsley, a bay-leaf, half a pint of water, a few drops ofENTREES. 258 colouring; set to simmer for twenty minutes, and serve; the addition of a few mushrooms is excellent. 493. POULTRY EN CAPILOTADE.—Put with the pieces of fowl a tablespoonful of oil, and one glass of sherry, into a pan, and proceed as above; when ready to serve, chop a few gherkins, and put in. 494. INDIAN HASH FOWL.—Make a pint of sauce (p. 81), warm, put into it your pieces of fowl, and serve with rice plain boiled. 495. FRIED FOWL.—When you have cut the pieces as before, put them into a basin with a little salt and pepper, a spoon- ful of oil, and two of vinegar, and a little chopped eschalot, stir them well in it, and let remain for half an hour, have ready a quantity of batter, and take a fork and dip each piece one alter the other into it, and then let it drop into the frying-pan, in which is sufficient hot fat to cover them; fry a nice colour, and serve in the form of a pyramid, with fried parsley over, or any sauce you like under. 496. BLANQUETTE OF FOWL.—Put half a pint of white sauce in a stewpan, with six tablespoonfuls of broth or milk, let it boil; having cut up about a pound of the remains of any kind of poultry, put it in the sauce, warm it, and add two spoonfuls of liaison to it; season with a little salt, pepper, the juice of half a lemon, stir it, and serve. Do not let it boil, or it will curdle, and be unsightly and unpalatable; a little cooked ham or tongue is good in it, also oysters, and served with biead sippets round. A little chopped parsley sprinkled over makes it look very inviting. 497. MINCED FOWL.—Cut the remains into small dice, with a little ham or tongue, add thick white sauce, season mildly; it can be served with poached eggs over. 498. SAUTE OF FOWL-—See the article Saut£:, which is applicable to all kinds of poultry; if the fowl be old, it should be previously stewed. 499 BROILED FOWL WITH SAUCE.—Have a fowl ready plucked and drawn, open the back from one end to the other with a sharp knife, having previously cut the feet oti at259 ENTREES. the second joint; make an incision in the skin, and pass the hone through to fix it internally; lay the fowl on the table, breast down, beat, it as flat as possible with a chopper, take out the breast- bone, and also the rough part of the interior of the back, espe- cially if a large o^ old fowl; after you have it in a nice shape, season all over with a teaspoonful of salt and half one of pepper, put it on a gridiron, over a slow tire, turning it every five minutes until done; if a young one, twenty-five minutes ought to do it well, but. by trying with the finger on the thick part it will easily be known by even an inexperienced hand; if firm under the finger it is done, or by pressing the wing, if tender it is also done; put it on dish, and pour over a brown mushroom sauce, or the following: put two spoonfuls of Chili vinegar, two of Harvey’s sauce, two of catsup, one of chopped eschalot, ten of plain melted butter, in a stewpan, and boil for twenty minutes; skim, and serve it under or over. 500. ANOTHER WAY.—When the fowl is ready for broil- ing, put four tablespoonfuls of oil or fat, or one ounce of butter, into a saute pan, lay in the fowl, and saute it gently until a nice yellow colour, and then broil as above; or egg and bread-crumb it over, melting a little butter, and drop a little now' and then •when on the fire, and with care it will be gold colour ; serve with either sharp, mushroom, tomato, or poiverade sauce on to and under. 501. A LA TARTARE.—By making about half a pint of sauce a la tartare, and ornament an oval dish by placing on the border cut gherkins, beetroot, olives, place the sauce on it, and lay the fowl very hot over it; thus the fowl is hot and the sauce cold, but together very good. 502. CROQUETTES OF FOWL.—Take the lean of the remains of a fowl from a previous dinner, and chop it up in small pieces, then put into a stewpan a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots, with half an ounce of butter, pass them for about three minutes over the fire, add a teaspoonful of flour, mix well, then add the fowl, and a gill of white sauce, or more if not sufficiently moist; season with pepper, salt, and sugar; then stir in the yolks of two eggs very quickly, stir it a little longer on the fire and turn it out on a dish to cool; when cold, take twelve pieces’ each the size of a walnut, roll them out an inch and a half in length, and bread-crumb twice over; fry a good colour, dressENTREES. 260 them on a napkin, or a border of mashed potatoes. Every kind of remains of game, meat, poultry, and fish, may be made the same way: if no sauce, add a little more flour, and use milk or broth. 503. FRICASSEE OF FOWL.—Divide*a fowl into eight pieces, as Iso. 504, wash it well, put the pieces into a stewpan, and cover with boiling water, season with a teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, a good bouquet of parsley, four cloves, and a blade of mace; let it boil twenty minutes; pass the stock through a sieve into a basin; take out the pieces of fowl, trim nicely, then put into another stewpan two ounces of butter, with which mix a good spoonful of flour, moisten with stock, put in the pieces of fowl, stir occasionally until boiling, skim well, add twenty button onions, let simmer until the onions are. tender, when add a gill of cream, with which you have mixed the yolks of two eggs, stir it quickly over the fire, but do not let it boil; take out the pieces, dress in form of pyramid upon the dish, and serve. If you require to warm up the remainder of the above, put it into a basin, which stand in a stewpan in which you have placed a little water, put the cover over, and let it boil gently, by which means the contents of the basin will get warm without turning the sauce; when hot, dish up and serve. The same plan ought to be adopted to warm up any remains of dishes in which a liaison has been introduced.; it prevents its turning, which is unavoidable in any other way. 504. FOWL SAUTE.—Pluck and draw a fowl, cut it into pieces, seven or eight, as you like, that is, the two French wings, the two legs, the breast in one or two pieces, and the back in two; trim nicely, put into a sautepan two ounces of butter, put it on the fire; when hot, lay in your pieces, add a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, saute gently, turn over; when of a nice gold colour and tender, pour the fat out of the pan, add a glass of sherry and ten spoonfuls of brown sauce, and six of broth, boil ten minutes longer, but very slowly, skim, and serve in form of pyramid; sauce over. 505. THE SAME, A PLAINER WAY.—When prepared and cooked as above, instead of the sauce, which may not be handy, add a spoonful of flour, which dredge over till it is well mixed, then add half a pint of boiling water, a few" drops of colouring or some mushroom catsup, two teaspoonfuls of salt,ENTREES. 361 and a half of pepper, add a bouquet of parsley, let it simmer for twenty minutes, skim, taste if your sauce is well seasoned, dish, your fowl, reduce your, sauce until adhering to the back of the spoon, add the juice of half a lemon, and serve. A few mush- rooms or English truffles may be added to it, which is a great improvement; the colour of the sauce ought to be brownish; take out the bouquet, which you have previously squeezed. 506. SAUTE OF FOWL WITH VEGETABLES— Proceed exactly as above, only omitting the wine, add to the sauce fifty heads of young green scallions, or some small pieces of carrot and turnip, or a pint of green peas, or cucumbers cut in nice pieces, stew till tender, add a spoonful of powdered sugar, dish the fowl, skim the sauce, take out the parsley; when your sauce is thickish and of a nice colour, pour over the fowl, and serve very hot. 507. FOWL SAUTE MARENGO, PARISIAN—Cut a fowl (like No. 504), which put into a stewpan, with three table- spoonfuls of salad-oil, over a moderate fire, shaking the stewpan round occasionally, until the pieces of fowl are rather bi’owned, when mix in a tablespoonful of flour, which moisten with a pint of stock or water, let it simmer at the corner of the fire twenty minutes, skimming off the oil as it rises to the surface; add a few blanched mushrooms in slices, season with a little salt, pepper, sugar, and a piece of scraped garlic the size of a pea; take out the fowl, which pile upon your dish, laying the worst pieces at the bottom; reduce the sauce over the fire, keeping it stirred until sufficiently thick to adhere to the back of the spoon, when pour over the fowl and serve. Use brown sauce. No. 136, if handy. 508. BLANQUETTES OF TURKEY—Cut off the flesh from the remainder of a roast or boiled turkey into as large thin slices as possible, then break up the bones, which put "into a stewpan, with a little lean bacon and an onion, and a small bouquet of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, just cover them with water, and boil gently for three quarters of an hour, skim, and pass tlie stock through a cloth, and with it make a little white sauce, then put the meat into another stewpan lightly seasoned with a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; just cover it with some of the sauce, and warm it gradually, not, however, per-262 entrees. mitting it to boil; when very hot, stir in three tablespoonfuls of cream, with which you have mixed the yolk of an e*g, and when beginning to thicken, dress it upon a dish with toasted or ii led sippets ^of bread around, cucumbers cut and dressed as directed p. 85, and added to the blaiiquette, are a very great improvement, as are likewise button mushrooms, or a few slices of cooked ham or tongue. For a Blanquette of Fowl, proceed precisely the same. 509. BOUDINS OF FOWL OR TURKEY.—Cut up the remains of a turkey or fowls into very small dice, with a quarter of a pound of lean cooked ham to each pound of meat, make a stock with the bones as directed in the last; put a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots into a stewpan, with a piece of butter of the size of a walnut, which stir over the fire until the eschalots become a little yellowish, when stir in a good tablespoonful of flour, add the meat and about a pint of the stock, let boil gently a few minutes, season with a little pepper, salt, and sugar, stir the yolks of two eggs in quickly, and pour it out upon a dish until cold, when divide it into pieces of the size of eggs, which rub into long pieces of the shape and size of flat sausages, which egg and bread-crumb twice over, and fry of a nice brown colour in hot fat or dripping, drain upon a cloth, and serve very hot. 510. TURBAN OR CROQUETTES A L’EPIGRAMME. —Croquettes are made from the same preparation as the last, but made up into small pieces, two inches in length, and the thickness of your finger; egg, bread-crumb, and fry the same, dress in a circle upon a thin border of mashed potatoes, and serve with some blanquette of turkey or fowl in the centre. 511. HASHED GOOSE.—Put a spoonful of chopped onions into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, which fry over the fire until becoming rather browned, then stir a tablespoonful of flour, put in the remains of a goose, cut into neat pieces, and well seasoned with pepper and salt; add a pint of stock, let the whole simmer about ten minutes, and it is ready to serve. A little apple sauce may be served separately in a boat, or a couple of apples sliced; a few leaves of bruised dried sage may be stewed with the hgsh. 512. STEWED DUCK WITH PEAS.—Truss a duck with the legs turned inside, which put into a stewpan with twoENTREES. 263 ounces of butter, and a quarter of a pound of streaked bacon, cut into small dice, set the stewpan over a moderate fire, occa- sionally stirring its contents until it becomes lightly browned, then add a good tablespoonful of flour, and when well mixed, a pint of stock or water, stir occasionally until boilidg, when add twenty button onions and a bunch of parsley with a bay-leaf; let the whole simmer a quarter of an hour, keeping it well skimmed, then add a quart of young peas, and simmer half an hour longer, or until the peas are quite tender, when take out the duck, draw out the string, and dress it upon your dish; remove the parsley and bay-leaf, season the peas and sauce with a little pepper, salt, and sugar, pour over the duck, and serve. 513. STEWED DUCK WITH TURNIPS.—Proceed as in the last, but instead of peas, use about forty pieces of good turnips, cut into moderately-sized squares, and previously fried of a yellowish colour, in a little lard or butter, dress the duck upon your dish, season the turnips and sauce with a little salt, peppei, and sugar, and reduce it until thickish, not however to break the turnips; sauce over, and serve. The i emains of ducks left from a previous dinner maybe hashed as directed for goose, but the sage and apple should in all cases be omitted; for variety, should peas be in season, a pint freshly boiled may be mixed with the hash at the time of serving . FRICASSEE OF RABBIT.—Cut a nice youn^ rabbit into neat joints, and put them into lukewarm water to diso-oro-e for half an hour, when drain and put them into a stewpan,“with a large onion cut into slices, two cloves, a blade of mace, a little parsley, one bay-leaf, and a quarter of a pound of streaky bacon cut into small dice; cover the whole with water, and let it sim- mer twenty minutes, keeping it well skimmed; then pass the stock through a sieve into a basin, take out the pieces of rabbit bm/ the.^ac0"’. then.ln another stewpan have, two ounces of “ Y which mix a good tablespoonful of flour, moisten Tuth the stock, and stir over the fire until boiling; then trim neatly the pieces of rabbit, which, with the bacon°and twenty button onions, put into the sauce; let the whole simmer until tender.’ skimminS Off all the fat as it rises to the face, then pour in a gill of cream, with which.you have mixed the yolks of two eggs, leave it a moment upon the fire to h.cken (but not to boil), take out the rabbit, which Ite lll upon piece upon your dish, sauce over and serve. ? P264 ENTREES. 515. GIBELOTTE OF RABBIT.—Cut up a young rabbit into neat joints, as likewise a quarter of a pound of streaky bacon in small dice, put the bacon into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, and when a little fried, put in the pieces of rabbit, which saute of a light brown colour, moving them round occasionally with a wooden spoon; then add a good tablespoonful of flour, working it well in, moisten with a pint of water, season with a little pepper and salt, and when beginning to simmer, skim off all the fat, and add thirty button onions, a few blanched mushrooms, and a little brown gravy or colouring; let simmer a quarter of an hour longer, when take out the rabbit, which dress upon your dish; reduce the sauce until it adheres to the back of the spoon, when pour it over the rabbit, and serve. 516. COMPOTE OF PIGEONS.—Put a quarter of a pound of lean bacon cut into small dice into a stewpan, with half an ounce of butter, and fry a few seconds over the fire, then have three pigeons trussed, with their legs turned inside, which place in the stewpan breast downwards, setting them over the fire until of a light brown colour, moving them round occa- sionally; add a tablespoonful of flour, which work well in with a wooden spoon, until becoming browned, when moisten with a pint of water, add a good bunch of parsley, with a bay-leaf, and about thirty button onions, season with a little pepper and salt, let the whole simmer three quarters of an hour, keeping it well skimmed, then dress the pigeons upon a dish with the bacon and onions round, reduce the sauce to a proper consistency, take out the parsley and bay-leaf, sauce over, and serve. 517. STEWED PIGEON WITH PEAS.— Cook the pigeons precisely as described in the last, but omitting the onions and bay-leaf, and adding a quart of fresh green peas; when done, dress the pigeons in a dish, pour the sauce and peas over, and serve. 518. HOT LAMB PIE (raised.)—To make this an oval, a tin or copper pie mould would be required, which you would choose of a size most generally useful. Butter the interior of the mould, which stand upon a baking sheet, then make the following paste: put a quarter of a pound of butter and the same of chopped suet into a stewpan, with three quarters ot a pint of water, or more if required, and let the whole boil toge- ther cue minute, when strain it through a sieve into a basinENTREES. 265 containing two pounds of flour, mixing it first with a spoon, and when cool enough with the hand, until forming a smooth paste; when partly cold roll it out into a sheet half an inch in thick- ness, with which line the mould, pressing the paste evenly at all parts; have ready cut sufficient small lamb chops from the loin, neatly cut away the bones, and lay them round the interior of the pie alternately with slices of raw potatoes (a quarter of an inch in thickness), season rather highly as you proceed, with pepper, salt, chopped onions, and parsley; make a neat cover with the trimmings of the paste, and bake it rather better than two hours in a moderate oven; when done lift the cover, pour out as much of the fat as possible, add a little gravy, and serve. 519. OTHER VARIOUS PIES. —Hot raised pies may also be made with mutton by following the above directions. They are also very good made writh fillet of beef cut into thin slices of the size of the lamb chops, or of rump steak, by laying a piece at the bottom, seasoning and filling alternately with potatoes and the meat; veal and ham pies are also excellent, but the potatoes in them had better be omitted, the veal, however, seasoned and dipped in flour. Pies may also be made with veal sweetbread and ham, but then about three parts of a pint of white sauce should be poured in after the pie is baked. Fowls or rabbits may likewise be cut into joints, and put into a stew- pan, with a piece of butter, previously wrell seasoning them with pepper, salt, and chopped eschalots; cover the stewpan close, and leave it twenty minutes over a slow fire, add a pint of white sauce, and simmer ten minutes longer, when cold build them up in the interior of the pie, which cover and bake an hour in a warm oven. Pies of the above description can of course be made of any size, either large enough for a family meal, or very small and round, for a corner dish for a dinner party; most people who are in the habit of making them, keep two different sized moulds for the purpose. 520. RUMPSTEAK PIE.—Procure two pounds of rump- steaks, which cut into slices lialf-an-inch thick, and season well with pepper and salt, dip each piece into flour, and lay them in a small pie-dish, finishing the top in the form of a dome; add a wineglassful of water, then have ready half a pound of half-puff paste, cut off a small piece, which roll into a band, and lay round the edge of the dish, having previously wetted it with266 entrees. paste-brush dipped in water, then roll out the remainder of the paste to about the size of the dish, damp the band of paste upon the dish, and lay the other piece over, make a hole with a knife at the top, press the edges evenly down with your thumbs, trim the pie round with a knife, egg over the top with a paste-brush, and ornament it with the trimmings of the paste, according to fancy; bake it rather better than an hour in a moderate oven, and serve either hot or cold. i UW 7 F,AL PIE-—Cut. about a pound and a halt ot veal into thin slices, as also a quarter of a pound of cooked ham; season the veal rather highly with white pepper and salt, with which cover the bottom of the dish, then lay over a lew slices of ham, then the remainder of the veal, finishing with the remainder of the ham, add a wineglassful of wate?, and co\er and bake as directed lor beefsteak pie: a bay-leaf will be an improvement. J 522. MUTTON PIE.—Procure the chumps of three loins of mutton, fiom which cut the meat in moderately thin slices, put a layer at the bottom of the dish, which season well with chopped parsley, eschalots, pepper, and salt; then put a layer of slices ol law potatoes, and again a layer of mutton, seasoning as before, proceeding thus to the top, which form a dome, finish- ing v ith mutton, cover with paste, and bake as directed for rumpsteak pie. 523. ANOTHER METHOD.—Cut six chops from a loin of mutton, from which trim as much of the fat as possible; season them well with salt and pepper, and lay them round in your pie-dish, the thick part uppermost; put two onions, in slices, in the centre, over which lay four middling sized potatoes, each cut in halves, pour in a wineglasslul ot ivater, cover with paste, and bake as the last. 524. LAMB PIE.—Cut a small neck of lamb into chops, which must not be too fat, season them lightly with pepper and salt, and lay them in your pie-dish, with a few new potatoes in slices, pour in a little water, then cover and bake as directed for rumpsteak pie. 525. CHICKEN PIE.—Cut up a nice plump chicken into joints, which lay upon r, dish, and season lightly with chopped parsley, white pepper, and salt, then lay the back, cut int267 ENTREES. three pieces, at the bottom of a pie-dish with the two legs on either side; have half a pound of cooked ham or bacon in slices, a layer of which cover over, then lay in the two wings, and over them the breast, cut into two pieces, which, with the remainder of the ham or bacon, form into a dome in the middle, pour half a pint of white sauce over, if handy, or a little broth or water, cover with paste, and bake as directed for the last. If no white sauce, dip each piece lightly in flour. 526. GIBLET PIE.—When the giblets have been taken from the goose as directed in No. 393, place them, with the exception of the liver, but with the pinions, feet, head, and neck, into boiling water to blanch; remove the skin from the feet and beak, put into a stewpan a piece of butter the size of a walnut, one onion cut in slices, a bay-leaf, a little salt, pepper, and sugar: place it oh the fire until the onion is brown, place in the giblets with the head cut in two, let them remain on the fire for about three minutes, stirring them round; then add one quart of boiling water and let them stew gently for two hours, remove from the fire and let them get cold. Take a pie- dish and place a piece of steak on the bottom, then place over that the giblets with the liver, and steak again over them, add the liquor the giblets were stewed in, season and cover with half puff paste. 52/. RABBIT PIE.—Cut a nice rabbit into joints, splitting the head in halves, and lay them in lukewarm water half an hour to disgorge, then dry them upon a cloth, season well with pepper, salt, chopped eschalots, parsley, two bay-leaves, and a spoonful of flour; have also three-quarters of a pound of un- cooked streaked bacon, cut into square pieces the size of walnuts, build up the pieces of rabbit and bacon together, in a pie dish, commencing with the worst pieces, and forming a dome; pour in a little water, cover with paste, and bake as directed for rumpsteak pie. 528. PIGEON PIE.—Line the bottom of a pie-dish with a pound of rumpsteak, cut into slices not too thin, seasoned with a little salt, pepper, and cayenne, and dipped into flour; have ready picked and drawn a couple of pigeons, cut off the feet turn the legs in, fold up the pinions of the wings, and lay them breast to breast upon the meat, have the yolks of four hard boBed eggs, which put at the sides, sprinkle a little pepper and saltentrees. 268 over the pigeons, lay a bay-leaf upon the top, pour in a little water, cover with paste, stick the feet in the top, and bake as directed for the last. The pigeons may be stuffed with a little veal stuffing, if handy. .529. PARTRIDGE PIE.—Line the bottom of a pie-dish with slices of veal, cut moderately thick, and rather lightly seasoned with white pepper and salt; have ready picked, drawn, and trussed, a couple of young partridges, pour one glass of sherry over the veal, one of water, and lay in the partridges breast to breast, laying a piece of fat bacon over each, cover with paste, sticking the feet of the partridges in the top of the pie, and bake as before. 530. GROUSE PIE.—Roast, very underdone, a couple of nice plump grouse; when cold, cut into joints, being the two wings, two legs, and the breasts into two pieces each, season them lightly, and lay them in a pie-dish, building them to form a dome, then break up the back-bone and other trimmings, which put into a stewpan, with a glass of sherry, a bay-leaf, an onion in slices, a few sprigs of parsley, three or four whole all- spice, set the stewpan over the fire a few minutes until the wine boils, when add half a pint of brown sauce, and half a pint of broth, stir it over a fire until again reduced to half a pint, strain it through a sieve, over the grouse; when quite cold cover with paste, as directed for rumpstealc pie, and bake in a very hot oven; about half an hour would be sufficient, as the paste requires to be laid on thinner, the contents of the pie having been previously cooked. Pies may be made from the remains of any poultry or game, in the same manner as here described; only, if poultry, use white sauce instead of brown, and omit the wine. If no sauce, roll each piece in flour, and make only the gravy, which place in it. The remains of any joint of meat may likewise be served in a pie, by cutting the meat in slices, well seasoning, laying them in a pie-dish, and pouring half a pint of sharp sauce over; or use broth, or even water higldy seasoned. 531. SEA PIE.—Put into a stewpan two pounds of beef- steak, season it with pepper and salt, a small bit of celery chopped up, or a pinch of ground celery seed, a pinch of pounded basil, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a small onion cut in slices; put on this six larks trussed for roasting, then make a piece of paste with suet, about one inch thick, rjmd round like the stew -209 ENTREES. pan; put half a pint of water or stock in the stewpan, and cover the larks with the paste, pressing it against the sides of the stewpan; simmer for one hour and serve, by putting a knife round the sides of the stewpan to detach the paste, and turn it over on a dish. 532. EEL PIE.—Skin and cleanse three good-sized eels, which cut into pieces about two inches in length, put a good- sized bunch of parsley, thyme, and three bay-leaves, all tied together, into a stewpan, with an onion, into which you have stuck four cloves, a glass of port wine, and a pint of broth, lay in the pieces of eels, and set them upon the fire to simmer for ten minutes, take them out, laying them upon a cloth to drain, skim off all the fat from the stock the eels were cooked in, to which add rather more than half a pint of brown sauce, let the whole boil until reduced to three parts of a pint, when dress the pieces of eels up in a pie-dish, strain the sauce over through a sieve, and when cold, cover with paste, as directed for rumpsteak pie, and bake about an hour in a moderate oven; serve it hot. If for a small pie, they may be used raw, and season accordingly, after having rolled each piece in flour. o33, BEEFSTEAK PUDDING-.—Put a jiound of flour upon a dresser, with which mix half a pound of beef suet, very finely chopped, make a hole in the middle, into which put a tea- spoonful of salt, and sufficient water to form a rather stiffish paste, mix it well together, using a little more flour to dry it and prevent its sticking; then lightly butter the interior of a round-bottomed pudding basin, roll out two-thirds of the paste to half an inch in thickness, with which line the basin; have ready cut into slices, about the size of the palm of the hand, and a quarter of an inch in thickness, two pounds of rumpsteak, wuh a little of the fat included; lay them upon a dish, season with two teaspoonfuls of salt and one of black pepper, sprinkle a little flour over, move them about a little until each piece is well covered with flour and seasoning; then lay them within the paste, also putting in whatever seasoning may remain upon the dish, (some add two dozen of oysters, blanched and bearded ■sv nch is excellent,) pour a gill of water over, moistening the edges of the paste; then roll out the remainder of the paste to lorm a lid, which place over, pressing it down with the thumb, then tie the basin in a pudding-cloth, and put into a saucepan270 ENTREES. containing about a gallon of boiling water, and keep continually boiling for nearly two hours, adding a little more water occa- sionally, to keep up the quantity; then take it up, untie the cloth, run a sharp-pointed knife into the pudding, and if the meat feels tender it is done (if not, it will require more boiling, turn it oyer upon your dish, lift the basin carefully from it, and serve, without opening the pudding to add gravy, as many persons do, for a pudding made as above ought to be full of gravy when cut at table. ^ J 534. MUTTON PUDDING.—Line a pudding-basin with paste, as directed in the last; then have ready cut into slices, the meat from two loin-chumps of mutton, which lay upon a dish, and season with a teaspoonful of chopped onions, the same of chopped parsley, rather more than half that quantity of black pepper, and salt in proportion; then put a layer of meat into the pudding, then a layer of raw potatoes cut into slices; proceeding thus until you have filled it up, but finishing with meat, cover it up as m the last, likewise tie it in a napkin, and boil, but lather better than two hours would be sufficient: serve as before directed. 535. LAMB PUDDING.—If convenient, procure the entire ribs of a lamb, sawing off the breast almost close to the lean part of the neck; the breast may be cooked as directed (No. 351); cut the neck into rather thin cutlets, which season lightly with white pepper, salt, and a little chopped parsley and onions; you have previously lined a pudding-basin with paste as before, fill it with the meat thus prepared, intermixing a few new pota- toes cut in slices, finish the pudding, boil, and serve as before directed. 536. VEAL PUDDING.—Cut two pounds of veal from any part of the leg into slices, about the size of the palm of the hand, and a quarter of an inch in thickness, put two ounces of butter into a frying-pan, and when melted lay in the veal, and a few slices of streaked bacon, season the whole with pepper and a little salt, add one bay-leaf, and a few sprigs of thyme; place the pan over a slow fire, saute the veal gently for a quarter of an hour; then take it from the fire, and leave it in the pan until cold, then have a pudding-basin lined with paste as before, lay in the veal and bacon, pouring the gravy over, cover, and boil as before, but an hour would be sufficient.ENTREES. 271 536. * VEAL KIDNEY PUDDING.—Make the paste the same as for No. 533, using veal suet, line the basin with the paste, and then place a layer of slices of ham, then of veal kidney, and thus alternately until full, season with salt, pepper, and cover over with paste, and boil like the other puddings. 537. PORK PUDDING.—Line a pudding-basin with paste as before, and spread three-quarters of a pound of sausage-meat of an equal thickness over the interior, have a pound and a half of lean pork, from the leg if possible, cut into square pieces of the size of walnuts, which season rather highly with pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots, and half that quantity of dried sage; put the meat into the centre of the pudding, cover over with a quarter of a pound more sausage-meat, over which put on the cover of paste, tie it in a cloth, and boil two hours and a half, as directed for beefsteak pudding. 533. KIDNEY PUDDING.—Procure one os or eight mutton kidneys, which cut into slices the thickness of half-a- crown piece; lay them upon a dish, seasoning well with black pepper and salt, and shaking one ounce of flour over, mix all well together, to absorb the flour and seasoning; then have a pudding-basin, lined as directed for beefsteak pudding, finish, boil, and serve as there directed. A pudding made with one pound of steak and a beef kidney is also very excellent. 539. RABBIT PUDDING.—Cut a rabbit up in joints, (splitting the head in halves,) and lay them in a basin cf luke- warm water an hour to disgorge; line a pudding-basin with paste as directed for rumpsteak pudding, dry the pieces of rabbit upon a cloth, and lay them in the pudding with half a pound of streaked bacon cut into square pieces, and seasoning rather highly with chopped eschalots, salt, pepper, and chopped parsley; cover, tie it in a cloth, boil it two hours, and serve as before directed. 540. SUET PUDDING.—Put a pound of sifted flour in a basin, with half a pound of beef suet finely chopped, add two eggs with a pinch of salt, and a quarter of a pint of water, beat well together with a wooden spoon, making a rather thick batter, flour a pudding-cloth, which lay in a small round-bottomed basin, pour in the mixture, tie the cloth tightly, and put the pudding m to boil, with a joint of salt beef, if you have one, to serve the272 ENTREES. pudding with, or if not, in boiling water; an hour and a quarter would be sufficient to cook it; when done, untie the cloth, turn the pudding over upon your dish, and serve very hot. 541. YORKSHIRE PUDDING.—Put six tablespoonfuls of flour into a basin, with six eggs, a pinch of salt, and a quarter of a pint of milk, mix well together with a wooden spoon, adding the remaining three-quarters of a pint of milk by degrees; you have previously set a shallow tin dish under a piece of roasting beef before the fire; an hour before serving pour in the batter, leaving it under the meat until quite set and rather browned upon the top, when turn the pudding over upon the dish you intend serving it upon, and again place it before the fire until the other side is rather browned, when it is ready to serve with the meat. This pudding is very excellent baked under a small piece of beef of about five or six pounds. It i3 also frequently baked beneath a shoulder of mutton; and sometimes in an oven separate, if the fire is not large enough, (with a few spoonfuls of gravy added). 542. TOAD IN A HOLE.—Make a batter as directed for the Yorkshire pudding, but with the addition of a spoonful more flour and six ounces of chopped beef suet; butter a leather deep baking-dish, into which pour the batter, lay a solid piece of lean gravy°beef about three pounds, in the centre, or a beef skirt, and bake it an hour and a half in a hot oven. Another method is to cut up about three pounds of rumpsteaks into about six pieces, and putting them in the batter at various distances apart, but the former method is most common. Any remains of cooked beef, veal, mutton, pork, loasted or boiled, salt or fresh, or game and fowl, cut in pieces, and sea- soned to taste, may be used in this dish, by adding it to the batter when in the dish. 543. FISH PUDDING.—Cut a slice of salmon half an inch thick and weighing about one pound; remove the skin and bone, mix a saltspoonful of salt, half one ol pepper, one ol finely chopped onions and parsley, and a spoonful ol flour in a plate, and rub the fish with it; make half a pound ot flour into paste, roll it half an inch thick, place a pudding-cloth m a middle size basin, flour the cloth, lay the paste in it, place in the salmon with a little water and white wine, and a bay-leaf, bring the pasteENTREES. 273 paste over so that the edges meet in the middle, having reserved a small piece which you have rolled out to place over the joint, after having wetted it. Tie the cloth, but not too tight, round the paste; place it in a gallon of boiling water, let it simmer for one hour and a half, take it out, remove the cloth, and serve it with shrimp sauce over or separate. Fillets of soles, mackerel " turbot, or other fish, may be used. * 544. PEASE PUDDING.—Tie a pint of split peas in a cloth, leaving them room to swell, but not more; put them into a stewpan of cold water, where let them boil nearly half an hour until tender, but not at all watery (which they would not be if allowed only sufficient room to swell, and no more); then turn thein out of the cloth, rub them through a hair sieve into a basin, after which add a quarter of a pound of butter, season with a little white pepper and salt, and mix all well together, with three yolks and one whole egg; lightly flour a pudding- cloth, which lay in a small round-bottomed basin, pour in the mixture, tie up the cloth, and put the pudding to boil for an hour in a saucepan of boiling water; when done, turn it from the cloth upon a dish, and serve with a joint of boiled pork. • '5A5: f0ViL.PILLAU.—Put one pound of the best Patna ce. int0 a fryingpan with two ounces of butter, which keen moving over a slow fire, until the rice is lightly browned- then have ready a fowl trussed as for boiling, whichputTo a^ew- pan, with five pints of good broth; pound in a mortar about Sp P car<?amum.seeds Wlth tlie tusks, half an ounce of coriander seed,, and sufficient cloves, allspice, mace, cinnamon, and pep- percorns, to make two ounces in the aggregate, which tie ud tightly in a cloth, and put into the stewpan with the fowl- let t bofl slowly until the fowl is nearly done, then add the rice which let stew until quite tender and almost dry; have ready foui onions, which cut into slices the thickness of lialf-crowJ pieces, sprinkle over with flour, and fry, without breaking them of a nice brown colour, have also six thin slices of bacon° curled ;ourSm 6 ’ fn1 tW° eggS boiled lmrd; then lay the fowl upon your dish, which cover over with the rice, forming a pyramid garnish with the bacon, fried onions, and the hard-boiled e^s cut into quarters, and serve very hot. co * All rice should he well washed before usirw TENTREES. 274 The bag of spice must be preserved, as it will answer the same purpose half a dozen times. Fowl pillaus are frequently served with two ounces of Ma- laga raisins, which are added at the same time and stewed with the rice. 546. MUTTON PILLAU.—Trim a neck of mutton, by sawing off the tips of the ribs and taking away the chine bone; then lay it in a stewpan, with a bag of spice, as in the last, and cover with three quarts of stock, let it simmer very gently two hours; then take out the mutton, which keep hot upon a dish, skim off all the fat from the stock it was boiled in, to which add a pound of Patna rice, which stew until tender and very dry; then lay it over the mutton, garnish with fried onions and hard- boiled eggs, as in the last, and serve very hot. 547. CHICKEN CURRY.—Cut up a chicken into ten pieces, that is, two -wings, two pieces of the breast, two of the back, and each leg divided into two pieces at the joints; then cut up a middling-sized onion into very small dice, which put into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter and a very small piece of garlic, stir them over the fire until sauteed well; then add two tea- spoonfuls of curry powder and one of curry paste, which well mix in; then add half a pint of good broth, let it boil up; then lay in the pieces of chicken, cover it over, and put to stew very gently for half an hour, stirring it round occasionally; if getting too dry add a little more broth (or water); when done, the flesh should part easily from the bones, and the sauce should adhere rather thickly; season with the juice of half a lemon and a pinch of salt, and serve, with plain boiled rice upon a separate dish. Ducklings can be cooked in the same way. 548. CHICKEN CURRY" WITH PASTE.—Cut a chicken up as described in the last, which put into a stewpan, with two ounces of clarified butter, put it over the fire, stirring occasionally until the pieces of the chicken are lightly browned, then pour off the butter and fat from the chicken, add three teaspoonfuls of curry paste and a pint of good broth, mix all well togethei, place the stewpan again upon the fire, stewing its contents slowly for about twenty minutes, when serve, as directed in the last. 549. R ABBIT CURRYr.—Cut up a rabbit into smallish pieces, splitting the head in halves, cut up two large onions and275 ENTKEES. one apple into very small dice, which fry in a stewpan with two ounces of butter; when nicely browned, add a good tablespoonful of curry powder, a teaspoonful of curry paste, half one of flour, and a pint of stock, mix well together, then put in the rabbit, with half a pound of streaked bacon, cut into square pieces the size of filbert-nuts, let the whole stew very gently upon a very slow fiie (oi put the stewpan closely covered down into a warm oven) three-quarters of an hour; when done, which you may ascertain by trying with the point of a knife if the flesh will leave the bone easily, pour off as much of the fat as possible, and turn it out upon your dish; serve with rice separately. The curry sauce should be sufficiently thick to envelope each piece of the rabbit. ooO. A EAL CURRY.—Cut up about two pounds of lean veal into small square pieces, half the size of walnuts, then put a large onion cut into small dice in a stewpan, with a clove oi garlic and one apple cut into slices, and one ounce of butter- keep them stirred over a moderate fire, until lightly browned’ when stir in a good tablespoonful of mild curry powder, half one of flour, nnx well, then add a pint of water, let it just boil up put in the veal, which stir round two or three times, to mix with the curry, and put the stewpan over a slow fire, or in a warm oven for an hour and a half; when done (which you may ascertain by pressing a piece between the finger and thumb if done it would be quite tender and separate), add the juice of a lemon and a little salt, stir the whole round three or four times rice^separadely! ^ ^ * °Ut Up0n J0Ur dish’ serve with Shoidd you require a veal curry made in less time, the better p an would be to saute the veal in butter previously, then putting v„2r“akne \VCal c.ur,7 with curry paste, saute the veal in !nr nf' w!? becormnS sl'gh% browned, add a good table- spoonful of the paste, with half a pint of water leave it to about half an hour, when it will be ready to serve. beef, mutton, lamb, and pork curries are made precisely the same as directed for veal curries. P ^ 551. BREAST OF VEAL CTTT?T?v v> STOSS276 ENTREES. and put into a stewpan, with two quarts of -water, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay leaves; let it simmer three hours at the corner of the fire, skimming oft'all the fat, then take out the meat and strain the broth into a basin; in another stewpan have a middling-sized onion (cut into small dice), with an ounce of butter, saute them rather brown, then add a good tablespoonful of curry powder, mix well, and pour in the broth, then add the meat, which let stew in the curry one hour longer, until the meat is very tender, and the sauce becomes rather thick; pour off as much fat as possible, season with a little salt and the juice of a lemon, which stir in very gently, take the meat out as whole as possible, dress them upon your dish, pour the sauce over and servej rice separately. 552. BREAST OF MUTTON CURRY—Cut up a breast of mutton, bones and all, into pieces about two inches in length and one in width, which put into a stew'pan with two quarts of water, to simmer for about two hours, when proceed precisely as directed in the last. 553. BREAST OF LAMB CURRY is made very similar to the preceding, and is considered a great treat to those who are fond of curries. Curry paste may be used to advantage, either by itself, or mixed equally with the powder. There being a great quantity of fat in the breast, great care should be taken to remove it from the curry every available opportunity. I always use Captain White’s curry paste. 554. LAMB’S HEAD CURRY.—Procure a Iamb’s head, which split in halves, break the bones at the nostrils, and put into lukewarm water an hour to disgorge, previously taking out the brains, which likewise disgorge in the water, then put the head into a stewpan well covered with water, let it boil two hours, when take it out, separate the bones from the flesh, which cut into small pieces. In another stewpan have a middling- sized onion cut into small dice, which set upon the fire, adding two ounces of butter, and saute them a light-brown colour, when add a tablespoonful of curry powder, and half that quantity of curry paste, mix well together, then put in the pieces of head with half a pint of broth, and stew gently for half an hour. Whilst the curry is stew-ing, take the brains from the water, and put them into a stewpan of boiling water, let simmer five minutes, after which chop very fine, and put them into a basin with aENTREES. 277 good handful of bread-crumbs, a little white pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, mix well together with an egg, and form it into six little round balls, which egg and bread-crumb twice over, and fry in a little hot lard, of a very light brown colour, then dress the curry upon a dish, lay the brain-croquets round, and serve with rice separately. 555. CALF’S HEAD CURRY is usually made with the remains left from a previous dinner; if about two pounds of meat remaining upon the bone, cut it whilst cold into thin slices, then cut two onions and two apples into small dice, which put into a stewpan with an ounce of butter and half a clove of garlic cut in slices, stir with a wooden spoon over the fire until sauteed nice and brown, when add a tablespoonful of curry powder, half one of flour, mix well, then pour in a pint of broth, add a little salt, and boil twenty minutes, keeping it well stirred; then put in the calf’s head, and let it remain upon the fire until quite hot through; add the juice of half a lemon, which stir in very gently without breaking the meat, dress it upon a dish, and serve with rice separately. Curry sauce may be passed through a sieve previously to putting the head in. 556., CALF’S FEET CURRY.—After boiling a set of feet for calf’s feet jelly, the feet may be served in curry as follows: separate the feet from the bones whilst the feet are warm; when cold, cut them into small square pieces, and proceed exactly as in the last; or use curry sauce. 557. CALF’S TAIL CURRY.—Cut up calves’ tails into joints, which pat into a stewpan, with a small piece of lean ham and a bunch ot parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf; cover them with three pints of cold water, and let simmer about two hours, until tender, keeping them well skimmed; when done, strain the stock through a hair sieve into a basin, and put the tails upon a plate; then proceed as directed for calf’s head curry, but using the stock from the tails, and reducing the curry until rather thickish before adding the tails. 558. OX TAIL CURRY is made precisely as in the last, but one tail would be sufficient, and it would require double the time to stew; or use curry sauce. o59. TRIPE CURRY.—Cut two large onions into very small dice, which put into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, and stir over the fire until brown, when well mix in a table-278 entrees spoonful of curry powder and half that quantity of paste; add a pint of broth, and two pounds of double tripe cut into strips; let the whole stew very slowly one hour, keeping it well skimmed, when dress it upon a dish, and serve with rice separately. , LOBSTER CURRY.—Procure a large boiled lobster, break the shell and take out the flesh in as large pieces as pos- sible, cutting the tail into about six pieces, and the claws of a proportionate size; then cut two onions into small slices, which put into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter, fry them of a IHit yellow colour, then mix in a good tablespoonful of mild curry paste (or half powder and half paste), and add a pint of good broth, then boil it up over the fire until becoming a little thickish, when put in the lobster, stir the whole round, then cover the stewpan closely, and put it into a moderate oven half an hour, by which time the curry would be of a proper con- sistency, and the lobster very delicately tender; add the juice of hall a lemon, and serve with rice separately. If no oven, it may be very gradually stewed over a slow fire, in which case it might want moistening occasionally. 661. CRAB GURR1.—Prepare the onions and curry pre- cisely as in the last, but adding the flesh of a crab (broken small) instead of a lobster; let it stew over the fire about twenty minutes, add the juice of half a lemon, and serve as before. 662. 0\ STER CURR1.—Blanch and beard six dozen of oysters, leaving the oysters in their own liquor; then cut two middling-sized onions into small dice, and saute it in a stewpan, with an ounce of butter; when done, mix in two teaspoonfuls of Curry powder and one of curry paste, and pass it through a tammy—it ought to be thick; then add the oysters with their liquor, and keep stirring over the fire until the oysters become enveloped in a thick sauce, which ought to be in two minutes, when turn them out upon your dish, and serve with rice separately. 563. PRAWN CURRY. — Procure sufficient prawns to weigh about a pound when picked; put half of a small onion chopped very fine into a stewpan, with half an ounce of butter, stir them over the fire until becoming rather yellowish; then add two teaspoonfuls of mild but rather piquant curry paste, mixing the whole gradually with half a pint of good broth; thenENTREES. 279 put in the prawns, and stew gently about a quarter of an hour, when they will be ready to serve; rice separate. If no curry paste, powder may be used, but the paste is far preferable. Shrimps may also be curried in the same way, but they are in general so very salt, that they requii-e to be well soaked. 564. SALMON CURRY. — Have two slices of salmon, weighing about a pound each, which cut into pieces of the size of walnuts, cut up two middling-sized onions, which put into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter and a clove of garlic cut in thin slices, stir over the lire until becoming rather yellowish; then add a tablespoonful of curry powder and half that quantity of curry paste, mix all well together with a pint of good broth, beat up and pass through a tammy into a stewpan, put in the salmon, which stew about half an hour, pour off as much of the oil as possible; if too dry, moisten with a little more broth, mix- ing it gently, and serve as usual, with rice separate. Salmon curry may also be made with the remains left from a previous dinner, in which case reduce the curiy sauce until leather thick befoi’e putting in the salmon, which only inquires to be made hot in it. The remains of a turbot may also be cun’ied in the same way, and also any kind of fish. 565. FILLET OF SOLE CURRY.—Fillet two nice soles, and cut each fillet into five pieces (slantwise); then in a stew- pan have a small onion chopped fine and fried; to which add a tablespoonful of curry paste, or an equal quantity of paste and powder; when well mixed, put in the fillets of soles, with just sufficient broth to cover them; let it boil rather fast for ten minutes, when the sauce will become sufficiently thick to envelop the fish, season with the juice of half a lemon, and serve with rice separately. Fillets of haddocks or whitings are curried precisely the same. 566. SKATE CURRY.—Plain boil about two pounds of skate with a piece of the liver, which put upon a dish without a napkin, previously well draining off the water; whilst the fish is boiling cut two onions in slices, which put into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, and fry of a lightish brown colour; then mix in a tablespoonful of curry powder with a tsaspoonful of hour, and a pint of good broth, set it upon the fire, keeping it280 entrees. 2 pUt m a Sood-sizei apple cut into slices, let boil until it is reduced to about half, when rub it through a tammy or hair sieve, pour it again into a stewpan, and when hot, pour over the fish, and serve with rice separately. This being so very delicate, requires great care in cookin- it, or it will get very unsightly. ° ’ ENTREES OF GAME. 567. BROILED PHEASANT —Having drawn a pheasant, lay it upon its breast, and pass a knife down the backbone, upon each side, taking it entirely out, then cut off the feet at the knuckle, break the leg and thigh-bones, turning the leg inside, separate the breast joint of the wing, pressing the bird quite Hat, then saute it in a sautepan, with a little lard or dripping and when browned on both sides, and about half done, place it upon a plate, season well with salt and pepper, egg and bread- crumb over, and broil it upon a gridiron over a moderate fire until sufficiently done, which would be in about a quarter of an hour, v hen serve with game, mushroom, or any piquant sauce. The advantage of broiling or sauteing game or poultry is, that when you are alone, you need only cook the half of any large bird at one time. 56S. GAME CURRIES.—I have also made very good game curries, but not too hot with curry, as that would entirely destroy the flavour of the game. 569. PHEASANT STEWED WITH CABBAGE.—The following is an excellent method for dressing a pheasant which should prove to be rather old, although a young one would be preferable. Procure a large savoy cabbage, which cut into quarters, and well wash in salt and water, after which boil it five minutes in plain Avater, then drain it quite dry, cut off the stalk, season rather highly Avith pepper and salt, have ready a middling-sized onion, and half a pound of streaky bacon, which, Avith the cabbage, put into a stewpan, covering the Avhole with a little good broth; let it simmer at the corner of the fire three quarters of an hour, then put the pheasant (previously three parts roasted) into the cabbage, and let them stew nearly three- quarters of an hour longer, or until the stock has partly reducedENTREES. 231 to glaze, and adheres thickly to the cabbage, when dress the cabbage in a mound upon your dish, Avith the bacon, cut into slices, around, and the pheasant upon the top, half tvay buried in the cabbage; have a little game sauce, Avhich pour round and serve. 570. JOE MILLER’S STEWED PHEASANT.—Roast a pheasant as directed (No. 614), but previously dip it into flour, and occasionally butter and flour over whilst roasting, thus making the exterior very crisp, and keeping it nearly white, then put the crumb of two French rolls into a stewpan, with half a pint of milk, a small eschalot, a bay-leaf, an ounce of butter, and a little pepper and salt; let the whole boil a few minutes, when take out the eschalot and bay-leaf, place a piece of buttered toast upon your dish, pour the above over, dress the pheasant upon the top, and serve. 5/1. HASHED PHEASANT. — Should you have any remains of pheasants from a previous day, cut them into as neat pieces as possible, then put an ounce of butter into a stewpan, Avith half an ounce of flour, which stir two or three minuter over the fire, until becoming slightly browned; then add a glass of port wine, half a pint of water, season highly, boil at° the corner of the stove, stirring and skimming occasionally, until sufficiently thick to adhere to the back of the spoon; then put in the pieces of pheasant, with a little colouring, let it remain ten minutes at the corner of the stove, but not to boil, dress the meat upon your dish, pass the sauce over through a sieve, and serve. 572. A PLAIN SALMI OF PHEASANT. —Or, should you have a pheasant left that little has been cut from, cut and tiim it into neat joints, which put into a stewpan, then in another stewpan put the bones and trimmings, chopped up very an on*on in slices, a little parsley, thyme, and bay- leaf, four peppercorns, and a glass of sherry, boil altogether two minutes, then add three parts of a pint of brown sauce and half a pint of broth; (if no brown sauce add a spoonful of flour and a quart of broth or Avater and some colouring;) let the Avhole boil until reduced to half, skimming it occasionally; place a fine hair sieve over the stewpan containing the pieces of pheasant through which pass the sauce, warm altogether gently, without boiling, and when quite hot dress the pieces neatly upon a dish.2S2 entrees. pour the sauce over, and serve with sippets of fried or toasted bread (cut into the shape of hearts) around. The remains of pheasant, or any other game may also be minced and warmed in a little of the above sauce, and served Mi l poac lec eggs upon the top, or likewise made into boudins and croquettes, as directed for turkey. 513. GROUSE.—The Scotch method is to plain roast the grouse rather underdone, butter and flour while roasting dress it upon toast, and pour plain melted butter over. But they may be dressed in any of the ways directed for pheasants, with the exception of being stewed with cabbage as may be likewise every description of black game. 574. STEWED PARTRIDGES WITH CABBAGE.— Have two nice partridges trussed as for boiling, and run five or six slices of fat bacon, of the thickness of a quill, lengthwise tin ough the breast, but not to protrude, and roast them fifteen minutes before a moderate fire; have some cabbage stewed as directed for pheasant with cabbage, but stewed nearly dry before tin usting in the partridges, keep the whole hot, but not boiling, for about an hour; have ready two pork sausages, nicely broiled, dress the cabbage, which must be quite dry, upon your dish in a mound, with the partridges at the top, half buried in it, cut the bacon in halves, placing a piece at each end, with a sausage at each side; pour half a pint of game sauce round and serve; good plain gravy is also very nice. 575. PARTRIDGE SAUTE WITH MUSHROOMS.— Have two young partridges, each of which cut in halves, and lay in a convenient sized steM'pan, into which you have pre- viously poured two or three tablespoonfuls of salad oil, first season them lightly with a little white pepper, and salt, and a sprinkle of chopped eschalots; put a cover upon the stewpan, which place over a moderate fire, until one side of the partridges is browned, turn them over, proceed the same way until browned on both sides; pour off part of the oil, and add half a table- spoonful of flower, which well mix in, then add a glass of sherry, a pint of broth, and twenty small button mushrooms (previously blanched); let it simmer, skimming off all the oil which rises to the surface, until the partridges are tender, and the sauce thick enough to adhere to them; season the sauce a little if required, dress the partridges upon a dish, sauce over and serve.ENTREES. 283 The remains ot partridges may likewise be hashed or served in a plain salmi as directed for pheasants. 576. WOODCOCKS A LA LUCULLUS—Plain roast the woodcocks as directed in Roasts, catching their trails upon toast, upon which, when done, dress the birds on a dish; have ready a little thick melted butter, with which mix the yolk of an etg ai^d a little cream, pour this over the woodcocks, sprinkle lightly with bread-crumbs, salamander of a light brown colour, and serve with a little gravy round. 577. WOODCOCKS, the Sportsman's fashion.—Roast two •woodcocks rather underdone, catching their trails upon a lar<re piece of toasted bread, when done cut each bird into quarters, which place m a stevvpan, with the remainder of the trail cut small a little pepper, salt, a glass of sherry, a little chopped .eschalot, the juice of half a lemon, and half a gill of broth, let the vvhole simmer very gently a few minutes: dress the pieces of serveC°Ck Pather uyh upon the toast> Pour the sauce over, and 578. HASHED "WOODCOCK.—Should you have any re- maining from a previous dinner, cut each one in four (or if not whole, into neat pieces), chop all the interior rather fine which T'U* WI.tll a small piece of butter, a spoonful of bread-crumbs did a httle chopped parsley; make six croutons in the shape of nrer nr’i-0m * °u bread> spread a P^ce of the above preparation upon each, and put them in a warm oven for a short serve ^ ** 579 SNIPES A LA MINUTE.-Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan, over which lay six snipes breasts downwards, add a spoonful of chopped onions, the same of W ft* 3 g;ated nutmeo; half a teaspoonful of hr k fi,VVa P°°nfU ° Whlte pepper; set the stewpan over a bnsk fire for seven or ten minutes (according to the size of thl Jirds ), stirring them round continually; then add the juice of one lemon two glasses of sherry, the same of bS and 5 spoonful of finely-grated crust of bread; let the whole simmer l few minutes longer, dress the birds upon a dish stir the 1 well together, pour it over the snipes, and serve- a lift ! f is an improvement. ve» a Httle glazeENTREES 284 580. PLOVER SAUTE WITH ENGLISH TRUFFLES. —Procure four plovers, which lay breasts downwards in a stewpan, containing a quarter of a pound of butter, to which add eight raw truffles, well washed, peeled, and cut into very thin slices, two cloves, a bay-leaf, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a saltspoonful of pepper, pass the whole ten minutes over a sharp lire, stirring them round occasionally; then well mix in halt a tablespoonful of flour, which moisten with a pint of broth and a glass of white wine; let the whole simmer at the corner of the fire twenty minutes longer, keeping it well skimmed, dress the birds upon a dish, reduce the sauce to a proper con- sistency, season with a little sugar and the juice of a lemon, and pour it over the birds; serve very hot. A few drops of colour- ing may be added. 581. "WILD DUCK WITH ORANGE SAUCE.—Having trussed your duck as for roasting, rub it all over with the liver until quite red; then put it down before a good fire to roast for twenty minutes, after which make eight incisions down the breast, and have ready the following preparation: put an ounce of butter into a stewpan, with a quarter of a saltspoonful of cayenne, the rind of an orange (free from pith, previously cut into strips, and blanched in boiling water, and well drained upon a sieve), and the juice of a lemon, warm all together, and when melted, but not oily, pour over the duck, and serve. 582. HASHED WILD DUCK—Cut up the remains of a duck or ducks into neat pieces, and put into a stewpan with half or a tablespoonful of flour (depending on the quantity;, mix well, moisten with a glass or two of wine, and sufficient broth or water to make a thickish sauce, season well, add a little Harvey sauce, mushroom catsup, a little sugar, and cayenne pepper; let simmer, but not boil, take out the pieces, which dress upon toast, reduce the sauce, pour over and serve. A little colouring may be added if appi'oved. 583. WIDGEONS.—Rub the breast of a widgeon over with a part of the liver, chop up the remaining part, to which add a few bread-crumbs, a little chopped lemon-peel, chopped parsley, and a raw egg, with which stuff the interior, roast nearly as long as for the wild duck before a very sharp fire, dress upon toast on a dish, having ready the following sauce: put hall a glass of port wine into a stewpan, with a teaspoonful ot choppedENTREES. 285 eschalots, a little salt, pepper, and cayenne, boil a few minutes, add the juice of a lemon, and two ounces of fresh butter, sauce over, and serve. Widgeons are hashed the same as wild duck. 5S4. TEAL, A NEW METHOD.—Procure four, draw them; then put half a pound of butter upon a plate, with a little pepper, grated nutmeg, chopped parsley, a spoonful of grated crust of bread, the juice of a lemon, and the liver of the teal; mix well together, and with it fill the interior of the teal; cover them with slices of lemon, over which fold thin slices of bacon, and envelope them in paper, roast twenty minutes before a sharp fire; take off the paper, brown the bacon, dress them upon a slice of thick toast, letting the butter from the teal run over it, and serve very hot. i 585. TEAL A LA SANS FACON.—Roast four teal quite plain, prepare a quarter of a pound of butter as above, with the omission of the livers, which place in a stewpan over the fire, stirring quickly, until forming a kind of sauce; add some fillets from the pulp of a lemon, sauce over, and serve. The remains of teal also make excellent hash. 586. LARKS A LA MINUTE.—Proceed as directed for snipes a la minute, previously stuffing them with their livers as directed for widgeons, adding a few raw mushrooms at the com- mencement; but do not let them stew too quickly, or the bottom will brown, and give a bad flavour to the sauce; seven minutes are quite sufficient to stew them. 587. LARK PIE.—Cover the bottom of a pie-dish with thin slices of beef and fat bacon, over which lay ten or twelve larks previously rolled in flour, stuffed as above, season with a tea- spoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, one of chopped parsley, and one of chopped eschalot, lay a bay-leaf over, add a gill of broth, and cover with three-quarters of a pound of half-puff paste, bake one hour in a moderate oven, shake well to make the gravy in the pie form a kind of sauce, and serve quite hot. 588. JUGGED IIARE.—Put a quarter of a pound of butter, with a pound of bacon cut into dice, and the hare cut into pieces, in a stewpan; set upon a moderate lire until the pieces of hare are becoming firm, when add six ounces of flour, mix well, and moisten with sufficient water to cover it; add two glasses of any286 entrees. lunrl °f wine, anti one of vinegar, season high with pepper and salt, let simmer until tender, keeping well skimmed; when done, and^ the sauce becoming rather thick, dress upon your dish, and 5S9. JUGGED HARE (another way).—Put about half a pound of buTter, vvitla ten ounces of flour, into a stewpan; put it on the fire, and keep stirring it round until it has a yellow inge; then add a pound of bacon cut in square pieces, stir it a little longer on the fire; the hare having been previously cut up, put it into the stewpan and stir it about until it becomes hrm, when add four glasses of port wine and sufficient water to cover it; season, and add two bay-leaves, and four cloves, and, when half done, about fifty button onions, or ten large ones in slices, a tablespoonful of brown sugar, let it simmer until it is well done and the sauce rather thick; dress up, sauce over, and serve. If an old one, it will take about four hours; consequently, add water in proportion. EGGS. 5.90. PLAIN BAKED EGGS.—Butter with one ounce a plated or common tart-dish, that will bear the heat of the oven; break caiefully six eggs in it, season with one pinch of pepper, halt a spoonful ot salt, the juice of half a lemon, and add half an ounce of butter in small pieces over, put in a slack oven until set, and serve. 591. BAKED EGGS WITH ASPARAGUS.—Cut twenty heads of sprue into small pieces, keeping only the tender part; boil them for fifteen minutes, put them into a stewpan, with half an ounce of butter, set them on the fire for three minutes, season with a little pepper, salt, and sugar; when done, put them in the dish you intend to serve it in,"break six eggs over, which season as above, put it into the oven until it sets, and serve; in case the oven is not sufficiently hot, place a salamander over the eggs. 592. MASHED EGGS.—Break four eggs into a stewpan, with one ounce of butter, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a pinch of pepper; put it on the lire, stir continually, and as soon as delicately get, serve.ENTREES. 287 These can be served with either green peas, sprue grass, or mushrooms, which must be stewed and prepared as if ready to serve; put some in the stewpan with the eggs, and proceed as before. If meagre, use cream instead of butter. 592. EGGS WITH BURNT BUTTER. — Put into a frying-pan two ounces of butter, which melt; as soon as it is on the point of browning, put in the eggs, which have been pre- viously broken in a basin, and seasoned with pepper and salt; when well set, serve, with a teaspoonful of vinegar over the eggs. 594. EGGS A LA TRIPE.—Cut about two onions each into thin slices, put them in a saucepan, with half an ounce of fresh butter, and set them on a slow fire; when warmed through, put half a teaspoonful of salt, quarter ditto of pepper, a teaspoonful of flour, half a pint of milk, and a little sugar; let it boil, put in six hard eggs cut in quarters, and serve, after a little ebullition. 595. SNOW EGGS.—Take half a pint of milk and a little sugar, and flavour it with orange-flower water, or any other essence, and put it in a stewpan on the fire, having previously- beaten up the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth; if very hot weather, you must place the basin they are in on ice, or in cold water; whilst beating, add some powdered sugar lightly; when the milk is boiling, take the white up with a tablespoon, and drop it, one tablespoonful at a time, into the stewpan to poach, keeping the shape of an egg, which turn over when set; when done, remove with a colander on to a sieve, and dress them in a crown on the dish you intend to serve them on; when all done, beat up the yolks of four of the eggs in a stewpan, with a little sugar and a few drops of orange-flower water, pour part of the boiling milk out of the stewpan into it, sufficient to make a good stiff custard, put it on the fire until rather thick, and pour over the white, and serve either hot or cold: the last is pre- ferable. 596. EGGS WITH CHEESE.—Put into a stewpan about two ounces of grated Parmesan, or Gruyere, or old Cheshire with one ounce of butter, two sprigs of parsley, two spring- onions chopped up, a little grated nutmeg, and half a glass of sherry; put it on the fire, and keep stirring until the cheese isENTREES. 288 well melted; break six eggs in a basin, put them in the stewpan, stii and cook them on a slow fire; when done, serve with fried sippets of bread round. Or, 59 /. AI\ OTHER W AT.—Put into a flat dish that will bear the oven a piece of butter the size of a walnut, the same of grated cheese, the yolks of two eggs, some grated cinnamon and nutmeg, mix these on the dish, put it either in the oven or on the hot plate, or, from want of either, before the fire, until it sets, then gently break six eggs on the dish, and cover with grated cheese, and salamander until a nice brown, or for want of one, keep it before the fire until it is so, and serve. _ 598. EGGS IN CASES.—Cut up a sheet of paper into pieces of three inches square, turn up half an inch all round so as to form a kind of square case, there will then remain but two inches square in the inside. Take a small piece of butter, a pinch of fine bread crumbs, a little fine chopped parsley, spring onions, salt, and pepper, and mix them together, put a little into each case, then break one egg into each, put them on a gridiron over a slow fire, and do them gently, or place them in a dish in an oven; when well set, serve. Small round paper cases may be procured very cheap at any oilman’s. 599. OMELETTE WITH HERBS.—Break six eggs in a basin or stewpan, and add to it a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and one of chopped eschalot or spring onions, half ditto of salt, and a pinch of pepper, and beat it well up together. Put into an omelette-pan, that is, a small frying-pan six inches in diameter, two ounces of butter, which melt, then pour in the eggs, stir round with a spoon; as soon as it begins to set, lightly move it to that part of the pan opposite the handle, so that it occupies only one third, hold it so that that part of the pan is the lowest, move with a spoon the outside edges over, and let it remain half a minute, so that it obtains a good colour, turn it over on to the dish so that the bottom is at the top. They must not be too much done, and served very hot. They may be served plain, or with the addition of any gravy. Omelettes of Ham, Oysters, &c., are all made as the above, with the addition that these articles must have been properly cooked previously, and well chopped up, so as to mix well with the eggs, beat them up well together, and cook in a pan the same way, or a little grated cheese may be added. This I beg of you to practise; though simple, there is great art in making it.289 ENTREES. u GARNITURE FOR OMELETTES. 600. ASPARAGUS, PEAS, AND GREEN PEAS.—Put in a stewpan three spoonfuls of plain boiled sprue-grass that has previously been cut up, add to it half an ounce of butter, a little salt, pepper, and sugar, warm it on the fire, moving it con- tinually; when warm, put it with a spoon in the centre of the omelette, turn over, and serve; the same with peas; rather tliiu melted butter or white sauce may be served round it. 601. OYSTERS.—Open and blanch delicately twelve middle- sized oysters, and put them in a stewpan with their own gravy, after having bearded them, add a tablespoonful of milk'or cream, and give it a boil, then add half an ounce of butter in which you have mixed a saltspoonful of flour, stir it in without breaking the oysters, put over the centre of your omelette, and proceed as before. 602. LOBSTER.—Cut half or a small one in thin slices, put four tablespoonfuls of melted butter in a stewpan, a few drop of essence of anchovies, and a little cayenne; put in your lobster, warm it well, and put it in the middle of the omelette, as above. 603. KIDNEYS.—Cook two kidneys as No. 458; when done, serve in centre of omelette, as above. 604. MUSHROOMS.—-Wash about ten small fresh mush- rooms, cut in slices, put in a stewpan, with half an ounce of butter, a little salt, pepper, and the juice of a quarter of a Jemon, simmer for a few minutes on the fire till tender; if too liquid, add a little flour, place in centre of omelette, and proceed as above. 605. BACON. Cut two ounces of good lean bacon in small dice, put m pan to fry with a pat of butter for one minute, then mix with the eggs prepared as for omelette of herbs, omitting; the salt, and cook the same way. This omelette is in great repute in France, especially among the epicures of the Barrieres outside of Paris. It prepares the palate to receive with pleasure the cheap and acid wines sold there, which must have been invented by Bacchus when in a sour humour.•290 ROASTS—SECOND COURSE. These dishes consist almost always of game, which require to be sent up immediately they are taken from the fire, and require great care and atten- tion in cooking them. In the following pages will be found many which are scarce and rarely seen in London, and never mentioned in our various cookery books; but considering that many of our friends reside in the country, I have written it for them. 606. TURKEY POULTS.—Turkey poult3, so called from being used when about the size of a large pullet, are always roasted and trussed with the legs turned at the first joint, and the feet pressing upon the thighs, the neck is skinned, and the head fixed under the wing; roast them the same as directed for turkeys, about twenty-five minutes or half an hour, according to their size, and in the same modes, but they are usually served, one larded and the other barded, with gravy and water-cresses in the dish. 607. ROAST CAPON WITH CRESSES.—Roast and serve a capon in any of the ways directed for turkeys, roast of a nice "old colour, and serve with water-cresses round; a capon weigh- ing five pounds requires about three quarters of an hour to roast. Poularde au cresson exactly as above. 608. ROAST PULLET.—For a dinner of four entries you would'require two fowls, but not too large; truss and roast them as directed for a turkey, judging the time required according to their size, and serve with gravy and water-cresses; they maybe larded, barded, or served in any way mentioned in the foregoing receipts. A fowl weighing two pounds and a half would require half an hour roasting, or three quarters of an hour if larger. 609. SPRING CHICKENS are served like fowls, generally plain roasted, but they may be larded as the poularde. Be par- ticular in tying the legs upon paper to the spit, as directed for the turkey, as it so improves their appearance when roasted. About twenty minutes would be sufficient to roast them. 610. GOSLINGS.—A green goose roasted plain and served with a little gravy is generally sent up for second courses ; but if the larger ones are used they must be stuffed with sage and onions, but very few would choose such a thing for a roast secondSECOND COURSE. 291 U ■course, whilst green geese in their season are great favourites • truss them by cutting off the leg at the first joint, and the win* at the first pinion, fixing them at the side with skewers to throw the breast up; a full grown goose will take one hour to roast but * green one not more than half an hour. 611. DUCKLINGS make a very favourite roast in the London season; they must have good fillets, white and plump and require to be a little more underdone than any other descrip- tion of poultry; if too much done, the fat catches, and gives ?a lank flavour to the flesh, besides causing the fillets to eat dry. f- iey are u?ua% ^rved plain roasted for a second course, yet I lave served them differently on some occasions for the sake of Ut lt1must.bf with a very thin sauce and one that invi- g -ates the palate, although they never can be better than when seived plain roasted. Truss them by twisting the legs at the fiist joint and resting the feet upon the thighs, cut the wing off at the pinion, and run a skewer through the bird, fixino- the pinion and Ugs with it, place them upon a spit, and 612. GUINEA FOWLS.-These birds must be very youn* [welvpmg Ura?J VT7 drj’ the^ are not eatable if more than twelve months old; they are generally larded or barded and served plain roasted, rather well done; they are trussed like the common fowls, and require nearly three quarters of an hourtSECOND COURSE. 292 by the softness of their quills ; females will eat better than males, they are more tender and juicy. Old pheasants are known by the length and sharp- ness of their spurs, in young ones they are short and blunt.—Old partridges before Christmas have light blue legs, instead of yellow-brown.—Wild fowl may be known to be old from their bills and the stiffness of the sinews of the legs, those that have the finest plumage are the worst eating.—Hares and rabbits: try if the ear will easily tear and the jaw-bone break between the finger and the thumb, if not they are only fit for soup or jugging.—On receiving birds of all kinds, put in their mouths three or four peppercorns bruised and one clove of garlic, and pepper the place where shot. In case you receive many, tie a piece of paper to them with the date on which they were received. 614. PHEASANTS.—At the present day there are great varieties of these birds, which differ as much in their flavour as their plumage. There are also a Large quantity of hybrids sold in the London market as a genuine pheasant, and it is impossible to know them when plucked. The flavour of the bird will depend in a great measure on the nature of the country where it is killed. Have them prepared and trussed: put them about eighteen inches from the fire for five minutes, then draw them close, and roast as quickly as possible, rubbing them all over with an ounce of butter pressed in a wooden spoon, serve up with bread sauce separate, and good gravy under. They are also good larded, or one larded and the other barded. 615 PARTRIDGES.—The red-legged in this country are not so fine in flavour as the gray; they are dressed like the pheasant, but all the time at a very quick fire, and served very hot from the spit; it is better to wait a minute or two for it than to have it wait for you: dish it up with a little made gravy with it, and bread-sauces, as above. 616. GROU SE.—We have three kinds in this country ; namely, black, red, and white. The first, the Black Grouse, is called the Black Cock (le Coq de Bray ere). The female in the north is called the Gray Hen, but in the south of England male and female are called Heath Poults. These birds should be weli kept, trussed like a fowl for roast- in-. and served with brown gravy under, or may be dressed as follows: truss as before, covering the breast with vine leaves and fat bacon, which tie on; roast from half to three quarters of an hour according to size, and serve with toast under, and melted butter over. 617 RED GROUSE, GORCOCK, or MOORCOCK {the common Moor Game (VA ttagas).—Trussed like a fowl tor roast-SECOND COURSE. 293 ing, which cook quick before a sharp fire, serve with toasted bread under. 618. WHITE GROUSE or PTARMIGAN (le Lagopede). —The birds are perfectly white ; they now arrive in the London market from February to May; from Sweden and Norway, packed in ice : they have rather a strong flavour of the pine ; but when young and tender, are good eating. They are to be trussed like the above, and plain roasted, and served with toast under and fried bread-crumbs, separate, or dressed as follows :—Put two spoonfuls of currant jelly in a stewpan, with the juice of a lemon and a little salt dissolved in it; when melted, pour over and serve. There is another sort of grouse, known as the Wood Grouse or Capercailzie; these are rare in this country; I have occasionally received a few from Scot- land. These are to be plain roasted, and served as the above. 619. WILD DUCKS (Canard Sauvage).—The male is called the Mallard, and the young one Flapper. Under the above title a great many birds are sold. They should all be cooked alikeK they must be kept two or three days before they are dressed; they are trussed by twisting each leg at the knuckle, and resting the claws on each side of the breast, fixing them with a skewer run through the thighs and pinions of the wings; rub the liver over the breast, roast them before a quick fire from fifteen to twenty minutes, baste with butter, not basting them when first put down will keep the gravy in; one should be better done than the other, in order to suit the taste of those at table; serve with made gravy under, and a lemon separate. 620. CANVASS BACK DUCK.—A friend of mine gave me some of these delicate birds from America, but which were already cooked and preserved in tins. I could not speak very highly of them, being to my fancy too much done ; but I believe they now arrive in England packed in ice. They have a gray plumage. They should be cooked like wild duck, but nearer the fire, the fat being so delicate that it requires to be cooked quickly; good plain gravy is all that is required to make them perfect. The following is a list of those ducks fit to be eaten Golden Eye Duck (le Garrot, or Piedcurre); Gray Duck (le Chipeau); Morillon, or Gurgling Curries; in Scotland, Douckers (le Morillon); Pintailed Duck or Winter Duck, Sea Pheasant or Cracker (le Canard a longue queue); Scaup Duck Gray-back Curre and Teal Drake (le Vignons); Shoveller, or Ivertlutock, or Broadbilled Duck on the east coast, Becks and Scopper-bills (le Soucliet). There is also a variety called the Red-breasted Shoveller, which we receive iii294 SECOND COURSE. London from Holland about Christmas ; the flesh of this bird is superior to that of the common wild duck, the wing can be eaten with the breast; Tufted Duck, or Blue-billed Curries and Dowers (le petit Morillon) : there are other birds of this species, but not fit to be eaten, as the Black Duck or Scoter (la Macreuse) ; Burrough Duck or Sheldrake (le Tadorne); the young ones may be eaten; Eider Duck, St. Cutlibert’s, or Great Black and White Duck (l’Eider); Long-tailed Duck or Swallow-tailed Sheldrake (Canard de Miclon) ; Velvet Duck, Great Black Duck or Double Scoter (le grande Macreuse). 621. WIDGEON, WHEWER, OR WHIM {le Canard Siffleur).—These should be eaten fresher than a wild duck, trussed, dressed, and served the same; fifteen minutes is suffi- cient before a good fire. 622. DUNBIRD, POCHARD, OR GREAT-HEADED WIDGEON {Penelope, le Millouin). — In some parts Red Heads, Parkers, or Half Birds. These are dressed as above, but not so good as the Widgeon. 623. TEAL {la petite Sarcelle).—This is a delicious bird when fat. which they generally are after a frost. They must be trussed with care like ducklings: they will take about eight minutes to roast; serve with gravy, water-cresses, and lemon, separate, about six on a dish; or with sauces Nos. 146, 148. 624. GARGANEY {la Sarcelle).—'These are called Summer Teal, resemble it in shape, and are dressed the same way. 625. PLOVER.—Of these there are several sorts, all of which are good to eat at certain seasons. They are, the Great Plover, or Norfolk Plover, or Thick-kneed Bustard, or Stone Curlew (le grand Pluvier). The young of these are the best eating in September.—Bastard Plover, or Lapwing, or Peewit (le Vanneau). This one we get the eggs from ; they are good in the winter. We get them from the South Downs, but they are much finer in Prance, where there is a proverb—" Qui n’a pas mange de vanneau, ne sait pas ce que gibier vaut.”—Golden Plover (le Pluvier dore) ; Gray Plover (le Vanneau Pluvier); Dotterel (le Guignard); Ring Dotterel, Ring Plover, or Sea Lark (le petit Pluvier a collier); Long-legged Plover or Longshanks, or Sanderling (l'Echasse). The Golden and Large Dotterel are the best to eat. They should be well kept, but not too long, trussed gently, but not drawn, and put on a skewer, place them a little distance from a sharp fire, with a bit of toast under to catch the trail, baste with a little good butter, ten minutes is sufficient; dress them with toast under, and serve with gravy separate.. They may also be served barded with vine leaves and very thin bacon.295 SECOND COURSE. 626. WOODCOCK (la Bccasse).—This is a most delicious bird when well cooked; they must not be kept too long; they are fit for cooking when they become black between the legs, and the feathers are rather loose; truss them with the legs twisted at the knuckles, and the feet pressing upon the thighs, bring the pinion of the wing to the thigh, having previously skinned the neck and head; bring the beak round under the wing, which pass through the pinions of the wings and thighs. Place four on a skewer, tie them on a spit, and roast before a sharp fire from ten to fifteen minutes, placing toast under to catch the trail; when done, serve on the toast and a very little gravy: they may also be barded with thin slices of bacon over the breast, and served with a sauce offumet de gibier. 621. SNIPES.—Of these we have the Great or Solitary Snipe, (la grande Becassine); the Common Snipe, Snite, or Heather Bleater, (la Becassine); the Jack Snipe, Judcock, Jet- cock, or Gid, (la petite Becassine). The last is the best eating, and the hen better than the cock, although that is generally sent as a present from its beautiful plumage. They are dressed in every respect like "W oodcocks; and from seven to ten minutes is sufficient. They may likewise be fried in plenty of oil, and served with sauces Nos. 136, 148. 623. LARKS (VAlouette).—They are best in winter, when very fat; they are roasted plain, or with a thin slice of bacon and a leaf of celery tied over them; they require about eight minutes, and served with a little gravy and bread-crumbs; they are also used in pies (see Pigeon Pie); and may be dressed like snipes. . QUAIL (la Caille).—Should be killed at least forty- eight hours before they are wanted; they should then be plucked, singed, drawn, and trussed by cutting off the wings at the first pinion, leaving the feet, and fixing the pinion and the wings with a very small skewer; cover the breast with vine leaves and a slice of fat bacon, and run a skewer through the pinions and thighs of each: tie on a spit and roast for ten to twelve minutes before a sharp fire. They should be served a nice gold colour in a disn with a little gravy; they may also be trussed as above, and put into a pig’s caul, and roasted, and served with either sauces Nos. 146, 181. 1,i,6l30' ?2°T’ KI?UTE> OK KNOUT (U Canut).—This little bird is of the snipe kind, and is generally caught in nets; theySECOND COURSE. 296 are best in autumn, when they are fat; they leave this country as soon as frost sets in. They are said to take their name from Canute, a Danish king, celebrated in English history for his reproof to his courtiers, who, it is reported, was exceedingly fond of them. They should be cooked like Snipes or Woodcocks. 631. RUFFES AND REEVES {le Combattant).—The first is the male, the latter the female; they are best at the latter end of May. They are caught in nets, and then kept in boxes, and fed on the following food:—two tablespoonfuls of wheat, one penny roll, one teaspoonful of hemp-seed, and a tablespoonful of sugar, boiled together in a pint of milk. Cook like Woodcocks. 632. LANDRAIL, CORNCRAKE, or DAKERHEN {le Rale de Genet).—This is a very nice bird about the latter end of August and September, when they are very fat; they are best caught in nets and fed; in cooking, proceed as for Larks. 633. WATER-RAIL, SPOTTED GALLINULE, OR WATERCRAKE.—This bird differs altogether from the former, and is a distinct species of itself; the heart is most delicious eating; it should be dressed and served like the Widgeon. 634. FIELDFARE {la Tourdelle).—In season in autumn, until the middle of December. 635. RED WING, WIND THRUSH, SWINE-PIPE {le Mauvis).—These two birds should be caught alive, either in net or by bird-lime, and fed for some days previous to killing ; their food should consist of juniper berries, pounded figs, and bread; when fat and fed thus, they are excellent, and should be cooked like the Quail. These birds are the Turdi of the Romans. 636. THRUSH {Greve).—These should be eaten twenty- four hours after being killed. Pluck and take out entrails, leave the liver, cover with two vine leaves and a slice of bacon or pickled pork, and put in an oven or toast before the fire for ten minutes. These are not much in use in England, but are thought a delicacy by our neighbours on the Continent. 637. CURLEW {le Courlis).—The little Curlew, Curlew Jack, or Whimbrel {le petit Courlis).—These birds are most in season in April. I have had them from Kent and Sussex of most excellent eating; they should be cooked like Teal.SECOND COURSE. 297 638. "WILD GEESE, the common gray leg (l’Oie Sauvage). —Bean Goose ; Barnacle Treegoose or Clakis (la Bernaele); Brent Goose (ie Cravant); Egyptian Goose, Ganger, or Gambo, or Spur-winged (l’Oie d’Egypte); Red-breasted Goosiander, or Siberian Goose; White-fronted or Laughing Goose (l'Oie Rieuse.)—These birds, although being of the same species, differ very widely in flavour, depending much upon the place they last fed on pre- vious to being killed ; for although we have Barnacles in various parts of the kingdom, none are so fine as those taken at Wexford and Tralee in Ireland. The Brent and Whitefronted are by far the best eating, although at times some of the common gray jay are found very fine. They should be dressed like wild duck, only rubbing the breast well with a lemon, and sprinkle half a teaspoonful of red pepper over previous to spitting. 639. GANNET, GAN, or SOLAN GOOSE (le Fou de Bassan).—This is a very different bird from the other wild geese. The best part to eat is the breast, which may be cut away after it has been plucked, for the feathers are valuable, and then salted for six hours, and dried or smoked ; place them in a dry place and they will keep for some months. They should be cooked as follows : Soak them in water twenty-four hours, having added a tea- spoonful of culinary alkali, rub the breast with oil, cover with oiled paper the same as for “ Cutlets en papillotebroil gently for full thirty minutes, and serve in the paper or without with orange sauce. The young ones can be roasted whole, like wild ducks. 640. TERNES, OR SEA-SWALLOWS, are good eating in autumn, dressed like the widgeon. These birds, in some places, are called Kipps, and their eggs are sold as plovers’. 641. GULLS, GREBES, DIVERS of all kinds, including the Dobchicks, are only fit to make into soups, although I am of opinion that if the young gull was taken and iattened for table, it would make a delicious bird. 642. COOT, THE GREAT, (le grande Foidque, or, la Macroiile.)— Coot, common bald, (la Foulque, or Morrelle.— lhis bird, if properly dressed, is not so bad as may be supposed I hey should be skinned, trussed, and well soaked in severai waters for twenty-four hours, and then filled with a <r0ose stuffing, and allowed to remain forty-eight hours; then cover its breast with slices of fat bacon, and roast it gently : serve with a fumet de gibier, or make it into pies, puddings, or soup.SECOND COURSE. 298 643. BITTERN, THE COMMON, OR BOGBUMPER BI1TERBUM, BUTTERBUMP, MIltEDRUM (le Butor).—Bittern (the little) (le Blongios). Many cooks confound this with the heron, but they are as different as possible, not only in appearance, although of the same species, but in flavour. When fat, about October and November, this bird is exceed- ingiy fine eating ; it should be kept for three or four days, then covered with a slice of bacon, and roasted, and served with a sauce (Nos. 148, 181). 644. STARLINGS, OR STARE (VEtoumeau). — These are obtained, at times, in large quantities, by persons resident in the country. When killed, their heads should be immediately pulled off, and as soon as plucked and trussed, put into a little vinegar and water, which will get rid of their bitter taste : cook like Larks. Cormorants and Herons are unfit to be sent to table; also the Rock Birds, or Penguin species. 645. OX-BIRD, PURRE, OR STINT (VAlouette de Merh It is from this bird that the receipt (No. 531) of sea-pie arose: it being a bird of passage, and often surrounding a vessel at sea in thousands ; when we get them in London, they have generally been shot, which ought not to have been; but taken in nets and kept alive, and fed like quails, or on bread and milk, hemp-seed and boiled wheat, and two days before they are wanted add sugar, which makes them amazingly fat. When young, their legs are, smooth ; the contrary when old. In cooking, proceed as for a lark, draw them or not, as may be preferred. With this bird may be classed the following, and cook in the same way :—Knots, Knute, Knout (le Canut) ; Thrush (Greve) ; Gambet or Gambetta, by some called the Greenshank ; Redshank, Spotted Redshank (Chevalier Rouge) ; Godwits of all colours very much resemble and equal the flavour of a woodcock—the hens are the best ; Dotterels, in spring the most delicious eating; Dotterel-sea or Turnstone, not so fine ; Sandpiper or Sanderling, fine in summer ; Wheatear, White Tail, or Fallow finch, good in August and September. 646. BUSTARD, GREAT OR LITTLE (VOutarde, or la petite Outarde).—This is a bird which is now seldom sent to table, its flavour depends much upon the country where it feeds ; it should be stuffed and cooked like a tui-key. 647. BLACKBIRDS.—They are eatable when young, and are best at the end of the year; they should be cooked like larks. 648. RABBITS.—There are two sorts, the tame and wild ; the wild or gray inhabits the mountainous districts; has the finest flavour, or on those places where it can feed on thyme, geneva, or other aromatic herbs, or on the sea coast, where he gets the lichen or wild moss. It has a much darker colour299 SECOND COURSE. than tho tame. The tame rabbit, if properly fed 21 days before killing, may bo made a very delicate article of nourishment; it should be kept from two to four days. When killed, it should be removed to a cold place as quick as possible, that the fat may set. If old, the claws will be long and rough, the coat rough, and gray hairs mixed with it. If young, the claws and wool smooth. If stale, the flesh will be slimy and a bluish colour; if fresh, it will be stiff, and the flesh white and dry. 649. RABBITS, TO SKIN, &c.—Cut round the skin at the first joint of the hind legs, and pull the skin up a little, then run the knife between the sinew and the bone of the leg, so as to make a hole to hang it on a nail in a wall, with the head downwards ; run a knife along the skin inside the thigh as far as the tail, so as to cut it, then run the hand under the skin, and it will easily separate from the body; pull it down towards, the head, taking care not to tear the belly; when you have arrived as far as the head, pull up the fore legs, cutting the feet off at the first joint, then pull up the ears by running a skewer between the skin and the head, and pull the skin off, cutting the nose and lips; remove it from the nail, cut off the hind feet at the first joint; cut open the body, remove the inside, reserve the liver, heart, and kidneys, and throw away the remainder ; wash out the inside. If for roasting, make the following stuff- ing : take the liver, heart, and kidneys, blanch them, put them into a fryingpan with a little fat and one small onion chopped up; saute a little, then remove and chop them up with two ounces of pork fat or bacon, a little parsley, and mixed with bread- crumbs and the yolk of an egg; stuff and sew up the belly. Truss as follows: bring the hind and fore legs close to the body towards the head, run a skewer through each, then run a skewer in at the mouth and through the neck to keep it upright; it should be exactly as if it was sitting. Put a string round the body from skewer to skewer, and it is ready. 650. HARES.—One is sufficient for a roast, skin and truss it nicely, as for the Rabbit, stuff the interior with a good veal stuffing, sew it up, then put it on the spit, rub butter over the back and shake flour over it, roast it about forty minutes before a sharp fire, but that depends upon the size, of course; serve them with plain gravy in the dish and current jelly separate; They are also served with a sauce poiverade, or sweet sauce; they may also be larded.SAVOURY DISHES. 800 6-51. LEVERETS are plain roasted, and do not require stuffing, not so long roasting, being smaller; they are usually served with plain gravy, but may be served with either of the sauces mentioned in the last; you require two for a roast. They will take from twenty-five to thirty minutes roasting. They may be larded, for a change. ENTREMETS. With the roasts of the second course come the following, which are totally different from the entrees, being of a more delicate and lighter character, and adapted to the palate at that period of the dinner. The first partaken of are, THE SAVOURY DISHES FOR THE SECOND COURSE. 652. VEAL AND HAM PIES (raised).—The following few dishes will be found extremely useful for breakfasts, luncheons, second course in a dinner party, or for dinner in summer, but above all for supper when you give an evening party. Having found a great difficulty in raising the crust for a pie with my hands, I purchased for a trifle a tin pie-mould, by the use of which the process is more simple, and the pie retains its shape whilst baking, and secures the gravy, much better. Well wipe and butter the interior of the mould, then have ready two pounds of pate a fonce, rather firm than otherwise, two thirds of which roll out to fit the mould, press it evenly over the interior, raising the paste half an inch above the edge of the mould; you have previously prepared six pounds of veal, cut from the fillet, as follows : cut four pounds into pieces an inch square, and as nearly as possible to the length of the pie; with the remainder make some forcemeat (See Receipt); then run eight pieces of fat bacon, each two inches in length, and a quarter of an inch square, through each piece of veal; have also two pounds of lean bacon, cut into pieces of nearly the same size as the veal, then put a quarter of a pound of butter into a frying-301 SECOND COURSE. pan, and when melted over the fire, lay in the veal and bacon; season rather highly with a teaspoonful of salt, the same of pepper, half that quantity of grated nutmeg, and a tablespoonful each of chopped onion and parsley, saute the whole a quarter of an hour, occasionally turning the meat, until getting of a nice colour, and the bottom of the pan is covered with a thickish glaze; then line the interior of the pie with some of the force- meat, to the thickness of half an inch, after which lay three pieces of veal at the bottom with two of the ham, alternately, which cover over with more forcemeat,, to about an inch in thickness, then more veal and bacon, with forcemeat again, proceeding thus until full, finishing with the forcemeat, forming a dome about an inch above the edge of the paste, and lay a pat of butter with a bay-leaf at the top, then mould the remainder of the paste into a ball, which roll to the size of the top of the pie, wet the edges with a little egg, lay on the cover, which press down with the thumbs, working the edge up gracefully with the thumb and forefinger, to about an inch above the top of the mould, cutting some of the paste away where too thick, and crimp the extreme edge with a pair of paste nippers; then have ready half a pound of puff paste, which roll to about the thickness of a quarter of an inch, from which cut a piece the size and form of the dome of the pie, upon which place it to form a lid (previously wetting the top with a little water), press it down lightly, egg over with a paste brush, edges as well, make a small hole with a knife at the top, and carve any design upon the puff paste according to fancy; tie a band of buttered paper round the mould, an inch above the pie, put it into a moderate oven to bake about two hours, but to be certain if done, run a pointed knife or trussing needle into the centre, and if it feels tender it is sufficiently baked. Then take it from the oven, and pour in a gill of strong gravy, in which you have dissolved a little isinglass (especially if in summer); when cold, taka it from the mould (which opens at one end by drawing out a pin), and serve upon a napkin, garnished round with parsley. To carve, cut it into slices, the whole breadth of the pie and half an inch in thickness, Such a pie as above would weigh about four pounds when baked; but should you require a smaller one, diminish the proportions accordingly. If no puff paste, the top might be ornamented with a few leaves from the trim- mings of the other paste. I have given you the above receipt very minutely, as the above applies to every description of raised pie, the difference only being its contents.302 SAVOURY DISHES. 653. RAISED PIE OR FOWLS.—Make the paste and iorcemeat as in the last, but instead of veal and ham, bone a young fowl as directed for galantine, which lay flat upon a clean cloth, breast downwards; season the interior with a little pepper, sa t, and chopped onions; spread a layer of forcemeat over, half an inch in thickness, have ten pieces of veal, of the thickness of your finger, and the same length as the fowl, and the same number of pieces of fat bacon, lay half of the veal and bacon alternately upon the fowl, well seasoned with pepper and salt, cover over with more forcemeat, then another layer of veal and ham, cover with more forcemeat; then roll the fowl over, making the skin meet at the back; you have previously lined a raised pie mould with paste, then line the pie with forcemeat, half an inch in thickness, lay in the fowl, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over, cover with the remainder of the forcemeat, to form a dome, place a pat of butter and two bay-leaves upon the top, finish and bake precisely as in the last; when done, pour in a gill of gravy made from the bones of the fowl; serve cold. 654. RAISED PIE OF PHEASANT.—Proceed precisely as for the pie of fowl, but of course using a pheasant; an old one would answer the purpose if kept long enough, but all the sinews of the legs must be taken out in boning it; the fillets of the breast also, being very thick, may be partly cut out and used with the veal for the interior; if in a situation to obtain rabbits, the fillets of them might be used instead of veal for the interior, and the legs for forcemeat. For gravy, break up the bones of the birds, which put into a stewpan with a glass of sherry, an onion, a few sprigs of thyme, parsley, and a bay-leaf; let it simmer a minute over the fire, then add a pint of broth and a little isinglass or gelatine, let the whole simmer for an hour, giving it a nice brown colour, when pass it through a sieve into a small stewpan, place it again upon the fire, skim off all the fat, and reduce it to half a pint, and when the pie is baked, pour it in, shaking the pie a little to mix well; serve when cold. Pies of grouse, partridges, moor fowls, &c., are made precisely in the same manner, using one or more according to the size you wish to make your pie. The fillets of hares are likewise excellent in pies, whilst the legs might be jugged or converted into soup. Capons, poulards, green geese, or ducklings, may also be served303 SECOND COUE.SE. in a pie, (proceeding as directed for fowls,) by managing tbe size of the pie, and seasoning in proportion. Pigeon pie can also be made in the same way, but then the meat with which the interior of the birds are filled must be cut much smaller, and requires less time in cooking. 655. SIMPLE METHOD OF MAKING PIES.—Make two pounds of floor into a paste, as No. 652, and also two pounds of forcemeat; mould three quarters of the paste into a ball, which, with a rolling-pin, roll to about half an inch in thickness and of an oval shape ; lay half the forcemeat in the centre, which spread over to within two inches of the rim, having prepared and sauteed^some veal and ham as. directed for the veal and ham pie. No. 652, lay them alternately upon the forcemeat, with which again cover the meat, laying a pat of butter and a bay-leaf upon the top ; roll out the remainder of the paste of an oval shape, but much thinner than the other, damp the paste around Avith a little water, and lay the sheet of paste over, pressing' it down with the finger and thumb, then wet the top, and brin° up the paste at the sides, which will stick to it, thus forming a fong square pie ; with the trimmings of the paste form a few leaves? with which decorate it according to fancy, egg the whole well over, make a hole in the top, and bake two hours in a moderate oven; when done, pour in the gravy, as for pies made in moulds, and put by to serve cold. A square piece of puff paste laid upon the top, and ornamented previous to baking, is also a great im- provement. Some gravy, as above, may of course be introduced. You will perceive, my dear Eloise, from this one receipt, that any kinds of ponltiy, game, or meat pies, might be made in the same manner. To carve they shoidd be cut across in thin slices through paste and ah. Y hen we are alone I frequently make a very small one for luncheon flittl T f f i P°Und °f SaUSage meat> with which 1 mix an egg and * if* «?“»**■ fryi”g lhe veal “d le*“ b“»»»•“»- “Go- S it t„ '.rzr; fri ttree *»« z, * sufficient to bake it; at times I make it with a pigeon, partridge or two lenYho? ’ ’ and fmmmnded with forcemeat; they are veiy excel- 606. TUREEN OF GAME.—I bought the other dav a common earthen tureen, for which I gave ninepence Imade stXpreCISely the s.ame as for Pie?. boned a grouse and iin i 3S ^°r a P ieasant pie> an(i seasoning the same • I then bned the tureen with the forcemeat, laid in°the S, which^SAVOURY DISHES. 304 a^ain covered with the remainder of the forcemeat, put two pats of butter and a hay-leaf upon the top, then placed on the cover, fixin" it down with a band of common paste laid inside upon the rim of the tureen, and baked it three hours in a moderate oven, and when I opened it about a week afterwards it was most deli- cious; when served to table the cover should be taken off, the bay-leaf removed, and a few fresh water-cresses laid over. Ail sorts of game, poultry, and meat, I have done in the same way; it is quickly done, and very good and economical, as it will keep a long time. 657. GALANTINES.—Having twice failed in the attempt to make this difficult dish, I was about to relinquish the idea, but having received a small turkey two months back, I could not resist making another trial, and in which I succeeded. It is a rather expensive, but beautiful dish for supper. After having plucked, and singed off the hairs with a piece of lighted paper, I laid it breast downwards upon a clean cloth, and with a sharp-pointed knife, boned it as follows : first I passed the point of the knife through the skin/which I cut open straight down the back-bone, proceeding to clear the flesh from the bones of the carcase until I came to the breast-bone, disjointing the wings and legs, I very carefully detached the breast-bone from the flesh without cutting through the skin. I then removed the carcase with the interior of the turkey. I afterwards proceeded to take the bones from the legs and wings, which is not quite so difficult: for the legs, I scrape the first bone free from the flesh to below the first joint, and chop it off; then cut the flesh round over the knuckle and pull the foot, when the remainder of the bone and sinews will come away together ; lastly, I cut off the wings at the first pinion, and the remaining bone is quickly scraped away. I can assure you I found this quite a job the first and second time, ut it is very essential to learn, as all kinds of poultry and game are boned in the same manner, and to this description all references upon the subject must be made throughout our little work. Have prepared four pounds of forcemeat, as for pies, I * . n 1-1 1 P i 1 ...1. ! nl. nf a! I Cl XWexv.- - a^° some long strips of veal, ham, and fat bacon, which well season with salt, pepper, and chopped eschalots ; put a layer ot the forcemeat an inch thick down the bird, leaving two inches upon each side uncovered, then some of the veal, bacon, and cooked ham alternately, which again cover with forcemeat, but not ex- ceeding half an inch in thickness (as too much iorcemeat between the meat would spoil its appearance), proceeding thus until suffi- cient to fill the skin of the bird, when pull over the flaps, and sew it up tightly with a packing needle and small string, and tieSECOND COURSE. 305 it up in a napkin. If handy, a few strips of cooked tongue, and blanched pistachios, laid in alternately with the veal and bacon, greatly improves its flavour and appearance. 658. SIMPLIFIED WAY OF MAKING- THE SA- \ OUR1 JELLY, CALLED ASPIC.—Put it in a stewpan with two onions, a carrot, half a head of celery, two cloves, a blade of mace, a good bunch of parsley, a little thyme, and bay-leaves, a knuckle of veal, the bones of the turkey, two calf’s-feet, two ounces of salt, add sufficient water to cover the whole, and set the stewpan upon the fire until upon the point of boiling; then draw it to the corner, skim, and let simmer for three hours; then take it from the fire, leaving it in the stock until nearly cold; then take it out, remove the string from the napkin, and roll the Galantine up tighter, tying the napkin again at each end only; then place it upon a dish, the breast part upwards, set another dish upon it, on which place a fourteen pounds’ weight, which m ill pi ess and cause it to cut firm; when quite cold it is ready to serve, having removed the napkin and the. string with which it was sewed; the stock, however, should be clarified as directed in t le next receipt to make a savoury jelly, which when cold and firm is cut in croutons and chopped, some also with which the Galantine should be tastefully garnished. Although at first I had some difficulty with this receipt, I can now see the variety to which it leads, as the same process answers for fowls, green geese, ducklings, pheasants, grouse, partridges, &c., using game with the veal or pork for the interior, and stewing them according to their size ■ the bones of game being stewed with the stock will give the flavour to’ the savoury jelly. 659. TO CLARIF1 MEAT JELLY.—Having passed the stock (made as in the last) through the sieve into a basin, leave t untd quite coId; then take off all the fat very carefully, ascer- tarn if sufficiently or too stiff by putting a small piece upon ice; satoury jelly requires to be rather staffer than sweet, if too stiff uno n Jhpfi morebroth’lf the contrary, the stock must be reduced upon the fire until of the proper consistency. When the stock °lling> and you are perfectly assured of its strength, have the white of four eggs with their shells in a basin, with half a pint o water two spoonfuls of tarragon or common vinegar, and a glass of sherry, whisk all together; then whisk the stock quickly a lew. seconds, and pour in the other ingredients whilst whisK uig; continue whisking a few minutes until again upon the pointSAVOURY DISHES. 306 but not boiling; then take it from the lire, and taste if pa- latable, place a cover upon the stewpan, which stand a little dis- tance from the fire, putting a few red-hot cinders upon the lid for five minutes, tie a napkin by the four corners upon a jelly- stand, through which pass the jelly, having a basin beneath to catch it, pour the first that runs through again into the napkin until it runs quite clear; when all through, pour it in a plain mould or saute-pan, which place upon ice until the jelly is quite firm; then dip the bottom of the mould in hot water, turn the jelly out upon a cloth, and cut it into whatever shapes you please, to garnish and ornament any cold savoury dish; the jelly when warm might be divided, one part kept white, and the other coloured with a little brown gravy or colouring, thus enabling you to variegate in garnishing. Should the jelly be required to ornament tongues, hams, pies, salads, or any article when no Galantine is made, then to make the stock, cut the veal into small pieces, and split the calf’s foot in two, put a quarter of a pound of butter in a convenient-sized stewpan, with the veal, foot, a small piece of lean ham, and the other ingredients as directed for Galantine, pour in half a pint of water, put on the lid, and stand it upon the fire until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a white glaze; then add a gallon of water, let simmer three hours, keeping it well skimmed; pass and clarify as above. The knuckle of veal and foot may be served hot with a little parsley and butter, for a dinner previous to your party,' with a little fried bacon separately; but for my own part 1 prefer them plain as they leave the stewpan. 660. COLD HAM.—Procure a very nice but small ham of about nine pounds in weight, which soak about ten hours in cold water, and simmer three hours in plenty of water; when done, take out and let remain until cold ; then cut off the skin as thinly as possible, but without leaving the marks of it; let a piece remain upon the knuckle about two inches and a half in breadth, which either festoon or vandyke, carve the fat neatly to form a shell, if you can, and glaze it over lightly, serve with a paper frill upon the knuckle, and garnish with savoury jelly, or if plain with a few bunches of fresh green parsley. A handlul of fresh hay put in the water when boiling is an improvement. 661. COLD TONGUE.—Boil a nice ox tongue for* three hours, and, when done, take off all the skin, and truss it of a goodSECOND COURSE. 807 shape, by placing the root against some fixture, and running a fork through the middle of the thin part into the board upon which it stands; when cold trim and glaze it lightly over, cutting off the greater part of the root, place it upon a dish, garnished either with savoury jelly or fresh sprigs of parsley. The remains of tongue that has been served may be cut in two lengthwise, and placed in a pudding-mould, with a heavy weight upon it until cold; it makes a much more pleasing- looking dish than the remains of tongue served up with parsley. 662. GALANTINE OF VEAL.—'When I do not like to go to the expense of a turkey or other poultry for a galantine, I procure a small breast of veal, and take out the tendons, which I stew; take out the remaining bones, and trim the meat to about fifteen inches in length and eight in width, using the trimmings for a ragout; season the interior of the breast, and proceed to lay on the forcemeat, veal, ham, and bacon, as directed for the galantine of turkey, roll and sew it up, tie in a cloth, braise, and afterwards press it in precisely the same manner; when quite cold, glaze it nicely and serve, garnished with savoury jelly; or, if for a large supper, six or eight small dishes might be made from it by cutting it into thin slices cross- wise, and dressing six pieces in a border upon each dish, with a little jelly in the middle, or if no jelly, a sprig of parsley or water-cresses; but if served in the latter way, I introduce two ounces of blanched pistachios. When serving the galantine, of course the dishes must be placed at a distance from each other at various parts of the table. I have also made a galantine of a shoulder of lamb in the same way, previously taking out the bones. 663. COLD FILLET OF VEAL.—Roast braise as No. 381; when cold, trim neatly, and garnish with jelly or parsley. A loin of veal larded through the fleshy part with raw ham, and fat bacon, and roasted as above, makes a very delicate dish. A small shoulder of veal might be boned the same as a shoulder of lamb, and made into a galantine. 664. RIBS OF BEEF LARDED.—Choose a piece of beef with about four ribs, and cut very long, carefully take away the bones, lard the fleshy part through with strips of fat bacon, well seasoned with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley; spread some veal stuffing over, and roll it round, keeping the stuffing in the308 SAVOURY DISHES. interior, tie it up with string, and roast in vegetables as in the last artiele, leaving it to cool in the vegetables; when cold, glaze and serve, garnish with sprigs of parsley. The beef well rubbed with garlic and well seasoned tvith salt and pepper, previous to spreading on the stuffing, is a threat improvement. X sometimes leave the bones in the meat, lard the fleshy part, and afterwards roast it in vegetables to serve cold. 665. PRESSED BEEF.—Procure a piece of brisket of beef, cut off the bones, and salt it as directed (No. 666), but adding a little extra sal prunella to the brine and a little spice; let the beef remain in pickle rather better than a week: when ready to cook, roll it round, tie it in a cloth, and let it simmer gently in plenty of water about seven hours if a whole one, but four hours if only the thin end; when done take it up, remove the string, and tie the cloth at each end, put it upon a dish with another dish over, upon which place half a hundred weight, leaving it until quite cold, then take the meat from the cloth, trim and glaze it lightly, and serve garnished with a few sprigs of fresh parsley. 666. PICKLE FOR BEEF A LA GARRICK—Take twenty pounds of salt, three quarters of a pound of saltpetre, four cakes of sal prunella, two pounds of moist sugar, two cloves of garlic, with which rub the meat well, and leave it rather more than a week, rubbing and turning it over every day. This pickle is adapted for anything that is required red. 667. SPICED BEEF.—Procure a piece of thin flank of beef about ten pounds in weight, which salt as the last for about a week; when ready split it open with a knife and lay it out flat upon a dresser, having previously prepared six onions chopped very fine, with about ten sprigs of parsley, and the leaves of ten sprigs of thyme, the same of marjoram, two ounces of mixed spice, (without cinnamon,) and half an ounce of black pepper, mix altogether, spread half upon the beef as it lays before you, then fold it over to its original shape, lay on the remainder of the preparation, roll it up tightly in a cloth, boil, press, and serve as directed in the last article. 668. PIG’S HEAD, in IMITATION of WILD BOAR’S HEAD.—This you may say is not only a difficult dish to do, but a very expensive one. You are right, when you are obliged to buy the pig to possess309 SECOND COURSE. die head ; but in a small farm-house where they kill a pig perhaps once a year at Christmas, the head can be very easily cut off for this purpose. Being on a visit some years since at a farm-house, I had the opportunity of having one, and trying my skill upon it ; it was much approved of, both for its ferocious appearance, and its flavour, and it lasted good tor three weeks. The following is the way you should do it: procure the head with as much of the neck attached to it as possible (the hog must have been stabbed in the neck, not hit on the head, as that would have broken the skull); then singe it well over the flame of a fire, wipe it with a cloth, scrape it well with a knife with- out scratching the skin, and place it on a cloth upon its skull; open it very carefully without piercing the skin, leaving no flesh, whatever upon the bones; bone the neck part, and cut it into small fillets two inches long, lay the head on a board and rub it with half a pound of brown sugar, let it remain for one hour; then place it in a salting tub, and throw over it six pounds of salt, pour in a separate pan two quarts of ale, add four bay-leaves, half an ounce of peppercorns, a quarter ditto of cloves, six blades of mace, eight sliced onions, ten sprigs of thyme, ten of winter savory, and two sliced carrots; stir it well up, and let it remain for two hours; then throw it over the head, which turn eveiy day for eight or ten days, rubbing it well; when sufficiently salted, take it out and dry it on a cloth, lay the head straight before you, skin side upwards; have ready six or eight pounds o forcemeat, but using pork instead of veal, with which cover the head an inch in thickness at the thinnest part; put the fillets cut from the neck in a layer lengthwise in the head, with a lon°- piece of fat bacon, half an inch square, between each, sprinkle a little chopped eschalots, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg over, and continue filling with forcemeat and the other ingredients until you have used the whole and it be quite full; join the two cheeks ogether with the above in the interior, sew it up with packthread, giving it the shape of the head as much as possible, and fold it in one or two large thin cloths, leaving the ears out and upright. Bmtsc as follows : Put half a pound of butter in a large braising-pan or stock-pot, over which put four pounds of trimmings of pork or knuckle of veal, eight onions, two carrots, four turnips, eight bay-leaves, a tablespoonful o peppercorns, twelve cloves, ten sprigs of thyme, ten of marjoram, four es of mace, half a bottle of bucellas wine, if at hand, and four calf’s feet, P ace it upon a sharp fire, stirring it occasionally, until the bottom is coveredSAVOURY DISHES. 310 with a clearish glaze, then add four gallons of -water and half a pound of salt; when boiling draw it to the comer of the stove, skim, and put in the head, the ears uppermost, and let simmer seven or eight hours, or according to the size and age of the pig ; but the better plan would be to try it with a trussing-needle ; if tender it is done; skim the stock, in which leave the head until half cold, when take it out, partly undo the cloths, and tie it again tighter if possible, and press it in a cover or upon a baking-sheet with three flat pieces of wood, one at each side, with a weight against them, and one upon the top between the ears, on which place a fourteen pounds weight, let it remain all night until quite cold, take it out of the cloths, detach the thread it was sewn up with, cut a piece an inch in thickness from behind the ears, (from which part it must be carved in as thin slices as possible,) it will have a marbled appearance ; trim the head a little, setting the ears in a proper position, glaze it .with a brownish glaze, form the eyes with a little lard and a few black currants round, and the tusks with paste, baking them ; have some very fresh tulips and roses, which stick tastefully in the ears and some around, but leaving space to carve ; garnish boldly with croutons, aspic, made from the stock clarified as directed (No. 659); the meat and the calf’s foot may be used for different dishes. See Receipts. The second one I had boiled plainer, merely a little salt and a lew vegetables; it was very good, but not so rich in flavoui as the other; thus saving expense and trouble. They should be eaten with the following sauce: 669. BOAR’S HEAD SAUCE.—Cut the rind (free from pith) of two Seville oranges into very thin strips half an inch in length, which blanch in boiling water, drain them upon a sieve, and put them into a basin, with a spoonful of mixed English mustard, four of currant jelly, a little pepper, salt, (mix well together,) and half a pint of good port wine. *670. SOYER’S BRAWN—Take a pig’s head and prepare it as receipt No. 668, have the feet and ears prepared the same way • when salt enough, which will be in about seven days, remove it drain it, and place it in a cloth with the skin outside, as boar s head, place the feet cut up in it with two pounds of sausage meat, and the tongue cut up, and then tie it up tight and boil for three hours or longer, until tender; allow it to get cold, then untie the cloth and serve. To make it larger, a couple of cow heels placed in the same pickle, boiled and cut up in small strips and boned may be added to the head. The above sauce with it is excellent. 671. FORCEMEAT.—You will find this receipt so useful, and so often in demand for made dishes, soups, fishes, entrees, &c., that I must beg ofSECOND COURSE. 811 you to devote to it your personal attention; and being rather difficult to execute, be present when your cook makes it, that she may follow strictly the receipt, which I flatter myself is rather original. Take a pound and a half of lean veal from the fillet, and cut it in long thin slices, scrape with a knife tili nothing but the fibre remains; put it in a mortar, pound it ten minutes, or until in a puree, pass it through a wire sieve (use the remainder in stock), then take one pound of good fresh beef suet, which skin, shred, and chop very fine, put it in your mortar and pound it, then add six ounces of panada (made as under) with the suet, pound them well together, and add the veal, season with a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter one of peper, half that of nutmeg, work all well together, then add four eggs by degrees, continually pounding the contents of the mortar; when well mixed take a small piece in a spoon, and poach it in some boiling water, and if it is delicate, firm, and a good flavour, it is ready for use; if you require some very deli- cate, add two tablespoonfuls of white sauce, or even thick melted butter; you can vary the flavour by the addition of a spoonful of chopped parsley, eschalot, mushroom, &c.; the flesh of rabbit, 01 fowl, or hare, pheasant, grouse, &c., if plentiful, may be added, using the ingredients in proportion. One quarter of this quantity may be made if required. 672. HOW TO MAKE QUENELLES OF FORCE- MEAT. Have two tablespoons, (dessert or teaspoons according to the size you intend making quenelles), fill one of them with the forcemeat, dip the other spoon into boiling water, and with it remove the forcemeat from the first spoon and slip it from that into a buttered saute-pan, proceeding thus until you have as many as you require; then cover them with some second stock and boil them about ten minutes, or until firm, and they are ready for use. J . f.73- PANADA FOR FORCEMEATS.—Put two-thirds of haft a pint of water into a stewpan holding a quart, with nearly an ounce of butter; when boiling, stir in a quarter of a pound of flour; keep it moving over the fire until it forms a smooth and toughish paste; take it out of the stewpan, and when cold use it where directed. 674. STUFFING FOR VEAL.-Chop up half a pound of beef suet very fine, put it in a basin, with eight ounces of bread-crumbs, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a little pow- dered thyme and marjoram, half the rind of a lemon grated andSAVOURY DISHES. 312 the juice of half one; season with a spoonful of salt, and a quarter one of pepper, and one quarter of a nutmeg; mix the whole with three whole eggs; this will do also to stuff turkey or baked fish, adding some more chopped parsley. 675. STUFFING FOR GEESE AND DUCKS.--See Geese. LETTER No. XVI. Leak Eloise,—To you who are so fond of lobster, the following receipt will, I am confident, prove most valuable. To make sure of its quality, buy one fresh-boiled, and heavy in proportion to its size; or, perhaps, entrc nous, you would prefer to wait until a friend presented you with one, like that Mrs. , your fishmonger’s wife, who used regularly to make you a present of one three or four times a week about a year and a half ago, and that the best she had in the shop, but to whom, on the sly, you used to pay a princely price for, and the poor man your husband, got at last so tired of them, that he went and begged of her to stop her shell-fish (selfish) present; and she, unwoman-like, off her guard, let, as the proverb says, “the cat out of the bag.” Well, after all, dearest, it is only Nature that was culpable, and not you. I have no doubt but what your dear Mr. L was tired of them, after they having been so long a constant dish at his table, that he used, as you say, to dream at night that he was hunted by the head constable of the raw or even boiled lobster, which is quite enough to torment any man, and all that for having tried to please you in making almost a turbot or a salmon of him- self, by serving him out continually with some of your sauce (lobster, I mean). But I must say that, after all, he has been well repaid for his culinary tanta- lization. Oh! by the bye, how is he, my little godson ? However, knowing that, after family matters, what interests you the most is our domestic journal, I therefore send you the receipts. SHELL FISH. LOBSTER.—This fish, which is continually before our eyes, and only looked upon as an article of food, is, without doubt, one of the wonders of the creation. A ereature destitute of bones, yet furnished with a stomach capable of digesting the hardest substances, even its own shell, which it doff once a year, when it is too small for it; without blood circulating through it body, yet strong and active. This is only one of those wonders of the mighty deep that we cannot but regard with awe and veneration, and yet the prin-SECOND COURSE. 813 cipal interest they excite in us is when we visit a shell-fish shop to choose the largest .and best for the smallest price. They are, without doubt,, a very nourishing aliment, and are by many supposed to have a particular season, but which I believe not to be the case, as I have known them in and out of season on the same ground. When out of season, the pea or spawn is very large, and about being hatched ; immediately after which it sheds its shell, but not its stomach, as is by many supposed. When in season, and fine- flavoured, they should have no spawn, or very little, under the tail; and when its body is squeezed between the fingers it should not give, but be hard ; its weight will also be a test, as it is a fish which wastes very much when kept long alive without food. Great care must be observed in the boiling of it. A number should be placed at one time in a basket, and that placed in boiling- water, adding half a pound of salt to every gallon of water, with a heavy weight upon it : if over-done, they eat tough and thready ; if under-done, unwholesome and unpalatable. One weighing a pound will take fifteen minutes, and so on in proportion. 6(6. GRATIN OF LOBSTER.—Procure a good-sized lobster, cut it in half, detaching the head from the body; take out all the meat, and save the four shells; cut the meat into slices, then take a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan, with a piece of butter the size of two walnuts, pass them a few minutes over the fire, add a tablespoonful of flour (mix well), and half a pint of milk, stir over the fire, boiling about five minutes, then add the lobster, which season with a little cayenne, salt, chopped parsley, and essence of anchovies; stand it again upon the fire, stirring until boiling, then stir in the yolk of an - ta ^e ofl the fire, fill the shells of the lobster, sprinkle bread- crumbs over, with a little butter, put in the oven for twenty minutes; dish on a napkin and serve. To give it a nice colour, use the salamander, or a red-hot shovel. 6((. MIROTON SALAD OF LOBSTER.—Prepare and r|a.mei?t a boi'd®r °f e£&s> like for that of game (No. 686), put a thick layer of fresh salad in the centre, and dress over it, in a TTVi\ r obster interspersed with slices of eggs and gherkins. The lobster must be divided in two across the back, extract the meat caref ully out of it, and cut it in a round or slanting direction to the thickness of a crown-piece, break the claws arid cut the same way and place on salad as above, so as to form a thick crown near the border of eggs, then take the interior of the lobster pound it and pass it through a fine sieve, add to your sauce Any other kind of fish, as cod fish, &c., when cold, cut or break314 SAVOURY DISHES. them in slices, lay them in a basin, season over with salt, pepper, nutmeg, slices of onion, parsley, a little oil and vinegar; put it in two hours before serving, and proceed as for lobster If theie is any fish left from the previous day, I always make a salad of it, particularly in summer; there are many who object to so much oil, in which case it may be diminished. 6/8. SALAD TARTAR.—Make as usual the border of eggs and sauce, lay the salad in the middle and the lobster over, which has been previously cut in slices ; pour over some of the same sauce as above, having added a tablespoonful of French mustard to it, or if you have it not, add some English, but it is not so good. Gherkins cut in slices and a few stoned olives. 679. PLAIN LOBSTER SALAD.—Take a lobster and sixpenny worth of any kind of salad, wash it well, dry in a cloth, cut the lobster up in a salad-bowl, sprinkle over it a teaspoonful of salt, half that of pepper, one of chopped tarragon or chervil, or parsley if nothing better, four tablespoonfuls of oil, and two of common vinegar, but only one and a half if French, add the salad, stir lightly round with a wooden knife and fork, and it is ready. 680. LOBSTER SERVED PLAIN.—Break the tail from the body, cut it in two lengthwise, put the body in the middle of the dish, lay the half tail top and bottom, and the claws on the side; ■ the shell previously broken, but not disfigured, and serve parsley round. 681. LOBSTER SALAD.—Dress a border of hard-boiled eggs, as directed in salad of game (No. 686), till the centre with some nice fresh salad, then take the flesh from a middling-sized lobster, which cut into as large slices as possible, which put into a basin, and season with a little pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar, after which dress them pyramidically upon the salad, and have ready the following sauce : put the yolks of two fresh eggs in a basin, Avith the yolk of a hard-boiled one rubbed through a sieve, add half a saltspoonful of salt, and half that quantity of white pepper, and commence stirring round with a wooden spoon with the right hand, holding a bottle of salad oil in the left, dropping it in by degrees and continually stirring ; when becoming thickish add a couple of spoonfuls of common vinegar by degrees, still keeping it stirred, then more oil, proceeding thus until you have315 SECOND COURSE. used three parts of a pint of oil, and a corresponding quantity of vinegar; by continually working, it will form a stiffish cream- looking sauce perfectly smooth; add a little more seasoning if required, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, with half that quantity of chopped eschalots; pour over the lobster and serve. Should the sauce curdle in making, the operation must be again performed, putting a yolk of an egg into another basin, working it with a little oil until forming a stiffish paste, then stir in the curdied sauce by degrees until the whole becomes smooth; always choose a cool place to make it in. This requires a little practice. 682. FISH SALADS.—Ail fish salads are made precisely as in the last, from the remains of fish from a previous dinner, especially turbot and salmon; but for fillets of soles they must be dressed thus :— When filleted, melt an ounce of butter in a saute-pan, lay the fillets in, season with pepper and salt, and the juice of half a lemon; saute them on a slow fire until done, which may be from four to five minutes, and put by to get cold; cut in middle-sized pieces and use as lobster. 683. NEW MAYONNAISE SAUCE.—Put a quarter of a pint of melted aspic upon ice in a stewpan, which keep whisk- ing until becoming a white froth, then add half a pint of salad oil and six spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, by degrees; first oil and then vinegar, continually whisking until it forms a white smooth sauce, to all appearance like a cream ; season with half a tea- spoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, and a little sugar, whisk it a little more, and it is ready to serve; it is usually dressed pyramidically over the article it is served with. The advantage of this sauce (which is more delicate than any other) is, that you may dress it to any height you like, and it will remain so for a long time ; if the temperature is not too hot it will remain hours without melting or appearing greasy. 684. TARTAR SAUCE.—Rub the yolk of a cold hard- boiled egg through a hair sieve into a basin, to which add the yolks of two raw eggs, with a little salt and pepper ; mix all together with a wooden spoon; have a pint of good'salad oil in a bottle, hold it with the left hand over the basin, dropping it in very gradually, and with the right continue stirring it°round until it becomes rather thick, then moisten it with a little tarragon vinegar, still keeping it stirred, then more oil, and so on until3] 6 SAVOURY DISHES. you have used all the oil, keeping it rather thick ; then add a tablespoonf ul of finely chopped gherkins, half a ditto of chopped nnrS t* * ° C,hopPed eschal?ts, and the same of chopped p< y, " o o French mustard, a little cayenne pepper, sugar, and moie salt if required; it is then ready for use. This sauce housed3 ^ rathCr h'8hly Seasoned- Common vinegar may 685. SALMON IN MARINADE.—Have two good slices of salmon cut about four inches and a half in thickness, in a stewpan have three onions cut in slices, as also a turnip, a carrot, a head of celery cut small, a good half handful of parsley, two bay-leaves, and two ounces of butter; pass the whole ten minutes over a sharp tire, then add a pint of vinegar, a blade of mace, half a dozen peppercorns, and one ounce of salt; let simmer, then add three pints of water, put in the salmon, which simmer gently about halt an hour, and leave in the marinade until cold; serve with a little of the marinade strained through a hair sieve m the dish. Trout, mackerel, herrings, sprats, and fillets of sole or brill, are also very nice cooked in the same manner. A part of the above marinade may be made at any time, and almost any kind of fish remaining from a previous dinner may be done the same, and eaten cold. 686. SALAD OF GAME.—Boil eight eggs hard, shell them, throw them into cold water, cut a thin slice off the bottom to facilitate the proper placing of them in the dish, cut each one into four, lengthwise, make a very thin flat border of butter, about one inch from the edge of the dish you are going to serve them on; fix the pieces of egg upright close to each other, the yolk outside, or alternately the white and yolk ; you lay in the centre a layer of fresh salad that may be in season, and havin'*- previously roasted a young grouse, rather underdone, which you cut into eight or ten pieces, then prepare sauce as follows: put a spoonful of eschalots, finely chopped, in a basin, one ditto of pounded sugar, the yolk of one egg, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, tarragon, or chervil, and a quarter of an ounce of salt, mix in by degrees with a wooden spoon four spoonfuls of oil and two of Chili vinegar; when all mixed, put it on ice, or in a cold place; vvhen ready to serve up, whip a gill of cream rather thick, which lightly mix with it, then lay the inferior parts of the grouse on the salad, sauce over so as to cover each piece, then lay over the salad and the remainder of the grouse; sauce over,SECOND COURSE. 317 and serve. The eggs may be ornamented with a little dot of radishes on the point, or beetroot. Anchovy and gherkin, cut into small diamonds, may be placed between, or cut gherkins in slices, and lay a border of them round, or in any way your fancy may dictate. Leaves of tarragon or chervil are very pretty round it. J 1 J Black Game, Pheasant, Ptarmigan, Partridge, Gray Hen, S,-c. $*.—When we have any of the remains of these birds, I prefer to use them in this manner, as Mr. B. is very fond of this dish; allow me to inform you it is quite a novel one, and very delicate, and has never appeared in any Cookery Book. 687 SALAD OF FOWL.-Proceed as for that of game so fai as the eggs and the salad are concerned: then have a chicken bee? P.revi0l,slJ Plain roasted, or in vegetables, and cut it into ten neat pieces, put it into a basin, season with a teaspoon- ful of salt, quarter ditto of pepper, two tablespoonfuls of oi? one vinegar, one onion sliced, and a few sprigs of chopped parsley mix them well, and let them remain for a few hours, if time will sahd as Take the pmces of chicken, and place in a dish with sak l, as directed for grouse, with the sauce, &c., and serve Nothing is better for ball-suppers than thes^ kind of dishls* eicell" nT trtM f m”‘1S °f SoiW “• ”"d “« sauce is’ “ , ’ a"3 kind of coW meat, cut in slices, dressed round uSZ wS 7y t0V "wr or luncheon, it S.’m V N „ Vs n T6, Sa“cf, or dressing as for Lobster little:—-Put inV . ',.1’j.ula"J *j° following one, which differs a of turn i u? midc^e*SIze(V round-bottomed basin the volk a spoonful of salt, quarter of one V penne, tUT- ”6 ° Sl;f' ’ dltto of fine chopped onions, ditto of lousier’ Pi ft «V rd, Vr: ,*t “ “ Gastronomic Regenerator.” ’ UC1 you sIlouId seethe318 SAVOURY DISHES. Prawns are best when very red and have no spawn under the tail. Cray, or Crawfish.—There are two kinds, the sea and fresh water; in habits they are similar to the lobster. The sea crayfish arrive at times to an amazing size ; they are not considered so delicate eating as a lobster. The river fish is much liked for its bitter flavour, but that depends greatly on the river whence it is taken; the tail is the only part which should be eaten, except when the stomach is ordered by a medical man ; it seems of late years to have been disused. It appears to have been extensively used by the Romans, who had ponds on purpose for feeding them. / Crabs.—Of these there are innumerable species on the shores of Great Britain ; but the only one fit to eat is the oblong crab, and this ought to be large and the claws full; it must not be partaken of largely, as it is exceed- ingly indigestible. They should be chosen when the joints and the eyes are bright and stiff, and there is an agreeable smell from them. The Escalop is a fish very little used, but is exceedingly fine ; it is in season at the same time as the oyster. It can be cooked in a variety of ways, but previous to doing which, it should be kept some time in salt water, so that it may free itself from any sand that may be in it; when opened, all the beard should be removed, and only the white, red, and black parts used ; it may be cooked in every way like oysters, and is excellent with matelote sauce of any kind of fish. Razor Shellfish or Solen Fish.—This is the aulo of the Romans, and a beautiful eating fish. It is seldom we get it in London, being used by the fisherman for bait. It should also be cooked like oysters, and makes most excellent and strengthening soup. Clams are a species of cockle, only found in Devonshire, Cornwall, parts of Wales, and on the west coast of Ireland and Scotland. It is much superior ' in flavour to the oyster, and if eaten raw, should be about the same size, but if larger, they should be made into soup, or cooked in the same way as the oyster. Whelks have become plentiful in London, and are an exceedingly whole- some fish. They are cooked also like the oyster. Muscles are fish I do not much approve of; their quality depends greatly on the rock or places from whence they are taken, and their flavour on the object to which they attach themselves or the plants that grow around them ; the weed should be removed, and the small crabs taken out; but as they are excellent bait for whiting, haddocks, &c., I would rather use them for that purpose, and use other shellfish equally as plentiful for my dishes. OYSTERS.—Of these there are several kinds, but which I will write to you more fully about in a future letter, when we come to the pickling and preserving ; those we have to do with at the present moment are the small kind for eating raw, and the large for cooking. Of the former, the native, which we receive from Milton, Colchester, and the vicinity of those places,SECOND COURSE. 319 the Ostend, and this season those imported from Normandy, the celebrated Ttocher de Cancale, and Burton Bindons Red Bank. A very singular circum- stance, not generally known, is, that the finest oysters we have in England and in Ireland, both come from a place with the same name—namely, Bum- ham, that in England being in the county of Essex, and that in Ireland being in Clare. Of the latter, all the deep sea oysters unfed are the best, as their flavour is stronger and flesh firmer. No oyster should be eaten under four years old ; their age is known by their shell—iust the same as the age of a tree is known by its bark, or a fish by its scale, and the small oyster has the finest flavour. 688. ESCALOPED OYSTERS.—Pat two dozen of oysters with their liquor into a stewpan, place over a fire, and when a little firm, drain them upon a sieve, catching the liquor in another stewpan; detach the beard from the oysters, and throw them again into their liquor; add half a blade of mace, place again upon the fire, and, when boiling, add a piece cf butter the size of a walnut, with which you have mixed a teaspoonful of flour; shake round over the fire until becoming thick, season with a little cayenne, and salt if required; have an escalop shell, well-buttered and bread-crumbed; place the oysters in, sprinkle bread-crumbs over, put it in the oven a quarter of an hour, pass the salamander over, and serve. The yolk of eggs may be added, and less flour. 689. STEWED OYSTERS.—Blanch and beard the oysters as above; when done, put them with their liquor in a stewpan, with four cloves, a blade of mace, and a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies with a little chopped parsley and cayenne; let simmer a minute, stir in two pats of butter with which you have mixed half a teaspoonful of flour, let simmer a little longer, lay the oysters in a dish upon a piece of toast, and sauce over. 690. FRIED OYSTERS.—Open carefully one or two dozen of large oysters, put them in a small stewpan upon the fire, to blanch for a few minutes without boiling, then take out the oysters, put them on a sieve, beard them, save the liquor for sauce; lay them on a cloth separately, to dry a little, break a fresh egg on a plate, beat it well with a fork, then dip each oyster separately into it; have ready about half a pound of bread- crumbs, in which you put a spoonful of chopped parsley, little grated nutmeg, roll them in it, take them out, shape them with the knife, put them in a small wire basket, one minute only in a tew pounds of hot lard or fat. (See Frying, p. 70.) Dish onSECOND COURSE. 320 a small napkin, with fried parsley over it if handy. If no fat to fry in, put .a little butter in a tart dish or a plate, put them in the oven lor ten minutes, and witli a red-hot shovel passed over, give them a nice colour, and serve in a dish. They may be also dipped one after the other in a batter made as for apple fritters (No. /86), fried in hot fat; if oysters are done in batter well made, they will eat very crisp. 691. SHRIMI S. Of these there are several varieties; of those known in London, we have the red shrimp, caught in the rivers Thames and Med- way, and the brown or Lynn shrimp ; a diversity of opinion exists amongst epicures of this little animal which is the best; but in my opinion a great deal depends on the manner of boiling, and their freshness. The following is the plan I prefer: to one gallon of water put two ounces of salt, one sprig of lemon thyme, and one of mint, a bay leaf, and let it boil; when boiling hard, put one quart of shrimps into an open wire or wicker basket with a handle, and place it in the water; the time they take to boil depends on the size of the fish, but may be known by their changing colour; be particular not to boil them too much, or they will be tasteless and indigestible. 692. TO PICK SHRIMPS.—Although so many millions of these little sand-hoppers are continually being eaten, yet there are very few whose body is removed from their shell in the proper way. The head and part of the body should be taken up by the thumb and finger of the right hand, and with the left hand take gently hold of three joints of the tail, bend it back a little, and remove the shell of the tail, which will come off at the third joint; then lay hold of the body, which will come out easily of the remainder of the shell. Most persons lay hold of the head and tail only, in consequence they become divided, and then they have to remove the shell in au awkward manner; but if in any way stale, they will never shell easy. 693. FORCEMEATS OF FISH.—These are much in use in France and other Catholic countries, especially in Lent; they are a very excellent garnish for entrees of fish, and may be made of the flesh of almost all kinds of fish, more particularly the pike, salmon, trout, sole, haddock, and the whiting, which last is the most delicate. 694. FORCEMEAT OF WHITINGS.—Take the fillets of three whitings, take off all the skin, and pound them well, then321 VEGETABLES. take them from the mortar, and form them into a ball; have a piece of panada (No. 673) one third the size of the ball, put the panada into the mortar, pound it well, then add two ounces of fresh butter, which mix well with the panada, add the fish, season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg; mix all well together, and add by degrees three whole eggs and the yolks ot two, try it in a little boiling water, as directed for the forcemeat of veal. They are served generally as a meagre dish with a fish sauce, in Catholic families, especially in Lent°time. VEGETABLES. In describing to you, dearest, tlie different ways these may be dressed, I beg of you to make a constant use of them at your own table, as you will find that they will be much better than partaking of half-raw greens, cabbage, turnip tops, spinach, &c., which are so often served up at tables in this- country, and are less inviting in flavour, and consequently, do not get con- sumed so much as they ought, which causes more meat to be eaten, and, instead of refreshing the blood, as all vegetables will do in their season, only irritate it. . Do not misunderstand me respecting our English way of partaking of plain boiled vegetables ; I do not wish you to give them up entirely but by adopting both plans, you will find it a great advantage in your domestic cookery. For my part I never object to our plain boiled vegetables, but merely to the neglectful way they are cooked and served up, often swimmino- m water In France, no family in the middle station of life ever dine without their dish of dressed vegetables, upon which as much care has been bestowed Ihine^1115 ^ UP°n the PnnCipal disl1 °f the dinneD and is often eaten Knrnn^-AbStfAB C°°k itthus: 1 take a bundle and c ape lightly all the white part, beginning from the head down, and throw them when done into cold water, then tie them up in bundles of twenty-five each if an ordinary size, if very laro-e half that number, keeping the heads together, and cufoff the T^hv 8ame lengtb; W ready a Pan stain- ing one gallon of boiling water, in which has been thrown two unces ot salt, boil quickly for fifteen minutes, or till tender: dish them up with a piece of toast under, keep the heads even and form a pyramid. _ Serve very hot, with rich melted butter’ ci earn sauce, or plain if preferred. ’ YVEGETABLES. goo The queen of all vegetables, to my fancy, is asparagus. This may almost, be said to be a modern vegetable in this country, and it is one which requires less cooking than perhaps any other, and is considered exceedingly wholesome. 696. YOUNG GREEN PEAS.—Young Green Peas ! Do not these words sound pleasant to the ear, dearest ? I fancy that, by merely raising my eyes from the paper on which I am now writing, I shall see all our garden in buds and blossom; it not only seems to invigorate the sensitive part of one’s appetite, but works upon the mind to that point that you may actually fancy you are breathing in a glowing atmosphere, and that the pearly dew is gracefully descending in small globules from heaven, to fix their sparkling eyes on the pinky bloom of myriads of roses. But, alas ! how soon this charming illusion has disappeared since I have left for a moment the sight of my paper, to give a peep through the garden-window, where I perceive that though to-day is the 17th of April, the serious and uncheerful Father ■Winter has once more monopolised those delightful and variegated nuances of Nature, by laying out his universal snowy tablecloth over this for the present ephemeral vision which the inviting words green peas had produced upon my senses ; no doubt the effect of a good fire in my parlour, where I am now sitting, has had great influence upon me respecting the summery tempera- ture ; but as a few weeks longer will realize my wishes, I shall here content myself by giving you the receipt how they ought to be cooked when you can get them. When they are very young, I like them plain boiled, because their original flavour is so fresh and delicate, that any addition, except a little, fresh butter, would be certain to destroy their aroma; I even object to the introduction of green mint, though I do not want to deprive you of it, being only a matter of taste. Put two quarts of water to boil, with half an ounce of salt, and then place in one pint of peas, boil a full gallop till tender (about ten minutes), put in a colander, drain one minute; lay them, raised in the centre, in a dish, put in them two pats of very fresh butter, and serve. When older or larger, boil a little longer, add twelve leaves of green mint, which serve with it. 697. PEAS, FRENCH WAY.—They do not look so invit- ing not being so green; but I must say they are excellent as regards flavour. Choose them young and fresh; without both oi these qualities they would not cook properly. Put into a sauce- pan a pint of peas, two ounces of butter, and a pint ot water; mix the peas and butter well with your hand, add four buttonSECOND COURSE. 323 onions, a bouquet of six sprigs of parsley, one ounce of sugar, two saltspoonfuls of salt, and one of pepper, place over a tolerably good fire, moving them often; if getting rather dry, add a wineglassful of water, twenty minutes ought to be enough; when tender, add one ounce of butter, in which you have mixed a teaspoonful of flour, which put in and stir well; make a liaison of the yolk of one egg, a quarter of a gill of cream, which add and stir; take out the parsley and onions, and serve. 69S. ANOTHER WAY.—When large, I stew them with two cabbage-lettuces cut in two, and stew longer; put in four wineglassfuls of water, or more, if required, and finish as above. To keep their colour, I often proceed thus for entrees or second courses: I plain boil as above, and put them in a stew- pan, with four small onions, a little mint, parsley, butter, sugar, and a drop of water, simmer a few minutes, add as above the flour, butter, and liaison, and serve; they are very good this way, but not so rich in flavoui'. There are different kinds, but I prefer the Prussian blue above all. 699. SEAKALE.—Proceed exactly as for asparagus for boiling, but previously to boiling cut out the black part of the roots; well wash and tie them about six together, serve with the same sauce as asparagus. There is a kind of seakale which (should you not be dealing with a regular tradesman) you may purchase, that is rank and stringy, and not worth eating; it may be known, when raw, by the outside near the root, which is very tough and hard; the middle size ones are the best. 700. SPRUE-GRASS.—The longer the green part the better the sprue; take each piece and gently bend it, and it will break oflt at that part which you require, beyond it is too hard, and cannot be eaten; when you thus have the pieces, cut them into lengths of a quarter of an inch, which well wash; have one gallon of water, into which put one ounce of salt, and boil, then put in the sprue and boil for ten minutes, or till tender, then rain on a sieve, put them in a stewpan, with two ounces of resh butter, half a teaspoonful of flour, the same of salt, two pinches of pepper, half a gill of milk, and place on the fire, stir well together for ten minutes, and serve hot. The yolk of an egg, well beaten with two spoonfuls of cream, may be added to it* ®nd wten serving, also two spoonfuls of white sauce or melted y 2324 VEGETABLES. butter, then omit the flour,—but I always do it as the first. This is for a large bunch. /Ol. CLLEKY. Cut about ten heads of large celery from six to seven inches long, trim the outside and cut the root to a point, wash it very well between the leaves, tie three together, put a gallon of water, with two ounces of salt, to boil, then add the celery, and boil for fifteen minutes, then drain it, put into a stewpan a small slice of bacon, and lay the celery on it, put it on the fire for two minutes, add one onion sliced, cover with Droth until quite tender, then take it out, and dish on a piece of toast, pass the gravy through a sieve into a stewpan, skim off the fat, reduce it to a demi-glaze, add a little sugar and a small pat of butter, which you have rubbed into some flour, stir it well and sauce over; it ought to be thick, and of a nice brown colour, which produce, if required, by a little colouring. Marrow may be served with it, by taking two good pieces of marrow, and boil for a few minutes in a quart of water, and serve on each side the celery. It can also be cooked plain boiled, and served with melted butter over, and also in eight tablespoonfuls of brown sauce, six of broth, and half a teaspoonful of sugar, in which it has simmered ten minutes; sauce over and serve. 702. SALSIFY.—I do not know why this vegetable, which is held in such high estimation on the Continent, should be so little esteemed with us; I will here supply their manner of cooking it, and perhaps you will give it a fair trial. Take twelve middling- sized ones, scrape them well till quite white, rub each with lemon and put in cold water; put into a stewpan a quarter of a pound of beef or mutton suet, cut in small dice one onion, a bit of thyme, a bay-leaf, a tablespoonful of salt, and four cloves, put on the fire and stir, for five minutes, add two tablespoonsful of flour, and stir well, then add three pints of water, when just boiling put in your salsify, simmer till tender; they will take nearly one hour; dish on toast, sauce over with Dutch, maitre-d’hotel, or onion sauce, or a very good demi-glaze, or Italian sauce. Should any remain, they may be made into fritters thus: put them in a basin, add a little salt, pepper, two spoonfuls of vinegar, half a chopped eschalot, and a spoonful of oil, place in the salsify, and let it remain for some hours, when ready to serve, make a small quantity of batter, dip each piece in it, and fry for five minutes in lard or fat, dish up with fried parsley over.SECOND COURSE. 325 703. VEGETABLE MARROW. — Choose eight young small ones, with smooth skin, and put them to boil in two quarts of water, in which you have put one ounce of salt, the same of butter; try with a needle if tender, then dish them tastefully on mashed potatoes in a dish; put half a pint of melted butter in a pan, when near boiling add a liaison of a yolk of an egg, two pats of butter, a little sugar, the juice of half a lemon, sauce over and serve; if they are rather large, cut them iu two len<*tli- tvise; if in smaller pieces, take all the inside out and boif till tender, and warm in the above sauce. You can also make a nice demi-glaze, as No. 137, and let them simmer in it for twenty minutes; do not break them, as they would then be unsightly; they can be made into soup like cauliflower, No. 216. 704. CAULIFLOWER AND BROCCOLI.—Be very par- ticular in cleaning them, choose them rather small, thick, and firm, put them for one hour in salt and water, then rinse them well in water, that all the dirt may be removed from the interior- have a pan of boiling water, in which you have placed two’ ounces of salt and one of butter, drain, and use where indicated; but if for second course, place them on a dish in the form of a dome, and cover over with some sauce as for vegetable marrow, or plain melted butter, or Soubise sauce if preferred plain; serve it very hot, having drained it. 1 705. THE SAME GRATINE WITH CHEESE.—Put into a stewpan ten spoonfuls of white sauce, No. 135, with a little chopped onions, which boil for a few minutes, add to it a quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan, or any mild En°dish cheese; when boiling add the yolk of one egg, and a little cayenne; Zw!UICVay arlttle °n a dlsh> Put two or three heads ofcauli- flowe or broccoli on it, pour the remainder of sauce over, and a “ e bread-crumbs and grated cheese; putin oven half an hour give it a nice yellow colour, and serve; if no white sauce use melted butter, but do not boil it so long, or it will eat rather greasy. 706. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES—One of the best and most useful vegetables ever introduced to table, and anythin"- but appreciated as it deserves to be. To prove to you that I am a great admirer of it, you will find it very often mentioned £ Zirecef+t In usinS them a second course, I choose about but tYyj fth.e S,ame Slze’ peeI tliem’ and shape them like a pear flat at the bottom, wash them well, boil gently in three pints326 VEGETABLES. of water, one ounce of salt, one of butter, and a few sliced onions; when tender, I make a border of mashed potatoes on a dish, fix them on it point upwards, sauce over with either cream sauce (No. 301), white sauce (No. 135), melted butter (No. 286), maitre-d’hotel, and place a fine Brussels sprout between each, which contrast is exceedingly inviting, simple, and pretty. 707. CUCUMBERS are most delicious stuffed and stewed, but very difficult to dress, and consequently chiefly used for entrees. They may, however, be treated like vegetable marrow. 708. ARTICHOKES.—Pull the tail off four or six small artichokes, trim the bottom slightly with a knife, cut the point of every leaf, wash well in plain water, put them on in plenty of water, with a little salt, to boil, let them thus remain about half an hour, or. until the leaves are easy to be removed, take them out and lay on a sieve to drain, and serve on a napkin, with melted butter separate. 709. BEETROOT.—This is a very good dish, and as I believe it has never been noticed in cookery, I must lay claim to its parentage; I have given the receipt to some friends, who highly approve of it. Take two nice young boiled beetroots, which will take about from two to three hours to simmer in plenty of boiling water, peel when cold, cut in slanting direction, so as to make thin oval pieces, peel and cut in small dice two middling-sized onions, put in a pan, with two ounces of butter, fry white, stirring continually with a spoon; add a spoonful of flour, and enough milk, to make a nice thinnish sauce, add to it three saltspoonfuls of salt, four of sugar, one of pepper, a spoonful of good vinegar, and boil a few minutes; put in the slices to simmer for about twenty minutes, have ready some mashed potatoes, with which make a thin border in your dish one inch high, then put the beetroot and sauce, highly seasoned, in the centre, and serve. A little cream may be added. 710. FRENCH BEANS.—These are also a great favourite with many. To dress it, head and tail them, drawing off the back string, cut in long diamonds, boil till tender in water in which salt has been placed, a quarter of a pound to a gallon, try them after a quarter of an hour’s boiling, drain them, lay them, on a dish one inch thick, sprinkle with a little salt, pepper, and327 SECOND COURSE. two pats of butter, then put in the remainder, proceed the same at top; serve very quickly, to prevent the butter oiling. 711. THE SAME, A LA MAITRE-D’HOTEL.—When boiled as above, put in a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of maitre-d’hotel butter, when melted, serve. They may be also served with white sauce thus: put in a stewpan eight spoonfuls of melted butter, season well, simmer gently, add the yolk of an egg, two ounces of butter, juice of half a lemon, and serve. 712. KIDNEY BEANS.—Head and tail them, string and slit them down the middle, place them for half an hour in salt and water in which you have thrown a little culinary alkali, boil until tender, and serve with melted butter, or a 1a. maitre-d’hotel. 713. BROAD or WINDSOR BEANS.—Boil in salt and water: when done, serve with parsley and butter, or with a piece of bacon. 714. BRUSSELS SPROUTS.—Trim, wash, and boil about forty small Brussels sprouts; when tender, drain, dish, and sprinkle a little salt, pepper, and two ounces of butter over, and serve. Serve also in sauce, or with maitre-d’hotel, like French beans. These are also very good for soups, sauces, or garnish. 715. SPINACH.—This vegetable is very light and very good for invalids. It must be washed in several waters, after having been well picked; then put a quarter of a sieve of spinach to a gallon of boiling water and three ounces of salt, boil for ten minutes till tender, drain on sieve, press a little with your hands to extract part of the water, chop it up fine, put it in a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, half ditto of pepper, put on a fire with a drop of warm broth for a few minutes, and serve. <16. SPINACH WITH GRAVY.—Proceed as before, but add a tablespoonful of flour, and half a pint of strong gravy in it as No. 186; serve with sippets of bread round. (17. SPINACH WITH CREAM.—Proceed as before, but putting half a pint of milk or cream instead of gravy, and the addition of a tablespoonful of sugar, cut three slices of bread, lay on dish, sift sugar over, put in oven, salamander over, cut in various shapes, and serve under or over the spinach.328 VEGETABLES. <18. Y OUNG- HARICOT BEANS.—Take a pint, boil in two quarts of water, with a small piece of butter, and half an ounce of salt; when done, which will take only a few minutes dish and. serve; put butter over, sprinkle a little salt, and when on the dish, a gill of maitre-d hotel sauce or fennel sauce may be served over the larger one, or it is very delicious plain boiled, and with a piece of ham or bacon. 719. WHITE HARICOT BEANS.—Nothing so cheap or so solid a food as haricot beans; get a pint of fine white beans, called the dwarf—I buy them for fourpence a quart. I put them into half a gallon of cold soft water, with one ounce of butter; they take about three hours to cook, and should simmer very slowly, drain them and put into a stewpan, with a little salt, pepper, chopped parsley, two ounces of butter, and the juice of a lemon, place on the fire for a few minutes, stir well, and serve. The water in which it is boiled will not make a bad soup by frying four onions in butter in a stewpan, adding a little flour, then the water poured over, and a slice of toasted bread, cut in pieces, and served in a tureen. Should the water in boiling reduce too fast, add a little more. They may be dressed for second course a la Bretonne, as for leg of mutton. The longer sort requires to be soaked a few hours before boilin'*. 720. MUSHROOMS.— These are good every way when fresh; for a dish take about fifty buttons, cut the roots otf, wash and rub the skin off with a cloth, cut them in slices the size of a shilling, tail and all, put them in a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, a small teaspoonful of salt, two pinches of pepper, and the juice of half a lemon, put them on the fire, simmer till tender, and dish them up on a nice crisp toast; should you require any sauce, add when nearly done, half a spoonful of flour, a gill of broth, milk, or cream, or even water, stew a few minutes longer, pour over toast and serve. If very large, they should have been carefully picked, for if the dirt should have got into the under part it is difficult to remove it; cut off the end of the tail and peel the top, put them on a gridiron, season moderately with salt and pepper, turn them, and when done serve them on a very hot dish, and put on each a piece of butter the size of a nut, and a squeeze of a lemon, put in a hot oven for a minute, or before the fire, and serve; a little Harvey’s or Soyer’s sauce is an improvement. They may alsoSECOND COURSE. 329 be put in an oven, by laying them in a saute-pan or tin dish, put a little butter and season over each, and a drop of Harvey’s sauce, and let them remain twenty minutes, and serve with gravy over. 721. LEIN TILS.—Put into a stewpan one quart, add two quarts ot cold water, one ounce of butter, a little salt, one onion sliced, a bouquet of parsley, set on the fire, simmer till tender, which may be in two hours; when done, drain in a sieve, and save the liquor, which can be made into a soup like the haricots (see Receipt Ino. /19); put the lentils in a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, a little salt, sugar, pepper, and a tablespoonful of chopped eschalots, set it on the fire, put in butter and flour, mix well, boil ten minutes gently, and dish in a border of potatoes or in a deep dish. It may also be done thus: by frying till brown one onion sliced in a stewpan, put in the boiled lentils, with two ounces of butter, a little flour, a gill of oraVy and season as above, stir well, boil, and serve hot. Gabanza or Egyptian bean may be cooked in the same way. 122. ENGLISH TRUFFLES.—Put twelve of them to soak lor lour hours in lukewarm water; then with a hard hair-brush remove all the earth from them; then wash again, put them into a stewpan, with a few slices of bacon, two onions, half a head of celery, half a carrot, a clove of garlic, two bay leaves, a sprig of thyme, lour of parsley, a teaspoonful of salt, one of sugar, a half o.l pepP®r’ V™ Slasses of sherry and a pint of broth; let them simmer lor half an hour or more, but till tender; place them in the oven for twenty minutes longer, remove the truffles and place them on a dish; have a little mashed potatoes, and make a border, and_ place the truffles on in pyramid to prevent them moving strain the gravy they were in, skim off the fat, reduce it to about a gill put in a teaspoonful of arrow-root in a cup, with a spoon- ,»u, ’ 7“ ■*’ a"d put ,0 the e™?’ boil » few minutes, pour over, and serve. 5 I peeled some of them, cooked the same way; they eat better but they did not look so well. 7 7 ’ .23 SAUTE OF TIIE SAME. _ After having washed nmm’l1 f?i!t l6m aDd CUt them int0 tllin slices> and put about one pound of them into a stewpan; I then add a quarter of a pound ol butter, a teaspoonful of salt, half one of sugar, a quartet ditto nutmeg, warm over the fire, add a gill of broth, a little flourVEGETABLES. sso mixed with a little butter, stir in, boil, and serve on toast;—or pioceed as above, adding a gill of demi-glaze. They can be served with any entrees when properly done, and in all cases can be used instead of mushrooms. / 24. TO COOK SOURCROUT.—Put a quart of sourcrout, with a fat piece of bacon or pork, into an earthen pan, with suf- ficient water to cover it, stew for four or five hours, and serve with pork or fried sausages; it is better the second day. It may be procured in any good oil-sho}) in the winter. 725. SOURCROUT, BAVARIAN WAY.—Well wash one quart of sourcrout, and put it into an earthen pan, with a quarter of a bottle of Rhenish wine or any other light wine, and stew it for three hours, then add some veal gravy, well seasoned, and stew for three hours longer, and serve with sausages, or when you add the veal stock, put in a duck or a goose, and serve with it. 726. LAVER is a marine plant (the Ulvce Lactuca), which we obtain potted, in London, from the West of England; in Dublin, from Malahide; Edinburgh, from Aberdeen. It is merely washed, boiled, pulped, and potted by the fishermen’s wives. It is considered wholesome, but I see nothing par- ticular in it that can make it so unless it is the small quantity of iodine that it contains. It should be dressed like spinach (No. 716), and sent up very hot in a dish over a spirit-lamp, and is generally served with mutton. The following is a new plan I have introduced for cooking it, which has been liked by those persons who formerly disliked it: Have some mashed potatoes as No. 733, roll it out the thick- ness of a quarter of an inch, cover it with some cold stewed laver nicely seasoned, put another layer of mashed potatoes over, and allow it to get quite cold, when cut it in square pieces, egg, bread-crumb, and proceed as for ramifolles. 727. GREENS, CABBAGES, SAVOYS, should be boiled in plenty of water in which a little soda and salt has been added. Greens should be boiled whole, the cabbages cut in four pieces, the savoys in two, drain well and dish up. 728. GREENS, CABBAGES, AND SAVOYS, Stewed.— When these are boiled as above, drain them, place them on a platter, and chop up fine, put into a stewpan and season with salt, pepper, and sugar; a piece of butter, and a gill of gravy, if handy, if not a little milk; stew gently for half an hour. (For Cabbage and Bacon, see Stewed Partridge.)SECOND COURSE. 331 729. CARROTS, PARSNIPS, AND TURNIPS, should be boiled in, plenty of water, in which some salt has been thrown: they should be boiled in the same size pieces that may be required to be sent to table, not whole, and cut up after- wards, and should be boiled very fast. These to be mashed should be well boiled, and then proceed in the same way as for potatoes, No. 733. POTATOES.—How curious it is, dearest, tliat two of the most simple pro- ductions of Nature— a plant and a root, which were introduced by that vreux chevalier of Queen Elizabeth, Sir Walter Raleigh—should have produced such •wonderful effects as they have upon society; and how singular it is that the one, which might naturally be supposed to be baneful, should be advantageous, and that which was beneficial should be a curse. Such has proved to be the case within these three years ; for whilst the first—tobacco—has produced a large revenue to the country to aid in supporting its administration, the latter —the potato—has tended to pauperize a large portion of the kingdom, and drained it of its wealth. This root still bears its original American name, signifying earth-apple, and is divided into many species. Amongst those most common in use are the regent, ash-leaf kidney; but, in the sister king- dom, Ireland, many other varieties are in use; as the lumper, reds, and blacks. There are as many different ways of cooking them as there are different species, which I will now describe. The nutritive qualities of the potato are small, possessing in 1000 parts only 200 to 260 of nutriment,—viz., 150 to 200 of starch, 15 to 20 sugar, and 30 to 40 gluten. 730. PLAIN BOILED or STEAMED POTATOES.— Well wash the potatoes and peel them, and throw them into cold water (that depends upon the kind; if new or young, or a kidney, they should be cooked, immediately after they are peeled, whilst others require to remain a long time in soak); have ready a steamer with boiling water in it, put the potatoes in the top, and steam for twenty to thirty minutes, and serve. Should you not have a steamer, and are obliged to boil them, do so by putting them into plenty of boiling water, and boil till tender or breaking, then pour them out into a colander, put a cloth over them, and put them in the screen, or before the fire, until you are ready to serve them; they ought always to be sent to table very hot. 731. BAKED POTATOES.—This is a very favourite dish with many persons; they ought to be of a large size, called Regents, and when cooked very floury. Mr. B. tells me he332 VEGETABLES. sometimes lunches at a house in the city where the proprietor grows that sort in particular for the use of his customers, and ne finds them better if he leaves them in the ground where they grow until -wanted, and he has about three days’ consumption taken up at a time. They are merely well washed, and put into a slow oven for about thirty minutes, or longer if large and served with a pat of butter in a plate. . 32. FRIED POTATOES.—The long kidney potato is the best tor this purpose; they should be washed and peeled, and cut into very thin slices, and thrown into boiling fat until a nice light brown colour; dish up very hot, throwing a little salt over. The remains of cold ones may be cut into slices and fried in the same way, or they may be dipped into batter, and fried like fritters. 733. MASHED POTATOES.—Steam and peel about ten fine potatoes for about thirty-five minutes, put them into a stew- pan or bowl, with two ounces of butter, one teaspoonful of salt, a smaller spoonful of pepper, and half a pint of milk, and beat them very well up with a large fork, then add by degrees a gill of milk, and continue beating, and dish them lightly on a dish. Should you require to keep them warm, do so in a stewpan. I do not approve of putting them into moulds and then in the oven, as it makes them heavy. 734. POTATOES A LA MAiTRE-D’HOTEL. — With young potatoes they are excellent. Boil ten middle-sized ones cut in slices of a quarter of an inch thick, put in the stewpan half a pint of milk or the same of broth, a little salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a tablespoonful of fresh chopped parsley, then simmer on fire; when boiling, add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, the juice of a lemon, stir well for a few minutes; when each piece is well covered with the sauce, dish up, and high in the centre, as they must appear light. 735. LYONNAISE.—The remains of cold potatoes may be used thus:—Put three ounces of butter in an omelette pan, in which you fry rather white three sliced onions; put on the potatoes, cut in thin slices about the size of half a crown, and saute them now and then until they have a nice yellow colour; add a spoonful of chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and the juice of a lemon, saute well that it should mix well together, dish andSECOND COURSE 3C\ serve very hot; they are excellent to ’serve with chop, steak, or any joint. 736. IRISH WAY OF BOILING.—In Ireland, where this root has been for so long a period the chief nourishment of the people, and where it takes the place of bread and other more substantial food, it is cooked so that it may have, as they call it, a bone in it; that is, that the middle of it should not be quite cooked. They are done thus:—Put a gallon of water with two ounces of salt, in a large iron pot, boil for about ten minutes, or until the skin is loose, pour the water out of the pot, put a dry cloth on the top of the potatoes, and place it on the side of the fire without water for about twenty minutes, and serve. In Ireland turf is the principal article of fuel, which is burnt on the flat hearth; a little of it is generally scraped up round the pot, so as to keep a gradual heat; by this plan the potato is both boiled and baked. Even in those families where such a common art of civilized life as cooking ought to have made some pro- gress, the only improvement they have upon this plan is, that they leave the potatoes in the dry pot longer, by which they lose the bone. They are always served up with the skins on, and a small plate is placed by the side of each guest. 737. TOIED MASHED POTATOES IN VARIOUS SHAPES. Roast twelve fine potatoes; when done, take out the interior, which form into a ball; when cold, put them into a mortar, with a piece of butter half the size of the ball; pound them well together, season with a little salt, pepper, chopped eschalots, chopped parsley, and grated nutmeg, mix them with the yolks of six, and two whole eggs; then form them into croquettes about the size and shape of a small egg, and bread- crumb them twice over, and fry them to a light brown colour in a stewpan of hot lard, and serve as garniture where required. 738. TO BLANCH MACARONI—Have half a gallon of water in a stewpan, in which put two ounces of butter and an ounce of salt; when boiling, throw in a pound of macaroni, which boil until tender, being careful that it is not too much done; the time of boiling depends principally upon the quality, the Cenoa macaroni taking the longest time, and the Neapolitan .he shortest, which last, if too much done, will fall in purde. 739. MACARONI, ITALIAN WAY.—Boil half a pound Ol macaroni as above; when done, lay it on a sieve to dry forVEGETABLES. ,334 one minute, put it in a pan, with four spoonfuls of white sauce, add half a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, a little cayenne; place the macaroni over the fire; when boiling, add two ounces each of grated Parmesan and Gruyere cheese, toss round and round until well mixed, then serve with a gill of very strong gravy around it. 740. MACARONI ATJ GRATIN.—Proceed the same as above; but after you have put the macaroni on the dish, omit the gravy, and cover it slightly with bread-crumbs, and about the same quantity of Parmesan cheese grated, a little butter, and then put in a hot oven for a quarter of an hour; if not hot enough, pass the salamander over it, and serve very hot. 741. MACARONI, NEAPOLITAN WAY.—Boil half a pound of the best quality of macaroni for half an hour, as at No. 738; when tender, lay one quarter of it on the dish you intend to serve; have ready two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, which you divide into four parts to lay over each layer of macaroni, then put over it two tablespoonfuls of strong gravy, made of half glaze and consomme, put the dish in the oven for ten minutes, and serve very hot. 742. THE REAL ITALIAN METHOD {called, a VEstou- fade).—Boil and proceed as before, but make the gravy as follows, and use it instead of the preceding. Take two pounds of rump of beef larded through, put in a small stewpan, with one quarter of a pound of butter, fry gently for one hour, turning almost continually; when forming a glaze, add half a pint of broth, let simmer another hour, take the fat off, and use that gravy instead of that above described; a little tomato may be introduced if handy; serve the beef at the same time in a sepa- rate dish. 743. TO BOIL RICE.—Wash well in two separate waters a pound of the best Carolina rice, then have two quarts of water boiling in a stewpan, into which throw your rice, boil it until three parts done, then drain it on a sieve; butter the interior of a stewpan, in which put your rice, place the lid on tight, and put it in a warm oven upon a trivet, until the rice is perfectly tender, or by the side of the fire; serve it separate with curry, or any other dish where required. Prepared thus, every grain will be separate and quite white.SECOND COURSE. 335 744. CHOPPING OF HERBS, &c.—This may appear a very simple thing to do well, yet it is often done badly, by which the flavour is lost. They should be well washed and dried, and then take the leaves in the left hand, pressing upon the leaves with your fingers, and chop as fine as possible, not by placing the point of the knife on the board, and raising it and letting it fall, but with a good sharp cut, so that they are cut, not pressed. Onions should be peeled, and cut in halves length- wise, and then with a thin knife cut each half in slices, leaving them joined at the root; again cut into slices contrariwise, and then from top to bottom; thus having cut into very small squares, chop it with both hands with the knife. You may also wash them; when half-chopped, press them in a cloth, and chop them still finer. OF DIFFERENT SORTS OF PASTRY. The variety of pastes is to the pastry what first stocks are to soups and sauces, and must be very properly first described, particularly as it is here I must refer my readers for paste which is used for the hors-d’oeuvre and entrees - to succeed you must be particular in your proportions, and veiy careful in the mixing; for, although there is nothing more simple if pains be taken, so will the least neglect produce a failure, nor is it only with the makino- 0f the paste that pains must be taken, but likewise with the baking, for a°s paste badly made would not improve in baking, neither wifi paste, however well made, be good if badly baked; should the oven be too hot, the paste will become set, and burn before it is done; and, again, if too cold, it will give the paste a dull heavy appearance, but an oven properly heated (which can be readily known by a little attention on the part of those in the habit of using it) will give it- a clear brilliant appearance For every description of pastry made from puff paste, try if the oven is hot iy placing your hand about half way in, and hold it there about a quarter or a minute, if you can hold it there that time without inconvenience it would wo , 1 A ! en0Ugl1; buttlf you cannot Mse of the heat, the safest method d be, try a piece of the paste previous to baking the whole ; I apply these peTsot oflo t^ ‘l aH 7 friendS) but l,articuklA t0 uninstructed, as a person of continual practice cannot fail to be aware of the truth of them.336 PASTRY. /4o. PUFF PASTP.—Put one pound of flour upon your pastry slab, make a hole in the centre, in which put the yolk of one egg and the juice of a lemon, with a pinch of salt, mix it with cold water (iced in summer, if convenient), into a softish flexible paste with the right hand, dry it off a little with flour until you have well cleared the paste from the slab, but do not work it more than you can possibly help; let remain two minutes upon the slab, then have a pound of fresh butter, from which you have squeezed all the buttermilk in a cloth, bringing it to the same consistency as the paste, upon which place it; press it out with the hand, then fold over the edges of the paste so as to hide the butter, and roll it with the rolling-pin to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, thus making it about two feet in length, fold over one third, over which again pass the rolling-pin; then fold over the other third, thus forming a square, place it with the ends top and bottom before you, shaking a little flour both under and over, and repeat the rolls and turns twice again as before; flour a baking-sheet, upon which lay it, upon ice or in some cool place (but in summer it would be almost impossible to make this paste well without ice) for half an hour; then roll twice more, turning it as before, place again upon the ice a quarter of an hour, give it two more rolls, making seven in all, and it is ready for use when required, rolling it whatever thick- ness (according to what you intend making) directed in the following receipts. When I state that upwards of a hundred different kinds of cakes may be made from this paste, I am sure it will be quite sufficient to urge upon every cook the necessity of paying every attention to its fabrication, as it will repay for the study and trouble. 746. PUFF PASTE WITH BEEF SUET.—Where you cannot obtain good butter for making paste, the following is an excellent substitute; skin and chop one pound of kidney beef suet very fine, put it into a mortar and pound it well, moistening with a little oil, until becoming as it were one piece, and about the consistency of butter, proceed exactly as in the last, using it instead of butter. 747. HALF PUFF PASTE.—Put one pound of flour upon your pastry slab, with two ounces of butter, rub well together with the hands, make a hole in the centre, in which put a pinch af salt and the yolk of an egg with the juice of a lemon; mix337 SECOND COURSE. with water as before, then roll it out thin and lay half a pound of butter (prepared as for puff paste) rolled into thin sheets over, fold it in three, roll and fold again twice over, lay it in a cold place a quarter of an hour, give another roll, and it is ready for use when required; this paste is mostly used for fruit tarts, for which it is well adapted. /48. SHORT PASTE, OR PaTE A FONCER.—Put a pound of best flour upon your pastry slab, make a hole in the centre, in which put an ounce of salt, half a pound of fresh butter, and sufficient water to form a stiff paste, mix well together, and it is ready for use where directed. 749. SHORT PASTE FOR FRUIT TARTS.—Put a pound of flour upon your pastry slab with six ounces of butter and rub them well together; then make a hole in the centre, in which put two ounces of powdered sugar, two whole eggs, and a °uf Water’1 “ix the eSSs’ suSar> and water well, then di own in the flour and mix together, and work it lightly. PASTE PwTEi P’°FFICE> 0R CONFECTIONER’S , , S, ^ e!S1} half a pound of flour, which put upon your s ab, make a hole in the centre, in which put six ounces of sifted foUr eggS into a stiffish paste, having sugar with ,he eggs; work “ wel1- mn^is paste was v®r^ ,much used when pieces montees were so tTff sQ IS* bUt m the S6Veral receipts in which it is referred nlifi i d Up°n ?Ulte a new PrinciPle> and very much sim- stiff bufstilfnlfnhT11 the .above1Pr°P0rtions’ Ouoht to be very should it be onPlt ffer°US t0 be W°rked without breaking; should it be too stiff add more eggs,—or too soft, more flour- the half or quarter of the above quantity may of course be made. 751. VOLS-AU-VENT, of all things in pastry require the most care and precision; they that can make a good’vol-au-vent TnlnG] ip6i aS g°°d PastlTcooks; altkoughgmany variations m working puff paste all others are of a secondary Lportance leave > °f P.U.ff Paste> giving it seven rolls and a half leave it an inch in thickness, make a mark upon the ton either ound or oval, and according to the size of your dish - then with a sharp p° ted knife> cut it out from ^ kmfe mth the poiQt slanting outwards; tur/it ov^Zl zPASTRY. 338 edges with the hack of your knife, and place it upon a baking- sheet, which you have sprinkled with water; egg over the top, then dip the point of the knife into hot water, and cut a ring upon the top a quarter of an inch deep, and half an inch from the edge of the vol-au-vent, set in a rather hot oven; if getting too much colour, cover over with a sheet of paper, do not take it out before done, or it would fall, but when quite set, cut off the lid and empty it with a knife; be careful to make no hole in the side or bottom; if for first course it is ready, but if for second, sift sugar all over, which glaze with the salamander. Regulate the thickness of the paste from which you cut the vol-au-vent, according to the size you require it, the smaller ones of course requiring thinner paste. A vol-au-vent for entrees will take about half an hour to bake, and as the common iron ovens often throw out more heat upon one side than the other, it will require turning two or three times to cause it to rise equal; it ought to be when baked of a light gold colour. 752. VOL-AU-VENT OF PEACHES.—Put half a pound of sugar in a sugar-pan, with the juice of a lemon and about half a pint of water, place it upon the fire and boil till becoming a thickish syrup; then have eight peaches not quite ripe, which cut in halves, break their stones and blanch the kernels, throw six halves with the kernels into the syrup, boil three minutes, take them out with a skimmer, lay them upon a dish and take off their skins, stew the rest in syrup in like manner, four at a time; when all done pour what liquor runs from them again into the syrup, which reduce to a good thickness, pass it through a tammy into a basin, when cold pour a little over the peaches, and leave until ready to serve; dress the peaches in your vol- au-vent with the syrup over. This is a receipt I learnt in France, where I got peaches for a sou each. 753. VOL-AU-VENT WITH FRUIT.—These are gene- rally used for the second course, and do not require to be so high as the other, especially as the fruit ought to be dressed in the form of a pyramid; if they are cut about three quarters of an inch in thickness it will be enough; when nearly done, silt some powdered sugar over them, and put it back in the oven to glaze well; if not hot enough use the salamander; remove the interior, taking care not to make a hole in the bottom or sides, and fill with any kind of fruit you like, but never mix two kinds together, except currant aud raspberry.339 SECOND COURSE. 754. SWEET VOL-AU-VENT WITH RHUBARB.— In the spring of the year, this makes a very inviting and whole- some dish, and its qualities purify the blood, whiehthe winter’s food has rendered gross; cut about twelve sticks of rhubarb mto lengths of one inch, put it in a stewpan holding about two quarts, put over it a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a table- spoonful of water, set it on a sharp fire, stirring it; do not let it get brown, or it would spoil and lose its flavour; it will take but a few minutes to do; when tender, put it in a basin to cool; servlcold SerVing’ fil1 the vol-au-™nt with it, and ,o5. DITTO, WITH GREEN GOOSEBERRIES—A quart or green gooseberries, a quarter of a pound of powdered -ugar, the juice of half a lemon, and a tablespoonful of water- pu on the fire and move it about for ten minutes, or tdl tender’ serveTn nS & ¥ ST' mfmalade’ Put in a basin till cold- seive in Pjiamid in the vol-au-vent; a little thick syrup if handy, poured over, improves the appearance. 7 1 756. DITTO WITH ORANftE w„n i • removing all the pith, divide each into six o/elgh^pieces11'put them in a pan, with a quarter of a pound of sugLfand the itfice of one orange, set it on a slow fire, with the^o^ on stir it now and then—ten minutes will be sufficient time for it- take 757. ANOTHER METHOD Mol™ w ■ , half a pound of sutrar nnf-in ’ • Cea tklck syrup with just give them a boiling remove^m? ^ ■“ d°Ze,n at a time> other pieces- when all In! • a s!eve’ then add the sieve, and back again to the’pan boil^n*3’ WhlCh ^ throuSh a up, and serve the syrup over. ’ 1 1 & pr°per thlckness> dish 758. DITTO, A STILL PLAINER MFTtTftn rr the pieces of orange readv ami n *■ • IIOD. Have pound of sugar, a wineglass of* SteWPan a quarter of a minutes, end serve with the liquor “ ',el1 “ fW chefries^nd p°’ inz pin triS®®1®8-—Stone one pound of sugar, stew for five minutes takelhem^ °f “ of Poured V»p till thick, and pour over at z 2PASTRY. 340 760. DITTO, WITH STRAWBERRIES.—Pick two pot- tles of very fresh strawberries, not too ripe, put them in with two ounces of powdered sugar, a teaspoonful of powdered cin- namon, toss them gently in a basin, and serve immediately in your vol-au-vent. 761. DITTO, WITH APPLES.—This fruit being pro- curable all the year renders it one of very great convenience; Ribstone pippins are the best: cut in four, peel them, put a pint of syrup; when boiling, put in your apples, with the peel of half a lemon, and the juice of a whole one, let simmer till tender, put it in a basin, boil the syrup to a white jelly, let it stand till cold, put the apple in the vol-au-vent, and pour the syrup (cold) or jelly over; serve a few ornaments made with very green angelica. 762. ANOTHER METHOD.—Cut any kind of apple, rather thin, put over a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, the rind of a lemon chopped, the juice of the same, one ounce of butter, and a glass of sherry; put on the fire; toss till tender, but keep it very white; put it in a basin; when cold, dish in your vol-au-vent; whip a gill of good cream, add ten drops of orange- flower water in it, cover over carefully and serve. Apple saute with butter, in this way, may be served hot in the vol-au-vent. Any kind of plums or apricots, when plentiful, may be done the same as cherries, and served the same way. 763. LITTLE FRUIT RISSOLETTES.—I also make with the trimmings of puff paste the following little cakes: if you have about a quarter of a pound of puff paste left, roll it out very thin, about the thickness of half a crown, put half a spoonful of any marmalade on it, about one inch distance from each other, wet lightly round them with a paste-brush, and place a piece of paste over all, take a cutter of the size of a crown piece, and press round the part where the marmalade or jam is with the thick part of the cutter, to make the paste stick, then cut them out with one a size larger, lay them on a baking-tin, egg over, then cut a little ring in paste, the size of a shilling, put it on them, egg over again, place in a nice hot oven for twenty minutes, then sugar over with finely sifted sugar, so as to make it quite white all over, then put back into the oven to glaze; should the oven not be sufficiently hot, take a salamander,SECOND COURSE. 341 or, for the want of one, a red-hot shovel, full of live coals, may- be used; serve in the form of a pyramid. A little currant jelly in the ring looks well. 764. FLANC OF FRUIT.—This requires a mould the same as No. 652; it must be well wiped with a cloth, butter it, then take the remains of puff paste, and roll it well so as to deaden it, then roll it out a size larger than your mould, and about a quarter of an inch thick, place your mould on a baking- tin, put the paste carefully in the mould and shape it well, to obtain all the form of the mould, without making a hole in it; put a piece of paper at the bottom, fill with flour to the top, and bake a nice colour; it will take about half an hour; then take out the flour and paper, open the mould, and fill it. 765. FLANCS, with any kind of fruit, like a vol-au-vent, are more easily made, and are equally as good a side dish. This may be made of half-puff or short paste, and fill with raw cherries and some pounded sugar over; bake together. Greengages, apricots, or any kind of plums, will require a hotter oven than for flour only in it, the fruit giving moisture to the paste; if baked in a slow oven will be heavy, and consequently indigestible. 166. ANOTHER.—If you have no mould, make a quarter of a pound of paste (No. 749), roll it round or oval to your fancy, a quarter of an inch thick, wet the edge all round about half an inch, raise that part, and pinch it with your thumbs and fingers, making a border all round, put on a baking-sheet, fill it with one row of fruit—if large, two rows; remove the stones, and sift sugar over according to the acidity of the fruit; it will take less time, too, than if in a mould: you see what variation can be made with very little trouble or expense. fn -^ANC OF APPLES.—I just perceive that I had torgot to give you a few receipts in this way of cake, which I make very pretty when we have a party. Take eight Ribstone pippins, cut in four, peel a nice shape, rub with lemon, put half Ln°und °?1fUg"“ a ,pan’ cover with cold water, juice of lemon; 1 till rather thick, then add half the apples, simmer till tender, put them on a plate, do the remainder the same way, reduce the syrup a little, put the apples in a basin, pour syrup over "“hen So 764V" nn,mi “ “ie crust’ wUch 3™ tave prepared as JNo 764, pour over the syrup, which should be a jelly.1 I oftenPASTRY S42 cut in fine strips the rind of a lemon or orange, boil with the apples, and ornament also with pieces of young angelica pre- served, cut in diamond, placing a piece between each apple. Flancs of pears may be made precisely the same way, but with good ripe eating pears, cut in two lengthwise, leaving the stalk cut in half. 768. A PLAINER WAY.—Peel and cut eight apples in thin slices in a pan, with two ounces of pounded sugar, the .rind and juice of a lemon, the rind well-chopped, put on fire, stir till forming a thick marmalade, and tender, melt a little currant jelly, pour over and serve. 769. SMALL FRUIT TARTS.—The next in order to sweet vol-au-vents, and which are easier to make, are tartlets, their appearance being inviting, and their expense limited, and very easy to serve. They may be made from the trimmings of any puff' paste which remains, and should be enveloped in paper, and kept in a cold place, or in the flour-tub. Make them as follows:—Have ready twelve or more small tartlet pans, which butter, line each with a bit of puff" paste cut with a cutter the size of a crown-piece, force up the edges with your thumb and finger, put a small ball (made of flour and water) in each, bake them nicely in a very hot oven; when done, take out the ball (which may be kept for other occasions) from the tartlets, and shake powdered sugar over the bottom of each, and glaze with a salamander, turn them over, and shake sugar in the interior, which also salamander; fill with any kind of preserve, marmalade, or fruit, for sweet vol-au-vents. They may be made with cream as follows:—Make your tartlets as before, placing cream instead of the ball of flour, made thus: put half a pint of milk in a stew- pan, when boiling, add half a stick of vanilla, reduce the milk to half in another stewpan, have the yolks of two eggs and a quarter of an ounce of powdered sugar, and one ounce of sifted flour, with a grain of salt, pour in the milk, taking out the vanilla, place over a slow fire, keep stirring till it thickens; when cold, fill the tartlets, and bake nicely in a moderate oven; when cold, add a little jam, have ready a meringue of four eggs (see No. 772), lay a -teaspoonful of each upon them, spreading it quite flat with a knife, ornament the top with some of the mixture, put into a paper cornet, sift sugar over, place in a slow oven till a light brown colour, and the meringue quite crisp; it the ovenSECOND COURSE. 343 is too hot, cover with a sheet of paper, dress, and serve in pyramid upon your dish. They ought to be of a light colour. 770. RISSOLE FOURREE.—This is made as the rissole for entrees; it is a very simple receipt, and I vary it continually without the slightest difficulty; instead of making it with orange, I substitute apricot marmalade, apple, raspberry, strawberry, or greengage jam; but no jelly, as currant or apple, as it would run through the paste, and look bad. To vary the appearance at table, instead of egging, dust them lightly over with some coarse powdered sifted sugar, then bake them white instead of brown; if the oven is too hot, cover with a sheet of paper, put a little maimalade or jam in a ring which you have selected, and serve. By blanching and chopping a few pistachios, and mixing with the sugar, makes them look very inviting, or even chopped sweet almonds changes the flavour; they may also be filled with any preparation of cream, rice, or vermicelli, prepared as for croquets. I also change them by sauteeing, as they are much quicker done, and make a very nice dish._ To remove the roast of the second course, I put six at a time in the saute-pan (see page 72), which must be hot, and saute a few minutes until a nice pale yellow colour, serve with sifted sugar over, or egg and bread-crumb; serve very hot; if any left cold, warm in the oven. 771. FLANC MERINGUE OF APPLE.-Sometimes I make a meringue of three eggs, as No. 772; when it is hard, I cover the apples with it half an inch thick, keeping the pyramid; then I put the remainder in a paper cornet; cut the point so that by pressing it the mixture may go out by degrees, with which I make various designs, according to fancy; sugar over, and put for half an hour to bake in a very slow oven; the colour ought to be pale yellow; they are equally good hot or cold. If you would keep it quite white, bake it in a still slower oven, and give it a quarter of an hour longer. When I do it so, I merely make dots all over about a quarter of an inch distant from each other, of the size of small nuts, sugar over, and put a Corinth raisin m each knob which gives it a good appearance, and bake as directed; when the eggs are just set, you may cover it with a sneet of paper, to prevent it taking too much colour. 772. MERINGUES IN SPOONS.-Pound and sift one stTl TP SUgai’- ^i8k the Whites of tvvelve eggs very stiff, throw the sugar lightly over, and with a wooden spoon stffiPASTRY. 344 gently, perfectly mixing the sugar, then with a table or dessert spoon lay them out upon white paper in the shape of eggs, sift /owdered sugar thickly over, let them remain ten minutes, then shake off the superfluous sugar, place upon boards which you have wetted, and put them in a slow oven, just hot enough to cause them to be light and slightly tinged; when the outside becomes quite crisp, take off the papers, by turning them topsy- turvy and lifting the papers from them; dip your spoon into hot water, and with it clear out the best part of the interior, dust them with powdered sugar, lay them upon a baking-sheet, and put into the screen to dry; they may be made several days be- fore they are required, if put away in a dry place; to serve, fill them with whipped cream, flavoured either with vanilla or orange-flower (but do not make it too sweet), stick two toge- ther, dress in pyramid upon a napkin, and serve. Should they happen to stick to the papers, moisten the papers with a paste- brush and water underneath; they will come away easier. 773. GATEAU FOURREE.—This style of cake is exceed- ingly simple, and admits of great variation. You must make half a pound of puff paste (No. 745), take one third of it and roll it out several times so as to deaden it, then mould it round with your hands to the shape of a ball, roll it out flat to the thickness of half a crown, lay it on a baking-sheet, put on it marmalade a quarter of an inch thick, reserving about one inch all round of paste to fix the cover on, then roll out the remainder of the paste to the same shape, it will of course be thicker; wet the edges of the bottom, and lay the cover on it, press it so that it sticks, cut neatly round the edges, and make a mark with the back of a knife about a quarter of an inch deep and half an inch apart all round, egg over, and lightly mark any fanciful design with the point of a knife on the cover, bake in a very hot oven for twenty minutes; when nearly done, sprinkle some sugar over, and sala- mandex-, and serve cold. It may be made with frangipane and cream and apple marmalade, and then can be served hot. 774. DARTOISE FOURREE.—The former one must be made in proportion to the dish you intend to serve on, but the following is simple, and looks as well: -Prepare the paste as before, but roll the bottom piece square, put it on a baking- sheet, cover with jam, marmalade, or frangipane, leaving one inch at the edge, roll the cover the same size, wet the edges, place itSECOND COURSE. 345 over, trim the edges, mark it down every three inches, and then crosswise every inch; bake in hot oven, sugar over, and sala- mander. When nearly cold, cut it where you have marked it; thus, a piece twelve inches square will give you forty-eight pieces; dish as a crown or pyramid, twelve pieces make a nice dish for a party. They may be made of any puff paste which is left, but will not be so light as if made on purpose; can be cut to any fanciful shape you please. 775. NOUGAT OF APRICOT.—Proceed as above, but lay apricot marmalade all over a quarter of an inch thick, blanched almonds, cut into fillets, mixed with two ounces of sugar, and the white of an egg added to it, bake in a moderate oven, and cut in true lozenge shapes (I do not mean those things called lozenges, but a diamond shape), dish up on a napkin in crown or pyramid; they ought to be of a nice transparent colour. Orange, apple, or quince marmalade may be used instead of apricot. Red fruit preserve does not cook well. / (6.^ CRUSTS OF FRUIT.—Put a quarter of a pound of butter in a saute or frying-pan, sprinkle a little sugar over, cut four or five slices of bread a quarter of an inch thick, three inches long, and one and a half wide, lay in your pan; take one dozen of greengages, open them in two, they must not be too ripe, lay the skin part on your bread, put a pinch of sugar in each, put it in a hot oven for twenty minutes; have ready a salamander or a hot shovel, and hold it over it for a few minutes dish and serve hot or cold; the oven ought to be hot enough to give a nice yellow colour to the bottom, which will eat crisp. 777. CRUSTS WITH MADEIRA.—Cut a French penny roll lengthwise m four or five slices, put the yolks of two with four spoonfuls of milk, mix it in a plate, dip quickly each piece in it, and saute in a quarter of a pound of butter which you have previously melted in a pan, leave them on the fire until they have obtained a nice gold colour on both sides, put a spoonfui of apricot marmalade in a stewpan, with two glasses ot Madeira, and place on the fire; when on the point of boilin^ pour over the bread, which you have previously put in a plate’ and serve very hot. Any preserve may be used, also any white wine; and should you have no French rolls, any fancy roll will do, or stale brioche (No. 11) is excellent for them.346 PASTRY. 7<8. CHEESECAKES. Under this head, in English Cookery Books, are a variety of Receipts, but, in fact, there is only one ; the others may all be denominated tartlets cf one kind or the other, and require but little skill on the part of the cook to vary in an innumerable number of ways. The following way to make them is in use in the farm houses in the midland ■counties; some which I have received from Stilton, and also from Tuxford, in Nottinghamshire, are excellent. Take four quarts of milk and turn it with some fresh rennet; when dry crumble it and sift it through a coarse sieve into a bowl, beat it well up with a quarter of a pound of butter until it is quite smooth (it may require a little more butter, depending on the quality of the milk); mix in another bowl the yolks of four eggs and a quarter of a pound of very fine sifted biscuit- powder, the rind of four lemons, the j uice of two, a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, (some add a little grated nutmeg or cinnamon,) beat these all well up together until forming a stiff cream, then put it by degrees into the bowl with curd, and mix them well together; line some tartlet pans, previously buttered, with some paste (No. 746), and place some of the above mixture in, and bake quick. In some places milk is used instead of eggs. Should you not have rennet, procure some good milk and turn it with the juice of a lemon or a teaspoonful of soda or culinary alkali to a quart of milk; drain the curd, and proceed as before. 779. RICHMOND MAIDS OF HONOUR.—These delicious little cakes, which every inhabitant of London who pays a visit to the most picturesque part of its environs knows so well, derive their name from a period when cookery was not thought to be a degrading occupation for those honoured -with that title. It is stated that they originated with the maids of honour of Queen Elizabeth, who had a palace at Richmond. I have a little work now before me, called “The Queen’s Delight,” in which are several receipts invented by the wives of the first nobles of the land, which I think is an excellent example for those housewives who honour this book by their perusal, to imitate. They are made as follows:— Sift half a pound of dry curd, mix it well with six ounces of good butter, break the yolks of four eggs into another basin, and a glass of brandy; add to it six ounces of powdered lump-sugar, and beat well together one very floury baked potato cold, one ounce of sweet almonds, one ounce of bitter ditto pounded, the grated rind of three lemons, the juice of one, and half a nutmeg grated, mix these well together and add to the curds and butter; .stir well up, and proceed as before, filling the tartlet pans.347 SECOND COURSE. '80. LEMON CHEESECAKES.—Place in a stewpan one pound of white sugar, four whole eggs and the yolks of two, three finger biscuits grated, the juice of three lemons, and the rinds well rubbed with sugar; then add half a pound of good butter, place the stewpan over a slow fire, stir until the mixture looks like honey, put it by in a jar for use. It will keep for years. Any flavour, such as vanilla or cinnamon, may be added, if liked, when required for use. Having made the paste and lined the tins, mix one tablespoonful of the mixture with a tea- cupful of good milk, and place a little in each tartlet. 781. SWEET OMELETS.—Break six eggs in a basin, into which put a teaspoonful of sugar, three of cream, or a few small pieces of butter; put two ounces of butter in an omelet-pan- when quite hot, pour in the eggs and proceed as for Omelets of Herbs, turn over on your dish, sift some powdered sugar over, salamander and serve. 782. OMELETS OF PRESERVED FRUITS, viz., Cur- rant jelly. Raspberry and Strawberry Jam, Apricots, Peaches, Cherries, &c., are made the same as the last, but, just before turning on your dish, put two spoonfuls of preserve in the centre, sugar over, salamander and serve. 783 MACEDOINE OF OMELETS.-Instead of making one with eight eggs, make four, with two eggs each, of different before^ pi’eSerVeS; Serve on the same dish, sugar over, &c., as 784 OMELET WITH RUM.-The same as sweet omelet round, Id ZTon° fhT" ^ P°U1' tW° gl&SSeS of ™ 785. BEIGNET SOUFFLE.-Put in a stewpan a pint of i k or water, a teaspoonful of sugar, two ounces of butter a few drops of essence of vanilla, or any flavour you please give it a boil, throw in some flour, keep stirring all the time unttl it itself? qUlttlthlCk andrD01<?nger tastes of the dour, and detaches itself from the pan. It will take about half an hour as the better it is done the lighter it is ; withdraw it from the fire stir n six eggs, one at a time, sift about two ounces of su-ai imt the paste is of the stiffness of puff paste; have read^a ’ n 0 ho fat, into which you drop by a spoon small pieces of paste it will increase their size; and when a nice colour, tZtlZ0ut drain, and dish on a napkin, with sifted sugar over. ’PASTRY. 348 786. APPLE FRITTERS.—Mix one pound of flour with half a pint of milk or water, then half a pound of butter melted in a stewpan, mix well together with a wooden spoon very smooth, thin it a little with table-beer or water, whisk the whites of three eggs very stiff, stir in gently; have six apples, peeled, cut in slices about a quarter of an inch thick, the cores taken out with a cutter, dip each piece in the butter, and fry in hot lard about six minutes; to fry well the fat should not be too hot at first, but get hotter as it proceeds; they should be crisp, and of a nice golden colour; serve on a napkin, and sift sugar over. 787. DITTO, PEACHES.—Skim and cut in halves six ripe but fine peaches, take out the stones, have a batter prepared as the last, dip them in, fry and serve the same. 788. DITTO, APRICOTS.—Cut in halves, and proceed as above, and sugar over until quite brown. 789. DITTO, ORANGES.—Peel four oranges, divide them in quarters by the thin skin, without cutting the flesh, and pro- ceed as before. Any other fruit may be done in the same way, and can, if required, be soaked in wine or brandy previously, but they do not fry so well. 790. ENTREMET IMPROMPTU.—Cut some slices of bread off a half-quartern stale loaf, three quarters of an inch thick, and cut it into lozenges two inches long, put into a deep dish, and place in a stewpan half a pint of milk, which boil with one ounce of sugar and the rind of a small orange; when boiling, pour over the bread, which allow to soak for one minute, take each piece, then drain off the milk, have one egg well beaten, dip each piece of bread into it, and then add some fine bread-crumbs, and fry it in light fat until a golden colour, add pounded sugar over each, and salamander over. Any kind of preserve, as apricot, marmalade, or currant jelly, strawberry jam, &c., mixed with a little brandy or wine, makes an excellent sauce to be served with this impromptu dish. 791. PANCAKE WITH MARMALADE.—Put a quarter of a pound of sifted flour into a basin, with four eggs, mix them together very smoothly, then add half a pint of milk or cream.349 SECOND COURSE. and a little grated nutmeg, put a piece of butter in your pan (it requires but a very little), and when quite hot put in two tablespoonfuls of the mixture, let spread all over the pan, place it upon the fire, and when coloured upon one side toss it over, then turn it upon your cloth; proceed thus till they are all done, then spread apricot or other marmalade all over, and roll them up neatly, lay them upon a baking-sheet, sift sugar over, glaze nicely with the salamander, and serve upon a napkin; the above may be served without the marmalade, being then the common pancake. 792. GAUFFRES A LA FLAMANDE.—Put half a pound of flour in a basin, with which mix six eggs by degrees, work it into a smooth paste, then dissolve a piece of dried German yeast half the size of a walnut, in a wineglassful of warm water; when dissolved pour it into the basin with a gill of warm milk, and a little salt, mix all well together, stir in six ounces of butter, pre- viously melted, also two spoonfuls of orange-flower-water, set in a warm place for nearly two hours, when the mixture would have risen about two or three inches turn it round five or six times with a wooden spoon to bring it down; let remain half an houi longer and it is ready for use. Put the gauffre irons upon a slow fire, to get hot by decrees wipe them well with a cloth, and rub lightly over the interior with fat bacon, then put in two or three spoonfuls of the paste close the irons, put them over the fire (turning occasionally) £ a few minutes; open the irons half way to see if coloured suffi- ciently (they should be of a light gold colour) and very crisp if done turn it out, proceeding in like manner with the rYnSX when finished have halfa pound of lump sugar, and a qua ter of ST? i “T"' .weil pou,MW’ through a flue sieve, dip the gauffres into it on both sides, and serve very hot dressed in pyramid upon a napkin. 7 few'uAPPLE CHARLOTTE WITH BUTTER -For the ~™f StPASTRY. 350 your mould; cut also eight small pieces in the shape of diamonds, dip them in butter, and with them form a star in the centre of the circle, cover the whole with a round piece of bread the size ol the bottom of the mould, and the thickness of a penny-piece, cut about thirty other pieces an inch wide and four inches in length, dip one after the other in clarified butter, which stand upright, one half way over the other, all round the interior of the mould; then have ready prepared two dozen or more russet apples, which peel and cut in slices, put them into a round stew or preserving-pan, with three ounces of butter and half a pound of broken lump sugar, with a little lemon-peel cut in strips, and a glass of sherry, place them over a sharp fire, tossing over occasionally, but keeping them together in a cake; when quite tender fill your mould (having previously well egged and bread-crumbed the interior), place another round piece of bread (also egged and bread-crumbed) over the apples, and stand the mould in a hot oven until the bread becomes well browned, take out and turn it over upon your dish, have a few spoonfuls of red currant jelly in a stewpan, with a glass of sherry, melt it over the fire, and when quite hot pour round the charlotte; sugar and salamander the top if not quite crisp, and serve. Tou may also, for a change, introduce a little sweetmeat of any kind in the middle of your charlotte, and use plain pieces of bread a quarter of an inch thick, instead of so many pieces for the sides. 794. APPLE CHARLOTTE (plainer way).—Cut a few slices off a stale loaf, of the thickness of a quarter of an inch, butter the inside of a mould about two lines thick, cut a piece of the bread the size of the bottom, which place in, line the mould round with the slices of bread, egg the bread with the brush, and bread-crumb over, add the apple prepared as above, any kind will do in the interior of the mould until full; egg it over, bread-crumb, and place in a hot oven for half an hour or more, according to size, and until of a nice yellow colour. Currant jelly and wine sauce is excellent served with it. 795. APPLES WITH RICE.—Peel and quarter twelve good-sized apples, put them into a preserving pan, with three quarters of a pound of sugar, the thin rind of a lemon in strips, the juice of another, and a wineglassful of water, pass them over a sharp fire, and when tender lay them upon the back of a hair sieve to drain, then put six ounces of rice into a stewpan, with aSECOND COURSE. 351 quart of milk, place it upon the fire; stir until boiling, then place it upon a very slow fire to simmer very gently until quite tender, placing a little fire upon the lid; if it becomes dry before it is tendei add a little more milk; then add a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, and four eggs, stir them well in, stir over the fire until becoming again thick, when put it upon a dish to get cold; then form a stand with it upon your dish eight inches in diameter and three in height, but hollow in the centre where dress some of the apples, more rice over, then more apples, forming a pyramid; you have previously reduced the syrup drained from the apples, which pour over the whole? and earmsh with some very green angelica, forming any design £TewLZY ctote' Apple3 with rice le sei'ved h°ot PE“* wrni RICE.-Peel and out in halves ei hteen small ripe pears, which put in a small preserving-nan with three quarters of a pound of sugar, a little^ater'IndZ J;uce of two lemons, .ew them till tender; then lay them upon wi^hdm T° ’ anid miX three tablesP°onfuls of apricot marmalade make I Ve S°“ • nCe PrePared as in the last, with which and garm?hTstSdiyWvIde& anfei^ounl P°Ur ^ °Ver’ i9/. APPLES WITH BTTTTFP Po^i • n &lanp;„“t :LsZ’dhT”g pr ws°y moving °T^ toe’ Pa^oneEpr„dDan^ tatfP5LlES’ EDSSIAN FASHION.- of water into a ronnd-bottomed “oVe/preMrtnn-? ““Y °^er a sharp fire and reduce it to <1 5.n,^ \ 0 Pan’ place itPASTRY. 352 marmalade, take off the fire and put it into a cylinder mould, previously slightly oiled, shake it well down, and let it remain until quite cold; then turn it out of the mould upon your dish; have a few spoonfuls of currant jelly in a stewpan, which melt over the fire, add two glasses of good old rum, and when partly cold pour over and serve with whipped cream in the centre, in which you have introduced a quarter of an ounce of candied orange-flowers; if any remain it will be excellent to make cro- quettes. 799. APPLES SAUTE IN BUTTER.—Procure a dozen russet apples, which cut into slices a quarter of an inch in thick- ness, peel and take out the cores with a round cutter, then put two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, spread it over the bottom and lay in your apples with half a pound of powdered sugar and the juice of two lemons, stew gently over a moderate fire; when done, dress them rather high in crown upon your dish, melt three spoonfuls of red currant jelly in a stewpan, with which mix a glass of Madeira wine, which pour over when ready to serve. 800. CROQUETTES OF RICE.—Well wash half a pound of the best Carolina rice, which put into a stewpan, with a pint and a half of milk, and a quarter of a pound of butter, place it upon the fire, stir until boiling, then place it upon a slow fire, cover the stewpan, and let simmer very slowly until quite tender; rub the rind of a lemon upon a lump of sugar weighing a quarter of a pound, pound it in a mortar quite fine, add it to the rice, with the yolks of five eggs (mix well), stir them a few minutes longer over the fire until the eggs thicken, but do not let it boil, lay out upon a dish, when cold form it into a number of small balls, or pears, or into long square pieces, according to fancy; have three or four eggs in a basin well whisked, dip each piece in singly, and then into a dish of bread-crumbs, smoothe them gently with a knife, dip them again into the eggs and bread-crumbs, put them into a wire basket, which put in a stewpan of very hot lard, fry a nice light yellow colour, drain on a cloth, dress them pyramidally upon a napkin, and serve with powdered sugar sifted over them. 801. CROQUETTES OF MACARONI. — Blanch six ounces of macaroni in two quarts ot water until tender, then strain and put it in a basin of cold water; when cold cut it intoSECOND COURSE. 353 pieces half an inch in length, and put it into a stewpan con- taining a pint and a half of boiling milk, in which you have infused a stick of vanilla, boil until it becomes thicki'sh, add a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, two ounces of butter and the yolks of eight eggs, stir them well in over the fire until the eggs thicken, then pour out upon a dish, and proceed pre- cisely as for the croquettes of rice. 802 PASTRY CREAM SAUTEED AND FRIED.—Put i fl0 S1X e-ggS m a stewPan’ with two good tablespoonfuls of sifted flour, mix quite smooth with a wooden spoon; then add nve1,"thfliS “• °-r CTeam’ stir in degrees, and place it Cterh /re’ keePin= stlrred lintil it thickens: add an ounce of littlP °flnCeS °f SUgar’ two ounces of crushed ratafias, a little 01 ange-flower water, and three whole eggs, mix the whole e oget her, and stir it a few minutes longer over the fire until the eggs set; then pour it out upon a sautepan previously oiled* a qU! 6 °? d °Ut 11 int0 Pieces one inch wide and two and a half long, dip them in eggs and bread-crumbs twice over the ame as for croquettes, saute them in the same manner dress P a napkm as high.as you can, with sifted sugar over- they may be flavoured also with vanilla or lemon. They may be qSt“of &aCCOrdi°S *° fanc^ a"d “V be fried' fa a jellies. r-ctnf ?' - T COnfideut’ wili give you more pleasure than trying the receipts whicn I am now about giving you; they are for iellies thft i those made from gelatinous substances of animal production. They are one the most wholesome productions of cookery • they are slio-htW non • l rjasr* r-r* ^ assess SS?y0°„ P“T' tUt■ wh“ the foundation to perfection, they may be varied in twenty or more different wavs hv mereiy changing the flavour, fruits, or colours. 3by ‘m n“d Ske “ UI>' and b011 m three q««ns of water; as soon as it Lo““ A A354 JELLIES. remove it to tlie corner of the fire, and simmer for five hours, keeping it skimmed, pass through a hair sieve into a basin, and let it remain until quite hard, then remove the oil and fat, and wipe the top dry. Place in a stewpan one gill of water, one of sherry, half a pound of lump sugar, the juice of four lemons, the rinds of two, and the whites and shells of five eggs, whisk until the sugar is melted, then add the jelly, place it on the fire, and whisk until boiling, pass it through a jelly-bag, pouring that back again which comes through first until quite clear; it is then ready for use, by putting it in moulds or glasses. 804. GELATINE AND ISINGLASS JELLY is made as above,usi ng one ounce and a half of either, and boil in one quart of water, reduce to half; if not required very clear, as for lemon jelly, it need not be run through a bag, but merely through a fine sieve. 805. HARTSHORN JELLY.—Use half a pound of harts- horn shavings, boil in three quarts of water, and reduce to one; proceed as before. Also Arney’s jelly powder can be used instead of any of the above, by dissolving in boiling water. 806. GOLD or SILVER JELLY, or both mixed, is made with eau de vie de Dantzic, mixing the gold or silver leaves with a little jelly, ornamenting the bottom of the mould with it, which place in ice till set, fill with very clear calf’s foot jelly. It can also be made by cutting up a quarter of a sheet of gold leaf in a glass of pale brandy, and use as the former. 807. MARESQUINO JELLY is made by mixing six liqueur-glasses of maresquino with a quart of clarified calt s toot jelly; peaches or other fruits cut in quarters may be added. 808. RUM-PUNCH, CURACOA, NOYEAU, are made with the same quantity, and as the former. 809. FRENCH JELLIES may be made with all kinds of fresh fruits, filling the mould by degrees, the jelly first, let it set, then the fruit, and so on till full, the mould being buried in ice; when ready to serve dip in hot water, mix it well, and turn out carefully on your dish. In the winter, preserved limits in syrup may be used, decorating the mould with them, pouring in a little jelly at a time until it is cold, and fill up by degrees; proceed as above.SECOND COURSE. 355 810. ORANGE JELLY.—Procure five oranges ancl one lemon, take the rind off two of the oranges, and half of the lemon, and remove the pith, put them into a basin, and squeeze the juice of the fruit into it; then put a quarter of a pound of sugar into a stewpan, with half a pint of water, and set it to boil until it becomes a thick syrup when take it off; and add the juice and rind of the fruits, cover the stewpan, and place it again on the fire; as soon as boiling commences skim well, and add one glass of water by degrees, which will assist its clarifica- tion, let it boil another minute, when add half an ounce of eood isinglass, dissolved as directed (No. 804), pass it through a jelly- tim i t! I„ °PS t prepared cocpineal to give an orange nt, and then fill a mould and place it on ice; turn out as before. . 8,1L LEMON JELLY is made the same way, only usin°- ;“S and the nnd °f 0ne;.serve ffuite white, and add a gif of bucellas, or any very pale wine. of ?he?4°L?Ck’ redUCed aud ;*ariM' “V >* »*4 i-stead a81,2' .WHIPPED JELLIES are made from any of the above by placing some warm jelly in a large bowl or basin on ice and fceand”^0? ^1^7 in a mouH Set “a ice and salt, where let remain till ready for serving din it in bikewarm water, strike gently, taking 7it in ^ right W place the left on it, turn it over, if it shakes in the mould let it graduahy slip off your hand on the dish, and remove the mould All jellies are removed the same way d> smmm placed on ice; when nearly cold stifouicH ?°elther m a b°wl Blackwell’s jelly may be used instead i u • .of1Crosse and %Sobel third. Cherries, raspberries, strowberrie^cumn^m'd 11 °n<i bernes, must be passed through a sieve buam W. BTe" apples, pears, quinces, pineapples,^nd356 JELLIES. as they are. Creams may be made of any flavour, and of either ripe fruits, jams, or marmalade; they are made plain thus: Put the yolks of five eggs in a stewpan, with six ounces of sugar, beat it up with a spoon until white; in another stewpan have a pint of milk and one ounce of isinglass, boil ten minutes, stir continually to prevent burning, flavour with vanilla or anything to your taste, pour the milk on the eggs and sugar, put on the fire, stir well together, do not let it boil, pass through a tammy into a round bowl; when cold, set on ice, add two or three glasses of liqueur, keep stirring its contents, and when setting, add three parts of a pint of cream well whipped; mix well toge- ther, and pour into your mould in the ice, and keep there till required; turn out as before. 814. CHARLOTTE RUSSE.—Line the inside of a plain round mould with Savoy biscuits, cutting and placing them at the bottom to form a rosette, standing them upright and close together, fill with any of the above creams, omitting the fruits, place the mould in ice, let it remain till ready to serve, turn over on a dish, and remove the mould. 815. STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE.—Line a plain round mould with ripe strawberries by burying the mould, in ice to the rim, and dipping the strawberries in calf’s-foot jelly, first covering the bottom with them cut in halves, the cut side down- wards, afterwards building them up the sides, the jelly (which must be cold, but not set) causing them to adhere; when finished fill it with the cream as directed for the charlotte russe, and when ready to serve dip the mould in warm water, and turn it out upon your dish. The cream must be very nearly set when you pour it in, or it would run between the strawberries, and produce a bad effect. 816. CHARTREUSE CAKE OF VARIEGATED FRUITS.—Line a charlotte mould very tastefully with various kinds of fruits (such as stoned cherries, strawberries, pieces of peaches, apricots, &c.) by dipping them into jelly, forming some design at the bottom of the mould, and building them in reverse rows up the sides, having the mould previously placed in ice; when well set, terminate as in the last. 817. BLANCMANGER.—To one quart of milk add one ounce of isinglass, a quarter of a pound ot sugar, a quarter of anSECOND COURSE. 357 ounce of cinnamon, a little grated nutmeg, half of the peel of a lemon, and a bay-leaf; simmer over a slow fire, stirring till the isinglass is dissolved, pass it through a napkin into a basin, and pour into a mould. This can be made of any colour or flavour that will not curdle the milk; the milk of bitter almonds may be added to flavour it. Arney’s blancmanger powder is excellent. 818. ANOTHER. — Put into bowl about a pint of clear calf’s-foot jelly warm, break six eggs, beat the yolks and pour them gradually into the jelly, beating all the time; put on the fire and whisk till nearly boiling, set it on ice or in cold water, keep stirring till nearly cold, and fill your mould. You may add whatever flavour you like. 819. TRIFLES should be made early in the day on which they are wanted; take a stale Savoy cake, cut it in slices of one inch thick, and lay it on the bottom of the dish; lay on that a thin layer of any kind of marmalade, jam, or jelly, have some macaroons and ratafia cakes, and lay on and cover the whole with some sponge cakes. For a dish nine inches in diameter, mix two glasses of sherry, one of brandy, half a one of rum, and the same of noyeau, and pour over, and let it remain until it is well soaked, then pour over about one inch thick of rich custard; put a pint of cream into a bowl, with some sifted sugar, a squeeze of a lemon, and about a tablespoonful of the wine, &c., you have put on the cake, whisk it well up. I use a trifle-blower, which saves some trouble; I also use it for all whipped cream; and as the Iroth rises remove it with a spoon on to a clean sieve, where let it drain, then place it on the custard until it is high and handsome. I have occasionally, when being in a hurry, and having no cream by me, proceeded as above, and made the whip with the whites of eggs, and some very white peach or egg-plum marma- lade together, until it makes firm froth or whip, which put on the custard; this may also be coloured a nice pink. Trifles are generally considered unwholesome; I think it is because they are often made too long before they are wanted, and no spirit is used in the cake, the consequence is, the cream turns sour. The remains of this make an excellent pudding.358 PUDDINGS IN MOULDS. We hurre already, in the Comforts for Invalids, given several of the most simple receipts. I prefer using, in these kinds of puddings, as the principal ingredient, stale Savoy cake, or sponge cakes, or ladies’ fingers, and, if I cannot get them, crumbs of stale bread; they may be made in a hundred different ways, according to the fancy and taste of the cook; the mould should be buttered and papered; they may be either baked or steamed. There is hardly any of our sex, from childhood to old age, but loves this truly English mixture, which appears upon our tables in a hundred different shapes, but always under the same name ; and I should not fancy my labours complete if I did not produce a new one of my own invention; I therefore beg you to accept the dedication, as I intend to call it— 820. PUDDING A LA ELOISE.—It is made as follows : Take half a pound of bread-crumbs, which put in a basin, with two ounces of sago, six ounces of chopped suet, six eggs, five ounces of moist sugar, and a tablespoonful of either orange, lemon, or apricot marmalade; mix all well together, and orna- ment the bottom of the mould with green angelica in syrup, and Smyrna raisins, and fill up with the mixture. Place the mould in a stewpan containing water to half the height of the mould, and boil gently for two hours; remove it from the mould, and serve with a sauce made of a tablespoonful of either of the marmalades, or of currant or apple jelly and two glasses of sherry poured over. This, I assure you, received great praise from the little party of juveniles that I had the other day. 821. PUDDING A LA HEINE.—Butter and paper the mould, fill up with cake or bread-crumbs, when full pour some custard in until it will hold no more; this may be flavoured with any white liquor or essence you please, for instance, citron (then it is called Pudding a la Heine au Citron) or orange; use peel thinly sliced, and so on for any flavour you may give it. Steam or bake for thirty minutes. 822. MINCE-MEAT PUDDING.—Butter and paper the mould, then put a layer of cake and a layer of mince-meat alter- nately, till full, then add the custard. Bake for thirty-five minutes.SECOND COURSE. 359 823. DEMI-PLUM PUDDING —Prepare the mould, then add a layer of plum pudding, broken in pieces, that has been left from the previous day, altc -nately, till full, fill up with custard, and steam or bake for thirty minutes. The remains of any kind of pudding may be used thus. 824. TRIFLE PUDDING.—Prepare the mould and fill with the same ingredients as directed for trifle, taking care that the wine, &c., is well soaked in before adding the custard. Steam or bake thirty minutes. The sides and tops of these puddings may be ornamented with cut angelica, hops, or candied orange or lemon peel, in any fanciful design you please, and they may be served with any kind of wine sauce. 82o. C ARROT PUDDING.—Mix in a bowl half a pound of flour, half a pound of chopped suet, three quarters of a pound of grated carrot, a quarter of a pound of raisins stoned, a quarter of a pound of currants, and a quarter of a pound of sugar, brown or sifted white; place these in a mould or dish, beat up two whole eggs, the yolks of four in a gill of milk, grate a little nut- meg in it, and add it to the former; bake or steam forty-five minutes. 826. COLLEGE PUDDING, or DUMPLING.—Take two handfuls of bread-crumbs, half a pound of currants, half a pound of beef marrow, or suet, chopped fine, three whole eggs, a little n utmeg and sad, moisten with-a little milk and brandy, then roll them up in the shape of an egg, in eggs and bread-crumbs, fry em m clarified fat, serve them on a napkin with wine sauce in a boat. If required in moulds, dilute the mixture with a little more milk, and steam them thirty minutes. 827. BROWN BREAD PUDDING.-Brown bread cut in slices and baked in the oven until crisp, then powder it, pass it through a sieve, and soak it with two spoonfuls of rum and brandy; then make a mixture well worked with six yolks of eggs> then add the bread the same as flour, and the whites well whipped, seasoned with a small quantity of cinnamon and cloves pounded, and citron cut in slices. The mould well buttered, and bread-crumbed, and baked or steamed for one hour. For the sauce, a little port-wine, currants, almonds, and citrons cut in slices. 828. BROWN BREAD PUDDING ANOTHER WAY •lake two ounces of pounded almonds, mix it with seven yolksBOILED PUDDINGS. SCO of egg flavoured with a little ground spice, add to it four table- spoonfuls of brown bread-crumbs soaked in brandy, butter and bread-crumb the mould; when ready, add the whites of eggs, well beaten, to the mixture, and bake in a slow oven for an hour and a half—on a trivet, if the oven is too hot; the same sauce as above. 829. PRESERVED GINGER PUDDING.—Take six ounces of butter, to which add six ounces of flour, and stir it over a slow fire; have a pint and a half of boiling milk, which mix gradually with the above over the fire, then add the j'olks of six eggs, and half a pound of preserved ginger, cut fine, whip the whites well, and add them the last thing, place in a mould, and steam for an hour and a half; serve custard sauce with it. BOILED PUDDINGS. The principal one, and the most celebrated, is the plum pudding. 830. PLUM PUDDING.—Pick and stone one pound of the best Malaga raisins, which put in a basin, with one pound of currants (well washed, dried, and picked), a pound and a half of good beef suet (chopped, but not too fine), three quarters of a pound of white or brown sugar, two ounces of candied lemon and orange-peel, two ounces of candied citron, six ounces of flour, and a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, with a little grated nutmeg; mix the whole well together, with eight whole eggs and a little milk; have ready a plain or ornamented pudding- mould, well butter the interior, pour the above mixture into it, cover a sheet of paper over, tie the mould in a cloth, put the pudding into a large stewpan containing boiling water, and let boil quite fast for four hours and a half (or it may be boiled by merely tying it in a pudding-cloth, previously well floured, form- ing the shape by laying the cloth in a round-bottomed basin and pouring the mixture in, it will make no difference in the time required for boiling); when done, take out of the cloth, turn from the mould upon your dish, sprinkle a little powdered sugar over, and serve with the following sauce in a boat:—Put the yolks of three eggs in a stewpan, with a spoonful of powdered ugar, and a gill of milk; mix well together, add a little lemon- peel, and stir over the fire until becoming thickish (but do not361 SECOND COURSE. let it boil), when add two glasses of brandy, and serve sepa- rate. r ihe above sauce may be served poured over the pudding if approved of. 05 An excellent improvement to a plum pudding is to use half a pound of beef marrow cut into small dice, omitting the same quantity of suet. ° w*rR0SEY P0WLEY—Roll out about two pounds of paste (No. 746), cover it with any jam or marmalade you like roll it over and tie it loose in a cloth, well tying each end; boil one hour and serve, or cut it in slices and serve with sauce over. 832. PLUM BOLSTER, OR SPOTTED DICK - Roll out two pounds of paste (No. 746), have some Smyrna raisins well washed, and place them on it here and there, roll over tie in a cloth, and boil one hour, and serve with butter and brown sugar. or hrn* ROASTER.—R0H ag above, sift gome whjte mo? tTthpUgar °^r lt;- the addition of a little Powdered cinna- before h ^ 1S ** imProvemenO roll over and proceed as 834. APPLE DUMPLINGS.—Peel and cut out the core with a cutter, cover it with paste (No. 746), tie in a cloth, and il according to size; these are all the better for bein'* boiled warmed * ^hp6 c oth’ UP for four or six weekT and te- warmed. They may hkewise be baked. These kind of boiled with flrf’ c.onta|niI1S_ a large quantity of paste, should be made with flour, in which is mixed one saltspoonful of culinarv alkali S'UUr P0MdS °f -sCeUlS «ot BAKED PUDDINGS. 835. MARROW PUDDIND i •362 BAKED PUDDINGS. 836. CUSTARD PUDDING.—Make a border of paste on the dish, and fill up with custard, grate a little nutmeg on the top. Any kind of fruit puddings with custard may be made in the same way, by placing them in the custard, and sift some finely- powdered sugar over, before going to the baker’s. 837. FRUIT PUDDINGS are best made in a basin, the basin to be buttered and lined with the paste, and then filled with the fruit, which cover with the paste; the paste should be rolled round to the thickness of half an inch, and when the Iruit is in, drawn to the centre, and squeezed, and then tied up in a cloth kept on purpose, and boiled in plenty of water; wrhen done, which will be according to the nature of the fruit you put in it, serve it either turned out of the basin or not. The cover should be of the same thickness as the sides. Sugar should be added before being covered. 838. COCOA-NUT PUDDING.—Remove the shell of the cocoa-nut and cut the brown skin awny, cut the nut in pieces and place it in cold water, remove it and wipe it dry, grate about a quarter of a pound of a large one, very fine, into a plate. Place in a basin a quarter of a pound of powdered white sugar, and three ounces and a half of fresh butter, stir them together until it becomes like cream; add to it a tablespoonful of brandy, and about four drops of either essence of vanille, or any other essence whose flavour may be preferred. Place the white of six eggs into a bowl, and beat them well up; then add gradually the butter and sugar, which keep stirring at the same time; add by degrees the cocoa-nut. Cover a pie-dish with puft paste, place the mixture in it, and bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour. Glaze it with powdered sugar and powdered cinnamon mixed. 839. APPLES should be pared, cored, and cut in quarters, and put in with some sugar, a few cloves, and a bit of lemon- peel. 840. WALL FRUIT—as Peaches, Nectarines, Apricots, and Plums,—should be cut in half, and the kernels extracted liom the stones and added, a little cream, according to the size of the pudding, in which a little grated cinnamon is added, may be put in at the same time as the fruit; use but little sugar.363 SECOND COURSE. 841. GOOSEBERRY, Rhubarb, Currants, red, ivhite, and black, Raspberry and Cherry, Blackberry, Whorts, Damson, and Greengage—may all be made in a similar way. 842. MINCE MEAT.—Procure four pounds and a half of kidney beef suet, which skin and chop very finely, have also a quarter of a pound of candied lemon and orange-peel; the same of citron, a pound and a half of lean cooked beef, and three pounds and a half of apples, the whole separately chopped very fine, and put into a large pan with four pounds and a half of currants, well washed and picked, two ounces of mixed spice, and two pounds of sugar; mix the whole well together with the juice of eight lemons and a pint of brandy, place it in jars, and tie down until ready for use; a pound and a half of Malaga raisins, well stoned and chopped, may likewise be added to the above. It is ready for use in a few days. The mince meat as made at Windsor Castle every year, and made one month previous to using, is as follows: 2401bs. raisins; 4001bs. currants; 200ibs. lump sugar; 31bs. cinnamon; 31bs. nutmegs; 31bs. cloves; 31bs. ground allspice; 21bs. ginger; 3001bs. beef; 3501bs. suet; 24 bushels of apples; 240 lemons; 301bs. of cedret; 72 bottles of brandy; 31bs. mace; 601bs. lemon-peel; 601bs. orange-peel. 843. MINCE PIES.—Have a piece of puff-paste, which roll out to the thickness of a penny piece; have also a dozen tartlet- pans, which lightly butter, cut out twelve pieces with a round cutter from the paste, each the size of your tartlet-pans; lay them upon the slab, roll the trimming of the paste again to the former thickness, cut twelve other pieces, with which line the tartlet-pans; put a piece of mince-meat, made as above, in each, wet them round, place on the lids, pricking a hole with a pin in the centre, and close them well at the edges; egg over lightly, and bake about twenty miuutes in a moderate oven. 844. FRUIT PIES.—These are made in pie dishes, the top of which is only covered with paste; the edge of the dish should be wetted, and a strip of paste, about one inch wide and a quarter of an inch thick, put on it, then fill the dish with the fruit, wet the paste on the edge, and cover with paste, mark the ed«-e with a roller, or the back of a knife.■REMOVES. 364 845. APPLE PIE.—Pare, cut, and core sufficient apples to fill the dish, put a small cup in the middle or not, as you like, one clove to every three apples, a pinch of pounded cinnamon, a small piece of chopped lemon-peel, and sugar; bake according to size. 846. RHUBARB AND APPLE, or Rhubarb and Goose- berry, Currant and Raspberry, Cherry, Plum, Damson, Pear, Quince, Mulberry, Wortleberry or Whorts and Raspbernj, Deiu- berry and Raspberry, or Cranberry, may all be made in the same way, in winter. A little whipped cream may be placed in the top, for a variety. REMOVES—SECOND COURSE. 847. CHESNUT PUDDING, NESSELRODE FASHION. —Blanch four dozen chesnuts in boiling water, skin and place them in the screen, when dry take them out, and when cold put them into a mortar, with one pound of sugar, and half a stick of vanilla, pound the whole well together, and sift it through a fine wire sieve, put into a stewpan, with the yolks of twelve eggs, beat them well together; in another stewpan have a quart of milk, when boiling pour it over the other ingredients, mixing veil, and stir over a sharp fire until it begins to thicken and adheres to the back of the spoon, then lay a tammy upon a large dish, pour the mixture in and rub it through with two wooden spoons; when cold place it in a freezing-pot and freeze as directed (No. 772); when frozen, have a large high ice-mould, which closes hermetically, have also two ounces of currants and two ounces of Smyrna raisins, soaked in four glasses of marasquino from the previous day, with four ounces of candied citron cut in dice, put them into the freezing-pot, with a pint of whipped cream and half the meringue preparation directed in No. 772; freeze the whole well together and fill your mould, which bury in ice and salt until ready to serve, then dip it into lukewarm water, and turn it out upon your dish. 848. ICED CABINET PUDDING.—Have ready prepared, and rather stale, a sponge-cake as directed (No. 931), which cut365 SECOND COURSE. into slices half an inch thick, and rather smaller than the mould you intend making the pudding in, soak them well with noyeau. brandy; then lay some preserved dry cherries at the bottom of the mould, with a few whole ratafias, lay one of the slices over, then more cherries and ratafias, proceeding thus until the mould is three parts full; have ready a quart of the custard (No. 876), omitting half the quantity ot isinglass, pour it lukewarm into your mould, which close hermetically, and bury in ice and salt, where let it remain at least two hours; when ready to serve dip it in lukewarm water, and turn it out upon your dish; you have made about half a pint of custard, which keep upon ice, pour over the pudding when ready to serve, and sprinkle a few chopped pistachios over. 849. WHITE ALMOND PUDDING ICES.—Blanch and skin a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, with six or eight bitter ones, when dry and cold, place them in a mortar, with three quarters of a pound of sugar, and ten or twelve leaves of candied orange-flowers, pound well, sift through a wire sieve, and place it in a stewpan, with the yolks of eight eggs, beat them ■\\ ell togethei; then in another stewpan have boiling a pint and a half of milk, which pour over the other ingredients by degrees, keeping it stirred, place it upon the fire, stirring until it thickens and adheres to the back of the spoon, rub it through a tammy add two glasses of noyeau; when cold put it into your freezino-- pot to freeze, and when half frozen add a pint and a half of whipped cream; when quite frozen fill a mould, and serve as pudding, Nesselrode fashion. l REDEEsG GLACE.—Take some ground rice, and wed boil it in milk till done, seasoned with lemon, su<mr, &c., and add a little double cream whisked, and freeze it in a pot, then mould it, and keep it in ice till wanted, then dip it in hot water, and serve with either Macedoine sauce or any fruit sauce* J 7E8r t'vFRm C,HARTREUSE 0E> WITH LEMON oxjLLiX. Make a chartreuse of fruit as directed (No. 8161 in a round or oval mould, having a quantity of fruit left; have also about a quart of orange jelly, which place upon ice in a bowl in thS UnUl the riDt °f S6tting’ then Place a %er of it in the chartreuse, then a layer of the fruit, the jelly, and so onREMOVES. 366 until quite filled, place it upon ice, and wlien set and ready to serve, dip in lukewarm water, and turn it out upon your dish; serve garnished round with jelly in the skins of the oranges, cut in quarters after it has set, or leave out the garnishing. 852. SOUFFLE OF ORANGE ICED.—Prepare about three parts of the quantity of ice as directed in the last, to which when half frozen, add a pint and a half of whipped orange jelly just upon the point of setting, beat the whole well together with the spatula, working it until well frozen: have a dozen and a half of oranges, peeled, quartered, and passed in sugar as directed for vol-au-vent, and place them in a basin upon ice; when ready to serve, make a border of almond paste upon your dish, in the centre of which put a little of the ice, then a layer of oranges, then the same and oranges again, proceeding thus and finishing in pyramid; garnish round with various small ripe fruits. 853. PUNCH CAKE SOUFFLE.—Break ten eggs, put the whites in a copper bowl, and the yolks in a basin, with four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, four of crushed ratafias, two of potato flour, a little salt, and a quarter of an ounce of candied orange-flowers, beat well together, whip the whites, which stir in lightly with the mixture; well butter and bread-crumb the interior of an oval plain mould, butter also and bread-crumb a band of paper three inches broad, which tie round at the top of the mould, pour in the mixture, and half an hour before ready to serve, stand it in a moderate oven (it will take about the above time to bake), when done turn it out upon your dish; have ready a custard of three yolks of eggs, to which you have added two glasses of essence of punch, pour round the cake and serve. The above mixture may be baked in twelve small paper cases and dressed in pyramid, but then they would require more sauce. 854. ICE WAFERS.—Put a little fine flour and a little pounded sugar into a small basin, mix it with a little milk or thin cream; beat one egg in a glass of brandy, and make it into a thin batter, it is much better to stand a few hours after it is mixed, and it bakes so much smoother; have a small wafer mould; heat it on a clear coal or charcoal fire by turning it now and then; open it, and wipe it very clean, then rub the iron with a little fat bacon; put in a spoonful ol the batter, and close the mould, set it on the fire one minute, then turn it, and take367 SECOND COURSE. them carefully off, rolling them on a small stick to their usual shape. 800. WINE BISCUITS.—Put on a marble slab or clean table one pound of sifted flour; mix well with it two ounces of sugar, hall a teaspoonful of salt; mix it with cold milk enough to make a very stiff paste, which roll very thin with a rollin'* pm; cut them out into any neat shape you like, and bake in a very quick oven; two minutes is sufficient; the addition of a little cayenne pepper is an improvement with the wine. SOUFFLE. , 'flese dishes> beinS tbe la*t of the Dinner, require the greatest care and taste in executing, as, by the time they come on the table, the appetites of those around it are supposed to be satisfied; the eye and the palate require to be pleased m order to sustain the enjoyments of the table, this is a period o dinner when another of the senses may be gratified by the introduction of music (and which is continually practised on the Continent), and all ought to be of a light and inviting character. jT7Iy ^ T thC Tt0m DeVer t0 gIve a dinner without a souffle as the ast dish or, professionally speaking, remove. I do not dislike them, but they reqmre the greatest care and nicety, and are rather difficult to perform in our but 1—£ FLAVOSURFFr ® °P LEM0N> 0E ANT OTHER 74R?VOlIJ?‘“'PrePare a crust or croustade of fine paste (No 748), oi water paste, by lining a raised pie-mould with it filling EfUtS'*) round ,l,e top, and put it by until yhicb, when boiling, put tw0 ati“k°s of It ilia Thee a Co™ , m'° than stir in quickly the yolks of £ eggs, and sweefen "Ih'hSf368 REMOVES, a pound of sugar; when cold, and an hour and a quarter before you are ready to serve, whip the whites of the ten eggs very stiff, stir them in with the mixture lightly, pour it into the croustade, and bake about an hour in a moderate oven, if going too fast, and liable to be done before required, open the oven door, as it ought to be served the moment it is done; when ready to serve take it from the oven, detach the band of paper, take it from the mould, dress it upon a napkin on a dish, and serve immediately. These souffles may be baked in a silver souffle-case, if pre- ferred, they will take considerably less time in baking, but fall quicker after being taken from the oven; any liqueur or spirits may be introduced in souffles of this description if approved of. This is large enough for a dinner of eighteen; a quarter of that quantity will make a nice family one, baked in a plain tart-dish. 857. SOUFFLE OF ORANGE-FLOWERS.— Proceed exactly as in the last, but infusing an ounce of candied orange- flowers in the milk instead of the vanilla. 858. SOUFFLE OF RICE CREAM is made by using ground rice instead of the common flour, finishing the same, and using any of the flavours directed in the last three. 859. SOUFFLE OF LEMON.—Proceed as directed for souffle a la vanille, but infusing the rind of two lemons, free from pith, in the milk instead of the vanilla. 860. OMELET SOUFFLE.—Break six eggs, place the yolks in one basin and the whites in another; add to the yolks three tablespoonfuls of lump sugar, half one of fecule of potato or wdieat flour, and ten drops of orange flower-water; beat well together; whip the whites, beginning rather slowly at first, increasing by degrees, until it forms a stiff froth; then add the yolks, very gently beating up the whites as you add it: have ready a silver or plated dish (for want of either use tin;, and butter it well; place the mixture on it, and put it into a hot oven; look that it rises; if so, run a knife round it; sift some sugar on it, place it in the oven again, and serve, when well raised, immediately. 861. OMELET SOUFFLE SAUTE.—The mixture is pre- pared precisely as the last, but the appearance and flavour369 SECOND COURSE. very different, being produced by the different method of cook mg them Put an ounce of butter into a very clean omelet-pan over the fire; when melted, pour in half the preparation, placeTt over a very brisk fire a few seconds, then twist it round ta A* pan, which give a jerk, tossing the omelet half wav over, stand it over the fire again, give the pan another jerk, tossin» the omelet again over, and turn it out upon your dish set it in the oven and proceed the same with the remainder of the preparation “ "«‘ “ 862 CREAM OMELET SOUFFLE.-Proceed as in the ast, deducting two of the whites of eggs; and addino- a e-ill of v hipped cream, saute and serve as above. ° ^ . 863- SOUFFLE BISCUITS.—Put the volks nf o in a basin, and the whites in a coppe” bowl ndd n 1 e°°s upon which you have rubbed thfriK ^ P°Und ofsuSar> pounding, beat it well with the yolks of the Jl°l the preparation; have readv ten ° mnii 7 td’ d tir them lnto three parts full/am, Pyramid, upon a and tve.Bhake 0ra' dress - CEEAM.-Take one powdered su°-ar and oran^p-fln ’ Wltb j duarter of a pound of another bowfnear you over wr T po'vder or water> and have receive and drainffS S J°U “USt place a to blow it up with a bellows p cream Wlth a whisk, or froth, take and 33 ifc rises * a tinue till all is used, the^Cwi k * °n the sieve ; con- until you have none’left, then put it inV raini“ps’ and continue or on a trifle, and ornament it with I °r in §lasses> citron peel or angelica cut verv fine i npai®lls’ or Wlth green wise be iced. * G 7 fine and tastefl%. It can like- ter of a pouK1ab°Ut a (luar- * ** 80 that * ** * trough, iSt«370 REMOVES. it into one quart of cream, and cover it up; let it cool as quickly as possible on ice, add five ounces of powdered sugar, and pro- ceed as above. 866. "V AN1LLA SOUFFLE CREAM. — Cut a pod of vanilla small, pound it with sugar, sift it through a fine sieve, and add it to your cream, or add some drops of essence of vanilla, and proceed as directed above. 867. FONDUE OF PARMESAN AND GRUYERE, or any other grated Cheese.—Put a quarter of a pound of butter and six ounces of flour in a stewpan, mix them well together (without melting' the butter) with a wooden spoon, then add rather more than a pint of boiling milk, stir over the fire, boil twenty minutes, then add the yolks of five eggs (stir in well), half a pound of grated Parmesan, and a quarter of a pound of grated Gruyere cheese; season with half a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, and half a saltspoonful of cayenne; if too thick add two or three whole eggs to give it the consistency of a souffle, whip the five whites of egg firm, stir them gently into the mixture, have ready a croustade prepared as for the souffle, (No. 856), pour in the above mixture, and bake it in a moderate oven; it will require a little longer time than the souffle, dish and serve the same. 868. NEAPOLITAN FONDUE. — Prepare half of the mixture as in the last, but previous to adding the whites of eggs stir in a quarter of a pound of good macaroni blanched, and cut into pieces an inch in length; add the whites, bake, and serve as before. 869. FONDUE (simple method).—Put two ounces of Gruyere and two ounces of Parmesan cheese (grated) into a basin, (or, if you have not got them, use English cheese), with a little salt, pepper, and cayenne, add the yolks of six eggs, with a quarter of a pound of butter melted (mix well), whip the whites of the six eggs, stir gently into the other ingredients, fill small paper cases with it, bake about a quarter of an hour in a moderate oven, dress upon a napkin, and serve very hot. 870. FONDUE OF STILTON CHEESE.—Put six ounces of butter and half a pound of flour in a stewpan, rub well to- gether with a wooden spoon, then add a quart of warm milk, stir371 SECOND COURSE. over the fire a quarter of an hour, then add the yolks of eight eggs, three quarters of a pound of grated Parmesan, and half a pound of Stilton cheese in small dice, season rather highly with pepper, salt, and cayenne, add the white of the eggs whipped very stiff, which stir in lightly; have a dozen and a half of small paper cases, fill each one three parts full, place them in a moderate oven, bake about twenty minutes; when done dress them upon a napkin on your dish, and serve very hot. 871. CHEESE RAMINOLE.—Put a gill of water in a stewpan, to which add two ounces of Gruyere and the same quantity of Parmesan cheese (grated), two ounces of butter, a little cayenne pepper, and salt if required, set it upon the fire, and when boiling stir in two or three spoonfuls of flour; keep stirring over the fire until the paste becomes dryish and the bottom of the stewpan quite white, then add three or four eggs by degrees, until forming a paste like No. 785, butter a baking- sheet well, and lay the paste out in pieces upon it with a table- spoon, making them long and half the size of the bowl of the spoon; egg over, and lay a small piece of Gruyere cheese upon each, put them into the oven about twenty minutes before they are required; bake them a little crisp, and serve very hot, dressed in pyramid upon a napkin. 872. PUFF CHEESECAKE.—Make half a pound of paste (No. 747), which roll very thin, have ready some grated Par- mesan and Gruyere cheese mixed, throw half a handful over the paste, which fold in three, roll it out to the same thickness again, cover again with cheese, proceeding thus until you have used the whole of the cheese (half a pound), then cut them into any shapes you like with pastry cutters, set on a wet baking-sheet, egg them over, bake a nice colour in a moderate oven, dress in pyramid upon a napkin on a dish, and serve very hot. 873. CHEESE SOUFFLE, or DIABLOTINS. — Put a gill of milk in a stewpan, with two ounces of butter; when boiling, stir in two spoonfuls of flour, keep stirring over the fire until the bottom of the stewpan is dry, then add four eggs by degrees, half a pound of Gruyere, and half a pound of grated Parmesan cheese; mix well in, season with pepper, salt, and cayenne, rather hi«-hly’ mould the paste into little balls with the forefinger against the side of the stewpan containing it, drop them into hot&lard; fry ot a nice light brown, dress in pyramid upm a napkin, and serve B B 2372 REMOVES. very hot; a quarter of that quantity may of course he made. This is an excellent dish. 874. TURBAN OF ALMOND CAKE ICED.—This is a very good and useful second course remove. Make half a pound of puff paste; give it nine rolls, rolling it the last time to the thickness of a penny-piece, have ready blanched and chopped a pound of sweet almonds, which put in a basin with half a pound of powdered sugar and the whites of two eggs, or little more if required; spread it over the paste the thickness of a shilling, and with a knife cut the paste into pieces two inches and a half in length and nearly one in breadth, place them upon a baking-sheet, and bake nicely a very light brown colour, in a moderate oven; dress them on a stiff border of any kind ot stiff jam or marmalade, so as to form a large crown, according to the size you require it; then fill the interior with vanilla cream, or any other, iced, but not too hard, and bring it up to a point; the cake may be cut in any shape you fancy, but never make them too large. 875. TURBAN OF PASTRY.—Observe that any kind of pastry fourr6e, as No. 773, or meringue, No. 772, will, if dished as above, with iced cream, make a very nice remove. 876. CUSTARD FOR PUDDINGS.—Take one pint of jnilk, to which add the yolks of two eggs, and beat up, add a quarter of a pound of sugar, half a saltspoonful of powdered cinnamon and nutmeg, and a bay-leaf, bor mould puddings, the mould should be filled first with the bread, &c., and the custard added; should it be wanted alone in glasses, it must then be put into a saucepan on the fire until it nearly boils, keep stir- ring it well during the time. 877. BATTER FOR FRITTERS.—Put half a pound of flour into a basin, to which add half a pint of water, stir it gently with a wooden spoon till it forms a smooth batter; put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, which melt gently, then pour it gradually into the batter, and stir it; whisk thejwhite of two gggs verv firm, and mix lightly in the batter. Use vkeie in- dicated.573 DESSERT. LETTER No. NVII. Ma cheek Eloise,—Remembering your admiration of the small dessert I put on the table at my last birth-day party, you will, I am confident, feel interested in the description of desserts in general, and I will give you a few more hints and receipts, which will tend both to economise as well as gratify the palate and sight; and very different in style from some of our visitors, "h®, though they spend their money freely enough when they give their Christmas party, still keep up the old style of covering their table with dry sweet stuff, and, in the way of fruits, display oranges in their original golden skin, Ribston pippins in their mournful ones, American apples with their Vermillion cheeks, large winter pears in their substantial state, the whole ornamented and crowned with laurel, no doubt to signify their immortality, being present upon almost every table from year to year, especially the un- sociable pear, which no teeth can ever injure, but, on the contrary, it may injure the teeth. A very comical friend assured us, as a fact, that he had met one of the before-mentioned pears in three different parties in less than a week, having, for curiosity’s sake, engraved his initial with a penknife upon one he was served with at the first party. “And, talk about pine- apples,” said he, “many times I have had the pleasure of meeting with the same, and even as often as twice in less than twelve hours, quite in a dif- ferent direction, that is, on a dinner-table in the west-end about eight in the evening, and, at midnight, on the supper-table of a civic ball; at dinner emg perched on an elevated stand in the centre of a large wide table so much out of reach that it would almost require a small ladder to get at it- and I must say that every guest present paid due respect to his high position’ and never made an assault, or even an attempt to disturb, much less to un- crown his fruity majesty, though, now and then, one of the fair guests, as a compliment, would remark to the Amphitryon, that she never saw in her life a finer pine-apple. ‘Very fine, veiy fine, indeed, madam! will you allow p an orange?’ <Not any more’1 thank ™ ->* On the supper table this aristocratic and inaccessible pine still holds its o*"™ prou<% p"oi9d ” “■» ‘°p °< “ ™„<i2 by Portugal or Rhenish grapes, and to prevent its dethronement by removing the grapes the intelligent waiter has carefully tied it to the ornament that rrt K ' , fnend’ Wh° iS a literary 6entlemarb lias promised to write mall brochure, to be called the 'Memoirs of a Pineapple in London ’ W ’C am Confident’ wil1 not fail of being very interesting, having had the374 DESSERT. advantage of mixing in so many different societies. For the last few years an abundance of the natural ones from the est Indies has in some respects injured the high estimation bestowed on this delicious fruit, but still a good and large English pine, like the one I have mentioned above, will always maintain its dignity and price. I know, dearest, what will be your feeling after the perusal of the above, that I have given vent to a little scandal; but it is the truth, and of almost daily occurrence, so that there is no mystery about it. I do not mean that it is very general, but is certainly often practised; for my part, you know my style; I never attempt to astonish my guests with extensive wonders of nature and art in any shape of eatable, but simply follow the middle prices by which I always can procure the best quality of article in comestibles ; and nothing pleases me more when I give a party than that every dish on the table should be partaken of, and still more so when entirely eaten. I do not approve of meanness; though a great economist, I abhor it as much as I do extravagance; and we never, I assure you, give a single party without being perfectly satisfied that it does not interfere with our daily comforts, that is, as regards financial matters. For dessert in summer I confine it entirely to fresh fruit, compotes, ices, and a few almond cakes, and Savoy biscuits. Fruits, preserves, oranges, compotes, and biscuits in winter. The list of names I here inclose to you consists of moderately-priced articles, and will enable you to make a good appearance for your dessert, and at a trifling expense. The first thing I wish you to be initiated in is, what is called in France ‘compote,’ which may be made almost from any kind of fruits, especially apples, pears, apricots, plums, greengages, peaches, cherries, gooseberry, oranges, &c. It was on my second visit to Havre that I took lessons in con- fectionery; I paid as much as ten shillings per lesson to M. Bombe Glace, that being the ‘ nom de guerre’ of the first confectioner there; but you know, dearest, how quick I am at learning, especially anything in the way of cookery. I really must say I do love cooking, so you may fancy that the clever artist. Monsieur le Confiseur, hadnot very many of our demi-souvereign, as he called them, from us; my Mr. B. thought at the time that it was quite ridiculous and extravagant to pay so much for a trifle like that; but let me tell you, dear, he had not then tasted them; but now all the wall and tree- fruits from our garden, if I were to follow entirely his taste, would be con- verted into compote, he being so remarkably fond of it. Compote. Procure a very clean tin stewpan or a small sugar-pan, like M Bombe Glace used; it is also from him that I bought mine, which I showed you when you were here; it being more preferable for boiling sugar, why I cannot tell, never having asked the reason, being so anxious to know other things which375 DESSERT* I thought more serviceable ; hut there must be some cause for him to have used it so continually, as he is such a very clean and precise man in all his manipulations, even to the making of a sugar stick. Since, I have tried it in a common stewpan, which has answered very well; and knowing by ex perience that your culinary laboratory is still in its innocent infancy, you might be prevented from making an immediate experiment by waiting till you could get one; so you may use that three-pint size stewpan, which I lent you for a pattern about three weeks ago, and after which I shall feel extremely gratified by its reappearance on my kitchen shelf at No. 5, being out of the middle of the row, for every time I enter my kitchen it puts me in mind of a very pretty woman minus one of her front teeth. Excuse me if I claim it of you, but I wish to teach you punctuality as well as economy. 878. COMPOTE OF WINTER PEARS, like the one our comical friend had.—To put an end to its long and hard existence, I would cut it into six or eight pieces leng hwise, peel and cut out the.cores, giving them a nice shape; then put them into a stewpan, witn a quarter of a pound of sugar, a gill of port wine, the thin rind of a lemon, a little cinnamon, and half a pint of water; let them simmer gently about an hour or until tender; when done, put them into a basin, reduce the syrup until thickish if required, and pour over; when cold they are ready to serve. A little prepared cochineal mixed with the syrup very much improves their appearance. A dish composed half of these and half of the white has a very pretty appearance. By placing a layer of marmalade among them, at the bottom of the dish, you may dish them in crown, or any shape you like. 879. COMPOTE OF PEACHES.-Put half a pound of lump sugar (broken into small pieces) into a stewpan, with a quarter of pint of water, which set upon the fire to boil until lorming a thickish syrup; have previously cut four ripe peaches in halves, lay them carefully in the boiling syrup to simmer a couple of minutes, then carefully remove them with a colander- spoon on to a hair sieve to drain, remove the skins, and dress the peaches neatly upon your dessert-dish; reduce the syrup until of a good consistency, and when cold pour it over, and thev are ready to serve. ^ J,80' kC°MP0™ 0F XPPLES.—Procure six nice ripe apples, but not too large, which peel, cut in halves, and cut out376 DESSERT. the cores, rub each piece over with a little lemon, and put them into boiling syrup made as last directed, but with the juice of a lemon, and the rind cut into small fillets added; let the apple stew until tender, but not broken, drain them upon a sieve, reduce the syrup; and when both are cold, dress the apple neatly upon your dish, and pour the syrup over. A little green angelique, cut in various shapes, will make a pretty ornament on any white compote. 881. COMPOTE OF SMALL APPLES, SERVED WHOLE.—Select nine small golden pippins, each as nearly as possible of an equal size, and with a long round vegetable cutter, of the size of a sixpenny piece, cut out the cores, then peel them very thin and smooth, rub their surface with lemon juice, and throw them into a basin of spring water; have ready boiling half a pint of syrup, made as before directed; to which add the rind of a lemon (cut into thin strips), and the juice; lay in the apples, which let simmer very gently until quite tender, drain them upon a hair sieve, and reduce the syrup until thickish; when quite cold, dress the apples upon your dish, five at the bottom, three upon them, and one upon the top; when ready to serve, pour the syrup over. 882. COMPOTE OF GREEN APRICOTS.—Have a pottle of green apricots, from which pick off all the stalks, and throw them into a stewpan containing a quart of boiling water, and let them boil very fast for ten minutes, and drain them upon a sieve; have ready half a pint of syrup made as before directed, in which boil them until tender, but not to break, and thicken the syrup, pour the whole into a basin until quite cold; should the syrup then be too thin, strain it off into the stewpan to re- duce to a proper consistency, pouring it again over the apricots when quite cold. Dish tastefully. 883. COMPOTE OF GREENGAGES.—Procure twelve greengages, not quite ripe, each of which cut into halves, take out the'stones, have ready boiling half a pint of syrup, as bef ore directed, into which put half the fruit, let it simmer a couple of minutes, then remove them with a colander-spoon, draining them upon a sieve; then put in the remainder, with which pro- ceed in the same manner; remove the skins, put the fruit into a basin, reduce the syrup until thickish, and when cold, pour it over the fruit, which is then ready to serve.377 DESSERT. Any description of plums may be dressed in precisely the same method. 884. COMPOTE OF APRICOTS.—Procure six very fine ripe apricots, which divide into halves; take out the stones, have ready half a pint of boiling syrup reduced quite thick, in which let them simmer about a minute, when pour the whole into a basin until cold; should the fruit not be quite ripe, they would require longer time to simmer. I frequently break the stones and blanch the kernels to add to the compote; they are a great improvement, also, to cherries and plums. 885. COMPOTE OF CHERRIES.—Take a pound of fine cherries, not too ripe, and cut away half the stalks with a pair of scissors; have half a pint of syrup, which boil until very thick, when add half of the cherries, and boil them two or three minutes, take them out with a colander-spoon, drain them upon a sieve, and proceed the same with the remaining half ; reduce the syrup until very thick, dress the cherries pyramidically upon your dish, stalks uppermost, and when the syrup is cold, pour it over, and serve. 886. COMPOTE OF ORANGES.—Make a pint of syrup as before; have six fine oranges, which skin carefully, scraping olf as much of the pith as possible; divide each orange into eight entire pieces, without breaking the delicate skin with which they are divided; when the syrup is very thick, put in the pieces of oranges, which simmer gently for five minutes, take them out with a colander-spoon, and drain them upon a sieve; reduce the syrup very quickly until thickish, and when cold, pour it over the oranges, which will be then ready to serve. Half the rind of the oranges, free from pith, cut into small fillets, are a great improvement boiled in the syrup. 887. COMPOTE OF FRENCH PLUMS.—Put half a pound of French plums into a stewpan, with a gill of water, the same of wine, the rind of half a lemon cut thin, two cloves, and a good spoonful of sugar, let them simmer about twenty minutes, and when cold take out the lemon and cloves, and they are ready to serve.878 DESSERT COMPOTES OF FRUIT SIMPLIFIED. As I usually make them when alone, or for a very homely dinner-party. The whole of the following must be done over a very slow fire. S88. PEARS.—Cut six ripe middling-sized pears in halves, peel neatly, cut out the cores, and put them into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, the juice of a lemon, the thin rind cut into strips, and a very little drop of water; set them upon the fire, stewing them until tender; they will form their own syrup; put them in a basin until cold, when they are ready to serve. 889. RIBSTON PIPPINS.—Peel and cut four apples into quarters, take out the cores, and stew them as directed for pears, but using the rind of an orange instead of the rind of a lemon. 890. ORANGES.—Prepare four oranges as directed (No. 886), which put into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, and the juice of another orange; set them upon the fire, and when the syrup becomes sufficiently thick to adhere to the pieces of orange, they are done; when cold, dress them in a circle upon your dish, with strips of angelica between each. 891. APRICOTS.—Cut eight unripe apricots into quarters, which put into a stewpan, with four ounces of sugar, the juice of a lemon, and a drop of sherry, set them upon the fire, shaking the stewpan round occasionally, until the apricots ai'e tender, but not broken; a very few minutes would be sufficient to stew them, and when cold, they are ready to serve. For Peaches, proceed exactly the same; but if too ripe, they must be done as directed for compote of peaches. 892. GREENGAGES AND OTHER PLUMS.—Put twelve into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of sugar, the juice of a lemon and a little drop of water, set them over the fire, shaking the stewpan round occasionally until the fruit is tender, but not mashed; when cold, dress them in pyramid, and pour the syrup over. 893. CHERRIES.—Cut the stalks of a pound of Kentish cherries rather short, and put the fruit into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of sugar and the juice of a lemon; place379 DESSERT them over the fire (occasionally shaking the pan round), letting them simmer about two minutes, when take them out with a colander-spoon, and put them into a basin until cold, reduce the syrup, to which add sufficient isinglass to set it as a jelly, and pour it upon a large plate until set, when dress the cherries pyramidically, just dip the bottom of the plate containing the syrup into warm water, and turn it as a jelly over the cherries. 894. GREEN GOOSEBERRIES.—Put a pint of green gooseberries into a stewpan with two ounces of sugar and a little sherry, place them over a sharp fire, as the quicker they cook the better colour they will keep; when tender but not broken, pour them into a basin, and when cold they are ready to serve. 895. RED RHUBARB.—The small forced rhubarb (Mit- chell’s Royal Albert) is by far the best. Cut about half a pound of it into pieces half an inch in length, which put into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar and a wineglassful of water; set it over a sharp fire, occasionally shaking the stew- pan round, and when quite tender pour it into a basin until cold; when it is ready to serve, should the syrup be too thin, add sufficient isinglass to set it, and when cold dress it pyramidically upon your dish. 896. CURRANTS AND RASPBERRIES.—Pick the stalks from a pint of currants, which put into a stewpan with half a pint of raspberries and a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar; set them upon the fire, shaking the stewpan round occa- sionally until boiling, when pour them into a basin to cool. Should the syrup be too thin, which would be the case if the fruit is too ripe, drain the fruit from it, reduce it by boiling, and when cold, pour it again over the fruit, which will be then ready to serve. 89/. ROYAL ICEING FOR CAKES.—Have ready a pound of the best white sugar, which pound well and sift through a silk sieve, put it into a basin with the whites of three eggs, beat well together with a wooden spoon, adding the juice of half a lemon, keep beating well until it becomes very light and hangs in flakes from the spoon (if it should be rather too stiff in mixing, add a little more white of egg, if, on the contrary, too soft, a little more sugar), it is then ready for use where required880 DESSERT. 898. CHOCOLATE ICEING FOR CAKES is made similar to the last, but when finished have ready a piece of the common chocolate, which melt in a stewpan over the fire, keep- ing it stirred; when quite melted stir some of it in with the iceing until you have obtained the colour required, moistening the iceing with a little more white of egg, and use where directed. 899. SUGAR IN GRAINS is made by pounding a quantity of sugar in a mortar, and sifting off all the fine through a hair sieve, then again what remains in the sieve put into a rather coarse wire sieve, and that which passes through is what is meant by the above term. 900. HOW TO GIVE COLOUR TO SUGAR.—Prepare about half a pound of the sugar as in the last, which put upon a baking-sheet; have a spoonful of the essence of spinach, which stir in with the sugar until every grain is strained, then put them in a warmish place to dry, but not too hot: to colour them red, use a little prepared cochineal or liquid carmine, instead of the spinach, and proceed exactly the same: sugar may be mr.de of other colours by the use of indigo, rouge, saffron, &c.; but not being partial to such a variety of colouring, I have merely given the red and the green, which, with the white, I consider to be sufficient for any of the purposes for which they are used. 901. SUGAR OF VANILLA.—Chop a stick of well-frosted vanilla very small, and put it into a mortar, with half a pound of lump sugar, pound the whole well together in a mortar, sift through a hair sieve, and put by in a bottle or jar, corking it up tight, and using where required. 902. SUGAR OF LEMON.—Rub the rind of some fresh lemons upon a large piece of sugar, and as it discolours the part upon which it is rubbed scrape it off with a knife; when you have obtained a sufficient quantity, dry a little in the screen, and bottle for use where required. Orange sugar may be made in the same manner, substituting very red oranges for the lemons. 903. PIOW TO MAKE CLEAR SUGAR.—Break three pounds of fine white sugar, the hardest and closest grained is the best, put it into a sugar-pan, with three pints of clear spring water, set over a sharp fire, and when beginning to boil place it at the corner to simmer, and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, skim well and reduce to two thirds, it is then ready to use for jellies.381 DESSERT. If not able to obtain the best quality of sugar, it would be ne- cessary to use white of eggs as an assistance in the clarification, by putting the white of one egg in a basin and whipping it well with a pint of cold water; add half of it to the sugar, whipping it well in, let simmer, adding the remainder by degrees whilst simmering, and passing it through a fine cloth into a basin. The boiling of sugar is divided into seven different degrees, which may be ascertained by the following directions:— The first degree is known by dipping a copper skimmer into it whilst boiling, turning it over two or three times; if the sugar falls from it in sheets it has attained the first degree. The second is known by boiling your sugar rather longer, dipping your finger and thumb into cold water, then your finger into the boiling sugar, putting your finger and thumb together, and again opening them, it will form a kind of thread; if it is too weak boil a little longer; this is the most useful degree for fruit or water ices. The third degree is attained by boiling.,it a little longer, and trying it in the same manner; upon the thread breaking, should it form a kind of pearl, it has attained the above degree; the sugar in boiling would also be covered with a quantity of small bubbles resembling pearls. The,fourth degree is attained by boiling it still longer; dip a skimmer into it, turn, take out, and blow it hard, when the sugar will form little bladders and float in the air; this degree is called the souffle. For the fifth degree boil still longer, trying it in the same manner, but blowing harder; the bladders will be larger and adhere together, forming feathers; this degree is called la plume, or the feather. The sixth is called le petit easee, and is obtained by boiling the sugar a little longer: to know this degree, have a pint of cold water in a basin, into which you have put a piece of ice, dip your finger into it, then into the boiling sugar, and then into the water again, take the piece which adheres to the finger and bite, it rather crisp, but sticking to the teeth, it has attained that degree. The seventh and last requires great attention: to attain it, boil rather longer, dip your finger in as before, if it cracks and does not at all adhere to the teeth in biting, it is done, take from the fire, and it is ready for use for making any kind of sugar ornar merit.382 DESSERT. When intended for sue}} purposes, however, add a little tartaric acid when it arrives to the degree la plume, and pour it into a smaller sugar-pan, allowing it to reach the rims, it will be then unable to burn round the sides as if in a larger pan; if such a thing should, however, happen in a larger pan, wipe the interior ot the pan round with a sponge previously dipped in cold water, or it would discolour the sugar. Ornaments of spun sugar I have a very great dislike to for a dinner; but, if required, the sugar must be boiled to the last degree. Should the sugar grain, it may be brought back by adding more water, and when dissolved, boiling over again; in spinning sugar you must keep the bulk of it in a warm tempe- rature, having a little in a smaller pan for use, which keep in a melted state, by placing it in a bain-marie of hot water, or in a hot closet. 904. SILK THREAD, or SPUN SUGAR. — Having boiled your sugar to the seventh degree, as in the last, oil the handle of a wooden spoon, tie two forks together, the prongs turned outwards, dip them lightly into the sugar, take out and shake them to and fro, the sugar running from them over the spoon forming fine silken threads, proceeding thus until you have as much as you require, take it from the spoon and form it with your hands into whatever may be directed for the garnish- ing of any dish, not, however, too thick, or it would look heavy. An experienced hand would prefer doing it from the lip of the sugar-pan. Other kinds of ornaments from sugar are made in a similar manner by oiling a mould or shape and running threads of the sugar from the lip of the pan over it as tastefully as possible, but as I have not referred to it in this work I will not enter into its details. These are more fit for suppers than dinners. 905. VANILLA ICE CREAM.—Put the yolks of twelve eggs in a stewpan, with half a pound of sugar, beat well together with a wooden spoon, in another stewpan have a quart of milk, and when boiling throw in two sticks of vanilla, draw it from the fire, place on the lid, and let remain until partly cold, pom' it over the eggs and sugar in the other stewpan, mix well, and place it over the fire (keeping it stirred) until it thickens and adheres to the back of the spoon, when pass it through a tammy into a basin, let remain until cold, then have ready a pewterDESSERT. 383 freezing-pot in an ice-pail well surrounded with ice and salt;* put the above preparation into it, place on the lid, which must fit rather tightly, and commence twisting the pot round sharply, keeping it turned for about ten minutes, when take off the lid, and with your spatula clear the sides of the interior of the pot, place the lid on again, turn the pot ten minutes longer, when again clear the sides and beat the whole well together until smooth, it being then about half frozen, then add four glasses of noyeau or marasquino and a pint and a half of cream well whipped, beat the whole well together, place the lid upon the top, keep twisting it round a quarter of an hour, clear well from the sides, beat again well together, proceeding thus until the whole is frozen into a stiff but smooth and mellow substance; should you require to keep it some time before serving, pour the water which has run from the ice out of the pail, and add fresh ice and salt; when ready to serve work it up smoothly with your spatula, fill the mould, and proceed as No. 847. 906. COFFEE ICE CREAM.—Proceed exactly as in the last, but omitting the noyeau or marasquino, and making an infusion with coffee as directed (No. 43) instead of vanilla. 907. ICE OF CHOCOLATE is made similar to the vanilla ice-cream, but omitting the vanilla and liqueur, in the room of which scrape a quarter of a pound of chocolate, place it in a stewpan over the fire, and keep stirring until melted, then have ready boiling a quart of milk, which mix with the chocolate by degrees, finish with eggs and sugar, and freeze as before. 908. ICE OF PINEAPPLE.—Procure a rather small pine- apple, take off the rind, which reserve, and cut the apple into pieces an inch in length and about the thickness of a quill, place them in a sugar-pan, with half a pound of sugar and half a pint of water, set it upon the fire and reduce to a rather thickish syrup, have ready a pint and a half of milk upon the fire, into which, when boiling, throw the rind of the pineapple, cover it To fieeze quickly any description of ice, the freezing-pot must be well set; place it in the centre of the pail, which must be large enough to give a space of four inches all round, break up small twelve pounds of ice which put round at the bottom six inches in depth, over which put two pounds of salt, beat down tight with a rolling-pin, then more ice, then salt, proceeding 2M3L sysitsasSLi: ‘„he*xyo" •***384 DESSERT. over and let infuse ten minutes; in another stewpan have the yolks of twelve eggs, to which add the milk by degrees (pre- viously straining it), place over the fire, keeping it stirred until adhering to the back of the spoon, when pass it through a tammy into a basin, add the syrup and pineapple, and freeze it as in the last, adding a pint and a half of whipped cream; when half frozen, use where directed. 909. LEMON ICE CREAM.—Take the rind from six lemons as thin as possible and free from pith, squeeze the juice of the lemons into a sugar-pan, with half a pound of sugar and half a pint of water, place it upon the fire and reduce until rather a thickish syrup, have a pint and a half of milk upon the fire, into which, when boiling, throw the rind of the lemons, cover over and let remain until half cold; in another stewpan have the yolks of twelve eggs (to which you have added an ounce of sugar), with which mix the milk by degrees, and stir over the fire till it adheres to the back of the spoon, when stir in the syrup and pass it through a tammy; when cold, freeze as directed (No. 905) adding a pint of whipped cream when half frozen. 910. ORANGE ICE CREAM.—Proceed precisely as in the last, but using the juice and rind of ten oranges instead of lemons as there directed. 911. APRICOT ICE CREAM.—Procure a dozen and a half of fine ripe apricots, which cut in halves, take out the stones, which break, extracting the kernels, which blanch in very hot water, and skin, then put them with the apricots into a sugar- pan, with half a pound of sugar and half a glassful of water, let them boil until almost forming a marmalade, when put them by in a basin; have the yolks of twelve eggs in a stewpan, with which mix by degrees a pint and a half of milk, set over the fire, keeping it stirred until thick enough to adhere to the back of the spoon, when pass it through a tammy into a basin, add the syrup and apricots, and, when cold, three glasses of noyeau, freeze as in No. 905, and, when half frozen, add a pint of good whipped cream. 912. STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM.—Procure about two pounds of fine ripe strawberries, which pick and rub through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon, obtaining all the juice and pulp of the stra wberries, with which mix half a pound of pow deredDESSERT. 385 sugar, and put it by in a basin; in a stew-pan have the yolks of twelve eggs, with which mix by degrees a pint and a half of milk, stir over the fire until it becomes thickish, adhering to the back of the spoon, pass it through a tammy, and when cold add the juice from the strawberries, and three glasses of maraschino * freeze it as directed (No. 905), adding a pint of whipped cream when half frozen and sufficiently prepared; cochineal, to give it a strawberry colour, if approved of. 913. MARMALADE OF APPLE.—Peel and cut thirty apples in slices, taking out the cores, and, if for preserving, ta every pound of fruit put three-quarters of a pound of brokei sugar (but if for immediate use, half a pound would be quiti sufficient), place the whole in a large preserving-pan, with half a spoonful of powdered cinnamon and the rind of a lemon chopped very fine, set the pan over a sharp fire, stirring it occasionally until boiling, when keep stirring until becoming rather thick; it is then done: if for immediate use, a smaller quantity would be sufficient, which put by in a basin until cold; but if to keep any time, put it in jars, which cover over with paper, and tie down until wanted. 914. MARMALADE OF APRICOTS.—Stone about eight pounds of ripe fleshy apricots, break the stones, and blanch and skin the kernels, which with the apricots put into a preserving- pan, add six pounds of sugar and place it over a sharp fire, stirring occasionally until boiling, when keep stirring until be- coming rather thick, take it oft, put it in jars, and when cold tie1 paper over, and put by until ready for use. 915. QUINCE JAM PUREE.—Procure a sieve of fine ripe quinces, which peel and cut in four, taking out the cores, place them in a large preserving-pan and cover with cold water; set upon the fire, and when boiling and tender to the touch, place them in a large sieve to drain one hour, pass them through a tammy, then have ready a corresponding weight of sugar boiled to the sixth degree (No. 903) in the preserving-pan, to which add the puree of quinces, keep stirring over the fire till forming thin sheets, drop a little upon the cover of a stewpan, if it sets? quickly take it from the fire, put it in small jars, and let remain a day until quite cold, when tie them down, and put by until wanted. / J 916. APRICOT MARMALADE JAM.—Procure a quart- C «886 DESSERT. tity of very ripe apricots, each of which cut into four or six pieces, break the stones and blanch the kernels, put the apricots in a preserving-pan with a small quantity of water, boil them until quite tender, when pass them through a sieve; to every pound of fruit have three-quarters of a pound of sugar (in a preserving-pan) boiled to the sixth degree (No. 903), add the apricots with their kernels, and keep stirring over the fire until forming thin transparent sheets, try when done as in the last, and put away in pots. The marmalade would be still more transparent if you were to peel the apricots first, but then you would lose some of their delicious flavour. 917. MARMALADE OF CHERRIES.—Procure a sieve of bright Kentish cherries, pull out the stalks and stones, and put the fruit in a preserving-pan, place over the fire, keeping it stirred until reduced to two-thirds; have in another preserving- pan, to every pound of fruit, half a pound of sugar boiled to the sixth degree (No. 903), into which pour the fruit when boiling hot, let reduce, keep stirring until you can just see the bottom of the pan, when take it from the fire, and fill your jars as before. A plainer way is to take off the stalks, and stone the fruit, place them in a pan over a sharp fire, and to every pound of fruit add nearly a pound of sugar, keep stirring until reduced as above, and let it get partly cold in the pan before filling the jars. 918. STRAWBERRY JAM.—Pick twelve pounds of very red ripe strawberries, which put into a preserving-pan, with ten pounds of sugar (broken into smallish pieces), place over a sharp fire, keep continually stirring, boiling it until the surface is covered with clearish bubbles; try a little upon a cover; if it sets, fill the jars as before. 919. RASPBERRY JAM.—Pick twelve pounds of rasp- berries, and pass them through a fine sieve to extract the seeds, boil as many pounds of sugar as you had pounds of fruit to the sixth degree (No. 903), when add the pulp of the fruit, keep stirring over the fire, reducing it until you can just see the bottom of the pan, take it from the fire, and put it into jars as before. 920. JELLY OF APPLE.—Cut six dozen of sound rennet apples in quarters, take out all the pips, put them into a sugar- pan, just cover them with cold water, and place over the fire, let boil until the apples become quite pulpy, when drain them uponDESSERT. 387 a sieve, catching the liquor in a basin, which afterwards pass through a new and very clean jelly-bag; to every pint of liquor have one pound of sugar, which boil to the sixth degree as directed (No. 903); when, whilst hot, mix in the liquor from the apple with a very clean skimmer; to prevent it boiling over keep it skimmed, lift the skimmer occasionally from the pan, and when the jelly falls from it in thin sheets, take it up and fill the pots as before; the smaller pots are the best adapted for jellies. 921. JELLY OF QUINCE.—Proceed exactly as directed in the last, but using quinces instead of apples. 922. SWEETMEAT OF CURRANT JELLY.—Put half a sieve of tine red currants in a large stewpan, with a gallon of white currants, and a gallon of raspberries, add a quart of water, place over the fire, keep stirring, to prevent them sticking to the bottom, and let boil about ten minutes, pour them into a sieve to drain, catching the juice in a basin and draining the currants quite dry, pass the juice whilst hot through a clean jelly-bag, have a pound of sugar to every pint of juice, and proceed precisely as directed for apple jelly. Should you have time to pick the currants from the stalks previous to boiling, you would lose that bitter flavour, and have less difficulty in making your jelly clear. 923. CURRANT JELLY is made precisely as in the last, omitting the raspberries, the difference being in the use; the last being adapted for the garnishing of pastry, and this to use for sauces, or to serve with hares, venison, or any other meat, where required. A more simple method of making currant jelly is to rub the fruit through a sieve, and afterwards squeeze it through a fine linen cloth, put it into a preserving-pan with, to every pint of juice, three-quarters of a pound of white sugar; place over a sharp liie, stirring occasionally with a skimmer, keeping it well skimmed; it is done when dropping in sheets as before from the skimmer. For my own part, I prefer this last simple method, being quicker done, and retaining more of the full freshness of the fruit. It is not my intention to give a description of the various methods of pre- serving fruits, which belong to the confectionery department; that i’shall do in the Letters from the Farm ; I have, however, given the few foregoine receipts, they being required for reference from various parts of our work, c c 2DESSERT. 388 and being all that are required for the garnishing of dishes for the second course , many other fruits may, however, be made into marmalades and jellies by following these few simple directions. SALADS OF VARIOUS FRUITS. You will perceive, my dear Eloise, that there is no end to the variation of dishing fruits for desserts ; I send the following as being more simple than any, and within the reach of almost every individual. 924. SALAD OF ORANGES.—Select four good oranges, the thinnest rind ones are preferable; cut them crosswise into slices double the thickness of a crown-piece, dress them round upon your dish, one piece resting half-way upon the other, shake one ounce of sifted sugar over, pour over a good tablespoonful of brandy, and it is ready; to serve it out, put two pieces upon the plate of each guest, with a spoonful of the syrup. Slices of red Malta oranges, dressed alternately with the other, have a pleasing effect. Any kind of liquor may be used, as also might whisky, rum, or that white cream or blue devil commonly called g—; dear me, I quite forget the name! 925. SALAD OF STRAWBERRIES.—Pick the stalks from a pottle of very fine strawberries, which put into a basin with half a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, two glasses of brandy, and an ounce of sifted sugar, toss them lightly over, and dress them in pyramid upon your dish, pouring the syrup over; these should only be dressed a few minutes before serving; the brandy might be omitted. If handy, a glass of maraschino, substituted for brandy, makes them delicious. The small wild strawberry is the best for this dish. 926. SALAD OF PEACHES.—Procure four ripe peaches, winch peel and cut into quarters; put them into a basin with two ounces of sugar and a glass of sherry, toss them lightly over, dress upon your dish, and serve. Apricots, greengages, and other plums, are dressed in salads in the same manner, leaving their skins on. 927. SALAD OF CURRANTS AND RASPBERRIES. -—Put an equal quantity of each, making rather more than a pint, into a basin, with two ounces of powdered sugar-candy, and a little powdered cinnamon, toss them over lightly, and they are ready to serve.DESSERT. 389 928. PINE APPLES.—I have tried several experiments with the West Indian pine apples, many of which being rather stale when they arrive here, would make an unsightly appearance whole upon the table, but made into a compote or salad, they are really very excellent, having also the advantage of being very cheap. For a compote, peel one rather thickly, to leave no black spots upon it, make a syrup with half a pound of sugar, as directed (No. 903), out your pine apple into round slices a quarter of an inch in thickness, which put into the syrup, boiling them ten minutes; take them out with a colander-spoon, reduce the syrup until thickish, and pour it over the pine-apple; when cold it is ready to serve. For a salad, peel and cut a pine-apple into small square dice, which put into a basin with two ounces of sugar-candy (pow- dered) and a glass of noyeau, toss all well together and serve. For marmalade, pare and cut into small pieces several small pine-apples, and to every quart thus cut up add one pound of fine sugar, boil for half an hour, and put in a pot. CAKES. 929. CAKE OF SAVOY IN MOULD.—Have ready a large high mould lightly buttered (with a soft brush, and clarified butter), turn the mould up to drain, and when the butter is quite set throw some finely-sifted sugar into it; move the mould round until the sugar has adhered to every part, after which turn out the superfluous sugar-, tie a band of buttered paper round at the top, and place it in a cool place until the mixture is ready. 1 lace the yolks of fourteen eggs in a basin, with one pound of sugai (upon which you have rubbed the rind of two lemons pre- vious to pounding), beat well together with a wooden spoon until nearly white, then whip the whites of the eggs very stiff, add them to the yolks and sugar, with six ounces of flour and six ounces of potato-flour; mix the whole lightly, but well together, and fill the mould rather more than three parts full, place°it in a very moderate oven one hour, keeping the oven-door shut; then try when done, as directed in No. 931; if done, take off the paper and turn it out upon a sieve until quite cold. The above mix- ture, being more delicate than No. 931, would not do so well forDESSERT. 390 removes, but may be used for that purpose by being made three or four days before it is required. 930. SAVOY CAKES, OR LADIES’ FINGERS.—Have the weight of nine eggs of sugar in a bowl, which put into a bain-marie of hot water, weigh the same weight of flour, which sift through a wire sieve upon paper, break the eggs into a bowl, and proceed as directed for sponge-cake; then with a paper funnel or bag, with a tin pipe made for that purpose, lay it out upon papers into biscuits three inches in length and the thickness of your little finger, sift sugar over, shaking olf all that does not adhere to them; place them upon baking-sheets, and bake in rather a warm oven of a brownish-yellow colour, when done and cold, detach them from the paper by wetting it at the back, place them a short time to dry, and they are ready for use for charlotte russe, or wherever directed. 931. SPONGE CAKE.—Put one pound of powdered sugar in a good-sized bowl, which stand in a bain-marie of hot water; sift one pound of flour upon a sheet of paper, then break twelve eggs into the bowl with the sugar, which whisk rather quickly until they become a little warm and rather thickish, then take the bowl from the bain-marie, and continue whisking until nearly or quite cold; then add the chopped rind of a lemon and the flour, which mix lightly with a wooden spoon; have ready your mould or baking-dish lightly buttered, into which you have put a little flour, knocking out all that does not adhere to the butter, pour in the mixture and place it one hour in a moderate oven, it may require longer or not so long, but that will depend entirely upon the compass you have it in; if done, it will feel firm to the touch, but the surest method is to run a thin wooden skewer into the centre; if it comes out clean, the cake is done, but if not some of the mixture would adhere to it; care should be taken not to disturb it until quite set, or it would sink in the centre, and never properly bake; when done, turn it out upon a sieve to cool. Serve where indicated. 932. SMALL SPONGE CAKES.—Put six whole eggs into an earthen pan with half a pound of sugar, upon which you have previously rubbed the rind of a lemon, stand the pan in very hot water, keeping its contents well mixed until becoming rather warm, when take it from the water, continuing to whisk until quite cold and thickish, stir in gently half a pound ol sifted391 DESSERT. flour, have ready buttered and dusted with sugar, about a dozen small sponge-cake tins, put a tablespoonful of the mixture into each, shake sugar over, and bake them in a moderate oven. 933. POUND CAKES.—Put one pound of butter into an earthen pan with a pound of powdered sugar, and a little grated nutmeg, beat them well together with the hand until forming a smooth lightish cream, when add by degrees eight eggs, beating it for ten minutes after, then add a pound and a quarter of sifted flour, stir it in lightly, and put the mixture into hoops to bake. 934. QUEEN’S CAKES.—Weigh of butter the weight of six eggs, and nine of powdered sugar, which put together in an earthen pan, beat well with the hand until forming a smooth cream, when add by degrees nine eggs, and when well beat, stir in the weight of nine eggs of flour and half a pound of currants; have ready buttered about a dozen little round cake pans, fill each one rather better than three parts full with the mixture, shake sugar over, and bake them in a moderate oven. If no cake pans, drop the mixture upon paper in pieces half the size of a walnut, and an inch and a half apart, shake sugar over, bake in a warm oven, and, when done, remove them from the papers. 935. ALMOND CAKES.—Procure one pound of ground almonds, to which add two pounds of powdered sugar, mixin°" the whole with the whites of nine eggs, beating the mixture well with a wooden spoon tor about ten minutes, lay them out upon wafer paper of an oval shape with a tablespoon, put three or four strips of almonds upon the top of each, and bake them in a slow oven; when done, break away all the wafer paper but that which adheres to the bottom of the cake, and, when cold, they are ready for use. J 936. COCOA-NUT BISCUITS.—Scrape four cocoa-nuts, to which add the same weight of powdered sugar, mix with whites of eggs, beating with a wooden spoon until formin" a so tish but thick paste; lay the mixture out upon wafer-paper in small drops, baking them as directed in the last. 937. MOSS BISCUITS.—Weigh half a pound of flour, to which add an ounce and a half of butter and five ounces of su^ar rub them well together, and mix with one whole and one white of egg and a teaspoonful of milk; then add two ounces of ground almonds, which rub well into the paste; afterwards rub thewholeDKSSERT. 392 through a gauze wire sieve, taking it off in small pieces, which lay upon a lightly buttered baking-sheet, and bake them in a moderate oven. 938. ROUT CAKES.—Procure one pound of ground al- monds, to which add one pound of powdered sugar, mixing them together with yolks of eggs until forming a stiffisk but flexible paste, when form it into small biscuits of the shapes of coronets, bunches of filberts, birds’ nests, or any other shape your fancy may dictate: let them remain five or six hours, or all night upon the baking-sheet, and bake them in a warm oven. 939. ROUT BISCUITS.—Boil a pound and a quarter of lump sugar, upon which you have rubbed the rind of a lemon, in half a pint of milk; when cold, rub half a pound of butter with, two pounds of flour, make a hole in the centre, pour in the milk with as much carbonate of soda as would lie upon a sixpence, and a couple of eggs, mix the whole into a smooth paste, lay it out upon your baking-sheet in whatever flat shapes you please, ;uid bake them in a very warm oven. The proper way to shape these biscuits is by wooden blocks having leaves, pine-apples, and other devices carved upon them. 940. CREAM BISCUITS.—Rub one pound of fresh butter into one pound of flour, make a hole in the centre, into which put half a pound of powdered sugar, upon which the rind of a lemon was rubbed previously to pounding, and three whole eggs; mix the eggs well with the sugar, and then mix altogether, forming a flexible paste; cut it into round pieces each nearly as large as a wahiut, stamp them flat with a butter-stamp of the size of a crown piece, and bake them in a slack oven. 941. SHREWSBURY CAIvES.—Weigh one pound of flour, into which rub half a pound of butter and six ounces of sugar, make a hole in the centre, into which break a couple of eggs, and add sufficient milk to form a flexible paste, which roll out to the thickness of a penny piece, and cut it into small cakes with a round cutter; bake them in a moderate oven. Ginger Cakes are made precisely as the above, but adding half an ounce of ground ginger before mixing; and Cinnamon Cakes, by rubbing in an ounce and a half of ground cinnamon after the paste is mixed.393 DESSERT. 942. MACAROONS.—Blanch and skin half a pound of sweet almonds, dry them well in your screen, then put them into a mortar with a pound and a half of lump sugar, pound well together, and pass the whole through a wire sieve; put it again into a mortar, with the whites of two eggs, mix well together with the pestle, then add the white of another egg, proceeding thus until you have used the whites of about eight eggs and made a softish paste, when lay them out at equal distances apart, upon wafer-paper, in pieces nearly the size of walnuts, place some strips of almonds upon the top, sift sugar over, and bake in a slow oven of a yellowish brown colour; they are done when set quite firm through. 943. RATAFIAS.—Ratafias are made similar to the above, but deducting two ounces of sweet, and adding two ounces of bitter almonds; they are laid out in much smaller cakes upon common paper, and baked in a much warmer oven; when cold, they may be taken off the paper with the greatest ease. These cakes are very serviceable in making a great many second-course dishes. 944. ITALIAN DROPS.—Have a mixture similar to the above, with merely a liqueur glassful of best noyeau, lay it in round drops upon paper, and bake in a hot oven without sifting any sugar over; when taken from the papers, dry them a little in the screen, and they are ready to serve. The bottoms may be spread over with apricot marmalade, and two stuck together just previous to being served, if approved of. 94o. BOLA D’AMOUR—LOVE CAKES.—Take the yolks of eggs, as many as ai’e required for the dish (about twelve), and beat them up in a pan with an equal weight of sugar, the same as sponge cakes, using any kind of liquor or essence for flavouring. When the mixture is beaten up light and got thick, have ready some clarified butter in a stewpan, made hot enough for frying. Pour the mixture into a funnel having a small bore or pipe, and let it run into the hot butter, turning the hand while it is running, so that it may be formed into threads all over the surface of the pan. In about two minutes it will be done, when it should be taken out with a skimmer, and be placed on the dish for serving, garnishing it with any kind of preserve, and serve cold. Another way is, to beat up the eggs with some liquor, and run it into some boiling syrup at the blow.394 DESSERT S46. THE QUEEN VICTORIA’S CAKE.—To three- quarters of a pound of flour, add half an ounce of German yeast, mixed with warm water until forming a stiff paste, and place it in a stewpan, and let it stand by the fire or oven until well risen, during which time the butter must be well worked until soft, adding a quarter of a pound of flour more and five ect?s gradually, and beat them well together; when done, if the lenten is well risen, add to it one and a-lialf pound of raisins, with a little salt and sugar; let it stand in the mould for a short time, and bake it in a slow oven. 947. COTTAGE CAKE.—Procure from a baker half a quartern of dough, which put into an earthen pan; melt in a stew- pan half a pound of either fresh or salt butter; mix both well with the hand, adding half a pound of sugar; add to it half a pound of currants well washed, one and a-lialf pound of plums, and a teaspoonful of mixed spice; when well mixed, place it in a hoop or pan before the fire; let it rise for one hour, and send it to be baked; it will take about one hour in a slow oven. 948. W ES r INDIA CAKE.—Proceed as above for the ingredients; then add a quarter of a pound of preserved West Indian ginger, cut in small dice, and four spoonfuls of brandy, and two teaspoonfuls of dry grated ginger; bake as above. 949. ELETHERIAN PINE APPLE CAKE. — Take three-quarters of a pound of pine apple, not over ripe, peel it; place half a pound of white sugar in a pan, with half a pint of water, boil till a thick syrup; cut the pine in small dice of a quarter of an inch, and pour the syrup over; and, when nearly cold, add to it the dough, which has previously been mixed with three-quarters of a pound of butter and two eggs; let it rise in a hoop as above, and bake in the same way: a glass of rum may be added. LETTER No. XVIII. ROYAL ST. JAMES’S CAKE. June 16, 1849. My dear Eloise,—Though you did not expect to hear from me again to- day, after the manuscript I forwarded to you, it is quite an unexpected cir- cumstance that makes me write now, therefore you must know, dear, that, through very great interest, I had this day the honour and pleasure to witness395 DESSERT. one of the most interesting sights which England alone, at the present time, can boast of. Not to tantalize your womanly curiosity, I shall, without delay, tell you that it was a juvenile entertainment, given by the liberal and inde- fatigable manager of the St. James’s Theatre, Mr. Mitchell, under the roo'f of which house he had the honour of entertaining the Crown of Great Britain, the blooming buds of the Royal Family, supported by the rising branches of the aristocracy, all with elegant bouquets, and possessing joyful faces, caused by the excellent entertainment the intelligent proprietor provided to gratify their infantine ideas. Nearly three hundred in number seemed to join their happiness with that of the Prince of Wales, Prince Alfred, the Princess Royal, and the Princess Alice, under the superintendence of her Most Gracious Majesty, and their august father, Prince Albert, who, in a homely and happy family manner, seemed, for the time, to have forgotten their mortal grandeur in joining the youthful happiness of those lovely children, who, in time, will be the ornament and pride of England. Knowing, by study, that pleasure and satisfaction of mind, in any state of life, increase or create appetite, especially upon children, on arriving at home, feeling rather tired, I lay down on a couch, and took a short repose; but being full of the pleasing sight I had just witnessed, and my imagination lately so involved with gas- tronomy, it caused me to dream that, by special order, I was to make a monster cake for the luncheon of those lovely children, which they were to partake of after their terpiscolyridramacomic festivity; to my ephemeral ideas, the cake was made, and the table laid in a vast room, where grada- tions of chairs and tables were erected in a demi-circle, at the top of which the branches of the royal family were gracefully sitting, and surrounded, according to rank, by the other juveniles ; the banqueting-hall seemed to me like the theatre, decorated all over with festoons of natural flowers; the dif- ferent tables were surcharged with every description of delicacy; fruit, ices, effervescent refreshment of all kinds were provided; every child seemed to be waited on by their noble parents, her Majesty leading them to follow her maternal affection. When grace was invoked, I was appointed to cut and distribute the monster cake, which, to my present recollection, was no less than four feet in height, three wide, and most beautifully ornamented with all kinds of bon-bons, small-fruits, pistaches, &c. Having reached the centre platform, where that supposed chef-d’ceuvre of cake was exhibited and gazed at by the widely-opened eyes of the youthful multitude, I was just in the act of raising the knife which was placed there for me to cut it with, when my liand all at once was seized, as if by magic, to prevent me from doing so. After a deep sigh, I awoke, and perceived it was my younger boy Raphael pulling me by the arm, saying, “Mamma, the dinner is ready!” Though much annoyed with the sudden disappearance of such a fairy scene, I could not find it in my heart to scold him for his innocent interference with my enchanted illusion ; but, as far as recollection serves me from a dream IDESSERT. 396 perfectly recollect all the delicate ingredients which I supposed I had put in it; therefore, if you want to make a small one, proceed as follows: 950. ST. JAMES’S CAIvE.—Put one pound of very fresh butter in a good-size kitchen basin, and with the right hand work it up well till it forms quite a white cream; then add one pound powdered sugar, mix well, add ten eggs by degrees; put to dry a pound and a quarter of flour, which mix as lightly as possible with it; blanch and cut in slices two ounces of pistachios, two ditto of green preserved angelica, add two liqueur glasses jf noyeau, two drops of essence of vanilla; whip a gill and a-kalf of cream till very thick, mix lightly with a wooden spoon, have a mould made the shape of the drawing, put it in, and send to the baker; it will take about one hour and a quarter to bake; ornament as represented in the subjoined cut: sr. james’s cake. You will perceive, my dear, that my ideas are more extravagant in my sleep than when awake, but pi-ay consider who was to partake of it. In case you do not succeed at first, I intend to give the receipt to Mr. Purcell, of Comhill, who will make it to perfection for you.397 THE DINNER-TABLE. LETTER No. XIX. THE DINNER-TABLE. Mr dear Er.oiSE,—I thank you for your kind compliment, but I have always been of opinion that the arrangements and serving of a dinner-table have as much to do with the happiness and pleasure of a party as the viands which are placed upon it; this I had a practical proof of last week. Sir. B. and myself were invited to dine with Mr. D., a city friend, at Balham Hill; I had before met Mrs. D. at an evening party at his partner’s, at Hackney, and knew but little of her. Dinner was served pretty punctually, only half an hour after time. On my entrance in the room my first glance at the table showed me that there was a want of savoir-faire in its management; the plate, very abundant and splendid, was of so yellow a cast that it looked as if it were plated, and the cut glass was exceedingly dim. My first surprise was that there were no napkins, the next the soup plates were quite cold, which I have found often the case in other houses; after being served with fish, and waiting until it was cold for the sauce to eat with it, I was rather sceptical how the rest of the dinner would progress. After the first, the second course made its ap- pearance, which was heavy and too abundant; the plain things were well done, but there was only one servant in the room for the whole party of four- teen, and from the strict formality of the table, it would have been a sacrilege to have handed your plate for any vegetables, or anything else you might require. There were four saltcellars, certainly very massive silver ones, at each corner of the table, and a beautiful cruet-frame in the centre; the hot dishes of this course, like the previous one, became cold and tasteless before being eaten, and during the time the servant was serving the champagne all the plates were empty ; in fact, it was a good dinner spoilt. The wine drank with less gofit than usual, and the long pauses between the courses made the formality appear still greater than it really was, and made you wish for the time to arrive for the cloth to be removed, which was not done, only the slips, a most awkward undertaking for one servant, and should never be practised unless having at least two. . •A-ljoufc l>alf an hour after the cloth was removed, and just as the conversa- tion was being thawed from the freezing it received at the dinner-table, Mrs. D. and the ladies withdrew, and for an hour and a half we had to bear the insipid conversation of the drawing-room, the hissing urn on the tea-table bearing a prominent part. Several messages were sent from time to time to the dining-room that coffee was ready; and when at last the gentlemen came, wo had had quite wine enough, which caused them to receive sundry angry •looks from their wives who were present, and who were glad to get them intoTHE DINNER-TABLE. 898 their carriages, which were waiting, and right glad indeed was I when ours was announced. This all happened, my dear Eloise, not from meanness; for if money could have purchased it nothing would have been wanting, but solely from want of management; and every one should think before they invite their friends to partake of their hospitality if they know how to entertain them. Money of course will provide delicacies of all kinds, but to know how to dis- pose of those delicacies to the best advantage, that your friends may appre- ciate them, is what is sadly wanting in more than one house I visit. A very excellent remark is made in this week’s Punch* by Mr. Brown, in his Letters to a Young Man about town on the subject of great and little dinners. He says : “ Properly considered, the quality of the dinner is twice blest; it blesses him that gives, and him that takes ; a dinner with friend- liness is the best of all friendly meetings—a pompous entertainment, where no love is, is the least satisfactory.” Our dinner on which you compliment me so much, we sat down twelve, for although the room and table would accommodate more, yet as my service of plate is for that number, and the arrangements of the kitchen are limited, that is the number I prefer, besides beyond which the conversation becomes partial, which is the bane of a dinner-table. You know we have no regular man-servant, but for these occasions I hire two, and place one on each side the table, and they each have their own side table with a change of every- thing that is required. The first thing to be looked to is the lights: these ought to be so placed as not to intercept the view of any person at the table, but at the same time they ought to be enough to show everything off to ad- vantage ; I prefer removing some of the lights from the table to the sideboard when the cloth is removed, as the light after dinner ought to be more sub- dued. In laying the cloth, we place it over the baize and remove it after dinner, as Mr. B. says he likes to see the mahogany, for when he asks a City friend to come and put his feet under his mahogany, it looks rather foolish if he never sees it. I have, as you know, my table rather wide, that is, six feet, and I generally place a vase of flowers in the centre, as I think their freshness and odour add greatly to the appearance of the table, and admit a flanc on each side. We prefer the old English plan of taking the top and bottom of the table instead of I and Mr. B. being together at the side. The cloth being laid with its proper side uppermost, I order a napkin, two knives, two prongs, two tablespoons, and two wine glasses to be placed to each person, a saltcellar between every other, that being a condiment which every one uses, though often wrongly ; the cruet-frames and other requisites are kept on the sideboards. I then have the fish and soup served together. •July, 1849.399 THE DINNER-TABLE. the potatoes and sauce on the sideboard; I serving the soup, and Mr. B. the fish, and often a little dish of fried fish, such as smelts, &c., to remove the soups. This gives me an opportunity of seeing that my guests are properly attended to, and also leisure of taking wine with any gentleman who challenges me. During the time this course has been progressing, the cook has had time to dish up the removes nice and hot, and get all up close to the door, as I like as little time as possible to intervene in changing the dishes ; and these consist generally of variously dressed chickens, which I have before5 me, as this gives an opportunity for the gentleman on my right to display his gallantry; but, thanks to Soyer’s separator, this is an easy task: it also affords me still further leisure to pay attention to my guests. Mr. B., who is a capital carver, either has a saddle or a haunch of mutton, or a quarter of lamb before him, the rest of the dishes consisting of a tongue and entrees. I select those most easy to carve, and also easy for the cook to prepare. This is a period of dinner where a great deal depends upon the attendants • they should know almost by the look what this lady or that gentleman require and what kind of vegetables to hand them ; a first-rate butler should be able to judge by the physiognomy to whom he should offer mint sauce with the lamb, and who prefers cayenne ; on their attention and hot plates depends the success of the substantial part of the dinner. As soon as I see that all are served, and words are few in consequence of the organs which utters them being employed in another way, I give a look to the two servants which they understand, and immediately two reports are heard-they are from two bottles of champagne, opened at the same time by alort t “I ' 7 eaCh a SalV6r WHh SiX gIaSS6S 0n U J this tal«s but a short time to serve, and prepares the palate for the entrees, which generally lie Td ’’ 7 \my C°°k W0UW thiDk something was wrong if two of the dishes did not go down empty. By having the champagne thus I find it goes much further than if only one bottle was opened at the time there ng sufficient left m the bottles for a gentleman to challenge a lady to take Srzr: r „"1 hm1 *°p id botjm dita with them, and make the sweets a separate course takino- o™ t .. Jn thf°i i!"1”1-' 7' h*™s ““ ii<luor“ banded ,iund whei the swells',™ •ervice at an English dinner-table, and only a cony ^<777 be'”g °f no one neighbours. It we are more cleanly at the table than they^Ttwhlehl beLSdiz7hthhi;rr£f*tTz*Tr°UhoJ“t:° hold, rose water, and the inner one a StZtd, « t C°"’P"tm“» on salve,,, and p.„ed down each side the table, the eo™, 77h naplS400 THE DINNER-TABLE. being (lipped into it. They seem to be absolutely required, and I must say they form a delightful adjunct to the dinner-table. Mr. B.* has also introduced at our table, but only at Christmas, another city custom, which the gentlemen seem very much to like,—I cannot say so for the ladies ; it is what he calls the loving cup ; he has it placed before him when the cheese is put on ; and after filling the glass of the lady on each side of him, he rises and drinks to their health and the rest of the company, and then passes it to the gentleman on the left, who in like manner, fills the glass of the lady on his left, rises, drinks to her health and the company, and thus it goes round the table. Your husband, my dear Eloise, thought that the contents were exceedingly good ; or, as he expressed it, nectar fit for the gods, and would like to have the receipt—here it is as Mr. B. prepares it:— Loving Cup.—The cup holds two quarts : he places in it half a teacupful of capillaire ; if he has none he uses dissolved lump sugar, with a few drops of orange-flower water in it, one pint of brown sherry, one bottle of good Edinburgh ale, mixing these together, and a minute before placing on the table, adding one bottle of soda water, + stirring it well up till it froths, he then grates some nutmeg on the froth, and places a piece of toast in it, and sends it to the table with a napkin through the handle of the cup. I must say, since we have had this, it has produced some most interesting conversa- tion as regarded the antiquity of the custom, &c. In addition, Mr. B. bought the cup at a sale, and it is stated to have been drunk out of by Henry the Eighth : this of itself is a subject of conversation, and draws out the talents and conversational powers of our guests, and one in which ladies can join, as there is hardly one of our sex who has not read Miss Strickland’s “Queens of England.” You have often made the remark, that the time always appears short whilst we are at table ; this is, no doubt, from the animated conversa- tion which is kept up, for that is the real motive of meeting together, to enjoy the conversation of one another, to gain and impart information, and amuse ourselves with the wit and talent of those around us, and not for the sake of eating and drinking; yet without the assistance of both of these, the most sparkling wit would be as heavy as a bad souffle, and the brightest talent as dull as my looking-glass on a foggy day. In order to prolong the time, and to enjoy the gentlemen's society as much as possible, I do not have the dessert placed on the table until ten or twenty minutes after the cloth is removed ; this gives an opportunity for my guests to admire the beautiful Sevres dessert plates, containing views of different French chateaux ; this of course gives a subject for conversation to those who have visited them. In the dessert I generally introduce some new importa- * With regard to the wine, that is a matter I leave entirely to Mr. B., but his maxim is, that “the best is the cheapest.” •f Soyer’s nectar, instead of soda water, is an improvement.401 THE DINNER-TABLE. tion, such as bananas, sugar-cane, American lady apples, prickly pears, &c. ; these also give a subject for the gentlemen to talk about when the ladies have left, as free trade, colonial policy, &c. About half an hour after the dessert is on the table, and when I see that the conversation is becoming less general, I retire to the drawing-room ; the servants then remove the used glass and plates, and Mr. B. introduces some of his choice Claret or Burgundy in ice coolers. You know, my dear Eloise, I allow very little more than half an hour for us to talk about the last new fashions, or of Mrs. A. and B.’s cap, and the young ones about their partners at the last ball, and other nothings, when the tea and coffee are brought up on salvers; it is always made down stairs, and sent up in cups to the drawing-room, although Mr. B. had a very hand- some silver service presented to him just after we were married, for serving as an honorary secretary to some grand masonic festival, yet the milk ewer and sugar basin are all I allow in the room. This does away with the formality of the tea-table and the hissing of the tea-urn ; it allows some joung gentleman with a Byron collar and a little down under his chin to turn over the pages of a music-book for a young lady at the piano, and take his coffee at the same time; it allows my dear mamma and Mr. P. to make up their whist table, and have their tea whilst playing; or if we make up a quadrille, to have a few turns of a waltz or polka, the coffee is serving during the time ; whilst this is going on the hand of the clock advances, and half past ten soon arrives, and with it Mrs. C.’s fly ; Dr. D.’s brougham is at the door ; the party breaks up, delighted with the evening they have passed each other’s society : and this you see done with trifling management. LETTER No. XX. Dearest Eloise,—You are right in your remark, that there is a great difference as to the manner and way in which evening parties o'r soirees are given in different houses, although being frequented by the same party of circle I must say I have my own ideas on this subject, and I think the lench understand th18 matter much better than we do, and that we could not do better than imitate them. We English are a plodding, matter-of-fact people, and carry our notions into every concern in life : our dinners and. entertainments are given with an ulterior object, and with a view of what niay be gained from it, even from the charitable dinner at the London Tavern to the man who asks another to partake a crust of bread and cheese and a p nt of beer with him at a public-house. It is this feeling, together with the ostentation, which is the bane of society, by bringing together people of mcongru.ty of ideas, and destroying that free exchange of thought which constitutes the true pleasure of social reunions. We are also naturall, „ D DBEVERAGES FOR EVENING PARTIES. 402 reserved and cautious disposition : hence the reason why the pleasures of a Soiree are not felt until after supper. For these I am a great advocate, though not to the extravagant and outr6 manner so many are given at the present day. Of course in the way most ladie3 are now educated, they would rather he attending to the adornment of their persons for the occasion than to the entertainment and amusement of their guests. Those who can afford it, are quite right to patronise a first-rate confectioner, and thus save' them- selves the trouble ; but how many that cannot afford to do the same thing, and make a bargain for a bad supper, by which they gain but little, and cause the guests great disgust, instead of preparing it at home, and ordering a few good things which would look and eat well. There are a variety of drinks which could be made at a moderate expense, good and wholesome, and infinitely better than bad Marsala, which you are often obliged to par- take of. I will enclose you a few receipts for them, and some bills of fare for suppers for small soirees, not such as described in Mr. Pips his Diary a few’ weeks since. BEVERAGES FOR EVENING PARTIES. 951. LEMONADE.—Peel six lemons free from pith, cut the peel up in small pieces, and put them with two cloves into a bottle with half a pint of hot water, and place it in a bain-marie, or stewpan, with boiling water, and let it stand by the side of the fire for one or two hours, taking care it does not boil; remove it and let it remain until cold; then take half a pint of lemon- juice, half a pint of capillaire—if none, use sugar, that will make the same quantity of syrup—to which add a few drops of orange- flower water; add the infusion of the rind, stir well together, and add two quarts of cold water. The acidity of some lemons is greater than others, in which case, and also if using lime juice, more capillaire must be used. 952. COLD PUNCH.—Proceed as above for lemonade, but add one pint of capillaire to half a pint of lemon juice, one pint of pale brandy, one pint of pale rum, one tablespoonful of arrack, and five quarts of cold water; let it remain some time before it is decantered. 953. PORT WINE NEGUS.—Take one quart of new port wine, of a fruity character, one tablespoonful of spirit of cloves, one teacupful of sugar, one lemon sliced, half a nutmeg grate , pour over these two quarts ot boiling water.403 SANDWICHES. 954. WHITE WINE FILLIP.—Take or.e bottle of sherry or Madeira, or champagne, or any other good white wine, a gill of noyeau or maraschino, the juice of half a lemon, add to it one quart of calf’s foot jelly well sweetened and boiling hot, and serve immediately. 955. SANDWICHES.—In making a large quantity, a stale quartern loaf should be taken and trimmed free from all crust, and cut into slices the eighth of an inch in thickness, slightly buttered, and then thin slices of meat, nicely trimmed, may be laid on and covered with another slice of bread, and then cut into eight parts; should they be cut some time before they are wanted, they ought to be put one over the other, as they thus keep moist,—a little mustard and salt may be added to the meat, if preferred. Some thin slices of gherkin may be added to the meat, and the same plan can be adopted with pickled fish, brawn, or sausages. The following varies the common mode of making sand- wiches ;— 956. CHEESE SANDWICH (quite new).—Take a small quantity of very fresh cream cheese, put it into a basin or a marble mortar,, add some salt, pepper, and a little mustard, beat it well up until it is ot the same consistence as butter; if too hard, add a little of the latter, and use it as butter on the bread, with slices of meat between. 951. SALAD SAEDWICHES.—Cover the bread as before, and have ready some mustard and cress and water-cresses well washed and dried, put into a bowl with mayonnaise sauce, and when ready to serve place it neatly between the bread. LETTER No. XXI. Farm, Essex, July —, 1849. My DEAR Elois&—You are no doubt surp/ised at receiving this from the above address, but you remember when you last called I thought my little Emily was unwell, the next day she seemed worse, I then had Dr _ who ordered her out of town, and a friend of Mr. 14.’s being present recom- mended this place; so Emily and I have now been a week here, and she has already improved by the change of air; it has also done rae good and I am D D 2404 BUTTER, CHEESE, ETC. greatly amused with the various occupations going on in the farm, which is an old-fashioned one, tenanted by a good old English farmer, his wife, and son; the latter is gone to see a brother settled in Liverpool. The cleanliness and regularity of the house are quite charming; but what delights me more than all is the dairy—such delicious cream and butter that it makes me quite envy people living in the country! I must describe the pretty dairy to you: it is situated at the back of the house, and sheltered by it from the mid-day and afternoon’s sun, and from the morning’s sun by a plantation, so that it is deliciously cool; it is about twelve feet long by ten wide, paved with flag stones, and the walls of plaster, like stone, a door at one end with a window above and a window high up at the other end, and two windows at the side; these have thin wire shutters and glazed sashes on hinges; the roof is of slate, with about two feet thickness of thatch over it; there are also several little openings for the admission of air, about one inch from the floor. A dresser, two feet wide, being two inches from the wall, is on both sides, and above these are two shelves of nine inches wide also two inches from the wall, these are supported on iron brackets. At the end, and opposite the door, is the churn, which is turned by a wheel outside, with apparatus for a donkey or mule to work it, if required. AH the utensils are of sycamore wood and perfectly clean, never used twice without washing in hot water with soda put in it, and made perfectly dry. There are as many ways of making butter as there are counties in Great Britain. I will now tell you how it is practised here. The cows are milked at a regular hour, not later than five, the milk taken as soon as possible into the dairy, and placed in the dishes, about six quarts in each; it is thus left for twenty-four hours; then it is skimmed, and the cream from each is placed m a deep bowl or pan, where it remains until the next day, when it is churned. Eridav’s milk is made into cheese; when churned it is gathered well together from the milk and laid in a clean bowl, with hard spring water in it, and worked to and fro until it is brought to a firm consistence; it is then laid out thin, and then what is called here a scotclier is taken—that is, a kind of five-pronged fork of wood, only each prong is as sharp as a knife and drawn through every part of it; then whatever salt is required is added, and it is then formed into pats, or done any way they like. If intended as corned or salt butter, they then add one pound of fine salt to every fourteen pounds of butter; in some places the coarsest grained salt is used; in others two pounds o s. one pound of saltpetre, and one pound of white sugar mixed together, one fourth of this for every fourteen pounds. If intended for keeping, > is pu into stone crocks until it is wanted. The way in which they make the cheese here is as follows: all Friday’s milk is taken, that of the «’s P until the afternoon, and mixed with it; then two spoonfu so rtnnc <- ry twelve quarts of milk are put to it and well mixed, it is then left all g . Very early the next morning the curd is removed with mstramer and equa ly405 CLOUTED CREAM. broken into the cheese vat or mote until it is about one inch above the brim, a cheese cloth or strainer having previously been put at the bottom of the vat, and large enough to allow for part of it to be turned over the top when the vat is filled; when thus filled it is taken to the press, and left for two hours with a clean cloth under it; it is then turned over on the cloth, and pressed again; and the same process is continued three or four hours out of the twenty-four. It is then removed and placed on the shelf, and turned regularly every day for the first two months; after that, occasionally. I intend to try my hand at it shortly, and see what I can make of it. I find that the butter which is made here and potted for winter use, is not intended to be sold as salt, but as fresh, and the dairy-maid has just told mo how it is done. For every quart of new milk from the cow, she takes one pound of potted butter, which has been treated thus the day previous : into two quarts of cold water two tablespoonfuls of vinegar are mixed, and the potted butter well broken and kneaded in it, and then taken out, and served the same in fresh water, in which it is left until the next morning, and then mixed with the milk, put into the chum and churned again, and then treated in the usual way as butter; by this plan there is a large quantity of sweet milk always in the farm, as it is exceedingly good when strained. The following is the way they make the clouted cream 958. CLOUTED CREAM.—Strain the milk as soon as it comes iiom the cow into wide pans, holding about six quarts each, so as to be about three inches deep, and let it remain for twenty-four hours; then gently place the pan upon a hot plate or slow charcoal fire, which must heat it very gently, for if it boils it is spoilt; as soon as the cream forms a rinc in the middle, remove a little with the finger, and if there are a few bubbles rise m the place where you do so, it is done, which will be in half to three quarters of an hour; remove it from the fire, and let it remain twenty-four hours; then skim it, and throw a little sugar on the top. There is also a large quantity of milk which undergoes a particular process, which I shall hereafter describe, and is then sent to London, to Mr. Fadeuilhe where it is made into a solid substance, so that it is preserved for ships’ use! I have tried some of it, and very excellent it is. LETTER XXII. Bifrons Villa, July 22, 1849. Mr dear Er.oisn, You will perceive by this that I am at home again nccto^lrn v “ COnSTT6 °f Mr’ R beinS ^ligcd to leave town unex- P y on business. 0 these men! what important busy beings they are;406 CONVERSATION ON HOUSEHOLD AFFAIRS. but we will not talk of them now, our present business being of too great moment to allow of trifling away our time on such uncertain subjects.— Emilv is still in the country and daily improving. Thanks to your indefatigable perseverance, our culinary correspondence is drawing to a close; but I intend, when I return again to the farm, to write you a few letters of what a country housewife is or ought to be, as I under- stand Mr. I), is half inclined to purchase the small farm belonging to our old friend Mr. H. They may prove useful, particularly if in a small form, so that you may have them printed and circulated among the labouring popula- tion for a mere trifle. I anticipate the pleasure of seeing you as soon after the receipt of this a3 possible. Best regards to Mr. L. Yours in haste, Hortense. CONVERSATION ON HOUSEHOLD AFFAIRS. Mrs. L. After all the receipts and information which you have given me, there is one which you have not touched upon yet, which, perhaps, is of more importance than all the rest, it is the management of servants. Mrs. B. You are right, my dear, it is of great importance, and more so than many of us imagine; as for myself I do not consider that I am a good manager, being perhaps of too forgiving a disposition; but there is one good quality which I possess which makes up for the want of others, that is exacti- tude ; by enforcing this it causes all to know their place, and perform their work. Mrs. L. But what surprises me is to see everything so well done and clean with so few servants; you seem to have but two maid servants, a cook, a housemaid, and a coachman. Mrs. B. Yes, that is all, and I generally find that they are enough for the work, unless I have a dinner party, and then of course, as you know, I have extra men; but I will tell you how I pass the day, and then you will be able to judge. We are what are called early risers, that is, Mr. B. is obliged to leave home every work day at twenty minutes past nine; our breakfast is on the able at half-past eight; the breakfast parlour having previously been got ready, as the servants rise at seven. When we have no visitors, our two selves, the three children, and the governess, form the breakfast circle. The children, in summer time, have a walk before breakfast, but before leaving their room they uncover their beds, and if fine, open the windows, if a wet morning about two inches of the top sash is pulled down. Ihe servants get their breakfast at the same time as we do, as we require hardly any or no waiting upon, everything being ready on the table. In a former letter I told407 CONVERSATION ON HOUSEHOLD AEFAIRS. you what was our breakfast some years since when in business now we have placed on the table some brown bread, rolls, and dry toast; the butter is m a -lass butter-dish, and the eggs are brought up when we have sat dow to table. The urn is placed on the table, as I make my own tea and coflee, the cocoa is made down stairs. „ r You will perhaps be surprised when I say that I make the coffee for breakfast myself, but I have done so for some little time past, having found that when made in the kitchen it never came up twice alike, but now we always have it delicious. . _ I lately purchased a coffee-pot which enables me to do it in the veiy best manner, with no more trouble than I have in making the tea. It is called Cary’s Hecla. Its great excellence is that it is so very easy to use. It makes the very best coffee at one short operation, and is so contrived as to produce it almost boiling hot, without ever permitting the great mistake of boiling the coffee at all. In addition to the eggs we often have cold meat, and sometimes Mr. B. has a cutlet or any other nick-nack, which I always cook myself on the breakfast table with my newly-invented Magic lamp-stove.* With this I cook all light things, such as cutlets, poached eggs, ham, bacon, &e., and in many respects it is very convenient. yir. generally leaves home in the brougham, which is returned in time for me, in case I should be going out; and he returns in a cab or omnibus. Whilst we are at breakfast, I generally consult Mr. B. what he would like for dinner, and if he is likely to invite any friend to dine with him. The fishmonger has previously sent his list and prices of the day. I then write with a pencil on a slip of paper the bill of fare for the nursery dinner, luncheon, should any be required, and our dinner, which I send to the cook. At ten o’clock I go down stairs into the kitchen and larder, when the cook gives me her report, that is, everything that is required for the next twenty-four hours’ consumption, including the servants’ dinner, which report is filed in the larder and made to tally with the week’s list, for I must tell you that the weeks’ consumption of all things that will not spoil is had in on the Saturday, on which day the larder is properly scoured out, and everything put agam into its proper place, there being bins for all kinds of vegetables, &e. The larder is generally kept locked, the cook and I only having keys, because it is in fact a larder, and not, as in many houses, full of emptiness; this occupies * This is, as you see by the engraving, a very neat and portable cooking apparatus; the heat is given by the vapour of spirits of wine passing through a flame: it will cook cutlets or boil water in as short a time as the best of charcoal, and to the sportsman on the moors must be of great utility; with the sautepan everything can be cooked as on a charcoal fire, and with a small saucepan anything that may be required in the room of the invalid, where the heat of a fire would not be allowed. For further particulars see advertisement.408 CONVERSATION ON HOUSEHOLD AFFAIRS. about half an hour, during which time the chambermaids have been attend- ing to the bed-rooms and drawing-room, &c. If I go out or not, I always get my toilet finished by twelve o’clock; I thus have one hour to write notes, or see tradesmen or my dressmaker, and Monday mornings check and pay my tradesmen’s accounts, and to dress. If I stop at home I amuse myself by reading, or going to see the children in the nursery, or sometimes go again into the kitchen and assist the cook on some new receipt or preparation, and ofien have several calls; during the course of the morning the two maids scour out alternately one or two of the rooms, according to size, except on M ednesdays, when one of them is otherwise engaged. Mr. B. arrives home at twenty minutes to five, and at half-past five we dine; the cloth is laid, and everything prepared as if we had company; it may be a 1 ttle more trouble to the servants; but when we do have any friends they find it less so; besides it is always uncertain but what Mr. B. may bring so ebody home with him, and it prevents slovenly habits; the two maids, with the exception of Wednesdays, are always ready to attend on us. I never allow the coachman to defile our carpets with his stable shoes; all his duties in the house are—the first thing in the morning to clean the knives and forks for the day, for enough are kept out for that purpose, clean the boots and shoes, and those windows the maids cannot easily get at, and assist in the garden if required. Many have made the remark to me, that as you have a male servant why not have him wait at table. I reply that the duties of the stable are incompatible with those of the table, and if he does his duty properly he has enough to do. The servants dine at one—the nursery dinner is at the same hour—and have tea at a quarter to five, by which time the cook has the dinner ready, all but to take it from the fire, and the maids the dining-room ready. After dinner, should we be alone, we have the children and the governess down; if we have company we do not see them; they go to bed at a quarter to eight, and we have tea and coffee at eight; the governess comes and passes the rest of the evening with us; eleven is our usual hour of retiring, before which Mr. B. likes his glass of negus, a biscuit, or a sandwich, which is brought upon a tray. Mrs. L.—What you have described to me is all very well, yet I am certain, that if I go and try to do the same to-morrow, I shall not succeed; how is it that you have everything in its place, and I never hear a word said to the servants ? Mrs. B.—It is because they all know their duties, and if they should in any way neglect them, I think of the maxim, bear and forbear, for none of us are perfect, and I take an opportunity when I may be alone with them to tell them quietly of their faults. Some mistresses will go into the kitchen, and be angry with them before the other servants; the consequence is, that as soon as her back s turned they all begin to laugh. A ridiculous incident of this kind occurred the other evening at Mrs. G.’s. We missed her out ofCONVERSATION ON HOUSEHOLD AFFAIRS. 409 tile drawing-room just before tea, and it appeared that her young boy Fred followed her ; whilst we were at tea he was very communicative, as children sometimes will be (l’enfant terrible), and said, “We have been having such fun in the kitchen.” On inquiry he said, “ My mother has been down stairs scolding Jane, and I hid myself behind the door ; and when my mother had gone up, Betsy the cook spoke and moved her hands just like mamma; it made us all laugh so, it was such fun.” I need not tell you it was no fun for Mrs. G , who looked rather annoyed. We should ever remember, that we have our feelings, and should also think that others have theirs: and I think it as much the mistress’s fault when anything goes wrong in the house as the servants’. I only lose my servants when they get married, or from ill health, and the only thing that I find bad, is, that they quarrel amongst themselves; but should this occur thrice with the same two, I dismiss them both. I am certain, that if you teach your servants to take care of themselves, they are certain to take care of you. I continually hear Mrs. M. complaining of changing her servants, and that seems to be her sole occupation. Poor thing, she has no children, and nothing to occupy her mind, and without occupation the mind becomes diseased, and the least action throws it into fever. Mrs. N. complains of the extravagance of her servants.; it is her own extravagance, or, more properly speaking, her want of manage- ment, which causes all; but this I really think, that if everybody were more cautious in receiving and giving characters to servants than what they are, we should not hear the continual complaint we do when often assembled in the drawing-room after dinner, when, perhaps, some dear old lady com- plains of the education given to young people of the present day, and that, in time, there will be no such thing as servants. To some extent I am of her opinion, and consider that the education given by all classes to their children is a great deal more ornamental than useful. I would rather see the child taught some of the accomplishments of housekeeping, than that she should be considered as the mere ornament of the drawing-room. It is for that reason I patronise that institution in this metropolis, which stands almost alone in the education of those entrusted to its care. I became acquainted with it from Mr. B. serving as steward at its anniversary festival, and inscribing my name as a life governess. (It is the Freemasons’ Girls’ School.) 1 here is no servant kept, and the duties of the house are performed by the children in classes, taking it in turns a week each ; and thus with a good and useful education, they are taught all those duties which devolve upon them when they increase in years ; and when we see that several of the parents of those children at the time of their birth have kept their carriages and est,a- blishments, I think it is the bounden duty of eveiy mother, where the income of the husband may be dependent on trade or profession, to give them that education which even the most adverse of circumstances may call upon them to assume; and the more so, as at the present day talent requires to beCONVERSATION ON HOUSEHOLD AFFAIRS. 410 beyond mediocrity, and to possess genius ; for, from the liberality of England and her institutions, the genius of the world has sought it for a home, and in it may be found a versatility of talent unknown in any other country, and no child should be educated for a profession unless showing a decided predi- lection for it, which predilection may always be known at an early age, when its innate mind shows itself unwarped by education. Look at the advertise- ments which appear in the public press every day !—Young girls offering themselves as governesses, to be remunerated by their board; whereas, if they had been educated with a knowledge of the duties of the household, they would have made good ladies’ maids or housekeepers, or useful wives to tradesmen. Mrs. L.—It seems, my dear, that one of the maids is engaged upon some other work on Wednesday; you have not told me for what purpose. Mrs. B.—I have not, and I know you will laugh at me when I tell you that we wash at home. Mrs. L.—Wash at home ! my dear Mrs. B. ! im-pos-si-ble! where? how?— Mrs. B.—It is a fact, I have done so for some time past; as regards the where and how, to morrow being Wednesday, you shall see ; but I will now take and show you the laundry, and tell you why I did it. We formerly sent our washing to a large laundry some little distance from London, where it was beautifully got up ; but noticing one day some of my cambric handker- chiefs with the name in marking ink nearly obliterated; and the place where it was very thin, I could not account for it j on further examination of the sheets and pillow-cases I found that the place where the mark ought to have been was a long hole, exactly as if it had been cut out. I was certain it could not have been done on purpose, and it occurred to me that it might be some preparation used in the washing, which had an effect on the caustic or acid used in the ink which rotted the linen round it. It being a fine day, I drove off at once to the laundry, and a most excellent establishment it is; and I must say that the proprietress had no idea of the harm she was doing in using the kind of alkali she did, but this I was also convinced of, that she would never be able to clean the variety of articles sent to her without it. But I have since found out that it was the peculiar nature of the ink which was used. On my way home I reflected seriously on the matter, and happening to pass the baths and washhouses in the New Road, I stopped and examined them, which gave me those ideas I have since carried out.—In regard to the choice of the day, it is one that ever since I have been married, Mr. B. con- sidered his own in dining out or going to the play, and it is very rarely either of us dine at home on that day. One of the maids take it in turns along with a charwoman, and they manage to get all washed and mangled on the Wednesday, and the char- woman irons alone on the Thursday.' *1 * * • ' ,0 02 E> H •00 Pn < I? W n o d S * Q .-3 £ w 02 O a *411 CONVERSATION ON HOUSEHOLD AFFAIRS. We will now go and see it through this window, as it has a door which opens into the gaiden ; the place it occupies was formerly a passage from the area to the stahl es, as you see the basement floor is on a level with the original ground, and not sunk as in many houses—a plan I prefer, considering it more wholesome, therefore this slope is made ground. Here we are ; you will perceive it is rather narrow, hut I make up for it in height; it is but eight, feet by sixteen ; these are the four troughs for hot and cold water, sup- plied from the circulating boiler in the kitchen. On the day the laundry is not used, the water is turned off, and then only supplies the baths at the top of the house. I had an idea of putting up a slate bath for the servants, as l am a great advocate for the hydropathic system, and think there is nothing like cleanliness for health : as it will not cost much. I shall do so, and place it under the ironing board. This is my new washino- machine, and this the drying machine, which I had made after mv own . design. This is the ironing stove, which likewise heats the dtying apparatus. As you have now descended into the lower regions of my establishment I must show you the improvements I have made in the kitchen since you were here last. In consequence of the introduction of my new apparatus, or stove, I have entirely done away with the kitchen range ; its place, as you perceive, being closed; and I have likewise done away with the hot plate and the charcoal stove, which we only used once or twice a-year, and m its p.ace I have got a gas stove, which is a great economy, anc’ the fire in the new stove is left to go out after dinner, and some days is not even lit • and it m also exceedingly clean, but not having gas near your cottage you cannot adopt it. lou see, here is the new stove in the middle of the kitchen ; it combines a roasting fire, circulating hot water boiler oven, and hot plate, all mated by one fire ; the boiler heats the water at the top of the house for .6 baths’ and wblch can be laid on into any room ; the advantage is that it gives more room in the kitchen, in being able to walk all round it ; there is also different degrees of heat on the hot plate, and room for the bain-marie pan the smoke goes under the floor into the old chimney. It was made for me by Messrs. Bramah and Prestage, of Piccadilly. There is the drawing • £ LriTTe' eTdiDgly n0Vel hl aPPe“; -d I feel confident,’ known, would come into general use, even from the cottage to the largest establishment; it could be fitted with a steam-boiler if required ; and would l7,Cf r, m°?ValUable in b0tels and taverns: in a cottage the linen d be dried around it without danger from fire ; ar.d it also cures smoky chimneys. Mr. B. s brother, who, you know, is in the Naw, has got one for it8 mTk\ T 116 18 deligbted ; there is ver.v Httle heat arising fi-om t w n i ru ? J0U P<3rCelVe’ b6ing SmaU> only twelve by eighteen feet it would be felt; but ,n order to take off all vapour, I have had made as you perceive, an opening in the ceiling, from which a pipe passes between « joist to the outside. There is nothing else very novel in the kitchen, being412 CONVERSATION ON HOUSEHOLD AFFAIRS. taken, as you perceive, from the plan of that of the one "At Home,” in Soyer s Regenerator. There is the small mortar, the dressers are made with drawers and slides, which is a very great improvement, as anything that is dirty is placed upon it, and thus saves the cloth. The rail above contains all the copper stewpans. This other dresser is used for placing the dishes on when sending up the dinner; it has the covers over it, and underneath the dripping-pan, frying-pan, gridiron, so that nothing is hid from the sight, therefore they cannot but be clean. Mrs. L.—I perceive it, and a very good system it is, for at home, when I open one of those mysterious closets, I find them full of dirt, broken plates, old towels, and everything that is wanted to be hid from sight. I shall cer- tainly make that reform immediately. Mrs. B.—There is a little sink with hot and cold water. But this small room is what I call the scullery; it is, as you see, supplied with hot and cold water, and has a sink, in which are washed the plates, dishes, coppers, &e., or anything else, so that all dirt is kept out of the kitchen; and you see this is every bit as clean as the kitchen. We will now go into the little room which I pride myself upon, it is the larder; it is but small, being only ten feet by eight—paved and lined with slate, and the window, which is pro- tected by wire, opens to the North. Under the window is the pastry-slab, with ice drawer under that; in this corner is the meat block and table with scales to weigh all that comes into the larder. Here is the safe with a sliding door on pulley, and in which are the vegetable bins, and here is one of Ling’s patent ice-safes. The meat is, as you perceive, hanging from tin hooks: these two boxes I have latterly had made; this one contains powdered herbs of all kinds (Makepeaces), and also essences for confectionery, and as they get empty I have them re-filled at the Italian warehouse; this more especially belongs to the kitchen; and is what I call the housewife’s box. But its contents must at present remain a secret, as I intend to give you a little surprise; they are both absolutely requisite in a house, and it is surprising what a deal of labour and time is saved by having them always ready. Here is the week's file of the tradesmen’s bills; and this is a list of the kitchen stock, which, together with that of china, glass, and linen, is taken every three months.* * The following are the Utensils that I use in the kitchen, or, as the French call it, batteiie dc cuisine, which I flatter myself to be quite complete:— 8 copper stewpans, two larger ones, holding one gallon and a half, and the next one gallon, the others smaller by degrees to one pint; 1 oval fish-kettle, holding about one gallon and a half, but if by chance I have a turbot, I borrow a kettle from the fishmonger; 1 middle-sized braising-pan; 1 pre- serving-pan ; 1 round bowl for beating whites of eggs; 2 saute-pans ; 1 omelette-pan; 1 frying-pan; 1 bain-marie; 6 saucepans for the sauce; 1413 BILLS OF FARE. When I was first married and commencing business, our means were limited: the following was our system of living:— Sunday’s Dinner.—Roast Beef, Potatoes, Greens, and Yorkshire Pudding. Monday.—Hashed Beef and Potatoes. Tuesday. —Broiled Beef and Bones, Vegetables, and Spotted Dick Pudding. Wednesday.—Fish, if cheap. Chops, and Vegetables. Thursday.—Boiled Pork, Peas Pudding, and Greens. Friday.—Peas Soup, remains of Pork. Saturday.—Stewed Steak with Suet Dumpling. middle-sized tm pie-mould; 2 tin jelly-moulds; 1 tin flanc-mould for fruit • 1 freezmg-pot, with every requisite; 2 baking-sheets; 1 gridiron; 1 small salamander; 1 colander-spoon; 1 bottle-jack; 2 spits; 1 dripping-pan • 1 screen; 1 sugar-pan; 2 soup-ladles; 8 copper-spoons, 2 of them colanders • f 'vu'e baskets; 1 wire sieve; 2 hair sieves; 24 tartlet-pans; 2 tammies • 1 jelly-bag; 12 wooden spoons; 2 paste-brushes; 1 pair of scissors; 2 kitchen knives; 6 lardmg-needles; 1 packing-needle; 1 box of vegetable-cutters • 1 box of paste-cutters;1 meat-saw; 1 cutlet chopper; 1 meat chopper; 6 meat nooks, tinned; 1 rolling-pin; 8 kitchen basins; 6 china pie-dishes; 6 earthen bowls for soups and gravies; 4 kitchen table-cloths; IS rubbers- 12 fish napkins * 6 pudding-cloths; 4 round towels. These utensils, no doubt, appear very numerous, but, at the same time they are no more than are required, and it is only the first nine articles which are rather expensive; the others can be had at the cost of a few shillings 1 he linen I place in the presses every week myself, and keep an exact account of it, for it is only by so doing that I keep so small a quantity in use. I have 12 pairs of sheets; 10 ditto pillow-cases; 3 dozen of napkins • 2 dozen and a half of vanous-sized table-cloths; including breakfast/ dinner &c. 6 servants table-cloths; 3 dozen towels; 6 round towels; 3 dozen 9,; “ dozei} ^Pk'ns for fish, vegetables, and fruits; 6 pudding- cloths , - dozen damask d oylies; 1 dozen Berlin wool ditto. I also have occasionally in the wash the cover of the carpet, the anti-macassars, which I ^-knted a/Lmr „elSUre’ and the Iletted window curtains. Of glass and ’ 1 ha'e the following; they are counted every month, and the broken ones replaced:—3 dozen wine-glasses; 2 dozen champagne ditto- 2 dozen claret ditto; 3 dozen goblets; 6 water caraffes; 6 decanters; lliqueur-stand- Cliinl irlillTL2er ^SJUgS’ 1nCelei'y‘glaSS; 1 trifle-bowl; 8 dessert-dishes’ '.lnna. 1 lull dinner service; 1 common set for kitchen • 1 mmmm, service/01" Mtcheai 1 g°°d tea service 5 1 breakfast service; 1 good dessert Tlie following is my list of plate:—3 dozen of nronsrs- 9 ditto of t,m ^>oons; i and a half ditto of dessert-spoons; 1 and a half’ditto of dessert' 1 asn’art^^ °ftea'oPOOnS; 6 sal<>spoons; 1 cheese knife; 4 butter knives • SDoons ^S't0nSfV n 8Ugor‘t(ingS; 2 i 4 sauce ladles; 2 gravy WiiiXjSfSiar' ****** 4 candlestick,; fZl414 BILLS OF FARE. The Sunday’s dinner I used to vary; one time Beef, another Mutton, another Pork or Veal, and sometimes a Baked Sucking Pig; our living then, including a good Breakfast and Tea, cost us about 32s. per week for six persons. In case we had a few friends, we used to make an addition by having Pish, Leg of Mutton, Roast Fowls, Pickled Pork, and Peas Pudding, with a Mould Pudding, Fruit Tart, and a little dessert. This was for the first two years; our means and business then increasing, and having the three young men to dine with us, we were of course obliged to increase our expenditure, and to alter our mode of li ving, besides which I had accompanied Mr. B. to France, where my culinary ideas received a great improvement. The following is the plan we then adopted:— Sunday.—Pot-au-Feu, Fish—Haunch of Mutton, or a quarter of Lamb, or other good joint—Two Vegetables—Pastry and a Fruit Pudding— A little Dessert. Monday.—Vermicelli Soup made from the Pot-au-Feu of the day previous— The Bouilli of the Pot-au-Feu—Remains of the Mutton—Two Vegetables—Fruit Tart. Tuesday.—Fish—Shoulder of Veal stuffed—Roast Pigeons, or Leveret or Curry—Two Vegetables—Apples with Rice, and light Pastry. Wednesday.—Spring Soup—Roast Fowls, Remains of Veal minced, and poached Eggs—1Two Vegetables—Rowley Powley Pudding. Thursday.—Roast Beef—Remains of Fowl—1Two Vegetables—Sweet Omelet. Friday. —Fish—Shoulder of Lamb—Miroton of Beef—Two Vegetables— Baked Pudding. Saturday. —Mutton Broth—Boiled Neck of Mutton—Liver and Bacon—Two Vegetables—Currant Pudding. Our parties then, when we had them, never consisted of more than ten. We had: Julienne Soup—Fish—A Quarter of Lamb—Vegetables, Cutlets Vegetables, Bacon and Beans—Boiled Turkey—Pheasant Jelly or Cream Pastry—Lobster Salad—Omelet or Souffle—Dessert, &c. At present, though the number of our establishment is not greater, yet the style and manner of our living have changed. We dine alone, except when Mr. B. invites somebody to dine with him, which is most generally the case; our daily bill of fare consists of something like the following: One Soup or Fish, generally alternate—One Remove, either Joint or Poultry—One Entr6e—Two Vegetables—Pudding or Tart—A little Dessert. This may seem a great deal for two persons; but when you remember that we almost invariably have one or two to dine with us, and the remains are415 BILLS OF FARE. required for the breakfast, lunch, nursery and servants’ dinners, you will per- ceive that the dinner is the principal expense of the establishment, by which means you are enabled to display more liberality to your guests, and live in greater comfort without waste. Our parties at present, to many of which you have frequently been, and therefore know, vary according to the season: here are a few bills of fare of them ; the following is one for twelve persons :— One soup, say Puree of Artichokes—One Fish, Cod Slices in Oyster Sauca —Remove with Smelts or White Bait. Removes.-—Saddle of Mutton—Turkey in Celery Sauce. Two Entries.—Cutlets a la Provenjale—Sweetbreads larded in any White Sauce. Two Vegetables.—Greens—Kale—Potatoes on the Sideboard. SECOND COURSE. Two Roasts—Partridges—Wild Ducks. Jelly of Fruit—Cheesecakes—Meringue A la Crime—Vegetable —French Salad on the Sideboard. Removes.— Ice Pudding—Beignet Souffle. Dessert of eleven dishes. The following is one for a birthday party, which generally consists of twenty persons:— FIRST COURSE. Two Soups—Two Fish. Removes.—Haunch of Mutton—Boiled Capons A l’Ecarlate. Flancs.—Fricandeau of Veal—Currie of Fowl. Entrees.—Fillets of Beef, sauce Tomate—Cutlets Soubise—Oyster Patties, or Little Vol-au-Vent; Croquettes of Veal or Fowl.* SECOND COURSE. Wild Ducks—Guinea Fowl larded—Charlotte Russe—Punch Jelly Crusts of Fruit—Flanc Meringue—Apple with Rice—Scolloped Oysters—Mayonnaise of Fowl—Sea Kale or Asparagus. Removes.—Turban of Condi: Glacee—Cheese Souffle a la Vanille. Dessert of nineteen dishes. The bills of fare for our small evening parties, say thirtv persons, are as follows; everything is cold, although I know that the fashion has been pro- gressing towards having hot removes. Our table on those occasions is, as you know, in the form of a horseshoe which, in my opinion, is the most sociable after that of a round one, and upon the sociability of the supper depends in a great measure the success of the party. In the centre, and at the head of the table, I place a large Grouse- * These should be served on dishes with a napkin.BILLS OP FARE. 416 pie the same as Nos. 530, 654, of which, by my recommendation, everybody partakes; I then on each of the wings have Fowls, Lobster Salads, Mayon- naises of Fowl, Ham, Tongue, cut in slices, and dished over parsley, orna- mented with Aspic jelly; and on the sideboard I have a fine piece of Sirloin of beef, plain roasted, or an Aitch-bone of Beef, or Fillet of Veal. Should there be no game, I have a Turkey or Fowls en Galantine, instead of the Grouse-pie, or if game is plentiful, I have less poultry, and add roast Pheasants —mind, not fowls with black legs larded, and a pheasant’s tail put to them, but real ones,—or Partridges or Grouse, or a fine Salad of Game. With the Sweets I generally place about twelve—four on each table, that is, 4 Jellies, 2 Creams, 2 Bavaroises, 4 Iced Cabinet Puddings, and 4 Raised Dishes of small pastry', all of which are artistically disposed upon the table. The fruits are likewise placed on the table; they consist of simple Compotes, 6 of various kinds and 6 of Dried Fruit, Biscuits, Wafers, and Cossacks, which last are getting much out of fashion, but. are very amusing. The following is the bill of fare for Mr. B.’s Birthday Party, for which he allows me £15, with which I find everything in the shape of refreshments, with the exception of wine? it is One Raised Pie—Two Mayonnaises of Fowl—Two Lobster Salads—One Piece of Roast Beef-Four Dishes of Fowl—Two Dishes of Pheasant—Four Dishes of Tongue—Four Dishes of llam-Four Jellies with Fruit—Two Creams with Noyeau—Two Flanes with Apple Meringue—Two Iced Cabinet Puddings—Two Puddings u la Eloise—Six Various Pastry—Eight Various Compotes—Four Pieces Montees in China with Bonbons, Cos- sacks, &c.—Four of Fruit, as Pears, Grapes, &c.—Four of Dried Fruit, &c.—Four of Biscuits, &c. Tliis perhaps may appear extravagant, but we always have them, some country friends stopping a few days with us, so that I manage to make the best of everything, and make my week’s account look very well. AYe some- times have as many' as sixty on an evening. Our Children’s Parties are as follow, there are generally about 50 present: 16 Dishes of Sandwiches. 4 Dishes of Lamb. 4 Dishes of Ham. 4 do. of Slices of Beef. 4 do. of Tongue. 6 do. of Fowls. 10 Dishes of Slices of Galantine of Veal. 1 Dish of Dressed Beef. 24 Dishes of Ararious Pastry, Custards, Jellies, Bonbons, &c. But I remember when in business, on those occasions we only used to have a large quantity of Sandwiches and Patties, and used to amuse the children by labelling the Dishes as Sandwiches of Peacock’s Tongues, Patties of Partridges’ Eyes, &c., and also a large quantity of plain Sweets; and at that period Mr. B’s birthday party was not so extensive or recherche as at present. It consisted of something like the following: A ltoast Turkey—2 Dishes of Fowls—1 Ham—2 Pigeon Ties—1 Piece of Boiled Beef—4 Lobsters—4 Salads—4 Jellies—4 Tarts 4 of Preserved Fruit, &c.—4 of Pastry; with about 12 of various kinds of Fruit, <tc417 BILLS OF FARE. You will have seen by the previous Bills of Fare that I have not at all encroached upon the high-class cookery, they being selected from the receipts I have given you ; in order that you may see the difference, I inclose the Bill of Fare of a dinner given by — Bass, Esq., M.P., at the Reform Club, the other day, and a copy of yesterday’s Post, containing one given in the country. You will find that the dishes mentioned in these Bills of Fare are not to be found in our receipts. Reform Club. 7 Juillet, 1S49. Deux Potages. One Thick Turtle. One Clear Ditto. Diner pour 18 Personnes. Crimped Salmon, en Matelote Normande. Deux Poissons. Turbot, A la Richelieu. to . o u S3 3 o a> "3 "3 S .w Deux Releves. La Hanche de Venaison aux haricots verts. Les Poulardes en Diademe. o Pi 3 x 35 g m o c O) 1 ? ■M6 <a Pi Six Entrees. Vol-au-Yent de Foies gras a la Talleyrand. COtelettes d’Agneau demi Provenjale. Petits Caneton3 Canaris aux jeunes legumes glacees. Noix de Veau demi grasse a la puree de concombres. Ortolans a la Yicomtesse. Aiguillettes de petits Poussins A la Banquiere. Deux Rot is. Les Turkey Poults piques et bardes, gamis de Cailles aux feuilles de vignes. Les Jeunes Levrauts au jus de groseilles. 8 c 3 CIQ Huit Entremets. 2 Gelee a l’eau de -sue Plane d’Abricots de Dantzick. aux Liqueurs. Aspic de Homard Quartiers d’Artichaux A la Gelee. 4 la Venitienne. , Petits Pois Gateau Milanais a 1 Anglaise. au Parmesan. Pain de Pilches Bombe glacee au Noyau. au Cafe Moka. Jambon en surprise glac6 4 la Vanille. Pudding 4 la Mephistophiles. A. SOYER. 3 If 3 g 02 c+- P' 02 ^ P o B ^ oo- p- p- O ® P E E“FESTIVITIES AT GRENDON HALL. “ A series of festivities are taking place at the seat of Sir George Chetwynd, Bart., Grendon Hall, Atlierstone, Warwickshire, to celebrate the christening of Sir George’s infant grandson. The christening took place on Tuesday, at Grendon church, and in the evening a grand dinner was given in celebration of the event, under the able superintendence of M. Alexis Soyer. As the dinner, which was provided for twenty persons, was of a very reclcerchA description, we subjoin the bill of fare. Deux Potages. One of Clear Turtle. Ditto k la Nivernaise. Deux Poissons. Crimped Severn Salmon a la Regence. Turbot a la Cardinal. La Hanche de Venaison. Deux Relev£s. Deux Poulardes a la Nelson. .2 3 o o *■3 o &, 73 a 03 O SPh o CC .2 rn Pd £ to Six Entrees. Les Ortolans & la Vicomtesse. Epigramme d’Agneau a la puree de concombres. Grenadins de Veau aux petits pois. Filets de Caneton au jus d’orange. C6telettes de Mouton a la Proven9ale. Turban de Volaille a la Perigord. Deux Rfltis. Cailles bardees aux feuilles de vignes. Gelinottes des Ardenues. Is CC 73 00 ** o >Vi o g a. ►C © S-gi c 2. — o 3 o Huit Entremets. Turban de Meringues aux Pistaches. Galantine a la Voliere. Vegetable Marrow a la Bechamel. Bavaroise Mousseuse a TAnanas. — Ices. Pine Apple and Strawberry. Pain de Fruit aux Pfiches. Crofttades d’Artichaux a Tlndienne. Miroton de Homard a la Gel6e. Blanche Creme au Marasquin. Deux Releves St. James’s Hure de Sanglier en surprise glace Cake, a la Vanille. the first Petits Biscuits souffles a la Crfime. ever made. “The company at dinnerincluded the MarquisandMarchionessof Downshire, and the Dowager Marchioness, Lord and Lady Howe, Mr. and Lady Charlotte Chetwynd, Lord Sandys, Mr. and Mrs. Dugdale, Mr. and Mrs. Hudson, of Cheswardine Hall, Shropshire; Mr. and Mrs. Grimes, Mr. W. H. Chetwynd, the Rev. Henry and Mrs. Hanmer, and other relations of the family. “ After dinner M. Soyer had the honour of presenting the youthful heir the prcof copy of his new work on cookery.” Morning Post, July 26, 1849.THE BACHELOR’S DINNER. 459 LETTER No. XXIII. Dear Eloise, Since our little labours first went to press, I have received several kind notes from various persons requiring information on various points. To give all the information sought would make this volume double the size; but amongst others, there is a very polite one from a young bachelor, who states that finding we have so well described a dinner party as it ought to be, with ladies, he should like to know how one ought to be managed when gentlemen only are present, he being a young gentleman, and having no female relatives and acquaintances—a class which, he adds, is, unfortunately, numerous in England—and that it would be a boon for them to receive some information on the subject. I declare, my dear Eloise, that the style of his writing is so graceful and pleasing, that I should, if possible, like to gratify his wish.—Your ever grateful pupil, Hortense. LETTER No. XXIV. IhfouSw H°E?ENSE’-0l\r IaWs will never cease, if we are to answer all the questmns and correspondence submitted to us ; but as you seem to have l xr 13 y°Ung bachel°L we will endeavour to gratify his wish hough I assure you it is what we ought not to do, for I cannot conceive y men wish to dine together without the company of ladies. Our friend . &oyer, in his Gastronomic Regenerate, has very justly stated that reUni°n With°Ut kdi6S ^ ^0 hTs^es ‘£lowered tWnk R °Cean 7ith°Ut WaVeS> a vessel without sails;” and I k it bad taste m us ladies to assist these bachelors to enjoy their i et? “•7hen T^rz:sI-?* b» - :j~.7„o°x «p<» »hioh tL zzz “■t<rs- 7?er ”“n<' “ “ie’ „f w,t „ „e. «,ghte of genius ,o the. A J ‘XT E E 2420 THE BACHELOR’S DINNER. yet we may receive it second-hand ; as an instance, there is Mrs. , she knows the sayings and doings of Mr. , the witty member of her husband’s club, just as if she was a member herself. Now for the point. What ought a bachelor’s dinner to be ? In the first place, the number of guests ought not to consist of more than eight, with the table nicely arranged and set out, with all that is required in its proper place, napkins nicely folded, glasses of unrivalled crystal, and the groom of the chamber in his last new attire, assisted by one more au fait in the matter, with the lights nicely disposed, and the room an agreeable temperature,— say 63°. The guests all seated, with good appetites, and six delicate oysters upon the plate before each of them, and a few hors-d’oeuvres, such as a small dish of sardines, some slices of Lyons sausages, a little cavaire on toast, and two bottles of Chablis. This is an excellent beginning: it does not stop the appetite, and merely clears the road. Some persons go too long without eating, and the moment they begin, eat with an avidity which spoils their taste for the after part of the dinner, and during which time the whole mind is absorbed upon the plate before them, and until they are satisfied, no words escape their lips, and when at last they come forth, they do so with a heaviness and dulness which belongs not to the person who utters them, but to the inartistic manner of eating. Some of the greatest wits, from going too long without eating previous to dinner, become the dullest guests ; whilst some, who from want of thought thus begin their meal, find themselves, before dessert is on the table, in the arms of Morpheus, instead of enjoying the gifts of Bacchus. The pleasure of eating requires an appetite, but the pleasures of the table require that the appetite should not be appeased until it is time to arise from it. The mind should never give way to any great intensity of feeling, no ecstasy, no surprise, no transports, which would destroy that equilibrium which is so requisite for digestion. If artistically partaken of, at the end of the repast the mind becomes exhilarated, the brain is refreshed, the physiognomy opens, the colour rises, the eyes become brilliant, and a warmth spreads over the whole body ; the imagination glows, and wit sparkles and overflows, whereas, on the contrary, the mind becomes dull, the eyes heavy, and the body shuddering with cold. The dinner having thus began with six oysters, a large glass of Chablis, or, if preferred, White Hermitage, or even Moselle, the soup is then placed upon the table. This ought to be of a light kind, and should turtle be pre- ferred, it ought to be light and transparent. With the soup, a glass of Sherry or Madeira is the best accompaniment. At the same time as the soup is placed upon the table, so are the fish, the sauce, and the potatoes on the sideboard. The fish, if boiled, should be accompanied by Hock or white Burgundy, if baked or stewed, with Claret of a light kind.421 THE BACHELOR’S DINNER. The next course should consist of a boiled and roast Remove and two Entrees. To those who know artistically how to eat a dinner, it may appear strange when I tell them that I have known those who have considered themselves gourmets commence this course with the Entrees. The plan which ought to be followed is to begin with the boiled, and if your appetite is good, to slightly touch the roast, partaking of wines according to the nature of the dish ; for instance, boiled poultry with oyster sauce, return to Chablis; lamb, with caper sauce, to Hock or Moselle; roast mutton, light Claret; roast beef, Sherry or Madeira. The two substantiate having been dis- posed of, the palate has now arrived at that degree of perfection (supposing the wines partaken of to have been good of their kind, for nothing destroys the reputation of a good dinner more than bad wines), the art of the cook as displayed in his Entrees now engages the attention of the guests. These Entrees should be as different as possible, and also differ from the roast and boiled. With the Entrees, whatever their nature, it is generally the custom to partake of Champagne. This, when ladies are at the table, I do not object to, as they are not supposed to be professors in the science of eating, but with the real epicure it is a sin I cannot pardon. The wine to be partaken of depends upon the nature of the Entree, but should never be of that luscious description as to overpower that delightful sensation of taste pro- duced by the "plat.” Ihese having been removed, and their places occupied by two dishes o nicely roasted game and four Entremets, as, for instance, woodcocks an pheasants, or even a fine larded capon and wild fowl, and one savory one vegetable, and two sweets as Entremets. With the roasts I prefer Claret or red Burgundy; with the Entremets may be served the Champagne These Entremets should display the skill of the preparer, not in a way that anything about them cannot be partaken of, but that what they are made of may delight the sight as well as the taste. The roast should be re- movcd with two dishes, containing either a souffle, a pudding, or a Charlotte and a Nesselrode pudding, or something of that nature. These bein-r dis- posed of, I would have the dessert placed upon the table, with the cheese handed round and at the same time a loving cup, or if that is not to be obtained, a tankard full of the same liquid. Port wine may be partaken of wi h the dessert. The plates should be changed as often as required, and not left, as at present, to receive a collection of orange and apple peel and othei refuse. During the time this is being partaken of—say twenty minutes to half an hour, or even longer, so much depending upon the Amphitryon and Ins guests—the coffee ought to be introduced, and with a cW m/e the table is cleared, or the guests go into the drawing-room should the unhappy bachelor happen to have one, and the remainder of the evening maybe passed according to the disposition and taste of the party, such as music, cards, &c. ; and I am afraid the enjoyment of the evening would not be complete without cigars.CHO-CA. 4-22 Such, Hortense, is my humble opinion of what a bachelor’s party should be, for in these enlightened times it is not drinking to excess that constitutes the enjoyment of society, and a young man who gets inebriated is one to be shunned ; so different from what it was some forty years since, when a four- bottle man was one to be looked up to and followed. A NEW ALIMENT. LETTER XXV. Bifrons Villa. Here, dear Eloise, is an entirely new aliment, which lia3 never yet been introduced into this country, A semi-epicure of our acquaintance, on return- ing from his visit to the National Guard of France, presented me with a pound of it, which he had purchased in Paris; but even there, said he, it i3 almost in its infancy: you may fancy, if I were not anxious of making an immediate trial of it; but before I give you the receipt how to use it, let me tell you I have found it most delicious. Mr. B. has not yet tasted it, being for a week in the country, but I am confident he will like it, especially for breakfast: but the puzzle is, after my pound is used, how we are to get more ? Time, I suppose, will teach us. It appears that we are indebted for it to a celebrated French gentleman, M. le Docteur Lamolte, the inventor of the electric light, who ingeniously, though oddly, named it Cho-ca, being a scientific composition of chocolat and caf6, the alliance of which balancing admirably their excellence and virtue, and partly correcting their evils, the first being rather irritable, the second heavy. But I think, if my recollection serves me rightly, the idea of this compound must have originated from that great French philosopher, M. de Voltaire, who constantly, for his breakfast, partook of half cafe-au-lait and half chocolate, which were served at the same time in separate vessels in a boiling state, and poured from each slowly, about eighteen inches in elevation from his cup, -which, he said, made it extremely light and digestible. Years after, that still more extraordinary man, Napoleon Bonaparte, be- oame so partial to it, that he made a constant use of it, and it has often been remarked by those who surrounded his person, that after the great excite- ment and fatigue of a battle, he has often partaken of two or three cups, which seemed to restore all the strength and energy which used to charac- terise that great man; on ordinary occasions one cup would suffice him, but served more a la militaire, not being poured so scientifically as did the Femaise philosopher.CHO-CA. 423 The approval of this mixed beverage by two such eminent characters speaks volumes in favour of the Cho-ca, which ought to be immediately intro- duced in England. It will also, no doubt, interest you to learn that the first cup of coffee ever introduced in Europe was made and presented to Louis XIV., at his magnificent palace of Versailles, by the Ambassador from the Sublime Porte in the year 1664, when the noble potentate, whose palate was as delicate as he was himself great, pronounced it excellent; and imme- diately perceived the immense advantage it would be to introduce such a delicacy into Prance as food, which a short time after took place, and was very successfully received there ; also the chocolate, which is made from cacao, was first introduced to the Cardinal Mazarin, who having partook of the first cup like Louis XIV. did of the coffee, and not a worse judge than his illus- trious master, remunerated with a handsome reward its inventor. It is much to be regretted that such interesting and useful subjects have never yet attracted the attention of our great Painters, instead of continually tracing on innumerable yards of canvas the horrors of war, the destruction of a fleet by fire and water, the plague, the storm, the earthquake, or an eruption and destruction of a city by an avalanche or an inundation; if we cannot do without those painful historical reminiscences, why not add to those mournful collections a group of Louis XIV. and his court of Versailles, where he, magnificently dressed, was receiving from the hands of the said Pacha, not a cup of coffee, but a branch of that plant covered with its precious berries ; and why not also, as a pendant, Mazarin surrounded by his satellites, taking the first cup of chocolate; or the characteristic Voltaire pouring a cup of Cho-ca to Frederic the Great in his tent on the field of Potsdam ? These subjects seem to have been entirely neglected in being immortalised on can- vas—why 1 because they have never done harm or evil to any one ; but, on the contrary, have, are, and ever will prove to be, among the greatest boons ever conferred upon humanity : it would also engrave in our minds, as well as in our history, to what mortals we are indebted for the importation and introduction of such important productions, which daily constitute a part of our comforts, and have conferred an everlasting benefit on mankind ; but, as usual, dear Eloise, you will no doubt reproach me for having so much enthu- siasm ; however, as on this subject you have been tolerably quiet lately, I not only here inclose you the receipt, but also two of the thin round cakes of this new aliment, the Cho-ca, which will produce twro cups by making it as follows:— 959. CHO-CA.—Scrape or grate it; put a pint of milk in a stewpan or chocolate pot, and place it on the fire, with two ounces of sugar; boil it, put the Cho-ca in it, and stir it well for two minutes, and serve.424 ON CARVING. You reproach me for not having said a word about carving; I have not STJi 'S an aCC0mPlisllment which our sex need not study, but at the .same time it is well to know a little of it. It is rather difficult to my be useful deSCnptl°n without Swings, but a few general remarks v CUJlBeef’J?’’ Harn’ T°ngUe’ and Breasts of ^ultiy, with a sharp knife, very thm ; Mutton, Lamb, and Pork rather thicker. Never rise from your seat to carve ; never cut across the grain of the meat, that is, not across the ribs of beef, as I have seen some persons do, and Mr. B tells me is often done at clubs, but it is only those do so who do not know how to carve or appreciate the true flavour of the meat. Never place a fork through the back of a fowl, in order to carve the leg and wnigs, but run the knife gently down each side the breast, detaching the leg and wing at the same time, which is greatly facilitated by the use of the Tendon Separator—one of which I purchased at Bramah’s, in Piccadilly; it is the greatest boon ever conferred on a bad carver: the directions for using it are given with it. If it was more generally used, there would be no more birds flying across the table in the faces of guests ; no more turkeys deposited in a lady s or gentleman’s lap; no more splashing of gravy to spoil satin , dresses; but all would be divided with the greatest facility, and in the most elegant manner, and the poultry would look much better at table. Never cut up the body of poultry at table, that should always be left ; but game should be cut up, as many epicures prefer the backbone. For a sirloin of beef, the under part of the loin should always be cut when hot, and the upper part cut straight from the backbone towards the outside of the ribs; by this plan you will not spoil the appearance of the joint. Ribs of Beef should be carved in the same way, cutting thin and slanting. Round of Beef: cut a slice half an inch thick from the outside, and then carve thin slices, with a little fat. Aitch-bone, the same. Fillet of Veal, the same. Loin of V eal, carve as the Sirloin of Beef, serving some of the kidney and fat to each person. Shoulder of Veal; begin from the knuckle, cut thin and slanting. Saddle of Mutton will, if properly oarved, serve a great many persons; instead of cutting a long slice the whole length, put your knife under the meat and cut it away from the bone, then cut it like thin chops, serving lean and fat together; according to the usual plan, a saddle of mutton will serveTHE SEPTUAGENARIAN EPICURE. 425 but few people, and the flavour of tbe meat is not so good as when served this way. Necks and Loins : the bones should be severed by a small meat saw, and not a chopper, and the bone cut through when serving, and carve slanting. Haunches are usually carved by making a cut near the knuckle, and cutting a slice from that through the loin ; but by a plan I have adopted, I find that the meat eats better, and the joint goes farther. I carve it like the leg and saddle—that is, I cut a slice out of the leg part and a slice from the loin, and serve together. This is more economical, but would not do for venison. Lamb.—For Leg and Shoulders, proceed as for Mutton, The ribs, when well prepared and the bones properly separated, carve into cutlets, and serve with a- piece of the brisket. Quarter of Lamb : the ribs should be sawed through, and the bones dis- jointed previous to cooking. The shoulder should be then nicely removed, the seasoning added; then divide the ribs and serve one part of the brisket to each person. Pork : proceed like the Mutton. In carving a Ham, remove a thick slice, of about one inch, flat cut slant- ways from the knuckle-end—a Tongue, begin three inches from the tip, and ■cut thin slanting slices. LETTER No. XXVI. THE SEPTUAGENARIAN EPICURE. Mr DEAR Edoise,—Having now arrived at the conclusion of our labours, during which you have in many instances thought me rather severe, and perhaps too exigeant in my remarks, especially about the selection, pre- paration, and cooking of food in general, which even to the last I must main- tain, that for want of judgment and a little care, the greatest part of the nutrition of our aliments is often destroyed, which constitutes a considerable waste, being of no good to any one, but an evil to everybody ; and when you consider the monstrous quantity of food our fragile bodies consume in this sublunary sphere during the course of our life, the truth of my observation will be more apparent, and make you agree with me that in every instance people ought really to devote more time, care, and personal attention to their daily subsistence, it being the most expensive department through life of human luxury. I shall, for example, give you a slight and correct idea of it, which I am confident you never before conceived. For this I shall propose to take seventy years of the life of an epicure, beyond which ace many o" that class of “bon vivants” arrive, and even above eighty, still in the full enjoyment of degustation, &c. (for example, Talleyrand, Cambaceres, Lord beiton, &c.); it the first of the said epicures, when entering on the tenthTHE SEPTUAGENARIAN EPICURE. 426 spring of Ins extraordinary career, had been placed on an eminence, say the top of Primrose hill, and had had exhibited before his infantine eyes the enormous quantity of food his then insignificant person would destroy before he attained his seventy-first year,—first, he would believe it must be a delusion; then, secondly, he would inquire where the money could come from to purchase so much luxurious extravagance? But here I shall leave the pecuniary expenses on one side, which a man of wealth can easily sur- mount when required. So now, dearest, for the extraordinary fact: imagine on the top of the above-mentioned hill a rushlight of a boy just entering his tenth year, surrounded with the recherch6 provision and delicacies claimed by his rank and wealth, taking merely the medium consumption of his daily meals. By closely calculating, he would be surrounded and gazed at by the following number of quadrupeds, birds, fishes, &c.By no less than 30 oxen, 200 sheep, 100 calves, 200 lambs, 50 pigs; in poultry, 1,200 fowls, 300 turkeys, 150 geese, 400 ducklings, 263 pigeons ; 1,400 partridges, pheasants, and grouse ; 600 woodcocks and snipes ; 600 wild ducks, widgeon, and teal; 450 plovers, ruffes, and reeves; 800 quails, ortolans, and dotterels, and a few guillemdts and other foreign birds ; also 500 hares and rabbits, 40 deer, 120 Guinea fowl, 10 peacocks, and 360 wild fowl. In the way of fish, 120 turbot, 140 salmon, 120 cod, 260 trout, 400 mackerel, 300 whitings, 800 soles and slips, 400 flounders, 400 red mullet, 200 eels, 150 haddocks, 400 henings, 5,000 smelts, and some hundred thousand of those delicious sdvery whitebait, besides a few hundred species of fresh-water fishes. In sliell-fisli, 20 turtle, 30,000 oysters, 1,500 lobsters or crabs, 300,000 prawns, shrimps] sardines, and anchovies. In the way of fruit, about 500 lbs. of grapes, 360 lbs. of pine-apples, 600 peaches, 1,400 apricots, 240 melons, and some hundred thousand plums, greengages, apples, pears, and some millions of cherries, strawberries, raspberries, cun-ants, mulberries, and an abundance of other small fruit, viz., walnuts, chesnuts, dry figs, and plums. In vege- tables of all kinds, 5,475 pounds weight, and about 2,434 pounds of butter, 684 pounds of cheese, 21,000 eggs, 800 do. plovers’. Of bread, 44 tons, half a ton of salt and pepper, near 2i tons of sugar ; and, if he had happened to be a covetous boy, he could have formed a fortification or moat round the said hill with the liquids he would have to partake of to facilitate the digestion of the above-named provisions, which would amount to no less than 10,8164 gallons, which may be taken as below:—49 hogsheads of wine, 1,3681- gallons of beer, 584 gallons of spirits, 342 liqueur, 2,394f gallons of coffee, cocoa, tea, &c., and 304 gallons of milk, 2,736 gallons of water, all of which would actually protect him and his anticipated property from any young thief or fellow schoolboy, like Alexandre Dumas had protected Dante and his- immense treasure from the pirates in his island of Monte Christo. You now, dearest, fancy that I am exaggerating in every way; but to convince you, and to prevent your puzzling your brain to no purpose, I also enclose you a427 THE SEPTUAGENARIAN EPICURE. medium scale of the regular meals of the day, from which I have taken my basis, and in sixty years it amounts to no less than 59 tons 5 cwts., 1 quar. 20J lbs. weight of meat, farinaceous food, vegetables, liquids, &c. ; out of which I have named in detail the probable delicacies that would be selected by an epicure through life. But observe that I did not count the first ten years of his life, at the beginning of which he lived upon pap, bread and milk, &c., also a little meat, the expense of which I add to the age from ten to twenty, as no one can really be called an epicure before that age ; it will thus make the expenses more equal as regards the calculation. The following is the list of what I consider his daily meals :— Breakfast.—Three quarters of a pint of coffee, four ounces of bread, one ounce of butter, two eggs, or four ounces of meat, or four ounces of fish. Lunch.—Two ounces of bread, two ounces of meat, or poultry, or game, two ounces of vegetables, and half a pint of beer or a glass of wine. Dinner.—Half a pint of soup, a quarter of a pound of fish, half a pound of meat, a quarter of a pound of poultry, a quarter of a pound of savoury dishes or game, two ounces of vegetables, two ounces of bread, two ounces of pastry or roasts, half an ounce of cheese, a quarter of a pound of fruit, one pint of wine, one glass of liqueur, one cup of coffee or tea ; at night one glass of spirits and water. Now that I have given you these important details, perhaps you will give me some little credit for my exaction and severity respecting the attention which ought to be daily paid to the indispensable and useful art of cookery by our middle classes. I shall also observe to you, that those masses of pro- visions above described in the expose of sixty years, have been selected, dressed, and served, by scientific hands, every real epicure choosing through life the best cook, and consequently the best of provisions, which, had they have fallen into the hands of inexperienced persons, would very likely have wasted one-third, thereby increasing the expenses, and never giving any real satisfaction to the consumer; therefore let us act in a small way as becomes us, as the wealthy do according to their incomes ; let every housekeeper devote more time to the study of domestic and practical economy ; and in many instances it will increase their incomes as well as their daily comforts, for as I remarked to you that the pleasures of the table being no, only the most expensive part of humaD luxury, but also the soul °of sociability, they require more attention bestowed upon them than is done at the present day. Fare you well. IIOItTENSE.INDEX Acid Aitch-Bone of Beef A-la-mode Beef Albumen . Aliment, a New Almond Water . Almond Cake, Iced . Almond Pudding, White, Iced Anchovies Anchovy Butter Apple Charlotte Compote . Dumplings Plane Fritters Jelly . Pie . Pudding saute in Butter Vol-au-Vent Apples, Baked . and Bread . and Fig Beverage and Rice Pudding with Rice . with Butter Apricot Compote Fritters Ice Cream . Marmalade Nougat Pudding Arrow-root Jelly . Water Broth . Artichokes Jerusalem, soup Asparagus with Eggs . Aspic of Meat . Autumn Sonp . Bacon and Haml Bacon for Breakfast to choose . to boil Baking, on Barley Lemonade. PAGE G5 176 229, 230 171 422 45 372 365 144 170 349 375, 378 361 341 34S 386 3G4 362 352 340 49 351 49 51 350 351 378 348 384 385 345 362 42 43 48 36 326 111, 325 321 286 305 118 JIG 17 200 200 69 4C Barley Orangeade Water Batter for Fritters Beans, Broad French a la Maltre-d’Hotel Haricot a la Bretonne Beef, on . Beef, ii-la-mode Aitch-Bone of . Brisket of. Salt . Croquettes of Choice of . Essence of. Family Salad of Fillets of, Broiled Saute to hang Hashed Minced Miroton Palates a la Bretonne a l’lndienne a la Poulette a la Maltre-d’Hotel Pickle for, a la Garrick to pot Pressed remains of Ribs of Braised Larded Roasted . Round of, Salted cold . Half-round of, silver side Salt, remains of. Salt, Bubble and Squeak Sirloin of . Stewed Rump of Stewed Rump Steak . Steak Pudding . Spiced Beignet Souffle . Beet-root . Beverage, Refreshing PAGE 46 44 372 327 326 327 328 328 171 229, 230 176 176 232 172 38 232 230 231 172 223 231 224 225 226 226 226 226 308 177 308 223 173 173 307 172 175 175 176 234 228 172 174 229 269 308 347 81, 326 46, 49430 INDEX, Beverages for Evening Parties Beyrout Sauce . Bills of Fare Biscuit, Souffle . Cocoa-Nut Cream . . . Moss .... Rout .... Savoy ... Wine Blackberry Pudding . Black Game Salad . Pudding . broiled . Blancm anger . Bloaters .... Boar’s Head Sauce . Bolling, on ... Boudins of Fowl Turkey . : . Bones, broiled . Bottoms and Tops, to make Braising, on Braise-Roast Turkey Boil do. Bread and Milk and Apple Breakfast Table Brill, to cook . Broccoli ... Broiling- . • . • . Broth, Arrow-Toot Chicken ... Eel . Mutton Rice .... French Herb Seasoned . Semoulina. . . Turkey Various ... Vermicelli . . . Veal .... Brown Stock Browning .... Brioche Rolls, to make Brussels Sprouts . . Bubble and Squeak . Buns, to make . . . Butter, to make Anchovy . Burnt . . . Eobster Melted . . . Maitre-d’Hotel . Ravigote . . . Cacao .... Cake, Almond . i Cake, Cinnamon PAGE . 392 Cottage 394 El jtherian Pine Apple 394 Ginger 392 Love, or Bola d’Amour 398 Pound 391 Queen’s 391 Queen Victoria’s 394 Rout . 392 Savoy, in Moulds 389 Savoy, or Ladies’ Fingers 390 Shrewsbury 392 Sponge 390 small 390 St. James’s 394 West Indian 394 Calf’s Brains a la Maitre-d’Hotel 241 fried . 241 to prepare 387 Feet . 59 Feet Jelly . 353 Head . 184 ,186 187 Curry 277 Hashed 240 Hollandaise 186 with Mushrooms 186 with Tomatos 187 Heart, roasted . 238 Liver, English fashion 237 fried 237 sauteed . • 237 stewed 238 Sweetbreads • 238 Caper Sauce • 103 Capon, Boiled . 213 and Cresses 290 a l’Estragon 213 Pie . 302 Roast 213 Roast braised . 210 Stewed • 213 Capilotade of Poultry 258 Carp, baked • 155 Sauce Matelote . * 155 Carrot Pudding • 359 with Poulards . 215 Soup . 121 White 121 Sauce • 99 Carving . 0 424 Cauliflower • 325 Gratin, with Cheese 325 Pur£e, Sauce 97 Soup 121 Celery 324 Charlotte, Apple 349 Russe 356 Strawberry 356 Chartreuse of Fruit . 356 PACK 402 167 413 369 391 392 391 392 390 367 363 317 18 19 356 12 310 69 262 262 225 C 70 210 208 31 351 1, 26 152 325 73 36 39 40 34 36 48 35 36 208 35 35 36 106 106 7 327 228 7 404 170 287 170 164 170 170 25 391INDEX, 431 PAGE PACS Chartreuse of Fruit with Lemon Condiments—Bay, Saffron S2 Jelly . 3C5 Beet - Root, Mushrooms, Cheesecakes 34G Morels, Truffles . 81 Lemon . 347 Bouquet, Bouquet Garni, Maids of Honour . 346 Bain Marie SO Puff . • . 371 Celery, Borage, Horse- Cheese Souffle . • . 371 radish, Chervil, Capers, Raminole . . • 371 Broom Buds, Nastur- Sandwich . 403 tiums,Barberries,Gher- to make . . 404 kins .... 80 Cherry Draught 47 Curry-Powder, Lemon, the Compote . 377, 378 Lime, the Citron, Vine- Marmalade 386 .gar .... 85 Omelet 347 Macc, Cayenne, Cinnamon, Pudding . 4 363 Cassia, Cassia Buds, Yol-au-vent 339 Mustard 77 Chesnut Pudding 364 Olive, Arrow-Root, Tapioca, Chicken, Boiled . 89, 257 Salsop, Sago, Soy, Braised 257 Chetney 84 Broth . 39, 60 Onions, Marjoram 7S Curry . 4 274 Pepper, Long Pepper 75 Italian way 216 Savory, Basil, Thyme, Pen- Pie . . 266 nyroyal, Mint, Sage, Roast Braised 210, 257 Parsley, Tarragon, Roast, for invalids 59 Clary, Fennel . 79 Spring 290 Conger Eel, Stewed . 162 Stewed 211 Confectioner’s Paste . 337 Chicoree Sauce . . 98 Conversation on Household Affairs 40G Choice of Pork . 19S Compote of Pigeons . 264 Cho-ca . 423 of Fruits .... 375 Chocolate . . 25 Coots, to cook .... 297 Italian 26 Cooling Drink .... 45 Iceing for Cakes • . 380 Lemonade .... 50 Ice Cream . 383 Cow Heels .... 283 Choice of Meat . 171 Crab Curry .... 278 Chopping of Herbs . 335 Cranberry Pie .... 364 Chump of Yeal . • 181, 183 Cresses with Pullet . 290 Clear Soup rj . 109 Cream, Bohemian Jelly 355 Clarify Stock, to 108 Clouted .... 405 Cock-a-leekie Soup . . 113 Coffee Soufflee 369 Cocoa 26 Cream, Coffee Ice 383 Nut Biscuits •t 391 Pastry, Saute 353 Cod, Boiled 131 Omelet Soufflee . . . 369 with Oysters 131 Rice Soufflee . 368 Coffee, on . 19 Sauce .... 166 to choose . 20 with Spinach . . .. 327 where first used in Lon- Crecy Soup .... 121 don 19 Croquettes of Fowl . . . 259 French 22 Macaroni .... 352 White 22 * Rice 352 made with a filter . 23 Crumpets, to make . 5 another way . 23 to toast .... 4 Ice Cream . 3S3 to serve .... 4 Cold Ham 306 Crusts of Fruit .... 345 Condiments, on 74 with Madeira . . : 345 Allspice, Ginger, Cloves, Cucumbers .... 326 Nutmegs . . 76 Brown Sauce 92 Anglica, Vannilla, Sugar, White Sauce 99 Orange, Orange-flower, with Poulards . 215 verjuice . 83432 INDEX, Airacao .Telly . . . PACK 354 •Warrant Jelly . 387 with Omelet 347 Bed,White,!!!: Biackfor Puddings 368 and Raspberry Pie 364 Compote 379 Salad of 388 Sweetmeat of . 387 Curry, Beef 275 Calf's Head, Feet, and Tail 277 Chicken 274 with Paste 274 Crab .... 278 Fillets of Haddock, Sole 279 Whiting 279 Game 280 Lamb 275 Lamb’s Head, Breast of Lamb 270 Lobster 278 Mutton 275 Breast of . 276 Ox Tail . . 277 Oyster 278 Pork .... 275 Prawn ... 278 Babbit ... 274 Salmon 279 Skate 279 Sauce 96 Tripe 277 Turbot 279 Veal 275 Breast of . 275 Custard Pudding . 52 362 for Puddings 372 Cutlets a la Victime . 256 en Papillote 251 Prussian . 255 Damson Pie 364 Pudding 363 Dartoise Fourree 344 Deer .... 202 Bed .... 202 Fallow 202 Demi-Plum Pudding. 359 Dewberry and Raspberry Pie 364 Diablotins 371 Dinner, Nursery 29 Table 397 ' D’Officc, Paste . . . 337 Dory, John, to cook . 149 Dried Haddock. 12 Sprats ’• H. 144 Draught, Cherry • 47 Drink, Cooling . . . • 45 New .... • 45 Strengthening . 47 Dry Toast.... 3 Ducks, on . PACK 220 a l’Aubergiste 222 to choose . , 220 Boasted 220 Stewed with Peas 00 , 262 Turnips . 221 , 263 Varieties of 220 Ducklings, roast 291 Pie 302 Stewed with Turnips . 221 Remains of 221 Duck, Wild Hashed 284 Roasted, with Orange Sauce 284 Beck . 293 Black . , 294 Broad-billed 293 Burrough . 294 Canvas Back 293 Cracker 298 Curres, Blue-billed 294 Gray-backed 293 Douckers . 293 Dowers 294 Eider 294 Flapper 293 Gray . 293 Golden Eye 293 Great Black and White 294 Itertlutook. 293 Longtailed 294 Morillon 293 Mallard 293 Pintailed . 293 Scaup . . 293 Scopper Bills 293 Scoter . . 294 Sea Phensant 293 Sheldrake . 294 Shoveller . 293 Bed-breasted 293 St. Cuthbert’s 294 Teal Drake 293 Tufted 294 Velvet 294 Winter 293 Ecarlate of Fowl 216 Eels, on 160 to kill . . 160 Broth 40 Fried. 161 Pie . 269 Spitchcocked 161 Skinned 160 Stewed 161 a la Tartare 161 Effects of Fish . 128 Eggs au Beurre 9Eggs—Baked . with Asparagu with burnt Butter Hard in Cases with Cheese to choose . with Green Peas with Ham plain Boiled Poached . Mashed Meagre with Mushrooms Sauce Snow sur le plat and Toast a la Tripe . Endive Sauce, or Puree Entrees, or Made Dishes of Game . Entremets Epicure, the Septuagenarian Escalops . Escaloped Oysters Eschalot Sauce Essence of Beef Fallow Deer Fennel Sauce Feet, Lamb’s Ox . Calf’s Fish, on . Anchovies for Breakfast Barbel Basse Black Pollock, or Coal Fis Brill, or Brett Bull’s Head, or Miller’s Thumb Capeling Carp . Char . Chub . Cod . Conger Eel Dabs and Smear Dab Dace . Dory, John Eels . Effects of . Forcemeat of Flounders . Garfish . . Gray Mullet Gudgeon . Gurnet, Gurnard, or Noud INDEX. 433 PAGE PAGE 286 Fish—Hake » 132 286 Forked • • 133 2S7 Haddock . • • 133 9 Hallibut • • 152 288 Herrings . 142 287 Hornfish 138 8 Lamprey . 162 287 Ling • 132 17 Mackerel . • L3C 9 Maids 153 9 Perch 158 286 Pike . 154 287 Pilchard 144 287 Plaice 153 165 Pollard 139 287 Red Mullet, or Sur Mullet 139- —142 10 10 287 98 223 280 00, 348 425 318 319 92 38 202 164 58, 250 233 59 128 144 11 160 135 139 152 160 144 155 160 160 131 162 154 160 149 160 128 7,318 153 138 142 159 135 Kaw Pollock Roach Salads Salmon Salt . Sardines Sauces Scad, or Horse Mackerel Skate Skipper, or Saury Pik Smelts . . Soles Sprats Sturgeon . Tench Tobacco-pipe Trout Tunny Turbot Turtle White Bait Whiting Whiting, Pollock, or Glass Whiting Pout Wrasse Shell—Clams Cray, or Craw-li Shell—Crabs Escalops Oysters Prawns Razor, or Solen Shrimps Whelks Fisherman’s Soup Fillets of Beef, Broiled Flancs . . . 222 Flanc of Apple Fruit Meringue . what they are Flounders, on . Water Souchet F F 341, 139 160 315 130 132 144 163 138 153 138 145 9—151 144 134 158 138 156 135 47, 148 146 146 138 139 139 128 318 31S 31S 31S 31S 31S 31S 320 31S 118 230 8, 339 341 341,342 343 341 , 153 153INDEX 434 Flounders, Fried PAGE . 153 Fruit Pies PAOE 363 Food, light, for invalids 34 Salads of . 38S Forcemeat, on 310 Vol-au-Vent 338 to make 311 Wall 362 Fish . . 307, 311, 320 Frying, on 70 Panada for 311 Fry, Lambs 198 of Veal . 311 Fumet de Gibier Sauce 103 of Whitings 320 Fondue, Parmesan 370 Galantine, to cook . 304 Neapolitan 370 Jelly 354 simple 370 Turkey 304 Stilton Cheese 370 Veal 304 Fourree, Dartoise 344 how got 171 Gateau 344 Game, choice of 291 Kissole 343 to keep 292 Fowl, Pea 291 Made dishes of . 280 Fowls, on 212 Salad of . • . 316 Blanquettcs of 258 Soup 125 Boiled 257 Tureen of . 303 Braised 257 Entrees of 280 Broiled 258 Bittern, common 29S Boudins of 262 little 298 Croquettes of 259 Bitterbum or Bogbumper . 298 Fricassee of 260 Blackbirds 298 Fried 258 Black 292 Hashed, Indian 258 Bustard, great and little . 298 Italian way 216 Butterbump 298 a l’Ecarlate 216 Canvas Back Duck 297 a la Marengo 261 Capercailzie 293 a la Tartare 259 Coot, great 297 Minced 258 common bald 297 Pie . 302 Cormorant 298 Pillau 273 Corncrake 296 Pulled, for invalids 61 Curlew Jack 296 Boast braised 210 Curlew, little 296 Saute 258, 260 261 Daker Hen 296 Salad 317 Divers 297 to truss 212, 213 Dunbird 294 French Beans . 326 Fallow-finch 298 Cabbage Soup 119 Fieldfare . 296 Coffee 22 Flapper Duck . 293 French Herb Broth 48 Gallinule, or Watercrake . 296 Panada , 44,311 Gambet 29S Pap . • 30 Gannet, or Solan Goose 297 Plums Compote • 377 Garganey . 294 Pot-au-Feu ■ 126 Godwits 29S Kagout of Mutton • 242 Goose, Wild 297 Bemedy for Colds • 40 Bean • • 297 Fricandeau of Veal 234, 237 Barnacle • • 297 Fritadella 254 Brent • • 297 Fritters, Apple . 348 Clakis 297 Apricot 348 Egyptian 297 Orange 348 Gambo . 297 Peach 348 Ganser . 297 Fruit, Chartreuse of • 356 Bedbreasted 297 Crusts . • 345 Siberian 297 Flanc of . • 341 Solau 297 Bissolettes 340 Spurwinged 297 Puddings 362 White-fronted. 29743o INDEX. Game—Goose, Tree Gorcock Grebes Grouse Red White Wood Gulls Hares Half Birds Herons Heath Polts Kipps Knot, Knute, or Knout Landrail . Lark . Leverets . , Longtailed Duck Mallard Moorcock, or Gorcoc Moorgame . Ox Bird Partridge . Iied-Iegged Pea Fowl . Pheasant . Hybrid . Plovers Bastard . . Dotterel . . Golden . . Gray Great Long-legged . Lapwing. . Norfolk . Peewit . Stone Curlew . Pochard ... Ptarmigan Quails Rabbits Red Heads Red Wing Red Shank Ruffes and Reeves Sandpiper, or Sanderling Shoveller . Snipes Common Great . Jack Stare Starlings . . , Stint Swinepipe or Redwing Teal Ternes, or Sea Swallow Thrush PAGE 297 292 297 292 292 293 293 297 299 294 298 292 297 295 296 295 300 294 293 292 292 298 292 292 291 292 292 294 294 294 294 294 294 294 294 294 294 294 294 293 295 298 294 296 298 296 298 293 295 295 295 295 298 298 298 296 294 297 296 Game—Tureen of Water Rail Whimbrel Whim Wheatear . Whewer . Widgeons . Great Headed Wild-duck Windthrush Woodcock . Garlic Sauce Garniture for Omelettes Gateau Fourre . Gauffres a la Flamande Gibelote of Rabbit . Giblets Pie Soup Glaze Gold Jelly Goose, on the . to choose . Giblets Hashed . . Pie . . . Preserved . Stewed . , Stuffing Roasted . , to truss Wild Gooseberry, Green, Compote Pie . . . Pudding . Vol-au-Vent with Rhu Gosling, Roast . Grass, Sprue Gratin of Lobster Gravy, Brown . Spinach and Turkey Greengage Compote . Greengage Pudding . Gray Hen Salad Groats, Scotch, Gruel Grouse Pie Scotch Plan of Cookin Gruel Sago . Gudgeons, Fried Guinea Fowls, Roasted Gurnet, Baked . . Boiled Haddocks, Baked Dried Dublin Bay F F 2 PACK 303 . 2 EG . 290 294 298 294 294 294 298 296 295 94 JS9 344 349 264 219 267 117 107 354 217 217 219 262 302 219 219 218 218 217 297 379 364 363 339 339 290 323 313 90 327 206 6, 378 363 317 43 268,302 ■ 282 42 43 160 291 135 135 133 12 133INDEX 436 PAGE PASS Haddocks—Fillets of 279 Jam—Raspberry . 386 Finnon 13 Strawberry . 386 and Toast . 12 Jardiniere, Neck of Damb . 195 en Papillote • 13 Sauce . 195 Ham • 200 Jelly, Apple . 386 to choose . . • 16 Arrow-root . . . 43 Cold . • . • 306 Bohemian Cream . 355 and Eggs . • 17 Calf’s Foot 353 Hamburgh, Beef • 177 Curafoa . 351 Hard Eggs • 9 Currant . . . . 387 Hare, Jugged . . • 285,286 French . . . . 354 Koasted . . • 299 Gelatine . . . 354 Soup . • 124 Gold .... . 354 Haricot Beans . . • 328 Hartshorn . . 354 Hartshorn Jelly • 354 Isinglass . . , . 354 Haunch of Mutton . • 188 Marasquino . 354 Venison . . • 202 Noyeau . . . . 354 Herbs with Omelette • 288 Demon . 355 Minced, Sauce . • 93 Orange , . . . 355 Italian, Sauce . • 93 Quince . 387 Chopping . • 335 Rum-Punch . . . 354 Herrings, Boiled • 143 Silver . . . . 354 Baked • 143 Stock . 353 Broiled • 143 Whipped . . 355 Toast • 11 of Meat, to clarify . 305 Hotch Potch • 118 Julienne Soup . . 110 Kidneys, Bread-crumbed . . 15 Iced Almond Cake . • 372 Maltre-d’Hotel . 15 Cream, Apricot, &c. • 384 on Toast . . 15 Coffee • 383 Ox ... 233 Demon . • 384 Pudding . . . 233,271 Orange • 384 Sauteed 16 Pine Apple • 383 Sheep’s . . . 14,241 Strawberry 384 Kidney Beans . . 327 Vanilla 382 Kitchen Utensils . 412 Wafers 346 Knuckle of Veal . 182 White Almond Pudding 365 Dait de Poule . . . . 40 Icing, Royal, for Cakes 379 Sweet . . • . . 41 Imperial . 50 Damb, on . . 194 Indian Hash Fowl . 258 Breast of, Broiled . 197 Invalids, Comforts for 34 Curried . 275 Fish for • 54 Chop .... . 58,250 Food . • 34 Curry . 275 Darks for . • 61 Cutlets . . . . 250 Meat . • 34, 56 to out up . . . 195 Mutton Broth . • 34, 36 Feet .... . 68,250 Partridges . « 60 Fry .... . 198 Pigeons . . • 60 Head .... . 198 Poultry . . • 59 Heart . 250 Puddings . . • 51 Deg of . . • , 196 Soles . . . • 55 Neok of . . 195 Irish Stew • 243 Pie .... 264,266 Soup . • 113 Papillote . . 251 Isinglass Jelly . • 354 Pudding . . 270 Italian Drops . • 393 Quality of . . 195 Remains of . 249 Jam, Apricot . • 385 Saddle of, Russian Fashion 196 Quince . . • 386 SauteedINDEX. 437 PACE Lamb—Shoulder of ; . 196 Larding 235 Larks for Invalids . . . 61 a la Minute . . . 285 Pie 285 Laver 330 Lentils 329 Soup 123 Letters—I, XV; n, XVI; xrr, 26; IV, 27; V, 29; VI, 62; TO, 63; VUI, 63; IX, 66; X, 66 ; XI, 67 ; XII, 68 ; Xin, 185; XIV, 243 ; XV, 246 ; XVI, 312; XVH, 373; XVIII, 394; XIX, 397; XX, 401; XXI, 403 ; xxn, 405; XXIII, 419; XXIV, 419; XXV, 422 ; XXVI, 425; XXVII, 447. Leveret Lemonade, Barley Cooling Lemon Cheesecakes Jelly . Souffle Leg of Lamb Pork Liaison of Eggs. Liver, Calf’s Lobster Butter . Curry a la Creme Gratin of . Miroton of Plain Salad Sauce Loin of Mutton Pork . Veal . Braised Cold Luncheon . Mackerel a la Maltre-d’Hotel au Beurre Noir . Boiled Pickled Soft Roe Sauce . Stewed Macaroons Macaroni . Croquettes a l’Estoufade au Gratin . a 1’Italienne a la Neapolitaine Pudding Soup . to blanch . Macedoine Omelette . Madeira, Crust3 with 300 46 50, 402 347 355 367,368 196 199 94 237 170 278 166 313 313 314 314 165,166 191 199 181 83,307 307 27 136 137 136 157 164 137 393 333 349 334 334 333 334 52 112 333 347 345 Made Dishes of Beef Game Veal Maltre-d’Hotel Butter Maids of Honour Marasquino Jelly Marinade of Salmon . Marrow, Vegetable . Pudding Matelote Sauce . Marmalade with Pancak of Apple . of Apricot . of Cherries of Pine-Apple Mashed eggs Maigre Eggs Soup . Meat, Aspic of . for Breakfast for Invalids Melted Butter . Mephistophelian Sauce Meringues, Plane Muffins, to make toast Mulberry Pie . Mulligatawny Soup Muria Sauce Mullet, or Sur Mullet, to cook their price in Rome how it feeds Pilleted, liver sauce Papillote Saute Mussel sauce Mushrooms Blanched with eggs Milk, on . 88 and Bread . 31 Rice . 41 Semoulina . 42 Tapioca 42 Vermicelli . 42 Minced Beef 231 Powl 258 Meat 363 Pie 363 Pudding 358 Pheasant . 282 Mint sauce 94 Minute, Snipes a la . 283 Miroton of Beef 224 Salad of Lobster 313 Moor-fowl Pie . 302 Mould Puddings 358 Mock Turtle, Brown . 116 PAGE 223 2S<» 240 170 346 354 316 325 361 169 34S 385 385 386 389 286 287 123,124 305 14 34, 56 164 102 343 115 5 3 364 116 163 140 139 140 141 141 141 168 1,323 101 287INDEX 488 PACE PAGE Mushroom Sauce 91, 98 Omelets—Rum . . 347 Mutton, on 187 Saute Souffle . 368 Broiled 190 Sauteed in Cream . 369 Broth 34, 35, 3G, 113 Strawberry Jam . 3'7 Chop . 56 Sweet , 347 Soyer’s 245 garniture for— Breast of, Curry 275 Asparagus . . . . 289 Curry 275 Bacon . 2S9 Cutlet, various ways, 57, 58, 247, Green Peas . . . 289 248, 249. Kidney . . . . 289 Plain 57 Lobster . . . . 289 French Ragout of 242 Mushrooms . 289 Haunch of 18S Oysters . 2S9 Highland . 188 Peas .... . 289 Kerry 188 Onion, Button, Sauce . 99 Leg of, Roasted 189 Purde . 97 Boiled . 189 Soup Maigre 124 a La Bretonne 190 Stuffed 101 Stewed . 192 Orangeade 50 Loin of, Roasted 192 Orange Compote 377, 378 a la Bretonne 191 Fritters 348 Neck of, Roasted 193 Salad 3SS Boiled 193 Vol-au-Vent 339 Pie .... 266 Jelly .... 355 Pillau 274 Ice Cream . 384 Pudding . 270 Sauce 94 Roast, for children . 32 Souffle 368 Saddle of . 188 Osmazome . . . 39,171 a la Polonaise 188 Oxen, to judge . . . 171 Shoulder of, Roasted 191 how cut 172 Boiled . 191 Ox-beef, to hang 172 Baked, with Apples 191 Brains . 229 Provincial 192 Cheek Soup 114 Stuffed and Baked 191 Feet .... 233 Southdown 188 Heart . . . 228 Welsh 188 Kidneys . 233 Wicklow . 188 Tail Curry . 277 au Gratiu . . 227 Neapolitan Fondue . 370 a la Jardiniere . 227 Neck of Lamb . 195 Sauce piquante . 227 Pork . 199 Soup . 114 Veal 181 Tongue, cold 307 Venison 203 hot 306 Nectarine Pudding . 362 fresh 17S Nesselrode Pudding . 364 pickled, to boil 178 New Drink 45 remains of . 179, 234 Nursery Dinner • 29 s Oysters .... • 319 Escaloped . . 319 Omelets . • 11 Fried.... 319 Cherry, Preserved • 347 Curry . . . . 27S Currant Jelly 347 Soup .... . 117 Garniture for 289 Sauce . 167 Ham . 288 Stewed . 319 Herb 288 Macedoine of • 347 Panada, Frenoli . 44, 311 Parmesan . • '287 Pancake with Marmalade 34S Preserved Peach • 347 Pap . 29 Preserved Apricot 347 French . 30 Raspberry Jam . 347 Papillote Lamb Chops . 251INDEX, 439 Papillote Mullet PAGE 141 Sauce 95 Parmesan Fondue . 370 Parsnips . . . 331 Partridge, Boasted . 292 Hashed 283 for invalids 60 Pie .... 268, 302 Salad 317 Salmi 283 Saute with Mushrooms 282 Stewed with Cabbage 282 Palates of Beef. 225 a la Bretonne 226 a l’lndienne 226 a la Maitre-d’Hotel . 226 a la Poulette 220 Palestine Soup 105 Paste, Beef Suet 336 different sorts of 335 d’Office, or Confectioners’ 337 Puff .... 336 Half . 336 Short, or Pate a foncer Short, for Fruit Tarts 337 o35, 336,337 Pastry Cream Saute . 353 Peach Compote. Fritters Omelet Salad Vol-au-Vent Pea-Fowl. Pear Compote . Pie with Bice . Peas and Sprue-grass Sauce and Bacon French way Green with Eggs. Soup. Stewed Winter Pease Padding . Perch, Sauteed in Butter Hampton Court fashion Pheasant, Broiled Hashed Joe Milier’s Minced Pie, raised . Salmi Salad Stewed with Cabbage Pickle a la Garrick . Pickled Mackerel . Pork . 375, 378 348 347 388 338 291 375, 378 364 351 98 101 322 322 287 122 100 122 273 158 158 280 281 281 282 302 281 317 280 308 157 202 Pickled Salmon Trout Pie, Capon Chicken Duckling Eel . Fowl Giblet . Goose Grouse Hare . Eamb Mutton Moorfowl Partridge Pigeon Pheasant Poulard Babbit Bump-steak Sea . Yeal and Ham Fruit . Apple Cherry Cranberry Currant Damson Dewberry and Baspberry Gooseberry Minced Meat Mulberry Pear . Plum . Quince Baspberry Bhubarb Whortleberry Pies, simple plan of maldn Various Pigeons cn Compote for Invalids Pie . Stewed with Peas Pig, Sucking Hind quarter of Pig’s Cheek Feet, a la Ste. Menehould Kidneys Head, like Wild Boar to braise Pike, to cook Sauce Matelote Pillau, Fowl Mutton Pine Apple, Ice of Compote Piquante Sauce. Plovers Sauteed with Truffles PAGE 157 157 302 266 . 302 . 269 , 302 . 267 302 268, 302 302 264, 266 . 266 302 268, 302 267, 303 302 302 267 26S 268 266, 300 363 364 304 364 3G4 364 364 364 363 364 364 364 364 364 364 364 303 265 264 GO 67, 303 264 201 201 201 253 253 308 309 154 155 278 274 383 3S9 92 284440 INDEX- Plum Beverage. PAOK 49 PuddiDg, Pease . * racE 273 Compote . 377 Pork . 271 Stewed • 49 Babbit 271 Vol-au-Vent • 310 Suet . . . 271 Poached Eggs . • 9 Toad-in-Hole 272 Pork, to cut up . • 198 Veal .... 270 to choose . • 198 Kidney 271 Salted 201 Yorkshire . 272 Pickled . . 202 for Invalids and Children 51 Chine of . 199 Apple and Bice 51 Cutlets 251, 252 Bread 53 Curry 275 Bread and Butter . 53 Hashed 253 Small 53 Hand of, Pickled 202 Cabinet . 53 Leg of. Boasted 199 Custard . 52 Loin of, k la Piemontaise 199 Macaroni 52 Normandy fashion 200 Bice 52 Pudding . 271 'Tapioca . 53 Sparerib of 199 Vermicelli 52 Porridge . 31 in Moulds . 358 Potatoes, Introduction of 331 a la Eloisc . 358 their Effects 331 a la Beine . 35S Varieties of 331 Brown Bread 359 Baked 331 Carrot 359 Boiled 333 Chesnut 364 Pried 332 College 359 Slashed 333 Demi-Plum 359 Irish way of Boiling 333 Iced Cabinet 364 a la Lyonnaise . 332 Minced Meat 358 a la Maltre d’Hotel 333 Nesselrode . 364 Mashed 332 Preserved Ginger 360 Sandwiches 228 Trifle.... 359 Poultry, on 204 in Cloths . 360 for Invalids 59 Apple 362 to kill and pluck 204 Apricot ... 362 to pluck 205 Blackberry 363 en Capilotade 258 Cocoa Nut. 362 Poulards, Braised 210 Currant, Bed and White 363 Boiled 213 Custard, Baked . 362 with Carrots 215 Damson 363 with Cucumbers 215 Gooseberry 363 Poulard Pie 302 Greengage . 363 with Quenelles . 214 Marrow, Baked . 361 with Bice . 214 Nectarine . 362 Boasted 213 Peach 362 Stewed 213 Plum.... 360 Poults, Turkey . 290 Plain Bolster 361 Prawn Curry . 278 Plum Bolster 361 Preserved Goose 219 Baspberry and Cherry 363 Prussian Cutlets 255 Bhubarb . 363 Ptarmigan Salad 317 Bice, Glac<5 365 Pudding, Meat . . 269 Bowley Powley . 361 Beefsteak . . 269 Wliorts 363 Black . . 18, 19 Puff Cheesecakes . ; 371 Pish . . , 272 Paste 335 336 Kidney 271 Pulled Fowl for Invalids . 61 Ox-Kidney 271 Pullets, on 212 Lamb 270 to Truss for Boasting . 212 Mutton 270 Boasted, with Cresses 290INDEX, 441 Punch, Cold • PAGE 402 Quails • 205 Quenelles. Kagout Sauce 100 with Tongue 214 of Forcemeat 311 Quince Pie . . . 3G4 Babbit, on 298 Boasted 299 Curry 274 Fricassee of 263 Gibelotte of 264 Pie . 267 Pudding 271 Eaised Pies 300 Bamifolle . 255 Baminole, Cheese 371 Baspberry Jam 3S6 Omelet 347 Pie . 364 Pudding 363 Vinegar 47 Batafias . 393 Bavigote Butter 170 Sauce 93 Befreshing Beverage 46 Bemoves . 170 364 Bemains of Lamb 249 Duck . 221 Game 317 Bhubarb Compote 379 Pie . 364 Pudding . 363 Vol-au-Vent 339 Bice with Apples 350 to boil 334 Broth 36 Croquettes 352 Milk . 41 with Pears 351 Pudding . 52 with Apples 51 Poulard with 214 Soup . 112 Bissole Fourree 343 Bissolettes, little Fruit 340 Bibs of Beef, Boasted 173 Braised . 173 Boasting, on 68 Boasts, Second Course 290 Bobert Sauce . 93 Bolls, milk 4 Brioche 7 Boux . . , 90 Euffes and Beeves, to feed 296 Rump Steak 58 Broiled * 179 Bum, Omelet with . PA OB 347 Jelly . 354 Busks, to make 6 Busse, Charlotte 356 Saddle of Lamb 19G Saddle back of Venison 203 Sago Gruel 43 Salad, Beef 232 and Potatoes 232 Black Game 317 Family, French 232 Fish . 316 Fowl . 317 Game 316 Gray Hen . 317 Lobster 314 Miroton of Lobster 313 Partridge . 317 Pheasant . 317 Plain 314 Ptarmigan 317 Tartar 315 Salads of Fruit. 388 Salad Sandwich 403 Salmi of Partridge . 283 Pheasant . 281 Salmon, Boiled . . 130 Broiled 130 Curry 279 Marinade . 316 Matelote . 130 Pickled 157 Salsify 324 Salt Pork . 201 Sandwiches 403 Sardines . 14 and Toast . 12 Sauces, on 88 Anchovy 164 Beans, French . 99 Beyrout 167 for Meat. 167 Brown 91, 92 Cucumber 92 Mushroom 91 Button Onion . 99 Caper 103 Carrot 99 Cauliflower 97 Chicory 9S Cream 168 Cucumber . 92 Curry 96 Demi-Glaze . 90 Egg . 165 Endive 98 Eschalot . 91 Fennel 164442 INDEX, Sauces—Fish . , Fumet, de Gibier Garlic . Garum Socioruin Horse Iiadish Italian Herb Jardiniere . Jerusalem Artichoke Liaison of Eggs . Lobster New a la Creme simplified Maitre-d’Hotel . Matelote . Simple , Mayonnaise Melted Butter . Mephistophelian Minced Herb Mint . Muria Sauce, Mushroom 93, Mussel Onion 07, Orange Oyster Papillotte . Peas . Piquante . Quenelles . Ravigote . Robert Demi-Glaze Shrimp Soft Roe . Sorrel Soyer’s Sharp Spinach . . Tarragon . . Tartar Tomato Turnip White Wild Boar’s Head Savoury Dishes Sauteing, on Sausage . Cake Sausages, to cook Atherstone Cambridge. Oxford . . to saute with Turkey Seakale Sea-pie Semoulina Broth PACE 42 Milk ... 42 Shrimps, on 320 Sauce 165 to pick 320 Sheep’s Brains . 194, 241 Feet, or Trotters 241 Stock from . 242 Head. 193, 194 Heart 249 Kidneys . 14. 241 Tongue, demi-glaze 249 Sheep, how to cut up 187 which are best . 187 Silver Jelly 354 Skate, to cook . 153 au Beurre noir . 154 Curry 279 Smelts, Boiled . . 55. 56 Broiled 56 Fried 145 for Invalids 56 Water Souchet 56 Snipes a la minute . 283 Snow Eggs 287 Soles, Small or Slips . . 13,55 Boiled 3 52 Fried. 150 Fillets of Curried 278 aux Fines Herbes 152 a la Muuiere 151 Saute in Oil 151 Souffle 367 Beignet 347 Biscuit 369 Cheese 371 Coffee 369 Cream, Whipped 369 Lemon 367, 368 Omelet 368 Saute 368 Cream 369 Orange Flower . 36 8 Orange Iced 366 Punch Cake 366 Rice Cream 368 Vanilla 370 Soup, on . 104 Artichoke . 111. 120 Autumn 118 Cabbage . 119 Carrot 121 White 121 Clear. 10S, 109 Cauliflower 121 Conger Eel 126, 127 Creey. 121 Fisherman's 118 Game 123 PAGE 163 103 94 163 164 108 93 195 98, 99 94 165 166 166 167 92, 170 169 169 315 164 102 92 94 163 99, 101 168 99, 101 94 167 95 98, 100 92 100 93 93 91 165 164 98 95 92 98 92 102 95 98, 99 89, 96 308 300 72 207 253 18 17 17 18 18, 207 207 323 268443 INDEX, Soup, Giblet Hare . Hotch Potch Italian Paste Irish . Jenny Lind’s Julienne Lamb’s Head Lentil Macaroni . Maigre Mulligatawny Mutton Broth Onion Ox Cheek Ox Tail Oyster Palestine Pea . Pot-au-Feu Printaniere Hice . Scotch Cock-a Semoulina . Spring Sole . Sheep’s Head Turnip Vegetable . Vermicelli . Sourcrout, to cook Bavarian way Soyer’s chop Sauce Brawn new way of making Sprats, to cook Dried Sprue-grass with Eggs Steak, Rump Stewed Beef Stewing, on Stock, on . for all kinds of Soup Brown to Clarify . Economical Sheep’s Feet Strawberry Ice Cream Charlotte . Jam . Omelet Salad Vol-au-vent Stuffing, Baked Fish Goose Turkey • • PAGE 117 • • 124 • • 118 • • 112 • • 113 • • 125 ■ • 110 • • 115 123 112 n . 116 e . 115 123, 124 • • 116 • • 112 • • 124 • • 114 • • 114 • • 117 • • 120 • • 122 • • 126 110 112 e . 113 112,125 110 118 115 e • 111 109 111 330 330 245 95 310 Beef Tea 38 14 14 286 . 58, 179, 229 58 70 104 . 104 • • 105 • • 10S • • 105 1 • • 242 • • 384 • • 356 • • 386 • • 347 • • 388 • • 340 • • 312 • • 312 • • 312 Stuffing, Veal . Sucking Pig Hind quarter of Sugar, to boil . colour. clear . in grains . of Lemon . Silk Thread, or spun Vanilla Sweetbreads, Roast . au Gratin . Sweet Lait de Poule . Sweetmeat of Currant Jelly Table, Breakfast Tapioca Milk . Tarts, small Fruit Tea .... how made in France Beef . new way to make Teal, a new method of cooking a la sans fafon Tench, Stewed Toad in a Hole Toast, Plain Dry . and Eggs Herring Kidneys Sardines Water Pickled River . a la Twickenham Lyons fashion . 'hot, to cook. French way a la Creme rban of Almond Caki of Croquettes of Pastry . •key, on Boiled or Braisec Broth from Blanquette of . Boudins of. with Celery Sauce to choose . Giblets Gravy for . Jerusalem Sauce Galantine . 209, PAGE 311 201 201 381 3S0 380 380 3S0 3S2 380 23S 239 41 387 1 42 342 23 20 3S 24 285 285 159 272 2 3 10 12 11 15 12 51 6 157 157 157 157 357 277 227 147 11S 14S 372 262 372 205 208 209 261 262 209 205 219 200 210 304444 INDEX. Turkey with Oysters 208 Vegetables—Brussels Sprouts 327 Parsley and Butter 209 Cabbages . 330 Sausages 205 Carrots 331 Sausage-cake 207 Cauliflower 325 Boasted 205 grating with Cheese 325 Braised . . . 210 Celery 324 Stuffing for . . 210 Cucumbers 326 to truss . . . 208 Greens 330 with Tomatos . . 209 Laver 330 Stewed . . . 211 Lentils 329 Poults . . . • 289 Marrow, Vegetable . 325 Turnip Soup, puree . • 121 Mushrooms 328 Parsnips 331 Vanilla Ice Cream . 382 Potatoes, their introduction 331 Veal, on . 180 their effects . 331 Breast of . 181 Baked . 331 Stuffed and stewed 183 Boiled . 331 Curried . 275 Irish way 333 Broth 37 Fried . 332 Strengthening 37 Fried—Mashed 333 French fashion 36 a la Lyonnaise 332 Curry 275 a la Maitre d’Hotel 333 Cutlets 239 Mashed 332 aux fines herbes 239 Peas, Green 322 en papillote 240 French way 322 323 saute 240 Salsify . . 324 Chump of . 181, 183 Savoys 330 Fricandeau of . . 234, 237 Seakale 323 with all Sauce3 . 236 Sourcrout . 330 Fillet of, cold 307 Bavarian way 330 Boasted 180 Spinach 327 Forcemeat of . 311 with Gravy 327 Galantine of . . 307 with Cream 327 and Ham Pie . . 266 300 Sprue Grass 323 Knuckle of 182 Truffles, English 329 loin of 181 Saute of 329 Boasted and Braised 1S3, 307 Turnips 331 Neck of. Braised 181 Vegetable Soup, puree of . 120 with Peas . 182 Venison, on 202 with Haricots 182 Haunch of. 202 with new Potatoes 182 Neck of 203 Pudding . 270 Saddleback of . 203 Shoulder of, stewed . 184 Victimised Cutlets 256 Stuffed and Braised 184 Vol-au-Vent 337 Cold . 307 of Apples . . 340 Boasted or Braised 181 Cherries . 339 Vegetables, to cook . 321 Fruit . i 338 Artichokes. 326 Gooseberries . 339 Jerusalem . 325 Oranges. . . 339 Asparagus . 321 Peaches . 33S Beans, French . 326 Plums . 340 a la Maltre-d’Hotel 327 Bhubarb 339 Gabanza . 329 Strawberries . 340 Haricot, White 328 86 a la Bretonne 328 Water, on . Kidney . 327 Barley 44 Windsor . 327 Fresh Fruit 47 Beetroot 326 Bice .... 44 Broccoli 325 Souchet . 56, 133INDEX. 445 Water Cresses, with Steak PAGE 179 White Bait Sauce PAGE . 89,96 Whitings, Boiled . 54 Woodcock, Hashed . 283 Broiled . 13, 54 a la Lucullus 283 Pried . 55, 138 Sportsman’s fashion . 283 au Gratin . 139 Widgeon, Hashed . 285 Forcemeat of . 320 Roasted . 284 Sauteed 55 Wine, Port, Negus . 402 Fillets of . 279 White Fillip 403 White Bait, to cook . 146 INDEX TO Apples, with Rice PAGE 471 Custard of ... 472 Anti-Cholera Diet . 447 Brains, Fried .... 465 in Beignets 465 Summer fashion 465 Carving of Poultry . 451 Fish, Receipts for 461 Fisherman’s Food . 461 George the Fourth’s Fruit Cake 470 Harricots, Brettonne Fashion . 460 Lamb’s Brain pudding 465 Mackerel, Pickled . 461 Melted Butter for Anchovy Sauce, &c. 463 Mussels, Scalloped 463 New Tart .... 473 Oysters, Scalloped . Ox Cheek, a la mode 462 465 Ox Foot, Boiled 464 with Sharp Sauce 464 Pancakes .... 473 Orange .... 473 Paste, for Pies, Puddings, &c. . 470 Sweet Royal 470 Pastes Common, without Yeast 472 Pears with Rice 471 Pie, Calf Brain 465 Eel .... 461 Kidney .... 464 Labourer’s 468 Lamb & Parsley 469 ADDENDA. Pie, Mackerel . . . 461 Ox Kidney . . . 464 Pilchard . . . . 462 Potato . . . . 469 Pilchards, to pot . . . 461 Prince of Wales’s Cherry Cake 472 Pudding, Kidney . . . 464 Pudding Paste . . . 457 Kite with Marmalade . . 474 Salad . . . . _ 464 Sauce for Cod Pish . . . 462 Savoury Pudding, Paste for . 467 Sheep’s Brains, black Butter . 465 Head .... 464 Tongue .... 465 Soup, Beef Rice . . . 453 Dutch Rabbit . . . 459 Harricot . . . . 490 Irish Stew . . . 458 Jerusalem . . . 459 Lamb Broth Curry . . 459 Lentils .... 460 Mutton, Plain . . . 457 Onion .... 460 Pumpkin . . . . 459 Puree of Carrots or Turnips 459 Split Pea . Veal Curry Sugar Cake Tendon Separator . Veal Broth Pudding a la Lethwich 460 458 472 453 458 466 SOYER’S CHARITABLE COOKERYADDENDA. LETTER No. XXVII. soyer’s ANTI-CHOLERA DIET. Eloise, In answer to your unexpected letter, I beg you will not alarm yourself respecting the present epidemic. « Live well, fear not. ” This, I am confident, is one of the most efficacious remedies, though this disease is still n the increase, and somewhat alarming, and might affect you, beino- rather a nervous subject: but you must agree with me that, in such circunTsfcances, he greater part of the multitude turn even the slightest derangement into 10 era. n y fix your attention on the daily report of the Board of Health and you will perceive that if 100 were daily to fall victims to the epidemic out of a population of 2,000,000, it would be only one in every 20 000- therefore you have 20,000 chances to one in your Lour. But I must teR you what I have got to-day by me in a bottle; viz. half a pint of lovao-e direct rom a distillery and half a pint of the best pale French brandy I will for- ward you a bottle of it this afternoon, and in case you or your frfonds should have any of the symptoms, which my medic! man MoL " I" but generally in weakness at the pit of the stomach immeffTl glddineSS’ but ^PeciaUy sickness, you should take immediately a wineglassful of it, send for medical assistance, get to bed keen yourself very warm until his arrival; you may take two ten mmutes in case of his delay: to you, who are at some distance from his abode it may prove, ff not useful, at least a consolation. This recin™ °aptain Whit6' K-^oJZe™. hve years in the East Indies: but I think you had better consult your doctor and ff it;d“snnotayS *•“ ^ and Armless at any time ■ rk“ot z ,or “ ;hof - equalization in ,h. electricity of which448 FOOD IN CHOLERA. prived; but thanks now for the change which has taken place, we may shortly hope for a permanent decrease, especially with the progress medical science has made since the first appearance oi this awiul visitation in Europe. The following are a series of receipts which I have submitted to some scientific men, which, after a few corrections on their part, have been pro- nounced good, and which may be taken during the illness by those who have the least tendency to it or fear of the cholera: TO BOIL RICE.—Well wash half a pound of rice in cold water, which throw away, put to boil half a gallon of water, in which put your rice, boil six minutes; put on a sieve, butter slightly a stewpan, put in the rice, cover over, set in the oven for fifteen minutes, or near a fire; it will then be white and very digestible, still astringent, and every grain detached from each other; if no oven or stewpan handy, boil in water fifteen minutes, throw on a sieve, let drain a short time, serve on a dish, and eat plain, with salt, or as follows: When the rice is done either way, add half a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter of an ounce of brown sugar, a little cayenne pepper, one ounce of salt butter, mix lightly with a fork, and serve very hot; in case of slight derangements increase the pepper. Another.—Put in a spoonful of curry powder or paste, and serve. Baked Rice.—Break two eggs in a basin, add a gill of milk, stir well, add the rice, put in a pie dish, bake twenty minutes; serve with meat. Rice a I’Indienne.—Cut two ounces of lean bacon in small dice, put in a stewpan, with a little butter and half a middle-sized onion, stir over the fire with a wooden spoon, add your rice ready boiled, season as any of the above, but less salt; add a spoonful of curry, no butter, mix well; serve very hot. Mutton a, VIndienne.—Put in a stewpan one ounce of butter, and one pound of lean mutton (all meat), cut in dice, set on the fire, stir with a wooden spoon till hardly any gravy remains, add a tablespoonful of curry powder, and the same quantity of flour, mix well; add half a pint of water, two salt- spoonfuls of salt, three ditto of sugar, let simmer gently till tender, which depends what part you use, stir occasionally to prevent burning, add a little more water if too thick; cut and put in, just before serving, three hard-boiled eggs in large dice; serve rice, plain boiled as above, with it. Eor beef proceed precisely the same (with mutton), being most recom- mended by the faculty; but any kind of meat or poultry, rabbit, &c , may be cut small, and curried the same, as you must have perceived in my series of curries. TO VARY THE FLAVOUR, which is desirable when in good health, introduce a little eschalot or onions, bay-leaf or thyme, or half a clove of scraped garlic, but all according to taste. Indian Pudding.—If you happen to make double the quantity, and any449 FOOD IN CHOLERA. remain from the previous day, prepare some rice curry with eggs, mix your remaining meat curry with it, put in dish, and hake; serve hot. I shall recommend (which is the opinion of my doctor) the lean part of a fine mutton chop well peppered, a saltspoonful of cayenne and salts of celery rubbed over; the darker red the flesh of the mutton, the more preferable; the same with beef: cut a slice of the fillet, extract all fat, and cook the beef like the mutton. The leg of a chicken well peppered as above, broiled quite dry; boil two eggs ten minutes, cut in four pieces, add a little pepper, salt, and a pat ox butter, serve with it any small quantity of rice. (See Receipt 729.) Let your doctor select any of those dishes for you, though the complaint is the same, our constitutions may require different treatment. Broth being very seldom recommended for cholera cases, but essence of beef and mutton may be taken by spoonfuls. (See Sick Room.) To vary the food for persons who are fond of sweets, put two ounces of rice, well washed, in a stewpan, add half a pint of milk, a pat of butter, a little powdered cinnamon, and a saltspoonful of sugar; when in rather thick pulp, add the yolks of two eggs; serve round, to be eaten either hot or cold. Prepare the same, but add a tablespoonful of tapioca and a little more milk ; place half in a dish, then some apricot marmalade or any jam, put the other half over, place in the oven, sugar over, bake twenty minutes. For rice milk (Riz au Lait), see p. 41; rice pudding, p. 52; but do not make them so delicate, as solid food is preferable. EGGS IN BUTTER.—Boil four eggs hard, cut them in slices, make in a. stewpan a little melted butter, put in the eggs, warm gently, add nutmeg ■grated, and finely-powdered salts of celery, and serve. Eggs Seasoned.—Cut an onion in dice, put in a pan on the fire half an ounce of butter, turn on the fire one minute, add a little flour and a gill of milk, boil five minutes, add four hard eggs, cut in large dice, season with salt, pepper, and salts of celery, and serve. WHEN CONVALESCENT.—If any beef-tea, or broth of any kind (seo Comforts for Invalids), make them stronger of meat. CURRY CUSTARD.—Break three whole eggs in a basin, and beat them up, add a quart of milk, a little salt, a very little sugar, and two teaspoonful3 of curry paste; bake in a dish or basin. This is very light and nutritious. For those who can afford it, roast a leg of mutton, and when nearly done put a hot dish under it, and with a sharp knife make several deep incisions in every part of it, let it remain two minutes longer, that all the gravy may fall into the dish, pour into a cup, take off the fat, and give to the patient as may be required; the mutton will do for curry or hash for the family. This may be called gigot de mouton sacrifie; but when life may almost depend upon this extravagance as you may call it, the expense must not be thought of. G G450 FOOD IN CHOLERA. Mutton juice mixed with yolk of eggs.—Put in a cup the yolk of a very fresh egg and a spooniul of water, beat well, have your juice boiling hot, pour over, mix quickly, give it immediately in small quantities, or as may be directed by the medical attendant. In the way of soup, mulligatawny and Indienne are most to be recom- mended. BEVERAGE.—Put a gallon of water in a pan to boil, add one pound of rice without washing, a tablespoonful of barley, one of tapioca, boil slowly half an hour, drain through a sieve, press the liquid from the rice with a spoon, add a little powdered cinnamon and two ounces of sugarcandy; drink when thirsty. Another.—Boil a pound of rice in a gallon of water till quite a pulp, add two tablespoonfuls of semolina at the same time as the rice, when in purfie add an ounce of butter, a little salt, two ounces of sugarcandy, and grated nutmeg; drink it warm with a spoon. I also put a little ground rice in my breakfast-rolls.o P - P o P 32 3 x-J «- x ? 2* § 3. 2 aq P^ cL c ^ h5' ^=-§<3 a1 2 3 o'x ^ | oo „ 2, o | IPIrf - s o < S- s ra 5 3- 3* 5’ 3 p 3 ,_* 3 -ST .?* 5" c 3 *■ 3 s^§£.;s S3 = j j "a. S-Z 5s § g j ~ S 1. -, S’ c^’ 2 p ® h-oT *?« S o ? : n ? "C : ~. o • 5 3 ' r-aa ; go 2 ” s,Z = ^ s|i r— — «L ~ „ O ' ffl g > o ha ' > :H 5.05 3 g : *1 SC 3" (J re 5‘ >i | •“ §■ ? K- 8- 2. ? ; O ? JJ'i-i 3 S,?o C 2 : n 05 ra 2- — W -* !> a! P =T 3 ' o S 2- 3 p p 1 s. ® - 2 •? sr «f 1 <T> 22- H-* ■ O O Pj “1 3 C rt- "3 0 3'^“ O P O- 5 1 “ 3 s 3 !T 5 -+ a i » ^ — p - 5 ^ « m . R" r> P P P o !. — — o O » O O H 3‘ 3 : - -•' ra —1 , . . ~ » iu > j n rt-3v»S'<».Oioia>ire pre-'3jJ5eaJ3»o'3J |-o g 5-s pS.S ® § „ S-l “ § P 2 %.S2ffO -• EL 2 12-3 o. 3 H *a 5 o crq P p o ra P s' l 3 5T° Ss-S - rt, p w 5 3 2-^ — 3 cf {L « ^2 f= o P » - s ?<!> - & X 3 | 5*18® ®32L*^g i® — 2 ’5’o ' o “ o 2. =t< O o POP 3 zt "* ^ 3 o5 I—I “ * 3 ~ - 1 If > p2. «■ 2 0 3 ■ - H o 3 o 3i o : s'g. 1 35® M __ , s.st-3 O r © ■ U-l 0 0 *" Wv^ o £B 3 , 2 a CTO? p--?*- * 2-o =r“ Zi-ri ! &*?£=! & ® = *3 “S3r?v s-«s*g *:; rP; = gz -13s1 O 3. Z 3- «■ 3 ? “ ? T3 “3re re :: 5 2 n05 o 5 S P - 3 *2 re Z = ■5 = Sr^S o 1» 2 * o ® 5- 3‘ 3 a* 3*1 § ?§ ss c _2 5-3g 3 S' „ S 5 H s 3. <v. “ 33 re “! $ “Jao^BSPa loP-S 2 s § q S « g o ' ' — — s P. 3. P-“ v ^ 3 -r fl «>' p a’’* r‘ 3 P s 1 8»3 S 3 ^ | ^|g: ’ S 3 i r**T3 "1 _ 3*8 Z I, fD 3 3 3 ^ Z Z ^ o 3^ S- 3 ^S'prep? W -- 5»1 "•§ g.’S. “ 5- H g 1*1 |o.3;IJ ^ t. yi'is ?l?» g.a-g-||-s !l«sag sS-s<S-5 - ■5 «?ojps-?s-»?-3o S-y£.*5 S.TS'g-m as : p 3 ^ ;• 3 P c ^pcrq 3^ 2. •—• o' - ^ 3 2 S- a ^ s w. P S.0q Wo 5 re 32 - p » ** "> O 3<fiPo ■ 5 p cr 60 3 »_( iZ.. : ' s’? s i s'Q.I ~i? *'2-°-3 0 rs'»»s,-&3 1 § 3.2 “ ?S S S c ?.5'< 3 p’Joj o.^3pSS.°p£S'3=2ps*Sv:S'»>3-' £”3 ■ '“> — «J« os Sr m »ri i. O &< ;“3 hy o pyre o oarq ►P fH 3 P -• P 3 O 4 ! “ 3 P c« S 2 Cj -i ”• S' — 3 ^ < P «|!|5 r-g id af-is-s-s-g »; r 3 ’ 5- o - 3- a*; r2r^ g"„ 3 ' _, “ o 3 ro o «■ » 3 *0 =r ™ c p ^ 3 5! P S-S* 3- 3 i * 3 I O' o p w a 2 3 ^3- 6 EL —-3 £ , Sji0 ;*“a lore® 32 > ^ p‘ 3 , o u> 3 1 ?p S c ro 1p5 S' 2, „ 2 > ^ ^ ^ -• -• o ' 2 K- sr ? ff 3 >-d 2- 8 ^ "S -3 r o s ^ ' 3 x 2.£ p « 3 fB O'q 3' cf 1 -.„g.‘S yW _ ” i-j 3. O r-- <r4- 3:^ 1 32 <5 <!2' ' re o S-s 5 12 <2:^ S r ^ El -+ St 5 : ; o 't o 1 jfg f . 3 3 S. -"3 2 n 2 ILre 3 re j T h 3 Et 3-- ; 2-5-:^ 3 oq Gq O S ta Co S. g o tM- 53 tre g m 53 3. &ADDENDA (II). CARVING OF POULTRY. SOYER S TENDON SEPARATOR. The engraving on the next page represents one of the most serviceable of instruments. Its object is to relieve carvers, more or less proficient, and must become indispensable for the use of all cooks and poulterers in disjointing the volatile species previous to trussing, roasting, or boiling. To a clever carver, sitting at a homely table or a public ban- quet, it matters little whether all eyes are fixed upon him or a fidgety footman is at his elbow. He quietly distributes the several dainties according to the fancy of the guests, and every- thing goes on in comfort. But to a person inexperienced, the notion of being placed at either end of the table, to stay the ravenous appetite of some of the guests, causes such a neiwous excitement, that it is not an uncommon thing to see the splashing of sauce and gravy on those around—perchance the sadden ap- pearance of an unfortunate limb flying with terrific velocity on a lady s dress, the whole of the company being thus thrown into contusion—the poor carver’s apologies received with black looks, and the harmony of the party placed in jeopardy. It is with a view to extricate society from such an awkward position that the inventor offers to the public the Tendon Sepa- rator, as a medium by which any gentleman may boldly take the carving-knife in hand, and be delighted to comply with the invitation of the Amphytrion: instead of inspiring fear, he will be admired for his ability in gracefully dividing a .favourite piece of game or poultry. ThlSiTHcit7 the °Peration will easily convince any one that the Tendon Separator possesses all that is required to remove awkwardness in carving; the only necessity bein- to G G 2 faCARVING OF POULTRY. 453 -divide the tendons in the joints, the toughness of which is the difficulty to be overcome, and often abandoned to make a desperate cut at the bones; hence arise the accidents above mentioned. The following instructions will enable all cooks and poul- terers to prepare game and poultry for the table, perfectly free from opposition to any carver’s knife. THE TENDON SEPARATOR Is represented shut when done with, by merely slipping the brass ring to keep the spring in its place, and open when in the act of being used; the straight part of the handle, with the ring, resting in the palm of the hand between the thumb and the fore- finger. When about separating the tendons and otherwise dividing other parts of your fowl or bird, you begin by turning the skin over the wings and cutting the tendons (No. 1, p. 454) in each of the joints; and then by taking hold of that part com- monly called the drumstick, with your right hand, and the skin being already turned, you can easily get at the joint (No. 2) by making it come out, to cut the tendons of each leg; on turning the Separator with the points upwards, you give a cut at the breast-bone (No. 4); and, by holding the instrument with both hands, immediately after turning the points downwards, you also give a cut at the back-bone (No. 5), and then, the four tendons being cut,, the limbs are brought back to their former position. Then you introduce the instrument into the body at the other end of the bird, and with your left hand you take hold of the thigh- bone, which you also divide at No. 3, and again turning the points downwards, you give another cut at the back-bone No. o; with. little practice, the cuts at the breast and back-bone are made without interfering in the least with the skin; then you truss the bird in the common way, but a packing-needle and thiead are to be preferred. When roasted, the appearance of the poultry is vastly improved by this simple operation, it looks more plump on account of the sinews having lost their power of contraction whilst roasting; therefore, 'when the bird comes to table, the carver has merely to pass the knife in the usual manner to take up the wings and legs, and finds no resistance; the same -it the breast and the back,°whereCARVING OF POULTRY. 454 it may easily be seen whilst carving that it has already been prepared. Three minutes is about the time taken by this new process to cut into ten parts an ordinary fowl. For a Turkey or a Goose, the sinews are divided as above, and in the act of carving, instead of cutting the fillets in a The half of a Fowl with the flesh on. The half of a Fowl with the flesh of.CARVING OF POULTRY. 455 straight line with the breast-bone, you separate them obliquely, and all other parts as usual. Pheasants, Ducks, and all Wild Fowl especially, must be pre- pared in a similar manner. A Hare or Rabbit may also have the sinews and back-bone divided; to effect this you lay the hare upon its back, and give six cuts nearly through the back-bone, holding the Separator with both hands, through the belly part; then you truss it for roasting. If it should happen to be a very large hare, the fillets only are carved, and they ought to be cut in thin slices in an oblique direction, instead of straight along the back. A fowl which has been prepared with the Tendon Separator before roasting, can produce afterwards ten very inviting pieces, suitable to the fancy of as many guests. In the first place you take a carving fork, which you stick in the breast, between figs. 5 and 6, then you give a cut at the fillet, beginning at 1 down to 2; where you make the point of the knife cut through the joint of the wing, which by twisting a little will easily come asunder. The same operation is done from 3 to 4; and without removing the fork, you slide the knife under the leg at 7, and the same at 8, and both legs will immediately separate. The next cut is to be given at 5 to 6, and altei wards the back is divided in the same direction as the last numbers- as each leg is divided at the joint commonly called drumstick, it completes the ten parts. ^ Fuck. The best part of a duck is the breast, which s ould be cut in fillets obliquely, then the wings and the le^s, the same as the fowl, and the body in two. A Pheasant. The best parts are the breast and legs, which are carved the same as a fowl. A Partridge. The wings and the body are the best parts. A roast Hare must be cut along the spine, from the neck downwards to obtain the fillets, which ought then to be divided in parts, in the same oblique direction as the ribs. The le^s and shoulders are seldom carved, but they are, with the body excellent m a hash or stewed.ADDENDA (III). LETTER No. XXV. Dear Eloise, Camilla Cottage, Nov. 29, 1852. Previously to giving you my “ Cottage Receipts,” I must inform you that my batterie de cuisine, though very small, is most useful for all my little made-dishes. I have three black saucepans, one gallon copper stewpan, a half gallon one, a double and a single gridiron, a large and small fryingpan, two large tinned copper spoons, one ladle, two wooden spoons, two sieves, one of wire, one paste brush, a rolling-pin, one kitchen knife, a steel, a meat-saw, a chopper, small mortar, pair of scales, six various sized brown basins, two round towels, twelve kitchen cloths, two tart dishes, and a good-sized earthenware pan, in which I make the beef a-la-mode, which you are so fond of. I think my kitchen a perfect little model, a regular little bijou de famille: contrary to any other woman I left our parlour to be furnished last, and with all my heart set to purchasing and providing for my little culinary sanctorum, the whole of whose contents I purchased for less than seven pounds, the copper articles being second- hand. So you will perceive that T was not very extravagant; but as many cottages have only one or two black iron pots, one fryingpan and a gridiron, for all their gastronomic exertions, I will in many instances only use these three cooking utensils. 3 The following is a series, as you will easily perceive, of simple and cheap receipts, which, in our present station of life and country appetite, we find excellent, nutritious, and economical. With regard to the Soup, sometimes I serve the meat separately, with a little sharp sauce, but not quite so rich as desenbed at page 77. Being desirous that the middle class should be less car- nivorous and more frugivorous, I beg them to make plentiful use of the following receipts, especially for different Soups, which are at once simple and economical! !'. MUTTON SOUP.—I cut two pounds of scrag of mutton in about ten pieces, but not too small; put it in the gallon non saucepan, with one ounce of salt, some pepper, two onions cutNEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. 458 in slices, one ounce of dripping, and a gill of water; set the sauce- pan and fry on the fire, stirring it round now and then, till hardly any liquor remains at the bottom, then add a gallon of water, skim as soon as it boils, add a quarter of a pound of barley; when boiled two hours, it will be done. Pour into a tureen, meat aud all, remove the fat on the top, if any, and serve. If you have any leeks, celery (tops and all), carrots, turnips, &c., handy, you may cut some in dice and put them in with the barley; they will be an improvement; but be careful not to put too much. 2. IRISH STEW SOUP.—Cut a pound of mutton as above, fry and season in the same manner, only add double the quantity of pepper, add two quarts of water, boil very gently; in short, proceed as with the above soup; peel, wash, and cut in slices a pound of potatoes, add them to the soup; boil till the whole forms a puree, and serve; a few leaves of parsley, a few marigold flowers, or a pinch of thyme, or bay-leaf, or winter savory, and spice, will be a good variation. This soup I repeat here for the pur- pose of making it popular; nothing can be better, and more economical for a numerous family, by, of course, increasing the quantity as required. 3. BEEF RICE SOUP.—Cut one pound of leg of beef, or trimmings of beef, free from too much fat and bone; put it in your saucepan, with two onions, two cloves, or turnips, leeks, celery. &c.,—in fact, use what you have,—about a quarter of a pound of vegetables altogether; add half an ounce of salt, a little pepper and sugar, one ounce of dripping, a gill of water; fry as for mutton soup; add two quarts of water, two ounces of rice, boil slowly till both meat and rice are tender, and serve. 4. VEAL BROTH.—Make in the same manner, but some- times vary with vermicelli, semolina, tapioca, sago; these are all now very cheap, on account of the people understanding very little the use of them. 5. VEAL CURRY SOUP.—Cut the veal as for beef soup, fry also in the same manner, then add a tablespoonful of curry powder, the best and cheapest you can get, add one apple cut in dice, a tablespoonful of flour, stir round; pour on it two quarts of water, stir till it boils, add one ounce of rice, simmer gently till tender, serve in a tureen.NEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. 459 6. LAMB BROTH CURRY. — Proceed exactly as above. 7. DUTCH RABBIT SOUP.—These gigantic Dutch qua- drupeds are sometimes so plentiful, that I can buy twelve pounds at the rate of fourpence a pound, perfectly fresh and good. I partly cook them the first day, and can then keep them a week if I like. They may be dished almost in any way, for which refer to our work; but, for soup, I proceed exactly as for veal curry soup, increasing the proportion accordingly. By the bye, Eloise, the other day I bought a large slice of pumpkin for two- pence, and did not knowhow to cook it when I arrived at home. Mr. B. laughed heartily at my being caught, as he said, in my own trap; but “ Stop” said I, “ till to-morrow, and see.” 8. PUMPKIN SOUP.—I peeled off the rind, and cut the pumpkin into small pieces, placed them in a stewpan, and just covering them with water, let them boil gently till the whole was reduced to a pulp. I then added a quarter of a pound of butter, two ounces of sugar, a pint of milk, a quarter ot an ounce of salt; the whole must often be well stirred, and served with sippets of toast. We all found it very nice; so my twopence was not wasted, you see; and I received great praise. It filled a large tureen. . JERUSALEM SOUP.—Cut two onions in slices, put em in a saucepan, with two ounces of dripping or salt butter: let try a few minutes; cut twelve peeled Jerusalem artichokes in slices, put them in and fry ten minutes, add a pint of water, phnlrpUDCe °/ SAlt’ ra Ut.tle PePPer> and sugar; when your arti- chokes are tender by simmering, add a large tablespoonful of flour, add two quarts of fresh buttermilk or water; cut some t in slices of toast into dice, put them in a tureen, pour over re-Two ounces °f iean bac- ^ be 10. PUREE OF as above, only the longer. CARROTS OR TURNIPS may be made carrots must be cut thinner and cooked 7°U k“°W’ dc"riEloisc>that above 100,000 bushels of haricots and lentils which furnish so nutritious a food, remain year after year in the warehouses nn sold whde m France they form an important part of the people’s food; dressed hi o owing manner they make an excellent and economical dish.NEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. 4C0 11. HARICOT.—For fourpence you may procure a quart of haricot beans; if you can obtain those of the present year, so much the better, if not, you must boil them a little longer; put them in a stewpan with a gallon of water, two ounces of butter, one ounce of salt; set on the fire, and when boiling, allow them to simmer for at least three hours, or till quite tender; strain off all the water, which set aside for soup; add to your haricots a quarter of a pound of butter or dripping, half an ounce of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper; toss all well together in your stewpan, and serve; you will thus have a most excellent dish of good food. Chopped parsley may be added. 12. HARICOTS, BRETTONNE FASHION.—Put in a saucepan two ounces of dripping and four onions sliced; fry of a brownish colour, then add your haricots, already well boiled; season with salt, pepper, and serve. Should you have a roast leg, shoulder, or loin of mutton, put them in a dish, and the mutton upon them. This is a most economical and delicious dish for a numerous family. 13. LENTILS are very plentiful and cheap, almost every- where; but I believe it is only in France that this vegetable is appreciated as it deserves. Boil a quart of lentils in a saucepan with half a gallon of water, add a very small piece of butter, half an ounce of salt, a little pepper; let simmer for two hours, or till quite tender, and finish the same as for haricots, and serve in the same manner. A piece of bacon or pickled pork may be boiled with them. Serve together, and save the broth. 14. ONION SOUP.—Very good onion soup may be made from the broth of either haricots or lentils. Cut in slices four large or six small onions, fry in dripping or butter till they brown, add a tablespoonful of flour, stir round, and pour your haricot or lentil broth over; boil up once and it is ready. Cut in thin slices half a pound of bread, place at the bottom of the tureen, pour your soup over and serve. Any stale bread may be used. It requires no more seasoning. 15. SPLIT PEA SOUP. — Cut two ounces of bacon or pickled pork in dice, put it in a stewpan with two onions cut in slices, fry together for a few minutes; put a pint of split peas and four quarts of water, simmer until in puree; add one ounce of salt, half that quantity of sugar, a little pepper, and serve. Dry mint and a few vegetables may be added, if handy.461 NEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. 16. EXCELLENT SALAD IN HOT WEATHER.—Let me persuade you to try this salad, with either any haricots, lentils, or potatoes, you may have cold; put a pint of either in a salad-bowl, if potatoes, cut them in dice, put to them one table- spoonful ot onions chopped small, a little parsley, tarragon, or chervil, if at hand, a tablespoonful of vinegar and three of oil, toss well together and serve. 17. RECEIPTS FOR FISH.—Sea-fish are very dear here, and even fresh-water fish are scarce sometimes; however, I often obtain a piece of codfish, halibut, plaice, or a few flounders, soles very seldom; mackerel, herrings, and sprats, are tolerably plentiful. By way of fresh-water fish, small pike, eels, carp, and gudgeons. I have discovered no new way of dressing them than our original receipts, except the few methods I now send you. I beg to refer you to our article fish, from page 110 to 143. The only alteration, I am now obliged to economize a little with my butter and anchovy, and use only the most simple receipts. 18. MACKEREL PIE.—Cut two mackerel in four pieces each, which roll in flour, place them in a pie-dish, season with half an ounce of salt, pepper in proportion, a teaspoonful of chopped onions, fennel or parsley may be added; add a gill of water, cover with a common crust, and bake thoroughly. 19. EEL PIE.—Proceed in the same manner; omit the fennel, add instead a little thyme or winter savoury; a little drop of sherry is a great improvement. This is very good cold. J 20. FISHERMAN’S FOOD.—Cut in slices any kind of white fish, season as for mackerel; mix two ounces of flour smooth in cold water, about the thickness of thin melted butter put your fish in a pie-disli, pour the flour and water over and bake slowly till done and well set. n ?l' ^pKLED MACKEREL.—When mackerel are plenti- ful I pickle them thus: lay six mackerel in a pie-dish, season with one ounce of salt to an ounce of whole pepper, two onions sliced, a few sprigs of parsley, half a pint of vinegar, half a pint of water; cover over with a dish, bake slowly in the oven for an hour; sweet herbs and bay-leaf may be added. Herrino-s and sprats may be cooked in the same manner, giving less time in proportion. ° 22. TO POT OR wall Fashion.)—Take MARINATE PILCHARDS, (Corn- one hundred very fresh pilchards, clean,NEW COTTAGE EECEIPTS. 462 take off the scales and heads, lay two hours in salt and water, then drain all the water from them ; mix two pounds fine salt, two ounces ground pepper, two ounces ground allspice, quarter ounce ground nutmeg, quarter ounce pounded cochineal; lay some of this in the inside of each fish, then lay them in tiers in a deep pan, with a few bay-leaves, and with whole pepper between each tier, then fill with best vinegar, cover the pan or jar with strong wrhite paper, and bake in a very slow oven for six hours. The above will do equally well for herrings, mackerel, or conger eels; the same compound is very good for sprats, but the vinegar should be diluted as one to three. 23. PILCHARD PIE.—This is a most sumptuous dish. Clean your pilchards as for potting, lay them in with pepper and salt, cover with very nice paste, bake about an hour; when done remove the cover, pour off all the fat, and pour on, for a large pie, half a pint of cream, and serve. Mackerel are very good in the same way. 24. SAUCE FOR COD FISH.—Oysters being dear, I make mussel sauce, which is very fine and cheap. I well wash two quarts of mussels, put them in a pan with a little sliced onion, a little parsley, set on the fire for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour till they are open, pick them from the shell, beard them, pull away the small tuft of hair which is in every one of them, now and then you will find a small crab in them, which remove; this done, put them in a small pan, pour over them the liquor from your mussels, mix one ounce of flour with two ounces of butter, set the mussels on the fire, when boiling add the butter, a little pepper and sugar, drop of milk, stir round till boiling, and serve rather thick. When oysters are cheap I open a dozen, put to them a gill of water, two cloves, a little pepper and sugar, blanch them very slightly; mix the butter and flower like the above, stir round, add a gill of milk, and serve rather thick, with a little cayenne. 25. SCALLOPED OYSTERS.—Put about half a gill of water as above, when well blanched, add the butter mixed with flour, stir round, keep it thick, put them back in their shell with their sauce, three in each, cover thick with bread- crumb, set them in the oven until brown, and serve.463 NEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. 26. SCALLOPED MUSSELS.—Proceed as before, fill the largest of your shells with them, bread-crumb them as above • t ley are most delicious, and make a very recherche dish at a trilling expense. Mussels are not unwholesome if cleaned and cooked as above described. 2(. MELTED BUTTER for ANCHOVY SHRIMP and MUSTARD SAUCE.-Melt in a pan two ouncefof butter add a tablespoonful of flour, salt-spoonful of salt, half that of pepper, stir round, pour over two gills of boiling water stir again till smooth, serve plain. Chopped parsley and a little Med’ Tr frieY ^ flaV°U1’’ ^ iS S°°d with an^ fish> boiled> If anchovy, add a tablespoonful of anchovy or Harvey’s f U<f’ or S°yer s ^sh. For herrings add a teaspoonful "of fresh-made mustard. Fennel, gherkin, or caper sauce may also be made with the same melted butter. ^ fanfilytadda (N°' 242) are Very commendable for a numerous nfiiTEii XXVI. last market-day I bought the fallowing provisions for three shilling „„ 1 n JT" -a palates, „ fool Idled, two si™ hetdfltke 1 brains, one ox kidney, twelve onions a few leeks nrrnt f ’ .. ve sleeps bay leaves, a few cloves, salt and pepper. I cooked the wholfof of making experiments for receipts. “ by First, with the bones from the os eheek and trimmings I mode in r, »d it 1 ™ •*« « as soon as I got home I put my large pan half full of „ / pr°"S10ns sweet> boiling I put in for a few miimtes fhe'o^heek ll iW "" ^ ^ Wiea a clean cloth, rubbed it very slightly with salt 1 ? * ®gaU1) dned with air; it will then keep a wccLi fen dav, -n • ^ lt Up in a c™t of heads in two, lengthways washed tho n . W1,n er' b fdso sawed the sheep’s Pieces of the heal f “ **d ^ (fhe bohed in) for ten minutes; cut all the under-bomT^ the cheek was pot-au-feu. You will perceive that I lost nothin- i" proved T ^ “ “y check, I hung them tiU wanted: the brains I washfd weir if M Wlth 0I* them in a saucepan with a quart of cold water hall'a -ill of 'UC'Varm water> Put salt, two slices of onions, six sprigs of fresh parsley, boiled S^nTlyTenty464 NEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. minutes; put them into a pan in a cool place: all these safely preserved, I began to cook the ox kidneys in the following manner:—(Calf, lamb, and sheep’s liver may also be dressed the same as the following dish.) 28. OX KIDNEYS.—Cut in thin slices the fleshy part of the kidney, put the white part in your pot-au-fm. Put in the fryingpan two ounces of either butter, dripping, or lard, set on the fire when very hot, put in the pieces, fry quick, and toss or stir almost continually till rather firm, add to them two teaspoon- fuls of flour, one of chopped onions and parsley, half an ounce of salt, quarter ounce of pepper,and stir round; mix with two gills of broth or water, let simmer five minutes, and serve. The addition of a glass of sherry for those who can afford it, is an immense improvement, also a few mushrooms. 29. KIDNEY PIE.—Fry slightly, and season as above, but when about half done, put in your pie-dish with a gill of water, and cover with thin paste (No. 50), bake half an hour, and serve. 30. KIDNEY PUDDING.—Proceed as above, only add to it when fried, half a pound of tender rumpsteak, cut small, and some of the fat. Another way.—Line a basin rather thinly with paste (No. 44), put in the meat prepared as above, tie in a cloth, and boil half an hour. Twelve mussels blanched, or six large oysters, are very good in it. I sometimes flavour it with a little thyme, or winter savory, or bay-leaf. 31. BOILED OX FOOT.—I cut it in two, long way, boil half in water, in which I introduce a few herbs and onions; I make half a pint of rather thick melted butter, in which I place a few parsley leaves, and a little vinegar. Dish up and sauce over. For Tripe, see 549. 32. OX FOOT WITH SHARP SAUCE. — Proceed as above; put in your melted butter two tablespoonfuls of Soyer’s Relish, and no vinegar. Sauce over; those gelatinous substances are naturally insipid, and require to be highly seasoned. 33. SHEEP’S HEAD.—Put the four pieces of the head in the pan, cover them well over with water, and make mutton broth as No. 1. Eat the broth, and dress the head as fol- lows:—egg and bread-crumb the fleshy part of the cheek; put465 NEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. them in the oven for twenty minutes, dish up and serve with brown sauce as for ox feet; or take the brain, which boil as directed at the end of my Letter XXVI., cut them in large pieces warm in melted butter and serve under. SHEEP’S BRAINS—BLACK BUTTER. 34. Cook the brains as above-mentioned, drain them on a dish; put in a fryingpan a quarter pound salt butter, set on the fire till nearly black, throw in ten sprigs of parsley, three table- spoonfuls of vinegar, half ounce of salt, quarter ounce pepper pour over the brains, and serve very hot. Another sauce for b™“3::7rT-?,nd.dl*h some> make melted butter as for ox feet, add to it half gill of milk, and a little lemon juice, and serve 3J FRIED BRAINS.—Dry on a cloth, egg over in bread drnmb; put some oil, butter, lard, or dripping in a frying-pan, about half inch thick, when hot fry them in it; throw little salt ,peppe.r °yer.’ serve on a napkin, if for a neat little party; parsley fried looks very well over, previously boiled as above 36. FRIED IN BEIGNETS.—Prepare as above, but in- stead oi eggs and crumb, make a little batter as No. 772. Dress them, and try nice yellowish colour; serve very hot. 37. BRAIN SUMMER FASHION. - Chop fine a few gieen onions and parsley, put in a basin, with salt and pepper two spoonfuls of vinegar, four of oil, stir round, pour ovefthe brain which you have taken cold from the liquor J„8' TT* TONGUES-Boil them with the head for as fo7fee “ ’ Sa"Ce °Ver "'itb eitter sauce, hrat ^ aXthbbolhC]f °f 'i”™11’ pour in lit‘le melted butter,"tie it in a cloth, boil half an hour, turn out, and serve. 40. CALF BRAIN PIE.-Proceed as above mix with if bacon, mushroom, the same sauce; cover, bake the pie as usual m a quick oven, and serve. Calves’ brains may be dressed sheep s brains in various ways. J uressea as tlmn'nm* “’Sf A’LA-MODE._I sometimes la-’ t ien put in my little pot-au-feu pan two onions cut H H466 NEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. bottom, one pound of lean bacon cut in large dice. I then put the two cheeks, the gelatinous part of a previously boiled ox- foot over, season with two ounces of salt, half ounce black pepper, four sprigs of thyme, two bay leaves, six or seven cloves, sprigs of parsley, cover with four more onions, four more pieces of bacon, add half pint of water, put the cover over, make a little paste with flour and water, as thick as for tarts, wet the rim or the joint of your pan, cover it with your paste to keep the contents of it free from air, set in a slow oven or send to a baker for three hours; remove the lid, and a most delicious fragrance will exhale from it; take out the herbs and fat with a spoon, dish your onions and bacon and ox-foot round the dish, put the cheeks in the centre, pour the rich gravy over, and I assure you, dear Eloise, that you never have eaten anything more delicious, as a savoury dish; the poor people buy those excellent things, ox cheek, but merely boil them in water for one hour, and try to masticate them, all for want of that which I often entertain you about—a common School of Domestic Economy; which one single lesson, I am certain, would teach them better. 42. Another Way.—Cut the cheek lengthway, the bacon and ox-foot the same; put in the pan as above with some season- ing, and bake, let it get partly cold before opening, take the herbs and fat off, arrange symmetrically in a deep pie dish, entirely mixing bacon, meat, and vegetables together, pour the gravy over, press lightly, when cold, turn it out on a dish; it is most relishing, and will keep for days very good; cut across in thin slices, it will be very inviting for any season of the year." 43. YEAL PUDDING A LA LETHWICH. Dear Eloise,—Having just been presented with, an excellent receipt of a pudding worthy of a gala day, I cannot resist giving it immediate publicity. The crust of this pudding is made with veal suet instead of beef; the inside is lined completely with thin slices of undressed ham, and is then filled up with alternate layers of lean veal cut from the kidney end of the loin, also thin slices of the kidney with a little of the fat, and add 12 oysters as a variation, for oysters * I cooked a rabbit in this way yesterday, and it was exquisite. I merely added two carrots, cut in slices, and baked it one hour aud a half.467 NEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. mushrooms may be added, but oysters are preferable; boil the pudding according to the size, and serve; mutton pudding and lamb done in the same way is excellent, but the meat should be cut from the leg or the loin end of either. The seasoning for t le above pudding is composed thus,—salt, pepper, two shalots chopped fine, two pinches of dry thyme in powder, and a table- spoonful of fresh parsley, chopped well; mix the whole, and season gradually while you are filling the pudding. Observe that I do not mean to classify this dish among our Economical Receipts for, let me tell you that the gentleman to whom we are indebted for this receipt is one of the most sensible gourmets of the age, il deguste toujours enmangeant • he is more he is a profound writer on the gastronomic art. DDING- PASTE.—Chop rather fine three ounces of suet, put in a basin with half a pound of flour, a quarter of an ounce of salt, rub well together; add one egg, and a wine glass- iul of water; form a nice paste, not too firm or too soft! use also for suet pudding. 45. PASTE FOE SAVOURY PUDDING.-I often intro- duce in the paste, for change, a little chopped parsley, a little shalot, winter savory, or thyme; these herbs cost very little and are relishing and wholesome. ’ vaSonnioUpastI“'’ ‘amb' °r eT“ pig’S &t’ make a S°0<1 LETTER XXVII. PHYSIOLOGY OP TARTS, PIES, AND PIECRUST. Lear Eloise, Mrs Atriter?°WfiCUl0US 'tmay appeal' to ^s Smith, or Mrs. Brown or Mrs. Any-body-else, do not omit to give room to the following remarks o^ies stTth“ m?crrplc T Tarks may seem t0 stand them well. Eor example, where is the little boy or little girl in Great Britain who has not eaten pies sweet and savoury; fron/childhoodwe eafpies-W girlhood and boyhood we eat pies-from middle age to old age we eat pies^ in tact, pies in England may be considered as one of nnr Wf ** . through life. It is we who leave them behind ZtgjT&Z' for our children and grandchildren will be as fond of pie as we have been TheZ' fore it is needful that we should learn how to make them, and make them wein Beheve me, I am not jesting, but if all the spoiled pies made for the d“ner of H H 2NEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. 468 one single Sunday in London, were to be exhibited in a row, near a railway line, it would take above one hour, by special train, to pass in review those culinary victims : therefore see the importance of the subject if we could only rescue every year to proper standing half a mile of pies and pie-crust, I think we should de- serve a piece oi plate, or, at least, a piece of one of our disciples’ pies. Gaze with admiration and horror on these two family portraits. LETTER XXVIII. j\Ia chere Amie, I received your note of yesterday too late to answer it, but pray do not be alarmed; no insurrection will take place amoug the pic-making people. I Inerely wish that the greater part of those who make them badly should improve; that is the height of my expectations. But to follow my economical study, then, I mean to give you receipts for a scries of pies for all classes of society, I feci in duty bound to begin with the Labourer’s Pies, who generally can afford to dine in his family but once a week, and that on the Sabbath-day. The following will replace the aristocratic joint, give them a welcome valua- tion, and save nearly one half the cost of their previous Sunday dinner. 46. LABOURER’S PIE.—For the following I purchased last market day at 3d. a pound, four pounds of mixed pieces, or odds and ends of meat, with very little bone in it, all very fresh; the large pieces I cut to bring them all about equal in size, then put on a large dish, I cut four pounds of peeled and well-washed potatoes, in rather thick slices, put them over, then peel and slice thinly two large or four middle sized onions, add over all two ounces of salt, half ounce of pepper, mix the whole well together, to take equal share of seasoning; put in a large pie- dish one piece of meat, then slices of potatoes edgeway; continue the same until your pie is full, terminate the top so as to form a dome, rising about two inches in the middle above the rim, put in half pint of cold water, then comes the most important part. 47. When your paste is carefully made, (No. 50 or 53,) which requires no more time than doing badly, and your pies and tarts properly full, this is the last and most important process in pie or tart making:—Everybody (you say, Eloise) knows how to make either. So they pretend.. Well, I assure you, that among the artisans in this neighbourhood, whom I now and thenPKnmn^tL©^ ®f s»ds§, ^ou® pok ©rusit. ffi®3&a£5R^'J 33 Js'33'3,3 S>2H AS IT OUGHT TO BE t&ken from still life. AS THEY OFTEN ARE TAKEN FROM REAL LIFE. Made with the same materials, ai the same cost, baked at the same baker's, at the same, time, in the same oven, but executed bv two different feminine artistes. \\ e regret that neither portrait is signed. Having seen both Pies made at two different houses, but by the same receim , I sent my servant to watch the process of the baking of them - after waiting Hii joy were done, she informed me, that about one o’clock a very cleanly dressed ’ In the crowd,” ” ■ ’ ■ • - ' smoking ... says my Mary, “ 1 lost sight of both ta rts? \NEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. 4G9 visit in their dwellings, for the purpose of teaching them a few profitable family dishes—I can tell you, without jesting, that I have seen as many as six country wives out of half-a-dozen who had literally spoiled both food and the appearance of their tarts and pies; they seemed to have been unfortunate enough to have all been favoured with the same receipt. Therefore I beg of you to let me have my own way, and tell the uninitiated housewife that she will economize and fare better by making her pies thus:— Throw a little flour on your paste-board; take about half a pound of your paste, which roll, with your hand, say an inch in circumference; moisten the rim of your pie-dish, and fix the paste equally on it with your thumb. When you have rolled your paste for the covering of equal thickness, in proportion to the contents of your pie (half an inch is about correct for the above description), fold the cover in two, lay on the half of your pie, turn the other half over, press slightly with your thumb round the rim; cut neatly the surplus of your paste, form rather a thick edge, which mark with a knife about every quarter of an inch from each other; mark, holding your knife in a very slanting way, which gives it a very neat appearance; make two small holes on the top. Egg over with a paste brush; if no eggs, use a drop of milk or water; the remaining paste may be shaped to fanciful designs to ornament the top. Notice, that if your paste is either too thick or too thin, the covering too narrow or too short, and require pulling one way or the other to make it fit, your pie .is sure to be imperfect, the covering no longer equally protecting the meat. It is the same with fruit; and° if the paste happen to be rather rich it pulls the rim of the pie to the dish, soddens the paste, makes it heavy, and therefore in- digestible as well as unpalatable; a little practice and common sense will, remedy all those little housewifery tribulations, and probably improve the appearance of this series of tart, No. 2. 48. THE POOR MAN’S POTATO PIE.—Wash and peel six pounds of good potatoes, cut in slices, take one pound of fat mutton or beef cut into small dice, mix the whole whh pepper and salt, cover witli ol paste, and bake one hour and Halt, and serve. H off,9; ,LAM,B AND parSLEY PIE—Take a large quantity flesh parsley, pour on it boiling water, drain and press out aU470 NEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. the water, then cut up a breast of lamb iu small pieces, and lay in a layer of meat and a layer of the parsley until full, then cover with paste 50. Season with salt and pepper. fO. PASra FOR PIES, PUDDINGS, TARTS, AND CAKES. Put in a pan half pound of flour, quarter pound of di ipping, quarter ounce salt, rub the whole well together for about two minutes, add by degrees a gill of water, mix your paste well, which requires to be very hard; throw a little flour on your board, roll, and use it as you like. For half Puff Paste, see Pastry. 51. Another Way.—Three ounces of dripping make good paste, even two,for meat pies, especially where there are children; of course, instead of dripping, suet chopped fine may be used, also lard or butter; if I make this crust for fruit pies, I generally add a little sugar to the paste. 52. Useful to the Middle Glass.—Wlien I am short of dripping I buy two or three pounds of beef or mutton suet, cut in small dice, put it in a pan with gill of water, set on a slow fire, when well melted and very clear I add an ounce of salt, a few sprigs of thyme, two bay leaves; pass it through a clean cloth into a jar, when cold, cover it over with a piece of bladder; it will keep good for mouths; use when required for either sweet or savoury pies. Omit the herbs for the first. Here is a little bit of extravagance from the Camelia Lady, as they call me here, having christened my small abode “ Camelia Cottage,” instead of “ Rabbit Cottage,” which I consider a very unclassical name. 53. SWEET ROYAL PASTE.—Put in a basin one pound of flour, half a pound of fresh butter; rub both well together with your hand; make a well in the basin; add six yelk of eggs, quarter of an ounce of salt, two ounces of white sugar, on the lump of which you have rubbed part of the rind of an orange or lemon previous to pounding it; mix gradually your flour and yelk, and enough cream or milk by degrees to form a rather stiffish paste; when very smooth, use it where described. Any kind of fruit pie, tart, or almost any pastry with fruit or jam, may be made with this paste. For Puff Paste, see 731. 54. GEORGE THE FOURTH’S FRUIT CAKE.—Roll half pound of the above paste, about quarter inch thick, shape it as round as possible, turn the eggs half an inch round, formNEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. 471 a kind of rim, which mark with the back of a knife, peel six good apples, cut in quarters, make six deep incisions an inch each, without cutting them through, place them respectively round on your paste, the large part upwards, when fill very closely with one single row, only cover over with two ounces pounded sugar, in which you have put a little powdered cinna- mon, break ten pieces of hard butter, which place over, and then bake in any shape, and serve hot or cold; brown sugar may be used. Another Way.—Boil half an ounce of ground rice in half pint of milk, with little lemon peel, add to it one ounce of butter, two of sugar, two eggs previously beaten, mix well and pour over your apples, which is then prepared as above, and bake; the rim must be made about half-inch thick. 55. PEARS WITH RICE.—Boil quarter pound of rice in milk, add a little salt butter, a small piece of cinnamon or lemon peel; simmer gently till tender; add two ounces of sugar and an egg; stir quick. Peel and cut in dice six eating pears; put them in a stewpan with one ounce of sugar, a little water, boiled a few minutes till forming a syrup; put a layer of rice on a dish half-inch thick, then a layer of pears, rice, and pears again, throw sugar over, bake for ten minutes; give nice colour with a salamander. Semolina, sago, or tapioca, may be used instead of rice; also, to flavour, orange and lemon peel may be used. 56. APPLES WITH RICE.—Prepare rice as above; peel six apples in slices across, quarter-inch thick, put butter in clean fryingpan, sprinkle sugar over that; place your sliced apples over it (having taken the core out), sugar over again; set on the fire for a few minutes, turn them when done. Put rice and apple as above; they are to be kept very white. 57. When the apples (say twelve) are done, dish them up round, symmetrically, one-half over the other; put two table spoonfuls of currant jelly in the pan with a glass of port wine, sherry, or brandy; warm well and throw over. 58. Take a penny fresh loaf, cut it in thin slices, cover over with sugar; bake them in the oven till crisp; add one slice between each slice of apples, it will be a change; any other jam will do the same. The slices may be toasted.472 NEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. . 59' CUSTARD OF APPLES.—Boil half ounce of ground rice in a pint of milk, with a little lemon peel; add to it one ounce of butter, two of sugar; when nearly cold, add to it one egg well beaten, pour over your apples, which have been pre- pared as for common tarts, bake in a slow oven for nearly one hour; when done, put one ounce of white sugar over, mix with little lemon; put back for ten minutes, or salamander over with red hot shovel. Serve hot or cold. 60. PRINCE OF WALES’S CHERRY CAKE Proceed lor your paste as No. 54. Stone a pound of good cherries, place lem flat on your paste, put two ounces of powdered sugar over, bake half-an-hour; break the stones, put the kernels in a small stew pan, with half an ounce of sugar, a glass of brandy or water; boil a few minutes, pour the syrup over your cherries and serve cold. Raspberry and Currant, Black Currant, Mulberry, Cranberry, are made the same. No syrup required. 61. SUGAR CAKE.—Put in a pan one pound and half of flour, one pound of butter, quarter pound of powdered sugar; rub the whole well together, moisten with lukewarm milk, in which you have dissolved half ounce of German yeast; the consistency of this paste must be only little firmer than bread dough; de- tach it well from the pan with your hands, by throwing in a little flour; roll it in a lump, place it back in the pan, cover with a cloth, set in a warm jilace to rise for one hour, and use- it as follows:—Clean and well butter a baking sheet, put your paste on your board with a little flour, roll flat about one inch in thickness; lay your sheet square or round, make rather a thick rim, mark round with a knife in a slanting way, prick it. through several times with a fork, water it over with a paste- brush, put in a nice slow warm oven; when nearly done, sugar over rather thick, put it back to bake, or salamander over; a little lemon, orange, cinnamon, may be introduced in the sugar. This is an excellent tea-cake. Serve it whole, or cut in various shapes. larts of every description, or puddings, may be made with this paste, and also used for the Prince of Wales’s cherry cake. 62. COMMON PASTE WITHOUT YEAST.—Put one pound of flour, quarter pound of butter, little sugar, salt very little, moisten with warm water, or milk, as above; bake same as-NEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. 47a above, only, when half done, take a quarter pound butter, put it all over your cake in small bits; put back for ten minutes, sugar over with a little cinnamon; colour it with a red-hot shovel, and serve as you choose, but in various shapes. Preserved ginger may be put on the top, and currants, raisins, or sultanas. 63. PANCAKES.—Break two eggs in a basin, add to it a drop of milk, a little salt, half ounce of sugar, beat well with a fork, add to the whole quarter pound of four, stir well, to make a very smooth paste, mix with a cup of milk by degrees; put one ounce of butter, lard, or good dripping, in a fryingpan; when rather hot, put three or four table spoonfuls of your batter- When cooked on one side, turn over and let it be done the same on the other, then lay it on a baking sheet; cut some peeled apple in thin slices, cover your cake with a layer of it, add some brown sugar, in which you have mixed a little ground cinna- mon; make another pancake, which put over this; lay on a little sugar, and bake a quarter of an hour; serve hot. It is also good cold. Pears may be used instead of apples. 64- ORANGE PANCAKE.—Peel two nice oranges, cut them in slices crossways, cover your first pancake with them, sugar over according to taste; lay the other over, sprinkle with white sugar, bake, and serve. , ,Amo“g culiuary innovations I am rather pleased with my new in 7^°St eIery ,great cook has invented a new pudding, while the humble and hereditary tart has remained for centuries as it was when our ancestors flpf!+nhn?r+en; v 13>iherefol;e; !™e to make a stark no matter how, and raise tzuts to that position they so highly deserve. 65. NEW TART.—Peel some apples, cut them in rather thin slices,^ boil quarter pound rice in quart of water till tender, put m a sieve; when dry put in a basin, add two ounces of sugar, in which a little cinnamon has been mixed, with two ounces of butter; stir lightly, put a layer of rice and a layer of apple alternately till full; add a little more sugar on the apples; make the border of your dish damp, put on a thin rim of paste (No. oO) round it; make a good thick pancake, like No. 63,—it must be under-done; moisten the rim of paste, place it over, fix it by damping the rim of the cake; fix artistically another thin band ol the same paste, trim neatly, egg over, sprinkle sugar, bake asNEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. 474 usual, and serve. In omitting the rice, apple may be used alone. Any fruit may be introduced. Serve hot. 66. Mr. B. and I have come to he so fond of rice, that we hardly ever pass a day now without having some on our table. When just boiled, drain it on a sieve, put back in a stewpan for a few minutes, on a very slow fire to dry, put in a little salt, pepper, and an ounce of butter; stir lightly with a fork, and eat it with meat, or any solid food, instead of potatoes: it is a very generous food. 67. RICE WITH MARMALADE. — Two nice chubby little girls, who live close to us in the lane, came unexpectedly to see me the other day; having nothing sweet to give them, I put into my rice, which was waiting for our dinner, instead of salt, a spoonful of apple marmalade—they found it delicious (you might use gooseberry, currant, raspberry, or strawberry jam for the same purpose); it was so simple and so good, that we have had it several times since with currant jelly. I cannot recommend a better pudding for Christmas than your No. 803. The following is an extract from the Analytical Sanitary Commission, as published in the Lancet, December 4th, 1852:— “ Soyer’s Sauce Succulente. — Purchased of Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell, 21, Solio-square. This sauce is thick, pulpy, and of a reddish-brown colour. It contains vinegar, a con- siderable quantity of tomato, wheat-flour, shallots, garlic, red- currant jetly, several herbs, &c. In flavour, it is exceedingly delicate and agreeable.” “ Soyer’s Relish.—Purchased of Crosse and Blackwell, 21, Soho-square. This sauce is likewise of a reddish colour; it is much hotter than the former sauce, and contains tomato, shallots, soy, &c., and other flavouring ingredients. No lead nor copper either in this or the preceding sauce.” NOTICE ON SAUCES. SOMETHING NEW. Soyer’s Aromatic on everybody’s table. ill shortly be introducedSOYER’S CHARITABLE COOKERY OR ®Ijc $oor Jtflan’s Ucgcntrator. Economy with the affluent, in times of distress, is a crime ; While doing good with little means is a virtue. A. Soyer, Author ofil The Qastrunomic Regenerator,MThis Charitable TV ork has been patronized by the following noble and distinguished personages:— His Excellency, the EARL OE BESBOROUGII, Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland, &c. &c. The Right Honourable the LORD MAYOR OF DUBLIN. Her Grace the DUCHESS OF SUTHERLAND, » „ LEINSTER, » „ BEDFORD, The LADY EMILY A. M. PONSONBY, „ HARRIET F. A. PONSONBY, „ KATHLEEN LOUISA G. PONSONBY, His Royal Highness PRINCE GEORGE OF CAMBRIDGE, His Grace the DUKE OF LEINSTER, The MARQUIS OF DOURO, The Right Hon. EARL FORTESCUE, „ „ HOWTH, „ CHARLEMONT, „ „ LICHFIELD, The Most Reverend and Right Honourable BISHOP OF NORWICH, >. „ „ DURHAM, VISCOUNT RANELAGII, Lords, DUNCANNON, SAYE and SELE, LISMORE, MARCUS HILL, PANMURE. FITZROY SOMERSET. Sir P. CRAMPTON, Bart., Sir H. MARSH, Bart., Sir R. ROUTH, Sir J. BOURGOYNE, Sir C. CHETWYND, G. ROE, Esq., High Sheriff of Dublin, Reverend E. S. ABBOT, „ Dr. O’CONNELL, P.P. „ J. CONNELL, Admiral DUNDASS, FREDERICK DUNDASS, Esq., M.P. T. M. GRESHAM, Esq.PREFACE. During my mission to Ireland, at the request of the Govern- ment, in 1847,—the year of the famine,—I wrote a small work on cheap food, entitled, “ The Poor Man’s Regenerator,” which there became very popular, though but little known in England. The extensive sale I obtained for this work induces me to add it to this New Edition of the Modern Housewife. At a time when a deluge of rain is pouring on the face of the globe, I consider my Charitable Receipts will prove most useful to Rich Families, Parish Overseers, Charitable Com- mittees, and even to Tradesmen and Farmers; for when four gallons of good soup may be obtained for one shilling, there are few who cannot afford, in time of need, to relieve the surround- ing poor, for no one suffers so much from the inclemency of the weather as the poor, under their shaky habitations. Let all Ladies pay a visit to that new and benevolent Insti- tution, the colossal City Soup Kitchen, lately opened by the Lord Mayor, where hundreds of persons are daily relieved by means of subscription; they ■will then be convinced what can be done with the surplus of food daily wasted, by thousands of tons, in as well as out of this great metropolis. It will also give an idea to the Public and my Subscribers -what good was done through the support I received from so many Ladies, Noblemen, and Gentlemen, in aid of erecting my Model Soup Kitchen inPREFACE. Dublin; and will show the numerous imitators I have through- out the kingdom, which are yearly on the increase. I have also reproduced here the important Report made by the Board of Guardians of the South Dublin Union, which gives a correct account of food made and distributed; the number of people fed there, and the unprecedented saving made by the adoption of my system; as well as the extreme facility for the distribution of aliments daily given to from 15,000 to 20,000 people, without the slightest confusion,—a plan which I would strongly recommend to the public, especially at a time of national festivity or thanksgiving. THE GREAT CITY SOUP KITCHEN, VICTORIA STREET, FARRINGDON STREET. Food for from eight to ten thousand persons may he cooked daily by entirely new cooking gas apparatus, which has been admirably executed by Messrs. Smith and Philips, of Snow Hill. Having been consulted by the Committee of this unique Charitable Institution, to whom I gratuitously offered my services for the planning and designing of the Kitchen department, including the Refectory, and also the manner of distributing food for outdoor relitf, the whole of which is done daily without the slightest confusion or hindrance,—I proposed to those benevolent persons a plan which, if followed, would prevent starvation among the deserving poor in the great metropolis. This could readily be effected by daily collecting the waste pro- visions throughout the fish, meat, and vegetable markets of London; also, the surplus of club houses, hotels, and eating houses, the proprietors of which establishments would prefer giving in charity that which was before in general turned to no account, if assured that they would experience no trouble or incon- venience. The addition of three more such establishments would effect this very great desideratum, and would add much to the merit of the undertaking, though great praise is already duo to the Committee and their indefatigabl Secretary.PREFACE TO THE EIRST EDITION. Though I have fulfilled my promise by giving publicity to my receipts for food, which I have composed for the poor, it has been suggested to me by the benevolent, to publish a small pamphlet with the following receipts, which might prove useful to humanity at large, having the great advantage of being very cheap and easily made. I have also added a few simple receipts for dishes, which may be made at a trifling expense, by copying which, every labouring family may reduce their expense, and live much better than they have hitherto done. The best means of preserving health, with a due amount of labour, is to use a wholesome and digestive food, which, fortunately for her children, nature has abundantly produced, and has most won- derfully disposed the digestive organs of every individual to act in accordance with their peculiar habits. The mendicant eats with the greatest pleasure a piece of brown bread or potato, which acts more generously on his system than the best of food that could be placed before the greatest epicure with a satiated palate. Equality of trouble and pleasure are fairly distributed over the human frame in every class of society, but when entirely depi'ived of food, the greatest suffering acts upon it, and often makes a thief of an honest man, or a murderer of a civilized Christian ; for, on this all-important point, nature loudly speaks, and a strong appetite never jokes.SOYEE’S CHAEITABLE COOKEEY. ADDRESSED TO THE WORLD IN GENERAL, BUT TO IRELAND IN PARTICULAR. As one of yourselves, allow me to make an appeal to your good sense. .You have heard, dear brethren, the distant sounds of distress, misery, and starvation in different parts of the kingdom ; who- ever has a feeling heart must shed a tear and pray for the relief' of the hungry. In every part of the country the sympathy is great, and it appears that, in some respects, you had foreseen the awful- visitation now inflicted by Providence. By the patient perseverance of your proceedings certain laws were or have been abolished, to enable you to obtain a more plentiful supply of cheap food. When the advantages of new laws seemed likely to spread abundance over the land, that every sensible man congratulated his neighbour on the victory obtained, all was cheerfulness and hope, but the expected blessing vanished like a shadow—symp- toms of scarcity began to be heard from different parts of the globe, and like the distant rumbling of an earthquake, soon reached by giant strides, the shores of Ireland, where the failure of the potato crop was no longer doubted. In the midst of these increasing difficulties, the prudent and watchful eye of your government laid-in provisions from distant shores, and distributed with care, in time of need, the produce of the public purse. The evil making further progress, crossed the Irish Channel, to the north of Scotland—again the hearts of the benevolent482 soyer’s charitable cookery. called forth public charities—streams of gold poured forth to arrest, if possible, this dreadful calamity—public prayers were addressed to the Omnipotent—your good Queen, at the head of her parliament, recommended new laws for the relief of her people—they were unanimously granted, but still thousands of your fellow creatures in Ireland are numbered among the dead for want of food. To hear of this through the public press makes a feeling heart bleed ; but what is it when compared to those who are actually starving ? it is too dreadful to think of, and no language, however impressive, can describe those deso- late and harrowing scenes of misery and death. Your sovereign, her wise councillors, and the majority of your repi-esentatives, joined you in that popular cause, and you have been triumphant. The spirit of commerce, so well understood in your favoured country, set all its sinews at work, and brought forth from all parts of the world, every available sort of provision to supply your wants ; to a certain extent your wishes have been accom- plished ; but permit me to ask you, “What are the efforts, even of a civilized nation, against the will of the Almighty ?” With me you will justly answer, “Useless.” That some wise purpose is intended cannot be denied, which I shall endeavour to prove in the sequel. Turning my mind to this public calamity, a thought struck me, that all the evil could not be laid entirely on the failure of potatoes, and if so, that other produce of the land and waters, coupled with foreign provisions, if economically employed, could arrest the further progress of scarcity; but to effect such desirable and public object, with every chance of success, I claim your assistance, and beg to ask you, whether it would not be advisable “ to use and not abuse nature’s productions?” I do not mean to tax you with waste and extravagance, but merely to impress upon your minds that the country produces plenty of vegetable and animal substances, and the waters washing your magnificent shores teem with life, which the all-wise Providence has given as food to man, and that they only require to be properly employed to supply the wants of every one with good, nourishing, and palatable food ; and I may venture to affirm, that fifty per cent, could be economized by a new system of preparation. Taking all this into serious consideration, no time is to be lost. Let me therefore entreat you to take care that nothing is wasted in thesover’s charitable cookery. 483 way of food, either individually or collectively, in any family in the kingdom ; that point immediately put into practice will be a public benefit, and a duty towards the destitute; and then, by giving you the means of using, with more advantage, every description of eatable production, so bountifully spread over the an and in the ocean you shall gradually see, with the help of the Supreme Being, plenty smile on the lips of all. It was all t lese serious reflections which induced me to write the following letter to the principal journal of the metropolis S SOI ER S KITCHEN AND SOUP FOE THE POOR. onmSf’7~Am0-nfSStra11- teiTestrial afflictions which occasionally oppress humanity, famine is the most redoubtable. It is to be deeply regretted that at the present time this evil goddess of terror iides victoriously through the greater part of Europe • though the starvation is Continental, need I say that Ireland and Scot- land are the greatest sufferers of that awful calamity. Seeing daily in the public press the charitable efforts of thousands of good people, and the incessant distribution of food, but still the distress on the increase instead of coming to a close has WWpA me to visit several charitable institutionsId to L™ which is given, with fte ver7 best of intehion, to thepoor Zt i a l °bserve’ does not answer the purpose it is’ in- instead of producing a wholesome and niLf comPosedj and often the contrary effect particuhrlv t utntl0us aliment, has substance of that nature wptp 1C6’ Sv? d Pe,aSj barley, and any the whole contfntnstsSdTi» proper vessels and practical knowledge ofcookW Ah Z °f years’ experience and practice in ?bp Ab,ove twenty me that it requires more sc pLI + callnary art has taught * A,Hippocrates jnatl, tfd, "Thatwhichplease, the palatenearishes.” I I /Vsoyer’s charitable cookery. 484 “ Finding, besides, in many instances, very great confusion in the distribution of the soup, the same quantity (or nearly so) being given indiscriminately to each applicant without cor- rectly ascertaining the number of persons in each family. After seriously reflecting on this all-important and pressing subject, I am happy to inform you, Mr. Editor, that I have contrived the plan of a kitchen for the making and distribution of soup and food to the poor, of a very simple construction, by which a thousand gallons, more or less, of excellent and very economical food may be made in a very few hours, at about two or three farthings a quart, which could be fairly, cleanly, and quickly distributed to thousands of people once or twice a day if required. I do not mean to choose any particular ingredients, but merely the production of any county in the United Kingdom, and if some parts should be entirely deprived of provisions, the cheapest that could be obtained would do. The simplicity of the plan (as I before observed) consists in the use of two uten- sils of some importance, and may be made on any scale, accord- ing to locality, and by which, from fifty to one thousand or more applicants could be supplied with food—those kitchens could be erected temporarily in a public place or a field. Mr. Editor, I am so confident of the success of the undertaking, that I not only offer my humble services gratuitously, by giving the plan and superintending the fittings of the first kitchen that may be erected, and give publicity to the receipt for making the soup; but, independently of that, I beg to ofl'er £30 as my subscription towards the immediate erection of those indispen- sable establishments, which would at once relieve, efficaciously, the greatest number of sufferers. Having just submitted, and minutely explained my plan to a scientific friend, he generously offered, in addition to my subscription, ,£20, being together £50, which will be deposited in the hands of a charitable com- mittee, where a general subscription will be opened. “ I shall do myself the pleasure of forwarding to you, Mr. Editor, the receipt for making the soup in a very few days, being now seriously occupied in experiments to bring it to the greatest perfection, as a valuable and economical nourishment for the necessitous. “ I am, Sir, most respectfully yours, “A. SOYER.” “ To the Editor of the Times."soyer’s charitable cookery. 485 To my great satisfaction, I then received many letters of congratulation and several sums of money from benevolent persons to second my project of building a model kitchen, for the preparation of food for the poor, and according to promise, I published my second letter, which was as follows:— M. SOYER’S NEW FOOD FOR THE POOR. “ Mr. Editor,—In returning my most sincere thanks for the benevolent intentions which prompted you to publish, so speedily, my letter of the 10th inst., relating to my new kitchen and soup for the poor, in your valuable journal, I beg the inser- tion of the two following receipts, which, if closely followed, would confer an immediate benefit, not only to the poor, and various charitable institutions, but also to the labouring popula- tion of the United Kingdom. I much regret the delay that has taken place since the publication of my former letter, which has unavoidably occurred, the time being consumed in experiments which I have made with various kinds of farinaceous ingre- dients, produced and imported into this country; and likewise, with some of the immense varieties of vegetables, cultivated with so much success in this favoured soil; but which, generally speaking, are not sufficiently appreciated, or used to the greatest advantage by the industrious classes. “ My intention is, with your kind permission, not only to publish the receipt for one kind of soup or food, but for five or six, the whole, however, being made on the same principle as the first, to save any confusion in the making; hoping they may prove advantageous, by giving a change in food, which acts as generously on the digestive organs as a change of air does on the convalescent, and likewise to prevent the rise in any par- ticular articles; for should the soup be approved of, and become a chief article of consumption, for a certain time, such a receipt would be quite useless in some parts of the country where the ingredients could not be obtained. My sincere devotion to this important cause being, to take every possible advantage of every kind of nutritious substances, animal and vegetable, and fish, and to convert them, by study and judgment, into a wholesome and cheap aliment for the millions. “ Several hundreds of letters I have already received upon the subject, have induced me to give immediate publicity to the486 SOBERS CHARITABLE COOKERY. th, /:n Tg re.ceiPts’ which I consider quite correct. Having thus stated my impressions upon this all-important subject I now glve you the result of my first economical study to pi-odu’ce a cheap and wholesome food.”—See Receipts Nos. 1 and 2. tlJ Vi18 thfse first receipts public, I did not suppose that they would meet with the entire approbation of the nation, par- ticularly by those who imagine that nothing can be good except plenty of animal food is used for the subsistence of man. I shall not enter into a culinary digression to prove it, but I am so satisfied of th a failure of the quantity of nourishment gene- rally obtained by those who cannot make anything good, even with plenty, for want of having the practical judgment, that I make bold to affirm, that the little animal substance I recom- mend, if closely followed, will produce all the nourishment re- quisite when amalgamated in the way described. . As regards the.peelings and ends of vegetables which I use in my receipts, it is a well-known fact, that the exterior of every vegetable, roots in particular, contains more flavour than the interior cf it; which is my reason for recommending only the washing well of those vegetables before they are cut for use, thereby increasing the vegetable produce of the country, and using that which has hitherto only increased the ‘malaria’ of our courts and alleys by its decomposition. Having thus explained my reasons, I now give publicity to my receipts for making soups and other dishes in this form; which I trust vvill prove useful to the benevolent and the whole laborious and industrious population of the country, and pro- duce economy in all charitable institutions, and comfort in every cottage. J o Almost all the productions of nature can be made available, and produce wholesome and nutritious food for man. The following is a short list, taking them in rotation, according to the quantity of nutriment they contain:—Beef, mutton, venison, pork, veal, lamb, hare, rabbits, bacon, lard, dripping, butter, oil: of farinaceous substances,* Indian corn, wheat, rice, barley, rye, buck-wheat, oats, peas, beans, lentils: of vegetables and roots— * Indian corn contains 750 parts of starch, 205 gluten, 30 sugar, 15 tannin. Potatoes contain 200 parts of starch, 40 gluten, 20 sugar.soyer’s charitable cookery. 487 yams, potatoes, Jerusalem artichokes, parsnips, turnips, carrots, mangel wurzel, onions, leeks, green peas, cauliflowers, celery, kelp, Irish moss, dillisk, French beans, greens, spinach, sorrel, salads of all kinds: of condiments—as salt, pepper, cayenne, curry, chilies, mustard, all-spice, mace, cloves, ginger, cinna- mon, &c.: of herbs—savory, parsley, mint, thyme, marjoram, basil, bay-leaf, and all sorts, both culinary and medicinal, or their essences, all of which, when properly blended with food, add to its nourishing qualities; but the grand secret is, to obtain from the above all the nutriment they possess, which is done by following my receipts, and reducing the animal and vegetable substances to a glaze, and mixing it with the farinaceous, and thereby obtaining a palatable and agreeable food, and econo- mizing the productions of nature to an immense extent; for, by the system at present adopted, more than fifty per cent, of the animal and vegetable productions are lost, and the nutriment from the farinaceous ingredients is rendered less, in conse- quence of being unpalatable. In my visits to the different charitable institutions of this city, I have been surprised at the want of knowledge manifested in making of soups. In some parishes, I found 100 pounds of meat, cut into pieces of a quarter of a pound each, put into 100 gallons of water, at twelve o’clock of one day, to be boiled until twelve o’clock the next day; by such proceedings the osmazome of the meat is lost by evapora- tion from the boiler, and only the gelatine and fibrine is left; the former has been proved by a medical board, instituted at Paris, for the purpose of inquiring into the subject, to con- tain no nutriment whatever, and the latter contains about the same as a piece of dry wood. What would be said of a cook who would put a quarter of a pound of meat, or even a piece weighing thirty pounds, to roast before a large fire for twenty- four hours? What nutriment would it contain at the end of that period? My principle is easily illustrated by putting twelve onions into a gallon of water, and boiling them for as many hours; no smell arises from it; but cut the half of one, and fry it, and the perfume will be diffused over the whole house: thus I extract the aroma of every ingredient which I employ, and any one carefully following the receipts will pro- duce a palatable and nourishing food. The old plan of soaking farinaceous ingredients is not bad, but in many instances it cannot be practised, in which case I488 SOVER’s CHARITABLE COOKERY. wquU recommend that peas be put into soft boiling water,* and that the ebullition does not cease until the peas are reduced to a T'im . n?r “""I mUSt alsobe Put into boiling water, and be * ell boiled lor wo hours. Rice and barley may be put into cold watei, and be boiled until they can be easily mashed between Vn tbe length of time depends upon their quality. All kinds of food made of farinaceous ingredients, as Indian meal, peas, rice, &c., increase in quantity when made the day previous, and require more water when warmed up. It will be perceived that I have omitted all kinds of spice except in those dishes which are intended expressly for them, as l consider they only flatter the appetite and irritate the stomach and make it crave for more food; my object bein°- not to create an appetite but to satisfy it; and when those dishes in which spice is introduced are given to the poor, it should only be done by the advice of the medical man; but in those cases where they have been accustomed to have them, they must be reduced by degrees until their taste is brought round to that point most conducive to health. RECEIPT NO. 1. FOR TWO GALLONS. Two ounces of dripping Quarter of a pound of solid meat, at 4d. per lb. (cut into dice one inch square) Quarter pound of onions, sliced thin ’ ’ Quarter pound of turnips; the peel will do, or one whole one cut into small dice I wo ounces of leeks; the green tops will do, sliced thin Three ounces of celery 'Three quarters of a pound of common dour Half a pound of pure barley, or one pound of Scotch Three ounces of salt ' Quarter of an ounce of brown sugar Fuel Two gallons of water ■Qi OA 0 6 I first put two ounces of dripping into a saucepan (capable of holding two gallons of water), with a quarter of a pound of leg * If hard water is used, add soda.SOVEll’s CHARITABLE COOKERY. 489 of beef without bones, "' cut into square pieces of about an inch; and two middling-sized onions, peeled and sliced; I then set the saucepan over a coal fire, and stirred the contents round for a few minutes with a wooden (or iron) spoon until fried lightly brown. I had then ready washed the peeling of two turnips, fifteen green leaves or tops of celery, and the green part of two leeks; (the whole of which, I must observe, are always thrown away.) Having cut the above vegetables into small pieces, I threw them into the saucepan with the other ingredients, stirring them occasionally over the fire for another ten minutes; then added one quart of cold water and three quarters of a pound of common flour and half a pound of pearl barley, mixing all well together; I then added seven quarts of hot water, seasoned with three ouuces of salt, and a quarter of an ounce of brown sugar, stirred occasionally until boiling, and allowed it to simmer very gently for three hours; at the end of which time I found the barley perfectly tender. The above soup has been tasted by numerous noblemen, members of parliament, and several ladies who have lately visited my kitchen department, and who have considered it very good and nourishing. This soup will keep several days when made as above described; but I must observe, not to keep it in a deep pan, but in rather a flat vessel, where the air could act freely upon it. Stir it now and then, until nearly cold; or otherwise the next day it will be in a state of fermentation: this does not denote the weakness of the soup, because the same evil exists with the very strongest of stock, or sauce, if not stirred, or if confined in a warm place—(a fact known to every first-rate cook). The expenses make it come to three farthings per quart in London; but, as almost every thing can be had at less cost in the country; the price of this soup will be still more reduced. In that case a little additional meat might be used, and by giving away a small portion of bread or biscuit, better support would be given to the poor at a trifling cost, and no one, it is to be hoped, hereafter, would hear of the dreadful calamity of starvation. The same for one hundred gallons, to be made in the boilers, such as are given by the different relief committees, or in any other vessel, either iron or copper, in general use. * For the use of the bones, see Receipt No. 9.490 soyer’s charitable COOKERYL Twelve pounds of solid meat, *t-<UL-peiUb., cut into pieces one inch square, or sixteen pounds, with bones -a%-3dv~perTb. Three pounds two ounces of dripping Twelve pounds of onions, sliced thin .. ] Six pounds of leeks, ditto Six pounds of celery, ditto Eight pounds of turnips, washed only, and cut into dice half an inch square Thirty-seven pounds and a half of flour, seconds twenty-five pounds of pearl barley previously soaked Nine pounds of salt One pound seven ounces of sugar £118 Have ready a spatula, or a piece of board the shape of a cricket- bat, about six inches wide, tapering towards the top as a handle, (which must be from one foot and a half to two feet above the surface of the vessel), to stir with; take twelve pounds of solid meat, or sixteen pounds with the bones, (legs or clods of beef are excellent ior the purpose, but any kind of edible meat from beef to doe venison will do), cut in pieces about one inch square; put the dripping* in the boiler—light the fire—when the fat is melted, add the onions: fry ten minutes, stirring it all the time; add the vegetables and the meat: fry for twenty minutes, or until a thick glaze is produced; then add the salt and sugar, and four gallons of cold water; then add the flour; keep stirring quickly until quite smooth; add the barley, and fill by degrees with hot water;')' boil for three hours, or until the barley is quite tender, and serve. | In case either the barley or rice does not produce the thick- ness required, (as those ingredients may differ in quality), then add, if too thin, a few pounds of flour or oatmeal, previously mixed with cold water, to make it in a liquid batter, and pour it in when boiling about twenty minutes before serving it out. But the proper thickness is easily ascertained when the soup hangs lightly on the back of the spatula or ladle and near the consistence of a thin stirabout. * If dripping cannot be had, use four pounds of fat.—See Receipt No. 21. t Hot water is the best to use if convenient. J If colour is required, add a quart of Receipt No. 21. 4 0 1 0 0 8 3 1 7 <i 0 0491 soyer’s charitable cookery. RECEIPT NO. 2. FOR TWO GALLONS. Quarter of a pound of beef*. a't-4d/, cut into pieces of one inch square Two ounces of dripping, or melted suet Quarter of a pound of turnips or carrots, cut into dice of half an inch square Pom1 drops of essences One and a half pound of maize flour Three ounces of salt Quarter ounce of brown sugar ... One teaspoonful of black pepper, ground fine Fuel Take two ounces of either dripping, American lard, or suet, to which add the turnips or carrots; fry for ten minutes; add one quart of cold water and the meal, well mixing, and moisten by degrees with seven quarts of hot water; boil for two hours and season with three ounces of salt, one quarter ounce of brown sugar, one teaspoonful of black pepper, two drops of essence of garlic, one drop of essence of mint, one drop of essence of celery; stir quickly, and serve directly. RECEIPT NO. 3. No. 2 As No. 2—and add one pound of potatoes For those who have the chance of procuring a few potatoes once a week, they may be used with advantage in the following manner: a Having prepared the soup according to Receipt No. 2, when nearly done, wash a pound of potatoes, pick out the black spots, it any and cut them in very small dice; put them into the soup to boil tor twenty minutes, or a little longer, until done, and the T? 1S ready, and wffl strongly taste of potato; the short time ot ebullition preserving all the aroma of that inconstant root. Having promised to make my receipts public, for the benefit ot the laborious class of society, as well as for the poor, I think492 SOYBR'S CHARITABLE COOKERY. that if a man could treat liis family once a week with a food called potato soup, each member of it, who had previously fed on that root, and who are now nearly deprived of that food would worship the day of the week when such a luxury should be displayed on their humble table. RECEIPT NO. 4. Quarter of a pound of bacon One ounce of dripping Quarter of a pound of onions Quarter of a pound of turnips or carrots Two ounces of leeks and celery Quarter ounce of mint, shred fine Pound and a quarter of yellow peas Half pound of common flour Two ounces and a half of salt Half ounce of sugar Have a quarter of a pound of fat bacon* cut into dice, peel and slice_ two good sized onions, or three small ones, and put both into a stewpan, with one ounce of .dripping; fry them gently until lightly brown, then add two ounces of turnips, two ounces of carrots, and one ounce of leeks, and one ounce of celery; cut them thin and slanting, (but, as I have before observed, any kind of vegetable will answer the purpose, if the same propor- tion is used;) fry for ten minutes and fill up with seven quarts of water, and, when boiling, add a pound and a quarter of split peas, and let them simmer for two or three hours, until reduced to a pulp, which depends on the quality of the pea; then add two ounces of salt, half an ounce of sugar, quarter of an ounce of mint, mix one half pound of flour in twelve ounces of water, to a thin batter, pour into the soup, stir it well, boil one quarter of an hour, and serve. li 0} ft o; NO. 5, MEAGRE PEAS SOUP. This is the same as the former, with the exception that the bacon and dripping are omitted and oil or butter used in their * If bacon cannot be bad, the same quantity of solid meat of any kind win do.493 soyer’s charitable cookery. stead. Buttermilk could, with advantage, be used; in which case, add three ounces of salt. Although this food is entirely deprived of animal substance, yet the farinaceous ingredients will act generously on the digestive organs, particularly to a stomach which has suffered from want of food. RECEIPT NO. 6.—THE FISHERMAN’S FOOD FOR THE COAST. Four pounds of fish 4 Three ounces of salt ■) One half ounce of sugar £ 03 One quarter ounce of pepper Bay-leaf, thyme Oi Two pounds of oatmeal - 4 8f Cut four pounds of fresh fish of any kind in large pieces; put it in your pan with three ounces of salt, half an ounce of sugar, a little pepper, two bay leaves, a little thyme, one quart of water, and let it stew gently; mix two pounds of oatmeal with seven quarts of lukewarm water, and pour it over the fish; stir it gently, so as not to break it too much; let it boil twenty minutes, and it is done. A red herring or dried salt fish, previously soaked, is exceed- ingly good to make this food; but omit the salt if all salt fish is used. RECEIPT NO. 7. CURRY FISH. Fovlt onions, sliced One bay-leaf Two apples, sliced Quarter of a pound of fat Three ounces of salt Half an ounce of sugar One pound of rice An ounce of curry powder Six pounds of fisli ... 2 ... OA ... 6soyer’s charitable cookery. 494 Put into a stew-pan four onions, a small buncli of bay-leaf, oounLrf/h0175 tW° "P?165’, if COnvenient> with a quarter pound of fat three ounces of salt, and quarter ounce of sugar, and fry for fifteen minutes. Put one pound of rice, and four quarts of water, and boil till tender: add one ounce of curry powder, mixed in a little water. Cut up six pounds of cheap fish mto pieces of the size of an egg; add to the above, and boil lor twenty or thirty minutes, according to the kind of fish. Salt and dried fish, previously soaked, cooked in this way, is excel- lent, omitting the salt. RECEIPT NO. 8.—FOOD FOR THE COAST. Three haddocks w< .. g * Two pounds of salt ... ... ... j Quarter of an ounce of sugar . . . [ 0J- H Take three middle sized haddocks; remove the gills and inte- rior, and cut open; rub them with two pounds of salt, a quarter of an ounce of sugar; let them remain twenty-four hours, turn- ing occasionally; pass a twig through the eyes, and han°- them in a cool, well ventilated place, until rather dry. Conger eel cut into slices, one inch thick, halibut, plaice, mackerel, treated in the same manner (if large they must be crimped) will keep for some time; they can be boiled, baked, broiled, oi fiied. A. pound haddock will take twelve minutes broiling, from fifteen to twenty frying; twenty minutes baking or boiling. RECEIPT NO. 9. SAVORY RICE FOOD. Six pounds of bones Ten quarts of water ... ., Three ounces of salt ... ' Bay-leaf, &c. Two onions, cut thin Half an ounce of sugar Half a pound of vegetables, cut small,. 3 {■1soyer’s charitable cookery. 495 Half a pound of oatmeal 1 Pound of rice 2-C Two ounces of dripping Oi 8 Tlie bones can be sold after using for 2 6 Having saved the bones of the previous day, a very good food may be made as,follows:—Take six pounds of bones, which break into small pieces, and boil in ten quarts of wrater for four hours; having added three ounces of salt, a small bunch of thyme, bay-leaf and savory, put into a stew-pan, the fat, and two onions cut thin, half a pound of vegetables, as carrots, turnips, celery, &c., cut very thin; half ounce of sugar; put it on the fire for fifteen minutes, stirring it occasionally; add half a pound of oatmeal, and mix well; moisten with two gallons of the stock from the bones; add one and a quarter pound of rice, pre- viously soaked : boil till tender, and serve. RECEIPT NO, 10,—RICE PANADA. One pound of rice 2 Three quarters ounce of sugar 1 Two ounces of salt ; < _ One pound of flour 2 Half an ounce of curry powder at 6d., or a quarter of a pound of treacle * q\ 5 Boil a pound of rice (previously washed) in one gallon of water, for one hour; add three quarters of an ounce of sugar, two ounces of salt; mix with some cold water to make a thin paste, one pound of flour or oatmeal, and half an ounce of curry powder; add it to the rice, and boil for twenty minutes, and serve. Should it be preferred sweet, add quarter of a pound of treacle instead of the curry. This will make ten pounds of solid food.496 soyer’s charitable cookery. RECEIPT NO. 11. PEAS PANADA. Quarter of a pound of fat bacon or American pork .. ji Two ounces of dripping q| Four ounces of onions or leeks / ’ q] One pound and a half of peas ’’ ’’’ g4. Half an ounce of salt 1 Half a pound of Indian meal ... " [ 1 1 Cut a quarter of a pound of fat bacon or American pork into small dice, put it into a stew-pan with two onions or tops of leeks; well wash, and cut them thin, and fry ten minutes; add one pound and a half of peas, half ounce of salt, quarter ounce ol sugar, and one gallon of water, boil till it becomes a puree or pulp, then add sufficient oatmeal, common flour, or Indian meal, to make it thick, and boil thirty minutes.* This food is very strengthening, and might be made several days previous to using; it will keep well—if no vegetable is to be obtained, a small quantity of essence of herbs would improve it. t RECEIPT NO. 12. PEAS PANADA, SWEET. One pound of peas Half an ounce of salt An ounce of dripping ... Half a pound of Indian meal Quarter pound of treacle Boil in one gallon of water, one pound of peas, add half ounce of salt, one ounce of dripping or melted suet, mix with it half a pound of Indian meal, boil for two hours, stirring it well, add a quarter of a pound of treacle; this can be eaten hot or cold. RECEIPT NO. 13.—CHEESE STIRABOUT. One pound of Indian meal 2 Three ounces of salt 04- Half a pound of cheese 1 Quarter ounce of mustard 0’- . . H * If Indian meal is used, it must be boiled two hours.497 soyer’s charitable cookery. Pat two gallons of water in a stewpan. and boil; take some Indian meal, the quantity depends on the quality, and add it gradually to the water, stirring it all the time, so that it should be quite smooth and thick: add three ounces of salt; simmer on the side of the fire for two hours, taking care that it does not burn; add half a pound of strong cheese, broken small or grated with a little mustard: give it a boil and serve. . Or put it into baking tins, allow it to get cold, cut it into pieces, which fry or bake. RECEIPT NO. 14.—INDIAN MEAL POULLENTA. One pound of meal Quarter of a pound of sausage meat ’ d Prepare the meal as above (which must be very thick) with- out the cheese; place it in baking tins; place a thin layer of sausage meat, or black pudding upon it, and cover it with more ■oi the meal; bake it for twenty minutes and serve a»excellent and cheap dish, and fit for the tables of J e wealthy it a strong gravy is poured over it when served. RECEIPT NO. 15.—SAVORY HOMINY." Two quarts or four pounds of Indian corn .... q Quarter of a pound of chapping ... 1 Three ounces of salt ’ ’ "‘[oi 9— r Tak.e two quarts .of. Indian corn and soak it for twenty-four nours m water, put it into a pot containing two gallons of boil- ing water and simmer for five hours; draw off the water if any add a quarter of a pound of dripping, two onions sliced thin’ tliree ounces of salt, put it on”*? fire for twenty mfo ft"’ ‘.eep stimng lt all the time, so that it does not bun/and serve s will pioduce two gallons of excellent food. The puree made from the whole corn, as above, is much sweeter mis°t'iT0n^ tImn that m,ade fr°m the §roun(1 meal. The great mistake at present in the use of Indian meal is, that it is not K K408 soyer’s charitable cookery. cooked enough, it being used similar to flour; it should, on the contrary, be well mixed with boiling water and allowed to simmer for never less than two hours; it then loses its raw taste and increases in quantity. st. Patrick’s soup. 4 1 ... 1 7 Take one pound of meat without bones, and cut into small pieces, put into a stewpan two ounces of dripping, one ounce of leeks, one ounce of celery, once ounce of carrots, two ounces of turnips, and fry for ten minutes; then add the meat with two ounces of salt, half ounce of sugar, and fry until a thick glaze is produced; then add one quart of cold water, and half a pound of flour; then add one quart of cold water and half a pound of flour; then add two ounces of dillisk, well washed and chopped fine; a little mixed spice and pepper. Boil three-quarters of an hour and serve. receipt no. 16.— One pound of meat at 4d. Two ounces of dripping Vegetables Salt, sugar Flour Spice Dillisk* RECEIPT NO. 17. OYSTER PORRIDGE. On many parts of the coast, oysters can be had for three shillings per thousand; they can be made, without much trouble, into a nourishing and palatable food, by putting two dozen into an earthen pan, with the liquor from them, and add three spoonfuls of flour; place it on the fire, stirring them round; add a little salt and pepper, and they are done. This can be added to the porridge made of the Indian corn and rice, or in the other receipts, where fish is used; a little lard is an improvement; also a bay-leaf, mint, and an onion sliced. Mussels and cockles can be used in the same way in propor- tion of two dozen to the quart. * Porpliyna Purpura—if not to be bad, use laver or slook the ulva lactuca.499 soyer’s charitable cookery. RECEIPT NO. 18. PICKLED OYSTERS FOR THE LONDON MARKET. Open the oysters into a pan, with their liquor; and put them into an earthen pot and set them over the fire to simmer: take the scum off1 as it rises; add some whole pepper, sliced ginger, (green if possible,) a few cloves, some chopped chillies and a little vinegar; simmer for not longer than five minutes; take them out, remove the beards and put them into a barrel; add the liquor strained when cold. RECEIPT NO. 19. CABBAGE STIRABOUT. i Well wash two pounds of cabbage, take out the stalks, and cut it slanting in slices; put into a stew-pan with a quarter of a pound of dripping, lard, or butter; half ounce of salt, quarter ounce of pepper, one ounce of sugar, put it on the fire for ten minutes, stir it well, then cover it with water and stew for twenty minutes, and mix it with stirabout, previously made of Indian corn meal. Young nettles done in this way are exceedingly wholesome, and any kind of green vegetables can be cooked in this manner. RECEIPT NO. 20. CONGER EELS. Put a slice of about two pounds weight into a saucepan, or earthern pot, with two onions sliced thin; a small quantity of dillisk, well washed and chopped fine, quarter ounce of salt, and a little pepper, add two quarts of water, and stew for one hour; ten minutes before using take out the fish and thicken with a little floui, previously mixed with some water; boil ten minutes, pour it over the fish, and serve—if onions or dillisk are not to be had, use half a pound of any vegetable cut fine: halibut and similar Jish can be cooked in the same manner. RECEIPT no 21. Take three dozen of mussels, wash them, and place in a stew- ing pan over the fire for five minutes, so that the shell is open; K It 2soyer’s charitable cookery. 500 take them off, and remove the upper shell; sometimes a small crab will he iound in them, which remove, as they are rather unwholesome; replace them, with their liquor and bottom shell, in the pan, add a spoonful of flour, mixed with some butter or lard, and a spoonful of chopped parsley; stir it in, and stew for five minutes, and serve. For a large quantity have ready the large boiler, put therein four pounds of lard or butter, and four pounds of sliced onions, and fry for five minutes; have ready two pails full of mussels with their liquor out of their shell, which put in the boiler, with one pound of salt, two ounces of pepper, two ounces of sugar, and two pounds of chopped parsley; have ready two pounds of flour, mixed with water, to consistence of good cream, and put it into the bpiler; boil for ten to fifteen minutes, stir it gently with a wooden spatula, and serve; if not required meagre, use instead of the flour and water, the same quantity of boiling stock, from the bones of meat, or from cow-heel, well stewed, parts of which, cut small, can be added: any flavour of herbs may be given, if liked. RECEIPT NO. 22. COLOURING, AND MELTED EAT. Put half a pound of brown sugar into an iron saucepan, and melt it over a moderate fire; when melted, stir it continually till quite black, then add one quart of water, and it is ready for use. For melting the fat, put it into a black saucepan, with a little water, and fry it until it becomes a deep yellow colour, stirring it all the time; have ready a coarse cloth and pan, pour the fat into the cloth, twist round each end tight, and you will obtain all the fat required. If fat or dripping cannot be obtained to draw down the glaze, use a small quantity of water. RECEIPT NO. 23.—MANGEL WURZEL. 4 Take the middle part of the leaves or stalk of the mangel wurzel, and peel the outside as you do for rhubarb, cut them into equal lengths and tie them up like asparagus; boil, with some salt in the water, for twenty minutes, and serve, with a501 soyer’s charitable cookery-. little butter, or milk thickened with flour, or stew them with any kind of fish or meat. Mangel wurzel may be used in any of the before-named receipts, instead of the other vegetables, if cut up into small dice or grated; but if kept for a few days in the soup, is apt to discolour it. In all the foregoing receipts, a greater quantity of meat may be used by those who can afford it, as I am a great advocate that every trade should flourish and that wealth should support luxury. However great the quantity of meat that may be used; no longer time should be used in cooking it. Take the same proportion of the receipts for any larger quantity. I here intended to have given an account of my oven—the method of using it, and a variety of cheap receipts; but I find that it would make this'small pamphlet too large, so that I shall be obliged to give it in a separate form; and also, a' variety of new receipts for dressing and preparing meat, fish, &c., for the London market, and a variety of wholesome and nutritious drinks. DESCRIPTION OF THE MODEL KITCHEN. The exterior and covering is of a temporary nature, being formed of boards and canvas, enclosing a space of forty-eight feet long, and forty feet wide. The interior consists of a steam boiler, on wheels, thirteen feet long, and four feet wide, with a glaze pan over it, capable of containing three hundred gallons, and at the end an oven, to bake one hundred weight of bread at a time; and all heated by the same fire. Under the boiler is an excavation to contain coals, and round it an elevated platform to give access to the glaze-pan. At the distance of eight feet, round the boiler, are eight iron bam marie pans, with covers, six feet long, and twenty-two inches wide, on -wheels, and made double, to be boiled by steam, and contain, together, one thousand gallons. At each end, extending between the pans, are the cutting-tables —at one end the meat, and at the other the vegetables; and under which are placed wooden soaking tubs, on wheels,5 and chopping-blocks for the meat, drawers and sliding shelf. Four feet beyond these are placed a row of tables, eighteen inches502 SOYER’S CHARITABLE COOKERY, wide, in which a hole is cut, and therein is placed a quart iron white enamelled basin, with a metal spoon attached thereto by a neat chain: there are one hundred of these, and this table forms the outer boundary ot the kitchen, leaving a space of two feet six inches between it and the wall. Inside of the table are fastened tin water-cases, at the distance of ten feet apart,, con- taining a sponge, &c., to clean out the soup basins. Round the two supports of the roof are circular tin boxes for the condiments. Seven feet from the ground at each corner, is placed a safe, five feet square and seven feet high, with sides of wire, for ventilation, which contains respectively, meat, vege- tables, grain, and condiments. At the same elevation as the safes are sixteen butts, containing 1792 gallons of water. At the entrance, in the centre, is the weighing machine. The fire being lighted, a certain quantity of fat or dripping is placed in the glaze-pan, and in the soup-pans the farinaceous ingredients, or thickening, along with the water. As soon as the fat is melted in the glaze-pan, the vegetables, cut into thin slices, or dice, are placed therein; after the lapse of ten minutes the meat, which has been previously cut into small pieces, is added, and allowed gradually to fry until the juice is extracted, and a good glaze formed, which will be in about thirty-five minutes. The condiments are then added, and the glaze is removed, and distributed equally in the bain marie pans; it is boiled for twenty minutes, and the soup or food is complete: this is the time occupied in making the soup, when such farinaceous ingre- dients as flour, oatmeal, and rice or barley, previously soaked, are employed; but peas, Indian corn meal, and many other ingredients, will take longer boiling. It is then ready to be removed by ladles, into the basins in the surrounding tables. Outside the tent is a zigzag passage capable of containing one hundred persons in a small space in the open air;* at the en- trance is a check clerk, and an indicator, or machine which numbers every person that passes; and on the other side is a bread and biscuit room, where those who have partaken of the soup and are departing, receive on passing a quarter of a pound of bread or savory biscuit; as I prefer giving it then instead of * I do this in order to prevent the crowding together of the poor, which causes the propagation of infectious diseases.soyer’s charitable cookery. 503 with the soup or food, it being sufficient for one meal without, and will not only save time, but when eaten afterwards will be more wholesome, and act more generously on the system, than when eaten in haste. When the soup or food is ready, notice is given by ringing the bell, and the one hundred persons are admitted, and take their places at the table—the basins being previously filled, grace is said—the bell is again rung for them to begin, and a sufficient time is allowed them to eat their quart of food. During the time they are emptying their basins, the outside passage is again filling; as soon as they have done, and are going out at the other side, the basin and spoon is cleaned, and again filled; the bell rings, and a fresh number admitted; this continuing every successive six minutes, feeding one thou- sand persons per hour; but as there are three thousand quarts more to distribute, which only occupies seventy minutes to make, other means must be used for distributing the food, for which purpose a door is provided at the entrance of the kitchen, to which persons come with tickets, which are given to them by district visitors, or subscribers; or if not with tickets, to pur- chase the food and which they take home with them. There is also provided carts and barrows for either horses, donkeys, or men to draw, containing from twenty-five gallons to two hun- dred gallons each, with fires attached; so that the soup or food contained in them should be hot or cooking on its way to the place of distribution. Such is a brief description of the kitchen. I also propose to change the diet every day, according to the provisions obtainable, and on fast days to give meagre food. Its advantages over those at present in use are numerous; the principle of employing steam in cooking is not new, and is adopted in most large establishments in England and on the Continent; it not only causes a great saving in fuel, but also in the preparation of food, for, with the greatest care, it is liable to burn, when subjected to the direct heat of the fire on the bottom of the boilers; but my new plan of combining the use of steam, and the same fire which produces it, to act upon the pan containing the meat, vegetables, and condiments, extracting immediately the valuable nutritive qualities of the animal and vegetable substances without loss by evaporation, and in using it in the manner I do, is one which I may justly lay claim to as my invention. There isjalso great economy in the number of hands employed.SOYER S CHARITABLE COOKERY. 504 To an army it would be of great service; the boiler pan, and oven does not take up more space, or is of greater weight, than the forge of an artillery train. In addition to the boiler, several watei casks, placed on wagons, should accompany it, which would combine the advantage of taking water to any place where it is not easily attainable ; and at any time or place, in wo hours, rations could be cooked for twenty-five thousand men, and, including the boiler, would consist of a train of eleven wagons. By increasing the size of the apparatus, it could be easily doubled; and by using my portable cooking-barrows, the iood could be taken to any distance. I propose that these kitchens be erected in populous districts, and where there are any already erected, to adapt them by as little expense as possible, to my plan, so as to economize both tuel, material, and hands. I then propose that the food should be distributed by carts to the surrounding villages, by a party appointed for that purpose, thereby saving the expense of sepa- rate establishments, and the chance of bad food, from ignorance in its manufacture: it will also prevent the distribution of raw meal, or raw food, which, at the present moment, is in many cases abused; besides, from the want of knowledge in its pre- paration, causes disease, and does more harm than good. To illustrate my ideas, I will select one district in the county of Mayo, with the town of Scarriff as the centre of a district of sixty miles in circumference, and under the direction of one of the most able agents of government that I have had the honour of meeting since my stay in Dublin, Major Fitzgerald. There, until latterly, raw Indian meal only was distributed, although other provisions might be obtained; but the difficulty of teaching the inhabitants to cook them, prevent their intro- duction; in most cases they have to come a distance of from five to six Irish miles to fetch their small quantity of food, and in many cases, when they receive it, eat it raw on the spot. Their coming so far must, of necessity, prevent them attending to their work, and thereby increases the pauperism, instead of diminishing it. In that district the Union-house should be the central point of distribution; from thence should depart every morning, in time for the mid-day meal, the food for the sur- rounding villages, which should not only be given to the desti- tute, but to keep up the spirit of independence in the people, be sold at cost price. On the return of the party with the cart.soyer’s charitable cookery. 505 they would give an account of the number of quarts or pounds distributed and sold; to whom; the state of health or disease, and poverty of the receivers, and the cause; a weekly return of which should be sent to an office in Dublin, whereby the govern- ment or commission appointed under it, would know exactly where and how the distress existed, and would be able to apply a remedy which, at the present moment, cannot be done, as no person visits the locality of the recipients of the bounty. Medical men, or competent persons, should likewise be appointed as inspectors of the material used for food; for I have found since I have been here, adulteration practised largely, and it should be remembered, that not always the cheapest material is the best. I intended to have given copies of several letters which I have received from all classes of society in confirmation of the excellent quality of the soup and food made from my receipt, but they are so numerous, I could not with justice make a selec- tion; but I cannot close the book without giving a copy of a letter which I wrote to her Grace the Duchess of S , ac- companying some soups, Nos. 1 and 4, and her Grace’s reply. “ Madame la Duchesse, Reform Club, Feb. 22nd, 1847. “ Une ame anssi belle que la votre ne peut pas manquer d’y avoir jointe, a toutes les qualites que la nature vous a legues, la Pbilantropie, c’est ce qui aujourd hui me fait prendre la liberty de vous faire parvenir deux specimens de ma soupe, telle que je me propose de la faire pour les pauvrcs : et laquelle ne coutera que . ‘three farthings tbe quart,’ vous priant, Madame la Duchesse, de vouloir bien avoir la bonte de me faire part, avec la plus parfaite impartiality, de ce que vous pensez de la qualite nourissante de cet aliment, lequel, dans ce moment, peut etre de la plus grande utilite a l’humanite souffrautc : soulager le malheureux est un devoir sacre ; il est tellement doux de faire lc bien, le bonheur des grands ne peut etre parfait que lorsque leurs dependants sont beureux, mais la famine, cet esprit farouche, morne et grondeur, pointc continuellement son aiguillon vers le trone • commc 1’aiguille de la boussolc pointe vers le nord, le malheur a toujours le droit d etre injustc, surtont pour dcs besoins aussi indispensables; la nature parle avec force, l’appetit ne plaisante jamais. “ Dlx j°urs s’.ulant a peine ecoules depuis quo j’ai tournd moil attention sur cet important sujet, les resultats que j’anticipais avec surete, ont tellementsoyer’s charitable cookery. 500 au-dessus de mon attcnte quc je vois dans l’avcnir uuc amelioration presque immc diate par 1’etablissement dc mes cuisines en Irelande, et en economist „iSmc les provisions et l’argent, quc jusqu’alors n’ont fait que toucher lemal sans guerir la Measure. Lc govcrnement de sa Majcste Britaunique m’ayant fait demanded, je lui ai soumis mon plan, dont il a approuve, et m’invita de me rendre aupres du Vice Roi d’lrlande pom-le m|me objet, jc serais cnchante, Madame la Du- chesse, avant mon depart de le soumettre a votre bon jugemcnt et vous expliquer moi-meme toute la simplicity de mon arrangement, vons priant de croire, Madame la Duchesse, combien je serais reconnaissant de la haute honneur que vous me fenez en ^’accordant une audience: jesuis avec le plus profond respect, Madame, votre tres humble, tres obcissant, et tres respectueux servitcur, “A. SOYER. ‘'Le jour de mon depart pour Dublin etant fixe a Yendredi, si Madame lar Duchesse voulait bicn nommer l’hcure qui lui scrait la plus agreable, je me ferai 1 honneur de me rendre pres d’elle avec le plan dc ma cuisine.” To which I received the following most gracious reply “ La Duchesse de S , remercic infiniement M. Soyer et sera charme de le reccvoir apres la Levee domain ; ellc ne veut point attendre pour lui exprime toute l’admiration qu’elle a pour son projet.” February 23rd, 1847. I then had an audience of her Grace and party, to whom I submitted my plan, to which they expressed their greatest ap- probation, and informed me that she and her friends had par- taken of the soup which I had sent, and that they could scarcely believe it was made from the materials used, it being so good.SOYER’S MODEL KITCHEN. From the Times, Sept. 28, 1847. “ To the Editor of the Times. "Sir,—The great interest you manifested in Eebruary last, when I made known my intention of erecting by subscription a model kitchen for the poor, was handsomely responded to by the public, and the scheme being considered by Government likely to be (at that distressing period) of immense advantage for Ireland, I wps requested to lay my plans before the Lords of the Treasury, and being approved of, I willingly accepted the invitation of erecting my model kitchen in Dublin, instead of London, as I at first intended. “ Having successfully proved that the system was of paramount importance, both as regards the large quantity of superior food that could be produced, and the immense saving that could be effected, the Government then purchased my model kitchen, and the South Union Relief Committee of Dublin have had the use of it ever since the 24th of April. “ As I am certain, Sir, that my subscribers and the public will feel interested in the result of my plan, the following brief statement will, I hope, awaken all local boards (if at all anxious), and adopt a system which mast save, on a very moderate calculation, at least 50 per cent, at any period of either scarcity or plenty. “ I leave to those who are better acquainted than I am with statistics what would be the amount saved to the ratepayers all through the country. “ Erom the opening of my model kitchen by me, on the 6th of April last, to the 24th, the number of rations of 2i lb. each was . 40,000 “ From the 26th of April to the 22nd of May, by the South Union Relief Committee, the number of rations, averaging 12,500 per day, was .... 300,000 “ From the 24th May to the 31st of July, also by the South Union Relief Committee, the number of rations per day, varying from 1,750 to 23,640, was . . 729,279 “ From the 2nd of August to the 14th, averaging 6,500 a-day, was 78,000 “ Making 2,868,179 lbs. of food, and of rations . . 1,147,279508 SOYER’s MODEL KITCHEN'. “ To snPP!y number of rations by the old plan of pre- paring food in different depots, would have cost, at 3d. per ration (which is rather under the average), the sum of . But, according to my plan of preparing food with my model kitchen, as it was estimated in a report made to the Belief Committee by its Secretary, on the 23rd of April last, the cost of each ration, including coals, expenses of house, carriage, labour, &c., came to 1 §d., making altogether, for 2,868,179 lbs. of solid food, a sum of £15,536 7,768 “ Effecting a saving in favour of the South Union Committee of 50 per cent., or a sum of .... £7 768 “In suPPort of the almvc statement, I beg to observe that the ratepayers of the North l nion of Dublin have paid 3s. 4d. in the pound, whilst those of the South Union only paid Is. This result, Sir, speaks volumes in favour of my system. In addition to the model kitchen, Messrs. Brown & Co., of Great Bussell Street, Borough, have erected one of their patent steam-plate ovens, which can bake on an average 1,000 loaves of 4 lb. each every 12 hours with three bushels of coke. The 1,000 loaves require 11 sacks of flour, consequently, 22 sacks can be worked in 24 hours, 132 sacks "per week, at about a Id. per sack for fuel. W hat with the savings in baking, and also the new process of making bread I have introduced, I calculate that full 2o per cent, can be saved on the cost of bread at all times. Therefore, admitting that the model kitchen, the new oven, and the new bread could only save 35 or 40 per cent, to the ratepayers, the system cannot be otherwise than particularly intci’esting to the whole community. “ I am, Sir, yours most respectfully, “Befobm Club, Sept. 23.” “ A. SOYER.”OPINIONS OP THE PRESS. The following are a few extracts from some of the Public Journals that have reviewed this work: Chronicle.—"M. Soyer, in tlie exercise ofliis approved philanthropy, has published an Opusculum called The Modern Housewife, or Menagere, which, if we rightly understand its object, is intended for the practical service of all families whose means range between positive poverty and positive affluence. But vain would be all our endeavours to convey to our readers an adequate notion of this great Compendium of Cookery. There is but one thing to be done. All who have food to cook must buy the book.” Morning' Herald.—“ The far-famed Soyer has achieved a fresh triumph in the production of this work, which is undoubtedly the best and most complete manual of household cookery ever offered to the British public.” Advertiser.—“He seeks to produce good English fare into every dwelling, and plenty of it. He is a right worthy Master of the Mint; for all his advice and recommendations have the thriftiest, yet most satisfactory tendency.” Daily Hews.—"We know of nothing of the kind even in France, where between the vulgar Cuisinier Bourgeois and the oxalted Ouidnier Boyal there is no good, and domestic, and economic guide. In this M. Soyer will be a good medical, as well as culinary guide.” Sun.—" The receipts are all written in plain and understandable lan- guage, and M. Soyer’s ‘ Housewife ’ is indeed and in truth The Cookery Book for the Million. The ‘ Magic Stove ’ is a perfect wonder of invention. By its means the breakfast may be cooked upon the breakfast table itself All who wish to enjoy a cutlet in perfection should cook it themselves by the magic stove.” Globe.—" M. Soyer, the renowned chef de cuisine at the Reform Club, and himself the most eminent of Reformers in the gastronomic art, has just added to his public services.” Spectator.—" The ‘Modern Housewife’ is the most dramatic of cookery-books; carried on by dialogue, correspondence, and a certain artful arrangement by which two-thirds of an epic—‘ action’—is introduced into the didactic work.”soyer’s modern housewife. Colburn’s Magazine.--" It is, indeed, one of those hooks which only require to be announced to ensure popularity. M. Soyer does nothing like anybody else.” Court Journal.—" This work is well calculated to work a thorough reform in the barbarous style of dinner and evening parties in English middle society.” Observer.—“ We consider his present book a most useful one, and are certain that it will be more popular than either that of Mrs. Rundell or Mrs. Glasse. The chief value of this book rests upon its economical principles, and it almost tells you how to make something out of nothing.” Atlas.—"We invite all our readers, each of whom is sure to buy the book, to send their several experiences on the subject.” Iiancet.—“ We give no extracts, as the book ought to be read, and in the hands of every keeper of a kitchen and larder in the kingdom. In fact, M. Soyer is the Brougham of literary, practical, and eloquent cnmniers.” Dispatch.—“ We hail with pleasure another work from the pen of the far-famed and ingenious chef, Mons. Soyer, who will be ever gratefully re- membered by the housewives/of England, even after the names of Ude and Careme have sunk into oblivion.” United Service Gazette.—-"The ‘Modern Housewife’ is the result of Soyer’s consecration of his thoughts to the comfort of meaner mortals than those for whom he had formerly catered.” Builder.—“ We introduce M. Soyer’s ‘ Modern Housewife,’ with a full conviction that she will prove a useful adviser.” Bell’s Xtife.—" We would that all young ladies included in their studies the art of housekeeping—the true secret of making their husbands and those about them happy.” ^XTeeltly Chronicle.—“No extract can give an idea of a book which, from cover to cover, is so full of good things, none of them requiring labour to digest.” Family Circle.—“ The name of Soyer has become almost historical.” Hampshire Advertiser.—"All is sensible and unique, and calculated to improve the taste and economize the expenditure.” Durham Chronicle.—“ All those who have the health to enjoy a good dinner, are indebted to M. Soyer for his judiciously-arranged battery of recipes, and young housewives especially will find this book most valuable.” Bxeter Flying1 Post.—“The name of Soyer is renowned in all matters appertaining to gastronomy—indeed, his authority is undisputed in the art of cookery.”OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. Bath Herald.—“ We recommend this volume to the notice of the ‘ fair daughters of Albion ’ to whom it is presented, assuring them that an attention to its sound and economical rules will do much to insure the hap- piness and comfort of a well-regulated household.” The Scotsman.—“Here is an elegant and refined cookery book, not a diy commonplace collection of receipts, but a select system of culinary economy. Soyer is by turns philosophical, scientific, historical, picturesque, dramatic, and poetical.” Manchester Examiner.—“To all good wives, therefore, and gentle daughters, aunts, mothers, and grandmothers, we say, as no doubt our ingenious author would say, ‘Read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest.’ ” Leicester Chronicle.—" The book can hardly fail to be a general favourite.” Bucks Herald.—“ To illustrate the economy and the advantage of good cookery is the object of M. Soyer’s most excellent work—a work de- serymg of a place in every lady’s library, or rather, of a constant place on her Birmingham Journal.—“The ethics of boiling and simmering are inculcated in the manner of Chesterfield indoctrinating his offspring with the principles of politeness.” ° Norfolk News.—" This is a very unique performance. It is not merely tne art of cookery made easy, but the practice of cookery made in- teresting. The first impression of the work was sold in a few days.” Edinburgh Courant.-" The work upon our table is wholly B.rf1*to1 Mirror—“ That most accomplished professor of the culinary ar if. Soyer has, m the volume before us, produced a work which will bo really invaluable to housewives.” Bristol Mercury.—“The elements which in the hands of ‘a good ^ l Kg°+,t0 f.™8]1 aoU indifferent and hardly-digestible meal, are sublimated by the skill of a Soyer.” Oxford University Herald.-" We may safely commend the book to ad our readers who have anything to do either with cookery or housewifery To the wives and daughters of the Clergy we should Zy it ho “ Z Z Taima- Whether With reference t0 the tables of their own thevt f' °j the dfary 0f the Sick P°0r' Wll0m ^ ~ much real charT they tend and provide for.” - Cambridgeshire Chronicle—“ It contains a great deal of good practical advice, and we suspect that by attention to its directions our 6 0 1Vlr,g migllt be considerably improved, without adding to its cost.”soyer’s modern housewife. Gloucestershire Chronicle—“This is a ' Gastronomic Rege- nerator’ in little—a perfectly distinct work, and on a different plan; but still, alike in treatment.” K.cnt Herald.—“ The work is comprehensive beyond any of a similar character with which we are acquainted.” Principality.—“ Like its author, this book is without a parallel.” Berkshire Chronicle.—“We can honestly recommend it to the public favour; for its contents, as well as its subjects, deserve to be well digested.” 2ra. “ In this work he never loses sight of economy, but shows how it may be observed to the greatest possible advantage.” Morning- Post—“ Henceforth no cook, no countess, no scholar, no scullion, no philosopher, no feeder, will think an establishment complete where the 'Modem Housewife’ is not present.” Britannia.—“Ihe attempt of M. Soyer to render his skill as sendee- able at the tables of little people as it has already been at the feasts of the great, will most likely be successful—he will show how the humblest food may be most palatably dressed, and made most conducive to health and enjoyment.” Bconomist.—“ M. Soyer is to make families happy by teaching wives how to prepare food cheaply and serve it well.” Literary Mirror.—“ Confessedly by all, M. Soyer stands on the pinnacle of fame in this respect. He is the arbiter eler/antiarum on all table subjects, and has pierced the innermost penetralia of every mystery on the subject of diet and its preparation. He is Sir Oracle : and when he speaks, let all men be dumb.” J ohn Bull—“intends to make a daily trial of the receipts before he will give an opinion, that the great culinary reformer and his menagere will improve upon acquaintance.” Rorth British. Mail.—“We heartily advise all pleasant hus- bands and judicious wives to purchase it without delay.” Bridg-ewater Times—" To all who are not too old to learn, or too proud to receive instruction, this book will prove a most useful adviser.” Literary Gazette.—“ With regard to the book, for economy and comfort, neatness without extravagance, and a thousand lessons for com- pounding pleasant and palatable dishes, the fair menagere is to be glorified. We may truly state that a more instructive cookery book could not be desired.”f SOYER’S MAGIC STOVE AND EtlltpuGatt Apparatus, SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOE OUT-DOOR COOKING. Price Thirty-Five Shillings. THE MAGIC KITCHEN, REPLETE WITH EVERY ESSENTIAL REQUISITE i \ The most useful, ingenious, simple, and economical Cooking Apparatus ever invented, by which, for a trifle, any person may cook their own breakfast, dinner, or supper, without the aid of fuel. It may be used in the parlour of the wealthy, the office ! of the merchant, the studio of the artist, or the attic of the humble. By all it will be found a most useful article of furni- | ture; and must become a household favourite. It is also useful to chemists and scientific persons for experiments, being the greatest known agent of heat. Manufactured by A. Soyeu and Co., 59, Fenchurch Street.SOYER’S MAGIC STOVE, FOR COOKING WITH GAS GENERATED FROM HEATED SPIRITS OF WINE. N.B.—The boiler should never be more than half full. To charge the Reservoir G correctly, pour out the spirit which might remain in the boiler into the measure, which fill up with fresh, and return into the Boiler. Of course, if over filled, it is liable to boil over. A—The Lamp containing the Spirit for heating the Reservoir G. B—The Burner which heats the Reservoir G, and which should immediately be extinguished on the Spirit being exhausted in the Reservoir, otherwise it might injure the bottom of the Reservoir. C—The Burner which ignites the vaporized Gas from F, as it passes from the Reservoir G- D—The Filler of the Lamp A. E—The Ball. F—The Pipe which conveys the vaporized Gas inside the Reservoir G to the Burner C, where it becomes ignited. This should at all times be kept clear with the probe. G—The Reservoir containing the measure of Spirit for vaporization. H—The Rod of the Lamp A which connects it to the Stove K. I—The Flue of the Stove through which the Flame passes. K—The Stove. The screws must he screwed straight and air-tight.A. SOYEE & CO., 59, EENCHUECH ST., LONDON. SO YER’S MODERN HOUSEWIFE’S KITCHEN APPARATUS. Registered according to Act of Parliament. M. Sotee in writing his work on Cookery for the middle classes, naturally turned his attention to the most economical mode of cooking; and after having examined all the various plans now in use, found none that combined all that he required; he was therefore under the necessity of contriving a new Stove or Apparatus. It possesses, on a small scale, what the kitchen of the Beform Club has on a large one:—combining, in the first place, an excellent open roasting fire; secondly, a large oven, adapted for bread, meat, and pastry; thirdly, a hot plate, with a place for boiling, and twelve stew-pans, if required; fourthly, a circulating hot-water boiler, which is capable of keeping in a boiling state twenty-five gallons of water in any part of the house, all heated by one fire; it also combines the advantage of permitting the cook to walk round the stove, by which two, or even three persons can work at it with great facility at the same time; it likewise possesses the advantage of curing smoky chimneys, and of causing no dirt in the room, and also of consuming very little fuel. DIRECTIONS FOR USE. During the time cooking is going on, fill up the fire-place with coals to a level with the top of the boilers; should the heat in the oven be found too great, turn the damper; as soon as the cooking is over, and nothing but hot water is required, the fire may be allowed to go as low as possible, as very ! little will keep the water boiling. To Broil.—Kemove the round plate, and place the gridiron over; if the draught is proper, and the apparatus in good working order, the steam from the article broiling will be draw into the fire, if not, it shows it wants clearing. To Clean it.—Take up the square front plate, sweep out the soot from over the oven, open the soot-door at the back, and remove all dirt, &c. To Clean the Flue.—Open the soot-door in the flue, and use the patent ramoneure.A. SOYER & CO.,59, FENCHURCH ST., LONDON. ANY SIZE TO ORDER. SOYER’S PHIDOMAGEIREION, OR MODERN GAS COOKING APPARATUS, CONTAINING The Necessary Arrangements (complete) for Roasting, Baking, Boilin- Broiling, Stewing, Steaming, Frying, &c. &c„ for Sixty or Eighty persons’ at an incredible low cost. ° J r ’ Manufactured by SMITH & PHILLIPS, 66, Snow Hill. Length, 4ft.; Height, 2ft. Gin.; Breadth, lain.SOYER’S COTTAGER’S STOVE, To be seen at Messrs. Deane, Dray and Deane’s. The greatest comfort in the way of economical Kitchen for the humble and the poor ever invented; especially adapted for Emigrants— Baking, Boiling, Roasting, Washing, Ironing, Drying Linen, Warming Rooms of any'size; the whole of which is done with perfect ease, and very small quantity of fuel. Entirely fire-proof. Price 50s. SOYER’S MAGIC COFFEE POT, AND SOYER’S ECG COOKHMC APPARATUS, To be had at 59, Fenchurcli Street. I SORTER’S RELISH, An entirely new and economical Condiment, adapted for all kinds of viands, which, by those who have tasted, has been pro- nounced perfect. Sold in half-pint bottles, by Crosse and Blackwell, Soho-square.SQYER’S SAUCES. [One expressly for the Ladies, and the other for the Gentlemen.'] For the high estimation in which these Sauces are held, the following remarks from the press will show. Price 2s. 6d. per Bottle. Z e°°d thi"ffS f0r Which we havc been indebted to the French fessofsover^ of“ *° be rcck°"ed a new —e from the laboratory of Pro- acknowl^W rL ’ 'S College, commonly called the Reform Club. We beg to s th.e receiPt of a specimen, which arrived a few days since at our office addfcteOto'kickshaw’“ cbaractcristic of ‘be learned Sauce-rer. John Bull is not rfJiTf 1 ,kkh’ but eratitude compels him to notify the pleasure which he de nved from Ins last steak, seasoned as it was with the specimen above referred to John Bull, 29th April, 1848. he great Napoleon of Gastronomy, the man who has, by bringing the lights of emistry to bear on the art of preparing viands for the food of man, raised cookery “ art to the d‘gnl‘y of a science, M. Soyer, has invented a sauce (or rather two sauces), sauce succulente (one pour les Messieurs, and another pour les Dames) in com pans011 with which all other sauces are “ stale, dull, flat, and IprofitabL ^ Theret a warmth and flavour about the sauce succulente of Soyer which gives a zest to appetite used1 wir wMch t0 Ct10P’ ***** C°ld meat’ °r WhateVC1- °ther comestible it "may be used with, which is most piquant and delicious. A very small quantity is sufficient to impart the most delicious flavour. The bottle containing the sauce, tl, is worthy of t \rTmaS R^°St elegant sPecimen of “ art manufacture.” It is quite an ornament tion hv h « Sreat tefot the Reform Club bas added immensely to his reputa- tion by his invention of the sauce succulente. Sun, 2nd May, 1st 8. AR:S-A e'rcat deal ‘bat it is from time to time our lot to notice under this head is merely ornamental—if even that; we are happy in an opportunity of no- ticmg the application of «high art” to a purpose really useful. M. Soyer—clarum et venerahtle nomen—has recently conferred a new obligation on civilized society, by the invention of a sauce for general purposes, so perfect that "it would create a soul under the ribs of death.” It is pujuant without being pungent, and of the highest flavour without conveying any definite taste. And if such be its physical qualities, it soars still higher m its moral tendencies; for though admirably calculated to form domestic dishes, it carefully eschews the promotion of domestic jars; there is one sort appropriated to ladies, and another to gentlemen. After a lifetime devoted to experi mental philosophy, it has been reserved for Alexis Soyer to discover, despite “ wise saws and modern instances,” that the sauce that is good for the goose is not good for the gander. Morning Post, 15th May, 1848. A New Devouring Element.—You all know Soyer the Philanthropist, who pre- tends to be so full of his fellow-creatures? Can you doubt it after the following* Read it, and feel “like goose’s flesh” all over!—“ Soyer’s New Sauce for Ladies and Gentlemen!! I” Was there ever such a cannibal? And this is the man who would wish to redress our society and our dinners ! Why, it is regularly setting man against wife, son against mother-in-law, pauper against beadle, boots against cook ! No lady, no gentleman is safe. The aristocracy is on the verge of the sauce-boat. We denounce Soyer as the greatest traiteur in England, or even Ireland, and the latter is saying, at present, an immense deal. Punch, 25th May, 1848. M. Soyer has invented a new sauce—a day or two ago there was a magnificent article upon it in the Chronicle, written by Mr. Disraeli—a new sauce of such wondrous power, that with it Colonel Sibthorpe has already professed himself ready to swallow the Charter! Punch, 6th May, 184S. M. Soyer is a real benefactor to society, and we therefore, with pleasure, acknow- ledge the merit of his “ most novel and delicious of all modern social inventions,” to quote the language of his advertisements, which have appeared in our paper. Morning Advertiser, 25th April, 184S.SOYER’S SAUCE, Sold only in the above bottles, bolding balf-a-pint. Price 2s. 6d.Just published, £1 Is., the Sixth Edition of the GASTRONOMIC REGENERATOR: A SIMPLIFIED AND ENTIRELY NEW SYSTEM OF COOKERY, WITH NEARLY TWO THOUSAND PRACTICAL RECEIPTS: Illustrated with numerous Engravings, and correct and minute Plans how Kitchens of every size, from the Kitchen of a Royal Palace to that of the humble Cottage, are to be constructed and furnished. BY MONSIEUR A. SOYER, OF THE REFORM CLUB. Among the numerous publications and periodicals that have reviewed the above work, and expressed their high approbation of it, are the following: The Times. Morning Chronicle. Morning Herald. Morning Post. Morning Advertiser. Sun. Globe. Punch. Examiner. John Bull. Athenaeum. Atlas. Spectator. Pictorial Times. Observer. Sunday Times. Bell’s Life. Era. Britannia. Weekly Chronicle. Tablet. Guardian. Weekly Dispatch. Satirist. Economist. Court Journal. Dcuglas Jerrold’s Newspaper. Journal of Commerce. Builder. Somerset Gazette. Glasgow Constitutional. Liverpool Chronicle. Bucks Herald. Ten Towns Messenger. Naval and Military Gazette. Hood’s Magazine. Literary Gazette. Musical World. Joe Miller. English Gentleman. Chambers’ Edinburgh Journal. Blackwood’s Edinburgh Magazine. New Monthly Magazine. Colonial Magazine. Le Counter de 1’Europe. L’Observateur Franjais. Journal des Debats. Petit Courrier des Dames.LONDON: SAVILL AND EDWARDS, PRINTERS, CHANDOS STREET.■