68 OSTEOLOGY expands to join ilium and ischium and to form ! of acetabulum. Ilio-pectineal eminence marks junction with ilium ; junction with ischium, at medial side of acetabular notch, is not clearly defined. Corpus Oss. Pubis. Pelvic surface looks more upwards than backwards, is smooth, and is in relation to retro-pubic pad of fat and the bladder. Femoral surface is roimh. Symphyseal surface is joined to its fellow by fibro-cartilage and ligaments of symphysis pubis. Lateral border helps to bound obturate foramen. Crest of pubis is the thick upper border of body, raised and bent forwards and downwards; easily felt at lower limit of abdomen, at side of median plane. Pubic tubercle (spine of pubis) is lateral end of crest, felt about i inch from median plane in male, a little farther away in female. When hip-bone is held in proper position, pubic tubercle and ant. sup. iliac spine are in the same vertical plane. Angulus pubis is angle between symphyseal surface and medial end of crest. Ramus Superior Oss. Pubis. Pecten (superior border or pectineal line) extends from pubic tubercle to ilio-pectineal eminence, to become continuous there with linea arcuata of ilium. Pecten and linea arcuata constitute the ilio-pectineal line. Obturator crest (anterior border) extends from pubic tubercle to acetabular notch. Inferior border, seen best from pelvic aspect, forms upper margin of obturate foramen. Superior or pectineal surface is the triangular area between pubic crest and ilio-pectineal eminence, and gives origin to pectineus. Pelvic surface is smooth and continuouswith pelvic surface of body. Inferior surface is the sulcus obturatorius at upper part of obturate foramen : obturator vessels and nerve pass out of pelvis through it. Conjoined Rami of Ischium and Pubis.—Supero-lateral border completes obturate foramen. Infero-lateral border forms margin of pubic arch. Femoral surface is rough for muscles. Broad shallow groove on infero-medial part of pelvic surface lodges crus of penis or of clitoris. Acetabulum.—Directed downwards, laterally and an- teriorly, articulates with femur. Horse-shoe shaped area, coated with cartilage, occupies anterior, upper and posterior parts of cup, leaving rough fossa acetabuli in floor, adjoining incisura acetabuli (acetabular notch)—the gap in lower part of cup, above obturate foramen. Rim is completed and notch converted into foramen by transverse lig. Articular branches