OSTEOLOGY 56 to trochlea posteriorly, for olecranon during extension ; it is much larger than the other fossa?, and bone separating it from coronoid fossa is very thin. Corpus Humeri (Shaft). Anterior margin begins at greater tubercle, ends near coronoid fossa ; proximal part is the lateral lip of intertubercular sulcus, middle part forms ant. margin of deltoid tuberosity. Medial margin begins at lesser tubercle, ends at medial epicondyle ; forms medial lip of intertubercular sulcus, is roughened in middle for insertion of coraco-brachialis, distal part is the medial epicondylic ridge. Lateral margin begins distal to post, aspect of greater tubercle, ends at lateral epicondyle ; indistinct proximally where lateral head of triceps arises, interrupted at middle by sulcus nervi radialis (musculo-spiral groove), distal part is the prominent lateral epicondylic ridge. Anterior medial surface is between ant. and medial margins ; intertubercular sulcus on shaft forms its proximal part. Anterior lateral surface is between ant. and lateral margins; V-shaped deltoid tuberosity, for insertion of deltoid, is placed proximal to its middle. Posterior surface, between medial and lateral margins, is occupied by origin of medial head of triceps. Sulcus tiervi radialis (musculo-spiral groove) begins on post, surface, runs obliquely distally and anteriorly between origins of medial and lateral heads of triceps, and posterior to deltoid tuberosity, to end distal to it ; radial (musculo-spiral) nerve and profunda vessels lie in it. Nutrient foramen, on or near middle of medial border, is directed distally. Another is often present in sulcus n. radialis (musculo-spiral groove). Ossification.—Primary centre for shaft at 7th week. Epi- physeal centres : 1 for head shortly after birth ; 1 for greater tubercle, 2-3 yr. ; 1 for lesser tubercle, 3-5 yr. These fuse at 7 and join shaft at 25. Common epiphyseal line is intra-capsular medially, extra-capsular laterally. 1 for capitulum and lateral half of trochlea, 2-3 yr. ; 1 for medial half at 12; 1 for lateral epicondyle at 12. These three coalesce, and join shaft at 17 ; epiphyseal line is partly intra-, partly extra-capsular. 1 for medial epicondyle at 5, uses 18-19 ; epiphyseal line is extra-capsular. Attachments.—Capsular lig. of shoulder to anatomical neck above, but nearly .J inch from it below and medially ; coraco- humeral lig. to anat. "neck at ant. part of greater tubercle. Supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor to three impressions on greater tubercle, in that order antero-posteriorly. Subscapularis