214 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE lower half of its course it lies lateral to common carotid artery, enclosed with artery and vagus in carotid sheath. It ends behind clavicle by joining subclavian to form innominate. Near its lower end it inclines to the right slightly, so that there is a small interval between it and carotid artery. At or near its lower end there is a valve. Anterior to it, in this lower part of its course, are omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, sterno- thyreoid ; ant. jugular vein ; sterno-mastoid and clavicle. Just above clavicle it lies opposite interval between the two heads of sterno-mastoid. Medial to it are common carotid, and, on a posterior plane, the vagus, between artery and vein. Vertebral artery is postero-medial to it. Posterior to it are pleura ; subclavian artery, thyreo-cervical trunk and its three branches near their origins, and origin of int. mammary ; scalenus anterior and phrenic nerve, which are overlapped by it ; vertebral vein, which descends between it and subclavian artery. Right subclavian vein lies on ist rib, extending from its outer margin, where it is continuous with axillary, to medial margin of scalenus anterior, where it joins int. jugular to form innominate, anterior to the pleura, posterior to clavicle. It is much shorter than its artery, and is anterior to it and on a lower level. Its more distal part has subclavius and its nerve anterior to it, subclavian artery posterior to it ; is joined by ext. jugular vein, and has a valve on distal side of the entrance of ext. jugular. Its more medial part is in front of scalenus anterior, which separates it from subclavian art., and behind clavicle and sterno-hyoid. Right innominate vein is formed by union of int. jugular and subclavian, posterior to clavicle, near its sternal end. In neck, the pleura and lung, int. mammary art. and phrenic n. are posterior to it ; clavicle, costo-clavicular lig., sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyreoid are anterior to it; innominate artery is medial to it, and vagus is postero- medial. As it enters thorax, posterior to ist cartilage, it slips from anterior aspect of pleura on to its medial aspect, and phrenic nerve appears from behind it to lie on its right side, between it and pleura ; and mammary art. appears from behind it, at its lateral border, and remains anterior to pleura. In the neck it receives the vertebral and ist intercostal veins, and right lymphatic duct. Right phrenic nerve arises from 3rd, 4th, and 5th cervical nerves ; descends upon scalenus anterior, behind sterno-mastoid, overlapped by int. jugular vein, crossed superficially by omo-hyoid, transverse cervical, and transverse scapular (supra-scapular) arteries, in that order from above downwards. It lies deep to fascia covering scalenus ant. Immediately below level of subclavian art. it passes off scalenus on to pleura, behind innominate vein, and crosses int. mammary art. from lateral to medial side, usually anterior to it, but often behind it; leaves post, aspect of innominate vein to enter thorax, on lateral aspect of vein, between it and pleura, a little posterior to ist cartilage, and accompanied by pericardiaco-phrenic branch of int. mammary art. Right vagus nerve, in lower part of neck, lies between, and