1 FEMORAL TRIGONE AND ADDUCTOR CANAL 169 Arteria genu suprema (anastomotica) arises near distal end of femoral, and at once divides into a musculo-articular branch, which pierces vastus medialis and runs to knee in it, and a saphenous 1 branch, which passes out of canal with saphenous nerve and anastomoses with other articular arteries at medial side of knee. Profunda femoris artery arises ii inches distal to inguinal lig., from lateral side of femoral artery ; curves backwards and medially, posterior to femoral ; leaves femoral trigone by passing posterior to adductor longus, and ends by piercing adductor magnus as 4th perforating. In femoral trigone, iliacus and pectineus are posterior to it. It is first lateral to femoral artery, and is crossed superficially by lateral circumflex vein. Afterwards it is posterior to profunda vein, femoral vein, femoral artery, in that order from behind forwards. After it has left femoral trigone it lies, with profunda vein, close to femur ; adductor brevis and magnus are posterior to it ; adductor longus is anterior, and separates it from femoral vessels. Branches of Profunda Femoris. — Unnamed muscular; lateral and medial circumflex ; four perforating arteries. Lateral circumflex artery runs laterally upon iliacus, among branches of femoral (ant. crural) nerve ; passes posterior to sartorius and rectus femoris, and divides into three branches : (1) ascending l branch runs towards ant. sup. iliac spine, under cover of tensor fascia: latte ; (2) descending branch runs along anterior border of vastus lateralis to the knee ; (3) transverse branch sinks into vastus lateralis. Medial circumflex artery passes backwards between contiguous margins of psoas and pectineus, and then between obturator externus and adductor brevis ; sends an acetabular branch through acetabular notch, and along lig. teres, to head of femur ; and ends by dividing into deep and superficial branches. Deep branch runs along obturator externus, under cover of quadratus femoris, to trochanteric fossa. Superficial branch passes backwards between quadratus femoris and adductor magnus, and anastomoses with gluteal arteries and muscular branches of profunda. Four perforating arteries are given off after profunda has left femoral trigone. They lie close to femur, and pierce muscles and lateral intermuscular septum, to end in vastus lateralis. The second gives nutrient artery to femur ; others may do so also. First pierces adductor brevis and magnus and glutteus maximus. Second pierces adductor brevis and magnus and short head of biceps. Third and : fourth pierce adductor magnus and short head of biceps. Profunda vein lies anterior to its artery and ends in femoral vein in femoral trigone. It receives tributaries corresponding to branches of artery, except the circumflex veins ; these end in femoral vein. Femoral vein begins as a continuation of popliteal vein at opening in adductor magnus, postero-lateral to artery ; enters apex of femoral trigone directly posterior to artery ; and ends on medial side of artery, posterior to inguinal lig., by becoming ext, iliac.