SUPERIOR MEDIASTINUM 429 aspect of trachea, and diverging as they ascend, posterior to left innominate vein ; (8) pre-tracheal fascia ; (9) lymph glands, and deep cardiac plexus at bifurcation ; (to) superior vena cava and lower end of innominate vein are anterior and to right side, a little distance away, separated by fatty areolar tissue. On left side are: (1) aortic arch, inferiorly ; (2) subclavian, ascending from arch ; (3) left common carotid, as it enters neck ; (4) vagus and phrenic, descending anterior to subclavian art., separated front trachea by left common carotid and subclavian arteries ; (5) cervical cardiac branches of vagus and sympathetic—those to deep cardiac plexus are first on left side of trachea and then anterior, those to superficial plexus accompany phrenic and vagus ; (6) lateral to all these, the left pleura and lung. On its right side are: (1) pleura and lung; (2) vagus passing down- wards and backwards to reach back of bronchus ; (3) cervical cardiac branches of sympathetic, and of vagus and recurrent n., descending along the side of trachea, but gaining ant. aspect at lower end ; (4) vena azygos arching forwards, having pleura and lung on its right, vagus and lower end of trachea on its left. Posterior to trachea are ; (1) oesophagus ; (2) longus colli muscles ; (3) vertebral column ; (4) left recurrent n., in groove between trachea and oesophagus ; (3) v. azygos may be posterior to lower end as it emerges from behind oesophagus. (Esophagus lies between trachea and longi colli. On its ri^ht side- are pleura and lung, separated only by v. azygos, where it arches forwards at junction of sup. and post, mediastina. On the left side, the left recurrent n. is between it and trachea; and thoracic duct, having come from its posterior aspect, runs up along left border. Aortic arch covers left border in lower part of mediastinum. Above the arch the subclavian art. is anterior, and pleura and lung are lateral to left border ; higher up, common carotid is anterior and subclavian is lateral. Right phrenic nerve enters thorax, accompanied by pericardiaco- phrenic art., on lateral side of right innominate vein, and descends through superior mediastinum, with pleura and lung on its right, in- nominate vein and sup. cava on its left. [In middle mediastinum it has pleura and lung on its right, pericardium and termination of inf. vena cava on its left, root of lung and pulmonary lig. (lig. latum pulmonis) posterior to it, some distance away.] Left phrenic nerve, .accompanied by pericardiaco-phrenic art., leaves post, aspect of left innominate vein and enters thorax, anterior to subclavian art., on medial surface of pleura ; and pleura and lung are on its left side throughout thoracic course. In sup. mediastinum, it lies anterior to subclavian, to the left of common carotid, and crosses vagus, superficially, front behind forwards (or latero-medially) ; lower down, it descends on the left side of left superior intercostal vein and aortic arch, where it is anterior to (or to the right of) vagus and the two superficial cardiac nerves. [In middle mediastinum, pericardium is on its right, pleura on the left; root of lung and pulmonary lig.