BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM 284 arise from aorta, run to intercostal spaces, posterior to splanchnic nerves and sympathetic trunk, upon bodies of vertebne and ant. costo-transverse lig. On right side they all pass posterior to thoracic duct and vena azygos, while upper 5 pass posterior to oesophagus also. On left side they pass posterior to v. hemiazygos and hemiaz. accessoria. In inter- costal space the vein is above, nerve below. At angle of rib each artery slips in between ext. and int. intercostal muscles and runs in costal groove and anast. with branch of int. mammary or musculo-phrenic. In front of angle it gives off collateral branch, which descends and runs along upper border of rib below. Last two intercostals accompany nerves into abdominal wall. Branches.—(1) Posterior branch accompanies post, branch of thoracic nerve through interval medial to ant. costo-transverse lig. ; sends spinal branch in through intervertebral foramen ; divides into medial and lateral branches to supply skin and muscles of back. (2) Collateral branch described above. (3) Lateral cutaneous branch accompanies lateral cutaneous nerve to skin. (4) Muscular branches. (5) Branches to mammary gland from upper 3 or 4. (6) Right bronchial from 1st. Anastomoses. -—With one another ; with superior intercostal, subcostal, mammary, musculo-phrenic, inferior phrenic, lumbar, epigastric, spinal, transverse cervical, thoracalis suprema and lateral thoracic. Subcostal, one pair, passes into abdomen, posterior to lateral lumbo-costal arch (ext. arcuate lig.) in front of quadratus, pierces transversus abdominis and accompanies last thoracic nerve in ant. abdominal wall. Left Bronchial Arteries.—Two, from near origin of de- scending aorta, run laterally and downwards to left bronchus and accompany it into lung. Right bronchial artery arises from 1st right aortic intercostal or upper left bronchial or aorta, and crosses oesophagus to reach right bronchus. BRANCHES OF ABDOMINAL AORTA Inferior phrenic arteries arise near beginning of abdominal aorta. Each passes upwards and laterally on corresponding crus, the right behind vena cava, the left behind oesophagus; and each ramifies on abdominal surface of diaphragm, and gives a superior suprarenal branch to suprarenal gland. Lumbar arteries, 4 pairs, arise from dorsal aspect of aorta,