MUSCULAR TRIANGLE & ROOT OF NECK 211 anastomoses with its fellow on crico-thyreoid lig., and (2) terminal branches to thyreoid gland and adjacent muscles. Ext. laryngeal nerve runs downwards and anteriorly, deep to and parallel to sup. thyreoid art., upon inf. constrictor, then under cover of thyreoid gland, in company with crico-thyreoid art. It gives branches to inf. constrictor and ends in crico-thyreoid muscle. Inferior thyreoid branch of thyreo-cervical trunk (thyroid axis), from subclavian, runs upwards along medial border of scalenus anterior to level of 6th vertebra, and sends ascending cervical branch upwards in front of transverse processes ; turns medially, posterior to carotid sheath and middle cervical ganglion, anterior to vertebral art. and longus colli ; reaches post, aspect of thyreoid gland and runs dots n- wards along it, giving (1) muscular branches to adjacent muscles ; (2) inferior laryngeal branch, which enters larynx under cover of lower border of inferior constrictor ; (3) branches to trachea and oesophagus ; and (4) terminal branches to thyreoid gland at its lower end. Re- current nerve ascends either anterior or posterior to inf. thyreoid art. ; and on left side thoracic duct is anterior to the origin of the artery. The occasional thyreoidea ima artery, from innominate, ascends upon trachea, under cover of thymus, to reach thyreoid gland. Sup. thyreoid vein emerges from under omo-hyoid, crosses common carotid in carotid triangle, and enters int. jugular vein. Middle thyreoid vein crosses common carotid and ends in int. jugular, under cover of omo-hyoid. Inf. thyreoid veins descend upon trachea, behind thymus, to end in innominates just lielow sup. thoracic aperture. Pretracheal fascia is attached to thyreoid and cricoid cartilages, envelops thyreoid gland, descends upon trachea, posterior to inf. thyreoid veins, and in thorax blends with pericardium. Innominate artery, as it extends upwards and to the right, out of thorax into neck, passes from anterior surface to right side of trachea, from behind manubrium and left innominate vein to the back of sterno-clavicular joint, behind the upper border of which it ends by dividing into right common carotid and subclavian arteries. Anterior to it are thymus, sterno-thyreoid, sterno-hyoid, sterno-clavicular joint, in that order from behind forwards. Trachea is on its left side ; right innominate vein on its right side. Posterior to it some fatty areolar tissue separates it from longus colli, and sometimes from pleura and lung. The vagus is first lateral and then on a posterior plane, as it enters thorax and approaches the side of trachea. Right common carotid artery runs upwards and slightly laterally, from sterno-clavicular joint to carotid triangle, to end by dividing into ext. and int. carotids, opposite upper border of thyreoid cartilage and lower border of 3rd cervical vertebra. It is enclosed with int. jugular vein and vagus in carotid sheath, and gives no branches except its terminals. Anterior to it :—stemo-mastoid, under cover of which the ant. jugular vein passes laterally ; then come sterno-hyoid, sterno-