OSTEOLOGY 32 surfaces form a border (margo zygomaticus) which articulates with zygomatic (malar). Processus pterygoideus projects downwards from junction of lateral surface of body and great wing. Consists of lamina medialis and lateralis. Anteriorly the lamina: are joined above. Fissura pterygoidea separates them below, and is occupied by pyramidal process of palatine. Fossa pterygoidea lies between the lamina: posteriorly. Ossification.—Medial lamina in membrane, i centre appears at 9th week, fuses with centre for great wing in 4th month. In post-sphenoid—i.e. behind level of tuberculum sella: (olivary eminence)—I centre for great wing and lateral pterygoid lamina at 8th week, and 4 for body, including lingula, during 3rd and 4th months. In presphenoid, 1 centre for each small wing at 9th week, fuses with body during 4th month, and 2 for body appear at 10th week and fuse with each other and with post-sphenoid during 8th month. Sphenoidal conchas (turbinated bones), fused after 6th year with front and under surface of body, have each 1 or 2 centres after 5th month. At birth, sphenoid is in three pieces : great wing and pterygoid process on each side ; body with small wings. They fuse during 1st year. Os Ethmoidale lies anterior to sphenoid, between the orbits. Consists of 2 labyrinths united to median perpendicular lamina by lamina cribrosa. Lamina perpentlicularis forms part of septum nasi. Borders : superior projects into cranial cavity as crista galli. Posterior articulates with sphenoid ; postero-in/erior, with vomer ; antero-inferior, with septal cartilage ; antero-superior, with frontal and nasal. Labyrinth us.—Very thin bone, enclosing air-cells. Surfaces : superior is covered by and articulates with orbital plate of frontal ; posterior articulates with sphenoid and orbital process of palatine ; anterior is covered by and articulates with lacrimal and frontal process of maxilla ; lateral, in medial wall of orbit, closed in by lamina papyracea. Media!, free in lateral wall of nasal cavity. Processes : concha:, superior and middle (turbinates), and processus uncinatus, all on medial surface. Lamina cribrosa lies horizontally at sides of crista galli. Ossification.—In cartilage. Labyrinth: 1 centre appears at 6th month. Perpendicular lamina: 2 centres, at end of 1st year. Lamina cribrosa by extensions from the other parts. Fusion completed at 6th year, but ossification not completed till puberty. Concha Nasalis Inferior (\n(. turbinated) projects into nasal cavity from its lateral wall. Surfaces : medial looks into nasal cavity; lateral overhangs inferior meatus. Eorders: superior articulates with palatine, ethmoid, lacrimal, frontal process of