220 MUSCLES AND FASCIA passing under cover of posterior belly of digastric, superficial to middle constrictor. Occipital artery arises opposite ext. maxillary, and passes back- wards and upwards, along or under cover of lower border of post, belly of digastric. Deep to it, in the triangle, are the int. carotid artery, hypoglossal nerve, int. jugular vein, accessory nerve, in succession. Hypoglossal nerve is not only deep to it, but hooks round it, and as it does so the artery sends a branch across the int. jugular vein to sterno-mastoid, and sends meningeal branches upwards along int. jugular vein, to enter skull through jugular foramen ; and as the artery crosses accessory nerve it often sends another branch to sterno-mastoid, along the accessory nerve. See also p. 230. Ascending pharyngeal artery arises near lower end of ext. carotid ; runs upwards on side of pharynx, at first opposite interval between int. and ext. carotids, and then medial to int. carotid. Internal jugular vein is under cover of sterno-mastoid, and does not appear in triangle, unless the muscle is well retracted, except at upper angle of triangle. Superficial to it are numerous lymph glands ; at upper posterior angle of triangle it is overlapped by lower end of parotid, and crossed by occipital artery and its artery to sterno-mastoid, and by spinal accessory nerve, which, however, may cross deep to it. Lower down, two small branches, from 2nd and 3rd cervical nerves, run obliquely downwards and medially, superficial to the vein, or medial to it, and unite to form the descendens cervicalis, which joins descendens hypoglossi. At lower part of triangle, the branch of superior thyreoid art. to sterno-mastoid crosses the vein. Medial to it are the int. and common carotid arteries, with vagus on a posterior plane. Posterior to it are cervical transverse processes, ascending cervical artery, origins of longus capitis (rectus cap. anticus major), levator scapulae, scalenus medius and anterior, cervical plexus, phrenic nerve. Lateral to it are lymph glands and the overlapping sterno- mastoid. Its tributaries in the triangle are pharyngeal, common facial, lingual, superior thyreoid and a communication from external jugular. Pharyngeal veins are usually irregular, and pass, some super- ficial to the carotids and some deep to them, to join int. jugular. Posterior facial vein (ant. branch of temporo-maxillary) emerges from under cover of parotid, passes downwards and anteriorly, super- ficial to ext. carotid, to join ant. facial. Anterior facial vein descends superficial to submaxillary gland and post, belly of digastric, enters carotid triangle and joins posterior facial to form common facial vein, which runs backwards, across external and internal carotids, to join internal jugular vein. Lingual vein is formed at posterior border of hyoglossus by union of venae comites of lingual artery with vein or veins accompany- ing hypoglossal nerve ; and it either joins common facial, or crosses ext. and int. carotids to join int. jugular vein.