OSTEOLOGY 22 serratus anterior. Sibson’s fascia to internal border. Sterno-thyreoid to anterior part of lower surface, l’ectoralis major and costo-coracoid membrane to anterior surface of 1st costal cartilage ; articular disc, subclavius, costo-clavicular lig. to upper margin \ sterno-thyreoid to posterior surface; internal intercostal and ant. intercostal membrane to lower margin. Relations.—First costal arch forms lateral boundary between neck and thorax, and a boundary between neck and axilla, as it is the medial margin of the “ cervico-axillary canal.” It forms the lateral margin of sup. aperture of thorax, extending from ist thoracic vertebra to manubrium, obliquely downwards and ventrally, so that its vertebral end is above level of clavicle, while sternal end is below it; and the domes of pleura and lung extend to 2 inches, into neck, above the level of its anterior end, but reach only to its neck posteriorly. On the anterior border of the neck are the sympathetic trunk medially, ist thoracic nerve laterally, superior intercostal artery and the vein from ist intercostal space between them. The artery sends its deep cervical branch dorsally above the neck, between it and 7th cervical transverse process ; and its first intercostal branch laterally along the outer border of shaft or body. The 1st thoracic nerve is passing obliquely upwards and laterally, at the junction of neck and shaft, to join the brachial plexus, and it may groove upper surface, immediately posterior to subclavian groove. It sends its ist intercostal branch obliquely across the lower surface of the body to enter inter- costal space well forwards. 8th cervical nerve passes laterally above neck to join ist thoracic in front of scalenus medius. Third part of subclavian artery lies in subclavian groove on upper surface, between attachments of scalenus medius and anterior, and becomes axillary artery at outer border of rib. More anteriorly, at outer border, the axillary vein becomes subclavian, which lies in groove on upper surface, in front of scalenus anterior. Clavicle crosses bony rib near anterior end, subclavian vein and subclavius intervening. Internal mammary artery descends behind the cartilage, and sends its ist intercostal branch along the lower or external margin to meet the post, intercostal artery. Veins accompany the arteries in the inter- costal space. Pleura and lung are infero-internal relations of the arch throughout. Phrenic nerve is behind the cartilage, but separated by pleura and lung. On the right side the right innominate vein descends, posterior to the cartilage, and unites with the left vein to form superior vena cava, near its lower border; but all three veins are separated from the cartilage by overlapping pleura. (Structures attached constitute additional relations. See p. 21.) Second Rib.—Sharply curved. Not twisted. Angle is just lateral to tubercle. Surfaces oblique, being intermediate