MUSCLES OF MASTICATION 233 with oral muscles. The most anterior fibres decussate with fellows, below chin. Buccinator arises from pterygo - mandibular raphe and alveolar borders of maxilla and mandible, lateral to molar teeth. It mingles with other muscles at angle of mouth. Middle fibres de- cussate, upper ones descending to lower lip, lower ones ascending to upper lip. It flattens cheek against gums and teeth, and prevents food from accumulating in vestibule of mouth during mastication. Separated from masseter and temporal by suctorial pad of fat; pierced by parotid duct and twigs from buccinator branch of mandibular nerve. Ext. maxillary artery (facial),'ant. facial vein, buccinator nerve and artery, buccal branches of facial nerve, zygomaticus, and risorius all lie on it. MUSCLES OF MASTICATION Supplied by mandibular division of trigeminal neme. Masseter lies on ramus of mandible ; easily felt when jaws are clenched. Origin (fl.-tend.): superficial fibres directed downwards and posteriorly from ant. § of lower border of zygomatic arch ; deep fibres directed downwards and slightly anteriorly from whole of inner surface of zygomatic arch and post. ^ of lower border. Insertion (fl.- tend.) : outer surface of ramus, angle and coronoid process of mandible. Nerve : trigeminal, through masseteric branch. Raises mandible ; superficial fibres also protrude, and deep fibres retract after protrusion. Transverse facial vessels, parotid duct, branches of facial nerve lie on its lateral surface. Parotid gland overlaps it posteriorly. Ext. maxillary (facial) artery can be felt beating on mandible at its anterior border ; and ant. facial vein is behind the artery. Temporalis.—Origin (fl.) : floor of temporal fossa; temporal fascia. Insertion (tend.-fl.) ; borders and inner surface of coronoid process ; anterior border of ramus of mandible. Nerves : trigeminal, through deep temporal. Raises mandible ; ant. fibres protrude, posterior retract. On its upper part lie auricularis anterior, orbicularis oculi ; superficial temporal vessels, auriculo-temporal, and temporal branches of facial nerve ; temporal fascia. Its lower part is under cover of zygomatic arch and masseter. buccinator nerve often pierces it. Pterygoideus Externus.—Lies in infra-temporal fossa. Origin.— Uffer head (fl.-tend.): infra-temporal ridge and