340 NEUROLOGY medial border: from protuberance, \ inch from median plane on left side, £ inch on right side, forwards over vertex to root of nose, near median plane. SULCI AND FISSURES, LOBES AND GYRI OF HEMISPHERE Surface of hemisphere is divided into lobes — frontal, temporal, parietal, occipital lobes, insula (island of Reil) and gyrus fornicatus or limbic lobe. These are bounded and separated from one another by sulci or fissures, supplemented by imaginary lines. Boundary sulci : fissura lateralis, f. paricto-occipitalis, f. collateralis ; sulcus circularis (see p. 343), s. centralis, s. cinguli, s. subparietalis. Fissura cerebri lateralis (Sylvii) consists of stem and 3 branches. Stem is the deep cleft on base of brain between frontal and temporal lobes. Middle cerebral artery and deep middle cerebral vein lie in it, and posterior border of roof of orbit projects into it. It begins at “ vallecula Sylvii ” and ends, on lateral surface, at the Sylvian point, opposite pterion, by dividing into 3 branches : (1) Anterior horizontal ramus, £ inch long, passes anteriorly into frontal lobe, above superciliary margin. (2) Anterior ascending ramus, £ inch long, passes upwards and anteriorly into frontal lobe. These two may arise by common stem. (3) Posterior ramus, more important than stem and the other two rami, runs posteriorly and slightly upwards, towards parieto-occipital fissure, for nearly 3 inches, between temporal lobe below and frontal and parietal lobes above, and then turns sharply up into parietal lobe, its termination being surrounded by supra- marginal gyrus. Middle cerebral artery lies in it. It crosses upper edge of squamous temporal, and is indicated on surface of head by a line drawn from pterion towards lambda, but when the point on a level with and below parietal tuberosity (eminence) is reached it is sharply upturned to end at the eminence. Sulcus centralis (Rolandi) begins at supero-medial margin, a little posterior to its middle ; extends laterally, downwards and forwards, between frontal and parietal lobes, forming with longitudinal fissure an angle of about 70° (reckoned for convenience as 67^°, i.e. £ of a right angle) ; ends above posterior limb of lateral (Sylvian) fissure, about 1 inch