FEMALE GENITAL ORGANS 4S9 Arteries of uterus : uterine, and branches of ovarian. Veins end in hypogastric (internal iliac). Nerves : utero-vaginal plexus, vesical plexus, and directly from hypogastric plexus ; ultimately from 10, 11, 12 TH. ; 1 L. ; 2, 3, 4 s. Lymphatics: from body and fundus end in lumbar, external iliac, and superficial subinguinal; from cervix, to hypogastric, iliac, ano-rectal, and sacral glands. Vagina.—Lies in lower part of pelvis minor and in perineum. Long axis is parallel to plane of sup. aperture of pelvis and at right angles to axis of uterus. Anterior wall, 3 inches long, and posterior wall, 3^ inches long, lie in contact except at wide upper end, where cervix uteri projects into cavity of vagina, through uppermost part of anterior wall. Space between intra-vaginal portion of cervix and walls of vagina is divided into anterior, lateral and posterior fornices, of which post, is deepest, ant. shallowest. Objects lying in recto-uterine peritoneal pouch may be felt through post, fornix. Lateral fornix lies below parametrium and medial angle of broad ligament, and is crossed antero-posteriorly by ureter, and latero-medially, above ureter, by uterine artery. Lower end of vagina is partially closed, in virgin, by two crescentic folds of mucous membrane, called hymen. After rupture the fragments persist as little nodules, called carunculae hymenales. Vagina is surrounded by fascia in pelvis, is related laterally to levator ani ; passes downwards between ant. borders of levatores ; pierces both fascia? of urogenital diaphragm (two layers of triangular lig.), and at termination is related, on each side, to bulb of vestibule and vestibular gland. Anterior borders of levatores ani form a second sphincter. Bladder and urethra are anterior. Posterior surface is covered, in its upper J-I inch, by peritoneum ; Itelow that, it lies in contact with rectum ; and inferiorly it is separated by “ perineal body ” from anal canal. Arteries : uterine, vaginal, middle ha-morrhoidal, internal pudendal. Nerves : utero-vaginal and vesical plexuses, and from 3rd and 4th sacral directly. Lymphatics from upper part end in ex- ternal iliac glands ; from middle part, in hypogastric and ano-rectal glands ; from lower part, in superficial subinguinal glands. Bulbus Vestibuli.—Erectile tissue. Corresponds, on each side, to a half of male bulbus urethra?. Lies on fascia inferior of urogenital diaphragm (triangular ligament), at side of end of vagina, and is covered by bulbo-cavernosus muscle (sphincter vaginae). Anterior end narrows to form pars intermedia, which joins with its fellow in front of urethra to be prolonged onwards to under surface of clitoris and to end in glans clitoridis. Artery, a branch of internal pudendal.