ORGAN OF HEARING -H 3 Pars cartilaginea, i inch long; fixed to groove between great wing of sphenoid and petrous temporal, on inferior surface of skull ; tensor veli palatini arises from its antero-lateral aspect and separates it from mid. meningeal art., mandibular nerve (inf. max. division of V.), and pterygoideus internus. Postero medial aspect is in relation to mucous membrane of recessus pharyngeus (lateral recess) and levator veii palatini, which partly arises from it, and is at first medial to it and then below. Upper border of superior constrictor is below. Cartilage is a triangular plate, curled to form superior and medial walls, while infero-lateral wall is formed by fibrous tissue. Apex of plate is fixed to medial end of pars ossea ; curved base is free, bounds ostium pharyngeum above and posteriorly, forming prominent torus tubarius (Eustachian cushion), and gives origin to salpingo-pharyngeus muscle, which descends in salpingo-pharyngeal fold, on side wall of pharynx. During deglutition the tube is opened by the muscles attached to it. Arteries', from ascending pharyngeal and asc. palatine; mid. meningeal, pterygoid (Vidian) of int. maxillary. Veins end in pterygoid plexus. Nerves : from tympanic plexus and pharyngeal branches of spheno-palatine ganglion. Development From ist visceral cleft and pouch. Ext. meatus from ectoderm, auditory tube and tympanic cavity from entoderm. Ossicula Auditus (Tympanic Ossicles) Malleus. -Largest; 8 to 9 mm. long. Rounded capitulum, supported by constricted collum. lies in epitympanic recess and is attached to roof by ligament ; articulates, by diarthrodial joint, with incus medially. Processus anterior projects forwards from neck and is connected by ligament to petro-tympanic (Glaserian) fissure. Chorda tympani, as it passes forwards through tympanic cavity, crosses medial side of neck. Manubrium projects downwards, medially and back- wards, and is attached to tympanic membrane ; tensor tympani is inserted into medial side of its upper end. Processus lateralis projects laterally from upper end of handle, and plicm malleolares are attached to it. Incus.—Shaped like a prremolar tooth, w ith widely diverging roots. Corpus lies in epitympanic recess, articulates laterally with malleus. Crus breve projects posteriorly into fossa incudis and is attached there by ligament. Crus longum projects downwards ; lower end turns medially and ends in a knob, called processus lenticularis, which articulates with head of stapes, by a diarthrodial joint. Stapes—Stirrup-shaped. Capitulum articulates with incus. Stapedius is inserted into post, aspect of tuck. Diverging crura, anterius and posterius, pass medially and join ends of oval basis, or foot-piece, which fits into fenestra vestibuli (ovalis), and is held there by circumferential tig. annulare baseos stapedis.