RESPIRATORY APPARATUS 428 cardiac plexus, to the right of and anterior to lig. arteriosum ; (5) recurrent branch of vagus, hooking round arch, on left side of, and posterior to, lig. artcriosuin. Innominate artery arises from upper aspect of aortic arch opposite middle of manubrium. Extends upwards and to the right into neck, to end, posterior to upper part of right sterno-clav. joint, by dividing into right common carotid and subclavian. No other branches, except occasional thyreoidea ima. In thorax, the manubrium, sterno- hyoid and sterno-thyreoid, and thymus are anterior to it; and left innominate vein crosses it, deep to thymus ; inf. thyreoid vein or veins descend anterior to it to join right innominate. Trachea and pre- tracheal fascia are posterior. Lower part of right innominate vein and beginning of sup. cava are on its right side. Left common carotid is on its left side and slightly posterior. (In the neck, trachea is on its left, innominate vein on its right; thymus, sterno - thyreoid, sterno - hyoid, sterno - clavicular joint are anterior. Fat and areolar tissue separate it from longus colli and pleura posteriorly ; and vagus is postero-lateral.) Left common carotid artery arises from upper aspect of aortic arch, close to innominate, on its left side and slightly posterior to it. Extends upwards and to the left, passing from anterior surface of trachea to its left side, and enters neck posterior to left sterno-clav. joint. No branches in thorax. Anterior to it are manubrium, sterno- hyoid, sterno-thyreoid, thymus, left innominate vein, origin of innomi- nate art. On right side are innominate art. below, trachea above. Posterior to it: trachea below, recurrent n. and oesophagus above. Subclavian art. is posterior and to the left. On its left side, anterior to subclavian art., are phrenic, vagus and cardiac nerves, pleura and lung. Left subclavian artery arises from upper aspect of aortic arch, posterior and to the left of carotid, a little distance from it. Ascends in a groove on medial surface of lung, and enters neck posterior to sternal end of clavicle, some distance away from it. No branches in thorax. Anterior and to the right are the vagus, phrenic and cardiac nerves and left common carotid. On its right side at first is the trachea, and higher up the recurrent n. and oesophagus. Posterior to it medially, are oesophagus below, thoracic duct and longus colli above, and posterior to it, laterally, are pleura and lung. Pleura and lung are on its left side, and, since it lies in a groove, they are slightly anterior as well ; and left superior intercostal vein often crosses its root. Trachea occupies median plane, but inclines slightly to the right at lower end, and ends by dividing into two bronchi opposite upper border of 5th vertebra and opposite sternal angle. Anterior to it are: (1) manubrium; (2) sterno-thyreoids, at its upper part ; (3) anterior margins of pleurae, meeting at lower part ; (4) thymus, posterior to all these ; (5) left innominate vein, crossing obliquely, posterior to thymus ; (6) aortic arch, above lower end of trachea ; (7) innominate and left common carotid, arising on anterior