485 MALE GENITAL ORGANS fibrous coat, enclosing spongework of fibrous tissue, spaces of which are distended with blood during erection. All three are enclosed in loose fibrous sheath, called fascia penis. Lig. suspensorium penis, a triangular fibrous band, is attached by apex to ant. surface of symphysis pubis, while its base divides and becomes continuous with fascia penis on each side. Corp. cav. penis are fused. Fused medial part of their coats is interrupted by slits, and is called septum pectiniforme. Corpus cav. urethrae lies in shallow groove on inferior aspect of fused corp. cavernosa penis. Posteriorly, the corpora separate and form root of penis. Diverging posterior ends of corp. cav. penis are called crura penis. Each crus is attached to groove on perineal aspect of conjoined rami of pubis and ischium, is covered by ischio- cavernosus (erector penis), and tapers to a point posteriorly. Corpus cav. urethra; extends backwards into perineum. Its posterior free end is enlarged and called bulbus urethrae, and is adherent to inferior fascia of urogenital diaphragm (triangular lig.); bulbo-cavernosus muscle (ejaculator urina;) covers it. Anteriorly, corp. cav. urethra; is greatly enlarged to form glans penis, in which pointed anterior ends of corp. cav. penis are imbedded. Projecting margin of base of glans is called corona glandis. Constriction behind glans is called the neck. Urethra enters deep surface of bulbus and traverses whole length of corpus cavernosum urethrae, and in glans lies nearer inferior surface than dorsal. Skin of penis is devoid of hairs, except near its root. On glans, it is exceedingly thin and adherent ; over body of penis, it is thin and freely movable. At neck, it is reflected forwards for variable distance over glans as a free fold, called praeputium (prepuce). A secondary fold, called frenulum praeputii, connects prepuce with glans, just below orifice of urethra. Superficial fascia of penis is thin and contains no fat. Smegma preeputii is a material, with characteristic odour, found between prepuce and glans. It consists of desquamated and broken-down epithelial cells, and secretion of sebaceous glands on glans and prepuce. Arteries : On each side: Artery of bulb, profunda art. to corp. cav. penis, and dorsal artery of penis, front pudendal ; these six are cut in a transverse section of penis. Superficial ext. pudendal of femoral ; these two, in addition, are cut in section near root. Veins corre- sponding, but dorsal veins are median in position, a superficial dividing