252 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE a branch to superior gemellus, and passes through lesser sciatic fora- men to enter perineal surface of obturator internus. Pudendal nerve (internal pudic) passes out between piriformis and coccygeus. Internal pudendal vessels leave the pelvis between piriformis and tip of ischial spine, on medial side of nerve to obturator internus, lateral to pudendal nerve. In the buttock the vessels cross the tip of ischial spine, the pudendal nerve crosses sacro-spinous lig. (small sacro-sciatic), and'all pass through lesser sciatic foramen to enter Alcock’s canal, on lateral wall of ischio-rectal fossa. Inferior gluteal vessels (sciatic) pass out between piriformis and lower margin of greater sciatic notch, on the medial side of sciatic nerve. Spinal nerves lie external to fascia in the pelvis, and their branches to viscera (from 2nd, 3rd, 4th sacral) pierce the fascia to reach them. Vessels lie in the fascia or between peritoneum and fascia, and those which pass out of the pelvis pierce the fascia before doing so. Structures occupying Interval between Anterior Borders of Levatores Ani Prostate occupies greater part of the interval, the borders of the levatores embracing it. A condensation of fascia, called pubo- prostatic or pubo-vesical ligaments, lies above the anterior part of the interval, stretching from pelvic surfaces of pubic bones to base of prostate and neck of bladder. Within the prostate is the urethra ; and the prostate is surrounded by a fascial sheath in which there is the pudendal (prostatic) plexus of veins. The fascia is merely part of general fascial investment of viscera, and is continuous with pubo-prostatic ligs. above and anteriorly, with fascia on levator ani on each side, with fascia of rectum posteriorly, arid below with superior fascia of urogenital diaphragm (deep layer of triangular lig.), upon which the apex of prostate rests. Deep dorsal vein of penis passes through the interval which separates fasciae of urogenital diaphragm from arcuate (sub-pubic) lig., and it enters anterior part of pudendal (prostatic) plexus. Between superior fascia of urogenital diaphragm and the plane of the levatores there is a small interval occupied by loose fascia, veins, lower part of prostate, and “ recto-urethral ” muscle (p. 460). In the female, the vagina occupies the great part of interval be- tween anterior borders of levatores. These borders clasp the vagina, forming a second sphincter for it, as it passes downwards between them to pierce both fasciae of the urogenital diaphragm. Fascia containing veins surrounds the vagina. Pubo-vesical ligaments extend from pubic bones to neck of bladder, above anterior part of the interval between levatores. Urethra passes out of pelvis imbedded in anterior wall of vagina. Dorsal vein of clitoris passes through space between urogenital diaphragm and arcuate (sub-pubic) ligament, and ascends to end in vesical plexus of veins.