NEUROLOGY 338 some end in nucleus habenulae of their own side, others cross in dorsal stalk of pineal body (commissura hcibenularum) to opposite nucleus. Traced forwards, they join column (anterior pillar) of fornix, and some are carried backwards in fornix to hippocampus, others descend in column of fornix to cells at base of brain. VENTRICULUS TERTIUS Third Ventricle.—A cleft between thalami ; anterior wall much deeper than posterior ; lined with ependyma. Communicates with 4th ventricle through aquaeductus cerebri, and with lateral ventricle, on each side, by foramen inter- ventriculare (Monro), a Y-shaped aperture, the stem of which lies in upper and anterior part of 3rd ventricle, while the widely diverging limbs pass, one on each side, between column of fornix in front and anterior end of thalamus behind, into lateral ventricle. Side wall is formed by thalamus and is connected with opposite side by massa intermedia. Sulcus hypothalamicus (Monro) leads backwards, just below thalamus, from for. inter-ventriculare to aqueduct. Below and anterior to this the column of fornix sinks into side wall. Anterior wall : free parts of columnae fornicis ; anterior commissure, crossing anterior to them ; lamina terminalis below that. Floor : from before backwards — optic chiasma, tuber cinereum, corpora mamillaria, substantia perforata posterior, tegmenta. Posterior wall : from below upwards—aquaeductus cerebri, posterior commissure, base of pineal body. Roof : merely ependyma, covered by tela chorioidea of 3rd ventricle (velum interpositum), and fornix above the tela. Recesses : recessus opticus, between lamina terminalis and chiasma ; r. infundibuli, into upper part of infundibulum ; r. pinealis, in stalk of pineal body ; r. suprapinealis, an ependymal protrusion backwards above stalk ; r. triangu- laris : bounded inferiorly by ant. commissure, on each side by a column of fornix, anteriorly by septum pellucidum. CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES Form largest part of brain. Lie in anterior and middle cranial fossae and on tentorium cerebelli, which separates them from posterior fossa and its contents. They are directly connected by the corpus callosum and anterior commissure.