PELVIS 71 lacunare (Gimbernat), lig. reflexum (triangular fascia), falx inguinalis (conjoint tendon), fascia transversalis and psoas minor. Pelvis.—Hip bones anteriorly and laterally, sacrum and coccyx posteriorly. Pelvis major is the part above ilio- pectineal lines and is in relation to abdominal contents. Pelvis minor, below, contains pelvic viscera. Pelvis Minor (True Pelvis or Pelvis).- Bounded an- teriorly by symphysis and bodies of pubic bones ; laterally by ilium below linea arcuata, ischium, conjoined rami, superior ramus of pubis ; posteriorly by sacrum and coccyx. For. obturatum is closed by obturator membrane ; interval between hip bone and sacrum is bridged across by lig. sacro-tuberosum and sacro-spinosum (sacro-sciatic ligs.). Apertura Pelvis Minoris) Superior (Brim or Inlet). Bounded by promontory and anterior margin of ala of sacrum, ilio-pectineal line, pubic crest and symphysis. These are grouped under name linea terminalis, divided into pars sacralis, iliaca, pubica. Apertura Pelvis Inferior (Outlet).— Bounded anteriorly by pubic arch, which is formed by lower margin of sym- physis and conjoined rami of the two sides ; posteriorly by coccyx and, in recent state, by the ligaments ; laterally by lower end of ischium. Cavity of Pelvis.—A short curved canal, ii to 2 inches in length anteriorly, 5 or 6 in. posteriorly. Axis of plane of superior aperture is a line drawn at right angles to its centre, and, if continued, would pass through umbilicus and tip of coccyx. Axis of plane of inferior aperture is drawn at right angles to its centre, and, if produced, would strike promontory of sacrum. Axis pelvis is a line, curved in conformity with sacrum and coccyx, which passes through centres of planes of sup. and inf. apertures and through centres of a series of planes set between these. Inclinatio pelvis is such that, in erect posture, anterior superior iliac spine and pubic symphysis lie in same vertical plane, and plane of superior aperture forms an angle of 50“ to 6o° with the horizontal. Pelvic Measurements. Those of apertures of pelvis minor are the most important. Intercristal diameter : greatest distance between external lips of iliac crests. Interspinous diameter: line between anterior superior iliac spines. External antero posterior diameter: distance from tip of 1st sacral spine to anterior surface of symphysis.