228 MUSCLES ANI) FASCI/E anterior to it. (14) Remains of thymus, anterior to the veins. (15) In- nominate artery, posterior to thymus, may still be anterior to trachea in root of neck ; and the left innominate vein, although in the thorax, can be seen, anterior to the artery, in the dissection of root of neck. MUSCLES OF THE HEAD Facial muscles, or muscles of expression, include muscles of scalp, extrinsic muscles of the ear, muscles of eyelids, nose, and mouth. All are supplied by facial nerve. MUSCLES OF SCALP Epicranius (Occipito-frontalis).—Two flat fleshy bellies, on each side, connected by a flat intermediate tendon, which is con- tinuous across top of scalp with its fellow of opposite side, forming galea aponeurotica (epicranial aponeurosis). Occipital belly arises from lateral $ of superior nuchal (curved) line. Frontal belly (insertion) is mingled with orbicularis oculi and corrugator supercilii. It raises eyebrows, wrinkles skin of forehead, and may move skin of scalp backwards and forwards. Clalea aponeurotica is attached posteriorly between occipital bellies, to ext. occipital protuberance and highest nuchal lines; its lateral edges are firmly adherent to pericranium, and are continuous with a thin fascia which is superficial to the temporal fascia. Extrinsic Muscles of Ear.—Auricularis posterior extends from mastoid process to cranial surface of auricle (pinna). Auricu- laris superior extends from temporal fascia and galea aponeurotica to top of root of auricle. Auricularis anterior extends from temporal fascia to top of root of auricle. Scalp includes the area anterior to the nuchal lines and between temporal lines of the two sides. Over the vertex it consists of: (1) skin ; (2) dense superficial fascia containing the vessels and nerves, and adherent to both skin and galea ; (3) galea aponeurotica (epicranial aponeurosis); (4) loose areolar tissue ; (5) periosteum, called here the pericranium. In frontal ar.d occipital regions the galea is replaced by fleshy bellies of epicranius (occipito-frontalis), and superficial fascia is not so dense. In the temporal region (beyond the scalp), the skull is covered by : (1) skin; (2) superficial fascia ; (3) extrinsic muscles of ear and a thin fascia continuous with lateral expansions of galea ; (4) tem- poral fascia ; (5) temporal muscle ; (6) periosteum. Nerves of the Scalp.—Ten on each side : 4 sensory and 1 motor,