LYMPH GLANDS OF THORAX 30 Appendicular, in mesentery of vermiform process, receives some afferents from vermiform process, and is said to receive some from right ovary. Htemal lymph glands are found in various parts, especially along abdominal aorta. They resemble lymph glands, but some of their sinuses contain blood and communicate with blood-vessels. Lymph Glands of Thorax Intercostal, in posterior parts of intercostal spaces; afferents from post, parts of thoracic walls and parietal pleura ; efferents from glands in upper spaces end in post, mediastinal glands or in thoracic duct or right lymphatic duct; from glands in lower spaces descend to cisterna chyli. Sternal, along int. mammary art. : afferents from ant. thoracic and abdominal walls, medial part of mammary gland, anterior part of diaphragm, anterior diaphragmatic glands ; efferents to anterior mediastinal and lower deep cervical glands, thoracic or right lymphatic duct. Diaphragmatic : anterior, behind xiphoid process and 7th costal cartilages ; afferents from anterior part of diaphragm and of upper surface of liver ; efferents to sternal glands. Middle, at sides of base of pericardium ; afferents from middle part of diaphragm and upper surface of liver ; efferents to posterior mediastinal glands. Posterior, behind diaphragm, connect posterior mediastinal with lumbar glands. Anterior mediastinal, in ant. mediastinum and anterior part of superior ; afferents from liver, diaphragm, lower sternal glands, heart, pericardium, thymus, thyreoid gland ; efferents to lower deep cervical glands and thoracic and right lymphatic ducts. Posterior mediastinal, along aorta and cesophagus ; afferents from pleura, pericardium, oesophagus, diaphragm, liver, diaphragmatic glands; efferents to bronchial glands, thoracic and right lymphatic ducts. Tracheal, bronchial, and broncho pulmonary, at lower end of trachea and on bronchi, and their branches ; afferents from trachea, bronchi, lungs, visceral pleura, heart, thymus ; efferents to thoracic and right lymphatic ducts, and inferior deep cervical glands.