BASIS CRAM I EXTERNA 45 tubarius, in substance of temporal bone, between petrous and tympanic plate, opens by postero-lateral end into tympanum, is divided by septum (processus cochleariformis) into semi- canalis m. tensoris tympani above and semicanalis tubce auditiva below. Tuberculum articulare (eminentia articularis), smooth, convex, is lateral to angular spine, continuous with ant. root of zygoma ; fossa mandibularis lies posterior to it. Both articulate with head of mandible, articular disc inter- vening ; and capsula articularis is attached around their circumference. Post-glenoid tubercle lies behind fossa, in front of acoustic meatus. Petro-tympanic fissure (Glaserian) extends from anterior margin of acoustic meatus, behind mandibular fossa, to sulcus tubas ; transmits tympanic branch of mid. meningeal art., lodges anterior process of malleus. At its medial end is the opening for chorda tympani (canal of Huguier). Pars tympanica (tympanic plate), posterior to and below petro- tympanic fissure, forms anterior and lower walls, and part of posterior wall of ext. acoustic meatus, and with mandibular fossa forms glenoid fossa, in which part of parotid is lodged, and sheath of parotid is attached to its margins. Upper border sinks into petro-tympanic fissure; lateral forms auditory process, to which cartilage of ear is attached ; medial fuses with petrous; lower partly ensheathes processus styloideus, which projects downwards, anteriorly and medially, and gives origin to stylo-pharyngeus, stylo-hyoideus, stylo- glossus, stylo-mandibular and stylo-hyoid ligaments. Stylo - mastoid foramen, posterior to styloid process ; transmits facial n., and stylo-mastoid branches of post, auricular vessels. It is the lower end of canal for facial nerve. Incisura mastoidea (digastric fossa), posterior to stylo mastoid foramen, on medial side of mastoid process, gives origin to post, belly of digastric. To its medial side, near occipito-mastoid suture, is the groove for occipital artery. Jugular foramen lies between petrous temporal and jugular process of occipital, medial to styloid process. It transmits inferior petrosal sinus, antero-medially ; transverse sinus becoming jugular vein, postero - laterally ; between these, glosso-pharyngeal, vagus and accessory nerves, in that order from before backwards ; meningeal branches of occipital and ascending pharyngeal arteries ; meningeal lymphatics