POSTERIOR MEDIASTINUM 433 a plexus on ant. surface of oesophagus ; from this a cord descends through oesophageal opening to break up on antero-superior surface of stomach. Lower edge of left pulmonary lig. is anterior to oeso- phagus, or the lig. may be attached to left side of oesophagus. On left side of oesophagus are descending aorta above, left pleura and lung below. On its right side are right pleura and lung until it has come to lie anterior to aorta, where it is overlapped on the right by pericardium and diaphragm. Posterior to it, opposite 5th, 6th, 7th vertebrae, the thoracic duct and vena azygos ascend vertically, upper s right aortic intercostals cross, posterior to vein and duct. Below that level the aorta is posterior, and the lower end, which projects to the left of aorta, is supported posteriorly by pleura and lung. Right vagus emerges from post, pulmonary plexus as one or two cords which cross anterior to vena azygos and break up into a plexus on post, surface of oesophagus, from which a cord descends, through oesophageal opening, to postero-inferior surface of stomach. The oesophageal plexuses give branches to oesophagus and pericardium. Vena hemiazygos accessoria (v. az. minor sup.) may be high enough to be a posterior relation to oesophagus as it enters v. azygos. Vena azygos arises either from post, aspect of inf. vena cava at level of renal vein, or from the right asc. lumbar vein, which is continuous with longitudinal anastomosis between right lumbar veins. It lies deep to inf. cava and right crus of diaphragm, on right side of cisterna (receptaculum) chyli ; enters thorax through aortic opening of dia- phragm, on right side of thoracic duct and aorta; runs upwards on vertebral column, and at level of 5th or 4th vertebra it arches forwards, above root of right lung, to end in superior cava. Its tributaries, which correspond fairly closely to branches of descending thoracic aorta, are oesophageal, pericardial, mediastinal, right bionchial ; upper right lumbar, right subcostal, right intercostals from lower 8 spaces, right superior intercostal, which descends from 2nd and 3rd spaces and joins it where it logins to arch forwards ; hemiazygos and accessory hemi- azygos—conveying blood from left side, including lower 8 spaces— cross vertebral column to join it. Relations of v. azygos in post, mediastinum. —The lower 8 TH. vertebrm, ant. longitudinal lig., right aortic intercostal and subcostal arteries are posterior to it ; thoracic duct and descending aorta are on its left side, pleura and lung are on its right, and the right splanchnic nerves descend close to its right side, under cover of pleura. (Esophagus, with the vagi, is anterior to it, opposite 5th, 6th, 7th TH. vertebrae ; below that it is overlapped by right pleura, and is covered by the fatty areolar tissue between right pleura and aorta ; and, still lower down, it is behind diaphragm. Vena hemiazygos (v. azygos minor inferior) arises from left ascending lumbar vein or from renal; enters thorax by piercing left crus of diaphragm ; ascends upon bodies of lower th. vertebrae, left subcostal and intercostal arteries, with splanchnic nerves descending 28