416 ORGANS OF THE SENSES recessus utricu/i, which lies in recessus ellipticus, is thickened in its floor and anterior wall (macula acustica utriculi) and receives there the utricular fibres of vestibular nerve. Sacculus.—Smaller than utricle, lies in recessus sphaericus in antero-inferior part of vestibule. A thickening, called macula acustica sacculi, receives saccular fibres of cochlear nerve. Ductus reuniens, a short canal from lower part of saccule, opens into cochlear duct near its vestibular end. Ductus endolymphaticus leaves posterior part of saccule ; is joined by short ductus utriculo-saccularis from utricle ; traverses aquaeductus vestibuli ; ends under dura mater, on posterior surface of petrous, as a dilatation called saccus endolymphaticus. Ductus semicirculares, within bony semicircular canals, attached to their convex sides ; are each ampullated at one end ; and they open into utricle by five openings. Ductus Cochlearis (Scala Media).—Spiral canal inside bony cochlea on apical side of scala tympani. Both ends are blind : cacum ves/ibulare lies in vestibule on recessus cochlearis ; cescum cupulare is fixed to apex of cochlea and helps to bound helicotrema. Outer wall is formed by a thickening of periosteum of outer wall of cochlea, called lig. spirale cochlece. Membrana vestibularis (Reissner) stretching from periosteum on apical side of lamina spiralis to outer wall of cochlea, forms its apical wall and separates its cavity from scala vestibuli. Basal sva/l, separating its cavity from scala tympani, is formed by limbus laminae spiralis and lamina basilaris. Limbus lamina spiralis is a thickening of periosteum at, and near, edge of lamina spiralis ossea. Its outer border is grooved. Lamina basilaris extends from basal or tympanic lip of groove to outer wall of cochlea. From its vestibular lip the membrana tec/oria projects outwards over organ of Corti. Organon spirale Cortii, the essential end organ of hearing, is placed in ductus cochlearis, on apical side of lamina basilaris. Artery : internal auditory from basilar. Veins join inf. petrosal sinus. Nerves : vestibular to utricle, superior and external semi- circular ducts. Cochlear to saccule, post, semicircular duct, and ductus cochlearis, including spiral organ of Corti. Internal Acoustic Meatus.—8 mm. long, 3-5 mm. wide. Situated in petrous temporal, medial to internal ear. Opens by an oblique aperture, on post, surface of petrous temporal, into post, cranial fossa. Its fundus is formed by a plate of bone, called lamina cribrosa, which separates it from vestibule and cochlea, and is perforated by facial nerve, the branches of vestibular and cochlear divisions of acoustic nerve, and the int. auditory vessels.