5 VERTEBRAL COLUMN Processus or process, any kind of projection. Proximal, applied to limbs, means nearer root of limb. Sinus (i), a cavity in a bone. (2) , a venous blood channel without muscular walls. (3) , a venous blood space in an organ. (4) , a cavity within a viscus. (5) , a narrow space lined with serous or mucous membrane. Spina or Spine, a sharp, pointed process. Sulcus, a groove or furrow . Trochlea, a pulley or pulley-shaped surface. Tuber, tuberculum \ , , ,, , Tubercle, tuberosity ) a rouuded enimence- U5liall>' rouBh- Volar Surface, applied to the surface of forearm and hand which looks forwards when arm hangs down, with thumb directed laterally. COLUMN A VERTEBRALIS Vertebral column or spin8 consists of 33 vertebrae, grouped according to regions Movable or true vertebrae, 7 cervical, 12 thoracic, 5 lumbar. Fixed or false, 5 sacral, fused in adult to form sacrum ; 4 (3 to 5) coccygeal, fused to form coccyx. Common characters of vertebra.- are seen best in mid- thoracic region. Parts of a vertebra : (1 Corpus Body is the bulkyanterior part and varies in size and shape in different regions. Superior and inferior surfaces, slightly concave and attached to inter- vertebral libro-cartilage. Ventral surface, convex from side to side ; dorsal surface, slightly concave from side to side. (2) Radix arcus vertebra (pedicle), a horizontal bar projecting dorsallv, on each side, from upper part of posterior aspect of body. Upper and lower borders are depressed, forming (3) incisura vertebrales, superior and inferior (vertebral notches'!, of which the inferior is the wider. (4) Lamina arc two broad, Hat, sloping plates, joined to each other at median plane, and to roots of vertebral arch (pedicles) later- ally. Their borders and internal surfaces are rough for attachments of ligamenta (lava. Roots of arch anil lamina.- together form (,5) arcus vertebra, (6) Foramen vertebrale is bounded by vertebral arch and posterior aspect of body. 7 Processus spinosus (spine; projects dorsallv from junction of lamina;. (8) Processus tranversus projects laterally from