244 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE arched lower border of obliquus interims, receives a covering of loops of muscle, held together by fascia called cremasteric fascia. Cremasteric Muscle.— A series of loops descending over spermatic cord and testis, one end of loop being attached with lowest fibres of obliquus internus to lig. inguinale, the other to pubic tubercle (spine). Nerve: l. i, 2, through external spermatic (genital branch of genito-crural). Draws up testis. Transversus abdominis. — Deepest muscle in antero- lateral wall of abdomen. Origin (fi.): inner surfaces of lower 6 costal cartilages, interdigitating with diaphragm ; lumbo- dorsal fascia ; anterior | of internal lip of iliac crest ; lateral ^ of lig. inguinale. Fibres are directed horizontally medially, except lower ones, which pass medially and then turn down- wards. Insertion : by aponeurosis into whole length of linea alba, and into crest and pecten (pectineal line) of pubis. Nerves : lower 6 intercostals, last thoracic, 1st lumbar through ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal. Aponeurosis passes posterior to rectus, from a point midway between umbilicus and pubis upwards ; anterior to rectus below that point. Part arising from lig. inguinale is above level of spermatic cord, but its aponeurosis joins corresponding part of obliquus internus and passes down behind cord. Falx aponeurotica inguinalis (conjoint tendon),composed of fused aponeuroses of parts of obliquus internus and transversus arising from lig. inguinale (Poupart). Directed medially and down- wards, posterior to spermatic cord laterally, anterior to rectus medially. Attached to linea alba medially, to crest and pecten (pectineal line) of pubis inferiorly, behind lig. reflexum and obliquus externus. Vagina m. recti abdominis (Sheath of rectus) is complete from rib margin down to midway between umbilicus and pubis. Anterior wail: aponeurosis of obliquus ext., anterior lamina of obi. int. Posterior wall: aponeurosis of transversus, posterior lamina of obi. int. ; at its upper end aponeurosis of transversus is so narrow that uppermost fleshy fibres of transversus are found in post, wall of sheath. For some distance above pubis the posterior wall is absent ; all three aponeuroses are anterior to rectus, which lies directly on fascia transversalis. At lower part of abdomen the ext. oblique aponeurosis does not fuse with the others till near median plane. Linea semicircttlaris is crescentic lower edge of posterior wall, and inf. epigastric vessels enter sheath in front of it. This edge is not wholly free, except by dissection ; a thin stratum is continued down- wards from it for some distance, and probably consists of some fibres