216 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE subclavian lymph trunks, descends for ^ inch, anterior to subclavian artery, lateral to int. jugular vein and ends *in innominate. The part of the duct between its origin in thorax and the medial border of scalenus anterior is called the broncho-mediastinal trunk ; jugular and subclavian lymph trunks may end independently. Several lymph glands lie in relation to the various vessels in lower part of neck and superior aperture of thorax. Left common carotid artery springs from aortic arch and enters neck, opposite lower part of sterno-clavicular joint, and runs upwards and slightly laterally to end by dividing into ext. and int. carotids, opposite upper border of thyreoid cartilage and lower border of 3rd vertebra. It gives off no branches except these. Except at lower end, it is enclosed, with vagus and int. jugular vein, in parotid sheath. Anterior to it are (1) sterno-clavicular joint, sterno-mastoid ; (2) ant. jugular vein, as it passes laterally behind sterno-mastoid above clavicle ; (3) sterno-hyoid, sterno-thy'reoid, omo-hyoid ; (4) remains of thymus, at root of neck ; (5) left innominate vein, posterior to thymus, just above or at sup. thoracic aperture ; (6) middle thyreoid vein crosses it, and ansa hypoglossi lies on it, beneath omo-hyoid, opposite lower part of thyreoid cartilage. Anterior to the small part of it in carotid triangle are superior thyreoid vein, and artery to sterno-mastoid, which cross it; descendens hypoglossi, which descends upon it. Medial to it are trachea ; recurrent nerve and oesophagus, below ; larynx and pharynx, above; thyreoid gland is both medial and anterior. Posterior to it arc the sympathetic trunk ; longus capitis (rect. cap. ant. major) above, longus colli below ; inf. thyreoid art., opposite cricoid and 6th vertebra ; thoracic duct, opposite 7th vertebra; at root of neck the subclavian and then the vertebral arteries are postero-lateral to it ; higher up the vertebral artery becomes directly posterior. Lateral to it are the vagus, cervical cardiac nerves, internal jugular vein, which overlaps it anteriorly, especially at lower end ; and, at root of neck, the pleura is lateral. Left subclavian artery springs from aortic arch and enters neck, postero-lateral to common carotid ; ascends for a short distance, and then arches laterally over anterior surface of cervical pleura ; crosses 1st rib and ends at its outer border by becoming axillary. Scalenus anterior descends in front of it and divides it into 3 parts: first part up to scalenus, second part behind it, third part beyond. Just above sup. thoracic aperture, while first part is still ascending, it lies in a groove on medial surface of pleura and lung, at left side of oesophagus, with thoracic duct posterior to it, common carotid antero-medial to it, the vagus nerve, int. jugular and innominate veins anterior to it. Cervical cardiac branches of vagus and sympathetic are either anterior or posterior to it. As it arches laterally, pleura is posterior and inferior, ansa subclavia