NEUROLOGY 344 between posterior and ant. ascending rami. (3) Frontal, antero- superiorly, between anterior rami (synonymous with pars triangularis). (4) Orbital, antero-inferiorly, between stem and ant. horizontal ramus of lateral fissure (corresponds to posterior part of pars orbitalis). (This description of opercula does not conform to B.N.A. terminology, which is difficult to apply.) Blood Supply.—Middle cerebral art. Deep middle cerebral vein. Orbital Surface of Hemisphere Belongs to frontal lobe. Bounded anteriorly and laterally by superciliary margin, medially by medial orbital margin, posteriorly by vallecula Sylvii and stem of lateral fissure. Sulci.—Olfactory, near and parallel to medial orbital margin, occupied by olfactory bulb and tract ; sulci orbitales, irregular, usually form H-shaped figure. G-yri.—G. rectus, medial to olfactory sulcus ; medial orbital, between olfactory sulcus and H-shaped sulcus ; Anterior and posterior orbital, separated by cross piece of H. Part lateral to H is inf. frontal gyrus turned round margin. Blood Supply.—Ant. cerebral art. supplies gyrus rectus and medial orbital gyrus; middle cerebral supplies re- mainder. Veins end in middle cerebral and anterior cerebral veins. Medial and Tentorial Surfaces of Hemisphere Gyri are arranged in three concentric circles. Outer Circle. — Marginal gyrus includes that part of superior frontal gyrus which appears on medial surface. Lies between sulcus cinguli (calloso-marginal) and margin of hemisphere. Its posterior end, partially cut off, is called paracentral lobule ; upper end of sulcus centralis Rolandi cuts into it, and part of paracentral lobule surrounding it is the motor area of opposite leg. Prsecuneus (quadrate lobule) belongs to parietal lobe. Bounded anteriorly by upturned end of sulcus cinguli, superiorly by supero-medial margin, posteriorly by parieto- occipital fissure, inferiorly by sub-parietal sulcus. Calcarine fissure begins at occipital pole and ends below splenium of corpus callosum, from which it is separated by isthmus of gyrus fornicatus. It is convex upwards, and is