273 ARTERIES OF THE BRAIN orbital notch to forehead. (/) Anterior and posterior ethmoidal escape through ethmoidal foramina into cranial cavity; supply ethmoidal cells and cavity of nose, {g) Medial palpebral, to upper and lower eyelids. (h) Rami musculares to muscles in orbit, from ophthalmic directly and from its branches. They also give branches to eyeball—anterior ciliary, ( i) A. dorsalis nasi, to bridge of nose. (_/') Frontal accompanies supra-trochlear nerve to forehead. Posterior communicating artery arises near end of carotid. Runs posteriorly below optic tract, in front of cerebral peduncle (crus cerebri), above oculo-motor n., and joins posterior cerebral, giving branches to these, and to inter-peduncular structures, uncus, thalamus and int. capsule. A. chorioidea arises near end of carotid. Runs backwards between cerebral peduncle and uncus; enters chorioidal fissure to end in chorioid plexus of inferior horn of lat. ventricle. Supplies optic tract, basis pedunculi (crusta), uncus and post, part of internal capsule, basal ganglia, and ant. commissure. Anterior cerebral artery runs medially above optic chiasma, in front of lamina terminalis, where it is connected with its fellow by short anterior communicating art.; winds round genu of corpus callosum, upon body of which it runs posteriorly to pnvcuneus. Supplies lamina terminalis, corpus callosum, septum pellucidum, ant. column of fornix, ant. commissure, caudate and lentiform nuclei ; medial surface of hemisphere as far back as parieto-occipital fissure, upper part of lateral surface Jor corresponding distance, and the gyrus rectus and internal orbital gyrus. Middle cerebral artery passes laterally into lateral (Sylvian) fissure of cerebrum, and ends in branches on the surface of insula. Gives cortical branches to: (1) lateral half of orbital surface of frontal lobe; (2) ant. end of temporal lobe ; (3) lateral surface of hemisphere, except a strip, | inch or more in breadth, along upper and lower margins ; and central branches, which pass up through ant. perforated substance and supply caudate and lentiform nuclei, internal capsule, anterior commissure. Most lateral of these pass through perforated substance; groove lateral surface of lentiform nucleus in its lower half; traverse the nucleus and internal capsule and end—the anterior or lenticulo-striate in caudate nucleus, the posterior or lenticulo optic in thalamus. Largest of lenticulo-striate is called the “artery of cerebral haemorrhage.” Vertebral artery arises from first part of subclavian ; enters foramen in transverse process of 6th cerv. vertebra, traverses foramina transversaria of upper 6 cervical vert. ; 18