MUSCLES AND FASCIAE 234 surface of great wing of sphenoid. Lower head: lateral surface of lateral pterygoid lamina. Insertion (tend.-fl.): anterior aspect of neck of mandible and of articular disc and capsule of mandibular joint. Nerve : trigeminal, through pterygoid branches. Protrudes mandible, and pushes it to opposite side. Superficial to it are niasseter, ramus and coronoid process of mandible, tendon of temporalis, internal maxillary artery, superficial head of pterygoideus internus. Deep to it are deep head of pter. int., mandibular nerve and its branches, mid. meningeal art., spheno- mandibular lig., a'nd often int. maxillary art. At upper border are masseteric and deep temporal nerves. At lower border appear lingual and inferior alveolar (dental) nerves. Buccinator nerve and int. maxillary artery pass between its two heads. It is surrounded by pterygoid plexus of veins. Pterygoideus Internus.— Lies in infra-temporal fossa. Origin.—Superficial head (tend.) : Small. Tuberosity of maxilla and lateral surface of pyramidal process of palatine. Deep head (fl.-tend.) : Large. Medial surface of lateral pterygoid lamina, and surface of pyramidal process of palatine which appears in pterygoid fossa. Insertion (fl.-tend.): Inner surface of angle and ramus of mandible, posterior to mylo- hyoid groove. Nerve: trigeminal, through pterygoid branches. Elevates mandible ; protrudes and pushes it to opposite side. Superficial to it are ramus of mandible, pterygoideus externus, lingual and inf. alveolar (dental) nerves, internal maxillary and inf. alveolar vessels, spheno-mandibular ligament. Deep to it are tensor and levator veli palatini, sup. constrictor; stylo - glossus, stylo- pharyngeus, tonsillar and asc. palatine branches of ext. maxillary (facial) art., and the loop of that artery itself; submaxillary gland; ext. carotid art., stylo-hyoid and post, belly of digastric at angle of mandible. Deglutition Voluntary Stage ; x. Breath drawn in and held. 2. Lips and cheeks usually, but not necessarily, pressed against teeth and gums by orbicularis oris and buccinator. 3. Jaws closed by masseters, temporals, internal pterygoids. 4. Tongue and hyoid bone slightly elevated by mylo-hyoids. 5. Tongue, hyoid bone, and larynx forcibly and suddenly raised, so that tongue is pressed against roof of mouth, and bolus of food is projected, through fauces, towards pharynx. Tongue is raised by mylo-hyoids, s/ylo-glossi, assisted by glosso- palatini, and indirectly by elevators of hyoid. It is pulled backwards