ARTICULATIONS I I 2 Ligamentum Teres Fenioris.—Not round, but flattened and triangular. Lies within joint, surrounded by tube of synovial membrane. Attached by apex to fovea on head of femur, by bifid base to transverse ligament and margins of acetabular notch. Function doubtful. May be absent. Synovial stratum lines fibrous stratum, covers both surfaces of labrum glenoidale, is prolonged over fat (Haversian gland) lying in acetabular fossa, and over lig. teres, enclosing it in tubular sheath. It is reflected from distal attachment of capsule up to articular margin of head of femur, enclosing neck in a tube, which the retinacula raise into folds. Sometimes it communicates with bursa under psoas major, through an aperture between ilio-femoral and pubo-capsular bands. Blood Supply.— Branches of sup. and inf. gluteal, medial and lateral circumflex, and obturator. Nerves from femoral (ant. crural), obturator, and nerve to quadratus fenioris. Relations.—(i) Immediate: Posterior-. Piriformis above, and lying more on superior aspect near insertion. Obturator internus and gemelli below ; upper edge of quadratus femoris overlaps it medially, but is below level of joint laterally ; nerve and vessels to quadratus femoris descend vertically between obt. int. and gemelli and the bone, and then between quadratus and capsule. Glutaeus minimus lies on superior aspect. Anterior-. Lateral edge of pectineus overlaps capsule medially. More laterally is psoas major tendon, with iliacus gaining partial insertion to its lateral edge ; psoas is separated from capsule by bursa, but some fibres of iliacus are attached to capsule. Lateral to iliacus is rectus femoris ; its straight head covers proximal attachment of ilio-femoral lig., its reflected head is imbedded in capsule above acetabulum, under cover of glutteus minimus. Distal lateral part of ilio-femoral lig., in angle between rectus femoris and glutams minimus, is concealed by tensor fascite laUe, but is separated from it by fatty areolar tissue containing ascending branches of lateral circumflex vessels, and through this tissue the deep lamina of tractus iliotibialis (ilio- tibial band) reaches capsule to fuse with it. Inferior-. Obturator ext. lies against inferior aspect and turns upwards to insertion, in relation partly to capsule and partly to posterior aspect of neck of femur, beyond attachment of capsule. Medial circumflex vessels, as they pass posteriorly between psoas and pectineus, are below joint, and their deep (ascending) branches accompany tendon of obt. externus. Insertion of psoas and iliacus is below distal part of capsule. (2) More Remote: Superior-. Glutteus medius covers minimus, and between them are branches of superior gluteal vessels and