CARPUS 6i Proximal row: os naviculare (scaphoid); os lunatum (semilunar) ; os triquetrum (cuneiform) ; and os pisiforme, on volar surface of triquetrum. Distal row : os multangulum majus (trapezium) ; os multangulum minus (trapezoid) ; os capitatum (magnum); os hamatum (unciform). All except triquetrum and pisiform have 6 surfaces. Carpus, looked at as a whole, has 6 surfaces. Proximal surface: convex, articulates with radius and triangular articular disc to form wrist-joint. Distal surface: irregular, articulates with metacarpus. Dorsal surface : convex, rough for ligaments ; related to extensor tendons, and laterally to radial artery. Volar surface: rough for ligaments and muscles; deeply concave on account of projection of tubercle of navicular and ridge on multangulum majus (trapezium) laterally, and pisiform and hook of hamatum (unciform) medially. This concavity or groove lodges flexor tendons and their sheaths and the median nerve, and is bridged across by lig. carpi transversum (ant. annular). Radial or lateral surface: rough for ligaments, is related to extensor tendons of thumb. Ulnar or medial surface is rough for ligaments and is subcutaneous. Proximal row, looked at by itself, is convex proximally, concavo-convex distally, and its dorsal surface is smaller than the palmar. Distal row is concavo-convex proximally, irregular distall)', and its dorsal surface is larger than palmar. Each bone has one or more salient characters by which it can be distinguished. Triquetrum is a 3-sided pyramid, base being lateral surface. Multangulum minus is the smallest except pisiform, and has a fancied resemblance to a Chinese boot. Capitatum is the largest and is surmounted by large rounded head. Distinguish- ing characters of the others are italicised in accompanying table. In order that a bone may be referred to its proper side it should be held in the position which it occupies in erect body (proximal surface directed upwards, volar surface forwards). Lateral surface (or border or end) then looks towards side to which it belongs. [Table