OSTEOLOGY 78 Tuberositas tibiae, the prominence distal to flat surface uniting condyles anteriorly ; easily felt ; is rough distally, but smooth proximally for attachment of lig. patellae. Distal end, quadrilateral. Medial surface is prolonged distally as subcutaneous medial malleolus, of which the lateral surface articulates with talus (astragalus), distal border is notched and gives attachment to deltoid lig., post, border is grooved by passage of tendon of tibialis posterior. Lateral surface is the triangular incisura Jibularis (fibular notch); usually smooth at distal margin for articulation with fibula ; rough proximally for ligaments uniting tibia and fibula. Anterior surface. rounded ; covered by extensor tendons. Posterior surface, also rounded ; groove on malleolus for tibialis post, encroaches on it ; more laterally a faint groove lodges flex, hallucis longus tendon. Tarsal surface, quadrilateral, concave antero-posteriorly ; articulates with talus. Corpus tibiae (body or Shaft; diminishes in size to distal \ and slightly enlarges again. Crista anterior, subcutaneous, extends sinuously from tuberosity to ant. margin of malleolus. Crista interossea, from lateral condyle to fibular notch, gives attachment to interosseous membrane. Margo medialis extends from medial condyle to post, border of malleolus. Medial surface, between ant. crest and medial margin, is subcutaneous, except proximally where tendons are inserted. Lateral surface, between ant. and interosseous crests, is con- tinuous with anterior surface of distal end. Posterior surface, between medial margin and interosseous crest, encroaches on lateral aspect near proximal end ; linea foplitea crosses it obliquely from fibular facet on lateral condyle to medial margin ; 7>ertical line passes distally for variable distance, dividing remainder of surface into unequal lateral and medial areas. Nutrient foramen, near popliteal line, directed distally. Ossification. — Primary centre at 7th week. Epiphyseal centre for proximal end, including proximal part of tuberosity, just before or after birth ; fuses at 21 ; for distal end in 2nd year, fuses at 18. Epiphyseal lines are extra-capsular. Attachments.—Ant. horn of medial meniscus (semilunar cartilage) and ant. cruciate lig. to ant. intercondyloid fossa ; ant. horn of lateral meniscus to ant. aspect of intercondyloid eminence, post, horn to post, aspect ; post, horn of medial meniscus to post, intercondyloid fossa; post, cruciate lig. to same fossa and to