ORGAN OF HEARING 409 levator palpebrie and rectus lateralis. Glandula lacritnalis inferior projects from it into upper eyelid and lies upon conjunctiva. Dtictuli excretorii open into lateral part of superior fornix of conjunctival sac. Blood vessels : lacrimal branches of ophthalmic. Nerves : lacrimal and sympathetic. Ductus lacrimales, superior and inferior, collect the tears and carry' them to lacrimal sac. They begin in puncta lacrimalia on lacrimal papillre ; run medially in margins of eyelids bounding lacus lacrimalis ; join together to open into lacrimal sac, below its middle. Saccus lacrimalis lies in lacrimal groove of lacrimal bone and frontal process of maxilla, behind medial palpebral ligament. Upper end is blind ; lower end narrows slightly to form ductus naso- lacrimalis, which descends for about inch, through osseous naso-lacrimal canal, to open into inferior meatus of nose, near its anterior end, 30 to 35 mm. from posterior margin of nostril. A fold of mucous membrane, called plica lacrimalis, projects from medial side of inferior orifice and acts as a valve. Only a small proportion of the tears is led away by the lacrimal ducts. The greater quantity evaporates from the surface of the eye. ORGANON AUDITUS (ORGAN OF HEARING) External Ear Auricle. — Lateral Surface. — Large depression about its middle is the concha, leading into ext. acoustic meatus. Helix, folded rim, begins as crus helicis in concha, dividing it into cyntba concha above, cazum concha below ; helix ends in dependent lobulus; luberculum auricula (Darwin), morphological apex of ear, seen or felt on helix, below and behind top of ear. Antihelix, elevation anterior to helix ; it divides superiorly into crura antihehcis, which enclose fossa triangularis. Scapha, depression between helix and antihelix. Tragus overlaps anterior part of concha and is separated from crus helicis by inctsura anterior. Antitragus projects over concha from behind and below, and is separated from tragus by incisura intertragica. Medial or cranial surface bears correspond- ing elevations and depressions, eminentia concha, fossa anti helicis, etc. Cartilago auriculae supports auricle, all except lobule, which is composed of fat and fibrous tissue ; is continuous with cartilage of meatus : connected to zygoma and mastoid process by ant. and post, ligaments; anterior, posterior and superior (extrinsic) auricular muscles are inserted into it ; various intrinsic muscles and ligaments pass from one point of it to another. Arteries to auricle, from superficial temporal and post, auricular. Veins end in superficial temporal, post, auricular, mastoid emissary- vein. Lymphatics end in post, and ant. auricular glands, and in