305 SPINAL VEINS of lower border of meatus, but behind it. Receives sup. petrosal sinus, some sup. and inf. cerebellar and inf. cerebral veins, and post, diploic vein. Communicates with veins out- side, through mastoid foramen and condyloid canal (post, condyloid foramen). Sinus cavernosus lies at side of body of sphenoid. Cavity is traversed by fibrous bands. In lateral wall are imbedded int. carotid art., with sympathetic plexus ; oculo-motor, trochlear, abducent and ophthalmic nerves ; and maxillary n. runs forwards along lower bprder. Receives ophthalmic veins and spheno-parietal sinus in front ; inferior cerebral veins above. Communicates medially with its fellow by inter- cavernous sinuses and basilar plexus; with pterygoid plexuses inferiorly through foramen ovale or for. Vesalii. Sup. and inf. petrosal sinuses leave its posterior end. Spheno-parietal sinus lies on lower surface of small wing of sphenoid ; communicates with meningeal veins ; ends in cavernous sinus. Superior petrosal sinus begins at post, end of cavernous sinus, at apex of petrous temporal ; lies in attachment of tentorium to upper border of petrous ; ends in transverse sinus. Receives inf. cerebral, sup. cerebellar, tympanic, and diploic veins. Inferior petrosal sinus leaves post, end of cavernous, runs posteriorly, downwards and laterally in groove on junction of petrous temporal and basi-occiput; passes through jugular foramen and ends in jugular vein. Connected with fellow by basilar plexus. Receives inf. cerebellar veins, and veins from internal ear. Occipital sinus extends from lower end of transverse sinus, round for. magnum and up falx cerebelli to upper end of trans. sinus. Communicates with spinal veins and receives some inf. cerebellar veins. Spinal Veins Anterior external vertebral plexus, on anterior surfaces of bodies of vertebra;, and posterior external vertebral plexus, around vertebral arch and processes, send efferents to join vertebral, intercostal, lumbar, and lateral sacral veins. Anterior longitudinal vertebral sinuses lie at sides of post, longitudinal lig. ; extend from for. magnum to coccyx ; connected by cross branches, each of which receives vena basis vertebrte from substance of body of vertebra. Communicate with post, longitud. sinuses, occipital sinus and basilar plexus, and, by means of intervertebral veins, with vertebral, inter- costal, lumbar and lateral sacral veins. Posterior longitudinal vertebral sinuses lie between dura and lamina; ; anastomose with 20