241 ABDOMINAL WALL aponeuroses of obliqui and transversi abdominis. Pierced in fcetus by umbilicus, which remains in adult as puckered cicatrix, and around it the fibrous tissue is very dense. Linea semilunaris is a depression on the surface, extending from pubic tubercle to 9th costal cartilage, and corresponds to lateral border of rectus abdominis. Rectus abdominis lies at side of linea alba, enclosed in sheath composed of aponeuroses of obliqui and transversus. Origin (tend.): crest of pubis and ant. lig. of symphysis. Insertion (fl.) : anterior surfaces of xiphoid process and 7th, 6th, 5th costal cartilages. Nerves: lower 6 intercostals. Retracts abdominal wall ; flexes vertebral column. Substance is traversed by 3 tendinous intersections—inscription.es (cndinea,—one opposite umbilicus, another opposite xiphoid, a third between these ; fused with ant. wall of sheath, but not with post, wall. Pyramidalis may be very small or absent Origin (fl.): crest of pubis, anterior to rectus. Insertion (tend.): linea alba below umbilicus. Nerve : last thoracic. Tightens linea alba. Obliquus externus abdominis lies superficially in antero-lateral wall of abdomen. Origin (fl.): lower 8 ribs, interdigitating with serratus anterior and latissimus dorsi. Fibres are directed downwards, anteriorly and medially. Its posterior border is free, and is overlapped above by latissimus dorsi. Insertion : by fleshy fibres into ant. i of external lip of iliac crest ; by broad aponeurosis into xiphoid process, linea alba, symphysis, crest, tubercle and pecten (pectineal line) of pubis. Some lower fibres traverse linea alba, and form triangular band called lig. inguinale reflexum, which is attached to crest, tubercle and pectineal line of opposite pubis, posterior to obliquus ext. of that side. Nerves : lower 6 intercostals. Obliqui and transversus all retract abdominal wall and flex vertebral column. Lower border of aponeurosis of obliquus externus is thickened and curved backwards, so that it is grooved along its abdominal surface ; and it is called lig. inguinale. Ligamentum inguinale (Poupart’s ligament) forms boundary line between ant. abdominal wall and front of thigh. Connections-. It is attached laterally to anterior superior spine of ilium, medially to pubic tubercle, and, by an expansion called lig. lacunare, to pecten pubis (pectineal line) for $-1 inch. Fascia lata is attached to its convex 16