ANTERIOR RAMI OF CERVICAL NERVES 369 Median branch of volar interosseous art. accompanies it in forearm. Branches.—None in axilla or (upper) arm. In forearm.— Muscular : branches near elbow to pronator teres, flex, carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flex, sublimis. Some of these are continued to elbow joint as articular branches. Volar interosseous n. (ant. interosseous) arises after median has passed between heads of pronator teres; sinks dorsally to reach interosseous membrane ; runs distally, close to it, superficial to volar interosseous vessels ; gives branches to flex, pollicis longus and radial half of flex, profundus ; passes dorsal to pronator quadratus, which it supplies, and ends in volar ligaments of radio-carpal and carpal joints. Cutaneous : palmar branch pierces deep fascia between flex, carpi radialis and palmaris longus, crosses transverse carpal lig. to supply skin of lateral and median parts of palm. In palm (see also p. 151). — Lateral division supplies abductor and flexor pollicis brevis and opponens ; digital branches to both sides of thumb and radial side of forefinger ; 1st lumbrical is supplied by the branch to forefinger. Medial division splits into digital branches to supply contiguous surfaces of index and medius, and medius and annularis. The more lateral of these supplies 2nd lumbrical ; the other sometimes supplies 3rd lumbrical. Digital nerves supply sides and volar surfaces of the digits and also dorsum of 2nd phalanx of thumb and of 2nd and 3rd phalanges of other 2^ digits. Ulnar n. (8 c., t T. ; medial cord) lies between axillary art. and vein ; runs distally along medial side of brachial artery to middle of (upper) arm, where it diverges medially, and, accompanied by sup. ulnar collateral vessels (inferior profunda), pierces medial intermuscular septum. It runs towards elbow upon medial head of triceps, crosses back of medial epicondyle and ulnar collateral ligament; enters forearm between heads of flex, carpi ulnaris ; traverses forearm, lying upon flexor profundus, covered by flexor carpi ulnaris in proximal half; superficial in distal half, with flex, carpi ulnaris on ulnar side, ulnar art. and flex, sublimis on radial side. In proximal ^ of forearm ulnar artery and nerve converge ; in distal part they lie side by side, the nerve on ulnar side. Proximal to wrist they pierce deep fascia, leave flexor profundus and lie upon transverse carpal lig. (ant. annular), under cover of volar carpal ligament, at 24