302 BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM Posterior auricular joins ext. jugular. Occipital receives parietal and mastoid emissary veins, passes to plexus in sub-occipital space, which is drained by vertebral and deep cervical. Vv. diploicae frontalis, temporales ant. et post, and oc- cipitalis begin in anastomosing spaces in spongy tissue (diploe) of flat skull bones. End in supra-orbital vein, spheno-parietal sinus, trans- verse (lateral) sinus. Meningeal veins begin in plexuses in dura mater, and accompany meningeal arteries. Veins of Orbit combine to form superior and inferior oph- thalmic veins, which pass through sup. orbital fissure, to end in cavernous sinus. They communicate with angular, and, through in- ferior orbital fissure, with pterygoid plexus. Veins of Nose combine to form spheno-palatine, which passes through for. spheno-pal. to pterygoid plexus. They communicate with ophthalmic and nasal tributaries of ant. facial. Pterygoid plexus surrounds pterygoid muscles and receives tribu- taries accompanying branches of int. maxillary art. Communicates with cavernous sinus through for. ovale, with ophth. veins through inf. orbital fissure, with pharyngeal plexus, with ant. facial vein by deep facial vein, which lies between buccinator and masseter. Internal maxillary vein arises out of it posteriorly, passes backwards between neck of mandible and spheno-mandibular lig., enters parotid to join post, facial. Posterior facial vein is formed by union of superficial temporal and middle temporal veins above zygoma; descends in front of ear. Lies superficial to ext. carotid and deep to divisions of facial n. in parotid. Gives branch to form ext. jugular ; emerges from lower part of parotid; joins ant. facial, below angle of mandible, to form common facial. Anterior facial vein begins as angular vein at medial angle of eye, runs downwards and posteriorly, a little way behind ext. maxillary art. (facial), receiving tributaries corre- sponding to its branches. Descends superficial to lower part of masseter and submaxillary gland ; joins posterior facial to form common facial. Communicates with pterygoid plexus by deep facial vein. Common facial vein passes posteriorly under cover of sterno-mastoid across ext. and int. carotids and joins int. jugular. External jugular vein begins below lobe of ear, by union of post, auricular with branch from post, facial. Descends almost vertically across sterno-mastoid, pierces deep fascia at its post, border, £ inch above clavicle; crosses