412 ORGANS OF THE SENSES although the name is usually given to maximum concavity on lateral surface. Tympanic membrane consists of fibrous tissue (absent from pars flaccida), lined laterally with skin, medially with mucous membrane. Arteries-, deep auricular and tympanic of int. maxillary, stylo-mastoid of post, auricular. Veins : into ext. jugular, transverse sinus, veins of dura, plexus on auditory tube. Nerves: auriculo-temporal and auricular branch of vagus to skin surface ; tympanic of glosso- pharyngeal to mucous surface. Tunica mucosa tympanica lines tympanic cavity ; is continuous with pharynx, through auditory tube ; extends back to line antrum and mastoid air cells; envelops ossicles, muscles and nerves, and, in so doing, is cast into folds which bound little pouches, of which three are related to neck of malleus ; recessus membranoe tympani anterior, in front of it; r. mernb. tymp. posterior, behind it; r. in. t. superior, the largest, between it and pars flaccida, may retain pus, as its opening is near top. Arteries of tympanic cavity : tympanic of int. maxillary and of int. carotid, stylo - mastoid, petrosal of mid. meningeal; asc. pharyngeal sends branch with tympanic nerve. Veins end in pterygoid plexus, mid. meningeal, sup. petrosal sinus. Nerves: from tympanic plexus. Antrum Tympanicum and Tuba Auditiva Tympanic Antrum (Mastoid Antrum).—Almost as large at birth as in adult. Diameters about 9 mm. Situated i to f inch internal to suprameatal triangle. Bounded superiorly by tegmen tympani, medially and posteriorly by petrous, laterally by junction of squamous and mastoid, inferiorly by mastoid temporal. Anteriorly it communicates with epitympanic recess of tympanic cavity by the wide aditus, smooth medial wall of which overlies ampullae of sup. and lateral semicircular canals, above and behind canal of facial nerve. As mastoid process grows, mastoid air cells develop as diverticula of antrum. They are not limited to mastoid, but extend into adjoining bone. Auditory Tube (Eustachian).—Trumpet - shaped, 1^ inches long. Leads from anterior wall of tympanic cavity (ostium tympanicum) medially, anteriorly, and downwards, to open on lateral wall of nasal pharynx near its centre (ostium pharyngeum), about middle of post, border of medial pterygoid lamina, on a level with, and ^ inch behind, posterior end of inferior concha. Pars ossea, i inch long ; in substance of temporal bone between tympanic plate and petrous temporal, below canal for tensor tympani, lateral to carotid canal and artery, postero-medial to upper part of mandibular joint. Medial end is found behind and medial to angular spine of sphenoid.