TRACTS IN BRAIN AND SPINAL MEDULLA 355 through genu and lenticular part of post, limb of ini. capsule, through medial $ of basis pedunculi (see Mesencephalon), through basilar part of pons, where they are broken up into pyramidal bundles, which join again and enter medulla oblongata as pyramid. 70 to 90 per cent decussate and pass down lateral funiculus of opposite half of spinal medulla as lateral pyramidal tract, and end round cells at base of posterior column (horn). From these cells new fibres proceed forwards? and end round cells of anterior column from which motor roots of spinal nerves arise. A small number of remaining 10 to 30 per cent join the tract which has crossed from opposite side, while the majority descend in anterior funiculus of same side as anterior pyramidal tract. These cross, at different levels, to opposite side, through white commissure of spinal medulla, and end like those of lateral tract. They have all crossed at level of mid- thoracic region. This tract is found only in man and anthropoid apes. In internal capsule the fibres for motor cerebral nerve nuclei lie in genu, those for upper limb, trunk and lower limb lie in post, limb, in that order from before backwards. In basis pedunculi (crusta) fibres of cerebral nerves are most medial, and arm, trunk, and lower limb are in that order medio-lalerally ; fibres are sent across median plane to motor nuclei of opposite 3rd. 4th, 5th nerves ; fibres run backwards also to superior corpus quadrigeminum, to end round cells which give origin to lecto-spinal tract. In upper part of pons, fibres are sent across to nuclei of opposite 5th, 6th, 7th nerves, and, in medulla oblongata, to nuclei of opposite 9th, toth, nth, 12th nerves. Tecto-spinal tract arises in sup. corp. quad. ; decussates in mesencephalon, ventral to medial longitudinal bundles; descends opposite side of tegmentum, pons, and medulla oblongata, ventral to and partly mixed with longitudinal bundle, to enter anterior funiculus of spinal medulla, where it ends in anterior column (horn), extending all the way down. Sensory.—Sensory fibres arise in cells of peripheral ganglia of cerebral nerves and ganglia of posterior roots of spinal nerves ; one branch of each cell passes to periphery, the other passes to central nervous system and divides into ascending and descending branches. Central branches of spinal ganglia form posterior nerve-roots, which enter spinal medulla along posterior lateral sulcus. Their descending branches form comma tract and end in posterior column (horn). Their ascending branches form fasciculus cuneatus, f. gracilis and postero-lateralis (Lissauer). Most of them end in grey matter of spinal medulla, but a small proportion ends in nuclei f. cuneati and gracilis, on dorsal surface of medulla oblongata. Internal arcuate fibres arise from these nuclei, arch ventrally and medially, and decussate ventral to grey matter around central canal dorsal to and above decussation of pyramids. Having decussated, some fibres proceed onwards as external arcuate fibres to