96 ARTICULATIONS Movements in Respiration.—Ordinary respiration may be abdominal or thoracic in type, or a combination of these two. In the abdominal type, inspiration is produced by the diaphragm. The central tendon and the peripheral attachments are relatively fixed. The fleshy fibres contract and straighten, and therefore descend between the points of their attachment, changing the dome of the diaphragm into a cone with the apex cut oft', and enlarging the thoracic cavity ; while abdominal viscera are displaced, and push anterior abdominal wall before them. Expiration is brought about by the elastic recoil of the abdominal wall, which, acting through the viscera, pushes the diaphragm up again into its position of rest. Ordinary quiet abdominal respiration is accompanied by exceedingly little movement of thoracic walls. In thoracic type, ordinary quiet inspiration is produced by intercostals, but is accompanied by movement of diaphragm, unless there is some impediment to its action. In ordinary inspiration the ist and 2nd ribs move little, if at all. The middle parts of the shafts of 3rd to 6th ribs are raised like pail handles and, therefore, increase the transverse diameter of thorax; for ribs are arcs of circles increasing in size from above downwards, and each is raised towards the position of the one above. The anterior ends also arc raised ; and, since ribs are oblique in position, that means that they are thrust ventrally as well, raising and pushing forwards the body of the sternum, which moves at the sternal synchondrosis. The antero-posterior diameter is increased in this way, and the transverse as well, for the costal ends of costal cartilages are raised with the ribs, so that the oblique costal cartilages come to occupy positions nearer the horizontal, and push the anterior ends of the ribs further away from median plane. Anterior ends of 7th to 10th ribs also are slightly elevated. The shafts are not only raised, but are drawn laterally and dorsally. That movement undoes the movement of the anterior ends in the ventral direction, but increases the infra-costal angle and the width of the thorax, and increases also the capacity of upper part of abdomen, in order to accommodate abdominal viscera, displaced by descent of diaphragm. Expiration is brought about by gravity and the elasticity of the ligaments and costal cartilages. Twelfth rib is fixed by sacrospinalis, quadratus lumborum, and fascia, and its fixation renders nth rib practically immovable. In forced respiration the head and shoulders are fixed ; the sterno- mastoid and trapezius, ajid all muscles attached to ribs and costal cartilages may be called into play. All the movements are exag- gerated, and, in addition, the manubrium and anterior ends of ist and 2nd ribs are raised, and the vertebral column is straightened and bent dorsally during inspiration. At tire end of forced inspiration the anterior abdominal wall is retracted, for it follows the viscera