MUSCLES AND FASCI/E 246 Anterior wall of inguinal canal: aponeurosis of obliquus ext. in all the length of canal; lowest fleshy fibres of obliquus int. in lateral half, behind obliquus ext. Posterior wall: fascia trans- versalis in all the length of canal; falx inguinalis (conjoint tendon) in medial half, in front of f. transversalis ; lig. reflexum (triangular fascia), when present, in medial third or fourth, in front of falx. Roof: arched lower border of obliquus internus (and lower border of transversus). Floor : lig. inguinale (Poupart) (separating spermatic cord from femoral canal), and lig. lacunare (Gimbernat). Contents : structures transmitted by the rings. Triangle of Hesselbach.—Bounded medially by rectus abdominis, laterally by inf. epigastric vess., interiorly by inguinal ligament. Floor : fascia transversalis, with falx inguinalis anterior to it in medial part. Inguinal canal is opposite lower part of triangle. A direct inguinal hernia enters inguinal canal on medial side of epigastric vessels, pushing floor of triangle before it. Trigonum Lumbale (Petit).—Not always present. Bounded by latissimus dorsi posteriorly, obliquus ext. anteriorly, crest of ilium interiorly. Floor : obliquus int. A lumbar abscess or hernia may come through it. Ilio-psoas and Psoas minor. See Muscles of Lower Limb, p. 162. Quadratus lumborum lies in posterior wall of abdomen, enclosed between ant. and middle layers of lumbo-dorsal fascia. Sacro-spinalis is posterior to it, psoas major anterior to it, medially. Origin (fl.-tend.) : ilio-lumbar ligament ; crest of ilium, posterior and lateral to lig. ; lower lumbar transverse processes. Insertion (fl.-tend.): medial £ of lower border of last rib, upper lumbar transverse processes. Nerves: L. 1, 2, 3, 4, directly. Fixes last rib in respiration. Extends vertebral column and bends it laterally. FASCI/E AND MUSCLES OF PERINEUM Superficial fascia consists, in posterior part, of two pads of fibrous and fatty tissue filling up ischio-rectal fossae ; in anterior part, of two layers, a superficial fatty, a deeper membranous, de- scribed with fascia of abdomen (p. 240). Deep fascia, posteriorly, lines ischio-rectal fossa, covering levator ani medially (anal fascia), and obturator internus laterally (obturator fascia). Anteriorly, it provides a delicate covering for superficial perineal muscles, but is strongly developed in connection with both upper and lower surfaces of deeper muscles—sphincter urethra; and transversus profundus,—which form the urogenital diaphragm.