SUP. VENA CAVA AND VENA AZYGOS 299 Vena Cava Superior and its Tributaries Superior vena cava, 3 inches long, begins posterior to lower border of 1st right costal cartilage by union of 2 in- nominates ; pierces pericardium opposite 2nd right cartilage ; ends in upper and posterior part of right atrium, behind 3rd right cartilage. Tributaries : two innominate veins, vena azygos ; small mediastinal and pericardial veins. Relations (see also p. 427).—Right pleura and lung are on right side, and overlap it in front and behind. Ascending aorta on left side, and slightlyanterior below. Innominate art. on left side above. Phrenic nerve on right side. Root of lung is posterior. Lower part, within fibrous pericardium, covered on ant. aspect and sides by serous. Vena azygos enters posteriorly just before v. cava pierces pericardium. Vena Azygos.—Arises either from inf. vena cava at level of renal v., or from right ascending lumbar vein (p. 308). Enters thorax through aortic hiatus, and runs upwards in posterior mediastinum, on the right side of aorta. At level of 5th vertebra it arches forwards over root of right lung and ends in sup. v. cava. Relations.—In abdomen Lies on upper l. vertebrae, posterior to right crus, to the right of cisterna chyli. In thorax : Lies on lower 8 vertebra; and right aortic intercostals. Aorta and thoracic duct on its left side. Pleura and lung on its right side. Overlapped by oesophagus anteriorly. As it arches forwards, root of lung is inferior ; pleura and lung on right side and above ; oesophagus, trachea, and vagus on left side. (See also p. 433.) Tributaries.—(1) Upper right lumbar; (2) right subcostal ; (3) right posterior intercostals from lower 8 spaces ; (4) right superior intercostal from 2nd and 3rd spaces ; (5) right bronchial ; (6) oeso- phageal, pericardial and mediastinal ; (7) hemiazygos ; (8) accessory hemiazygos. V. Hemiazygos (v. az. minor inf.) arises from left ascending lumbar ; pierces left crus, ascends on lower th. vertebra and inter- costal arteries, on left side of aorta. At level of 9th or 8th, it turns to the right, posterior to aorta and thoracic duct, and ends in v. azygos. It receives blood from upper lumbar veins, left subcostal, 3 or 4 lower left intercostals. V. Hemiazygos accessoria (v. az. minor sup.) is formed by 41I1 to 7th or 8th left intercostals. Lies on left side of 5th to 8th vertebra- ; turns to the right at 8th, posterior to aorta and thoracic duct, and ends