M ETACA R PO-1 ’ H A LANGE A L JOINTS 107 front of plane of palm, produced by flexor pollicis longus and brevis and opponens. Extension, by extensors of thumb and abductor pollicis longus. Adduction, i.c. approximation to index linger, by adductor pollicis. Abduction, by abductors longus and brevis. Opposition is a combination of (1) flexion, (2) medial rotation produced by opponens, and (3) adduction, whereby the metacarpal and ball of thumb are carried for- wards and medially to overhang hollow of palm, and the slightly flexed thumb can touch the tips of the slightly flexed fingers, in succession. Circumduction is a combination of all the movements. At carpo-metacarpal joint of little finger movement is freer than in those of other fingers. Metacarpal can be opposed by the flexor brevis and opponens drawing it forwards and rotating it laterally towards hollow of palm. Opposition of both thumb and little finger, supplementing flexion of thumb and fingers, enables the hand to grasp a spherical object securely. Articulationes Metacarpo-plialangeae. — Diarthrodial, condyloid. Head of metacarpal with base of 1st phalanx. Articular capsule is defective dorsally, where expanded extensor tendon replaces fibrous stratum, but is strengthened at sides and on volar (palmar) aspect by collateral and volar accessory ligs. : Collateral ligaments are attached to sides of head of metacarpal and to base of phalanx ; lig. acces- soriu/n volare, dense and fibro-cartilaginous, is attached loosely to metacarpal, near head, firmly to base of phalanx. Forms part of socket for head of metacarpal. Its volar surface is covered by flexor tendons and their mucous sheaths. Three ligamenta capitulorum transversa (trans- verse metacarpal) lie between heads of medial 4 metacarpals and connect the margins of the 4 volar accessory ligaments ; lumbricals and digital vessels and nerves lie on their volai surfaces, interosseous muscles on dorsal surfaces. Alovements.—Flexion by flexors, interossei and lumbricals. Extension and dorsi-flexion by extensors. Abduction and adduc- tion, from and to middle line of middle finger, by interossei. A combination of these four is circumduction. Adduction and ab- duction of thumb occurs at carpo-metacarpal, not at metacarpo- phalangeal joint. Fingers cannot be abducted when they are flexed owing to tension of dorsal part of capsule and of collateral ligs., and cannot remain abducted during process of flexion owing to the line of pull of flexor tendons.