450 DIGESTIVE APPARATUS atics end in para-tracheal, lower deep cervical, bronchial, post, mediastinal and para-cardial glands. Nerves: from recurrent, sym- pathetic trunks, and vagi. ABDOMEN Abdomen contains remaining parts of digestive apparatus, and is subdivided into abdomen proper and pelvis. Walls of its cavity are lined with serous membrane, called peritoneum, which provides partial or complete cover- ings for most of the abdominal viscera also, forming free folds in connection with some of them. Between peritoneum and the fascia lining the muscles of abdomen wall, there is some loose connective tissue, called tela subserosa or extra- peritoneal tissue. It contains fat, especially on posterior wall of abdomen proper, in pelvis, and in peritoneal folds, into which it extends to reach viscera. Fat is absent from part of diaphragm covered with peritoneum. Abdomen proper includes the part supported by osseous pelvis major, and its upper part lies under shelter of ribs. It is bounded superiorly by diaphragm, which during expiration reaches highest on right side, opposite 4th intercostal space, 1 in. medial to nipple ; on left side, 4 in. below that level ; anteriorly by recti and aponeuroses of obliqui and transversi abdominis ; laterally by fleshy parts of obliqui and transversus, and by ilium and iliacus on each side ; posteriorly by lumbar vertebrae, crura of diaphragm, psoades, quadrati lumborum. Cavity of abdomen proper is divided into three zones, costal, umbilical, hypogastric, by two horizontal planes : (1) subcostal, which passes below most dependent parts of 10th ribs and through 3rd L. vertebra ; (2) intertubercular, which passes through tubercles on crests of ilia, i.e. highest points of crests seen from the front, and through 5th L. vertebra. Zones are each divided into three regions by right and left lateral planes, drawn upwards from inguinal lig. (Poupart), midway between symphysis pubis and ant. sup. iliac spine. Costal zone = epigastrium, right and left hypochondrium. Umbilical zone =; umbilical, right and left lumbar regions. Hypogastric zone = hypogastric or supra-pubic, right and left iliac regions.1 Another plane described is the transpyloric plane, which passes horizontally through mid-point between upper margins of sternum and of symphysis pubis. It is about a hand's-breadth below xiphisternal 1 The conventional method of subdividing the abdomen into nine regions, and of describing organs as lyinjt in certain of these regions, tends rather to encumber the memory than to assist in localising these organs; and it has been retained here only because it has not yet been abandoned in the standard text-books.