ANT. RAMI OF LUMBAR & SACRAL NERVES 377 Branches from Anterior Aspect of Plexus. N. to quadratus femoris (4, 5 L., 1 s.) leaves pelvis below piriformis ; runs distally on hip bone and post, surface of hip joint, in front of sciatic nerve, obturator interims, and gemelli. Gives branches to hip-joint and gemellus inferior, and enters deep (anterior) surface of quadratus femoris. N. to obturator internus (5 1.., r, 2 s.) leaves pelvis through greater sciatic foramen, below piriformis ; crosses base of ischial spine, supplies gemellus superior, enters ischio-rectal fossa, through lesser sciatic foramen, and supplies obturator internus, entering it on its perineal surface. Branches from Posterior Surface of Plexus. —Nerves to piriformis from 1 and 2 s. Superior gluteal n. (4, 5 L., 1 S.) leaves pelvis through greater sciatic foramen, above piri- formis ; extends laterally and forwards between glutaeus medius and minimus, supplying them, and ends in deep sur- face of tensor fasciae latte, supplying it also. Inferior gluteal n. (5 l. ; r, 2 s) leaves pelvis below piriformis, posterior to sciatic nerve, and supplies glutaeus maxi m us. Posterior cutaneous n. of thigh (Small sciatic) (1, 2, 3 S.) belongs partly to pudendal plexus. Leaves pelvis with inferior gluteal. Passes distally under cover of glutaeus maximus, posterior to or medial to sciatic nerve. Sends branches round lower border of gluteus maximus to skin of buttock ; sends branches to medial side of thigh ; and its perineal branch (long pudendal) crosses hamstring tendons just distal to ischial tuberosity, enters superficial perineal pouch and is carried anteriorly to skin of scrotum or labium, and of root of penis or clitoris. Having given off these branches, the posterior cutaneous n. extends distally, under deep fascia, to popliteal fossa, where it pierces deep fascia and supplies skin of calf of leg. In back of thigh it sends branches through deep fascia at intervals. Nervus ischiadicus (sciatic) (4, 5 l. ; 1, 2, 3 s.) leaves pelvis through greater sciatic foramen, between its lower margin and piriformis ; traverses buttock and proximal part of thigh and ends at middle of thigh by dividing into tibial and common peroneal nerves (internal and external popliteal). In buttock it lies under cover of gluteus maximus and crosses (1) dorsum of acetabulum, and n. to quadratus, (2) ob- turator internus and gemelli, (3) quadratus femoris. N. to obturator internus is medial to it ; inf. gluteal nerve and