336 NEUROLOGY posterior, connected with infundibulum ; anterior, developed from roof of pharynx, is the functioning part. Lamina Terminalis (cinerea), a thin sheet of grey matter, stretches upwards from tuber cinereum, immediately above chiasma, to become continuous with rostrum of corpus callosum, at ant. commissure. Laterally it is continuous with gyrus subcallosus and g. cinguli, and with ant. perforated substance. Corpora Mamillaria.—Two small, white, pea-like bodies, in front of substantia perforata posterior. Each consists of a nucleus encap- sulcd in white matter. Columna (ant. pillar) of fornix ends in it. Fasciculus thalamo-mamillaris (bundle of Vicq d'A/.yr) arises in it and passes upwards in thalamus, in ant. tubercle of which it ends. Fasciculi pedunculo-mamillares extend posteriorly from it, in floor of 3rd ventricle, to tegmentum of cerebral peduncle. Pedunculus thalami inferior is a band of fibres derived from thalamus. It lies horizontally on medial side of fasc. thalamo- mamillaris (Vicq d'Azyr) ; then turns obliquely downwards and forwards, lateral to column (ant. pillar) of fornix ; then laterally, at a right angle, as ansa peduncularis, below internal capsule and lentiform nucleus, to end in insula and temporal lobe. Above ansa peduncularis is a band, called ansa'lenticularis, which connects thalamus and lentiform nucleus. Behind and between ansae is some grey matter mixed with fibres. THALAMENCEPHALON Thalamus.—inches long; ovoid; lies above hypo- thalamus, its medial surface forming side wall of 3rd ventricle; lateral part of its upper surface appearing in floor of lateral ventricle, medial part covered by tela chorioidea. Its anterior end, called anterior tubercle, lies close to the median plane and bounds the foramen interventriculare (Monro) posteriorly. Posterior end, called pulvinar, broad, free, and projecting, diverges from its fellow, overhangs mesencephalon. Superior surface, free laterally in floor of lateral ventricle, covered medially by chorioid plexus and by tela chorioidea (velum interpositum), which separates it from body of fornix ; stria terminalis (tmnia semicircularis) and vena terminalis (vein of corpus striatum) separate its lateral border from caudate nucleus ; stria medullaris and taenia thalami lie along anterior half of medial border. Medial surface, in its posterior I lies above superior corpus quad.; in anterior § forms side wall of 3rd ventricle, and is connected with its fellow by a band of grey matter called massa inter- media (middle commissure). Lateral surface is applied