MUSCLES OF DORSAL ASPECT OF TRUNK 193 (2) Longissimus Dorsi is inserted into transverse and accessory processes of lumbar vertebrae, all thoracic transverse processes, lower 10 ribs. Longissimus Cervicis (transversalis cervicis) arises from upper 6 thoracic transverse processes, medial to L. dorsi ; inserted into post, tubercles of 2nd to 6th cervical transverse processes. Longissimus Capitis (trachelo-mastoid) lies in back of neck and of upper part of trunk, between splenius and semispinalis capitis (complexus). Arises from upper 6 thoracic transverse processes, in company with L. cervicis, and from articular processes of lower 4 cervical vertebrae. Inserted into mastoid process, under cover of splenius. Both muscles acting extend head ; one acting alone bends head to that side, and turns face towards that side. (3) Spinalis Dorsi arises from upper 2 lumbar and lower 2 thoracic spines (tend.). and tendon of longissimus dorsi (fl. |; inserted into upper 4 to 8 thoracic spines. Spinalis Cervicis. Inconstant. Arises from upper 2 thoracic and last cervical spine ; inserted into and. 3rd. 4th cervical spines. Semispinalis Capitis (Complexus).—Lies in back of neck and upper part of trunk, under cover of trapezius and splenius. Arises from upper 6 thoracic transverse processes, and articular processes of lower 4 cervical vertebrae (cf. longissimus capitis) ; inserted into oval impression on occipital bone, between superior and inferior nuchal lines, close to median plane (fl.). Both muscles acting extend head : one acting alone bends head to that side, and turns face to opposite side. Fifth Group.—Semispinalis dorsi, semispinalis cervicis, multifidus. Semispinalis Dorsi lies under cover of spinalis ; arises from lower 6 thoracic transverse processes (tend.); inserted into upper 4 thoracic and lower 2 cervical spines (tend.). Semispinalis Cervicis lies under cover of semispinalis capitis. Arises from upper 6 thoracic transverse processes, and articular processes of lower 4 cervical vertebra; (tend.) (cf. semispinalis and longissimus capitis) ; inserted chiefly into 2nd cervical spine, but also into 3rd, 4th, 5th (fl.-tend.). Multifidus lies on laminae, deep to sacrospinalis and semispinalis ; arises from dorsal surface of sacrum, post, sacro-iliac ligament, lumbar mamillary processes, thoracic transverse processes, articular processes of lower 4 cervical vertebrae (fl.-tend.); inserted into spines, up to and including that of 2nd cervical. Sixth Group Kotatores. mterspmales, interlransversales, ob- liquus capitis sup. and inf., rectus capitis posterior major and minor. Rotatores.—Eleven on each side, deep to multifidus. Each '3