380 NEUROLOGY base of 5th metatarsal, where it divides into superficial and deep branches. From its trunk it supplies quadratus plants; and abductor digiti quinti, and skin of sole. Ramus supcrjicialis divides into two : lateral branch supplies flexor digiti quinti brevis, 3rd plantar and 4th dorsal interossei, skin of sole and lateral side of little toe. Medial branch supplies contiguous sides of 4th and 5th toes. Ramus pro- fundus accompanies plantar arch, and supplies remaining interossei, adductor hallucis, lateral three lumbricals. PLEXUS PUDENDUS Pudendal plexus overlaps sacral plexus. Lies upon piriformis and coccygeus, behind rectum. Formed by parts of 2nd and 3rd and 4th sacral. Muscular branches are given by 3rd and 4th to levator ani and coccygeus. Visceral branches (white rami communicantes) pass from 3rd and 4th to pelvic viscera, partly directly and partly through pelvic sympathetic plexuses, which they join. The following named nerves arise from plexus :— Perineal branch of 4th sacral leaves pelvis, enters pos- terior angle of ischio-rectal fossa, and proceeds upon levator ani to sphincter ani externus. See also p. 250. Perforating cutaneous (2, 3 s.) pierces sacro-tuberous (great sacro-sciatic) lig. and lower border of glutaeus maximus, and supplies skin of buttock. See also p. 251. Pudendal n. (int. pudic) (2, 3, 4 s.) leaves pelvis through greater sciatic foramen, between piriformis and coccygeus ; crosses dorsal surface of sacro - spinous ligament, enters ischio-rectal fossa by passing through lesser sciatic foramen ; enters Alcock’s canal, and at once divides into inf. hemor- rhoidal, perineal and dorsal n. of penis. (1) N. hcemorrhoidalis inferior accompanies inf. hemor- rhoidal vessels through medial wall of Alcock’s canal, across ischio-rectal fossa ; supplies ext. sphincter and skin around anus. (2) Perineal n. divides, near urogenital diaphragm, into superficial and deep branches, which pierce conjoined pos- terior borders of fasciae of urogenital diaphragm (triangular lig.). Superficial consists of medial and lateral posterior scrotal or labial nerves, which run over superficial perineal muscles to scrotum or labium majus. Deep branch supplies