484 UROGENITAL APPARATUS apex, base, anterior surface or border, a posterior and 2 lateral surfaces. Length from base to apex, i| in. Greatest breadth, Ij-i4 in. Greatest antero-posterior diameter, 1 in. Urethra traverses it from base to anterior border near apex. Ejaculatory ducts traverse its upper half, behind urethra. Ducts of its glandular substance open into prostatic sinus at side of urethral crest. Prostatic utricle extends upwards and backwards, from urethra, into its substance for 4 to ^ in. Two lateral lobes and a middle lobe, not marked off from one another. Middle lobe is merely that part which lies between urethra anteriorly and ejaculatory' ducts and prostatic utricle posteriorly. It produces elevation in interior of bladder, at urethral orifice, called uvula vesica. Relations.—Encased in sheath of pelvic fascia. Thickened bands of fascia—pubo-prostatic ligaments—pass from back of pubis to be connected with sheath and with fascia at neck of bladder— pubo-vesical ligaments. Pudendal (prostatic) plexus of veins (most dense anteriorly, where it receives dorsal vein of penis) lies in substance of sheath, and between it and prostate. Base is partly continuous with neck of bladder and is partly separated by a groove, which lodges veins. Apex is inches above anus, and rests on superior fascia of urogenital diaphragm. Rounded anterior border is separated from symphysis and space of Retzius by venous plexus and pubo-prostatic ligaments. Convex lateral surfaces are supported by levatores ani; and anterior borders of levatores clasp prostate near its apex. Flat posterior surface rests against lower part of rectum. Arteries: from inferior vesical and middle haemorrhoidal. Venous plexus is drained into hypogastric (int. iliac). Nerves : from hypo- gastric plexus. Lymphatics end in vesical, ext. iliac, hypogastric, sacral, and hremorrhoidal glands. liulbo - urethral (Hands (Cowper’s Glands).—Two small glands, each the size of a pea in young subject, very small in old. They lie between fascia- of urogenital diaphragm (layers of triangular lig.), close to membranous urethra. Their ducts pass through urethral opening of fascia inferior of diaphragm, enter bulb of penis and run along the side of urethra for nearly an inch before entering it. Urethra. .See p. 479. Penis.—(1) Body; (2) Root, buried in perineum; (3) Gians, the conical extremity. Body of penis is composed of two corpora cavernosa penis and a corpus cavernosum urethrte, each consisting of dense