6 5 PHALANGES that order, during 9th-ioth week; for shaft and head of i a little later. Epiphyseal centre for heads of medial four and base of first, about 3rd year, fuse about 20. Epiphyseal lines are extra-capsular. Digits are numbered 1 to 5 from radial to ulnar side and are named: pollex (thumb), index (forefinger), digitus medius (middle finger), digitus annularis (ring finger), digitus minimus or digitus quintus little finger). Phalanges. Each finger has 3 phalanges, which diminish in size proximo-distally, and are named 1st, 2nd, 3rd. Thumb has 2, named 1st, 2nd. Each is compressed dorso- ventrally. Base of 1st phalanx is concave, head is pulley- shaped ; base of 2nd has median ridge, and a hollow on each side, head is pulley-shaped ; base of 3rd like that of 2nd, but head is expanded, and rough on volar surface. First phalanx : Basis, concave, articulates with metacarpal, sur- rounded by articular capsule ; volar accessory lig. is attached to volar aspect, collateral ligs., lumbrical and interosseous muscles to sides. In case of thumb, extensor pollieis brevis to dorsum, adductor and deep head of tlexor brevis to medial side, abductor brevis and flexor brevis to radial side. Corpus 1 shaft) : dorsal surface convex ; volar, con- cave, lodges flexor tendons; tibrous flexor sheath attached to margins. Trochlea, pulley-shaped distal end, articulates with 2nd phalanx, surrounded by articular capsule, collateral ligaments attached to sides ; volar accessory lig . proximal to volar surface. Second phalanx : Basis has median ridge to conform to trochlea of 1st ; median slip of extensor tendon attached to dorsum ; capsula articul.iris surrounds base, lig. collaterals attached to sides, and accessory lig. to volar surface. Shaft and trochlea like 1st, but flexor sublimis is inserted into margins of shaft. Third phalanx : Basis like that of 2nd, but flexor profundus is inserted into volar surface, collateral slips of ex- tensor into dorsum. Shaft, flat and rough on volar surface. Tuber- ositas unguicularis, flat expanded distal end. rough on volar surface. Second of thumb resembles third of linger; flex. poll, longus is in- serted into volar surface of base, ext. p. longus into dorsum. Ossification.—Primary centre at 9th week. Epiphyseal centre for base in 3rd year, fuses 18-20. Epiphyseal lines are extra-capsular. Ossa Sesamoidea Two small nodules imbedded in t- inserted into 1st phalanx of thumb and taking the place of volar accessory ligament of metacarpo-phalangeal joint of thumb ; groove volar surface of head of 1st metacarpal, with which they articulate. 5