35 BONES OF THE SKULL is attached to it ; sup. constrictor and pterygo-mandibular raphe are attached to its posterior end. Above it, near symphysis, is fovea sublingualis for sublingual gland ; below it, fovea submaxi/laris for submaxillary gland. Basis man- dibulae (inferior border) gives attachment to deep fascia of neck, and displays at side of symphysis the digastric fossa, for origin of anterior belly of digastric ; and it ends posteri- orly at angulus mandibulae. Limbus alveolaris (superior border) supports teeth. Ramus.— Lateral surface gives insertion to masseter. Medial surface presents foramen mandibulare. It transmits inferior alveolar (dental) vessels and nerve, and is bounded antero-medially by lingula, to which spheno-mandibular lig. is attached. Mylo-hyoid sulcus, for mylo-hyoid vessels and nerve, runs downwards and anteriorly from the foramen. Posterior and inferior to sulcus the surface is rough for in- sertion of pterygoideus internus. Superior constrictor is attached just posterior to last molar. On superior border is incisura mandibularis (sigmoid notch), which transmits nerve and vessels to masseter. 11 is bounded posteriorly by processus condyloideus, which consists of capitulum (head), for articu- lation with squamous temporal, and collum (neck), around which articular capsule is attached. On anterior surface of neck is fovea pterygoidea for insertion of pterygoideus externus. Processus coronoideus is anterior to incisura ; temporal muscle is attached to its tip and medial surface, and to anterior border of ramus. Posterior border of ramus is thick and ends below in angle, which gives attachment to stylo-mandibular ligament. Ossification. — In membrane surrounding cartilage of mandibular arch (Meckel’s); i centre for each half appears in lateral surface of membrane at 6th week. Os Hyoideum.—Lies in the neck, between mandible and larynx, opposite 3rd c. vertebra. Easily felt. Develop- mentally connected with skull. Consists of body, and 2 lesser and 2 greater horns. Corpus. —Posterior surface : concave ; separated front thvreo-hyoid membrane by bursa. Anterior surface: rough- ened for attachment of deep fascia of neck, mylo-hyoid, hvo-glossus ; fascia binding intermediate tendon of digastric, and stylo-hyoid at junction with greater horn. Upper border : broad ; gives attachment to genio-hyoid, genio-glossus,