176 MUSCLES AND FASCI/E (Achillis), seen above heel, into middle area of posterior surface of calcaneus (os calcis) ; it is separated from upper area by bursa and from bones of leg and ankle-joint by an interval containing fatty areolar tissue. It extends foot ; gastrocnemius also flexes knee. Gastrocnemius lies superficially in calf. Its two heads form distal boundaries of popliteal fossa and lie on post, part of capsule of knee, from which medial head is partly separated by bursa, which may communicate with interior of joint and with bursa between semimembranosus and gastro- cnemius. Bursa deep to lateral head is less common. A sesamoid cartilage may be developed in lateral head. Origin (tend.) : Lateral head : distal end of epicondylic line, adjoining lateral surface of lateral condyle, capsule of knee- joint. Medial head: rough mark on popliteal surface of, femur, proximal to medial condyle, behind adductor tubercle. Nerves : s. I, 2, through tibial. Soleus lies under cover of gastrocnemius. Origin (fl.- tend.): post, surface of head and proximal of shaft of fibula ; tendinous arch across popliteal vessels and tibial nerve ; popliteal line and middle ^ of medial margin of tibia. Nerves : l. 5, s. 1, 2, through two branches from tibial. Plantaris.—Sometimes absent. Lies between gastro- cnemius and soleus. Origin (fl.) : distal part of lateral epicon- dylic line and adjoining popliteal surface ; oblique popliteal ligament. Insertion : by tendon, the longest in body and capable of great transverse stretching, into medial process of tuber calcanei, or medial side of tendo calcaneus, or lig. laciniatum (int. annular). Nerve : l. 4, 5, s. 1, through tibial. It supplements triceps sune. DEEP MUSCLES ON POSTERIOR ASPECT OF LEG Popliteus lies in distal part of floor of popliteal fossa. Origin : ant. end of popliteal groove on lateral surface of lateral condyle of femur, by tendon which lies within fibrous capsule of knee, between fibular collateral ligament and lateral meniscus, separated from both by synovial sheath derived from membrane of knee. It lies in popliteal groove only in extreme flexion ; lies on its distal edge during extension. Pierces post, part of capsule of knee, becomes fleshy, and is inserted into popliteal line of tibia and surface