PULMONARY ARTERY 261 mammary, musculo-phrenic, aorta. Nerves, from phrenic, vagus, sympathetic. Lymphatics end in anterior and posterior mediastinal glands. ARTERIA PULMONALIS Pulmonary artery springs from conus arteriosus, at base of right ventricle ; extends upwards and posteriorly for 2 inches, to end below concavity of aortic arch by dividing into right and left branches. At origin it shows three bulgings— pulmonary sinuses opposite cusps of valve. Ramus dexter (right pulmonary artery).—Extra-pulmonary part, longer and larger than left, extends from bifurcation to hilum of right lung ; it gives off a branch to accompany eparterial bronchus. Intra-pulmonary part descends along postero- lateral aspect of stem bronchus and gives off branches to accompany dorsal, ventral, and accessory branches of bronchus. Ramus sinister (left pulmonary artery).—Extra- pulmonary part, extends from bifurcation to hilum of left lung ; before entering, it gives branch to upper lobe. Intra- pulmonary part as on right side. Relations Pulmonary Trunk.—Within fibrous pericardium, enclosed with ascending aorta in tube of serous pericardium. .-Interior: sternal end of 2nd left intercostal space, left pleura and lung intervening. Posterior: ascending aorta and left coronary artery below, left atrium above. To the right : right auricle and coronary artery below, ascending aorta above. To the left : left auricle and left coronary artery ; left pleura and lung. Above its bifurcation : superficial cardiac plexus, aortic arch. Right Branch.—Anterior : ascending aorta, upper right pulm. vein, v. cava sup. Superior : aortic arch, right bronchus, eparterial bronchus. Posterior : (.esophagus, hyparterial bronchus. Inferior : left atrium, transverse sinus, lower right pulmonary vein. Left Branch.—Anterior: upper left pulm. vein. Superior: recurrent nerve, aortic arch, lig. arteriosum. Posterior : descending aorta, left bronchus. Inferior : lower left pulmonary vein. Lig. Arteriosum, a fibrous remnant of fcetal ductus arteriosus, passes from root of left pulmonary artery to aortic arch, in substance of fibrous pericardium. Recurrent nerve hooks round its left side, at attachment to aorta ; superficial cardiac plexus lies to its right side.