ARTICULATIONES STERNOCOSTALES 95 thoracic transverse process. (2) Posterior costo-transvcrse lig. extends from postero-superior aspect of neck to junction of lamina and transverse process above. (3) Lig. colli costce, from posterior surface of neck of rib to anterior surface of transverse process. It is rudi- mentary in nth and 12th ribs. Articulations between Ribs and Costal Cartilages.— Cartilage is received into a pit at end of rib and held there by continuity of periosteum and perichondrium. Interchondral Articu lations.—Diarthrodial. 5th to 9th and sometimes 10th costal cartilages articulate by oblong, elevated facets on contiguous margins. These are surrounded by articular capsules strengthened on deep and superficial surfaces. ARTICU LATIONES STERNOCOSTALES First costal cartilage is directly implanted on sternum, and perichondrium and periosteum are continuous. Second to seventh articulate by diarthrodial joints opposite lines of union of segments of sternum, except in case of sixth, which articulates with 4th segment of body of sternum. Articular capsule surrounds each joint. Ligamenta sternocostalia radiata, thickened anterior and posterior parts of capsules, unite with 'those of opposite side, and in front form membrana sterni. Lig. interarticulare stretches from cartilage to sternum, inside joint, and divides its cavity into two ; it is always present in 2nd ; inconstant in others ; sometimes obliterates cavity of 6th and 7th. Ligamenta costoxiphoidea connect back and front of xiphoid process with 7th and sometimes 6th cartilage. Articulations ok Paris of Sternum Body of sternum articulates with manubrium by synchondrosis, and is united to xiphoid process by fibrous tissue as in a suture. Movements of Ribs Around two axes. (1) Whole rib is moved around axis passing through sternum and posterior end of shaft of rib. (2) Anterior end of rib, with sternum, is raised and thrust forwards by movement around axis passing obliquely through capitular joint along neck of rib, in front of costo - transverse joint. Elevation, in ordinary inspiration, is produced by intercostals and subcostals; depression, by elasticity and gravity.