METATARSUS AND PHALANGES 85 oan be more easily referred to its side than identified. Second metatarsal : Base, nearly triangular on section, tarsal surface articulates with 2nd cuneiform ; medial surface with 1st cuneiform and sometimes with 1st metatarsal ; lateral surface with 3rd meta- tarsal and 3rd cuneiform by two double facets, separated by horizontal groove. Third metatarsal : Base, nearly triangular on section ; tarsal surface articulates with 3rd cuneiform ; medial surface with 2nd metatarsal by two small facets ; lateral surface with 4th metatarsal by large facet which occupies upper and posterior angle, and is limited by oblique groove. Fourth metatarsal : Base, cuboidal ; tarsal surface articulates with cuboid ; medial surface, with 3rd meta- tarsal and 3rd cuneiform by large facet ; lateral surface, with 5th metatarsal by large facet like that on lateral surface of 3rd. Fifth Metatarsal.—Compressed from above downwards. 4th dorsal and 3rd plantar interosseous arise from plantar surface of shaft, which is slightly concave. Base is expanded t peronteus tertius is inserted into dorsal surface ; flexor digiti quinti arises from plantar surface ; tarsal surface articulates with cuboid ; media/, with 4th metatarsal. Lateral surface presents tuberosity, a landmark on lateral side of foot, into which peron.eus brevis is inserted. Phalanges.—Great toe has c. the largest in either foot or hand. Other toes have 3 each, smaller than those of fingers, 2nd and 3rd being often mere nodules. Shaft of first, compressed from side to side ; base, relatively large, concave ; head, pulley-shaped. Base of second has vertical ridge foi groove of pulley of first ; head, pulley- shaped. Base of third is like second but more expanded ; head, expanded, rough on plantar surface. Attachments. -Ligaments: plantar accessory ligs. of met it phalangeal and inter-phalangeal joints to plantar aspects of bases and heads, and collateral ligaments to their sides ; and fibrous flexor sheaths to sides of shaft of tst of great toe, 1st and and of other toes. Tendons.—First phalanx of great toe: flexor hallucis brevis to both sides of base, abductor to medial sido, adductor to lateral side, first tendon of ext. dig. brevis to dorsum. First of little toe . abductor to lateral side of base, fourth lumbrical and third plantar interosseous to medial side. First of other toes : plantar and dorsal interossci and lumbricals to sides of base. Second of great toe : Ilex, hallucis longus to plantar surface of false, ext. hail, longus to dorsum. Second of other toes : flex. dig. brevis to sides of body, median slip of extensor expansion into dorsum of base. Third of other toes: Ilex. dig. longus into plantar surface of base, collateral slips of extensor expansion into dorsum.