OSTEOLOGY 3<> hyo-epiglottic ligament, thyreo-hyoid membrane. Lower border gives insertion to sterno- hyoid, omo-hyoid, thyreo- hyoid, and levator glanduhe thyreoideae. Cornu majus curves posteriorly and upwards from side of body. It is connected with body in early life by synchondrosis, but fuses at middle age. Thyreo-hyoid, hyo-glossus, middle constrictor are attached to its lateral surface, thyreo-hyoid membrane to its medial surface, and lateral thyreo-hyoid ligament to its free end. Cornu minus, a little nodule, projecting upwards and posteriorly from junction of body and greater horn, articulates there by diarthrodial joint till after middle age, when it fuses. Stylo-hyoid lig. and middle constrictor are attached to it. Ossification.—i or 2 centres for body at 8th month, 1 for greater horn at 9th month, 1 for lesser horn in 1st year. Body developed from cartilages of 2nd and 3rd visceral arches, lesser horn from 2nd cartilage, greater horn from 3rd. SKULL AS A WHOLE ANTERIOR ASPECT OF SKULL Frontal Region.—Formed by frontal bone. Maximum convexity, on each side, is tuberfrontale (frontal eminence), overlying middle frontal gyrus. Boundaries : Superiorly it merges into vertex. Lateral : tinea temporalis curves posteriorly from zygomatic process (ext. angular). Inferior : nasal margin (nasal notch) in middle ; supra-orbital margin at each side. Nasal margin articulates with nasals and frontal processes of maxillae. Supra-orbital margin ends medially in medial angular process, which articulates with lacrimal, and laterally in zygomatic process, which articu- lates with zygomatic bone ; supra-orbital notch or foramen, at junction of medial and middle thirds, transmits supra- orbital artery and nerve. Nasion is centre of fronto-nasal suture. Above it, glabella, a transverse ridge interrupted by remains of median frontal suture, and uniting superciliary arches, which are situated above supra-orbital margin and overlie frontal sinuses. Orbits.—Four-sided pyramids, directed anteriorly and