MUSCLES AND FASCI/E 208 communicantes from middle cervical ganglion to 5th and 6th cervical nerves, from inferior ganglion to 7th and 8th, from first thoracic ganglion to 1st thoracic nerve. Muscular Branches.—(I.) Root of phrenic from 5th. (II.) Branches to scalenus anterior from 5th and 6th ; to scalenus medius and posterior from 5th, 6th, 7th ; to longus colli from 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th. (1II.) Dorsalis scapulae nerve ; nerve to subclavius ; supra-scapular nerve ; long thoracic nerve. Dorsalis scapulae nerve (nerve to rhomboids) arises from 5th cervical, pierces scalenus medius, passes under cover of levatoi scapulae, and descends along vertebral margin of scapula under cover of levator scapulas and rhomboideus minor and major, and supplies all three. Nerve to subclavius arises from 5th or 5th and 6th cervical nerves, at their junction. It descends near lateral margin of scalenus anterior, and sometimes sends a branch on to its anterior surface to join phrenic ; this takes the place of the root of phrenic from 5th. Posterior to it are the brachial plexus and subclavian vessels ; anterior to it are omo-hyoid, transverse cervical and scapular vessels, and clavicle. Supra-scapular nerve arises from 5th and 6th cervical nerves, at their junction, and runs obliquely downwards, laterally and posteriorly, on scalenus medius, just above and lateral to brachial plexus. 11 is crossed superficially by transverse cervical vessels. At postero-inferior angle of posterior triangle it passes deep to omo-hyoid and joins trans- verse scapular artery, which it accompanies to upper border of scapula. It passes beneath superior transverse lig. of scapula through the notch, and supplies supra- and infra-spinatus and the shoulder-joint. Long thoracic nerve (Bell) arises by three roots from 5th, 6th, 7th cervical nerves. Roots from 5th and 6th pierce scalenus medius ; root from 7th crosses it superficially. They leave scalenus and pass over 1st digitation of serratus anterior ; unite to form one stem, which descends along axillary surface of serratus, supplying it. ANTERIOR TRIANGLE OF NECK Boundaries.—Anterior : middle line of neck. Posterior : ant. border of sterno-mastoid. Base : lower border of mandible, and line drawn from its angle to mastoid process. Roof: deep cervical fascia, covered in upper part by platysma. Ant. jugular vein lies on it near median plane ; cervical branch of facial n. and n. cutaneus colli (transverse superficial cervical) run forwards under platysma. Most medial of supra-clavicular nerves may lie on lower part. Anterior triangle is subdivided into four subsidiary' triangles : muscular, carotid, digastric and submental. Muscular Triangle.—Bounded posteriorly by sterno-mastoid ; anteriorly by middle line of neck, below hyoid bone ; superiorly by ant. belly of omo-hyoid. Contents: ant. jugular vein, sterno-hyoid