3*4 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM palate, nasal cavity, meninges; efferents to upper deep cervical glands. Superficial facial, scattered over face; afferents from neighbouring parts ; efferents to submaxillary and parotid glands. Lingual, between genio-glossi and on hyo-glossus ; afferents from tongue and floor of mouth; efferents to deep cervical glands. Superficial cervical, along external jugular vein ; afferents from superficial tissues of neck, auricle and parotid region, from anterior and posterior auricular and submaxillary lymph glands ; efferents to supra-clavicular and upper deep cervical glands. Submaxillary, between mandible and submaxillary gland ; afferents from side of nose, cheek, upper lip, lateral part of lower lip, anterior J of border of tongue, gums, sublingual salivary gland, floor of mouth, facial and submental glands; efferents to upper deep cervical glands. Submental, below chin, on mylo-hyoid muscle ; afferents from median part of lower lip, adjacent gum, floor of mouth, tip of tongue, skin below chin ; efferents to submaxillary glands and to a gland on int. jugular vein at level of cricoid. Retro pharyngeal, opposite upper 2 cervical vertebrae ; afferents from nasal cavities and sinuses and pharynx, auditory tube and tympanum, adjacent muscles and bones; efferents to upper deep cervical glands. Anterior jugular on ant. jugular vein, pre laryngeal on crico- thyreoid lig., pretracheal, paratracheal; afferents from adjoining parts ; efferents to deep cervical glands. Upper deep cervical, under cover of sterno-mastoid, along both sides of carotid sheath, extending from base of skull to thyreoid cartilage ; afferents from back of neck and scalp, auricle, interior of cranium, palate, nasal cavities and pharynx, tonsils, oesophagus, tongue, larynx, trachea and thyreoid gland, and the preceding lymph glands. Lower deep cervical, along carotid sheath below thyreoid cartilage ; afferents from glands above; efferents join with some efferents of upper glands to form jugular trunk, which ends in thoracic or right lymphatic duct, or in innominate vein. Supra- clavicular glands on roots of brachial plexus and around end of ext. jugular vein ; afferents from back of neck and scalp, pectoral region, axillary glands ; efferents to jugular trunk. Lymph Glands of Superior Extremity Superficial cubital, on anterior aspect of elbow, and proximal to medial epicondyle ; afferents from volar aspect of forearm and median part of palm, ulnar side of forearm and palm and medial 2 or 3 digits ; efferents to brachial or axillary glands. Deep cubital, at termination of brachial artery; afferents from deep parts of forearm ; efferents to brachial or axillary glands. Brachial, irregular, along brachial art. ; afferents from forearm, deep and superficial cubital glands, and adjacent parts; efferents to axillary glands.