174 MUSCI.ES and fasciae hold tendons in position, and also help to bind together the bones to which they are attached :— (1) Lig. laciniatum (internal annular) is attached to medial malleolus and medial process of tuber calcanei. (See also p. 182.) (2) Lig. transversum cruris (ant. annular, upper band) is attached to distal ends of anterior crests of tibia and fibula. About an inch in depth. Often not clearly defined from adjoining deep fascia. Holds down extensors and tibialis anterior ; the tibi- alis anterior alone has a mucous sheath at that level. (3) Lig. cruciatum cruris (ant. annular, lower band), occasion- ally X-shaped, usually V-shaped. Stem is attached to anterior part of dorsal surface of calcaneus ; proximal limb is attached to medial malleolus ; distal limb blends with fascia on medial side of foot. (See also p. 188.) Thickened fascia attached to lateral malleolus and calcaneus, which binds down peroneal tendons, is called peroneal retin = acula (ext. annular ligament). Superior retinaculum holds them against posterior surface of lateral malleolus and is lined with single mucous sheath. Inferior retinaculum binds them to lateral surface of calcaneus, and is divided by septum, attached to trochlear process (peroneal tubercle), into compartments for each tendon, each lined with separate sheath. On dorsum of foot deep fascia is thin. On sole it is called aponeurosis plantaris. Its intermediate part, covering flex, dig. brevis, is very strong and important. Triangular in shape. Apex is attached to medial process of tuber calcanei. Septa are sent upwards from margins along sides of flex. dig. brevis. Base divides into five slips which are united to the proximal ends of fibrous flexor sheaths. On the toes deep fascia forms fibrous flexor or digital sheaths, like those on fingers. (See also pp. 181, 182.) MUSCLES ON ANTERIOR ASPECT OF LEG AND DORSUM OF FOOT Tibialis anterior lies immediately lateral to tibia. Origin (fl.) : lateral condyle and proximal f of lateral surface of tibia ; interosseous membrane, fascia covering it, and septum between it and ext. dig. longus. Insertion: by tendon, into medial surface of 1st cuneiform and base of 1st metatarsal. Nerve: 1,. 4, 5, s. 1, through deep peroneal (ant. tibial). It dorsi-flexes and inverts foot. Extensor digitonun longus lies lateral to tibialis ant. Origin (fl.): lateral condyle of tibia, proximal § of anterior part of medial surface of fibula, proximal part of interosseous membrane, fascia covering it, and septum on each side.