•55 WRIST, HAND AND DIGITS .adductor pollicis, across 3rd and 4th metacarpals, just distal to their bases, to reach base of 5th, where tt is joined by deep branch of ulnar. Its level is A inch more proximal than superficial arch. Dorsal to it are metacarpals and interossei, while flexor tendons, their mucous sheath, lumbricals and digital branches of median nerve separate it from superficial arch. Branches.—Recurrent, proximal perforating, volar metacarpal (palmar interosseous). Recurrent branches run proximally upon volar (palmar) aspect of carpus and wrist-joint, and anastomose with volar carpal arch. !Perforating branches pass dorsally through proximal parts of -spaces between metacarpals of fingers, each between heads of corre- sponding dorsal interosseous muscle, and join dorsal metacarpal arteries (dorsal interosseous). Three volar metacarpal branches run distally, upon interosseous muscles of medial three spaces, and join digital branches of superficial arch, just before their bifurcation. Interosseous muscles are 7 in number. 3 volar and 4 dorsal. They are the deepest structures in palm, and their tendons of insertion pass dorsal to transverse metacarpal lig. Each one is inserted into extensor tendon, base of tst phalanx, and capsule of metacarpo- phalangeal joint of finger upon which it acts (cf. lumbricals). Deep branch of ulnar nerve supplies them all, by fibres derived from c. 8, T. 1. The dorsal interossei lie in inter-metacarpal spaces and are seen, t therefore, on dorsum of hand as well as in palm. Volar interossei act on index, ring and little fingers. Each arises by fleshy fibres from palmar surface of metacarpal of finger upon whicn it acts. First is inserted into ulnar side of index ; second, into radial side of annularis ; third, into radial side of minimus. They adduct these fingers towards middle finger ; and, besides, each flexes the metacarpo-phalangeal joint and extends interphalangeal joints (cf. I lumbricals). Each dorsal interosseous arises by two fleshy heads from adjacent sides of metacarpals between which it lies. First is inserted into 1 radial side of index ; second, into radial side of medius ; third, 1 into ulnar side of medius; fourth, into ulnar side of annularis. Like the volar interossei, each flexes 1st phalanx and extends 2nd and 3rd. First and fourth abduct index and annularis from medius, while second and third alternately abduct and adduct medius, i.e. second . abducts towards index, third adducts it to its former position, and. continuing to act, abducts it towards annularis, when second restores it to position. Each finger, therefore, is provided with an adductor and an abductor. Index, medius and annularis have each two interossei. while minimus has its abductor digiti quinti, and has the 3rd volar interosseous as adductor. First dorsal interosseous forms the fleshy mass seen on dorsal aspect, between metacarpals of thumb and index ; and its action can