141 MUSCLES OF FOREARM 6, through median. It flexes 2nd and 1st phalanges and wrist, and the elbow slightly. (3) Deep Muscles Flexor digitorum profundus lies on ulna, deep to flex, sublimis and carpi ulnaris. Origin : (fl.) proximal 3 of volar and medial surfaces of ulna, including medial side of ole- cranon ; adjoining part of interosseous membrane; deep surface of aponeurosis of flexor carpi ulnaris ; part arising from aponeurosis and medial side of ulna forms muscular mass felt on medial side of ulna on dorsum of forearm. It forms 4 tendons, each of which enters fibrous flexor sheath, dorsal to a tendon of sublimis, perforates it, and runs on to insertion into base of 3rd phalanx. Nerves : c. 7, 8, T. 1, through volar interosseous of median, to lateral half; C. 8, T. 1, through ulnar, to medial half. It flexes 3rd, 2nd, 1st phalanges and wrist. Lumbricales are four small fusiform muscles connected with tendons of flexor profundus in palm (see p. 152). Flexor pollicis longus lies on radius, dorsal to sublimis. Origin (fl.): middle two-fourths of volar surface of radius, and sometimes by a smali fleshy slip from medial margin of coronoid process. Its tendon passes through carpal tunnel, enters palm, and turns towards thumb, enters fibrous flexor sheath, and is inserted into base of 2nd phalanx of thumb. Nerve : c. 7, S, T. 1, through volar interosseous branch ol median. It flexes 2nd and 1st phalanges, metacarpal, and wrist. Vagina; Mucosa;. Three mucous or synovial sheaths enclose flexor tendons at wrist and extend for an inch or more into forearm ; one for flex, carpi radialis. another for flex. poll, longus. These two ensheath tendons as far as insertion. The third encloses flexor sublimis and profundus. Its medial part is continued to insertions of little finger tendons. It is prolonged on tendons of three other fingers only as far as middle of palm. Separate sheaths enclose distal parts of these tendons. (See also p. 153.) Pronator quadratus lies at distal end of forearm, dorsal to flexor tendons and sheaths, median nerve, radial vessels. Origin (fl.) : distal j of volar surface and margin of ulna. Insertion (fl.) : distal j of volar surface of radius and triangular area on ulnar side of radius in front of interosseous