MUSCLES OF FOREARM >39 (2) Dorsal Carpal Lig. (Posterior Annular). — Longer but weaker than transverse carpal lig. and at a more proximal level. Direction oblique from radial to ulnar side and distally. Attached to ridge between volar and lateral surfaces of distal end of radius; to triquetrum (cuneiform) and pisiform; and to dorsal surfaces of distal ends of radius and ulna by 5 septa which divide underlying space into 6 compartments (see also p. 156). Fascia dorsalis manus is very thin. Aponeurosis palmaris (palmar fascia).—Thin over ball of thumb and of little finger. Central part is strong and triangular. Connected by apex to lig. transversum and palmaris longus. Both margins send septa dorsally to join fascia over adductor pollicis and interossei. Base divides into 4 slips, which unite with fibrous flexor sheaths of fingers. (See also p. 147.) Superficial transverse ligament is a band of fibres in the superficial fascia, stretching across volar (palmar) surfaces of roots of fingers, near free edge of webs. On the digits the deep fascia is thickened to form fibrous flexor or digital sheaths (see p. 148). MUSCLES ON VOLAR AND MEDIAL ASPECTS OF FOREARM (1) Superficial Muscles Pronator teres lies obliquely across proximal part of forearm, forming medial boundary of cubital fossa. Origin : humeral head (fl.-tend.), from proximal part of ant. surface of medial epicondyle, distal part of medial epicondylic ridge and intermuscular septum, fascia covering it and septum between it and flex, carpi radialis. Ulnar head, from medial margin of coronoid process, by tendinous slip which joins deep surface of muscle. Median nerve passes between the two heads ; ulnar artery is posterior to both heads. Insertion (tend.) : rough mark on middle of lateral surface of radius. It is crossed near insertion by radial extensors, brachio- radialis, and radial vessels. Nerve : c. 6, through median. It flexes and pronates forearm. Common Flexor Origin. -Flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flex, carpi ulnaris, anti flex, digitorum sublimis arise partly or wholly by a common origin consisting of (a) a tendon attached to distal part of anterior surface of medial epicondyle, (h) fascia covering the muscles, and (c) septa between them. Flexor carpi radialis lies along middle of volar aspect front) of forearm. Origin : common flexor. Its tendon