PERITONEUM 467 wall from left side of 2nd L. vertebra to right iliac fossa, above sacro-iliac joint. Its greatest width from intestine to parietes is about 8 in. Its root crosses 3rd part of duodenum, aorta, inf. v. cava ; right ureter, genito-femoral n., int. spermatic vessels and psoas. Between its layers are sup. mesenteric vessels and their intestinal branches ; nerves, lymph vessels (lacteals) and glands ; and jejunum and ileum at free border. Fat between layers at upper part of mesentery is less abundant near intestine than it is lower down ; vessels can more easily be seen through it near the intestine, and intervals between vessels are more or less translucent. Mesenteriolum Processus Vermiformis (Mesentery of Appendix).—A small triangular fold enclosing vermiform process in one border, its artery in another, and attached by third border to lower part of left lamina of mesentery proper. Transverse Mesocolon.—A broad fold connecting trans- verse colon to post, abdominal wall, along lower border of body of pancreas, and sometimes across front of head. Forms part of posterior wall of omental bursa. Anterior surface is in relation to stomach ; posterior, to small in- testine. Between layers are middle colic vessels, branches of right and left colic ; lymph glands and vessels ; nerves. Pelvic Mesocolon.—Attached along a N shaped line ex- tending from medial margin of psoas, along ext. iliac vessels, to medial side of left common iliac, and then turns sharply down to 3rd piece of sacrum. Between its layers arc:—Pelvic colon ; sigmoid vessels, which enter at oblique upper attach- ment ; sup. haemorrhoidal vessels, which enter at vertical attachment; lymph vessels and glands ; nerves. Lig. Falciforme Hepatis.—Triangular sheet attached by base to sup. and ant. surfaces of liver, by supero-anterior bonier to diaphragm and ant. abdominal wall, down to umbilicus. Two layers are continuous round free postero- inferior border, which extends from umbilicus to inferior margin of liver. Lig. Teres Hepatis.—Fibrous remnant of (left) umbilical vein of fretus ; extends (enclosed in lig. falciforme at its free edge) from umbilicus to livei ; thence in fossa of umbilical vein to join left branch of vena porta;. Lig. Venosum.— Tibrous remnant of foetal ductus venosus, lies in fossa of d. venosus : extends from left branch of v. porta; to v. cava as it leaves liver.