LARYNX 421 in plica ventricularis, ventricle and appendix ; absent from plica vocalis. INTRINSIC MUSCLES OF LARYNX Crico thyreoideus.— Lies on exterior of larynx inferiorly. Arises from lower border and lateral surface of cricoid. Directed backwards and upwards to be inserted into inf. cornu and inf. border of lamina of thyreoid. Nerve: ext. laryngeal. It pulls and rotates thyreoid downwards and forwards (or cricoid upwards and backwards), and so renders plicae vocales tense. Crico arytrenoideus Posterior.—Origin : post, surface of lamina of cricoid. Directed upwards and laterally to be inserted into muscular process of arytaenoid. Nerve : this and succeeding muscles by inferior laryngeal. It rotates aryt:enoid so that vocal process, with plica, is swung laterally and rima glottidis is widened. Crico arytaenoideus Lateralis. — Origin: upper border of lateral part of arch of cricoid. Directed upwards and backwards to be inserted into muscular process of aryUenoid. It rotates arytaenoid so that vocal process is swung medially and rima glottidis is narrowed. Musculus Vocalis. — Origin : lower part of deep surface of lamina of thyreoid near angle, and from kg. vocale. Insertion : muscular process and antero-lateral surface of arytaenoid. Draws aryta*noid towards thyreoid and so relaxes plica vocalis; may tighten different segments of plica by means of fibres arising from it. Thyreo-arytasnoideus is merely the superficial part of vocalis. Arytrtnoideus Transversus.—The only unpaired muscle in larynx. Passes from posterior surface of one arytaenoid to that of the other. Draws posterior parts of arytaenoid cartilages together so that rima is narrowed there, but rotates them so that vocal processes are swung laterally and rima is widened between their tips. Ary trcnoideus Obi it] uus.—Superficial to transversus. Extends from muscular process of one arytaenoid to apex of other, and then onwardsasary-epiglotticus, in ary-epiglottic fold, to side of epiglottis. It draws aryhenoids together and narrows rima glottidis ; shortens ary-epiglottic fold and approximates arytaenoids and epiglottis during deglutition, acting as a sphincter of superior aperture of larynx. Thyreo epiglotticus.—Some of upper fibres of thyreo- arytaenoideus which curve upwards into ary-epiglottic fold to reach side of epiglottis. It shortens ary-epiglottic fold and pulls tubercle of epiglottis against arytaenoids during deglutition. Nerves and Vessels ok Larynx Superior laryngeal branch of vagus, by internal branch, supplies mucous membrane ; by external branch, supplies