AXILLA •35 Ulnar nerve (8 c., i t.), a terminal branch of medial cord, runs distally on medial side of axillary artery, between it and vein. It gives no branches in axilla (or in arm). Subscapular nerves (5, 6 c.) arise from posterior cord. The upper passes downwards and backwards, posterior to medial cord and axillary vein, and sinks into upper part of subscapularis, after a very short course ; the lower runs downwards and laterally, posterior to medial cord and axillary vein, over subscapularis, supplying its lower part, and, crossing deep to subscapular vessels, it ends in teres major. Thoraco-dorsal nerve (long subscapular) (6, 7, 8 c.) arises from posterior cord, between upper and lower subscapulars ; runs downwards and posteriorly over subscapularis and teres major, towards inferior angle of scapula, where it ends in latissimus dorsi. It is posterior to the medial cord and to axillary vein, and, after appearing from under cover of them, it accompanies subscapular vessels. Radial nerve (musculo-spiral) (5, 6, 7, 8 c. anil sometimes t 'r,), the largest nerve in axilla, is a terminal branch of post. cord. It pro- ceeds distally, posterior to axillary art., anterior to subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, and teres major. A few branches arise from it in axilla: (a) muscular branches are given to long and medial heads of triceps ; (b) posterior cutaneous nerve of arm (int cutaneous branch of musculo-spiral) turns distally and dorsally to supply skin on medial side of back of arm (O.T. upper arm). , Axillary nerve (circumflex) (5,6 c ), a terminal branch of posterior cord, runs first distally between axillary art. and subscapularis, on lateral side of radial nerve ; then it leaves axilla by passing dorsally, with posterior humeral circumflex vessels, through quadrilateral space, i.e. with teres major below, humerus and lateral head of triceps laterally, long head of triceps medially, subscapularis, shoulder-joint and teres minor above ; while in the space, under cover of deltoid, it gives a branch to shoulder joint and divides into anterior and posterior divisions. Posterior division gives branches to teres minor and deltoid, and turning round posterior border of deltoid, as lateral cutaneous nerve of arm, supplies skin over distal part of deltoid. Anterior division accompanies post, circumflex vessels around humerus under cover of deltoid ; it supplies deltoid, and some branches pierce deltoid to supply skin. Lymph glands of axilla are in three main groups: (t) Pectoral glands lie in the angle Itetween pectoral muscles and serratus anterior. They receive afferent lymph vessels from mammary gland and antero-lateral walls of body above umbilicus, and send efferent vessels to axillary glands. (2) Subscapular glands lie along lower border of subscapularis ; receive afferents from postero-lateral walls of body, above level of umbilicus, and from lower and back parts of neck ; and send efferents to axillary glands. (3) Axillary glands lie on floor of axilla and along axillary vessels. They receive afferents directly from whole upper limb, and from cubital, pectoral, and sub-