427 SUPERIOR MEDIASTINUM left innominate ; pleura and phrenic nerve are on its left, other nerves crossing aortic arch are on its right. Superior vena cava commences posterior to lower border of 1st right cartilage by the union of two inrominates ; pierces pericardium opposite 2nd cartilage, ends in upper and posterior part of right atrium opposite 3rd cartilage. Part in superior mediastinum lies in a groove on medial surface of lung, so that pleura and lung are posterior, to the right, and anterior, the overlapping anterior margin separating it from int. mammary vessels, structures in 1st intercostal space and edge of manubrium. Phrenic nerve and accompanying vessels are to its right side, between it and pleura. Termination of asc. aorta and origin of innominate art. are to its left. Trachea, vagus and cervical cardiac nerves are posterior and to the left, some distance away, V. azygos enters posterior surface just above pericardium. (Part of sup. v. cava within fibrous pericardium is covered on anterior, right and left aspects by serous pericardium. Ascending aorta is to its left and anterior ; pericardium separates it from pleura and lung anteriorly ; from phrenic nerve and pericardiaco - phrenic vessels, pleura and lung laterally ; from upper right pulmonary vein, right pulmonary art. and right bronchus, posteriorly.) As the vena azygos rfrches forwards to join vena cava, it lies in a groove on medial surface of lung above hilum, and lung and pleura are then to its right and above. Root of lung is first anterior, but chiefly inferior. (Esophagus, vagus and trachea are to the left. Aortic arch lies obliquely across lowest part of sup. mediastinum. Begins behind right margin of sternum, opposite 2nd right cartilage, passes backwards and to the left, and ends at lower border of left side of 4th th. vertebra ; curved with a concavity downwards, and curved with a concavity to the right and posteriorly. Upper convex aspect gives off 3 branches—innominate, left common carotid and left subclavian ; and left innominate vein is above it, anterior to these branches. Anterior part of its left surface is separated from lower J of manubrium by thymus, and by ant. margins of right and left pleura; anil lungs, if they meet at centre of manubrium. More posteriorly it lies in groove on medial surface of left pleura and lung, above hilum ; and, descending across it, are the left phrenic, inf. cervical cardiac branch of left vagus, sup. cerv. card, branch of left sympa- thetic, and the left vagus, in that order from before backwards ; and the left sup. intercostal vein passes forwards, upwards, and to the right over it. On right side of arch are lower end of trachea and deep cardiac plexus, oesophagus, recurrent nerve between trachea and cesophagus, and thoracic duct on left border of oesophagus. Below the arch are : (1) bifurcation of pulmonary art. ; (2) root of left lung ; (3) lig. arteriosum, in substance of fibrous pericardium, stretching from root of left pulmonary art. to the arch ; (4) superficial