MENINGES OF BRAIN & SPINAL MEDULLA 357 reticularis grisea of medulla oblongata, lateral funiculus of medulla spinalis, ventral to lateral pyramidal tract, and its fibres end round cells behind base of anterior column (horn). Ponto-spinal Tract.—Scattered fibres arising in nuclei pontis and dorsal part of pons, descending through reticular substance of medulla oblongata and lateral funiculus of spinal medulla to end round cells of anterior column. V'estibulo-spinal tract, see p. 392. MENINGES OF BRAIN AND SPINAL MEDULLA Brain and spinal medulla are enveloped in three mem- branes, named, from without inwards, dura mater, arachnoid, and pia mater. Dura Mater Encephali.—Firm and dense. Consists of two layers which are adherent, except along certain lines where they separate to enclose venous sinuses. Outer layer is the periosteum of the cerebral surfaces of cranial bones, to which it is firmly adherent over base, but less firmly ad- herent over vault, except along sutures, where it is continuous with sutural ligaments. It is continuous with external periosteum of skull through the foramina. Inner layer is smooth. It is prolonged as sheaths to nerves as they leave skull. It is firmly adherent to outer layer at foramen magnum and is continuous there with spinal dura. It projects four processes into cranial cavity, each consisting of two adherent laminae :— (1) Falx cerebri, projects downwards into longitudinal fissure of cerebrum. Sickle-shaped ; narrow anteriorly, broad posteriorly at its base. Convex margin is attached to crista galli, frontal crest, lips of sagittal sulcus on frontal, parietal, and occipital bones, as far as internal occipital protuberance. Superior sagittal sinus (sup. longitudinal) is enclosed between outer layer of dura and two laminae of falx, along this margin. Concave, inferior margin is free, overhangs corpus callosum, contains inferior sagittal sinus (inf. longitudinal) in its posterior j. At its base the laminae are continuous, on each side of median plane, with upper layer of tentorium, and straight sinus lies between falx and tentorium along this line of attachment. (2) Tentorium cerebelli, a crescentic shelf, highest in median plane anteriorly, and sloping to circumference. Forms a tense tent-like roof to posterior cranial fossa, separating its contents from posterior part of cerebrum, which lies on it.