OSTEOLOGY Bones are classified as : (i) Long bones, each possessing a shaft or body and two extremities, eg. femur. Metacarpals, metatarsals and phalanges are miniature long bones. (2) Short bones, e.g. carpal and tarsal bones. Short bones include sesamoid bones ; these are bones developed in the substance of tendons. (3) Flat hones, e.g. scapula, parietal bone of skull, ribs. (4) Irregular bones, eg. vertebrae. Pneumatic bones are certain bones of the skull, e.g. maxilla, containing air-spaces or sinuses which communicate directly or indirectly with the nasal cavity. The osseous tissue on the surface of a bone is dense and hard, and is called compact bone. The tissue in the interior contains numerous spaces, like a sponge, and it is called spongy or cancellous bone. The spaces are filled with red marrow. Short bones and the bulky parts of irregular bones consist of a shell of compact tissue surrounding spongy tissue. Flat bones and the thinner parts of irregular bones consist of two plates or tables of compact tissue, separated by a thin layer of spongy tissue. In flat skull bones the outer table is thick ; the inner table is thin, very dense and brittle, and is sometimes called the vitreous table ; and the spongy tissue between the tables is called the diploe. Diploe does not appear till after 5th or 6th year. Extremities of long bones are expanded in order: (1) to provide a larger surface for articulation and so minimise risk of disarticulation, and to facilitate accuracy of movement; (2) to diffuse shocks received at the joint ; (3) to provide a larger area for muscular attachments. They consist of a thin shell of compact bone surrounding spongy bone, in which the tissue is arranged in planes adapted to withstand stress and strain. Shaft of a long bone is a hollow cylinder, consisting of a thick wall of compact tissue, lined with some wide-spaced spongy tissue, and enclosing a medullary cavity, which is filled with yellow marrow. The shaft is always curved, and usually in more than one plane. This adds to its strength and resistance, which are further en- sured by the greater thickness of the compact tissue on the concave sides of the curves. The presence of a cavity not only makes the bone lighter, but it adds to the strength and stability. Bones arc covered with a vascular fibrous membrane called periosteum. Vessels from the periosteum enter the bone through small foramina on the surface. A larger artery,