MUSCLES AND FASCIAE 192 MUSCLES OF DORSAL ASPECT OF TRUNK First Group.—Trapezius, latissimus dorsi. Second Group.— Levator scapulae, rhomboidei : all considered under upper limb. Third Group.—Serratus posterior superior, and serratus posterior inferior, splenius. Serratus posterior superior lies between rhomboidei and vertebral aponeurosis. Origin (tend.): Lig. nuchae, last cervical and upper 3 thoracic spines. Insertion (fl.-tend.): 2nd to 5th ribs, in front of angles. Nerves : Upper 3 or 4 intercostals. It elevates ribs ; flexes vertebral column laterally. Serratus posterior inferior lies under cover of latissimus dorsi. Origin (tend.): last 2 thoracic, first 2 lumbar spines. Insertion (fl.): lower 4 ribs, in front of angles. Nerves: 9th, 10th, nth intercostals. It depresses and draws lower ribs backwards. Splenius.—Lies in back of neck and of upper part of trunk, partly under cover of sterno-mastoid, trapezius, levator scapula:, rhomboidei ; partly superficial in floor of posterior triangle of neck. Origin (tend.): lower £ of lig. nucha:, last cervical and upper 5 thoracic spines and supra spinous ligaments. Insertion (tend.): splenius capitis into mastoid process and lateral & of superior nuchal line ; splenius cervicis into posterior tubercles of transverse processes of upper 2 to 4 cervical vertebra:. Nerves: lateral divisions of post, branches of 4th to 8th cervical nerves. Muscles of both sides acting extend head and neck ; one muscle acting bends head and neck to that side and turns face towards that side. Fourth Group.—Sacrospinalis, semispinalis capitis. Sacrospinalis (Erector Spinse).—Lies on dorsum of sacrum and in small of back. Arises from iliac crest (fl.-tend.), post, sacro-iliac ligament, dorsal surface of sacrum, spines of upper sacral and all lumbar vertebra:. Divides into 3 columns, which lie in groove between thoracic spines and angles of ribs, and in back of neck : (1) iliocostalis, laterally ; (2) longissimus, inter- mediate ; (3) spinalis, medially. They are attached by tendinous slips. (1) Iliocostalis Lumborum is inserted into lower 6 ribs. Iliocostalis Dorsi (accessorius) arises from lower 6 ribs, medial to iliocostalis lumborum ; inserted into upper 6 ribs. Iliocostalis Cervicis (cervicalis ascendens) arises from upper 6 ribs, medial to iliocostalis dorsi; inserted into post, tubercles of 4th, 5th, 6th cervical transverse processes.