JOINTS OF THE FOOT 121 Articulatio Talo - calcaneo - navicularis.—Diarthrodial. Gliding and slight rotation. Head and lower surface ot neck of talus received into socket formed by (1) navicular bone, (2) plantar calcaneo-navicular (spring) ligament, (3) calcaneo-navicular part of lig. bifurcatum, (4) sustentaculum tali and anterior part of dorsal surface of calcaneus. Ligaments connected with it are the plantar calcaneo-navicular, dorsal talo-navicular, calcaneo-navicular part of lig. bifurcatum ; and a thin membrane posteriorly completes the capsule and is attached above to posterior edge of smaller facet on lower surface of talus and to calcaneus below. Lig. Talo-calcaneum Interosseum.—About 1 inch broad ; occupies sinus tarsi and is attached to deep grooves on contiguous surfaces of talus and calcaneus, and is chief bond of union between them. Lies between talo-calcanean capsule posteriorly and post, part of talo-calcaneo-navicular capsule anteriorly, with both of which it may be fused. Plantar Calcaneo-navicular Ligament (Inferior Calcaneo- scaphoid or “Spring” Lig.).—Broad and thick. One of the most important in foot. Attached to anterior margin of sustentaculum tali and to plantar surface of navicular. Head of talus rests on it. Deltoid ligament is attached to its medial edge. Tibialis posterior tendon, with its bursal sheath, covers and supports the greater part of its plantar surface, while flex, hallucis longus tendon is separated from lateral part of its plantar surface only by loose areolar tissue, and is crossed there by tendon of flex. dig. longus. Dorsal talo navicular lig., broad and thin, is attached t< > dorsal surfaces of navicular and of neck of talus. It is covered by ten- dons of tibialis anterior and long extensors, dorsalis pedis artery, and deep peroneal (ant. tibial) nerve. Lig. bifurcatum, a V- or Y-shaped ligament, attached by stem to dorsal surface of calcaneus, immediately in front of sustentaculum ; by medial limb (calcaneo- navicular part) to lateral surface of navicular ; by lateral limb {calcaneo-cuboidpart) to medial surface of cuboid. Articulatio Calcaneo-cuboidea. — Diarthrodial. Gliding and slight rotation. Anterior surface of calcaneus with post, surface of cuboid. Articular capsule is strengthened by (1) calcaneo-cuboid part of lig. bifurcatum (see above). (2) Dorsal calcaneo cuboid ligament, broad and thin, unites dorsal and lateral surfaces of calcaneus to dorsal surface of cuboid ; tendons of peromieus tertius and brevis lie on it. (3) Plantar calcaneo-cuboid lig. (short plantar), broad and thick. Attached to ant. part of plantar surface