EMBRYOLOGY 5IO Inside atrium an atrial septum grows caudally to meet endocardial cushions. Before fusion with cushions is complete, a foramen, called foramen ovale, appears in septum. A secondary septum grows down on right side of first septum. It fuses with first septum after birth and closes foramen ovale. Its caudal edge forms limbus fossa ovalis (annulus ovalis). Sinus venosus receives the veins. It lies dorsal and caudal to atria. Consists of large right horn, small left horn, and intermediate transverse piece. Right horn is gradually included in right atrium. In the adult the sulcus and crista terminalis, valve of vena cava (Eustachian) and valve of coronary sinus indicate line of union between sinus venosus and atrium. Left horn becomes lower part of oblique vein of left atrium (Marshall), rest of which is formed by left duct of Cuvier. Transverse piece becomes coronary sinus. Veins (i) Vitelline from yolk sac, umbilical from placenta, portal from abdominal viscera. (2) Primitive jugular, subcardinal and cardinal veins and ducts of Cuvier from head and neck, Wolffian body, trunk and limbs. Vitelline veins come from yolk sac, pass through septum trans- versum, and enter sinus venosus. Liver grows into septum transversum and intercepts them, and their cardiac ends become the hepatic veins, which pass the blood on from liver to sinus venosus. Meantime, 3 trans- verse anastomoses unite distal parts of vitelline veins and form 2 con- tiguous circles, or figure of 8, around duodenum. Parts between liver and upper circle form right and left branches of portal vein, the left branch including also the proximal border of upper circle. Parts below circles disappear. Right part of upper circle and the part uniting the circles become portal vein ; left part of lower circle is joined near upper end by superior mesenteric from intestines ; other parts of circles disappear. Right hepatic vein is joined by the left, and part on cardiac side of union forms proximal end of inferior vena cava. Umbilical veins outside abdomen fuse. Inside abdomen they pass inwards through septum transversum, open into sinus venosus, and afterwards in liver. Right vein disappears ; left persists as the umbilical vein and opens into left branch of portal vein. A communi- cation between right hepatic and left branch of portal enlarges to form ductus venosus ; most placental blood then passes through it, but some goes into liver by left portal vein. Umbilical vein and ductus venosus persist till birth. After birth they shrivel and become lig. teres and lig. venosum, respectively. Primitive jugular vein of each side returns blood from head, neck and upper limb. Cardinal vein of each side is dorsal to Wolffian body, and returns blood from body wall, Wolffian body, lower limb. Primi-