7° OSTEOLOGY conjoined rami. Gemellus superior, levator ani, coccygeus, sacro- spinous lig. (small sacro- sciatic) from ischial spine. Gemellus inferior from lower margin of lesser sciatic notch. Obturator internes from pelvic surface of ischium and ilium, above and posterior to obturate foramen, from margins of obturate foramen except at obturator groove, and from obturator membrane. Levator ani and pubo-prostatic liga- ments from pelvic surface of body of pubis ; adductor longus from femoral surface, in angle between crest and symphysis. Gracilis from margin of symphysis and inf. ramus ; adductor brevis from area lateral to that ; obturator externus from area anterior to and below obturate foramen and from medial half of obt. membrane. Fascia lata to crest, margins of symphysis and conjoined rami, and lower end of ischium, medial to gracilis and adductor magnus ; and to margin of pubic arch, more medially still, the deep layer of superficial perineal fascia (Colles’) is attached. Crus penis to groove on pelvic surface of rami. Ischio-cavernosus (erector penis), transversus perimei superficialis from or near junction of ischial tuber and ramus, at posterior end of groove for crus. Fascia; of urogenital diaphragm (triangular lig.), sphincter urethrae and transversus profundus, falciform process of lig. sacro-tuberosum (great sacro-sciatic) and lig. arcuatum pubis (sub-pubic) to strip between groove for crus penis and origin of obturator internus. Fibro-cartilage of symphysis to symphyseal surface ; anterior, posterior, superior and arcuate (subpubic) ligs. to its circumference. Aponeurosis of obliquus externus abdominis to crest and sym- physis, and by means of lig. inguinale and lacunare (Poupart and Gimbernat) to pubic tubercle and pectineal line of same side, and by means of lig. inguinale reflexum (triangular fascia) to opposite pectineal line. Falx inguinalis (conjoint tendon) and fascia trans- versalis to crest and pectineal line ; cremaster to pubic tubercle. Pyramidalis from crest, rectus abdominis from crest and ant. lig. of symphysis. Pectineus from pectineal surface and line, its fascia (pubic portion of fascia lata) to pectineal line. Psoas minor to ilio-pectineal eminence and line. Transverse lig. bridges across acetabular notch. Lig. teres to transverse lig. and margins of notch. Labrum glenoidale (cotyloid lig.) to transverse lig. and bony rim of acetabulum. Fibrous capsule to labrum below and anteriorly, to bony rim above and posteriorly and to rough depression above acetabulum. Ilio- femoral lig. to lower part of ant. inf. ilia.c spine. Pubo-capsular lig. to lateral end of obturator crest. Ischio-capsular lig. from ischium below acetabulum. Attached from before backwards to pubic creBt are fascia lata, obi. ext. abd., falx inguinalis (conjoint tendon), pyramidalis, rectus abd., fascia transrersalis ; to pectineal line, pectineus, its fascia, lig.