BRANCHES OF ABDOMINAL AORTA 287 to both surfaces of stomach, and some to anast. with middle colic ; ends by anastomosing with right gastro-epiploic. Hepatic artery runs to the right, along upper border of pancreas, to 1st part of duodenum ; then forwards below for. epiploicum (Winslow), and lastly upwards in front of for. epi- ploicum, between layers of lesser omentum, near free border, anterior to portal vein, on left side of bile duct, to reach porta hepatis,where it divides into right and left hepatics. Branches: (a) Right gastric (pyloric) runs to the left along lesser curvature, between layers of lesser omentum ; gives branches to both sur- faces of stomach ; ends by anast. with left gastric. (b) Gastro- duodenal descends posterior to 1st part of duodenum and ends at its lower border by dividing into : (i.) sup. pancreatico-duo- denal, which rhns to the right and then downwards between duodenum and pancreas, supplying both and anast. with inf. pancreatico-duod. ; and (ii.) right gastro-epiploic, which runs to left along greater curvature, between ant. layers of greater omentum, sending branches to both surfaces of stomach, and some to anast. with middle colic ; ends by anast. with left gastro-epiploic. (c) Right and left hepatic branches enter porta and sink into liver. In porta they lie posterior to hepatic ducts, anterior to branches of portal vein. Right branch gives cystic branch downwards to gall-bladder. Superior mesenteric artery arises from ant. aspect of aorta below cceliac, posterior to pancreas, opposite 1 L. vertebra, in or just below transpyloric plane ; crosses 3rd part of duodenum, enters mesentery and takes curved course, convexity to left, and ends in right iliac fossa by anastomosing with its own ileo-colic branch. Relations. — Its vein on its right side. Anterior : body of pancreas, splenic vein, peritoneum of mesentery, coils of small intestine. Posterior -, left renal vein, uncinate process of pancreas, 3rd part of duodenum, aorta, vena cava, right ureter, psoas, genito-femoral nerve and spermatic vessels. Branches : (1) Inf. pancreatico-duodenal runs to the right between pancreas and duodenum, and supplies both, anast. with sup. pancreat.-duod. (2) Aa. intestinales—jejunales, ilese (vasa intestini tenuis), 12-15, arise from convexity, run towards small intestine between layers of mesentery, divide and anastomose, forming arterial arcades, from which small vessels spring, divide and anastomose, and so on till 3-5 series of arcades are formed before intestine is reached.