BRANCHES OF EXT. CAROTID ARTERY 267 Lingual artery springs from ext. carotid, opposite tip of greater horn of hyoid ; 1st part forms loop, convex upwards, which lies upon middle constrictor, above tip of greater horn, and is crossed by hypoglossal nerve ; 2nd part runs forwards along upper border of hyoid, upon middle constrictor and genio-glossus, covered by hyoglossus ; and ends as profunda linguae (ranine), which runs upwards under ant. border of hyoglossus, and then forwards on inferior surface of tongue to its tip. See also p. 225. Branches.—(1) Hyoid branch, from istpart, runs along upper border of hyoid bone. (2) Dorsales linguae, from 2nd part, ascend between hyoglossus and genio-glossus and supply dorsum of tongue and palatine tonsil. (3) A. sublingualis springs from commencement of profunda; runs upwards and forwards, between ntylo-hyoid and genio-glossus, to sublingual gland. External maxillary artery (facial) arises immediately above lingual. Ascends medial to post, belly of digastric and stylo-hyoid and deep surface of angle of mandible, and in a groove in post, end of submaxillary gland ; then forwards and downwards,between submaxillary gland and pterygoideus interims, to lower border of mandible. Pierces deep fascia and crosses mandible at ant. border of masseter and runs a tortuous course, upwards and medially, h in. from angle of mouth, to end, near medial angle of eye, as angular artery. Relations in Neck. Superficial: digastric and stylo-hyoid ; angle of mandible and pterygoideus internus ; submaxillary gland. Deep : middle and superior constrictors, the latter separating it from palatine tonsil ; submaxillary gland envelops it. Branches in Neck.—Asc. palatine, tonsillar, submaxillary, submental. (1) Ascending palatine runs up, between pterygoideus int. and sup. constrictor, and between stylo-glossus and -pharyngeus, to apex of petrous temporal ; turns down with lev. veli palatini, pierces pharyng. aponeurosis, to end in soft palate. Supplies pharynx, palate, palatine tonsil, auditory tube. (2) Tonsillar branch runs up between ptery- goideus int. and stylo-glossus, pierces sup. constrictor, ends in palatine tonsil. (3) Glandular branches supply submaxillary gland. (4) Submental art. arises where facial turns up on jaw ; runs forwards, under cover of mandible, to symphysis and turns up on to chin. Relations in Face.—Lies upon mandible, buccinator, caninus (levator anguli oris), and in substance of caput angulare (lev. labii sup. al.eque nasi) of quadratus labii superioris. Covered by