353 CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES into inferior horn. Capsule is bent on itself so that lateral surface is concave from before backwards. It looks laterally and downwards and is covered by lentiform nucleus. Medial surface is irregular, convex from before backwards, and looks medially and upwards. Head of caudate nucleus lies on it anteriorly, thalamus posteriorly, stria terminalis between them, at the maximum convexity or angle. Portion between lentiform nucleus and head of caudate nucleus, when seen in horizontal section, is called anterior limb (B.N.A. pars frontalis) (ant. ^), and is interrupted by lamina: connecting the nuclei ; portion between lentiform nucleus and stria terminalis is the genu ; and large portion lateral to thalamus is posterior limb (B.N.A. pars occipitalis) (post. ยง), and it is divided into lenticular part, between lenti- form nucleus and thalamus, and retro-lenticular part, behind and below posterior end of lentiform nucleus. Anterior limb contains: (i) Fibres passing to and fro between thalamus and corpus striatum and cortex. (2) Fronto-pontine fibres descending from frontal cortex through corona radiata, int. capsule and medial part of basis pedunculi to nuclei pontis. Genu and lenticular part contain : (1) Fibres to and fro between cortex and thalamus ; (2) cortico-pontine fibres from motor area to nuclei pontis, and motor fibres for the head and neck, upper limb, trunk, lower limb, in that order from before backwards. Retro-lenticular part contains: (1) Optic radiation; (2) occipito-pontine and (3) temporo-pontine tracts, from cortex to nuclei pontis, passing through lateral part of basis pedunculi ; (4) acoustic radiation ; (5) temporo-thalamic tract, which connects lateral geniculate body with temporal cortex. (3), (4), (5) pass to temporal lobe above roof of inferior horn of ventricle, below lentiform nucleus. Arterial supply is from anterior and middle cerebral, ant. chorioid and posterior communicating arteries. Capsula Externa and Stria of Ciennari External Capsule is a thin white layer between lentiform nucleus and elaustrum, merging at its periphery into white substance of hemi- sphere. Consists mainly of association fibres, with some fibres of anterior commissure and of ansa lcnticularis. Stria of Gennari is a thin w hite layer in substance of grey cortex of occipital lobe, seen when fresh brain is sectioned. Associated with visual area ; best marked near calcarine fissure. Lymph of brain travels along lymph paths in walls of blood-vessels and is conveyed away by the meningeal lymph 23