LYMPHATIC SYSTEM 312 peritoneal sac), to reach oesophageal end of stomach ; turns over upper border of bursa and runs downwards and to the right, on right crus behind bursa, to reach duodenum, and enters v. porta; as it turns forwards at upper border of ist part of duodenum. Pyloric or right gastric vein runs to right, along lesser curvature, between layers of lesser omentum, and ends in v. porta; as it enters omentum. Right gastro-epiploic vein may end in sup. mesenteric or in portal. A pancreatico-duodenal vein accompanies superior artery of that name, and ends in sup. mesenteric ; but main pancreatico- duodenal vein accompanies bile duct on back of head of pancreas and ends in portal vein. LYMPHATIC SYSTEM Terminal lymph vessels are the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts. Thoracic Duct, 18 inches long, begins in epigastric region of abdomen, on ist and 2nd lumbar vertebra;, as a dilatation called cisterna chyli (receptaculum); passes through aortic hiatusof diaphragm ; ascends in posterior mediastinum behind oesophagus, turns abruptly to the left at 5th thoracic vertebra, and ascends superior mediastinum, applied to left side of oesophagus ; enters root of neck and turns laterally, between carotid sheath and vertebral artery; bends downwards, anterior to subclavian artery, and enters commencement of left innominate vein. It has numerous valves. Relations.—In abdomen : cisterna chyli, about 2 inches long, lies on ist and 2nd lumbar vertebrae and arteries, over- lapped by right crus, with aorta to its left, vena azygos to its right. In posterior mediastinum the duct is separated from vertebrae by right aortic intercostals, ends of hemiazygos veins, and longitudinal ligament ; anterior to it, there is the diaphragm below, fatty areolar tissue between aorta and right pleura above that, and oesophagus opposite 5th, 6th, 7th and (sometimes) 8th vertebra;. Descending aorta is to its left, and vena azygos to its right. In superior mediastinum it lies on left border of oesophagus, separated by fat from longus colli and vertebra; ; anterior and to its left side are the aortic arch, pleura, left subclavian art. In root of neck it ascends between oesophagus and pleura, and at level of 7th cervical vertebra arches laterally and then downwards above pleura, posterior to contents of carotid sheath, anterior to vertebral vessels, branches of thyreo-cervical trunk (thyroid axis) at their origin, phrenic nerve, medial border of scalenus