382 NEUROLOGY a few delicate filaments end in it. At chiasma, fibres from lateral and larger half of retina run into tract of same side, fibres from medial half cross to opposite tract. Right optic tract, therefo^s, contains fibres of right halves of both retina;, and left receives fibres from left halves. In region of geniculate bodies fibres enter lateral root of tract and end in lateral geniculate body, pulvinar of thalamus, and some are carried in superior brachium to sup. corpus quadrigeminum. These are lower visual centres, and are con- nected with higher centres in occipital cortex by optic radiation ; and superior corpus quadrigeminum is connected also with nuclei of nerves of ocular muscles by fibres which join medial longitudinal bundle. Optic radiation (B.N.A. radiatio occipito-thalamica) is a broad sheet of fibres in white substance of occipital lobe, between inferior longitudinal fasciculus laterally and tapetum medially, which separates it from ependyma of ventricle. Traced posteriorly, it spreads out and ends on medial and lateral surfaces of occipital lobe ; traced anteriorly it enters retro-lenticular part of internal capsule, and its fibres at once pass to lower visual centres and nuclei of oculo- motor nerves. It consists of (i) fibres which arise in lateral geniculate body and pulvinar, and end in occipital cortex; (2) fibres arising in occipital cortex and ending in pulvinar, sup. corp. quad, and oculo- motor nuclei. Oculo-motor Nerve (3rd).—Motor to most of muscles of orbit and eyeball. Emerges from oculo-motor sulcus of mesencephalon ; passes anteriorly, downwards and laterally, in cisterna interpeduncularis, between posterior cerebral and superior cerebellar arteries ; pierces dura mater in middle fossa, in floor of triangle formed by free and attached borders of tentorium ; traverses lateral wall of cavernous sinus, above other nerves there ; is crossed on its lateral side, from below upwards, by trochlear nerve, near anterior end of cavernous sinus ; and divides into two branches, which enter orbit through superior orbital (sphenoidal) fissure, between heads of rectus lateralis, having naso-ciliarv (nasal) nerve between them. Ramus superior passes through rectus superior, supplying it, and ends in levator palpebne. Ramus inferior supplies rectus medialis and inferior, and obliquus inferior. From nerve to obliquus it gives additional branch to rectus inferior and short root (motor) to ciliary ganglion. Nucleus.—Cells in ventral part of grey matter around aquaeductus cerebri (Sylvii), on a level with sup. corp. quad. It also extends upwards into side wall of 3rd ventricle. Fibres arch ventrally through medial longitudinal bundle, red nucleus, medial margin of substantia nigra, and emerge through sulcus at medial side of basis pedunculi (crusta).