ABDOMINAL WALL 243 and cremasteric coverings ; and medial end of lig. inguinale forms infero-medial part of inferior crus of subcutaneous ring (ext. abdo- minal), and the cord lies on this part of the crus as it emerges through the ring. Lateral half of lig. inguinale is related to cacum on the right side, iliac colon on the left side, peritoneum and transversalis fascia inter- vening in both cases. Ligamentum lacunare (Gimbemat’s lig.) is the expanded part of medial end of lig. inguinale. It is triangular in shape. Apex is attached to pubic tubercle. Posterior border is attached to pecten pubis (pectineal line) for |-i inch, in front of falx inguinalis (conjoint tendon) and of lig. reflexum (triangular fascia), with which its fibres are con- tinuous. Anterior border is continuous with lig. inguinale. Base is free, directed laterally, and forms medial boundary of femoral (crural) ring. Abdominal surface supports spermatic cord. Pectineus and superior horn of falciform margin of fossa ovalis (saphenous opening) are attached to femoral surface. Subcutaneous inguinal ring (p. 245) is a triangular aperture in aponeurosis of obliquus externus, above pubic tubercle (spine) and medial end of lig. inguinale. From its margins the external spermatic fascia is prolonged over spermatic cord and testis. Obliquus internus abdominis lies deep to obliquus ex- ternus. Origin (fl.): lumbo-dorsal fascia, ant. 3 of iliac crest, lateral 3 of lig. inguinale (Poupart). Fibres are directed mainly upwards and anteriorly ; upper or posterior fibres are nearly vertical ; lower fibres are horizontal, the lowest being bent downwards. Insertion : posterior part by fleshy fibres into last 3 ribs and costal cartilages. Remainder by broad aponeurosis into cartilages of 9th, 8th, 7th ribs; whole length of linea alba ; crest and pecten (pectineal line) of pubis. Nerves: lower intercostals ; last thoracic ; 1st lumbar, through ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal. Aponeurosis, from a point midway between umbilicus and symphysis up to rib margin, splits at linea semilunaris into 2 laminae, which enclose rectus. Aponeurosis of the part arising from lig. inguinale does not split, but passes wholly in front of rectus, joining with part of transversus having corresponding origin, to form falx inguinalis (conjoint tendon). Lowest fleshy fibres run medially in front of spermatic cord, and, becoming aponeurotic, arch downwards in the falx, behind cord. Cord, as it passes below this