MUSCLES AND FASCIAE 230 between mastoid process and external acoustic meatus, and is dis- tributed to (t) intrinsic muscles of ear, (2) auricularis posterior (retrahens), and (3) occipital belly of epicranius. All the nerves communicate with their neighbours on the scalp. Arteries of the Scalp. —Five on each side, and they anastomose freely with each other and with those of opposite side : frontal, supra- orbital, superficial temporal, anterior to auricle ; posterior auricular and occipital, posterior-to auricle. Frontal and supra-orbital arteries spring from ophthalmic branch of int. carotid, and accompany supra-trochlear and supra-orbital nerves, respectively. Superficial temporal artery arises as a terminal branch of ext. carotid, posterior to neck of mandible ; gives off parotid, anterior auricular, and transverse facial branches ; ascends over post, root of zygoma, immediately anterior to auricle, in company with auriculo- temporal nerve; gives off middle temporal artery, which pierces temporal fascia, and sinks into temporal muscle (it may arise below zygoma) ; and finally the superficial temporal artery divides into frontal and parietal branches, which extend towards the frontal and parietal tuberosities (eminences), respectively, supplying constituents of scalp. The frontal branch is very tortuous, and can be seen pulsating. Posterior auricular artery arises from ext. carotid, above the level of posterior belly of digastric ; runs posteriorly and upwards upon styloid process, deeply placed under cover of parotid gland, giving parotid and muscular branches, and a stylo-mastoid branch, which enters stylo-mastoid foramen ; then, becoming more superficial, it ascends between mastoid process and ext. meatus, with post, auricular nerve, and gives branches to sterno-mastoid, auricle, and scalp near the auricle. Occipital artery arises from ext. carotid, below post, belly of digastric ; leaves ant. triangle of neck (p. 220) under cover of sterno- mastoid and digastric ; crosses rectus lateralis, which separates it from vertebral artery ; runs posteriorly, upwards and medially, in a shallow groove on mastoid temporal, superficial to obliquus superior,—under cover of origin of posterior belly of digastric, mastoid process, longissi- mus capitis (trachelo-mastoid), splenius capitis, and sterno-mastoid. It leaves obliquus superior to lie upon semispinalis capitis (complexus) ; and, emerging from under cover of sterno-mastoid, it crosses apex of posterior triangle of neck, passes under cover of trapezius, and, turning upwards, it pierces trapezius and fascia, close to greater occipital nerve, and breaks up into branches which supply greater part of posterior region of scalp ; one of these sends a branch through parietal foramen to the meninges. (While occipital artery lies on obliquus superior it sends a meningeal branch through mastoid foramen, and gives off unnamed muscular branches, and the ramus descendens (art. princeps cervicis), which runs downwards and medially, and divides into super- ficial and deep branches at lateral border of semispinalis capitis.)