352 NEUROLOGY substance, and, behind that, it lies above roof of inferior horn, being partly continuous with amygdaloid nucleus and partly separated from it and from stria terminalis and tail of caudate nucleus by ant. commissure, acoustic radiation, and temporo- pontine tract. Superior margin, convex, lies just below superior longitudinal fasciculus. A horizontal or a frontal section of lentiform nucleus shows large putamen laterally, separated by lateral medullary lamina from pale, triangular globus pallidus, which forms the medial and smaller part of the nucleus and is divided into 2 nuclei by medial medullary lamina. Putamen alone is connected with caudate nucleus. Lentiform nucleus does not extend so far forwards or upwards as caudate, nor so far backwards as thalamus. Lentiform and caudate nuclei are together called corpus striatum, because in frontal (coronal) sections through their anterior ends the laminae connecting them give internal capsule a cross-barred appearance. They are connected by fibres with thalamus, cortex, and tegmentum. They are supplied by middle and anterior cerebral and ant. chorioid arteries. Lenticulo-striate and -optic branches of middle cerebral groove lower part of lateral surface of lentiform nucleus, then sink into it, traverse it and internal capsule to reach caudate nucleus and thalamus. Largest of lenticulo-striate arteries is "the artery of cerebral haemorrhage." Claustrum.—A thin plate of grey matter consisting of detached deepest layer of cortex of insula. Lies lateral to lentiform nucleus, between external capsule and white substance of insula. Thick inferior margin is continuous with anterior perforated substance. Amygdaloid Nucleus.—Lies in anterior part of roof of inferior horn of ventricle. Is continuous with grey matter of putamen of lentiform nucleus, anterior perforated substance, and uncus. Tail ot caudate nucleus ends in it, and stria terminalis begins in it. CAPSULA INTERNA Internal capsule is a broad, thick, fan-shaped band in which the fibres of projection system are gathered together. Narrow lower end is continuous with basis pedunculi (crusta), under cover of optic’ tract. Broad upper end is continuous with corona radiata at anterior, posterior, and superior margins of lentiform nucleus. Antero-inferior border lies on ansa lenticularis, ant. commissure, and line of fusion of lentiform nucleus and head of caudate nucleus. Posterior border is very short and thick, and is covered by stria terminalis, as it turns from body of lateral ventricle