424 RESPIRATORY APPARATUS Pleura pulmonalis covers and is adherent to lung, and dips into fissures, (ii.) Pleura parietalis lines walls of pleural cavity, and is subdivided into four: (i) Costal pleura lines ribs and intercostal spaces. (2) Diaphragmatic pleura covers great part of diaphragm. (3) Mediastinal pleura extends from anterior to posterior wall of thorax, covering medias- tinal septum ; part which covers side of pericardium is called pericardial pleura. It is reflected over root of lung, and becomes continuous with pulmonic pleura around hilum of lung. Pleura clothing lower aspect of root is projected downwards as fold, called lig. pulmonale (lig. latum pulmonis), which consists of two closely applied layers, continuous superiorly with pleura on ant. and post, aspects of root of lung, medially with pericardial pleura, laterally with pulmonic pleura below hilum, and inferiorly with one another, forming a free lower border. (4) Cupula pleurae {cervicalpleura) reaches to level of neck of 1st rib posteriorly, but, owing to obliquity of rib, it lies in root of neck anteriorly, extending from to 2 inches above 1st cartilage, and \ to 1 inch above sternal third of clavicle. It is covered by Sibson’s fascia; supported laterally by scalenus medius, antero-laterally by scalenus anterior. In relation anteriorly with subclavian art., its branches, and structures related to the artery. Continuity of pleural membrane may be followed by beginning, say, at 3rd left costal cartilage, passing round deep surfaces of ribs to vertebral column ; forwards over aorta to root of lung ; laterally along root ; around lung to front of root of lung; medially along root, and forwards over pericardium to starting-point. Surface of healthy pleura is smooth and glistening. Pleural cavity is normally only a capillary interval separating pulmonic and parietal pleura. It contains a little fluid, enough to lubricate surfaces. Lower border of lung does not extend so far down as pleura, so that lower part of costal pleura is in contact with diaphragmatic, and capillary interval between them is called phrenico-costal sinus. Similarly, anterior margins of lungs may fall short of pleura, and lower part of ant. margin of left lung always does so, and space left is called costo-mediastinal sinus. Lines of pleural reflection are lines along which costal pleura becomes continuous with mediastinal pleura anteriorly and posteriorly, and with diaphragmatic pleura inferiorly. Posterior line, on right side, corresponds to lateral parts of ventral surface of bodies of vertebrae; on left side, reflection takes place