LUNGS 435 into thick, broad, rounded posterior border—the bulkiest part of lung—which occupies hollow at side of vertebral column. Anterior border, shorter than posterior : begins at apex, curves downwards and medially, becomes sharp about an inch below apex, at back of sterno-clavicular joint. Shows a wide notch, incisura cardiaca, near lower end, on left lung, which leaves part of pericardium uncovered by lung. Mapped out on right side by same line as for pleura. On left side, in same way as pleura, down to 4th costal cartilage, below that by a line running along 4th cartilage for ii inches, then curving, convex laterally and downwards, to 6th cartilage, 1 inch from median plane. Medial Surface.—Divided into vertebral area, adapted to sides of bodies of vertebra?, and mediastinal area, in relation to mediastinal septum. Mediastinal area presents hilum, uncovered by pleura, where bronchi, pulmonary vessels, bronchial vessels, lymphatics, nerves enter and leave lung. Below hilum a thin strip, uncovered by pleura, extends to inferior border and marks attachment of lig. pulmonale. Below and anterior to hilum there is a hollow for heart and pericardium. Inferior border limits base. Blunted where it separates base from mediastinal surface. Thin and sharp elsewhere, and falls considerably short of pleural reflection. Corre- sponds to line drawn from lower end of ant. border of lung to 6th cartilage in mid-clavicular line, thence backwards, almost horizontally, but slightly convex downwards, to 10th thoracic spine, crossing 8th rib in mid-axillary line, about 4 inches from lower margin of thorax, and crossing 10th rib in mid-scapular line. Lobes and Fissures of Lung.—Left lung is cleft into 2 lobes by oblique fissure, which cuts into it as far as hilum and appears on all its surfaces. Begins about 2b inches below summit of apex, opposite 2nd thoracic spine"; ends a little behind lower end of anterior border, behind 6th cartilage, a little medial to mid-clavicular line. Lobus superior includes apex and anterior border and greater part of mediastinal area. Lobus inferior, bulkier, includes almost whole base and greater part of posterior border. Right lung is cleft by two fissures into 3 lobes. Oblique fissure resembles that of left, except that, ant. border of right lung being straighter, it ends further away from its lower end. Transverse fissure begins at ant. border, behind 4th