MUSCLES OF FOREARM '43 Its tendon is enclosed with ext. indicis proprius in mucous sheath in a compartment of dorsal carpal ligament on dorsum of radius, and divides into tendons which diverge to fingers. On dorsal surface of 1st phalanx each tendon expands to form dorsal extensor expansion, which is inserted into bases of 2nd and 3rd phalanges. Nerve : C. 6, 7, 8, through dorsal interosseous. It extends phalanges and hand. Extensor digiti quinti proprius (ext. minimi digiti) lies along middle of dorsum of forearm. Common extensor origin. Its tendon is ensheathed in a compartment of dorsal carpal ligament between radius and ulna, and is inserted, in common with tendon from ext. communis to little finger. Nerve and action : same as preceding muscle. Extensor carpi ulnaris lies along radial side of dorsal margin of ulna. Origin : common extensor origin, and dorsal margin of ulna, through aponeurosis of flexor carpi ulnaris. Its tendon is enclosed in mucous sheath in most medial compartment of dorsal carpal ligament, and is inserted into base of 5th metacarpal. Nerve : c. 6, 7, 8, through dorsal interosseous. It extends and adducts hand. Anconaeus. -Small and triangular. Lies on radial side of dorsal aspect of elbow. Origin (tend.): distal part of dorsal surface of lateral epicondyle ; posterior ligament of elbow. Insertion (fl.) : triangular area on proximAl j of dorsal surface of ulna and lateral surface of olecranon, fascia .covering it. Nerve : c. 7, 8, through radial (musculo-spiral). It extends forearm. (2) Dekp Musci.es Supinator surrounds proximal ( of radius, and forms part of floor of cubital fossa. Origin (fl.-tend.): (1) supinator crest of ulna and hollow in front of it, distal to radial notch ; (2) annular (orbicular) and radial collateral ligaments ; (3) lateral epicondyle ; (4) fascia covering it. Fibres curve round behind radius and are inserted into dorsal, lateral and volar aspects of its proximal third. Nerve : c. 6, through deep branch of radial (post, interosseous of musculo-spiral), which, after supplying it, traverses it and divides it into two lamina:. Abductor pollicis longus (ext. ossis metacarpi pollicis) lies deeply in middle third of forearm, superficially on dorsum and radial side of distal third. Origin (fl.) ; most proximal of the three narrow impressions on lateral half of