MUSCLES OF LEG AND FOOT 175 ilnsertion: 2nd and 3rd phalanges of the lateral four toes. INerve : 1,. 4, 5, s. 1, through deep peroneal (ant. tibial). It cextends toes, dorsi-flexes foot. Peronaeus tertius is continuous with ext. dig. longus. iOrigin (fl.): distal | of ant. part of medial surface of fibula, distal part of interosseous membrane, anterior intermuscular -septum. Tendon passes under lig. cruciatum (ant. annular), in same sheath as ext. dig. longus, and is inserted into base ot 5th metatarsal. Nerve: 1,. 4, 5, s. 1, through deep peroneal (ant. tibial). It everts and dorsi-flexes foot. Extensor hallucis longus lies between, and is partly hidden by, tibialis ant. and ext. dig. longus. Origin (fl.) : middle g of ant. part of medial surface of fibula, and corre- sponding part of interosseous membrane. Crosses anterior ttibial vessels and deep peroneal nerve, and its tendon runs on to be inserted into base of 2nd phalanx of great toe. Nerve : 1.. 4, 5, s. 1, through deep peroneal. It extends great 1 toe, dorsi-flexes foot. Extensor digitorum brevis (see p. 1891. MUSCLES ON LATERAL ASPECT OF LEG Peronaeus longus lies superficially in front of the calf. Origin (fl.): head and proximal ยง of lateral surface of shaft of fibula, intermuscular septa, fascia covering it. Tendon is enclosed in mucous sheath. It lies behind brevis on posterior surface of lateral malleolus, and below brevis on lateral surface of calcaneus. It traverses groove on plantar surface of cuboid, and is inserted into lateral side of base of 1st metatarsal and 1st cuneiform near sole (cf. tibialis anterior). Nerve: L. 4, 5, s. 1, through superficial peroneal (musculo-cutaneous). It everts anil extends foot. Peronaeus brevis lies deep to longus, and anterior to it. Origin (fl.): distal | of lateral surface of fibula; inter- muscular septa. Tendon, enclosed in sheath on post, surface of lateral malleolus and on lateral surface of calcaneus, is inserted into lateral side of tuberosity on base of 5th metatarsal. Nerve and actions, same as longus. SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES ON POSTERIOR ASPECT OF LEG Triceps surae consists of gastrocnemius and soleus, which are inserted by common tendon, called tendo calcaneus