ANKLE-JOINT H9 fibular notch of tibia and to rough triangle proximal to articular surface of lateral malleolus. Anterior and posterior ligaments uf lateral malleolus are attached to lateral malleolus and distal end of tibia, in front of and behind interosseous ligament. Tendon of peronseus tertius crosses the anterior. Flex, hallucis longus and peronreus brevis overlap the posterior, and peroneal artery crosses it. Inferior transverse ligament is attached along whole length of posterior border of distal end of tibia and to the pit on lateral malleolus. Its deep surface is in contact with tibial articular sur- face of talus. Articulatio Talo-cruralis (Ankle-joint).- Diarthrodiul, ginglymus. Malleoli and distal surface of tibia with talus. Thin anterior and posterior parts of fibrous stratum of articular capsule, which surrounds joint, ate called anterior and posterior ligaments ; medial and lateral parts are strengthened by specially-named .accessory ligaments. Anterior ligament, thin and broad, is attached to anterior border of distal end of tibia and to upper surface of anterior part of neck of talus (astragalus). Posterior ligament, thin and sometimes defective, is attached proximally to posterior border of distal end of tibia and to inferior transverse liga- ment ; distally to talus behind superior articular surface. Deltoid ligament, on medial side, very strong. Narrow proximally and attached to medial malleolus ; broad distally and attached, from before backwards, to tuberosity of navicu- lar, plantar calcaneo-navicular ligament, neck of talus, sus- tentaculum tali, body of talus (astragalus). Lateral ligament consists of 3 bands : (1) Ant. talo- fibular lig. (ant. band of ext. lateral), short and flat, ex- tends forwards and medially from anterior aspect of lateral malleolus to lateral side of neck of talus. (2) Calcaneo- fibular lig. (middle band of ext. lateral), long and round, extends from tip of malleolus downwards and backwards to lateral surface of calcaneus about its middle. (3) Post, talo- fibular lig. (post, band of ext. lateral), the strongest, ex- tends horizontally, in a medial direction, from pit on medial aspect of lateral malleolus to posterior process of talus. Synovial stratum lines fibrous capsule and is often projected proximally for a short distance between tibia and fibula. Blood supplyfrom anterior and posteriortibial and peroneal. Nerves from tibial and deep peroneal (ant. tibial). Relations.—Anterior : From medial to lateral side : tibialis anterior, extensor hallucis longus, anterior tibial vessels becoming