104 ARTICULATIONS passing from styloid process of ulna to triquetrum (cuneiform) and pisiforme. (4) Lig. collaterals radiate (ext. lateral), from radial styloid process to tuberosity of naviculare (scaphoid) and to multangulum majus (trapezium). Blood-Vessels.—Carpal branches of radial and ulnar, interosseous, recurrent branches of deep volar arch. Nerves : dorsal and volar interosseous, dorsal branch of ulnar. Movements are supplemented by movements at interearpal joints. Flexion, produced by flexor carpi radialis and ulnaris, palmaris longus (and flexors of digits). Extension, by ext. carpi radialis longus and brevis, and ext. carpi ulnaris (and ext. of digits). Extension is freer than flexion ; this is more than counterbalanced by greater freedom of ‘‘flexion ” at interearpal and carpo-metacarpal joints. Abduction or radial flexion by extensores radiales, extensors of thumb and flexor carpi radialis. Adduction or ulnar flexion by flexor and extensor carpi ulnaris. More extensive than abduction. Circumduction is a consecutive combination of these four. Movement is checked in each case by ligaments ; restrained in some positions by tendons, e.g. when fingers are flexed the stretched extensor tendons do not allow full flexion of wrist. Abduction is less free than adduction owing to styloid of radius meeting carpus. Relations. Immediate: Anterior', superficial volar art., flex, pollicis longus, flex, digitorum profundus, with their sheaths, from radial to ulnar side ; and recurrent branch from deep volar arch and terminal branches of volar interosseous nerve are deep to profundus. Lateral', radial artery. Posterior-, extensores pollicis longus, digitorum communis, and indicis proprius, digiti quinti, carpi ulnaris, with their sheaths, from radial to ulnar side ; termination of volar interosseous vess. and dorsal interosseous n. are deep to tendons. Medial: dorsal branch of ulnar n. and dorsal ulnar carpal art. More remote : Anterior-, flexor carpi radialis, palmar branch of median n., palmaris longus, median nerve, flexor sublimis, ulnar artery, palmar cutaneous branch of ulnar nerve, ulnar nerve, flex, carpi ulnaris. Transverse carpal lig. (ant. annular) is just distal to level of joint, volar carpal arterial arch is just proximal. Lateral: abductor longus and extensor brevis pollicis and their sheaths, separated from radial collateral lig. by radial artery. Posterior -. dorsal carpal lig. (post annular) crosses obliquely. Dorsal carpal arterial arch is distal to joint. Relations examined in more Detail.—With forearm prone : Locate head (i.e. distal end) and styloid process of ulna, styloid process and dorsal tubercle of radius, and ascertain the line of the joint on dorsal aspect. Beneath the skin are veins and branches of cutaneous nerves.