FEMORAL TR1QONE AND ADDUCTOR CANAL 167 great saphenous vein, lying on its posterior aspect, along medial side of leg ; passes in front of medial malleolus, and extends as far as middle of medial border of foot. Obturator or subsartorial plexus lies on fibrous roof of adductor canal, under cover of sartorius ; consists of branches from saphenous, intermediate cutaneous, and cutaneous branch of obturator, and supplies neighbouring skin. Great saphenous vein begins by union of medial end of dorsal venous arch of foot with dorsal digital veins of hallux ; extends proxi- mally, anterior to medial malleolus, obliquely across distal part of medial surface of tibia, then immediately posterior to medial border of tibia, and medial condyle of femur ; inclines anteriorly and laterally in thigh, pierces fascia cribrosa (cribriform fascia) just above inferior horn of fossa ovalis (saphenous opening), and ends in femoral vein. It has 8 to 20 valves. It communicates with deep veins. It receives numerous unnamed tributaries, and just before piercing fascia cribrosa it receives the superficial external pudendal, epigastric and circumflex iliac veins. Saphenous nerve accompanies it in leg and foot. Femoral sheath encloses first tA inches of fern >ral vessels. It is formed by the fascia transversalis and iliaca, which are prolonged over the vessels from ant. and post, abdominal walls, respectively, to form the anterior and posterior walls of the sheath. Psoas, pectineus, nerve to pectineus, and sometimes profunda artery, are posterior to it. Anterior to it are the fascia lata and f. cribrosa. It is pierced by first branches of femoral artery. Lumbo-inguinal nerve (crural branch of genito-crural) lies in proximal part of its lateral wall. It is funnel- shaped and is divided by two antero-posterior septa into a lateral compartment for femoral artery, an intermediate for femoral vein, anil a medial compartment called femoral canal. Femoral canal (crural canal) lies on pectineus, under cover of fascia cribrosa and superior horn of fossa ovalis. Femoral hernia enters thigh through it. It is funnel-shaped, about A inch long, and A inch wide at mouth of funnel, and contains a lymph gland. Femoral ring (crural ring) is the mouth or proximal end of femoral canal, and opens into abdomen. It is plugged by a pad of fat called femoral septum (septum crurale). Ring is bounded anteriorly by inguinal ligament, which separates it from spermatic cord ; medially by lig. lacunare (Gimbernat) ; posteriorly by pecten of pubis (pectineal line) and pectineus ; laterally by femoral vein. Inferior epigastric artery lies between it and abdominal inguinal ring (int. abdominal), and its “abnormal" obturator branch, when present, descends across the ring, or along its medial side. A femoral hernia descends into femoral canal and turns forwards through fossa ovalis. Anterior part of the hernia is then pressed upon and retarded by superior horn of falciform margin ; the posterior part, being pushed onwards, hooks round the horn, and the hernia ascends over inguinal ligament. Coverings of the hernia are (1)