I 22 ARTICULATIONS of calcaneus, and to plantar surface of cuboid, behind the ridge. Long plantar ligament covers all but its medial edge. Long plantar ligament is accessory to calcaneo-cuboid joint, and is of importance in maintaining arch of foot. Attached posteriorly to plantar surface of calcaneus over an area about an inch square, in front of tuber calcanei ; anteriorly to margins of groove on cuboid, and by slips to bases of 2nd, 3rd, and 4th metatarsals. It converts the groove into a canal for peronreus longus tendon, which it provides with a fibrous sheath. It covers other plantar ligaments, and is covered by quadratus plantse, adductor hallucis, flexor dig. quinti brevis, which all arise from it. Talo-navicular and calcaneo-cuboid joints do not communicate, but they lie in line with one another, and the term transverse tarsal joint is sometimes applied to them. They lie in a line drawn from a point just behind tuberosity of navicular to a point 4 inch behind prominent base of 5th metatarsal. Dorsal and plantar ligaments unite navicular to the 3 cunei- forms. Dorsal, plantar and interosseous ligaments unite cuboid to navicular and to 3rd cuneiform, and the 3 cuneiform bones to each other. Articulationes Tarsometatarseae.—First metatarsal is united to first cuneiform by articular capsule. Other metatarsals are united to cuneiforms and cuboid by dorsal, plantar and inter- osseous ligaments. 2nd metatarsal articulates with 2nd cunei- form, and, by the sides of its base, with 1st and 3rd cuneiforms. 3rd metatarsal articulates with 3rd cuneiform ; 4th and 5th with cuboid ; 4th, by medial side of base, with 3rd cuneiform also. 1st, 3rd, 4th, 5th tarso-metatarsal joints lie in or near a line drawn between bases of 1st and 5th metatarsals ; but 2nd joint is £ inch posterior to level of 1 st. Articulationes Intermetatarseae. — Base of 1st is separate. Bases of the other four articulate and are connected by dorsal, plantar and interosseous ligaments. Synovial Strata or Membranes.—Five, and sometimes six, separate synovial cavities are found in tarsal and tarso-metatarsal joints. (1) Talo-calcanean. (2) Talo-calcaneo-navicular. (3) Cal- caneo-cuboid. (4) First tarso-metatarsal. (5) The other joints have a common synovial stratum, but (6) cubo-metatarsal joint may be separate. Movements. — Gliding movements take place between all tarsal bones, but most important movements are: (1) Inversion, i.e. raising medial border of foot so that sole looks towards