HUMERUS margin ; coraco-acromial lig. to lateral margin ; coraco-clavicular lig. to upper surface. Deltoid from lower lip of dorsal border of spine and lateral border of acromion ; trapezius to medial border of acromion, upper lip of spine, and tubercle on lower lip. Capsular lig. to circumference of facet on acromion. Inferior transverse lig. (spino-glenoid) to spine and neck, across great scapular notch. Humerus.—Proximal end is the large, globular end. Caput (head), large, convex, smooth, nearly hemispherical ; directed medially, upwards and posteriorly ; articulates with glenoid cavity of scapula. Collum anatomicum anatomical neck) is the constriction between the head and tubercles. Tuberculum majus (great tuberosityds the prominence situated laterally ; forms most laterally projecting part of shoulder or “ point of shoulder ” ; bears three impressions for muscles on superior and posterior aspects ; anterior margin forms lateral lip of intertubercular sulcus ; smooth lateral surface, covered by deltoid and bursa, is directly continuous with shaft. Tuber- culum minus (small tuberosity), placed anteriorly ; may be felt i inch lateral to and a little distal to coracoid. Sulcus intertubercularis bicipital groove), between the tubercles, extends distally on to surgical neck and shaft ; lodges long tendon of biceps and its mucous (synovial) sheath, and a branch of ant. circumflex art. Collum chirurgicum (surgical neck) is the region just distal to head and tubercles. Distal End. —Compressed antero-posteriorly and bent for- wards. Articular part: (i Capitulum, situated laterally, on anterior and distal aspects ; smooth, convex ; articulates with radius. (2; Trochlea, placed medially on anterior, distal and posterior aspects ; pulley-shaped ; medial lip more pro- minent, lateral lip united to capitulum by shallow groove ; articulates with ulna. Non-articular part: 1) Epicondylus lateralis, lateral to capitulum ; impressions on anterior and distal aspects for muscles and ligaments ; posterior aspect is broad, smooth, felt subcutaneously proximal to back of elbow ; is separated by grooves from trochlea medially, capitulum distally. (2) Epicondylus medialis, large and projecting, easily felt proximal to medial side of elbow ; rough on ant. and distal aspects for muscles and ligaments ; post, aspect is smooth, and presents sulcus nervi ul/uiris, in which ulnar nerve may be leit and rolled by the finger. (3 Fossa radialis, proximal to capitulum, for head of radius during flexion. 4 Fossa coronoidea, proximal to trochlea anteriorly, for coronoid process of ulna during flexion. (5) Fossa olecrani, proximal