CEREBRAL NERVES 393 decussating with fellows, reach lateral part of pons, turn upwards and dorsally and become lateral lemniscus ; some of the fibres end in, and new fibres arise from, nuclei of corp. trap., sup. olive, lat. lemniscus. (2) Most fibres of lateral nucleus, having been joined by fibres from cochlear root directly, pass medially as stria: medullares (acusticse), dip ventrally through medulla, at median plane at lower border ot pons, cross and join lateral lemniscus. Fibres of lemniscus end in medial geniculate body, both inf. corp. quadrigemina, and a few in superior corp. quad. ; those to geniculate body are all from opposite side, some of those to inf. corpora are from same side. Fibres from medial geniculate body proceed as acoustic radiation to acoustic centres. Fibres from sup. olivary nucleus, called its pedicle, pass dorsally to nucleus of abducent nerve, and to medial longitudinal bundle, to be carried in it to nuclei of oculo-motor and trochlear. Risumi of neurons connected w ith conduction of sound : (1) bipolar cells of ganglion spirale and their processes (a) to organ of Corti, (i) to form cochlear nerve ; (2) neurons of lateral and ventral cochlear nuclei ; (3) neurons of sup. olivary nucleus, and nuclei of corp. trapezoideum and lemniscus lateralis ; (4) neurons of medial geniculate body. Glosso-pharyngeal Nerve (9th).—Sensory to tongue and pharynx ; motor to stylo-pharyngeus. Roots emerge from medulla oblongata a little dorsal to olive, combine to form single trunk, which passes laterally, anterior to flocculus, on post, surface of jugular tubercle ; downwards through jugular foramen with vagus and accessory, but in separate sheath of dura ; passes forwards between internal jugular vein and internal carotid artery : descends superficial to int. carotid, deep to ext. carotid, styloid process and its muscles ; reaches lower border of stylo-pharyngeus, supplies it and turns for- wards superficial to it, and comes into relation with tongue under cover of hyoglossus; gives sensory branches to pharynx, palatine tonsil and post, i of tongue. (See also p. 226.) Motor nucleus is the n. ambiguus, a column of cells in medulla oblongata, midway between olivary nucleus and tractus spinalis of V. and continuous below with anterior grey column of spinal medulla. Motor fibres pass dorsally and then laterally to join with sensory fibres. Peripheral ganglia are g superius (jugular) and g. petrosum, placed on nerve in jugular foramen. A few sensory fibres end in nucleus alee cinereas (see n. vagus), but most join tractus solitarius, a longi- tudinal strand placed medial and ventral to descending fibres of vestibular root, and extending from upper end of medulla oblongata down into medulla spinalis as far as level of 4th cervical nerve. Its