407 EYELIDS optic nerve ^ in. behind eyeball ; appear at centre of optic disc ; divide into upper and lower branches, which each give oft (1) medial and nasal branches, directed medially; (2) temporal and macular branches, directed laterally. Macula lutea is supplied by both macular and temporal ; fovea centralis has no blood vessels. Corpus Vitreum occupies posterior £ of eyeball. Transparent and jelly-like. Consists of membrana hyaloidea enclosing loose fibrous stroma vitreum and fiuid humor vitreus, traversed antero-posteriorly by canalis hyaloideus. Lens lies in concavity, on anterior surface, called fossa hyaloidea. Hyaloid membrane is adherent to retina at optic entrance. Its anterior part is thickened and thrown into radial folds called zonula ciliaris (Zinn). Ciliary processes lie in and adhere to furrows between the folds, but folds or ridges are not adherent. The zonula divides near equator of lens into a posterior layer, which forms Hour of hyaloid fossa, and an anterior, stronger layer, which is attached to lens, in front of its equator, and forms its suspensory ligament. Behind suspensory lig. a saccu- lated lymph space, called spatia zonularia (canal of Petit), encircles equator of lens. Lens Crystallina.—Transparent, biconvex, circular. 4 mm. in thickness, 9 to io mm. in w idth. Lies on anterior surface of vitreous, posterior to iris and pupil. Posterior surface more convex than anterior. Central points of surfaces are called anterior and paste) ior poles, and line uniting them, the axis lentis. Circumference is called the crquator. Consists of concentric laminae of elongated cells or fibres, enclosed in elastic capsula lentis. Substantia corticalis, near surfaces, is friable ; nucleus lentis, at centre, is dense and hard. When the eye is at rest the lens is more llattened owing to tension of suspensory lig., which is attached to capsule. When the eye looks at near object, the ciliary muscle pulls forwards chorioid anti ciliary processes and adherent zonula, and thus slackens suspensory ligament, and elastic lens becomes more convex owing to removal of tension on its capsule. Camera oculi anterior (ant. chamber) is the space bounded anteriorly by cornea, posteriorly by iris and central part of anterior surface of lens. Angulus iridis is the circumferential angle between cornea and iris. Camera oculi posterior (post, chamber) is bounded anteriorly by iris, posteriorly by peripheral part of suspensory lig. and adjoining part of lens, circumferentially by free ends of ciliary processes. The chambers communicate through the pupil, and both of them are filled with fluid, called aqueous humor. PALPEBR7E EYELIDS United at lateral and medial angles of eye by lateral and medial palpebral commissures ; separated by rima palpebrarum, which