453 SMALL INTESTINE Structure. —Serous peritoneal coat. Muscular coat: three layers. Ext. longitudinal fibres : continuous with those of oesophagus and duodenum. Best marked at lesser curvature ; thin and irregular elsewhere. Middle circular fibres'. V-shaped loops, open to- wards fundus above ; complete circles near pylorus ; increased at pylorus to form sphincter. Internal oblique fibres-. V-shaped loops passing from fundus, near oesophagus, towards pyloric end ; complete circles round fundus. Both middle and inner layers are continuous with circular fibres of oesophagus. Mucous coat: very thick ; thrown into folds in empty stomach. INTESTINUM TENUE (SMALL INTESTINE) DUODENUM. JEJUNUM. ILEUM. Duodenum differs from rest in having no mesentery, and by being directly attached to posterior wall, all except its first inch. About 10 in. long; bent in form of letter C, enclosing head of pancreas. Superior or 1st Part.—2 in. long ; very movable. Extends backwards, slightly to the right and upwards, from pylorus, opposite 1st L. vertebra, across portal vein and vena cava, to neck of gall-bladder. Lies in epigastrium. Descending or 2nd Part. — 3 in. long ; descends anterior to renal vessels and medial margin of kidney, from epigastrium into umbilical region, to end at right side of 3rd lumbar vertebra. Inferior or 3rd Part.—About 5 in. long ; runs to the left almost trans- versely, in front of vena cava, to the aorta ; then ascends obliquely into epigastrium to left side of 2nd L. vertebra, where it turns abruptly forwards to join jejunum, forming duodeno-jejunal flexure. Relations. — Superior Part.—Peritoneum covers anterior surface, and first A-i inch of posterior surface. Greater omentum is connected with first i-i inch of lower border, and lesser omentum with still more—sometimes nearly the whole—of upper border. Anterior : quadrate lobe of liver. Inferior: head of pancreas. Posterior : v. ports, gastro duodenal artery, bile duct; and v. cava inferior, behind these three. Omental bursa (lesser sac) is posterior to its first A- [ inch, separating it from pancreas. Superior: foramen epiploicum (Winslow), separating it from caudate process of liver ; hepatic artery, portal vein, bile duct proceeding to and from lesser omentum, between duodenum and foramen epiploicum. Descending Part.—Peritoneum covers ant. and right lateral sur- face, except w-here transverse colon covers it. Anterior : gall-bladder above; trans. colon in middle, overhung by liver; coils of jejunum, and