366 NEUROLOGY intertransversales (2nd, 3rd, 4th) ; scalenus anterior (4th) ; diaphragm from 3rd, 4th (and 5th), through phrenic. N. descendens cervicalis arises from 2nd and 3rd as two separate nerves which pass downwards and medially, lateral to int. jugular vein ; unite and join descendens hypoglossi to form ansa hypoglossi on anterior aspect of carotid sheath. From ansa branches go to sterno*- hyoid, sterno - thyreoid, omo-hyoid, which are therefore supplied from 1st, 2nd, 3rd. Phrenic Nerve.—Arises chiefly from 4th, gets small root from 3rd, and another from 5th, either directly or through n. to subclavius. Descends on anterior surface of scalenus anterior, behind sterno - mastoid ; covered by int. jugular vein near origin, crossed anteriorly by omo-hyoid, transverse cervical artery and transverse scapular artery lower down. On right side it is separated lay scalenus ant. from 2nd part of subclavian artery. Leaves scalenus, descends in front of cervical pleura, behind beginning of innominate vein, crosses int. mammary art. obliquely, latero-medially. Appears in thorax on lateral side of innominate vein ; pro- ceeds to diaphragm, accompanied by pericardiaco-phrenic vessels, having pleura and lung on its right, innominate vein, sup. vena cava, pericardium, and thoracic part of inf. vena cava, successively, on its left; root of lung and lig. pulmonale behind it. On left side it leaves scalenus higher up and is crossed superficially by thoracic duct ; passes downwards in front of 1 st part of subclavian artery ; crosses int. mammary art. latero-medially ; lies between cervical pleura and subclavian and innominate veins ; appears in thorax from behind lower or left border of innominate vein. Descends in front of subclavian artery, behind and to left side of common carotid, crossing vagus superficially, from behind forwards, above aortic arch. It passes in front of (left side of) aortic arch and proceeds to diaphragm with pericardium on its right, root of lung and lig. pulmonale behind. Pericardiaco-phrenic vessels accompany it, and pleura and lung are on its left side throughout, in the thorax. Phrenic nerves contain both motor and sensory fibres, and give branches to pleura, pericardium, diaphragm (these ramify chiefly on abdominal surface) ; vena cava, suprarenal glands, liver, through communicating branch given to inferior phrenic plexus.