MUSCLES OF ORBIT . as well as upwards ; and it is thickened vertically by contraction of its intrinsic longitudinal and transverse fibres. Hyoid bone is raised by digastrics, stylo-hyoids, genio-hyoids, mylo-hyoids, hyo-glossi. Larynx is pulled up with hyoid, and also by stylo-pharyngei and pharyngo- | palatini. Involuntary Stage : i. Glosso-palatini and pharyngo-palatini, in palatine arches (pillars of fauces), contract after the bolus has passed the glosso-palatinus, to prevent bolus from returning to mouth, while pharyngo-palatini help to prevent it from passing up to nose. Pharyngo-palatine arches, thus drawn together, form an inclined plane under which the bolus slips downwards. 2. Pharynx is drawn up over advancing bolus by salpingo-pharyngei, stylo-pharyngei, pharyngo-palatini. 3. To shut off nose the soft palate is stretched and raised upwards and backwards, into contact with postero-superior wall of nasal pharynx, by tensores and levatores veli palatini. U vula is shortened by uvular muscle and conies into contact w ith post, wall of pharynx ; and posterior palatine arches, drawn together by pharyngo- palatini, completely close naso-pharyngeal isthmus. 4. To close opening into larynx :—Larynx is drawn up (see above). Aryttenoid cartilages are drawn together by arytaenoidei and crico-aryttsnoidei laterales, and drawn forwards from posterior wall of pharynx by vocales and thyreo-arytaenoidei. Ary-epiglottic folds are shortened and approximated by ary-epiglottici. Epiglottis is drawn slightly down and back by ary-epiglottici and thyreo-epiglottici, so that epiglottic tubercle (cushion) fits into angle formed by aryttenoid cartilages and ary- epiglottic folds, completely closing aperture ; and bolus glides over pharyngeal surfaces of epiglottis, ary - epiglottic folds, arytaenoid cartilages and cricoid, into oesophagus. 5. Constrictors of pharynx seize bolus, and by successive contractions send it on to oesophagus. 6. tEsophagus by peristaltic contraction propels it to stomach. From raising of tongue to contraction of constrictors the move- ments are so rapid that they are almost simultaneous. FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF ORBIT Fascia Bulhi (Capsule of Tenon).—A loose sheath forming a socket for eyeball in its movements. Attached anteriorly to conjunctiva, close to margin of cornea ; posteriorly to sheath of optic nerve. Ocular surface is smooth, and is connected with eyeball by soft areolar tissue. It is pierced posteriorly by posterior ciliary vessels and nerves and vents vorticosts, and anteriorly by anterior ciliary vessels, and opposite equator of eyeball by tendons of recti and obliqui. Apertures through which tendons pass are strengthened to form pulleys, except in case of obliquus superior ; and, from lips of apertures, sheaths are reflected on to muscles and are lost on them, except that for obliquus sup.,