ARTICULATIONS 88 jugular process of occipital ; (4) bodies of vertebrae and vertebral arches ; (5) all diaphyses and epiphyses. They are immovable. They disappear by ossification, some during childhood, the remainder during adolescence. II. Union by fibro-cartilage. Articulating surfaces are coated with articular cartilage and united by a fibro-carti- laginous disc, which is surrounded by fibrous membrane, and may have a small cavity or cleft in the centre, lined with synovial membrane. These synchondroses allow partial or yielding movement. They are found only in median plane —between bodies of vertebrae; between segments of sternum; and between pubic bones. They persist between bodies of movable vertebra; and between pubic bones. This variety of synchondrosis is often called amphiarthrosis, and often called symphysis, c.g. symphysis pubis ; but the term symphysis is applied also to the osseous union (synostosis) between the halves of the mandible—symphysis menti. Diarthrosis.—Movable joint. Includes most joints of the body. Articular surfaces are coated with articular cartilage, and are surrounded by an articular capsule enclosing an articular cavity, which contains an oily fluid called synovia. Articular capsule consists of a fibrous stratum or capsular ligament, lined with a synovial stratum or membrane. The fibrous stratum or capsular ligament is the essential bond of union between the bones. It is attached beyond the margins of the articulating surfaces and is frequently strengthened by thickenings of its substance, by expansions from deep fascia, or by accessory ligaments. Synovial stratum secretes synovia, lines fibrous stratum, and is reflected on to bone and onwards to overlap edges of articular cartilage ; it also covers struc- tures found within fibrous stratum of some joints, and excludes them from articular cavity. These are—(A) Fibro- cartilaginous structures connected with fibrous stratum and separating articulating surfaces : (a) articular discs—found in mandibular, sterno-clavicular, and acromio-clavicular joints, and between distal end of ulna and carpus ; (fi) articular menisci (semilunar cartilages) of knee. (11) Labrum glenoid- ale, the fibro-cartilaginous ring encircling glenoid cavity of scapula (glenoid ligament), and the acetabulum (cotyloid ligament). (C) Ligaments stretching across joint, binding articulating structures more firmly : (“) inter-articular liga- ments of heads of 2nd to 9th ribs, and of 2nd and sometimes the succeeding costo-sternal joints ; (j3) lig. teres of hip-joint;