TARSUS Si medial to these, from middle £; from posterior part: tibialis posterior. Soleus from proximal J of posterior surface; flexor hallucis longus from distal |. Peronreus longus from proximal | of lateral surface, brevis from distal § ; they overlap in middle f brevis being anterior. Ant. intermuscular septum to anterior crest, and lig. transversum cruris (upper band of ant. annular) to ant. crest near distal end. Interosseous membrane to interosseous crest. Post, intermuscular septum to lateral crest. Ant. lig. of malleolus and ant. talo-tibular lig. (ant. band of ext. lat. lig. of ankle) to ant. border of lateral malleolus. Calcaneo- fibular lig. (middle band of ext. lat. lig.) to tip. Post. lig. of malleolus to medial edge of post, surface ; superior retinaculum of peroneal muscles to medial and lateral edges. Post, talo-fibular lig. (post, band of ext. lat. lig.), and inferior transverse lig. to pit posterior and distal to articular surface ; interosseous lig. to rough triangle proximal to articular surface. Tarsus. — 7 bones. Proximal row: talus, calcaneus. Intermediate bone : navicular. Distal row : three cuneiforms, cuboid. Talus (Astragalus). Lies below tibia. Consists of head, nec/c and body, head being anterior. Caput. Convex, felt as a prominence 1 in. or more distal and anterior to ankle-joint, when foot is inverted. Articulates anteriorly with navicular, and on its plantar aspect with plantar calcaneo-navicular ligament (spring lig.), and anterior end of dorsal surface of calcaneus. Collum, rough for ligaments, slightly constricted. Corpus: Superior surface, concavo- convex, all articular for distal end of tibia. Lateral surface stands away from neck and head, is covered by articular facet for lateral malleolus ; everted part below is called processus lateralis. Medial surface, flush with head and neck, has facet above for medial malleolus, is rough below for deltoid ligament. Posterior surface, very small, has oblique groove for lodgment of tendon of flex. hall, longus, and lateral to that a projection called processus posterior, which is occasionally separate and called os trigonuni. Inferior surface has large oval, concave facet posteriorly, for calcaneus : a deep groove, anterior to that, for interosseous lig. ; and, anterior to that, a facet which encroaches on neck and articulates with sustentaculum tali. Attachments.—Ant. lig. of ankle, and dorsal talo-navicular lig. to upper surface of neck. ant. talo-fibular lig. (ant. band of ext. lat. of ankle) to lateral side, deltoid lig. to medial side. 6