279 AXILLARY ARTERY Relations of 1st Part (see also p. 130).—Enveloped\ with vein and cords ofbrachial plexus, in fascial sheath. Anterior -. cephalic vein ; costo-coracoid membrane ; pectoralis major. Lateral and above : lateral and post, cords of plexus. Medial and below : axillary vein. Posterior : medial cord of plexus, long thoracic nerve ; 1st intercostal space, 1st digitation of serratus anterior (magnus). Of 2nd Part.—Anterior : pectoralis minor and major. Lateral: lateral cord of plexus. Medial: medial cord ; axillary vein. Posterior : posterior cord ; subscapularis. Of 3rd Part.—Anterior: medial head of median nerve, medial cutaneous nerve of forearm ; pectoralis major proximally, only fascias and skin distally. Lateral: median and musculo-cutaneous nerves. Medial: ulnar n. ; axillary vein ; medial cutaneous nerve of arm (lesser int. cutaneous). Posterior : radial (musculo-spiral) n., axillary (circumflex) n. ; subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, teres major. Branches.- First part: thoracalis suprema. Second part: thoraco-acromial or acromio-thoracic, lateral thoracic, alar thoracic. Third part: subscapular ; anterior and posterior humeral circumflex. Art. thoracalis suprema ramifies over 1st intercostal muscle. Thoraco-acromial artery (thoracic axis) turns over upper border of pect. minor, pierces costo-coracoid membrane, divides into branches :—(a) Clavicular runs medially, deep to pect. major, (b) Pectoral descends between pect. major and minor, (c) Acromial runs across pect. minor and coracoid process and pierces deltoid. (<f) Deltoid runs distally between pect. major and deltoid. Lateral thoracic art. runs downwards and medially along lower border of pect. minor to wall of thorax ; supplies muscles and mammary gland. Alar thoracic are small branches to fat and lymph glands. Subscapular art. runs along lower border of subscapularis to inf. angle of scapula and supplies adjacent muscles, and gives off a. circumflexa scapulae (dorsalis scapulae), which reaches dorsum of scapula by passing under teres minor. Art. circumflexa humeri anterior (anterior humeral circumflex) runs laterally, an- terior to surgical neck of humerus, and sends branches proximally and distally in intertubercular (bicipital) groove. Art. circumflexa humeri posterior post, humeral circumflex), much larger, passes dorsally through quadrilateral space, winds round surgical neck under cover of deltoid. Its most important anastomosis is with profunda of brachial.