420 RESPIRATORY APPARATUS vocal cord) ; weak and indefinite. Situated above lig. vocale. Extends from thyreoid, near angle, to antero-lateral surface of arytenoid. Crico-tracheal ligament connects lower border of cricoid with upper end of trachea. INTERIOR OF LARYNX Aditus Laryngis(Superior Aperture).—Largeand directed obliquely backwards and upwards into laryngeal part of pharynx. Formed anteriorly by epiglottis, posteriorly by mucous membrane in interval between arytenoids ; at each side by broad ary-epiglottic fold of mucous membrane, which stretches between arytenoid and edge of epiglottis. On each side of aditus is a recess, called recessus piriformis, between lamina of thyreoid and ary-epiglottic fold. Vestibulum laryngis extends from aditus to plica: ventricu- lares. Its walls are formed by epiglottis, ary-epiglottic folds, and small fold of mucous membrane in interval between arytenoids. Plica Ventricularis (False Vocal Cord).—A fold of mucous membrane, supported by lig. ventriculare, extending from angle of thyreoid at attachment of thyreo-epiglottic lig., backwards along each side of cavity of larynx, as far as cuneiform cartilage. Rima vesti- buli (false glottis) is the interval between plice of the two sides. Plica Vocalis (True Vocal Cord).—A sharp prominent fold of mucous membrane supported by and firmly bound to lig. vocale ; extends from angle of thyreoid to vocal process of arytamoid, below and medial to plica ventricularis. Rima glottidis consists of (i) interval between plicae vocales— interniembranous part; and (2) the interval between bases and vocal processes of arytsenoids—intercartilaginons part. Narrower than rima vestibuli ; therefore all the plicae can be seen from above, but only plicae vocales from below. Rima is opposite junction of upper and middle thirds of anterior border of thyreoid cartilage. Length in male is nearly 1 inch, in female nearly § inch. Equal in two sexes up to puberty. Rapidly increases in male after puberty. Intermembranous part is about § of whole length. Ventriculus laryngis is a depression between plica ventricularis and plica vocalis on each side. Appendix ventriculi is a diverticu- lum of mucous membrane, extending from ventricle upwards between plica ventricularis and lamina of thyreoid cartilage. Tunica mucosa laryngis (mucous membrane), continuous with that of pharynx above and trachea below. Loosely bound down, except over epiglottis and plica: vocales ; on the plica:, it is also very thin and its cells squamous. Mucous glands : scattered all over, especially plentiful over epiglottis, around cuneiform cartilages,