BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM 3io Popliteal vein begins at distal border of popliteus by union of ant. and post, tibial venae comites. Runs proximally, crossing posterior to popliteal art. from medial to lateral side, separating it from tibial nerve. Ends at hiatus tcndineus in adductor magnus by becoming femoral. It possesses 4 valves. Tributaries correspond to branches of popliteal artery, with small saphenous vein in addition. V. profunda femoris lies anterior to its artery, and ends in femoral vein in femoral trigone. Femoral vein begins at opening in adductor magnus, at junction of middle and distal thirds of thigh, posterior and lateral to artery, as continuation of v. poplitea, and ends, posterior to inguinal ligament, on medial side of artery, by becoming ext. iliac (see also p. 169). Has valve at termina- tion, and another where profunda enters it. Tributaries.—Profunda vein ; venae comites of art. genu suprema (anastomotic), of lateral and medial circumflex, of deep external pudendal and of unnamed muscular; great saphenous vein. Superficial Veins anastomose forming plexuses. Chief channels are : — Dorsal venous arch lies across distal parts of metatarsals. Great saphenous vein begins at medial side of foot. Extends proximally, anterior to medial malleolus, and along medial border of tibia, and behind medial condyle of femur; inclines laterally and anteriorly to reach fascia cribrosa, which it pierces to enter femoral vein. It has 8-20 valves. It receives numerous unnamed tributaries; and veins accompanying superficial ext. pudendal, epi- gastric and circumflex iliac arteries enter it before it pierces fascia cribrosa. Small saphenous vein begins on lateral border of foot. Extends proximally, behind lateral malleolus, and on back of leg to popliteal fossa, where it pierces popliteal fascia and joins popliteal vein. It has 6-12 valves. PORTAL SYSTEM OF VEINS Includes veins conveying blood to liver from spleen, pancreas and abdominal part of alimentary canal (except part of blood from anal canal and lower end of rectum). They correspond to arteries supplying these parts. 'I he