388 NEUROLOGY of pterygoideus externus and sends branch up over its upper head to temporal muscle ; then downwards and anteriorly, over lower head of pterygoideus externus, under cover of temporal muscle, coronoid process and masseter, frequently piercing temporal muscle ; reaches surface of buccinator, and supplies skin and mucous membrane of cheek. Posterior Division.—Larger: extends downwards a short distance between pterygoideus externus and tensor veli palatini, gives off auriculo-temporal, and divides into lingual and inferior alveolar. Auriculo-temporal n. arises by 2 roots, which embrace middle meningeal artery ; passes posteriorly, under cover of pterygoideus externus, and between neck of mandible and spheno-mandibular lig.; ascends behind mandibular joint, under cover of parotid ; crosses zygoma in front of ear, divides into 2 superficial temporal branches. Branches : to upper part of lateral surface of auricle, to upper parts of meatus and tympanic membrane, to mandibular joint, to parotid gland ; to skin of side of head, almost to vertex. Communications : by its roots with otic ganglion, to facial in parotid, with facial and zygomatico-temporal on temple. Lingual n. runs downwards and forwards, anterior to alveolar n. (inf. dental), first between pterygoideus ext. and int., next between mandible and pterygoideus internus, next under cover of mucous membrane of mouth, upon superior constrictor and stylo-glossus. It then runs forwards between mylo-hyoid and hyoglossus, and lastly between sub-lingual gland and genio-glossus, crossing submaxillary duct ; and supplies gums and anterior § of tongue. (See also p. 225.) Inferior alveolar n. (inf. dental) descends first between pterygoideus externus and tensor v. palatini, next between mandible and spheno-mandibular ligament, accompanied by alveolar vessels ; enters mandibular foramen and runs through mandibular canal. Branches: (1) to teeth and gums of mandible. (2) A’, mylohyoideus arises just above mandibular foramen ; is accompanied by mylo-hyoid vessels ; pierces spheno-mandibular ligament,runs along mylo-hyoid groove of mandible,lying upon mylo-hyoid muscle ; supplies mylo-hyoid and ant. belly of digastric. (3) Mental n. emerges from mental foramen, opposite 2nd premolar; supplies skin of chin, skin and mucous membrane of lower lip, and gums. Otic ganglion lies below for. ovale, between mandibular nerve and tensor v. palatini, which separates it from auditory tube, some