ARTICULATIONS io8 Articulationes Digitorum (Interphalangeal Joints). - Diarthrodial, hinge-joints. Capsule and collateral and volar accessory ligaments, as in metacarpo-phalangeal joints. Movements. — Flexion, by flexors; extension, by extensors, interossei and lumbricals. Full flexion of both wrist and fingers cannot occur at same time, nor can full extension ; because opposing muscles do not stretch sufficiently to allow it. Position of metacarpo-phalangeal and interphalangeal joints on dorsal aspect is on distal side of knuckles. On volar aspect the position of metacarpal joint is about § inch proximal to free edge of web; of 1st interphalangeal, opposite proximal crease; of 2nd, on distal side of crease. ARTICULATIONS AND LIGAMENTS OF PELVIS Ligaments uniting Vertebral Column to Hip Bone I. Ilio-lumbar lig., the thickened lower part of anterior lamella of lumbo-dorsal fascia, extends from 5th lumbar transverse process to inner lip of iliac crest, above posterior part of iliac fossa. Sacro-spinalis is dorsal to it. Quadratus lumborum arises from its upper surface. Psoas major lies on its ventral surface. II. Lig. sacro-tuberosum (Great Sacro-sciatic) stretches across gap between sacrum and hip bone ; forms postero- lateral boundary of inferior aperture of pelvis and of peri- naeum, and postero-medial boundaries of greater and lesser sciatic foramina. Broad at both ends, narrow in middle. Attached superiorly to posterior iliac spines, 3rd, 4th, 5th transverse tubercles of sacrum and to side of coccyx, in- fcriorly to medial margin of ischial tuberosity, and to ramus of ischium by a prolongation of its medial part called pro- cessus falciformis, to free margin of which the lower edge of obturator fascia is attached. III. Lig. sacro-spinosum (Small Sacro-sciatic).—Tri- angular. Apex is attached to ischial spine, base to side of coccyx and of lower part of sacrum. It lies between the sciatic foramina, and completes their boundaries. Relations of Sacro-tuberous Lig.—Dorsal surface covered by glutmus maximus, which arises from it ; long tendon of biceps, of which it represents the proximal end cut off by outgrowth of ischium, is partly continuous with it. Secondary plexus formed by post.