479 URINARY ORGANS vesicse is a projection forwards at posterior lip of urethral orifice, opposite middle lobe of prostate, enlargement of which increases size of uvula till it may block orifice. Torus vesicalis is a ridge of mucous membrane between orifices of ureters, produced by under- lying bar of muscle ; similar ridges may extend from urethral orifice to orifices of ureters. During life mucous membrane is straw- coloured, except over trigone, where it is pink, because the vessels show through it more readily. Capacity of bladder in both sexes is very variable. Arteries : superior and inferior vesical. Veins form a plexus drained into hypogastric (internal iliac). Nerves : through vesical plexuses, ultimately from upper lumbar and 3rd and 4th sacral. Lymphatics pass through small vesical glands on their way to hypogastric and iliac glands. Urethra Muliebris.—Exceedingly dilatable. inches long ; curves downwards and forwards, below and posterior to symphysis pubis. Pierces both fascia; of urogenital diaphragm, and, while between them, is surrounded by sphincter urethra;. Lies in close contact with anterior wall of vagina, and opens by prominent external orifice in vestibule of vagina, anterior to vaginal opening, between labia minora, 1 in. posterior to clitoris. Urethra Virilis, about 8 in. long, conveys not only urine, but secretions of testes, seminal vesicles, prostate, bulbo- urethral glands (CowpePs), and minute urethral mucous glands. It describes an LP-shaped curve, and is divided into prostatic, membranous and cavernous parts. Prostatic Part, ij inches long, tunnels prostate from its base to anterior border immediately above apex. Widest and most dilatable portion of urethra ; widest in middle. Crista urethralis is a longitudinal elevation in its floor or posterior wall. Prostatic ducts open in groove (prostatic sinus) on each side of crista. At most prominent part, near lower end, there is the opening of u trie ulus prostaticus, a diverticulum of mucous membrane leading upwards and backwards for inch into substance of prostate, posterior to middle lobe. Ejaculatory ducts open at the margins of the opening. Membranous Part.—Shortest, narrowest, and least dilat- able part of urethra, except external orifice ; \-\ in. long. Curved with concavity forwards, 1 in. behind and below symphysis. Extends from apex of prostate to urethral bulb, piercing both fascia; of urogenital diaphragm (triangular ligament). As it lies between the fascia; it is surrounded