164 MUSCLES AND FASC1/E Obturator externus lies deeply, on front of pelvis, and passes below and behind neck of femur. Origin (fl.): infero- medial half of outer surface of obturator membrane and the bone adjoining. Insertion (tend.): trochanteric fossa. Nerve: L. 3, 4, through obturator. Rotates thigh laterally and abducts and flexes it. Femoral trigone (Scarpa) is a triangular space on proximal J of ant. aspect of thigh. Base : inguinal lig. (Poupart). Lateral border: sartorius. Medial border: medial margin of adductor longus. Apex leads into adductor canal. Floor : ilio-psoas later- ally ; add. longus medially and distally ; pectineus proximal and lateral to longus ; add. brevis, occasionally, between pectineus and longus, and on a posterior plane. Roof: fascia lata and f. cribrosa. Contents : femoral sheath, including femoral canal ; femoral art., with its superficial epigastric and circumflex iliac, ext. pudendal and profunda branches ; femoral vein, with its saphenous, profunda, circumflex, and deep ext. pudendal tributaries ; femoral (ant. crural) nerve and its branches ; lateral cutaneous n. ; lumbo-inguinal n. (crural branch of genito-crural) ; lymphatics ; fat. Adductor canal (Hunter) lies in middle J of medial side of thigh, extending from apex of femoral trigone to the opening in adductor magnus, through which femoral vessels enter popliteal fossa. Boundaries : antero-lateral, vastus medialis ; antero-medial, fascial bridge uniting v. medialis to add. longus and magnus, and covered by sartorius; postero-medial, add. longus and magnus. Contents : femoral vessels, their musculo-articular and saphenous branches (anastomotic, deep and superficial); saphenous n. ; n. to vastus medialis. Relations in Femoral Trigone and Adductor Canal [Many of the structures are followed beyond the limits of these spaces.) Superficial fascia over femoral trigone and front of thigh contains various cutaneous vessels and nerves and lymph glands, which are detailed later. In proximal part of thigh it is subdivided into a superficial fatty part continuous with superficial fascia over rest of body, and a deeper membranous layer continuous above with super- ficial layers, attached below to medial half of inguinal lig. or deep fascia just below it, and to fascia lata a little distal to lateral half of inguinal lig. Superficial vessels and lymph glands lie between the layers. Deep fascia or fascia lata, where it roofs in femoral trigone, is perforated by superficial circumflex iliac and superficial epigastric arteries and lumbo-inguinal nerve: and presents an opening called fossa ovalis, closed in by a thin fascia, called fascia cribrosa, which is perforated by great saphenous vein, numerous lymph vessels, super- ficial ext. pudendal art., and sometimes by superficial epigastric art.