MUSCLES AND FASCI/E 222 to mylo-hyoid, hypoglossal nerve deep to gland. Contents of posterior part: parotid gland. Deep to it, ext. carotid sending post, auricular art. backwards. Deep to these, when stylo-hyoid and digastric are retracted—int. carotid, separated from external by stylo-pharyngeus and glosso-pharyngeal n. ; int. jugular vein, vagus, hypoglossal and accessory nerves. Submental Triangle is bounded by ant. belly of digastric, median line of neck, hyoid bone. Mylo-hyoid forms its floor. Contents : a few lymph glands, supra-hyoid branch of lingual art. The submental triangles of the two sides are usually looked upon as one. consisting of two symmetrical halves. Relations in Suhniaxillary Space Submaxillary space includes the anterior part of submaxillary triangle and the submental triangle, and contains the structures in relation to the mylo-hyoid and hyo-glossus muscles. Mylo-hyoid forms, with its fellow, the diaphragm of the mouth. It arises from mylo-hyoid line of mandible, and is inserted into body of hyoid bone, and into the median raphe which extends from symphysis menti to hyoid bone. It is supplied by mylo-hyoid branch of inf. alveolar (dental) nerve, and it elevates hyoid bone and tongue. Relations. —Superficial: Anterior belly of digastric crosses it obliquely. Submaxillary salivary gland and lymph glands lie on it, postero-lateral to ant. belly ; and submental lymph glands lie on it, near median plane. Mylo-hyoid nerve and vessels run downwards and medially below its origin. Submental vessels sometimes lie between it and submaxillary gland. Mandible, deep fascia, cervical branch of facial nerve, and platysma are more superficial still. Deep : Genio-hyoid, at the side of median plane ; genio-glossus, posterior to genio-hyoid. Anterior part of hyo-glossus is between genio-glossus and posterior part of mylo-hyoid. Sublingual gland lies between mylo - hyoid and upper, anterior part of genio - glossus. Lingual nerve, duct and deep part of submaxillary gland, hypoglossal nerve and its vena comitans are between mylo hyoid and hyo-glossus, in that order from above downwards. Sublingual artery runs to sublingual gland between mylo-hyoid and genio-glossus, below the level of lingual nerve. Mucous membrane of mouth covers deep surface of mylo-hyoid, near its origin, posteriorly. Hyo-glossus arises from body and greater horn of hyoid bone, and is inserted, into side of tongue near its base. It is supplied by hypo- glossal nerve. It elevates hyoid bone, depresses tongue. Relations.—Superficial: Mylo-hyoid anteriorly, submaxillary gland posteriorly, stylo-hyoid and tendon of digastric on postero-inferior part. Stylo - glossus interlaces with it at insertion into tongue, and they