DIGESTIVE APPARATUS 460 Relations of Rectum.—Anterior, in male : pelvic colon or small intestine; seminal vesicles, ductus deferentes, bladder; prostate. Anterior, in female : vagina below ; pelvic colon or small intestine separate it from uterus and upper part of vagina. At sides : pelvic colon or ileum, separated by peritoneum, above ; coccygeus, levator aniandsup. and middlehremorrhoidalvessels, below. Ureter is lateral, some distance away. Posterior-, lower part of sacrum, coccyx, ano-coccygeal body, at median plane; lower part of piriformis, coccygeus, levator ani, on each side. Between it and this bed are : middle sacral vessels, sympathetic trunks, lower lateral sacral vessels, 3rd, 4th and 5th sacral, and coccygeal nerves, besides connective tissue. Sup. haemorrhoidal art., at first posterior, divides to pass down along its sides, and to sink into its substance, about its middle. A muscular band (recto-urethral muscle), on each side of median plane, extends forwards from ant. surface of rectum at lower end of ampulla, to be attached to apex of prostate, fasciae of urogenital diaphragm and the urethra as it emerges from prostate. Relations of Anal Canal.—Posterior-, anococcygeal body. Lateral: levator ani, external sphincter ani, ischio-rectal fossa. An- terior, in male: sup. and inf. fascia; of urogenital diaphragm (tri- angular ligament) and structures between them; “central point” of perinaeum, bulb of urethra. Anterior, in female: separated from vagina by “ perineal body.” Curvatures of Rectum.—Antero-posterior flexure. Three lateral flexures above ampulla, two concave to left and one to right, each having corresponding fold in interior, called plica transversales recti, including mucous, submucous and part of muscular coat. Distal half of anal canal is called pars analis recti. Mucous membrane of upper half of anal canal is thrown into longitudinal columna rectales, separated by grooves. At lower end of each groove a crescentic fold, called anal valve, projects up and bounds a little pocket—sinus rectalis. Arteries to rectum and anal canal, from sup., middle and inf. hsemorrhoidal and middle sacral. Veins are drained partly into portal system, through sup. hsemorrhoidal, and partly into systemic veins through middle and inf. haemorrhoidal and middle sacral. Lymph- atics from rectum and upper part of anal canal pass through ano- rectal and inferior mesenteric and hypogastric glands to lumbar glands ; from lower part of anal canal and anus to superficial subinguinal glands. Nerves : from aortic plexus with sup. hremorrhoidal artery ; from hypogastric plexus ; from 2nd, 3rd, 4th sacral nerves directly, and from 3rd and 4th through inf. hremorrhoidal nerve.