447 PHARYNX junction of nasal bone with cartilage. Attached superiorly to basi-occipital and petrous temporal ; anteriorly, from above downwards, to auditory tube (Eustachian) ; medial pterygoid lamina ; pterygo-mandibular raphe ; mylo-hyoid line, and mucous membrane of .nouth ; base of tongue and hyoid bone ; thyreoid and cricoid cartilages. Cavity of pharynx is divided into nasal, oral, and laryngeal parts, and is widest in nasal part. Nasal part (naso-pharynx) is placed posterior to cavity of nose, above soft palate. Belongs not to digestive but to respiratory tract. It communicates with oral pharynx through oblique interval between palate and back of pharynx, called isthmus pharyngo-nasalis, which is sometimes very constricted. Floor (the soft palate), movable ; other walls, rigid. An- teriorly it communicates with nasal cavities through choanae. Lateral wall measures a little over i inch each way; presents, about its centre, the ostium pharyngeum of auditory tube (Eustachian), on a level with and i inch behind inf. nasal concha (inf. turbinated). Opening is guarded superiorly and posteriorly by prominence, called torus tubarius (Eustachian cushion), from which the plica salpingo-pharyngea, enclosing salpingo-pharyngeus muscle, extends downwards, and is gradually lost on wall of pharynx below. Posterior to torus is a gap leading into narrow pharyngeal recess, which extends laterally for | inch between auditory tube and prevertebral muscles, above upper edge of sup. constrictor, below foramen lacerum and petrous temporal. Roof and posterior wall form continuous slope, opposite posterior part of body of sphenoid, basi-occiput and anterior arch of atlas ; pharyngeal tonsil and bursa pharyngea, in this wall, are well marked in child, but small or absent in adult. (The bursa is a small median diverticulum of mucous membrane.) Oral Part of Pharynx. Posterior to tongue and mouth ; communicates with the mouth through isthmus faucium. Common to respiratory and digestive systems. On lateral wall the pharyngo-palatine arch (post, pillar of fauces), a fold of mucous membrane enclosing pharyngo-palatinus, arches downwards and posteriorly from edge of soft palate, and is lost on side wall of pharynx. It forms lateral bound- ary of isthmus pharyngo-nasalis (naso-pharyngeal isthmus). Palatine tonsil occupies triangular space above tongue, below soft palate, between glosso-palatine and pharyngo-