392 NEUROLOGY between it and tractus spinalis of V., and its fibres divide into two : (i) descending branches partly end in " principal” or dorsal nucleus, situated under area acustica of 4th ventricle, and partly run down along medial side of restiforin body as far as level of decussation of lemniscus, and end around cells mingled with them ; (2) ascending fibres end in nuclei of Deiters and Bechterew (lateral and superior), situated in lateral angle of 4th ventricle, at medial side of restiform body, and some pass by restiform body to nucleus fastigii, n. globosus and n. emboliformis of opposite side, or through them to cerebellar cortex. These cerebellar nuclei lie in white centre of vermis. Further Connections. —(1) Fibres pass to and fro in restiform body between nuclei of vestibular root and the cerebellar nuclei of opposite side. (2) From Deiters and Bechterew, fibres join opposite lemniscus (medial fillet), and join medial (posterior) longitudinal bundle, split and send branches upwards in it to oculo-motor nuclei, downvvards in it and in fasciculus anterior proprius (ant. basis bundle) to end round motor cells of spinal medulla. (3) Vestibulo-spinal tract arises in nuclei of Deiters and Bechterew, descends through lateral part of medulla oblongata and of anterior funiculus (column) of medulla spinalis, ends round motor cells, reaching as far as lumbar region. Cochlear root curves round lateral side of restiform bddy. Its fibres end mainly in 2 nuclei : a lateral placed on lateral side of restiform body, under cochlear root ; a ventral, in front of restiform body, in angle between cochlear and vestibular roots. [Some fibres pass directly into medullary striae (striae acustica;).] Further connections are established through and with the following :—Stria: medullares (acustica) are transverse fibres, seen under ependyma, at junction of pontine and medullary parts of floor of 4th ventricle. Corpus trapezoideum is a group of transverse fibres in lower part of pons, between its dorsal and basilar divisions ; nucleus co-rp. trap, is a group of cells in its substance. Sup. olivary nucleus is placed on dorsal surface of corp. trapezoideum and partly imbedded in it. Lemniscus lateralis (lateral fillet) is a broad flat band of fibres which emerges from groove between pons and brachium conjunctivum (sup. cer. ped.); lies on lateral side of brachium, disappears above, under inf. corp. quad., brachium inferius and corpus geniculatum mediale ; nucleus lem. lat. is a group of cells placed in it at its beginning. Acoustic radiation consists of fibres which arise in medial geniculate body, enter most posterior part of internal capsule, thence pass laterally above roof of inferior (descending) horn of lateral ventricle to end in acoustic centres. Acoustic centres are in the middle of superior temporal gyrus and in adjoining gyri on insular surface. Fibres of cochlear root end round cells of cochlear nuclei and new fibres arise :—(1) Fibres from ventral nucleus and a few from lateral nucleus, pass medially through vestibular root and form corpus trapezoideum. Fibres of corpus trapezoideum cross median plane,