MUSCLES AND FASCIAE 184 inserted into extensor tendon, base of 1st phalanx, and capsule of joint; each flexes 1st phalanx, since it passes from plantar to dorsal aspect over the joint, and extends 2nd and 3rd phalanges, since it is inserted into extensor tendon. First arises from tibial side of tendon of long flexor to 2nd toe, and is supplied by 2nd digital branch of medial plantar nerve (fibres ultimately from L. 5, s. 1). Second, third and fourth arise from contiguous sides of the 4 tendons of flexor longus, and are supplied on their dorsal surfaces by deep branch of lateral plantar nerve (fibres ultimately from s. i, 2). Flexor hallucis longus tendon, after entering sole, is crossed superficially by flexor dig. longus, and gives it a slip which goes usually into tendons for 2nd and 3rd toes. It is inserted into plantar surface of base of 2nd phalanx of great toe. Superficial to it, from proximal side of ankle-joint to flexor fibrous sheath, are (1) lig. laciniatum (iut. annular) and (2) lateral plantar vessels and nerve ; (3) abd. hallucis, (4) medial plantar vessels and nerve, and (5) flex. dig. longus ; (6) flex. dig. brevis, overlapping ; (7) plantar aponeurosis. Deep to it are (1) distal end of tibia, (2) ankle- joint, (3) posterior surface of talus (astragalus), (4) plantar surface of sustentaculum tali, (5) lateral part of plantar calcaneo-navicular lig. (spring lig.), (6) plantar surface of navicular bone and ligaments attached to it, (7) flexor hallucis brevis. [It grooves (1), (3), and (4).] Separate mucous or synovial sheaths surrounding tendons of flexor dig. longus and hall, longus extend from about 1 inch proximal to lig. laciniatum (int. annular) as far as middle of sole. Near the heads of metatarsals the tendons acquire new sheaths, which surround them to their insertions and line the fibrous flexor sheaths. Between phalanges and tendons at their insertion the mucous sheaths are pinched up to form triangular folds called vincula brevia. At more proximal levels fibrous cords with mucous covering pass between phalanges and tendons. These are called vincula longa. Blood-vessels run in vincula to the tendons. Third Layer of Muscles of Sole of Foot.—Flexor hallucis brevis, adductor hallucis, flexor digiti quinti brevis. Flexor hallucis brevis lies along plantar surface of 1st meta- tarsal. It arises by tendon from medial part of plantar surface of cuboid and from slips of tendon of tibialis posterior to 3rd and 2nd cuneiforms. It divides into two parts, the medial of which is inserted, in company with abductor, into medial side of base of 1st phalanx of hallux, while lateral part is inserted, together with adductor, into lateral side of the same. Sesamoid bones are developed in the tendons of insertion ; these replace the plantar accessory ligament, and articulate with and groove the plantar surface of head of 1st metatarsal. It flexes great toe. First digital branch of medial plantar nerve supplies it by fibres from L. 5, S. 1. Adductor hallucis arises by two heads, which are inserted together, by tendon, into lateral side of base of 1st phalanx. Oblique