4i POSTERIOR ASPECT OF SKULL lesser palatine arteries, middle and posterior palatine nerves. (7) Inferior orbital fissure (p. 37) leads into orbit. (8) Pterygo-maxillary fissure leads into infra-temporal fossa. POSTERIOR ASPECT OF SKULL Bones. — Parietals above, occipital below, mastoid tem- porals laterally. Sutures : those between the bones. Points and Lines.—Lambda, at apex of occipital, where sagittal and lambdoid sutures meet, lies opposite mid point between parieto-occipital fissures of brain. Occupies position of fonticulus occipitalis (post, fontanelle)—closed shortly after birth. External occipital protuberance (inion), near centre of occipital squama, gives attachment to trapezius and lig. nuchas. External occipital crest descends from pro- tuberance to for. magnum, gives attachment to lig. nuchas. Linea nuchae superior arches laterally from protuber- ance ; trapezius, sterno-mastoid, splenius and occipitalis are attached to it. L. nuchae suprema, above superior, gives attachment to galea aponeurotica (epicranial aponeurosis). L. nuchae inferior extends laterally from middle of occipital crest. Semispinalis capitis (complexus) and obliquus superior are inserted into area between L. sup. and inf. : rectus posterior major and minor, below L. inferior. Foramina. —F. mastoideum, on mastoid temporal at or near occipital border, leads into groove for transverse (lateral) sinus ; transmits emissary vein and meningeal branch of occipital art. F. parietale, ij inch above lambda ; transmits emissary vein to superior sagittal (longitudinal) sinus. SKULL VIEWED FROM ABOVE Bones.—Frontal, parietals, occipital. Sutures : coronal, sagittal, lambdoid. Points, etc—Bregma, where sagittal meets coronal suture. Situated at mid point of line drawn across top of head from front of one ear to that of the other. May be felt as a depres- sion. Marks the position of fonticulus frontalis (ant. fonta- nelle) — closed during 2nd year. Obelion is the point on sagittal suture between parietal foramina. Vertex, highest point on sagittal suture ; position variable. Lambda, parietal foramfna, tubera parietalia. lineae temporales and stephanion are dealt with earlier.