DIGESTIVE APPARATUS 468 Lig. Coronarium Hepatis.—Upper and lower layers of coronary ligament are names given to peritoneum as it is reflected from diaphragm on to liver, at upper and at lower margins of “ bare area.” Right triangular lig. (right lateral) is name given to these layers where they become continuous, round a free edge, at right lateral angle of bare area. Left end of upper layer is continuous with right side of falciform ligament. Left end of lower layer is continuous with peritoneum covering vena cava, on post, wall of foramen epiploicum. Left Triangular Lig. (Left Lateral).—Postero-superior border is attached to diaphragm, antero-inferior to left lobe of liver; left border is free. Lig. Phrenico-colicum.—A triangular fold attached by one border to left (splenic) flexure of colon, by another to diaphragm opposite nth rib, in mid-axillary line. Third is free and looks forwards. Spleen rests on upper surface. Lig. Gastro-lienale (Gastro=spIenic Lig.; Gastro-splenic Omentum).—Two layers proceeding from greater curvature, at left border of stomach, to lips of hilum on gastric surface of spleen. Continuous with gastro-phrenic lig., above ; with two ant. layers of greater omentum, below. Encloses left gastro-epiploic and short gastric branches of splenic art., accompanied by veins, lymph vessels, glands, and nerves. Forms part of left boundary of omental bursa (lesser sac). Anterior or right surface is in relation to stomach ; posterior surface is in relation to gastric surface of spleen. Left or posterior layer passes over spleen, adherent to its gastric, diaphragmatic and renal surfaces, and comes into relation again with right layer, and the two pass from spleen to left kidney as Iieno=renaI ligament, which helps to form left boundary of omental bursa. Between the layers of lieno-renal lig. are splenic vessels, with lymph vessels, lymph glands, nerves, and tail of pancreas. The layers separate at kidney and pass to right and left. Lig. Gastro-phrenicum.—Two layers proceeding to diaphragm from uppermost part of greater curvature of stomach. Lig. Hepato-colicum.—Present occasionally; attached superiorly to liver and gall-bladder, interiorly to beginning of transverse colon, posteriorly to lesser omentum and duodenum ; free border is directed to the right and anteriorly. Right and left gastro-pancreatic folds of peritoneum are raised up by hepatic and left gastric arteries as they run to duodenum and oesophageal end of stomach, respectively, and turn round borders of omental bursa to enter between layers of lesser omentum. Plicae Eplgastricae; Plicae Umbilicales Laterales; Plica Umbilicalis Media. — Folds of peritoneum raised up on ant. abdominal wall by inf. epigastric arteries, obliterated parts of umbilical arteries and urachus, respectively.