VISCERAL ARCHES, CLEFTS AND POUCHES 503 Entoderm of 1st pouch becomes mucous membrane of auditory tube and tympanic cavity and antrum. Ectoderm of 1st cleft becomes skin of ext. meatus. Both contribute to tympanic membrane. Ectoderm and entoderm of 2nd, 3rd, 4th clefts and pouches assist in forming skin of neck and mucous membrane of pharynx, respectively ; and the follow- ing also are formed of the entoderm :—Pharyngeal recess may arise from upper part of 2nd pouch, supra-tonsillar fossa from lower part, palate having grown backwards between them. Crypts of palatine tonsil are formed from 2nd pouch by 8 to 10 entodermal buds, which grow into wall of pharynx and become surrounded by mesodermal lymphoid tissue of tonsil. Thymus is derived from two buds which grow from entoderm of 3rd pouch. Stalks of buds disappear. Space in front of and at sides of epiglottis is a remnant of 3rd pouch. Para- thyreoids arise partly from 3rd, partly from 4th pouch of each side. Thyreoid Gland. — A median entodermal bud grows downwards, in front of hyoid bone and larynx, from groove behind tuberculum impar, and bifurcates to form isthmus and lateral lobes of thyreoid gland. Stem forms thyreo-glossal duct, whose upper end remains as foramen ccecum of tongue, while lower end forms pyramid of thyreoid, and intermediate part becomes fibrous cord, broken up by hyoid bone. Duct may partly persist and form cysts above and below hyoid bone. Piriform recess at side of larnyx is a remnant of 4th pouch. 1st arch is called mandibular ; 2nd, hyoid ; 3rd, thyreo-hyoid ; 4th and 5th, unnamed. Each consists of ectoderm and entoderm enclosing a mesodermal core, in which are developed a bar of cartilage, a nerve, and an arterial cephalic aortic arch (which is dealt with under Vascular System, p. 508). Dorsally, the visceral arches end at side of head, below level of neural tube ; ventrally, in early stage, they rest on pericardium ; but as head grows they are carried beyond pericardium and lie in ventral wall of neck. • 1st arch forms lateral and lower boundaries of stomodreum. It meets its fellow in front of tuberculum impar. It forms soft tissues around mandible, and forms anterior and lateral parts of ant. jj of tongue, and the teeth of mandible. Its cartilage is called Meckel's cartilage. Ventral end of cartilage becomes included in the part of mandible medial to mental foramen. Dorsal end ossifies to form malleus and incus. Remainder disappears, but membrane covering it forms spheno-mandibular lig. Nerve is mandibular. Maxillary process grows from anterior border of dorsal end of arch to form lateral part of upper lip, and face between orbit and mouth ; and contains a process of cartilage, in association with which the maxilla, zygomatic (malar), palatine bones and medial pterygoid lamina are developed. The other arches form sides and front of neck. Ventral end of 2nd arch insinuates itself between tuberculum impar and furcula, and fuses with fellow of opposite side to form post. i| of tongue. Tongue is formed, therefore, from mandibular and hyoid arches and tuberculum