SU MM AX ILLARY SPACE --3 Lingual artery arises from ant. aspect of ext. carotid, below external maxillary (facial), opposite tip of greater horn of hyoid ; it is divided into two parts. First part is in carotid triangle and forms a loop, convex upwards, above greater horn of hyoid, below posterior belly of digastric ; middle constrictor is medial, i.e. deep to it ; hypo- glossal nerve crosses it superficially. Second part runs anteriorly, along upper border of hyoid, lying upon middle constrictor and genio- glossus, under cover of hyo-glossus, which separates it from hypo- glossal nerve and its accompanying vein or veins, and from digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles and submaxillary gland. At anterior border of hyo-glossus it becomes the profunda linguae artery, which runs upwards, between anterior border of hyo-glossus and genio-glossus, to the tongue, and then forwards to tip of tongue, having inferior lingual muscle above and lateral to it, profunda lingua: vein and mucous mem- brane of inf. surface of tongue below it, and genio-glossus medial to it. Branches.—-Hyoid branch from ist part; dorsales lingua: from 2nd part ; sublingual from 2nd part or from profunda. Hyoid branch runs along upper border of hyoid, superficial to hyo-glossus. Dorsales linguae, two or more, run upwards, between hyo-glossus and genio-glossus, to pharyngeal part of dorsum of tongue and to palatine tonsil. Sublingual artery arises from end of -2nd part or beginning of profunda, and runs upwards and anteriorly, between mylo-hyoid and genio-glossus, below the level of submaxillar)' duct and lingual nerve, to reach the sublingual gland. Lingual Veins.—-Venae comites accompany lingual artery; a vena comitans accompanies hypoglossal nerve ; the largest vem from tongue lies usually on lateral surface of hyo-glossus, below hypoglossal nerve. These all unite at posterior border of hyo-glossus to form lingual vein, which ends in common facial vein, or runs across carotids to end in internal jugular vein. Lingual nerve leaves infra-temporal region (pterygo-maxillary space) by passing from between mandible and pterygoideus internus ; it then crosses superficial to attachment of superior constrictor to posterior end of mylo-hyoid line, under cover of mucous membrane of mouth, behind last molar tooth. It enters submaxillary space by crossing slylo-glossus superficially, at side of tongue ; and it runs anteriorly, close to the tongue, between mylo-hyoid and hyo-glossus, below mucous membrane of mouth, above submaxillary ganglion and duct of submaxillary gland. At anterior border of hyo-glossus it crosses submaxillary duct superficially from above downwards, and runs onwards between sublingual gland and genio-glossus. Under cover of sublingual gland it crosses deep to submaxillary duct, from below upwards ; and its terminal branches proceed, under cover of mucous membrane, as far as tip of tongue. Branches.—In infra-temporal region it receives chorda tympani and communicates with inf. alveolar (dental). In submaxillary region it sends communicating branches to hypoglossal, along ant. border of >5