BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM 258 (point A) to level of 6th cartilage (point B) ; (2) horizontal line drawn to the left from point B for 2% inches (point C) ; (3) curved line, slightly convex upwards and to the left, uniting points C and A. Pericardium in the part of this area posterior to sternum is uncovered by pleura ; in the part lateral to sternum it is covered by pleura, but not by lung. Cavity of right ventricle is semilunar on section, as septum bulges into it, and is a tube bent on itself to form a lower part—body—into which atrium opens, and antero-superior part—conus arteriosus—from which pulmonary artery springs. Angle between two parts is formed by thick ledge of muscle. Right atrio - ventricular orifice can admit three fingers. Situated posterior to right half of sternum, opposite fourth intercostal space. It is guarded by tricuspid valve, con- sisting of three large cusps or flaps — cuspis anterior, (infundibular), c. inferior (marginal), c. medialis (septal), each triangular in shape, and attached by base to fibrous ring surrounding orifice. Their basal angles may meet or may be separated by small intermediate cusps. Each consists of a fold of endocardium enclosing a little fibrous tissue. They project into cavity of ventricle, anterior cusp between orifice and conus arteriosus, inferior in relation to lower surface, medial in relation to the septum. Their atrial surfaces, over which blood passes, are smooth ; ventricular surfaces are roughened by chordae tendineae, which are inserted into ventricular surfaces, apices and margins of cusps. Pulmonary orifice is situated posterior to margin of sternum and the end of 3rd left costal cartilage, at level of its upper border. Guarded by valve of three semilunar segments— posterior, right and left—attached by convex borders to root of pulmonary artery. Concave border of each is free, and presents a small nodule at its middle, and, on each side of nodule, a small lunule, thinner than rest of flap. When valve is open, segments are projected into artery by blood- stream ; when it is closed, the nodules and lunules are pressed together, and their edges project upwards into artery. Cavity of conus arteriosus is smooth. Cavity of body is rugose and spongy, owing to large number of muscular pro- jections called trabeculae carneae. These are of two kinds : (1) mere ridges-, (2) bridges, attached at both ends, free in middle. Most important of tTiese is the moderator band, stretching across cavity, from base of anterior papillary