NEUROLOGY 396 pharyngeal plexus, from which branches pierce constrictors, supply mucous membrane and muscles of pharynx except stylo-pharyngeus, and muscles of palate except tensor ; a small lingual branch from the plexus joins hypoglossal. (2) Superior laryngeal n. descends between int. carotid art. and middle constrictor, and divides into two : (a) ramus interims (int. laryngeal) passes from middle constrictor on to thyreo-hyoid membrane, pierces it in company with sup. laryngeal vessels, supplies mucous membrane of larynx, epiglottis, base of tongue ; (b) r. externus (ext. laryngeal) descends upon inf. constrictor, helps to supply it, and ends in crico-thyreoideus. Superior cardiac rami arise from vagus in neck, one high up, the other low down. On right side, they pass behind subclavian artery and run along trachea to deep cardiac plexus. On left side, the upper one runs along trachea to deep plexus ; lower one runs in front of vagus, across aortic arch, to superficial cardiac plexus. Recurrent nerve, on right side, arises at root of neck, as vagus crosses subclavian artery ; turns upwards and medially behind subclavian and common carotid arteries ; ascends in groove between trachea and oesophagus ; passes undercover of lower border of inf. constrictor, receives the name of inferior laryngeal and enters larynx. On left side, it arises as vagus crosses aortic arch ; hooks round aorta, at lateral side of attachment of lig. arteriosum, and ascends in groove between trachea and oesophagus. Recurrent nerves give the follow- ing branches: (1) inferior cardiac pass to deep cardiac plexus ; (2) muscular to trachealis, oesophagus, inferior con- strictor, laryngeal muscles except crico-thyreoid. Cardiac branches arise from trunk of right vagus in thorax as well as from recurrent nerve. Anterior bronchial rami arise from vagus above root of lung and are joined by branches from deep cardiac plexus (and on left side from superficial also) to form ant. pulmonary plexus, which supplies structures of root anteriorly. Rost, pulmonary plexus is formed by trunk of vagus breaking up into posterior bronchial rami. It is joined by branches from 2nd, 3rd and 4th thoracic ganglia of sympathetic, and sends branches into lung. LEsophageal plexuses are formed in sup. mediastinum by branches from right vagus and left recurrent n. ; in post, mediastinum by cords of vagi coming out of post, pulmonary