IOO ARTICULATIONS over head of humerus, but is excluded from cavity by its synovial sheath. (2) More remote. Coraco-acromial arch overhangs it above, and large subacromial bursa is underneath arch and deltoid. Anteriorly, short head of biceps, coraco-brachialis, axillary vessels and the nerves in axilla are separated by subscapularis. Inferiorly, teres major is separated by post, circumflex vessels and axillary nerve in quadrilateral space. Deltoid overlaps anteriorly, posteriorly, laterally and above, but is nowhere in contact with capsule, being separated by coracoid process, coraco-acromial lig., bursa, and muscles attached to tubercles (tuberosities). Movements. — Flexion (movement forwards), produced by pectoralis major, coraco-brachialis, anterior part of deltoid, biceps. Extension (movement backwards), by latissimus dorsi, teres major and minor, post, part of deltoid, infraspinatus, long head of triceps. Abduction, by deltoid and supraspinatus ; ceases when arm is at a right angle to body, further elevation being produced by shoulder girdle moving at sterno-clavicular joint. Adduction, by subscapularis, pectoralis major, teres major and minor, latissimus dorsi, coraco- brachialis, long head of triceps, and by gravity. Circumduction, a combination of these four movements. Medial rotation, much stronger than lateral rotation owing to the number of muscles employed, viz., pectoralis major, anterior part of deltoid, subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, teres major. Lateral rotation, by infraspinatus, teres minor, posterior part of deltoid. Articulatio Cubiti (Elbow-joint). — Includes humero- ulnar, humero-radial and proximal radio-ulnar joints. The former two are considered together and form a diarthrodial, hinge joint. Trochlea and capitulum of humerus with semi- lunar notch of ulna and head of radius, respectively. Fibrous stratum of articular capsule is subdivided into four parts : (l) Anterior ligament, broad and thin, attached proximally to proximal margins of radial and coronoid fossa: and to medial epicondyle ; distally to margin of coronoid process and to annular (orbicular) ligament. (2) Posterior ligament, very thin. Attached proximally to margins of olecranon fossa on each side, and across its floor proximally, and to lateral epicondyle ; distally to anterior and lateral margins of olecranon. (3) Lig. collateral radiate (ext. lateral) extends from distal aspect of lateral epicondyle to annular ligament. (4) Lig. collaterals ulnare radiates from distal aspect of medial epicondyle to medial margins of coronoid process and olecranon, and to a transverse band which bridges across interval between them.