5*6 EMBRYOLOGY pupillary membrane. Cornea is formed from mesoderm in front of cleft, and from surface ectoderm. It becomes transparent. Internal Ear,—Ectoderm above ist visceral cleft, opposite hind- brain, becomes depressed, invaginated and cut off to form otic vesicle, which sinks into subjacent mesoderm, is met by outgrowing acoustic nerve, and develops into membranous labyrinth. Periotic cartilaginous capsule (p. 517) is developed in mesoderm around it. VERTEBRAL COLUMN Mesoderm of proto-vertebral somites grows medially, surrounds notochord and neural tube, and becomes condensed to form a mem- branous vertebral column. Vertebrae are formed in this, opposite intersegmental septa, i.e. opposite intervals between somites ; hence each vertebra belongs to two somites. A “ membranous” vertebra consists of body enclosed in a horse-shoe-shaped vertebral bow. Chondrification begins about 4th week and a cartilaginous verte- bral column is formed. Chondrification involves all parts except ventral part of bow, which, in most vertebrae, remains fibrous and fuses with intervertebral fibro-cartilage. In atlas, it forms anterior arch. Lateral parts of bow become vertebral arch and lateral parts of body. Transverse processes and spines grow out into intersegmental septa. Ossification begins about 7th week in vertebral arches, about 10th week in bodies, and the bony vertebral column is formed. Atlas vertebra is a completed vertebral bow. Body becomes dens (odontoid process) ; lateral mass represents the part of body of typical vertebra formed from vertebral bow. Ligaments of odontoid process represent fibro-cartilage between atlas and last occipital seg- ment. Imperfect condition of coccygeal vertebra is owing to failure of vertebral bow to chondrify and ossify. Lamina; of last 2 sacral are incomplete, owing to imperfect chondrification and ossification. RIBS AND STERNUM Ribs are formed in intersegmental septa, and articulate at first with only one vertebra ; but, later, the heads of all, except ist, 10th, nth, 12th, are shifted so that each articulates with fibro-cartilage and vertebra above as well. Ribs likewise pass through membranous and cartilaginous stages, before becoming bone. Sternum is formed by condensation of mesoderm in front of peri- cardium producing two membranous sternal bars which fuse and chondrify to form 2 cartilaginous bars, and these fuse. Fibrous joints appear between segments; fibrous and, later, synovial joints are formed with costal cartilages, except in ist, where, if synovial joint is formed, it soon disappears.