DIGASTRIC TRIANGLE 22 I Superior thyreoid vein crosses common carotid, above anterior belly of omo-hyoid, to join int. jugular. Communicating branch from ext. jugular turns round the ant. border of sterno-mastoid, to join int. jugular at upper part of triangle. Sympathetic trunk descends posterior to int. and common carotids, anterior to longus capitis (rect. cap. ant. major) and longus colli, medial to vagus. Vagus nerve descends posterior to and between carotid arteries and int. jugular vein, anterior to longus capitis and colli. Superior cervical cardiac branches of vagus and sympathetic descend in company with these nerve trunks. Superior laryngeal nerve arises from vagus; passes posterior to int. carotid, to lie between it and middle constrictor and divide into int. and ext. laryngeal branches. Internal laryngeal nerve passes from middle constrictor on to thyreo-hyoid membrane, and pierces it, under cover of posterior border of thyreo-hyoid muscle, in company with superior laryngeal art. External laryngeal nerve runs down- wards and medially upon the inf. constrictor, deep to superior thyreoid artery ; disappears under cover of omo-hyoid muscle and thyreoid gland ; gives a branch to inf. constrictor, and ends in crico-thyreoid. Accessory nerve passes either superficial or deep to int. jugular vein, and deep to occipital artery, and crosses upper or posterior angle of carotid triangle, accompanied by a sterno-mastoid branch of occipital artery, to reach sterno-mastoid. Hypoglossal nerve appears from under cover of post, bellv of digastric, between int. jugular vein and int. carotid artery; turns for- wards, hooking round occipital artery and its first sterno-mastoid branch ; crosses superficial to occipital arterv. int. and ext. carotid arteries, and the loop of lingual artery, which separates it from middle constrictor ; and disappears from the triangle bv passing under cover of post, belly of digastric again. Ramus descendens arises from hypoglossal as it crosses int. carotid. It runs downwards, superficial to internal and common carotids, and is joined by descendens cervicalis to form ansa hypoglossi. Thyreo-hyoid branch arises before the hypoglossal crosses the lingual artery. It runs downwards and medially, super- ficial to lingual art., middle constrictor, and thyreo-hyoid membrane, to enter the thyreo-hyoid muscle. Digastric or Submaxillary Triangle. Bounded superiorly by mandible and line drawn from its angle to mastoid process, anteriorly by ant. belly of digastric, posteriorly by stylo-hyoid and ]>ost. belly of digastric. Floor: mylo-hyoid, hyo - glossus, and superior constrictor, from before backwards. Triangle is sub- divided by stylo-mandibular lig. into anterior and posterior parts. Contents of anterior part: submaxillary salivary and lymph glands ; ant. facial vein, superficial to gland ; ext. maxillary art. (facial), imbedded in gland ; submental vessels, vessels anil nerve