120 ARTICULATIONS dorsalis pedis, deep peroneal nerve (ant. tibial), ext. dig. longus and peronaeus tertins ; perforating branch of peroneal vessels on lateral malleolus. Medial end of proximal limb of cruciate lig. (lower band of ant. annular) lies obliquely across joint, and more superficially are branches of superficial peroneal nerve (musculo - cutaneous), superficial vessels ; and great saphenous vein and saphenous nerve on medial malleolus. Medial.—Tibialis posterior lies on deltoid lig. above susten- taculum tali, and Hex. dig. longus on attachment of lig. to susten- taculum. Lig. laciniatum (int. annular) overlies the tendons. Posterior.—Tendo calcaneus (Achillis) is separated from posterior lig. by a wide interval containing areolar tissue, fat, and small vessels. On medial side of tendo calcaneus, and close to the joint, are flexor hallucis longus, tibial nerve, post, tibial vessels, flex, digitorum longus, as it slips off tibialis posterior—enumerated in that order latero-medially. Vessels and nerves are on a slightly more superficial plane than the two flexors, and overlap them : and all are strapped down by lig. laciniatum (int. annular). Tendons of peronaeus longus and brevis are on same plane as these, but are lateral to tendo calcaneus and on post, surface of lateral malleolus ; peroneal vessels descend along the medial side of brevis. Lateral.—As peronad tendons pass from malleolus the brevis lies on posterior talo-fibular lig. (post, band of lat. lig.) and separates longus from it. Tendons are held down by retinaculum, and have common synovial sheath. As they turn forwards below malleolus they lie on calcaneo-fibular lig. (middle band), brevis above longus, and common sheath divides to enclose them separately. Peronaeus tertius crosses anterior talo-fibular lig. (ant. band). Termination of peroneal art. anastomoses with its perforating branch on this side of joint. More superficially are the small saphenous vein and the nervus suralis (short saphenous). Movements.—Flexion, or dorsiflexion, produced by tibialis anterior, peronaeus tertius, long extensors; checked by posterior talo-fibular, calcaneo-fibular, and posterior part of deltoid ligament, and by locking of bones. Extension, or plantar flexion, i.e. pointing the toes, produced by gastrocnemius, soleus, plantaris, tibialis posterior, peronaeus longus and brevis, 'and long flexors ; checked by ant. ligament, ant. part of deltoid lig., and ant. talo-fibular lig. ARTICULATIONES PEDIS Articulatio Talo-calcanea.—Diarthrodial. Gliding. Body of talus (astragalus) and dorsal surface of calcaneus (os calcis). Articular capsule surrounds articular surfaces, and its fibrous stratum is divided into anterior, posterior, medial,\ and lateral portions, of which the posterior is the weakest.