NEUROLOGY 368 which descends through great scapular notch to supply infraspinatus, and gives another branch to shoulder-joint. Branches of Infraclavicular Part.— Lateral cord, gives off lateral anterior thoracic, niusculo-cutaneous, lateral head of median. Medial cord gives medial anterior thoracic, medial cutaneous nerve of arm, medial cutaneous nerve of forearm, ulnar, medial head of median. Posterior cord gives two subscapulars, thoraco-dorsal, axillary, radial. Lateral anterior thoracic n. (5, 6, 7 c. ; lateral cord) passes anteriorly, lateral to 1st part of axillary artery, is connected with medial ant. thoracic by loop in front of artery, pierces costo-coracoid membrane ; supplies pectoralis major. Medial anterior thoracic n. (8 c., 1 T. ; medial cord) passes anteriorly between axillary artery and vein, pierces pectoralis minor, supplying it, and ends in pectoralis major. Musculo - cutaneous n. (5, 6, c.; lateral cord) lies between axillary artery and coraco-brachialis, pierces coraco- brachialis opposite teres major, and runs distally between biceps and brachialis, supplying them ; pierces deep fascia near elbow, at lateral side of biceps ; becomes lateral cutaneous nerve of forearm, which passes deep to cephalic vein and divides into a volar and a dorsal branch, for volar and dorsal aspects of radial side of forearm. They end at ball of thumb and dorsum of wrist respectively. Nerve to coraco-brachialis from 7 C. or 6 and 7 C. is incorporated with musculo-cutaneous and leaves it before it pierces coraco-brachialis. Branch to brachialis sends twig to elbow-joint. Median n.—Lateral head (5, 6, 7 C. ; lateral cord) lies on lateral side of axillary art. Medial head(8 c., 1 T. ; medial cord) passes distally and laterally, on anterior surface of axillary art., to join lateral head. Median nerve trunk lies along lateral side of axillary and brachial arteries as far as middle of arm, crosses brachial art. there, usually superficially but sometimes deep to it, and lies along its medial side as far as cubital fossa, where it lies on medial side of ulnar artery. Leaves fossa between two heads of pronator teres, ulnar head separating it from ulnar artery ; passes towards wrist between flex, sublimis and profundus, closely adherent to sublimis. Near wrist it becomes more superficial, lying on ulnar side of flex, carpi radialis, dorsal to or on radial side of palmaris longus. Passing deep to transverse carpal lig., and overlapped by lateral part of synovial flexor sheath, it enters palm and divides into medial and lateral divisions.