FAS Cl/E OF DORSAL ASPECT OF TRUNK 191 From bones of leg to metatarsus, acting on tarso-metatarsal, intertarsal and ankle joints. Peronreus brevis and tertius. From bones of leg to phalanges, acting on interphalangeal, metatarso-phalangeal (also metatarsal, intertarsal and ankle) joints. Ext. hallucis and digitorum longus, flex. hall, and dig. longus. From tarsus to phalanges, I. acting on metatarso-phalangeal, tarso-metatarsal (and intertarsal) joints, abductor hallucis and digiti quinti, flexor hallucis brevis. II. Acting also on interphalangeal joints. Ext. dig. brevis, flexor dig. brevis, quadratus plantae. From metatarsus to phalanges, acting on metatarso-phalangeal joints. Flexor dig. quinti brevis, adductor hallucis ; seven interossei (act on interphalangeal also). FASCI/E OF DORSAL ASPECT OF TRUNK The superficial fascia of the hack contains cutaneous nerves and vessels. In the upper part of the trunk the nerves are the medial divisions of the posterior branches (posterior primary divisions) of thoracic nerves ; in the lower part they are the lateral divisions, and therefore appear farther away from median plane. Of the lumbar posterior branches only the lateral divisions of the upper three appear on the surface, ami they descend into buttock. The nerves are accompanied by branches of posterior divisions of intercostal and lumbar vessels. Deep fascia of the back is attached superiorly to su|>crior nuchal (curved) line of occipital ; at median plane to ligamentum nuchse and spines of vertebra. Laterally it is continuous with deep cervical fascia in neck ; at shoulder it is connected with spine of scapula and clavicle, and continued into fascia over deltoid ; below shoulder it is continuous with fascia of axilla and abdominal wall. Inferiorly it blends with lumbar part of lumbo-dorsal fascia. Fascia lumbo-dorsalis consists of three lamin'. (1 Vertebral aponeurosis, or aponeurosis of latissimus dorsi, is attached below to crest of ilium, extends upwards, covering sacro- spinalis muscle, being attached to spines of vertebr.e and angles of ribs. (2) Middle layer lies between sacrospinalis and quadratus lumborum. Attached medially to tips of lumbar transverse processes, superiorly to last rib, inferiorly to iliac crest. (3) Anterior layer lies on abdominal surface of quadratus lumborum. Attached medially to anterior surfaces of lumbar transverse pro- cesses near bases ; su|>eriorly to last rib, and there it gives partial origin to diaphragm ; inferiorly to crest of ilium, and it is thickened to form ilio lumbar ligament. The three layers meet at lateral border of quadratus to form a strong band, from which obliquus internus and transversus abdominis obtain partial origin. In B.N.A. the anterior layer described here is not included in lumbo-dorsal fascia.