446 DIGESTIVE APPARATUS and post, facial itself emerges from lower end, and runs downwards and anteriorly to join anterior facial. Auriculo-temporal n. runs laterally, behind mandibular joint, above parotid, and appears in front of ear, behind superficial temporal artery. Facial nerve enters parotid on postero-medial surface, between impressions for styloid and digastric ; breaks up, superficial to post, facial vein, into branches which are joined by branches from auriculo- temporal and great auricular ; and most emerge on antero-medial surface. Temporal branches appear at upper end of parotid ; zygomatic, buccal, and marginal mandibular branches appear at ant. border ; ramus colli (cervical branch) emerges from postero-medial surface at lower end. In relation to postero-medial surface, on deeper plane than digastric, stylo-hyoid and styloid process, are the stylo-pharyngeus, ext. and int. carotids, int. jugular, and last 4 cerebral nerves. Arteries to Parotid.: ext. carotid, post, auricular, int. maxil- lary, superficial temporal, transverse facial. Lymphatics pass through ant. auricular and parotid lymph glands to superficial and upper deep cervical glands. Nerves : sensory, from great auricular and auriculo-temporal ; secretory, from auriculo-temporal ; vasomotor, from sympathetic plexus around ext. carotid. Submaxillary Gland (see also p. 223) lies ensheathed in fascia, between bellies of digastric (which it overlaps), on hyo- glossus and mylo-hyoid, below mucous membrane of mouth, under cover of mandible and pterygoideus internus, and supported inferiorly by skin, fascia;, and platysma. Ext. maxillary art. (facial) is lodged in groove on post, part of medial surface. Submaxillary duct arises from medial surface and, accompanied by deep process of gland, passes forwards, superficial to hyo-glossus and genio-glossus, deep to mylo-hyoid and sublingual gland, and opens at side of frenulum linguae. Sublingual Gland (see also p. 224).—Smallest salivary gland. Lies above mylo-hyoid, between genio-glossus and mandible near symphysis, under plica sublingualis in floor of mouth, upon which its ducts (8-20) open. PHARYNX Pharynx lies posterior to nose, mouth, and larynx, and communicates freely with them, as it has no proper anterior wall. Extends from base of skull to 6th c. vertebra, where, at level of lower border of cricoid, it is continuous with oesophagus. Upper end is about level of zygoma and of