WRIST-JOINT 103 radialis. Pronation, produced mainly by pronator teres and quadratus, and brachio-rjidialis. Supination, mainly by supinator, biceps, brachio-radialis. Position of supination is that in which the bones of forearm are parallel, and thumb is directed laterally. Position of pronation is that in which radius is crossed in front of ulna, the proximal end remaining lateral, and thumb is directed medially. Arm is held usually in intermediate position, in which the interval between the bones is widest, or in the prone position ; but in the description of structures in the forearm it is assumed that the limb is in supine position and dependent. Movement of supination brings forearm and hand from inter- mediate or prone position into supine position. Movement of prona- tion reverses. Supination is the stronger movement, owing to strength of biceps; and screws and screw ing instruments are constructed accordingly. Axis of movement passes through centre of head of radius and apex of articular disc. Head of radius rotates within annular ligament. Distal end of radius carries hand with it, and revolves around head (distal end) of ulna ; articular disc moves with radius, and its ulnar attachment is the centre of movement. Starting from supine position, the upper limb can be rotated so that palm, originally looking forwards, looks successively medially, backwards and laterally, i.e. it moves through 270°. Greater part of that movement is not pronation, but medial rotation at shoulder-joint, assisted by some movement at inlercarpal joints. Pronation alone can move hand through about 130”. The ridge felt proximal to ulnar margin of dorsum of wrist, when arm is supine, is the styloid process of ulna and tendon of extensor carpi ulnaris. The knob seen proximal to ulnar side of dorsum of wrist, in prone position, is the lateral surface and a small part of anterior surface of head of ulna, while styloid process and tendon may be felt proximal to ulnar aspect of wrist. Articulatio Radiocarpea (Wrist-joint). Diarthrodial, condyloid. Distal surface of radius and triangular articular disc form an elliptical concavity for convex surface formed by ossa naviculare, lunatum (semilunar) and triquetrum (cuneiform), and their interosseous ligaments. Articular capsule surrounds joint, and is strengthened by the following hands. (1) Dorsal radio-carpal lig. extends distallv and medially from dorsal margin of distal end of radius to dorsal surfaces of naviculare, lunatum and trique- trum. (2) Volar radio-carpal lig., from volar margin of distal end of radius and its styloid process and from head of ulna, to proximal row of carpal hones and to capitatum (magnum). (3) /-id- collaterals ulnare (int. lateral). A round cord