PORTAL SYSTEM OF VEINS larger veins have no valves, but smaller tributaries have. Tributaries of portal system communicate with tributaries of systemic veins at lower end of oesophagus, lower end of rectum, on post, wall of abdomen, and along lig. teres of liver. Vena portae (Portal vein) is the chief trunk. It begins behind neck and in front of recurved part of head of pancreas, by union of splenic and superior mesenteric, opposite ist L. vertebra. Ascends anterior to v. cava inferior, posterior to neck of pancreas and superior part of duodenum ; turns forwards at upper border of duodenum to enter lesser omentum, between layers of which it ascends to liver, having bile duct anterior and to the right, hepatic art. anterior and to the left. At right end of porta of liver, posterior to branches of hepatic art. and hepatic ducts, it divides into right and left branches, which enter right and left lobes of liver, break up and end in capillaries common to them and to branches of hepatic artery. Hepatic veins arise from these capillaries and carry blood to v. cava inferior. Left branch of portal vein is connected with umbilicus by ligamentum teres—remnant of fcetal left umbilical vein—and with inf. v. cava by fibrous remnant of fcetal ductus venosus. While v. porta; is posterior to duodenum the bile duct is anterior to it and gastro-duodenal art. is anterior or on left side. Tributaries. — Splenic, superior mesenteric, coronary, pyloric, a pancreatico-duodenal and sometimes inferior mes- enteric ; cystic, from gall-bladder, joins its right branch. V. lienalis Splenic) begins at hilum of spleen ; passes towards kidney between layers of lieno-renal ligament ; runs to the right across left kidney and aorta, behind pancreas, below splenic and cceliac arteries, above left renal vein and origin of sup. mesenteric art. Ends by joining superior mes- enteric to form vena portae, behind neck of pancreas. V. mesenterica inferior accompanies artery, lying to its left side. Above level of origin of artery it ascends medial to ureter, anterior to psoas, spermatic vessels and renal vein, posterior to duodeno-jejunal flexure, to end behind pancreas in splenic vein, or in origin of v. portm. V. mesenterica superior accompanies its artery, lying to its right side. V coronaria ventriculi ascends along lesser curvature of stomach, between layers of lesser omentum, anterior to omental bursa (lesser