MUSCULAR TRIANGLE & ROOT OP' NECK 213 transverse process, and gives no branches. Common carotid artery is antero-medial below, and anterior to it above ; vagus, vertebral vein, and int. jugular vein are antero-lateral ; inf. thyreoid artery crosses it anteriorly, just before it disappears. Thyreo-cervical trunk (thyroid axis) and scalenus ant. are lateral to it; longus colli and lower cervical part of sympathetic trunk are medial; pleura is posterior at its origin, and higher up the inf. cervical ganglion, 7th cervical transverse process and 7th cervical nerve are posterior to it. Right vertebral vein emerges from 6th cervical transverse process, descends at first anterior, then lateral to vertebral artery, in front of pleura and subclavian artery, behind jugular vein ; and ends in innominate. It receives (1) ant. vertebral vein, which accom- panies ascending cervical art., and (2) deep cervical vein accompany- ing artery of same name, and sometimes (3) the first intercostal vein. Right internal mammary artery arises from lower and anterior aspect of subclavian, at medial border of scalenus anterior, runs downwards, forwards, and medially, upon ant. surface of pleura, to enter thorax immediately posterior to 1st cartilage. Anterior to it are clavicle, termination of int. jugular, and commencement of innominate vein, from behind which it emerges as it enters thorax. While posterior to innominate vein it is crossed obliquely, latero-medially, by phrenic nerve, and gives off its pericardiaco-phrenic branch (art. comes n. phrenici). Internal mammary vein does not ascend into neck ; it ends in innominate at superior aperture of thorax. Right thyreo-cervical trunk (thyroid axis) arises from antero- superior aspect of subclavian, runs upwards for inch, between scalenus ant. and vertebral art., posterior to int. jugular vein, anterior to pleura ; and divides into inf. thyreoid, transverse cervical and scapular. Inferior thyreoid, see p. 211. Transverse cervical and transverse scapular (supra-scapular) arteries run laterally, in front of scalenus ant. and phrenic nerve, posterior to sterno-mastoid, and pass into posterior triangle of neck (p. 205). Their veins end, in posterior triangle, by joining external jugular. Right costo-cervical trunk arises from 2nd part of subclavian ; ascends upon pleura, behind scalenus ant., to reach neck of 1st rib ; and divides into two : Deep cervical branch passes dorsally, between neck of 1st rib and 7th cervical transverse process, and appears in back of neck, between sentispinalis cervicis and semispinalis capitis (complexus). Superior intercostal branch turns downwards on anterior surface of neck of 1st rib, posterior to apex of pleura, between sympathetic trunk medially and 1st thoracic nerve laterally, and ends in branches for first two intercostal spaces. First intercostal vein ascends in company with superior intercostal artery, in front of neck of 1st rib, passes forwards above apex of pleura, and either ends in vertebral vein, or descends between subclavian artery and pleura to end in innominate vein. Right internal jugular vein is usually larger than the left. In