7 3 FEMUR Sexual Differences.—In female, as compared with male, bones are lighter, more slender, and muscular markings less pronounced. Ilia are less everted, iliac fossm shallower ; anterior superior spines closer together. Superior pelvic aperture, reniform rather than heart-shaped, and obliquity of its plane greater ; sacral promontory projects less ; pubic tubercles wider apart; all diameters are larger. Cavity is roomier, less funnel - shaped, shorter, both anterior and posterior walls being of lesser depth ; sacrum shorter and wider, and its curve less uniform, being flatter above and more sharply turned forwards below. Inferior aperture, larger; pubic arch wider and more rounded ; ischia farther apart ; sciatic spine less inturned ; interval between sacrum and hip-bone (sacro-sciatic notch) wider and shallower; coccyx more movable and projects less forwards. Ob- turate foramina smaller, may be triangular rather than oval. Acetabula are farther apart and relatively smaller. Femur. —Distal end larger than proximal ; shaft is smallest in middle, enlarges towards ends, especially distally. Proximal end. separated from its fellow by width of pelvis. Caput (head), spherical, directed medially, proximally and forwards ; articulates with acetabulum ; articular area more extensive on superior and anterior aspects than on posterior and inferior; fovea capitis femoris is a pit on postero- inferior quadrant for lig. teres. Collum ('neck), nearly iA inches long, joins shaft at angle of 125 in adult, hut wider in youth. Upper border is short and joins trochanter major ; lower border, long, more sloping, joins shaft at trochanter minor. Anterior surface is flat and more nearly on same plane with adjoining parts than posterior ; bears smooth im- pression near head, against which ilio-femornl lig. presses in erect posture ; junction with shaft is marked by rough ridge, called tinea intertrochanterica. Posterior surface, rounded, joins shaft on medial side of trochanters, and of inter- trochanteric crest—the prominent ridge uniting trochanters posteriorly. Trochanter major, a large quadrilateral promi- nence, united to lateral part of neck and proximal end of shaft ; overhangs neck ; felt subcutaneously at side of hip : tip is opposite centre of hip-joint, on level with upper margin of symphysis pubis ; root is defined from shaft by horizontal ridge. Has anterior, posterior, lateral and medial surfaces and a superior border. An oblique ridge for glutteus