MUSCLES AND FASCI/E and is inserted into skin of eyebrows. It produces vertical furrow in skin of middle of forehead. Levator palpebrae superioris. See Muscles of Orbit, p. 236. MUSCLES OP NOSE Procerus (pyramidalis nasi), a prolongation from epicranius to aponeurosis of nasalis. Wrinkles skin of nose. Nasalis (compressor naris) arises from maxilla above incisor fossa and ends in aponeurosis, which joins its fellow on dorsum of nose. Dilatores naris : two small slips placed on lateral margin of nostril. Depressor alae nasi extends from incisor fossa of maxilla to ala and septum of nose. Caput angulare of quad rat us labii superioris (see below). MUSCLES OF MOUTH Orbicularis Oris.—A sphincter occupying lips, and continuous with muscles converging on mouth, which contribute largely to it. Its own proper fibres radiate from different points—septum of nose, incisor fosste, mandible at sides of symphysis. It closes and purses lips. Various movements in,the lips can be produced by contraction of different portions of the muscle. Some fibres conveyed to it by facial nerve are said to arise in nucleus of hypoglossal. Quadratus Labii Superioris.—Three heads all mingling with orbicularis before insertion into skin. Caput angulare (levator labii superioris alseque nasi) arises from lower part of frontal process of maxilla, and is inserted into ala of nose as well as into lip. Caput infra-orbitale (levator labii superioris) arises from maxilla above infra-orbital foramen. Caput zygomaticum (zygomaticus minor) arises from zygomatic (malar) bone. Caninus (levator anguli-oris) arises from maxilla below infra-orbital foramen ; inserted into skin of angle of mouth, after| mingling with orbicularis. Zygomaticus (major) arises from zygomatic (malar) part of zygomatic arch ; inserted into orbicularis and skin of angle. Risorius may be inseparable from platysma ; origin : fascia over masseter ; insertion : orbicularis and skin of angle. Triangularis (depressor anguli oris) ; origin : oblique line of mandible ; insertion : orbicularis, skin of angle. Quadratus labii inferioris (depressor) ; origin: front of body of mandible ; insertion : orbicularis and skin of lower lip. Mentalis (levator menti) extends from incisor fossa of mandible to skin of chin. Platysma arises from deep fascia covering deltoid and pectoralis major, ascends over clavicle, lies in superficial fascia on lower part of posterior triangle and upper part of ant. triangle ; is inserted into body of mandible, skin of lower part of face and lips, mingling