362 NEUROLOGY PERIPHERAL NERVOUS SYSTEM SPINAL NERVES Arranged in pairs. 8 cervical, 12 thoracic, 5 lumbar, 5 sacral, 1 coccygeal. 1st to 7th cervical leave vertebral canal above corresponding vertebras. 8th cervical below 7th vertebra; 1st thoracic to 4th sacral below corresponding vertebrae ; 5th sacral and 1st coccygeal leave by hiatus sacralis, but their anterior branches turn forwards below corresponding vertebrae. Typical nerve is connected with spinal medulla by two roots: anterior, motor; posterior, sensory; and has a ganglion. Roots unite, immediately lateral to ganglion, to form spinal nerve-trunk, which gives off a recurrent ramus meningeus to spinal medulla and its meninges, and then divides into anterior and posterior rami (ant. and post, primary divisions). Posterior ramus passes dorsally between transverse processes and divides into rami, lateralis and medialis. Anterior ramus sends a white ramus communicans to a ganglion on sympathetic trunk and receives a grey ramus communicans from it, and then proceeds laterally and downwards on a plane anterior to transverse processes. During its course it gives off muscular branches ; and about half-way on its course it gives off ramus cutaneus lateralis, which divides into rami, posterior and anterior. Finally, it ends as ramus cutaneus anterior on ventral wall of body. From division of spinal nerve-trunk onwards, the typical arrangement is wholly re- tained only in thoracic region. Anterior termination is much below level of origin of the nerve, but zone of cutaneous dis- tribution is horizontal or nearly so, owing to droop of lateral cutaneous branch and cutaneous part of posterior branch. Spinal ganglion consists of cells, each having one process, which divides into two branches, one passing to spinal medulla (cord) in posterior root, the other to periphery in spinal nerve. Ganglion and posterior root of ist nerve are small and may be absent. Length of roots increases from above downwards. Since spinal medulla ends at 2nd lumbar vertebra, the lower lumbar, sacral and coccygeal roots have far to travel, and form a leash, called cauda equina. Direction of roots of first two nerves is laterally and upwards, of the remainder laterally and downwards, with increasing degrees of obliquity until lowest are vertical.