'32 MUSCLES AND FASCIA of pecloralis major, crosses pectoralis minor, pierces costo-coracoid membrane, crossing anterior to ist part of axillary artery, and ends in axillary vein. Branches of Axillary Artery.—(i) Art. thoracalis suprema arises from ist part and crosses superficial or deep to axillary vein, to ramify over ist intercostal muscle. (2) Thoraco-acromial art. (thoracic axis) arises from 2nd part, turns over upper border of pectoralis minor, pierces costo-coracoid membrane, divides into acromial, clavicular, deltoid, and pectoral branches, which diverge from one another; the acromial laterally over pect. minor and coracoid process, piercing deltoid to reach acromion ; the clavicular medially along clavicle, posterior to pect. major ; the deltoid distally between pect. major and deltoid ; the pectoral downwards and medially between pectorales, anastomosing with lateral thoracic and intercostals. (3) Lateral thoracic arises from second part, runs downwards and medially, posterior to axillary vein, to lower border of pect. minor, along which it runs to wall of thorax, supplying muscles, anastomosing with intercostals, and contributing some external mammary branches to mammary gland. (4) Alar thoracic consists of small irregular twigs arising from axillary artery or its branches to supply fat and lymph glands. (5) Subscapular artery, the largest branch of axillary, arises from 3rd part, and runs along lower border of subscapularis to inf. angle of scapula. In the first part of its course it is posterior to ulnar nerve and axillary vein, and in latter part of its course it crosses anterior to lower subscapular nerve, and is accompanied by thoraco- dorsal nerve (long subscapular). After emerging from under cover of axillary vein it gives off the circumflexa scapulae, which crosses triangular space and passes under teres minor to reach dorsum of scapula. Both anastomose with branches of transverse scapular (supra- scapular) and descending branch (post, scapular) of transverse cervical. (6) Anterior humeral circumflex artery arises from 3rd part, and turns laterally under cover of coraco-brachialis and short head of biceps, between them and surgical neck of humerus, and sends one branch to shoulder through intertubercular (bicipital) groove; another distally in the groove, supplying pect. major tendon ; and branches to muscles, including deltoid. (7) Posterior humeral circumflex artery, much larger than anterior, arises opposite anterior, passes dorsnlly through quadri- lateral space, below shoulder - joint, distal to axillary (circumflex) nerve, winds round surgical neck of humerus under cover of deltoid. Its branches supply deltoid, skin, and shoulder-joint. Its important anastomosis is with profunda branch of brachial artery. Nerves in Axilla not arising: from Brachial Plexus.— (1) Intercosto-brachial nerve (intercosto-humeral) is the lateral cutaneous branch of 2nd intercostal. It pierces 2nd external intercostal muscle ; appears between digitations of serratus anterior ;