EMBRYOLOGY 5.8 Nasal and lacrimal bones, part of frontal process of maxilla are formed in membrane covering that part of the process of ethmoidal plate which forms cartilages of nose. Zygomatic (malar) bone and arch, maxilla, palatine bone, and medial pterygoid lamina are formed from membrane covering cartilage in maxillary process. Tympanic plate is developed in cartilage—origin doubtful. Union of Bones of Skull, and Growth of Skull. — Syn- chondroses unite body of sphenoid with basi-occiput and with ethmoid, and jugular process with petrous temporal. These cartilages are ossi- fied at 25th year. Other bones of skull are united by sutures. As the skull bones grow at their edges, it is necessary that the sutures should be grouped in three planes : a horizontal, giving height ; a vertical transverse, giving length; a vertical antero-posterior, giving breadth. Growth in thickness takes place under periosteum covering surfaces ; growth in area of bone, and therefore of capacity of skull, takes place at sutures and synchondroses. Metopic suture, between halves of frontal, is closed at 8th year, except at its lower end. Other sutures persist till after maturity. Principal sutures in adult are in connection with parietal bone : sagittal, between parietals ; coronal, between parietals and frontal ; la/nbdoidal, between parietals and occipital ; squamous, between parietal and squamous temporal. They begin to be obliterated before middle age and are completely obliterated at advanced age. Foramina in skull are in sutures between bones or between elements of which a bone is made up. Growth of Face.—At birth the face forms only about one-eighth of size of head, owing to small size of jaws, nasal cavities and air sinuses. Increase takes place owing to development of temporary teeth and, still more, to development of permanent teeth ; to enlargement of nasal cavities and air sinuses connected with them, especially maxillary sinus ; till, at maturity, face forms one-half of the skull. Growth is greatly accelerated after 7th year. LIMBS Limbs grow out from sides of body, as buds, at end of 3rd week. Each corresponds to 7 segments. During 5th week, constrictions mark off hand and foot, and then forearm and leg. Shoulder and hip remain buried in body wall. Digits appear as ridges, separated by grooves, at 7th week. Nails begins to appear at 3rd month. Extensor surface of limb looks laterally, flexor surface looks medially. Border looking towards head is called pre-axial, that looking taihvards is called post-axial. During 3rd month the limbs are rotated through 90’, in opposite directions, so that pre-axial border