123 ARCHES OF THE FOOT opposite side : produced mainly by tibialis anterior and posterior, aided by flexors of toes. (2 Eversion, i.e. raising lateral border of foot so that sole looks laterally : produced mainly by peronad, longus, brevis and tertius, aided by ext. dig. longus. These move- ments take place chiefly at talo-calcanean and transverse tarsal joints. The movements at other joints are very limited. Metatarso phalangeal joints and joints of the digits are comparable to corresponding joints of upper limb, except that (1) transverse metatarsal ligament connects all five digits, instead of only four as in hand ; and (2) toes are abducted and adducted from and to middle line of second digit, instead of third as in hand. ARCHES OF THE FOOT Arches of the Foot. —In order that the weight of the body may be better distributed, the foot is raised up into the form of a half-dome with longitudinal and transverse arches. Longitudinal arch.—Keystone is the talus, which receives weight of body. Posterior pillar is calcaneus. Anterior pillar is divided into navicular, three cuneiforms and first three metatarsals medially, and cuboid and last two metatarsals laterally. Transverse arch, or series of arches, comprises all these bones. Arches are maintained by:—(1) Muscles and tendons around foot, especially tibialis posterior and peronams longus ; this is their chief support. Tendon of perona-us longus runs forwards and medially from lateral to medial side of foot ; widespread tendons of tibialis posterior pass from medial border forwards and laterally. They therefore brace up both longitudinal and transverse arches. (2) Form of the bones. (3) All ligaments, especially plantar calcaneo- navicular, calcaneo-cuboid, and long plantar. (4) Fasciae, especially plantar aponeurosis. The functions of the arches of foot are:—(1) To distri- bute the weight of the body. (2) To give spring and elasticity to the step. (3) To break shocks, in running and jumping. (4) To provide a space where soft parts of sole may lie free from undue pressure.