ANTERIOR RAMI OF CERVICAL NERVES 365 PLEXUS CERVICALIS Cervical plexus is a looped plexus. 1st nerve descends to join ascending branch of 2nd. 2nd, 3rd, 4th divide into ascending and descending branches which join with one another and with 1st to form 3 loops. Descending branch of 4th joins brachial plexus! Cervical plexus lies superficial to scalenus medius and levator scapuhe, deep to sterno-mastoid, int. jugular vein, and prevertebral fascia ; lateral to scalenus anterior and longus capitis (rectus anticus major). Branches.—I. Cutaneous, appear in post, triangle of neck, above the middle of post, border of sterno-mastoid ; diverge from one another and pierce deep fascia :— (1) Lesser occipital n., from 2nd or 2nd and 3rd, runs along post, border of sterno-mastoid to supply skin of back of head and ear. (2) Great auricular n., from 2nd and 3rd, ascends upon sterno-mastoid towards ear. Sends mastoid branches be- hind ear. Auricular branches to both surfaces of lower part of auricle. Facial branches over masseter and parotid ; they communicate with facial in substance of parotid. (3) N. cutaneus colli (transverse superficial cervical), from 2nd and 3rd, runs forwards over sterno-mastoid, under platysma ; divides into upper and lower branches, which supply skin over anterior triangle of neck. (4) Supra clavicular nerves, from 3rd and 4th. At first one trunk which divides into 3 sets, anterior, middle, and posterior branches, which pierce deep fascia of roof of posterior triangle and descend, under platysma, over sternal end, middle and acromial end of clavicle respectively, to supply skin covering pectoralis major and deltoid. II. Communicating. — Grey rami communicantes from superior cervical ganglion. From 1st, or loop between 1st and 2nd, to hypoglossal ; main part of this leaves hypo- glossal as descendens hypoglossi and ner~oes to thyrco-hyoid and genio-h void. III. Muscular. Lateral: sterno-mastoid (2nd) ; levator scapuhe (3rd, 4th) ; trapezius (3rd, 4th) ; scalenus medius (3rd, 4th). Medial.—Thyreo-hyoid and genio-hyoid, from 1 st, or 1st and 2nd, through communicating branch to hypoglossal. Rectus lateralis, rectus anterior (1st) ; longus capitis (rectus major) (1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th) ; longus colli (3rd and 4th) ;