27 SUPERIOR APERTURE OF THORAX 1st cartilage. Sterno-hyoid is ascending from manubrium, superficial and lateral, to sterno-thyreoid. (Its clavicular origin is above the superior aperture of thorax.) Viscera.—Trachea is descending in median plane. Posterior to it is the oesophagus, with the left recurrent nerve in the groove between the two. Left common carotid is on its left side, and left subclavian artery is passing from its left side to left side of oesophagus. Pre- tracheal fascia, inferior thyreoid veins, thymus, sterno-thyreoid, sterno- hyoid, manubrium are anterior, in that order from trachea towards skin ; and, behind the thymus, the innominate artery is passing from anterior surface of trachea to its right side. Pretracheal fascia is descending upon trachea to blend with pericardium. (Esophagus is descending upon the longus colli muscles, posterior to trachea anti left recurrent nerve, and protruding a little to left of trachea. Common carotid artery is anterior to its left border ; left subclavian artery is antero-lateral to its left border ; and the thoracic duct is ascending along its left border, between it and pleura. Thymus has manubrium, sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyreoid anterior to it ; trachea, pretracheal fascia, inferior thyreoid veins, innominate and left common carotid arteries posterior to it. Vessels. — Innominate artery is passing upwards and to the right, from behind manubrium to the back of right sterno-clavicular joint, posterior to sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyreoid and thymus ; from anterior surface to right lateral surface of trachea. A little below the inlet the inferior thyreoid veins and left innominate vein are between it and thymus. Left common carotid artery is passing upwards and slightly laterally, from behind manubrium to back of left sterno-clavicular joint, posterior to the muscles, thymus and left innominate vein ; on lateral surface of trachea, anterior to left border of oesophagus, with pleura and lung on its left side. Left subclavian artery is ascending postenor III and to the left of common carotid, from left side of trachea to left side of oesophagus, in a groove on medial surface of pleura and lung. Internal mammary artery, on each side, is entering thorax posterior to 1st costal cartilage, anterior to pleura. Its vein ends in innominate in thorax. Pericardiaco-phrenic branch of int. mammary artery accompanies phrenic nerve into thorax ; its vein ends in int. mammary vein. Superior intercostal artery, on each side, is descending on anterior surface of neck of tst rib, posterior to apex of pleura, between sympathetic trunk medially and 1st thoracic nerve laterally. Vein from 1st intercostal space ascends to root of neck in company with it. Thyreoidea ima artery when present, ascends from innominate artery, upon anterior surface of trachea, to thyreoid gland. Inferior thyreoid veins are descending upon trachea and pretracheal fascia, posterior to thymus, to end in innontinates.