MUSCLES AND FASCIA-. '52 digital branch of median ; divides into two branches which run along contiguous sides of ring and little fingers. As in the case of median, they supply palmar surfaces and sides along whole length, and dorsal surfaces over 2nd and 3rd phalanges; Pacinian corpuscles are connected with their terminal twigs; - digital arteries are superficial to them in palm, dorsal to them on sides of fingers. Deep branch runs with deep branch of artery, dorsally between abductor and flexor brevis, laterally under cover of flexor brevis and opponens, supplying all three ; then laterally across palm, deep to long flexor tendons and lumbricals, upon proximal ends of interossei and metacarpals near their bases, on concave or proximal side of deep volar arch. Sends 3 branches distally to supply interossei in spaces between metacarpals of fingers, and the 3rd and 4th lumbricals; breaks up finally to supply adductor pollicis, 1st dorsal interosseous and interosseus primus volaris : i.e. 14 muscles in all. Ulnar nerve corresponds to lateral plantar nerve of foot. Tendons of flexor digitorum sublimis lie between transverse carpal lig. (ant. annular) and flexor profundus at wrist ; and those for middle and ring fingers are superficial to those for index and little fingers. Fibres from radius help to form tendons to middle and ring fingers, but not the other two. In the palm each tendon runs towards its finger, deep to palmar aponeurosis and superficial arch, superficial to corresponding profundus tendon ; and both tendons enter fibrous flexor sheath opposite head of metacarpal. Opposite 1st phalanx each sublimis tendon splits to allow profundus tendon to pass through it. Opposite base of 2nd phalanx the two halves reunite by their dorsal margins and form a gutter in which profundus tendon lies; then, after partial decussation, they separate again to be inserted into margins of 2nd phalanx about its middle. Flexor Digitorum Profundus.—At wrist, lies between flex, sublimis and carpus, on medial side of flexor pollicis longus. Tendon for index becomes separate some distance proximal to wrist, and the part of fleshy belly from which it springs is separable for some distance ; this is associated with the more frequent independent use of index. Tendons for other three fingers are combined in one Hat mass, but separate as they enter palm. Tendons give origin to lumbricals in palm, and run to fingers, deep to sublimis tendons, superficial to deep volar arch, adductor pollicis, interossei and meta- carpals. Near metacarpo-phalangeal joint each enters fibrous flexor sheath, passes through corresponding sublimis tendon opposite 1st phalanx, and runs on to insertion into volar (palmar) surface of base of 3rd phalanx. It flexes 3rd, 2nd, 1st phalanges and wrist. Lumbrical muscles are four small fusiform muscles, which arise from tendons of flexor profundus ; pass distally between the tendons, deep to digital vessels and nerves ; cross the volar surface of transverse metacarpal lig. ; end in tendons which pass obliquely dorsally on radial sides of metacarpo-phalangeal joints, to be inserted mainly