66 OSTEOLOGY BONES OF INFERIOR EXTREMITY PELVIC GIRDLE HIP BONE Os Coxae HipBone; Innominate Bone).—3 parts : ilium, ischium, pubis, welded together at hemispherical cavity called acetabulum. Ilium: superior, large, expanded; ischium: postero-inferior, short, stout ; pubis : antero-inferior, more slender. Ischium and pubis enclose foramen obturatum, below and anterior to acetabulum ; ilium and ischium bound the greater sciatic notch, posterior to acetabulum. Os Ilium. —Expanded, flattened, fluted. Lower end is fused with ischium and pubis, and forms rather less than § of acetabulum. Crista iliaca (iliac crest) is the long/-shaped upper border (or end), felt at lower limit of waist. Its margins are called external and internal lifts, and interval between them is called linen intermedia. It ends anteriorly as anterior superior iliac spine, which is readily felt ; and posteriorly as posterior superior iliac spine, position of which is indicated by depression on skin, opposite 2nd sacral spine. Tubercle of crest is the prominence on external lip, felt about 2I inches behind anterior superior spine, and forms highest point on crest in living body, as seen from the front. Anterior border extends from ant. sup. spine to margin of acetabulum, at eminentia ilio-ftectinea, which marks junction between ilium and pubis. Anterior inferior iliac sftine is the prominence on anterior border a little above acetabulum ; ilio-psoas leaves abdomen through notch between it and ilio-pectineal eminence. Posterior border extends from post, sup. spine to upper part of anterior margin of greater sciatic notch. Posterior inferior iliac spine is the prominence just above notch, at post, part of sacro-iliac joint, A inch below posterior superior spine. Dorsal or lateral surface (dorsum ilii), concavo-convex, sub- divided into areas for gluteal muscles by 3 gluteal lines, which converge upon greater sciatic notch: (1) Tineagluteea inferior extends from above ant. inf. spine to deepest part of sciatic notch , rough groove below it, above acetabulum, is for reflected head of rectus femoris and capsule of hip-joint. (2) L. gluteea anterior extends from iA inches behind ant. sup. spine towards sciatic notch. (3) I., gluteea posterior extends from 3A inches in front of post. sup. spine towards sciatic