5*4 EMBRYOLOGY terms thalamus, epithalamus, metathalamus. From basal part there grow out two hollow protrusions which become optic nerves and retina. From alar parts, anteriorly, there grows a hollow bud which at once divides into two, to form cerebral hemispheres. Cavity in each becomes lateral ventricle. Communications with original cavity are retained as stem and limbs of foramen interventriculare (Monro). Each hemisphere grows forwards, upwards, and backwards. It buries upper and lateral surfaces of thalamus and fuses with them. Part of hollow hemisphere covering upper surface of thalamus remains ependyma, and thalamus is seen through it, in floor of lateral ventricle of adult brain. Inferior horn is the original posterior end of lateral ventricle. The part of hemisphere enclosing it turns round thalamus and grows forwards as the temporal lobe ; its medial wall remains ependyma, so that, in adult, an instrument can be passed into inferior horn through chorioidal fissure, after pia has been taken away, for invaginated ependymal wall is torn away with pia. Post, horn is a later diverticulum, and is wholly surrounded by fibres from corpus callosum. Corpus striatum is developed as a thickening in floor and lateral wall of hemisphere. Fibres growing down from and up to cortex divide it into caudate and lentiform nuclei. Optic chiasma is formed by fibres intercrossing in lower part of lamina terminalis. Upper part of lamina terminalis thickens. Lower part of thickening becomes partly isolated and fibres grow into it to form ant. commissure. Upper part grows upwards and backwards with hemi- spheres. Transverse fibres grow into its dorsal part to form corpus callosum. Longitudinal fibres connecting corpus mamillare and hippocampus grow into ventral part and form the fornix. The part of the thickening between corpus callosum and fornix becomes stretched to form septum pcllucidum, and acquires a cavity. As thickening grows backwards and becomes invaded by corpus callosum and fornix it carries pia mater with it on both surfaces. Layer on inferior surface forms, with layer on roof of 3rd ventricle, the tela chorioidea of 3rd ventricle (velum interpositum). Chorioid plexus is formed in it and projects into lateral ventricle, pushing its ependymal medial wall before it. Inferior horn carries a prolongation of plexus with it. Insula (Island of Reil) is the part of cortex in relation to corpus striatum, and is on surface of hemisphere up to 5th foetal month. Surrounding parts of cortex begin to grow more rapidly, and overlap the insula, so that it lies in a fossa—fossa lateralis cerebri (Vallecula Sylvii); and these overlapping parts finally cover insula and form the opercula. Opercula growing over insula from different points produce, and are kept apart by, the stem and branches of fissura lateralis (Sylvius). Olfactory Apparatus.—Depressions called olfactory pits appear in roof of stomoda:um, underneath fore-brain. A part of ectoderm of