AXILLA skin ; superficial fascia, platysma, middle supra-clavicular nerves ; deep fascia ; pectoralis major ; lateral anterior thoracic nerve and branches of thoraco-acromial artery (thoracic axis) and cephalic vein ; costo-coracoid membrane ; loop between ant. thoracic nerves. Lateral and above : lateral and posterior cords of plexus, lateral anterior thoracic nerve. Posterior : medial cord of plexus and medial anterior thoracic nerve ; long thoracic nerve ; contents of ist intercostal space and first digitation of serratus anterior (magnus). Medial and belcrtu-. axillary vein, and medial anterior thoracic nerve passing anteriorly between artery and vein. Relations of 2nd Part.—. Interior : skin, etc. ; pectoralis major and minor. Lateral: lateral cord of plexus. Posterior : posterior cord, and, posterior to that, fatty areolar tissue separating it from subscapularis. Medial: axillary vein, and medial cord between artery and vein. Relations of 3rd Part.—Anterior -. skin, fasciae, and pectoralis major proximally, skin and fascite distally ; lateral vena comes crossing to join medial ; medial head of median nerve, medial cutaneous nerve of forearm (int. cutaneous); axillary vein overlaps. Lateral-, median and musculo-cutaneous nerves; coraco-brachialis. Posterior -, subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, teres major, from above downwards, subscapularis chiefly ; radial nerve (musculo-spiral) between artery and all three muscles, axillary nerve (circumflex) between art. and subscapularis. Medial: axillary vein, medial vena comes, and ulnar nerve between artery and vein ; medial cutaneous nerve of arm (lesser int. cutaneous) on medial side of vein. Axillary vein begins at lower border of teres major as a con- tinuation of basilic vein ; passes upwards and medially, on medial side of artery, to end at outer border of ist rib by becoming subclavian. It possesses several valves. Relations.—Anterior -, skin, etc. ; pectoralis major ; branches of thoraco-acromial artery (thoracic axis), and of medial anterior thoracic nerve ; pect. minor and costo-coracoid membrane. Lateral : axillary artery ; medial anterior thoracic nerve between vein and ist part of artery, medial cord between it and and part, ulnar nerve deeply between it and the 3rd part. Posterior : first digitation of serratus anterior (magnus), subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, teres major; long thoracic nerve, art. thoracalis suprema, lateral thoracic art., medial cutaneous nerve of arm (lesser int. cutaneous), subscapular art. and nerves, thoraco-dorsal nerve (long subscapular). Medial: lymph glands ; medial cutaneous nerve of arm (lesser int. cutaneous). Tributaries—(1) Venn* comites of branches of axillary artery. (2) V. comites of brachial artery are continued along axillary, the lateral one crossing obliquely over the 3rd part, and they join axillary vein at lower border of subscapularis. (3) Proximal part of cephalic vein pierces deep fascia, ascends in groove between pectoralis major and deltoid ; below clavicle it passes under cover of clavicular head