309 VEINS OF INFERIOR EXTREMITY upwards and to the right, across body of 5th L. vertebra and mid. sacral art., along medial side of left common iliac artery, to end behind right common iliac art. It is crossed by pelvic mesocolon and sup. hemorrhoidal vessels. Tributaries. —Ilio-lumbar vein emerges at medial side of psoas major and ends in common iliac of its own side. Middle sacral vein: venas comites of middle sacral art. unite to form single vein which opens into left common iliac. External iliac vein begins, as continuation of femoral, posterior to inguinal ligament at medial side of termination of ext. iliac art. Ends opposite lumbo-sacral joint, posterior to upper end of hypo- gastric art., by joining hypogastric vein to form common iliac. Relations.—Lies medial to its artery below, posterior to it above. Psoas major is lateral ; medial to it are peritoneum, and ductus deferens (or round lig. Of uterus) below, and ovarian vessels, ureter and hypogastric art. above. Obturator n. is posterior. Tributaries. Inferior epigastric and deep circumflex iliac veins end in it near its origin. It may receive pubic vein, which connects it with obturator. Hypogastric vein (internal iliac) begins at upper part of greater sciatic notch ; ascends to superior aperture of pelvis to join ext. iliac. Lies posterior and medial to its artery. Obturator n. is lateral to it. Sacro-iliac joint is posterior to it. Medial to it is pelvic colon on left side and ileum on right side. Tributaries correspond to branches of hypogastric art., except ilio- lumbar and umbilical (obliterated hypogastric). Veins from walls of pelvic viscera lie partly in fascia surrounding them, and partly between fascia and viscera, and form plexuses, from which large veins issue to accompany corresponding arteries. Portal and systemic systems of veins anastomose in walls of rectum ; some of blood from rectum is returned by sup. hemorrhoidal to portal system, and some by middle hemorrhoidal and by inf. hemorrhoidal (through int. pudendal) to hypogastric vein. Superficial dorsal vein of penis ends by dividing into right and left branches, which join superficial ext. pudendal of respective sides. Deep dorsal vein of penis ends, not in int. pudendal, but passes into pelvis between arcuate pubic ligament and fascia of uro-genital diaphragm to join pudendal (prostatic) plexus ; and in female, dorsal vein of clitoris ends in vesical plexus. Veins of Inferior Extremity Deep Veins.—Two venae comites accompany all arteries in lower limb, except popliteal, femoral, and profunda femoris. They have numerous valves.