325 MEDUI.LA OBLONGATA MEDULLA OBLONGATA One inch long ; conical in shape, large end above ; extends from lower border of pons to foramen magnum, where it is continuous with spinal medulla. Lies in vallecula cerebelli, posterior to basilar part of occipital bone. Vertebral arteries lie at sides, belcw, in front of nerve roots ; converge and meet anteriorly at lower border of pons. Lower half has central canal, continuous with that of medulla spinalis (spinal cord). Central canal, traced upwards, approaches dorsal surface, expands, and in upper half of medulla oblongata, it forms lower part of 4th ventricle, which is closed dorsally only by layer of ependyma, covered by supporting layer of pia mater. Anterior median fissure begins above in a pit called foramen ccecum, at lower border of pons ; and is interrupted below by decussatio pyramidum, i.e. the interlacing of fibres of pyramids crossing from one side to the other. Posterior median fissure is found only in lower part of medulla oblongata ; traced upwards, it ends where central canal comes to surface, its lips being thrust apart to become continuous with margins of fossa rhomboidea. Sulcus lateralis anterior : between pyramid and olive above, where fila of hypoglossal nerve emerge through it ; in line with anterior nerve roots below, and fila of anterior root of 1st cervical emerge through it. Sulcus lateralis posterior : posterior to olive and separated from it by part of antero-lateral superficial fasciculus (Gowers’) above, where 9th and 10th nerves are at- tached ; in line with posterior lateral groove of spinal medulla below, and fibres of nth emerge through it. These lateral sulci divide each half of medulla oblongata into 3 areas :— Posterior Area. — Funiculus gracilis (Goll) medially, continuous with fasciculus gracilis of spinal medulla ; ends above, at lower end of 4th ventricle, in a prominence called clava, produced by underlying nucleus f gracilis. Funiculus cuneatus, continuous with f. cuneatus of spinal medulla, ends abov e in prominence called cuneate tubercle, poorly marked in adult ; produced by nucleus f. cuneati. Tuberculum cinereum (tubercle of Rolando), posterior to roots of accessory nerve, formed by tractus spinalis (spinal root of V.) spread out over an enlargement of its nucleus, which is continuous with subs, gelatinosa Rolandi of spinal medulla. Corpus restiforme, large and prominent bundle. Begins above