BRANCHES OF ABDOMINAL AORTA 289 Common iliac arteries begin, at left side of body of 4th L. vertebra, as branches of bifurcation of aorta. Each runs downwards and laterally, and ends at level of lumbo-sacral fibro-cartilage, opposite sacro-iliac joint, by dividing into hypogastric and external iliac. Right artery is about 2 inches long ; left art., if inches. Upper ^ of line drawn from point i inch to left and below umbilicus to point midway between ant. sup. iliac spine and symphysis pubis, corresponds to common iliac, and lower 5 corresponds to external iliac. Relations.—Anterior-, peritoneum and coils of intestine, sympa- thetic nerves connecting aortic with hypogastric plexus; near termina- tion, ureter very often ; sup. htemorrhoidal vessels also lie on left art. Posterior-, bodies'of 4th and 5th I.. vertebrae and fibro-cartilage between; sympathetic trunk; psoas; and some distance away, obturator n., lumbo-sacal trunk and ilio-lumbar art. Right artery is separated from all these (except at lower end where it touches psoas) by termination of right and left common iliac veins and origin of vena cava. Left common iliac vein is medial to its artery. Branches.—None of consequence except terminals. Hypogastric artery (Internal iliac) arises, as terminal branch of common iliac, on medial border of psoas ; runs downwards and posteriorly into pelvis for i| inches, to end near upper border of greater sciatic notch, by breaking up into anterior and posterior divisions. Smaller in adult than ext. iliac, but twice as large in fcetu*, where it runs to umbilicus and thence to placenta as umbilical artery. After birth, part from pelvis to umbilicus becomes fibrous cord—lateral um- bilical lig. or obliterated umbilical art. (obliterated hypogastric) —pervious only up to point where it gives oft' vesical art. Branches of posterior division : ilio-lumbar, lateral sacral and superior gluteal. Branches of anterior division: (1) Viscerai : superior vesical (given off by obliterated umbilical); middle hemorrhoidal ; and, in male, inferior vesical ; in female, vaginal and uterine. (2) Parietal: obturator, in- ternal pudendal, inferior gluteal. Relations.—Anterior: ureter and peritoneum, and in female, in addition, the ovary and uterine tube, separated by peritoneum. Posterior : its vein, origin of common iliac vein ; lumbo-sacral trunk, sacrum. Medial: peritoneum separates it from ileum on right side, from pelvic colon on left. Lateral: ext. iliac vein, obturator nerve and vein ; psoas.