482 UROGENITAL APPARATUS Blood-Vessels.—Int. spermatic art., from aorta, anastmoses in cord with art. to ductus deferens and ext. spermatic (cremasteric). Veins form pampiniform plexus, from which spermatic vein arises. On right side it ends in v. cava inferior; on left side, in renal. Lymphatics end in lumbar glands. Nerves, from aortic and renal plexuses ; ultimately from 10th thoracic segment to testis, nth and 12th TH. and ist L. to epididymis. Appendices testis are small sessile or pedunculated bodies found on caput epididymidis or on upper end of testis. One is a remnant of Mullerian duct and corresponds to fimbriated end of uterine tube ; the other may be a Wolffian tubule, or upper end of Wolffian duct. Paradidymis—a small collection of coiled tubules found above caput, in front of spermatic cord—is a remnant of mesonephros. Ductus deferens (Vas deferens) is direct continuation of ductus epididymidis. Ascends to abdomen in spermatic cord, runs along side wall of pelvis, beneath peritoneum, to the level of the ischial spine ; turns medially to reach base of bladder, where it joins duct of seminal vesicle to form ejaculatory duct. It begins at lower end of epididymis ; runs upwards, posterior to testis, on medial side of epididymis; ascends to subcutaneous abdominal ring and traverses inguinal canal, as a constituent of spermatic cord, in posterior part of which it is readily palpable in living or dead subject, owing to firm cord-like character. Leaves the other constituents of cord at abdominal inguinal ring ; passes medially and backwards, behind inf. epigastric vessels, across ext. iliac vessels, and enters pelvis. In pelvis, it runs backwards and medially, across obliterated umbilical art., obturator vessels and, nerve, vesical vessels and ureter, to reach sacro-genital fold, at level of ischial spine, where it turns sharply medially, over upper end of seminal vesicle, to reach base of bladder. From abdominal inguinal ring to bladder it lies immediately beneath peritoneum. At bladder it enters pelvic fascia ; runs downwards on base of bladder, close to median plane and its fellow, medial to seminal vesicle, in front of rectum. Here it is dilated to form ampulla, in which semen accumulates. Lower end of ampulla narrows and joins duct of seminal vesicle to form ejaculatory duct. Blood-vessels: art. deferentialis from sup. or inf. vesical; branches from middle hemorrhoidal. Nerves : from hypogastric plexus. Lymphatics end in external iliac and hypogastric glands. Funiculus spermaticus (Spermatic cord) extends from abdominal inguinal ring to posterior border of testis. ' It consists of ductus deferens with its artery, the rudiment of processus vaginalis, and the structures essential to