LATERAL ASPECT OF SKULL 39 cuius mastoideus—closed shortly after birth. Stephanion, where temporal line crosses coronal suture. Tuber parietale (parietal eminence) is the maximum convexity of parietal bone, overlies supra-marginal gyrus. Linea Temporalis.—Usually double. Begins at zygomatic process (ext. angular) of frontal, arches posteriorly over frontal, parietal, and turns down to join supra-mastoid crest on squamous temporal, near junction with mastoid. This crest joins posterior root of zygoma, above meatus. Meatus acusticus externus is bounded superiorly by squamous temporal ; anteriorly, inferiorly and posteriorly by tympanic plate. Medial wall 'of tympanum is seen when one looks into meatus ; it displays the promontory, produced by first coil of cochlea, with fenestra vestibuli (ovalis) above promontory, fenestra cochlea (rotunda) below. Supra meatal triangle is a depression at the crossing of tangents to upper and posterior borders of meatus. Tympanic antrum lies i-J inch inwards and slightly forwards from it. Spina supra meatum, on antero-inferior margin of triangle, is rarely seen. 1'ympano-mastoidfissure (auricularfissure),between tympanic plate and mastoid, transmits auricular branch of vagus. Arcus zygomaticus is formed by zygomatic bone (malar) and zygomatic process (zygoma) of temporal. Lateral surface, subcutaneous; medial surface and lower border give origin to masseter. Temporal fascia is attached to upper border. Posterior root of zygoma runs posteriorly above meatus from upper border. Anterior root turns medially from lower border and is continuous with tuberculum (eminentia) articulare. Tubercle of root of zygoma, where the roots join, gives origin to temporo-mandibular ligament. Fossa Temporalis.—Outlined by zygomatic (ext. angular process of frontal, temporal line, supra-mastoid crest, posterior root of zygoma, zygomatic arch, frontal process of zygomatic (malar). Temporal fascia is attached to all these. Medial wall gives origin to temporalis. It is formed by parietal, frontal, squamous temporal, great wing of sphenoid ; is limited below by crista infra temporal is, on which grooves for deep and middle temporal arteries may be found. Anterior wall: zygomatic process of frontal, fronto-sphenoidal process of zygomatic, on which is foramen sygomatico- temporale, which transmits zygomaticotemporal branch of zygomatic (temporo-malar) nerve, and a branch of lacrimal artery. Lateral wall is the zygomatic arch. The fossa