28 OSTEOLOGY Right innominate vein is descending posterior to ist cartilage, on right side of innominate artery, in a groove on right pleura and lung, with phrenic nerve and accompanying artery between it and pleura. Left innominate vein is passing from behind medial end of clavicle, downwards and to the right, anterior to left common carotid, to posterior aspect of manubrium ; and then, in the thorax, it passes almost horizontally, to the right and slightly downwards, posterior to thymus and the muscles, anterior to first two branches of aortic arch and trachea, near upper border of manubrium ; and ends behind ist right cartilage by joining right vein to form sup. vena cava. Thoracic duct is ascending on left border of oesophagus, between it and pleura, having subclavian artery anterior to it, and longus colli, separated by fat, posterior to it. Thoracic part of right lym- phatic duct is ascending upon longus colli, on the right of oesophagus. Numerous lymph glands lie in relation to the various vessels. Nerves.—Right phrenic nerve, having crossed int. mammary artery latero-medially, slips over rounded anterior border of pleura and lung, from anterior surface on to medial surface, accompanied by peri- cardiaco-phrenic artery, and enters thorax between innominate vein and pleura, a little posterior to ist costal cartilage. Left phrenic nerve, having crossed mammary artery, behind innominate or subclavian vein, passes off anterior surface of pleura to medial surface, and it enters thorax as it emerges from behind innominate vein. It is accompanied by pericardiaco-phrenic artery, and lies in the interval between carotid and subclavian arteries, but is as yet posterior and to the left of vagus, which it crosses after it enters thorax. Right vagus is passing downwards and medially, postero-lateral to innominate artery, medial to pleura, to reach the side of trachea. Left vagus is descending between left common carotid and sub- clavian arteries, and has pleura in relation to its left side. Left recurrent nerve is ascending in the groove between cesophagus and trachea. Right recurrent nerve arises above the level of the inlet. Cervical cardiac branches of vagus and sympathetic, on each side, are descending in company with vagus. Cardiac branches of right recurrent nerve are descending on the side of trachea. Sympathetic trunk on each side, is descending on anterior aspect of neck of ist rib, posterior to apex of pleura ; and here the inferior cervical ganglion is usually fused with first thoracic ganglion. First thoracic nerve, on each side, is passing obliquely, laterally and upwards, posterior to pleura, across anterior surface of junction of neck and body of ist rib, to join brachial plexus, and is giving off the ist intercostal nerve. Apertura Thoracis Inferior (Outlet).—Large, irregular. Occupied by diaphragm and other structures (see Diaphragm).