5' WRIST, HAND AND DIGITS arteries, of which the first runs upon flex. dig. quinti brevis to ulnar side of little finger. The other three lie in the intervals between long flexor tendons, upon the digital nerves and lumbrical muscles, deep to palmar aponeurosis. Near web of fingers, each is joined by volar metacarpal branch (palmar interosseous) from deep arch, and by distal perforating branch from dorsal metacarpal (dorsal interos- seous), and then divides into two proper volar digital arteries, which supply contiguous sides of the fingers. Near roots of fingers the arteries cross the nerves and lie dorsal to them on the sides of the fingers ; they supply the tissues on sides and palmar aspects of fingers, and dorsum on 2nd and 3rd phalanges. They anastomose with small dorsal digital branches of dorsal meta- carpal arteries, and assist them to supply dorsum of 1st phalanx ; and terminal branches of the two volar digital arteries on each finger form arches and plexuses in bed of nail and pulp of ringer. Median nerve leaves forearm and passes deep to transverse carpal lig. (ant. annular), on radial side of sublimis tendons, and overlapped by the synovial sheath ; turns on to palmar surface of tendons and divides into lateral and medial divisions, which emerge into palm and send branches disially, deep to superficial volar arch. Lateral division gives a branch to supply the three muscles of thenar eminence, and then divides into 3 digital nerves. Two of the digital nerves run along ulnar border of flex. poll, brevis and flex. poll, longus tendon, anterior to adductor ; separate to pass along opposite sides of thumb. The other digital branch passes distally upon 1st lumbrical, which it supplies, and runs along radial side of index. Medial division divides into 2 digital nerves, which descend upon 2nd and 3rd lutnbricals, supplying 2nd always and 3rd sometimes. They each split into two and supply contiguous sides of index, middle and ring fingers. Digital branches of median supply sides and paimar aspect of thumb, index and middle fingers, and radial half of ring finger ; and also the dorsum on 2nd phalanx of thumb, 2nd anil 3rd phalanges of the other 2^ digits. Digital arteries are superficial to them in palm, dorsal to them on fingers. Small oval bodies, called Pacinian corpuscles, are connected with terminal twigs of nerves on digits. The median nerve corresponds to medial plantar nerve of foot. Ulnar nerve lies on ulnar side of ulnar art., upon transverse carpal lig. (ant. annular), lig. piso-hamatum (pisi unciform) and ulnar side of hook of hainatum, successively, under cover of volar carpal lig. and palmaris brevis ; and divides into superficial and deep branches (former may be rolled by the finger on hook of hamatum). Superficial branch supplies palmaris brevis; passes from beneath it and divides into two digital branches, of which one accompanies digital branch of superficial arch over flexor brevis, anil runs along ulnar side of little finger ; and the other accompanies digital artery over 4th lumbrical; communicates with adjoining