DIGESTIVE APPARATUS 454 sometimes right colic artery, below. Right side : right colic flexure and liver. Left side : head of pancreas. Bile duct and pancreatic duct pierce descending part of duodenum on postero-medial aspect, about its middle. Posterior: right renal vessels, pelvis of ureter, psoas, kidney near hilum. Inferior Part.—Peritoneum covers ant. surface, except where mesenteric vessels cross. Anterior-, sup. mesenteric vessels and root of mesentery at junction of transverse and ascending portions ; coils of jejunum on both sides of that ; transverse colon and meso- colon more anteriorly. Superior : head of pancreas. Inferior : coils of jejunum. Posterior : right psoas, ureter, spermatic vess., inf. v. cava, aorta—behind transverse part; left renal and spermatic vess., sympathetic trunk and psoas—behind ascending part. Duodeno jejunal flexure lies just below transpyloric plane, i in. to left of median plane, on left psoas and inf. mesenteric vein and left renal vessels ; to the left of aorta ; medial to kidney and ureter ; below body of pancreas ; posterior to transverse colon ; below and posterior to transverse mesocolon, which encloses branches of middle colic vessels and separates the flexure from omental bursa (lesser sac) and stomach. Peritoneum between post. abd. wall and left side of ascending piece of 3rd part of duodenum may be pinched up to form two folds, under cover of which are sup. and inf. duodenal fossae. To left side of these the inf. mesenteric vein may raise another fold, bounding para duodenal fossa. Arteries to duodenum. Superior and inferior pancreatico-duodenal. Lymphatics end in subpyloric and sup. mesenteric glands and glands around bile duct. Nerves, from coeliac plexus, accompany arteries. Jejunum begins at duodeno-jejunal flexure, at left side of 2nd L. vertebra; is about 8 feet long, and is succeeded, without any hard-and-fast line of demarcation, by ileum, which is 12 feet long, and ends by joining large intestine at upper end of caecum, in right iliac fossa, opposite point of intersection of intertubercular and right lateral planes. Jejunum and ileum form coils found in all parts of abdomen below liver and stomach, and in pelvis—jejunum mostly to the left and above, ileum mostly to the right and below. Greater omentum and transverse colon and meso- colon hang down anterior to them. Terminal part of ileum ascends from pelvis and crosses ext. iliac art. to join large intestine. Coils are freely movable, because they are con- nected to post, wall of abdomen by wide fold of peritoneum, called the mesentery (p. 466).