MUSCLES AND FAS CITE *78 Muscles of Sole of Foot (see pp. 182-185). Popliteal fossa (space) is the lozenge-shaped hollow at hack of knee ; longer diameter vertical. Roof: popliteal fascia, pierced by post, cutaneous n. (small sciatic) and small saphenous vein. Floor: popliteal surface of femur, oblique popliteal ligament, popliteus and its fascia. Boundaries : Proximal lateral: biceps. Distal lateral : lateral head of gastrocnemius, plantaris. Proximal medial: semitendinosus, semimembranosus, supple- mented by sartorius, gracilis and tendon of adductor magnus. Distal medial: medial head of gastrocnemius. Contents: Popliteal art. and its branches. Popliteal vein and its tributaries, including small saphenous. Tibial and common peroneal nerves (int. and ext. popliteal) and certain of their branches. Posterior cutaneous nerve of thigh (small sciatic). Geniculate branch of obturator nerve. Lymph-glands and fat. Relations in Popliteal Fossa Popliteal artery is the continuation of femoral at opening in adductor magnus, at proximal part of medial boundary of popliteal fossa. It runs distally and laterally to the interval between condyles of femur, and then vertically, leaving the fossa at its distal angle, to end at distal border of popliteus by dividing into ant. and post, tibial. Its branches, besides its terminals, are muscular, cutaneous, and five articular—two medial, two lateral, and one middle. Popliteal vein begins at distal border of popliteus, medial to the artery, by the union of vena; comites of ant. and post, tibial arteries. It crosses posterior aspect of artery to lie postero-lateral to it at open- ing in adductor magnus, where it becomes femoral vein. Its tribu- taries are the small saphenous vein and veins accompanying branches of the artery. Tibial nerve (int. popliteal), a terminal branch of sciatic, enters the fossa at proximal angle, lateral to popliteal vessels, crosses them on their posterior aspect, and leaves the fossa at its distal angle, medial to both vessels, and is continued into the calf. Its branches in the fossa are medial sural nerve (ramus communicans tibialis); three articular branches ; muscular branches to both heads of gastrocnemius, plantaris, soleus, and popliteus ; the branches to soleus and popliteus arise when nerve is medial to popliteal artery, and they cross posterior to the artery. Relations of this group—artery, vein, nerve—are:—Anterior: the floor of fossa—femur, oblique lig., and popliteus, the artery being next the floor, but separated by fat, especially proximally. Posterior : posterior cutaneous nerve of thigh, deep fascia, small saphenous vein ; and both heads of gastrocnemius overlap. Medial: medial boundary