MUSCLES OF RESPIRATION 237 O. inferior directs pupil upwards and laterally. R. mediates of opposite sides act in unison to converge eyes to focus on a near point. R. lateralis acts with R. medial is of opposite side in looking to one side. Direct downward movement is produced by inf. rectus and sup. oblique, and direct upward by sup. rectus and inf. oblique. MUSCLES OF RESPIRATION Intercostales.—Eleven pairs on each side, occupying intercostal spaces. They are supplied by intercostal nerves ; . and they elevate ribs. External intercostals lie in same plane as ohliquus externus abdominis. Each arises from lower border of rib above. Its fibres are directed downwards and anteriorly to lie inserted into upper border of rib below. It extends from tubercle of rib to junction of rib and cartilage, where it is continuous with anterior intercostal membrane, which extends to side of sternum. Internal intercostals lie in same plane as obliquus internus abdominis, and those of lowest 2 spaces are continuous- with it. Each arises from costal cartilage and upper margin of costal groove of rib above. Its fibres are directed downwards and posteriorly to upper border of rib below. It extends from side of sternum to angle of rib, where its border is free, except for a loose connection with retro-pleural connective tissue. Its inner surface is in contact with pleura, except in lower spaces where it is in contact with diaphragm. Posterior intercostal membrane, which replaces int. intercostal, is attached medially to ant. costo-transverse ligament, and laterally it slips in between ext. and int. intercostals and soon fades away. Levatores Costarum.—ra pairs of small fan-shaped muscles, in series with ext. intercostals, arising by apices from transverse processes, from 7th cervical to rub thoracic vertebra, and inserted into ribs, posterior to angles. Nerves : intercostals. Subcostales.—Small slips found on inner surfaces of ribs near angles, in series with internal intercostals, but pass over several ribs. Transversus thoracis (triangularis sterni) lies on posterior surfaces of sternum and costal cartilages, in same plane as transversus abdominis. Origin (fi.-tend.) : xiphoid process and lower 3 segments of body of sternum. Insertion : 6th, 5th, 4th, 3rd, 2nd costal cartilages, close to junction with ribs. Nerves : corresponding inter- costals. It separates int. mammary vessels from pleura. It depresses costal cartilages.