239 DIAPHRAGM beyond pleura and phrenico-pleural lig., is in contact, antero-laterally, with costal cartilages, ribs and internal intercostal muscles; posteriorly, with upper ends of quadratus lumborum and psoas, above the level of lumbo-costal arches. Besides these, there are various vessels and nerves and small portions of organs in relation to diaphragm. Abdominal surface : Duodenum, left colic (splenic) flexure, upper end of descending colon, and, some- times, upper end of ascending colon. Left renal vessels, right renal artery, middle suprarenal arteries, inferior phrenic vessels, musculo- phrenic vessels, hepatic and left gastric (coronary') arteries, coronary vein, splenic vessels, cceliac plexus. Posterior to each crus are upper 2 lumbar arteries, while vena azygos is behind right crus. Thoracic surface : Thoracic aorta, oesophagus, vena azygos, vena hemi-azygos (v. az. minor inferior), splanchnic nerves, sympathetic trunks, last thoracic nerves and subcostal vessels. Openings in Diaphragm.—Hiatus aorticus : between crura, dorsal to median arcuate ligament, opposite fibro-cartilage between last thoracic and first lumbar vertebrae. Transmits aorta, thoracic duct, vena azygos (major), two descending lymphatic trunks from intercostal glands. Hiatus cesophageus: dorsal to inter- mediate lobe of central tendon, amidst fibres of crura, opposite 7th costal cartilage and 10th thoracic vertebra, 1 inch to left of median plane. Transmits oesophagus, vagi, anastomosing oesophageal branches of left gastric (coronary) artery and of thoracic aorta. Foramen venae cavae : between dorsal parts of right and intermediate lobes of central tendon, opposite 8th thoracic vertebra. Transmits vena cava inferior, branches of right phrenic nerve, a few lymphatics from liver. A gap exists between attachments to xiphoid and 7th cartilage, and there peritoneum and pleura are separated by areolar tissue only. Another gap sometimes exists between fibres attached to 12th cartilage and those from lumbo-costal arch, or between fibres from lateral and medial arches ; kidney is there separated from pleura by fat and areolar tissue only. Smaller Structures passing between Thorax and Abdomen. —Sup. epigastric vessels pass between slips from xiphoid and 7th cartilage. Musculo-phrenic vessels, between slips from 7th and 8th cartilages. Lower five intercostal nerves, accompanied by vessels, between slips from 7th down to 12th cartilage. Last thoracic nerve and subcostal vessels, dorsal to lateral lumbo-costal arch. Sympathetic trunk, dorsal to medial lumbo-costal arch. Greater, lesser and lowest splanchnic nerves pierce crus. Vena hemiazygos (v. azygos minor inferior) pierces left crus.