MUSCLES OF SOFT PALATE 201 other constrictors below. Origin (fl.-tend.) : styloid process near base. Insertion (tb): posterior border of thyreoid cartilage ; side of pharynx, mingling with constrictors and pharyngo-palatinus. Nerve: glosso-pharyngeal. It elevates larynx and pharynx. Pharyngo-palatinus (palato-pharyngeus) lies in pharyngo- palatine arch (post, pillar of fauces) ; in substance of soft palate ; and between mucous membrane and constrictors ot pharynx. Origin (fl.) : in palate by two layers between which lie levator veli palatini and musculus uvula'. Upper layer is continuous with its fellow ; lower layer is attached to post, border of hard palate, and to palatine aponeurosis. Insertion (fl.) : post, border of thyreoid cartilage ; wall of pharynx, mingling with constrictors. Nerve: accessory, through pharyngeal plexus. Elevates larynx and pharynx, constricts naso-pharyngeal isthmus. Salpingo pharyngeus arises from lower part of auditory (Eustachian) tube, runs down in salpingo-pharyngeal fold, and mingles with pharyngo-palatinus. Pharyngeal Aponeurosis.—Linesinnersurfacesofpharyngeal muscles, separates them from mucous membrane ; some of their fibres are inserted into it. It is thick above, especially opposite gap between base of skull and sup. constrictor, over whose upper border it is connected with bucco-pharyngeal fascia. It is attached above to basi-occiput and petrous temporal. Below, it becomes thin and is gradually lost, towards lower end of pharynx. It is thickened in median plane posteriorly to form a median raphe, extending from pharyngeal tubercle to lower end of pharynx. Upper thick part is cal 1 ed pharyngo-basilar fascia. MUSCLES OF VELUM PALATINUM Muscles of soft palate are: Glosso - palatinus and pharyngo-palatinus {already described)-, musculus uvula;, ievator veli palatini, tensor veli palatini. /Musculus Uvula.* (Azygos Uvulae).—Two small slips extending from post, nasal spine, unite into one and enter uvula. They lie between layers of pharyngo-palatinus. Nerve : accessory, through pharyngeal plexus (possibly facial, through post, palatine branch of spheno-palatine ganglion). Levator Veli Palatini (Levator Palati).—Origin (fl.): lower surface of petrous temporal near apex, medial surface of cartilage of auditory (Eustachian) tube. Insertion (fl. I: palatine