440 DIGESTIVE APPARATUS brane is raised, between lips and gums, as folds called frenulum labii supcrioris and frenulum labii inferiors. Lips consist of:—(i) Skin ; (2) superficial fascia; (3) orbicu- laris oris ; (4) submucous tissue, with vessels and labial mucous glands, palpable by the tongue ; (5) mucous mem- brane, covered with stratified squamous epithelium. Philtrum is the vertical groove in middle of upper lip. Arteries.— Infra-orbital and sup. labial (coronary) to upper lip ; inf. labial, mental and submental to lower lip. Nerves.— Branches of facial supply muscles ; infra-orbital, buccinator (long buccal) and mental branches of trigeminal supply skin and mucous membrane. Lymphatics of both lips end in submaxillary glands ; from median part of lower lip, in submental glands. Bucc® (Cheeks) resemble lips. (1) Skin. (2) Superficial fascia, containing the zygomaticus, risorius, platysma muscles ; parotid duct, surrounded by mucous molar glands ; vessels, and branches of facial and trigeminal nerves. (3) Buccinator, covered with the bucco - pharyngeal fascia, and pierced by parotid duct. (4) Submucosa, with buccal glands. (5) Mucous membrane. Corpus adiposum buccce (sucking pad) is encapsuled mass of fat lying on buccinator and passing under masseter. Relatively larger in child. Assists cheek to resist atmospheric pressure during sucking. Arteries.—Transverse facial, buccinator, mental, infra- orbital ; ext. maxillary (facial) and some of its branches. Lymphatics from ant. part of cheek end in submaxillary glands, from posterior part in anterior auricular and parotid glands. Nerves.—Branchesof facial to muscles. Zygomatico- facial and infra-orbital branches of maxillary n., buccinator and mental branches of mandjbular, to skin and mucous membrane. ' Cavum Oris Proprium. —Cavity proper of mouth : bounded anteriorly and laterally by teeth and gums ; superiorly by hard and soft palate ; inferiorly by tongue and “ floor of mouth ” or sublingual region. Opens posteriorly, through isthmus faucium, into pharynx. Sublingual region is region below tip and sides of tongue. Anteriorly, the mucous membrane stretches across from side to side, covering sublingual glands and upper borders of genio-glossi. At sides of tongue it is reflected from upper part of mylo-hyoid on to stylo-glossus and upper part of