•95 FASCI/E OF HEAD AND NECK not been given above, raise the flexed trunk to the erect posture, maintain it there, and may bend it backwards. When muscles of one side act they bend trunk and head to that side; and those which run obliquely upwards and medially rotate them towards opposite side ; those which run upwards and laterally (fewr in number) rotate towards same side. FASCL-E AND MUSCLES OF HEAD AND NECK Superficial Fascia contains superficial vessels and nerves, and, in some situations, muscles—all detailed in their regions. Over scalp: very' firm, fibrous and dense, closely adherent to skin and subjacent galea aponeurotica (epicranial aponeurosis), so that these three form one layer in a wound flap. In eyelids : loose, very thin and contains no fat. In face : facial muscles are imbedded in it ; and it is continuous wfith a collection of fat, called corpus adiposum buccae or suctorial pad, which lies between masseter and buccin- ator. On side of neck : platysma is imbedded in it. Below chin : fat tends to accumulate in it in stout persons. Deep Fascia. — Over scalp -, very thin over muscular bellies of epicranius ; fused with galea aponeurotica. At side of head: temporal fascia, very firm and strong, attached to boundaries of temporal fossa ; attachment to zygomatic arch is by two layers, between which are some fat and zygomatico-orbital artery. In face-, practically non-existent, except posteriorly, where fascia parotideo masseterica covers masseter and parotid gland, and is connected with zygomatic arch above and fascia of neck below. In the neck the deep fascia forms a continuous envelope attached superiorly to ext. occipital protuberance, superior nuchal line, mastoid temporal, body of mandible, and is prolonged upwards to ensheath parotid and submaxillary glands. A thickened part of parotid sheath, attached to styloid process and angle of mandible, is called stylo-mandibular ligament, and separates parotid from submaxillary gland. Deeper layer of parotid sheath is attached to tympanic plate : deep layer of submaxillary sheath is attached to mylo-hyoid line. Cervical fascia is split into two layers to enclose sterno-mastoid and trapezius. In front of and behind sterno-mastoid it forms roofs of ant. and post, triangles of neck. Two layers are fused over upper parts of triangles. Over lower part of post, triangle layers remain separate, are attached to upper and lower borders of posterior aspect of clavicle ; enclose transverse scapular (supra-scapular) vessels, lowrer end of ext. jugular vein ; and deeper layer is connected with fascia of omo-hyoid, and binds it flown. Lower parts of the layers remain separate at median plane also ; attached to front and back of upper end of manubrium ; enclose sternal heads of sterno-mastoids, ant. jugular veins and anastomosis