124 MUSCLES AND FASCI/E Superficial fascia is a continuous sheet of areolar tissue con- taining fat—panniculus adiposits—underlying skin over whole body. Cutaneous vessels and nerves traverse it on their way to and from the skin. Fat is absent from it under skin of eyelids, penis, scrotum, and labia minora, and in nipple and areola of mammary gland. It is very firm and dense on soles, palms and scalp. Its deeper part is fibrous ; and in perinreum, lower part of abdomen, and proximal part of front of thigh the fibrous and fatty parts are in distinct layers. Deep fascia is a dense, strong, fibrous, bluish membrane, under superficial fascia. Covers muscles. Attached to subcutaneous bony points and to ligaments of joints. Thickened in region of some joints, e.g. wrist and ankle, to bind down tendons in their places. Provides attachment for muscles in some cases. Sends septa in among tissues to ensheath muscles, vessels, nerves and glands. Muscles are the means by which movements are brought about. They form the red flesh of the body. They are attached to bones, cartilages, ligaments, deep fascia and skin. Attachment may be by muscular tissue, but is usually by fibrous tissue called tendon. Some tendons are in the form of strong fibrous cords. When tendinous attachment forms a broad sheet it is called an aponeurosis. Aponeurosis sometimes replaces deep fascia, e.g. lumbo-dorsal fascia. Muscles are attached by at least two ends. These attachments are called origin and insertion. Origin is the attachment which remains stationary when the muscle contracts. It is usually the proximal and more extensive attachment. Insertion is the attachment which moves when the muscle contracts. Some muscles can act in either direction, the “ origin ” on some occasions being the attachment that is moved, e.g. muscles which commonly draw arm to trunk, draw trunk to arm in climbing. Muscles act on all joints which they cross, beginning with the one nearest insertion ; and their actions can usually be inferred from their attachments and their relations to the