BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM 292 (i.) Inferior haemorrhoidal crosses ischio-rectal fossa to supply anal canal, skin, glutmus niaximus ; (ii.) perineal artery pierces base of inferior fascia of urogenital diaphragm (superficial layer of triangular ligament), runs anteriorly under cover of superficial fascia, and ends as posterior scrotal in male and posterior labial in female; (iii.) transverse perineal often arises from perineal, runs medially along superficial transverse perineal muscle to meet its fellow. (d) In urethral triangle : (i.) Arteria bulbi urethrae pierces inferior fascia of diaphragm and enters bulb of penis, or bulb of vestibule in female ; (ii.) a. profunda penis vel clitoridis enters crus penis vel clitoridis at once; (iii.) a. dorsalis penis vel clitoridis passes anteriorly between layers of suspensory ligament on to dorsum of penis or clitoris, where it lies medial to dorsal nerve, and is separated from its fellow by deep dorsal vein of penis. Inferior gluteal artery (sciatic) runs downwards and posteriorly, pierces fascia in front of piriformis, and, passing between ist and 2nd, or 2nd and 3rd sacral nerves, leaves pelvis through lower part of greater sciatic foramen ; appears in buttock between piriformis and gemellus superior, medial to sciatic nerve, with which it descends, under cover of glutmus maximus, to back of thigh. Branches: (a) Muscular; (b) cutaneous ; (c) coccygeal threads its way through lig. sacro-tuberosum to gain dorsum of coccyx ; (d) Art. comitans n. ischiadici runs distally on surface or in substance of sciatic n. Inferior gluteal anastomoses with lateral sacral, pudendal, superior gluteal, circumflexes, perforating. External iliac artery arises at level of lumbo-sacral joint, opposite sacro-iliac joint, as branch of bifurcation of common iliac ; runs downwards and laterally in relation to psoas major for 3! inches, and ends by becoming femoral behind inguinal ligament (Poupart), midway between ant. sup. iliac spine and symphysis pubis. Its vein is posterior to it above, but medial to it below. Branches ; inferior epigastric, deep circumflex iliac. Relations.—Anterior-, peritoneum separates it from pelvic colon on left side, ileum and vermiform (often) on right side. Upper part crossed by ureter, and in female by ovarian vessels. Lower end crossed by deep circumflex iliac vein, ductus deferens or ligamentum teres ; and int. spermatic vessels, ext. spermatic n. (genital of genito- crural) and a lymph gland lie on it. Posterior: its vein above, psoas and a lymph gland below. Lateral-, genito-femoral n., spermatic vessels ; psoas above, and a lymph gland at lower end. Medial: its