OSTEOLOGY 40 communicates with orbit through inferior orbital fissure, and with infra-temporal fossa directly. FossaInfratemporalis(Zygomatic Fossa; Pterygo-maxil- lary Space).—Lateral wall : ramus and coronoid process of mandible. Anterior wall: maxilla, presenting tuber maxillare behind 3rd molar, and foramina alveolaria for posterior superior alveolar (dental) vessels and nerves to molar teeth. Medial wall: lateral pterygoid lamina, and pyramidal process of palatine wedged between it and maxilla. Roof: infra- temporal (zygomatic) surface of great wing of sphenoid. The fossa communicates with orbit through inferior orbital fissure; with pterygo - palatine (spheno - maxillary) fossa through pterygo-maxillary fissure. Pterygo-maxillary fissure is bounded by maxilla anteriorly, pterygoid process posteriorly, pyramidal process of palatine below. Joins inferior orbital fissure above. Transmits internal maxillary vessels and the maxillary nerve. Fossa Pterygo-palatina (spheno-maxillary) is bounded by maxilla in front; great wing of sphenoid and pterygoid process behind ; perpendicular part of palatine medially. Roof is body of sphenoid and orbital process of palatine. Contents: maxillary nerve,spheno-palatine ganglion, terminal branches of internal maxillary artery, and accompanying veins, fat and fibrous tissue. Foramina, etc., connected with it: (1) For. sp/icno-palatinum, between spheno-palatine notch of palatine and body of sphenoid, leads into nasal cavity ; transmits spheno-palatine vessels and naso-palatine nerve, and one or more superior nasal nerves from spheno-palatine ganglion. (2) Pharyngeal canal (ptervgo-palatine), between vaginal processof sphenoidand sphenoidal processof palatine ; leads posteriorly and medially to pharynx ; transmits pharyn- geal artery and pharyngeal branch of spheno-palatine ganglion. (3) Pterygoid canal (Vidian) traverses root of pterygoid process to gain foramen lacerum, and transmits artery and nerve of pterygoid canal (Vidian art. and n.). (4) For. rotundum, in great wing, opens into middle cranial fossa ; transmits maxillary division of trigeminal n. (5) Greater palatine canal (15.N.A. canalis pterygo-palatinus) leads down between maxilla and perpendicular part of palate to roof of mouth ; transmits descending palatine vessels, anterior palatine nerve. (6) Two lesser palatine canals pass down through pyramidal process of palatine, and end on its lower surface as foramina palatina minora ; transmit