116 ARTICULATIONS areolar tissue. It extends proximally for a variable distance under cover of quadriceps, and usually communicates with supra-patellar bursa, placed still more proximally. It passes over femoral surfaces of menisci to their concave margins, and is then reflected on to their tibial surfaces. It gives a bursal sheath to intra-capsular part of popliteus. It often communi- cates with tibio-fibular joint, and with bursae under heads of gastrocnemius and bursa of tendon of semimembranosus. Plica synovialis patellaris (lig. mucosum) is a triangular fold, containing fat, raised up from the part covering infra- patellar pad, and attached by its apex to anterior margin of intercondylar fossa of femur ; its free fringed margins are called plica alares (ligamenta alaria). Blood Supply.—Five articular branches of popliteal ; art. genu suprema (anastomotic) of femoral ; descending branch of lateral circumflex ; recurrent branches of anterior tibial. Nerves: Branches of femoral (ant. crural) to the three vasti ; three branches from tibial (int. popliteal) and two from common peroneal (ext. popliteal) accompany the five popliteal articular arteries ; recurrent branch of peroneal ; geniculate branch of obturator. Relations.—Posterior: Oblique popliteal lig. forms middle part of floor of popliteal fossa; popliteal vessels lie on it and separate it from tibial (int. popliteal) nerve; middle articular vessels and nerve perforate it. On its lateral side plantaris partly arises from posterior part of capsule, and lateral head of gastro- cnemius is partly adherent to capsule and partly separated by a bursa; common peroneal nerve (ext. popliteal) lies between lateral head and biceps. On medial side of oblique lig. the medial head of gastrocnemius is separated from posterior part of capsule by a bursa which is prolonged into interval between that head and semimembranosus tendon, as it lies on capsule, medial to gastro- cnemius, and may communicate with the joint through an aperture. Semitendinosus lies on semimembranosus before turning to its insertion into medial side of tibia, and gracilis lies on postero-medial aspect of capsule, on medial side of semitendinosus. Popliteus pierces post, part of capsule, distal to lateral femoral condyle. Medial.—Sartorius descends on posterior part of medial aspect of joint and turns anteriorly to insertion. Saphenous nerve and vessels (superficial branch of anastomotica) descend posterior to sartorius, between it and gracilis. Great saphenous vein ascends more superficially. Gracilis and semitendinosus, inclining ante- riorly to their insertions, lie on tibial collateral lig., distal to line of joint. All three tendons are separated from lig. by bursa. '1 ibial