BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM 288 (3) Middle colic artery arises at lower border of pancreas, enters transverse mesocolon, in which it runs downwards and anteriorly to supply trans. colon ; divides into right and left branches, which anast. with right and left colics, and with right and left gastro-epiploics. (4) Right colic artery arises below duodenum, runs to the right, under cover of peritoneum, across vena cava, spermatic vessels, ureter and psoas (often higher up, across duodenum and kidney), to supply ascending colon. Divides into ascend- ing and descending branches to anast. with middle colic and ileo-colic, respectively. (5) Ileo-colic artery arises either with preceding, or inde- pendently below it ; runs to the right, under cover of peritoneum, across vena cava, spermatic vessels, ureter and psoas; divides into (i.) ascending branch, which anast. with right colic and supplies asc. colon, and (ii.) descending, which anast. with end of sup. mesenteric, and gives branches to ileum and caecum, and an appendicular art., which runs to vermiform process behind end of ileum and through mesentery of vermiform process. Inferior mesenteric artery arises from left side of ant. aspect of aorta, 1^ inches above bifurcation ; runs down and to the left, behind peritoneum ; in front of aorta and sympathetic trunk, across common iliac art. and ends there as superior haemorrhoidal. Its vein is to left side, some distance away. Branches : (1) Left colic artery arises near origin, runs to left, behind peritoneum and inf. mesent. vein, across sym- pathetic trunk, ureter, left spermatic vessels and psoas; divides into two : (a) ascending branch crosses lower end of left kidney, enters trans. mesocolon, supplies left colic flexure and trans. colon, and anast. with middle colic ; (b) descending branch supplies desc. colon, and anast. with sigmoid arteries. (2) Sigmoid arteries, 2 or 3, run down and to the left, behind peritoneum and inf. mesenteric vein ; across psoas, ureter, and spermatic vessels ; supply iliac and pelvic cola. Upper anast. with left colic ; lower enter pelvic mesocolon, crossing common iliac vessels, and anast. with sup. haemorrhoidal. (3) Superior haemorrhoidal artery, the continuation of inf. mesenteric, enters pelvic mesocolon, runs half way down posterior surface of rectum, divides into two branches, which run down on the sides of rectum and sink into its substance. Anast. with mid. and inf. haemorrhoidal.