CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES 343 Sulci. — Interparietal consists of: (i) Post-central sulcus, behind s. centralis, sometimes divided into upper and lower parts. (2) Ramus horizontal is passes backwards from post- centrai sulcus into occipital lobe, where it is called r. occipitalis and divides into two widely diverging limbs which form sulcus occipitalis transversus. Ramus posterior of lateral fissure (Sylvius) and the upper and middle temporal sulci run into lower part of lobe. Gyri. — G. centralis posterior (post - central, ascending parietal), between s. centralis and post-central sulcus. Superior parietal lobule between ramus horizontalis and supero - medial margin. Arcus parieto - occipitalis, roller! round lateral parieto-occipital fissure, is limited laterally by ramus horizontalis and r. occipitalis at their junction, and belongs partly to occipital lobe. Inferior parietal lobule, below r. horizontalis, is divided into three : (1) Supra- marginal gyrus surrounds end of ramus posterior of fissura lateralis, lies under parietal eminence. (2) Angular gyrus surrounds end of sup. temporal sulcus. (3) Post-patietal gyrus surrounds end of middle temporal sulcus ; lies immedi- ately lateral to arcus parieto-occipitalis, 1 inch distant from lambda. Occipital Lobe.—Bounded anteriorly by line drawn from parieto-occipital fissure to pre-occipital notch ; superiorly by supero-medial; inferiorly by infero-lateral margin. Sulci and gyri are very inconstant. Blood supply of lateral surface of hemisphere. Ant. cerebral supplies strip, A in. broad, along supero-medial margin, as far back as parieto-occipital fissure. Posterior cerebral supplies inf. temporal gyrus and greater part of occipital lobe ; middle cerebral supplies remainder. Veins end in sagittal, cavernous, transverse (lateral), superior petrosal sinuses and deep middle cerebral vein. Insula (Island of Reil).—A pyramidal elevation lying concealed at bottom of lateral fissure (Sylvius). Sulcus circularis circum- scribes its base and is divided into anterior, superior, and posterior parts. Its surface presents two gyri longi posteriorly, and several gyri breves anteriorly. Middle cerebral art. divides into branches on its surface. Claustrum, external capsule and lentiform nucleus are medial to it, in that order from the surface. Parts concealing it are lips of stem and branches of lateral fissure (of Sylvius), and are called opercula: (1) Temporal operculum, postero-inferiorly, between stem and post, ramus. (2) Fronto-parietal, superiorly,