321 MEDULLA SPINALIS In cervical region ant. column is larger than posterior. In thoracic, both are small ; in lumbar both are large and amount of surrounding white matter is relatively small. Fila radicularia of anterior (motor) roots of spinal nerves arise in anterior column (horn), pass forwards and emerge along a broad linear strip on ventral surface of spinal medulla. Fila radicularia of post, (sensory) roots enter along a narrow linear groove, called sulcus lateralis posterior, and end in relation to posterior column. Halves of spinal medulla are incompletely separated from each other by a fissure, a septum, and a sulcus. Anterior median fissure.—Wide and shallow, less than .( of thickness of spinal medulla, except in lower part; occupied by fold of pia mater ; is separated from grey commissure by band of white matter called commissura anterior alba. Posterior median septum, a thin layer of neuroglia, extends from surface to the grey commissure, along whole length of spinal medulla, and corresponds to A its thickness, except at lower end ; forms floor of posterior median sulcus of spinal medulla. White matter of each half of spinal medulla is subdivided by columns of grey matter and fibres of roots of nerves into funiculi, posterior, lateralis and anterior. In cervical and thoracic regions the posterior funiculus is divided into fasciculus gracilis medially and f. cuneatus laterally by a septum of pia mater whose position on surface is indicated by sulcus intermedins posterior. Anterior and lateral funiculi are often referred to under one name — antero-lateral funiculus. Some fibres in white matter convey ascending impulses, others descending ; and they are grouped into fasciculi or tracts more or less distinct from one another. The fasciculi are represented best in upper part of spinal medulla, where descending fibres have not yet come to an end and ascend- ing tracts have been fully formed. FASCICULI OR TRACTS OF SPINAL MEDULLA (see also p. 354) Funiculus Posterior.—Fasciculus grracilis (Goll) medially. Fasciculus cuneatus (Burdaeh) laterally. Both are ascending and are derived from post, nerve roots. Comma tract, in substance of f. cuneatus, derived from descending fibres from post, nerve roots, and