161 MUSCLES OF THIGH Quadriceps femoris is composed of 4 muscles :—Rectus femoris, vastus lateralis, v. medialis, v. intermedius. They all extend leg at knee-joint. Rectus also flexes hip. Each is supplied from L. 3 and 4, through femoral nerve (ant. crural). Patella is a sesamoid bone developed in its tendon, and the real insertion of quadriceps is into tuberosity of tibia by means of lig. patellae. Rectus femoris.— Proximal end lies on capsule of hip, under sartorius and tensor fascia; latte ; remainder is super- ficial, and is separated distally from shaft of femur by bursa, which communicates with knee-joint. Origin: by 2 tendinous heads : straight head from upper part of anterior inferior iliac spine. Reflected head from groove on dorsum ilii, above acetabulum; a bursa lies under it. Insertion: by tendon, into proximal border of patella. Vastus lateralis lies on lateral aspect of thigh. Origin (fl.-tend.): (1) anterior surface of capsule of hip-joint; (2) upper part of inter-trochanteric line ; (3) anterior and lateral aspects of root of trochanter major ; (4) lateral margin of gluteal tuberosity ; (5) proximal part of lateral lip of linea aspera ; (6) lateral intermuscular septum. Insertion: into tendon of rectus, proximal and lateral borders of patella, and by expansions which blend with the capsule of knee-joint. A bursa lies between it and the part of glutasus maximus in- serted into fascia lata. Vastus medialis lies on medial side of femur. Origin (fl.) : (l) lower part of inter-trochanteric line ; (2) spiral line ; (3) medial lip of linea aspera ; (4) proximal jj of medial epi- condylic line ; (5) medial intermuscular septum and tendons of adductor longus and magnus. Insertion : medial border of tendon of rectus, medial and proximal margins of patella, and by expansions into capsule and tibial collateral ligament of knee. Vastus intermedius (Crureus).-Origin fl.): (1) proximal 5 or | of anterior and lateral surfaces of shaft of femur; (2) distal part of lateral lip of linea aspera ; (3) proximal part of lateral epicondylic line ; (4) distal part of lateral intermuscular septum. Insertion: deep surface of tendons of rectus and other vasti. It is largely covered by, and adherent to, v. lateralis, and is blended to a variable extent with v. medialis. It covers proximal prolongation of synovial stratum of knee and the bursa which lies proximal to knee. Articularis genu (Subcrureus).—Origin : by small fleshy