MUSCLES AND FASCIAE 196 between them, interclavicular ligament, fatty areolar tissue and sometimes a lymph gland. At median plane in front, fascia; of opposite sides are continuous, and are attached only to hyoid bone. At back of neck, fascia is attached to lig. nuchae at median plane, and inferiorly is continuous with fascia of back medially, attached to spine of scapula laterally. From its deep surface, especially from layer under sterno-mastoid, septa are sent in, from which secondary septa arise. These form sheaths for muscles, glands, pharynx, trachea, oesophagus, large vessels and nerves. Two of these are continuous with those of opposite side: (1) Prevertebral fascia covers longus colli and longus capitis (rect. cap. anticus major), and rectus capitis anterior (minor) and lateralis. It is continuous, laterally and posteriorly over scaleni, with fascia on floor of posterior triangle ; attached superiorly to styloid process, jugular process and basilar portion of occipital ; inferiorly it is continued down into thorax, in front of longus colli. (2) Pretracheal fascia extends across between deep surfaces of sterno-mastoids, in front of trachea, splitting to enclose thyreoid gland and its capsule. Above, it is fixed to cricoid and thyreoid cartilages. Below, it is continued downwards, in front of trachea, to be connected with pericardium. Bucco-pharyngeal fascia covers constrictors of pharynx and buccinator. It is connected laterally with prevertebral fascia, but between these lateral attachments it is separated from pre- vertebral fascia by retro-pharyngeal space containing loose areolar tissue and some retro-pharyngeal lymph glands. Carotid sheath is the fascia enclosing common and internal carotid arteries, ini. jugular vein and vagus. It is connected with prevertebral and pretracheal fascia ; sympathetic trunk is imbedded in posterior wall, descendens hypoglossi in ant. wall ; descendens cervicalis n., cervical branches of vagus, tributaries of vein pierce it. Fascia investing scalene muscles, subclavian vessels and brachial nerves, is carried down into axilla to form axillary sheath. MUSCLES OF NECK Musci.es of Back of Neck.—These are considered along with muscles of back. Muscles of Side of Neck.—Platysma (see p. 232), sterno-mastoid. Sterno-cleido mastoideus (Sterno-mastoid).—Forms ob- lique elevation on side of neck, extending from manubrium to mastoid process, between triangles of neck. Origin : Sternal head (tend.) : upper lateral part of anterior surface of manubrium sterni. Clavicular head (fl.-tend.): upper surface of medial £ of clavicle. Insertion (fl.-tend.): Outer