RESPIRATORY APPARATUS 43« are posterior to it, some distance away. Phrenic nerves give branches to pleura and pericardium, and supply diaphragm, after piercing it.] Right vagus nerve leaves neck by passing downwards and back- wards between innominate art. and vein, and enters thorax as it turns medially, on a plane posterior to the art., to reach the side of trachea ; descends on side of trachea, with pleura and lung and arch of azygos vein on its right side, and breaks up into post, pulmonary plexus on post, aspect of root of lung. While on trachea it gives branches to oeso- phagus, and branches which descend to deep cardiac plexus, and branches to ant. pulmonary plexus. Left vagus nerve leaves post, aspect of left innominate vein ; enters thorax ; descends between left subclavian and common carotid arteries ; is crossed, superficially, from behind forwards (or from left to right), by phrenic nerve ; crosses left surface of aortic arch, behind and to the left of phrenic and nerves going to superficial cardiac plexus. On the arch, it is crossed superficially by left sup. intercostal vein. It gives off recurrent branch, and branches to anterior pulmonary plexus, as it leaves arch to break up into post, pulmonary plexus on post, aspect of root of lung. Pleura and lung cover it antero-laterally in superior mediastinum. Left recurrent nerve arises as vagus crosses aortic arch ; turns round below arch, on left side of attachment of lig. arteriosum ; reaches groove between trachea and oesophagus, in which it ascends to neck. As it lies in groove, the arch is anterior to it and to its left, below ; sub- clavian artery is first anterior and then on its left side ; and common carotid is anterior at thoracic inlet. It gives branches to deep cardiac plexus as it hooks round aorta, and branches to trachealis muscle and oesophagus as it ascends in groove. Cardiac Nerves.—Cervical cardiac branches of right vagus, and cervical cardiac branches of right sup., middle and inf. cervical sym- pathetic ganglia, having crossed the right subclavian artery, are joined by cardiac branches of right recurrent n., and all pass downwards and medially, behind innominate art., to the trachea, upon which they descend to deep cardiac plexus on its bifurcation. Cervical cardiac branches of left vagus and sympathetic enter thorax and run down, anterior to subclavian artery. The superior branch of sympathetic and inferior branch of vagus accompany phrenic and vagus across aortic arch, and end in superficial cardiac plexus ; the others reach the trachea between subclavian and carotid arteries, and descend upon it to deep cardiac plexus, which is joined also by branches of left recurrent n. and thoracic cardiac branches of right vagus. Thoracic duct emerges from posterior aspect of oesophagus and ascends on its left border. Longus colli is posterior to it. Aortic arch is anterior and on its left, below. Pleura is on its left and subclavian artery is anterior, above. Right lymphatic duct or broncho- mediastinal trunk, exceedingly slender, begins at 5th thoracic vertebra, and ascends into neck upon right longus colli.