AXILLA stretches across axilla, supplying skin of its floor ; communicates with medial cutaneous nerve of arm (lesser internal cutaneous) ; pierces deep fascia where lateral wall of axilla joins arm, supplies skin of dorsal part of medial side of arm (O.T. upper arm). (2) Lateral cutaneous branches of 3rd. and 4th intercostal nerves divide, under cover of serratus anterior, into anterior and posterior divisions, which appear through or between its digitations, and leave medial wall of axilla by turning round borders of pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi respectively ; posterior division of 3rd may send branches across to skin of door of axilla and medial side of arm. Brachial plexus lies partly in antero-inferior angle of posterior triangle of neck, partly posterior to clavicle, partly in axilla. It is made up of (i.) Roots—anterior branches of 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th cervical, greater part of 1st thoracic, and communications from 4th cervical and 2nd thoracic nerves; (ii.) Trunks—upper, middle and lower ; (iii.) 3 anterior and 3 posterior divisions ; (iv.) Cords— lateral, medial and posterior ; (v.) Branches. 5th and 6th cervical, and communication from 4th, combine to form upper trunk ; 7th alone forms middle trunk ; 8th cervical, 1st thoracic and communication from 2nd form lower trunk. Each trunk divides into an anterior and a posterior division. The three posterior divisions combine to form posterior cord ; the two upper anterior divisions unite to form lateral cord; the lower anterior division alone forms medial cord. Lateral cord therefore contains fibres of 5, 6, 7 c., medial cord 8c„ 1 th., post, cord, 5, 6. 7, 8 c., but 1st thoracic contributes few or no fibres to post. cord. The branches arise from the roots in the neck, from the cords in the axilla. The cords, having given off lateral branches, end, each by dividing into two terminal branches, at the junction of 2nd and 3rd parts of axillary artery, opposite tip of coracoid process and opposite infero-lateral border of pectoralis minor. Relations above Axilla. —Superficial to it are skin, fascia-, platysma, supra-clavicular nerves; ext. jugular, transverse cervical and scapular (supra-seapular) veins, post, belly of omo-hyoid, trans- verse cervical artery, nerve to sul>clavius ; prevertebral fascia and lateral border of scalenus anterior ; 3rd part of subclavian art.; clavicle and subclavius, and transverse scapular art. behind clavicle. Deep to it are scalenus medius and roots of long thoracic nerve. Relations in Axilla.—. Interior to it are skin, fascire, platysma, middle supra-clavicular nerves ; pectoralis major ; cephalic vein and branches of thoraco-acromial artery (thoracic axis) ; pectoralis minor and costo-coracoid membrane ; axillary artery. Trunks and cords are above, lateral and posterior to 1st part of artery ; cords are arranged, according to name, around 2nd part. Posterior to it are serratus anterior (magnus), long thoracic nerve, fat. and subscapularis. Branches of Roots of Brachial Plexus.—Communicating Grey rami communicantes from sympathetic ganglia.