OSTEOLOGY 6 junction of root and lamina. (9) Processus articulares, superior and inferior, project upwards and downwards from junction of root and lamina, and have smooth surfaces for articulation with articular processes of contiguous vertebrae ; superior pair are on a more anterior plane than the inferior. When vertebrae are placed together the vertebral foramina form canalis vertebralis (spinal or neural canal), for lodgment and protection of spinal medulla (spinal cord) and its membranes ; and vertebral notches, assisted by articular processes, bodies and fibro-cartilages, form a series of foramina intervertebralia, for transmission of spinal nerves and vessels. CERVICAL VERTEBRAS Special Character. — Transverse process encloses a foramen called Foramen Transversarium. Typical Cervical Vertebra.—Body: small, elongated transversely. Roots of vertebral arch (pedicles): short and rounded. Lamina : long, narrow, sloping. Vertebral fora- men : large ; triangular or semilunar. Spine : short, bifid. Transverse process : short, encloses foramen ; is bifid, ending in two tubercles—anterior and posterior. Articulating sur- faces of articular processes are nearly circular. Upper surface of body is concave from side to side, convex dorso- ventrally; rounded off anteriorly, raised up at sides. Lower surface is correspondingly concavo-convex. Ventral surface is slightly elevated in the middle, slightly hollowed out on each side. Dorsal surface is flat. Lateral aspect is fused with transverse process and root of arch, and helps to bound transverse foramen. Root of vertebral arch springs from dorso-lateral aspect of body, is directed dorsally and laterally, and its vertebral notches are nearly equal in depth. Vertebral foramen is larger than in thoracic or lumbar regions. Spine is compressed vertically, and is directed dorsally and downwards. Transverse process projects laterally, and slightly ventrally and downwards. Consists of two parts : (1) dorsal part—the true trans- verse process—springs from vertebral arch; (2) ventral part—the homologue of a rib—-is attached to side of body. The two parts are united iaterally by costo transverse lamella, and enclose foramen transversarium. Bifid free end terminates in anterior and posterior tubercles. These are separated by grooved upper surface of costo-transverse lamella, over which the anterior branch