PROXIMAL RADIO-ULNAR JOINT IOI Synovial stratum lines fibrous stratum, covers bone within capsule up to margins of articular surfaces, and lines proximal radio-ulnar joint. Pads of fat lie between fibrous and synovial strata in relation to radial, coronoid and olecranon fossae. Blood-Vessels. The anastomosis around elbow-joint. Nerves : ulnar, musculo-cutaneous, median, radial (musculo- spinal). Relations.—Anterior : brachialis covers nearly whole of ant. lig. ; and some ofjts fibres arise from it. It separates brachial artery and vena; comites, tendon of biceps, and median nerve from the joint. Medial to brachialis the volar (anterior) recurrent ulnar artery is in relation to ant. lig., overlapped by pronator teres. Lateral to brachialis the ant. ligament is covered by brachio-radialis and ext. carpi rad. longus, and under cover of these lie radial recurrent art., deep and superficial branches of radial nerve (radial and post, interosseousbranchesofmusculo-spiral). Lateral: common tendon of extensors overlies radial collateral lig., while ext. carpi radialis brevis and supinator arise from it. Medial : common tendon of flexors overlies ant. band of ulnar collateral lig., and flexor sublimis arises from it ; flexor carpi ulnaris overlies post, band, and ulnar nerve and post, ulnar recurrent art. lie directly on it. Posterior: triceps and bursa cover proximal and medial part and some fibres of triceps are inserted into it. Anconreus and interosseous recurrent artery lie upon distal and lateral part. Movements. Flexion : product-d mainly by biceps, brachialis, pronator teres, brachio-radialis, assisted to a small extent by flexors and extensors of hand and fingers, which are attached to ant. aspects of epicondyles ; checked by contact of forearm and arm. Extension : mainly by triceps and ancomeus, checked by anterior and collateral ligaments before olecranon can touch humerus. Axis of movement and line of articulation are oblique ; hence extended forearm forms with the arm an obtuse angle laterally ; and in flexion hand is carried towards mouth. Articulatio Radio-ulnaris Proximalis. — Diarthrodial, pivot joint. Circumference of head of radius encircled by annular ligament and radial notch of ulna. Ligamentum annulare radii (orbicular lig.) forms f or ^ of circle. Attached to ant. and post, margins of radial notch of ulna. Distal margin is very loosely connected to neck of radius, if at all ; proximal margin gives attachment to anterior and radial collateral ligs. of elbow. Supinator arises from outer surface ; prolongation of synovial stratum of elbow lines inner surface, and is reflected on to neck of