FASCI/E AND MUSCLES OF PERINEUM 247 Fascia inferior of urogenital diaphragm (Lower layer of triangular lig. )•—Triangular. Truncated apex is thickened, and fused with anterior margin of fascia superior to form transverse ligament of pelvis, which is separated from arcuate pubic lig. (sub-pubic) by an oval aperture, transmitting deep dorsal vein of penis to pudendal (prostatic) plexus. Its sides are attached to the sides of pubic arch. Its base is fused with fascia superior and with deep, membranous layer of superficial fascia. It is pierced at its base by internal pudendal artery and dorsal nerve of penis and perineal vessels and nerves ; at each margin by internal pudendal artery and dorsal nerve of penis again ; near its centre by urethra, ducts of bulbo-urethral (Cowper's) glands, and arteries to bulb ; and, in female, by vagina and urethra. It is covered by structures lying in superficial perineal pouch, between it and deep layer of superficial fascia :—Superficial muscles and vessels and nerves of perinasum ; and in male, bulb and crura of penis ; in female, crura of clitoris, bulb of vestibule and vestibular glands (Bartholin). Fascia superior of urogenital diaphragm is connected laterally with sides of pubic arch and fascia over obturator internus, anteriorly anti posteriorly with fascia inferior, superiorly with fascial sheath of prostate, which rests on it. It is pierced by urethra in male, by vagina and urethra in female. Between the two fasciae are the membranous part of urethra, its sphincter, transversus profundus, bulbo-urethral (Cowper’s) glands, internal pudendal arteries and arteries to bulb, a plexus of veins, dorsal nerves of penis. Superficial Muscles of Perinaeum. (1) Corrugator cutis uni—a few subcutaneous, unstriped fibres radiating from margin of anus. (2) Sphincter nni externus surrounds anus and lower part of anal canal. (3 7 ransversus peri/uri super - ficiall's, on each side of median plane, lies superficial to base of fascia of urogenital diaphragm. (4) Hu/ho-cavernosus, in male, covers proximal part of corpus cavernosum urethra; and its bulb, on each side of median plane ; in female, it surrounds orifice of vagina. (5) Ischio-cavernosus covers crus of penis or clitoris. Diaphragma urogenitale consists of transversus perittcei profundus and sphincter urethra, which lie in relation to membranous part of urethra, enclosed between two layers of fascia. Central point of perinaeum is situated i inch anterior to anus, at base of fascia inferior of urogenital diaphragm, in median plane ; at that point there is a fibro-muscular nodule formed by perineal muscles which converge upon it.