ORGANS OF THE SENSES 4io glands accompanying ext. jugular vein. Nerves : motor, facial ; sensory, auriculo-temporal, great auricular, lesser occipital, and, sometimes, greater occipital. External acoustic meatus leads from concha to tympanic membrane ; 24 mm. in length from bottom of concha (35 mm. from tragus) ; owing to obliquity of tympanic membrane its anterior and inferior walls are longer than posterior and superior. Forms an irregular sinuous bend : lateral part (7 mm.) is directed medially, anteriorly and slightly upwards ; middle part (5 mm.) medially and posteriorly ; medial part (12 mm.), medially, anteriorly and slightly downwards. Widest at lateral end, narrows towards osseous meatus, widens there, but narrows again as it passes medially ; isthmus or narrowest part is 19 mm. from bottom of concha. Osseous part (16 mm.) is formed by temporal bone. Lateral part (8 mm.) formed by cartilage folded to form groove which is completed above and posteriorly by fibrous tissue ; continuous with cartilage of auricle ; attached to margin of osseous part by fibrous tissue. In new-born child there is no osseous part, as tympanic plate is only an incomplete ring ; and external meatus is very small and short. Skin is firmly adherent to meatus, and extends on to tympanic membrane. Its glandulce ceruminoste are modified sweat glands and secrete cerumen or ear wax. Arteries, from superficial temporal, posterior and deep auricular. Veins end in ext. jugular, int. maxillary and pterygoid plexus. Lymphatics end like those of auricle. Nerves, auriculo-temporal, auricular branch of vagus. CAVUM TYMPANI OR MIDDLE EAR Tympanic Cavity.—Lies in temporal bone between tympanic membrane and labyrinth. Communicates with tympanic antrum posteriorly, with nasal pharynx, through auditory (Eustachian) tube, anteriorly. Vertical and antero - posterior diameters are 15 mm. From side to side it measures 6 mm. above, 4 mm. below, ii to 2 mm. at middle. Lined with mucous membrane. Contains tympanic ossicles with their ligaments and muscles ; chorda tympani nerve; tympanic plexus. Recessus epitympanicus, part above level of tympanic membrane, contains greater part of incus and upper £ of malleus. Paries tegmentalis (Roof).—Formed by tegmen tympani, which separates it from middle cranial fossa. Paries jugularis (Floor).—Thin plate separating it from jugular fossa. Internal opening for tympanic branch of glosso-pharyngeal is at junction of floor and medial wall. Paries mastoidea (Posterior wall) presents, from above down-