296 BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM Medial plantar artery (see also p. 185) arises at distal border of lig. laciniatum (int. annular); runs under cover of abductor hallucis, then between it and flexor dig. brevis to base of hallux, and ends by joining plantar digital art. to medial side of hallux. Branches. — (1) Muscular; (2) cutaneous; (3) three branches accompany digital branches of medial plantar n. Lateral plantar artery (see also p. 185), larger than medial, begins at distal border'of lig. laciniatum ; runs dis- tally and laterally under cover of abductor hallucis and flex, digitorum brevis, accompanied by lateral plantar nerve ; and at base of 5th metatarsal it turns medially across sole to base of 1st metatarsal as plantar arch. Branches.—Muscular, cutaneous ; medial calcanean pierce abd. hallucis to reach plantar surface of heel. Plantar arch (see also p. 185), formed by lateral plantar, • completed medially by junction with dorsalis pedis tA proxi- mal end of 1st intermetatarsal space. Lies on bases of middle three metatarsals, and is accompanied by deep branch of lateral plantar nerve. Branches.—(1) Post, perforating pass through lateral three intermetatarsal spaces to join dorsal metatarsal arteries; (2) three plantar metatarsal arteries run to clefts between lateral four toes ; each sends an anterior perforating branch to join a dorsal metatarsal, and divides into two plantar digitals to supply adjacent sides of toes ; (3) plantar digital artery to lateral side of little toe. Anterior tibial artery arises at distal border of popliteus, as a terminal branch of popliteal ; runs distally and forwards, embraced by bifid proximal end of tibialis posterior ; pierces proximal part of interosseous membrane, and proceeds upon interosseous membrane and lower end of tibia to ant. aspect of ankle-joint, midway between malleoli, where it ends as dorsalis pedis. Relations: accompanied by v. comites. In anterior compartment of leg, the deep peroneal n. (ant. tibial) approaches it from lateral side, lies on ant. surface in middle ^ ; lies on lateral side in distal Proximal part is deeply placed between tibialis anterior medially, ext. dig. longus and ext. hall, longus laterally. Distal part, more superficial, is overlapped by ext. hallucis, and then crossed by its tendon. Branches.—(1) Posterior tibial recurrent arises on back of leg, runs proximally, under cover of popliteus, to back of knee-joint ;