483 MALE GENITAL ORGANS nutrition of testis—viz., int. spermatic art., pampiniform plexus of veins, testicular lymphatics and nerves —all enclosed in coverings prolonged over them and oyer testis from constituents of abdominal wall—ext. spermatic fascia, cremasteric muscle and fascia, and int. spermatic fascia. Accompanying and supplying the coverings are ext. spermatic vessels and nerve (cremasteric vessels and genital branch of genito-crural nerve). Relations.—In inguinal canal—See 3\ alls of inguinal canal. Between Inguinal Canal and Testis .—Anterior skin, superficial fasciae, superficial ext. pudendal vessels, testis. Posterior: Origins of adductor longus and gracilis, deep ext. pudendal vessels, posterior wall of scrotum. It may touch upper medial angle of pectineus. Vesiculae seminales lie on base of bladder, enclosed in pelvic fascia. Each is a branched, sacculated tube, 6 in. long, coiled to form a piriform body, 2 in. long, which tapers to lower end, where tube is narrowed down to form slender ductus excretorius. Long axis is directed upwards, backwards and laterally, so that medial border looks more upwards than medially when bladder is empty, but is more vertical when bladder is full. Lower ends lie at base of prostate and are separated by ductus deferentes only. Upper ends are 2 in. or more apart; upper end of each lies in sacro-genital fold of peritoneum, below ductus deferens, overlapping entrance of ureter into bladder anteriorly, while posteriorly it is in relation to levator ani, at side of rectum, opposite ischial spine. Lateral border is supported by levator ani. Ductus deferens lies along medial border. Anterior surface is related to bladder ; posterior surface is related to rectum. Blood vessels : from vesical and middle hemorrhoidal. Nerves : front hypogastric plexus. Lymphatics end in hypogastric (int. iliac) and ext. iliac glands. Ductus ejaculatorius is formed by the union of ductus deferens and excretory duct of seminal vesicle, at base of prostate. It is | in. long and very slender ; lies close to its fellow, at median plane ; pierces prostate to open into prostatic urethra at the mouth of utriculus prostaticus (sinus pocularis). Its lower part passes by the side of utriculus. Prostate lies below bladder, anterior to lower end of rectum. Partly glandular, partly fibro-muscular. Fibrous condensation at surface is called its capsule. Possesses