227 ANTERIOR MEDIAN LINE OF NECK its fellow by a transverse anastomosing branch, and turns laterally, deep to sterno-mastoid, to end in external jugular vein. Deep fascia extends from mandible to manubrium, but is adherent to hyoid bone. Above manubrium it is split into two layers, which are attached to anterior and posterior aspects of manubrium, near upper border. Between these two layers are : (1) some fatty areolar tissue and sometimes a lymph gland ; (2) the sternal head of sterno- mastoid and (3) anterior jugular vein, on each side ; and crossing the median plane (4) the anastomosis between ant. jugular veins ; (5) interclavicular ligament. Deeper Structures.—Above hyoid bone :—Anterior bellies of digastric diverge from each side of symphysis, and between them and hyoid bone is the submental triangle, in which lie a few lymph glands : they drain median part of lip and chin and anterior part of tongue. Bisecting the triangle in median plane is the fibrous raphe into which the mylo-hyoids are inserted ; and just above hyoid bone is the anastomosis between hyoid branches of the lingual arteries of the two sides. A pin pushed dorsally on either side of median plane, just above hyoid bone, w-ould pass through skin, fascia;, mylo-hyoid, genio hyoid, genio-glossus, mucous membrane of pharyngeal surface of tongue ; and would appear in vallecula between tongue and epiglottis. Below Hyoid Bone.—An elliptical or lozenge-shaped space is bounded on each side by sterno-hyoid above, sterno-thyreoid below. Within the space are: (1) the median thvreo-hyoid tig. (median part of thyreo-hyoid membrane), crossed superficially by (2) anastomosis between hyoid branches of superior thyreoid arteries ; a pin pushed dorsally, just below hyoid bone, would pass through skin, fascia:, median thyreo-hyoid ligament, a pad of fat, stem of epiglottis, and mucous membrane of laryngeal surface of epiglottis ; would appear in vestibule of larynx, and would pass on into pharynx. (3) Thyreoid cartilage with prominentia laryngea (Adam's apple) at its upper end. (4) Crico-thyreoid tig. (median part of crico-thyreoid membrane), crossed superficially by (5) anastomosis of crico-thyreoid arteries ; a pin pushed through the ligament enters cavity of larynx, some distance below- plicre vocales (true vocal cords) ; the ligament and crico-thyreoid interval are very small in children. (6) Arch of cricoid cartilage, and on each side the crico-thyreoid muscle. (7) Crico-tracheal ligament and,first ring of trachea. (8) Isthmus of thyreoid gland, opposite 2nd, 3rd, 4th rings of trachea ; along its upper border (9) an anastomosis between superior thyreoid arteries, and from this border, on the left side, (to) the pyramidal lobe projects upwards and is connected by levator glandules thyreoidece to hyoid bone. (11) Lower cervical rings of trachea. (12) Pretracheal fascia, extending upwards to ensheath thyreoid gland and to be attached to cricoid and thyreoid cartilages, and downwards into thorax to be connected with pericardium. (13) Inferior thyreoid veins, piercing pretracheal fascia and descending