3*6 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM rectal, in wall of rectal ampulla; afferents from rectum and upper part of anal canal ; efferents to inf. mesenteric glands. Para- uterine, in broad lig., at side of cervix ; afferents from cervix ; efferents to hypogastric glands. Sacral, along medial side of anterior sacral foramina ; afferents from bones and ligaments, uterus, vagina, prostate, rectum ; efferents to hypogastric or common iliac glands. Lumbar lie along aorta and inf. v. cava, and on psoas, quadratus lumborum and crura of diaphragm ; afferent from lower limbs, anterior abdominal wall, pelvic viscera, external genitals, through glands mentioned above, from abdominal alimentary canal through visceral glands, from posterior abdominal wall, testes, ovaries, uterine tubes, body of uterus, kidneys, suprarenals. Efferents from pre-aortic glands join intestinal trunk, from lateral aortic and retro- aortic glands join lumbar and retro-aortic trunks. These trunks end in cisterna chyli. Posterior and anterior left gastric, on crus of diaphragm and in lesser omentum, along left gastric artery (coronary) and around cardiac end of stomach (para - cardial); afferents from stomach; efferents to pre-aortic glands around cceliac artery (coeliac or middle supra pancreatic glands). Right gastro epiploic, in greater omentum, along right gastro- epiploic artery; afferentsUom stomach; efferents tosubpyloric glands, on the end of gastro-duodenal artery, which send efferents to coeliac glands. Hepatic, in porta hepatis (portal fissure) and right border of lesser omentum ; afferents from liver, gall-bladder, duodenum, stomach, pancreas ; efferents to coeliac glands. Right supra- pancreatic, on hepatic art. in right gastro-pancreatic fold ; afferents from liver and pyloric part of stomach ; efferents to coeliac glands. Pancreatico - lienal (splenic) (include left supra pancreatic), along upper border and behind pancreas and in gastro-splenic ligament (omentum) and lieno-renal ligament; afferents from stomach, pancreas, spleen ; efferents to coeliac glands. Mesenteric, between ioo and 200, scattered between layers of mesentery proper ; afferents from small intestine, caecum, vermiform process, ascending, transverse, and part of descending colon ; efferents unite to form common intestinal trunk, which ends in cisterna chyli. Meso-colic, in transverse meso-colon ; ileo colic, right colic, in relation to arteries of same name and their branches; inferior mesenteric (including rectal), along left colic, sigmoid and superior hremorrhoidal arteries. Epicolic, in appendices epiploicae ; para- colic, alongmedial borders of ascending, descending and iliac colon, upper border of transverse colon and attached border of pelvic colon, drain these parts of intestine and send lymph on, through glands on vessels mentioned above, to mesenteric glands on stem of sup. mesenteric art., and thence to common intestinal trunk, those from left side going also to lumbar glands and left lumbar trunk.