MUSCLES AND FASCIAE 238 Diaphragma. —The diaphragm is the arched musculo- tendinous partition between thorax and abdomen. Consists of a circumferential fleshy part, whose fibres converge, in an upward direction, upon the centrum tendineum—a tendinous central part, which is composed of right, left and intermediate lobes, resembling a trefoil leaf, and is regarded as the in- sertion. Origin : dorsal aspect of xiphoid process, by 2 fleshy slips ; inner surfaces of lower 6 costal cartilages, by fleshy slips, interdigitating with transversus abdominis ; lateral and medial lumbo-costal arches ; bodies of upper 3 lumbar vertebrae, by two crura ; median arcuate ligament. Arcus lumbo-costalis lateralis (ext. arcuate lig.), a thickening of ant. lamella of lumbo-dorsal fascia, arches across anterior surface of quadratus lumborum, from last rib to 1st lumbar transverse process. Arcus lumbo-costalis medialis (int. arcuate lig.), a thickening of fascia of psoas, arches across anterior surface of psoas, from 1st lumbar transverse process to body of 2nd lumbar vertebra and tendinous part of crus. Crura are elongated bundles, fleshy above, tendinous below, attached, the right to bodies of upper 3 lumbar vertebrae, the left to upper 2 only. Fibres are directed upwards, decussate anterior to aorta, encircle oesophagus, decussate again, before joining tendinous centre. Median arcuate ligament, a tendinous arch connecting the crura, anterior to aorta, gives origin to fibres which mingle with decussating fibres of crura. Nerves : c. 3, 4, 5, through phrenic ; diaphragmatic plexus of sympathetic ; possibly lower intercostals. Action : When muscular part contracts it descends,pushing abdominal viscera downwards and increasing capacity of thorax, so that lungs expand (see also p. 96). Relations of Diaphragm.—Abdominal surface: Liver occupies a great part of abdominal surface, especially on right side. Stomach is in relation to the left and anteriorly ; spleen, to the left and posteriorly. Kidney of each side lies against crus and part arising from lumbo-costal arches (arcuate ligs.). Suprarenal gland lies on crus ; cceliac (semilunar) ganglion is medial to suprarenal. Pancreas lies across crura. Inferior vena cava lies on right crus. Between the Crura.—Aorta, the cisterna (receptaculum) chyli, vena azygos, in that order from left to right, the vein being behind right crus rather than between crura. Thoracic Surface.—Pericardium and heart are related to inter- mediate area ; pleura, lung, and phrenico-pleural lig. are related to lateral area, on each side. A considerable circumferential area,