i63 MUSCLES OF THIGH MUSCLES ON MEDIAL SIDE OF THIGH Gracilis lies superficially. Origin (tend.) : margin of symphysis and medial margin of inferior ramus of pubis. Insertion : by long tendon into medial surface of tibia, distal to condyle, posterior and distal to sartorius, from which it is separated by bursa, proximal and anterior to semitendinosus. A bursa common to it and semitendinosus separates it from tibial collateral ligament. Nerve : I.. 2, 3, 4, through obturator. It adducts thigh, flexes tibia and rotates it medially. Adductor longus lies in medial and distal part of floor of femoral trigone, and in floor of adductor canal. Origin : by rounded tendon, which is easily palpable, from femoral surface of body of pubis, in angle between symphysis and crest. Insertion (tend.): distal two-thirds of medial lip of linea aspera. Nerve : l. 2, 3, through obturator. It adducts and flexes thigh, and rotates it laterally. Adductor brevis. Origin (fl.): femoral surface of body and inf. ramus of pubis, below longus, between gracilis and obturator ext. Insertion (fl.-tend.): distal 5 of line leading from back of trochanter minor to linea aspera ; and proximal part of 1. aspera. Pectincus, add. longus, profunda vess. and ant. division of obturator nerve are anterior to it. Add. mngnus and post, division of obturator n. are behind it. Ilio-psoas, obturator ext., and medial circumflex vess. are related to supero-lateral border. 1st and 2nd perforating branches of profunda vess. pierce it at insertion. Nerve : L. 3, 4, through obturator. Same action as longus. Adductor magnus lies between flexors and other ad- ductors. Origin (fl.) : lowest impression on tuber ischii, margin of inf. ramus of ischium, femoral surface of pubic ramus, between brevis and obturator ext. Insertion (tend.): (1) posterior surface of femur, medial to gluteal tuberosity ; (2) linea aspera ; (3) medial epicondylic line and septum ; (4) adductor tubercle. An interruption in attach- ment to epicondylic line, for passage of femoral vessels, is called hiatus tcndineus (opening in adductor magnus). Posterior border is that part arising from tuber ischii and inserted into adductor tubercle by strong tendon, some of whose fibres run into tibial collateral ligament. Nerves : L. 3, 4, through obturator ; L. 4, 5, s. 1, through tibial part of sciatic. It adducts and rotates thigh laterally. Ischial part extends hip, pubic part flexes it ; upper part of pubic portion is sometimes a separate muscle, called adductor minimus.