236 MUSCLES AND FASCIA which becomes attached to trochlea, and that for obliquus inf., which is attached to floor of orbit, and limits action of that muscle. Check ligaments, connecting sheaths of rectus lateralis and medialis to zygomatic (malar) and lacrimal bones, respectively, restrain these muscles. Rectus superior is restrained by a connection with levator palpebras ; and rectus inferior by connection with suspensory lig. Suspensory ligament slings eyeball. It has pointed attachments to zygomatic and lacrimal bones, from which it widens out to fuse with fascia bulbi, below eyeball. Levator palpebra; superioris lies immediately below roof of orbit. Origin (tend.): roof of orbit, anterior to optic foramen. Insertion : by three tendinous lamina;: one is attached to skin of upper eyelid after mingling with orbicularis oculi ; another to upper edge of sup. tarsal plate ; the third into fornix conjunctiva;, after blending with sheath of rectus superior. Edges of laminae are connected with orbital margin to check movement. Nerve: oculo-motor, through superior branch. Rectus superior, inferior, lateralis, medialis arise from tendinous ring surrounding optic foramen, lateralis by two heads, between which pass oculo-motor, abducent, naso-ciliary nerves, and ophthalmic vein. After piercing fascia bulbi each is inserted into sclera of eyeball, anterior to equator, three or four lines behind margin of cornea, the superior and inferior in a vertical plane, slightly medial to axis of eyeball, lateralis and medialis in a horizontal plane, medialis being attached nearer to cornea than the others. Nerves : lateralis by abducent (6th cerebral) ; superior by oculo-motor (3rd cerebral), through superior ramus ; medialis and inferior by oculo-motor, through inferior ramus. Obliquus superior lies under medial border of roof of orbit. Arises from tendinous ring, between rectus superior and medialis. Its tendon passes through fibrous ring or trochlea attached to anterior and medial part of roof of orbit, and is directed from there, laterally and posteriorly, below rectus superior, to be inserted into sclera, between rectus superior and lateralis, midway between margin of cornea and entrance of optic nerve. Nerve : trochlear (4th cerebral). Obliquus inferior arises from orbital surface of maxilla, lateral to naso-lacrimal groove (fl.-tend.) ; is directed laterally and posteriorly, below eyeball and rectus inferior insertion, then upwards between eyeball and r. lateralis, to be inserted between r. lateralis and superior, a little posterior to level of insertion of obliquus sup. Nerve : oculo-motor, through ramus inferior. Actions of Recti and Obliqui.—R. superior directs pupil upwards and medially. R. inferior directs pupil downwards and medially. R.. lateralis directs pupil laterally. R. medialis directs pupil medially. O. superior directs pupil downwards and laterally.