MUSCLES AND FASCI/E 186 bases of 2nd, 3rd, 4th metatarsals and proximal ends of interosseous muscles. On its plantar side are the oblique head of adductor hallucis, and flexor dig. longus, lumbricals, and, superficial to these, the flexor dig. brevis. Branches.—(1) Articular to tarsal joints. (2) Plantar digital artery to fibular side of little toe. (3) The posterior perforating, which pass dorsally through proximal parts of lateral 3 intermetatarsal spaces to join dorsal metatarsal arteries. (4) Three plantar meta- tarsal arteries run distally on plantar aspects of interossei, and dorsal to transverse head of adductor, to the clefts between 4 lateral toes, and divide into plantar digital arteries for the sides of the clefts. Each metatarsal artery sends an anterior perforating arteiy dorsally to join a dorsal metatarsal ; and the medial two plantar metatarsal arteries may be joined by digital branches of medial plantar. On the digits the arteries lie dorsal to the nerves and supply plantar surfaces and sides, form plexuses and arches in pulp of toes, anastomose with dorsal digitals, and supply dorsal aspects of 2nd and 3rd phalanges. Dorsalis pedis artery dips down into sole through proximal end of 1st intermetatarsal space, joins plantar arch, and at point of junction gives off first plantar metatarsal artery, which runs to 1st cleft and divides into plantar digital arteries for both sides of great toe and medial side of second. Lateral plantar nerve, the smaller terminal branch of tibial, arises under cover of lig. laciniatum (int. annular); accompanies lateral plantar artery, and has the same relations. Its trunk supplies quadratus plantas and abductor dig. quinti and skin of sole ; and at base of 5th metatarsal it divides into superficial and deep branches. Superficial branch divides into two branches, of which the medial supplies skin of 4th cleft and communicates with branch of medial plantar to 3rd cleft, while the lateral supplies flexor dig. quinti brevis, 3rd plantar and 4th dorsal interosseous, skin of sole and of lateral side of little toe. Deep branch accompanies plantar arch on its concave or posterior aspect ; ends in oblique head of adductor hallucis ; sends branches to remaining interossei, to transverse head of adductor, and to 2nd, 3rd, and 4th lumbricals, the branch to 2nd lumbrical passing dorsal to transverse head and turning downwards and backwards to lumbrical. Fourth Layer of Muscles.—Interossei and tendons of tibialis posterior and peronasus longus. Interosseous muscles are 7 in number, 3 plantar and 4 dorsal. Their tendons pass dorsal to transverse metatarsal lig., and each is inserted into base of 1st phalanx, capsule of metatarso-phalangeal joint, and very slightly into extensor tendon of toe upon which it acts (cf. lumbricals). Dorsal interossei lie between metatarsals and are seen on dorsum of foot as well as in sole. Lateral plantar nerve supplies them all by fibres derived from s. x, 2: the 3rd plantar and 4th dorsal through its superficial branch, the rest through its deep branch. Plantar interossei arise from plantar aspects of 3rd, 4th, 5th