WRIST-JOINT io5 At radial side, proximal to metacarpal of thumb, feel the tendons of abductor poll, longus and ext. poll, brevis. 1 hey form the antero- lateral boundary of hollow on radial side of wrist. L nder cover of them the radial art. is lying on radial collateral lig. In the hollow at radial side of wrist superficial branches of radial nerve cross the joint ; they may be felt more distallv, as they cross ext. poll, longus tendon. Radial art. may be felt pulsating in the distal part of the hollow, on multangulum majus (trapezium), beyond wrist-joint, near carpo-meta- carpal joint of thumb. Next, at ulnar side of the hollow, feel the tendons of ext. carpi rad. longus and brevis, and the ext. poll, longus. I*..\t. poll, longus crosses ext. carpi rad. longus and brevis obliquely, lying on brevis opposite the joint. Next, in order, come ext. dig. communis, with ext. ind. proprius deep to its radial edge ; ext. dig. quinti ; and ext. carpi ulnaris, felt at ulnar border of this aspect. All these tendons are enclosed in synovial sheaths. Dorsal carpal lig. (post, annular) lies obliquely across joint, superficial to tendons, its distal border being proximal to joirjt on radial side, and distal to it on ulnar side. Branches from interosseous art. pass deep to tendons to anastomose with dorsal carpal arch, which lies on distal row of carpus ; and termination of dorsal interosseous nerve crosses joint under cover of ext. indicis proprius. With forearm supine: Feel ridge on distal extremity of ratlins, and ascertain line of joint on palmar aspect, at slightly more proximal level than on dorsal aspect. Some superficial veins lie beneath the skin. The tendons seen extending distallv across middle of this aspect arc flex, carpi radialis laterally, and palmaris longus medially ; palmaris may be absent. Feel tubercle of navicular (scaphoid) just proximal to ball of thumb, in angle between it and flex. carp. rad. ; and the pisiform, whitli forms knob just proximal to ball of little finger. Proximal border of transverse carpal lig. (ant. annular) stretches between them, just a lilth distal to wrist-joint, usuallv opposite most distal transverse skin crease. Feel the radial artery treating on distal end of radius ; before it turns laterally to reach radial side "I wrist, it sends superficial volar branch across the joint to ball of thumb. Flexor pollicis longus tendon crosses the joint directly dorsal to flex, carpi radialis ; each has a separate synovial sheath, flexor profundus, on ulnar side of pollicis, is in relation to greater part of ant. lig. of joint, and is enveloped in sheath common to it and sublimis. Median nerve is, at this level, anterior to tendon of profundus to index (or opposite interval between it and pollicis), on radial side of sublimis. The nerve is posterior to ulnar edge of flexor carpi radialis, and posterior to palmaris longus if the two tendons are close together. Palmar cutaneous branch of median n. is descending superficial!) between flex. carp. rad. and palmaris. Superficial to profundus, on ulnar side of median nerve, are tin- 4