394 NEUROLOGY fibres end in a nucleus placed alongside. Communications (see n. vagus). Motor and sensory fibres, traced outwards, pass through tractus spinalis (spinal root of V.) and emerge through upward prolongation of postero-lateral sulcus, a little dorsal to olive. Branches.—Ganglion superius gives none. Ganglion petrosuni communicates with sup. cervical sympathetic gang., auricular branch and ganglion nodosum (of trunk) of vagus ; gives off n. tym- panicus, which enters tympanum through foramen between jugular fossa and carotid canal, breaks up on promontory into plexus, which is joined by sup. and inf. carotico-tympanic branches from carotid sympathetic plexus, and gives branches to mucous membrane of tympanum, mastoid cells, auditory tube. A branch arises from tympanic plexus, enters petrous temporal, is joined there by branch from facial to form lesser superficial petrosal nerve, which emerges through opening below hiatus canalis facialis (I-’allopii), runs forwards and downwards between petrous temporal and great wing of sphenoid, or through special aperture (canaliculus innominatus), or through for. ovale, and ends in otic ganglion. In the neck, ramus stylo-pharyngeus supplies that muscle and passes through it to pharynx. R. pharyngei join with pharyngeal branches of vagus and sympathetic and supply mucous membrane of pharynx. Terminal branches—r. linguales and tonsillares—supply post, i of tongue (taste and common sensation), palatine tonsil, soft palate, glosso- epiglottic folds, and front of epiglottis. Vagus Nerve (ioth).—Sensory and motor-, widespread distribution. Roots combined in one trunk. Motor nuclei are n. ambiguus (see glosso - pharyngeal) and n. dorsalis. Peripheral ganglia are g. jugulare (g. of root) placed on nerve in jugular foramen, andg. nodosum, situated below jugular foramen. A few sensory fibres join tractus solitarius (see n. glosso- phar.), but most end in dorsal nucleus, which is both motor and sensory and lies under ala cinerea (trigonum vagi) in upper part of medulla oblongata, and dorsal to nucleus of hypoglossal in lower part, on lateral aspect of central canal. The fibres which correspond peripherally to auricular branch of vagus end in nucleus of tractus spinalis of V. Communications : fibres of opposite pyramidal tract end in motor nucleus. Fibres from sensory nuclei join opposite lemniscus, and some join medial longitudinal bundle to connect with other nuclei. Motor fibres run dorsally and laterally and join sensory fibres, and together they traverse tractus spinalis and emerge through upper part of postero-lateral sulcus, below glosso-pharyngeal. Motor fibres in vagus from nucleus ambiguus go to pharynx and larynx ; those from dorsal nucleus go to heart, oesophagus, stomach, trachea and bronchi. Vagus nerve trunk, formed by union of fila radicularia