272 BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM it from ext. carotid. Pharynx, asc. pharyngeal artery and int. and ext. laryngeal nerves are medial to it. Behind it are longus capitis, sympathetic trunk, superior laryngeal nerve. Near base of skull it is Ti in. medial to posterior part of mandibular joint, tympanic plate and osseous auditory (Eustachian) tube intervening ; cartilaginous part of auditory tube and tensor v. palatini are anterior ; levator v. palatini is medial to it; jugular vein, glosso- pharyngeal, vagus, accessory and hypoglossal nerves are posterior. No branches in the neck. Relations in Carotid Canal.—Surrounded by small veins and by branches from superior ganglion of sympathetic. Cochlea and tympanic cavity are posterior and superior ; auditory (Eustachian) tube and tensor tympani are anterior and lateral; semilunar ganglion is superior. Branches in Canal.—Carotico tympanic perforates posterior wall of canal and anastomoses with other arteries in tympanum. Pterygoid accompanies greater superficial petrosal nerve. Relations in Cranium.—In lateral wall of cavernous sinus, endothelium of sinus is medial ; oculo-motor, trochlear, ophthalmic and abducent nerves, in wall of sinus, are lateral. It lies between optic and oculo-motor nerves before piercing arachnoid. Branches in Cranium.—(1) Branches to walls of cavernous sinus and nerves there, to semilunar ganglion, hypophysis (pituitary body), dura mater ; (2) ophthalmic ; (3) posterior communicating ; (4) chorioid ; (5) anterior cerebral; (6) middle cerebral. Ophthalmic artery arises at medial side of ant. clinoid process, after carotid has pierced dura. Runs antero-laterally and enters orbit through optic foramen, below and lateral to optic n. Runs anteriorly a short distance, with rectus lateralis and ciliary ganglion lateral to it. Then crossing between rectus sup. and optic n. to reach medial wall, it runs anteriorly, below obliquus sup., to end at anterior part of orbit in frontal and dorsal nasal arteries. It is accompanied, in orbit, first by naso-ciliary nerve, and next by the infra-trochlear branch of that nerve. Branches of Ophthalmic Artery. — (a) Long and short posterior ciliary enter posterior aspect of eyeball. (b) A. centralis retinae enters medial side of optic n. and runs in it to retina, (c) Anterior meningeal passes into middle cranial fossa through sup. orbital fissure (sphenoidal fissure). (dj Lacrimal, its largest branch, arises on lateral side of optic n.; runs along upper border of rectus lateralis to anterior part of orbit and ends in palpebral and glandular branches. Lacrimal gives branches also to muscles and to eyeball (anterior ciliary), and to accompany zygomatic nerve; a recurrent meningeal branch passes backwards through sup. orbital fissure. [e) Supra-orbital accompanies supra-orbital n. through supra-