CEREBRAL NERVES 385 leave its convex antero-inferior margin. Arteries from int. carotid, middle and accessory meningeal. Ophthalmic nerve runs forwards in lateral wall of cavern- ous sinus, below 3rd and 4th, giving oft' n. tentorii to dura mater, and communicating with 3rd, 4th and 6th nerves and sympathetic ; divides into lacrimal, frontal and naso-ciliary branches. Lacrimal nerve enters orbit through lateral angle of sup. orbital fissure, above muscles ; runs along upper border of rectus lateralis ; supplies lacrimal gland, conjunctiva and skin of upper eyelid. Frontal nerve enters orbit through sup. orbt. fissure ; runs anteriorly above muscles, divides at variable point into two : (1) supra-orbital passes through supra-orbital notch, supplies skin and conjunctiva of upper eyelid, scalp as far as vertex, mucous membrane of frontal sinus ; (2) supra- trochlear runs anteriorly and medially above trochlea of obliquus superior ; escapes from orbit, i inch from median plane ; supplies skin of median part of forehead, root of nose, medial commissure of eyelids and adjoining conjunctiva. Naso-ciliary nerve (Nasal) enters orbit through sup. orb. fissure, between heads of rectus lateralis, and between divisions of oculo-motor nerve ; runs medially and anteriorly, having rectus and obliquus superior above it, optic nerve and rectus medialis below it ; leaves orbit, as ant. ethmoidal nerve, through ant. ethmoidal foramen and enters cranial cavity at side of crista galli; runs forwards on lamina cribrosa of ethmoid and enters nasal cavity through nasal slit ; runs along nasal surface of nasal bone ; gives medial internal nasal branches to anterior part of septum and lateral internal nasal branches to ant. part of lateral wall of nose ; and leaves nose, as external nasal branch, between nasal bone and lateral nasal cartilage, to supply skin of lower half of nose. Branches of Naso-ciliary N in Orbit.—(11 Long (sensory) root to ciliary ganglion, on lateral side of optic nerve. (2) As it crosses optic nerve it sends two long ciliary nerves, along op. nerve, to back of eyeball. (3) At medial side of orbit it sends post, ethmoidal nerve, through post. eth. foramen, to post, ethmoidal sinuses and sphenoidal sinus. (4) Near its exit from orbit it gives oft in fra trochlear nerve, which communicates with supra-trochlear and leaves orbit below pulley of obliquus superior, to supply skin of eyelids, root of nose, conjunctiva, lacrimal caruncle and sac. Ciliary Ganglion. -Small ("size of pin's head ") : lies at back of -5