■77 MUSCLES OF LEG AND FOOT proximal to that, and into fascia covering it. Nerve : L. 4, 5, s. 1, through tibial. It flexes leg and rotates it medially. Flexor digitorum longus lies on tibial side of back of leg, and in sole of foot. Origin (fl.) : Middle '± of posterior surface of tibia, distal to popliteal line and medial to vertical line ; fascia covering tibialis posterior. Tendon passes on to superficial or posterior aspect of tibialis posterior, proximal to malleolus, crossing it to lie on its lateral side on most medial part of back of ankle-joint, under cover of lig. laciniatum (int. annular), enclosed in separate mucous sheath. Passes superficial to edge of sustentaculum tali : enters sole, crosses flex, hallucis longus superficially and gets a slip from it. Receives insertion of quadratus plantas, and divides into 4 tendons for lateral 4 toes ; and from these tendons lumbrical muscles arise. Each tendon enters fibrous flexor sheath, enclosed in mucous (synovial) sheath ; perforates corresponding tendon of flexor brevis, and is inserted into base of 3rd phalanx. Nerve : s. 1,2, through tibial. It flexes toes, extends ankle-joint (plantar flexion). (See also p. 183.) Flexor hallucis longus lies on fibular side of back of leg and in sole of foot. Origin (fl.): Distal § of post, surface of fibula, distal part of interosseous membrane, posterior intermuscular septum, fascia over tibialis posterior. Tendon is ensheathed in most lateral compartment of lig. laciniatum ; crosses flex. dig. longus dorsally in sole and gives it a slip ; runs on to enter fibrous flexor sheath, and is inserted into base of 2nd phalanx of great toe. Nerve : L. 5, s. 1, 2, through tibial. It flexes great toe, extends foot. Tibialis posterior is deepest muscle in back of leg, between long flexors. Origin (fl.): Posterior part of medial surface of fibula ; lateral condyle and proximal 3 of post, surface of tibia, distal to popliteal line and lateral to vertical line ; interosseous membrane ; fascia covering it. Tendon is ensheathed in most medial compartment of lig. laciniatum ; and is inserted chiefly into tuberosity of navicular and 1st cuneiform ; by slips also into all other tarsals except talus, and into bases of 2nd, 3rd, 4th metatarsals. Nerve : s. 1,2, through tibial. It inverts and extends foot. Mucous or synovial sheaths of tendons around ankle begin 1 inch proximal to "annular" ligaments. In the case of tendons inserted into tarsal and metatarsal bones they extend to insertion (except sheath of peronasus longus) ; in the case of those inserted into phalanges they extend to middle of sole.