179 POPLITEAL FOSSA of fossa, semimembranosusoverlapping tile vessels ; and medial condyle. Lateral: lateral boundary of fossa, lateral condyle, and common peroneal (ext. popliteal) nerve. Muscular branches of popliteal artery supply muscles of back of thigh and anastomose with muscular and perforating branches of profunda ; and some, called sural arteries, supply muscles of calf. Cutaneous twigs spring from the muscular branches. Five articular branches anastomose with other arteries around knee-joint. (1) Medial superior genicular artery leaves the fossa by passing medially, under cover of adductor niagntis tendon, semimembranosus, and semitenainosus, proximal to medial condyle of femur. (2) Lateral superior genicular artery runs laterally under common peroneal nerve and biceps tendon, proximal to lateral condyle of femur. (3) Medial inferior genicular artery runs distally and medially, distal to medial condyle of tibia, under cover of medial head of gastrocnemius, and then anteriorly under cover of tibial collateral lig. of knee (int. lateral). (4) Lateral inferior genicular artery keeps a more proximal level, and passes laterally under cover of plantaris, lateral head of gastrocnemius, common peroneal nerve (ext. popliteal), fibular collateral lig. of knee, and tendon of biceps. (5) Middle genicular artery (azygos) pierces oblique lig. to gain interior of joint. Small saphenous vein begins at dorsal venous arch of foot, ascends on posterior aspect of lateral malleolus and calf of leg, pierces popliteal fascia, and ends in popliteal vein. Muscular branches of tibial nerve pass directly to the muscles, except the ner-ae to popliteus, which, after crossing popliteal artery, descends and turns round distal border of poplileus to enter its deep or anterior surface. Articular branches accompany the middle and the two medial genicular arteries. * Medial sural nerve (ramus communicans tibialis) arises from tibial nerve, and leaves fossa by its distal angle, under cover of deep fascia. Common peroneal nerve (exteinal popliteal), a terminal branch of sciatic, enters fossa at its proximal angle, from under cover of biceps, runs along medial side of biceps, leaves fossa by its lateral angle ; crosses plantaris, lateral head of gastrocnemius, tendon of popliteus,' lateral genicular vessels, and lies between tendon of biceps and gastro- cnemius on posterior aspect of head of fibula, where it is most easily" felt ; runs distally and forwards to enter substance of peronseus longus, on lateral side of neck of fibula, where it gives off recurrent articular branch, and then divides into superficial and deep branches (musculo- cutaneous and anterior tibial). Branches of Common Peroneal Nerve in Popliteal Fossa Muscular : none. Two articular branches accompany lateral genicular arteries. Lateral sural nerve passes superficial to lateral head of gastrocnemius and supplies skin on lateral and anterior aspects