BRANCHES OF AORTIC ARCH 265 Branches : only the terminals. Relations. — In thorax: Anterior-, root of innominate art., left innominate vein ; remains of thymus, overlapping left pleura and lung; sterno-thyreoid and sterno-hyoid ; manubrium. Right side: innominate art. below, trachea above. Leftside -, vagus, phrenic ; cervical cardiac branches of left vagus and sympathetic ; subclavian artery on a posterior plane; pleura and lung. Posterior: subclavian artery, and successively from below upwards, trachea, recurrent nerve, oesophagus. See also p. 428. In neck, enclosed with int. jugular vein and vagus in carotid sheath. Superficial, in lower part of the neck : sterno-clavicular joint, sterno-mastoid ; anterior jugular vein ; infra-hyoid muscles ; ansa hypoglossi, middle thyreoid vein, and overlapping lateral lobe of thyreoid gland. Superficial, in carotid triangle : sterno-mastoid overlapping ; sterno- mastoid artery, superior thyreoid vein ; descendens hypo- glossi. Laterally : int. jugular vein ; vagus on post, plane. Medially : trachea, recurrent nerve and oesophagus, below ; larynx and pharynx, above. Thyreoid gland is medial and overlaps it. Posterior: longus colli and longus capitis (rect. cap. ant. major); sympathetic trunk ; inferior thyreoid artery, thoracic duct, vertebral artery. See also pp. 211, 216. Right common carotid artery arises, as a branch of bifurcation of innominate, behind upper part of sterno- clavicular joint. Course, termination, and relations resemble those of left artery in its course above sterno-clavicular joint, with these differences: left internal jugular vein overlaps lower part of left artery, but right vein is separated from lower part of right artery by interval in which vagus descends. Right lymphatic duct takes the place of thoracic duct. (Esophagus is in less intimate relation on right side. Recurrent nerve is behind the artery, before it is medial. External carotid artery begins, as branch of bifurcation of common carotid, opposite upper border of thyreoid cartilage and lower border of 3rd vertebra. Extends upwards and laterally for 2i inches to end behind neck of mandible, between it and parotid gland, by dividing into superficial temporal and internal maxillary. Position in- dicated by a line drawn from a point just below tip of greater horn of hyoid bone to lobule of ear. See also pp. 219, 445. Branches: sup. thyreoid, ascending pharyngeal, lingual, ext. maxillary (facial), occipital, post, auricular, and terminals.