UNITING SMOULDER GIRDLE TO HUMERUS 129 near neck of scapula, and from fascia covering it. Insertion : by tendon into upper impression on greater tubercle (tuber- osity) of humerus and into joint capsule. Nerve : c. 5, 6, through supra-scapular. It abducts arm. Infraspinatus lies in infra-spinous fossa and under cover of deltoid, on superior and posterior surface of capsule of shoulder, a bursa sometimes intervening. Origin (fl.) : infra- spinous fossa, except near neck, and from fascia covering it. Insertion : by tendon into middle impression of greater tubercle and into joint capsule. Nerve : c. 5, 6, through supra-scapular. It extends arm and rotates it laterally. Teres minor lies along lower border of infraspinatus, and on posterior surface of capsule of shoulder. Origin (fl.) : elongated elevation on dorsal surface of scapula, along axillary margin. Insertion : by tendon into posterior impres- sion on greater tubercle (tuberosity) of humerus and slightly into shoulder-joint capsule ; by fleshy fibres into surgical neck and shaft of humerus for nearly an inch. Nerve : C. 5, 6, through axillary (circumflex). It rotates arm laterally, and adducts and extends it. Teres major lies in lower border of posterior wall of axilla. Latissimus dorsi, at first posterior to it, curves below it to lie anterior to its insertion, from which it is separated by bursa. Origin (fl.): oval elevation on dorsum of scapula, above inferior angle. Insertion : by tendon into medial lip of intertubercular (bicipital) groove of humerus. Nerve ; C. 5, 6, through lower subscapular. It extends and adducts arm, and rotates it medially. Subscapularis lies in posterior wall of axilla and on anterior aspect of capsule of shoulder-joint, from which it is partly separated by bursa which protrudes from joint. Origin (fl.): subscapular fossa, including groove along axillary margin of scapula, but excluding portion near neck, and portions occupied by insertion of serratus anterior; also from tendinous septa which pass into its substance from ridges in fossa. Insertion : by tendon into lesser tubercle (tuberosity) of humerus, by fleshy fibres into surgical neck and shaft for nearly an inch. Nerves : c. 5, 6, through upper and lower subscapular. It adducts arm, and rotates it medially, and possibly flexes it. Coraco-brachialis. —Sec Muscles of Arm, p. 137. 9