BLOOD SINUSES OF CRANIUM 3°3 3rd part of subclavian art., ends in subclavian vein. Has valve at termination and another higher up. See also p. 206. Anterior jugular vein begins in small veins below chin ; descends near median plane, pierces the superficial of the two lamina; of deep fascia above manubrium ; anastomoses with its fellow by means of a transverse branch ; passes laterally behind sterno-mastoid, to end in ext. jugular vein. Veins of Brain.—Very thin-walled. Chorioid vein arises in chorioid plexus of inf. horn of ventricle, runs along chorioid plexus of body of ventricle to join terminal vein at interventricular foramen (Monro) to form internal cerebral vein. Vena terminalis (vein of corpus striatum) lies in groove between thalamus and caudate nucleus ; receives blood from them and lentiform nucleus ; joins chorioid vein, internal cerebral vein runs backwards between layers of tela chorioidea of 3rd ventricle (velum interpositum); joins its fellow below splenium to form v. cerebri magna (Galeni), which emerges from tela chorioidea, joins inferior sagittal (longitudinal) sinus to form straight sinus. Inferior striate vein descends from caudate and lentiform nuclei through ant. perforated substance to join basilar vein. Superior cerebral veins, 12 or more, lie in pia and sub- arachnoid space of convex surface of cerebrum ; drain convex and medial surfaces ; enter sup. sagittal sinus. Inferior cerebral veins lie on convex and inferior surfaces, end in transverse, sup. petrosal and cavernous sinus. One of latter, called superficial middle cerebral, lies in fissura lateralis (Sylvius) and is united by great anastomotic vein with superior sagittal sinus, and by post, anastomotic vein with transverse (lateral) sinus. Ant. cerebral vein accompanies ant. cerebral art. and ends in basilar vein. Deep middle cerebral vein, in fissura lateralis, ends in basilar. Basilar vein formed at ant. perforated substance by union of ant. cerebral, deep middle cerebral and inferior striate, passes round cerebral peduncle and ends in vena cerebri magna (Galeni). Veins of mesencephalon end in vena cerebri magna. Superior cerebellar veins end in v. cerebri magna and transverse or sup. petrosal sinus. Inferior cerebellar veins end in straight, transverse, inf. petrosal and occipital sinuses. Veins of pons end in basilar vein and sup. petrosal sinus (or join cerebellar). Veins of medulla oblongata communicate with veins of spinal medulla and pons, and join inf. petrosal and occipital sinus and basilar plexus. Blood Sinuses of Cranium Lie between layers of dura mater. Unpaired sinuses: (1) Superior sagittal sinus (sup. longi-