>47 WRIST, HAND AND DIGITS near wrist, appears between flex, carpi rad. and palmaris longus, pierces deep fascia just proximal to wrist, crosses superficial to trans- verse carpal lig. (ant. annular), supplies skin on lateral and median parts of palm. Palmar cutaneous branch of ulnar nerve arises in distal J of forearm, descends on ulnar artery ; pierces deep fascia on radial side of flex, carpi ulnaris near its insertion ; crosses transverse carpal lig., and supplies skin on medial part of palm. Palmaris brevis arises from ant. surface of transverse carpal lig., and ulnar margin of central part of palmar aponeurosis (fascia); passes medially, superficial to ulnar vessels and nerve, to be inserted into skin on ulnar border of hand. Superficial branch of ulnar nerve supplies it. It wrinkles skin on ulnar border of hand. Superficial transverse ligament lies across the roots of the fingers and in the web, near its free edge ; may be seen in the living hand if the fingers are abducted from one another and slightly flexed. Deep fascia in palm is called palmar aponeurosis. It is thin over thenar and hvpothenar eminences, while central part, in hollow of hand, is thickened. Deep fascia is greatly thickened opposite wrist lx>nes, and is called transverse carpal ligament. It is thickened over fingers to form fibrous digital or flexor sheaths. Transverse carpal ligament (anterior annular lig.) is very thick and strong, and measures about an inch proximo-distally and from side to side. It bridges across concavity of carpus, converting it into a canal through which flexor tendons of fingers and thumb, with their sheaths, and the median nerve pass into paltn. It is continuous proximally with fascia of forearm, distally with palmar aponeurosis. It is attached, on the ulnar side, to pisiform and hook of os hamatum (unciform) ; on radial side, to tubercle of navicular (scaphoid) and palmar surface and ridge of multangulum majus (trapezium). It gives partial insertion to flexor carpi ulnaris and palmaris longus ; and origin to abductor brevis, flexor brevis and opponens pollicis ; to flexor brevis and opponens digiti qmnti ; and to palmaris brevis ; these occupy most of its volar or palmar surface and distal border. The palmar surface is, further, in relation to: (i) palmaris longus tendon, descending to insertion into the ligament and into apex of palmar aponeurosis; (2) palmar cutaneous branch of median, descending on radial side of tendon ; (3) palmar cutaneous branch of ulnar, on ulnar side of tendon ; (4) ulnar vessels and nerve, on radial side of pisiform ; (5) a band of fascia, called volar carpal lig., attached to palmar surface of transverse lig. and to pisiform, bridging across ulnar vessels and nerve. Tendon of flex, carpi radialis, with its mucous or synovial sheath, traverses groove on palmar surface of multangulum majus (trapezium), between the attachments of the transverse carpal ligament to that bone. Central part of palmar aponeurosis (palmar fascia) protects vessels, nerves and tendons which lie deep to it. It is triangular in shape. Apex is attached to transverse carpal lig . and receives part