DIGESTIVE APPARATUS 470 Ureter passes forwards below lower border of broad lig. Uterine art. runs medially to uterus above ureter, between the layers, at the attachment of lower border. Vaginal artery, as it approaches vagina, is beneath lower border and ureter. Obliterated umbilical (hypogastric) artery, vesical art., and obturator vessels and nerve cross attachment of broad ligament to side wall of pelvis. Posterior surface is related to small intestine or pelvic colon ; anterior surface is related to bladder, and (when bladder is empty) to side wall of pelvis also, or to a loop of intestine. Between the two layers are uterine tube, lig. teres, lig. ovarii, ovarian and uterine vessels and nerves ; ep-oophoron and par-oophoron. CAVUM PERITONEI Peritoneal Cavity.—Space enclosed by peritoneal mem- brane ; only potential till abdomen is opened, or unless distended with fluid or gas. Communicates with lymph system by minute openings called stomata, scattered here and there, especially over diaphragm. In the male, the peritoneum is a closed sac, in respect that it does not communicate with the exterior. In female, the uterine tubes open into it, and it therefore communicates with exterior through uterine tubes, uterus and vagina. Peritoneal cavity is subdivided into two : I. Great Sac of peritoneum—the space opened into when ant. abdominal wall is cut through. Greater omentum, transverse colon and mesocolon divide it into an upper, anterior portion and a lower, posterior. These are continuous with each other round lower and lateral borders of greater omentum. Lower portion is further divided into two right and left parts by the mesentery proper. II. Omental Bursa Small sac of peritoneum) is a diver- ticulum from great sac. Its upper part is posterior to great sac ; its lower part projects into great sac. Its anterior wall is formed by : (i) peritoneum covering caudate (Spigelian) lobe of liver ; (2) post, layer of lesser omentum ; (3) peritoneum on postero-inferior surface of stomach ; (4) the second of the two anterior layers of greater omentum. Posterior wall: (1) anterior of the two posterior layers of greater omentum ; (2) peritoneum on ant. surface of transverse colon ; (3) anterior layer of transverse mesocolon ; and (4) the continuation of that layer upwards over pancreas, upper