2 10 MUSCLES AND FASCIyE anastomosis between anterior jugular veins ; and anterior to trachea, inferior thyreoid veins, innominate and left common carotid arteries. Trachea is passing from level of 6th vertebra downwards and slightly posteriorly, in the median plane. Superficial to it are deep fascia of neck, anastomosis between anterior jugular veins, sterno- hyoid and sterno-thyreoid ; isthmus of thyreoid gland on 2nd, 3rd and 4th rings ; pyramidal lobe and anastomosis between superior thyreoid vessels, above isthmus ; below isthmus, it is some distance from surface, and the thymus, inferior thyreoid veins, occasional thyreoidea ima art., pretracheal fascia and lymph glands are near relations. Lateral to it are lobe of thyreoid gland, down to 5th or 6th ring ; innominate and common carotid arteries on right side, common carotid on left side ; pleura and lung on each side some distance away, at root of neck. Posterior to it are oesophagus and longus colli muscles, and re- current nerve on each side, in the groove between margins of trachea and oesophagus. CEsophagns is descending from level of 6th vertebra, upon longus colli, immediately posterior to trachea and recurrent nerves, and pro- truding a little to left side of trachea. On its right side are pleura and lung, at root of neck ; thyreoid gland and common carotid art., higher up. At superior aperture of thorax the left common carotid is anterior to its left border, and thoracic duct and left subclavian art. and pleura are on its left side. Higher up, the common carotid is on its left side, and both are overlapped by thyreoid gland. Thyreoid gland, ensheathed in pretracheal fascia, which binds it to larynx, is related to upper part of trachea and lower part of larynx. Its isthmus, \ in. wide, J in. deep, lies on 2nd, 3rd and 4th rings of trachea, covered by skin and fascia ; pyramidal lobe projects upwards from left side of upper border of isthmus, upon upper end of trachea, and is connected with hyoid by levator glandulae thyreoideae, or by a fibrous band ; along upper border of isthmus there is an anastomosis between opposite thyreoid arteries. Lateral ilobe, on each side, extends from middle of thyreoid cartilage to 6th ring of trachea ; piriform in shape, apex upwards ; 2 in. long, ij in. broad, Jin. thick. It is related medially to thyreoid cartilage, crico-thyrcoid muscle, ext. laryngeal nerve, cricoid cartilage, trachea ; and to inferior constrictor, oesophagus and recurrent nerve. Related posteriorly to common carotid, inf. thyreoid art., longus colli. Covered superficially by sterno- thyreoid, sterno-hyoid, omo-hyoid, and their nerves from ansa hypo- glossi, and it is overlapped by sterno-inastoid. Nerves, from middle and inf. cervical ganglia, accompany arteries to thyreoid gland. Lymphatics end in deep cervical, prelaryngeal, pretracheal, paratracheal, upper mediastinal lymph glands. Superior thyreoid branch of ext. carotid, having' given off its hyoid, internal laryngeal, sterno-mastoid branches in carotid triangle, enters muscular triangle, and, under cover of omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyreoid, gives off (1) its crico-thyreoid branch, which