BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM 254 two from each lung, carry oxygenated blood to left atrium, which propels it into left ventricle through a large opening, guarded by a valve. Left ventricle contracts to drive oxygenated blood into a large artery called aorta, by whose branches blood is dis- tributed to all parts of body. Atria contract simultaneously, and ventricles contract simultaneously, immediately after the atria. Substance of heart is mainly muscular—myocardium—covered with serous membrane called epicardium ; while interior of chambers of heart is lined with smooth adherent membrane called endo- cardium. Heart, together with proximal parts of great vessels, is enclosed in fibro-serous sac called pericardium, situated in middle mediastinum of thorax, about two-thirds lying to left of median plane and one-third to the right. Long axis of heart runs from behind forwards, to the left and downwards. Size and capacity : 5 inches long ; 3^ inches broad ; greatest thickness i\ inches. Each ventricle holds about 4 oz. ; atria, a little less. Size increases rapidly up to age of 20, thereafter gradually up to age of 50. Weight in adult male 11 oz., female 9 oz. Shape. — Irregular and flattened cone, possessing base, apex and two surfaces. Basis cordis, formed by atria—almost entirely by left atrium—looks dorsally, upwards and to the right ; lies opposite 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th thoracic vertebras, and is separated by pericardium from oesophagus and descending aorta. Base is irregularly quadrilateral. At upper and lower angles, on right side, are the openings of superior and inferior venae cavae. To the left of these, and on a plane between them, are the openings of two right pulmonary veins ; and immediately to the right of these is an indistinct groove, between right and left atria, descending to the left of opening of inferior cava. Near left border of base are the openings of two left pulmonary veins. Vena obliqua atrii sinistri (Marshall) lies below the lower of these. Base is limited below by coronary sulcus, containing coronary sinus. Upper border is in relation to bifurcation of pulmonary artery, and to its right branch, i.c. the right pulmonary artery. Apex cordis, formed by left ventricle, lies 3A inches from median plane, opposite 5th left intercostal space, from which it is separated by pleura and lung. Diaphragmatic surface (inferior), formed by ventricles, chiefly by left ventricle, rests on diaphragm, which separates