405 EYEBALL Refracting media, from before backwards, are aqueous humor, crystalline lens, vitreous body. Sclera (White of the F.ye).—Dense fibrous tissue. Forms posterior § of eyeball. Outer surface separated from fascia bulbi (Tenon) by lymph space. Tendons of recti are inserted into it, in front of equator ; of obliqui, near or behind equator ; medial rectus is attached nearer the cornea than the others. Oblique muscles are attached more posteriorly than recti, and towards lateral side ; tendon of obliquus superior is more slender than that of inferior : superior and inferior, lateral and medial surfaces of eyeball can, therefore, be identified as well as anterior and posterior, and eyeball can be referred to its side. Anterior, visible part of sclera is covered with conjunctiva. Inner surface is loosely attached to chorioid by pigmented connective tissue called lamina fusca. Optic nerve pierces sclera 1 mm. below and 3 mm. on nasal side of posterior pole, and sheath of nerve blends with its outer surface. Ciliary nerves and short posterior ciliary arteries pierce it, around entrance of optic nerve. Long posterior ciliary arteries pierce it, one on each side, a little away from optic n. Four vena; vorticosa; emerge through it, a little posterior to equator. Anterior ciliary arteries pierce it behind sulcus sclera;. It overlaps and is directly continuous with substance of cornea at sulcus scleras. Sinus venosus scleree (Schlemm) is a circular canal in deeper part of junction and communicates by small openings w ith scleral veins and with anterior chamber. Ciliary arteries and nerves supply sclera. Cornea forms anterior Transparent. Vertical curvature greater than transverse. Curvature diminishes with age. Anterior surface measures 11 mm. vertically, 11.9 mm. transversely. Posterior surface is circular, with diameter of 13 mm. Consists from before backwards of (1) stratified epithelium, continuous with conjunctiva; (2) lamina elastica anterior ; (3) substantia propria, almost its whole thickness, fibrillated, although homogeneous in appearance ; (4) lamina elastica posterior ; (5) endothelium camera; anterioris, which is reflected on to anterior surface of iris. Posterior elastic lamina divides at periphery into three sets of fibres : anterior pass into sclera; middle give attachment to ciliary muscle ; posterior radiate into iris as liga- ment um pectinatum iriJis, amongst fibres of which are spatia anguli iridis (Fontana), lined by prolongation of the endothelium, and communicating with anterior chamber and sinus venosus (Schlemm). Cornea is devoid of blood vessels. It is nourished by lymph. Ciliary- nerves supply it. Chorioidea.—Lies between sclera and retina. Firmly attached to sclera only where pierced by optic nerve. Extends anteriorly to ora serrata of retina. Consists of (1) lamina suprachorioidea, resembling lamina fusca. (2) Lamina vasculosa, containing whorls of veins superficially, which drain into vena; vorticosa; ; and arteries, more deeply, derived front short posterior ciliary. (3) Lamina