OSSIFICATION OF VERTEBR/E 17 • n all bodies, except coccygeal. 2 for vertebral arch appear at bases of superior articular processes, first in upper cervical region, about 7th week. Process extends rapidly downwards. From these two centres the vertebral arch, all processes, and the lateral parts of body are ossified. Lateral parts of body join central part about 3rd or 4th year. Till then they are separated by plate of cartilage.—neuro-central syn- chondrosis. In thoracic region, the ribs articulate with part of body ossified from centre for vertebral arch. Line of synchondrosis is antero-posterior in cervical region, oblique in thoracic, nearly trans- verse in lumbar region. Ossification of laminae is completed after birth —first in lumbar region. Extends up and down. Complete in cervical at 15th month, in sacrum from 7th to 10th year. After union of laminae, ossification extends into spines. Five secondary or epiphyseal centres appear at puberty, and epiphyses formed from them have joined rest of bone about 25th year. 1 for tip of s/>ine, except in cervical region. 1 at end of each transverse process. 1 on upper and 1 on lower surface of body ; these two form epiphyseal rings. In 6th and 7th cervical, a separate centre may appear in anterior root of transverse process, and may persist as cervical rib. In lumbar region : mamillary processes have separate centres ; vertebral arch of 3th may have 2 centres on each side ; transverse process of 1st L. some- times has independent costal centre that may persist as lumbar rib. Atlas.—2 centres for vertebral arch, i.e. for lateral masses, posterior arch, transverse processes ; appear 7th foetal week, unite dorsally after 3rd year. I or 2 centres for anterior arch, which unites with lateral masses at 6th to 8th year. Transverse processes are completed by epiphyses about tSth year. Epistropheus (Axis).—2 centres for arch and processes, about 7th week. 1 or 2 for lower part of body, at 5th Fetal month. 2 (which coalesce) for upper part of body, including base of dens (odontoid process), a little later. At birth, epistropheus consists of 4 pieces, which unite between 3rd and 6th years. 1 epiphyseal centre for top of dens (odontoid process) appears 3rd to 5th year, unites 8th to 12th year. Annular epiphysis appears on lower surface of body at puberty. Sacrum. — 1 centre for each body, 2 for each vertebral arch. Costal elements of upper three have each a centre which appears 6th to 8th month. These unite with arches between 2nd and 5th years. 2 epiphyseal plates for each lxxly. 1 epiphysis for auricular surface, 1 for narrow edge below it. Fusion of bodies takes place,