BRANCHES OF EXT. CAROTID ARTERY 269 Superficial temporal artery begins behind neck of mandible, as branch of bifurcation of ext. carotid. Ascends over posterior root of zygoma, in front of auricle, accompanied by vein and auriculo-temporal nerve. Ends il or 2 inches above zygomatic arch by dividing into frontal and parietal branches. Branches.—(1) To upper part of parotid. (2) Anterior auri- cular, to auricle and acoustic meatus. (3) Transverse facial runs to the cheek across masseter, between zygomatic arch and parotid duct. (4) Middle temporal arises below the zygoma, crosses it, pierces temporal fascia and sinks into temporal muscle. (5) Zygomatico-orbital (may arise from middle temporal) lies between two layers of temporal fascia. (6) Ramus frontalis runs upwards and anteriorly, tortuously, towards frontal tuberosity (eminence). (7) R. parietalis runs upwards and posteriorly towards parietal tuberosity (eminence). Internal maxillary artery arises, between parotid and back of neck of mandible, as branch of bifurcation of ext. carotid. Extends (1) anteriorly to lower border of ptery- goideus externus, between mandible and spheno-mandibular ligament, accompanied by vein and auriculo-temporal n. (2) Upwards and anteriorly, superficial to pterygoideus externus, between it and temporal muscle ; or deep to pterygoideus ext., between it and branches of mandibular division of trigeminal n. (3) Medially, between two heads of pterygoideus ext., and through pterygo-maxillary fissure into pterygo- palatine fossa, to end in numerous branches. Branches of (I): deep auricular, anterior tympanic, middle and accessory meningeal, inferior alveolar (dental). Of (2 : masseteric, deep temporal, pterygoid, buccinator. Of (3) : posterior superior alveolar (dental), infra - orbital, palatine, artery of pterygoid canal (Vidian), spheno-palatine, pharyngeal (pterygo- palatine). (I.) Branches of First Part.—(a) Deep auricular to ext. acoustic meatus. (6) Anterior tympanic traverses petro-tympanic fissure, enters tympanic cavity through lateral wall. (c) Accessory (small) meningeal runs up, deep to pterygoideus externus ; enters middle cranial fossa through for. ovale, and supplies dura mater and semilunar ganglion, (d) Middle meningeal, (z) Inferior alveolar. Middle meningeal artery arises at lower border of pterygoideus ext. Runs up between it and spheno- mandibular ligament, lateral to tensor tympani, between