S9 JOINTS OF VERTEBRAL COLUMN (7) cruciate ligaments of knee. (D) Tendons arising within fibrous stratum of joints : (a) long tendon of biceps in shoulder-joint; (/3) tendon of poplitcus in knee. Diarthrodial joints are permanent, except some of the chondro - sternal joints, in which the cavity may be obliterated by growth of the interarticular ligament. (The diarthrosis between 1st cartilage and sternum has been lost and first costo-sternal joint resembles the first variety of synchondrosis, but the cartilage does not disappear.) Varieties of diarthrodial joints. Arthrodia : simple gliding movement, as between carpal bones. Ginglymus or hinge joint, and trochoidea or pivot joint : movement around one axis, as in elbow, and movement of atlas and skull around dens (odontoid process). Ellipsoidea or condyloid joint : movement around two axes, as in wrist-joint. Sellans or saddle-joint: saddle-shaped surfaces reciprocally adapted to each other, as in 1st carpo-metacarpal joint ; movement around two axes. Enarthrosis or ball-and-socket joint: multi-axial, movement in every direction, as in shoulder and hip joints. JOINTS AND LIGAMENTS OF VERTEBRAL COLUMN Between Vertebral Bodies. — Svnchondrodial joints : (1) Intervertebral fibro-cartilages intervertebral discs) arc attached firmly to upper and lower surfaces. Fibrous cir- cumferentially ; pulpy and exceedingly elastic in centre. Contribute largely to cervical and lumbar curvatures ; form | of length of vertebral column. (2) Ligamentum longi- tudinale anterius and (3) Lig. longitudinale posterius are attached to fibro-cartilages and margins of bodies. They lie on anterior and posterior surfaces of bodies, respectively, and extend from atlas to sacrum. (4) Articular capsules surround small diarthrodial joints between lateral parts of bodies in cervical region. Between Vertebral Arches. (1) Articular capsules connect articular processes and surround diarthrodial joints between them. (2) Ligamenta flava are elastic and are attached to inner surface and lower border of lamina above in cervical and lumbar regions, to inner surface only in thoracic region ; to outer surface and upper border of lamina below. Seen, therefore, from within vertebral canal.