50 OSTEOLOGY Cavum Nasi.—Roof: Sloping anterior part: nasal bone, pars nasalis of frontal. Horizontal middle part: lamina cribrosa of ethmoid. Sloping posterior part: (i) sphenoidal conchae (turbinates)—curved plates of bone fused to anterior and under surfaces of sphenoid, pierced by opening of sphenoidal sinus ; (2) botly of sphenoid, (3) ala of vomer, (4) sphenoidal process of palatine, (5) vaginal process of medial pterygoid lamina. Floor: horizontal part of palatine, palatine process of maxilla. Lateral wall: nasal bone, medial surfaces of frontal process and body of maxilla, lacrimal, labyrinth of ethmoid, perpendicular part of palatine, medial pterygoid lamina. Nasal conchae (turbin- ated bones), superior and middle, project medially from labyrinth ; inferior is separate and projects medially from its articulation with maxilla, lacrimal, ethmoid and palatine. Spaces below and lateral to conchae are the meatus nasi, superior, medius and inferior. On lateral wall of middle meatus is a rounded eminence called bulla ethmoidalis, below which is a curved groove called hiatus semilunaris. Medial wall or septum nasi osseum : perpendicular plate of ethmoid above, vomer posteriorly and below ; supple- mented by (1) nasal crest, which is formed by articulating margins of nasal bones ; (2) spina frontalis of frontal ; (3) crista sphcnoidalis on anterior surface of sphenoid ; (4) nasal crest, which is formed by upturned edges of palatine and maxillae where they articulate with their fellows. Communications.—Naso-lacrimal canal, from orbit, opens into inferior meatus. Foramina of Scarpa and of Stenson (p. 42) lead down into mouth from anterior part of floor. For. spheno-palatinum (p. 40) opens into pterygo-palatine fossa from upper and back part, just above posterior end of middle concha. Maxillary sinus occupies body of maxilla and its walls correspond to surfaces of maxilla. Its floor corresponds to alveolar margin, and its deepest part is opposite 1st molar and 2nd premolar teeth. Large opening in medial wall is covered by inferior concha, lacrimal, perpendicular part of palatine, uncinate process of ethmoid. They leave one or two small orifices opening into hiatus semilunaris in middle meatus. Frontal sinus, in frontal bone above root of nose, extends laterally under superciliary arches and into orbital plate ; is separated from its fellow by a septum. Sinus measures 1 ] inches in height from fronto- maxillary suture, 1 inch broad from median plane, f inch in