I IO ARTICULATIONS covered by psoas major and iliacus ; is crossed, under cover of psoas, by ilio lumbar vessels; obturator nerve is separated from the joint by ilio-lumbar vessels ; femoral (ant. crural) nerve is separated by fibres of iliacus. Common and ext. iliac veins arc separated from joint by a fatty areolar tissue containing obturator n. and ilio- lumbar vessels ; and common iliac and trunk of hypogastric (int. iliac) arteries are further separated by these veins. Pelvic surface is closely related to hypogastric (int. iliac) vein, lumbo sacral trunk, superior gluteal vessels, 1st sacral nerve, upper part of piriformis, in that order from above downwards. They cross the joint obliquely, downwards and laterally. Ant. division of hypogastric art. (int. iliac) is separated from joint by hypogastric vein, and post, division by lumbo-sacral trunk ; but relations of vessels vary. Symphysis Pubis. — Fibro-cartilaginous synchondrosis. Symphyseal surfaces of pubic bones are covered with en- crusting cartilage, and united by flbro-cartilaginous lamina, which is often cleft in the centre, and is covered by weak superior and posterior, strong anterior and inferior ligaments. Ligaments are attached to margins of symphyseal surfaces and to the fibro-cartilage. Inferior or arcuate ligament (sub-pubic) rounds off pubic arch. Its attachments extend on to inferior rami of pubis. It is very thick in median plane, and has a free, crescentic lower margin. Relations.—Bladder and urethra, with prostate in male, are related to pelvic surface, but are separated from it by pad of fat, veins and fascia in space of Retzius. Neck of bladder in male, in erect posture, is a little below the level of upper margin of symphysis, and 2^ inches posterior to it; in female it is on level of a line uniting lower margin of symphysis to lower end of sacrum. /«- feriorly and posteriorly are the dorsal vein of penis, close to arcuate lig., and urethra, I inch away. Movements and Mechanism of Pelvic Joints.—Sacro- iliac joint, though diarthrodial, is practically immovable. There is a slight yielding at symphysis pubis. During later period of pregnancy ligaments become relaxed, so that sacrum can be driven backwards, and interval between pubic bones widened, to provide more room during parturition. The tendency of the weight of the trunk to drive sacrum down- wards is obviated by strength of interosseous and posterior sacro- iliac ligaments, and by the interlocking of irregularities of auricular surfaces. Weight of trunk falling on anterior part of sacrum tends to tilt base of sacrum downwards, and apex upwards. This is prevented by the sacro-tuberous,'sacro - spinous (sacro-sciatic) and posterior