488 UROGENITAL APPARATUS to the light, and is twisted so that vesical surface looks slightly towards the right, as well as downwards and forwards. Anterior or vesical surface, slightly convex, is in relation to bladder, and is covered with peritoneum as far down as isthmus. Posterior or intestinal surface, much more convex than anterior. Covered with peritoneum all the way down to vagina. Pelvic colon or small intestine rests on it. Each lateral border is connected with “ broad ligament,” and, between its layers, with lig. ovarii and lig. teres, branches of uterine art. and uterine venous plexus. These are im- bedded in fatty tissue, called paramctriinn, which is most abundant near cervix and vagina. Cervix uteri is inserted into upper end of anterior wall of vagina, and consists of: (i) intra-vaginal portion, project- ing into vagina; (2) intra-mural portion, surrounded by vagdnal wall ; (3) supra-vaginal portion, covered with peri- toneum posteriorly, separated from bladder by fatty tissue anteriorly, connected laterally with broad ligament and para- metrium, containing blood-vessels. Cavity of uterus is a chink between anterior and posterior walls of body. 1A in. long ; triangular in outline, uterine tubes opening intobasal angles, apex continuous with cervical canal. Mucous membrane is smooth. Canalis cervicis uteri. —1 in. long ; spindle-shaped. Upper end opens into cavity of uterus as orificium internum uteri. Lower end—orificium externum uteri—opens into vagina. Part of cervix bounding ext. orifice anteriorly is called labium anterius, and that posteriorly, labium posterius. Lig. ovarii proprium (remnant of upper part of gubernaculum of ovary), i-ilj inches long, is attached to uterus below and posterior to entrance of tube, and extends to lower end of ovary, raising a peritoneal ridge on posterior surface of broad ligament. Lig. teres uteri (remnant of lower part of gubernaculum), attached to uterus below and anterior to entrance of tube, extends laterally and forwards, raising a ridge on anterior surface of broad ligament. It crosses vesical art., obturator vessels and nerve, obliterated um- bilical art., ext. iliac vein, and, reaching ext. iliac artery behind inf. epigastric, it enters and traverses inguinal canal, and it ends in skin and fascia of labium majus. Mucous membrane in cervical canal is raised into median longi- tudinal folds in front and behind. Secondary folds pass upwards and laterally from these. Folds are named plicae palmatae (arbor vita;), and are usually absent after first pregnancy.