BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM 28o Brachial artery begins, as the continuation of axillary, at lower border of teres major tendon ; runs distally and slightly laterally to end in cubital fossa, antero-medial to neck of radius, by dividing into radial and ulnar. Relations.—Lies superficially, medial to humerus proxim- ally, in front of it distally. Coraco-brachialis is on lateral side and overlapping, but is posterior to artery at insertion. Biceps is lateral and overlapping, and sends lacertus fibrosus • (bicipital fascia) medially in front of it at elbow. Triceps (long and medial heads), coraco-brachialis and brachialis are posterior to it, in that order proximo-distally. Median n., at first lateral, crosses it in middle of arm to run along medial side. Ulnar n. is on medial side as far as middle of arm, where it deviates from it postero-medially. Medial cutaneous nerve of forearm (int. cutaneous) is anterior to it at origin, then on medial side as far as middle of arm, where it leaves it by piercing deep fascia. Radial (musculo- spiral) n. is posterior to its first inch and separates it from long head of triceps. Profunda art. and vein also are between it and long head of triceps. Venae comites accompany it. Median basilic vein crosses it at elbow, separated by lacertus fibrosus (bicipital fascia). Basilic vein pierces deep fascia about middle of arm, and runs towards axilla along its medial side. Branches.—Profunda brachii, superior ulnar collateral, nutrient, inferior ulnar collateral, unnamed muscular branches, and terminal branches. A. profunda brachii (sup. profunda) arises near origin of brachial, anastomoses with post, humeral circumflex, accompanies radial (musculo-spiral) n. to posterior aspect of humerus, gives muscular branches and a nutrient to humerus, and divides into anterior and posterior terminal branches. Anterior branch ac- companies radial nerve to ant. aspect of lateral epicondyle and anastomoses with radial recurrent. Posterior branch runs to post, aspect of epicondyle to anastomose with dorsal interosseous re- current. Superior ulnar collateral artery (inferior profunda) arises at insertion of coraco-brachialis and accompanies ulnar n. to post, aspect of medial epicondyle to anastomose with dorsal ulnar recurrent. Art. nutricia humeri (Nutrient) arises near sup. ulnar collateral and enters humerus. Inferior ulnar collateral art. (anastomotica magna) arises proximal to elbow, runs medially upon brachialis; divides into anterior branch, which anast. with volar ulnar recurrent, and posterior branch, which pierces medial