MUSCLES AND FASCIAE 242 lower margin. Obliquus internus arises from lateral § of groove on its abdominal surface, and transversus from lateral posterior to obliquus internus. Relations.—Muscles.—Obliquus internus and transversus, as above, Iliacus. psoas major and pectineus occupy greater part of space between lig. inguinale and hip bone, in that order from lateral to medial side. Fascia transversalis and fascia iliaca become continuous with one another along lateral part of the ligament, in relation to iliacus ; but more medially they are continued around the femoral vessels, as femoral sheath. Vessels.—External iliac artery becomes femoral art. between lig. inguinale and psoas, midway between symphysis pubis and anterior superior iliac spine, i.e. about £ inch medial to midpoint of lig. inguinale. Femoral vein becomes ext. iliac, on medial side of artery, between lig. inguinale and contiguous margins of psoas and pectineus ; and the femoral ring is medial to the vein, between lig. inguinale and pectineus. Superficial circumflex iliac artery runs laterally, towards ant. sup. iliac spine, below lig. inguinale, and sends small branches upwards over it. Superficial epigastric artery ascends over ligament to ant. abdominal wall. Superficial external pudendal artciy runs medially toward penis and scrotum below the ligament, and sends small branches upwards over it. Inferior epigastric artery arises from ext. iliac just above the ligament, but sends its pubic, or its “abnormal obturator” branch, downwards and medially, posterior to the ligament. Deep circumflex iliac artery arises from ext. iliac, and runs laterally, posterior to the ligament, between transversalis fascia and peritoneum. Internal spermatic and external spermatic (cremasteric) are above medial end of ligament, in spermatic cord. All these arteries are accompanied by veins. Nerves.—Lateral cutaneous nerve of thigh passes out of abdomen between the ligament and iliacus, close to ant. sup. iliac spine ; femoral nerve (ant. crural), in groove between iliacus and psoas ; lumho-inguinal nerve (crural branch of genito-crural), in lateral wall of femoral sheath. Ilio-inguinal nerve passes through subcutaneous inguinal ring, above medial end of the ligament. Ext. spermatic nerve (genital branch of genito-crural) and sympathetic spermatic plexus are above its medial end, in the spermatic cord. Viscera.—A few inguinal lymph glands lie in superficial fascia just above the ligament; the upper superficial subinguinal lymph glands lie in superficial fascia just below the ligament, and their afferents from ant. abdominal wall descend over the ligament. Medial part of groove on abdominal surface of lig. inguinale, and the abdominal surface of lig. lacunare (Gimbernat) form the floor of inguinal canal, and support spermatic cord and its infundibuliform