34 OSTEOLOGY month, but is not fully developed till permanent teeth have appeared. Maxillary sinus appears at 4th month, but is not fully developed till after puberty. Os Palatinum consists of a perpendicular and a horizontal part, joined to each other at a right angle. Pars perpendicularis.— Surfaces : maxillary (lateral) lies against nasal surface of maxilla ; nasal (medial) articulates with middle and inferior conchpe. Borders : anterior projects over opening of maxillary sinu ; posterior articulates with medial pterygoid lamina. Processus orbitalis and sphenoidalis project from upper end and bound incisura sphenopalatina spheno palatine notch); sphenoidal articulates with sphenoid and vomer ; orbital, with sphenoid, ethmoid and maxilla. Pars horizontalis.— Forms posterior part of hard palate. Surfaces : superior, inferior. Borders : medial articulates with its fellow and vomer; anterior, with palatine process of maxilla ; posterior is free. Processus pyramidalis projects postero-laterally from junction of the two parts and fits into pterygoid fissure and between pterygoid process and maxilla. Ossification.—In membrane, 1 centre at 8th week. Os Zygomaticum (malar) forms prominence of cheek. Surfaces: malar (lateral), orbital, temporal. Borders : superior or orbital ; posterior gives attachment to temporal fascia, inferior to masseter ; anterior articulates with maxilla Processes : fronto-sphenoidal articulates with frontal and great wing of sphenoid ; temporal, with zygoma. Ossification : in membrane, 1 centre appears at 8th week. Mandible consists of body and 2 rami, each ramus sur- mounted by condyle and coronoid process. Corpus.—Two symmetrical halves fused during istorand year at symphysis. Lateral surface: At symphysis a faint ridge ends below in triangular mental protuberance, at basal angles of which are the mental tubercles. From each tubercle the oblique line extends to ramus. From the line the triangularis and quadratus labii infer, arise ; platysma is inserted below it. Above the line, opposite 2nd premolar, is the mentalforamen, which transmits mental vessels and nerve. Juga alveolaria are ridges produced by incisor and canine teeth. Below them is incisor fossa, from which mentalis and orbicularis arise. Buccinator is attached at alveolar margin, opposite molar teeth. Medial surface : At each side of symphysis 2 mental spines, which may be fused, give origin to genio- glossus and genio-hyoid. From below them the mylo-hyoid line extends posteriorly and upwards. It gives origin to mylo-hyoid ; and fascia on deep surface of submaxillary gland