POSTERIOR MEDIASTINUM 43i Relations in Posterior Mediastinum Note. Some of the structures are described also in the part of their course outside mediastinum. Descending thoracic aorta logins, as a continuation of aortic arch, at left side of lower border of 4th th. vertebra, and ends, in the median plane, by passing through aortic opening of diaphragm and becoming continuous with abdominal aorta, opposite fibro-cartilage between 12th thoracic and 1st lumbar vertebrae. Branches : 9 pairs of intercostals, 1 pair of subcostals, superior phrenics, 2 left bronchial, 1 right bronchial sometimes, 4 or 5 oesophageal, a few pericardial and mediastinal. Relations.—Anterior to it, from above downwards, are : (1) root of left lung ; (2) pericardium, separating it from left atrium ; at same level the left lig. pulmonale is anterior to it, and below root of lung the left vagus, emerging from post, pulmonary plexus, crosses anterior to it to reach oesophagus ; (3) oesophagus and vagi, separating it from lower part of pericardium ; (4) diaphragm, separating it from omental bursa (lesser sac of peritoneum) and caudate (Spigelian) lobe of liver. Posterior to it are : (1) lower eight thoracic vertebra: and ant. longi- tudinal lig. ; (2) transverse parts of vena hemiazygos and v. hemiazygos accessoria (v. azygos minor inf. and sup.), opposite 8th or 9th vertebra ; (3) origins of intercostal and subcostal arteries ; (4) left pleura and lung, in its upper part, slightly. On its left side are left pleura and lung, and close by it, more posteriorly and covered by pleura, are the vertical parts of hemiazygos veins and splanchnic nerves. On its right side, all the way, are thoracic duct and vena azygos, the duct being between vein and aorta. Anterior to duct and vein, the oesophagus is on right side of aorta, opposite 5th, 6th and 7th vertebra: ; below that, the oesophagus is anterior, and aorta is separated from right pleura and lung by fat and areolar tissue lying in front of thoracic duct and azygos vein. Intercostal arteries for 9 lower spaces arise from dorsal aspect of descending aorta and extend laterally, over front and sides of vertebrae, towards intercostal spaces. Upper 4 or 5 pairs have to ascend to reach their spaces, because aorta begins only at lower border of 4th vertebra; and those of right side are longer, because aorta begins on left side of vertebral column. 1 hose of right side all pass behind thoracic duct and vena azygos, while the upper 5 are posterior to oesophagus also. On left side, the upper 5 or 6 pass posterior to the accessory hemiazygos vein ; the lower 3 or 4, posterior to hemiazygos vein. On both sides, beyond the veins, they lie under cover of pleura, and the lower 6 are posterior to splanchnic nerves and their roots. Then each passes onwards, posterior to sympathetic trunk ; sends a posterior branch dorsally, medial to ant. costo-transverse