332 NEUROLOGY may pass, in internal capsule, to motor area. When it enters pons some of its fibres are said to turn downwards along medial side of tractus spinalis, and end in motor nuclei of pons and medulla oblongata, and in anterior grey column of spinal medulla. Some fibres which arise in visual centres in opposite thalamus and opposite side of mid-brain cross in mid-brain, and pass to cerebellum in the brachium. Vessels of Cerebellum.- Arteries : posterior inferior cere- bellar of vertebral, anterior inf. cerebellar of basilar to lower surface; superior cerebellar of basilar to upper surface. Veins : superior cerebellar veins end in v. cerebri magna (Galen), transverse or superior petrosal sinus ; inferior, in straight sinus, inf. petrosal and occipital sinuses. VENTRICULUS QUARTUS A cavity enclosed by cerebellum, pons and medulla oblon- gata, lined with ependyma, a variety of epithelium which lines ventricles of brain, aquaeductus cerebri and central canal of medullaoblongataandmed. spinalis. The cavity is continuous below with central canal of medulla oblongata and spinalis, and above with aquaeductus cerebri, through which it com- municates with 3rd ventricle. Its roof is concealed by cerebellum, and is formed, above, by anterior medullary velum and overhanging brachia conjunctiva ; below that, by white core of vermis, and, below that, by posterior medullary velum, but lowest part of roof consists of ependyma alone. This ependyma and pia mater covering it are perforated by apertura medialis v. quarti (foramen Magendii), through which the ventricle communicates with subarachnoid space. Similar apertures are found in lateral recesses. Floor of ventricle is called fossa rhomboidea, and is formed by dorsal surface of pons and upper part of medulla oblongata. A thick layer of grey matter is spread over it. Its lower end or angle is called calamus scriptorius and leads into central canal of medulla oblongata. Its lateral angles are at the point where restiform body and brachium conjunctivum meet. Here, a prolongation of cavity, called recessus lateralis, is carried outwards over restiform body as far as glosso- pharyngeal nerve. Its lateral boundaries are : clava, cuneate tubercle and restiform body, below ; brachium conjunctivum, above ; and between the two is part of brachium ponds. A median groove divides floor into symmetrical halves ; the striae medullares (acusticae) divide each half into a lower