LARYNX 419 Corniculate cartilages : small nodule on apex of each arytoenoid, in ary-epiglottic fold. Cuneiform cartilages: small rod-shaped piece of cartilage in each ary-epiglottic fold, anterior to apex of arytasnoid. Thyreoid, cricoid, and bases of arytsenoids are hyaline and begin to ossify after 20, and are completely ossified at advanced age. Other cartilages are yellow fibro-cartilage. ARTICULATIONS, LIGAMENTS, AND MEMBRANES OF LARYNX Crico-thyreoid Joint.—Diarthrodial; inf. horn of thyreoid connected with side of cricoid by articular capsule, strengthened posteriorly. Movements: rotatory around transverse axis, and gliding movements. Crico-aryttenoid Joint.—Diarthrodial; base of aryttenoid connected with upper border of lamina of cricoid by articular capsule, thickened posteriorly to arrest forward movement. Movements : rotatory around vertical axis, and gliding in all directions. Membrana Hyothyreoidea Thyreo-hyoid Membrane). —Attached superiorly to deep aspect of hyoid bone, inferiorly to sup. horn and upper margin of lamina* of thyreoid. Median thickened portion is called median tbyreo hyoid lig., which is attached to upper margin of body of hyoid and to margins of notch of thyreoid ; it is related posteriorly to epiglottis, anteriorly it is separated by bursa from hyoid above, and is crossed by hyoid branch of sup. thyreoid art. below. Deep surface of lateral part of membrane is related to mucous membrane of pharynx ; superficial surface is related to thyreo-hyoid muscle ; it is pierced by internal laryngeal nerve and sup. laryngeal vessels. Its thickened margin, connecting tips of greater horn of hyoid and sup. horn of thyreoid, is called lateral tbyreo hyoid lig. Crico thyreoid Lig.—Thick and triangular; attached below, by base, to upper border of arch of cricoid ; above, to lower border of thyreoid. Crossed superficially by crico-thyreoid artery. Conus Elasticus (O.T. lateral part of crico-thyroid memb.).— Thin ; attached inferiorly to cricoid, posteriorly to base of arytaenoid ; anteriorly to deep surface of thyreoid near angle, and is continuous w'ith crico-thyreoid lig. Slopes upwards and medially to end in thickened free border. Covered medially by mucous membrane, laterally by vocalis muscle. Ligamentum vocale is the free upper border of conus elasticus. Composed of yellow elastic fibres. Supports plica vocalis (vocal cord). Attached anteriorly to thyreoid near receding angle, posteriorly to vocal process of arytaenoid. Ligamentum ventriculare supports plica ventricularis (false