SACRUM 13 OS SACRUM Sacrum is roughly triangular in shape, possessing base or upper surface, apex or lower end, dorsal, pelvic and two lateral surfaces. Divided, on both dorsal and ventral sur- faces, by two series of foramina into a median portion, com- posed of most of parts of five fused vertebra;, and two lateral parts or masses, composed of fused costal elements and transverse processes. Basis is directed upwards and ventrally. Ventral and central part is the upper surface of body of 1st sacral vertebra. Its projecting anterior margin is called the promontory. Dorsal to body, is the large, sloping, triangular vertebral foramen, leading into canalis sacralis, and, on each side of it, the upstanding superior articular process looks dorsally and slightly medially. Spreading laterally from body is the fan-shaped ala of sacrum, or base of lateral mass. Apex is the oval lower surface of body of small 5th sacral vertebra. Pelvic Surface.—Concave; directed downwards and ventrally. Median part is composed of bodies. Lines of fusion are indicated by 4 linece transz>ersce, which end laterally at sides of anterior sacral foramina. From the foramina, shallow grooves extend lateially. Dorsal Surface.—Convex and irregular. Presents 4 posterior sacral foramina on each side. Crista sacralis media is the interrupted ridge in median plane ; sacral groove is formed by the bone between it and the foramina. Crista sacralis articularis is the series of tubercles at lateral edge of groove, medial to the foramina. Hiatus sacralis is the gap, at lower end, leading out of sacral canal. Sacral cornua are the 2 processes projecting downwards, one from each side of hiatus. Crista sacralis lateralis is the series of tubercles lateral to the foramina. Lateral Surface.—Upper part is broad. Its ventral portion is occupied by ear-shaped auricular surface, for articulation with ilium ; and dorsal portion presents a rough irregular depression for interosseous sacro-iliac ligaments. Part corresponding to lowest 2 vertebrae is narrow, and at inferior lateral angle it turns sharply medially towards body of 5th. Canalis sacralis is wide and triangular above, small and