URINARY ORGANS 477 umbilicus to a point on inguinal ligament, midway between iliac spine and symphysis. Behind', a line from point on subcostal plane, 1A-2 inches Lateral to 2nd lumbar spine, down to post. sup. iliac spine, whose position is indicated by a dimple on skin. Relations in Abdomen. — Posterior, on both sides: psoas, genito-femoral n., iliac art. Anterior to right ureter : renal vessels, 2nd and 3rd parts of duodenum ; right colic vessels sometimes, ileo-colic and int. spermatic vess., peritoneum on post, abdominal wall; root of mesentery and sup. mesenteric vess. ; ileum, as it crosses iliac artery. Vena cava is medial to right ureter. Anterior to left ureter : renal vessels, pancreas, attachment of transverse meso- colon, left colic, int. spermatic and sigmoid vessels, peritoneum on post. abd. wall, oblique attachment of pelvic mesocolon, and pelvic colon as ureter crosses iliac art. Duodeno-jejunal flexure and inf. mesenteric vein lie medial to left ureter. Aorta also is medial, but is some distance away. In Pelvis.—It passes backwards, downwards, and laterally to level of ischial spine, having hypogastric artery and sacral plexus behind; peritoneum medially; obturator internus, obliterated umbilical art., obturator vessels and nerve, inferior vesical and mid. hremorrhoidal arteries laterally. From ischial spine it runs forwards and medially above levator ani and its fascia, below peritoneum, ductus deferens intervening. At entrance to bladder it is surrounded by plexus of veins and overlapped by upper end of seminal vesicle. In female, ovary is anterior to, and ampulla of uterine tube medial to, upper pelvic part, both separated by peri- toneum. Lower part crosses below broad ligament and obliquely along side and front of upper end of vagina. Uterine art. crosses above it, between layers of broad ligament. Arteries : from renal, int. spermatic, colic, vesical, middle hemor- rhoidal. Nerves : from renal, spermatic and hypogastric plexuses. Lymphatics end in lumbar, common iliac and hypogastric glands. Vesica Urinaria Urinary Bladder).—Lies in anterior lower part of pelvis ; in infancy, partly in abdomen also. When empty it possesses an apex, superior surface, two infero-lateral surfaces, a base or posterior surface. Surfaces are triangular in shape, and are separated by borders. Vertex (Apex) lies posterior to upper margin of symphysis pubis. A fibrous cord—lig. umbilicale medium or urachus (a remnant either of cloaca or of intra-abdominal part of allantois)—extends from apex to umbilicus. Superior surface is the only surface covered with peritoneum, except a small part of base. Pelvic colon and small intestine