8 OSTEOLOGY are fused into one mass. Rectus lateralis, obliquus superior and inferior, levator scapula; and splenius cervicis are attached to it. Anterior arch is connected with anterior and medial aspects of masses. Anterior atlanto-occipital membrane is attached to its upper border, and ant. longitudinal lig. and longus colli to its anterior tubercle. Posterior arch inclines upwards. It is connected with dorsal aspect of mass and with posterior root of transverse process. Posterior atlanto-occipital membrane is attached to upper border, and lig. flava to lower border. Groove on upper surface is overhung by tubercle on back of mass. This tubercle is sometimes sufficiently developed to convert groove into a canal. Posterior tubercle, at median plane, represents spinous process, and gives origin to recti posteriores minores. Second Cervical Vertebra or Epistropheus (Axis).—Dis- tinguished by a tooth-like projection from upper surface called Dens or odontoid process, which presents a facet on its anterior surface for anterior arch of atlas, and a smooth shallow groove on posterior surface, in contact with transverse ligament of atlas. Spine is stout, broad, bifid, and can be felt about 2 inches below external occipital protuberance. Transverse process is small and not bifid. Body has a triangular elevation on anterior surface, whose base forms a downward projecting lip. Odontoid process represents body of atlas. To its blunted apex the lig. apicis dentis and lig. alaria are attached (suspensory and check ligaments). Roots of arch are deeply grooved below ; hidden by superior articular surfaces above. Laminae are thick and prismatic. Spine is the broadest of cervical series, and is deeply grooved on under surface. Superior articular processes lie on roots of arch and anterior roots of transverse processes, and slightly on body. Weight of head is transmitted through them to vertebral column. They are nearly circular, slightly convex ; look upwards and a little laterally ; are grooved inferiorly by foramina transversaria. Behind each is a groove for 2nd cervical nerve, (ist and 2nd cervical nerves, unlike others, are posterior to articular surfaces.) Inferior articular processes resemble others of cervical region. Transverse process is not bifid, is the smallest in the series, and is turned downwards and dorsally. Its foramen is directed upwards and laterally. Seventh cervical vertebra is called vertebra prominens, because its spine is longer than that of any other cervical vertebra, and forms a projection at root of back of neck. End of spine is broad and not bifid. Transverse process is large and broad ; its anterior tubercle is small or absent ; its costal