4i 1 ORGAN OF HEARING wards, (1) adit us ad antrum, opening leading from epitympanic recess into tympanic antrum ; (2) fossa incudis, depression lodging short crus of incus; (3) eminentia pyramidalis, at junction of posterior and medial walls, perforated at apex by tendon of stapedius ; (4) apertura tympanica canaliculi chordtl, near posterior edge of tympanic membrane, close to top, for entrance of chorda tympani into cavity; (5) prominentia styloidea, often absent, produced by upward anti forward prolongation of styloid process. Paries carotica, sloping posterior wall of carotid canal, partly in floor and partly in anterior wall; perforated by carotico-tympanic nerves from carotid to tympanic plexus, and by tympanic branch of carotid artery. Above it there is musculo tubal canal, divided by septum (processus cochleariformis) into semicanalis m. tensoris tympani above, and semicanalis tubic auditiva below. Paries labyrinthica (Medial wall). — Formed by lateral surface of osseous labyrinth. Presents—(1) Rounded promontorium, produced by first coil of cochlea, grooved by tympanic plexus ; (2) fenestra vestibuli (oval is), at bottom of fossula fenestra vest., above and posterior to promontory, leads into vestibule, is closed by foot-piece of stapes; (3) prominentia canalis facialis, produced by canal of facial nerve as it runs posteriorly, at junction of roof and medial wall, to descend behind posterior wall and end at stylo-mastoid foramen; (4) end of septum of musculo - tubal canal projects backwards over fenestra vestibuli and turns laterally, forming pulley for tendon of tensor tympani ; (5) sinus tympani, depression behind promontory, opposite ampulla of post, semicircular canal ; (6) fenestra cochlea (rotunda), at bottom of fossula fen. coc/i., below anti posterior to promontory, communicates with scala tympani of cochlea, is closed by membrane called membrana tympani secundaria. Paries membranacea (Lateral walli.—Small part above is formed by squamous temporal ; by far the greater part is formed by membrana tympani, which separates cavity from meatus, and is fixed circumferentially to a groove called sulcus tympanicus. Bony ring containing this groove is deficient and notched superiorly (notch of Rivinus). In front of upper part of membrane is petro- tympanic fissure (Glaserian), at medial end of which is the canal by which chorda tympani leaves tympanum. Membrana Tympani. — Placed obliquely, so that it forms angle of 55 with anterior and inferior walls of meatus. Circumference is thickened, except opposite notch of Rivinus, and is called annulus fibro-cartilagineus ; from the ends of the notch it is continued to lateral process of malleus as plica- mal/eolares, anterior and posterior ; small and lax triangular portion of membrane between plica: and opposite notch is called pars fiaccida (Shrapnell). Remainder of membrane, tightly stretched, is called pars tensa Handle of malleus is attached to membrane and draws it medially so that lateral surface is concave, medial convex. Maximum convexity is the umbo.