294 BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM Superficial circumflex iliac artery runs laterally, below inguinal lig., towards ant. sup. iliac spine. Superficial epigastric artery runs upwards over inguinal ligament to ant. abdominal wall. Super- ficial ext. pudendal artery runs medially, in front of spermatic cord, to scrotum and penis. Deep ext. pudendal artery runs medially, posterior to spermatic cord, to reach scrotum and penis. These four arise near proximal end of femoral artery. Art. genu suprema (anastomotic) arises from femoral near distal end, and at once divides into two, one branch accompanying saphenous nerve, as far as medial side of knee, the other passing to knee through vastus medialis. A. profunda femoris (see also p. 169) arises about inches distal to inguinal lig. from lateral side of femoral ; curves posteriorly and medially behind femoral, passes posterior to adductor longus, close to femur ; ends as fourth perforating art. It gives off lateral and medial circumflex, near its origin ; unnamed muscular branches, and four per- forating branches, which wind round posterior aspect of femur and end in vastus lateralis, the second giving the jintrient branch to the femur. Lateral femoral circumflex artery runs laterally upon iliacus among branches of femoral nerve, and divides into three. Ascending branch runs proximally under tensor fascine latte. Descending branch runs distally along ant. border of vastus lateralis. Transverse branch sinks into substance of v. lateralis. Medial femoral circumflex artery passes posteriorly be- tween adjacent borders of psoas and pectineus, and between obturator ext. and adductor brevis; and, having given off muscular branches and an acetabular branch, which enters acetabular notch and runs along lig. teres to feinur, it ends by dividing into deep and superficial branches. Ramus profundus accompanies tendon of obturator externus to trochanteric fossa. Ramus superficialis passes backwards between quadratus femoris and adductor magnus. Popliteal artery (see also p. 178) begins as continuation of femoral at opening in adductor magnus ; runs distally and laterally in popliteal fossa to interval between femoral condyles, and then vertically to end at distal border of popliteus by dividing into ant. and post, tibial. Floor of the fossa is anterior to it ; popliteal vein, postero-lateral at its proximal end, crosses its posterior aspect to lie on medial side at distal end. Tibial nerve (int. popliteal) is lateral to both artery and vein at proximal end, and crosses them posteriorly to lie on medial side.