207 HEAD ANI) NECK round sterno-mastoid ; ascends on its superficial surface, parallel to and posterior to ext. jugular vein ; pierces deep fascia and divides into mastoid, auricular and facial branches. Mastoid branches supply skin over mastoid region ; auricular branches supply lower jj of cranial surface of auricle and lower ^ of its lateral surface ; both these communicate with lesser occipital and posterior auricular. Facial branches supply skin covering lower parts of parotid gland and masseter, and they send branches into parotid to communicate with facial nerve. Nervus cutaneus colli (transverse superficial cervical) turns anteriorly across sterno-mastoid, about its middle, under cover of platysma, and either superficial or deep to ext. jugular vein. It pierces deep fascia and divides into two branches, which supply skin covering anterior triangle of neck, and the upper branch communicates with cervical branch of facial. It arises from 2nd and 3rd cervical. Anterior, middle and posterior supra clavicular nerves are branches of a common trunk which arises from 3rd and 4th cervical nerves, and appears at posterior border of sterno-mastoid below the other superficial nerves, and breaks up into its branches. They descend through lower part of posterior triangle, pierce deep fascia above clavicle, and passing through platysma, supply skin covering upper parts of pectoralis major and deltoid. The anterior branches cross sterno-mastoid and sternal third of clavicle ; the middle branches cross middle of clavicle, and one or more of them may pass through the clavicle ; the posterior branches cross trapezius and acromial third of clavicle. Brachial plexus lies partly in antero-inferior part of posterior triangle, partly behind clavicle, and partly in axilla. It consists of roots, trunks, divisions, cords and branches. Its roots are the anterior branches (ant. primary divisions) of the spinal nerves which form it. 5th cervical nerve receives a communica- tion from 4th, and combines with 6th to form upper trunk. 7th cervical alone forms middle trunk. 1st thoracic nerve receives a communication from 2nd, gives off the first intercostal nerve, and combines with 8th cervical to form lower trunk. Each trunk splits into an anterior and a posterior division. The upper two anterior divisions unite to form the lateral cord. Lower anterior division forms medial cord. All three posterior divisions unite to form posterior cord. Relations.—Above clavicle, its superficial relations are skin, fascia;, platysma, supra-clavicular nerves; transverse cervical and scapular and ext. jugular veins ; post, belly of omo hyoid ; transverse cervical art., nerve to subclavius ; third part of subclavian artery. Posterior to clavicle, the lowest part of subclavian artery and trans- verse scapular (supra-scapular) art. are anterior. Posterior to it are scalenus medius and roots of long thoracic nerve (Hell). Branches above Clavicle.—Communicating'.—Grey rami