93 ARTICULATIO MANDIBU LARIS opposite sides acting alternately. In protrusion and retraction movement is mainly between disc and temporal tone. When depression and elevation are slight it is mainly between disc and condyle, when considerable it is in both situations, and disc and condyle both pass forwards on to articular tubercle. Depression is checked by. temporo-mandibular ligament. Sudden excessive depression may lead to dislocation. Relations.—Superficial or lateral to mandibular joint are skin, fascia: and parotid gland, and some of the temporal branches of facial nerve emerging from parotid. A little below are the trans- verse facial vessel* and zygomatic branches of facial nerve. Pterygoideus externus is inserted into anterior aspect of joint and the nerve and vessels to masseter pass laterally, above the pterygoideus externus, anterior to the joint. Posterior aspect is related to parotid gland, which separates it from both cartilaginous and osseous parts of external acoustic meatus ; but when jaws are closed the condyle of mandible exerts pressure on the cartilaginous part, through the parotid. The pressure is relieved when mouth is opened ; this may be tested by placing the finger in the meatus. Superficial temporal artery and upper part of posterior facial vein, which accompanies the artery here, lie between joint and parotid, near the skin surface. Auriculo- temporal nerve, at first medial to the joint, runs laterally, posterior to the joint, between it and parotid, before ascending over post, root of zygoma. Medial to the joint are the spine of sphenoid and spheno- mandibular lig., a little distance away. Auriculo-temporal nerve passes posteriorly and laterally between the ligament and the capsule of the joint. Internal maxillary artery, with its vein, is passing anteriorly and medially between the ligament and neck of mandible, below the joint. Chorda tympani is medial to spine of sphenoid. Middle meningeal artery, ascending to for. spinosum, antero-medial to spheno-mandibular lig., is less than ^ inch from joint. Internal carotid artery is in line with anterior margin of acoustic meatus, about J inch medial and a little posterior to the joint, and separated from the joint by the most medial part of tympanic plate ; when it enters carotid canal it is separated from joint cavity by osseous part of auditory tube. Mandibular nerve is A inch or more from medial side of joint, in line with, and about i A inches directly medial to, tubercle at root of zygoma. Above the joint is the middle cranial fossa ; and the trunks of middle meningeal vessels groove the door of the fossa directly above the tuberculum articulare (eminentia articularisl.