SOLE OF FOOT 183 It abducts and flexes great toe. Medial plantar nerve supplies it by fibres derived from 5th lumbar and 1st sacral nerves. Flexor digitorum brevis arises by fleshy and tendinous fibres from medial process of tuber calcanei and septa and fascia surround- ing it ; divides into 4 tendons for lateral 4 toes. Each tendon enters fibrous flexor sheath opposite head of metatarsal, on plantar aspect of long flexor tendon ; splits opposite 1st phalanx to allow long flexor to pass through it; the halves reunite on dorsal aspect of long flexor, and, after partial decussation, separate to be inserted into sides of 2nd phalanx. It flexes 2nd and 1st phalanges. Medial plantar nerve supplies it by fibres from L. 5, s. 1. Abductor digiti quinti arises by fleshy and tendinous fibres from medial process of tuber calcanei, under cover of flex. dig. brevis ; from lateral process, from fascia covering it and septum on medial side ; and is inserted into lateral side of base of 1st phalanx of little toe, and often also into base of 5th metatarsal. It abducts and flexes little toe. Lateral plantar nerve supplies it by fibres from S. 1,2. Second Layer of Muscles of Sole of Foot Flexor hallucis longus, flexor digitorum longus with quadratus plants;, anti four lumbricals. Flexor digitorum longus tendon, after entering sole, crosses superficial to tendon of hallucis, and obtains a slip from it, which usually passes into tendons for 2nd and 3rd toes ; receives insertion of quadratus plantre ; divides into 4 tendons for lateral 4 toes. Tendons give origin to lumbrica! muscles, and each enters fibrous flexor sheath, enclosed with corresponding tendon of flexor brevis in a mucous sheath ; perforates that tendon opposite 1st phalanx, and runs on to insertion into plantar surface of base of 3rd phalanx. Superficial to it, in succession from proximal side of ankle-joint to fibrous flexor sheath, are (1) lig. lacinialum (int. annular). (2) abductor hallucis, (3) medial plantar vessels and nerves, (4) flexor digitorum brevis. Deep to it are (t) tibialis posterior, (2) ankle-joint, (3) edge of sustentaculum tali, (4) flexor hallucis longus, (5) sheath of peronteus longus, (6) adductor hallucis. Quadratus plants (accessorius p to posterior part of flex, dig. brevis. It arises (1) from long plantar lig., part of which it covers, and also by (2) a tendinous head from lateral edge of plantar surface of calcaneus, anterior to lateral process, (3) a fleshy head from concave medial surface of calcaneus. It is inserted into tendon of flex. dig. longus. It changes oblique direction of the pull of that tendon into one in line with long axis of foot; and, by contracting inde- pendently, it can flex terminal phalanges without the stability of ankle- joint being impaired, e.g. walking over a slippery surface. Lateral plantar nerve supplies it by fibres from S. 1,2. Lumbrical muscles are t slender muscular bellies, smaller than those of hand. Their tendons pass dorsally and distally on tibial sides of metatarso-phalangeal joints of the lateral 4 toes, and each s