MUSCLES AND FASCIAE 144 dorsal surface of ulna ; middle 4 of dorsal surface of radius ; interosseous membrane. It crosses extensores carpi radiales. Its tendon is enclosed in mucous sheath with ext. poll, brevis, in most lateral compartment of dorsal carpal ligament (post, annular), upon insertion of brachio-radialis ; it crosses radial artery and is inserted into base of ist metacarpal. Nerve: c. 6, through dorsal interosseous. It draws meta- carpal of thumb away from palm ; extends and abducts hand. Extensor pollicis brevis (ext. primi internodii pollicis) lies on dorsal and lateral surfaces of distal ^ of forearm. Origin (fl.): proximal part of distal ^ of dorsal surface of radius and interosseous membrane. It lies along ulnar side of abductor, and its tendon proceeds over metacarpal to be inserted into dorsum of base of ist phalanx of thumb. Nerve : c. 6, 7, 8, through dorsal interosseous. It extends ist phalanx, extends and abducts hand. Extensor pollicis longus (ext. secundi internodii pollicis) lies deeply in dorsum of forearm, superficially on dorsum of wrist and thumb. Origin (fl.) : about middle ^ of dorsum of ulna from the middle one of the three impressions on lateral half; interosseous membrane. Its tendon lies en- closed in mucous sheath on dorsal surface of distal end of radius, in a compartment of dorsal carpal ligament ; and proceeds to insertion into base of 2nd phalanx. Nerve : same as brevis. It extends phalanges and metacarpal of. thumb ; extends and abducts hand. Extensor indicis proprius lies deeply in distal ^ of forearm, superficially on dorsum of wrist and hand. Origin (fl.): proximal part of distal ^ of dorsal surface of ulna— most distal of the three impressions—and from interosseous membrane. Tendon joins the tendon from ext. communis to index at the finger. Nerve : same as preceding. It extends index and hand. Vagina; Mucosse.—Mucous or synovial sheaths surround extensor tendons and line compartments of dorsal carpal lig. (post, annular). Mucous or synovial sheaths of tendons around wrist and ankle begin one inch proximal to respective “annular ” ligaments; in the case of those inserted into carpus, metacarpus, tarsus, metatarsus, they extend to the insertion, except in case of peroneus longus ; in the case of those inserted into phalanges they extend to middle of hand or foot, excepting flexor pollicis longus, and flexors of little finger.