i6o MUSCLES AND FASCIAE Weakest on medial side, strongest on lateral side of thigh. Strong also in anterior part of buttock and over popliteal fossa. Attached proximally to iliac crest, dorsum of sacrum and coccyx, sacro- tuberous ligament (great sacro-sciatic), ischium, margins of pubic arch, symphysis and crest, inguinal ligament of Poupart. Dislally to condyles of femur and tibia, head of fibula, capsule of knee-joint. In buttock it splits to enclose glutaeus maximus. In thigh it sends in septa to be attached to linea aspera and epicondylic lines :— Lateral intermuscular septum, between extensors and flexors, gives attachment to vastus lateralis and intermedius by its ant. surface, glutaeus maximus, short head of biceps by its post, surface. Medial intermuscular septum, between extensors and adductors; fused distally with adductor magnus and longus, continuous proximally with fascia pectinea, covering pectineus; completes sheaths of gracilis and sartorius. Fascia under sartorius is much thickened in middle third of thigh, where it binds vastus medialis to adductor longus and magnus, and forms fibrous roof of adductor canal (Hunter’s). Tractus iliotibialis (ilio-tibial band) is the thickened lateral part of fascia lata, extending from iliac crest to lateral condyle of tibia, capsule of knee, and head of fibula. Proximal part receives insertion of greater portion of glutaeus maximus, and splits to ensheath and receive insertion of tensor fasciae latae, deeper layer being connected with reflected head of rectus femoris and capsule of hip-joint. Fossa ovalis (saphenous opening) (see p. 165) is an oval aperture in fascia lata, just below medial end of inguinal ligament (Poupart). It is closed in by a thin fascia called fascia cribrosa (cribriform fascia). Femoral sheath is formed by fascia lining interior of abdomen —fascia transversalis anteriorly, fascia iliaca posteriorly—being pro- longed into thigh around femoral vessels for in. before fusing with their coats. It is divided by 2 antero-posterior septa into a lateral compartment for femoral art., an intermediate for femoral vein, and a medial compartment called femoral canal. The relations of these are given on p. 167. MUSCLES ON ANTERIOR ASPECT OF THIGH Sartorius lies superficially on front of thigh and medial side of thigh and knee. Origin (fl.): anterior superior iliac spine and half of notch below. Insertion : by aponeurotic tendon into proximal part of medial surface of tibia, anterior to gracilis and semitendinosus (from which it is separated by bursa), and by expansions into capsule and tibial collateral ligament of knee, and fascia of leg. Nerve : L. 3, 4, through femoral (ant. crural).1 It flexes and rotates tibia medially ; flexes, abducts, and rotates thigh laterally. 1 L. signifies Lumbar.