CEREBELLUM (inferior) medullary velum. The names of the other subdivisions of the surfaces of the cerebellum have been merely tabulated above ; they are not of sufficient importance to require further description. Posterior medullary velum is a thin, translucent sheet of fibres, prolonged out of white medullary substance of vermis above nodule ; it curves downwards in front of nodule, and ends in a free, thickened crescentic edge. Laterally it extends from nodule to peduncle of flocculus and is hidden by tonsil. Corpus medullare is the central white substance of cerebellum. From it sheets of fibres, called laminae medullares, project into folia of cerebellum, forming their cores ; and these lamina; are covered by substantia corticalis or grey matter seen on surface. Arbor- escent appearance of sagittal sections of cerebellum is called arbor vitae. Nucleus fastigii (roof nucleus) is a small nucleus in white substance of vermis near median plane. Nucleus globosus and n. emboliformis are small collections placed a little more laterally. Nucleus dentatus lies in white substance of cerebellar hemi- sphere, near vermis, above nidus avis. It is a large crumpled sheath, possessing a hilum directed upwards and medially, out of which proceed most of fibres of brachium conjunctivum. Anterior medullary velum is a thin sheet of fibres pro- longed out of white substance of vermis ; lies between brachia con- junctiva and connects their dorsal edges ; ends aljove at inf. corpora quadrigemina, and is connected to groove between them by band of fibres called frenulum veli. Trochlear nerve emerges through it between frenulum and brachium. Lingula lies on lower part on its dorsal surface. Some fibres of antero lateral superficial fasciculus (Gowers’) descend to cerebellum in it. Both ant. and post, vela share in formation of roof of 4th ventricle. Brachium conjunctivum (sup. cerebellar peduncle) arises mainly in nucleus dentatus; a few fibres come from cerebellar cortex ; some fibres of antero-lateral superficial (Gowers’) tract are contained in it. Leaving cerebellum, its ventral border unites with dorsal part of pons, and it passes upwards, sinking deeper in sub- stance of pons, and converging towards its fellow, to which it is united by anterior medullary velum. It forms upper lateral boundary and part of roof of 4th ventricle. Anterior part of upper surface of cerebellum overlaps it below, and the lemniscus lateralis (lateral fillet) lies on its lateral surface above. It disappears into tegmentum of mesencephalon, under cover of inf. corpus quadri- geminum, and straightway begins to decussate with its fellow, ventral to medial longitudinal bundle and grey matter around aqueduct. Decussation is completed at level of upper border of inf. corp. quad. Having crossed, the brachium passes upw'ards and meets red nucleus. Many fibres end there ; the rest proceed onwards encapsulating red nucleus, and most end in thalamus, but some