4M ORGANS OF THE SENSES Musculi Ossiculorum Auditus.—Tensor tympani from cartilage of auditory tube and adjoining great wing of sphenoid ; passes through canal above bony auditory tube ; enters upper, anterior part of tympanic cavity ; turns laterally round pulley-shaped end of septum of musculo-tubal canal, to be inserted into upper end of handle of malleus. Draws malleus and tympanic membrane medially, and makes the membrane more tense. Nerve, from motor root of man- dibular division of trigeminal, through otic ganglion. Stapedius arises from hollow interior of eminentia pyramidalis. Tendon emerges from apex of eminentia and is inserted into post, surface of neck of stapes. Tilts anterior end of foot-piece laterally and posterior end medially. Nerve, from facial. AURIS INTERNA Internal ear consists of a series of cavities in petrous temporal, called osseous labyrinth, in which is lodged a system of canals and sacs, called membranous labyrinth. Labyrinthus osseus consists of vestibule, semicircular canals and cochlea. Vestibulum.—6 mm. antero-posteriorly, 4-5 mm. vertically, 3 mm. from side to side. Communicates anteriorly with cochlea, posteriorly with semicircular canals. Lateral wall corresponds to part of medial wall of tympanum, and fenestra vestibuli (ovalis) is seen in it. Below is the jugular fossa. Facia! nerve crosses it above. Medial wall corresponds to bottom of internal meatus and presents antero- inferiorly a depression, called recessus sphcericus, which lodges saccule and is perforated (macula cribrosa media) by 12-15 filaments from cochlear nerve to saccule. Ridge bounding r. spha?ricus above and posteriori)' is called crista vestibuli ; its antero-superior end is called pyramis vestibuli ; its postero-inferior end divides to enclose recessus cochlearis, perforated by nerves to ductus cochlearis. On roof and medial wall of vestibule, behind crista, is the oval recessus ellipticus. Foramina on pyramid and adjacent r. ellipticus (macula cribrosa superior) transmit 25-30 filaments from vestibular nerve to utricle and ampullae of sup. and ext. semicirc. ducts. Behind and below r. ellipticus is the opening of aquccductus vestibuli, which passes through petrous for 8-10 mm., opens on its posterior surface, and transmits ductus endo-lymphaticus and small vessels. Vestibule opens anteriorly into scala vestibuli by elliptical opening, bounded inferiorly by begin- ning of lamina spiralis ossea, on lateral side of r. sphaericus. Interval between lam. spiralis ossea and lateral wall of cochlea (promontory) is narrowed down to form fissura vestibuli by a ledge called lamina spiralis secundaria, which projects from lateral wall of cochlea. Canales Semicirculares Ossei, Posterior, Superior, Lateralis. —Behind and above vestibule. Each forms 3 of circle and