264 HLOOI) VASCULAR SYSTEM tudinal sulcus. Ends there by dividing into large inferior branch, which runs forward in inf. long, sulcus to apex, and circumflex branch, which runs transversely across to anastomose with corre- sponding left artery. Other branches are given to pulm. art., aorta, atrium and auricle, and ventricle, largest being marginal, which runs along lower margin of right ventricle. Left coronary artery springs from left sinus aortre, passes anteriorly, between pulm. art. and left auricle, to upper end of sulcus longitud. ant.; there it divides into two :—(1) anterior descending branch descends in that sulcus to apex to anastomose with inferior branch of right coronary ; (2) circumflex branch runs in coronary sulcus, accompanied by vein and nerves, to anastomose with circumflex branch of right coronary. Gives branches, like the right, to great arteries, atrium, auricle and ventricle. Circumflex branch lies below coronary sinus at base of heart. BRANCHES OF AORTIC ARCH Arteria anonyma (Innominate) springs from convexity of aortic arch, opposite centre of manubrium ; runs upwards, to the right and posteriorly, for 1^ or 2 inches, to end behind upper part of sterno-clavicular joint, by dividing into right common carotid and right subclavian. See also pp. 211, 428. Branches: these two and occasional thyreoidea ima. Relations.—Anterior-, left innominate vein, thymus; sterno-thyreoid, sterno-hyoid, manubrium and sterno- clavicular joint. Right side : right innominate vein and sup. v. cava ; phrenic nerve, pleura and lung. Left side: left common carotid below, trachea above. Posterior: trachea below ; above, it is separated from longus colli, and some- times from pleura and lung, by fat and areolar tissue. A. thyreoidea ima, rarely present. Springs from innominate or aortic arch. Ascends on anterior surface of trachea to end in thyreoid gland. Left common carotid artery springs from convexity of aortic arch, behind and to left of innominate, and close to it. Runs upwards and slightly to the left for 1 or ij inches, to enter neck behind lower part of sterno-clav. joint. Thence upwards and slightly laterally for 3i inches, along lower part of line leading from sterno-clav. joint to mid-point between angle of mandible and mastoid process. Ends by dividing into ext. and int. carotids opposite upper border of thyreoid cartilage and lower border of 3rd cervical vertebra.