LYMPH GLANDS OF HEAD AND NECK 313 anterior and rst part of subclavian art. ; and ends in angle of union of int. jugular and subclavian veins, in front of pleura, behind or just above clavicle. See also pp. 218, 430, 434. Tributaries.—Receives lymph from all parts (except those drained by right lymphatic duct) by means of small vessels and several larger trunks : (1) Truncus intestinalis, from cceliac, mesenteric and pre- aortic glands, carries lymph from stomach, small intestines, spleen, pancreasand part of liver. (2) Two trunci lumbales, from lateral and retro-aortic glands, convey lymph from lower limbs, walls of abdomen, testes, pelvic viscera, large intestine, kidneys and suprarenals. (3) Retro-aortic trunk, from retro-aortic glands, conveys lymph from post, abdominal wall. (4) Two descending trunks descend through aortic opening from lower intercostal glands, conveying lymph from thoracic wall. All these end in cisterna chvli. At root of neck (5) truncus subclavius from left upper limb, and (6) truncus jugu laris from left side of head and neck, end in the duct or in one of the large veins. Right Lymphatic Duct.—F.xceedingly slender. Begins in thorax at 5th TH. vertebra, ascends to neck on ant. aspect of vertebral column ; turns laterally, having a course corresponding to that of thoracic duct. At medial border of scalenus anterior it is joined by jugular and subclavian trunks, and the common trunk descends to end in com- mencement of right innominate vein. Its entrance is guarded by a valve. It receives lymph from right upper limb, and side of head and neck and thorax, right lung and pleura, right side of heart and peri- cardium, right half of diaphragm and upper surface of liver. The portion extending from origin to medial margin of scalenus ant. is also called the broncho-mediastinal trunk. LYMPHOGLANDULzE Lymph Glands of Head and Neck Occipital, 2 or 3 at superior nuchal line, on trapezius or semi- spinalis capitis (complexus) ; posterior auricular, 2 on insertion of sterno - mastoid into mastoid temporal. These receive lymph by afferent vessels from posterior part of scalp and transmit it by efferent vessels to superficial and upper deep cervical glands. Anterior auricular, on surface of parotid ; afferents from cheek, root of nose, eyelids and anterior part of scalp and auricle ; efferents to superficial and upper deep cervical glands. Parotid, in substance of parotid ; afferents from meatus, tympanum, soft palate, posterior part of nasal cavity, deep parts of cheek ; efferents to upper deep cervical glands. Deep facial, on superficial surface of pterygoideus extcrnus ; afferents from orbit, temporal and infra-temporal fossae,