274 BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM turns dorsally and medially on post, arch of atlas ; pierces dura mater, enters foramen magnum ; and ends at lower border of pons by joining its fellow to form basilar. Relations.—First part is surrounded by sympathetic nerves, and lies between longus colli and scalenus anterior, upon pleura and 7th cervical transverse process, posterior to its own vein and common carotid artery (see also p. 212). Second part traverses foramina transversaria, surrounded by plexus of nerves from inferior cervical ganglion and plexus of veins, anterior to cervical nerves. Third part emerges from for. transversarium of atlas, medial to rectus lateralis, lateral to ant. division of 1st cerv. n. ; passes dorsally and medially, posterior to sup. articular process of atlas, enters groove on post, arch of atlas, where post, branch of 1st cerv. n. lies between it and bone ; passes into vertebral canal in front of post, atlanto-occipital membrane. Fourth part pierces dura mater, enters cranial cavity through for. magnum, pierces arachnoid and runs upwards and medially on lateral and anterior surfaces of medulla oblongata to median plane, at lower border of pons. Branches of Vertebral Artery.—Muscular, from 1st, 2nd, 3rd parts. Rami spinales, from 2nd part, pass through intervertebral foramina to reinforce spinal arteries. Anastomotic, from 3rd part, to anast. with profunda cervicis and descending branch of occipital. From 4th pari—(1) Meningeal branches, to posterior cranial fossa. (2) Posterior spinal runs downwards and divides into branches, which lie both in front of and behind post, nerve roots. (3) Anterior spinal unites with its fellow on anterior surface of medulla oblongata to form a single artery, which runs down in front of ant. median fissure of spinal medulla. (4) Posterior inferior cerebellar arises near end of vertebral, runs obliquely backwards around medulla oblongata into vallecula cerebelli, where it divides into medial and lateral branches, supplying vermis and inf. surface of hemisphere. (5) Small branches to medulla oblongata. Basilar artery is formed at lower border of pons by union of vertebrals ; runs upwards in relation to dorsal surface of upper part of basi-occipital and of dorsum sellae, in the groove on ventral surface of pons, to end at its upper border by dividing into two posterior cerebral arteries. Branches.—(1) Rami ad pontem. (2) Internal auditory accompanies acoustic nerve. (3) Anterior inferior cerebellar passes backwards to anterior part of inf. surface of cerebellar hemi- sphere. (4) Superior cerebellar arises near end of basilar, runs along upper border of pons and lateral surface of basis pedunculi (crusta), below oculo-motor and trochlear nerves, to ramify on upper surface of cerebellar hemisphere.