PERITONAEUM 465 veins ; coeliac (solar) plexus and ganglion ; supiarenal gland, pelvis of ureter and kidney ; and, on a more posterior plane, with left crus of diaphragm, sympathetic trunk and psoas. Creliac art. projects forwards above upper border ; splenic art. runs tortuously along it, nr dorsal to it. Transverse mesocolon is attached to lower border of anterior surface. Tail, the pointed left end of pancreas, between the layers of lieno-renal lig., abuts against a depression on lower and medial part of gastric surface of spleen, above left (splenic) flexure of colon. Ductus Pancreaticus. — Lies in substance of gland near posterior surface. Begins at tail; runs along body to neck; bends down in substance of head ; pierces 2nd part of duodenum, in company with bile duct. Ductusp. accessorius.—Arises in lower part of head ; crosses ventral to main duct, gives it a communicating branch ; enters duodenum, 3 inch above and ventral to main duct. Arteries.—Superior and inferior pancreatico-duodenal, pancreatic branches of splenic, a few from hepatic. Lymphatics end in sub- pyloric, supra-pancreatic, coeliac, splenic and sup. mesenteric glands. Nerves : from coeliac plexus, accompany arteries. PERITONAEUM Peritoneum is the large continuous sheet of serous membrane which lines the abdominal walls, except where viscera are in direct contact, and is reflected on to the viscera. It passes directly on to some viscera, holding them against the posterior abdominal wall. Other viscera are connected by “folds” to the parietes and to one another. Where a fold is “ attached ” to parietes or to an organ the two layers which compose it separate from one another. Three different kinds of names are given to folds, more or less arbitrarily : omenta ; mesenteries ; ligaments. Omentum Minus (Lesser Omentum) Attached to lesser curvature of stomach (lig. hepato-gastricum) and to first inch, or more, of 1st part of duodenum (lig. hepato-duodenale) ; to margins of porta hepatis and bottom of fossa for ductus venosus ; to diaphragm for | inch, between fossa for d. venosus and cardia of stomach. The two layers are con- tinuous with one another at its right free border, which forms anterior boundary of foramen epiploicum ; and they separate at lesser curvature to enclose stomach ; meet again 30