DIGESTIVE APPARATUS 448 palatine arches. Lies opposite a point, on surface of face, £ inch above and in front of angle of mandible. Consists of an oval mass of lymphoid tissue, encapsuled in fascia con- nected with pharyngeal aponeurosis. Pharyngeal surface is covered with mucous membrane, in which is a number of pits, called fossulce tonsillares or crypts. Supra-tonsillar fossa is a recess above tonsil. Lateral surface is related to sup. con- strictor, which separates it from asc. palatine and from ext. maxillary (facial) arteries. Arteries to tonsil, from asc. palatine, tonsillar, asc. pharyn- geal, dorsalis linguae. Lymphatics end in upper deep cervical glands on int. jugular vein, opposite angle of man- dible. Nerves : special branch from glosso-pharyngeal ; branches from pharyngeal plexus. Laryngeal part of pharynx lies posterior to larynx. Upper part is common to digestive and respiratory tracts. Lower part (narrowest part of pharynx), opposite cricoid, belongs to digestive system alone, and its ant. and post, walls are in contact, except when food is passing. Anterior wall presents epiglottis, arytaenoids, sup. aperture of larynx, ary-epiglottic folds, recessus piriformis and cricoid.—See Larynx, p. 417. Pharynx is separated posteriorly from longi capitis and colli, and recti anteriores, by retro-pharyngeal areolar tissue. Related laterally to styloid process and its muscles; common, ext., and int. carotid, sup. thyreoid, asc. pharyngeal, lingual, ext. maxillary, asc. palatine and tonsillar arteries; lingual, glosso-pharyngeal, int. and ext. laryngeal nerves, pharyngeal branches of vagus and sympathetic ; posterior belly of digastric, pterygoideus internus. Walls of pharynx consist of : (1) bucco-pharyngeal fascia, in and under which are pharyngeal plexuses of veins and nerves ; (2) con- strictors and pharyngo-palatinus, stylo-pharyngeus, salpingo-pharyn- geus ; (3) pharyngeal aponeurosis ; (4) mucous membrane, in which are many mucous glands and much lymphoid tissue, a special aggre- gation of which, called pharyngeal tonsil, is situated at roof of pharynx. Arteries to Pharynx.—-Asc. pharyngeal, asc. palatine, tonsillar, post, palatine, dorsalis linguae, pharyngeal and art. of pterygoid canal from int. maxillary. Lymphatics end in retro-pharyngeal and deep cervical glands. Nerves : pharyngeal plexus ; int. laryngeal to back of larynx ; pharyngeal branch from spheno-palatine ganglion to roof of pharynx.