277 BRANCHES OF SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY Inferior thyreoid artery (see also p. 211) runs up- wards to level of cricoid, and then medially, behind carotid sheath, anterior to vertebral artery, to reach thyreoid gland ; and turns downwards to its lower end to divide into inferior and ascending terminal branches. Branches.—(a) Ascending cervical runs upwards on transverse processes, between origins of longus capitis and scalenus ant. ; supplies these and sends spinal branches in through intervertebral foramina. (b) Inferior laryngeal accompanies inferior laryngeal nerve, under lower border of inf. constrictor, into larynx, (c) Muscular branches to adjacent muscles. (J) Tracheal, oesophageal and terminal glandular (thyreoid) branches. A. transversa scapulae (transverse scapular, supra- scapular) runs laterally and dorsally across root of neck, deep to sterno-mastoid, clavicle and trapezius, superficial to scalenus anterior, phrenic nerve, 3rd part of subclavian artery and brachial plexus, to reach the upper border of scapula, where it crosses transverse lig., enters supra-spinous fossa, gives off a branch there, and descends through great scapular notch to end in infra-spinous fossa. See also p. 205. A. transversa colli (transverse cervical) runs laterally, dorsally and upwards, deep to sterno-mastoid and omo-hvoid, superficial to scalenus anterior, phrenic nerve and trunks of brachial plexus, to reach anterior border of levator scapula?, where it divides into ascending and descending rami (see also p. 205). R. ascendens (superficial cervical) crosses levator scapula? and splenius, and ramifies on deep surface of trapezius. R. descendens (posterior scapular) (may arise from 3rd part of subclavian) descends along vertebral border of scapula, deep to levator and rhomboids, and anastomoses with other scapular arteries and with intercostals. Internal mammary artery arises at medial border of scalenus anterior ; runs downwards, forwards, and medially to 1st costal cartilage ; then vertically behind costal cartilages, i inch from side of sternum ; ends opposite 6th intercostal space by dividing into superior epigastric and musculo- phrenic. Relations. In neck: Anterior-, int. jugular and origin of innominate vein ; clavicle. Phrenic nerve crosses it obliquely, latero-medially, before it enters thorax. Posterior-, pleura. In thorax: Anterior-, costal cartilages, internal intercostal muscles ; intercost, nerves. Posterior: transversus thoracis (triangularis sterni) ; pleura. On each side : vena comitans.