ARTICULATIONS OF INFERIOR EXTREMITY 113 nerve. Posterior : Sciatic, posterior cutaneous (small sciatic), inferior gluteal nerves ami inf. gluteal (sciatic) vessels are separated from joint by obturator interims and gemelli, but the nerve to obt. internus, and pudendal (pudic) vessels and nerve, in relation to ischial spine, are ii inches medial to the joint. Gluteus maximus covers all these, and covers quadratus femoris as well. Anterior: Upper part of tensor fascia; latre is separated by rectus and anterior part of gluteus minimus. Sartorius is separated from joint by rectus femoris, which it crosses, and by iliacus, which it overlaps. Femoral nerve (ant. crural), lying between iliacus and psoas, is separated by fibres of iliacus ; femoral art. and lumbo-inguinal nerve (crural of genito-crural) are separated by psoas ; femoral vein is separated by contiguous margins of psoas and pectineus. Infertor: Obturator nerve, emerging from pelvis, is about A inch medial to lower aspect. Movements. -Every possible movement, but less extensive in range than in shoulder-joint, as articular cavity is much deeper and ligaments are stronger and not so lax. Flexion, produced by uio-psoas, rectus femoris, sartorius, pectineus, obturator externus, adductor longus and brevis, and pubic part of adductor magnus, anterior parts of gluteus medius and minimus ; checked by contact of thigh and abdomen when knee is bent, by tension of hamstrings when knee is extended. Extension, produced by glut eus maximus, hamstrings, ischial part of adductor magnus, anil by gravity : checked by ilio-femoral ligament. Extension is complete when limb is in straight line wi'h trunk. In erect posture .1 line dropped from centre of gravity falls behind line joining centres of hip-joints. 1 runk tends, there- fore, to roll backwards, and is prevented by tension of ilio- femoral lig. Abduction, produced by gluteus minimus, medius, upper part of maximus, tensor fascia/ lata;, sartorius, and obturator externus, and, when limb is flexed, by piriformis and obturator internus ; checked by pubo-capsular and medial part of ilio femoral ligament. Adduction, produced by the adductors, pectineus, gracilis, quadratus femoris, lower part of gluteus maximus; checked by i contact with other limb, but, if thigh is flexed, by lateral part of ilio femoral ligament. Circumduction is a combination of above movements. Lateral rotation, much stronger than medial rotation, produced by glut.vus maximus, posterior parts of medius and minimus, both obturators and gemelli, piriformis, quadratus femoris, sartorius, pectineus, adductors longus, brevis, magnus, and, when thigh is flexed, by psoas; checked by iliofemoral lig., especially lateral part. Medial rotation, by ant’, parts of gluteus minimus and medius, tensor fascia; late, and, during process of flexion, by ilio-psoas ; checked by ischio-capsular lig. and tension of opposing muscles. S