i6 OSTEOLOGY coccygeal, concave anteriorly. Sacro-vertebral angle is the projection where lumbar curve passes into sacro-coccygeal, at lumbo-sacral joint. Thoracic and sacro coccygeal curves are present in foetus and are called primary. 'They are due to shape of bodies. Cervical curve results from elevation and extension of head in infancy ; lumbar, from assumption of erect attitude, when child begins to walk. These two are called secondary or compensatory. They are due chiefly to shape of fibro-cartilages. Cervical curve can always be undone by flexing neck ; lumbar curve cannot be undone in adults. Lumbar curve is more pronounced in female than male. Curves of spines are not repetitions of these, owing to differences in length and obliquity. In mid-thoracic region, the tips of spines are considerably below level of bodies of corresponding vertebrae. Intervertebral foramina increase in size down to 5th lumbar. In sacrum, they diminish from above downwards. In cervical region, the transverse processes are ventral to articular processes, and in line with intervertebral foramina ; in thoracic region, they are dorsal to both ; in lumbar region, they are dorsal to foramina, but rather ventral to articular processes. Viewed from the Front. Bodies increase in breadth from 2 C. to 1 th. ; diminish from 1 th. to 4 TH. Increase from 4 TH. to 1st sacral, below which there is rapid reduction. Sometimes there is slight lateral curvature in thoracic region, convex usually to right, owing either to greater use of right arm or to pressure of descending aorta. Above and below, there are slight compensatory curves in opposite direction. Transverse processes of atlas are wide and outstanding ; those of next 5 are short and nearly equal in length ; those of 7th are long, nearly as long as 1st thoracic. They gradually diminish down to 12th thoracic, where they are represented by tubercles. They are outstanding again in lumbar region, third being longest usually. Column is widest at base of sacrum. Below this diminution is gradual at first, abruptly increased at 3rd piece of sacrum, and greatly accentuated opposite 5th. Ossification of Vertebrae Typical Vertebra.— 3 primary centres. 1 for body appears first in lower thoracic region, about 10th week. Process spreadsupand down,and by 5th month centres have appeared