'45 WRIST, HAND AND DIGITS Fossa cubitalis (antecubital fossa) is a triangular hollow on anterior aspect of elbow. Ease : imaginary line between epicondyles. Lateral boundary: brachio-radialis. Medial boundary : pronator teres. Apex: where these muscles cross. Roof: (i) skin ; (2) super- ficial fascia containing median basilic and median cephalic veins, lateral cutaneous and volar branch of medial cutaneous nerves of fore- arm (cutaneous branch of musculo-cutaneous and ant. branch of int. cutaneous); (3) deep fascia, which includes lacertus fibrosus (bicipital fascia), and is pierced by profunda vein. Floor : brachialis proximally and medially, supinator (brevis) distally and laterally. Contents : brachial, radial and ulnar arteries and their vena; comites ; median nerve ; tendon of biceps ; fat. Tendon of biceps lies laterally, and leaves the space by passing dorsally between muscles of floor. Median nerve lies medially, and leaves between heads of pronator teres. Brachial artery lies between tendon and nerve, and ends opposite neck of radius by dividing into radial and ulnar. Ulnar artery passes under cover of pronator teres. Radial artery runs to apex to be overlapped by brachio-radialis. When boundaries are pulled apart, other structures, not properly within the fossa, come into view. Radial nerve (musculo-spiral) is seen deeply, between brachialis and ext. carpi radialis longus, dividing, just proximal to elbow-joint, into its superficial (O.T. radial) and deep (O.T. post, interosseous) branches, which descend on capsule of joint, anterior to capitulum of humerus. The superficial branch passes distally under cover of brachio-radialis ; the deep branch supplies ext. carpi radialis brevis and supinator (brevis), and then sinks into supinator. Recurrent branch of radial artery ascends upon supinator, between the branches of radial nerve, to anastomose with anterior branch of profunda, which accompanies radial (musculo-spiral) nerve. On ulnar side, the volar (anterior) ulnar recurrent artery ascends upon brachialis, under cover of pronator teres, to anastomose with anterior branch of inferior ulnar collateral (anastomotica). Wrist, Hand and Digits Surface Anatomy.—Thenar eminence is the ball of the thumb, and is produced by three of the short muscles of the thumb. Hypo- thenar eminence is the ball of the little finger, and is produced by its three short muscles. Between and distal to the eminences is the hollow of the palm. I'he knob at proximal end of hypo- thenar eminence is the pisiform ; the tendon descending to it is the flexor carpi ulnaris. Hook of os hamatum (unciform) can be felt, by deep pressure, distal to pisiform, and more to the radial side. Two tendons descending about middle of wrist are flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longais : palmaris is the medial of the two and may be absent. I'he tendon which can be felt and may rise into view on the ulnar side of palmaris, when fingers and wrist are 10