298 BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM Relations.—In root of lung, upper vein is below and anterior to artery ; lower vein is below bronchus. On right side, upper vein passes posterior to‘superior v. cava ; lower vein is posterior to right atrium. On left side both are anterior to descending aorta, upper being separated from it by bronchus. SYSTEMIC VEINS Deep veins accompany arteries (vena; comites). Large arteries have only one accompanying vein ; medium and small arteries have usually two. Superficial veins lie in superficial fascia, anastomose with one another, communicate with deep veins and, after piercing deep fascia, end in deep veins. They may or may not accompany superficial arteries. Visceral veins accompany visceral arteries, usually one to each. Excepting those which form portal system, they end in deep veins. Veins of the Heart Coronary sinus receives most of veins of heart. Lies at lower border of base of heart in groove between left atrium and ventricle, covered superficially by some fibres of atrium and by serous pericardium ; in relation with circumflex branch of left coronary art. Ends in lower part of right atrium, between auriculo - ventricular and inf. caval openings, and is guarded by an incompetent unicuspid valve. Tributaries.—(1) Great cardiac vein, begins at apex of heart, accompanies firstly the ant. branch, and next the circumflex branch of left coronary, and ends in left end of sinus. (2) Small cardiac vein, begins at inf. margin of right ventricle and runs to the left in atrio-ventricular groove to end in sinus near right end. (3) Middle cardiac vein, begins at apex, runs posteriorly in inf. inter- ventricular sulcus to terminate in sinus near right end. (4) V. obliqua atrii sinistri (Marshall) (oblique cardiac vein) descends obliquely over post, surface of atrium, from in front of left pulmonary v., ends in middle of sinus ; it represents part of embryonic left superior v. cava. (5) Small unnamed tributaries from surface of heart. Veins of Heart not ending in Coronary Sinus.—(1) Anterior cardiac veins, from sterno-costal surface of right ventricle, open directly into right atrium. (2) Vence cordis minima;, from substance of heart, open directly into cavities, chiefly into atria.