497 DERIVATIVES OF MESODERM stage between the two inner sacs of zygote (or that is replaced by meso- derm derived from proliferation of cells of the primitive streak). In embryonic area, mesoderm is absent in median plane where notochord is formed (unless notochord is regarded as mesodermal in origin), and it is absent, in front of notochord, from a small area which after- wards becomes bucco-pharyngeal membrane. Mesoderm along anterior end of embryonic area, just in front of bucco-pharyngeal membrane, afterwards forms mesodermal wall of pericardial cavity, and is called pericardial mesoderm. Since the cephalic fold is formed as a fold drawn forwards over and beyond the margin of the embryonic area, it follows that its ventral wall is formed from the more anterior part of the area involved in the fold, and that the surface of the ventral wall which now looks dorsallv into the cavity of the fore-gut looked originally ventrally into the cavity of the entodermal sac, while the present posterior end of ventral wall lay in the ant. part of embryonic area, in front of the region now forming . ant. part of fold. Pericardial mesoderm, which lies in anterior extremity of the area, is also overturned ; its surfaces and borders are reversed by the folding; and the bucco-pharyngeal area, at first posterior to it, is now anterior to it. Mesoderm in embryonic area is at first a single layer. Its medial part becomes thickened, along each side of neural groove and tube, to l form longitudinal bars, called paraxial mesoderm. A cleft, called ' the embryonic coelom, appears in its lateral part and extends out i to become continuous with extra-embryonic coelom, and it divides the ! lateral part into a dorsal or somatic layer, and a ventral or splanchnic layer, continuous with corresponding layers of extra - embryonic i mesoderm. The somatic layer lines the embryonic ectoderm, and from it are i formed : (i) parietal pleura, pericardium and peritoneum, (2) ventro- 1 lateral walls of body, and (3) the limbs. Splanchnic layer covers primitive alimentary canal, and from it are formed visceral pleura, pericardium and peritoneum, connective ! tissues and muscles of alimentary canal, spleen, heart and great blood- vessels. Muscles of mastication and facial muscles are said to be formed from lateral parts in head region. Between the lateral embryonic mesoderm and the paraxial mesoderm : there is, on each side, a thin uncleft streak of mesoderm—the inter- i mediate cell area. It is the rudiment of genito-urinary system. 1 It separates from the paraxial mesoderm ; enlarges to form an elongated body, called Wolffian body or primitive kidney, lying in dorsal angle of coelom. Wolffian duct and tubules and Mullerian duct are developed in connection with it. After 2nd foetal month the Wolffian body degenerates and is replaced by permanent kidney, which is formed in same mesodermal strand, dorsal to caudal end of W. body. Except in head region, the paraxial bars of mesoderm are cleft into cubical masses, called proto-vertebral somites. 32