ANTERIOR RAMI OF CERVICAL NERVES 367 PLEXUS BRACHIALIS Brachial plexus lies (1) in lower part of posterior triangle, (2) behind clavicle, and (3) in axilla. It is formed by lower four cervical nerves and greater part of 1st thoracic. 4th cervical sends branch to join 5th, and 2nd thoracic sends branch to join 1st. 5th and 6th unite to form upper trunk ; 7th forms middle trunk ; 8th and 1st thoracic unite to form lower trunk. Trunks each divide, behind and below clavicle, into ventral and dorsal divisions. Ventral divisions of upper and middle trunks unite to form lateral cord. Ventral division of lower trunk forms medial cord. All three dorsal divisions unite to form posterior cord, (ist TH. gives no fibres to dorsal divi- sions, or very few.) Cords arrange themselves, according to name, around 2nd part of axillary artery ; break up into named nerves at junction of 2nd and 3rd parts, opposite tip of coracoid and lower or lateral border of pectoralis minor. Branches of Supra-clavicular Part I. Communicat- ing : grey rami communicantes from middle cervical ganglion to 5th .and 6th ; from inferior ganglion to 7th and 8th ; from ist thoracic ganglion to 1st thoracic nerve. 11. Muscular.—(A] Anterior : root of phrenic from 5th ; scalenus anterior (5th, 6th); longus colli and intertrans- verse (5th, 6th, 7th, 8th). Nerve to subclavius springs from union of 5th and 6th ; descends in front of brachial trunks and subclavian vessels, to end in subclavius. (B) Posterior. — Scalenus medius and posterior (5th, 6th, 7th). N. dorsalis scapulae springs from 5th, traverses scalenus medius, descends along vertebral border of scapula, under cover of levator scapulae, rhomboideus minor and major, supplying all three. Long thoracic nerve springs from 5th, 6th, 7th. Roots from 5th and 6th pierce scalenus medius, root from 7th passes in front of it, joining others to form one stem, which enters axilla and descends over axillary surface of serratus anterior, supplying it—fibres from 5th to upper part, from 6th to middle, from 7th to lower part. Suprascapular n. springs from junction of 5th and 6th. Runs laterally and backwards across scalenus medius, above brachial trunks ; joins transverse scapular artery. Enters supraspinous fossa below superior transverse lig. of scapula ; divides into supraspinous branch, which supplies supraspinatus and shoulder-joint, and in/raspinous branch,