'54 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE them, and at ulnar side it is tucked in for a variable distance between the subliinis and profundus groups. Radial artery, at wrist, leaves distal end of radius and, accom- panied by vente comites, runs distally and dorsally to proximal end of ist inter-metacarpal space, where it dips between the heads of ist dorsal interosseous muscle, turns medially, enters palm between heads of adductor poll ids and becomes deep volar arch. It lies on distal end of radius, superficially ; then upon radial col- lateral lig. of wrist, under cover of abductor pollicis longus and ext. poll, brevis ; then upon navicular and multangulum majus, where it may again be felt pulsating, in the hollow on radial side of wrist; then upon base of ist metacarpal ; and it is crossed, before it disappears, by ext. poll, longus, and superficial branches of radial nerve ; and before it appears in palm the ulnar head of ist dorsal interosseous, ist palmar interosseous and 2nd metacarpal are dorsal to it, and adductor pollicis is superficial. Branches of Radial Artery.—Volar radial carpal, superficial volar, given off at distal end of radius ; dorsales pollicis, dorsalis indicis, dorsal radial carpal, given off on wrist ; princeps pollicis, radialis indicis, given off between ist dorsal interosseous and adductor ; (besides radial recurrent, given off at elbow, and unnamed muscular branches given off during its course through forearm). Volar radial carpal artery runs medially on distal end of radius, under cover of flexor tendons, and joins similar branch of ulnar to form volar carpal arch. Superficial volar artery runs across wrist-joint and over or through thenar muscles near their origins, supplying them, and often ends by completing superficial volar arch. Dorsales pollicis arteries run along ist metacarpal to opposite sides of thumb. Dorsalis indicis artery runs distally upon 1st dorsal interosseous and along radial side of dorsum of forefinger. Dorsal radial carpal artery runs medially upon distal row of carpus deep to extensor tendons and joins similar branch of ulnar to form dorsal carpal arch, from which dorsal metacarpal arteries (dorsal interosseous) run distally upon interosseous muscles in 2nd, 3rd, 4th inter-nietacarpal spaces, and end in small dorsal digital arteries for dorsum of ist phalanges. At proximal ends of metacarpal spaces they are joined by proximal perforating arteries, which have come through the spaces from deep volar arch ; and near distal ends they send distal perforating arteries to join common volar digital arteries. Princeps pollicis artery runs laterally and distally, dorsal to oblique part of adductor pollicis and to flex. poll, longus; appears between adductor and flexor brevis ; divides into two branches which run distally, one on each side of flexor longus pollicis. Radialis indicis . artery runs distally between transverse head of adductor and 1st dorsal interosseous, and along radial side of index with digital nerve. Deep volar arch (deep palmar arch), the continuation of radial artery, extends from interval between transverse and oblique heads of