128 MUSCLES AND FASCI/E muscles. First digitation arises from both 1st and 2nd ribs. Insertion (fl.-tend.): 1st digitation into ventral surface of medial angle of scapula ; 2nd, 3rd, 4th into strip on ventral aspect of vertebral margin ; 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th converge upon ventral surface of inferior angle. Nerve : c. 5, 6, 7, through long thoracic (Hell). It draws scapula forwards, in pushing and in blow from shoulder; after arm has been flexed, i.e. when directed horizontally forwards, the serratus rotates scapula so that arm is directed upwards ; and it steadies scapula while trapezius is rotating scapula to direct arm upwards, after it has been abducted to the horizontal. Elevates middle ribs when scapula is fixed. MUSCLES CONNECTING SHOULDER GIRDLE WITH HUMERUS Deltoid surrounds shoulder superficially. Origin (fl.- tend.) corresponds to insertion of trapezius : anterior border of lateral ^ of clavicle, lateral margin of acromion, lower lip of crest of spine of scapula. Insertion (tend.) : deltoid tuberosity on middle of lateral surface of humerus. Nerve : C. 5, 6, through axillary (circumflex). It moves arm to a right angle with trunk. Whole muscle abducts ; anterior fibres flex and rotate medially ; posterior fibres extend and rotate laterally. Structures covered by Deltoid. — Anteriorly : Coracoid process, coraco - clavicular ligament, insertion of pectoralis minor; origin of short head of biceps and coraco-brachialis, which separate it from subscapularis ; long head of biceps, insertion of pectoralis major. Laterally : Coraco-acromial ligament; a large bursa which separates it from greater tubercle (tuberosity) and tendons of supra- and infra- spinatus ; surgical neck and proximal part of shaft of humerus, on which lie posterior circumflex vessels and axillary (circumflex) nerve. Posteriorly : Infraspinatus, teres minor and major, quadrilateral space and its contents, long and lateral heads of triceps. It is nowhere in contact with capsule of shoulder-joint, but is separated from it by subacromial bursa and the muscles attached to tubercles (tuberosities) and coracoid process. Supraspinatus lies in supra-spinous fossa and on top of capsule of shoulder, under cover of trapezius, coraco-acromial arch and deltoid. Origin (fl.) : supra-spinous fossa, except