ORGANS OF THE SENSES 406 chorio-capillaris contains a meshwork of capillaries. (4) Lamina basalt's, transparent, in contact with pigment layer of retina. ( Tapetum is name given to an additional layer found in some animals. It produces the brilliant iridescent appearance seen in chorioid.) Corpus ciliare connects chorioid with iris. Consists of ciliary processes internally, ciliary muscle externally. Processus ciliares resemble chorioid in structure ; consist of about 70 folds radially arranged to form a ring ; central end of each, free and rounded, lies behind periphery of iris. Musculus ciliaris lies deep to anterior part of sclera. Triangular in antero - posterior section. Consists of radial or meridional fibres and circular fibres. Fibres meridionales arise from corneo-scleral junction and lig. pectinatum iridis, radiate backwards and inwards to ciliary processes and chorioid. Fibres circulates form a ring, internal to radial fibres, at periphery of iris ; well developed in hyper-metropic eyes, poorly developed in myopia. Nerve supply of ciliary muscle is from oculo- motor, through ciliary branches of ciliary.ganglion. It draws chorioid forwards and slackens suspensory ligament of lens, so that lens can become more convex, in accommodating for near vision. Iris.—Contractile, perforated. Circular curtain, posterior to cornea, anterior to lens. Peripheral margin is continuous with ciliary body ; free margin forms circumference of pupil, and rests against lens. Consists of non-striped muscle, pigmented connective tissue, vessels and nerves; covered anteriorly by endothelium, posteriorly by 2 layers of columnar pigmented cells, continuous with stratum pigmenti and pars ciliaris of retina. In blue eyes, pigment is limited to these layers ; in dark eyes it is scattered through iris. Arteries are from long and anterior ciliary. Muscles : Sphincter pupillce, arranged round pupil ; diminishes pupil by contraction ; supplied by oculo-motor, through short ciliary nerves. Dilatator pupillce radiates from sphincter to periphery of iris ; enlarges pupil by contraction ; supplied by sympathetic, through short ciliary nerves. Retina.—Stratum pigmenti externally, attached to chorioid, and continued onwards, over ciliary body, to iris. Nervous stratum, or retina proper, internally, in contact with vitreous. Consists of (1) pars optica retines, which contains nervous elements and ends behind ciliary body in wavy border, called ora serrata ; (2) pars ciliaris retina, a thin layer of columnar cells continued from ora serrata, over ciliary body, to iris. Macula lutea is a small yellowish spot, on retina, at posterior pole of eyeball ; its central part is depressed and called fovea centralis. The whitish porus opticus (optic disc), where optic nerve enters and spreads out into retina, is 1 mm. below and 3 mm. to nasal side of posterior pole ; its circumference is raised up—papilla n. optici— and its centre is depressed—excavatio papillce n. op. (optic cup). The porus is the “ blind spot ” of the eye. Blood Vessels. — Arteria centralis retinas and its vein pierce