MUSCLES AND FASCIA'. 204 Rectus Capitis Anterior (Rect. cap. ant. minor) lies behind and lateral to longus capitis. Origin (tl.-tend.): ant. surface of lateral mass of atlas. Insertion (fl.-tend.) lower surface of basi-occiput, anterior to condyle. Nerve : ant. ramus of c. r. Flexes head. POSTERIOR TRIANGLE OF NECK Boundaries.—Posterior : anterior border of trapezius. Anterior: posterior border of sterno-mastoid. Base : middle third of clavicle. Roof: deep cervical fascia, pierced at post, border of sterno- mastoid by ext. jugular vein and some of the superficial branches of cervical plexus, and, here and there, by lymphatics and cutaneous branches of occipital and transverse cervical and scapular vessels. Platysma covers lower part of roof, and, under platysma, supra- clavicular nerves lie on it after piercing, and ext. jugular vein for short distance, close to sterno-mastoid, before piercing. The triangle is crossed, after dissection, by posterior belly of omo-hyoid, which extends from postero-inferior angle forwards and upwards, and divides it into larger occipital triangle above, small subclavian triangle below :— Occipital Triangle.—Floor : Splenius capitis, levator scapulae, scalenus medius and posterior, from above downwards. Occasion- ally semispinalis capitis (complexus) appears in floor, at apex. Contents : occipital art. crosses apex. (Spinal) accessory n. and branches to trapezius from 3rd and 4th cervical nerves cross back- wards and downwards, about middle of space, to reach trapezius. Branches from C. 3, 4 run across scalenus medius to levator scapula. Superficial cervical nerves are found above middle of post, border of sterno-mastoid ; upper roots and trunks of brachial plexus at lower and medial angle. Transverse cervical art. and vein cross just above omo-hyoid. Lymph glands, areolar tissue, fat. Subclavian Triangle.—Floor-, scalenus medius and posterior, 1st rib, and 1st digitation of serratus anterior (magnus), especially on right side. Contents : subclavian art. ; brachial nerve trunks posterior to artery and above it, subclavian vein below it, behind clavicle. Transverse scapular art. (supra-scapular) passes laterally, on anterior aspect of subclavian art., posterior to clavicle ; nerve to subclavius descends vertically, anterior to subclavian art.; ext. jugular vein and its tributaries — transverse cervical and scapular, and ant. jugular veins—form plexus, also anterior to it. Transverse cervical art. may cross upper medial angle of space, before entering occipital triangle. Lymph glands, areolar tissue and fat. Relations in Posterior Triangle of Neck Third part of subclavian artery begins at lateral margin of scalenus anterior ; passes downwards and laterally, and ends at outer