384 NEUROLOGY Sensory Nuclei.—Portio major reaches pons at its junction with brachium pontis (middle cerebellar peduncle), and nearer its upper border than lower. It sinks dorsalwards for inch, and its fibres divide into short superior and long inferior branches. Superior branches end at once in a nucleus placed half-way up tegmentum of pons, just ventral to submerged edge of brachium conjunctivum (sup. cer. ped.). Inferior branches form tractus spinalis (spinal root of V.), which descends through pons, w’ith vestibular nerve and restiform body on its lateral side, and emerging trunk and nucleus of facial on medial side. Entering medulla oblongata, it lies nearer surface, on ventral aspect of restiform body, and is traversed, and broken up into bundles, by cerebello-olivary fibres and vago-glosso- pharyngeal roots, and is crossed superficially by cerebello-spinal fasciculus (direct cerebellar tract). Finally it comes quite to surface and extends, on ventral side of funiculus cuneatus, as far as level of 2nd cervical nerve. The fibres end in a nucleus which is applied to its inner surface throughout, and is continuous below with substantia gclatinosa Rolandi of spinal medulla. Motor Nuclei.—(1) A nucleus placed close to medial side of upper sensory nucleus. (2) Cells in lateral part of grey matter of aquaeductus cerebri (Sylvii); fibres from these cells (possibly sensory) form descend- ing (mesencephalic) root, which enters pons, runs down along medial side of brachium conjunctivum, and joins fibres from pontine nucleus, and passes out with portio major. Communications : Nuclei : fibres of opposite pyramidal tract to motor nuclei, from sensory nuclei to opposite lemniscus ; from its sensory to its motor nuclei, constituting a short reflex. Connections with nuclei of other nerves. Fibres : from tractus spinalis to nucleus of facial. Portio major, traced from pons, passes upwards, anteriorly and laterally, crosses upper border of petrous temporal, near apex, below attached margin of tentorium and sup. petrosal sinus, and enters concave border of semilunar ganglion. Portio minor accompanies major, on its medial side and then below it. It passes anteriorly and downwards below semi- lunar ganglion and mandibular nerve, which it joins just after its exit through foramen ovale. Semilunar ganglion (Gasserian) lies in a cavity between layers of dura mater on trigeminal impression, near apex of petrous, and on cartilage filling foramen lacerum. Portio minor (motor root of V.) and greater superficial petrosal nerves are below it. Cavernous sinus and carotid artery are medial to it. Gyrus hippocampi is above it. Portio major (sensory root of V.) leaves its concave postero-superior margin. Ophthalmic, maxillary and mandibular nerves