DIGESTIVE APPARATUS 462 I right of gall-bladder, above inferior border of liver, is colic impression, for right colic flexure. Above and posterior to that is renal impression. To left side of lower part of renal impression is duodenal impression for upper end of 2nd part of duodenum. Porta hepatis (portal fissure) is a deep, wide cleft connecting upper ends of fosste for umbilical vein and gall-bladder. Bounded above by processus caudatus, below by quadrate lobe. Lesser omentum is attached to its margins. It transmits hepatic duct, branches of hepatic art. and of vena portae, in that order from before backwards ; and lymphatics and nerves as well. Posterior surface is triangular ; irregular in contour, and concave from right to left, owing to the forward projection ot bodies of vertebrae. Areas belonging to right and left lobes are separated by fossa ductus venosi, a deep fissure, con- tinuous with left end of porta hepatis. It lodges fibrous remains of ductus venosus, and lesser omentum is attached to its bottom. To left of fossa are the attachment of left triangular lig., and the cesophageal impression, produced by anterior lip of hiatus cesophageus of diaphragm. To right ot fossa is lobus caudatus (Spigelian lobe), which is bounded on left by fossa ductus venosi, on right by fossa vente cavae, interiorly by porta hepatis, superiorly by left hepatic vein and lig. venosum bending to the right to join v. cava. It lies in relation to crus of diaphragm, which intervenes be- tween it and thoracic aorta, opposite ioth, nth and 12th th. vertebrae. Between it and crus of diaphragm is superior recess of omental bursa (small sac of peritoneum). Lower end of caudate lobe projects into omental bursa, behind lesser omentum. Nipple-like prominence sometimes present on left part of lower end is called processus papillaris, and notch limiting it is produced by contact with cceliac art. Ridge running to right, between v. cava and porta hepatis, is called processus caudatus, and forms upper boundary of foramen epiploicum (Winslow). Fossa venae cavse is abroad deep groove on right of caudate lobe, and may be in form of tunnel. To right of v. cava is a large convex area devoid of peritoneum, in direct contact with diaphragm, and called the ‘‘bare area.” On this area, close to vena cava, is the supra- renal impression, which may extend on to inferior (or visceral) surface also. Coronary and right triangular ligs. are attached to margins of bare area. Inferior surface of liver is separated from right lateral,