CEREBRAL NERVES 381 sphincter urethrae, deep and superficial transverse perineal, ischio-cavernosus, bulbo-cavernosus, and bulb of urethra ; or corresponding parts in female. (3) N. dorsalis penis vel cli/oridis accompanies int. pudendal artery on its lateral side, between fasciae of uro- genital diaphragm, close to pubic arch. It sends a branch, through inferior fascia, to corpus cavernosum penis, and, piercing' inferior fascia itself, A inch below symphysis, it passes on to dorsum of penis or clitoris to reach glans, where it ends. On dorsum it lies lateral to dorsal vessels.’ PLEXUS COCCYGEUS Fifth sacral and coccygeal nerves descend from hiatus sacralis, pierce coccygeus, join and form coccygeal plexus, which is joined by branch from 4th sacral. From the plexus, branches pass dorsally to skin over coccyx and behind anus. See also p. 250. CEREBRAL (CRANIAL) NERVES Olfactory Nerves (1st nerve, special sense) consist of about 20 filaments on each side, which arise in olfactory mucous membrane, pass through lamina cribrosa of ethmoid, and end in olfactory bulb. Optic Nerve (2nd, special sense) begins at chiasma, and is formed by fibres of optic tract of same side and fibres of opposite tract which cross in chiasma. Enters orbit through optic foramen, enclosed in sheath derived from membranes of brain ; passes anteriorly and laterally, pierces sclera and chorioid and retina, 1 mm. below and 3 mm. on nasal side of posterior pole of eyeball, and spreads out on inner surface of retina. Relations.—In cranial cavity.—Int. carotid and ophthalmic arteries are below and lateral to it: olfactory tract is above it. In optic foramen.—Ophthalmic artery is below and lateral to it. In orbit.— It is surrounded by orbital muscles, fascia bulbi (capsule of Tenon), fat, ciliary vessels and nerves. Inferior division of oculo-motor and inf. ophthalmic veins are below it ; naso-ciliary n. crosses latero-medially, above it ; ophthalmic art. and sup. ophthalmic vein also cross, latero-medially, above it, but sometimes below it : ciliary ganglion and abducent nerve are lateral to it. Arteria centralis retina: enters its lower and medial aspect. Connections.—Fibres of optic nerve nearly all arise in retina ,