HIP BONE 67 notch. Medial surface is divided into large, concave fossa iliaca anteriorly, and smaller sacro-pelvic portion posteriorly. Sacro-pelvic portion is divided into three : (1) Iliac tuberosity is the rough upper part. (2) Middle part is the auricular surface for articulation with sacrum ; its posterior end corresponds to post. sup. iliac spine. (3) Lowest part helps to form side wall of pelvis minor. Ridge between iliac fossa and sacro-pelvic portion forms anterior margins of iliac tuberosity and auricular surface, and extends to ilio-pectineal eminence as linea arcuata, which forms the side of superior aperture of pelvis minor. Os Ischium. Upper end is fused with ilium and pubis, and forms rather more than 3 of acetabulum. In sitting posture the body rests on lower end. Tuber ischiadicum (,ischial tuberosity) is the roughness on lower end and on lower part of dorsal surface. Posterior border is continuous with post, border of ilium ; spina ischiadica (ischial spine) projects medially and dorsally from about its middle. Incisura ischiadica major (greater sciatic notch) is on post, borders of ilium and ischium between post. inf. iliac spine and ischial spine. Incisura ischiadica minor (lesser sciatic notch) is between ischial spine and tuberosity. Sciatic notches are converted into foramina by lig. sacro-spinosum and sacro-tuberosum (small and great sacro-sciatic ligs.). Anterior border helps to bound obturate foramen. Lateral border is interrupted by notch lodging obturator externus, between acetabulum and ischial tuber. Dorsal surface supports piriformis, obturator internus, gemelli, and sciatic nerve ; is encroached on by ischial tuber below ; is continuous with dorsum ilii above, the junction being marked by trans- verse ridge or fullness on dorsum of acetabulum. Femoral surface looks towards thigh, and is covered by obturator externus. Pelvic surface is continuous with pelvic surface of ilium, and forms a large part of bony side wall of pelvis minor. Ramus (inferior) ossis ischii projects ventrally and medially from lower end, and joins inf. ramus of pubis to form the “conjoined rami.” In H. \.A. the part of ischium forming acetabulum is called corpus, and part extending from it to lower end, the ramus superior. Os Pubis.—The body is the expanded medial part : inferior ramus runs downwards and laterally from it to meet ramus of ischium ; superior ramus runs upwards and laterally,