34i CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES posterior to Sylvian point. Its course is sinuous, the largest bend curving round arm area. Position on surface is indicated by line drawn from £ inch behind mid - point between nasion and ext. occipital protuberance, downwards and forwards for 3 or 4 in., over surface of head at an angle of 67A0 with median plane (or to a point about 1 inch behind pterion). Parieto-occipital fissure, on medial surface, about ii to 2 inches anterior to occipital pole, between cuneus and' praacuneus. Lower end cuts into calcarine fissure. Upper end appears on lateral surface, between parietal and occipital lobes, and is called lateral parieto-occipital fissure, round which a gyrus, called arcus parieto-occipitalis, is rolled, and whose position is marked by a line drawn laterally from lambda for J inch. Collateral fissure, on tentorial surface, between temporal lobe and gyrus hippocampi (of limbic lobe). Begins near a notch, called rhinal fissure, between the temporal pole and uncus. Runs into occipital lobe to end near occipital pole. Sinks so deeply into brain that it produces the collateral eminence in floor of inferior horn of lateral ventricle. Sulcuscinguli(calloso-marginaI fissure),on medial surface, between marginal gyrus of frontal lobe and gyrus cinguli (callosal gyrus); begins below anterior end of corpus callosum, runs forwards, then upwards, then backwards, parallel to corpus callosum, and \ in. away from it, and near its posterior end turns upwards to cut supero-medial margin, just behind sulcus centralis (so that the two are guides to one another). Subparietal sulcus, a variable sulcus, above and posterior to splenium of corpus callosum, separates prjecuneus of parietal lobe from gyrus cinguli. Sulcus corporis callosi is the slit above corpus callosum. Lobes are dealt with as they are represented on the various surfaces. Lateral Surface ok Hemisphere Frontal Lobe.—Bounded superiorly by supero-medial margin, inferiorly by superciliary margin and part of posterior ramus of fissura lateralis, posteriorly by sulcus centralis Rolandi.