MUSCLES AND FASCIAE 14-8 of insertion of palmaris longus. Base divides, opposite heads of metacarpals, into 4 slips. These are connected by transverse fibres, and between the slips the digital vessels and nerves and the lumbricals are seen. A few superficial fibres of each slip run on to be attached to skin at creases of the finger. Remainder divides into two parts, which diverge and pass dorsally to be attached to transverse meta- carpal ligament. These two diverging parts form an arch beneath which the flexor tendons pass into the fibrous flexor sheath, and their distal edges are continuous with the proximal end of fibrous flexor sheath. The margins of the aponeurosis are connected with the fascia over thenar and hypothenar eminences, and they send septa dorsally to be connected with the fascia covering adductor pollicis, the interossei and deep volar arch (deep palmar arterial arch). These septa divide the palm into three compartments : a lateral, occupied by muscles of the thumb; a medial, occupied by hypo- thenar muscles ; an intermediate, occupied by superficial volar arch and its branches, branches of median nerve, tendons of flexor sublimis and profundus, their sheaths and the lumbricals. Fibrous flexor sheaths are attached to the margins of 1st and 2nd phalanges of each finger, and 1st phalanx of thumb, and to the margins of volar accessory ligaments of the joints of each finger. Together with phalanges and ligaments, each forms a tunnel occupied by flexor tendons and their mucous or synovial sheaths. Each is firm and dense opposite phalanges, but weak opposite joints, in order that movements may not be impeded. Unnecessary names have been devised for these different parts : vaginal digital ligaments for strong parts ; annular ligaments for weak parts; and cruciate ligaments for some intercrossing fibres sometimes found between weak and strong parts. The volar accessory and transverse metacarpal ligaments, mentioned above, are connected with the joints. Volar accessory lig. is a dense fibro-cartilaginous plate, attached firmly to the volar surface base of 1st phalanx, loosely to metacarpal, proximal to its head. Its dorsal surface is in contact with head of metacarpal, and forms part of its socket; its volar or palmar surface is grooved by the passage of flexor tendons ; its margins are connected with the fibrous flexor sheaths and the slips of palmar aponeurosis, with the collateral ligs. of the joint and with the transverse metacarpal lig. Interphalangeal joints have similar volar accessory ligaments. Transverse metacarpal ligament consists of 3 flat bands connecting the margins of the volar accessory ligaments of the meta- carpo-phalangeal joints of the 4 fingers. Digital vessels and nerves and lumbt'ical muscles lie on their palmar surfaces, interosseous muscles on their dorsal surfaces. Short Muscles of Thumb.—There are two groups of these: (A) the abductor pollicis brevis, flexor pollicis brevis, opponens pollicis, which form the thenar eminence and lie on radial side of flexor pollicis