ARTICULATIONS 9 o Connected with capsule laterally ; medial edge of each is thickened and separated from its fellow by small interval filled with fatty areolar tissue. (3) Ligamenta interspinalia are attached to contiguous spines, from base to tip. (4) Liga- mentum supraspinale is attached to tips of spines, along whole length of column. Strongest in neck, where it forms ligamentum mtchce, a triangular sheet between muscles of the two sides of back of neck, attached by its base to external occipital crest, by apex to 7th cervical spine, by anterior margin to the other cervical spines ; posterior margin gives attachment to trapezius, rhomboideus minor and splenius. (5) Ligamenta intertransversaria. very weak, connect trans- verse processes. Between 5th Lumbar Vertebra and Sacrum. — Same joints and ligaments as between two typical vertebra;, with, in addition, the lumbo sacral ligament, a triangular band, covered by psoas major, attached by apex to 5th lumbar transverse process, by base to ala of sacrum, blending with anterior sacro-iliac ligament. Between Sacrum and Coccyx.—Fibro-cartilage and anterior and posterior sacro-coccygeal ligaments connect 5th sacral and 1st coccygeal bodies ; interarticular ligaments connect corresponding cornua : lateral sacro-coccygeal ligaments connect lower lateral angles of sacrum with transverse processes of 1st piece of coccyx. Movements of Vertebral Column. -Limited between any 2 vertebra;; considerable over column as a whole. Flexion is most extensive of all; least in thoracic region. Produced mainly by sterno- mastoid, longus colli, longus capitis (rect. cap. ant. major), scaleni, rectus abdominis, psoas major and minor. Checked by posterior part of fibro-cartilage and all ligaments dorsal to that. Extension is limited ; least in thoracic region. Produced mainly by 4th layer of muscles of back. Checked by ant. longitudinal ligament, fibro- cartilages, and approximation of spines. Lateral flexion is best marked in cervical region, where it is always combined with rotation. Produced by 4th and 5th layers of back muscles and by splenius, scaleni, quadratus lumborum, psoas major. Checked by all ligaments on opposite side, by resistance of ribs and sternum. Circumduction is a combination of above movements. Rotation is best marked in upper thoracic, absent in lumbar region. Produced by sterno- mastoid, scaleni, longus capitis, semispinales, multifidus, rotatores, abdominal muscles. Checked by locking of articular processes, resistance of twisted fibro-cartilages and all the ligaments. Joints between 1st and 2nd Cervical Vertebra;. Articular capsules surround diarthrodial joints between dens (odontoid process) and anterior arch of atlas, and between lateral masses of atlas and superior articular surfaces of 2nd cervical.