328 NEUROLOGY of lower part of 4th ventricle, aiul lateral recess extends laterally over it. At lower border of pons it is embraced by vestibular and cochlear nerves as they separate. It ascends for short distance on lateral part of dorsal surface of pons. Bending sharply backwards, it enters cerebellum, between brachium pontis and brachium conjunctivum, and spreads out fan-wise, over nucleus dentatus, towards vermis. It contains (1) cerebello-olivary fibres; (2) dorsal superficial arcuate fibres from nuclei f. gracilis and cuneati of same side; (3) ext. arcuate fibres from nuclei f. grac. and cun. of opposite side ; (4) fasc. cerebello- spinalis (direct cerebellar) ; (5) a few fibres from vestibular nerve, and others connecting cerebellum with pyramid, lemniscus, roots of motor cerebral nerves, and with nuclei of Deiters and Bechterew. Medial Longitudinal Fasciculus (Posterior Longitudinal Bundle).—Fasciculus anterior proprius of spinal medulla (ant. basis bundle), like f. lateralis proprius, consists of many series of short fibres running up and down to connect grey matter of different segments. As it enters medulla oblongata it lies on medial side of detached head of ant. horn. Above level of decussation it has come to lie dorsal to pyramid, in relation to grey matter of central canal. Here the decussa- tion of lemnisci takes place ventral to it, so that it comes to lie dorsal to the lemniscus (fillet), under grey matter of floor of 4th ventricle, close to median plane ; and it is named medial longitudinal fasciculus. This compact bundle enters pons and maintains this position and relation to grey matter. Entering mesencephalon, it lies on ventral surface of grey matter around aquceductus cerebri (Sylvius), and it ends in nucleus in posterior part of side wall of 3rd ventricle. It is composed of fibres which enter it from nuclei of cerebral (cranial) nerves, divide, run up and down, and leave it to end in nuclei of other cerebral nerves. Some of its fibres come from other sources, but their connections are more doubtful. Areas of Flechsig.—On transverse section each half of upper part of medulla oblongata is seen divided into 3 segments—ventral, lateral and dorsal—by fibres of xii. and of ix. and x. as they pass from their nuclei to the surface. Contents of Ventral Segment.—Substantia reticularis alba, pyramid, arcuate and medial accessory olivary nuclei. Lateral Segment.— Greater part of substantia reticularis grisea, inf. olivary and dorsal accessory olivary nuclei, nucleus lateralis and n. ambiguus. Dorsal Segment.—Restiform body, upper part of nucleus f. cuneati, descend- ing root of vestibular n. and its nucleus, tractus spinalis and solitarius and their nuclei. Substantia reticularis alba and grisea make up that part of medulla oblongata which lies dorsal to pyramid and olive. Roots of hypoglossal nerve pass ventrally between them. Transverse fibres in them are cerebello-olivary and internal arcuate. Longitudinal fibres in alba are lemniscus, medial longitudinal bundle, tecto- spinal tract; in grisea, continuation of f. lateralis proprius, f. antero-