GALL-BLADDER AND BILE DUCT 463 anterior and superior surfaces by distinct margins. Other- wise the surfaces are continuous over obtuse, rounded borders. Liver may be roughly marked out on surface anteriorly by (1) a line drawn from a point 1 in. below and medial to left nipple, to a point A in. below right nipple, dipping to cross median plane at xiphisternal junction ; (2) a line, convex to the right, from ^ in. below right nipple to A in. below lower margin of ribs ; (3) from there a line drawn to cut transpyloric plane in median plane, and then up to starting-point near left nipple. Posteriorly by an oblique line drawn along 12th right rib and continued till it strikes 9th left. From there a line dipping to median plane and rising again to 8th right rib, just below inferior angle of scapula. From there a curved line, convex to right, to lower margin of thorax. Blood-vessels.—Hepatic art. and portal vein convey blood to liver, and hepatic veins remove it. Nerves : Branches from left vagus pass to it, from antero-superior surface of stomach, between layers of lesser omentum. Branches from coeliac plexus accompany hepatic artery. Lymphatics end in hepatic, cceliac, para-cardial glands, and glands lying on left gastric artery, and ant. and post, mediastinal glands. Vesica Fellea (Gall-Bladder).—Bear-shaped. Lies on visceral surface of liver. Large inferior end or fundus projects beyond liver and lies against ant. abdominal wall, opposite angle between lateral edge of right rectus abdominis and lower margin of thorax, and is covered with peritoneum. Ant. surface of gall-bladder is adherent to liver ; post, surface is clothed with peritoneum and lies against beginning ol transverse colon below, and 2nd part of duodenum above. Upper end or neck narrows and forms cystic duct, which runs posteriorly and medially for over an inch, and joins hepatic duct to form bile duct. DuctusHepaticus.—About 1 in. long; is formed in the porta hepatis by union of right and left hepatic ducts from right and left lobes of liver. Ductus Choledochus (Bile Duct).—3 to 4 in. long; begins, either just inside or outside porta hepatis, by union of cystic and hepatic ducts. Descends between layers of lesser omentum, at its right free margin, in front of vena porta;, to the right of hepatic art. Next, behind 1st part of duo- denum, in front of portal vein, to right of gastro-duodenal artery ; lastly, in front of inf. v. cava or right renal vein, on right side of main pancreatico-duodenal vein, in a groove on