'36 MUSCLES ANI) FASCIAE scapular glands ; their efferents pass partly to lower deep cervical glands, and partly into subclavian lymph trunk, which ends in the thoracic or right lymphatic duct, or ends independently in one of the large veins at root of neck. Those which lie on floor and in centre of axilla are sometimes called the central group. Those behind pectoralis minor are called sub-pectoral. Those above pect. minor, along medial side of artery, are called the infra-clavicular group, and front their efferents the subclavian trunk arises. Delto-pectoral glands, 2 or 3, lie between pectoralis major and deltoid, and drain proximal and lateral parts of arm. FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF ARM Superficial fascia of the brachium or arm (O.T. upper arm) contains : (1) small unnamed cutaneous vessels ; (2) cephalic vein, in the groove on lateral side of biceps ; (3) basilic vein, in groove on medial side of biceps as far up as middle of arm, where it pierces deep fascia; (4) medial cutaneous nerve of forearm (int. cutaneous), which pierces deep fascia at middle of arm and lies alongside basilic vein. It gives one or more branches to skin of proximal part of arm before it pierces deep fascia. (5) Medial cutaneous nerve of arm (lesser int. cutaneous), on proximal part of medial side of arm ; (6) intercosto brachial nerve (intercosto- humeral), on medial side of arm still nearer axilla ; (7) posterior cutaneous nerve of arm (int. cutaneous branch of musculo-spiral), passing out of axilla, across intercosto-brachial, to medial side of posterior aspect of arm. (8) Dorsal cutaneous nerve of forearm (upper and lower ext. cutaneous of musculo-spiral), piercing deep fascia near insertion of deltoid, the proximal branch to supply skin on lateral aspect of distal part of arm and the proximal part of back of forearm, the distal to pass to forearm ; (9) lateral cutaneous nerve of arm (cutaneous part of post, division of circumflex), over distal part of deltoid; (10) superficial cubital lymph glands, opposite elbow, near basilic vein, and proximal to medial epicondyle. Deep fascia completely invests arm, and is strengthened by expansions from tendons of latissimus dorsi, pectoralis major, and deltoid. It is continuous proximally with fascia of shoulder and axilla, distally with fascia of forearm, and it is also attached to olecranon and epicondyles. It gives off septa, which separate muscles from each other. Two of these are strong, and are attached to epicondyles and epicondylic ridges :— (1) Medial intermuscular septum, the larger and stronger, gives origin by its anterior surface to brachialis and pronator teres, by its posterior surface to medial head of triceps. It is pierced by ulnar nerve, superior and inferior ulnar collateral vessels (inf. profunda and anastomotica).