BASIS CRAM 11 EXTERNA 43 lateral to tubercle, on anterior margin of for. lacerum. Foramen of Vesalius, often absent, above and latejral to s. aphoid fossa, transmit* vein between cavernous sinus and pterygoid plexus. Processus pyrainidalis ossis palatini, wedged in Between maxilla and pterygoid process, appears in infra-temporal fossa between them; hlls up pterygoid fissure between ptery g„id lamina , and assists them in forming pterygoid fossa. Foramina palatina minora are on its lower surface. Super- fh ml head of pterygoideus internus arises from its lateral surfai e and from tuber maxillare ; deep head Irom it'’ poslei ior surface between pterygoid lamime, and from medial surface of lateral pterygoid lamina._ s. zygomalico - maxillaris, /ygoinatuo temporalis, spheno- souauiosa. Foramina, etc. p\ ovale, at post margin of great wing, near pterygoid pro* ess ; transmits mandibular division of trigeminal n., accessory (small) meningeal art., small veins between cavernous sinus and pterygoid plexus; meningeal lymphatics passing to upper deep * ervic al glands ; lessei stipeili* i.d petrosal nerve, sometimes. /•. s pi nosum, postero- lateral to ovale ; transmits middle meningeal vessels ; ramus spinosus (recurrent branch) of mandibular nerve ; meningeal lymphatic s passing to uppei deep cervical glands. S/nna annularis, postero-lateral to f. spinosum, gives origin to spheno-mandibidar lig. and tensor v. palatini ; < liorda tympani grooves its medial side. Inferior orbital Jis sure, seen between sphenoid and maxilla. Infrartemporal */->/ is at lateral margin of infra-temporal surface. Upper head of ptery goideus exlernus arises from infra temporal < rest and surface, lower head from lateral surfac e of lateral pterygoid lamina. Postero median Area. Bone occipital. Pars hastlaris of on ipital, anterior to for. magnum, marked off from sphenoid by ii regular groove-. 1 ubereulum pharytl^e/////, about its centre, gives attachment to median raphe of pharynx and fibres of sup. constrictor. Impressions (i) for insertion of longus capitis free tus major), antero-laieral to tubercle ; (2) for re* tus cap. anterior (minor), immediately anterior to condyle. Foramen magnum Contents: Spinal medulla (cord), its vessels, its membranes; spinal roots of accessory nerves; vertebral arteries, with plexuses of sympathetic nerves