278 BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM Branches.—(a) Pericardiacophrenic (comes nervi phrenici) accompanies phrenic n. anil supplies pericardium, pleura and diaphragm. (b) Anterior mediastinal, to areolar tissue, thymus and pericardium, (r) Rami intercostales, two to each of upper 6 spaces, pierce int. intercostal and anastomose with superior and aortic intercostals. (d) R. perforantes pierce int. intercostal, ant. intercost, membrane, pectoralis major and its fascia to reach skin. Those in 3rd and 4th spaces send branches to mammary gland. {e) Musculo - phrenic artery passes down between attach- ments of diaphragm to 7th and 8th, or 8th and 9th cartilages, and runs laterally along attachment of diaphragm as far as 10th cartilage. Supplies muscles and sends two branches into each of 7th, 8th, 9th intercostal spaces. (/) Superior epigastric artery descends between xiphoid and costal origins of diaphragm, enters sheath of rectus and ends in substance of rectus. Branches: muscular, cutaneous ; and hepatic, which runs along falciform ligament. Anastomoses with inf. epigastric, arteries accompanying lower intprcostal nerves, hepatic artery. Costo-cervical trunk (superior intercostal) arises from 1st part of subclavian at medial border of scalenus anterior on left side, but from 2nd part of subclavian on right side ; passes upwards and posteriorly over apex of pleura, behind scalenus ant., to neck of 1st rib, where it divides into: (1) A. intercostalis suprema (sup. intercostal), which descends anterior to neck of 1st rib, and ends in two branches distributed, in first two spaces, like aortic inter- costals. (2) A. cervicalis profunda (deep cervical), which runs dorsally between 'neck of rib and 7th cervical transverse process, and upwards between semispinalis cervicis and s. capitis (complexus) to anastomose with descending branch of occipital. Usually 710 branch from 3rd part of subclavian. Axillary artery begins at outer border of 1st rib as con- tinuation of subclavian ; arches laterally and distally through axilla to end at lower border of teres major tendon by be- coming brachial ; but its course varies with position of arm. When arm is abducted to a right angle, artery lies in a line drawn from middle of clavicle to junction of lower border of posterior wall of axilla with arm. Divided into 3 parts. 1st part, from border of rib to upper border of pectoralis minor (exists only when pect. minor is loosened and pulled down by dissection). 2nd part is posterior to pect. minor. 3rd part, from lower border of pect. minor to lower border of teres major, is longer than the other two parts together.