POSTERIOR RAMI OF SPINAL NERVES 363 Lig. denticulatum lies between ant. and post, roots, and, in cervical region, roots of accessory n. also are between them. As each root pierces meninges it gets a close investment from pia mater, a loose sheath from arachnoid as far as dura ; a firm sheath from dura mater. When ganglion is reached the dural sheaths of the two roots unite into one, which is prolonged on to nerve-trunk. Most spinal ganglia and nerve-trunks lie in intervertebral foramina, but those of 1st and 2nd lie above and belot. posterior arch of atlas ; sacral ganglia lie within sacral canal, and coccygeal ganglia within canal of dura mater. Posterior roots are larger than anterior, except in the case of 1st cervical. Laterally, each posterior root divides into two bundles which join bifid medial end of ganglion ; medially, its fibres separate into three groups : (1) lateral, composed of very slender fibres which go to form postero-lateral fasciculus (Lissauer) ; (2) intermediate, which passes into substantia gelatinosa ; (3) medial, which joins fasciculus cuneatus. The part of the gray ramus communicans which travels inwards along anterior ramus of spinal nerve, to enter and be distributed by post, ramus, sends some fibres along post, root to the meninges. The fibres which leave ant. ramus to form white ramus communicans are contained chiefly in ant. root ; those in post, root are probably afferent. RAMI POSTER I ORES Posterior branches (post, primary divisions) of spinal nerves are smaller than anterior branches, except in case of first two nerves. They divide into medial and lateral branches. In upper half of body, medial branches supply muscles and skin, lateral branches supply muscles only. In lower half of body, vice versa. Therefore cutaneous branches emerge into superficial fascia nearer median plane in upper part of trunk than in lower part. Cervical Nerves. — 1st does not divide into medial and lateral branches. It passes dorsally between vertebral artery and posterior arch of atlas, and supplies semispinalis capitis (complexus), recti capitis posteriores, obliqui, superior and inferior, anil communicates with 2nd. Other cervical posterior branches pass dorsally, behind vertebral artery and posterior inter-transverse muscle. 2nd appears below obliquus inferior; its lateral branch receives communicating branches from 1st and 3rd nerves to form posterior cervical plexus, and supplies muscles. Medial branch is large and is named greater occipital n. It extends upwards and medially over sub-occipital triangle, supplying obliquus inferior and semispinalis capitis (com- plexus) ; pierces semispinalis cap. and trapezius, near their attach- ments ; accompanies occipital art., supplying skin of back of seal]'.