CAVITY OF THE MOUTH 441 hyo-glossus, and covers lingual nerve as it enters sub- maxillary region. Frenulum lingua, a fold of mucous membrane in median plane, extending from floor of mouth to under surface of tongue. Caruncula sublingualis, a papilla on each side of frenulum at its attachment to floor ; submaxillary duct (Wharton) opens on it. Plica sublingualis, a ridge running from caruncle laterally and posteriorly, pro- duced by underlying sublingual gland, whose ducts open on the crest of the plica. Lymphatics front floor of mouth end in lingual, sub- maxillary and submental glands ; thence to deep cervical. Hard palate consists of palatine processes of maxilla; and horizontal parts of palatine bones, covered by periosteum, dense fibrous tissue and mucous membrane. Greater palatine art. and nerve run forwards in the fibrous tissue near alveolar margin ; naso-palatine nerves enter it behind incisor teeth. Numerous mucous palatine glands lie in posterior part of submucous tissue. Velum palatinum (Soft palate) projects downwards and backwards, as a movable fold, from hard palate almost to post, wall of pharynx, blending laterally with side walls of pharynx. Structures forming soft palate, passing from pharyngeal to oral surface, are : (i) tnucous membrane ; (2) upper layer of pharyngo- palatinus ; (3) musculus uvula;, near median plane ; (4) levator veli palatini; (5) lower layer of pharyngo-palatinus ; (6) tensor v. palatini and palatine aponeurosis; (7) glosso-palatinus; (8) thick layer of mucous glands ; (9) mucous membrane. Uvula, a median projection from free edge of soft palate, consists of musculus uvula; surrounded by mucous membrane. Arteries of Palate.—Greater palatine, ascending palatine, ascending pharyngeal. Lymphatics end in parotid and deep facial glands, and thence to deep cervical glands. .Verves : Motor, to tensor from otic ganglion ; to others from pharyngeal plexus (ultimately from ac- cessory). Sensory : palatine and naso-palatine branches of spheno- palatine ganglion, glossopharyngeal. Isthmus faucium is the communication between mouth and pharynx. Bounded above by soft palate, below by tongue, on each side by arcus glosso-palatinus (ant. pillar of fauces), a fold of mucous membrane which extends from oral surface of soft palate, near base of uvula, to middle of side of tongue, and encloses glosso-palatinus muscle. Posterior to the arch lies the palatine tonsil.