FEMORAL TRIGONE AND ADDUCTOR CANAL 165 Fossa ovalis (saphenous opening), oval in shape, inches long, h inch wide, situated just below medial end of inguinal lig. (Poupart), is bounded laterally, proximally and distally by a strongly curved, sharp falciform margin, proximal and distal parts of which are called superior and inferior horns. Superior horn lies across femoral vein and femoral (crural) canal, and ends medially by blending with femoral surface of lig. lacunare (Gimbernat). Inferior horn crosses femoral vein and ends in the fascia covering pectineus. A thickened ridge of fascia covering pectineus extends from horn to horn and forms the medial margin of the fossa. Femoral artery lies usually posterior to lateral margin, femoral vein opposite the opening, and saphenous vein turns over the inferior horn into the opening to join femoral vein. Proximal superficial subinguinal lymph glands lie between layers of superficial fascia, parallel to, and just below inguinal lig. They drain back of thigh, lateral side of thigh and buttock, and abdominal wall below the level of umbilicus, penis, scrotum, external female genitals, lower end of vagina, perinamm, anal canal, anus ; and send efferent lymph vessels to deep subinguinal and iliac glands. Distal superficial subinguinal lymph glands lie along proximal end of great saphenous vein, and along medial side of fossa ovalis (saphenous opening). They drain superficial structures of greater part of lower limb ; and send efferents to deep subinguinal and iliac glands. Deep subinguinal lymph glands lie on medial side of proximal end of femoral vein, one occupying femoral (crural) canal. They drain deep parts of thigh and penis ; receive efferents from inguinal and superficial inguinal glands ; and send efferents to iliac glands. Lateral cutaneous nerve of thigh arises from 2nd and 3rd lumbar nerves ; appears at lateral border of psoas major, above iliac crest ; runs to ant. sup. iliac spine across iliacus ; passes posterior to lateral end of inguinal lig. to enter lateral angle of femoral trigone ; leaves it at once by passing superficial or deep to sartorius, or through it ; descends in ridge of deep fascia, pierces it 4 inches distal to ant. sup. spine ; gives a posterior branch to skin of lower part of buttock and adjoining lateral side of thigh, and an anterior branch to skin of lateral part of front of thigh, as far as knee. Genito-femoral nerve (genito-erural) arises from 1st and 2nd lumbar nerves ; pierces psoas major, descends on its anterior surface ; divides at variable point into external spermatic and lumbo-inguinal branches. External spermatic nerve (genital branch of genito- erural) runs down upon termination of ext. iliac artery, enters inguinal canal, supplies cremaster muscle, ends in skin of scrotum or labium majus and adjacent part of thigh. Lumbo-ingruinal nerve (crural branch of genito-erural) enters femoral trigone on lateral side of femoral artery ; pierces deep fascia a little distal to inguinal lig. (Poupart), and supplies skin of proximal part of thigh. IllO-inguinal nerve arises from 1st lumbar nerve ; appears at