MUSCLES AND FASCI/E <34 Muscular branches to prevertebral and scalene muscles ; a root of phrenic from 5th. Dorsal scapular nerve, nerve to subclavius, supra-scapular, and long thoracic nerves. Long thoracic nerve (Bell) is the only one to enter axilla. It arises from 5th, 6th, 7th. Roots from 5 and 6 pierce scalenus medius, root from 7 crosses anterior to it. They pass from scalenus into axilla over upper border of 1st digitation of serratus anterior, between it and 1st part of axillary artery ; combine into one stem, which descends over axillary surface of serratus anterior, supplying it alone. Branches of Cords of Brachial Plexus.—Lateral cord gives off lateral anterior thoracic and divides into musculo-cutaneous and lateral head of median. Medial cord gives off medial anterior thoracic, medial cutaneous nerve of arm (lesser int. cutaneous), medial cutaneous nerve of forearm (int. cutaneous), and divides into ulnar and medial head of median. Posterior cord gives off upper and lower subscapular, thoraco-dorsal (long subscapular), and divides into axillary (circumflex) and radial (musculo-spiral). Note.—The figures inserted in brackets in the following para- graphs refer to the spinal nerves from which the nerve under descrip- tion ultimately derives its fibres. Lateral anterior thoracic nerve (5, 6, 7 c.) arises from lateral cord, runs anteriorly, lateral to 1st part of axillary artery; is connected with medial ant. thoracic by a loop placed anterior to the artery ; pierces costo-coracoid membrane and sinks into upper part of pectoralis major, to supply it. Musculo-cutaneous nerve (5, 6 c.), a terminal branch of lateral cord, runs distally between axillary artery and coraco-brachialis, and leaves axilla by piercing coraco-brachialis, opposite teres major. Nerve to coraco-brachialis, from 7 C. or 6 and 7 C., is incorporated with it, and leaves it before it pierces coraco-brachialis. Median nerve arises from lateral and medial cords. Lateral head (5, 6, 7 c.), a terminal branch of lateral cord, lies on lateral side of axillary artery; medial head (8c., 1 T.), a terminal branch of medial cord, crosses anterior to the artery to join lateral head. Median nerve descends on lateral side of axillary art. between it and coraco-brachialis. It gives no branches in axilla (or in arm). Medial anterior thoracic nerve (8 c., 1 t.) arises from medial cord, passes anteriorly between axillary artery and vein, communicates with lateral anterior thoracic, pierces pectoralis minor, supplying it, and ends in pectoralis major. Medial cutaneous nerve of arm (lesser internal cutaneous) (1 t. ) arises from medial cord, passes posterior to axillary vein to reach its medial side ; descends along its medial side; pierces deep fascia to supply skin of medial side of arm (O.T. upper arm). Medial cutaneous nerve of forearm (internal cutaneous) (8 c., 1 t.) arises from medial cord, anterior to ulnar, and runs distally on anterior surface of axillary artery. It gives off no branches in axilla.