333 MESENCEPHALON OR MID-BRAIN medullary part and an upper pontine part. A A-shaped de- pression, apex of which is upwards and is called inferior fovea, divides lower part into 3 areas by means of two sulci diverging from fovea: (1) trigonum n. hypoglossi, between depression and median groove, overlies nucleus of 12th nerve ; (2) ala cinerea (trigonum vagi), between the sulci, overlies a nucleus of 10th and 9th nerves ; (3) trigonum acustici, between the depression and striae medullares, overlies nucleus of vestibular nerve. Eminentia medialis, a longi- tudinal elevation, alongside median groove in upper half, is continuous with trigonum hypoglossi below, and is most prominent (colliculus facialis) where it overlies nucleus of 6th nerve and ascending part of root of facial nerve. Lateral to it, is a slight depression called fovea superior, and above that, at upper angle, is a dark blue spot, called locus caeruleus. Nucleus of vestibular nerve produces an elevation called area acustica, under stri;e medullares, which extends on to trigonum acustici and to lower part of pontine part of fossa. The part of medulla oblongata forming floor of 4th ventricle is the dorsal surface of its ventral part ; the dorsal part is the ependymal roof of lowest portion of ventricle. The term isthmus rhombencephali s applied to the region en- closing highest part of ventricle ; it comprises chiefly the anterior medullary velum, brachia conjunctiva, upper part of pons. MESENCEPHALON OR MID BRAIN A short stalk, \ inch long, occupies incisura ccrebelli anterior and incisura tentorii ; directed obliquely upwards and forwards ; connects pons and cerebellum with thalami and cerebral hemispheres. Consists of 4 corpora quadri- gemina, and of 2 cerebral peduncles, which are partly joined together and enclose aqueeductus cerebri (Sylvii). Corpora quadrigemina. situated on dorsal surface; separated from one another by crucial groove ; overhung by pineal body, pulvinar of thalamus and splenium of corpus callosum. Sup. pair are lower centres for sight, and are called colliculi superiores ; pineal body lies in groove between them. Brachium quadrigeminum superius is a band of fibres extending laterally from each, between pulvinar and medial geniculate body, to join lateral root of optic tract and the corpus geniculatum laterals —an ill-defined elevation on lateral part of lower surface of pulvinar thalami. Inferior pair are