NEUROLOGY 364 Medial branch of 3rd forms n. occipitalis tertius, which ascends to skin of back of head, after piercing semispinalis capitis and trapezius. Lateral branch supplies muscles. Branches of 4th, 5th, 6th supply skin and muscles of back of neck in typical manner. Both branches of 7th and 8th end in muscles. Thoracic Nerves supply muscles and skin of back ; medial branches of upper six and lateral branches of lower six are cutaneous as well as motor. Before reaching the skin to be supplied, they descend for a distance, increasing from above downwards, till nth supplies skin at iliac crest, and 12th descends into buttock. Lumbar Nerves.—Upper 3 :—medial branches, to muscles of loin ; lateral branches pierce aponeurosis in front of posterior superior iliac spine, and supply skin of buttock as far as greater trochanter. Lower 2 supply muscles only. Lowest communicates with 1st sacral. Sacral Nerves.—Upper 3 :—medial branches, to sacro- lumbalis; lateral branches form loops [posterior sacral plexus) joined by communication from 5th lumbar and 4th sacral. Branches from jjrimary loops form secondary plexus on surface of sacro-tuberous ligament, from which terminal filaments are distributed to sacro- lumbalis, and pierce glutseus maximus to supply skin over back of sacrum and buttock adjoining. Lower 2 do not divide. Coccygeal Nerve does not divide. It forms loops with lower 2 sacral, which supply skin over coccyx. RAMI ANTERIORES Anterior branches (ant. primary divisions) of spinal nerves are larger than posterior, except in case of 1st and 2nd cervical. Distributed to lateral and anterior parts of body and to limbs. CERVICAL NERVES 1st runs anteriorly, lateral to superior articular surface of atlas, medial to vertebral artery and rectus lateralis. Descends in front of transverse process of atlas to join 2nd. Others appear behind vertebral artery, and pass laterally between intertransverse muscles. Cervical give off no white rami communicantes, but each receives a grey first four from sup. cervical ganglion, 5th and 6th from middle, 7th and 8th from inferior.