35i BASAL GANGLIA Transverse fissure is the horse-shoe shaped cleft through which tela chorioidea of 3rd ventricle (velum interpositum) and the chorioid plexuses are introduced into interior. Lateral or lower parts are the chorioidal fissures ; intermediate or upper part is bounded superiorly by splenium of c. callosum and body of fornix, inferiorly by thalami and ependymal roof of 3rd ventricle. BASAL GANGLIA Caudate, lentiform and amygdaloid nuclei, and claustrum. Caudate Nucleus.—An elongated body of grey matter, highly arched, so that it is cut in two places by both horizontal and frontal (coronal) sections. Enlarged convex part in floor of anterior horn is called the head ; narrowing portion in body of ventricle and in inferior horn is called the tail. Superficial surface is covered with ependyma. Deep surface of head lies upon internal capsule, that of tail upon foot-piece of corona radiata. Lamina; of grey matter pass through these to connect it with lentiform nucleus. These lamina; become thicker and more numerous towards head of nucleus until the two nuclei are fused antero-inferiorly. Fused lower part lies imbedded in white substance of gyrus rectus and post, orbital gyrus, and behind that is continuous with anterior perforated substance. Anterior commissure passes laterally below head. In body of ventricle, medial edge of caudate nucleus is separated from thalamus by stria and vena terminalis ; lateral edge is separated from foot-piece of corona radiata by occipito-frontal bundle. In roof of inferior horn it is in contact by its medial edge with stria terminalis, by its lateral edge with free margin of tapetum ; and its tail ends in amygdaloid nucleus. Lentiform Nucleus (Lenticular Nucleus). — Imbedded in white substance of hemisphere, ljj inches long, 1 inch in height, 3 inch in maximum width. Lateral surface, convex, smooth, grooved inferiorly by lenticulo-striate and -optic arteries before they enter its substance; covered by external capsule, beyond which are claustrum and white and grey matter of insula. Medial surface— highly convex or angled ; applied to internal capsule, which separates it from thalamus, head of caudate nucleus and stria terminalis ; maxi- mum convexity or angle lies against genu, opposite stria terminalis ; continuous with head of caudate nucleus antero-inferiorly, and con- nected with both head and tail by grey lamina; which pass through int. capsule and foot-piece of corona radiata. Inferior surface, nearly flat, triangular or bi-convex in outline, does not extend so far as anterior end ; deep groove, which lodges ant. commissure, runs postero-laterally from antero-medial margin, and is restricted to putamen. Optic tract is a little below' posterior part of medial margin. Anterior part of surface is continuous with ant. perforated