CAROTID TRIANGLE 2iy Relations in Carotid Triangle Only a small part of common carotid artery is in triangle. Superficially, it is overlapped by sterno-mastoid ; deseendens hypo- glossi runs downwards on its anterior surface, and artery to sterno- mastoid and superior thyreoid vein cross it, near omo-hyoid. Medial to it are the thyreoid cartilage and inferior constrictor. Posteriorly, it rests on longus capitis (rectus capitis anticus major), sympathetic trunk intervening. Lateral to it is the int. jugular vein ; and vagus nerve is between artery and vein, on a posterior plane. Internal carotid artery, in the triangle, is overlapped by sterno- mastoid, and is enveloped with int. jugular vein and vagus in the carotid sheath. Anteriorly, it is crossed by lingual and common facial veins, hypoglossal nerve and occipital artery, in that order from below upwards. Deseendens hypoglossi runs downwards on its anterior surface, deep to these veins ; parotid gland overlaps it at upper part of triangle. Medial to it are inferior constrictor, ascending pharyngeal art., int. and ext. laryngeal nerves. Posterior to it are longus capitis, sympathetic trunk, and superior laryngeal nerve. Lateral to it is the internal jugular vein ; and the vagus descends between them on a posterior plane. It gives no branches in the triangle. External carotid artery is antero-medial to int. carotid, and gives off five branches in carotid triangle : superior thyreoid, lingual, ext. maxillary (facial), ascending pharyngeal, occipital. Superficially, it is overlapped by sterno-mastoid, and it is crossed by lingual and common facial veins, and hypoglossal nerve. Parotid gland overlaps it at upper part of triangle, and post, facial vein crosses it from behind forwards. l>cep to it are inferior constrictor and external and internal laryngeal nerves. Superior thyreoid artery runs downwards and anteriorly, super ficial to inferior constrictor and ext. laryngeal nerve, and leaves the triangle by passing under cover of ant. telly of omo-hyoid. In the triangle it gives off (t) hyoid branch, which runs along lower border of hyoid bone, under cover of thyreo-hyoid muscle; (2) superior laryngeal branch, which passes under cover of posterior border of thyreo-hyoid muscle, pierces thyreo-hyoid membrane to enter pharynx, in company with int. laryngeal nerve; (3) sterno mastoid branch, which runs along upper border of omo-hyoid, across common carotid and int. jugular, and enters sterno-mastoid muscle. Lingual artery arises opposite lip of greater horn of hyoid bone ; forms a loop above the horn, convex upwards, which lies on middle constrictor, is crossed superficially by hypoglossal nerve, and sends a hyoid branch along upper border of hyoid bone. Lingual artery disappears under cover of hyoglossus muscle. External maxillary artery (facial) leaves the triangle at once by