ANTERIOR ASPECT OF SKULL 37 laterally; medial walls parallel to one another. Aditus orbit® or base : bounded above by supra-orbital margin ; laterally by zygomatic bone (malar) and zygomatic process of frontal; below by zygomatic and maxilla; medially by frontal process of - maxilla and medial angular process of frontal. Apex is the medial end of superior orbital fissure (sphenoidal fissure). Superior wall or roof: orbital plate of frontal anteriorly, small wing of sphenoid posteriorly. Fossa glandules lacrimalis lies under shelter of zygomatic process. Fovea (vel spina) trochlearis, for pulley of obliquus superior, lies above medial angular process. Lateral wall : great wing of sphenoid posteriorly, zygomatic (malar) anteriorly. Inferior wall: maxilla; zygomatic antero-laterally, and orbital process of palatine at post, angle. Medial wall: frontal process of maxilla, lacrimal, lamina papyracea (os planum) of ethmoid, side of body of sphenoid, in that order from before backwards. Sutures : those between the various bones. Foramina, etc. — Between roof and medial wall : fora- men optician, between body of sphenoid and roots of small wing ; transmits optic nerve, ophthalmic artery and sympathetic twigs from carotid plexus. Anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramina, between orbital part of frontal and labyrinth of ethmoid, open into anterior cranial fossa ; transmit ant. and post, ethmoidal vessels and nerves. Between roof and lateral wall : superior orbital fissure (sphenoidal fissure), between body and wings of sphenoid ; transmits ophthalmic veins, upper and lower divisions of oculo motor nerve, trochlear nerve : frontal, naso-ciliary (nasal) and lacrimal branches of ophthalmic division of trigeminal nerve ; abducent nerve ; sympathetic twigs from carotid plexus; recurrent branch to meninges from ophthalmic or lacrimal artery ; and sometimes an orbital branch from middle meningeal artery. Between floor and lateral wall : inferior orbital fissure (spheno- maxillary fissure), bounded by great wing of sphenoid, zygomatic (malar), maxilla, orbital process of palatine ; transmits maxillary division of trigeminal nerve as it becomes infra-orbital nerve, infra-orbital vessels, zygomatic (temporo-malar or orbital) nerve, a vein connecting ophthalmic veins with pterygoid plexus, small twigs from spheno-palatine ganglion to periosteum of orbit.