229 SCALP mainly anterior to auricle ; 4 sensory and 1 motor, mainly posterior to auricle. Anterior to auricle—sensory : supra-trochlear, supra-orbital, zygcmatico-temporal, auriculo-temporal ; motor : temporal branches of facial. Posterior to auricle-—sensory: great auricular, lesser occipital, greater occipital, smallest or third occipital; motor : posterior auricular branch of facial. Supra-trochlear nerve, a terminal of frontal branch of ophthalmic, emerges from orbit, A inch from median plane, turns up- wards, pierces frontalis muscle, and supplies skin of median part of forehead. Supra orbital nerve, a terminal branch of frontal, emerges from orbit through supra-orbital notch, turns upwards, divides into medial and lateral branches, which pierce frontalis and galea aponeurotica, respectively, and supply skin as far back as vertex. Zygomatico - temporal nerve (temporal of temporo-malar). a terminal of zygomatic branch of maxillary nerve, pierces temporal fascia a little posterior to zygomatic (malar) bone, or posterior to zygomatic (ext. angular) process of frontal, and supplies a small area of skin in anterior part of temporal region. Auriculo-temporal nerve, a branch of mandibular nerve (inf. maxillary), ascends over posterior root of zygoma, immediately anterior to auricle, in company with superficial temporal artery ; gives branches to auricle, meatus, and tympanic membrane ; and divides into two branches which supply skin of side of head as far as vertex. Temporal branches of facial nerve emerge from parotid gland, run upwards and anteriorly over zygomatic arch, and supply auricularis anterior and superior, frontalis, corrugator supercilii, and upper part of orbicularis oculi. Great auricular nerve, from anterior branches (anterior primary divisions) of 2nd and 3rd cervical nerves, ascends on sterno-mastoid, pierces deep fascia, gives branches to face and lower part of auricle, and mastoid branches to skin in mastoid region, behind auricle. Lesser occipital nerve, from anterior branch of 2nd cervical, ascends along post, border of sterno-mastoid, and then, on its surface ; pierces deep fascia, and gives branches to upper part of cranial surface of auricle, to skin over mastoid region and lateral part of occipital region. Greater occipital nerve is the medial division of posterior branch (post, primary division) of 2nd cervical nerve. It turns upwards and medially, superficial to sub-occipital triangle, pierces semispinalis capitis (complexus) and trapezius, near their attachments ; pierces deep fascia at sup. nuchal line, about 1 in. from ext. occipital protuberance ; supplies skin over occipital bone and post, part of parietal. Third occipital nerve, the medial division of posterior branch of 3rd cervical nerve, pierces semispinalis capitis, trapezius, and deep fascia ; supplies skin of upper part of back of neck, and may supply skin of scalp above nuchal line, near median plane. Posterior auricular nerve, a branch of facial, turns upwards