15 VERTEBRAL COLUMN AS A WHOLE tuberosum (great sacro-sciatic) to tubercles of lateral crest (transverse tubercles). Interosseous lig. to rough area, dorsal to auricular surface. Glutteus maximus, lig. sacro-tuberosum, lig. sacro-spinosum (small sacro-sciatic) and coccygeus are attached, in that order from behind forwards, to narrow lower part of lateral surface. Inter-articular lig. unites sacral to coccygeal cornu and converts the interval into 5th inter- vertebral foramen, for exit of 5th sacral nerve. Lateral sacro-coccygeal lig. connects inf. lateral angle with trans. process of coccyx, and bounds 5th sacral foramen for passage forwards of 5th s. nerve ; lig. may ossify. Fibro-cartilage and ant. and post, sacro-coccygeal ligs. to body of 5th. OS COCCYGIS—COCCYX Coccyx is triangular in shape, with apex downwards. It has base, apex, dorsal and pelvic surfaces, and lateral borders. It is formed almost entirely of rudimentary bodies of 4 vertebrae, which tend to fuse. First piece is largest. Oval concave facet on body forms base of coccyx and articulates with body of 5th sacral. Transverse process stands out from side of body and is united to inf. lateral angle of sacrum by lateral sacro-coccygeal lig. Cornua coccygea represent articular processes. They project upwards from dorsum of body, and are connected by ligaments to sacral cornua. Second piece has small body and rudiments ol >f vertebral arch and transverse processes. Other pieces are merely small nodules. Attachments. —Glut, ms maximus and til urn terminate are attached to dorsum of coccyx ; coccygei, levatores ani, lig. sacro-tuberosum and sacro-spinosum (sacro-sciatic) to its sides ; ext. sphincter to its tip. Glomus coccygeum (coccygeal body) and ganglion impar lie on its pelvic surface. VERTEBRAL COLUMN AS A WHOLE 28 inches long in male, nearly 24 in female. Super- imposed bodies form column for support of trunk and head ; vertebral foramina provide a canal for spinal medulla and its membranes ; spinous and transverse processes form 3 interrupted ridges bounding 2 vertebral grooves, of which the laminae form the floors ; they are occupied by muscles which move the column. Viewed from the side, the bodies form 4 curvatures: cervical and lumbar, convex anteriorly ; thoracic and sacro-