212 MUSCLES AND FASCI/E thyreoid, omo-hyoid ; under cover of these are the middle thyreoid vein and ansa hypoglossi. Anterior to the small part of it in carotid triangle, the descendens hypoglossi descends vertically, the artery to sterno-mastoid and superior thyreoid vein cross laterally. Medial to it are trachea, oesophagus and recurrent nerve below, larynx and pharynx above. Thyreoid gland is medial and overlaps it anteriorly. Posterior to it are longus colli below, longus capitis (rectus cap. ant. major) above, sympathetic trunk all the way, recurrent nerve near its origin, and inf. thyreoid art. opposite cricoid cartilage and 6th vertebra. At their origin the subclavian artery is posterior to common carotid. Lateral to it is int. jugular vein, with vagus and cardiac nerves between it and artery, on a posterior plane. Vertebral artery is related to its lower part—at first postero-lateral, and then posterior to it. Right subclavian artery arches laterally from sterno-clav. joint to outer border of ist. rib, across dome of pleura, below and anterior to its apex, separated from it by Sibson’s fascia. Scalenus anterior descends in front of it and divides it into 3 parts. First part extends from origin to scalenus anterior, and gives off vertebral and int. mammary arteries and thyreo-cervical trunk (thyroid axis). Anterior to first partare (1) sterno-mastoid ; (2) the ant. jugular vein, under cover of sterno-mastoid ; then (3) the sterno-hyoid and -thyreoid. Posterior to these, and close to the artery, are (4) the int. jugular vein ; (5) right lymphatic duct, at medial margin of scalenus anterior ; (6) vertebral vein, posterior to jugular; (7) vagus, medial to jugular vein ; (8)anerv6 cord descends from middle cervical ganglion, anterior to subclavian art., medial to vagus, and turns upwards, posterior to the artery, to join inf. ganglion ; the loop so formed is the ansa subclavia (Vieussens). (9) Common carotid is anterior to subclavian at its origin. Posterior and inferiortojirstpart are lung, pleura, Sibson's fascia, and, near its origin, the recurrent nerve and ansa subclavia; and, more laterally, the ist inter- costal vein sometimes. Cervical cardiac branches of vagus and sym- pathetic descend either anterior or posterior to the artery. Second part lies behind scalenus anterior, is highest part of arch, ^ inch above middle of sternal J of clavicle, and gives off costo- cervical trunk (sup. intercostal). Anterior to it is scalenus anterior, in front of which, from above downwards, are transverse cervical and transverse scapular(supra-scapular) arteries, ant. jugular and subclavian veins, the subclavian vein being below the level of its artery ; phrenic nerve descends between the transverse arteries and scalenus anterior, which separates it from 2nd part of subclavian on right side ; sterno- mastoid covers all these. Posterior and inferior are Sibson’s fascia, pleura and lung. Third part. See Posterior Triangle of Neck, p. 204. Right vertebral artery springs from upper and posterior aspect of subclavian, ^ to i inch from medial margin of scalenus anterior. Its first part extends upwards, surrounded by plexus of sympathetic nerves from inferior cervical ganglion ; disappears into foramen of 6th cervical