LARGE INTESTINE 457 (right colic flexure) to join transverse colon. Peritoneum covers its anterior surface and sides only. Relations.—Anterior : ant. abd. wall; sometimes greater omen- tum and small intestine. Lateral-, abd. wall. Medial: small intestine; psoas, kidney. Posterior-, iliacus, 'lio-lumbar lig., quadratus lum- borum, transversus abd., diaphragm at tip of last rib ; lateral cutane- ous, ilio-inguinal, ilio-hypogastric, last thoracic nerves; subcostal vess., and 4th lumbar art. when it is anterior to quadratus; right kidney. Right Colic Flexure (Hepatic Flexure).—Lies in right hypochon- drium. Covered with peritoneum, except posteriorly. Liver is above and lateral and anterior ; kidney is posterior ; duodenum is medial. Transverse Colon.—Nearly 20 in. long. Begins in right hypo- chondrium, at right colic flexure. Arches downwards and forwards, then upwards and backwards, lying both in epigastrium and in um- bilical region. Ends in left hypochondrium, below spleen, anterior or lateral to kidney, opposite nth rib, by making a sharp bend (left colic flexure) and becoming continuous with descending colon. Relations.—First few inches, nearly transverse; covered with peritoneum, except posteriorly; lies in contact with descending duodenum and head of pancreas, behind liver and gall-bladder. Remainder is free, and enclosed in peritoneum, which is con- tinuous, below, with ascending or posterior layers of greater omentum, and above, with transverse mesocolon, which suspends it. Anterior surface is related to cavity of omental bursa (lesser sac), descending layers of greater omentum, ant. abdominal wall and diaphragm. Posterior surface, to 3rd part of duodenum, upper end of mesentery' of small intestine, duodeno-jejunal flexure, coils of small intestine. Upper border is related to greater curvature of stomach anteriorly and its own mesocolon posteriorly. Tail of pancreas and spleen are above its termination. Left Colic Flexure (Splenic Flexure). — Lies in left hypochon- drium, below spleen and tail of pancreas, anterior and lateral to kidney. Low'er and anterior part of diaphragm is in front. It is at a higher and deeper level than right colic flexure. Peritoneum covers it, except posteriorly, and it is attached to diaphragm by phrenico- colic ligament, opposite 11th rib. Descending Colon.—About 4 in. long. Much narrower than ascending. Begins in left hypochondrium. Curves downwards and medially along lateral border of kidney ; enters lumbar region and descends vertically to crest of ilium, becoming continuous there with iliac colon. Relations.—Covered with peritoneum on ant. aspect and sides, to greater extent than ascending, except when distended. Anterior: coils of small intestine. Medial; kidney above, psoas below. Lateral -. diaphragm, transversus abdominis. Posterior : diaphragm, quadratus, transveisus abd. ; last thoracic, ilio-hypogastric, ilio- inguinal nerves ; subcostal vessels, and sometimes 4th lumbar artery.