387 CEREBRAL NERVES pterygo-palatine fossa, lateral to spheno-palatine foramen, surrounded by fat and branches of int. maxillary art. and their companion veins. Roots.—Sensory: spheno-palatine nerves. Motor and sympathetic n. canalis pterygoidei (Vidian nerve), formed, in fibro - cartilage filling for. lacerum, by union of greater superficial petrosal branch of facial and (great) deep petrosal branch from plexus around int. carotid artery ; runs anteriorly through pterygoid •'anal (Vidian) and joins ganglion. Branches.—Orbital supply periosteum of orbit. Nasal pass through spheno-palatine foramen and supply upper and posterior part of nasal cavity, chiefly on lateral wall. Naso-palatine passes through spheno-pal. for., crosses roof of nasal cavity, descends along septum to palate, enters roof of mouth through foramen of Scarpa ; supplies mucous membrane of nose, gums and hard palate. Anterior palatine descends through greater palatine canal, giving off inferior nasal branch to lower and posterior part of nose ; ends by supplying soft and hard palate and gums. Middle and posterior palatine spring from ant. palatine and descend through canals in pyramid of palatine bone and supply soft palate, uvula and palatine tonsil. Pharyngeal passes posteriorly through pharyngeal canal to roof of pharynx. Mandibular Nerve (Inf. max. div. of V.).—Two roots: sensory from semilunar ganglion, motor from mesencephalon and pons. They emerge from skull through foramen ovale and unite below it to form single trunk, which lies li inches medial to tubercle at root of zygoma. Tensor veil palatini is medial to it and separates it from auditor)' tube ; ptery- goideus externus is lateral, pterygoideus interims is anterior, mid. meningeal art. is postero-lateral. It very soon breaks up into 2 divisions. Branches of Undivided Trunk. —N. spinostts (recurrent) accompanies mid. meningeal artery through for. spinosum to dura mater. N. pterygoideus interims passes anteriorly and downwards into pterygoideus internus ; otic ganglion is associated with it. Anterior division runs down under cover of pterygoideus externus and divides into branches : n. pterygoideus externus sinks at once into that muscle ; n. massetericus passes laterally above pterygoideus externus and through mandibular notch, behind temporal muscle ; gives branch to mandibular joint and enters deep surface of masseter, near posterior border ; anterior and posterior deep temporals appear above pter. externus and sink into temporal muscle ; buccinator nerve (long buccal) passes laterally between heads