MEDIASTINUM 425 along sides of bodies, owing to position of oesophagus above and aorta below being to the left of median plane. Anterior line (excluding apex) is marked on surface, on right side, by line drawn from upper pari of sterno-clav. joint to centre of manubrium, and then downwards, with slight deviation to left, to sterno-xiphoid junction ; on left side, by line from sterno-clav. joint to centre of manubrium. From this point to the level of 4th costal cartilage the pleura meet, or right overlaps left. Below that, left pleural line suddenly deviates to the left and then descends along side of sternum to 6th cartilage. Diaphragmatic line is drawn from end of anterior line, laterally and downwards, to cross 8th rib in mid-clavicular line, then laterally and backwards, convex downwards, to cross 10th rib in mid-axillary line, 2 inches above lower margin of thorax, and to end on level with 12th thoracic spine. Lowest point is in mid-axillary line ; and pleura falls below the level of vertebral end of 12th rib. Pleura is held in position along line of diaphragmatic reflection by phrenico-pleural fascia, which connects it to uncovered part of diaphragm and to costal cartilages. Outline of cervical pleura is indicated by a curved line, convex upwards, drawn from sterno-clavicular joint to junction of medial and intermediate thirds of clavicle, its highest point being ^-i in. above clavicle. Blood vessels: from internal mammary, intercostals, musculo- phrenic, bronchial and pericardial. Lymphatics : from visceral pleura to broncho-pulmonary glands, from parietal to intercostal and sternal glands, and from cupola to lower deep cervical or adjacent lymph trunks. Nerves : phrenic and intercostal to parietal; sympathetic, through pulmonary plexuses, to visceral. MEDIASTINUM Mediastinum is the region between two pleural sacs. Sub- divided by pericardium into four : (11 Middle mediastinum, occupied by pericardium with its contents, and by phrenic nerves and ac- companying vessels. (2) Superior mediastinum, above peri- cardium. Bounded anteriorly by manubrium and sterno-thyreoids and sterno-hyoids, posteriorly by upper 4 TH. vertebra; and longi colli, at sides by mediastinal pleura, inferiorly by oblique plane drawn between lower bordersof manubrium and 4th TH. vertebra. Contefits : aortic arch and its 3 branches; thoracic parts of innominate veins and extra-pericardial part of sup. v. cava, and arch of vena azygos ; trachea, (.esophagus ; thoracic and right lymphatic ducts ; vagb phrenies, left recurrent n., cardiac nerves; thymus; lymph glands, especially at bifurcationof trachea. (3) Anterior mediastinum, in front of pericardium. Bounded anteriorly by body of sternum,