35o NEUROLOGY corpus striatum), thalamus, chorioid plexus, body of fornix, in that order from lateral to medial side and from before back- wards. Floor and roof usually meet laterally, but condition may be as in ant. horn. Posterior horn passes from splenium backwards and medially into occipital lobe, tapering to a point. Roof and lateral wall: tapetum of c. callosum. Infero-medial wall: bulbus cornu posterioris above, produced by forceps major ; calcar avis below, produced by calcarine fissure. Inferior horn curves posteriorly and laterally behind optic thalamus, then downwards and anteriorly into temporal lobe, and, lastly, medially into region of uncus. Roof: tail of caudate nucleus, stria terminalis on medial side of tail ; amygdaloid tubercle at anterior end. Lateral wall: tape- tum of c. callosum. Floor: eminentia collaterals laterally, produced by collateral fissure, may be divided into anterior and posterior parts, may be absent; hippocampus medially, concealed by chorioid plexus ; fimbria, attached to medial margin of hippocampus. Medial wall: ependyma only, and it is invaginated by chorioid plexus. Trigonum collaterale (ventriculi) is floor of space lateral to point of divergence of posterior and inferior horns. Posterior part of collateral eminence appears in it. Stria terminalis (taenia semicircularis), a slender band of fibres, begins in amygdaloid nucleus, runs posteriorly in roof of inferior horn, medial to tail of caudate nucleus ; turns up into body of ventricle, lateral to posterior end of thalamus ; runs anteriorly between thalamus and caudate nucleus, joins column of fornix ; and its fibres, passing in front of and behind anterior commissure, end in anterior perforated substance. Its deep surface lies on internal capsule ; it is covered by ependyma and vena terminalis. Hippocampus (major) is an elongated, curved elevation in floor of inferior horn. Posterior end, at corpus callosum, is narrow. Anterior end, at extremity of horn, below amygdaloid tubercle, is enlarged and notched and is called pes hippocampi. Elevations between notches are called digitations. Surface layer, called alveus, consists of white fibres (p. 348). Fimbria is attached along its medial concave side. Chorioidal fissure extends from for. interventriculare to ant. end of inf. horn. Upper part lies between edge of body of fornix and thalamus ; intermediate part is between crus fornicis and post, end of thalamus ; lower part is between fimbria and stria terminalis (taenia semicircularis). Through it the chorioid plexus protrudes into body and inferior horn of ventricle, invaginating ependyma before it.