RESPIRATORY APPARATUS 432 lig., to accompany posterior branch of spinal nerve ; crosses anterior to the intercostal nerve from below upwards, and passes laterally upon pleural aspect of ant. costo-transverse lig. and posterior intercostal membrane, with the vein above, the nerve below; reaches angle of rib, where it slips in between ext. and int. intercostal muscles ; proceeds forwards in the costal groove, and anastomoses with a branch of int. mammary or, in case of 7th, 8th, 9th spaces, with a branch of musculo-phrenic ; while lowest two accompany intercostal nerves into abdominal wall, between obliquus internus and transversus abdominis, and anast. with subcostal, lumbar and epigastrics. Beyond angle of rib, each of upper 7 (i.e., those in 3rd to 9th spaces) gives a col- lateral branch, which descends to upper border of rib below, and runs along it to anastomose with a branch of int. mammary or musculo- phrenic. Nearly midway between vertebral column and sternum each gives a lateral cutaneous branch to accompany lateral cutaneous nerve. Muscular branches are given off irregularly ; branches to mammary gland from upper 3 or 4 ; right bronchial artery from 1st. Right subcostal artery passes laterally upon 12th vertebra, posterior to thoracic duct, vena azygos, splanchnic nerves, sympathetic trunk, pleura, and diaphragm ; and passes into abdomen, posterior to lateral lumbo-costal arch (ext. arcuate lig.); accompanies last thoracic n. along lower border of 12th rib, anterior to quadratus lumborum, posterior to kidney and upper end of ascending colon ; and, with the nerve, pierces the transversus abdominis, to lie between it and obliquus internus. Left subcostal artery differs in that it is posterior to v. hemiazygos instead of thoracic duct and vena azygos, and posterior to descending colon, instead of ascending colon. Superior phrenic are small branches to post, part of diaphragm. CEsophageal, pericardial, and mediastinal are small irregular branches to oesophagus, post, part of pericardium, areolar tissue and lymph glands in posterior mediastinum. Two left bronchial arteries arise from descending aorta, near its commencement, and run laterally and downwards to post, surface of left bronchus and accompany it into lung. One right bronchial artery arises from 1st right aortic intercostal after it has crossed oesophagus, and runs forwards, by right side of oesophagus, to post, aspect of right bronchus and follow's it into lung. It may arise from upper left bronchial or from aorta. (Esophagus enters post, mediastinum on right side of aorta ; remains on its right side opposite 5th, 6th, 7th Til. vertebrae ; then inclines forwards to lie on ant. surface of aorta, and before it passes through oesophageal opening in diaphragm, opposite 10th TH. vertebra, it is slightly to the left of aorta, but still on an anterior plane. Anterior to it, from above downwards, are (1) left bronchus ; (2) right pulmonary artery ; (3) pericardium, separating it from left atrium ; (4) diaphragm. Left vagus emerges from post, pulmonary plexus as one or more cords which cross descending aorta and break up in