83 TARSUS surface : Lig. laciniatum (int. annular), plantar aponeurosis to, and abductor hallucis, flexor dig. brevis from, medial process of tuber calcanei', abductor digiti quinti from both processes; plantar calcaneo-cuboid lig. (short plantar) to ant. tubercle ; long plantar lig. to rough area posterior to that; lateral head of quadratus plantre (accessorius) from Lateral edge of that area, and medial head from medial surface. Dorsal calcaneo-cuboid lig. to lateral and dorsal edges of facet on anterior surface. Tendo calcaneus to middle of posterior surface. Inferior peroneal retinaculum to margins of grooves and trochlear process on lateral surface. Os Naviculare. —On medial side of foot, anterior to talus. Surfaces : Posterior, concave for head of astragalus. Anterior has 3 facets for cuneiform bones. Dorsal, flat and rough for dorsal ligaments. Plantar, rough, irregular for plantar ligaments, especially plantar calcanco-navicular. Lateral, small, rough for ligaments, but may have facet for cuboid. Medial is the prominent tuberositas, a landmark felt 1 inch below and anterior to medial malleolus, and is chief point of insertion of tibialis posterior. Ossa Cuneiformia.—Three in number and each is wedge- shaped. They articulate with navicular posteriorly, with first 3 metatarsals anteriorly, by their sides with one another, and the third laterally with cuboid and 4th metatarsal, while first and third grip base of 2nd metatarsal between them. Dorsal, plantar and interosseous tarsal and tarso-metatarsal ligaments are attached to them, and tibialis posterior is inserted into plantar aspects. Cuneiforme Primum.—The largest. Edge of wedge upwards. Surfaces: Posterior, small, piriform, articulates with navicular. Anterior, kidney-shaped, art. with 1st metatarsal. Medial, sub- cutaneous, convex ; impression below and anteriorly for insertion of tibialis anterior. Lateral, inverted L-shaped facet along upper and posterior borders for 2nd cuneiform and side of 2nd metatarsal base; impression below and anteriorly for insertion of peronmus longus. Base of wedge is plantar surface. Cuneiforme Secundum.—Smallest. Surfaces : Anterior, triangular, articulates with 2nd metatarsal. Posterior, triangular, art. with navicular. Medial, inverted L-shaped facet along upper and posterior borders for 1st cuneiform. Lateral, B-shaped facet along posterior border for 3rd cuneiform. Edge of wedge is plantar surface and base is dorsal surface. Cuneiforme Tertium.—Distinguished by lateral border of dorsal surface or base being angled, and by large triangular facet for cuboid on postero-superior part of lateral surface. Anterior and