455 LARGE INTESTINE Diverticulum Ilei (Meckel).—A blind diverticulum, at right angles to ileum ; about 2 in. long ; of same diameter as ileum ; present in about 2 per cent of cases ; found about 3 feet from lower end of ileum. End is usually free, but may be adherent to ant. abdominal wall at umbilicus. Due to persistence of proximal end of vitello-intestinal duct. Arteries to jejunum and ileum, from the superior mesenteric. Lymphatics end in mesenteric glands, except those from lower end of ileum which end in ileo-colic glands. Nerves, from coeliac plexus, accompany arteries ; include branches from right vagus. Structure of Small Intestine.—Serous coat complete in jejunum and ileum, incomplete in duodenum. Muscular coat \ outer longi- tudinal layer, inner circular. Mucous membrane : thrown into per- manent crescentic, circular and spiral folds, called plicae circulares (valvulae conniventes). They begin 1 inch from pylorus. Are large and closely set in lower part of duodenum and upper part of jejunum. Diminish in size and number till practically absent in lower part of ileum ; hence wall of ileum is thinner. They are thickly covered with minute projections, called villi intestinales, w'hich give them a velvety appearance. Villi are found from end to end of small intestine. Nodules of lymphoid tissue (solitary glands) are scattered through small intestine (and large intestine as well). Aggregations of these are called tonsiUse intestinales (Peyer's patches); found opposite line of mesenteric attachment. ^ to 3 in. long, J to ^ in. broad. Seen best in young subject; atrophy after middle age. Largest and most numerous in lower part of ileum. Differences between the Jejunum and the Ileum. Jejunum is distinguished from ileum by the following differences: (A) While in abdomen and unopened:—(r) it occupies upper and left part of intestinal area ; (2) walls, thicker, more vascular and therefore redder ; (3) lumen, wider and more liable to be empty — hence the name jejunum ; (4) fat in mesentery is not so abundant near intestine at its upper part as it is lower down, and vessels close to the gut are more readily seen, with semi-translucent intervals (“windows”) between them. (B) When opened:— (5) plicce circulares (valvuke conniventes), larger and more closely set (and villi are larger); (6) intestinal tonsils (Peyer’s patches), absent. INTESTINUM CRASSUM Large intestine begins in right iliac fossa as a blind head, called intestinum csecum, with which vermiform process is con-