HIP BONE 69 of obturator and medial circumflex arteries enter joint through acetabular notch. Foramen Obturatum. -Below acetabulum. Closed by obturator membrane, which is attached to its margins, except above, at obturator groove, where obturator vessels and nerve pass out of pelv is. On the sides of the groove the ant. and post, obturator tubercles can be seen sometimes. A ligament stretches between them. Nutrient foramina of hip bone are scattered. Ossification.—Primary centre for ilium at 9th week, for ischium during 4th month, for pubis during 5th or 6th month.' Rami of pubis and ischium unite at 10th year. Cartilage at bottom of acetabulum is reduced to triradiate strip at 12th year; centres then appear in it and fuse with adjoining bone before 16 ; one of these secondary centres, between ilium ami pubis, is called os acetabuli. Five epiphyseal centres appear at puberty and fuse 20-25 : (1) Ant. inf. iliac spine; (2) crest and both superior iliac spines ; (3) ischial tuberosity ; (4) pubic tubercle ; (5) pubic angle. Attachments.—Ilium. Inguinal lig. (Poupart's) to ant. sup. spine. Sartorius from ant. sup. spine and part of notch below. Tensor fascia; latte from ant. sup. spine, part of notch below and anterior inch of outer lip of crest. Obliquus ext. abdominis to ant. ^ or 5 of outer lip: latissimus dorsi from post. fascia lata to whole outer lip. Obliquus internus from ant. if of linea intermedia. Trans- versus abdominis from ant. 5 of internal lip. Ilio-lumbar lig. and quadratus lumborum to internal lip above posterior part of iliac fossa. Fascia transversalis and iliaca become continuous with one another along inner lip. Long posterior sacro-iliac lig. to post. sup. spine. Lig. sacro-tuberosum (great sacro-sciatic) to post. sup. and post. inf. spines. Piriformis from upper margin of greater sciatic notch. Ilio-femoral lig. to lower part of ant. inf. spine ; straight head of rectus femoris from upper part ; reflected head from rough- ness on dorsal surface, between acetabulum and inf. gluteal line, (llulxus minimus from area between inf. and ant. gluteal lines. Glutaus medius from area bounded by ant. and post, gluteal lines and iliac crest. Glutxus maximus from upper rough part of area behind post, gluteal line. Iliacus from upper part of iliac fossa. Sacro-spinalis (erector spinaj from upper part of iliac tuberosity; posterior anil interosseous sacro iliac ligs. to lower part. Anterior sacro iliac lig. to convex margin of auricular surface. Ischium anil Pubis. -Ouadratus femoris from lateral margin of ischial tuberosity; sacro-tuberous lig. (great sacro-sciatic to medial margin : semimembranosus from lateral upper impression ; semitendinosus and long head of biceps from medial upper impres- sion ; adductor magnus from lowest impression and from margin of