ARTICULATIONS & LIGAMENTS OF PELVIS log branches of upper 3 sacral nerves lie on it, under cover of giutams maximus. Pelvic surface is in relation to piriformis, sacro-spinous ligament and obturator internus. Coccygeal branch of inferior gluteal artery threads its way through it ; 5th sacral and coccygeal nerves and branches of coccygeal plexus pierce it. Relations of Sacro-spinous Lig.—Dorsal surface is blended with sacro-tuberous ligament medially, and is crossed laterally by pudendal nerve. Internal pudendal vessels lie on its apical attachment. Pelvic surface is blended with coccygeus, of which it is a degenerated part. 5th sacral and coccygeal nerves and branches of coccygeal plexus pierce the ligament. Foramen Ischiadicum Majus (Greater Sciatic).— Bounded by greater sciatic notch and the sacro-spinous and sacro- tuberous ligaments (small and great sacro-sciatic). Transmits : piri- formis; superior gluteal vessels and nerve above piriformis; and below piriformis, inferior gluteal and internal pudendal vessels ; sciatic, posterior cutaneous (small sciatic), inferior gluteal and pudendal nerves, and nerves to quadratus femoris and obturator internus. Foramen Ischiadicum Minus (Lesser or Small Sciatic). Bounded by less* 1 sciatic notch and the two ligaments. Trans mits : tendon of obturator internus, pudendal 1 int. pudic) nerve, internal pudendal vessels. IV. Articulatio Sacro iliaca.— Diarthrodial. Auricular surfaces of sacrum and ilium. Articular capsule is strength- ened by: (1) Thin anterior sacro-iliac ligament, attached to anterior and to inferior or pelvic margins of auricular sur- faces. (2) Interosseous sacro-iliac lig. Very thick and ex- ceedingly strong, as it suspends sacrum and superimposed trunk between hip bones. Attached to rough areas above and posterior to auricular surfaces of sacrum and ilium. (3) Short posterior sacro-iliac lig. Attachment is posterior to interosseous lig., and includes 1st ami 2nd transverse tubercles of sacrum. It is covered by sacrospinalis. (4) Long posterior sacro-iliac lig. extends from posterior superior iliac spine (which is at level of centre of joint) to 3rd trans- verse tubercle of sacrum. It is blended with lower part of short ligament, and is covered Fry glutaeus maximus. Fibrous bands are often found within joint cavity uniting auricular surfaces. Relations.—Posterior surface is covered by sacrospinalis (erector spinre). Abdominal or antero superior surface is