BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM 282 J of forearm distally and medially, in remainder, vertically, to end at ulnar side of hook of os hamatum (unciform) by dividing into superficial volar arch and deep volar branch. Relations.—Verne comites accompany it. Distal two-thirds superficial. Ulnar n. approaches it, and lies close to ulnar side in distal two-thirds ; palmar cutaneous branch of ulnar nerve descends on its anterior surface in distal J of forearm. Median nerve, medial to it at first, crosses it, separated from it by ulnar head of pronator teres. Flexor carpi ulnaris lies along its medial side, overlapping it proximally. Flexor sub- limis is lateral to it distally. Pronator teres, flexor carpi uln., palmaris longus, flexor sublimis cross it in proximal part of forearm ; volar carpal ligament and palmaris brevis cross it at wrist and palm. Brachialis, flexor profundus, transverse carpal lig. (ant. annular), lig. piso-hamatum (piso-unciform lig.), hook of os hamatum (unciform) are dorsal to it, in that order from cubital fossa to palm. Branches.—Volar ulnar recurrent, dorsal ulnar recurrent, common interosseous, volar and dorsal ulnar carpal, and the terminals. Volar ulnar recurrent artery runs proximally to anterior aspect of medial epicondyle, to anast. with ant. branch of inf. ulnar collateral (anastomotic). Dorsal ulnar recurrent artery runs between flexor sub- limis and profundus and between heads of flexor carpi uln. to post, aspect of epicondyle, to anast. with sup. and inf. ulnar collateral. Volar ulnar carpal arises from ulnar, proximal to transverse carpal lig. ; passes laterally, deep to flexor tendons, to unite with similar branch of radial to form volar carpal arch. See also p. 150. Dorsal ulnar carpal turns dorsally and distally under cover of flex, and ext. carpi ulnaris and unites with similar branch of radial. See also p. 154. Common interosseous artery arises, distal to recurrent, an inch from origin of ulnar, and almost at once divides into volar and dorsal interosseous branches. Volar interos- seous artery runs distally upon volar surface of interosseous membrane, between flexor profundus and flexor pollicis, ac- companied by vena; comites and volar inteross. n., to proximal border of pronator quadratus, where' it pierces interosseous membrane and descends upon its dorsal surface and dorsum of radius and wrist to join dorsal carpal arch. Branches.—Median accompanies median n. ; nutrient, to