HYPOTHALAMUS 335 surrounded by fibres of brachium conjunctivum, many of which end in it. It receives fibres also from cerebral cortex and basal ganglia, and sends fibres to thalamus, and rubrospinal tract (p. 356) to spinal medulla. Roots of 3rd nerve traverse it. Ganglion inter - pedunculare, on ventral surface of tegmentum, in median plane, lies in substantia perforata posterior, at back of interpeduncular fossa. Other contents of tegmentum are dealt with elsewhere:—Medial longitudinal bundle (p. 328), lemnisci (pp. 356, 392), brachia con- junctiva (p. 331), tecto-spinal tract (p. 355), spino-tectal and spino- thalamic tracts (p. 356), fasciculus retroflexus (p. 337). Basis pedunculi is composed of (1) pyramidal motor fibres, (2) cortico-pontine fibres descending from cerebral cortex to nuclei pontis, and (3) some fibres from medial lemniscus at its medial margin. Motor fibres occupy medial J ; fronto pontine, medial J, dorsal to motor fibres ; temporo- and occipito-pontine, lateral J. Arteries of mesencephalon come from posterior communicating, anterior chorioidal and posterior cerebral. Veins end in vena cerebri magna (Galen). HYPOTHALAMUS Optic tract lies on upper end of basis pedunculi, a little below lentiform nucleus, hidden posteriorly by hippocampal gyrus, while anteriorly it lies uncovered between inter- peduncular space and vallecula Sylvii. Posteriorly it divides into medial and lateral roots. Medial root is connected with medial geniculate body ; lateral root ends in lateral geniculate body, pulvinar, and, by means of brachium superius, in superior corpora quadrigemina. Anteriorly the fibres of medial root cross in optic chiasma to become continuous with fibres of medial root of opposite side, while fibres of lateral root partly run into optic nerve of same side, and partly pass across, in chiasma, to opposite nerve. Subthalamic tegmental region consists of tegmentum from the point where it separates from its fellow till it reaches thalamus. Contents : upper end of red nucleus and its thalamic fibres ; fibres of brachia conjunctiva, of brachia quadrigemina, and of lemniscus medialis ; substantia nigra, and nucleus hypothalamicus (Luys), which is placed on dorsal or deep surface of basis pedunculi. Tuber Cinereum.—An elevation of grey matter, anterior to c. mamillaria, continuous, above optic tract and chiasma, with anterior perforated substance and lamina tcrminalis. It is connected with hypophysis by a stalk, called infundibulum, upper hollow end of which forms recessus infundibuli of 3rd ventricle. Hypophysis (pituitary body) lies in fossa on sella turcica of sphenoid, covered by diaphragma sell*. Two lobes, closely applied :—