BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM 26o PERICARDIUM A fibro-serous sac enveloping heart and roots of great vessels. Situated in middle mediastinum. Conical in shape, base below, blunted apex above. Relations.—Anterior: lower end of thymus ; lungs and pleurae; body of sternum, 2nd to 6th costal cartilages of both sides. It is in direct contact with lower left half of sternum. (See area of absolute dulness, p. 257.) Sup. and inf. stcrno-pericardial ligs. connect it to manubrium and to xiphoid process. Lateral: lungs and mediastinal pleura, lig. pulmonale, phrenic nerve and accompanying pericardiaco - phrenic vessels. Posterior : descending thoracic aorta, oesophagus and vagi, upper ends of bronchi. Inferior: diaphragm separates it from liver and stomach. Superior: aortic arch, vena cava superior ; pretracheal fascia, which fuses with it. Fibrous pericardium is the outer layer. Below, it is attached to diaphragm and is pierced by inferior v. cava. Above and posteriorly, it fuses with sheaths of aorta, right and left pulmonary arteries, vena cava superior, four pulmonary veins, as these various vessels pierce it. Serous pericardium consists of parietal layer lining fibrous pericardium, and visceral layer reflected over great vessels on to heart, where it forms epicardium. As serous layer passes from fibrous layer to heart it completely envelops aorta and pulmonary artery in a single sheath, while veins receive each a partial covering, a portion of one surface lying in contact with fibrous pericardium. Sinus pericardii transversus is a space behind aorta and pulmonary art., through which the finger can be passed from side to side when pericardium is opened. It is bounded anteriorly by aorta and pulmonary art. ; posteriorly by atria ; superiorly by right pulm. art., and reflection of serous pericardium from atria on to arteries. Sinus pericardii obliquus is a space dorsal to left atrium, between the right and left pulmonary veins, limited above by reflection of serous pericardium from fibrous pericardium on to upper part of atria. Ligamentum v. cavse sinistra (vestigial fold of Marshall) is a small fold of serous pericardium stretching between left pulmonary art. and upper left pulmonary vein. It contains fibrous remnant of foetal left superior vena cava. Arteries of pericardium, from pericardiaco-phrenic, internal