SOLE OF FOOT 181 malleolus, the trochlear process (peroneal tubercle) of calcaneus can be felt, when it is well developed. t Peronmus brevis, the upper of the two tendons, can be traced to prominent tubercle on base of fifth metatarsal, just behind which the tendon of longus turns round the small lateral surface of cuboid. Lateral end ol transverse tarsal joint is ^ inch posterior to base of 5th metatarsal ; its medial end is immediately posterior to tubercle of navicular. Base, shaft and head of 5th metatarsal are easily palpated, and fifth metatarso- phalangeal joint makes a variable prominence on fibular side of foot, a little posterior to base of little toe. Sole of Foot Superficial fascia of sole is traversed by fibrous bands dividing fat into lobules. It is thickened on heel, ball of foot, and pulp of toes. On the toes it contains digital vessels and nerves ; in the sole it contains vessels and nerves from various sources, and the superficial transverse ligament :— Medial calcanean nerve arises from tibial nerve as it lies under cover of lig. laciniatum (int. annular); pierces lig. laciniatum as several branches, which turn laterally, and ramify over plantar surface of heel. They are accompanied by medial calcanean branches of posterior tibial and lateral plantar arteries. Nervus suralis (short saphenous) formed by medial sural branch of tibial and anastomotic branch of common peroneal nerve (rami com- municantes, tibialis and fibularis) descends with small saphenous vein, posterior to lateral malleolus, and along lateral border of foot and little toe, and gives branches to skin of dorsum and sole of foot. Saphenous branch of femoral nerve (ant. crural) runs distally, anterior to medial malleolus, with great saphenous vein, and ends about middle of medial border of foot. It gives branches to skin of dorsum and sole on medial side. Medial and lateral plantar nerves and arteries send cutaneous branches to intermediate part of sole. Superficial transverse ligament lies across the roots of the toes and in the webs near their free edges, on the plantar side of digital vessels and nerves. Deep fascia on sole is called plantar aponeurosis. Medial and lateral parts cover abductors and short flexors of great and little toes, and are thin, except along lateral border of foot, where a strong band extends from lateral process of tuber calcanei to base of 5th njetatarsal. This band is a remnant of extensor ossis metacarpi digiti quinti. Intermediate part, covering flexor dig. brevis, is very strong, and assists in preserving arch of foot. It is triangular in shape. Apex is attached to medial process of tuber calcanei (internal tubercle of os calcis). Base divides into 5 slips (cf. palm, in which it divides into 4),