DIGESTIVE APPARATUS 456 nected. Caecum is succeeded by colon at level of inter- tubercular plane ; ileum opens into large intestine at their junction, and the opening is guarded by colic valve. Colon is divided into : (i) ascending colon, which proceeds upwards on right side of post, wall of abdomen to inferior surface of liver, where it makes a bend, called right colic flexure, on anterior surface of kidney, and becomes (2) transverse colon, which arches across abdomen to lower end of spleen, on anterior surface or lateral border of left kidney, makes a sharp bend, called left colic flexure, and becomes (3) descending colon, which runs down left side of post, wall of abdomen to become continuous, at crest of ilium, with (4) iliac colon, which passes downwards and then medially, in left iliac fossa, to end, at medial margin of psoas major, by becoming (5) pelvic colon, which hangs down as a loop into pelvis, and ends, at middle of middle piece of sacrum, by becoming continuous with intestinum rectum. Crecum.—About 2^ in. long and 3 in. broad. Lies in right iliac region, above lateral half of inguinal lig. (Poupart), entirely sur- rounded by peritoneum, but has no mesentery. Anterior abdominal wall is anterior, and is sometimes separated by greater omentum and coils of ileum. Ilio-psoas muscle, lateral cutaneous, femoral and genito-femoral nerves, and int. spermatic vessels are posterior. Ileum is medial. Relation to vermiform process is variable. Vermiform Process (Appendix).—About 3^ in. long, £ in. thick. Springs from postero-medial aspect of caecum, 1 or iJ) in. below ileo-caecal orifice. May hang down into pelvis, or be directed upwards behind caecum, or upwards and to left ; in female it touches ovary when it lies in pelvis. Surrounded by peritoneum and has a small mesentery, attached to left side of mesentery of ileum, by which its artery reaches it. Vermiform process is most easily found by tracing downwards the anterior taenia coli of ascending colon. Valvula Coli (Colic Valve, lleo-cwcal Valve).—Lies opposite intersection of intertubercular and right lateral planes. Ileum enters medial aspect of junction of caecum and colon, and telescopes walls of large intestine so as to produce a valve with two lips, superior and inferior. Opening is slit-like, long axis antero-posterior. Lips meet at ends of slit and are prolonged on to ant. and post, walls of gut by raised-up folds of mucous membrane, called frenula valvula coli. Ascending Colon.—Continuous with caecum at intertubercular plane ; about 6 in. long. Extends through lumbar region into right hypochondrium, where it curves round lateral border of kidney and ends below liver, on ant. surface of kidney, by bending at right angles