170 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE Anterior to it: proximally, fascia lata and f. cribrosa, ext. pudendal arteries (the deep artery may be posterior) ; distally, the femoral artery. Lateral to it, distally, are the vastus medialis and femur, proximally, the artery. Posterior to it at first is adductor magnus ; then add. longus, separating it from profunda vessels ; then pectineus (and sometimes add. brevis), separated by profunda vessels and much fat ; and lastly the contiguous margins of psoas and pectineus. All these muscles, except psoas, are also medial to it; and femoral canal is medial at proximal end. Tributaries. — Great saphenous ; profunda, venae comiles of art. genu suprema (anastomotica), lateral and medial circumflex, deep external pudendal. MUSCLES OF THE BUTTOCK Glutaeus maximus lies superficially. Coarsest and heaviest muscle of body. Origin (fl.): (i) upper part of area on dorsum ilii behind posterior gluteal line ; (2) tendon of sacro-spinalis ; (3) dorsum of sacrum and coccyx ; (4) dorsal surface of lig. sacro-tuberosum (great sacro-sciatic); (5) fascia enveloping it. Insertion (tend.): ilio-tibial tract, gluteal tuberosity, lateral intermuscular septum. Nerve: L. 5, s. 1,2, through inferior gluteal. It extends, abducts, and rotates thigh laterally ; tightens tractus ilio-tibialis (ilio-tibial band). Lowest fibres adduct thigh. Structures covered by Glutaeus Maximus.—Medial series : (1) Structures from which it arises ; (2) tuber ischii, bursa intervening ; (3) hamstrings and adductor magnus, at origin from tuber. Intermediate Series: (1) Glutaeus medius; (2) superficial branches of superior gluteal vessels; (3) piriformis; (4) sciatic nerve and nerve to cjuadratus ; (5) posterior cutaneous nerve, and (6) inf. gluteal nerve and (7) inf. gluteal vessels; (8) nerve to obturator int. ; (9) int. pudendal vess. ; (10) pudendal nerve; (11) obturator int. and gemelli; (12) quadratus femoris (obturator ext. and deep branch of medial circumflex art. lie deeply between inf. gemellus and quadratus); (13) superficial branch of medial circumflex vessels; (14) adductor magnus. Lateral Series: (1) Glutaeus medius; (2) trochanter major, bursa intervening; (3) proximal end of vastus lateralis, and the bursa intervening. Lower border of glutceus max. crosses fold of nates obliquely, from above downwards and laterally. Glutaeus medius lies in upper and anterior part of buttock, posterior being deep to maximus. Origin (fl.) : dorsum ilii,