INTERCOSTAL ARTERIES 283 radius and ulna; muscular; anterior communicating runs posterior to pronator quadratus to join volar carpal arch. Dorsal interosseous artery passes dorsally between chorda obliqua and interosseous membrane, and appears on dorsum between supinator and abductor pollicis longus ; runs distally between superficial and deep muscles, and ends by anast. with volar interosseous and dorsal carpal arch. Vena; comites accompany it. Dorsal interosseous n. is on radial side at first, but is separated distally by extensor poll, longus and ext. indicis proprius. Branches : (1) Interosseous recurretit runs to post, aspect of lateral epicondyle to anastomose with post, branch of profunda. It lies on supinator and is covered by ext. carpi ulnaris and anconaeus. (2) Muscular and cutaneous. Ramus volaris profundus (deep branch of ulnar) runs distally, dorsally and laterally between muscles of little finger and joins deep volar arch. See also p. 150. Superficial volar or palmar arch arches across palm, under cover of palmar aponeurosis, from ball of little finger to ulnar border of flex. poll, brevis, where it is completed by superficial volar of radial, or princeps pollicis, or radialis indicis. Convexity of arch reaches line drawn transversely from distal border of abducted thumb. It gives off four common volar digital arteries. The first runs to ulnar side of little finger. The other three run towards the webs and divide into proper volar digital arteries for contiguous sides of the four fingers. See also p. 150. Deep volar or palmar arch, formed by radial, extends from interval between heads of adductor pollicis across inter- ossei, just distal to bases of 3rd and 4th metacarpals, to base of 5th, where it is joined by profunda of ulnar. It lies A inch nearer wrist than superficial arch. Branches; (a) recurrent, to anastomose with volar carpal arch. (6) Three proximal perforating, to join dorsal metacarpals. (c) Three volar metacarpal run distally to join common volar digitals. BRANCHES OF DESCENDING THORACIC AORTA Intercostal, subcostal, bronchial, superior phrenic to dia- phragm (very small), 4 or 5 oesophageal, pericardial and mediastinal to pericardium, areolar tissue and lymph glands in post, mediastium. Intercostal arteries, 9 pairs for lower 9 intercostal spaces,