LARGE INTESTINE 459 toneal covering, and transverse differs from pelvic in having not one but two lines of peritoneal attachment—greater omentum and transverse mesocolon. Caecal Folds and Fossae.—Pecessus retrocsecalis . a fossa extending upwards behind caecum and lower end of colon. When recess is present, vermiform process often lies in it. Plica ileoceecalis : a fold with free edge to left, attached to ileum above, ca*cum to right, vermiform or its mesentery below. Recessus ileoceecalis inferior : a fossa between this fold and mesentery of vermiform. Recessus ileoceecalis superior lies behind ileo-colic fold, which stretches across front of upper part of ileo-ctecal junction. Recessus intersigmoideus a fossa under cover of pelvic meso- colon, on left side of 5th L. vertebra. Arteries of Colon, etc. — To ctecum and vermiform process, front sup. mesenteric and ileo-colic ; asc. colon, ileo-colic and right colic ; trans-oerse colon and flexures, right, middle and left colic ; Jesc. colon, left colic ; iliac colon, left colic and sigmoid branches of inf. mesenteric; to pelvic colon, from sigmoid and sup. hemorrhoidal. Lymphatics : from ctecum, and vermiform to lower ileo-colic lymph glands ; asc. colon, ileo-colic and right colic ; transverse colon and flexures, ntesocolic. From ileo-colic, right colic and mesocolic glands, which are associated with arteries of same name, efferents go to mesenteric glands. From desc., iliac and pelvic cola to inf. mesenteric glands and thence to pre-aortic. Nerves : from plexuses accompanying arteries. Intestinum Rectum. 5 in. long. Begins at middle piece of sacrum. Follows curve of sacrum and coccyx, lying posterior to bladder, seminal vesicles and ducts, and prostate 1/1 untie ; posterior to uterus and vagina in female. Ends 1 inch beyond tip of coccyx (on level with apex of prostate in male), by bending backwards to become anal canal. Lower part is dilated—ampulla recti. Peritoneum covers anterior surface and sides of upper third, forming para-rectal fossa on each side; covers ant. surface of middle third, and is reflected on to bladder (or vagina), forming bottom of recto-vesical (or recto-vaginal) pouch, 3 in. from anus (and about 1 in. above base of prostate, in male). Loiccs/ third is devoid of peritoneum and is imbedded in pelvic fascia. Anal Canal. — iA in. long. Directed dorsally and down- wards from end of rectum, through pelvic floor, to open on exterior as anus. Circular fibres thickened to form sphincter ani infernus. Surrounded by sphincter externus and levatores ani, which keep its lateral walls in apposition.