BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM 268 platysma, risorius, zygomaticus (major), caput infra-orbitale (lev. labii sup.). Vein is behind and at some distance from it, except on mandible at anterior border of masseter, where it is in contact. Branches in face: inferior and superior labial, lateral nasal, angular, unnamed muscular, (i) Inferior labial (inf. coronary) runs forwards, under cover of triangularis (depressor anguli oris) and between mucous membrane of lower lip and orbicularis. Another branch, formerly called inf. labial, arises above lower border of mandible, runs forwards beneath triangularis and quadratus labii inferioris (depressor lab. inf.). (2) Superior labial (superior coronary) runs forwards between orbicularis and mucous membrane of upper lip, and sends septal branch to septum of nose. (3) Lateral nasal, one or more, ramify on side of nose. (4) Angular art. is the terminal branch at upper part of side of nose. (5) Irregular muscular branches from posterior aspect of artery. Occipital artery arises just below posterior belly of digastric. Runs upwards and posteriorly, under cover of digastric, mastoid process and muscles attached to it, and trapezius, which it pierces, 1 inch or less from ext. occip. protuberance, to ramify over posterior part of scalp. It lies on carotid sheath, hypoglossal n. (which hooks round it), accessory n., rectus lateralis, obliquu£ superior and semi- spinalis capitis (complexus). See also pp. 220 and 230. Branches.—(1) Muscular, including two sterno - mastoid branches, one below accessory nerve and one accompanying it. (2) Meningeal branches enter skull through jugular foramen and mastoid foramen. (3) Ramus descendens (A. princeps cervicis) arises as occipital lies on obliquus sup., runs medially to lateral border of semispinalis capitis (complexus) and divides into superficial and deep branches, which ramify on corresponding surfaces of semi- spinalis. (4) Auricular branch, when present, supplies skin, etc. over mastoid and cranial surface of auricle. (5) Terminal rami occipitales, medial and lateral, supply post, part of scalp. Posterior auricular artery arises just above post, belly of digastric, runs upwards and backwards, at first deeply, between parotid and digastric, upon styloid process ; then more superficially, between mastoid process and acoustic meatus ; and ends in occipital and auricular branches. Branches.—(x) To parotid and adjacent muscles. (2) A. stylo- mastoidea enters stylo-mastoid foramen to ascend, through canalis facialis, to medial wall of tympanum. (3) R. auricularis supplies both surfaces of auricle and adjacent scalp. (4) R. occipitalis supplies scalp near auricle.