BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM 290 Ilio-lumbar artery runs upwards and laterally, between obturator n. and lumbo-sacral trunk, behind common iliac art.,psoas, iliacus, supplying them. It sends a lumbar branch upwards behind psoas, which sends spinal branch through lumbo-sacral intervertebral foramen. Its vein ends in common iliac. Lateral sacral arteries, 1 or 2 branches, run downwards and medially, divide and enter 4 anterior sacral foramina, supply structures in sacral canal, emerge through post, sacral foramina, and anastomose with gluteal arteries. Superior gluteal artery is continuation of post, division of hypogastric ; pierces pelvic fascia, passes posteriorly' between lumbo-sacral trunk and 1st sacral n., leaves pelvis through upper part of greater sciatic notch, above piriformis ; appears in buttock under cover of glutams maximus, between glut, medius and piriformis ; divides into two : (a) superficial division sinks into glutasus maximus ; (b) deep division runs anteriorly between glutaeus medius and minimus, also dividing into two : (i.) superior branch follows anterior gluteal line, along upper border of glut, minimus, to deep surface of tensor fasciae latas ; (ii.) inferior branch runs forwards and downwards across glut, minimus, under glutteus med., towards trochanter major. Branches of sup. gluteal anastomose with inf. gluteal, int. pudendal, medial and lateral circumflex, deep circumflex iliac, lateral sacral. Obliterated umbilical artery (obliterated hypogastric) arises near end of ant. division ; runs anteriorly and down- wards along side wall of pelvis, above obturator nerve, in contact with full bladder, some distance from it when empty ; and proceeds upwards from bladder to umbilicus. Covered by peritoneum ; crossed by ureter and ductus deferens (lig. teres in female). Gives off sup. vesical arteries, and beyond that point it has no lumen and is called lateral umbilical lig. Superior vesical, 2 or 3 branches, run medially to bladder, supply its upper part and give branches to urachus, ureter and ductus deferens. Inferior vesical artery runs medially upon levator ani, crossed by ureter and ductus deferens, to base of bladder, supplying it and vesiculre seminales, prostate, ureter ; and gives off the arteria deferentialis, which accompanies ductus deferens to testis, anastomosing with both ext. and int. spermatics.