OSTEOLOGY So cutaneous, and is continued on to shaft as triangular subcutaneous surface. Medial surface presents a large articular area for talus (astragalus) ; proximal to that, chiefly on shaft, is a rough triangle for interosseous lig. ; distal edge of triangle is sometimes smooth for direct articulation with tibia; posterior and distal to large articular area is a pit for attachment of ligaments. Posterior surface is grooved longitudinally by passage of tendons of peronteus longus and brevis—brevis on the bone. Anterior surjace or border is convex, and rough for ligaments. Corpus Fibuise (Body or Shaft).—Slender, twisted. Crista anterior, thin, sharp ; recognised by its continuity with apex of triangular subcutaneous surface ; extends up to neck. Crista interossea, often ill-defined, on medial side of c. anterior, may lie very close to it near proximal end ; extends from neck to apex of rough triangle on medial surface of distal end ; gives attachment to interosseous membrane. Crista medialis, often the most prominent of all, medial and posterior to c. interossea, absent in distal part of shaft ; begins at neck, joins c. interossea 2 or 3 inches from distal end. Crista lateralis, rounded, ex- tends from neck to medial margin of posterior surface of malleolus. Medial surface, between anterior and medial crests, is divided by c. interossea into anterior and posterior parts. Posterior surface, between medial and lateral crests, is continuous with medial surface of distal end. Lateral surface, between lateral and anterior crests, is continuous with posterior surface of distal end. Nutrient Foramen.—On posterior surface, near middle, directed distally. May be elsewhere and directed proximally. Ossification.—Primary centre at 7th week. Epiphyseal centre for distal end in 2nd year, fuses at 19 ; for proximal end, 3rd or 4th year, fuses after 19. Peculiar in that the epiphysis which begins to ossify first also fuses first. Epiphyseal lines are extra-capsular. Attachments.—Capsule of tibio-fibular joint around articular surface of head. A part of fibrous stratum of capsule of knee, sometimes called “short fibular collateral lig.” (short ext. lateral), to tip of apex capituli. Fibular collateral lig. (long. ext. lat.), and biceps are attached anterior to apex. Muscles arising from proximal part of shaft arise also from adjoining surfaces of head. Tractus ilio-tibialis (ilio-tibial band) to lateral aspect of head. From anterior part of medial surface of shaft : ext. dig. longus from proximal §, peronceus tertius from distal ext. hall, longus,