44 OSTEOLOGY from inf. cervical ganglion, and meningeal lymphatics passing to deep cervical glands ; membrana tectoria ; lower part of cerebellum. Ant. and post, atlanto-occipital membranes are attached to its ant. and post margins, and lig. apicis dentis (suspensory lig.) within its anterior margin. Condylus occipitalis, at antero - lateral margin of for. magnum. Converges anteriorly towards its fellow ; articulates with atlas. Articular surface, convex, directed downwards and laterally ; may be partially subdivided ; capsula articularis is attached to its circumference. Tjibcrcle for alar (check) ligament is on medial margin of condyle. Hypoglossal canal (ant. condyloid foramen) is above and lateral to anterior end of condyle ; transmits hypoglossal n., meningeal branch of asc. pharyngeal art. ; veins connecting veins of medulla with pharyngeal plexus ; meningeal lymphatics passing to deep cervical glands. Condyloid fossa is posterior to condyle. Condyloid canal, often absent, leads from fossa into groove for transverse (lateral) sinus, from which it transmits an emissary vein to deep veins at back of neck. Processus jugularis, lateral to condyle, articulates laterally, by synchondrosis, with petrous temporal ; inferior surface is rough for insertion of rectus lateralis. Incisura jugularis (jugular notch), on anterior border, forms post, margin of jugular foramen. Planum nuchale extends from for. magnum to occipital protuberance and superior nuchal lines ; displays occipital crest and inferior nuchal line—see p. 41. Postero-lateral Area.— Bone: temporal. Fissures: f. spheno-petrosa, petro-occipitalis, petro-tympanica. Suture : s. occipito-mastoidea. Foramen lacerum, bounded by petrous temporal, basi-occipital, body and great wing of sphenoid ; tilled below with fibro-cartilage ; occupied by internal carotid artery with plexuses of veins and sympathetic nerves; crossed by deep and greater superficial petrosal nerves, which unite to form nerve of pterygoid canal (Vidian) ; traversed vertically by small veins connecting cavernous sinus and pharyngeal plexus, meningeal branches of ascending pharyn- geal artery ; meningeal lymphatics passing to upper deep cervical glands. Sulcus tubae auditivm lodges cartilaginous part of auditory (Eustachian) tube. Extends laterally and posteriorly, between great wing of sphenoid and petrous temporal, from pterygoid tubercle to musculo-tubal canal at medial side of angular spine of sphenoid. Canalis musculo-