496 EMBRYOLOGY from the first, meet at its cephalic end, and afterwards at its caudal end. These folds rise up, their edges turn medially, meet and fuse to convert groove into the neural tube. Embryo, therefore, encloses an ectodermal neural tube and an entodermal alimentary tube, and a space, bounded by mesoderm, called the embryonic coelom (p. 497). Along line of fusion, the ectodermal neural tube is connected, for a time, with surface ectoderm by a ridge called neural crest. Crest separates from surface ectoderm, but remains connected with neural tube ; and from it are developed : (1) the ganglia of spinal and cerebral nerves and of sympathetic, (2) medulla of suprarenal gland and other chromaffin tissues. Three dilatations appear on cephalic end of neural tube, called primary cerebral vesicles. The anterior forms prosencephalon (fore-brain), lateral and 3rd ventricles ; middle forms mesencephalon (mid-brain) and aqua; duct us cerebri (Sylvius); posterior forms rhombencephalon (hind-brain), 4th ventricle and central canal of lower half of medulla oblongata. Remainder of tube forms medulla spinalis (spinal cord) and its central canal. Before neural folds are closed the neurenteric canal has disappeared, in human embryo. FORMATION OF NOTOCHORD The notochord is the primitive vertebral column, and is formed from entoderm. A linear longitudinal strip of entoderm thickens and then separates as a solid rod of cells, lying between neural tube and primitive alimentary canal, extending from cephalic end of primitive mesencephalon to cephalic end of primitive groove. It becomes surrounded by the mesoderm which forms basilar part of skull, vertebral column, and membranes of brain and medulla spinalis. It can be traced through the parts which, in adult, become post, part of body of sphenoid, basi-occiput, lig. apicis dentis (suspensory), dens (odontoid process), bodies of vertebrae, down to tip of coccyx. As mesoderm develops, the notochord becomes nodulated. Nodules form pulp of intervertebral fibro-cartilages. The rest begins to disappear during 2nd month of foetal life. (It is possible that the notochord is developed from mesoderm, which sinks into entoderm and grows out of it again.) Derivatives of Mesoderm, Ectoderm and Entoderm Extra-embryonic mesoderm at first fills space within tropho- blast, but, later, becomes divided into 2 layers. One layer covers ento- dermal sac and is called splanchnic mesoderm. The other lines trophoblast and is called somatic mesoderm. The cavity between the layers is called the extra-embryonic coelom. Embryonic mesoderm is formed from mesoderm found at very early