ANT. RAMI OF LUMBAR & SACRAL NERVES 379 vessels, lies anterior to artery in middle ^ of leg, and on its lateral side in distal J ; supplies ext. digitorum longus, peronanis tertrus, ext. hallucis longus, tibialis anterior, ankle joint. Basses behind transverse and cruciate ligaments (ant. annular) and divides into medial and lateral branches. Medial branch runs distally to supply skin of contiguous sides of great and 2nd toes. Lateral branch turns laterally and ends under ext. digitorum brevis by supplying it and neighbouring joints. See also p. 190. Tibial n. (Int. popliteal and post, tibial), larger terminal branch of sciatic. Begins at middle of back of thigh ; traverses popliteal fossa from proximal to distal angle, superficial to popliteal vessels, crossing them latero-medially. In leg it is covered by soleus proximally, deep fascia and lig. laciniatum (int. annular) distally. Tibialis posterior, flexor digitorum and tibia are anterior to it, successively. At first it is on medial side of post, tibial art., but crosses it posteriorly at origin of peroneal, and beyond that it is on lateral side. It ends under lig. laciniatum (int. annular) by dividing into medial and lateral plantar nerves. Branches in Popliteal Fossa.—(1) Muscular branches to both heads of gastro-cnemius, plantaris, soleus, popliteus. (2) Articular branches accompany middle and both medial genicular arteries. (3) Medial sural n. (Communicans tibialis), pierces deep fascia, joins anastomotic peroneal to form neri'us suralis (short or ext. saphenous), which accompanies small saphenous vein behind lateral malleolus, and supplies skin on lateral border of foot and little toe. Branches in Back of Leg.—(4) Muscular to soleus, tibialis posterior, flex, hallucis longus and flex, digitorum longus. (5) Articular to ankle-joint. (6) Medial calcanean pierce lig. laciniatum to supply skin of plantar surface of heel. (7) Terminal branches— medial and lateral plantar. Medial plantar n. (see also p. 185), larger terminal branch of tibial, corresponds to median in hand. Ac- companies medial plantar artery. Gives 4 digital branches— to medial side of great toe and contiguous sides of great toe and next three ; cutaneous branches to medial side of sole ; muscular to abductor hallucis and flexor dig. brevis from its trunk, to flex. hall, brevis from 1st digital branch, to 1st lumbrical from 2nd digital branch. Lateral plantar n. (see also p. 186) corresponds to ulnar nerve in hand. It accompanies lateral plantar artery to