ARTICULATIONS OF INFERIOR EXTREMITY in sacro iliac ligaments. Tendency for sides of bony ring of pelvis to give way under the strain is provided against by support received from femora. Lumbo- sacral articulation is very oblique, and tendency for last lumbar vertebra to slip into pelvis under the weight of the body is checked by the strength of intervertebral fibro-cartilage and ilio-lumbar ligament, and by locking of articular processes. Presence of sacro iliac joints diminishes shocks trans- mitted to vertebral column, through pelvis, from lower limbs. ARTICULATIONS OF INFERIOR EXTREMITY Articulatio Cox* (Hip-joint).—Diarthrodial ; enarthro- dial (ball and socket). Plead of femur with acetabulum. Ligamentum transversum acetabuli completes rim of aceta- bulum by bridging across acetabular notch, which it converts into foramen for passage of vessels and nerves to joint. Labrum glenoidale (cotyloid ligament) is a fibro-cartilaginous ring, triangular on section, attached by base to rim of aceta- bulum and transverse ligament ; it deepens acetabulum ; its surfaces are inclined so that it narrows the rim of acetabulum, and grasps head of femur. Capsula Articularis.—Fibrous stratum is very strong ; least strong postero-inferiorly. Attached proximally to bony rim of acetabulum above and behind, to labrum and transverse ligament in front and below ; distally to inter- trochanteric line anteriorly, to root of neck of femur above and below, to posterior surface of neck, i inch from inter- trochanteric crest. Longitudinal fibres are most numerous anteriorly ; circular fibres are most numerous posteriorly and below, and form a band or collar called zona orbicularis. Retinacula are some deep fibres reflected proximally on to neck from distal attachment, and become attached to margin of head ; better marked before epiphysis fuses. Accessory bands of capsule: (t) Liy. ilio-femorale, on anterior aspect of capsule. Strongest ligament in the body. Triangular in shape. Attached by apex to lower part of anterior inferior iliac spine, by base to inter-trochanteric line. (2) lag. pubo-capsu/are, a few fibres extending from superior pubic ramus to lower part of capsule. (3) Lig. ischio-capsulare, a sheet of fibres extending from ischium below acetabulum to posterior and lower part of capsule, where it blends with zona orbicularis.