MUSCULAR TRIANGLE & ROOT OF NECK 217 (Vieussens) loops round it; and 1st intercostal vein is sometimes posterior to it. And anterior to it are the int. jugular vein, vertebral vein, behind the jugular ; phrenic nerve and thoracic duct, lateral to jugular. Further anterior relations as on right side: sterno-hyoid, sterno thyreoid, omo-hyoid, ant. jugular vein, sterno-mastoid. Note that thoracic duct arches from posterior aspect of ascending part to anterior aspect of transverse part. Second part of artery has same relations as on right side, except that phrenic nerve passes off scalenus anterior before it reaches level of subclavian artery, and is therefore an anterior relation not of the second but of the first part. Left vertebral and internal mammary arteries, thyreo-cervical and costo-cervical trunks, and vertebral and 1st intercostal veins resemble those of right side, except that costo-cervical (superior intercostal) may arise from first part instead of second ; and mammary is posterior to subclavian vein instead of posterior to jugular, before it becomes posterior to innominate, and phrenic nerve crosses it higher up. Left internal jugular vein resembles that of right side, except that it is usually smaller, and, as both veins trend to the right, near their lower ends, the left vein overlaps the common carotid art., while the right is separated from the artery by an interval ; and left vagus is posterior to the left vein. Left subclavian vein resembles that of right side, except that in order to reach the jugular it extends beyond the medial margin of scalenus anterior and lies on pleura, phrenic nerve and int. mammary artery. Left innominate vein is formed by the union of int. jugular and subclavian, behind clavicle near its sternal end. It passes downwards and to the right into thorax, behind manubrium, and then, to the right and downwards, almost horizontally, near upper border of manubrium, and joins the right vein to form sup. vena cava, behind lower 1 wider of 1st right cartilage. In the neck, the clavicle and sterno-clavicular joint, sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyreoid, anil thymus are anterior to it; while posterior to it are pleura, int. mammary art., phrenic and vagus nerves, cardiac branches of vagus and sympathetic ; subclavian and common carotid arteries. In the thorax, the manubrium, 1st right cartilage, both sterno-thyreoids and the thymus are anterior to it, and its termination is overlapped by right pleura ; while posterior to it are the left common carotid, trachea and pretracheal fascia, and innominate artery ; and the aortic arch is inferior to it. Left phrenic nerve differs from the right in that (1) it leaves the scalenus anterior at a higher level and crosses anterior to 1st part of subclavian artery, at medial border of scalenus ; (2) it is crossed by the thoracic duct; (3) it is posterior to termination of subclavian vein before it becomes posterior to innominate ; (4) it enters thorax anterior to ascending part of subclavian art., after escaping from under cover of innominate vein. Left vagus nerve differs entirely from the right after it reaches subclavian artery. It descends anterior to ascending part of subclavian