ARTICULATIONS 98 down into joint cavity. Accessory ligament = coraco-clavi- cular lig. Its chief function is to suspend major part of upper limb from clavicle. It also prevents dislocation, which tends to be upwards, owing to oblique direction of articular surfaces at this joint. It is in relation to deltoid and subclavius anteriorly, to trapezius posteriorly. It consists of two parts : (i) Trapezoid lig. situated antero-laterally, broad and flat; attached to upper surface of coracoid process and to trapezoid ridge of clavicle ; lateral border is free. (2) Conoid lig. placed postero - medially ; base is attached to coracoid tuberosity of clavicle, apex to coracoid process near scapular notch ; medial border free, lateral border joined to trapezoid, and a bursa occupies angular recess between them in front. Movements.—Scapula follows clavicle in its movements, but by slight gliding at this joint it is able, while following clavicle, to remain applied to chest wall and retain direction of glenoid cavity practically unchanged in its relation to head of humerus. Ligaments of Scapula. Lig. coraco-acromiale forms, with coracoid process and acromion, an arch for greater protectioa and security of shoulder-joint. Flat and triangular in shape. Apex attached to tip of acromion, anterior to facet for clavicle; base to lateral border of coracoid process. Thinnest in centre, where it is sometimes perforated by prolongation of tendon of pectoralis minor to capsule of shoulder-joint. Upper surface is in relation to deltoid and clavicle, lower to supraspinatus, subacromial bursa intervening. Lig. trans- versum scapulae superius (supra-scapular), attached to superior margin of scapula and to base of coracoid process. Bridges across scapular notch ; may ossify. Omo-hyoid arises from it. Transverse scapular (supra-scapular) vessels cross above it, supra-scapular nerve below it. Tig. transversum scapulce inferius (spino-glenoid). Very slender. May be absent. Stretches from lateral border of spine to back of head of scapula. Transverse scapular vessels and supra-scapular nerve pass deep to it on their way to infra-spinous fossa. Articulatio Humeri (Shoulder-joint).—Diarthrodial. Enarthrodial (ball and socket). Head of humerus with glenoid cavity of scapula. Labrum glenoidale (glenoid ligament) is a ring of dense fibro-cartilaginous tissue, triangular on section, attached by the base to margin of glenoid cavity, which it deepens. Long tendon of biceps is largely incorporated in it superiorly.