OSTEOLOGY «4 posterior surfaces, triangular, and articulate with 3rd metatarsal and navicular, respectively. B-shaped facet for 2nd cuneiform along posterior border of medial surface. Small facets at anterior parts of medial and lateral surfaces for 2nd and 4th metatarsal bases. Edge of wedge is plantar surface, and base is dorsal stirface. Os Cuboideum.—On lateral side of foot. Dorsal, plantar and interosseous tarsal and tarso-metatarsal ligs. attached to rough areas. Surfaces.—Dorsal: flat, rough, in line with lateral surface of calcaneus. Posterior : concavo - convex, sloping, articulates with calcaneus. Anterior : two facets for 4th and 5th metatarsals. Lateral : smallest, shows beginning of groove on plantar surface. Medial : large facet and sometimes a small one for 3rd cuneiform ; occasional facet posteriorly for navicular. Plantar: irregular. Groove for passage of peronaus longus near anterior border ; long plantar Jig. is attached to its lips. Posterior to the groove is a ridge, lateral end of which is called tuberositas, and is faceted by sesamoid bone in peronams longus tendon. Plantar calcaneo-cuboid lig. and flexor hallucis brevis are attached posterior to ridge, and slip from tibialis posterior to groove. Metatarsus.—Five bohes, numbered 1 to 5 from tibial to fibular side. Each has proximal end or base, a shaft, a distal end or head. Bases articulate with tarsus and with one another, and are connected by dorsal, plantar and interosseous tarso-metatarsal and inter-metatarsal ligaments. Capitulum of each articulates with first phalanx ancl plantar accessory lig., which is attached proximal to head, while collateral ligs. are attached to the sides of head. First Metatarsal.—Shortest and stoutest. Basis : kidney- shaped facet for 1st cuneiform, concavity of which is directed laterally ; occasional facet for 2nd metatarsal ; impression on lateral aspect, near sole, for insertion of peronteus longus ; tibialis anterior is inserted into medial aspect near sole. Corpus (body or shaft): three-sided. Dorsal surface, subcutaneous ; flexor hallucis brevis lies on plantar, 1 st dorsal interosseous attached to lateral. Capitulum : grooved on plantar aspect by sesamoid bones in flex. hall, brevis. Second, third, fourth metatarsals are compressed from side to side, plantar surface concave. Sides of shaft give origin to dorsal interossei, plantar aspect of 3rd and 4th to first and second plantar interossei. Oblique part of adductor hallucis, tibialis posterior, long plantar lig. are attached to plantar aspect of bases. Tarsal surface of base slopes laterally and backwards, so that lateral surface of bone, as a whole, is longer than medial, and bone