OSTEOLOGY 76 lateral and anterior aspects at root. Ilio-psoas to trochanter minor and to shaft immediately distal to it. Glutceus maximus to gluteal tuberosity, vastus lateralis from its lateral edge. V. medialis from spiral line. On surface between tuberosity and line., from lateral to medial side: upper part of adductor magnus, adductor brevis to distal § of strip leading from back of troch. minor to linea aspera (and to proximal part of aspera), pectineus to proximal ^ of same strip, iliacus for I inch distal to and anterior to trochanter minor. To linea aspera from lateral to medial side : lateral lip—vastus lateralis and intermedins (crureus) from proximal and distal parts respectively, lateral intermuscular septum, short head of biceps ; medial lip—adductor magnus, add. brevis (only to proximal part), add. longus (to distal |), medial intermuscular septum, vastus medialis (origin). Lateral epicondylic line: Vastus intermedius, lateral septum, short head of biceps from proximal g. Plantaris and lateral head of gastrocnemius from distal part, plantaris also from surface proxi- mal to condyle, and gastrocnemius also from adjoining impression on lateral surface of lateral condyle. Adductor magnus and medial septum to medial epicondylic line. Vastus medialis from its proximal §. Medial head of gastrocnemius from rough mark near medial condyle. Vastus intermedius (crureus) from proximal § or J of anterior and lateral surfaces of shaft. Articularis genu (suberureus) from distal part of ant. surface. Anterior cruciate lig. of knee to post, part of medial surface of lateral condyle ; popliteus from pit distal to epicondyle ; fibular collateral lig. (ext. lateral) to apex of epicondyle ; lateral head of gastrocnemius from impression behind and proximal to epicondyle. Post, cruciate lig. to ant. part of lateral surface of medial condyle ; adductor magnus to adductor tubercle; tibial collateral lig. to medial epicondyle distal to adductor tubercle. Fascia lata to both condyles. Fibrous stratum of capsule of knee to intercondyloid line, to bone just proximal to posterior parts of condyles, to lateral epicondyle proximal to popliteal groove, and to medial condyle, just distal to epicondyle ; no definite fibrous stratum anteriorly, but line of reflection of synovial stratum is A inch proximal to margin of articular surface. Muscles with extensive attachments are : Vastus lateralis from upper part of inter-trochanteric line, anterior and lateral aspects of root of trochanter major, lateral edge of gluteal tuberosity, proximal part of lateral lip of linea aspera. Vastus medialis Irom lower part of inter-trochanteric line, spiral line, medial lip of 1. aspera, proximal $ of medial epicondylic line. Vastus intermedius (crureus) from proximal § or | of ant. and lateral surfaces of shaft, and distal part of lateral lip of 1. aspera. Adductor magnus to post, surface of femur, medial to gluteal tuberosity, medial lip of linea