OSTEOLOGY 58 mal to medial side of dorsum of wrist when arm is supine, is separated from dorsal surface of head by a groove occupied by ext. carpi ulnaris tendon ; at its base, between it and distal surface of head, is a pit for attachment of apex of triangular articular disc. Corpus ulnse (shaft) tapers to distal end. Tuberosity of ulna is the roughness on volar surface, distal to coronoid. Supinator crest extends distally from back of radial notch to interosseous crest ; it forms dorsal boundary of a tri- angular hollow, distal to radial notch. Pronator ridge runs obliquely over distal | of volar surface. Volar margin, round and smooth, extends from tuberosity to styloid process. Dorsal margin, subcutaneous, easily felt, sinuous; extends from dorsum olecrani to styloid process. Interosseous crest (lateral border) extends from hollow below radial notch to near distal end ; prominent proximally, indistinct distally ; interosseous membrane is attached to it. Volar surface, between volar and interosseous borders, presents: (i) nutrient foramen directed towards elbow, on proximal ^ ; (2) tuberosity at proximal end ; (3) pronator ridge distally. Medial surface, between volar and dorsal margins, is subcutaneous in distal ^ and easily felt. Dorsal surface, between dorsal and inter- osseous borders, is divided by vertical ridge into a bare, smooth medial part, and a lateral part mapped into areas for attachments of extensor muscles. Ossification.—Primary centre at 7U1 week. Epiphyseal centres : 1 for top of olecranon at 10, fuses at 16 ; epiphyseal line may be wholly extra-capsular, or may be intra-capsular anteriorly. 1 for distal end at 6, fuses 20-23 » epiphyseal line is extra- capsular. Attachments.—Olecranon : triceps to posterior part of proxi- mal end, bursa is in relation to intermediate part, posterior lig. of elbow to ant. part of prox. end and to lateral border ; anconseus to lateral surface, posterior to lig.; post, band of ulnar collateral lig. of elbow to medial border, flexor carpi ulnaris and flex, profundus from medial surface. Coronoid process : ant. band of ulnar collateral lig., flex, sublimis, flex, pollicis longus and pronator teres from tubercle and ridge between volar and medial surfaces ; ant. lig. of elbow to anterior projecting margin ; brachialis to volar surface. Radial notch: annular (orbicular) lig. to volar and dorsal margins, lig. quadratum to distal margin. Shaft: brachialis and chorda obliqua (oblique lig.) to tuberosity. Supinator from supinator crest and hollow distal to radial notch. Flex. dig. profundus from proximal § or £ of volar and medial surfaces, extending on to medial