SHOULDER-JOINT 99 Capsula Articularis.—Exceedingly lax. Fibrous stratum (capsular lig.) is attached proximally to margin of glenoid cavity, beyond the fabrum, and to labrum itself; distallv to anatomical neck of humerus close to articular head above, to surgical neck, nearly half an inch from head, below. Synovial stratum protrudes through three openings in the fibrous stratum to form burscr ; one opening is under sub- scapularis at base of coracoid, another is between tubercles, and through it the long tendon of biceps emerges ; a third, rarely present, is under infraspinatus. Tendons of sub- scapularis, supra- and infra-spinatus fuse with capsule near their insertions and strengthen it, and by pulling it away during their contraction prevent nipping of the lax capsule. Capsule is least supported by muscles below, and dislocation most often takes place there. Accessory Ligaments of Capsule Lig. corn o-humcrale, on upper aspect of capsule, represents prolongation of pectoralis minor tendon ; extends from lateral margin of base of coracoid process to anatomical neck at greater tubercle. Blends with capsule behind and distally ; anterior border is free. Gleno-humeral ligaments, superior, middle and inferior, are ill-defined bands extending from margin of glenoid cavity to anatomical neck, between synovial and fibrous strata of capsule. Transverse humeral ligament, a thickened prolongation of capsule, bridges across groove between tubercles, and holds long tendon of biceps in position. Synovial stratum lines fibrous stratum of capsule and is prolonged on to labrum glenoidale, and on to neck of humerus up to articular margin. It gives a synovial sheath to long tendon of biceps within the joint, and for some distance after emergence from the joint. It protrudes through the apertures to form bursa: under subscapularis and infra- spinatus. Nerve and Blood Supply.—Supra-scapular and axillary (circumflex) nerves ; transverse scapular (supra-scapular) and humeral circumflex vessels. Relations. — (i> Immediate. Subscapularis and its bursa anteriorly, supraspinatus above ; infraspinatus and bursa above and posteriorly ; teres minor posteriorly—all in close contact. Long head of triceps, posterior circumflex vessels and axillary (circumflex) nerve, in quadrilateral space, are in close contact inferiorly, when arm is abducted. Long tendon of biceps passes through the joint