54 OSTEOLOGY to upper part of dorsal surface of scapula. Dorsal border is subcutaneous, rough, easily felt ; has upper and lower lips, with a tubercle on lower lip. Lateral border, smooth, rounded, forms, with the neck of scapula, the great scapular notch, which is bridged across by inferior transverse lig. (spino- glenoid), under which the supra-scapular nerve and transverse scapular vessels (supra-scapular) descend to infra-spinatus. Acromion, flattened from above downwards, extends laterally and anteriorly from apex of spine. Lateral border, long and convex, has prominent angle near posterior end, used as a measuring point. Short medial border has a facet near tip, which slopes downwards and medially and articulates with clavicle. Superior surface, subcutaneous, forms top of shoulder. Inferior surface is smooth and is separated from supra-spinatus by sub-acromial bursa. Nutrient foramina here and there ; largest near attached border of spine. Ossification.—Primary centre at 8th week. Epiphyseal centres : 1 for horizontal part of coracoid at first year, fuses at puberty. I for lateral part of coracoid and upper part of glenoid at io, fuses at puberty ; its epiphyseal line is partly intra- and partly extra- capsular. 2 or more for acromion at puberty, fused at 25 ; may remain separate, i for inferior angle and i for vertebral border at puberty, fuse 20-25. 1 for lower edge of glenoid at puberty, fuses 18-20. Attachments.—Superior transverse lig. to margins of scapular notch. Post, belly of omo hyoid from ligament and adjoining lateral part of upper margin. Levator scapulse to vertebral margin above root of spine, rhomboideus minor opposite root, rh. majorbelow root. Long head of triceps from infra-glenoid tubercle. Long head of biceps from supra-glenoid tubercle. Labrum glenoidale (glenoid lig.) and capsular lig. to circumference of glenoid cavity. Supra-spinatus from medial § of supra spinous fossa. Infra-spinatus from infra spinous fossa, excepting (1) near neck, (2) oval area at inf. angle for teres major, (3) elongated area along axillary margin for teres minor. Subscapularis from costal surface, including ridge and elongated hollow adjoining axillary margin, but excluding (1) part near neck and (2) areas at medial and lower angles and strip along vertebral margin for serratus anterior. Superior transverse lig. to medial margin of root of coracoid, coraco-humeral lig. to lateral margin. Coraco-brachialis medially and short head of biceps laterally, from tip of horizontal part of coracoid ; pectoralis minor to medial margin and upper surface of distal half, costo-coracoid membrane to proximal | of medial