I’ONS AND CEREBELLUM 329 lateralis superficialis (Gowers'), rubro-spinal, ponto-spinal, vestibulo- spinal tracts, and tractus solitarius ; spino-tectal and spino-thalamic fibres (see also pp. 354-357)- Nuclei of Nerves. See Cerebral (Cranial) Nerves, p. 381. PONS Lies ventral to cerebellum, and dorsal to basilar part of occipital bone and dorsum sellte. Cerebral peduncles (crura cerebri) emerge from it above, medulla oblongata joins it belosv. Transverse sections show that it consists of a small pars dorsalis and a large pars basilaris. Dorsal part forms upper part of fossa rhomboidea (floor of 4th ventricle). Basilar part, large and convex, is seen from front. At median plane is sulcus basilaris for basilar artery, bounded by ridges produced by pyramidal fasciculi in the interior. Trigeminal nerve is attached to it laterally, and part beyond the nerve is called brachium pontis (middle cerebellar peduncle) and sinks backwards into cerebellum between lips of horizontal sulcus. Vessels of Pons.—Arteries : branches from basilar. Plexus of veins drains into basilar vein, sup. petrosal sinus, cereliellar veins. Contents.- Basilar part consists of:—u) Transverse fibres which arise (a) in cerebellar cortex and end in nuclei pontis on both sides of median plane ; {/>) in nuclei pontis on one side, cross median plane and end in cerebellar cortex. Some fibres of medial longitudinal bundle pass to cerebellum through brachium. (2) Longitudinal fibres are pyramidal fibres which have descended through int. capsule and basis pedunculi (crusta) from cerebral cortex. Most of them end in nuclei pontis, but some are continued as pyramid of medulla. (3) Nuclei pontis are collections of. grey matter packed amongst intersecting bundles of transverse and longitudinal fibres. Dorsal part is bounded laterally by restiform body (p. 3271 below, brachium conjunctivum (sup. cerebellar peduncle, p. 331) above. Lemniscus lateralis (lateral fillet, p. 392) forms a broad elevation on lateral surface of upper part of brachium. These and the following contents are described elsewhere : Lemniscus medialis (p. 356), medial longitudinal bundle (p. 328), corpus trapezoideum Ip. 392), tecto-spinal tract (p. 355), antero-lateral superficial fasciculus (Gowers') and spino- tectal and spino-thalamic fibres (p. 356), sup. olivary nucleus (p. 392), nuclei and fibres of 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th nerves (pp. 384, 389, 391, 392). CEREBELLUM Lies dorsal to pons and medulla oblongata, below posterior parts of cerebral hemispheres, from which it is separated by