223 SUBMAXILLARY SPACE are covered by mucous membrane of mouth. Below that is lingual nerve, with submaxillarv ganglion suspended from it; then the deep part of submaxillary gland and the duct ; and near the hyoid bone are the hypoglossal nerve and its vena comitans ; and hyoid branch of lingual art., at the origin of the muscle. Deep to it are the genio-glossus, and, at its lower and posterior part, the origin of middle constrictor. Between hyo-glossus and genio- glossus, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve runs anteriorly and upwards into tongue, the stylo-hyoid lig. runs downwards and anteriorly to lesser horn of hyoid bone. Lingual artery runs anteriorly above hyoid bone, on middle constrictor and genio-glossus, under cover of hyo-glossus, and then, as profunda linguae, it runs up to tongue, along anterior border of hyo-glossus ; it is accompanied by vena? comites ; its dorsales lingua* branches ascend, under cover of hyo-glossus, to dorsum of tongue. Submaxillary gland consists of a large superficial part and a small deep part. Superficial part lies partly under cover of mandible and pterygoideus internus, and partly in submaxillary triangle, overlapping the bellies of digastric. It is enclosed in two layers of fascia which extend from greater horn of hyoid bone, the one to lower border of mandible, the other to mylo-hyoid line. Its posterior end is separated from parotid gland by stylo-mandibular ligament. Infero-lateral surface is covered by platysma and deep fascia ; cervical branch of facial nerve crosses it, from behind forwards, under cover of platysma ; ant. facial vein crosses its posterior part, from above downwards, under cover of deep fascia. Submaxillary lymph glands lie on upper part of this surface, along lower l»ordcr of mandible. Lateral surface lies against mandible and lower end of pterygoideus internus. Ext. maxillary (facial) artery, having emerged from groove on medial surface, turns downwards and forwards, between lateral surface of gland and pterygoideus internus, to reach lower border of mandible; mvlo-hyoid vessels and nerve lie between mandible and gland, before reaching medial surface of gland. Medial surface lies upon mylo - hvoid anteriorly, hvo - glossus posteriorly, and it overlaps digastric. Between it and mylo-hyoid are the mvlo-hyoid vessels and nerve. Between it and hvo-glossus, from above downwards, are stylo-glossus and lingual nerve, submaxillary ganglion, hy[>og!ossal nerve and vena comitans. Ext. maxillary art. ascends in a deep groove on posterior part of this surface. Upper border of the part that lies on hyo-glossus is in relation with mucous membrane of mouth. Deep part of gland is a flat, oblong prolongation forwards from medial surface of gland. It lies under cover of mylo-hyoid, upon hyo-glossus and genio-glossus. It is accompanied by the duct and the lingual nerve, which are medial to it. Arteries', branches of ext. maxillary (facial) and its submental