226 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE hyo-glossus ; gives communicating branches to, and receives one from, submaxillary ganglion ; gives branches to sublingual gland, mucous membrane of gums, floor of mouth and anterior ยง of tongue. Submaxillary ganglion is suspended by communicating branches from lingual nerve. It lies on hyo-glossus, under cover of sub- maxillary gland, above origin of its duct. Hoots : sympathetic from plexus around ext. maxillary (facial) artery; sensory from lingual; secretory from chorda tympani, through lingual. Branches ; to sub- maxillary gland and duct ; to mucous membrane of mouth ; to sub- lingual gland and tongue, through its communicating branch to lingual. Hypoglossal nerve leaves carotid triangle by crossing the loop of lingual artery and disappearing under cover of posterior belly of digastric and stylo-hyoid, between them and hyo-glossus. In sub- maxillary region it passes anteriorly, first between submaxillary gland and hyo-glossus, and then between mylo-hyoid and hyo-glossus. It is accompanied by a small vein. Having crossed hyo-glossus it sinks through the substance of genio-glossus to supply all intrinsic muscles of tongue. While in submaxillary space it supplies genio-hyoid, and all extrinsic muscles of tongue, except glosso-palatinus (palato-glossus), namely, stylo-glossus, hyo-glossus, genio-glossus. Its branch to genio- hyoid (and its branches to infra-hyoid muscles, given off in carotid triangle) is derived from loop between ist and 2nd cervical nerves. Glosso-pharyngeal nerve, after its exit from the skull, passes forwards between int. jugular vein and int. carotid artery, and descends superficial to int. carotid, deep to ext. carotid and to styloid process and its muscles. At lower border of stylo-pharyngeus it turns round it and runs forwards, superficial to it and the stylo-hyoid lig., to lie between hyo-glossus and genio-glossus. where it breaks up into terminal branches which ascend to palatine tonsil, posterior third of dorsum of tongue, soft palate, pharyngo- and glosso-epiglottic folds, and ant. aspect of epiglottis. Before reaching the side of tongue it supplies stylo-pharyngeus and sends branches to pharynx. Stylo-hyoid ligament extends downwards and forwards from tip of styloid process, and passes between hyo-glossus and genio-glossus to be attached to lesser horn of hyoid bone. It may be partially ossified, or it may contain muscular fibres. Anterior Median Line of Neck Superficial fascia varies in thickness, and fat is most plentiful in it underneath chin. It contains fibres of platysma decussating beneath the chin ; terminations of nervus cutaneus colli (transverse cervical) on each side ; and the anterior jugular vein of each side, a little lateral to median plane. Anterior jugular vein begins by the union of some small veins below the chin, descends near median plane, pierces the superficial layer of deep fascia a little above manubrium, communicates with