MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE '99 MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE I. Extrinsic : genio-glossus, hyo-glossus, stylo-glossus, glosso-palatinus. II. Intrinsic: longitudinalis superior, longitudinales inferiores, transversus, verticalis. Hypoglossal nerve supplies all muscles of tongue, except glosso-palatinus. Genio-glossus.—Fan-shaped, apex at origin. In apposi- tion with its fellow. Lateral surface in relation to mylo-hyoid, hyo-glossus, stylo-glossus, and sublingual gland. Genio- hyoid lies along lower border, mucous membrane of mouth on upper border. Arises from upper mental spine (ib-tend.) and radiates into tongue from base to tip. Posterior or lower fibres protrude tongue ; anterior retract. W hole of both muscles acting depress tongue and produce median longi- tudinal groove on it for passage of fluids. Hyo-glossus lies below and internal to mandible, in front of its angle, superficial to genio-glossus, deep to mylo-hyoid, submaxillary gland, mucous membrane of mouth. Origin (fl.): body and greater horn of hyoid bone. Insertion (fl.): side of tongue, near base. Depresses tongue ; elevates hyoid bone. Chondro-glossus, a small slip, not always present, extends from body and lesser horn of hyoid to side of tongue. Stylo-glossus lies between mandible and side of tongue. Origin (fl.-tend.): styloid process near tip, stylo-hyoid liga- ment. Insertion (fl.): side of tongue from base to tip, inter- lacing with hyo-glossus posteriorly. Draws tongue upwards and backwards. Glosso palatinus (Palato-glossus) lies in glosso-palatine arch (ant. pillar of fauces), and forms lowest muscular stratum of velum palatinum (soft palate). Origin (fl.) : lower surface of aponeurosis of velum palatinum, blending with muscle of opposite side. Insertion (fl.) : side of tongue posteriorly, and mingles with transverse fibres of tongue. Nerve : (spinal) accessory, through pharyngeal plexus. Elevates tongue ; constricts isthmus faucium. Superior longitudinal muscle lies under mucous membrane of dorsum of tongue, and extends from tip to base. Inferior longi tudinal muscles lie, one on each side, in lower part of tongue, deep to hyo-glossus and genio-glossus. Posterior fibres of each are con- nected with hyoid bone. The fibres of the transverse muscle extend from median raphe, through substance of tongue, to the sides anrl