354 NEUROLOGY vessels which pass through foramen magnum, canalis hypo- glossi, carotid canal, and jugular foramen, to end in upper deep cervical glands. WHITE SUBSTANCE OF HEMISPHERE Is made up of projection fibres, commissural fibres, and association fibres, mingled together. Commissural fibres are those of corpus callosum and anterior commissure. Projection fibres form the corona radiata, which consists of the fibres descending from cerebral cortex to parts beneath, and ascending from them to cortex. It is continuous with internal capsule. As it approaches internal capsule its fibres are collected together between superior longitudinal fasciculus laterally and tail of caudate nucleus and occipito-frontal fasciculus medially. This part is the foot-piece of corona radiata. Immediately above the foot- piece its fibres, except those continuous with retro-lenticular part of capsule, intersect with fibres of corpus callosum. Association fibres connect different areas of cortex of same hemispheres. Short association fibres arch round bottoms of cerebral sulci and connect neighbouring gyri. Long association fibres connect gyri further apart, and are collected into bundles which, throughout their whole course, send fibres into overlying gyri and receive others from them: (i) Fasciculus long-itudinalis superior lies on lateral side of foot-piece of corona radiata, in base of fronto-parietal operculum. Begins in frontal lobe, arches backwards above lentiform nucleus, and at posterior end of lateral fissure (of Sylvius) it sends some fibres back into occipital lobe, while most turn downwards and forwards into temporal lobe. (2) F. longitudinalis inferior, broad and fiat, lies on lateral side of optic and temporal radiations ; extends from occipital to temporal pole. (3) F. uncinatus arches round stem of lateral fissure (Sylvius), and connects frontal pole and orbital gyri with anterior part of temporal lobe. (4) Cingnlum lies in gyrus fornicatus. Begins at ant. perforated substance, arches round genu and lies on trunk of corpus callosum in lower part of gyrus cinguli (callosal) ; bends round splenium, passes through isthmus into hippocampal gyrus, and ends at uncus and temporal pole. (5) F. occipito-frontalis lies below' corpus callosum, between foot-piece of corona radiata and caudate nucleus. Begins in frontal lobe, and at splenium it joins tapetum and radiates into occipital and temporal lobes. PROJECTION TRACTS IN BRAIN AND SPINAL MEDULLA Motor.—Pyramidal motor fibres arise in large pyramidal cells (Betz's) in motor area ; pass through corona radiata, descend