INGUINAL CANAL 245 of transversus which have not passed in front of rectus. Posterior wall of sheath ends superiorly at rib margin, and sup. epigastric vessels enter sheath in front of upper end. Above that, the rectus lies on costal cartilages and is covered by aponeurosis of obi. ext. alone. Contents of sheath : rectus abdominis, pyramidalis, superior and inferior (deep) epigastric vessels ; terminal parts of lower 6 intercostal and last thoracic nerves, with accompanying vessels ; they enter sheath by piercing its lateral margin. Canalis Inguinalis.—A passage, inch long, situated above medial half of inguinal ligament (Poupart), among muscles, aponeuroses and fascia of lower part of anterior abdominal wall, for transmission of spermatic cord in male, ligamentum teres uteri in female. It is directed medially, downwards, and forwards. Its ends are called inguinal rings :— Annulus Inguinalis Abdominalis (Internal Abdominal Ring).—An oval aperture in fascia transversalis, long axis vertical, ^ inch long, situated i inch above inguinal lig. (Poupart), midway between symphysis pubis and ant. sup. iliac spine (cf. Femoral Artery). Its margins are prolonged over spermatic cord and testis as infundibuliform or internal spermatic fascia. Peritoneum covering it is puckered and may pass a little way through it into canal, and is connected with shrivelled fibrous remnant of the proximal part of the fcetal peritoneal prolongation into scrotum, called processus vaginalis. Inferior epigastric vessels lie below and medial to it, and an indirect inguinal hernia enters canal through abdominal ring, on lateral side of vessels. It transmits fibrous remnant of processus vaginalis, external spermatic (cremasteric) vessels, external spermatic nerve (genital branch of genito-crural n.), and constituents proper of spermatic cord, namely, ductus deferens, int. spermatic artery, pampiniform plexus of veins, testicular lymphatics and sympathetic nerves. Annulus Inguinal is Subcutaneus(F,.\t. Abdominal Ring).— An aperture in aponeurosis of obliquus externus, immediately above pubic tubercle (spine) and medial end of inguinal lig. (Poupart). i to 1 inch long, smaller in female ; triangular or lanceolate in shape, long axis and apex directed upwards and laterally, base formed by lateral part of pubic crest. Margins are called crura and are sewn together by diagonal fibres called fibnc intercrurales; external spermatic fascia, a tubular covering of spermatic cord and testis, is continuous with the margins and with these fibres. Superior crus is straight. Inferior crus is curved ; its lower or medial part is coincident with inguinal lig. and supports spermatic cord. Ring transmits structures transmitted by abdominal ring, and in addi tion : (t) infundibuliform fascia, derived from fascia transversalis at margins of abdominal ring, (2) cremasteric muscle and fascia, de- rived from lower border of obliquus int.—all surrounding spermatic cord ; (3) termination of ilio-inguinal nerve.