THE HEART 255 it from liver and stomach. Inferior longitudinal sulcus traverses it, from base to right side of apex. Sterno-costal surface (antero-superior), formed by both atria and their auricles, and both ventricles ; overlapped by pleune and lungs ; lies behind body of sternum and 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th costal cartilages of both sides, but more on left side than right. Atrial part, with its auricles, is concave or cres- centic, embracing roots of ascending aorta and pulmonary art. Ventricular part, formed chiefly by right ventricle, is convex and is traversed by anterior longitudinal sulcus ; at the upper part are the orifices of aorta and pulmonary art., the latter being anterior, above and to the left. Right margin, formed by right atrium, slightly convex, lies posterior to 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th cartilages, A inch from sternum. Lower margin, formed almost entirely by right ventricle, extends from 6th right cartilage to apex of heart, which is formed by left ventricle. Left margin, convex, formed by left ventricle and atrium, extends from above 3rd cartilage, 1 inch from sternum, to the apex, obliquely, with a convexity to the left. Upper margin, formed by atria and auricles, extends from below 2nd left cartilage, 1 inch from sternum, to upper border of 3rd right cartilage, A inch from sternum. Atrial part of heart is cuboidal in form, but is elongated transversely. Upper part is crescentic, with concavity directed forwards, chiefly owing to forward projection of auricles. Right atrium,with its auricle,encloses one cavity,cuboidal in shape, situated at right border and base of heart, posterior to and above ventricle. Septum atriorum is oblique, so that right atrium is to right of and anterior to left. Superior vena cava enters atrium above and posteriorly ; inferior cava enters below and posteriorly. Between these, the lower right pulmonary vein lies posterior to atrium. Root of aorta is above and anterior, and auricle is prolonged anteriorly along its right side, as far as root of pulmonary artery. Shallow sulcus terminalis, extending from ant. aspect of sup. cava to that of inf. cava, indicates on surface the division of chamber into sinus venosus and atrium proper. Sinus venosus is the part of atrium behind sulcus terminalis, and the veins open into it. There are no musculi pectinati on its internal surface. Pericardium separates atrium proper from pleura and lung, and separates sinus venosus from phrenic nerve and accompanying vessels as well.