376 NEUROLOGY V branches, anterior and posterior, which supply skin of medial side of thigh, and proximal part of leg. Intermediate cutaneous nerve (Middle cutaneous) consists of medial and lateral branches which supply skin of distal ยง of front of thigh. Saphenous n. runs distally and medially ; traverses adductor canal (Hunter) ; pierces deep fascia at medial side of knee, between tendons of sartorius and gracilis ; accompanies great saphenous vein as far as middle of medial border of foot, before piercing fascia it gives off ramus infra- patel/aris, which ramifies on anterior surface of patella and lig. patellae. Obturator or sub-sartorial plexus consists of communica- tions between saphenous, medial cutaneous, and cutaneous branch of obturator, on fibrous roof of adductor canal. Patellar plexus is formed on anterior surfaces of patella, lig. patellae, and proximal part of tibia by communications between lateral, medial, and intermediate cutaneous nerves, and infra-patellar branch of saphenous. PLEXUS SACRALIS Sacral plexus is formed by descending part of 4th lumbar, 5th lumbar, 1st sacral, greater part of 2nd, upper, smaller part of 3rd sacral. These converge towards lower part of greater sciatic foramen to form sciatic nerve. Lower part of 4th lumbar descends along medial side of psoas, posterior to common iliac artery ; 5th lumbar descends upon ala of sacrum, and is joined by descending part of 4th, and the two form the lumbo-sacral trunk, which passes obliquely across sacro-iliac joint, behind hypogastric vessels (int. iliac), to join 1st sacral, the superior gluteal artery passing dorsally and laterally between them, before their junction. First sacral nerve crosses sacro-iliac joint at upper border of piriformis. Lower part of plexus lies on piriformis, behind pelvic fascia, branches of hypogastric (int. iliac) vessels and ureter. Each of the nerves, except the contribution from 3rd sacral, consists of ventral and dorsal parts. Dorsal parts give rise to nerves springing from posterior aspect of plexus and common peroneal branch of sciatic. Ventral parts and contribution from 3rd give rise to nerves springing from ant. aspect of plexus, and they form the tibial division of sciatic.