130 MUSCLES ANI) FASCIA Quadrilateral Space.—Bounded above by subscapularis, cap- sule of shoulder-joint, teres minor ; below by teres major ; laterally by shaft of humerus and lateral head of triceps ; medially by long head of triceps. 'Transmits axillary (circumflex) n. and post, circum- flex vessels. Covered posteriorly by deltoid ; related anteriorly to coraco-brachialis and biceps, and large vessels and nerves in axilla. Triangular Space.—Bounded abo7>e by subscapularis, axillary margin of scapula, teres minor ; below by teres major ; laterally by long head of triceps. Circumflex scapular artery (dorsalis scapulae) is seen in it. Axilla or Armpit.—Anterior wall: pectoralis major and minor, costo-coracoid membrane. Posterior, longer from above downwards than anterior: subscapularis, teres major, latissimus dorsi. Medial: upper 4 or 5 ribs and intervening spaces, covered by serratus anterior (magnus). Lateral, very narrow : coraco- brachialis, biceps. Base, axillary fascia. Apex leads up into posterior triangle of neck, through cervico-axillary canal, which is bounded anteriorly by clavicle, posteriorly by upper border of scapula, medially by first rib. Contents : axillary vessels and their branches; lower part of brachial plexus and its branches ; long thoracic nerve ; intercosto-brachial nerve, lateral cutaneous branches of 3rd and 4th intercostal nerves ; termination of cephalic vein ; lymphatic glands and vessels, areolar tissue and fat. Axillary vessels, brachial plexus and its large branches lie close to the lateral wall of axilla, except at the apex, and follow it when arm is moved ; and in upper part of axilla they are closer to anterior wall than to the posterior. Relations in Axilla (Some of the structures are followed beyond the axilla.) Axillary vessels and brachial plexus are enveloped in a sheath continued over them from prevertebral cervical fascia. Axillary artery begins as a continuation of subclavian at outer margin of 1st rib, where it enters axilla through its apex ; and it ends by becoming continuous with brachial at lower border of teres major tendon, where it leaves axilla. When arm is dependent, it is slightly arched with convexity upwards and laterally ; when arm is abducted to a right angle, the artery is straightened out and lies opposite a line drawn from centre of clavicle to junction of arm with lower border of posterior wall of axilla. Pectoralis minor, as it crosses anterior to the artery, divides it into 3 parts—ist part above it, 2nd part posterior to it, 3rd part below it. First part gives off the art. thoracalis suprema. Second part gives off thoraco-acromial (thoracic axis), lateral thoracic, alar thoracic. Third part gives off subscapular, ant. and post, humeral circumflex. Relations of 1st Part.—Anterior, from skin towards axilla: