CEREBRAL NERVES 39' Nucleus of motor root lies low down in pons, on medial side of tractus spinalis (spinal root of V.), on dorsal surface of corpus trapezoi- deum, but partly separated from it by sup. olivary nucleus. Fibres pass dorsally and medially to floor of 4th ventricle, turn sharply upwards for 5 mm., under ependyma, along dorso-medial side of nucleus of abducent; turn sharply laterally, and then ventrally, down- wards and laterally, through whole substance of pons, between As own nucleus medially and tractus spinalis laterally ; emerge at lower border of pons. Connections.—Nucleus : fibres from opposite motor area, fibres from tractus spinalis, from corpus trapezoideum. To other nuclei through medial longitudinal bundle. Fibres: from oculo - motor nucleus through med. longit. bundle to join fibres going to orbicularis oculi, corrugator supercilii, frontalis; from hypoglossal nucleus through med. long, bundle to join fibres going to orbicularis oris. Nervus intermedius (Pars intermedia) is sensory root of facial. Its peripheral ganglion is the g geniculi, cells of which send peri- pheral branches into chorda tympani and greater superficial petrosal nerve, and their central branches run inwards in the facial nerve and detach themselves at bottom of internal meatus to form n. intermedius. At. intermedins communicates with vestibular nerve, accompanies facial to train, enters upper end of medulla between facial and acoustic, passes dorsally and medially through or dorsal to tractus spinalis (of V.), ends in cells of upper end of tractus solitarius, i.e. sensory nucleus of glosso-pharyngeal. Prom these cells fibres cross to opposite lemniscus, and some enter medial longitudinal bundle to end in nuclei of other nerves. Acoustic Nerve (Sth, Auditory)-—Special sense : hearing, equilibrium and sense of localisation of position. Consists of 2 parts, vestibular and cochlear. Peripheral ganglion of vestibular is g. vestibulare, which lies in int. acoustic meatus. Its peripheral fibres form vestibular nerve, which communicates with n. intermedius and ganglion geniculi, pierces bottom of meatus, supplies utricle and superior and external semicircular ducts. Peripheral ganglion of cochlear pait is g. spirale, which lies in spiral canal of modiolus. Its peripheral fibres supply organ of Corti, saccule, post, semicircular duct. Central fibres form cochlear nerve, and pass inwards through bottom of meatus, join central fibres of vestibular ganglion in meatus to form acoustic nerve, which runs posteriorly and medially to lower border of pons, at upper end of restiform body, lateral to facial n. ; and there it separates into a vestibular and a cochlear root. Vestibular root passes dorsally on medial side of restiform,