MUSCLES OF ARM 137 (2; Lateral intermuscular septum gives origin by its anterior surface to brachio-radialis and ext. carpi radialis longus, by its post, surface to medial and lateral heads of triceps. It is pierced by radial nerve (musculo-spiral) and by radial collateral vessels (anterior branches of superior profunda artery and vein). Coraco-brachialis lies on anterior and medial aspects of proximal part of arm and in lateral wall of axilla. It is seen as a longitudinal ridge when arm is abducted. Musculo- cutaneous nerve pierces it. Origin (fl.): tip of coracoid process, in company with short head of biceps, but on its medial side. insertion (tend.) : impression, about 1 inch long, on middle of medial margin of humerus. Nerve: «c. 7 or C. 6, 7, through musculo-cutaneous. Flexes and adducts arm. Biceps brachii lies superficially on anterior aspect of the arm, where it overlaps brachial vessels and median nerve. Origin : Short head, by tendon from tip of coracoid process, conjoined with coraco-brachialis and on its lateral side ; lies in lateral wall of axilla. Long head, by long tendon, which partly arises from impression above glenoid cavity of scapula, and is partly continuous with fibres of labrum glenoidale (glenoid lig.). It traverses upper part of shoulder-joint, ensheathed in tube of synovial membrane, which accompanies it into intertubercular groove. Insertion : into rough dorsal part of tuberosity of radius by tendon, which is separated from smooth volar (anterior) part by bursa ; and into fascia cover- ing pronator teres by expansion from its tendon, called lacertusfibrosus (bicipital fascia). Both tendon and lacertus are easily felt. Nerve : c. 5, 6, through musculo-cutaneous. It supinates forearm to position midway between supina- tion and pronation, and then flexes ; flexes shoulder-joint. Brachialis lies on anterior aspect of humerus, posterior to biceps. Origin (fl.) : anterior aspect of distal j| of shaft of humerus, and from medial intermuscular septum and ant. lig. of elbow. Its proximal end clasps insertion of deltoid. Insertion (tend.) : volar (anterior) surface of coronoid process and tuberosity of ulna. Nerves: c. 5,6, through musculo- cutaneous and radial (musculo-spiral). It flexes forearm. Triceps brachii lies on posterior aspect of the arm. Origin : (1) Long head, by tendon from infra-glenoid tuberosity ol scapula. It lies between teres major and minor, and between quadrilateral and triangular spaces. (2) lateral head (fl.-tend), from lateral border of humerus, proximal to groove for radial (musculo-spiral) nerve, from fibrous bridge