NEUROLOGY 320 border of ist lumbar vertebra. Terminal part is called conus medullaris, from which a glistening fibrous thread, called Slum terminals, is continued downwards to be attached to dorsum of coccyx. F. terminate consists chiefly of fibrous tissue continuous with pia mater, but the central canal, surrounded by a little grey matter and a few white fibres, is continued into it for i to 3 inches. Filum pierces tube of dura at 3rd sacral vertebra and receives a sheath from it. Spinal medulla presents 2 enlargements, corresponding to position of attachment of large nerves supplying upper and lower limbs :—Intumescentia cervicalis begins near upper end, is largest opposite 5th or 6th cervical vertebra, ends at 2nd thoracic. Intumescentia lumbalis begins at 10th thoracic vertebra, is largest opposite 12th, and then rapidly subsides. 31 pairs of nerves are attached to spinal medulla: 8 cervical, 12 thoracic, 5 lumbar, 5 sacral, 1 coccygeal; and spinal medulla is divided into regions, cervical, etc., corre- sponding to these. These regions do not lie opposite corresponding regions of vertebral column, as the spinal medulla is shorter than the column. The part to which any one pair of nerves is attached is called a segment: ist cervical segment, 2nd thoracic, etc. These are marked off from one another only by attachments of nerve roots. Grey matter is in the interior of spinal medulla ; white matter is on the outside. Grey matter has the form of two longitudinal fluted columns united across median plane by a band called substantia grisea centralis (central grey substance), tunnelled by central canal, which divides it into post, commissure and atit. grey commissure. Part dorsal to level of commissure is called columna grisea posterior ; ventral part, c. grisea anterior, and a projection opposite commissure, seen best in thoracic region, is called c. grisea lateralis (post., ant. and lateral grey columns). These columns are often called horns when seen in cross section, and the free extremity of each is called the head. Substantia gelatinosa Rolandi is a A-shaped mass of grey matter situated on dorsal edge of post, column. It is more translucent on section than rest of grey matter. Formatio reticularis, the intermixture of grey and white matter in concavity between ant. and post, columns, is seen best in cervical region.