NEUROLOGY 390 There it turns forwards, lateral to styloid process, which separates it from int. jugular vein ; enters parotid gland, breaks up into branches which lie superficial to posterior facial vein (temporo-maxillary) and ext. carotid artery, and radiate from anterior, inferior and superior borders of gland. Its first bend is called geniculum n. facialis (genu), and on it is placed the ganglion geniculi (geniculate). Branches after Exit from Skull.—Branches to posterior belly of digastric and stylo-hyoid. Posterior auricular n. turns upwards between mastoid process and external meatus, supplies auricularis posterior (retrahens), intrinsic muscles of ear, occipital belly of epicranius. In parotid gland, facial nerve receives communications from great auricular and auriculo-temporal, and breaks up into branches: temporal, to auricularis anterior and superior and facial muscles above orbit ; zygomatic, to facial muscles below orbit ; buccal, to buccinator and muscles at side of mouth ; ramus marginalis mandibulse, to muscles of chin and lower lip ; ramus colli, to platysma in neck and sends up twigs to muscles of lower lip. Branches in Facial Canal. —(i) Greater superficial petrosal arises from gang, geniculi, emerges through hiatus canalis facialis (l'allopii), runs medially and anteriorly, over anterior surface of petrous temporal and below semilunar (Gasserian) ganglion, to fibro- cartilage filling for. lacerum. There the (great) deep petrosal from carotid sympathetic plexus joins it to form n. canalis pterygoidei (Vidian), which runs through pterygoid canal to pterygo-palatine (spheno-maxillary) fossa, to end in spheno-palatine ganglion (Meckel's). (2) A filament, called ext. superficial petrosal nerve, from sympathetic around mid. meningeal art. passes through hiatus to join ganglion geniculi. (3) A branch from geniculum (not from ganglion) joins a branch from tympanic plexus to form lesser superficial petrosal nerve in substance of petrous temporal. (4) Nerve to stapedius is given off behind tympanic cavity. (5) Chorda tympani is given off a short distance above stylo-mastoid foramen ; ascends and enters tympanum through posterior wall; runs anteriorly, opposite upper edge of tympanic membrane, on medial side of neck of malleus ; leaves in front of upper part of membrane, appears at medial end of petro-tympanic fissure (Glaserian) ; runs downwards and forwards on medial side of angular spine of sphenoid and on medial side of pterygoideus externus, where it receives branch from otic ganglion, and joins lingual. Supplies anterior § of tongue (sense of taste) and submaxillary and sublingual glands (secretory) through lingual n. and submaxillary ganglion. (6) A communicating twig from facial to auricular branch of vagus is given off at same level as chorda.