DIGESTIVE APPARATUS 452 Peritoneal Connections.—Peritoneum covers its two surfaces, and the two layers meet at curvatures and proceed as so-called “folds” to be connected with other organs. Fold leaving lesser curvature proceeds, as lesser omentum, to liver. Fold leaving greater curvature is divided into 3 parts, which, however, are continuous with each other. (1) From upper part of fundus, near oesophagus, to diaphragm—gastro-phrenic ligament; (2) from left side of fundus to hilum of spleen—gastro-splenic ligament (gastro-splenic omentum); (3) from horizontal part of greater curvature—the greater omentum, the two layers of which extend as far as pelvis, double back on themselves and are attached to transverse colon. Peritoneum on antero-sup. surface of. stomach is continued on to ant. surface of duodenum ; that on postero-inf. surface extends on to first £-1 inch of first piece of duodenum, and is then reflected on to anterior surface of pancreas. Peritoneum leaves uncovered a small “bare area” on post.-inf. surface, just below oesophageal orifice; there the stomach is in direct contact with crus of diaphragm, and sometimes with left suprarenal gland. Relations.—Antero-superior stirface is related to liver to the right, diaphragm to the left, and ant. abdominal wall between these. Postero-inferior surface is related, from above downwards, to (1) left crus of diaphragm, (2) left suprarenal and small part of left kidney, (3) splenic artery, (4) pancreas, (5) transverse mesocolon and sometimes transverse colon ; it is separated from these by cavity of omental bursa (small sac of peritoneum). To the left and above, the postero-inferior surface is related to gastric surface of spleen, but is separated from it by omental bursa, gastro-splenic lig. (omentum) and great sac of peritoneum. Right and left gastric vessels (pyloric and coronary) run along lesser curvature, between layers of lesser omentum ; right and left gastro-epiploic vessels run between layers of greater omentum, near greater curvature. When stomach is empty and intestines are distended, the trans- verse colon may be rolled up so as to lie anterior to stomach. Incisura cardiaca is the notch between oesophagus and beginning of greater curvature. Incisura angularis is a notch on lesser curvature, opposite pyloric antrum. Sulcus intermedius is a notch on greater curvature, between pyloric canal and antrum. Arteries of Stomach.—Left and right gastrics (coronary and pyloric) and gastro-epiploics, short gastric of splenic. Lymphatics : from part near cardia and lesser curvature end in para-cardial glands and glands lying along left gastric artery; from fundus and part below, in splenic and left supra-pancreatic glands ; from pyloric end, in right supra-pancreatic and subpyloric glands and glands lying along left gastric artery and bile duct. Nerves : vagi ; and branches from coeliac plexus, accompanying arteries.