92 ARTICULATIONS Movements.—I. Bel ween 2nd cervical and atlas together with head. Rotation around dan?,, produced mainly by semispinalis capitis (complexus) and sterno-mastoid of one side, with obliqui, rectus posterior major, splenius, longissimus, and longus capitis (rectus, cap. ant. major) of opposite side ; checked by lig. alaria. II. Between atlas and cranium. Flexion, produced mainly by longus capitis and rectus anterior ; checked by posterior ligaments. Extension, mainly by recti posteriores, semispinalis capitis, splenius, trapezius, sterno-mastoid (which flexes cervical vertebrre) ; checked by anterior ligaments. Lateral movements very slight, produced by rectus lateralis, sterno-mastoid, trapezius (splenius, semispinalis capitis); checked by capsules and lig. alaria. ARTICULATIO MANDI15ULARIS Mandibular joint (temporo - maxillary) is diarthrodial. Condyle of mandible articulates with mandibular fossa and articular tubercle (eminentia articularis) of temporal bone, articular disc intervening. Capsula articularis surrounds articular surfaces. Lig. tcmporo-mandibulnre, thickened lateral part of capsule, attached to zygoma and tubercle at its root and to lateral surface and posterior border of neck of mandible ; covered by skin, fascia, parotid. Discus articularis divides joint cavity into two ; attached circumferentially to capsule, and anteriorly to pterygoideus externus also ; conforms to articular surfaces—lower surface concave, upper surface concavo-convex. Ligamentum sphena- matuiibularc (internal lateral) on medial side of joint, but not in contact, extends from spine of sphenoid to lingula and margins of mandibular foramen. Derived from membrane around Meckel’s cartilage. Lower end lies upon pterygoideus int. It is separated from mandible, from above downwards, by auriculo-temporal nerve, pterygoideus externus ; int. maxillary vessels, inferior alveolar (dental) vessels and nerve. Vessels and Nerves.—Superficial temporal and masseteric arteries ; auriculo-temporal and masseteric nerves. Movements.—Depression, produced by digastric, mylo-hyoid, genio-hyoid, platysma, and by gravity. Elevation, by masseter, pterygoideus internes, temporalis. These movements take place around an axis passing through mandibular foramina. Protru- sion, by pterygoidei, anterior part of temporalis, superficial fibres of masseter. Retraction, by posterior part of tempor- alis, deep part of masseter. Grinding, by pterygoidei of