BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM 3°8 longitudinal lig., lower two aortic lumbar arteries, sym- pathetic trunk, psoas major. When empty it may be medial to psoas and symp. trunk, or may merely overlap trunk. In thorax : owing to slope of diaphragm it presents only posterior and right lateral surfaces, both related to pleura and lung. Phrenic nerve descends between its right sur- face and pleura. Pleura and lung separate posterior surface from right greater splanchnic nerve, 9th right intercostal vessels and 9th thoracic vertebra. Right and left hepatic veins issue from post, aspect of liver, and at once enter v. cava. Caudate (Spigelian) lobe often provides a third vein. Inferior phrenic veins.—Venae comites of right artery enter upper end of v. cava ; those of left artery end usually in left suprarenal. Suprarenal vein issues from hilum of suprarenal. Enters v. cava at once on right side. On left side it runs down to renal vein. Right renal vein, 1 inch long, crosses to v. cava, anterior to renal artery, posterior to descending part of duodenum. Left renal vein, over 2 inches long, also anterior to its artery, crosses left psoas and crus of diaphragm, and aorta, just below origin of sup. mesenteric art. Terminal part of duodenum and head of pan- creas are anterior to it. It receives left suprarenal and left spermatic or ovarian veins. Spermatic Vein.—Veins from testis and epididymis accompany artery in spermatic cord as pampiniform plexus, from which two veins arise at abdominal inguinal ring and accompany art. in abdomen. Finally unite to form one vein, which on right side enters v. cava, on left side runs upwards to renal vein. V. ovarica (Ovarian vein).—Veins of each ovary also form pampiniform plexus, from which two veins issue at brim of pelvis, and terminate like spermatics. Vv. lumbales (Lumbar veins), 4 in number, lie between psoas and bodies of upper 4 L. vertebrae.. Those of left side pass posterior to aorta, the upper ones passing posterior to crura of diaphragm also. Lumbar veins are connected by longitudinal anastomosing channel, in front of roots of transverse processes, called ascending lumbar vein, which ends in vena azygos on right side, and in v. hemiazygos on left side. Common iliac vein begins at superior aperture of pelvis minor, behind upper part of hypogastric (int. iliac) art., by union of hypogastric and ext. iliac veins. Ends at right side of body of 5th L. vertebra by joining its fellow to form v. cava inferior. Right vein is first posterior, then postero-lateral to its artery ; and anterior to obturator n. and ilio-lumbar artery. Left vein passes