: ANTERIOR RAMI OF CERVICAL NERVES 371 Axillary n. (Circumflex (5, 6 C. ; posterior cord) runs distally between axillary artery and subscapularis ; then dorsally through quadrilateral space ; gives articular branch to shoulder, and divides into anterior and posterior divisions. Posterior division gives branches to teres minor and deltoid, and, turning round posterior border of deltoid, becomes lateral cutaneous n. of arm, which supplies skin over distal part of deltoid. Anterior division accompanies post, humeral circum- flex vessels, around surgical neck of humerus, under cover of deltoid, to which it is distributed, some branches piercing the muscle to supply skin. See also p. 135. Radial n. (Musculo-spiral) (5, 6, 7, 8 c., sometimes 1 r. ; posterior cord) runs distally, posterior to axillary art., then between first inch of brachial art. and long head of triceps. Leaves medial side of arm, between long and medial heads of triceps, accompanied by profunda vessels ; crosses to lateral side, in groove on back of humerus, between medial and lateral heads of triceps ; pierces lateral intermuscular septum, accompanied by ant. branch of profunda ; and, run- ning distally between brachialis and brachio-radialis, it ends just proximal to elbow, between brachialis and ext. carpi radialis longus, by dividing into superficial and deep branches, which lie in contact with capsule of elbow, anterior to capitulum of humerus. Branches.—In axilla and medial side of arm : Muscular to long and medial heads of triceps. Posterior cutaneous n. of arm (Int. cutan. of musculo-spiral) pierces fascia near axilla, crosses posteriorly over intercosto - brachial and supplies skin on medial side of back of arm. On back of arm : Muscular to all three heads of triceps, and branch to ancomeus, which descends through medial head of triceps. Dorsal cutaneous n. of forearm (ext. cutan. of musculo-spiral) arises as two branches, which pierce deep fascia, distal to insertion of deltoid. Proximal supplies skin on antero-lateral aspect of distal half of arm and adjoining dorsum of forearm. Distal supplies skin along middle of dorsum of forearm. On lateral side of arm : Muscular to brachialis, brachio-radialis, ext. carpi rad. longus. Articular to elbow. Superficial and deep terminal branches. Ramus superficial^ (Radial) runs distally, under cover of brachio-radialis, upon elbow-joint, supinator and anterior borders of ext. carpi radialcs, lateral to radial artery. In distal third it inclines posteriorly, upon tendon of ext. carpi rad.