370 NEUROLOGY radial side of pisiform ; leave transverse lig. and lie upon lig. piso-hamatum (pisi - unciform lig.) and ulnar side of hook of os hamatum (unciform), under cover of palmaris brevis, where the nerve divides into superficial and deep divisions. Branches.—None in axilla and (upper) arm. At elbow.—Articular branch. Muscular to flex, carpi ulnaris and ulnar i of flex, digitorum profundus. In distal third of forearm.—Ramus cutaneus palmaris pierces deep fascia, crosses transverse carpal lig., supplies skin of medial part of palm. Ramus dorsalis manus, winds dorsally under flex, carpi ulnaris ; pierces deep fascia, gives branches to skin of wrist and hand, to ulnar side of little finger, contiguous sides of little and ring fingers, and joins radial in supplying contiguous sides of ring and middle fingers. In palm.—Ramus supcrjicialis supplies palmaris brevis, skin of medial part of palm, of ulnar side of little finger and contiguous sides of little and ring fingers. Ramus profundus accompanies deep branch of artery, supplies muscles of little finger, runs across palm with deep volar arch and supplies all seven interossei, medial two lumbricals, adductor pollicis (both parts) and deep head of flex, pollicis brevis (v. p. 151). Medial cutaneous n. of arm (Lesser int. cut.) (1 r. ; medial cord) passes posterior to axillary vein to reach its medial side ; pierces deep fascia and supplies skin of medial side of (upper) arm. Medial cutaneous n. of forearm (Int. cutaneous) (8 c., 1 T. ; medial cord) arises in front of ulnar, runs distally on ant. surface of axillary art. and first inch of brachial, afterwards on medial side of brachial art. Leaves it at middle of arm to pierce deep fascia. It divides into volar and ulnar branches, for supply of skin on volar and dorsal aspects of ulnar side of forearm, respectively. Volar branch passes posterior to, but sometimes anterior to, median basilic vein. Subscapular nerves (5, 6 c. ; posterior cord). Upper sinks into subscapularis. Lower runs downwards and laterally over subscapularis, supplying it, and ends in teres major. See also p. 135. Thoraco-dorsal n. (Long subscapular) (6, 7, 8 C.; posterior cord) runs downwards and posteriorly, across subscapularis and teres major, to end in latissimus dorsi. See also P- 135-