NEUROLOGY 322 intersegmental fibres. Other fibres connecting different segments of spinal medulla are found separating f. gracilis and cuneatus from grey commissure, and on medial and posterior surfaces of f. gracilis. They constitute the fasciculus posterior proprius. Funiculus Lateralis.—Fasciculus lateralis proprius (lateral basis bundle) ; intersegmental fibres ; in concavity between ant. and post, columns (horns). F. cerebro-spinalis lateralis or pyra- midalis lateralis (crossed pyramidal) ; descending, motor ; ventral to posterior column (horn), lateral to f. lateralis proprius, dorsal to rubro-spinal and antero-lateral superficial fasciculus (Gowers), separated from surface by f. cerebello-spinalis (direct cerebellar). F. postero-lateralis (Lissauer); in front of or surrounding post, nerve roots; intersegmental, or ascending from post, nerve roots. F. cerebello-spinalis (direct cerebellar), ascending from cells at base of posterior column ; at surface of spinal medulla, lateral to lateral pyramidal, dorsal to antero-lateral superficial and partly mingled with it. F. antero-lateralis superflcialis, ascending from cells in posterior column to cerebellum, superior corpora quadrigemina and thalamus ; at surface of spinal medulla, ventral to cerebello-spinal and lateral pyramidal, superficial to rubro-spinal and f. anterior proprius, extending into anterior funiculus anteriorly. Rubro-spinal or pre- pyramidal tract, descending from red nucleus of opposite half of mesencephalon to end round cells at base of ant. column ; ventral to lateral pyramidal, between antero-lateral superficial and lateralis proprius. Ponto - spinal tract, descending, scattered in lateral funiculus. Spino-tectal and spino thalamic fibres ascend, not as fasciculi but scattered in the lateral funiculus, from post, column of opposite side to corpora quadrigemina and to thalamus respectively. Funiculus Anterior.—Fasciculus anterior proprius (ant. basis bundle), intersegmental ; rolled round anterior column (horn), continuous, at the side, with proprius lateralis, and, above, with medial (posterior) longitudinal bundle of medulla oblongata and pons. F. cerebro - spinalis anterior or pyramidalis anterior (direct pyramidal): descending, motor, from cerebral cortex ; along anterior median fissure. Tecto spinal tract, descending from opposite superior corpus quadrigeminum; and vestibulo - spinal tract, from nucleus of Deiters and Bechterew,—both lie at surface of ant. funiculus and end around cells of ant. column. Vessels of Spinal Medulla.—Arteries: anterior and posterior spinal branches of vertebral, reinforced by lateral spinal branches of vertebral, ascending and deep cervical, intercostal and lumbar, form arterial columns in anterior median fissure under linea splendens, and in front of and behind posterior nerve roots. These columns anasto- mose with each other in pia mater. Veins form a plexus drained into 6 longitudinal spinal veins placed in median plane ventrally and dorsally, and in relation to ant. and post, nerve roots. They are