509 VASCULAR SYSTEM parts. Posterior part unites with its fellow to form sinus venosus, primitive atrium and ventricle, bulbus cordis and truncus arteriosus. Anterior part lies in root of neck. It is connected with dorsal aorta by 1st aortic arch, and, later, by 2nd and 3rd arches. 4th and 6th arches spring from truncus arteriosus and connect it with dorsal aorta. 5th springs from ventral root of 4th, and joins 6th. Primitive dorsal aorta is divisible into anterior and posterior parts. Post, part fuses with fellow to form permanent descending aorta. Ant. part is connected with ventral aorta by the aortic arches. These, except the 5th, lie in the visceral arches of pharynx. 5th arch is rudimentary and may not appear. Nearly whole of 1st and 2nd arches of both sides and 6th of right side disappear. Primitive dorsal aorta, on right side, disappears, from 3rd arch back to point of fusion with left aorta : on left side it disappears between 3rd and 4th arches. Adult arch of aorta is formed : (1) the part between beginning of arch and origin of innominate, from truncus arteriosus; (2) between innominate and left common carotid, front left ventral aorta ; (3) remainder, from fourth arch and from anterior part of left primitive dorsal aorta. Innominate and right common carotid and external carotid, left common and ext. carotid are formed from right and left anterior aortte ; internal carotids, from 3rd arch and cephalic part of dorsal aorta; right subclavian from 4th arch ; roots of right and left pulmonary from 6th arches ; ductus arteriosus from left 6th arch. Heart The heart, a simple tube at first, is soon divided into 5 dilated portions—sinus venosus, atrium, ventricle, bulbus cordis and truncus arteriosus. Bulbus is absorbed, later, partly into ventricle, partly into truncus arteriosus. Heart elongates more than pericardium, and, therefore, becomes bent, the ventricle bulging caudally, the atrium mounting eephalwards on its dorsal aspect. At the same time septa begin to appear. Two thickenings, called endocardial cushions, appear in atrio - ventricular orifice or canal, approach one another and fuse, dividing orifice into two. Ventricular septum grows up from caudal end of ventricle and fuses with this bridge, and with septum of truncus arteriosus. Septum of truncus descends spirally and meets ventricular septum. It begins in truncus between open- ings of 4th and 6th pairs of arches and, therefore, only 6th pair communicate with right ventricle, all the others with left. Spiral grooves on surfaces of truncus, opposite septum, appear and deepen, and divide truncus into ascending aorta and pulmonary trunk. Spiral direction of septum accounts for relation of pulmonary trunk to aorta in adult ; and as they both arise from the truncus they are ensheathed in one tube of serous pericardium.