THE HEART 257 (c) large atrio-ventricular opening (bicuspid or mitral orifice) at lower and anterior part, leading into left ventricle. Ventricular part of heart forms larger and lower part, and is conical and somewhat flattened. Base, directed dorsally and upwards, is partly free, partly connected with walls of atria and the two great arteries, but is chiefly occupied by apertures ; atrio-ventricular, one on each side, behind and below ; aortic, anterior to these two and between them ; pulmonary, anterior and to the left of aortic. In interval between aortic and atrio-ventricular orifices a fibro- cartilaginous body is imbedded. It represents os cordis of ox, and is continuous with septum ventriculorum below, and with fibrous rings surrounding apertures. These orifices lie behind a broad line drawn from 3rd left chondro - sternal junction towards 6th right, but stopping opposite 5th right. Septum ventriculorum extends from ventricular base to right side of apex. Obliquely placed, so that right ventricle is anterior to, as well as on right side of, left ventricle; position is indicated on surface of heart by anterior and inferior longitudinal (inter-ventricular) furrows. Lower part, de- veloped from ventricular part of heart, is muscular ; upper smaller part, developed from septum of bulbus cordis, is membranous (pars membranacea), and separates upper part of left ventricle not only from upper part of right ventricle, but also from lower part of right atrium. Right ventricle is below and anterior to right atrium, to the right of and anterior to left ventricle. Forms greater part of stemo-costal surface of heart. Triangular in shape. Base, directed dorsally and upwards, is continuous with atrium below and posteriorly, gives origin to pulmonary artery anteriorly, superiorly, and to the left. Inferior surface is in relation to diaphragm. Stemo-costal surface, in relation to sternum and 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th le/t costal cartilages, is roughly within limits of triangle bounded by lines : (1) from upper border of 3rd left cartilage, near sternum, to 6th right costal cartilage ; (2) from there across to 5th left inter-space, 3 inches from mid-sternal line ; (3) from there up to 3rd cartilage. Area of Absolute Cardiac Dulness. — Pleurae and lungs over- lap and cover pericardium and heart, except over lower part of right ventricle, which gives completely dull note on percussion. Area can be mapped out with sufficient accuracy by three lines : (}) vertical line a little to left of mid-sternal line, from level of 4th cartilage 17