82 OSTEOLOGY Deltoid lig. also to medial side of body. Articular capsule of lalo- calcanean joint around large facet on lower surface ; interosseous talo-calcanean lig., to groove anterior to that ; to posterior margin of lesser facet the membrane closing talo-calcaneo-navicular joint posteriorly is attached. Post. lig. of ankle to upper part of posterior surface. Post, talo-fibular lig. (post, band of ext. lat.) to processus posterior. Calcaneus (Os Calcis).—Lies below talus ; forms prominence of heel. Has 6 surfaces. Dorsal surface : Saddle-shaped area posteriorly supports fat and areolar tissue in front of tendo calcaneus (Achillis); oval convex facet articulates with talus ; groove anterior to that is for interosseous lig., and tunnel formed by it and corresponding groove on talus is called sinus tarsi; rough surface anteriorly sometimes has facet medially for head of talus. Sustentaculum tali is the horizontal projecting shelf on medial side ; may be felt i inch below medial malleolus ; articulates above with lesser facet on body of talus, is grooved below by passage of tendon of flex, hallucis longus ; tendon of flex, digitorum longus is superficial to its edge; medial plantar vessels and nerve are in relation to it, between these two tendons ; tendon of tibialis post, lies above it, on deltoid lig. Plantar surface : rough, presents anterior tubercle at anterior end, and medial and lateral processes of tuber calcanei at post. end. Anterior surface is covered by concavo-convex, sloping facet for ar- ticulation with cuboid. Posterior surface is the tuber calcanei, smooth above for bursa, rough in middle for insertion of tendo calcaneus ; lower area, covered by pad of heel, divides below into medial and lateral processes, of which medial is larger. Medial surface is concave, and overhung anteriorly by sustentaculum tali. Lateral surface: rough, flat, or slightly convex. Tendons of peronteus longus and brevis pass obliquely downwards and anteriorly over its anterior part, and may produce grooves separated by tubercle, called processus trochlearis (peroneal tubercle). Attachments.—Dorsal surface: Capsuleoftalo-calcanean joint around oval facet; interosseous talo-calcanean lig. to groove ; to rough surface anteriorly the ext. dig. brevis, stem of lig. cruciatum (lower band of ant. ann. lig.), stem of lig. bifurcatum (ext. calcaneo- scaphoid and int. calcaneo-cuboid). Deltoid lig. (int. lat. of ankle), plantar calcaneo-navicular lig. (spring) and slip from tibialis posterior to edge of sustentaculum tali; to its upper surface, behind its facet, the lig. completing talo-calcaneo-navicular joint is attached. Plantar