NEUROLOGY 400 GANGLIA TRUNCI SYMPATHICI Superior Cervical Ganglion, 1 inch or more in length, lies below base of skull, between int. carotid art. and longus capitis (rectus cap. ant. major), opposite 2nd and 3rd vertebrae. Communi- cations : with glosso-pharyngeal, vagus and hypoglossal nerves. Branches : (1) Grey rami communicantes to upper 4 cervical nerves. (2) Nn. carotid interni are prolonged on to int. carotid artery, and form internal carotid plexus. Internal carotid plexus sends carotico-tympanic branches, through the bone, to tympanic plexus ; gives off deep petrosal, which joins greater superficial to form pterygoid n. (Vidian); supplies hypophysis (pituitary body); sends a root to ciliary ganglion either independently through sup. orbital fissure or with naso- ciliary ; and is continued on to branches of int. carotid. Communi- cates with oculo-motor, trochlear, abducent and ophthalmic nerves and semilunar ganglion (Gasserian). (A concentration of int. carotid plexus where the artery bends forwards at side of sphenoid has been called cavernous plexus.) (3). Nn. carotid externi form plexuses on ext. carotid and its branches ; plexus on £<t. maxillary art. gives a root to submaxillary ganglion ; plexus on mid. meningeal gives fibres to otic ganglion. (4) Kami laryngo-pharyngei join pharyngeal branches of 9th, 10th and ext. laryngeal nerves on wall of pharynx. (5) N. cardiacus superior descends behind carotid artery, in front of inf. thyreoid ; on right side it crosses subclavian art. and descends along trachea to deep cardiac plexus ; on left side it descends between carotid and subclavian arteries, crosses aortic arch and ends in superficial cardiac plexus. On both sides it communicates in neck with other cardiac nerves and with ext. and recurrent laryngeal. Middle Cervical Ganglion.—Small ; may be absent. Lies on inferior thyreoid artery, opposite 6th vertebra. Branches : (1) Grey rami communicantes to 5th and 6th cervical nerves ; (2) thyreoid branches accompany inf. thyreoid art. to thyreoid gland ; (3) n. cardiacus medius, on right side, accompanies superior nerve to deep cardiac plexus ; on left side, accompanies superior nerve as far as aorta, where it dips behind arch to reach deep plexus ; (4) ansa subclavia (Vieussenii) is a branch which descends in front of subclavian artery, giving twigs to it and its branches, turns round it to ascend behind it and join inferior cervical ganglion. When ganglion is absent the branches arise from trunk. Inferior Cervical Ganglion.—Irregular in shape. Lies between 7th cervical transverse process and neck of 1st rib, between vertebral art. and 8th cervical nerve. May be fused with 1st thoracic. Branches : (1) grev rami communicantes to 7th and 8th c. nerves ; (2) vertebral plexus accompanies vertebral art. to brain, and gives plexuses to its branches; (3) n. cardiacus inferior accompanies other cardiac nerves to deep plexus. (See also p. 215.)