263 BRANCHES OF ASCENDING AORTA through post, mediastinum, on ventral surface of vertebral column, inclining anteriorly and to the right to gain median plane ; ends by passing through hiatus aorticus of diaphragm, opposite fibro-cartilage between 12th thoracic and 1st lumbar vertebras, and becoming continuous with abdominal aorta. Branches.—9 pairs of intercostals, 1 pair of subcostals, superior phrenics, the 2 left bronchial, sometimes the right bronchial, 4 or 5 cesophageal, a few pericardial and mediastinal. Relations.—Anterior: root of left lung, pericardium and left atrium, oesophagus, diaphragm. Left side : left pleura and lung. Right side: thoracic duct, vena azygos ; oeso- phagus above ; right lung and pleura below, separated by fatty areolar tissue. Posterior : lower 8 thoracic vertebne, vena hemiazygos and v. hemiazygos accessoria. Abdominal aorta begins at fibro-cartilage between 12th TH. and 1st L. vertebrae, between crura of diaphragm, as con- tinuation of thoracic aorta ; passes downwards and slightly to left, to end on ventral surface of 4th lumbar vertebra, to the left of median plane, A inch below and to left of umbilicus, by dividing into right and left common iliac arteries. Branches.—Paired visceral: middle suprarenal, renal, internal spermatic or ovarian. Unpaired visceral: cceliac, superior and inferior mesenteric. Paired parietal: inferior phrenic, 4 lumbar. Unpaired parietal: middle sacral. Relations.—Anterior -, cceliac artery and plexus ; pancreas and splenic vein ; sup. mesenteric art., left renal vein, 3rd part of duodenum ; root of mesentery and sup. mesenteric vessels ; aortic plexus, inf. mesent. art. ; peritoneum and coils of small intestine. Right side: vena cava, below; thoracic duct, vena azygos, right crus of diaphragm, above. Left side : left crus, termination of duodenum, peritoneum and coils of intestine ; sympathetic trunk and inf. mesenteric vein and ureter, a little distance away. Posterior : upper 4 L. vertebra;, ant. longitudinal lig., left lumbar veins. Lumbar and middle sacral arteries spring from dorsal aspect. BRANCHES OF ASCENDING AORTA Right coronary artery springs from anterior sinus aorta* (of Valsalva), passes anteriorly, between pulmonary art. and right auricle, to coronary (auriculo-ventricular) groove, in which it runs, accompanied by right coronary vein and plexus of nerves, as far as inferior longi-