188 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE Dorsum of Foot Superficial fascia contains cutaneous nerves and superficial vessels, including dorsal venous arch, which lies across distal parts of meta- tarsals. Superficial peroneal nerve (musculo-cutaneous) pierces deep fascia in distal third of leg as two branches, both of which supply skin of dorsum of foot. The medial branch ends in branches to distal part of medial side of foot and medial side of hallux, to contiguous sides of 2nd and 3rd toes, and to assist in supplying contiguous sides of great toe and 2nd. Lateral branch ends by supplying 3rd and 4th clefts. Medial terminal branch of deep peroneal (ant. tibial) gives the main supply to 1st cleft, and nervus suralis (short saphenous) sup- plies lateral side of little toe. Deep fascia is thin except at ankle, where it is thickened to form lig. cruciatum. Ligamentum cruciatum cruris (lower band of ant. annular) is occasionally X-shaped, but is usually Y-shaped.. The stem of the Y is attached to anterior part of dorsal surface of calcaneus, and extensor digitorum brevis arises from it. Proximal limb is attached to medial malleolus, and distal limb is lost in the fascia on medial border of foot. It is well defined, but its proximal and distal borders are continuous with neighbouring deep fascia. Under cover of it, from medial to lateral side, lie (1) tibialis anterior, (2) ext. hallucis longus, (3) dorsalis pedis art. and deep peroneal nerve (ant. tibial), (4) extensor digitorum longus and peronaius brevis. These structures occupy four compart- ments, those for the tendons being lined with mucous (synovial) sheaths, which begin about an inch proximal to lig. cruciatum and extend around tibialis and peronaeus tertius to their insertions, and around the ex- tensors to about middle of foot. Tibialis anterior tendon, easily felt and seen, passes distally and medially across ankle-joint, talus (astragalus), navicular, and 1st cuneiform, to be inserted into impression on medial surface of 1st cuneiform, near the sole, and into adjoining part of base of 1st meta- tarsal (cf. peronaeus longus). Extensor hallucis longus tendon runs distally on lateral side of tibialis anterior and medial side of dorsalis pedis artery, and then over metatarsal and 1st phalanx of great toe, to be inserted into dorsum of base of 2nd phalanx. Extensor digitorum longus tendon crosses ankle-joint and divides beneath lig. cruciatum (ant. annular) into 4 tendons. These diverge and run to the lateral 4 toes, superficial to extensor brevis. On the first phalanx each is joined by fibres from interossei and a lumbrical, and, except in the case of little toe, by a tendon of extensor brevis ; and it spreads out to form the dorsal extensor expansion, which divides into three parts at distal end of 1st phalanx. The middle piece is in-