487 FEMALE GENITAL ORGANS Tubae Uterinae (Fallopian Tubes).—Each uterine tube is 4 in. long. One end opens into upper angle of uterine cavity ; other end opens into peritoneal cavity. Part is imbedded in wall of uterus. Emerges from uterus at upper angle, between body and fundus ; enters broad ligament, and lies in its upper or anterior free edge. Pierces ligament at side of pelvis and curls round upper end of ovary, overlapping its medial surface. Medial inch, outside uterus, is narrow, straight, closely adherent to peritoneal covering, and is called isthmus. Remainder is larger and slightly convoluted, more loosely connected with peritoneum, and is called ampulla. Abdominal end is the funnel-shaped in- fundibulum, which is broken up into a number of processes called fimbriae. One of them, longer than others and grooved, is attached to ovary and is called fimbria ovarica. Termination of uterine tube, behind ovary, is separated by peritoneum from medial aspect of ureter. Blood supply, from uterine and ovarian vessels. Nerves, from uterine and ovarian plexuses—ultimately from 11, 12 th., i L. Lymphatics end in lumbar glands. Ep-oophoron.—One longitudinal tubule and several transverse ones opening into it from below. These lie in mesosalpinx, between uterine tube and ovary. Longitudinal is a remnant of Wolffian duct and represents male duct of epididymis. Transverse are remnants of meso- nephric tubules and represent ductuli efferentes and lobuli epididymidis. Par oophoron. a few tubules lying nearer uterus, derived from meso- nephros, corresponds to paradidymis. Appendices vesiculosi, one or more small pedunculated cysts found near infundibulum, derived from upper end of Wolffian duct. Uterus lies between rectum and bladder. Piriform in shape ; broad end directed forwards and upwards. 3 in. long, 2 in. broad, 1 in. in antero-posterior thickness. Fundus is part above level of entrance of uterine tubes. Cervix is lowest inch, more cylindrical than the rest, and opens into vagina. Body is the intervening portion, marked off from cervix by slight constriction called isthmus. Long axis of uterus is directed forwards and upwards, parallel to axis of plane of superior aperture of pelvis, at right angles to vagina, in normal position of anteversion. When bladder is overdistended, uterus is raised up into line with vagina (retroversion). Body is more pliant than cervix and forms angle with it, open forwards. This is normal ante- flexion. Uterus is never quite median. Usually it inclines