FEMORAL ARTERY 293 vein below ; pelvic colon or ileum, peritoneum, ureter, ovarian vessels, ductus deferens or lig. teres are medial as well as anterior. Inferior epigastric artery arises just above inguinal lig., runs upwards and medially, on medial side of abdominal inguinal ring ; pierces transversalis fascia, passes over linea semicircularis into sheath of rectus, where it anast. with other arteries. Branches : muscular, cutaneous, pubic, ex- ternal spermatic. External spermatic artery or art. lig. teretis uteri (Crem- asteric) accompanies the spermatic cord (or -lig. teres), supplying coverings and anastomosing with ext. pudendal, scrotal (or labial) and int. spermatic. Pubic branch descends to pelvic surface of pubis to anast. with pubic branch of obturator. Obturator art. may be replaced by an enlargement of this anastomosis, called abnormal obturator, which descends from epigastric, in relation to femoral ring, to obturate foramen. Deep circumflex iliac artery arises from ext. iliac just above inguinal ligament ; runs laterally along inguinal lig. ; pierces trans- versalis fascia at ant. sup. iliac spine, pierces transversus abd. a little beyond that, runs backwards between transversus and obliquus int. ; sends an ascending branch upwards between them, and ends by anastomosing with ilio-lumbar. Femoral artery see also p. 168) begins as continuation of ext. iliac, posterior to inguinal ligament, midway between ant. sup. iliac spine and symphysis pubis ; runs distally through femoral trigone (Scarpa)and adductor canal(Hunter), and ends at junction of middle and distal thirds of thigh by passing through hiatus tendineus of adductor magnus and becoming popliteal. Position indicated, thigh being slightly flexed, abducted and laterally rotated, by proximal 3 of line drawn from point of origin to adductor tubercle. Branches.—Superficial circumflex iliac, superficial epi- gastric, superficial and deep external pudendal, profunda femoris, art. genu suprema, unnamed muscular. Relations.—Ln femoral trigone: psoas, pectineus, adductor longus arc posterior to it. Vein, on medial side proximally, is posterior to it distally. Profunda vessels lie between it and pectineus. Femoral n. is lateral and separated by small piece of psoas. In adductor canal: femoral vein is posterior proximally, posterior and lateral distally. Saphen- ous n. is anterior. N. to vastus medialis is lateral.