7 CERVICAL VERTEBR/E of spinal nerve passes. Anterior tubercle in 6th vertebra is some- times enlarged, and is called carotid tubercle because the common carotid artery can be compressed against it. Foramen transversarium is bounded by the parts of the trans- verse process, and by root of arch and side of body. In upper 6 vertebrae it transmits vertebral artery and veins, and sympathetic plexus from inferior cervical ganglion. Articular processes assist bodies in supporting weight of head. Articulating surfaces of superior pair look upwards and dorsally ; of inferior pair, downwards and ventrally. Typical cervical vertebra;—3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th—of any one skeleton can be distinguished from one another. Costo-transverse lamella in 3 and 4 is oblique. It is more oblique in 3 than in 4, and vertical depth of side of body is greater in 3. The lamella is horizontal in 5 and 6, and 6 often has an enlarged “ carotid tubercle." Special Cervical Vertebrae. First cervical vertebra 01- Atlas has no body and no spine. Consists of 2 lateral masses united by an anterior and a posterior arch. Anterior arch has circular facet—fovea dentis—on posterior surface, for articulation with dens (odontoid process) of 2nd vertebra; and a small anterior tubercle on anterior surface. Posterior arch is much longer than anterior. It has a groove for vertebral art. and 1st cervical nerve on its upper surface, near lateral mass ; and a small posterior tubercle on its posterior surface, in median plane. Upper surface of lateral mass is elongated and concave, and articulates with occipital condyle ; lower surface, nearly circular, articulates with upper facet of 2nd vertebra ; medial surface presents a tubercle for attach- ment of transverse ligament. Transverse process projects from lateral side of mass. It is large, not bifid, and may be felt in space behind mandible, below the ear. Anterior ends of lateral masses are closer together than the posterior. Superior articular fovea, on upper surface of mass, is oval, looks upwards and medially, and is sometimes partially sub- divided by notches at the sides. Inferior articular surface is slightly concave and looks down wards and medially. Rectus capitis anterior (anticus minor) arises Irom ant. surface of mass: and accessory ligament of the joint between it and 2nd cervical is attached to postero-medial aspect of mass. Transverse ligament crosses the ring and divides it into small anterior compartment for dens (odontoid process . and larger posterior compartment for spinal medulla and its membranes. Transverse process is obliquely compressed and its tubercles