EMBRYOLOGY 512 impure blood from lungs. From left atrium it passes to left ventricle and thence into the aorta, and nearly all passes into innominate, left carotid and subclavian. Impure blood from head and neck, upper limbs and thorax is carried by superior vena cava to right atrium, from which it passes to right ventricle and is expelled through pulmonary arterial trunk. Lungs are functionless, and pulmonary arteries convey to them sufficient only for their nourishment; the greater part passes from pulmonary artery through ductus arteriosus to aorta, and mingles with some of the relatively pure blood in it. Ductus arteriosus joins aorta beyond origin of subclavian artery. Therefore head and neck and upper limbs receive purer blood than res\ of body, and are relatively large at birth. Other parts of body are nourished by the less pure blood distributed by branches of the descending aorta; and a great part of the blood in aorta is sent by the umbilical branches of hypo- gastric arteries (int. iliac) to the placenta to be purified. Changes after Birth.—Foramen ovale closes; ductus arteriosus becomes lig. arteriosum ; ductus venosus becomes lig. venosunt ; umbilical artery becomes fibrous cord from pelvis to umbilicus ; (left) umbilical vein becomes round lig. of liver. Pulmonary arteries enlarge greatly, in order to carry all the blood in the pulmonary trunk to the lungs. NERVOUS SYSTEM Neural tube is at first a single layer of ectoderm cells. These multiply and become differentiated into 2 sets. (1) Spongioblasts extend from central canal to surface. Their inner ends become columnar ciliated ependyma of central canal of spinal medulla and of ventricles of brain. Their outer parts become the neuroglia in sub- stance and on surface of spinal medulla and brain. (2) Neuro- blasts, which become nerve cells and their processes ; they are aggregated in sides of tube, leaving its roof and floor plates free of neuroblasts. Central canal becomes lozenge-shaped. The part of its lateral wall dorsal to its lateral angle is called alar lamina ; ventral part is called basal lamina. Medulla Spinalis.—In spinal medulla the posterior column of grey matter is developed in alar lamina, ant. column in basal lamina. In brain the fovea, superior and inferior, and sulcus hypothalamicus (Monro) indicate line between alar and basal laminae. In spinal medulla the white matter is on outside of laminae, and is