OSTEOLOGY 42 BASIS CRANII EXTERNA Antero-median Area.—Bones : maxillae, palatine, body of sphenoid, pterygoid processes, vomer. Sutures: s. palatina mediana and transversa, pterygo-palatine, spheno-vomerine. Hard palate : formed by palatine processes of maxillae and horizontal parts of palatine bones. Bounded anteriorly and laterally by alveolar processes, which bear teeth, and end posteriorly in tuber maxillare on each side. Posterior margin, free, gives attachment to soft palate ; projects backwards in middle as posterior nasal spine, from which musculus uvulae arises. Foramina : F. incisivum, posterior to incisor teeth ; 2 pairs of canals lead into it from nose— foramina of Stenson, laterally, transmit greater palatine arteries (ascending to nose) ; foramina of Scarpa, in the suture, transmit naso-palatine nerves (descending to palate). For. palatinum majus, at postero-lateral angle, is the lower end of greater palatine canal. Greater palatine art. runs anteriorly from it in groove near alveolar process ; posterior to it is palatine crest for insertion of tensor veli palatini ; posterior to crest is one foramen palatinum minus, and lateral to it the other, when present. Choanae (Posterior Nares). — 1 to i| inch long; i inch broad ; look backwards and downwards. Bounded below by palatine ; above, by sphenoid covered by ala of vomer and vaginal process ; medially, by vomer ; laterally, by medial pterygoid lamina. Pterygoid process consists of medial and lateral laminae, which bound pterygoid fossa ; the upper parts of their anterior borders are joined, but lower parts are separ- ated by pterygoid fissure. Lamina medialis, narrower than lateralis, ends below in hamulus ptcrygoideus, on under surface of which tendon of tensor veli palatini turns medially to palate. Superior constrictor and pterygo-man- dibular raphe arise from posterior border and hamulus. Processus vaginalis projects medially from upper end of medial lamina to articulate with ala of vomer. Pharyn- geal canal (p. 40) is seen lateral to this articulation. Ptery- goid tubercle is at upper end of posterior border of medial lamina, on anterior margin of for. lacerum. Fossa sca- phoidea, below and lateral to tubercle, gives origin to Censor v. palatini. Pterygoid (Vidian) canal (p. 40) is above and