9 THORACIC VERTEBRAE element may form a separate cervical rib. Foramen transversarium is small and transmits a vein sometimes. THORACIC VERTEBRA Special Characters. Facets on sides of bodies for heads of ribs, and facets on most transverse processes for tubercles of ribs. Each thoracic vertebra articulates with rib with which it is in numerical correspondence ; and bodies of upper 8 or 9 articulate each with rib below, as well. Typical Thoracic Vertebra.—Body is heart-shaped, and its dorsal surface has greater vertical depth than ventral, in conformity with curve of column. Fovete costales, superior and inferior, are demi-facets on upper and lower margins of posterior part of side of body. Roots of vertebral arch (pedicles) are short. Laminae are broad, flat and imbricated, i.e. each overlaps lamina below. Vertebral foramen is nearly circular, and smaller than in cervical or lumbar vertebra:. Spine is long, sloping and slender. Transverse process is thick. Its free end is expanded and bears on anterior surface the fovea costalis transversalis—a facet for articula- tion with tubercle of rib of corresponding number. Articular surfaces of articular processes are nearly flat ; those on superior pair are directed mainly dorsally, on inferior pair, mainly ventrally. Upper and lower surfaces of body are nearly flat. Ventral surface is very convex from side to side, slightly concave from above downwards. Dorsal surface is concave from side to side, and flat from above downwards. In upper and lower members the shape of body resembles that of cervical and lumbar, respectively. Superior costal fovea is larger than inferior, and, with inferior fovea of vertebra above and intervening tibro-cartilage, it forms articular cavity for head of rib. Root of arch is directed dorsally and flattened from side to side ; is attached close to upper margin of body, and, therefore, upper verte- bral notch is shallow, lower is deep. Spine tapers to a tuberculated free extremity; is triangular on section; very oblique (almost vertical) in middle of series, shorter and much less oblique in upper and lower members. Transverse processes are directed laterallv, dorsally and a little upwards. Superior articular processes look slightly upwards and laterally as well as dorsally ; inferior paii look in opposite direction, ami are partly fused with latnime. Special Thoracic Vertebra?. - First: body resembles that of yth cervical in outline, and has a whole facet and a half facet on