408 ORGANS OF THE SENSES is elliptical when open, exposing cornea, except upper and lower margins ; transverse when closed, and a little below pupil. Free margins are flat and surmounted by eyelashes in nearly whole extent. Near medial end is the small papilla lacrimalis, on which there is an aperture—punctual lacrimale. Medial to papillae eye- lashes are absent, and the eyelids bound a triangular space called lacuB lacrimalis, in which is placed caruncula lacrimalis, a reddish body consisting of modified skin and skin glands. In each eyelid, near free margin, there is a condensed fibrous plate, named tarsus. Lig. palpebrale mediate is attached to frontal process of maxilla, in front of lacrimal sac ; laterally it divides to be attached to the tarsi. Raphe palpebralis lateralis is attached laterally to zygo- matic, medially to tarsi. Superior palpebral ligament is attached to upper margin of orbit, and blends with tendon of levator palpebrae below. It is pierced by supra-trochlear and supra-orbital nerves and accompanying vessels and by dorsal nasal art. and terminal branches of lacrimal nerve. Inf. palpebral lig. extends from lower margin of orbit to inferior tarsus. Sup. and inf. palpebral ligaments form the palpebral fascia, which fuses laterally with raphe, but is separated from medial lig. by lacrimal sac. Glandulse tarsales (Meibomian) are long sebaceous glands im- bedded in tarsi, posteriorly. They open on margin, behind eye- lashes. Ciliary glands of Moll are modified sweat glands, behind eyelashes. Blocking of duct of one of these gives rise to a “ stye.” Conjunctiva is the mucous membrane which covers posterior surfaces of eyelids and is reflected on to anterior surface of sclera. The lines of reflection are called superior and inferior fornix conjunctiva. Plica semilunaris conjunctiva is a vertical fold placed lateral to caruncle. Skin of eyelid is thin and without hairs. Superficial fascia is devoid of fat and contains fibres of orbicularis octili. Upper eyelid is larger and more movable, and has special muscle, levator palpebrae superioris, tendon of which splits into three lamellce :—anterior is joined by sup. palpebral lig., is attached to ant. surface of sup. tarsus, and sends fibres, through orbicularis, to skin ; middle is attached to sup. tarsus; posterior is attached to sup. fornix. Arteries to eyelids, from ophthalmic, superficial temporal, trans- verse facial. Veins end in ophthalmic, superficial temporal, angular. Lymphatics end in anterior auricular, parotid and submaxillary lymph glands. Nerves: Sensory, from supra-orbital, supra-trochlear, infra-orbital, infra-trochlear, lacrimal. Motor to orbicularis from facial, to levator from oculo-motor. APPARATUS LACRIMALIS Glandula lacrimalis superior lies in fossa lacrimalis on orbital aspect of zygomatic process of frontal, separated from eyeball by