250 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE ischial spine ; medially, by sphincter ani ext. and levator ani, with its fascia inferior of pelvic diaphragm; laterally, by ischium, obturator internusand its fascia, and falciform process of sacro-tuberous (great sacro-sciatic) lig.; anteriorly, by junction of deep layer of superficial fascia with the fascite of urogenital diaphragm (triangular lig.) ; posteriorly, by glutaeus maximus and sacro-tuberous ligament. Contents : pad of fat, intersected by fibrous tissue, and crossed, latero-medially, by inf. haemorrhoidal vessels and nerves. Perineal branch of 4th sacral n. lies near posterior angle. Perforating cutaneous branch of 2nd and 3rd sacral nerves, and gluteal branches of posterior cutaneous n. (small sciatic), accompanied by branches of inf. gluteal (sciatic) vessels, turn round lower border of gluta;us maximus. Perineal division of pudendal n. or its scrotal branches pass out of fossa at its anterior part. Alcock’s canal, on lateral wall of ischio-rectal fossa, about 1^ inches from lower margin of tuber ischii, is formed by splitting of obturator fascia ; contains dorsal nerve of penis, internal pudendal vessels, perineal division of pudendal nerve, in that order from above downwards. Pelvic Floor consists of levatores ani and coccygei. Levator ani, on each side, is covered on both pelvic and perineal surfaces with fascia, called superior and inferior fascia; of pelvic diaphragm. Coccygeus is covered with fascia on its pelvic surface, and its dorsal surface is fused with and supported by lig. sacro-spinosum. The floor is supplemented anteriorly, and on an inferior plane, by the sphincter urethra; and deep transverse perineal muscles, enclosed between superior and inferior fascia; of urogenital diaphragm (deep and superficial layers of triangular ligament), the relations of which are given on p. 247. Between the anterior borders of the levatores ani there is a triangular interval, the base of which is formed by symphysis pubis and adjoining pelvic surfaces of pubic bones. Posteriorly, there is an interval between coccygeus and piriformis, which extends laterally, between piriformis and lower margin of greater sciatic notch. Structures piercing1 the Floor.—Rectum, as it becomes anal canal, pierces the floor in median plane, where floor is formed by levatores. Fifth sacral and the coccygeal nerve descend from hiatus sacralis and pass into pelvis by piercing sacro-tuberous and sacro- spinous ligaments (great and small sacro-sciatic) and the coccygeus, above and below transverse process of 1st piece of coccyx, respectively. They communicate with each other on pelvic surface of coccygeus, and are joined by a branch from 4th sacral, to form coccygeal plexus, from which branches pass dorsally, through coccygeus and the ligaments, to supply skin over coccyx and between coccyx and anus. Perineal branch of 4th sacral nerve pierces coccygeus and,