505 LIVER—PANCREAS—INTESTINE Liver.—A diverticulum grows out from ventral wall of duodenum. It becomes separated into a hepatic section, which forms hepatic duct and its branches and main mass of glandular substance of liver, and a 2nd segment, which forms gall bladder with its duct, and bile duct. Hepatic rudiment grows into a mesodermal mass, called septum transversum, which becomes part of pericardium and diaphragm and provides mesodermal elements of liver. Rudiment enlarges and forms right and left lobes of liver. Liver grows out of septum again into abdominal cavity, dragging with it mesodermal tissue, called ventral mesogastrium, which becomes thinned down to form falciform liga- ment and lesser omentum. Liver grows completely out of septum, but is retained in contact by mesodermal tissue, which becomes coronary and right and left triangular (lateral) ligaments. In early months the liver almost fills abdominal cavity. Growth is relatively less rapid in later months, but even at birth it is Vs °f body weight and fills half the cavity, and left lobe touches spleen and left kidney. In adult it is about Vs of body weight, left lobe having been reduced relatively more than right. Pancreas.—There are originally 3 pancreatic rudiments, a dorsal and 2 ventral. They arise from duodenal part of fore-gut and the left ventral soon disappears. The dorsal rudiment forms body and tail of pancreas. The persisting ventral rudiment arises in connection with bile duct, and forms head of pancreas. The rudiments fuse ; and a communication between their ducts enlarges so that the contents of duct of dorsal part is deflected into ventral duct, and terminal part of dorsal duct remains small. Body and tail, derived from dorsal diverticulum, grow into dorsal mesogastrium, the body lying in that part which fuses with parietal peritoneum, the tail in part which becomes lieno-renal ligament. Intestine Intestine is derived from mid- and hind-guts, and is held to dorsal wall of abdomen by a mesentery. The part that comes to form jejuneum, ileum, ascending and transverse colon projects ventrally as a loop, which partly descends into umbilical cord and encloses a pro- longation of the mesentery which contains sup. mesenteric art. between its layers. Vitello-intestinal duct is attached to apex of loop ; it persists in 2 per cent, of cases as Meekers diverticulum, situated about 3 feet from end of ileum. Ctec urn appears as small outgrowth on caudal side of duct. Ends of loop come close together, and loop is rotated around mesenteric artery as an axis, so that left side of its contained mesentery becomes right side, and caudal, colic part crosses ventral to duodenum, and, after loop is drawn back into abdomen, the ctecal protrusion lies on right side of abdomen, below liver. Caecum descends to iliac fossa