415 ORGAN OF HEARING is ampullated at one end. Superior is vertical, lies across long axis of petrous, and produces arcuate eminence on anterior surface. Ampulla opens into upper part of vestibule. Posterior end joins non- ampullated end of posterior canal to form crus commune, which opens into medial part of vestibule. Posterior is vertical, parallel to posterior surface of petrous. Upper end joins crus commune ; lower ampullated end enters lower and posterior part of vestibule, where some apertures (macula cribrosa inferior) transmit filaments from cochlear nerve to duct within canal. Lateral arches horizontally in lateral direction. Ampullated lateral end opens close below ampulla of superior ; other end opens above ampulla of posterior. Lateral canal of one ear is nearly in same plane as that of the other, posterior of one ear is nearly parallel to superior of the other. Cochlea. —Short cone, lying on its side ; base at bottom of internal meatus ; apex, directed laterally and anteriorly, lies close to canal for tensor tympani. 9 mm. across base ; 5 mm. from base to apex. Consists of tube 28-30 mm. long, coiled spirally 2A or aj times round a central pillar called modiolus, which falls short of apex by 1 mm. Coils are called basal, central, and apical. Basal produces promontory on medial wall of tympanum. Lamina spiralis ossea, a thin flat shelf, winds round modiolus like the thread of a screw, projecting half- way into cochlear tube, dividing it into scala vestibuli on its apical side, scala tympani on basal side. It logins at floor of vestibule and ends near apex in a process, called hamulus, which assists to bound an aperture called helicotrema. From outer wall of lower half of basal coil the lamina spiralis secundaria projects inwards, and slit between it and lam. spir. ossea is called ftssura vestibuli. A membrane, called lamina basilaris, stretches from free edge of lam. spiralis ossea to outer wall of tube, completing septum Ijetween scalne, but they communicate with one another through helicotrema. Scala tympani begins at fenestra cochlea; (rotunda), which is closed by membrana tympani secundaria. Near fenestra is opening of aqueeductus cochlea\ which runs through petrous for 10-12 mm., and opens at anterior margin of jugular foramen. Through it, s. tympani communi- cates with subarachnoid space, and it transmits a vein. Scala vestibuli begins in vestibule. Modiolus is channelled by a large number of canales longitudinales modioli for cochlear nerves and vessels. They run for varying distances longitudinally and then turn towards attached edge of lamina spiralis ossea, where they dilate and join one another to form canalis spiralis modioli, for spiral ganglion. From this spiral canal numerous small canals conduct nerves and vessels to free edge of lamina spiralis to enter spiral organ of Corti. Labyrinthus Membranaceus.—Lies in bony labyrinth but does not nearly fill it. Contains fluid called endolvmph, while perilymph occupies space between it and walls of bony labyrinth. Utriculus.—Small sac, lying in postero-superior part of vestibule, receives the ends of ductus semicirculares. Its highest part, called