LUMBAR, SACRAL, & COCCYGEAL NERVES 373 anterior and posterior branches, which pierce or appear between digitations of serratus, and are directed, the one anteriorly over pectoralis major, the other posteriorly over latissimus dorsi. First thoracic nerve gives off no white ramus com- municans. It joins brachial plexus, but sends small inter- costal nerve across pleural surface of 1st rib into 1st space ; this gives off no lateral or anterior cutaneous branches. Second to eleventh, inclusive, are intercostal. Upper 6 intercostals are thoracic, lower 5 are thoracico-abdominal in distribution. Second sends a communicating branch to first. Its lateral cutaneous branch is called intercosto- brachial, and stretches across axilla to the arm and supplies skin of floor of axilla and posterior part of medial side of arm. Posterior branch of lateral cutaneous of third may cross axilla to skin of arm. Seventh to eleventh, at ends of intercostal spaces, pass between digitations of diaphragm into abdominal wall ; proceed medially between obliquus interims and transversus, enter sheath of rectus at its lateral edge, turn anteriorly, through rectus and anterior wall of its sheath, to end in skin of abdomen, seventh supplying region of xiphoid process, tenth, the region of umbilicus. They also supply obliqui, transversus, and rectus. Their lateral cutaneous branches supply skin of abdomen as well as thorax, and that of eleventh extends on to buttock slightly. Twelfth thoracic nerve passes dorsal to upper end of psoas major, appears in abdomen from behind lateral lumbo- costal arch (ext. arcuate lig.) ; runs with subcostal vessels across anterior surface of quadratus lumborum, posterior to kidney; pierces transversus and then follows course of a lower intercostal. Besides obliqui, etc., it supplies pyramidalis. Its ramus cutaneus lateralis pierces obliqui, descends over iliac crest, anterior to its tubercle, and supplies skin of buttock, as far as trochanter major. LUMBAR, SACRAL, AND COCCYGEAL NERVES Anterior rami form the plexus lunibo-sacralis, subdivided into lumbar, sacral, pudendal and coccyge.al plexuses. They receive grey rami communicantes from sympathetic. White rami communicantes are given by t and 2 t„ to sympathetic trunk, and by 3 and 4 s. to sympathetic pelvic plexus.