RESPIRATORY APPARATUS 422 crico-thyreoideus. Recurrent branch of vagus, by its internal laryngeal continuation, supplies other muscles, all on their external aspect. Vessels.—Sup. laryngeal of sup. thyreoid art. Inferior laryngeal of inf. thyreoid. Lymphatics from upper part end in upper deep cervical glands at bifurcation of common carotid ; from lower part in pre-laryngeal, pre- and para-tracheal, and lower deep cervical glands. TRACHEA AND BRONCHI Trachea begins at lower border of cricoid cartilage, opposite lower border of 6th c. vertebra. Ends by dividing into two bronchi opposite upper border of 5th thoracic vertebra and opposite sternal angle. Lies in median plane, except lower end, which is slightly to the right. Upper half is in neck, lower half in sup. mediastinum. Length in male 4-4A in., female 3U4 in. Relations. In Neck.—Anterior-, deep fascia, communica- tion between ant. jugular veins ; sterno-hyoid,sterno-thyreoid ; isthmus of thyreoid gland opposite upper 3 or 4 rings ; above isthmus, the pyramidal lobe,levator glandulae,and anastomosis between anterior branches of superior thyreoid arteries ; below isthmus, thymus, inf. thyreoid veins ; occasional thyreoidea ima artery ; pre-tracheal fascia. Lateral: lateral lobe of thyreoid, down to 5th or 6th ring ; common carotid, and, on right side, innominate art. as well. Posterior : oesophagus, and recurrent n. on each side, in groove between trachea and oesophagus ; longus colli muscles and vertebral column. In Thorax.—Anterior-, manubrium; sterno - thyreoids ; thymus ; left innominate vein ; aortic arch, innominate and left common carotid arteries. Lymph glands, and deep cardiac plexus at bifurcation. Right side : vagus, vena azygos, pleura and lung. Left side : aortic arch, left subclavian artery, pleura and lung. Recurrent n. in groove between trachea and oesophagus. Posterior : oesophagus, longi colli, vertebral column. Bronchi extend laterally and downwards from bifurcation of trachea, and each enters hilum of its lung, opposite 6th TH. vertebra. Right bronchus is wider, more vertical, and only about half the length (1 in.) of left. Left bronchus is longer (2 in.) and more horizontal, because (1) end of trachea is slightly to right of median plane, (2) hilum of left lung is