NEUROLOGY 356 ventral surface of medulla oblongata, and join restiform body (p. 326), but most of them turn sharply upwards and form medial lemniscus —a broad flat band near median raphe of medulla oblongata, with tecto- spinal tract and medial longitudinal bundle on its dorsal edge, pyramid on ventral edge. As it enters pons it is twisted so that its surfaces are dorsal and ventral, and it lies between dorsal and basilar parts of pons, some fibres of corpus trapezoideum intersecting it. Some of its medial fibres join basis pedunculi (crusta), but bulk of it enters tegmentum, dorsal to substantia nigra, and at first ventral to brachium conjunctivum (sup. cerebellar peduncle), then lateral to it, and finally dorso-lateral to it and to red nucleus. It sends some fibres to superior corpus quadrigeminum, but most of it runs on through subthalamic region to thalamus, where its fibres end. (A few may pass directly to cortex through internal capsule and corona radiata.) In medulla oblongata and pons it is joined by fibres from sensory nuclei of cerebral nerves of opposite side. Spino-thalamic tract consists of fibres which arise from cells of post, column of spinal medulla, cross in white commissure, turn upwards, partly in antero-lateral superficial tract, and partly scattered through lateral funiculus ; ascend through formatio reticularis grisea of medulla oblongata, dorsal part of pons, tegmentum, and sub- thalamic region, to end in thalamus. New fibres arise from cells in thalamus round which fibres of lemniscus and spino-thalamic tract end, and they proceed by way of internal capsule and corona radiata to sensory areas of cortex. Other Tracts conveying; Impulses from and to Cells of Spinal Medulla.—Fasciculus cerebello-spinalis (Direct cere- bellar, Flechsig) arises from base of posterior column (horn) of spinal medulla, beginning at upper lumbar region ; ascends at surface of lateral funiculus of spinal medulla and medulla oblongata, in front of posterior nerve-roots ; turns obliquely backwards over postero-lateral sulcus of medulla oblongata and tractus spinalis (spinal root of V.), and joins restiform body, by which it is carried into cerebellum, to end in superior vermis, on both sides of median plane. Antero-lateral superficial fasciculus (Gowers’) arises from posterior column, beginning in lumbar region, ascends at surface of lateral funiculus, in front of f. cerebello-spinalis, and encroaching on anterior funiculus. In medulla oblongata most of it sinks under cover of olive, but some fibres run up along posterior edge. They all pass up dorsal division of pons, and at its upper border turn backwards on lateral surface of brachium conjunctivum (sup. cer. ped.), and are carried by it and anterior medullary velum into cerebellum, to end in its cortex. Some of its fibres pass to opposite half of cerebellum in brachium pontis ; others run up to sup. corpus quad, (spino-tectal fibres); and spino-thalamic fibres go to thalamus. Rubro-spinal tract arises in red nucleus, crosses median plane, descends through tegmentum, dorsal part of pons, substantia