102 ARTICULATIONS radius, and over it to margin of head. Diameter is less across distal than proximal margin ; hence radius is securely held in position. In interval between radius and ulna the lig. quadratum connects ant. and post, parts of distal margin of lig. annulare and is attached to neck of radius and distal margin of radial notch of ulna. Articulatio Radio-ulnaris Distalis. Diarthrodial, pivot joint. Head of ulna with ulnar notch of radius laterally, and articular disc distally. Articular capsule : very thin proxim- ally; fibrous stratum consists of anterior and posterior radio- ulnar lig. passing between margins of articular surfaces in front and behind. Discus articularis (triangularfibro-cartilage) completes joint distally. Attached by base to edge separating carpal and medial surfaces of distal end of radius, by apex to pit between styloid process and head of ulna, by its margins to dorsal and volar radio-carpal ligaments. Both surfaces are covered with synovial stratum ; proximal surface articulates with head of ulna, distal with os lunatum and triquetrum (semilunar and cuneiform). Synovial stratum, very loose, covers articular disc, lines ant. and post, ligaments, bulges proximally between radius and ulna as recessus sacciformis. Accessory Ligaments connecting Radius and Ulna.— Chorda obliqua, a slender band extending from tuberosity of ulna distally and laterally to radius, distal to its tuberosity. Membrana interossea : broad, thin, strong. Attached to interosseous crests of radius and ulna and to the posterior of the two ridges into which that of radius divides distally. Extends from one inch distal to radial tuberosity to capsule of distal radio-ulnar joint, with which it blends. Interosseous membrane binds radius and ulna together, and increases surface for origin of muscles. Its fibres run mostly from radius, distally and medially, to ulna, permitting shocks, transmitted to radius from hand, to be passed on to ulna and thence to humerus. Flexor pollicis longus and digitorum profundus arise from proximal f of volar surface, and volar interosseous vessels lie between them, and perforate it near distal end ; pronator quadratus lies on distal fourth. Dorsal surface gives origin to abductor pollicis longus, extensor poll, brevis and longus, and extensor indicis proprius, while supinator lies on it proximally, volar interosseous vessels and dorsal interosseous nerve distally. Hiatus interosseus is the gap between it and chorda obliqua, for passage backwards of dorsal interosseous vessels. Movements of Radio=uInar Joints.—Initiated bybrachio-