4 ENCEPHALON OR BRAIN 323 continuous above with veins of medulla oblongata, and communicate with veins of vertebral canal by branches which run along nerve roots. Lymphatics end in deep cervical, intercostal and lumbar glands. ENCEPHALON OR BRAIN Brain, about 3 lbs. in weight (1360 grm.), almost fills cranial cavity, and is surrounded by dura mater, arachnoid and pia mater. When viewed from above the cerebral hemispheres are seen, and between them the longitudinal fissure, at the bottom of which the corpus callosum is found, if the hemispheres are pulled apart. When viewed from below, various parts are seen :— Anteriorly are the orbital surfaces of frontal lobes of the hemispheres ; between them the longitudinal fissure ; and, if that is widened, the anterior end—genu and rostrum—of corpus callosum is found. Near median plane, on orbital surface, is the olfactory bulb, continuous posteriorly with olfactory tract, which divides into medial and lateral roots or striae, with sometimes an intermediate stria between them. Posterior to frontal lobe is the temporal lobe. Cleft between them is the stem of fissura lateralis (Sylvius). On medial side of temporal lobe is the uncus of gyrus hippocampi. Posteriorly are the halves of cerebellum ; between them posteriorly is medulla oblongata, and uniting them anteriorly is the pons. At side of median plane of medulla oblongata is pyramid, a longitudinal elevation consisting of motor fibres emerging from pons ; lateral to it is the olive ; dorso-lateral to olive is restiform body, which connects medulla oblongata with cerebellum. Pons is continued into cerebellum on each side as brachium pontis (middle cerebellar peduncle), lying on which is a semi-detached part of cerebellum called flocculus. Above pons are the cerebral peduncles (crura cerebri); part of each seen is basis pedunculi (crusta), diverging from its fellow to sink into hemisphere and become continuous with internal capsule; curving round upper end of basis, and partly hidden by uncus, is the optic tract, which ends anteriorly by joining optic chiasma, from which optic nerve passes antero- laterally to optic foramen. Chiasma lies at posterior end of part of longitudinal fissure seen in this view. If chiasma is pulled down and back, the thin, easily torn lamina terminalis