INFERIOR EXTREMITY >59 carpo-metocarpal joints. Abductor and flexor pollicis brevis, abductor and flexor dig. quinti brevis, adductor pollicis (also from metacarpus). From metacarpus to phalanges, acting on metacarpo-phalan- geal and interphalangeal joints. Seven interossei, interosseus primus volaris (acting only on metacarpo-phalangeal), adductor pollicis (see I paragraph next above). FASCT/E AND MUSCLES OF INFERIOR EXTREMITY FASCIiE AND MUSCLES OF THIGH AND BUTTOCK Superficial fascia in buttock is very thick anti usually loaded with fat. It contains: (1) small unnamed cutaneous vessels; (2) lateral divisions of posterior branches (posterior primary divisions) of upper three lumbar nerves, descending over iliac crest, in front of post. sup. iliac spine ; (3) branches of lateral divisions of posterior branches of upper three sacral nerves, piercing origin of glutreus maximus from sacro-tuberous lig. and extending laterally ; (4) per forating cutaneous branch of 2nd and 3rd sacral ant. branches), piercing sacro-tuberous lig. and glutrcus maximus, and turning upwards into buttock; (5) branches of posterior cutaneous nerve of thigh (small sciatic), turning round lower border of glutams maximus and running upwards into buttock ; (6) posterior branch of lateral cutaneous nerve, turning dorsally and distally into lower part of buttock : 7 latt ral cutaneous (iliac) branch of last thoracic nerve, descending over iliac crest, anterior to tubercle of crest; (8) lateral cutaneous (iliac) branch of ilio hypogastric, descending over tubercle of crest. In groin the superficial fascia is divided into two layers and contains superficial branches of femoral artery and their companion veins, and lymph glands. See Fascia of Abdomen, p. 240. In the thigh the superficial fascia is thickest usually on the medial side. It contains : (1) small unnamed cutaneous vessels ; 2) great saphenous vein, leaving leg and entering thigh at medial side of knee, and extending to fossa ovalis (saphenous opening); (3) lumbo-inguinal nerve (crural branch of genito-crural), in proximal part of front of thigh ; (4) terminal branches of ilio inguinal nerve, over medial part of proximal part of front of thigh ; (5) branches of medial cutaneous nerve and of cutaneous branch of obturator, near great saphenous vein, in distal 3 of thigh ; (6) the two divisions ot intermediate (middle) cutaneous nerve, in distal 3 of front of thigh ; (7) branches of lateral cutaneous nerve, on both anterior and lateral aspects of thigh : 8) branches of posterior cutaneous nerve (small sciatic), on posterior and medial aspects of thigh. Deep fascia enveloping thigh and buttock is called fascia lata