SYMPATHETIC NERVOUS SYSTEM 401 Thoracic Ganglia.—Typically 12 in number, but often reduced by fusion of neighbouring ganglia. They send grey rami communi- cantes posteriorly and laterally to intercostal nerves, and all except 1st receive white r. communicantes from intercostals. Upper 5 ganglia send branches to aorta, vertebras and their ligaments ; 2nd, 3rd, 4th send branches to post, pulmonary plexus. Greater splanchnic n. arises from 5th to 9th ganglia ; descends under cover of pleura, upon intercostal arteries and bodies of vertebras, close to lateral side of vena azygos on right side, of v. hemiazygos on left side ; gives branches to descending aorta and oesophagus; pierces crus of diaphragm, and ends in coeliac ganglion ; splanchnic ganglion is placed on it near exit from thorax, and gives branches to aorta and oesophagus. Lesser splanchnic n. arises from 10th and nth ganglia, pierces crus, and ends in coeliac ganglion. N. splanchnic ns itnus arises from last ganglion, pierces crus, and ends in renal plexus. Lumbar Ganglia.—Irregular in number—4 to 8. Send grey rami communicantes to lumbar nerves ; these accompany lumbar vessels, deep to psoas major. Receive white r. communicantes from 1st and 2nd lumbar nerves. Send irregular branches to aortic and hypogastric plexuses. Sacral Ganglia. — Usually 4. Send grey r. communicantes to sacral and coccygeal nerves, branches to pelvic plexuses, and branches to form plexus around middle sacral artery. (White r. communi- cantes arise from 3rd and 4th sacral nerves, but they join pelvic plexuses.) THE LARGE SYMPATHETIC PLEXUSES Cardiac Plexus consists of a superficial and a deep part. Superficial cardiac plexus lies in concavity of aortic arch, in front of bifurcation of pulmonary artery. Formed by superior cervical cardiac branch of left sympathetic and inferior cervical cardiac branch of left vagus. Cardiac ganglion (Wrisberg) is placed on their union. Branches : (1) to left i of deep plexus; (2) to left anterior pulmonary plexus; (3) along pulmonary artery to ant. coronary plexus, around right coronary art. Deep cardiac plexus lies behind arch of aorta, upon bifurcation of trachea. High/ half is formed by superior, middle, inferior cardiac branches of sympathetic in neck, sup. and inf. cardiac branches of vagus in neck, cardiac branches of recurrent n., and of vagus in thorax. Left half is formed by middle and inferior cardiac branches of sympathetic, sup. cardiac branch of vagus in neck, cardiac branches of recurrent n., and a contribution from superficial plexus. Branches to both anterior pulmonary and both coronary plexuses. Anterior coronary plexus, formed by branches from superficial and from right half of deep plexus; accompanies right coronarv 2 f)