466 DIGESTIVE APPARATUS at greater curvature to form gastro-phrenic lig., gastro- splenic lig. (gastro-splenic omentum) and greater omentum. Relations.—Between the layers, at right free border, are the hepatic art. (to the left), bile duct (to the right), vena portae (behind and between); the right and left gastric arteries with their veins, near stomach ; cystic and hepatic ducts, near liver; besides nerves, lymph vessels and glands. Anterior surface is in relation to tuber omentale of liver. Posterior surface forms part of ant. wall of omental bursa (lesser sac); lower end of caudate (Spigelian) lobe projects down- wards behind it; and it is separated also by the cavity and post, wall of bursa from tuber omentale of pancreas, v. cava inferior, crura of diaphragm, right inferior phrenic art., coeliac art. and plexus. Omentum Majus (Greater Omentum) hangs down from stomach like an apron. Consists of 4 layers. Two anterior layers descend from greater curvature of stomach as far as pelvis, turn back and run upwards, as two posterior layers, to transverse colon ; separate to enclose it; meet again and proceed to lower border of pancreas, as transverse meso- colon. At pancreas, the two layers separate finally, the one passing upwards over structures on post. abd. wall, the other downwards. Lower part of cavity of omental bursa is enclosed between ant. and post, layers, and these layers are continuous with one another at right and left borders of omentum, as well as at lower border. Left border, traced upwards, becomes continuous with gastro-splenic and lieno-renal ligaments. Ant. surface is in relation to ant. abdominal wall. Transverse colon is hidden by the two anterior layers immediately below stomach ; and all four layers are anterior to small intestine. Right and left gastro-epiploic vessels, lymph glands and vessels lie between the two ant. layers near stomach. Near right and left borders there are anastomoses between branches of gastro-epiploic and colic arteries. The two ant. layers are occasionally adherent to transverse colon, and below that level the cavity of omental bursa may be obliterated ; the name gastro-colic lig. is sometimes given to the part of omentum between stomach and colon, when this adhesion is present. Mesenterium (Mesentery Proper).—A wide, broad fold, attaching jejunum and ileum to post, wall of abdomen. Its posterior border or root, about 6 in. long, is attached to post.