KNEE-JOINT 117 collateral lig., distal to line of joint, covers (i) part of semimem- branosus as it lies with its bursa in groove on medial tibial condyle ; and distal to that, (2) the medial inferior articular vessels and nerve. Lateral.—Biceps covers fibular collateral lig., a bursa intervening, and is split by it longitudinally. Under cover of the ligament are: (1) the lateral inferior articular vessels and nerve of knee; (2) tendon of popliteus, which is enclosed in a bursal prolongation of synovial stratum of joint, and separates lig. from lateral meniscus (semi- lunar cartilage). Anterior.— Subcutaneous bursae, superficial vessels, patellar plexus of nerves. Bursa; around Knee-joint.—(1 Between lateral head of gastrocnemius and capsule of joint. (2) Under cover of medial head of gastrocnemius, and between it and semimembranosus. (3) Under cover of and between sartorius, gracilis and semitendinosus, separat- ing them from tibial collateral lig. (4) Around tendon of semi- membranosus, as it lies between tibia and tibial collateral lig. (c,) Between tendon of biceps and fibular collateral lig. (6) Unsheath- ing tendon of popliteus. (7) Patellar bursa? : (a) Between skin and distal part of patella. (^) Between the skin and lig. patellae. (c) Between fascia and insertion of quadriceps into proximal border of patella, (d) Between periosteum of patella and some fibres of quadriceps which pass superficial to patella to join the lig. patellae, (c) Between quadriceps and femur, proximal to knee-joint. (/) Between lig. patella? and tibia. Alovements.— Flexion, produced by biceps, semitendinosus, semimembranosus, popliteus, gastrocnemius, plantaris, sartorius, and gracilis ; checked by contact of leg and thigh, while lig. patella- and posterior cruciate lig. are tense. Flexion is initiated and accom- panied by medial rotation of tibia on femur (or lateral rotation of femur on tibia). The initial rotation is effected by popliteus, which is assisted afterwards by semitendinosus,semimembranosus, sartorius, and gracilis. Extension, accompanied by and terminating in lateral rotation of tibia on femur, is produced by quadriceps extensor, checked by tension of post, part of capsule, collateral and anterior cruciate ligaments. Rotation, apart from that associated with flexion and extension, is most free when knee is flexed at right angles : Medial rotation, produced by popliteus, semitendinosus, and slightly by semi- membranosus, gracilis, sartorius ; checked by ant. cruciate ligament. Lateral rotation, produced by biceps, checked by tibial collateral ligament. In flexion and extension the femur moves on tibia and menisci; in rotation the movement is on that plane, and also between tibia and menisci. Extended position is maintained, in erect posture, by gravity, as a