CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES 345 joined at maximum convexity by parieto-occipital fissure. Anterior part is so deep that it produces elevation, called calcar avis, in post, horn of ventricle. Cuneus is the gyrus on medial surface of occipital lobe, between parieto-occipital and calcarine fissures. Gyrus lingualis, partly on medial surface, mainly on tentorial surface of occipital lobe, lies between calcarine and collateral figures, and is continuous anteriorly with gyrus hippocampi. Inferior temporal sulcus (occipito - temporal), usually interrupted, lies between collateral fissure and infero-lateral margin. Gyrus fusiformis (occipito-temporal) is bounded by collateral fissure and inf. temporal sulcus, which separates it from that part of inf. temporal gyrus which turns round infero-lateral margin on to tentorial surface. Intermediate Circle = Gyrus fornicatus Limbic lobe). Consists of 3 parts : (i Gyrus cinguli (callosal gyrus) begins near substantia perforata anterior, below corpus callosum ; arches round ant. end of corpus callosum and runs backwards between sulcus cin- guli (calloso-marginal) and sulcus corporis callosi; ends at splenium of corpus callosum by joining isthmus. 2< Isthmus gyri fornicati is the narrow strip, between corpus callosum and calcarine fissure, which connects gyrus cinguli and g. hippocampi. (3 Gyrus hippo- campi is the most medial and highest convolution on tentorial surface ; separated from mesencephalon by gap in which posterior cerebral artery and basilar vein lie, and from gyrus fusiformis by collateral fissure. Posterior end is continuous medially with isthmus, laterally with g. lingualis. Its enlarged anterior end, called the uncus (because its medial part is bent back so as to form a hook), is separated from temporal pole by the rhinal fissure ; overlaps basis pedunculi and hides optic tract ; forms postero-lateral boundary to vallecula Sylvii and substantia perforata anterior. Inner Circle.—Rudimentary. Supra-callosal gyrus, a very thin transparent layer of grey matter spread over upper surface of corpus callosum and continuous with g. cinguli at bottom of sulcus corporis callosi ; contains, near median plane on each side, two slender longitudinal strands of fibres, called stria longitudi nales, medialis and lateralis, stria lateralis lying under cover of gyrus cinguli. Gyrus subcallosus. a narrow strip of grey matter on lower surface of anterior end of corpus callosum, close to medial surface of hemisphere, continuous above with supra-callosal ; ends below bv dividing into two parts, of which one joins medial root of olfactory tract, the other runs through substantia perforata anterior to anterior end of temporal lobe. Fasciola cinerea is the small strip continued from supra-callosal gyrus, round splenium of corpus