MUSCLES AND FASCIAE 166 lateral border of psoas, crosses quadratus lumborum, pierces trans- versus abdominis, runs between muscles of abdominal wall, becomes superficial by passing through subcutaneous inguinal ring and piercing external spermatic fascia ; ends in skin above symphysis, over proximal and medial part of femoral trigone, of upper part of scrotum and penis, or labium majus. Femoral nerve (anterior crural) arises from 2nd, 3rd, 4th lumbar nerves, posterior to origin of obturator ; appears at lateral border of psoas, gives branches to psoas and iliacus ; and, descending between them, it enters femoral trigone from behind inguinal lig., ^ inch, or less, lateral to femoral artery, and very soon breaks up into branches : Muscular branches to pectineus, sartorius, rectus femoris, vastus lateralis, intermedius (crureus) and medialis, articularis genu (subcrureus). Cutaneous branches: intermediate and medial cutaneous nerves, saphenous nerve. Articular branches: none directly, but nerve to rectus femoris supplies hip, and nerves to vasti are continued in them to knee. Branch to pectineus runs distally and medially between psoas and femoral sheath. Branches to sartorius descend to it, in company with intermediate cutaneous. Branch to rectus femoris enters its deep sur- face, after passing under cover of sartorius. Branch to vastus lateralis passes under cover of sartorius and rectus femoris and runs, in com- pany with descending branch of lateral circumflex art., along anterior border of the muscle, before entering deep surface. Branches to v. intermedius (crureus) pass to it under cover of sartorius and rectus, and send a twig to articularis genu (subcrureus). One branch to v. medialis enters it high up ; another runs along lateral side of femoral artery into adductor canal, before entering the muscle. Intermediate cutaneous nerve (middle cutaneous) consists of medial and lateral branches. Lateral branch pierces sartorius, and both pierce deep fascia at junction of proximal and middle thirds of thigh, and extend as far as medial side of knee. Medial cutaneous nerve runs distally and medially across femoral vessels ; gives twigs to skin of proximal part of thigh, and divides into anterior and posterior branches. Anterior branch pierces deep fascia and supplies skin in distal ^ of medial side of thigh, and over medial part of patella. Posterior branch pierces deep fascia at medial side of knee, posterior to saphenous nerve and sartorius, and supplies skin in proximal part of leg. Saphenous nerve, at first lateral to femoral artery, leaves femoral trigone, and enters adductor canal, where it lies on anterior aspect of femoral artery ; leaves canal by passing from under cover of the distal edge of its fibrous roof, accompanied by saphenous artery (superficial branch of anastomotica); sends its infra-patellar branch through sartorius and deep fascia to skin over patella and lig. patellas ; emerges from under cover of sartorius at its posterior border, pierces deep fascia at medial side of knee between sartorius and gracilis ; accompanies