378 NEUROLOGY vessels and post, cutaneous nerve are superficial or medial to it. In thigh, adductor magnus is anterior, and long head of biceps crosses it posteriorly, from medial to lateral side. When its terminal branches arise directly from sacral plexus, the tibial nerve appears below piriformis, but common peroneal pierces it. When this occurs the post, cutaneous (small sciatic) also is divided ; ventral part (i, 2 S.) accom- panies tibial ; dorsal part (2, 3 s.) accompanies peroneal. In thigh, sciatic gives branches to semitendinosus, semi- membranosus, long head of biceps and adductor magnus from its tibial part ; to short head of biceps from peroneal part. Common peroneal n. (External popliteal) (4, 5 l. ; 1,2 s.), smaller terminal branch of sciatic, begins at middle of back of thigh ; enters apex of popliteal fossa, from under cover of biceps ; proceeds along medial side of biceps ; passes through lateral angle of fossa, and on to back of head of fibula, where it is most superficial and easily felt ; enters substance of peronaeus longus on lateral side of neck of fibula, where it divides into terminal branches—superficial and deep peroneal. See also p. 179. Branches.—Lateral sural ; anastomotic ; articular, includ- ing recurrent ; terminal branches. Lateral sural n. arises in fossa ; supplies skin on antero-lateral aspect of proximal part of leg. Ramus anastomoticus pcroncnts (Communicans fibularis) pierces deep fascia and joins medial sural nerve to form nervus suralis. Two articular branches accompany lateral genicular arteries. Recurrent articular nerve arises at termination of common peroneal, pierces ext. digitorum longus, turns proximally, with ant. recurrent art., into tibialis anterior ; supplies it, and tibio-fibular and knee joints. Superficial peroneal n. (Musculo-cutancous) emerges from peronaeus longus, runs distally, anterior to pcronteus longus and brevis, supplying them, and posterior to ext. longus digitorum ; divides into two branches which pierce fascia in distal ^ of leg, and supply skin of distal J of leg, and of dorsum of foot. Medial branch supplies also distal part of medial border of foot, medial side of great toe, contiguous sides of 2nd and 3rd, and assists deep peroneal in supplying first cleft. Lateral branch supplies skin of 3rd and 4th clefts. Deep peroneal n. (Anterior tibial) emerges from peronteus longus, pierces ext. digitorum longus, approaches ant. tibial