VAULT OF CRANIUM 49 process is called sulcus sigmoideus. Mastoid foramen (p. 45) opens into it, on mastoid ; and condyloid canal (p. 44), when present, opens on jugular process. Notch for trigeminal nerve is on upper border of petrous temporal, near apex. Sulcus petrosus superior for sup. petrosal sinus lies along this upper border ; tentorium is attached to its lips. Meatus acusticus internus, on post, surface of petrous temporal, transmits both roots of facial n., acoustic (auditory) n., internal auditory vessels. At its bottom is the upper or proximal end of canalis facialis (aqueduct of Fallopius). Apertura externa aquseductus vestibuli lies in a slit over- hung by a lip of bone, ^ inch lateral to meatus. It lodges saccus endolymphaticus and transmits small artery and vein. Fossa sub- arcuata, a depression above and between meatus and aqueduct, lodges a process of dura, transmits small vessels. Apertura externa canaliculi cochleae (aqueduct of cochlea), in a depression on ant. margin of jugular foramen directly below meatus, lodges a process of dura, transmits small vein from cochlea to internal jugular vein. CEREBRAL SURFACE OF VAULT OF CRANIUM Bones. — Frontal above superciliary arches; occipital above protuberance; parietal except sphenoidal and mastoid angles ; upper edge of squamous temporal. Sutures. Coronal, sagittal, lambdoid, squamous. Crista frontalis is in median plane anteriorly. Sulcus sagittalis for superior sagittal sinus (sup. longitudinal) begins on frontal crest, runs upwards and posteriorly on frontal, along parietals at their suture, to apex of occipital; descends upon upper ridge of eminentia cruciata to internal protuber- ance, where it joins sulcus transversus of right side usually. Falx cerebri is attached to its lips. Foveolae granulares are pits for arachnoideal granulations (Pacchionian bodies), found in old skulls, at sides of sagittal groove on frontal and parietal. Impressiones digitatae are marks produced by gyri of cerebrum all over skull. Sulci arteriosi are grooves for meningeal vessels, best marked on parietal. Groove for tint, branch of mid. meningeal overlies anterior central gyrus (Rolandic area) of brain. SAGITTAL SECTION OF SKULL Made on one side of median plane to show Literal wall of nasal cavity on one side and septum on the other. 4