MENINGES OF BRAIN & SPINAL MEDULLA 359 Cavum epidurale is the interval between spinal dura and walls of vertebral canal. It is occupied by fatty areolar tissue and plexus of veins, which correspond in morpho- logical position to venous sinuses of cranium. Cavum subdurale (subdural space,' is capillary interval, containing fluid, between dura and arachnoid of both brain and spinal medulla. It does not communicate with sub- arachnoid space. Arachnoidea.—Delicate and transparent. Bridges across inequalities of surface of brain, dipping into longitudinal and lateral (Sylvius) fissures only. Forms a loose investment for spinal medulla. Provides sheaths for nerves for a short distance. Ends blindly at level of 2nd sacral vertebra. Cavum subarachnoideale (subarachnoid space) con- tains cerebro-spinal fluid, the larger blood-vessels, and a delicate spongework of fibres connecting arachnoid to pia, except over summits of gyri, where they are adherent. In some situations arachnoid and pia are separated by con- siderable intervals, called cisterns, in which spongework is greatly reduced. Cisterna cerebello-medullaris (magna) is formed by arachnoid bridging over wide interval between cerebellum and medulla oblongata. C. pontis is interval containing basilar artery on ventral surface of pons. C. interpeduucularis (basalis), interval on base of brain contain- ing circulus arteriosus (Willis). C. chiasmatis, anterior to optic chiasma, contains anterior cerebral arteries. C. fossse lateralis cerebri contains middle cerebral artery. Spinal part of subarachnoid space is very wide, and is imperfectly subdivided by ligamenta denticulata and septum sub- arachnoideale. Subarachnoid space communicates with cavities of brain through the medial aperture (Magendie) in roof of 4th ventricle and the two lateral apertures in its lateral recesses, and by two slits at end .of each inferior horn of lateral ventricle. It is contained within arachnoid sheaths of nerves and communicates with their lymph channels, especially olfactory, optic, and acoustic ; and it communicates with venous sinuses by osmosis through arachnoideal granu- lations. Arachnoideal granulations (Pacchionian bodies) are small pedunculated outgrowths of arachnoid, enclosing subarachnoid spongework, which protrude through lacunae laterales into superior sagittal (longitudinal) sinus, and occasionally into others. They