126 MUSCLES AND FASCI/E of humerus, and into fascia of arm. Nerve : c. 6, 7, 8, through thoraco-dorsal (long subscapular).1 It adducts, extends and rotates humerus medially ; when arm is fixed it can raise lower ribs, and assists in drawing trunk forwards and upwards. It winds round teres major, assisting it to form lower part of posterior wall of axilla ; it is separated from teres major, at insertion, by a bursa. Triangle of Auscultation.—Bounded by trapezius, latissimus and vertebral border of scapula. Floor is formed by rhomboideus major, and, when scapula is drawn forwards, by 6th and 7th ribs also,—the only part of ribs uncovered by muscles. Levator scapulae lies at back of side of neck. Origin : tendinous slips from posterior aspect of transverse processes of 1st and 2nd cervical vertebrae, and posterior tubercles of transverse processes of 3rd and 4th. Insertion (fi.-tend.)2: vertebral margin of scapula, from medial angle to root of spine. Nerve : c. 3 and 4 directly; and C. 5, through dorsalis scapulae (nerve to rhomboids). It assists trapezius in raising shoulder and bracing it against weights. Rhomboideus minor lies in upper part of back. Origin (fl.-tend.): lig. nuchas, spines of 7th cervical and 1st thoracic vertebras. Insertion : vertebral margin of scapula, at root of spine. Rhomboideus major lies in upper part of back, under trapezius. Origin : 2nd to 5th thoracic spines and supra- spinous ligaments. Insertion : vertebral margin of scapula, from root of spine to inferior angle, lowest fibres directly to scapula, remainder to a fibrous band attached by its ends to root of spine and inferior angle. Nerve : c. 5, through dorsalis scapulas (nerve to rhomboids). They retract and rotate scapula. Pectoralis major lies superficially, on anterior aspect of chest and in ant. wall of axilla. It is largely covered by mammary gland, and separated from deltoid by a groove con- taining cephalic vein and deltoid branch of thoraco-acromial art. Origin (f!.): clavicular part from anterior surface of medial half of clavicle ; costo-stcrnal part from anterior surface of sternum, upper 6 costal cartilages and aponeurosis of obliquus externus abdominis. Costo-sternal part is twisted, lowest fibres curving upwards posterior to upper fibres, so that a bilaminar tendon is formed. Clavicular fibres join its anterior 1 C. signifies cervical. 2 (FI.) signifies fleshy, (tend.) tendinous, (fl.-tend.) fleshy and tendinous.