205 POSTERIOR TRIANGLE OF NECK margin of 1st rib, by becoming axillary art. Usually no branch arises from third part, but occasionally it gives off a branch which takes the place of the descending branch (post, scapular) of transverse cervical. Anterior to it, as it lies in the triangle, are skin, superficial fascia, platysma, deep fascia, ext. jugular vein and terminations of transverse scapular and cervical veins, and the nerve to subclavius. Its terminal part lies below the triangle ; and the clavicle, subclavius and transverse scapular artery (supra-scapular) are anterior to it. Subclavian vein is anterior, but at a lower level. Posterior to it is scalenus medius, separated by first thoracic nerve or lowest trunk of brachial plexus. Below it are the first rib, and the pleura at the medial part of the artery ; and both rib and pleura are also posterior to the artery. Transversa colli artery (Transverse cervical 1 arises from thyreo-cervical trunk (thyroid axis), near medial margin of scalenus anterior ; passes laterally and upwards—across scalenus anterior and phrenic nerve, upper trunks of brachial plexus, nerve to subclavius, supra-scapular nerve, and scalenus medius—to the anterior border of levator scapula:, under cover of anterior border of trapezius, where it divides into ascending and descending branches. Superficial to it are sterno-mastoid and fascia-. Omo-hvoid crosses it as the artery- enters post, triangle. At its origin it is crossed by int. jugular vein, and, on the left side, by the thoracic duct also. Ascending branch ramifies on deep surface of trapezius, super- ficial to levator scapulre and splenius, and anastomoses with branches of occipital. Descending branch (posterior scapular) descends, under cover of levator scapula; and the rhomboids, along vertebral margin of scapula, lateral to and close to dorsalis scapula: nerve (nerve to rhomboids) ; sends branches to muscles on both surfaces of scapulae ; anastomoses with branches of circumflex scapular (dorsalis scapulae), transverse scapular and subscapular, and intercostals. Its place may lx- taken by a branch from 3rd part of subclavian. Transversa scapula artery (supra-scapular) arises from thyreo- cervical trunk ; passes laterally and then dorsally, along root of neck, posterior to sterno-mastoid and clavicle, and below trapezius, to the upper border of scapula, where it passes above superior transverse lig. to enter supra-spinous fossa. There it gives off a branch and then enters infra-spinous fossa, through great scapular notch, under cover of inferior transverse lig. (gleno-humeral). It sends branches to muscles, clavicle, acromion, both surfaces of scapula, acroniio-clavicular and shoulder joints ; these anastomose with branches of thoraco-acromia! (thoracic axis), post, humeral circumflex, subscapular, cireumflexa (dorsalis) scapula:, and descending branch of transverse cervical. Pel at ions.—While posterior to sterno-mastoid, it crosses scalenus anterior and phrenic nerve, above ant. jugular vein ; and is crossed, near its origin, by int. jugular vein and, on left side, by thoracic duct ; and. as it passes from behind sterno-mastoid, it is crossed by ext. jugular vein. While posterior to clavicle, below posterior triangle, it runs