461 THE LIVER , HEPAR Liver.—Largest gland in body. About 50 ounces in weight. Lies in upper right quadrant of abdomen, in right hypochondrium and in epigastrium. Descends slightly into right lumbar. May reach into left hypochondrium. Lobes.—Liver is divided into right and left lobes by attachment of falciform lig. on ant. and sup. surfaces, by fossa for lig. teres on inf. surface, by fossa for ductus venosus on post, surface. Right lobe forms great bulk of liver ; on its inferior surface there is a circumscribed area called lobus quadratus ; another, on posterior surface, is called lobus caudatus (Spigelian lobe). Surfaces.—Right lateral, superior, anterior, inferior or visceral, posterior. Right lateral surface. -Quadrilateral and convex, lies against diaphragm, opposite 7th to nth ribs, in mid-axillary line, and against transversus abdominis for j in. below ribs. Superior surface : quadrilateral, fits dome of diaphragm, which separates it from pleura*, lungs, pericardium and heart. Area opposite heart is concave. Areas opposite lungs convex, especially on right side. Reaches level of 4th intercostal space on right side : A in. lower on left; and level of xiphisternal junction in median plane Anterior surface : tri- angular, slightly convex. Related to anterior abdominal wall (sheaths of recti) in subcostal angle, and to diaphragm on each side. Falciform lig. is attached to ant. and sup. surfaces, 1 to 2 in. to the right of median plane. Visceral surface.—Quadrilateral ; directed downwards, backwards, and to the left. I rregular in contour. Fossa venae umbilicalis (fissure for lig. teres), a deep cleft which lodges lig. teres, divides it into areas belonging to right and left lobes. On left lobe tuber omentale, a convex area which fits against lesser omentum, lies to left of upper end of fossa ; and the rest of the surface, forming the concave gastric im- pression, lies upon stomach. On right lobe, immediately to right of fossa v. umbilicalis, is lobus quadratus, quadrilateral and slightly concave ; bounded on left by fossa v. umbilicalis, on right by broad, shallow fossa for gall-bladder, below by inferior sharp margin' of liver, above by porta hepatis. Lobus quadratus lies anterior to pylorus and 1st part of duo- denum, which may produce impressions on it; and below these it is anterior to the first part of transverse colon. To the