348 NEUROLOGY called the bulb, on medial wall of post, horn of ventricle, above calcar avis. Fibres of main part of trunk intersect with corona radiata above corpus striatum, as they pass to cortex ; but some fibres of splenium and of posterior part of trunk pass on as an uninterrupted sheet called tapetum, which forms roof and lateral wall of posterior horn and lateral wall of inferior horn of ventricle, and lies between ependyma and the optic radiation. Anterior commissure connects inferior and anterior parts of temporal lobes of opposite sides. Median part is free in ant. wall of 3rd ventricle, in front of columns of fornix, below recessus triangularis and above r. opticus. It is covered with ependyma of ventricle and is connected with septum pellucidum, lamina terminalis, and rostrum of corpus callosum. Lateral part is in substance of hemisphere. It passes laterally and backwards, as a round compact cord, below caudate nucleus, internal capsule and lentiform nucleus, the lower surface of which it grooves deeply, and sinks into white substance of temporal lobe, where it spreads out like a fan. Anterior perforated substance, amygdaloid nucleus and fibres of temporal radiation are beneath it. As it crosses perforated sub- stance it sends forwards, through it, an olfactory bundle to join lateral root of olfactory tract. Fibres of this bundle connect olfactory bulb with opposite temporal lobe and olfactory bulb. FORNIX AND SEPTUM PELLUCIDUM Fornix.—Highly arched. Consists of body, 2 crura, 2 columns. Composed mainly of longitudinal fibres connecting parts on same side of median plane, but also of commissural fibres, connecting the hippocampi of opposite sides. Corpus Fornicis.—Triangular, apex anteriorly. Consists of lateral halves fused along median plane. The halves separate anteriorly to form the columns, posteriorly to form crura. Superior • surface in median plane is adherent to corpus callosum posteriorly, and is connected with it by means of septum pellucidum anteriorly. Laterally, the body projects into lateral ventricle on each side, and is covered with ependyma, and chorioid plexus lies along its free margin. Inferior surface rests on tela chorioidea (velum inter- positum), which separates it from thalami and ependymal roof of 3rd ventricle. Crus Fornicis (Posterior Pillar).—Thin, flat, is adherent to corpus callosum. Diverges from its fellow ; turns round post, end of thalamus; enters inferior horn of ventricle, and its fibres partly spread out to form white covering (alveus) of hippocampus, and partly run along concave medial margin of hippocampus, forming a pro-