BRANCHES OF ABDOMINAL AORTA 285 run laterally and dorsally on bodies of upper 4 l. vertebra;, posterior to sympathetic trunk, psoas major (from which they are separated by tendinous arches) and lumbar plexus, to interval between trans- verse processes. Upper two, on each side, are posterior to crus of diaphragm also. Lower two right are posterior to vena cava, upper two right are posterior to cisterna chyli and vena azygos. Each gives off a dorsal branch to accompany post, branch of lumbar nerve, and then proceeds laterally, the upper three behind quadratus lumborum, lowest often in front of it ; pierce transversus and run anteriorly in abdominal wall between transversus and obliquus int. Anastomose with intercostals, subcostal, epigastrics, deep cir- cumflex iliac, ilio-lumbar, and, by minute twigs in subperitoneal plexus, with hepatic, renal, and colic. Middle sacral artery arises from dorsal aspect of aorta, A inch above bifurcation ; descends on anterior aspect of lower two L. vertebrae, sacrum and coccyx to end in branches to glomus coccygeum (coccygeal body). Relations : Vena; comites. Anterior to it are aorta ; left common iliac vein ; peritoneum and coils of intestine ; rectum. Branches : 5/// lumbar pair pass laterally on side of 5th I., vert, and anast. with ilio-lumbar. Small branches pass to rectum ; others anastomose with lateral sacral. Middle suprarenal arteries arise opposite superior mes- enteric. Each passes upwards and laterally on crus of diaphragm to reach suprarenal gland. Pancreas is anterior to both, and inferior v. cava also is anterior to right artery. Renal artery arises from side of aorta below sup. mes- enteric, opposite upper border of 2nd L. vertebra ; passes laterally on crus and psoas, and enters hilum of kidney. Left lies posterior to renal vein and pancreas and .termination of duodenum ; right is longer and is posterior to renal vein, vena cava, head of pancreas, and descending part of duodenum. Branches: (1) Three to kidney, two anterior to pelvis, one dorsal to it. (2) A. suprarenalis inferior to suprarenal gland. (3) To ureter. (4) To lymph glands and perinephric fat. Internal spermatic artery arises from ant. aspect of aorta, below renal. Runs downwards and laterally to ab- dominal inguinal ring, traverses inguinal canal, descends tortuously in spermatic cord, anterior to ductus deferens ; divides at upper end of testis to supply testis and epididymis. Relations in abdomen: accompanied by' spermatic veins. Right artery lies upon aorta, vena cava, ureter, genito-femoral nerve, psoas, ext. iliac art. Covered by peritoneum, and crossed anteriorly by 3rd part of duodenum, right colic, ileo-colic, end of sup. mesenteric vessels, root of mesentery, end of