153 WRIST, HAND AND DIGITS into radial sides of extensor tendons, partly into base of phalanx and capsule of joint. Each flexes the 1st phalanx and extends the other two, since it passes from palmar to dorsal aspect over metacarpo- phalangeal joint and is inserted into extensor tendon. First arises from radial side of tendon to index ; second from radial side of tendon to middle finger ; median nerve supplies them on their volar aspects by fibres derived from c. 6 (7) (possibly C.8, T. 1), digital branch to radial side of index giving the branch to 1st, digital branch to next cleft giving branch to 2nd. Third arises from contiguous sides of tendons to middle and ring fingers ; fourth from contiguous sides of tendons to ring and little fingers ; deep branch of ulnar supplies them on dorsal aspects by fibres derived from c. 8 (t. 1) ; third is sometimes supplied also by digital branch of median to cleft between middle and ring fingers. Flexor pollicis longus tendon crosses from lateral to medial side of flexor carpi radialis, between it and wrist-joint; enters carpal tunnel ; runs distally, on radial side of flexor profundus ; enters palm and turns towards thumb, crossing sheath of flexor carpi radialis superficially ; runs between flexor pollicis brevis and adductor, enters fibrous flexor sheath, and is inserted 1 mo volar surface of base of 2nd phalanx of thumb. Mucous or Synovial Sheaths—Tendon of flexor poll, longus is enveloped in a separate mucous sheath, which extends into forearm for an inch, and distally as far as insertion. Tendons of flexor sublimis and profundus are enclosed in a common sheath, which extends into forearm for an inch, ensheathes tendons of little finger to insertion, and tendons of other fingers and the lumbricals as far as middle of palm. Proximal to heads of metacarpals these tendons acquire new sheaths, which surround them on the fingers. Within the fibrous flexor sheath of each digit, near the insertion of a tendon, the mucous sheath is pinched up to form a triangular fold, seen between tendon and phalanx when they are pulled apart. These folds are called vincula brevia. At more proximal levels slender fibrous cords, with mucous covering, pass between tendons and phalanges. These are called vincula longn Blood-vessels run in the vincula to the tendons. Mucous sheaths are closed sacs, each consisting of two layers con- tinuous with one another, one enclosing the tendon or tendons, the other lining the space in which it lies. On the digits the sheath lines the fibro-osseous canal and covers the tendons, and the two parts are continuous at proximal and distal ends, but the connection between that on the tendons and that on the phalanges is represented only by the vincula, though in a few instances these form broad sheets like mesenteries. The common sheath of the flexors of the fingers is com- plicated by the number of tendons. At the wrist it lines the greater part of carpal tunnel, and at radial side passes from carpus and transverse lig. on to tendons, covering them and dipping in amongst