LUNGS 437 overlaps ascending aorta below, thymus and termination of left innominate vein above.' Anterior to lower end of lig. pulmonale there is a notch for small thoracic part of inf. v. cava and lower end of phrenic nerve and its accompanying vessels. On left side the pericardial hollow is related to phrenic n. and accompanying vessels, pericardium and heart. Portions of heart in relation are left ventricle inferiorly, left atrium and auricle above and posteriorly, conus arteriosus of right ventricle above and anteriorly. Above that, anterior to hilum, there is an impression for pulmonary arterial trunk, and, anterior to that, there is an area which overlaps lower end of thymus and upper part of ascending aorta. Posterior to lower end of lig. pulmonale there is a notch for oeso- phagus. Broad groove behind lig. pulmonale and hilum is for de- scending aorta ; and it is continuous with broad horizontal groove, just above hilum, in relation to aortic arch, vagus, phrenic, two cardiac nerves, left sup. intercostal vein. Anterior to level of root of lung the groove is either faint or absent, as arch is separated there by fatty tissue and thymus. From ant. part of horizontal groove, in line with ant. surface of lung root, a narrow, clean-cut groove runs vertically upwards, and lodges subclavian artery. Area anterior to this subclavian groove is related to thymus, left carotid art., vagus, phrenic and cardiac nerves ; area posterior to it is related to recurrent n., oesophagus, and thoracic duct. Relations of Cervical Pleura and Apex of Lung Immediate Relations.—Cupola of pleura is supported inferior tv by lung and separates it from structures mentioned below. Sibson's fascia, spreading from 7th C. transverse process to inner margin of 1st rib, is the closest relation of pleura on antero-lateral aspect. Scalenus medius supports it laterally, and scalenus anterior antero-laterally. Vessels.—Subclavian art. arches laterally across ant. aspect of pleura, below apex ; on left side it ascends on medial aspect before doing so. Int. mammary descends from it, vertebral art. and thyreo- cervical trunk (thyroid axis) ascend from it, all on ant. aspect of pleura ; costo-cervical trunk runs up to apex and its sup. intercostal branch turns downwards, posterior to apex. Innominate art. is antero-medial, on right side, and is separated by fatty areolar tissue. Int. jugular vein descends anterior to pleura and subclavian art.; vertebral vein is posterior to jugular. Vein from 1st intercostal space arches forwards over apex of pleura and joins vertebral, or turns dow n between pleura and subclavian art. to join innominate. Subclavian vein is separated from pleura by scalenus anterior, but on left side it ends on pleura, medial to scalenus. Innominate vein is below subclavian art., and between vein and pleura are phrenic n. and int.