NEUROLOGY 330 tentorium cerebelli. In relation to surface of head, it lies below a line drawn nearly horizontally from ext. occipital protuberance to base of mastoid temporal. Closely set, curved parallel laminae on its surface give it a characteristic foliated appearance. It is connected with cerebrum by brachia conjunctiva, with pons by brachia pontis, with medulla oblongata by restiform bodies. Consists of 2 hemispheres united by median portion, called vermis, which is shorter than hemispheres, leaving notches between them : incisura anterior, occupied by dorsal part of mesencephalon ; incisura posterior, occupied by falx cerebelli. Sulcus horizontalis separates superior surface of hemi- sphere from inferior. Superior surface of vermis is not marked off from hemisphere. It sends a tongue-like prolongation, called lingula, forwards over anterior medullary velum ; and it is divided, further, into parts directly con- tinuous with lobules of upper surface of hemisphere on each side, named from before backwards: — Vermia Lingula Lobulus centralis . ,, . , f culmen Monticulust , fdechve Folium vermis Lobules of Hemisphere Ala lobuli centralis. Pars anterior 1 Lobulus Pars posterior J quadrangularis. Lobulus semilunaris superior. Hemispheres are separated below by vallecula cerebelli. Inferior part of vermis projects into it, and is separated from hemisphere, on each side, by sulcus valleculse ; and is divided into parts connected, across floor of sulcus, with lobules of hemisphere. These are named from before backwards :— Vermis Lobules of Hemisphere Nodulus...—Pedunculus flocculi—... Flocculus. Uvula ..... Tonsilla. Pyramid .... Lobulus biventer. . f Lobulus gracilis, u jer vermis . . . ^Lobulus semilunaris inferior. Tonsilla is the rounded nodular part on medial side of lower surface; concavity in which it lies is called nidus avis. Flocculus is the small semi-detached part in front, lying on brachium pontis. Its peduncle is a narrow white stalk connected with nodulus by means of posterior