127 UNITING UPPER LIMP TO TRUNK lamina. Insertion : lateral lip of intertubercular (bicipital) sulcus, with expansions to capsule of shoulder and fascia of arm. Nerves : c. 5, 6, 7, through lateral anterior thoracic ; C. 7, 8, T. 1, through medial anterior thoracic. It flexes, adducts arm, and rotates it medially. When arm is fixed it can raise ribs, and draw trunk to arm. Pectoralis minor lies on anterior wall of chest and in ant. wall of axilla, under cover of pectoralis major. Origin (fl.) : 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th ribs, near cartilages (usually omitting 2nd or 5th). Insertion (tend.) : medial border and upper surface of distal i of coracoid process, and into conjoined tendon of coraco-brachialis and biceps. Nerve . c. 7, 8, T. 1, through medial anterior thoracic.1 It draws shoulder downwards and forwards ; raises ribs when shoulder is fixed. Subclavius lies between clavicle and 1st rib. Origin : by tendon, from junction of tst rib and cartilage, anterior to costo-clavicular ligament. Insertion (fl.): groove on lower surface of middle J of clavicle. Nerve : n. to subclavius from C. 5, 6. It draws clavicle downwards and anteriorly. Sub- clavian vessels lie posterior to it .and below it. Fascia Coraco-clavicularis (Costo-coracoid Mem = branei. -Lies posterior to clavicular part of {jectoralis major, anterior to 1st part of axillary vessels. Above, it splits to enclose subclavius and to be attached to lips of groove on clavicle for sub- clavius. Below, it splits to enclose pectoralis minor, from which it is continued into axillary fascia. Attached medially to 1st costal cartilage and fascia of 1st intercostal muscle, laterally to coracoid process. Deep surface is connected with sheath of axillary vessels. It is pierced by thoraco-acromial vessels, cephalic vein, lateral anterior thoracic nerve. Costo coracoid ligament is a thickened part of it, between 1st cartilage and coracoid process. Axillary fascia forms floor of axilla. Continuous with fascia covering pectoralis major anteriorly, latissimus dorsi and teres major posteriorly, serratus anterior medially, fascia of arm laterally. Deep surface is connected with fascia of pectoralis minor, traction of which on axillary fascia produces hollow of armpit when arm is raised. Serratus anterior (s. magnus) lies on side of chest, and forms medial wall of axilla. Infero - lateral quadrant of mammary gland lies on it. First digitation appears, above clavicle, in posterior triangle of neck. Origin (fl.): by 8 digitations from upper 8 ribs and fascia covering intercostal 1 T. or Th. signifies thoracic.