PREVERTEBRAL MUSCLES 203 between groove for subclavian art. and tubercle of rib. INerves : anterior rami of c. 3 to 7 directly. Elevates 1st rib, bends neck to that side. Cervical and brachial plexuses and subclavian art. lie on anterior ! surface ; and omo-hyoid, transverse scapular and cervical vessels, and ■ suprascapular nerve and lowest root of long thoracic nerve cross it. Levator scapula; and scalenus posterior lie lateral and posterior to 1 it. Dorsalis scapulae nerve (n. to rhomboids) and upper two roots of long thoracic nerve pierce it. Scalenus Posterior lies in posterior triangle of neck, posterior to medius and frequently blended with it. Origin (fl.-tend.): post, tubercles of 4th, 5th, 6th cervical transverse processes. Insertion (tend.) : upper border of 2nd rib, behind tubercle for serratus anterior. Nerves : ant. rami of c. 5, 6, 7. Elevates 2nd rib ; bends neck to that side. Rectus Capitis Lateralis.—Origin (fl -tend. 1 upper surface of transverse process of atlas. Insertion (fl.-tend.): lower surface of jugular process of occipital bone. Nerve: ant. ramus of c. 1. It bends head to that side. It is homologous with post, intertransverse muscles. Anterior surface is related to internal jugular vein and the last four cerebral nerves at base of skull. Posterior surface is covered by obliquus superior. Lateral to it are occipital artery and posterior belly of digastric. Medial to it are vertebral vessels and anterior branch of tst cervical nerve. PREVERTEBRAL MUSCLES Longus Colli lies on anterior aspects of cervical and upper thoracic vertebrae ; attachments are tendinous and divided into three portions. Lower oblii/ue portion arises from bodies of upper three thoracic vertebra;; inserted into ant. tubercles of 5th and 6th cervical transverse processes. I'ertical portion, medial to oblique, arises from bodies of upper three thoracic and lower three cervical vertebra: ; inserted into 2nd, 3rd, 41I1 cervical bodies. Upper oblii/ue portion arises from ant. tubercles of 3rd, 4th. 5th cervical transverse processes, under cover of longus capitis ; inserted into tubercle on ant. arch of atlas. Nerves : ant. rami of c. 3 to 8. Bends and rotates neck to same side. Longus Capitis (Rectus capitis anticus major) lies on anterior aspect of upper cervical vertebra-. Origin (tend.) : ant. tubercles of 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th cervical transverse processes (cf. scalenus anterior). Insertion (fl.-tend.): lower surface of basi-occipital, anterior and lateral to pharyngeal tubercle. Nerves : ant. rami of C. 1 to 4. Flexes head ; turns face to same side.