3 DEVELOPMENT OF BONE which enters the shaft of a long bone, through the nutrient foramen, to reach the medullary cavity, is called the nutrient artery. Articular cartilage has no membranous covering, but other cartilages, eg. costal cartilages, have a similar vascular covering, called perichondrium. Medullary cavity of a long bone and the spaces in spongy bone are lined with membrane called endosteum. Bones are developed from mesoderm. A condensation of mesodermal tissue takes place to form a membranous “ bone.” In some regions, eg. vault of cranium, ossification occurs in this membrane. In most situations, chondrification of the membrane bone takes place and a cartilage “ bone ” is formed. One or more centres of ossification appear in the cartilage, and it is converted into bone proper. Centres which first appear are called primary centres. They appear usually before birth. The part of a bone formed from a primary centre is called the diaphysis. In the case of a long bone this is the shaft. Secondary or epiphyseal centres appear usually after birth. Parts of bones formed from secondary centres are called epiphyses. The unossified plate of cartilage between an epiphysis and the diaphysis is called tin- epiphyseal cartilage. It unites the epiphysis and diaphysis, and the union is called an epiphyseal synchondrosis. The position of the periphery of the epiphyseal cartilage, on the surface of the bone, is called the epiphyseal line. Ossification and growth take place continually at the surfaces of the epiphyseal cartilage, until the cartilage disappears and the epiphysis joins the diaphysis, when growth, in the direction at right angles to the surface of cartilage, ceases. Ossification never spreads into the articular cartilage. Osseous tissue formed in cartilage is all destroyed during the process of growth of the bone, and is replaced by bone formed in the deeper layers of the periosteum. In a long bone, increase in length takes place by proliferation of cells of epiphyseal cartilage, followed by the preliminary ossification ; increase in girth takes place by deposition of bone under the periosteum. In a long bone, the epiphysis whose centre appears last is the first to join the diaphysis, except in case of fibula. The nutrient artery is directed towards the epiphysis which joins last. In the case of long bones with only one epiphysis, eg. clavicle, the artery is directed towards the end which has no epiphysis. When an epiphysis has more than one centre, eg.