DEVELOPMENT OF NOSE AND MOUTH 501 chorion are ruptured, liquor amnii (or amniotic fluid) and foetus are expelled, and umbilical cord is cut artificially and tied. Further contraction of uterus separates placenta and membranes from uterine wall, through plane of spongy layer of decidua, and they are expelled, the membranes being inverted, so that amnion is outer- most. The membranes consist of fused amnion and chorion, and shreds representing compact layers of fused decidua vera and d. capsularis. Uterine vessels to placenta are torn and some blood escapes, but bleeding to any extent is prevented by continued contraction of uterus. If uterus relaxes after separation of placenta post-partum haemorrhage results. The mucous membrane is reconstructed from “ unchanged layer ” of decidua. DEVELOPMENT OF NOSE AND MOUTH Anterior part of cephalic fold projects ventrally and is called fronto- nasal process. Pericardial mesoderm bulges forwards. Depression between them is called stomodaeum Thickenings, called arches, appear in each lateral wall of fore-gut. First of these is called mandibular arch. Its ventral end grows till it meets its fellow, anterior to pericardial bulging. A process, called maxillary process, projects anteriorly, from dorsal end of mandibular arch, towards fronto- nasal process. Stomodaeum is bounded : (1) cranially by fronto-nasal process ; (2) caudally by pericardial bulging, and later by mandibular arches; (3) Literally, on each side, by mandibular arch and its maxillary process; (4) its dorsal wall is bucco-pharyngeal membrane, which disappears during 3rd week, and then stomodamm communicates with fore-gut. Stomodmum develops into nasal cavities and upper part of mouth. Two depressions, called olfactory pits, appear on free projecting margin of fronto - nasal process. Ectoderm lining them becomes olfactory epithelium of nose and part of olfactory bulb. Pits deepen and grow backwards along roof of stomodaeum, dividing fronto-nasal process into a median and two lateral nasal processes. Free angles of median nasal process become rounded and projecting, and are called globular processes. Intermediate region of median nasal process is divided by transverse ridge into upper triangular area, which becomes dorsum of nose, and lower quadrilateral area, which becomes free part of septum of nose. Globular processes come together and fuse to form the philtrum, i.e. the median part of upper lip. Lateral nasal processes become aim of nose. Maxillary process grows medially, below eye, to form lateral wall and floor of orbit, lower lateral wall of nasal cavity, cheek and lateral part of upper lip ; fuses with globular and lateral nasal processes. Stomo-