io6 ARTICULATIONS tendons of flexor sublimis, those for middle and ring fingers being anterior to the other two. Palmaris overlaps them on radial side, but on ulnar side of palmaris the tendon to ring finger can be seen or felt moving while fingers are being flexed. Ulnar artery and nerve are lying on profundus, close to flex. carp, ulnaris, between it and flex, sublimis, the nerve on ulnar side of artery’, which may be felt beating if hand is dorsi-flexed. Palmar cutaneous branch of ulnar nerve passes towards palm upon ulnar arLery. Flexor carpi ulnaris is felt at ulnar border of this aspect, proximal to pisiform. It is separated from joint by an interval containing areolar tissue and fat, and by ulnar nerve and flex, profundus, which it overlaps. Recurrent branch from deep volar (palmar) arch runs proximally across the joint, deep to profundus, to anastomose with volar (ant.) carpal arch, which lies on radius proximal to joint ; and terminal branches of volar interosseous nerve arc descending to supply volar ligaments of wrist and intercarpal joints. Between flex, carpi ulnaris and ext. carpi uln. the dorsal branch of ulnar nerve and dorsal carpal branch of ulnar artery run distally upon ulnar aspect of wrist-joint, beneath the skin. Articulatio Intercarpea (Intercarpal Joints). — Diar- throdial, arthrodial. Bones of proximal row are united by dorsal, volar and interosseous ligaments; bones of distal row united by the same. Proximal row is united to distal row by dorsal, volar and collateral ligaments. Pisiforme is united to triquetrum by articular capsule, to hamatum (unciform) and 5th metacarpal by ligamentum piso-hamatum and piso-metacarpeum, respectively. Articulationes Carpo-metacarpeae. -Diarthrodial, mostly arthrodial. Medial four metacarpals are united to carpus by dorsal, volar and interosseous ligaments. First metacarpal is united to multangulum majus (trapezium) by articular capsule. Articulationes Intermetacarpete.—Diarthrodial, arthro- dial. Bases of medial four metacarpals are united by dorsal, volar and interosseous ligaments. Joints between pisiforme and triquetrum (cuneiform) and between multangulum majus and 1st metacarpal have each a separate cavity. The other intercarpal, carpo-metacarpal, and inter-metacarpal joints have a common cavity and synovial stratum. Joint between hamatum and 4th and 5th metacarpals is separate occasionally. Movements of intercarpal, carpo-metacarpal, and inter- metacarpal joints. Slight gliding movements for the most part. At joint between proximal row and distal row of carpus some flexion, extension and rotation are possible ; and at carpo-metacarpal joints of thumb and little finger movement is considerable. At carpo-metacarpal joint of thumb the movements are : Flexion, i.e. movement of metacarpal forwards in