BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM 2f>2 SYSTEMIC ARTERIES Aorta is the main systemic arterial trunk. It springs from left ventricle, and ascends to 2nd right cost, cartilage (ascend- ing aorta). From there it is directed, posteriorly and to the left, to lower border of 4th thoracic vertebra (arch of aorta). From there it descends on ventral aspect of vertebral column to end at 4th lumbar vertebra (descending aorta, divided into descending thoracic aorta and abdominal aorta). Ascending aorta springs from base of left ventricle ; extends upwards, anteriorly and to the right, for 2 in., to end behind right margin of sternum, opposite 2nd cartilage, by be- coming continuous with aortic arch. At origin it has 3 bulg- ings, called aortic sinuses (Valsalva), opposite cusps of valve. Branches : right and left coronary arteries. Relations: within fibrous pericardium, enclosed with pulmonary in tube of serous pericardium. Atiterior : upper part of conus arteriosus and root of pulm. artery ; right lung and pleura; sternum. Right side : right auricle, v. cava sup. Posterior: right atrium, right pulm. art., right bronchus, and v. cava slightly. Left side: left auricle, pulmonary art. ; left pleura and lung. Aortic arch begins, as continuation of asc. aorta, behind right margin of sternum opposite 2nd cartilage, and extends backwards and to the left, across sup. mediastinum, behind lower i of manubrium, to end at left side of lower border of 4th TH. vertebra, by becoming continuous with descending aorta. Curved in two planes, one curve concave downwards, the other concave posteriorly and to the right. Branches.—Innominate, left common carotid, left sub- clavian. Relations.—Anterior and to left: left phrenic, lower cervical cardiac branch of left vagus, upper cerv. card. br. of left sympathetic, left vagus ; left superior intercostal vein ; thymus, left pleura and lung ; right pleura and lung slightly. Posterior and to right : trachea, deep cardiac plexus, left recurrent nerve, oesophagus, thoracic duct. Superior : its own branches and left innominate vein. I?iferior : bifurca- tion of pulmonary art., root of left lung ; superficial cardiac plexus, ligamentum arteriosum, left recurrent nerve. Descending thoracic aorta begins, as a continuation of arch, at left side of lower border of 4th TH. vertebra ; descends