OSTEOLOGY 38 Between floor and medial wall: lacrimal groove for lacrimal sac, on lacrimal bone and frontal process of maxilla, leads down, between medial wall and floor, into naso-lacrimal canal for the naso-lacrimal duct, which opens into inferior meatus of nose. On lateral wall : zygomatico-orbital foramen, on orbital surface of zygomatic (malar), transmits zygomatic (temporo- malar) nerve and a branch of lacrimal artery. On the floor : infra-orbital groove extends from inferior orbital fissure across orbital surface of maxilla to infra-orbital canal, which opens on face as infra-orbital foramen. Infra- orbital vessels and nerve traverse all three. Relations of Orbit.—Above : ant. cranial fossa, frontal sinus. Below\ maxillary sinus, infra - temporal fossa. Posterior: middle cranial fossa. Lateral: temporal fossa. Medial: sphenoidal and ethmoidal air-cells, nasal cavity. Facial Region. — Dorsum nasi, between orbits, formed by nasal bones and frontal processes of maxillae. Below it, is apertura piriformis, bounded by these bones and by anterior margin of maxilla, which ends below as spina nasalis anterior. Below the aperture is the incisor fossa, lateral to which is the canine eminence. Lateral to that is the fossa canina, above which is the infra-orbitalforamen. Lateral to maxilla is malar surface of zygomatic, presenting foramen zygomatico- faciale, which transmits zygomatico-facial branch of zygo- matic (temporo-malar) n. and a branch of lacrimal artery. LATERAL ASPECT OF SKULL Bones, from behind forwards : Above, occipital, parietal, frontal. Belo7u, occipital, temporal, sphenoid. Anteriorly and below, bones of face—see Anterior Aspect, p. 36. Sutures.—Between the various bones. Regions.—Pterion, where frontal, parietal, temporal and great wing of sphenoid lie close together, 1^ inches above zygomatic arch, 1] inches behind zygomatic process of frontal. Occupies position of fonticulus sphenoidalis (fontanelle)— closed shortly after birth. Overlies anterior branch of mid. meningeal artery and point where lateral fissure of cerebrum (Sylvius) breaks up into its three branches. Asterion, where parietal, occipital and mastoid meet ; transverse sinus begins to bend down just anterior to it. Occupies position of fonti-