MEDULLA OBLONGATA 327 Base forms nucleus of 12th nerve. It remains joined on to ventral wall of canal, and when 4th ventricle is reached it lies in its floor near median plane. Detached head, traced upwards, is shoved by the pyramid into lateral area of medulla oblongata and divides into medial and lateral columns, namely, nucleus ambiguus and nucleus lateralis. When they reach the olive it pushes them still further posteriorly and laterally, and n. lateralis becomes diffuse and dis- appears, but n. ambiguus persists to upper end of medulla oblongata. Some fila of spinal root of accessory nerve and of motor root of 1st cervical arise from n. lateralis. Cerebral roots of accessory nerve and motor fibres of vagus and glosso-pharyngeal arise from n. ambiguus. As central canal approaches dorsal surface, the funiculus gracilis and f.cuneatus become broader and less deep, and posterior columns (horns) are bent laterally. Substantia gelatinosa Rolandi enlarges, lies near surface, forming tuberculum cinereum, and is covered superficially by tractus spinalis (spinal root) of trigeminal nerve, whose fibres end in it. From medial (now dorsal) side of column the nuclei of funiculus gracilis and f. cuneatus appear as projections and these funiculi end in them. Internal arcuate fibres arise in these nuclei, arch anteriorly and medially to decussate ventral to central canal. They cut through the modified posterior horn, leaving its base attached to dorso-lateral wall of central canal, and when 4th ventricle is reached the continuation of the base lies in lateral part of floor. There, it forms sensory nuclei of vagus and glosso-pharyngeal and part of nucleus of vestibular nerve. Decussation of internal arcuate fibres is called decussatio lemniscorum. It occurs dorsal to and above decussation of pyramids. Having decussated, most of the fibres turn sharply upwards and form the lemniscus medialis (mesial fillet), near median raphe of medulla oblongata ; but some pass forwards as external arcuate fibres (see also pp. 326, 355). Nucleus arcuatus lies on anterior and medial aspects of pyramid, covered by external arcuate fibres, some of which are renewed in it. It is continuous above with nuclei pontis. Inferior olivary nucleus is a crumpled bag of grey matter within the olive. Its hiluni looks medially. Out of it cerebello-olivary fibres proceed across upper part of medulla oblongata, decussate at median plane; pass onwards, some through and some around opposite nucleus, forming a sheath for it; turn dorsally, traverse tractus spinalis (spinal root of trigeminal), breaking it up into bundles; enter deep aspect of resiiform body and form its chief bulk. They end around cells of cortex of hemisphere and vermis of cerebellum and nucleus dentatus ; some may arise in cortex of cerebellum and end in olivary nucleus. Dorsal and medial accessory olivary nuclei are small, and placed, the one dorsal to hilum, the other medial to it. Restiform body ( inferior cerebellar peduncle) lies on dorso-lateral aspect of upper part of medulla oblongata ; forms lateral boundary