DUCTLESS GLANDS 493 Suprarenal Glands.—Each lies in epigastrium, on medial part of upper end of corresponding kidney and adjoining crus of diaphragm, opposite medial end of nth intercostal space and 12th rib. Right is behind liver; left is behind stomach ; between the two are the crura, aorta, coeliac artery, cceliac plexus and ganglia, and the inferior vena cava. Right gland, triangular. Anterior surface, devoid of peritoneum, except a small part below ; covered by liver laterally, overlapped by v. cava medially. Hilum (where vein issues), near upper end. Left gland, semilunar. Ant. surface, covered by splenic art. and pancreas below, above by stomach, separated by peritoneum of omental bursa (lesser sac). Hilum, near lower end. Arteries: from aorta, inferior phrenic, and renal. Vein ends in vena cava on right side, in renal on left. Nerves (very numerous): from cceliac plexus and ganglia. Lymphatics end in lumbar and posterior mediastinal glands. Suprarenal glands are almost as large in new-born as in adult. Thymus (p. 426). Large in fcetus and young child ; largest at end of 2nd year. After puberty it is represented usually by fibrous and fatty remnants, in front of large vessels and trachea, in root of neck and upper part of thorax. Thyreoid Gland lies in lower part of front of neck, in relation to trachea and larynx ; ensheathed in pretracheal fascia, by which it is attached to larynx ; consists of two lateral lobes united by isthmus. (See also p. 210.) Lateral Lobe.—Pyramidal, apex upwards. Superficial surface : covered by sterno-thyreoid, omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, overlapped by sterno-mastoid. Deep surface : in relation to lower part of larynx and pharynx ; upper 5 or 6 rings of trachea, oesophagus and common carotid art. Isthmus lies on 2nd, 3rd, 4th rings of trachea, covered by fascia: and partly by sterno-hyoids. Lobus pyramidalis. a small process often found projecting upwards from isthmus, usually on left side, and connected with hyoid bone by levator glandulte thyreoidese. Parathyreoid Glands. —4 small bodies, each about £ inch long, lie inside fascial sheath of thyreoid gland but outside its capsule, in relation to branches of thyreoid arteries. Superior—on each side, on longus colli, behind upper end of oesophagus ; inferior—on trachea, at or below lower border of lateral lobe of thyreoid. Glomus caroticum (carotid body), minute oval body. J inch long, found on back of bifurcation of common carotid ; consists of fibrous capsule enclosing nodules of polyhedral cells, a network of capillaries and sympathetic filaments. Glomus coccygeum (coccygeal body) is a similar body found on pelvic surface of coccyx.