53 SCAPULA Scapula.—Lies on postero lateral aspect of thorax, opposite 2nd to 7th ribs. Flat and triangular, and has triangular spine projecting from dorsal surface, bent coracoid process projecting from upper border, and flat acromion continuous with apex of spine. Margins.—(i) Superior, the shortest. At its lateral part is the incisura scapularis (supra-scapular notch) ; sup. trans- verse lig. converts it into foramen which transmits supra- scapular nerve. (2) Vertebral or postero-medial, the longest. (3) Axillary or antero-lateral, the thickest, presents rough infra-glenoid tubercle at its upper end. Angles : (1) Medial, obtuse; between superior and vertebral margins. (2) Inferior, acute ; between vertebral and axillary margins ; easily felt ; lies opposite 7th thoracic spine. (3) Lateral, between sup. and axillary margins ; forms head and neck of scapula. Glenoid cavity is a smooth concave cavity on head ; piriform in shape, apex upwards ; looks laterally, upwards and anteriorly ; articulates with head of humerus ; slight roughness above apex is called supra-glenoid tubercle. Dorsal surface is unequally subdivided by spine into small supraspinous and large infra-spinous fossa, which include also the upper and lower surfaces of spine. Oval elevated area over inferior angle is for origins of teres major and latissi- mus dorsi. Elongated elevated area along axillary margin is for origin of teres minor ; transverse groove (or grooves) on that area is for art. circumflexa scapula; (dorsalis scapula;). Costal surface is hollowed out to form subscapular fossa, deepest opposite spine. Flat areas at medial and inferior angles and strip along vertebral margin are for insertion of serratus anterior (magnus). Processus coracoideus projects from upper margin of neck. Vertical portion or root has posterior and anterior surfaces, lateral and medial borders ; medial border bounds scapular notch laterally. Horizontal portion projects forwards and laterally, has upper and lower surfaces, lateral and medial borders, and its tip can be felt behind anterior margin of deltoid, 1 inch below junction of middle and lateral thirds of clavicle. Spina scapulae extends from vertebral margin, laterally and upwards, to neck. Root of spine is at vertebral margin, is smooth for bursa under trapezius, and lies opposite 3rd thoracic spine. Upper and lower surfaces help to form supra- and infra-spinous fossae. Ventral border is attached