PULMONARY VEINS 297 (2) superior flbular arises at back of leg; turns round neck of fibula, under cover of soleus ; (3) anterior tibial recurrent runs proximally, through tibialis anterior, to the anterior aspect of knee ; (4) muscular and cutaneous; (5) lateral anterior malleolar runs under cover of tendons of ext. dig. longus and peronaeus tertius to surface of lateral malleolus ; (6) medial anterior malleolar runs under tendons of ext. hall, longus and tibialis ant. to surface of medial malleolus. A. dorsalis pedis (see also p. 189) begins on ant. aspect of ankle, midway between malleoli, as continuation of ant. tibial ; runs distally, upon talus (astragalus), navicular and 2nd cuneiform, to proximal end of 1st intermetatarsal space ; dips down into sole, and ends by joining plantar arch. Branches.—(1) Cutaneous-, (2) lateral tarsal and (3) arcuate (O.T. metatarsal) arteries run laterally beneath ext. dig. brevis, and the arcuate sends three dorsal metatarsal branches to clefts between the four smaller toes ; (4) first dorsal metatarsal arises at proximal end of metatarsal space, and proceeds to first cleft ; (5) first plantar metatarsal arises in sole, at the point where dorsalis pedis joins plantar arch ; runs to 1st cleft, and divides into plantar digitals for both sides of great toe and medial side of second. VEINS Pulmonary veins, begin in capillaries of lungs and convey oxygenated blood to left atrium. Portal system of veins, begins in capillaries of abdominal part of alimentary canal, and of spleen and pancreas ; principal trunk is portal vein which breaks up into capil- laries in liver, from which the blood is conveyed to inf. vena cava by hepatic veins. Systemic veins arise in capillaries of all other parts of body and contain impure blood. Principal trunks-coronary sinus, superior and inferior venae cavae—convey systemic and portal blood to right atrium. VEN.31 PULMONALES Pulmonary Veins.—Two on each side, pierce fibrous layer of pericardium ; receive covering on anterior, upper, and lower surfaces from serous layer; enter upper and posterior part of left atrium, near right and left borders respectively.