MUSCLES AND FASCIAE 142 membrane. Nerve : c. 7, 8, T. r, through volar interosseous. It pronates forearm. Short Muscles of Thumb and Little Finger and Interosseous Muscles.—See Palm of Hand. MUSCLES ON DORSUM AND LATERAL SIDE OF FOREARM (1) Superficial Muscles Brachio-radialis (supinator longus) lies on radial side of forearm anteriorly and forms lateral boundary of cubital fossa. Origin (fl.): anterior aspect of proximal % of lateral epicon- dylic line of humerus and intermuscular septum. Insertion : by tendon into proximal part of lateral surface of distal end of radius, under cover of tendons of abductor longus and extensor brevis pollicis. Nerve : c. 5, 6, through radial (musculo-spiral). It flexes forearm and initiates supination and pronation. Extensor carpi radialis longus lies on radial border of forearm, dorsal to brachio-radialis. Origin (fl.) : anterior aspect of distal ^ of lateral epicondylic line and intermuscular septum. Its tendon is crossed by abductor longus and extensors of thumb ; is enclosed with ext. carp. rad. brevis in mucous sheath under dorsal carpal lig. (post, annular), on dorsum of radius ; and is inserted iqto base of 2nd metacarpal. Nerve : c. 6, 7, through radial (musculo-spiral). It extends and abducts hand, and slightly flexes elbow. Common Extensor Origin. -Extensores carpi radialis brevis, digitorurn communis, digiti quinti proprius, carpi ulnaris arise partly or wholly by a common origin, consisting of (a) a tendon attached to distal part of anterior surface of lateral epioondyle, (b) fascia covering and between muscles. Extensor carpi radialis brevis lies on radial side and dorsum of forearm. Origin : common extensor origin and radial collateral ligament of elbow. Its tendon runs along ulnar side of longus and is inserted into base of 3rd meta- carpal, and usually also into 2nd. Nerve : c. 6, 7, through deep branch of radial (post, interosseous of musculo-spiral). It extends and slightly abducts hand. Extensor digitorurn communis lies on dorsal surface of forearm, towards radial side. Common extensor origin.