ARTICULATIONS 118 line dropped from centre of gravity of body falls in front of axis of knees. It has been argued that this line falls behind knees, as well as behind axis of hip-joints, but extended position is nevertheless maintained, because knee cannot be flexed without previous or concomitant flexion of hip, which is kept extended by gravity (see Hip-joint) ; and as long as ilio-femoral lig. is tense the lateral rotation of femur at knee, which must precede flexion, cannot occur. During flexion and extension the femur not only rotates but glides over tibial condyles, like a cart-wheel hampered by a skid. The patella is movable when limb is in extended position. It is said that while the limb is extended the distal pair of facets on patella is in contact with patellar surface of femur. As flexion proceeds the middle and proximal pairs, successively, are in contact ; and, finally, at full flexion the patellar surface is covered only by quadriceps, and may be felt through it. (The last statement is easily verified.) It is said, further, that the medial vertical facet of patella is always in contact, and at full flexion articulates with a semilunar area on medial condyle at the side and front of intercondylar notch, while lateral proximal facet is still slightly in contact with lateral part of patellar surface; and that three facets, therefore, are always in contact, except in extreme flexion. Articulatio Tibio-fibularis (Superior Tibio-fibular Joint). Diarthrodial. Gliding. Head of fibula and facet on postero- inferior aspect of lateral condyle of tibia. Articular capsule surrounds it, and is strengthened anteriorly and posteriorly. 1’opliteus is posterior to it, and tendon of biceps is on proximal side and in front. Its synovial cavity may communicate with that of knee-joint. It is supplied by nerve to popliteus. Membrana Interossea.—Attached to interosseous crests of tibia and fibula. Connected proximally with capsule of tibio- fibular joint, distally with interosseous tibio-fibular ligament. Wider proximally than distally. Fibres are directed chiefly distally and laterally. It is perforated near proximal end by anterior tibial vessels, near distal end by perforating branches of peroneal vessels. Tibialis posterior and flexor hallucis longus arise from its posterior surface. Tibialis anterior, exts. digitorum longus and hallucis longus, and peronams tertius arise from anterior surface, and anterior tibial vessels and deep peroneal (ant. tibial) nerve lie on it. Syndesmosis Tibio-fibularis. — Distal ends of tibia and fibula. Interosseous Ligament.—Short and very strong. Attached to