4*8 RESPIRATORY APPARATUS Very prominent above, in adult male, forming prominentia laryngea (Adam’s apple). Posterior border, free and rounded, projects up- wards and downwards as sup. and inf. cornua. Sup. horn is connected with greater horn of hyoid by lateral thyreo-hyoid lig., in which is developed a small nodule of cartilage—cartilage triticea. Inf. horn articulates with side of cricoid. Superior border convex ; inferior border nearly horizontal. Linea obliqua begins at sup. tubercle on lateral surface, below sup. border, in front of sup. horn ; extends downwards and forwards to end at inf. tubercle, behind middle of inf. border. Medial surface is smooth and slightly concave. Extrinsic muscles attached are inf. constrictor to oblique line and surface behind it ; stylo-pharyngeus and pharyngo-palatinus to post, border ; sterno-thyreoid and thyreo-hyoid to oblique line. Cricoid Cartilage.—Situated below thyreoid cartilage ; shaped like a signet-ring ; consists of broad lamina posteriorly, and narrow arch anteriorly. Lamina: post, surface shows two hollows for post, crico-arytnenoid muscles, separated by median ridge. Sup. border is notched in median plane, and has facet for arytrenoid cartilage on each side. Arch: narrow anteriorly, broadens to join lamina posteriorly ; facet for inf. horn of thyreoid on junction, near lower border. Sup. border slopes upwards and backwards. Inf. border is in horizontal plane with that of lamina. Extrinsic muscles.—Inf. constrictor to the side. Some fibres of oesophagus to median ridge. Epiglottic Cartilage.—Situated posterior to thyreo-hyoid membrane, hyoid bone and root of tongue ; anterior to sup. aperture of larynx. Shaped like a leaf; superior end free ; inf. end or stalk is attached by thyreo-epiglottic lig. to receding angle between lamina? of thyreoid. Margins are enclosed in ary-epiglottic folds of mucous membrane. Post, surface is covered with mucous membrane ; lower part is bulged backwards to form tuberculum epiglotticum. Ant. surface : upper part is free and covered with mucous membrane; lower part is separated by pad of fat from median thyreo-hyoid ligament, and connected with hyoid by hyo-epiglottic ligament. Glosso epiglottic fold is a fold of mucous membrane raised up in median plane between epiglottis and base of tongue. Pharyngo • epiglottic folds of mucous membrane extend from sides of epiglottis to pharynx, at side of base of tongue. Vallecula epiglottica is a depression, on each side, between the folds. Arytaenoid Cartilages.—Situated on superior border of lamina of cricoid. Each is a 3-sided pyramid. Surfaces : medial, antero- lateral and posterior. Apex, above, supports corniculate cartilage. Base articulates with lamina of cricoid. Ant. angle of base is pro- longed forwards as vocal process ; lateral angle is enlarged for inser- tions of post, and lat. crico-arytmnoid, thyreo-arytienoid and vocalis muscles, and is called muscular process.