5°7 GENITOURINARY ORGANS part of prostatic urethra. Urogenital canal forms membranous uret^a and rest of prostatic urethra. In female, vesical portion forms bladder and whole urethra ; urogenital canal becomes shorter and shorter till it merely surrounds opening of urethra and vagina into genital cleft. It is said that vesical part forms urachus also. Wolffian duct appears as solid rod of mesoderm cells on dorsal aspect of intermediate cell mass, towards cephalic end of body. As it grows caudally it becomes for a time connected with ectoderm. 1 becomes soon separated, sinks into substance of increasing cell mass. It soon gets a lumen, and caudal end turns ventrally and opens into i urogenital canal. Wolffian body or mesonephros arises from intermediate cell mass, i Consists of tortuous tubules, one end blind, other opening into duct. In male, the duct becomes duct of epididymis, ductus deferens and ejaculatorius. Semina! vesicle is a diverticulum from it. In female, duct partly persists as longitudinal tubule of ep- and par-oophoron and appendices vesiculosi. Wolffian tubules nearly all disappear, but in male they form rete testis, ductuli efferentes, lobuli epididymidts, and paradidymis. In female, they form transverse tubules of par- oophoron and ep-oophoron. . Ureter arises as diverticulum from caudal end of VV olffian duct. Blind end dilates to form pelvis renahs and divides into branches to form calyces and collecting tubules. Rest of kidney tubules are formed from metanephric tubules, which correspond to W olffian, but are situated more caudally. Ureter separates from W . duct and gains independent opening into bladder - section of genito • urinary sinus, nearer cephalic end. Testis and Ovary—On medial side of Wolffian body a meso- dermal ridge appears, known as germinal ridge. It is covered by a layer of germinal epithelium, which consists of modified peritoneal epithelium, intermingled with germinal cells, which are progenitors of ova or spermatozoa. Ova and ovarian follicles, spermatozoa and contorted seminiferous tubules are developed from it. The underlying mesoderm forms stroma of ovary or testis ; outgrowths of W olffian body form excretory tubules of testis. I he genital gland becomes isolated and slung by short mesentery. A band of mesoderm is found extending from skin which later becomes labium majus or scrotum, through tissues of lower part 01 ant. abdominal wall, along dorsal wall of abdomen, to diaphragm. Lower part is called gubernaculum. and becomes adherent to genital gland and peritoneum on its caudal side. In male it does not grow pari passu with body, but probably shortens. Peritoneum caudal to testis is narrowed to form a tube, and is drawn down through ant. abdominal wall to scrotum ; or ant. abd. wall is formed on such a plane that tube is excluded from abdominal cavity. The tube is called processus vagi- nalis, Testis is drawn down behind it and invaginates its lower part, which becomes tunica vaginalis testis. Upper part usually shrivels.