ARTICULATIONS ! 14 Articulatio Genu (Knee-joint).—Diarthrodial : chiefly a hinge joint, but rotation and gliding also occur. Condyles of femur and of tibia, and patella. Articular capsule, attached posteriorly to intercondyloid line of femur, and the bone immediately proximal to condyles ; laterally to epicondyle, immediately proximal to popliteal groove ; medially to epicondyle, distal to adductor tubercle ; attached distally to tibia, inch beyond margins of articular surfaces of condyles. Fibrous stratum is absent anteriorly, and is replaced by patella, quadriceps femoris and lig. patellae, but the line of reflection of synovial stratum is £ inch proximal to margin of articular cartilage. Fibrous stratum is pierced posteriorly by tendon of popliteus ; is strengthened by expansions from vasti and fascia lata anteriorly, from ilio-tibial tract (band) laterally, from semi- membranosus and semitendinosus medially. It is supple- mented further by four strong ligaments, two of which act also as tendons, and two were tendons originally :— (1) Lig. Patellae.—The middle and chief part of tendon of insertion of quadriceps femoris. Separated from skin by bursa. About 3 inches long and 1 inch broad. Attached proximally to sides of apex and rough part of posterior surface of patella, distally to smooth part and slightly to rough distal part of tuberosity of tibia ; separated by bursa from tibia, proximal to tuberosity. (2) Lig. Popliteum Obliquum, a broad slip from tendon of semimembranosus extending proximally and laterally to- wards lateral condyle, blending with capsule. (3) Tibial Collateral Lig. (Int. Lateral).—Originally the distal end of tendon of adductor magnus. Strong and flat. 4 in. long, £ in. broad. Attached to medial epicondyle, distal to adductor tubercle ; to medial surface of tibia for i i in., close to medial margin, beginning 2 in. from proximal end of tibia. Adherent to medial meniscus of knee. (4) Fibular Collateral Lig. (Long Ext. Lateral).—Probably a femoral attachment of peronams longus originally. A strong round cord, 2 in. long, attached, on proximal side of popliteal groove, to apex of lateral epicondyle ; to head of fibula in front of its apex. Intra - articular Structures. — (1) Ligamenta cruciata (crucial ligs.) cross like limbs of letter X ; covered in front and at sides by synovial membrane. Lig. cruciatum antenus, tense in extension, extends proximally, backwards and later-