475 URINARY ORGANS farther away from median plane than upper. Hilum of right kidney is 2 inches, and lateral border 4 inches, from median plane, and the left a little nearer. Transpyloric plane cuts both above middle of hilum. Vertical lateral plane passes through kidney much nearer lateral border than hilum. Subcostal plane passes immediately below left kidney, but cuts lower end of right. Left kidney therefore is in epi- gastric and hypochondriac regions ; right is slightly in um- bilical and right lumbar as well. In marking out the position of kidney, avoid numerous points of reference. Take a point just below transpyloric plane, about 2 inches from median plane, as representing middle of hilum, and map out the outline of a kidney, having regard to its size, shape and slope. On the back, map out the outline, keeping 2 inches from median plane, and placing upper end opposite upper border of 12th rib or lower border of 1 ith rib. Relations.—A condensation of retro-peritoneal tissue, called fascia renalis, encloses kidney, together with suprarenal gland and a variable amount of fat (capsula adiposa), which is applied chiefly to its ends and borders. The two layers of fascia fuse just beyond suprarenal and fat at upper end, and beyond the fat at lateral border of kidney, and at varying distance below its lower end. Medially, the anterior layer passes in front of vena cava and aorta to join its fellow of opposite side ; posterior layer fuses with fascia of psoas. Posteriorly each kidney lies against psoas, quadratus and trans- versus, below ; crus of diaphragm, lumbo costal arches (arcuate ligaments) and part of diaphragm arising from them, above. Diaphragm separates it from pleura. Last thoracic, ilio hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves and subcostal vessels lie between it and quadratus lumborum. Otherwise, except in regard to suprarenal, the kidneys differ in their relations. Right Kidney : Anterior: suprarenal gland, at upper end and upper part of medial border ; 2nd part of duodenum, near hilum ; right colic flexure, at lower end—all in direct contact. Liver, at upper part and part adjoining lateral border—separated by peritoneum. Medial: vena cava; ureter, which may be posterior. Lateral: asc. colon below, liver above. Left Kidney : Anterior: Suprarenal gland, as on right kidney; pancreas, with splenic vessels, across it above middle; left colic flexure, at lateral part of lower end—all in direct contact. Stomach above pancreas, jejunum below pancreas—separated by peritoneum. Spleen, at area adjoining upper part of lateral border—partly separated by peri-