FORMATION OF NEURAL TUBE 495 together; and it represents seat of origin of mesoderm in most mammals. Along surface of streak is a groove called primitive groove. This is deepest at its cephalic end, where it communicates with cavity of entoderm by an aperture called neurenteric canal. FOLDING OFF OF EMBRYO Growth in embryonic area is rapid, and is such as to increase its area rather than its thickness ; but growth at its periphery is very little. Therefore the area is ballooned up into amniotic cavity, and falls over its slow-growing margins, forming a large cephalic fold and small lateral folds. The caudal fold, in the human, does not appear till later, because posterior end of embryonic area is closely attached by thin layer of mesoderm to the mesoderm on inner surface of trophoblast. As this connecting layer of mesoderm becomes stretched, coincidently with increase of amnion and its cavity, the tail fold becomes evident, and posterior end of embryonic area sweeps round, on ventral aspect of embryo, to umbilicus, and so completes ventral wall from tail to umbilicus. While caudal part of embryonic area is prevented from rotating by its connection with trophoblast, a diverticulum from yolk sac extends into mesoderm which is caudal to it. This is rudiment of allantois, and along it umbilical arteries pass. This portion of zygote forms the body stalk. Folds include all the layers of the embryo. The portion of entoderm included, with its cavity and covering of mesoderm, forms primitive alimentary canal. The part of entoderm, with its meso- dermal covering, not included forms umbilical vesicle or yolk sac. The wide communication between canal and vesicle is surrounded by the umbilicus, whose margins, therefore, are formed by the periphery of the embryonic area. Portion included in cephalic fold is called fore-gut, and from it are formed pharynx, oesophagus, stonrach and greater part of duodenum. Portion in caudal fold is the hind-gut; part opposite umbilicus is the mid-gut. These two parts form the rest of alimentary canal, without any hard and fast line between them. FORMATION OF NEURAL TUBE While embryo is being folded off a median longitudinal groove, called neural groove, appears on dorsal surface, on cephalic side of primitive streak. It grows caudalwards and absorbs cephalic end of primitive streak. Remainder of primitive streak persists to form cloacal membrane and ventral wall of body as far as umbilicus. Neural groove is bounded by ectodermal medullary folds, which,