360 NEUROLOGY produce pits in the bone, called foveolce granulares (Pacchionian depressions), although they are separated from bone by thinned upper wall of sinus and floors of lacunae, which they push before them. They become conspicuous only as age advances. Lacunae laterales or parasinoidal sinuses are diverticula from sagittal sinus, and lie in the dura on each side of it. Pia Mater Encephali.—Thin, delicate ; closely invests brain, dipping into all fissures, except in cerebellum, where it occupies only the larger ones. Gives sheaths to cerebral nerves as they pierce it. Blood-vessels ramify in it before sinking into brain substance ; they carry pial sheaths into brain substance with them. Pia mater covering lower part of roof of 4th ventricle is called tela chorioidea ventricuii quarti, and is infolded longitudinally over roof of ventricle, on each side of median plane, by a dense plexus of blood- vessels called plexus chorioideus v. quarti, which sends an offshoot to bulge in like manner into lateral recess of ventricle. Tela chorioidea ventricuii tertii (velum interpositum) is a triangular fold of pia mater, projected through transverse fissure into interior of brain, where it lies, below fornix, upon epithelial roof of third ventricle and medial parts of upper surfaces of the two thalami. Apex lies between limbs of foramen interventriculare (Monro). Base lies below splenium of corpus callosum. There, its upper layer becomes continuous, round splenium, with pia on corpus callosum and hemispheres ; its lower layer becomes continuous with pia on mesencephalon. At lateral borders, its layers are continuous with each other and enclose, on each side, a vascular plexus, called plexus chorioideus v. lateralis, which is seen, through ependyma of floor of lateral ventricle, at margin of fornix. The plexus communicates with its fellow' at apex of tela ; is prolonged from postero-lateral angle of tela to the end of inferior (descending) horn of ventricle, being excluded from its cavity only by its ependyma, w'hich it invaginates into horn through chorioidal fissure on its medial side. The enlargement of the plexus as it leaves tela to enter horn is called glomus chorioideum. From junction of plexuses at apex of tela a plexus chorioideus ventricuii-tertii extends backwards between layers of tela, bulging its lower layer and the epithelial roof of 3rd ventricle downw'ards into cavity of ventricle. Arteries to plexuses are chorioid branches of int. carotid and post, cerebral. Veins end in int. cerebral veins (Galen), which lie betw-een layers of tela and unite to form vena cerebri magna (Galen). This vein issues from between layers of tela at its base and joins inferior sagittal sinus to form straight sinus. Pia Mater Spinalis. — Adherent to spinal medulla. Thicker than that of brain. Sends a fold into anterior median fissure and is thickened there, forming a longi-