i8 OSTEOLOGY from below upwards, between 18 and 20 years, and is preceded by fusion of segments of lateral mass. Coccyx, cartilaginous at birth. Centre for first piece appears between 1st and 4th year; for last piece, about puberty. Fusion begins below, and is very variable. STERNUM OR BREAST BONE Sternum. —Lies in anterior wall of thorax. Supports clavicles and upper 7 pairs of costal arches. Consists of manubrium, above ; body, formed by fusion of 4 segments, in the middle ; xiphoid process, below. Manubrium is the broadest part. Flattened ; triangular, with truncated apex interiorly. Anterior surface, rough, slightly elevated superiorly and in median plane ; posterior surface, smooth, concave. Upper border, thick ; presents 3 notches :—Jncisura jugularis, in middle, forms bottom of suprasternal notch ; incisurce claviculares, laterally, articulate with clavicles. Lateral border : upper part prominent and hollowed out for 1st costal cartilage; lower part slopes medially and ends below as facet for upper part of 2nd costal cartilage. Lower border or apex : thick, but shorter than upper border; articulates with body by fibro-cartilaginous sv nch ond rosis—synchondrosis sternalis. Corpus (Body, Gladiolus).—Narrower than manubrium, but about twice as long. Increases in width down to junction of 3rd and 4th segments, and then rapidly diminishes. Planum sternale (anterior surface) is slightly convex from above downwards ; subcutaneous in median plane, crossed by 3 faintly marked ridges which indicate positions of fusion of 4 segments. Posterior surface : smoother, concave. Lateral border: thick ; opposite the anterior ridges are incisurce costales for 3rd, 4th, 5th costal cartilages, while notch for 6th is at lower part of 4th segment. Upper end is united to manubrium and has facets laterally for 2nd costal cartilages. Manubrium and body form a projecting angle at their junction, called angultts sterni, and felt subcutaneously as transverse elevation—the landmark for adjoining 2nd rib and cartilage. Lower end articulates with xiphoid process and with 7th costal cartilages. Processus Xiphoideus (Ensiform Cartilage).—Varies in size and shape. Cartilaginous, with bony core in upper part enlarging with age. Thinner than body of sternum, and its