480 UROGENITAL APPARATUS by sphincter urethra?; and bulbourethral glands (Cowper’s) are posterior to it, near its distal end. Cavernous Part.—Enters deep surface of urethral bulb, i in. anterior to its post, end ; traverses corpus cavernosum urethrae ; opens at extremity of glans penis as orificium urethra externum, which is the narrowest and least dilatable point of the canal. Dilated in floor in bulb, and again in roof in glans {/ossa navicularis). Lies nearer dorsal surface in bulb, nearer inferior surface in glans. Lacunce urethrales are little recesses in its mucous membrane. Ducts of bulbo- urethral glands open into it, i inch in front of urogenital diaphragm. Lymphatics of penile urethra end in deep subinguinal and external iliac glands ; of membranous and prostatic, and of female urethra, in ext. iliac and hypogastric glands. MALE GENITAL ORGANS Essential reproductive fluid is secreted by the two testes, which lie in the scrotum. From each testis, fluid passes into a tube, much coiled at first, called epididymis, straighter afterwards and called ductus deferens, which ascends from scrotum, traverses inguinal canal, descends to back of bladder, where it joins duct of seminal vesicle to form ejacu- latory duct. Ejaculatory duct pierces prostate and opens into urethra, which receives also the secretions of prostate, which lies below bladder, and of bulbo-urethral glands, which lie in perineum. Penis is traversed by and supports urethra. Scrotum.—Pendulous bag below and posterior to body of penis. Skin, dark and covered sparsely with hair, and divided by median ridge or raphe, which extends from scrotum back- wards to anus and forwards on to penis. Superficial fascia, devoid of fat and largely replaced by dartos muscle, which sends backwards an imperfect septum to divide scrotum into 2 chambers. Walls of each chamber are formed by coverings of testis, derived from ant. abdominal wall, and named, from without inwards :—ext. spermatic fascia, from obliquus externus ; cremasteric muscle and fascia, from obliquus interims ; internal spermatic or infundibuliform fascia, from fascia transversalis. Skin and superficial fascia are common to both chambers. Wall of each chamber is lined with parietal layer of peritoneal tunica vaginalis testis.