276 BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM border of seal. ant. to ext. border of 1st rib. Position in neck may be indicated by an arched line, convex upwards, drawn from sterno-clavicular joint to middle of clavicle, highest point of arch being £ to 1 inch above clavicle. Relations of First Part.—(a) In thorax: Anterior and to the right: vagus and phrenic ns., cervical cardiac branches of left vagus and sympathetic, left common carotid. Left pleura and lung overlap. Right side : trachea, recurrent n., (Esophagus, from below upwards. Left side : pleura and lung. Posterior: oesophagus, thoracic duct, longus colli medially ; pleura and lung laterally. (b) In root of neck : Anterior: vertebral, internal jugular and innominate veins, vagus and phrenic nerves ; sterno-thyreoid and sterno- hyoid. Posterior and inferior : pleura and lung. Thoracic duct ascends posterior to it at side of oesophagus, descends anterior to it at medial margin of scalenus anterior. Second Part is the highest part of arch—£ to 1 inch above clavicle — and lies between scalenus anterior and pleura. See also pp. 212, 217. Relations of Third Part.—Anterior : n. to subclavius; transverse scapular (supra-scapular) art. and vein, transverse cervical and ext. jugular veins ; subclavian vein on lower level; clavicle and subclavius. Posterior: lowest trunk of brachial plexus ; scalenus medius. First rib is below and posterior. See also p. 204. Right subclavian artery begins behind upper part of sterno-clavicular joint. Arches laterally across dome of pleura to end at outer border of 1st rib. Subdivided, in same way as left, into 3 parts. Relations of First Part (see also pp. 212,21 b).—Anterior : vagus, vertebral vein ; int. jugular vein ; sterno-thyreoid and sterno-hyoid. Posterior and inferior: recurrent nerve; pleura and lung. Relations of second and third parts are as those of left, except that phrenic nerve, on right side, is in front of 2nd part, separated from it by scalenus anterior. Branches are alike on both sides : vertebral (pp. 212, 273), thyreo-cervical trunk ; int. mammary ; costo-cervical trunk. Thyreo-cervical trunk (thyroid axis) arises near medial border of scalenus anterior ; runs upwards for £ inch upon cervical pleura, behind int. jugular vein, and divides into inferior thyreoid, transverse cervical and transverse scapular (supra-scapular) arteries.