MUSCLES AND FASCIA: 202 aponeurosis, many fibres also joining opposite muscle, between layers of pharyngo-palatinus. Nerve : accessory or facial, same as m. uvula:. It occupies interval above sup. constrictor, and crosses its upper border and pierces pharyngeal aponeurosis to enter palate. Tensor Veli Palatini (Tensor Palati).—Origin (fl.-tend.): sphenoid bone from scaphoid fossa to angular spine, and from lateral surface of auditory tube. Insertion (tend.) : palatine aponeurosis, and crest on lower surface of horizontal part of palatine bone, near posterior margin. Nerve : trigeminal, through otic ganglion. Tensor lies lateral to auditory tube and pharyngeal aponeurosis, medial to pterygoideus int., mandibular division of trigeminal nerve, otic ganglion, mid. meningeal art. Rounded tendon turns round lower surface of hamulus pterygoideus (bursa intervening), at right angles to flat triangular fleshy belly, and enters palate. Palatine aponeurosis lies in the substance of the soft palate and gives support to it. It is firm and strong anteriorly, where it is attached to post, edge of hard palate. Fades away postero-interiorly. It is continuous with pharyngeal aponeurosis laterally. Muscles of velum palatinum (soft palate) lie in the following order from dorsal to ventral surface : upper or posterior layer of pharyngo- palatinus, m. uvulte, levator, lower layer of pharyngo-palatinus, tensor and palatine aponeurosis, glosso-palatinus. Muscles of Larynx. See Larynx, p. 417. DEEP LATERAL MUSCLES OF NECK Scalenus Anterior lies under cover of sterno-mastoid. Origin (fl.-tend.) : ant. tubercles of 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th cervical transverse processes. Insertion (tend.-fl.): scalene tubercle and adjoining ridge on upper surface of 1st rib, between subclavian art. and vein. Nerves : anterior rami of c. 4, 5, 6, directly. Elevates 1st rib. Bends neck to that side, and both muscles acting flex it slightly. Anterior surface is in relation to sterno-mastoid, int. jugular vein (sometimes common carotid art.), ant. jugular vein, subclavian vein, thoracic duct, omo-hyoid, transverse scapular and cervical arteries, ascending cervical artery, phrenic nerve. Posterior to it are scalenus medius, roots of brachial plexus, subclavian art., cervical pleura. Scalenus Medius lies in floor of post, triangle. Origin (fl.-tend.) : post, tubercles of 2nd to 6th cervical transverse processes. Insertion (fl.-tend.) : upper surface of 1st rib,