347 CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES commissure crosses on deep part of its substance ; ansa peduncularis and ansa lenticularis turn laterally between it and lower end of internal capsule. Fibres of olfactory tract, stria terminalis (trenia semicircularis) and cingulum are connected with its cells. Central branches of middle cerebral artery perforate it. Rhinencephalon includes also subcallosal and supra-callosal gyri, dentate fascia, septum pellucidum, fornix, corpus mamillare, fasci- culus thalamo-mamillaris, hippocampus, gyrus fornicatus, cingulum, and a minute part of anterior commissure. These are dealt with in the regions they occupy. CORPUS CALLOSUM AND COMMISSURA ANTERIOR Corpus Callosum is the chief commissure of the hemi spheres. Its fibres radiate to all parts of cortex, except lower and anterior parts of temporal lobe, which are commissured by anterior commissure. It forms floor of longitudinal fissure, and unites medial surfaces of hemispheres in nearly half their length, but is nearer anterior than posterior end of brain. It is concave downwards on sagittal section, concave upwards on frontal (coronal) section. Upper surface is covered by gyrus supra-callosus and stria? longitudinales, and is in relation, on each side, to anterior cerebral vessels, gyrus cinguli (callosal) and cingulum. Posterior end is thick, owing to reduplication downwards and forwards, and is called splenium ; it is touched by falx cerebri and overhangs superior corp. quad., pineal body, base of tela chorioidea (velum interposition) and vena cerebri magna (Galeni). Anterior end, thickened and bent downwards and backwards, is called genu, lower part of which is prolonged, as thin lamina called rostrum, downwards and backwards to join lamina terminalis at anterior commissure. Intermediate part is called truncus corporis callosi (body of .c. callosum). Deep surface of trunk and genu, covered laterally with ependyma, forms roof and anterior wall of body and anterior horn of lateral ventricle; in median plane septum pellucidum intervenes between them {i.e. trunk and genu) and fornix, but fornix is adherent to posterior end of trunk. Forceps minor is the name given to arch formed by fibres of genu, as they curve forwards into frontal lobes. Wider arch, formed by fibres of splenium passing into occipital lobes, is called forceps major. It consists of upper and lower parts, above and below bottom of calcarine fissure ; upper part is that seen in ordinary dissection, and it produces an elevation,