VASCULAR SYSTEM 511 tive jugular unites with cardinal to form a duct of Cuvier, which opens into sinus venosus. Left innominate vein is formed mainly from a cross branch betw een primitive jugulars. Transverse parts of hemiazygos, accessory hemiazygos, left lumbar and left common iliac are formed from cross anastomoses between cardinals. Primitive jugular on right side becomes internal jugular, innominate and upper A of vena cava superior ; on left side, internal jugular, the beginning of innominate, and upper part of left superior intercostal. Ducts of Cuvier (sometimes called right and left superior venae cavae) become vertical by sinking down of heart from root of neck into thorax. Right becomes the part of superior cava inside pericardium ; left becomes fibrous cord in vestigial fold of Marshall, and upper part of oblique vein of left atrium (Marshall). Left cardinal vein, below entrance of renal vein, disappears except at caudal end, where it forms the hypogastric and beginning of left common iliac. Above renal vein it persists as hemiazygos, accessory hemiazygos and lower part of superior intercostal. Right cardinal vein, above renal vein, forms t axyg ; below renal, it becomes inferior vena cava, right common iliac and hypogastric. Ventral to Wolffian bodies and parallel to cardinal veins are 2 subcardinal veins. They are connected by anastomoses with one another and with cardinals. Most of these anastomoses disappear. Upper part of right subcardinal is joined by a downgrowth from right hepatic vein ; this downgrowth forms the part of inf. v. cava which lies on back of liver ; lower part of right subcardinal disappears. Vena cava inferior is formed by : (1) right hepatic vein ; (2) down- growth from right hepatic ; (3) subcardinal, from liver down to level of renal; (4) anastomosis between subcardinal and cardinal, at level of renal ; (5) cardinal, below level of renal. Cross channels between subcardinals at level of renal and between left subcardinal and cardinal form left renal vein. Lower part of left subcardinal dis- appears ; upper part remains as left suprarenal vein. Fcetal Circulation Pure blood from placenta is carried by umbilical vein as far as liver, and then by hepatic veins and ductus venosus to vena cava inferior and thence to right atrium. Vena cava inferior conveys also impure blood from lower limbs and abdomen into right atrium. Therefore, blood carried by inf. cava to right atrium is not wholly pure, but is the purest there is to be distributed to the body of the foetus. Valve of inferior cava (Eustachian) directs this blood into left atrium through foramen ovale ; there it mixes with the small amount of