'97 MUSCLES OF HYOII) BONE surface of mastoid process of temporal, lateral J of sup. nuchal line of occipital. Nerve : (spinal) accessory and c. 2. Both muscles acting extend head or elevate anterior chest wall. One acting alone flexes head, bends it to that side and turns face towards opposite side. Superficial surface is in relation to platysma ; ext. jugular vein ; lesser occipital, great auricular, cutaneus colli, anterior supra- clavicular nerves ; lymph glands. Overlapped by parotid gland. Deep surface is in relation to all three carotids, occipital, trans- verse scapular and cervical arteries ; int. and ant. jugular veins ; (vagus), accessory, hypoglossal nerves, (sympathetic trunk), cervical plexus and its branches, including phrenic ; scaleni, levator scapula;, splenius, longus capitis, rectus cap. lateralis, post, belly of digastric, depressors of hyoid bone ; lymph glands. Accessory nerve pierces it. Muscles ok Hyoid Bone.—Omohyoid, sterno hyoid, sterno-thyreoid with thyreo-hyoid, levator glanduhe thyre- oidete, digastric, stylo hyoid, mylo-hyoid, genio-hvoid. Hyo- glossus, middle constrictor, inf. longitudinal muscles of tongue, also attached to hyoid bone, are considered under other heads. Omo-hyoideus.—Posterior belly arises from upper margin of scapula and its superior transverse lig. (fl.); passes forwards under trapezius to cross posterior triangle ; ends under cover of sterno-mastoid in intermediate tendon, which is bound down by fascia to back of clavicle and first rib, and gives rise to anterior belly, which ascends almost vertically to be inserted into lateral part of lower border of body of hyoid bone (fl.). Nerve : c. 1,2, 3, through ansa hypoglossi. Depresses hyoid bone and draws it backwards and laterally. Sterno-hyoideus lies in lower part of anterior triangle of neck. Origin (fl.): posterior surfaces of manubrium and sternal end of clavicle. Insertion (A.-tend.) : medial half of lower border of body of hyoid bone. Nerve : c. 1, 2, 3, through ansa hypoglossi. It depresses hyoid bone. Sterno-thyreoideus. — Lies in lower part of anterior triangle. Origin (fl.): back of manubrium and 1st costal cartilage, below sterno-hyoid. Insertion (fl.): oblique line of thyreoid cartilage. Nerve: c. 1, 2, 3, through ansa hypo- glossi. It depresses larynx. Thyreo - hyoideus. — Continues direction of sterno- thvreoid; lies deep to omo-hyoid, upon thyreoid cartilage and thyreo-hyoid membrane. Origin (fl.) : oblique line of thyreoid cartilage. Insertion (fl.-tend.) : lower border of body and