UROGENITAL APPARATUS 49° Glandulae vestibulares majores (Bartholin) correspond to male bulbo-urethral glands, but each lies on superficial surface of fascia inferior of urogenital diaphragm, at side of vagina, overlapped by posterior end of bulb and covered by bulbo-cavernosus. Duct opens between orifice of vagina and attachment of labium minus. Pudendum muliebre, or Vulva, comprises the two labia majora and the parts in the interval between them. Labia Majora.—Correspond to scrotum. Enclose between them rima pudendi (urogenital cleft), into which vagina and urethra open. Labia are in contact and hide the parts in cleft. Each is large fold of skin enclosing fat; covered with hair laterally, smooth and moist medially. They are united posteriorly by commissura posterior, an ill-defined fold of skin in front of anus, and anteriorly by commissura anterior (mons Veneris), which is covered with hair, and is prominent, owing to underlying fat on anterior surface of symphysis pubis. Lig. teres uteri ends in labium majus. Arteries : labial branches of int. and ext. pudendal. Nerves : ilio-inguinal, pudendal, perineal branch of posterior cutaneous (small sciatic). Lympathics end in superficial subinguinal glands. Labia Minora.—Smallfoldsof skin lying longitudinally between labia majora. They end posteriorly either by joining 1. majora or uniting behind vaginal opening to form frenulum labiorum (four- chette). Anteriorly each divides into two. Medial divisions unite and join glans clitoridis to form frenulum clitoridis; lateral divisions unite over glans to form praeputium clitoridis. Fossa navicularis is the interval between frenulum labiorum and vaginal opening. Vestibulum vaginae is the space between labia minora, in front of vagina, behind clitoris. External urethral orifice lies in vestibule, I inch posterior to clitoris, close to vagina. Clitoris lies in anterior part of rima pudendi. Corresponds to penis. Has homologous parts and nerves and vascular supply. Differs in that it is small and is not traversed by urethra. MAMMAL Mammary Glands are accessory to reproductive system. Rudimentary in male. Begin to enlarge, in female, after puberty. Enlarge greatly during pregnancy, and still more after parturition. Atrophy in old age. Each lies in super- ficial fascia on ant. surface of thorax, from 2nd to 6th rib, and from side of sternum almost to mid-axillary line, upon pectoralis major and serratus anterior. At lower border of pectoralis a process extends up into axilla as high as 3rd rib. Papilla mammae (Nipple) projects from it, a little below