2! COST. E—RIBS to ilio-costalis. Near anterior end a slight accentuation of curve, called anterior angle, hears a roughness on external surface for origins ofserratus anterior (magnus) and obliquus externus abdominis. Typical rib is bent at angle proper, so that the part posterior to angle slopes more rapidly downwards than anterior part. It is twisted also, so that inner surface of posterior part looks slightly upwards, while that of anterior part looks slightly downwards. Body is thicker posteriorly, especially at angle, where bony tissue is heaped up on the concave side to strengthen the bone at maximum of the curve (*.e. the weakest point). Upper margin is thicker posteriorly than anteriorly ; posterior intercostal membrane and both intercostal muscles are attached to it. Costal groove at lower border fades away anteriorly, till its margins coalesce ; posteriorly it broadens. Nutrient foramina in it are directed posteriorly. Ext. inter- costal muscle arises from its sharp outer margin, internal intercostal from smooth rounded inner margin, and posterior intercostal membrane is attached to posterior part of groove. For other attachments see table, p. 24. First Rib. Short, broad, sharply curved ; articulates with 1st thoracic vertebra only. Head: small; has only one facet ; articulates with body of ist m. vertebra and slightly with fibro-cartilage above. Neck : relatively long ; flattened from above downwards ; downturned from shaft, so that when upper surface of shaft is placed on a table, head and neck project upwards. Tubercle: large; articulates with ist thoracic transverse process. Angle coincides with tubercle. Surfaces of body are superior and inferior ; borders arc- external and internal. External border is convex, and thick posteriorly. Internal border is concave and thin ; about its middle is the sharp tuberculum sea/eni, which, together w ith adjacent elevation on upper surface, gives insertion to scalenus anterior. Upper surjace : shallow groove for subclavian vein anterior to scalene tubercle ; better marked sulcus subclavhe for subclavian art., posterior to it ; rough depression for scalenus medius, behind subclavian groove, between it and tubercle ol rib. Lower surface is smooth and covered with pleura. Anterior end is enlarged. Costal groove is absent. Attachments.—1-ibrous strntHm of capsule and Iig. radiatum to head. Lig. colli costa mneck. Fibrous stratum of capsule and lig. tuberculi costa- to tubercle. Subclavius to anterior part of upper surface >>f body: scalenus ant. to scalene tubercle and roughness; scalenus medius to posterior part. External border gives attachment to 1st intercostals, and posteriorly, where it is thick, to levator costa.-, longissimus, ilio-costalis, the vertebral aponeurosis and