383 CEREBRAL NERVES Communications.—Nucleus receives fibres from area for move- ments of eyes (middle and inferior frontal gyri of opposite side); from visual centre in occipital lobe, through optic radiation ; from sup. corp. quad. Is connected with cerebellum through brachium con- junctivum (sup. cerebellar peduncle) ; with nuclei of trochlear and abducent, and of sensory nerves, through medial longitudinal bundle. Sends fibres to join those of opposite side which go to rectus medialis ; and sends fibres through medial long, bundle to join 7th n. and to end in orbicularis oculi, corrugator supercilii. and frontalis. Fibres : from opposite abducent through med. long, bundle to join fibres going to rectus medialis or the nuclear cells of these fibres. Nerve : from sympathetic and from ophthalmic nerve in cavernous sinus. Trochlear Nerve (4th).—Motor to sup. oblique of orbit. Smallest of cerebral nerves. Emerges through ant. medullary velum, turns round mesencephalon ; appears at base between posterior cerebral and superior cerebellar arteries ; pierces dura at posterior angle of triangle between attached and free borders of tentorium ; courses anteriorly in lateral wall of cavernous sinus, below oculo-motor ; crosses oculo-motor from below upwards, passes through superior orbital fissure, above rectus lateralis; crosses medially, above levator palpebrae, and sinks into upper border of obliquus superior, near its origin. Nucleus.—Cells in ventral part of grey matter of aqueduct, on level with upper part of inf. corp. quad. Fibres curve first dorsally, then caudally, lastly medially to enter anterior (superior) medullary velum, where they decussate with their fellows, and emerge along medial margin of opposite brachium conjunctivum (sup. cerebell. ped.). Communications —Nucleus (1) motor centre of opposite hemisphere; (2) nuclei of oculo-motor and abducent and of sensory nuclei, through medial longitudinal bundle ; (3) cerebellum, through brachium conjunctivum. Nerve : from sympathetic and ophthalmic in cavernous sinus. Trigeminal Nerve (5th).—Largest of cerebral nerves. Sensory for face, front of head, nose, mouth, ant. 3 of tongue, teeth. Motor for muscles of mastication. Has a motor root and a sensory root with a ganglion. Portio minor is its motor root. Ganglion of sensory root is semilunar ganglion, cells of which send branches centrally to form portio major, which is the sensory root, and branches peripherally in three divisions called ophthalmic, maxillary, and mandibular nerves.