CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM 3*9 (2) metathalamus, which consists of the geniculate bodies ; and (3) epithalamus, comprising pineal body, habenulae, habenular commissure, trigona habenularum. Telencephalon includes: (1) rhinencephalon—olfactory tract, etc. ; (2) pars optica hypothalami—tuber cinereum, infundibulum, hypophysis, optic tracts and chiasma, and the lamina terminalis ; (3) cerebral hemispheres. Nerve ganglia are made up of nerve cells and nerve fibres. Nerves contain nerve fibres, which conduct impulses. Those which convey impulses from cells of the brain or spinal medulla to the tissues of the body are called efferent, e.g. to muscles, glands. Those which convey impulses to cells in the brain and spinal medulla are called afferent. There are 12 pairs of cerebral nerves and 31 pairs of spinal nerves. Each spinal nerve contains l>oth afferent and efferent fibres, and is attached to the spinal medulla by two roots — a posterior, composed of afferent fibres, and an anterior, composed of efferent fibres. Of the cerebral nerves some are wholly efferent (3rd, 4th, 6th, nth, 12th); some are devoted exclusively to organs of special sense (1st, 2nd, 8th) ; and some are mixed nerves (5th, 7th, 9th, 10th). Sympathetic nervous system innervates viscera, glands and blood-vessels, and is connected with cerebro-spinal system by numerous communicating branches. It consists of (1) two sympathetic trunks, each made up of a longitudinal series of ganglia connected by strands of nerve fibres, placed on ventral aspect of vertebral column. (2) Three large plexuses containing ganglia.—Cardiac plexus, on bifurcation of trachea ; coeliac plexus, around coeliac artery and on crura of diaphragm ; hypo- gastric plexus, on sacral promontory, between common iliac arteries. (3) Numerous plexuses on walls of arteries and in walls of viscera. These also contain small ganglia. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM MEDULLA SPINALIS Spinal medulla (spinal cord), more or less cylindrical, 18 inches long. Begins at for. magnum, where it is continuous with medulla oblongata ; occupies but does not nearly fill vertebral canal; is surrounded by 3 membranes: dura mater, arachnoid, pia mater; tapers to an end at lower