NEUROLOGY 346 callosum, to join fascia dentata. Fascia dentata (dentate gyrus) (seen best in specimen showing posterior horn and floor of inferior (descending) horn of ventricle detached from rest of brain) is a curled lamina of grey matter, largely contained within hippocampus, but protruding medially as a notched margin, between fimbria hippocampi and upper surface of gyrus hippocampi. Posteriorly it is continuous with fasciola cinerea. Anteriorly it disappears into cleft of uncus ; emerges again as a delicate band, called frcenulum of Giacomini, which turns medially over recurved part of uncus and is lost on its surface. Fissura hippocampi is the slit between fascia dentata and upper surface of gyrus hippocampi. Posteriorly it is continuous with sulcus corporis callosi ; anteriorly it runs into cleft of uncus. Blood Supply of Medial and Tentorial Surfaces.—Anterior cerebral artery supplies medial surface almost as far back as parieto- occipital fissure. Middle cerebral supplies temporal pole. Posterior cerebral supplies the rest. Veins end in sagittal, transverse, superior petrosal and cavernous sinuses, anterior cerebral and basilar veins. RHINENCEPHALON Olfactory Lobe.—Olfactory bulb, § inch long, oval, lies in olfactory sulcus of brain, and on lamina cribrosa of ethmoid ; olfactory nerves, about 20 in number, from olfactory mucous membrane, enter its inferior surface. Olfactory tract, a prismatic band continued posteriorly from bulb, lies in olfactory sulcus and on upper surface of ant. part of body of sphenoid ; divides posteriorly into three roots or stria; : stria medialis curves medially, behind gyrus rectus, above optic- nerve, and ends partly in gyrus cinguli (callosal) and partly by joining gyrus subcallosus. Stria lateralis runs postero-laterally along lateral part of anterior perforated substance ; some of its fibres end in it, others curve medially to end in uncus. Stria intermedia, not always seen, runs over trigonum olfactorium—a triangular elevation in front of ant. perforated substance, between medial and lateral striae— and ends in perforated substance. Area par-olfactoria (Broca) is posterior end of gyrus rectus and a small area on medial surface, separated by anterior and posterior par-olfactory sulci from gyrus cinguli and g. subcallosus, respectively. It is continuous with olfactory trigone and lies anterior to medial stria. Substantia Perforata Anterior (Anterior Perforated Spot). Forms floor of vallecula Sylvii. Bounded by strite (roots) of olfactory tract, optic tract and nerve ; overlapped by uncus postero-laterally. Con- tinuous medially, above optic tract and nerve, with tuber cinereum and lamina terminalis ; laterally with limen insulae, i.e. the medial side of apex of insula, where circular sulcus is defective ; above with caudate, lentiform and amygdaloid nuclei and claustrum. Temporal part of g. subcallosus runs through its superficial part posteriorly. Anterior