19 COST/E—RIBS posterior surface being in line with that of body, its anterior surface is on deeper plane than that of body, and forms floor of infrasternal depression or pit of stomach. Upper end articulates with body of sternum and with 7th costal cartilages. Anterior and posterior surfaces, lateral borders and lower end give attachment to muscles and ligaments. Upper border of manubrium is at level of fibro-cartilage between 2nd and 3rd thoracic vertebra; ; sternal angle, at level of upper part of 5th TH. vertebra; upper end of xiphoid, at level of fibro-cartilage between 9th and 10th. Attachments.—Articular disc of sterno - clavicular joint to junction of manubrium and 1st costal cartilage ; it intervenes between clavicle and clavicular notch. Capsular ligament to and beyond margins of clavicular notch. Intcrclavicular lig. to jugular notch. Sternal head of sterno-mastoid to upper part of anterior surface of manubrium ; sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyreoid to upper part of posterior surface. Pectoralis major and ant. sterno-chondral ligs. to ant. surface of manubrium and lx>dy, and post, sterno-chondral lig. to their post, surfaces. Transversus thoracis to lower part of post, surface of body. Interarticular ligs. (when present) to costal notches. Ant. intercostal membranes to margins of manubrium and body between notches. Linea alba to lower end of xiphoid process; aponeuroses of obli<|ui and transversus abdominis to its lateral border ; rectus abdominis to its ant. surface ; diaphragm, transversus thoracis and costo-xiphoid lig. to pist. surface. Posterior Relations.—Manubrium : Sterno-hyoid and thyreoid; small part of pleura; and lungs. Thymus; left innominate vein near upper margin ; aortic arch and its branches. Body : pleurae, lungs, thymus, lymph glands and pericardium ; within peri- cardium, asc. aorta opposite 1 st segment, right auricle and portions of right atrium and ventricle opposite 2nd, 3rd, 4th segments. Xiphoid process : liver. Ossification —Manubrium : 1 or 2 centres appear 6th fa tal month : Body,centres for segments, in order from above downwards, from 6th m. to full term. Xiphoid process, centre at 3rd year. 4th and 3rd segments of body unite in early childhood, 3rd and 2nd at puberty, 2nd and 1st from 21 to 25. Body with xiphoid at middle age, with manubrium at advanced age. COST/E—RIBS Twelve pairs. Form greater part of bony framework of thorax ; overhang upper part of abdomen. Articulate with vertebrae posteriorly, provided with costal cartilages anteriorly.