VEINS OF HEAD AND NECK 3° i clavicle by joining subclavian to form innominate. At or near its termination there is a valve. Both veins trend to right in descent, so that left vein is almost in front of com- mon carotid at lower end, while right vein is a little way lateral to it. Right vein is usually the larger. Its position may be indicated by a line drawn from lower border of ext. meatus to medial end of clavicle. Above clavicle it lies opposite depression between sternal and clavicular heads of sterno-mastoid. (See also pp. 213, 217, 220.) Relations.—Enclosed in carotid sheath. Dilated at origin to form Bulb, which lies in jugular foramen. Upper part of vein lies behind int. carotid and last 4 cerebral nerves. Superficial-. (1) sterno-mastoid; (2) lymph glands; (3) parotid gland, facial n., styloid process, stylo-pharyngeus, stylo-hyoid ; (4) post, belly of digastric, post, auricular vessels, occipital art., accessory n. ; (5) branches to sterno-mastoid from superior thyreoid and occipital arteries ; (6) descendens cervicalis n. ; (7) omo-hyoid ; (8) ant. jugular vein ; (9) sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyreoid. Medial-, at base of skull last 4 cerebral ns. ; below that, vagus on post, plane, and int. carotid above, common carotid below. Posterior : (1) rectus lateralis, accessory n. sometimes ; (2) cervical trans- verse processes ; (3) ascending cervical art.; (4) longus capitis (rect. cap. ant. major), levator scapula;, scalenus rnedius and anterior ; (5) cervical plexus, phrenic n. ; (6) vertebral vein; (7) thyreo - cervical trunk (thyreoid axis) and its branches near origins ; (8) subclavian art., apex of pleura and lung ; and, on left side, (9) thoracic duct. Tributaries (see also p. 220).—(1) Inf. petrosal sinus at base of skull; (2) pharyngeal veins from plexus on wall of pharynx*; (3) common facial vein ; (4) lingual vein ; (5) superior and middle thyreoid veins. Subclavian vein begins at outer border of 1st rib as con- tinuation of axillary. Runs medially on 1st rib, posterior to subclavius and clavicle, anterior to and at a lower level than subclavian artery, from which it is separated by scalenus anterior. Ends at medial border of scalenus ant., behind clavicle near its sternal end, by joining int. jugular to form innominate. Tributary: ext. jugular. It has a valve on distal side of entrance of ext. jugular. Veins of Scalp (see also p. 231).—Frontal and supra orbital unite at medial angle of eye to form angular. Superficial temporal unites with middle temporal to form posterior facial vein.