423 THORACIC CAVITY AND PLEUR/E further from median plane than that of right, and (3) heart projects more to left side. Relations.—Right bronchus gives cparterial bronchus to upper lobe and divides into branches for middle and lower lobes of lung. Pulmonary art. is below and anterior to main stem, and passes between eparterial branch and remaining hyparterial part to reach posterior aspect of branches within lung. Upper pulmonary vein is anterior; lower is below. Post, pulmonary plexus and bronchial vessels are posterior. Vena azygos is behind and above. Left bronchus divides into branches for upper and lower lobes of lung. Pulmonary art. at first anterior, curves round supero-lateral border to reach postero lateral aspect. Upper pulmonary vein is anterior ; lower is below. Arch of aorta is above. Posterior pulmonary plexus and bronchial vessels, oesophagus, and descending aorta are posterior. Trachea consists of tube of fibro-elastic membrane kept patent by 15 to 20 cartilaginous rings, which are deficient posteriorly and are replaced by musculus trachealis. composed of transverse plain fibres, supplied by recurrent n. Mucous membrane contains many mucous glands, much lymphoid tissue, and is lined with columnar ciliated epithelium. Structure of bronchi is similar. Within the lungs the bronchi give off dorsal and ventral branches. Branches of pulmonary veins are anterior to them ; branches of pul- monary artery are posterior. Arteries to trachea, from inferior thyreoid. Veins end in thyreoid plexus and inferior thyreoid. Lymphatics end in pre- and para-tracheal, lower deep cervical and tracheo-bronchial glands. Nerves, from recurrent laryngeal and sympathetic. Arteries to bronchi : two left from descending aorta, one right from 1st right aortic intercostal or upper left bronchial or aorta. Veins: right ends in v. azygos, left in v. hemi-azygos accessoria. Lymphatics end in bronchial glands. Nerves, from vagus and sympathetic, through pulmonary plexuses. CAVUM THORACIS AND PLEURyE Cavity of thorax is subdivided into two pleural cavities, and an intervening region, called mediastinum, occupied by structures in or near to median plane, collectively called mediastinal septum. Each pleural cavity is enclosed by pleura and contains a lung. Each pleura consists of two parts, continuous with one another over root of lung :—(i.)