BRANCHES OF HYPOGASTRIC ARTERY 291 Middle haemorrhoidal artery arises often in common with inf. vesical. Runs medially upon levator ani to supply rectum, seminal vesicles, prostate and ductus deferens. Vaginal artery corresponds to inf. vesical in male. Con- sists of 1 or 2 branches which run down and medially upon levator ani to vagina, to supply it, and bladder and rectum. Uterine artery may arise in common with vaginal or middle haemorrhoidal. Runs medially and forwards upon levator ani to base of broad ligament; then medially between its two layers, above ureter and lateral fornix of vagina. Supplies uterus, uterine tube, ovary, vagina, and lig. teres. Obturator artery runs downwards and forwards along side wall of pelvis ; leaves pelvis through upper part of obturate foramen and divides into anterior and posterior rami, which diverge and form a circle upon the circumference of obturator membrane, under cover of obturator externus. Relations.—Nerve above, vein below ; lateral: bone, obturator int., fascia; medial-, peritoneum, ureter, ductus deferens; and in female, ureter, broad ligament, lig. teres uteri. Ovary is separated from it by peritoneum. [tranches : (a) muscular, (b) vesical-, (e) pubic branch ascends on pelvic surface of pubis ; anast. with its fellow and with pubic branch of inf. epigastric. This may enlarge to form abnormal obturator, replacing normal obturator. (d) Acetabular branch runs into hip joint through acetabular notch, and is continued along lig. teres femoris to head of femur. Internal pudendal artery runsdownwardsand backwards, anterior to sacral plexus and piriformis ; pierces deep fascia, leaves pelvis and enters buttock between piriformis and tip of spine of ischium. In buttock, it lies on tip of ischial spine, under glutasus maximus. Leaves buttock and enters perinaeum through lesser sciatic foramen. Runs anteriorly in Alcock’s canal, in lateral wall of ischio-rectal fossa, i| inches from lower surface of tuber ischiadicum, with dorsal nerve of penis above it and perineal n. below it; pierces base of fascite of urogenital diaphragm (triangular ligament), and runs between the fascia; along margin of pubic arch to within ^ inch of symphysis, where it pierces inferior fascia, and divides into dorsal and deep arteries of penis or clitoris. Branches : (a) In pelvis, to piriformis and sacral nerves, (b) hi buttock, muscular and anastomosing, (c) In ischio - rectal fossa ;