BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM 3°4 tudinal) begins by small vein ascending from nose through foramen ciecum. Extends upwards, backwards, and finally downwards, in attached margin of falx cerebri, grooving frontal, parietals, and upper part of occipital. Ends at side of occipital protuberance by turning to the right (some- times left) and becoming transverse sinus. Receives sup. cerebral veins, the posterior members of which enter it in direction contrary to blood flow in it. Communicates with occipital veins through parietal foramen, and with spaces in dura into which arachnoideal granulations (Pacchionian bodies) project. Confluens sinuum (Torcular Herophili) is a dilatation at its termination with which other sinuses communicate. (2) Sinus rectus (straight sinus) formed by v. cerebri magna (Galen) and inf. sagittal sinus. Runs postero-inferiorly in attachment of falx cerebri to tentorium, dilates at int. occip. protuberance and turns usually to the left to form left trans- verse sinus. Receives some sup. cerebellar veins, and veins from falx ; communicates with confluens sinuum. (3) Inferior sagittal sinus (inf. longitudinal) lies in post. § of lower edge of falx cerebri ; ends at anterior edge of tentorium by join- ing v. cerebri magna to form straight sinus. Tributaries from falx and middle J of medial surface of hemisphere. (4) Anterior and posterior intercavernous sinuses, in attached margins of diaphragma sellm, in front of and behind fossa hypophyseos (pituitary fossa), connect cavernous sinuses, and with them form circular sinus. (5) Plexus basilaris lies on cerebral surface of basilar part of occipital bone. It communicates with cavernous and inf. petrosal sinuses and with spinal veins. Paired Sinuses. Transverse sinus (lateral sinus) begins at int. occip. protuberance ; runs laterally and anteriorly in lateral border of tentorium, grooving occipital and mastoid angle of parietal. Leaves tentorium to lie between layers of dura, and runs downwards and medially, grooving medial surface of mastoid temporal ; then forwards and medially, grooving jugular process of occipital ; turns downwards through jugular foramen to end as int. jugular vein. Position indicated on surface by line drawn from ext. occip. pro- tuberance, slig-htly convex upwards, to upper part of mastoid temporal (about i| inch above and behind centre of meatus), then downwards and forwards over mastoid to level