271 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY (III.) Branches of Third Part.—Posterior superior alveolar (post. sup. dental) descends on infra-temporal surface of maxilla ; sends branches to gums and buccinator, and through bone to molars, premolars, and maxillary sinus. Infra orbital passes from pterygo-palatine (spheno-maxillary) fossa to orbit, through inf. orbital fissure. Runs through infra-orbital groove, canal and foramen to the face, accompanied by infra-orb. n. W hile in floor of orbit it gives branches to orbital structures, maxillary sinus, canine and incisor teeth—ant. sup. alveolar. Descending palatine, having given off the smaller palatine arteries (which descend to palate through lesser palatine foramina), becomes the greater palatine artery, which traverses greater palatine (B.N.A. pterygo-palatine) canal and foramen, runs for- wards on oral surface of hard palate, close to alveolar border, and ends by passing up Stenson’s canal in for. incisivuni to the nose. A. canalis pterygoidei (Vidian) runs posteriorly through that canal to upper part of pharynx. Pharyngeal (pterygo - palatine) runs posteriorly through pharyngeal canal to roof of pharynx. Spheno palatine enters nasal cavity through spheno-palatine foramen ; supplies mucous membrane of nasal cavity, adjacent sinuses and pharynx. Longest branch crosses roof, descends on septum to anastomose with greater palatine and superior labial. Internal carotid artery arises at upper border of thyreoid cartilage and lower border of 3rd cerv. vertebra, as branch of bifurcation of common carotid. Ascends in neck in line given for ext. carotid. Traverses carotid canal of temporal, crosses for. lacerum, pierces periosteal layer of dura mater ; runs forwards in cavernous sinus on carotid groove of sphenoid; turns up, medial to ant. clinoid process, and ends at anterior perforated substance (spot) by dividing into anterior and middle cerebral arteries, after piercing internal layer of dura mater and the arachnoid. Relations in Neck.—Enclosed in carotid sheath with jugular vein lateral to it, and vagus between and behind them. Ext. carotid is anterior and medial to it below, and separated from it above by styloid process, stylo-pharyngeus. glosso pharyngeal n., pharyngeal branches of vagus and sympathetic, pharyngeal veins, and part of parotid. In carotid triangle sterno-mastoid overlap it, common facial and lingual veins, hypoglossal nerve and occipital artery cross it, and descendens hypoglossi runs down superficial to it. Above carotid tri- angle it is crossed from below upwards by post, belly of digastric, stylo- hyoid, post, auricular art. ; and above that by structures separating