3° OSTEOLOGY on each side of spine helps to form roof of nasal cavity. At the side of the groove an opening leads up into sinus frontalis. Ossification.—In membrane. Centre for each half appears at 8th fcclal week. I lalves are separate at birth. Fusion complete at 8th year, except inferiorly. Frontal sinuses, recognisable at 7th year, but not fully developed till after puberty. Os Parietale.— Lies at side and top of head. Parietal surface convex, maximum point being called tuber parietale (parietal eminence). Cerebral surface concave. Margo sagittalis articu- lates with opposite parietal; margo frontalis, with frontal; margo occipitalis, with occipital; margo squamosus, curved and bevelled, with squamous temporal. Angulus sphenoidalis (antero-inferior) sharp and projecting, articulates with great wing of sphenoid ; angulus mastoideus (postero-inferior) blunt, articulates with mastoid temporal. Angulus frontalis and angulus occipitaliB are the antero-superior and postero-superior angles. Ossification.—In membrane. Centre appears at parietal tuber at 8th foetal week. Os Occipitale.—Placed at back and base of cranium. Consists of 4 parts arranged around foramen magnum: basilar part anteriorly, squamous part posteriorly, lateral (condylic) parts at sides. All separate at birth ; fused by 5th year. Squama occipitalis.-—Anterior surface is related to occipital lobes above, to cerebellum below ; posterior surface is divided into planum occipitale above, planum nuchale below. Angles : superior and 2 lateral. Margo lambdoideus, above lateral angle, articulates with parietals. Margo mastoideus, below lateral angle, with mastoid temporal. Ossification.—Upper part, in membrane, by 2 centres appearing at 8th week ; lower part, in cartilage, by 2 centres appearing at 8th week. Two parts join during 3rd foetal month. Pars lateralis consists of condylus occipitalis, medially, which articulates with atlas ; and processus jugularis, laterally, which articulates with petrous temporal. Ossification.—1 centre appears at 8th week. Pars basilaris.—P'used anteriorly with sphenoid. Surfaces : upper (clivus) and lower. Borders : 2 lateral, articulating with petrous temporal. Ossification.—1 centre appears at 9th week. Os Temporale lies at side and base of skull. Consists of squamous part above and anteriorly ; petrous part medially, mastoid part posteriorly, tympanic part.below. Squama temporalis (Squamous temporal).—Surfaces: lateral or temporal, medial or cerebral. Margo parietalis articu- lates with parietal, superiorly : margo sphenoidalis, with great wing of sphenoid, anteriorly. Processus zygomaticus (zygoma) projects anteriorly to articulate with zygomatic (malar). Ossification.— In membrane. 1 centre appears at 8th week.