449 (ESOPHAGUS (ESOPHAGUS (Esophagus is 8-14 in. long ; average 10. Extends from end of pharynx, opposite 6th c. vertebra and lower border of cricoid, through lower part of neck, sup. and post, medias- tina ; pierces diaphragm opposite lower part of 10th TH. vertebra and enters stomach opposite nth, 4 in. behind 7th costal cartilage, 1 in. to left of median plane. On the back, com- mencement is opposite 6th c. spine. Crossed by left bronchus in thorax, opposite 4th TH. spine. Ends opposite 10th spine. Distance from incisor teeth to commencement is 6 in. ; to left bronchus 9-10 in. ; to termination 16 in. Slightly constricted at beginning, and at diaphragm, and where left bronchus crosses it. Direction is curved in.conformity with vertebral column, and it deviates to the left of median plane in neck and upper part of thorax, and again at lower part of thorax. Relations (see also pp. 210,429, 432).—Anterior-, from above downwards, trachea and recurrent nerves, left bronchus, right pulmonary art., pericardium, diaphragm. Posterior: separated from vertebral col., and ant. longitudinal lig. by longi colli in neck and sup. mediastinum ; by upper 5 right aortic intercostal arteries, v. azygos, thoracic duct and aorta, in post, mediastinum. Right side : carotid sheath and thyreoid gland, in neck ; arch of v. azygos, pleura and lung, in thorax. Left side : carotid sheath, thyreoid gland and thoracic duct, in neck; thoracic duct, subclavian art., pleura and lung and aortic arch, in sup. mediastinum; descending aorta, and lower part of left pleura and lung, in posterior mediastinum. Note. — In post, mediastinum, left vagus breaks up into a plexus on ant. surface of oesophagus, right vagus on its post, surface. Abdominal Part of (Esophagus. —4 inch or less. Covered anteri- orly and on left with peritoneum; has left crus of diaphragm behind, inf. phrenic art. intervening ; is separated from oesophageal groove of liver by lip of hiatus oesophageus of diaphragm. Walls of (Esophagus. Muscular coat: —Striped fibres at upper end only. External longitudinal layer attached to cricoid above, con- tinuous with longitudinal fibres of stomach below. Internal circular layer continuous with inferior constrictor above, with circular and oblique coats of stomach below. Submucous coat contains manv mucous glands. Mucous membrane is covered with stratified squamous epithelium. Arteries: from inf. thyreoid, bronchial, descending aorta, left gastric and inf. phrenic. Veins form plexus on surface, drained chiefly into systemic, but at lower end into portal system. Lymph- 29