187 SOLE OF FOOT metatarsals, and are inserted on tibial sides of 3rd, 4th, 5th toes. They flex 1st phalanges, extend 2nd and 3rd slightly (cf. lumbricals), and adduct these toes towards second toe. Dorsal interossei arise from adjacent sides of metatarsals between which they lie. The first is inserted into tibial side of 2nd toe, the second, third, and fourth into fibular sides of and, 3rd, and 4th toes. They flex 1st phalanges, and extend 2nd and 3rd phalanges slightly. Third and fourth abduct 3rd and 4th toes from 2nd. First and second alternately abduct and adduct 2nd toe, i.e. the first abducts it towards hallux, second adducts it to former position, and, continuing to act, abducts it towards 3rd toe, and it is adducted to former position by the first. Each toe, therefore, has its abductor and adductor. Hallux hits its special abductor and adductor ; 2nd, 3rd, and 4th toes have each two interossei, and 5th toe has its special abductor and the third plantar interosseous as adductor. Tibialis posterior tendon, as it passes to insertion, is under cover of lig. laciniatum and cutaneous vessels; and flex. dig. longus is superficial to it, proximal to ankle-joint. Deep to it are posterior surface of medial malleolus, deltoid lig. just above sustentaculum tali, plantar calcaneo- navicular lig., which separates it from head of talus (astragalus). A sesamoid fibro-cartilage or bone is developed in it as it crosses the calcaneo-navicular lig. It is inserted chiefly into tubercle of navicular and 1st cuneiform ; by small slips also into plantar surfaces of sustenta- culum tali, 2nd and 3rd cuneiforms, groove on cuboid (i.e. all tarsals except talus), and into bases of and, 3rd, and 4th metatarsals. A mucous sheath surrounds it from its insertion to an inch proximal to lig. laciniatum (int. annular). As peroneal tendons lie on posterior surface of lateral malleolus, brevis is next the bone, and both are enclosed in a single retinaculum of deep fascia. When they leave malleolus and cross calcaneo-fibular ligament (middle band of ext. lateral), to lie on lateral surface of calcaneus (os calcis), brevis is above longus, and the retinaculum has divided to enclose them in separate compartments. Peronmus brevis runs on to insertion into base of 5th metatarsal. Peronasus longus turns round lateral side of cuboid, passes medially and distally in groove on its plantar surface, and below the 3rd and and cuneiforms, crossing slips from tibialis posterior ; and is inserted into lateral side of base of 1st metatarsal and 1st cuneiform, near the sole (cf. tibialis anterior). A sesamoid bone, developed in the tendon as it enters sole, plays on a facet on cuboid. As the tendon lies in groove of cuboid the long plantar ligament, crossing it, holds it in place and forms its fibrous ‘‘sheath." Oblique head of adductor pollicis and the flex. dig. quinti brevis arise from the sheath. Mucous sheath of peronaei, at first single, becomes double on lateral surface of calcaneus, and may follow both to their insertions, or that of longus may be interrupted at cuboid and start afresh.