224 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE branch. Lymphatics end in upper deep cervical lymph glands. Nerves : from lingual and sympathetic plexus around ext. maxillary art., through submaxillary ganglion. Submaxillary duct (Wharton's) emerges from medial surface of gland ; accompanies deep part of gland under cover of mylo-hyoid ; passes deep to sublingual gland to open on caruticula sublingualis, at side of frenulum linguae. Hyo-glossus and genio-glossus are medial to it. Hypoglossal nerve is below it. Lingual nerve, at first above it, crosses it superficially at ant. border of hyo-glossus, and then turns upwards, deep to it and sublingual gland. Sublingual gland lies under plica sublingualis in floor of mouth, where it can be felt by the tip of the down-turned tongue. It is almond-shaped, and about i i inches long. Its upper border is covered by mucous membrane of floor of mouth ; its leaver border rests on mylo-hyoid. Its lateral surface lies against sublingual fossa of mandible, i. e. near symphysis, above mylo-hyoid line. Its medial surface lies against genio-glossus, the lingual nerve and submaxillary duct intervening, and near its upper border it is in contact with its fellow, above the level of genio-glossus. It has no fascial sheath. Its ducts, 8 to 20 in number, open on plica sublingualis. Arteries, from lingual and submental. Lymphatics end in sub- maxillary glands. Nerves, from lingual n. and submaxillary ganglion. External maxillary artery (facial) arises from ant. aspect of ext. carotid in carotid triangle, and at once proceeds vertically upwards, under cover of posterior belly of digastric, stylo-hyoid, and angle of mandible, being enveloped in a deep groove on medial aspect of posterior part of submaxillary gland, above the level of stylo-hyoid ; deep to it are the middle and superior constrictors, the sup. con- strictor separating it from palatine tonsil. It emerges from groove in subrnaxillary gland and runs downwards and forwards, between ptery- goideus internus and submax. gland, to lower border of mandible, where it turns upwards and enters face at ant. border of masseter. Branches in neck : ascending palatine, tonsillar, glandular (sub- maxillary), submental. Ascending1 palatine artery ascends between pterygoideus in- ternus and superior constrictor, and between stylo-glossus and stylo- pharyngeus, and reaches apex of petrous temporal, where it turns downwards along levator v. palatini, and, passing over upper border of superior constrictor, pierces pharyngeal aponeurosis, and ends in velum palatinum (soft palate). Tonsillar artery ascends between pterygoideus int. and stylo- glossus, turns medially, pierces sup. constrictor and enters palatine tonsil. Glandular branches supply subrnaxillary gland. Submental artery arises near lower border of mandible, runs anteriorly, either between subrnaxillary gland and mylo-hyoid, or between gland and mandible, and turns upwards on to chin.