445 SALIVARY GLANDS arteries and int. jugular vein in carotid triangle. Flat, super- ficial or lateral surface is related to (i) skin ; (2) superficial fascia, fibres of posterior part of platvsma, branches of great auricular n.; (3) parotideo-masseteric fascia and ant. auricular lymph glands. Concave, anteromedial surface is related to post, borders of masseter, mandibular ramus and lower part of pterygoideus int., and is separated from submaxillary gland by stylo-mandibular lig. Irregular, postero-medial surface is grooved by (1) ant. borders of mastoid process and sterno-mastoid ; (2) post, belly of digastric and post, auricular art. ; (3) styloid process and stylo-hyoid muscle. In its substance are (l) ext. carotid art. ; (2) post, facial vein ; (3) facial nerve and its communications from great auricular and auriculo- temporal ; (4) some parotid lymph glands. Parotid Duct arises from facial process ; runs anteriorly upon masseter, at anterior border of which it turns sharply medially, through fat of cheek, and pierces buccinator ; runs anteriorly for j in. and pierces mucous membrane, opposite 2nd upper molar. 11 is accompanied by branches of facial nerve. Transverse facial vessels and accessory parotid are above it. Position is indicated by middle A of line drawn from lower margin of ext. acoustic meatus to midway between ala of nose and red margin of lip. Above angle of mandible the border separating antero-medial and postero-medial surfaces of parotid gland is sometimes prolonged forwards, between ramus of mandible and pterygoideus internus, as the pterygoid lobe. Ext. carotid art., ascending from under cover of digastric and stylo-hyoid, comes into relation with postero-medial surface of parotid, gives off post, auricular art., and pierces base of pterygoid lobe, passing from postero-medial surface to antero-medial surface, to reach post, aspect of neck of mandible, where it divides into int. maxillary and superficial temporal. Int. maxillary passes under cover of mandible. Superficial temporal gives off transverse facial and appears at upper end of parotid, in front of auricle. Trans- verse facial appears at ant. border, above duct. Occipital and post, auricular run upwards and posteriorly, deep to parotid, in relation to lower and upper borders of digastric, respectively. Posterior facial vein descends over zygoma, in front of auricle ; slips under cover of antero-medial surface of parotid ; receives transverse facial and int. maxillary veins ; passes through parotid, superficial to ext. carotid ; gives off a branch which emerges from postero-medial surface, at lower end, and joins post, auricular to form ext. jugular ;