MUSCLES AND FASCIAE 248 Sphincter ani externus.—Superficial fibres pass from tip to coccyx, around anus, to central point of perinaeum. Deep fibres encircle anal canal, superficial to internal sphincter. Fibres of the two §ides are continuous with each other posteriorly, mingle with other muscles at central point of perinaeum anteriorly, with levator ani superiorly. Nerves : s. 2, 3, 4, through inf. haemorrhoidal branch of pudendal and perineal branch of s. 4. Sphincter ani internus surrounds anal canal under cover of mucous membrane. It is a thickening of circular fibres of gut. Transversus perinaei superficialis arises from ramus of ischium, near tuber ischii, and runs medially to central point of perinaeum. Nerve : s. 2, 3, 4, through perineal branch of pudendal. Bulbo-cavernosus. — In male (ejaculator urinae) : Origin: central point of perinaeum, median raphe on lower surface of bulb and corpus cavernosum urethrae. Insertion : from behind forwards, into fascia inf. of urogenital diaphragm, dorsum of corpus cav. urethrae, fascia on dorsum of penis. In female (sphincter vaginae) : arises from central point, surrounds orifice of vagina, covers bulb of vestibule ; inserted into root and dorsum of clitoris. Nerve : same as trans- versus. Ischio-cavernosus (F.rector penis in male, E. clitoridis in female) arises from tuber and ramus of ischium ; inserted into sides and lower surface of crus penis vel clitoridis. Nerve : same as transversus. Transversus perinaei profundus arises by pointed tendon from junction of ischial and pubic rami ; passes medially' and expands to be inserted into median raphe, below and posterior to membranous urethra. Sphincter urethrae membranaceae lies anterior to trans- versus. Its internal fibres surround urethra and are continuous above with muscular fibres of prostate. Its external fibres are continuous with anterior border of transversus profundus. They arise from pubic ramus and blend with those of opposite side, in front of and behind membranous urethra. Nerves : s. 2, 3, 4, through perineal branch of pudendal. MUSCLES AND FASCIAE OF PELVIS Piriformis and Obturator Internus. See p. 171. Diaphragma pelvis consists of levatores ani and coccygei. Levator ani separates cavity of pelvis from ischio-rectal fossa. Origin (fl.): pelvic surface of body of pubis, obturator fascia, spine of ischium, insertion (fl.): (1) Central point of perineum; (2) side of anal canal between external and internal sphincters ; (3) ano- coccygeal raphe or body—a fibro-muscular nodule between tip of coccyx and anus; (4) lower pieces of coccyx. Nerves: s. 2, 3, 4, through perineal branch of pudendal, and from s. 3, 4, directly. It