MUSCLES AND FASCIAE 206 superficial to nerve to subclavius, 3rd part of subclavian artery, brachial plexus and scalenus medius. At lower posterior angle of post, triangle it joins supra-scapsular nerve and omo-hyoid, and they leave scalenus and pass through areolar tissue above serratus anterior (magnus) and subscapularis, below trapezius, to reach scapula. At superior margin of scapula the artery passes above the superior trans- verse lig., the nerve passes through the notch below it, and on dorsal surface of scapula they are under cover of supra- and infra-spinatus muscles. Its vein may be above or below transverse lig., and in root of neck it lies above artery. Transverse cervical and transverse scapular veins end in ext. jugular. Subclavian vein, where it corresponds to third part of artery, lies on 1st rib, has subclavius and its nerve anterior to it, subclavian artery on a posterior plane, but on a higher level. External jugular vein begins below and posterior to angle of mandible, below lobe of ear, by the union of the posterior auricular with a branch of the posterior facial which emerges from parotid gland. It descends almost vertically on superficial surface of sterno-mastoid, crossing it obliquely, under cover of platysma, and superficial or deep to nervus cutaneus colli (transverse superficial cervical). At posterior border of sterno-mastoid, a little above clavicle, it pierces deep fascia, crosses third part of subclavian artery and the transverse scapular artery, and ends behind clavicle in subclavian vein. It possesses a valve at its termination, and another at a higher level. It com- municates with int. jugular by a branch which turns round ant. border of sterno-mastoid into carotid triangle. It receives a posterior jugular vein from back of neck ; and, near its termination, the ant. jugular, and transverse cervical and scapular veins join it, and form with it a plexus, anterior to subclavian artery. Accessory nerve (spinal accessory) emerges from substance of sterno-mastoid, about the junction of its upper and middle thirds ; runs downwards and posteriorly, superficial to levator scapulae, and disappears under cover of ant. border of trapezius, about the junction of its middle and lower thirds, or even lower. 11 supplies sterno-mastoid and trapezius. It is accompanied by branches from 3rd and 4th cervical, which communicate with it and form a plexus on the deep surface of trapezius. The superficial branches of cervical plexus emerge from under cover of sterno-mastoid and appear at its posterior border, above its middle point. They are the lesser occipital and great auricular, which ascend ; nervus cutaneus colli, which is horizontal ; supra-clavicular nerves, which descend. Lesser occipital nerve arises from 2nd cervical ; runs upwards along post, border of sterno-mastoid, turns on to its superficial surface ; pierces deep fascia, and is distributed to skin over occipital bone and mastoid temporal, and upper part of cranial surface of auricle ; it communicates with greater occipital and great auricular. Great auricular nerve arises from 2nd and 3rd cervical; turns