EMBRYOLOGY 502 dmal orifice is thus divided into two nostrils and a large oral orifice. Oculo- nasal sulcus, which, for a time, separates maxillary and lateral nasal processes, becomes walls of lacrimal sac and naso- lacrimal duct. A ridge, called nasal lamina, grows backwards for a short distance along roof of stomodaeum from each globular process. They fuse and form premaxillary or incisive portions of maxillae. Posterior to these, a horizontal ledge grows medially from inner surface of each maxillary process ; the ledges fuse with one another in median plane, and with nasal lamina anteriorly, and form palate. At the same time a median septum grows dow n from under surface of median nasal process and fuses w’ith palate. It contains a core of cartilage continuous with cartilage of base of skull. This is replaced posteriorly by vomer and perpendicular part of ethmoid, and becomes septal cartilage anteriorly. Nasal and oral cavities are now separated, and the nasal cavities are separated from one another. A process from cartilage of cranial base projects into upper lateral part of nasal cavity and becomes labyrinth of ethmoid and inferior concha (turbinated). Hare-lip results from non-union of maxillary and globular processes. Cleft palate, from non-union of palatine process with nasal lamina and with its fellow. PARTS DERIVED FROM PRIMITIVE ALIMENTARY CANAL Tuberculum Imparand Furcula.—Two elevations appear in floor of fore-gut : an anterior, rounded, called tuberculum impar, becomes the central and posterior area of ant. § of tongue. The posterior, called furcula, a ridge bent like a hair-pin, encloses a median groove and is bounded by a groove called sinus arcuatus. Upper, closed end of furcula forms epiglottis and ary-epiglottic folds. Lipsof median groove meet and fuse, converting groove into a tube which becomes detached from the part of floor of fore-gut which forms oesophagus, but retains communication, by its upper end, with part that becomes pharynx. The tube becomes cavity of larynx and trachea. Its lower end bifurcates to form rudiments of bronchi, before lips close to form tube. End of each bronchus enlarges to form vesicles of lungs. Left divides into 2, right into 3, forming lobes of lung ; and each invaginates its own side of pleural part of coelom. Visceral Arches, Clefts and Pouches.—On each side, in lateral wall of that part of fore-gut w hich becomes pharynx, localised thicken- ings of mesoderm produce 5 bars, called visceral arches, seen best from inside. The 1st is largest and most anterior. They diminish in size serially, so that 5th is smallest and is seen only from inside. The arches are separated on the inside by grooves called visceral pouches, and on outside by grooves called visceral clefts. In these grooves, between the arches, the surface ectoderm and the entoderm are separated by little or no mesoderm.