THALAMENCEPHALON 337 to internal capsule. Inferior surface is connected with sub- thalamic tegmental region, corpus mamillare, and tuber cinereum. Structure.—Medial medullary lamina, a vertical sheet of fibres, divides it into lateral and medial nuclei, and splits anteriorly to enclose small anterior nucleus. Stratum zonale is white layer on upper surface, derived from optic tract and radiation. Lateral medullary lamina, an interlacement of fibres passing between its lateral surface and internal capsule. Connections.—With all parts of central nervous system. Arteries from posterior communicating, posterior cerebral, lenticulo-optic of middle cerebral. Veins end in vena terminalis. Metathalamus. Corpus geniculatum mediale, an elevation at upper end of lateral groove of mesencephalon, under pulvinar. Consists of a nucleus in which fibres of lateral lemniscus end and acoustic radiation arise. Connected with its fellow by fibres (commissure of Gudden) which form medial root of optic tract, run forwards in optic tract, cross in chiasma to opposite tract. Inferior brachium from inf. corpus quadrigeminum extends towards it and disappears under cover of it. Corpus geniculatum laterale, an indistinct elevation on lateral part of lower surface of pulvinar. Consists of alternate layers of grey and white matter. Connected with optic radiation and lateral root of optic tract, and with superior corpus quadrigeminum by means of superior brachium. Epithalamus.—(i) Commissura posterior is a slender band of fibres stretching across median plane in posterior wall of 3rd ventricle, dorsal to upper end of aqumductus cerebri, under base of pineal body. Connections not yet definitely made out. (2) Corpus Pineale.—A conical body, base directed anteriorly. Lies on groove between superior corpora quadrigemina, below splenium of corpus callosum, enveloped in lower layer of tela chorioidea (velum interpositum). Base connected with hollow stalk, divided into ventral lamina, which curves downwards in front of post, commissure into matter surrounding aqueduct, and dorsal lamina, which splits into 2 bands, called habenuhr, to become continuous with stria medullaris and taenia thalami on each side. (3) Trlgonum Habenulae.—A triangular depression between sup. corpus quadrigeminum, stalk of pineal body and pulvinar ; grey matter in its floor is nucleus habenulae, from which fasciculus retrojlcxus descends through tegmentum to end in ganglion inter- pedunculare in substantia perforata posterior. (4) Stria medullaris. a band of fibres, under ependymal ridge called teenia thalami, on medial borderof thalamus. Traced backwards,