SYMPATHETIC NERVOUS SYSTEM 399 (2) Sup. cervical ganglion. (3) Branch from loop between 1st and 2nd cervical nerves joins it and leaves it as descendens hypoglossi and nerves to thyreo-hyoid and genio-hyoid ; this communication may partly join vagus, which, in that case, gives oft' the descending branch. (4) With pharyngeal plexus by lingual branch of vagus. (5) With lingual at ant. border of hyoglossus. SYSTEMA NERVORUM SYMPATHICUM Sympathetic nervous system consists of two trunks with their ganglia (gangliated cords), and numerous plexuses made up of their branches and containing subsidiary ganglia. The trunks give grey rami communicantes to all spinal nerves, and receive white rami communicantes from some spinal nerves (from 2nd thoracic to 2nd lumbar inclusive). White r. communicantes from 3rd and 4th sacral nerves join pelvic plexuses. . TRUNCUS SYMPATHICUS Sympathetic trunk begins in superior cervical ganglion, below base of skull ; descends posterior to internal and common carotids, anterior to cervical transverse processes and longus capitis (rectus major) and colli, medial to vagus, and is crossed, either in front or behind, by inf. thyreoid art., opposite cricoid cartilage and 6th vertebra. Enters thorax in front of neck of 1st rib, medial to superior intercostal artery anti 1st thoracic n., behind apex of pleura : descends anterior to neck of 2nd rib, heads of next 3 or 4, lig. radiata (stellate) of next 2 or 3, and finally on sides of bodies of lower thoracic vertebrx-; in intervals between ribs anil on the vertebra; it is anterior to intercostal vessels; and it is posterior to pleura throughout. Enters abdomen behind medial lumbo-costal arch (int. arcuate lig.); descends anterior to lumbar arteries, along interval between ant. border of psoas major and the vertebra;. On left side, it is posterior to renal vessels, pancreas, end of duodenum, sper- matic vessels, colic and sigmoid branches of inf. mesenteric art., common iliac vessels. On right side, it is posterior to renal artery, vena cava, common iliac artery. Enters pelvis in front of ala of sacrum ; descends medial to sacral foramina, anterior to branches of mid. sacral art. passing to foramina, posterior to pelvic colon or ileum above, but separated by peritoneum from them ; behind rectum below-. Ends by joining its fellow in ganglion impar on pelvic surface of coccyx, behind rectum.