270 BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM roots of auriculo-temporal n., behind mandibular n. Enters middle cranial fossa through for. spinosum, accompanied by a vein. Runs anteriorly and upwards between bone and dura, over squamous temporal and great wing of sphenoid, to end on latter by dividing into ant. and post, branches. Anterior terminal branch runs upwards and anteriorly, over great wing, to sphenoidal angle of parietal bone, which it deeply grooves or tunnels, and from there upwards and posteriorly, a little behind ant. border of parietal, opposite motor area of brain, to vertex, giving branches backwards and forwards. Position may be indicated on surface by drawing a line from mid-point between zygomatic process (ext. angular) of frontal and external meatus, just above zygoma, to the pterion, and thence towards mid-point between root of nose and ext. occipital protuberance. Posterior terminal branch runs posteriorly and upwards across squamous temporal ; crosses inf. border of parietal about its middle, and ramifies upwards and backwards on cerebral surface of that bone. Its position may be indicated by a line drawn towards lambda from same point above zygoma as given for ant. branch. Unimportant branches of middle meningeal are superficial petrosal, which enters hiatus canalis facialis ; superior tympanic, which accompanies tensor tympani to typanum ; orbital, which passes through sup. orbital fissure and anastomoses with lacrimal. Inferior alveolar artery (inf. dental) descends between ramus of mandible and spheno-mandibular ligament ; enters mandibular foramen, accompanied by vein and nerve ; runs along mandibular canal and ends at mental foramen by dividing into mental and incisive branches. Branches.—(i) Lingual accompanies lingual n. (2) Mylo- hyoid pierces spheno-mandibular lig., descends in mylo-hyoid groove and upon lower surface of mylo-hyoid to anastomose with submental. (3) Branches to gums and molar, premolar, canine and incisor teeth. (4) Mental passes through mental foramen to the face. (II.) Branches of Second Part of Int. Maxillary Art. —(1) To pterygoid muscles. (2) Masseteric passes laterally through mandibular (sigmoid) notch to masseter. (3) Anterior and posterior deep temporal ascend between temporal muscle and squamous temporal, supplying both. (4) Buccinator accom- panies buccinator (long buccal) nerve, between temporal and ptery- goid muscles, to the buccinator muscle.