7 5 FEMUR Surfaces : anterior, medial, lateral, separated by ill-defined1 lateral and medial borders and a pronounced posterior border called tinea aspera. Anterior and lateral surfaces give origin to muscles, but medial surface is bare. Linea aspera is on middle ^ of shaft posteriorly ; its lateral lip is thin and sharp, medial lip is broader and interrupted. Lips diverge proximally and distally. Proxi- mally, the lateral lip is continued to trochanter major as rough gluteal tuberosity for glutaeus maximus ; medial lip is continued to linea intertrochanterica as the spiral line. District between tuberosity and line makes a posterior surface for proximal part of shaft. Distally, the lips are continued as lateral and medial epicondylic lines. These extend from linea aspera to respective condyles. Lateral is more prominent than medial, which is worn away, in part, by the passage of the femoral vessels into popliteal fossa. Planum popliteum (popliteal surface), the space between epi- condylic lines, makes a fourth or posterior surface for distal of shaft. It forms floor of popliteal fossa ; roughness on it, proximal to medial condyle, is for medial head of gastro- cnemius. Nutrient Foramina.—One or two near linea aspera, directed proximally. Ossification. — Primary centre for shaft and neck at 7th week. Epiphyseal centres: for distal end, just before birth; head, 1st yr. ; trochanter major, 2nd yr. ; minor, 12th yr. Fusion takes place in order conforming to size of epiphysis: trochanter minor at 18 ; major, 19 ; head, 20 ; distal end, 21. Fpiphyseal line for head is intra-capsular ; for trochanter major and minor, extra- capsular. Line at distal end is partly intra- and partly extra-capsular, passes through adductor tubercle and just proximal to patellar surface, and close to intercondyloid line. Attachments,—Lig. teres to pit on head. Capsular lig. to post, surface of neck, A inch from inter-trochanteric crest, to upper and lower borders near trochanters, to inter trochanteric line. Ilio-femoral lig. and vastus lateralis and medialis to inter trochan teric line. Obturator ext. to trochanteric fossa ; tendon of obturator ext. lies directly on the bone beyond attachment of capsule and may produce shallow groove, on post, aspect of neck, leading into trochanteric fossa. Obturator interims ami gemelli to medial surface ot trochanter major above neck, piriformis to superior border, gluteus minimus to ant. surface, gluteus rnedius to oblique ridge on lateral surface, quadratus femoris to quadrate tubercle on post, aspect, and line leading distally from it. Vastus lateralis from