97 ARTICULATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE as they retreat into the space created at upper part of abdominal cavity by the increased splaying out of 7th to i«th ribs. ARTICULATIONS OF SUPERIOR EXTREMITY Articulatio Sternoclavicularis. Diarthrodia]. Sternal end of clavicle with clavicular notch of sternum (articular disc intervening) and with first costal cartilage. Articular capsule surrounds joint ; is thickened anteriorly to form lig. sternoclaviculare, which extends from anterior surface of clavicle to ant. surface of manubrium, and is covered by sternal head of sterno-mastoid. Sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyreoid are in relation to posterior part of capsule, and, behind them, the innominate artery on right side, common carotid artery on left. Discus articularis divides joint cavity ; attached to ant. and post, parts of capsule, to upper part of sternal end of clavicle above, to first cartilage near sternum below. Accessory ligaments : Costo-claviculiir lig. extends from first cartilage upwards, laterally and posteriorly to costal tuberosity of clavicle ; origin of subclavius is anterior to it, innominate vein is posterior. Interclavicu- !ar lig. : subcutaneous. Attached to rough upper part of sternal ends of both clavicles and to upper margin of manubrium. Blends with upper parts of the capsules. Related to sterno thvreoids posteriorly. Movements. 1) Clavicle moving on articular disc : elevation of shoulder, produced by upper part of trapezius, levator scapula;, sterno-mastoid, rhomboids ; chc< ked by costo-clavicular ligament. Depression, by subclavius, pectoralis minor, lower part of trapezius, and by gravity ; ducked by disc and interclavicular ligament. (2) Clavicle and disc moving on sternum ; movement forwards of shoulder, by serratus anterior, pectoralis minor; backwards, by trapezius and rhomboids. (3) Circumduction is a combination of these. Dislocation is prevented mainly by disc and interclhvicular ligament. Articulatio Acromio-clavicularis.—Di arthrodial. Acro- mial end of clavicle with facet on medial margin of acromion, articular disc intervening. Articular capsule attached to margins of articular surfaces; subcutaneous above and strengthened to form acromio-clavicular lig. ; in relation to supraspinatus below. Discus articularis : usually incomplete, often absent. Attached to capsule above, projects 7