DIGESTIVE APPARATUS 458 Iliac Colon.—5 or more in. long. Begins in lumbar region, at posterior part of crest of ilium ; descends into iliac region. At level of ant. sup. iliac spine it turns medially, above inguinal lig., and ends at medial border of psoas by becoming pelvic colon. It may be close to inguinal lig. or up to 1 inch above it. Relations.—Covered with peritoneum, except posteriorly. An- terior-. coils of small intestine. Posterior-, iliacus, psoas; lateral cutaneous, femoral, genito-femoral nerves ; spermatic vessels, ext. iliac artery. Pelvic Colon.—May be nearly as long as transverse colon ; usually much shorter ; occasionally longer. Begins at medial border of left psoas ; forms a loop, lying in pelvis ; ends opposite middle piece of sacrum by becoming rectum. Occasionally very short and takes a straight course. Surrounded by peritoneum and suspended by pelvic mesocolon. Coils of small intestine lie above. It lies on bladder, or uterus and bladder. Superior hemorrhoidal artery is 'posterior to its lower part. Peritoneum separates it posteriorly from hypogastric (int. iliac) vessels, upper part of sacral plexus, piriformis and sacro-iliac joint; laterally from ext. iliac vessels, forwardly directed branches of hypogastric vessels, obturator nerve, ureter, and ductus deferens or ovary—all of left side. Structure of Large Intestine. —Serous peritoneal coat: com- plete over caecum, vermiform process, transverse and pelvic cola ; in- complete over others. The peritoneum presents little pouches filled with fat, called appendices epiploicae, all over large intestine except caecum and rectum. Muscular coat: Outer longitudinal fibres are in form of 3 equi- distant bands, called taeniae coli, between which the longitudinal stratum is absent or exceedingly thin. At one end the treniae converge upon base of vermiform ; at the other they spread out to become con- tinuous with longitudinal layer of rectum. They are Jth shorter than potential length of colon, which is therefore puckered up into 3 rows of sacculations, called haustra coli. Inner circular fibres form continuous layer. Mucous coat: smooth ; plicae circulares (valvulae conniventes) absent, but folds, efTaceable by stretching, are numerous. Lymph nodules are scattered through it, and are especially numerous in vermi- form process. Differences between Large and Small Intestines and between the several Parts of Colon.—Large intestine is distinguished from small by appendices epiploicae, taeniae coli, sacculations, larger calibre, absence of plicae circulares (valvulre conniventes) and of villi. Ascending colon has larger calibre than descending and iliac cola. Transverse and pelvic cola differ from others in having complete peri-