275 LEFT SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY Posterior cerebral artery arises at upper border of pons, as a branch of bifurcation of basilar ; runs posteriorly and upwards between basis pedunculi and uncus, above oculo-motor and trochlear ns., to calcarine fissure, to end in cortical branches there. It is connected with int. carotid by post, communicating. Branches : cortical branches, to tentorial surface of hemisphere (except ant. end of temporal lobe) and adjoining part of convex surface, post, part of medial surface, including post. £ inch of pracuneus, and adjoin- ing part of convex surface : central branches, to corpus mamillare, basis pedunculi, nucleus ruber, thalamus, corpora geniculata, fornix, and chorioid plexus. Circulus arteriosus (circle of Willis) is situated in subarachnoid space at base of brain, enclosing the optic chiasma and the structures in the inter-peduncular fossa. It is formed by point of bifurcation of basilar, two post, cere- brals, two post, communicating, two int. carotids, two ant. cerebrals, and ant. communicating. Relations, passing from posterior to anterior limit of circle. Within the circle are the post, perforated substance, corpora mamillaria, tuber cinereum and infundibulum ; lamina tcrminalis and optic chiasma. Above it are the posterior perforated substance, basis pedunculi (crusta), optic tract, anterior perforated substance, posterior end of gyrus rectus and medial stria of olfactory tract, rostrum of corpus callosum, and longitudinal fissure. Below it are the dorsum sellm, attached margin of tentorium cerebelli near posterior clinoid process, cavernous sinus, optic chiasma. Circumferentially it is related to upper border of pons, basis pedunculi (crusta), oculo-motor nerve and uncus, beginning of stem of lateral fissure of cerebrum (Sylvius), gyrus rectus, longitudinal fissure of cerebrum. (Oculo-motor nerve is first posterior to posterior cerebral artery, behind its anastomosis with post, communicating, and then turns anteriorly beneath post, cerebral to lie between post, communicating and uncus.) Cortical branches of cerebral arteries anastomose freely in the pia mater, but very little, if at all, after entering brain substance ; and the central branches do not anastomose at all. Left subclavian artery arises from aortic arch, behind and to left of carotid, at left side of trachea ; ascends to root of neck ; arches laterally behind scalenus anterior, over anterior aspect of dome of pleura and over ist rib, to end at outer border of ist rib by becoming continuous with axillary. Divided into 3 parts: (1) from origin to medial border of scalenus ant. ; (2) behind scalenus ant.; (3) from lateral