EMBRYOLOGY 508 In female, ovary is dragged down to brim of pelvis, where guber- naculum becomes adherent to uterus. Uterus sinks into pelvis, dragging gubernaculum and ovary with it. Gubernaculum becomes round liga- ment and lig. of ovary ; and its length keeps pace with growth of adjacent organs. Descent of testis and ovary through abd. cavity may be owing to growth at lower end and atrophy at upper end. Mullerian ducts are formed, one on each side, on lateral side of Wolffian body, by tubular invagination of mesoderm lining body cavity. Their cephalic ends open into body cavity. They grow caudally, cross Wolffian ducts, unite to form single tube which opens into urogenital canal. Fused portions become uterus and vagina. Owing to shortening of urogenital canal, the vagina comes to open directly into urogenital cleft. Unfused portions become uterine tubes, which, in adult, still open into body cavity. In male, the Mullerian ducts partly persist as )>roslatic utricle and appendices testis. Glands of prostate, bulbo-urethral and vestibular glands arise as outgrowths from urogenital canal. VASCULAR SYSTEM First appearance of blood-vessels is on yolk sac, where channels run together to form vitelline veins. About same time, just when folding off of embryo is beginning, two primitive aortas appear in ventral or splanchnic layer of pericardial mesoderm. They extend cephalwards and caudalwards, and are carried on to yolk sac and join vitelline veins. At caudal end they give off large branches to be carried along allantois to chorion. When cephalic fold is formed the pericardium is carried round and lies below fore-gut, with surfaces reversed, the splanchnic layer having become dorsal in position. Its cavity is continuous on each side with pleuro-peritoneal cavity, but continuity is soon obliterated. Caudal border thickens to form a semilunar mass called septum transversum, which becomes diaphragm. In median plane, the septum grows dorsally towards fore-gut. Laterally, it sends out falciform prolongations between lining of coelom and rest of body wall. These grow medially towards fore-gut, dividing coelom into peritoneal and pleural cavities. Primitive aortae are carried round with pericardium, and each then consists of three parts: (i) anterior ventral aorta, on dorsal surface of pericardium, and continuous through septum transversum with vitelline vein; (2)first aortic arch, which lies in 1st visceral arch ; (3) primitive dorsal aorta, ventral to proto-vertebral somites. When caudal fold is formed the umbilical branches of primitive aorta: pass through the fold on their way to placenta. Each ant. ventral aorta is divisible into anterior and posterior