MUSCLES AND FASCI/E 150 carpi ulnaris, lig. piso-hamatum (pisi-unciform) ami piso-metacarpeum ; and is inserted by tendon into ulnar side of base of ist phalanx of little finger, which it abrlucts and slightly flexes. Flexor digiti quinti brevis lies superficially in radial part of hypothenar, and may be fused with abductor or opponens. It arises by fleshy and tendinous fibres from transverse carpal lig. and hook of hamatum (unciform), and is inserted in common with abductor. Opponens digiti quinti is placed under cover of preceding two. It arises by fleshy and tendinous fibres from transverse carpal lig. and hook of os hamatum, and is inserted by fleshy fibres into ulnar border and ulnar half of palmar surface of 5th metacarpal, which it draws forwards and turns towards radial side. Ulnar artery leaves the anterior surface of flexor profundus at wrist ; passes on to superficial aspect of transverse carpal lig. (ant. annular), where it lies either deep or superficial to the volar carpal lig., on radial side of ulnar nerve and pisiform ; leaves the transverse lig., and descends upon lig. piso-hamatum (pisi-unciform lig.) to reach ulnar side of hook of os hamatum (unciform), under cover of palntaris brevis, where it divides into superficial and deep branches. Superficial branch becomes the superficial volar arch. Deep branch, in company with deep branch of ulnar nerve, passes dorsally and distally between abductor digiti quinti and flexor brevis, then laterally under cover of flexor brevis and opponens, or between the two, or through opponens, and joins ulnar end of deep volar arch. Before leaving profundus the ulnar artery gives off (1) the volar ulnar carpal artery, which winds round ulnar side of profundus, and runs laterally to join volar radial carpal on volar surface of distal end of radius; and (2) dorsal ulnar carpal artery, which passes dorsally under cover of flexor carpi ulnaris, then distally on ulnar side of wrist-joint, and, lastly, laterally under cover of extensor carpi ulnaris to join dorsal radial carpal on distal row of carpus. Superficial volar arch is formed by superficial branch of ulnar artery, and is completed on radial side by superficial volar branch of radial, or princeps pollicis, or radialis indicis. It is accompanied by vena cotnites. Superficial to it are palmaris brevis, palmar apo- neurosis, palmar cutaneous branches of median and ulnar nerves. Deep to it are flexor brevis and opponens dig. quinti ; digital branches of median nerve, tendons of flexor digitorum sublimis and pro- fundus, and the lumbricals. Course of terminal part of ulnar artery and the superficial arch may be mapped out by a line drawn from radial side of pisiform towards ring finger as far as level of distal border of outstretched thumb, then turned laterally, and finally a little proximally, to end at distal or ulnar margin of thenar eminence, in line with radial side of middle finger. Branches of Superficial Volar Arch.—(1) Small branches to skin and neighbouring muscles. (2) Four common volar digital