307 INFERIOR VENA CAVA along medial side of brachial art. to end at lower border of teres major by becoming axillary. It possesses several valves. Cephalic vein begins on dorsum of hand, runs along radial border or volar surface of forearm, and having been joined, at bend of elbow, by the median cephalic vein, it runs proximally in groove along lateral side of biceps, pierces deep fascia, to lie between pectoralis major and deltoid. Below clavicle it turns medially under pect. major, pierces costo- coracoid membrane, and-ends in axillary vein. It also has several valves. Vena Cava Inferior and its Tributaries Inferior vena cava begins at right side of body of 5th E. vertebra, behind right common iliac art., by union of common iliac veins ; ascends upon vertebral column and diaphragm ; pierces central tendon of diaphragm, between its right and median segments, opposite 8th TH. vertebra ; pierces pericardium, and ends in lower and posterior part of right atrium. Tributaries.—Hepatic veins, right inferior phrenic, right suprarenal, renals, right spermatic or ovarian, lumbars, common iliacs. Relations in abdomen.—Anterior: (1) liver; (2) foramen epiploicum (Winslow), right, free edge of lesser omentum containing portal vein, bile duct, hepatic art. ; (3) superior or 1st part of duodenum, with portal vein, bile duct, gastro- duodenal art. intervening; (4) head of pancreas and lower part of bile duct ; (5) inferior or 3rd part of duodenum ; (6) peritoneum on post, abdominal wall, with right colic and ileo-colic vessels, and int. spermatic (or ovarian) art. inter- vening ; (7) root of mesentery containing superior mesenteric vessels ; (8) right common iliac artery. Left side: aorta in contact below, but separated by right crus of diaphragm and liver above. Right side: ureter, kidney, suprarenal, liver, from below upwards. (It is imbedded, at upper end, in groove on post, aspect of liver, so that liver is on the right and left as well as anterior.) Posterior: diaphragm above, with right inf. phrenic art., small part of suprarenal gland, coeliac (semilunar) ganglion, suprarenal and renal arteries intervening ; posterior to it at a lower level are bodies of lower lumbar vertebne, anterior