MUSCULAR TRIANGLE & ROOT OF NECK 209 and sterno-thyreoid and their nerves. Deep to them, thyreoid gland and its arteries from sup. and inf. thyreoid, its middle and inferior thyreoid veins. Still deeper, lower part of larynx and pharynx, ext. laryngeal nerve ; cervical parts of trachea, tesophagus, recurrent nerve and, on left side, thoracic duct; and when sterno-mastoid is retracted, common carotid art., int. jugular vein, vagus, ansa hypo- glossi, sympathetic trunk, cervical cardiac nerves. Relations in Muscular Triangle, Anterior Part of Root of Neck, and Superior Aperture of Thorax Superior aperture of thorax (thoracic inlet) is bounded by 1st thoracic vertebra posteriorly, 1st costal arch on each side, manubrium sterni anteriorly. Owing to obliquity of aperture, structures which enter or leave thorax, at its anterior part, do so at the level of fibro-cartilage between 2nd and 3rd thoracic vertebra*, and the lower part of their cervical course is, therefore, opposite the first two thoracic vertebrae. Note. — Unless otherwise specified, the relations given for structures found in both neck and thorax refer to the cervical part of their course and to the superior aperture of thorax. Dome of pleura, with underlying lung, occupies, on each side, the lateral part of superior aperture of thorax, and is roofed over by Sibson's fascia, which spreads fan wise from 7th cervical transverse process to inner margin of 1st rib. Longus colli, on each side, is ascending from thorax to neck, upon bodies of vertebrae, from 3rd thoracic to 1st cervical. Sterno-hyoid ascends from posterior surfaces of manubrium and clavicle to hyoid bone, near median plane. Sterno-thyreoid ascends from posterior surfaces of manubrium and 1st cartilage, Irelow sterno-hyoid, to oblique line on thyreoid cartilage. It is posterior and medial to sterno-hyoid belcno, lateral to it above. Both lie anterior to trachea and great vessels at root of neck, and to thyreoid gland and larynx higher up. They are largely concealed by clavicle and sterno-mastoid ; anterior jugular vein passes- laterally between these two muscles and sterno-mastoid, a little above clavicle. Posterior belly of omo- hyoid arises from superior margin and transverse lig. of scapula, runs across lower part of post, triangle of neck, ends under cover of sterno-mastoid in an intermediate tendon, from which anterior belly ascends over int. jugular vein, common carotid art., thyreoid gland and larynx, to hyoid bone, lateral to sterno-hyoid. Sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyreoid and omo-hyoid are supplied by ansa hypoglossf, i.e. the loop formed in front of common carotid, opposite lower part of thyreoid cartilage, by union of descendens hypoglossi and descendens cerviealis from 2nd and 3rd cervical nerves. Remains of thymus are immediately posterior to sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyreoid, and to interfascial space above sternum containing '4