SOLE OF FOOT 185 head arises by fleshy and tendinous fibres from fibrous sheath of peronteus longus and plantar surface of bases of 2nd, 3rd, 4th metatarsals ; it adducts and flexes great toe. Transverse head arises by fleshy fibres from 4 lateral plantar accessory ligaments at their metatarsal attachments, and from plantar surface of transverse meta- tarsal lig. ; it draws all the toes together. Deep branch of lateral plantar nerve supplies both heads by fibres from S. 1,2. Flexor digiti quinti brevis lies along plantar surface of 5th metatarsal. It arises by fleshy and tendinous fibres from fibrous sheath of peronasus longus and from plantar surface of base of 5th metatarsal ; and is inserted by tendon into lateral side of base of 1st phalanx of little toe, along with abductor. Superficial branch of lateral plantar nerve supplies it by fibres from s. 1,2. Medial plantar nerve, the larger terminal branch of tibial, arises under cover of lig. laciniatum (int. annular); proceeds forwards under cover of abductor hallucis, and then between it and flexor dig. brevis, under cover of deep fascia. It lies on plantar aspect of quadratus plantae (accessorius), tendons of long flexors and flexor hallucis brevis, and divides into 4 digital branches. First supplies medial side of foot and great toe ; second supplies sides of tst cleft; third and fourth run, superficial to flexor dig. brevis tendons, to 2nd and 3rd clefts. Small branches are given to skin of medial part of sole. It supplies 4 muscles : abductor hallucis and flexor dig. brevis from its trunk ; flex. hall, brevis from 1st digital branch ; first lumbrical from 2nd digital branch. It corresponds to median nerve in palm. Medial plantar artery, the smaller terminal branch of posterior tibial, begins under cover of lig. laciniatum or at its distal border ; accompanies medial plantar nerve, ends by joining plantar digital artery to medial side of hallux ; gives off muscular and cutaneous branches, and may give branches to accompany some or all of the digital branches of the nerve. It is accompanied by venre comites. Lateral plantar artery begins at same point as medial, runs laterally and distally to interval between flexor digitorum brevis and abductor dig. quinti, and at base of 5th metatarsal it turns medially across sole to base of 1st metatarsal as plantar arch. Branches.—Muscular, cutaneous, and medial calcanean, which pierce lig. laciniatum or abductor hallucis to reach sole of heel. Relations.—It is accompanied bv venae comites and lateral plantar nerve, w hich lies on its medial or concave side. On its plantar aspect are abductor hallucis, flexor digitorum brevis, deep fascia. On its deep aspect are flexor hall, longus, quadratus plantae, and long plantar ligament; and the peronatus longus tendon and flex. dig. quinti brevis, in interval between flex. dig. brevis and abductor dig. quinti. Plantar arch is the continuation of lateral plantar artery, and is completed medially by dorsalis pedis, at proximal, i.e. posterior, end of 1st intermetatarsal space. It is accompanied by venae comites and deep branch of lateral plantar nerve. Deep, i.e. dorsal, to it are