MUSCLES AND FASCI/E 156 be studied readily on the living hand. Radial artery passes between its two heads ; perforating arteries pass between heads of others. Flexor carpi radialis tendon, as it lies proximal to wrist, has the radial artery a little to its radial side, median nerve close to ulnar side, on a deeper plane. It crosses superficial to flex. poll, longus opposite wrist-joint, descends upon volar surface of tubercle of navicular, traverses tunnel formed by attachment of transverse carpal lig. (ant. annular) to both sides of groove on multangulum majus (trapezium); and it is inserted into volar surface of base of meta- carpal of index, sending a small slip to base of 3rd. A prolongation of transverse lig. over it to its insertion is called its fibrous sheath. Dorsal Aspect of Wrist, hand and Digits On the dorsal aspect the superficial fascia is thin and contains superficial veins, lymph vessels and nerves. Veins form plexuses in which arches are seen on dorsum of 1st phalanges, and on dorsum ol hand near heads of metaearpals ; and they drain into cephalic and basilic veins. Terminal branches of superficial branch of radial nerve (radial branch of musculo-spiral) diverge at lateral side of distal end of radius to be distributed to radial § of dorsum of hand, proximal parts of dorsal surfaces of thumb, index, middle and half the ring finger. Dorsal branch of ulnar nerve arises in middle j) of forearm ; passes dorsally under cover of flex, carpi ulnaris ; is joined by dorsal ulnar carpal artery ; pierces deep fascia and runs distally upon distal end of ulna, and ulnar side of wrist-joint between flexor and ext. carpi ulnaris ; and gives branches to ulnar part of dorsum of hand, proximal part of little finger, ring finger and part of middle finger, overlapping the distribution of superficial branch of radial. Deep fascia is thin, but immediately proximal to wrist is thickened to form dorsal carpal ligament (posterior annular), which is longer but weaker than transverse carpal lig. (ant. annular), and at a more proximal level. It stretches obliquely from ridge between volar and lateral surfaces of distal end of radius to os triquetrum (cuneiform) and pisiform ; and five septa, attached to distal ends of radius and ulna, divide the space under it into 6 compartments occupied by extensor tendons and their mucous sheaths. They are arranged as follows :— On lateral surface of radius, (a) abductor pollicis longus, ext. poll, brevis. On dorsal surface of radius, (6) extensor carpi rad. longus and brevis ; (c) ext. poll, longus ; (d) ext. dig. communis, ext. indicis proprius. Between radius and ulna, (<;) ext. dig. quinti proprius. On dorsal surface of ulna, (/) ext. carpi ulnaris. Tendons are enclosed in mucous sheaths, beginning about an inch proximal to ligament, and extending to insertion of those inserted into metaearpals, and to middle of hand in the case of those inserted into phalanges.