172 MUSCLES AND FASCIA Pelvic surface of obturator internus is in relation to obturator nerve and vessels, bladder, ovary, levator ani, below which muscle it forms lateral wall of ischio-rectal fossa, and contents of Alcock’s canal lie on it. Its tendon turns, at a right angle, outwards through lesser sciatic foramen, and is separated from bone by bursa. Gemelli supplement obturator int., and lie one above and one below its tendon. They arise from margins of lesser sciatic notch, and are inserted into tendon of obturator internus and medial surface of trochanter. Superior is supplied by nerve to obturator internus, infc7'ior by nerve to quadratus femoris. Quadratus femoris lies in lowest part of buttock. Origin (fl.-tend.): lateral margin of tuber ischiadicum. Insertion (fl.-tend.): into eminence (quadrate tubercle) on inter-tro- chanteric crest, and into line leading distally from it. Nerve : L. 4, 5, s. i, through special nerve. It adducts thigh and rotates it laterally. MUSCLES ON POSTERIOR ASPECT OF THIGH Hamstrings or Flexors Biceps femoris lies in buttock, back of thigh, and in lateral boundary of popliteal fossa. Origin : Long head, by tendon from medial of two upper impressions on tuber ischii, in company with semitendinosus ; many fibres are continuous with lig. sacro-tuberosum (gt. sciatic). It crosses sciatic nerve. Short head (fl.-tend.), from lateral lip of linea aspera, proximal § of lateral epicondylic line ; lateral intermuscular septum. Insertion : by tendon, easily palpable, into head of fibula, lateral condyle of tibia, fascia of leg. Fibular collateral ligament splits it longitudinally and is separated from it by bursa. Nerves : long head, S. I, 2, 3, through tibial part of sciatic ; short head, L. 5, S. 1, 2, through peroneal part. It flexes leg and rotates it laterally ; extends thigh. Semitendinosus lies in buttock, in back of thigh, and on medial side of popliteal fossa. Origin (tend.): medial impres- sion on tuber ischii, together with long head of biceps, to which it is joined for 3 inches. Insertion : by tendon, felt superficially on medial side of popliteal fossa, into medial surface of tibia, distal to condyle, posterior and distal to gracilis and sartorius, and by expansion into fascia of leg. Burstc separate it from sartorius and tibial collateral liga-