500 EMBRYOLOGY Amnion is the upper or dorsal of the two sacs formed from inner cell mass. It is covered with mesoderm. When embryo is formed by folding, and projects up into its cavity, it is connected : (i) with embryo, around umbilical orifice, and (2) with trophoblast, by mesodermal stalk. Otherwise its mesoderm and that lining trophoblast are separated by the space called extra - embryonic ca:lotn. Amniotic fluid accumulates in amniotic sac and distends it in all directions, until the extra-embryonic ccelom is obliterated by fusion of mesoderm covering amnion (1) with mesoderm lining trophoblast; (2) with that covering umbilical vesicle ; and (3) with that forming mesodermal stalk, which it surrounds on all sides. Umbilical cord includes the mesodermal allantoic stalk and diver- ticulum, umbilical vessels, atrophied vitello-intestinal duct—all en- sheathed in covering of amnion. At birth it is a spirally twisted cord, 20 in. long, connecting umbilicus of foetus to placenta, and containing two umbilical arteries and one vein. Its mesodermal tissue is repre- sented by a mucoid substance, called Wharton's jelly, enclosed in amniotic sheath. Chorion is composed of trophoblast and its mesodermal lining. When ovum is imbedded in uterus, processes called villi grow from chorion into surrounding deciduae. Villi which grow into d. basalis persist; the rest disappear. Villi at first consist of trophoblast only, but, later, acquire vascular cores of mesoderm. Chorion becomes very thick in the region where it forms placenta, i.e. in region of decidua basalis, where also the mesodermal stalk is connected with trophoblast. There its villi are very large and branching. They project into the maternal blood sinuses in compact layer of d. basalis, and also into tissue between the sinuses, consuming and replacing not only that tissue but also the endothelium of the sinuses, so that villi not only project into blood spaces, but also form their walls, except at points where vessels pierce basal layer to open into blood spaces ; villi are therefore bathed on all sides in maternal blood occupying the spaces ; and villi make up the bulk of the placenta. Placenta is the foetal nutritive, respiratory and excretory organ, interchange of material taking place, through walls of villi, between maternal blood in blood spaces and foetal blood which is conveyed to and from placenta by umbilical vessels and circulates in capillaries in villi. Its formation is complete at end of 3rd month. It contains tropho- blast and mesoderm of chorion, umbilical blood-vessels, and decidua basalis ; remains of umbilical vesicle lie tinder amniotic covering of placenta. At birth, it is a disc, 20-25 inches in circumference, ij inches thick at centre, about 1 lb. in weight. Covered on foetal surface by smooth amnion, and connected with umbilical cord usually near centre. Uterine surface is rough and lobulated. Expulsion of Embryo from Uterus.—When intra-uterine life is complete the uterus contracts, its lower orifice dilates, amnion and