PERITONAEUM 469 Processus vaginalis peritonaei is a diverticulum which precedes testis in its passage from abdomen to scrotum. Plica vesicalis transversa is a transverse fold seen on upper surface of empty bladder. Superior and lateral false ligaments of bladder are un- necessary names devised for peritoneum passing from bladder on to anterior abdominal wall and to side wall of pelvis. Sacro-genital fold.—A small fold curving from bladder, along side wall of pelvis, towards rectum. When bladder is empty the folds of opposite sides meet and form a shelf projecting backwards from posterior border of bladder. Ductus deferentes and upper ends of seminal vesicles are found in it. Plica recto-uterina. the corre- sponding fold in female, is connected with cervix uteri, and may meet its fellow across back of cervix. Excavatio Recto - vesicalis ^Recto-vesical Pouch).— Pouch between rectum and bladder. Floor (3 inches from surface of perineum) is formed by peritoneum passing from rectum on to upper border of base of bladder. Its mouth is bounded by sacro-genital folds. Excavatio Recto - uterina Recto - vaginal Pouch of Douglas), between rectum behind, uterus and upper ^ of vagina in front. Floor is formed by peritoneum passing oflf rectum on to post, wall of vagina. Mouth is bounded by plicte recto-uterina*. Excavatio Vesico-uterina.— Formed by peritoneum passing off anterior surface of uterus on to upper surface of bladder. Ligamentum latum uteri (Broad lig. 1 stretches from side of uterus to side wall of pelvis, a short distance in front of ureter and hypogastric art. Its two layers are continuous over free upper or anterior border, medial J of which encloses uterine (Fallopian) tube ; lateral ^ extends on to ext. iliac vessels, is called suspensory lig. of ovary, and encloses ovarian vessels and nerves. Inferior or posterior border is attached to upper end of vagina and upper surface of levator ani. A secondary fold is raised up on ant. surface by contained lig. teres uteri. Another is raised up on post, surface by lig. ovarii ; lateral to and continuous with this fold the broad lig. sends backwards two layers, called mesovarium, to become continuous with epithelial covering of ovary. Meso- salpinx is the portion of broad ligament between uterine tube and ovary. Mesometrium is the portion of broad lig. below level of mesovarium.