20 OSTEOLOGY First 7 pairs are called costas veras (true ribs), because their cartilages articulate with sternum. Other 5 are called cost® spuria (false ribss ; nth and 12th arc free at anterior ends, and are called floating ribs. Cartilages of 10th, 9th, Sth arc connected by their borders, each to the one above, and the Sth to 7th. Ribs vary greatly in length. Longest (7th or Sth) is twice or thrice as long as shortest (1st or 12th). Typical ribs are the 3rd to 9th inclusive; ist, 2nd, 10th, nth, 12th have special characters. A typical rib articulates with 2 vertebrae : the vertebra to which it corresponds numerically and the vertebra above. It consists of head, neck, tubercle, body or shaft. Body possesses an angle posteriorly, and sulcus costa? below. Capitnlum (Head).—Expanded ; has two facets for bodies of the two vertebrae with which it articulates. Collum (Neck) : constricted ; about 1 inch long ; upper border is raised up as a crest- crista colli. Tuberculum is placed on dorsal aspect of junction of neck and body ; rough supero- laterally, smooth infero-medially for articulation with trans- verse process of vertebra of same number. Corpus (Body or shaft): long, thin, flat ; curved, bent, twisted. Curvature is greatest posteriorly, and maximum point is the angulus cost®, marked by a ridge on external surface. External surface is smooth, convex, and covered by muscles. In- ternal surface is smooth, concave, and clothed with pleura. Upper margin is thick and rounded. Lower margin is grooved at expense of inner surface. This sulcus cost® (subcostal groove) lodges intercostal vessels and nerve, which are pro- tected by its sharp overhanging outer margin. Anterior end of body is expanded and deeply pitted for costal cartilage. Facets on head form a wedge ; the horizontal edge between the facets is called crista capituli, and attached to it is an interarticular ligament, binding it to fibro-cartilage between the two vertebr®. Fibrous stratum of articular capsule is attached to margins of articular surface, and lig. radiatum (stellate) to ant. surface of head. Anterior surface of neck is smooth and clothed with pleura ; posterior is rough for lig. colli cost® (middle costo-transverse) ; lower border is smooth ; crest or upper border gives attachment to anterior and posterior costo-transverse ligs. Lig. tuberculi cost® is attached to rough part of tubercle ; fibrous stratum of articular capsule to margins of smooth facet. Curvature of the bodies of ribs diminishes from above down- wards in the series. Ridge which marks the angle gives attachment