>94 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE arises from a thoracic transverse process and is inserted into lamina immediately above (fl.-tend.). Interspinales connect spinous processes. Intertransversales connect transverse processes. Seven pairs on each side in cervical region, connected with anterior and posterior tubercles ; an anterior branch of cervical nerve passes out between each pair ; rectus capitis lateralis (p. 203) is homologous with posterior intertransverse. Ill-developed in thoracic region. Arranged in pairs in lumbar region, the lateral connecting the transverse processes, medial connecting mamillary process of one vertebra with accessory process of vertebra above. Remaining muscles of sixth group lie in upper part of back of neck, under cover of splenius and semispinalis capitis (complexus). They are supplied by the posterior branch of 1st cervical nerve :— Obliquus Capitis Inferior.—Origin (tend.-fl.): 2nd cervical spine; insertion (fl.-tend.): transverse process of atlas. It turns face to same side. Obliquus Capitis Superior.—Origin (fl.-tend.): transverse process of atlas; insertion (fl.): lateral part of space between nuchal lines of occipital bone. Bends head backwards and to same side ; turns face to opposite side. Rectus Capitis Posterior Major. — Origin (tend.): 2nd cervical spine; insertion (fl.): lateral part of space below inf. nuchal line. Both acting extend head. One acting alone turns face to same side. Rectus Capitis Posterior Minor lies medial to and partly under cover of major. Origin (tend.): Tubercle on post, arch of atlas; insertion (fl.): medial part of space below inf. nuchal line. Extends head. Sub-occipital Triangle.—Placed deeply at upper part of back of neck. Boundaries: Obliquus inferior, infero-laterally ; obliquus superior, supero-laterally ; rectus major, supero-medially. Roof: Splenius capitis, laterally ; semispinalis capitis (complexus), medially. Greater occipital n. crosses triangle, superficially, under cover of these. Floor : Posterior arch of atlas ; and, when boundaries are separated, ligaments uniting arch to post, margin of foramen magnum and to 2nd cervical lamina. Contents: (1) Vertebral artery, in groove on posterior arch ; (2) posterior branch of sub-occipital or xst cervical nerve, emerging from below artery and dividing to supply adjacent muscles ; (3) fatty and fibrous tissue and plexus of veins. Nerve Supply of Muscles of Back.—Splenius and the muscles of 4th, 5th, and 6th groups are supplied by posterior branches of spinal nerves, mainly through lateral divisions in upper part of trunk, mainly by medial divisions in lower part. Actions of Muscles of Back.—Those whose actions have