VERTEBRAL COLUMN WITH CRANIUM 91 Each of the latter is strengthened postero-medially by a strong acces- sory lig. which extends from post, surface of body of 2nd cervical, upwards and laterally, to postero-medial aspect of lateral Imass of atlas ; these joints are homologous with small diarthroses between sides of bodies of other cervical vertebrae. A continuation of lig. longitudinale ant. unites body of 2nd to anterior arch of atlas, and is seen between longi capitis. The first ligamentum fiavum unites laminae of 2nd to posterior arch of atlas, and is covered by obliquus inferior. Ligamentum transversum atlantis, attached to medial surface of each lateral mass, holds dens (odontoid process) in position against ant. arch, and is separated from it by synovial bursa. It is ruptured in drop-hanging. Ligamentum cruciatum consists of the transverse ligament, with a band stretching from its upper border to basi-occiput within foramen magnum, and another from its lower border to dorsum of body of 2nd cervical vertebra. ARTICULATION OF VERTEBRAL COLUMN WITH CRANIUM Between Atlas and Occipital Bone. — Articular cap- sules connect lateral masses with occipital condyles and surround the diarthroses between them. These correspond to small diar- throdial joints between sides of bodies of cervical vertebrae. Mem- brana atlanto occipitalis anterior connects anterior arch to anterior half of circumference of foramen magnum : continuous with capsules laterally ; covered by rectus capitis anterior (minor) ; related to lig. alaria and lig. apicis dentis posteriorly. A thicken- ing in median plane is upper end of ant. longitudinal lig. Mem brana atlanto occipitalis posterior connects post, margin of for. magnum to post, arch of atlas between grooves for vertebral arteries ; joins capsules laterally; covered by rectus capitis posterior minor and obliquus superior ; adherent to dura mater anteriorly. Above vertebral grooves it presents a free border, thickened and sometimes ossified, converting groove into foramen for vertebral artery and sub-occipital nerve. Between 2nd Cervical Vetebra and Occipital Bone.— (1) Lig. cruciatum. (2) Ligamentum apicis dentis (suspensory ligament) extends from apex of dens (odontoid process) to anterior margin of foramen magnum, and lies between ant. atlanto-occipital membrane and upper band of cruciate ligament ; it contains remains ol notochord. (3) Ligamenta alaria, from sides of apex of dens to medial sides of occipital condyles. (4) Membrana tecloria, broad and fiat, is continuous with post, longitudinal ligament : attached to dorsum of body of 2nd vertebra and to grooved upper surface of basi-occipital; it covers cruciate ligament, dens and its ligaments. Lig. nuchie also connects vertebrae to cranium.