79 FIBULA popliteal notch : all in that order from before backwards. Capsule of knee and fascia lata to both condyles. Capsule of tibio-fibular joint around facet on lateral condyle ; biceps, peronasus longus, ext. dig. longus, tibialis ant., in that order from behind forwards, anterior to facet; tractus iliotibialis (ilio-tibial band) to prominent ridge proximal to these attachments. Semimembranosus to ant. part of horizontal groove on medial condyle and into roughness distal to groove. Lig. patella: to smooth proximal part of tuberosity of tibia. Tibialis anterior from lateral condyle and proximal § of lateral surface of shaft. Sartorius, gracilis, semitendinosus, tibial collateral lig. (int. lat. of knee) to proximal part of medial surface, in that order from before backwards, the ligament being attached to roughness near medial margin. I'opliteus to popliteal line and area proximal to it. Soleus from popliteal line and middle i of medial margin. Tibialis posterior from proximal jj of lateral area of post, surface ; fascia covering tibialis posterior to vertical line ; Ilex. dig. longus from proximal <j of medial area. Fascia of leg to ant. crest and medial margin ; lig. transversum cruris (upper band of ant. annular to distal part of ant. crest. Interosseous membrane to interosseous crest. Interosseous tibio-fibular lig. to floor of fibular notch ; ant. and post. ligs. of lateral malleolus to its anterior and posterior margins, distally. Ant. lig. of ankle to ant. border of tarsal surface of tibia ; post. lig. and inferior transverse lig. to post. Irorder. Deltoid lig. (int. lateral of ankle) to distal border of medial malleolus : lig. laciniatum (int. annular) to its post, border ; lig. cruciatum (lower band of ant. annular) to its ant. border. Fibula. — Lateral and smaller bone of leg. Proximal end cuboidal, distal end slightly compressed from side to side. Proximal End. Capitulum (head), felt on postcro-lateral aspect of leg, on a level with tuberosity of tibia ; common peroneal nerve (ext. popliteal) can be felt and rolled by linger on its posterior surface. Articular surface, directed proximallv, anteriorly, and medially, articulates with lateral condyle of tibia. Anterior, posterior, lateral, and medial surfaces, difficult to recognise till shaft has been examined, give origin to various muscles arising from shaft. Apex capituli projects proximally from postero-lateral aspect. Neck is the constricted portion distal to head ; common peroneal nerve divides on its lateral aspect. Distal End Malleolus Lateralis. Distinguished from proximal end by being compressed From side to side, and possessing a pit postero-medially. Lateral surface is sub-