RESPIRATORY APPARATUS 434 close to its left side, aorta close to its right. It is covered by pleura, antero-laterally, and is usually excluded from mediastinum while it ascends. At level of 8th or 9th vertebra it turns transversely to the right, posterior to aorta and thoracic duct, and ends in v. azygos. It receives blood from upper lumbar veins, left subcostal, 3 or 4 lower left intercostals. Vena hemiazygos accessoria (v. azygos minor superior) descends along left side of bodies of 5th to 8th vertebra; and intercostal arteries, receiving left bronchial and 4th to 7th or 8th left intercostals. It is covered by pleura and has aorta on its right, upper roots of splanchnic nerve on its left. At 8th vertebra it turns to the right, posterior to aorta and thoracic duct, and ends in v. azygos. It communicates with left superior intercostal, and with hemiazygos vein. Thoracic duct begins as a dilatation, about 2 inches long, called cisterna chyli (receptaculum), which lies on bodies of 1st and 2nd lumbar vertebra; and 1st and 2nd right lumbar arteries, overlapped by right crus ; has aorta on its left, vena azygos on its right, and enters thorax through aortic opening of diaphragm, between these two. It ascends upon vertebral column, and at level of 5th thoracic vertebra it turns sharply to the left to ascend, in sup. mediastinum, upon left border of oesophagus. In posterior mediastinum, descending aorta is to its left side throughout, and vena azygos to its right side. The right subcostal and aortic intercostal arteries and the ends of the hemiazygos veins separate it from ant. longitudinal lig. and vertebral bodies. Anterior to it are the oesophagus and vagi from 5th to 8th vertebrae ; below that, the fatty tissue separating aorta from vena azygos and right pleura ; and, lastly, the diaphragm. Two lymphatic trunks, a right and a left, descend from lower inter- costal lymph glands, cross the vena azygos and aorta superficially as they pass through aortic opening, and end in cisterna chyli. PULMONES Lungs.—Soft, spongy, pliable ; float in water ; exceedingly elastic, so that they shrink to J when thorax is opened. Dark and mottled in adult, pink in early life. Pyramidal in shape. Apex : rounded, lies at level of neck of first rib posteriorly ; i i to 2 inches above level of anterior end of rib, and £ to 1 inch above middle of sternal third of clavicle. Grooved by subclavian artery on medial and anterior aspects. Base : semilunar in outline, concave ; rests on diaphragm, which separates right lung from liver, left lung from liver, stomach and spleen. Costal Surface.—Large and convex, passes imperceptibly