3°6 BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM one another, with other veins in neighbourhood, and occipital sinus and basilar plexus. Veins of spinal medulla (cord) form plexuses on surface, from which (i) radicular vessels pass along nerve roots to end in offsets of longitudinal vertebral plexuses; (2) ant. and post, median veins pass up to end in similar veins of medulla oblongata ; (3) antero- lateral and postero-lateral veins run up behind ant. and post, nerve roots and send their blood to median and radicular veins. Veins of Superior Extremity Deep veins, except axillary vein, accompany arteries as venae comites, which are provided with valves ; and their blood is conveyed ultimately to axillary vein. Axillary vein begins opposite lower border of teres major, as continuation of basilic vein ; runs upwards and medially, on medial side of axillary artery, from which it is separated by medial cord of brachial plexus and the ulnar nerve ; and ends at outer border of 1st rib by becoming sub- clavian. It possesses several valves. It is enclosed, with artery and cords of brachial plexus, in a fascial sheath. See also p. 131. Tributaries.—Venae comites of branches of axillary art. ; v. comitcs of brachial art., at lower border of subscapularis ; cephalic vein. Superficial veins anastomose, forming plexuses. Principal channels are : Dorsal venous arch lies opposite distal parts of metacarpals on dorsum of hand. Median vein of forearm begins at base of thumb, extends to cubital fossa, communi- cates there by deep median vein with deep veins, and divides into median basilic and median cephalic. Median basilic runs proximally and medially, in front of lacertus fibrosus (bicipital fascia) and brachial artery, behind volar branch of medial cutaneous n. of forearm (int. cutaneous), and joins the basilic vein. Median cephalic runs proximally and laterally, in front of lateral cutaneous nerve of forearm (cutaneous of musculo-cutaneous), and joins the cephalic. Basilic vein begins at ball of little finger, runs along ulnar border of forearm, usually as two trunks, which join with median basilic at the bend of elbow ; and the single trunk, so formed, runs proximally in groove along medial border of biceps, pierces deep fascia about middle of arm, extends