MUSCLES OF LEG AND FOOT 173 ment. Nerve: L. 5, s. 1, 2, through tibial part oi sciatic. It flexes leg and rotates it medially, and extends thigh. Semimembranosus lies deep to semitendinosus in buttock, in back of thigh, and in medial boundary of popliteal fossa. 1 Origin (tend.) : lateral impression on tuber ischii. Long head of biceps crosses it superficially, distal to its origin. Insertion : by tendon, felt more deeply than semitendinosus ■ on medial side of popliteal fossa, into (1) groove on posterior surface of lateral condyle of tibia, (2) tibial collateral liga- ment, (3) fascia covering popliteus, (4) capsule of knee (oblique popliteal lig.). Bursas lie under it at insertion, and between it and medial head of gastrocnemius. Nerve : l. 4, 5, s. 1, through tibial part of sciatic. Same actions as semitendinosus. FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF LEG AND FOOT Superficial fascia contains: (1) small unnamed cutaneous vessels; (2) small saphenous vein, running proximally from posterior aspect of lateral malleolus to pierce deep fascia roofing popliteal fossa ; (3) great saphenous vein, running from ant. aspect of medial malleolus, across tibia, and proximally just posterior to its medial margin ; (4) saphenous nerve, accompanying great saphenous vein ; (5) terminal branches of medial cutaneous nerve of thigh, on proximal part of medial side of leg ; (6 posterior cutane ous nerve of thigh (small sciatic), piercing roof of popliteal fossa and supplying proximal half of calf of leg ; (7) medial sural nerve (ramus communicans tibialis), piercing deep fascia to join (8) the ramus anastomoticus peronseus (r. communicans fibularis) to form (9) the nervus suralis (short saphenous), which accompanies small saphenous vein in distal part of leg ; (to) lateral sural nerve, on antero-lateral aspect of proximal part of leg ; (11) two terminal branches of superficial peroneal (musculo-cutaneous), piercing deep fascia anil descending in distal third of anterior surface of leg. Deep fascia envelops leg. Attached to lig. patellae and bony points about knee. Strengthened by expansions from tendons of sartorius, gracilis, semitendinosus, biceps. Blends with periosteum of medial surface of tibia. Sends in septa between muscles, and these get partial origin from them. Two of these are named : (1) Anterior intermuscular septum is attached to anterior crest of fibula, between extensor dig. longus and peronreus tertius anteriorly, peromvus longus and brevis posteriorly. (2) Posterior intermuscular septum is attached to lateral crest of fibula, between pcronaei an- teriorly, soleus and flexor hallucis longus posteriorly. Deep fascia is thickened around ankle to form ligaments which