506 EMBRYOLOGY about sixth month. The apical part of caecum grows in length, but its lumen remains small; and it becomes vermiform process. Down- ward enlargement of antero-lateral wall of caecum, from region above base of vermiform, brings vermiform to its adult postero- medial position, above blind end of caecum. Mesentery may all persist, but the part in connection with descending colon usually fuses with parietal peritoneum. Transverse mesocolon fuses with posterior layers of greater omentum. Ascending colon is produced as the caecum grows downwards from liver ; it has no mesentery but may acquire one. Mesentery proper assumes its oblique attachment as crecum grows downwards. Cloaca.—Part of hind-gut posterior to its connection with allantois is called cloaca. Prom the point where dorsal surface of allantois is joined to ventral surface of hind-gut a septum grows caudally, partially dividing cloaca into rectum dorsally and genito-urinary part ventrally. The caudal wall of cloaca is formed by the caudal part of the primitive streak region which was bent ventrally as tail fold formed. It now forms a membranous septum between cloaca and amniotic cavity, and is called cloacal membrane. The membrane consists of ectoderm and entoderm only. By growth of surrounding parts the membrane comes to form floor of a depression called cloacal fossa. Mesoderm grows into mem- brane from sides, and forms a transverse ridge dividing fossa into proctodieum dorsally and urogenital fossa ventrally. Septum described above fuses with this ridge and completely separates rectum from uro- genital part. The sphincters ani form in walls of proctodaeum and it becomes lower part of anal canal. The part of the cloacal membrane in floor of proctodaeum, separating proctodaeum from rectum, disappears about 3rd month. Anal valves may be remnants of this membrane. Post-anal or tail-gut is a diverticulum of hind-gut under root of tail. It usually disappears, but may persist and give rise to tumours. GENITO-URINARY ORGANS Cloacal membrane between cloacal fossa and genito-urinary part of cloaca disappears at early period. At ventral end of urogenital fossa there is a genital eminence, grooved on caudal surface. In male, the eminence forms penis ; the lips of groove come together and enclose canal of cavernous part of urethra. In female, the eminence forms clitoris ; lips of groove come together but enclose no canal. Gians part of urethra appears first as solid cord of epithelium, which becomes channelled and connected with canal in body of penis. Margins of urogenital fossa come together and form raphe of scrotum and penis in male. In female it remains unclosed as genital cleft. Ventral part of cloaca consists of cephalic vesical part, and uro- genital canal caudally. Floor of urogenital fossa disappears and canal opens into it. Vesical portion, in male, forms bladder and upper