395 CEREBRAL NERVES (rootlets) which emerge from side of medulla oblongata, passes laterally in front of flocculus, behind jugular tubercle ; descends through jugular foramen in same sheath of dura as accessory n.; enters and descends through carotid sheath, behind and between artery and vein. Below base of skull the hypoglossal nerve passes laterally behind vagus, turns forwards and is adherent to its lateral side, and, lastly, crosses medially in front of it. Right vagus, at root of neck, crosses subclavian art. to lie behind innominate vein ; enters thorax on right side of innominate art., passes downwards and backwards by side of trachea, behind innominate vein and vena cava, to back of root of lung. In sup. mediastinum, right pleura covers it above, but is separated from it below by arch of azygos vein. At root of lung it breaks up into post pulmonary plexus, from which one or more cords pass across vena azygos to oesophagus and break up into post, oesophagealplexus. A single trunk emerges from this and descends through hiatus cesopha- geus of diaphragm, to break up into post, gastric plexus on postero-inferior surface of stomach. Left vagus passes behind innominate vein at root of neck, descends into thorax between left common carotid and subclavian arteries. It is covered by left pleura, and is crossed from behind forwards by phrenic. It crosses arch of aorta, and breaks up into post, pulmonary plexus on back of root of left lung. From this, one or more cords pass anterior to descending aorta to form ant. cesophageal plexus, and a cord runs from it to break up into anterior gastric plexus. Branches.—Ganglion jugulare communicates with sup. cervical ganglion and accessory nerve, and gives off branches: (t) meningeal, to dura mater; (2) auricular enters foramen in jugular fossa, emerges through tympano- mastoid (auricular) fissure, supplies skin of exterior and interior of external meatus posteriorly. G. nodosum communicates with sup. cervical ganglion, hypoglossal, 1st cervical n. ; receives internal branch (cerebral roots) of accessory n., which gives to vagus the inhibitory fibres for heart, and assists vagus in the motor supply of pharynx, larynx, oesophagus, stomach, intestines and respiratory organs. G. nodosum gives off branches :—(1) Pharyngeal runs downwards and forwards, between ext. and int. carotids, to middle constrictor, where it breaks up and joins pharyngeal branches of glosso-pharyngeal and sympathetic to form