ANTERIOR RAMI OF LUMBAR NERVES 375 4 inches distal to it ; gives posterior branch to side of buttock and adjoining thigh, and anterior branch to antero-lateral aspect of thigh, as far as knee. Obturator n. (2, 3, 4 L.) crosses upper surface of sacro- iliac joint, lateral to lumbo-sacral trunk, and separated from trunk by ilio-lumbar art. ; appears at medial side of psoas, posterior to common iliac artery; runs downwards and anteriorly along side wall of pelvis, lateral to hypogastric (int. iliac) vessels and ureter, below obliterated umbilical art., above obturator vessels. Leaves pelvis through upper part of obturate foramen, and divides in the foramen into two branches : — Ramus anterior sends a branch to hip-joint through acetabular notch, and then runs distally, posterior to pectineus and adductor longus, anterior to obturator externus and adductor brevis ; supplies adductor longus and brevis, gracilis and sometimes pectineus ; ends by dividing into a branch for femoral artery in adductor canal (Hunter’s) and a cutaneous branch for medial side of thigh. Ramus posterior gives a branch to obturator externus, then pierces that muscle, and extends distally between adductor brevis and magnus, supplying magnus ; ends as geniculate articular branch, which pierces magnus and runs along popliteal artery to back of knee-joint. This geniculate branch is very rarely seen. Accessory obturator nerve (3 1.. or 3 and 4 l.), only occasionally present (29 per cent.). Descends along medial border of psoas, enters thigh above superior ramus of pubis. May end in pectineus or in hip-joint, or may be a substitute for obturator to a varying extent. Femoral n. (Anterior crural) (2, 3, 4 L., posterior to obturator) appears at lateral border of psoas, below iliac crest; gives branches to psoas and iliacus, and, descending between them, posterior to caecum on right side, to iliac colon on left side, it leaves abdomen behind inguinal ligament, and breaks up into branches, a little lateral to femoral art., in femoral trigone (Scarpa). Supplies pectineus, sartorius, rectus femoris, all three vasti, and articularis genu. Branch to pectineus passes posterior to femoral sheath. Branch to rectus femoris supplies hip-joint. Branches to vasti are continued to knee-joint. Branch to v. medialis lies on lateral side of femoral art. before entering muscle. Medial cutaneous nerve (Int. cutaneous) passes distally and medially across femoral vessels ; divides into two