339 CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES Longitudinal fissure separates hemispheres, is occupied by falx cerebri, is complete anteriorly and posteriorly, but is interrupted in middle by corpus callosum. Grey nuttier lies on surface of each hemisphere, and white matter in interior, but some masses of grey matter, called basal ganglia, are lodged in interior and appear on surface only at substantia perforata anterior. Surface everywhere presents convolutions or gyri, separated by sulci. Surfaces.—Lateral is convex and adapted to cranial vault. Medial is flat and perpendicular, and bounds longitudinal fissure. Inferior, irregular, divided by stem of fissura lateralis into (i) anterior orbital area, which lies on roofs of orbit and nose, and (2) larger tentorial area, which is concave, directed downwards and medially, lies on tentorium and floor of middle fossa, and shows a hollow — inipressio petrosa — where it lies over arcuate eminence of petrous temporal. Anterior extremity is called frontal pole ; posterior, occipital pole ; and anterior end of temporal lobe is called temporal pole. Occipital pole shows a groove, better marked on right side, for end of superior sagittal and beginning of transverse (lateral) sinus. Borders.—Supero-medial : between medial and lateral surfaces, from frontal to occipital pole. Infero-lateral : from occipital to temporal pole, between lateral and tentorial surfaces ; pre - occipital notch is a small impression on it, about in. anterior to occipital pole, and opposite parieto- mastoid suture. Superciliary, arches from frontal pole to fissura lateralis, between lateral and orbital surfaces. Medial orbital: from frontal pole to 1 hiasma, between medial and orbital surfaces. Medial occipital: from occipital pole forwards towards corpus callosum, between medial and tentorial surfaces ; lies against straight sinus, in angle between falx cerebri and tentorium. Hemisphere Outlined on Surface of Head.—Super- ciliary border : a line drawn from root of nose, 1 to i inch above supra-orbital margin and arched in same degree, as far as zygomatic (ext. angular) process of frontal, and then backwards and upwards to pterion—i.e. 1J inches behind zygomatic process, ii inches above zygoma. Temporal pole : a line, convex forwards, from pterion to zygomatic arch, ^ in. behind frontal process of zygomatic (malar). Infero-lateral border : a line, slightly convex upwards, drawn along zygoma, above meatus and upper border of mastoid temporal (parieto - mastoid suture), to ext. occipital protuberance. Supero-