NEUROLOGY 326 clava and cuneate tubercle ; forms lateral boundary to medullary part of fossa rhomboidea ; extends up to touch lower border of dorsal surface of pons, and then turns sharply backwards into cerebellum. Funiculus Lateralis (Lateral Area). — Oliva, an oval eminence occupying upper part ; produced by underlying nucleus olivaris inferior. Antero-lateral superficial fasciculus (Gowers’) of spinal medulla is continued up to olive. Most of it dips under olive ; remainder runs up along post, border. F. cerebello-spinalis (direct cerebellar) of spinal medulla lies in lower part of area ; above, it inclines dorsally over posterior lateral sulcus and tractus spinalis, and joins resti- form body. Undercover of these, f. lateralis proprius (lateral basis bundle) and spino-tectal and -thalamic fibres are con- tinued up into medulla oblongata, and rubro- and ponto- spinal tracts descend to spinal medulla. Lateral area of medulla oblongata therefore corresponds, to a large extent, to lateral funiculus of medulla spinalis, but f. pyramidalis lateralis of medulla spinalis is crossing to opposite pyramid. Anterior Area.—Pyramid, composed of motor fibres descending from cortex of brain to spinal medulla. At lower part of medulla oblongata the majority cross to opposite side in the decussation and become f. pyramidalis lateralis (crossed pyramidal). The most lateral fibres descend as f. pyramidalis anterior (direct pyramidal) of same side, and a few (homo- lateral) join fibres which have crossed from other side. External arcuate fibres, derived from nuclei f. gracilis and cuneati of opposite side, emerge on medial side, on lateral side, and through pyramid ; arch over surface of olive and below it, and join restiform body. Dorsal superficial arcuate fibres arise in nuclei f. gracilis and cuneati but end in restiform body of same side. Arteries of Medulla Oblongata.—Branches from vertebrals. Veins form plexus drained by inf. petrosal sinus, and by vein through hypoglossal canal (ant. condyloid) to pharyngeal plexus. Internal Structure.—Grey matter surrounding central canal of medulla oblongata is a continuation of grey commissures of medulla spinalis, and, in addition, the continuation of bases of anterior and posterior grey columns. When canal opens into 4th ventricle the grey matter is spread out over fossa rhomboidea (floor of 4th ventricle). As lateral pyramidal fasciculus crosses from anterior area of medulla oblongata to lateral funiculus of opposite half of spinal medulla, it cuts through anterior column (horn) and separates head from base.