UROGENITAL APPARATUS 478 rest on it, in male ; uterus and intestine, in female. Lateral border is below and medial to obliterated umbilical artery, but comes into contact as bladder fills. Ureters enter its posterior angles. Peritoneum descends a short distance on base, near median plane, before reflection on to rectum, in male. In female, it is reflected from superior surface on to uterus. Fundus (Base) is separated from rectum by ductus deferentes, vesiculae seminales and fascia in male, lay cervix uteri, vagina and fascia in female. Ducts and vesicles cover base except small triangular area covered with peritoneum between ducts, near upper border. Infero-lateral surface, on each side, is in relation to pubis, levator ani, obturator interims, separated by fascia of bladder and of these muscles, and by fat in space of Retzius. Anterior rounded border, between these surfaces, is separated from symphysis by a pad of fat. Vesical plexus of veins lies on fundus and lateral surfaces, in and under cover of fascia. Neck is most dependent part of bladder, and urethra emerges from it. Pubo-vesical ligaments connect it with pubis. In the male, when body is in erect posture, the neck lies a little below level of upper margin of symphysis and in. posterior to it. It rests upon and is partly continuous with base of prostate, but separated peripherally by groove in which prostatico-vesical veins lie. In female, it rests on fascia superior of urogenital diaphragm (deep layer of triangular lig.) at level of line drawn from lower margin of symphysis to lower end of sacrum. As bladder fills, the neck remains stationary. Superior wall rises, and, with other surfaces, increases in area and becomes more convex. Infero-lateral surfaces come into relation with greater area of side wall of pelvis, and with obturator vessels and nerve and ductus deferens. Borders become rounded and finally obliterated ; bladder rises up out of pelvis, stripping peritoneum off anterior abdominal wall, so that bladder is in direct contact with it for in. or more. Interior of Bladder.—Mucous membrane is smooth when bladder is full ; wrinkled when it is empty, except at trigonum vesicae, where it is always smooth owing to close attachment to muscular wall of bladder. Trigone is situated at base of bladder. At upper or posterior angles are the orifices of ureters. At lower or anterior angle is orificium urethrae internum. Sides of triangle are i in. each when bladder is empty, in. when full. Uvula