POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY 295 Branches.—Muscular, cutaneous, and five genicular articular branches:—Art. genu media (middle genicular, O.T. azygos); art. genu superior lateralis and medialis (sup. genicular) ; art. genu inferior lateralis and medialis (inf. genicular). They have a great share in anastomosis around knee-joint. Middle genicular pierces post, part of capsule ; superior pair pass under cover of respective proximal boundaries of popliteal fossa, proximal to femoral condyles ; inferior pair under distal boundaries, the medial artery reaching more distal level than the lateral. Crucial anastomosis on back of thigh is formed proximo- distally by gluteal, muscular and perforating of profunda, proximal muscular of popliteal; and from the sides by branches of medial and lateral circumflex. Posterior tibial artary begins as branch of popliteal at distal border of popliteus, opposite distal part of tuberosity of tibia ; runs distally and medially to end at distal border of lig. laciniatum (int. annular), midway between tip of malleolus and prominence of heel, by dividing into medial and lateral plantar. Relations: Venae comites. Anterior-. tibialis posterior, flexor digitorum longus, distal end of tibia. Posterior: proximal half-—gastrocnemius and soleus ; distal half—fasciae and lig. laciniatum. Tibial nerve crosses it, medio-laterally, 1 i inches distal to origin. At ankle : flex. dig. longus, and tibialis post, are medial to it ; tibial nerve and flex, hallucis longus are lateral. Branches. — (1) Muscular; (2) cutaneous; (3) peroneal', (4) nutrient to tibia ; (5) communicating branch runs transversely in front of flex, hall., 1 inch from distal end of tibia, to join similar branch of peroneal ; (6) posterior medial malleolar, often absent, ramifies over medial malleolus ; (7) medial calcanean branches pierce lig. laciniatum to gain lower surface of heel ; (8) terminal branches. Peroneal artery arises about ij in. from origin of post, tibial ; runs distally and laterally," accompanied by venae comites, with tibialis posterior in front of it, soleus and flex, hallucis longus behind it ; crosses behind tibio-fibular syndes- mosis and ends, distal to lateral malleolus, on calcaneus, by dividing into lateral calcanean branches. Branches.—(a) Muscular ; (#) nutrient to fibula ; (c) communicat- ing branch joins similar branch of tibial ; (d) perforating branch pierces interosseous membrane, runs distally on ant. aspect of lateral malleolus, and anastomoses with other arteries on dorsum of foot.