SUPERIOR EXTREMITY >57 Ext. carpi radialis longus is supplied, in arm, by radial nerve (musculo-spiral) ; all the others, in forearm : ext. carpi rad. brevis by its deep branch ; the remaining muscles by dorsal interosseous. Abductor poliicis longus (ext. ossis metacarpi pollicis) is inserted into radial side of base of tst metacarpal. Extensor pollicis brevis is inserted into dorsum of base of ist phalanx of thumb. These two cross radial artery superficially at wrist-joint, and form antero-lateral boundary of hollow at side of wrist (anatomical snuff-box). Extensor carpi radialis longtis is inserted into radial side of dorsum of base of 2nd metacarpal. Ext carpi rad. brevis is inserted into radial side of dorsum of base of 3rd metacarpal, and usually also into ulnar side of dorsum of 2nd. Extensor pollicis longus crosses ext. carpi rad. brevis and longus and radial artery at wrist, and runs on to insertion into dorsum of base of 2nd phalanx of thumb. With ext. carpi rad. longus it forms dorso-medial boundary of hollow on side of wrist. Extensor digitorum communis breaks up into tendons at distal end of radius. On dorsum of hand the diverging tendons are con- nected by bands, called junctunc tendinum, and tendon for little finger may not separate till near head of metacarpal. On dorsum of ist phalanx each tendon broadens out to form dorsal extensor expansion, which is joined at the sides by tendons of lumbrical and interossei. At distal end of phalanx it splits into three. Middle piece is inserted into dorsum of base of middle phalanx ; the two outlying pieces run on, join each other along their contiguous margins, and are inserted into dorsum of base of 3rd phalanx. The tendons take the place of fibrous capsule on dorsum of metacarpo-phalangeal and interphalangeal joints. Extensor indteis proprius runs along ulnar side of tendon of communis to index, and joins it to form extensor expansion. Extensor digiti quinti proprius divides into two slips which re-unite at head of metacarpal after tendon from ext. communis has joined radial slip. Insertion is like that of communis. Extensor carpi ulnaris is inserted into ulnar side of base of 5th metacarpal. Arteries are deep to tendons on dorsum of wrist and hand, and have been described already in this section (p. 154). Classification ok Muscles ok L iter Limb In the foregoing account the muscles of the upper limb have been classified, for the most part, according to the regions which they occupy ; but the following grouping, based upon their connections and the joints upon which they act, is in some respects more in- structive. Muscles extending from axial skeleton to shoulder girdle, acting