NERVOUS SYSTEM 5'3 produced by growth of fibres arising in spinal medulla, and by fibres growing into it from spinal nerves and brain. As anterior columns grow and become covered with white fibres, each half of spinal medulla bulges ventrally, and anterior median fissure is formed between them. Dorsally no fissure is formed, and septum which separates post, columns consists of neuroglia. Up to 4th month spinal medulla extends whole length of vertebral canal. It extends only as far as sacrum at 6th month, to 3rd lumbar vertebra at birth, to lower border of 1st lumbar in adult. Encephalon or Brain.—Cephalic end of neural tube is dilated and divided by constrictions into 3 primary cerebral vesicles, which develop into fore-, mid-, and hind-brains. Fore-brain and anterior part of head are bent round cephalic ends of foregut and notochord, so that a sharp cephalic JUxurt is formed in region of mesencephalon or mid-brain, which then forms the most prominent and bulging part of head in young embryos. Whole head is bent forwards so that a cervical flexure is produced at junction of hind-brain and spinal medulla. This is undone after birth, when head is raised. Brain tube is bent, without involving head, in region of pons, so that a forward convexity is produced, called pan tine flexure. Rhombencephalon or Hind-brain. — Its cavity Incomes 4th ventricle and canal of lower part of medulla oblongata. Lateral walls thicken, fall apart from one another, and form lateral halves of medulla oblongata and pons. Floor plate is thickened by fibres passing from one side to the other. Roof plate becomes greatly expanded. Median part of cerebellum and medullary vela are formed in it, but lower part remains ependymal only. Lateral lobes of cerebellum grow from alar laminae and appear before vermis. Cerebellar peduncles, that is, brachia conjunctiva, brachia pontis, and restiform bodies, are formed in alar laminae, in latter half of intra-uterine life, bv fibres growing out of cerebellum and into cerebellum. Before lateral walls of the part which forms medulla oblongata fall apart, their dorsal edges curl laterally, forming what is called the rhombic lip. This lip fuses with rest of alar lamina, covering in tractus solitarius and tractus spinalis (spinal root of V.), which lay at first on surface, and from rhombic lip are developed olivary nucleus, nuclei of f. gracilis and f cuneatus and nucleus of tractus spinalis (subs. gel. Rolandi), and fibres arising from these nuclei. Mesencephalon or Mid-brain.—Cttvity Ix-comcs cerebral aque- duct (Sylvius). Corpora quadrigemina are developed in its dorsal surface from alar lamina, tegmentum and cerebral peduncles in its side walls. Floor is greatly thickened by intercrossing fibres. Prosencephalon or Fore-brain. —('avity L-comes 3rd ventricle. Floor is slightly thickened by intercrossing fibres. Roof remains as ependymal roof of jrd ventricle. Anterior wall persists as lamina terminalis. Basal lamina becomes the parts grouped under term hypothalamus. Alar lamina develops into the parts grouped under 33