MUSCLES AND FASCIAE 198 greater horn of hyoid. Nerve: c. 1, through special branch from hypoglossal. Depresses hyoid bone or elevates larynx. Levator Glandulee Thyreoidese. -An occasional slip ex- tending from pyramidal lobe of thyreoid gland to hyoid bone. Digastricus lies behind, deep to and below mandible. Posterior belly : Origin (fl.): mastoid notch under cover of mastoid process. Insertion : intermediate tendon. Nerve : facial. Draws hyoid bone with tongue upwards and back- wards. Superficial surface is in relation to platysma, sterno-mastoid, splenius, longissimus capitis, stylo-hyoid, parotid gland, pterygoideus internus and angle of mandible, submaxillary gland, ant. facial vein. Deep surface is related to stylo-glossus, stylo-pharyngeus, hyo- glossus, middle constrictor ; int. and ext. carotid and ext. maxillary arteries ; int. jugular vein ; glosso-pharyngeal, hypoglossal, accessory nerves. Occipital and post, auricular arteries run posteriorly along its lower and upper borders, respectively. Anterior belly lies below chin on mylo-hyoid, under platysma, but may be felt subcutaneously. Origin (fl.) : lower border of mandible, close to symphysis. Insertion: inter- mediate tendon. Nerve: trigeminal, through mylo-hyoid branch of inf. alveolar (inf. dental). Draw's hyoid bone up- wards and fonvards ; depresses mandible. Intermediate tendon is attached to body of hyoid bone by pulley-like band of fascia ; it perforates stylo-hyoid and lies on hyo-glossus. Stylo-hyoideus lies behind and under cover of angle of mandible, applied to upper and anterior aspects of post, belly of digastric. Origin (fl.-tend.): styloid process near its base. Insertion (fl.-tend.) : junction of body and great horn of hyoid bone, after perforation by intermediate tendon of digastric. Nerve : facial. Draws hyoid bone upwards and backwards. Mylo-hyoideus forms, with its fellow, a diaphragm across floor of mouth (v. p. 222). Origin (fl.-tend.): mylo-hyoid line of mandible. Insertion: body of hyoid boneand median fibrous raphe, extending from hyoid bone to chin. Nerve : trigem- inal, through mylo-hyoid branch of inf. alveolar (inf. dental). It elevates hyoid bone and tongue ; depresses mandible. Genio-hyoideus lies behind chin, between mylo-hyoid and genio-glossus, in apposition with its fellow'. Origin (fl.- tend.) : low'er mental spine. Insertion (fl.) : body of hyoid bone. Nerve: c. 1, through hypoglossal. Draws hyoid bone forwards and upwards ; depresses mandible.