CEREBRAL NERVES 397 plexuses, and by branches of splanchnic nerves. They supply oesophagus and back of pericardium. Ant. gastric plexus, formed by left vagus, supplies stomach and sends branches to hepatic plexus. Post, gastric plexus, formed by right vagus, supplies stomach, and sends branches to coeliac, splenic and renal plexuses. Accessory Nerve (nth ; Spinal accessory). Motor. Consists of 2 portions. A cerebral portion, accessory to vagus, from medulla oblongata, to supply musculature of great part of alimentary and respiratory tracts ; a spinal portion, from spinal medulla, to supply sterno-mastoid and trapezius. Fila radicularia (rootlets) of spinal portion emerge from side of spinal medulla, between ant. and post, roots of cervical nerves ; unite to form i or 2 cords which ascend through foramen magnum, and turn laterally to jugular foramen. Fila of cerebral portion emerge from side of medulla oblongata, below vagus, in line with post, roots of cervical nerves ; run laterally to jugular foramen, and join spinal portion. The accessory nerve, so formed, pierces dura, and enters jugular foramen in company with vagus. In jugular foramen it divides into two : (i) Ramus internus (cerebral fibres), which communicates with ganglion jugulare, and joins vagus at ganglion nodosum and is distributed through vagus (q.v.). (2) Ramus externus (comprising the spinal fibres and commonly referred to, in neck, as accessory nerve) descends between carotid artery and internal jugular vein ; turns laterally and posteriorly, superficial or deep to vein, in front of transverse process of atlas, deep to styloid process, posterior belly of digastric and occipital art. ; crosses upper angle of anterior triangle of neck, accompanied by branch of occipital artery ; enters sterno-mastoid, supplies it, communicates with 2nd cervical ; reappears above middle of posterior border of sterno-mastoid ; crosses posterior triangle obliquely, downwards and posteriorly : communicates with 3rd and 4th cervical, and disappears under cover of trapezius, in which it ends. Nucleus of Spinal Portion.—Cells in ant column (horn) of spinal medulla, posterior to cells of origin of motor roots of upper cervical, nerves. Fibresju-- dorsally through ant. column ; appear in bay between ant. and post, columns (horns); turn laterally through fasciculus lateralis proprius (lateral basis bundle), f. cerebro-