240 MUSCLES ANI) FASCI/E FASCI/E AND MUSCLES OF ABDOMINAL WALLS Superficial fascia contains lateral cutaneous and terminal branches of lower intercostal nerves, and small vessels. In lower part of ant. abdominal wall and proximal part of front of thigh it consists of two layers, with superficial vessels and lymph glands between them. Fatty superficial layer is continuous with super- ficial fascia over rest of body ; is devoid of fat over penis ; fat is replaced by dartos muscle in scrotum. Deeper membranous layer fuses above with superficial layer. Inferiorly, it is carried down over penis, fusing with superficial layer, and over spermatic cords to scrotum, where it fuses with superficial layer. Behind scrotum it is continuous with similar deep layer in perin£eum. Continuous line of attachment below, including that of layer in perinseum, is to (1) base of fascia inferior of diaphragma urogenitale (triangular ligament); (2) margins of pubic arch; (3) deep fascia covering gracilis and adductor longus, on femoral aspect of pubis ; (4) medial half of inguinal ligament (Poupart), or deep fascia just below it; (5) fascia lata a little distal to lateral half of inguinal ligament. These attachments prevent passage of cxtravasated urine backwards into ischio-rectal fossa, or distally into thigh. In median plane it is connected to linea alba, front of symphysis pubis, raphe of bulbo-cavernosus (ejaculator uriiue) ; and sends an incomplete septum into scrotum. Deep fascia, very thin, covers obliquus externus; fuses with its aponeurosis anteriorly, with fascia lumbo-dorsalis posteriorly. Fascia transversalis is fascial lining of internal surface of ant. abdominal wall. Covers internal surface of transversus abdominis, and is separated from peritoneum by thin layer of extra-peritoneal areolar fatty tissue. Anteriorly it is continuous with fascia of opposite side. Posteriorly it is continuous with fascia of quadratus lumborum. Superiorly it joins fascia covering diaphragm. Inferiorly it is continuous with fascia iliaca, along crest of ilium and lateral half of inguinal ligament; anterior to femoral vessels it is carried distally, into thigh, as anterior wall of femoral sheath, and medial to that it is attached to pecten and crest of pubis. It is prolonged over spermatic cord and testis as infundibuliform fascia from margins of abdominal inguinal ring (p. 245). Fascia Iliaca.—A thin fascia covering psoas and iliacus, and prolonged into thigh as posterior wall of femoral sheath. Fascia covering quadroons lumborum. See Fascia Lumbo-dorsalis, p. 191. Linea Alba.—A band, ^ inch broad above umbilicus, but narrow below it where recti are in apposition. Extends from xiphoid process to pubis. Formed by interlacing insertions of