37 2 NEUROLOGY longus ; appears from under brachio-radialis, descends upon superficial aspect of abductor pollicis longus and ext. poll, brevis ; pierces deep fascia, crosses dorsal carpal lig. (post, annular) at lateral side of distal end of radius, breaking up into diverging branches which cross wrist-joint at hollow on radial side of wrist, and pass over the radial artery and extensors of thumb to be distributed to the radial part of dorsum of hand, radial side of thenar eminence, proximal part of dorsum of thumb, index, medius, and half of annularis. Ramus profundus (posterior interosseous) gives branches to supinator, and ext. carpi rad. brevis, and passes round lateral side of radius, through substance of supinator, to reach back of forearm, where it is called dorsal interosseous n., and lies on supinator, abductor pollicis longus, interrosseous membrane and dorsum of wrist. At wrist it breaks up into branches for radio-carpal and carpal joints. On dorsum of forearm it supplies ext. dig. communis, dig. quinti proprius, carpi ulnaris ; abd. poll, longus, ext. poll, longus and brevis, and indicis proprius. THORACIC NERVES Anterior ramus of a typical thoracic nerve gives a white ramus communicans to sympathetic and receives a grey one from it. It passes laterally, in front of anterior costo- transverse lig. and posterior intercostal membrane ; slips in between ext. and int. intercostals, and runs anteriorly below corresponding rib and intercostal vessels. Each sends a branch through post, intercostal membrane and ext. inter- costal muscle to a levator costm ; upper 3 or 4 send branches to serratus posterior superior; 9th, 10th, 1 ith send branches to serratus inferior. Less than half-way round chest each gives off lateral cutaneous branch,and then passes obliquely through int. intercostal muscle, and proceeds medially, deep to it and in front of pleura, transversus thoracis and int. mammary vessels, to reach side of sternum, where it turns anteriorly through int. intercostal muscle, ant. intercostal membrane, pectoralis major and its fascia, to end as anterior cutaneous branch on front of chest. It supplies intercostals, subcostals, and transversus. Ramus cutaneus lateralis pierces ext. inter- costal, supplying it ; divides, under serratus anterior, into