218 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE art., postero-lateral to common carotid, posterior to int. jugular and innominate veins. Left recurrent nerve arises in thorax, and already lies in the groove between trachea and oesophagus when it enters neck, and is therefore not posterior to subclavian and carotid arteries in the root of the neck. Thoracic duct ascends into neck on left border of oesophagus, having subclavian artery anterior to it, pleura on its left side, longus colli posterior to it. At level of 7th cervical vertebra it arches laterally above pleura, posterior to common carotid art., vagus, cardiac nerves and int. jugular vein ; anterior to sympathetic trunk, vertebral vessels (sometimes between art. and vein) and inf. thyreoid art. ; turns down- wards, anterior to transverse cervical and transverse scapular (supra- scapular) arteries, phrenic nerve, medial border of scalenus anterior, behind sterno-mastoid ; receives jugular lymphatic trunk conveying lymph from left side of head and neck, subclavian lymphatic trunk conveying lymph from left upper limb; bends more medially and crosses anterior to subclavian artery, to end in junction of subclavian and jugular veins. It may break up into two or more trunks before ending, and subclavian and jugular trunks may end independently in one or other of the large veins. The description given for cardiac nerves, sympathetic trunk, and 1st thoracic nerve on right side of root of neck and superior aperture of thorax will serve for those on the left side. Carotid Triangle.— Bounded posteriorly by sterno-mastoid, superiorly by stylo-hyoid and post, belly of digastric, inferiorly by ant. belly of omo-hyoid. Floor : anteriorly, thyreo-hyoideus, hyoid bone, and often a small part of hyoglossus ; posteriorly, inf. and middle constrictors, and thyreo-hyoid membrane in gap between them. Contents: sup. thyreoid, lingual, ext. maxillary (facial) arteries directed forwards ; sup. thyreoid, lingual, common facial veins directed backwards ; hypoglossal nerve running horizontally forwards at lower border of digastric ; int. laryngeal nerve and vessels piercing thyreo-hyoid membrane; ext. laryngeal nerve running downwards and forwards on inf. constrictor ; upper part of larynx ; nerve to thyreo-hyoid entering that muscle ; lymph vessels and glands, areolar tissue, fat. And when sterno-mastoid is retracted-, common, ext., int. carotids, inter-caroticbody ; occipital art. directed backwards; asc. pharyngeal art. directed upwards, deep to carotids ; int. jugular vein, vagus, sympathetic trunk, upper cervical cardiac branches of vagus and sympathetic, descendens hypoglossi and cervicalis ; (spinal) accessory n. at upper lateral angle.