APPENDAGES OF EMBRYO AND FCETUS 499 Ovum is implanted near fundus of uterus posteriorly, and eats its way into decidua. The part of decidua between ovum and muscular wall of uterus is called decidua basalis ; that which covers ovum is called d. capsularis. Remainder is called d. vera. Decidua increases further in thickness and vascularity, and is divisible into 3 layers: (1) stratum compaction superficially, where interglandular tissue predominates ; (2) stratum spongiosum, formed by dilated portions of glands ; (3) unchanged layer of bases of glands, next muscular wall of uterus. Decidua capsularis consists of part of stratum compactum only, and with enlargement of ovum it is pushed before ovum till it meets d. vera, obliterating uterine cavity, about end of 3rd month. The fused decidua capsularis and vera atrophy, and are reduced to thin membranes. D. basalis consists of unchanged layer, spongy layer and external part of compact layer, which form maternal part of placenta. The vessels in the part of compact layer next ovum dilate enormously to form large blood sinuses. External part of compact layer remains unchanged, is called basal layer, and is perforated by uterine vessels which dilate to form the sinuses. Earliest observed stage of human ovum is that showing the space between trophoblast and inner two sacs filled with mesoderm which surrounds the inner two sacs and passes in between them into embryonic area. Extra-embryonic coelom, which appears in the mesoderm and divides it into 2 layers, extends into the mesoderm between the tropho- blast and dorsal surface of amnion, but leaves the caudal ends of amnion and entodermal sacs attached, by a mesodermal stalk, to that part of trophoblast which lies opposite decidua basalis and becomes foetal portion of placenta. A diverticulum, called the allantois, grows into mesodermal stalk from that part of entodermal sac which later becomes included in the caudal fold as the hind-gut. Blood-vessels pass along allantois from embryo to placenta. Part of allantois taken into embryo with forma- tion of hind-gut becomes adult urachus. (It is also said that no part of allantois is taken into embryo, but that it is connected with hind- gut at umbilical margin, and that urachus is formed, therefore, from cloaca.) When caudal fold is formed, the part of the embryo with which mesodermal stalk is connected is the ventral wall of body, at caudal margin of umbilicus. The umbilical vesicle is that part of entodermal sac left outside the embryo. It retains its connection with primitive alimentary canal, at umbilicus, by a neck which becomes narrow and constricted, and is called vitello-intestinal duct. The duct becomes elongated and mesoderm covering it fuses with cephalic aspect of mesodermal stalk, which also has become elongated.