168 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE femoral septum, (2) the lymph gland, (3) anterior wall of femoral canal, (4) fascia cribrosa, (5) superficial fascia, (6) skin. Femoral artery begins as a continuation of ext. iliac, posterior to inguinal lig., mid-way between ant. sup. iliac spine and symphysis pubis ; runs distally through femoral trigone and adductor canal, and ends at junction of middle and distal thirds of thigh by passing through hiatus tendineus (opening) in adductor magnus and becoming popliteal artery. Position is indicated by proximal § of line drawn from point of origin to adductor tubercle, when thigh is slightly flexed, abducted and rotated laterally. Relations in Femoral Trigone. — Femoral sheath surrounds proximal 1 ^ inches. Anterior to it are fasciae and medial cutaneous nerve. Lateral to it are femoral nerve and its branches, nerve being separated by small piece of psoas ; lumbo-inguinal nerve in lateral wall of sheath. Posterior to it are psoas, pectineus, adductor longus, proximo-distally ; and sometimes adductor brevis appears between pectineus and longus ; nerve to pectineus ; a large mass of fat contain- ing profunda and femoral vein. Profunda artery is first lateral and then posterior. Femoral vein is posterior to femoral artery at apex of trigone, but is on its medial side at base of trigone. Psoas separates artery from capsule of hip-joint and head of femur. Relations in Adductor Canal.— Within the canal: saphenous nerve is anterior, nerve to vastus medialis is lateral, femoral vein is posterior, except towards distal end, where it becomes postero-lateral. Walls of canal : vastus medialis is antero-lateral ; fibrous roof, subsartorial plexus and sartorius are antcro-medial; adductor longus and magnus are postero-medial. Beyond canal: femur is lateral, and separated only by vastus medialis ; profunda vessels are posterior, separated from femoral vessels by adductor longus. Branches of Femoral Artery.—Unnamed muscular ; superficial epigastric and circumflex iliac, superficial and deep external pudendal, all near origin of femoral; profunda femoris ; and, in adductor canal, art. genu suprema (anastomotica). Superficial circumflex iliac artery pierces femoral sheath and fascia lata, and runs along inguinal ligament (Poupart) to ant. sup. iliac spine, where it anastomoses with branches of deep circumflex iliac, of gluteal arteries and of lateral circumflex. Superficial epigastric artery pierces sheath and fascia lata and passes upwards, superficial to inguinal lig., to anterior abdominal wall. Superficial external pudendal artery crosses femoral vein, pierces sheath and fascia cribrosa, passes superficial to spermatic cord to reach penis and scrotum. The veins corresponding to these three superficial arteries end, not in the femoral, but in great saphenous vein. Deep external pudendal artery crosses femoral vein, pierces sheath, runs medially upon pectineus and adductor longus, pierces deep fascia, and passes deep to spermatic cord to reach penis and scrotum.