140 MUSCLES ANI) FASCIAE traverses the groove on multangulum majus (trapezium), piercing attachment of transverse carpal lig. (ant. annular) to that bone, and is inserted into volar surface of base of 2nd metacarpal, and by a small slip into base of 3rd. Nerve : C. 6, through median. It flexes and abducts hand ; slightly flexes and pronates forearm. Palmaris longus lies along ulnar side of flex, carpi radialis. Roth tendons are clearly seen, side by side, proximal to wrist. Common flexor origin. Insertion : by long tendon into volar surface of transverse carpal lig. (ant. annular) and apex of palmar aponeurosis. Nerve : c. 6, through median. It flexes wrist, tightens palmar aponeurosis, slightly flexes elbow. Flexor carpi ulnaris lies along ulnar side of forearm. Origin : humeral head, common flexor origin. Ulnar head, fleshy fibres from medial side of olecranon ; aponeurosis from proximal # of dorsal margin of ulna. Ulnar nerve and collateral vessels enter forearm between two heads. Insertion by tendon attached to pisiform and continued from there, by lig. pisohamatum and pisometacarpeum, to hook of hamatum (unciform) and base of 5th metacarpal. Ulnar vessels and nerve lie superficially on its radial side, in distal part of fore- arm. Nerve : c. 8, T. 1, through ulnar. Flexor and adductor of wrist ; slight flexor of elbow. (2) Intermediate Muscle Flexor digitorum sublimis lies between superficial and deep muscles. Origin : humeral head (tend.), from common flexor origin, anterior band of ulnar collateral ligament of elbow, medial margin of coronoid process. Radial head (fl.-tend.), from proximal $ of volar (anterior) margin of radius. Radial vessels cross radial origin ; ulnar vessels, at first posterior to it, come to lie along its ulnar border, together with ulnar nerve, in distal part of forearm ; median nerve is posterior to it, except near wrist, where it lies between it and flex, carpi radialis. At wrist the tendons for middle and ring fingers lie anterior to the other two, and they all lie behind transverse carpal lig., in front of flexor profundus. Tendons diverge from one another in the palm. Each enters fibrous flexor sheath of a finger ; is split to transmit tendon of profundus ; and, after reunion, it divides again to be inserted into middle of sides of 2nd phalanx. Nerve : c.