481 MALE GENITAL ORGANS Blood - vessels : scrotal branches of int. pudendal; ext. pudendal of femoral. Nerves : scrotal of pudendal; perineal branch of post, cutaneous (small sciatic); ilio-inguinal. Lymphatics end in superficial subinguinal glands. Testis. —Whitish in colour, oval in shape. Superior and inferior extremities. Lateral and medial surfaces. Anterior and posterior borders. 1A in. long, 1 in. broad, f in. in thickness from side to side. Long axis directed upwards, forwards and laterally. Lateral surface looks laterally and backwards. Left testis reaches lower level than right. Epididymis and lower end of spermatic cord are attached to posterior border, through which vessels and nerves enter testis. Tunica vaginalis testis, a closed sac of serous membrane derived from peritoneum, lines walls of scrotal chamber {parietal lamina), and is reflected from posterior wall to give a covering (visceral layer) to epididymis, testis, front and sides of lower end of spermatic cord, above the testis. From lateral aspect, it is tucked in between epididymis and testis, forming a recess called sinus epididymidis (digital fossa). Epididymis lies along posterior border of testis, lateral to lower end of spermatic cord and ductus deferens, with which it is in direct contact. Its upper end or caput is enlarged, overhangs and lies in direct contact with upper end of testis, with which it is connected by ductuli efferentes. Body is separated from the testis by the sinus epididymidis. Cauda or lower end is in direct contact with testis, near lower end. Epididymis consists of an exceedingly coiled tube ductus epididymidis—about 20 feet long, which is con- tinuous with ductus deferens at cauda epididymidis. Structure of Testis —Beneath serous covering is a dense, white fibrous coat, called tunica albuginea, which is thickened and projected into testis, posteriorly, as mediastinum testis, from which septula pass to the tunica albuginea on the surfaces and ant. border, and imperfectly divide testis into lobules. Much coiled tubuli seminiferi contorti. which secrete semen, lie in lobules. These tubules, about 600 in number, each about 2 feet long, unite to form tubuli recti, which enter mediastinum and join one another to form rete testis. From the rete, 15 to 20 ductuli efferentes pass out of mediastinum into caput epididymidis, where each is coiled on itself to form a little cone, called lobulus epididymidis, before entering tube of epididymis.