MUSCULAR TRIANGLE & ROOT OF NECK 215 posterior to, common carotid and int. jugular, in carotid sheath ; crosses inf. thyreoid art., descends anterior to pleura, vertebral artery and vein ; crosses anterior to subclavian artery ; passes downwards, back- wards, and medially between innominate artery and vein to enter thorax and gain the side of trachea. Right recurrent nerve arises from vagus as it crosses subclavian art. It turns backwards below subclavian, then upwards and medially between subclavian and pleura, and passes posterior to common carotid, near its origin, to reach groove between trachea and oesophagus, in which it ascends, medial to common carotid and thyreoid gland, and anterior or posterior to inferior thyreoid artery ; passes under cover of lower border of inf. con- strictor, as inf. laryngeal, to supply all laryngeal muscles, except crico- thyreoid. It . gives branches also to inf. constrictor, oesophagus, trachealis muscle, and cardiac branches, which enter thorax upon the side of trachea, and end in deep cardiac plexus. Cervical cardiac branches of right vagus and sympathetic descend upon pleura, anterior or posterior to subclavian artery, and accompany vagus to trachea. Middle cervical ganglion lies on inferior thyreoid artery, posterior to common carotid, opposite cricoid cartilage and 6th vertebra. It gives off grey rami communicantes to 5th and 6th cervical nerves, thyreoid branches, which accompany inf. thyreoid art., and the middle cardiac nerve. Inferior cervical ganglion lies between 7th cervical transverse process and neck of 1st rib, anterior to 8th cervical nerve, posterior to vertebral artery. It gives off grey rami communicantes to 7th and 8th cervical nerves, an inferior cardiac nerve, a plexus to accompany vertebral artery. It may be fused with 1st thoracic ganglion on anterior aspect of neck of 1st rib, medial to superior intercostal artery ; or the trunk descends into thorax, on front of neck of first rib, to join 1st thoracic ganglion. The part of sympathetic trunk connecting middle with inferior ganglion lies on longus colli, posterior to common carotid, close to medial side of vertebral artery. Another strand descends from middle ganglion, emerges from behind common carotid, crosses anterior to subclavian art., gives twigs to it and its branches, hooks round it, lateral to recurrent nerve, to form ansa subclavia (Vieussens), and ends in inferior ganglion. First thoracic nerve gives off the 1st intercostal nerve, and passes obliquely, laterally and upwards, lateral to superior intercostal art., across anterior surface of junction of neck and body of 1st rib, to join brachial plexus. Sympathetic trunk, sup. intercostal art. and 1st thoracic nerve lie on anterior surface of neck of 1st rib, in that order medio-laterally, and all posterior to apical extremity of pleura. Right lymphatic duct, rarely seen in an ordinary dissection, ascends out of thorax into neck, upon longus colli, to the right of the oesophagus, arches laterally behind carotid sheath, reaches medial border of scalenus anterior, is joined there by common jugular and