358 NEUROLOGY Anterior border or incisura tentorii is deeply concave, sharp and free, except that its anterior ends proceed forwards to be attached to anterior clinoid processes. This border and the dorsum sellte enclose an opening occupied by mesen- cephalon. Convex, circumferential border is attached to lips of transverse sulcus on occipital bone and mastoid angle of parietal, to upper margin of petrous temporal, and crosses below concave margin to end on posterior clinoid process. After the crossing the attached and free margins, together with a line between ant. and post, clinoid processes, enclose a triangle ; trochlear nerve pierces dura at its posterior angle, oculo-motor pierces its floor. Transverse (lateral) sinus is enclosed between two lamina; of tentorium and outer layer of dura from int. occipital protuberance to mastoid angle of parietal ; and superior petrosal sinus is enclosed along upper border of petrous temporal. (3) Falx cerebelli is a small crescentic fold containing occipital sinus ; it projects forwards from internal occipital crest into posterior notch of cerebellum. (4) Diaphragma sells, a small circular fold, roofs in fossa hypophyseos (pituitary), and has central aperture for in- fundibulum. Ant. and post, intercavernous sinuses lie between its laminae at their anterior and posterior attachments. Arteries to Dura.—Middle meningeal, accessory meningeal, meningeal branches of ethmoidal, ophthalmic, ascending pharyngeal, occipital and vertebral arteries. Veins end in sinuses and in mid, meningeal ; they communicate with diploic and emissary veins. Nerves: from trigeminal, vagus, hypoglossal and sympathetic. Lymphatics pass through foramen spinosum, ovale, lacerum, jugulare and magnum, to deep facial and upper deep cervical glands. Dura Mater Spinalis,—Continuous with inner layer of encephalic dura at for. magnum ; descends as a tube to 3rd piece of sacrum, below which it is prolonged as sheath for filum terminale as far as periosteum on dorsum of coccyx. It is adherent to margins of foramen magnum and to 2nd and 3rd cervical vertebrae, and is connected by loose fibrous bands with post, longitudinal lig., towards upper and lower ends of vertebral canal. On each side, anterior and posterior nerve-roots pierce it independently and carry away tubular sheaths, which blend at the spinal ganglion. Arteries, from various spinal arteries. Lymphatics end in deep cervical, intercostal and lumbar glands.