472 DIGESTIVE APPARATUS Vertical Direction.—Great sac : Begin at anterior layer of lesser omentum. Follow that layer to lesser curvature ; over antero- superior surface of stomach to greater curvature ; as ist layer of greater omentum to its lower border; upwards as 4th layer of omentum to transverse colon ; over posterior surface of transverse colon, and then upwards and backwards to lower border of pancreas, as posterior layer of transverse mesocolon. From there downwards for a little, over post, wall, to root of mesentery ; downwards and forwards as right lamina of mesentery, round intestine, and back to posterior wall as left lamina of mesentery. From there downwards over posterior wall to pelvis, over rectum on to bladder, in male, on to vagina and uterus and then to bladder, in female. From bladder on to anterior abdominal wall, over which it is traced uninterruptedly to lower surface of diaphragm. From diaphragm to liver, as upper layer of coronary ligament, if on right side of falciform ligament; or as upper layer of left triangular ligament, if on left side. Over upper and anterior surfaces of liver, round inferior free border of liver, and over lower surface to porta hepatis ; and from there to starting-point on lesser omentum. Omental Bursa.—Begin at posterior layer of lesser omentum. Follow, successively, that layer, peritoneum on postero-inferior surface of stomach, 2nd layer of greater omentum, 3rd layer, peritoneum on anterior surface of transverse colon, anterior layer of transverse meso- colon, peritoneum on pancreas, right crus. Reflected on to upper end of caudate (Spigelian) lobe, downwards over that lobe and on to starting- point on lesser omentum ; or, alternatively, from a point more to the left, from diaphragm directly on to lesser omentum. Transverse Directions—1. At Level of 4th Lumbar Verte- bra.—Great sac: Begin at median plane on ant. abdominal wall. Follow peritoneum to left over ant. and lateral walls of abdomen; over sides and front of descending colon, onwards to root of mesentery ; left layer of mesentery, round intestine, right layer ; back to posterior wall. Then over posterior wall, over sides and front of ascending colon to lateral wall of abdomen, and then back to starting-point. Omental Bursa.—Four layers of greater omentum ; ist and 4th, continuous at lateral borders ; 2nd and 3rd, continuous at lateral borders, and enclose cavity of omental bursa. 2. At Level of Pylorus.—Trace to left and slightly upwards. Great sac : Begin at pylorus. Follow successively: peritoneum on antero-superior surface of stomach ; left layer of gastro-splenic liga- ment ; over gastric, diaphragmatic, renal surfaces of spleen ; left layer of lieno-renal ligament; over kidney to left side of diaphragm, over diaphragm to falciform ligament; left layer of falciform ligament; round liver to falciform ligament again ; right layer of falciform ligament ; over right side of diaphragm to kidney ; over kidney and first part of duodenum to pylorus. Omental Bursa.—Begin at pylorus, pass over postero-inferior