UROGENITAL APPARATUS 486 to end, on each side, in superficial ext. pudendal, and a deep, beneath fascia penis, ending in pudendal (prostatic) plexus. Nerves : To skin and fascia : dorsal nerve of penis, scrotal branches of pudendal and ilio-inguinal, perineal branch of post, cutaneous of thigh (small sciatic). To substance of corpora : cavernous plexuses of sympathetic. Lym- phatics : from skin, to superficial subinguinal glands; from deep parts and glans, to superficial and deep subinguinal glands. FEMALE GENITAL ORGANS The two ovaries shed ova into peritoneal cavity, from which they pass into the 2 uterine (Fallopian) tubes, where they may be fertilised and begin development. From uterine tube the ovum is sent, at very early stage, into uterus to continue development ; and, when intra-uterine development is completed, it is expelled, through vagina, to the exterior at pudendum muliebre (vulva). Ovaries, uterine tubes and uterus lie in the pelvis ; vagina lies in pelvis and in perineum. Ovarium. —Each ovary, in size and shape like a large almond, long axis vertical, lies on the side wall of pelvis, be- tween ureter and broad ligament. It is connected to broad lig. by short fold, called meso-ovarium, the endothelium of which is continuous with epithelial covering of ovary ; be- tween its layers, vessels and nerves pass to the ovary. Blunt upper end of ovary lies below level of ext. iliac vessels and obliterated umbilical art. Uterine tube curves round it, and it is therefore called extremitas tubaria. Suspensory lig. of ovary (i.e. lateral part of free edge of broad lig. containing ovarian vessels and nerves) connects it with peritoneum covering iliac vessels. Lower end is connected by lig. ovarii with uterus, and is called extremitas ulerina. Posterior border is free, lies anterior to ureter and hypo- gastric artery, and is in contact with end of uterine tube. Anterior border gives attachment to meso-ovarium. Vessels and nerves enter at this border through a cleft called the hilum. Medial surface, largely overlapped by uterine tube, and covered by pelvic colon or small intestine. Lateral surface lies in fossa ovarica, the floor of which is formed by peritoneum which separates ovary from obturator vessels and nerve, and obturator internus muscle. Arteries : ovarian from aorta; branches from uterine. Veins form pampiniform plexus, from which ovarian vein issues to end in v. cava on right side, renal on left. Nerves : from aortic and renal plexuses (ultimately 10 t'h.). Lymphatics end in lumbar glands ; some from right ovary are said to end in appendicular gland.