OSTEOLOGY 48 border near its middle. Eminentia arcuata, at upper part of middle of ant. surface of petrous temporal, is produced by superior semicircular canal of ear. Lateral to it the tcgmen tympani extends downwards and antcro-medially, forming roof of tympanic antrum and cavity, and musculo- tubal canal. Below and medial to arcuate eminence is hiatus canalis facialis (hiatus Fallopii), a slit transmitting greater superficial petrosal nerve and petrosal branch of mid. meningeal art. Sulcus n. pctrosi superficialis majoris leads downwards and medially from hiatus to for. lacerum. Below this groove is sulcus n. pctrosi superficialis minoris. Impressio trigemini for trigeminal nerve and semilunar ganglion (Gasserian) is near apex of petrous temporal. Its floor is roof of inner end of carotid canal, and is often deficient. Fossa Cranii Posterior. Bones: body of sphenoid, occipital, petrous and mastoid temporal, mastoid angle of parietal. Sutures: s. occipito-mastoidea, parieto-mastoidea. Fissure: f. petro-occipitalis. Clivus extends from dorsum sellae to for. magnum, presents broad median groove on which medulla oblongata, pons and basilar artery lie, and to which membrana tectoria is attached, in front of for. magnum ; while laterally sulcus petrosus inferior, for inf. petrosal sinus, runs to jugular foramen (p. 45), along junction of occipital and petrous, grooving both. Internal end of hypoglossal canal (p. 44) is on antero-lateral margin of foramen magnum (p. 43). Tuber- culum jugulare is a smooth eminence above and anterior to hypoglossal canal, and is grooved posteriorly by glosso- pharyngeal, vagus and accessory nerves as they pass to jugular foramen. Internal occipital protuberance is centre of eminentia cruciata. From it ridges run up, down and laterally. Internal occipital crest, running downwards from it to for. magnum, is occasionally cleft at lower end by fossa vermiformis, and gives attachment to falx cerebelli, in base of which lies occipital sinus. On each side of crest is the cerebellar fossa. Groove for transverse (lateral) sinus extends laterally from protuberance to lateral angle of occipital, across mastoid angle of parietal, then downwards and medially on mastoid temporal, and forwards over jugular process of occipital to jugular foramen. From protuberance to upper end of mastoid it is called sulcus transversus, and tentorium cerebelli is attached to its lips. 5-shaped part on mastoid temporal and jugular