EYE AND INTERNAL EAR 5*5 pit is separated to form part of olfactory bulb. Rest forms olfactory epithelium of nose, and processes grow from its cells into olfactory bulb, and become olfactory nerves. A ridge appears on lower surface of cerebral hemisphere ; there is a corresponding depression inside ventricle. Anterior part of this becomes separated as hollow out- growth which solidifies and becomes olfactory bulb, tract, area and trigone. Posterior part becomes ant. perforated substance and gyrus subcallosus. EYE AND INTERNAL EAR Eye.—Optic vesicles grow out from lower and anterior part of fore-brain, from region occupied by adult optic recess. Vesicle becomes retina. Its stalk elongates and, acquiring nerve fibres coming from and going to retina, becomes solid and forms optic nerve. As develop- ment proceeds the fibres pass farther back and become connected with thalamus and mid-brain. Some cross and form optic chiasma, which is found only in highest primates, and is associated with binocular vision. Simultaneously with appearance of lens the infero-lateral aspect of vesicle and distal part of optic stalk become invaginated and form optic cup. The optic cup consists, therefore, of two layers. Inner becomes nervous and supporting layers of retina and pars ciliaris retinas ; outer becomes pigment layer ; pigment cells at back of iris are formed from both layers. Pathological separation of retina sometimes takes place between these two layers and fluid collects in original cavity of vesicle. I'itreous is formed by modified cells of retina which correspond to neuroglia. Blood-vessels grow in between lens and retina, and carry with them a few mesodermal cells to the vitreous. Fissure produced by invagination of stalk closes up, so that arteria centralis, derived from these blood-vessels, occupies centre of optic nerve, and enters it on infero-lateral aspect, marking posterior limit of invagination. Ectoderm overlying optic vesicle becomes thickened, invaginated, and cut off'as a closed sac of a single layer, which forms the rudiment of the lens ; and is separated from surface ectoderm by growth of mesoderm. It grows into the optic cup. Its posterior cells elongate and obliterate its cavity and form lens fibres. Anterior cells remain as anterior epithelium of tens. New lens fibres are added at margins by cells multiplying and elongating. Capsule of lens is formed by cells of lens, not from mesoderm. With age, the cells become changed into keratin, just as in skin. Oldest cells keratinise first. They are in centre ; hence the central position of cataract. Lens becomes enveloped in vascular tissue which, in man, dis- appears before birth. Ant. part of it is called pupillary membrane. Condensed mesoderm around optic cup forms sclera, chorioid, iris, ciliary body. A cleft appears in mesoderm in front of lens. Cleft becomes anterior chamber of eye. Mesoderm behind it becomes