BASIS CRANII INTERNA 47 lateralis cerebri (Sylvius), ends medially as anterior clinoid process, to which end of free edge of tentorium cerebelli is attached. Fossa Cranii Media. —Bones: sphenoid, petrous and squamous temporals, sphenoidal angle of parietal. Sutures : between adjacent bones. Fissure : f. spheno-petrosa between great wing of sphenoid and petrous temporal. Median Part.—Sulcus chiasmatis, in front, leads laterally to optic foramina. Posterior to it, is sella turcica, consisting of (i) tuberculum sellce (olivary eminence), an oval eminence in front ; (2 fossa hypophyseos (pituitary fossa), a smooth median depression for hypophysis (pituitary body); and (3) dorsum sellce, an upstanding quadrilateral plate, whose upper angles are called posterior clinoid processes and give attachment to ends of attached margin of tentorium ; base of dorsum is grooved at side by passage forwards of abducent nerve. Middle clinoid process is a little tubercle postero-lateral to tuberculum sella? on each side, sometimes large enough to unite with anterior or posterior clinoid piocess, or both. Lateral Part.—Sulcus caroticus, for int. carotid art., along the side of body of sphenoid, ends anteriorly between anterior and middle clinoid processes, and posteriorly at foramen lacerum (p. 44), where it is bounded postero-medially by petrosal process of sphenoid, which articulates with apex of petrous temporal, and antero-laterally by lingula sphenoidalis. Pterygoid canal (Vidian) is found on anterior margin of for. lacerum, below lingula. Superior orbital fissure (p. 37) is in anterior wall of lateral part of fossa, between body and wings of sphenoid, and may be completed supero-laterally by frontal. For. rotundum (p. 40) is below and posterior to. medial end of sup. orbital fissure. For. ovale (p. 43) is near posterior edge of great wing, i inch postero-lateral to rotundum. For. spinosum (p. 43) "is postero-lateral to ovale at posterior angle of great wing. Groove for middle meningeal artery and vein leads laterally and anteriorly from f. spinosum over squamous temporal’ over position of tuberculum articulare on inferior surface ; divides at variable point for anterior and posterior branches of artery. Anterior groove runs anteriorly and upwards to sphenoidal angle of Parietal, sometimes tunnelling it, and turns upwards and posteriorly over parietal ; posterior groove runs upwards and posteriorly, and passes on to parietal by crossing its inferior