29 BOXES OF THE SKULL Bounded by 12th thoracic vertebra, 12th pair of ribs, 12th to 7th costal cartilages, xiphi-sternal junction. Line drawn along- boundary passes downwards, laterally and anteriorly along 12th rib, horizontally from 12th to nth cartilage, slightly upwards to 10th, sharply upwards, anteriorly and medially, along 9th, 8th, 7th cartilages, to xiphi-sternal junction. Angulus Infrasternalis. — Bounded on each side by 7th costal cartilage. Apex is at xiphi-sternal junction. Xiphoid process forms its floor. BOXES OF THE SKULL Ossa Cranii.—Paired : parietals, temporals, inferior nasa concha; (inferior turbinated), lacrimals, nasals. Unpaired: frontal, occipital, sphenoid, ethmoid, vomer. Ossa Faciei.—Paired : maxilla?, zygomatics, palatine. Unpaired: mandible. Note.—Position, parts, articulations and ossification arc given here in connection with individual bones, but most of the details are included only in the account of rhull as a whole, except in case of mandible. Os Frontale.—Situated in anterior part "f cranium. Formed by fusion in early life of 2 symmetrical halves. Squama frontalis is the large part which forms forehead. Its frontal surface is convex and ends below in median margo nasalis nasal notch . which articulates with nasal bones and frontal processes of maxilla?, and laterally on each side in the curved margo supra orbitalis, medial end of which, called medial angular process, articulates with lacrimal, while lateral end, processus zygomaticus (external angular process), articulates with zygomatic (malar). Cerebral surface is concave. Pars orbitalis.—Two triangular plates which form greater ; art of roofs of orbits. Connected with squama anteriorly and laterally, and, with it, form a deep fossa for frontal lobes of cerebrum. Cir- cumferential margin of this fossa articulates with parietals above, wings of sphenoid below, area for great wing being large and triangular. Orbital plates are separated by deep incisura eth moidalis, which is occupied by lamina cribrosa of ethmoid. On each side of notch there are several broken cavities, which are completed by articulation with labyrinth of ethmoid. Pars nasalis is the area anterior to ethmoidal notch. Spina frontalis projects from its centre and articulates with nasal bones anteriorly and perpendicular lamina of ethmoid posteriorly. Groove