MUSCLES OF BUTTOCK 17' between post, gluteal line and iliac crest above, and ant. gluteal line below ; fascia covering it. Insertion (tend.) : postero-superior angle of trochanter major and oblique line leading to antero-inferior angle. Nerve : L. 4, 5, S. 1, through sup. gluteal. It abducts thigh. Ant. fibres flex and rotate medially ; post, fibres rotate laterally. A bursa lies between it and anterior part of trochanter. Tensor fasciae latae lies superficially between buttock and anterior surface of thigh. Origin (fl.): ant. superior iliac spine, part of notch below, crest of ilium for an inch behind. Insertion : tractus iliotibialis, between its lamellae, a little distal to trochanter major. Nerve: L. 4, 5, s. 1, through sup. gluteal. It braces tractus iliotibialis, abducts thigh and rotates it medially. Glutaeus minimus lies under cover of medius. Origin (fl.): dorsum ilii between ant. and inf. gluteal lines. Insertion (tend.): anterior surface of trochanter major and capsule of hip-joint. Bursa lies between it and medial part of anterior surface of trochanter. Nerve : L. 4, 5, s. 1, through superior gluteal. Same action as medius. Piriformis lies partly in pelvis, partly in buttock. Origin (fl.): pelvic surfaces of 2nd, 3rd, 4th pieces of sacrum, between and lateral to foramina and sometimes medial to them ; upper margin of greater sciatic notch ; pelvic surface of lig. sacro-tuberosum (great sacro-sciatic). Insertion : by round tendon into upper margin of trochanter major. Nerves : s. 1,2, directly. It abducts flexed thigh ; laterally rotates extended thigh. Obturator internus lies in pelvis, on its antcro-lateral wall; its tendon lies in buttock, on posterior surface of capsule of hip. Origin (fl.) : pelvic surface of obturator mem- brane, margins of foramen obturatum, except at obturator groove ; pelvic surface of hip-bone, posterior to and above foramen ; fascia covering it. Insertion : medial surface of trochanter major, above trochanteric fossa. Nerve : 1.. 5, s. 1, 2, through special nerve. Same action as piriformis. Pelvic surface of piriformis is in relation to rectum, sacral plexus, branches of hypogastric (int. iliac) vessels. It leaves pelvis through greater sciatic foramen, with sup. gluteal nerve and vessels above it, 6 nerves and 2 sets of vessels (see under glutams maximus) between it and sup. gemellus and coccygeus. Lies on capsule of hip. It common peroneal nerve (ext. popliteal) arises directly from sacral plexus, it splits piriformis as it passes out of pelvis.