OSTEOLOGY 52 near posterior border, the coracoid tuberosity, from which trapezoid ridge runs forwards and laterally. Borders-, (i) posterior, convex ; (2) anterior, concave, rough, and may present tubercle, called deltoid tubercle. Borders are continu- ous with ant. and post, surfaces of medial 3. Nutrient foramen is on post, aspect, and directed laterally. Ossification.—2 primary centres at 5th or 6th week—first in body to appear,—and they soon fuse. Epiphyseal centre for sternal end at 20th year, fused at 25. Epiphyseal line is intra-capsular. Attachments.—Interclavicular lig. and articular disc to rough part of sternal end ; articular capsule to margins of smooth part. Sterno-hyoid and sometimes sterno - thyreoid from medial part of post, surface. Sterno-mastoid from upper medial part of ant. surface, pectoralis major from lower part. Costo-clavicular lig. to costal tuberosity. Subclavius to groove for subclavius, and costo-coracoid membrane to its lips. Deltoid from ant. border of lateral and trapezius to post, border, both encroaching on upper surface. Conoid lig. to coracoid tuberosity. Trapezoid lig. to trapezoid ridge. Articular capsule to margins of facet on acromial end. Deep fascia covering muscles is attached at margins of muscular attachments, and deep fascia of roof of posterior triangle of neck is attached, in two layers, to upper and lower margins of post, aspect of middle third. Relations.—Clavicle forms the boundary between neck and front of chest and of upper limb. Anterior, middle and posterior supra- clavicular branches of 3rd and 4th cervical nerves descend superficial to medial, intermediate and lateral thirds, respectively, to supply skin over pectoralis and deltoid. Platysma lies superficial to these, over the lateral f. A few lymph glands lie in hollow below clavicle between pectoralis and deltoid. Posterior to medial inch or so of clavicle are sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyreoid, innominate vein, phrenic nerve and int. mammary artery, pleura, lung, from before backwards. More laterally, the nerve to subclavius, ext. jugular and subclavian veins, scalenus anterior, and 1st rib are behind. More laterally still, about its middle third, the transversa scapulae (supra - scapular) vessels run nearly horizontally posterior to it, and farther back are the omo-hyoid, the third part of subclavian artery, brachial plexus, and 1st digitation of serratus anterior. Trapezius occupies lateral J of posterior aspect. Beneath the clavicle are the costo-clavicular lig., subclavius and costo-coracoid membrane, coraco-clavicular lig., which are all attached to it. Besides these, from sternal to acromial end, there are (1) first cartilage ; (2) anterior end of first rib ; (3) axillary vein ; (4) axillary artery; (5) brachial plexus ; (6) coracoid process ; (7) coraco-acromial lig., supra-spinatus and shoulder-joint.