389 CEREBRAL NERVES distance anterior to mid. meningeal art.. posterior to pterygoideus internus, upon origin of its nerve. Roots : from nerve to pterygoideus internus (motor root) ; lesser superficial petrosal n., containing fibres of glosso-pharyngeal and of facial, enters it (sensory root) ; sympathetic root from plexus on mid. meningeal art. Communications to pterygoid (Vidian) nerve; to chorda tympani; to auriculo-temporal, for parotid gland, and probably derived from glosso-pharyngeal. Branches to tensor veli palatini, tensor tympani. Submaxillary ganglion, lies on hyoglossus, above submaxillary duct and deep part of gland, suspended by 2 or 3 trunks from lingua! nerve. (See also p. 226.) Abducent Nerve (6th). Motor to rectus lateralis of orbit. Emerges at lower border of pons, at upper end of lateral side of pyramid ; ascends upon clivus of sphenoid, anterior to pons ; pierces dura mater, notches side of base of dorsum sella;, enters cavernous sinus ; runs anteriorly on lateral side of int. carotid artery ; enters orbit throug*h sup. orbital fissure, between heads of rectus lateralis, below oculo - motor and naso-ciliary nerves, above ophthalmic vein ; runs forwards along ocular surface of rectus lateralis and enters its substance. Nucleus lies under grey matter low down in pontine part of floor of 4th ventricle, lateral to medial (posterior) longitudinal bundle, in concavity of loop of facial nerve. Fibres pass ventrally and down- wards through whole substance of pons, along medial side of superior olivary nucleus, through lateral edge of lemniscus and pyramidal tract. Communications.—Nucleus ; from opposite motor .area ; to medial longitudinal bundle (o) to connect it with other nuclei. (^) to cross and join fibres of 3rd going to rectus medialis of opposite side, or to end in relation to the cells from which these fibres arise ; from superior olivary nucleus. Nerve : from sympathetic and from oph- thalmic nerve in cavernous sinus. Facial Nerve (7th).—Motor mainly to muscles of face and scalp, sensory (taste) to tongue. Motor root of facial nerve emerges at lower border of pons, at upper end of medial side of restiform body ; runs anteriorly and laterally, enters int. acoustic meatus in company with acoustic n. and n. intermedius. At bottom of meatus, n. intermedius is incorporated with it, and it enters canalis n. facialis (aqueduct of Fallopius), which conducts it laterally over vestibule to antero-superior part of medial wall of tympanum, then posteriorly along junction of medial wall and roof, then downwards, behind tympanum, to stylo - mastoid foramen.