125 MUSCLES OF SUPERIOR EXTREMITY joints. Each muscle is supplied by one or more nerves, which convey motor impulses to it and sensory impressions from it. Each is supplied with blood by numerous branches from neighbouring blood-vessels. Hu rsa; mucosa; are fibrous sacs lined with mucous or synovial membrane, which secretes a viscid fluid like synovia. They are found between skin and subcutaneous bony points, under muscles and tendons passing over Iwnes or ligaments, and between tendons or muscles. They facilitate movement. Vagina; mucosa;, or synovial sheaths, resemble bursae in structure. They ensheath tendons. Some bursa; and synovial sheaths are prolongations of synovial strata (membranes) of joints. MUSCLES AND EASCI/E OF SUPERIOR EXTREMITY MUSCLES WHICH CONNECT SUPERIOR EXTREMITY TO TRUNK Trapezius lies superficially, on back of neck and of upper part of trunk. Origin, tendinous : medial J of superior nuchal line, ext. occipital protuberance, lig. nucha;, spines of 7th cervical and all thoracic vertebrae, supra-spinous ligaments. Insertion, fleshy and tendinous : posterior border of lateral J of clavicle, encroaching on upper surface ; medial margin of acromion ; upper lip, and tubercle on lower lip, of dorsal border (crest) of spine of scapula. Nerves : anterior rami of 3rd and 4th cervical, and accessory. Whole muscle braces back shoulder ; upper fibres elevate, lower depress. M iddle and lower fibres rotate scapula so that, after arm has been abducted to a right angle by deltoid, it is directed straight upwards. When shoulder is fixed upper fibres draw head to that side, and both muscles acting retract head. Bursa lies between tendon of lower part and root of spine of scapula. Latissimus dorsi lies in lower part of back and lower part of posterior wall of axilla. Origin, \ erv broad : by means of lumbo-dorsal fascia from spines and supra-spinous ligaments of lower 6 thoracic, the lumbar and upper sacral vertebr.e, and posterior part of iliac crest ; by fleshy fibres from iliac crest a little posterior to its middle, from lower 3 or 4 ribs and, sometimes, inferior angle of scapula. Insertion by flat tendon into bottom of intertubercular (bicipital) groove