MUSCLES AND FASCIAE 200 dorsum. The fibres of the vertical muscle extend from dorsum, downwards and laterally, to the sides. These muscles alter the shape of tongue, and curve it in different directions. MUSCLES OF PHARYNX Superior, middle and inferior constrictors, stylo-pharyn- geus, pharyngo-palatinus, salpingo-pharyngeus. Constrictor Pharyngis Superior.—Arises from lower 4 of posterior border of medial pterygoid lamina, pterygo- mandibular raphe, posterior end of mylo-hyoid line, mucous membrane of mouth and side of tongue (fl.). Fibres radiate to insertion in median fibrous raphe in posterior wall of pharynx, highest fibres reaching pharyngeal tubercle of occipital bone (fl.). Nerve: accessory, through pharyngeal plexus. Constrictor Pharyngis Medius.—Fan-shaped. Arises from angle formed by greater horn of hyoid bone below, lesser horn and stylo-hyoid ligament above (fl.). Radiates to insertion into median raphe (fl.). Nerve : accessory, through pharyngeal plexus. Constrictor Pharyngis Inferior.—Arises from oblique line and inf. cornu of thyreoid cartilage and side of cricoid cartilage (fl.), and radiates backwards and upwards to insertion into median raphe (fl.). Nerve : accessory, through pharyngeal plexus, external laryngeal and recurrent nerves. Sup. constrictor is overlapped posteriorly and interiorly by middle constrictor. Auditory (Eustachian) tube, tensor and levator veli palatini occupy interval (sinus of Morgagni) between its upper border and base of skull. Pterygoideus int. and stylo-pharyngeus are in relation to its external surface ; pharyngo-palatinus to its internal surface. Posteriorly the middle constrictor overlaps superior constrictor above, and is overlapped by inferior below. At the side, stylo- pharyngeus enters pharynx between it and sup. constrictor ; and hyo-glossus, post, belly of digastric, stylo-hyoid are in relation to it. Inf. constrictor overlaps middle constrictor superiorly; int. laryngeal vessels and nerve pierce thyreo-hyoid membrane, between their borders, under thyreo-hyoideus. Lower border is nearly hori- zontal, mingles with fibres of oesophagus, and inferior laryngeal vessels and nerve pass upwards under it. Sterno-thyreoid overlies it near origin. Stylo-pharyngeus lies on outer surface of sup. constrictor above, between mucous membrane of pharynx and the two