57 ULNA to lesser tubercle. Teres minor and subscapularis both extend on to surgical neck. To intertubercular groove: transverse lig., attached to both tubercles, bridges across its proximal part ; more distally, on shaft, pectoralis major to its lateral lip, teres major to medial lip, latissimus dorsi to floor. Common ex- tensor tendon from ant. aspect of lateral epicondyle ; from distal aspect,—radial collateral lig. of elbow and supinator anteriorly, anconaeus posteriorly. Ulnar collateral lig. to distal aspect of medial epicondyle ; common flexor tendon from distal part of ant. aspect, pronator teres from proximal part, extending to epicondylic ridge. Ant. lig. of elbow to proximal margins of radial and coronoid fossae and ant. aspect of medial epicondyle. Post. lig. to margins of olecranon fossa on each side, across its floor proximally, and to post, aspect of lateral epicondyle. Coraco- brachialis to middle of medial margin of shaft. Medial inter- muscular septum to edge of medial epicondylic ridge, pronator teres from distal part of ant. aspect. Lateral head of triceps to proximal ^ of lateral margin. Lateral intermuscular septum to edge of lateral epicondylic ridge ; brachio-radialis from proximal | of its ant. aspect, ext. carp, radialis longus from distal J. lirachialis from distal § of anterior medial and anterior lateral surfaces. Deltoid to deltoid tuberosity. Medial head of triceps from posterior surface, distal to groove for radial nerve. Ulna.—Medial bone of forearm. Proximal end large, distal end small. Proximal end Olecranon, placed pos- teriorly, projects proximally, forms prominence of elbow ; proximal, lateral and medial surfaces are rough ; dorsal surface is smooth, triangular and separated from skin by subcutaneous bursa ; volar (anterior) surface helps to form semilunar notch (greater sigmoid cavity). Processus coro- noideus projects anteriorly ; proximal surface forms distal part of semilunar notch ; volar surface rough ; tubercle and ridge between volar and medial surfaces for muscles ; concave incisura radialis (radial notch) on lateral surface articulates with head of radius. Incisura semilunaris [semilunar notch) formed by olecranon and coronoid, articulates with trochlea; notched at the sides, divided by vertical ridge into areas corresponding to lateral and medial parts of trochlea. Distal End. —Rounded capitulum (head) articulates with triangular articular disc (fibro-cartilage) distally; its lateral surface articulates with radius when arm is supine ; when arm is prone the anterior surface articulates with radius, and lateral surface is seen as a knob proximal to wrist. Processus styloideus, placed medially and dorsally, felt as a ridge proxi-