NEUROLOGY 398 spinalis lateralis (crossed pyramidal), and f. cerebello-spinalis (direct cerebellar) ; appear at surface between ant. and post, roots of cervical nerves, behind lig. denticulatum. Nucleus of Cerebral Portion is n. atnbiguus (see glosso-pharyngeal nerve). Fibres pass laterally, on ventral side of tractus spinalis (spinal root of V.), and appear at surface, below vagus. Connections of Nuclei.—With opposite motor area, with other nuclei through medial longitudinal bundle and fasc. anterior proprius (ant. basis bundle). Some fibres of posterior nerve-roots of cervical nerves end in spinal nucleus. Hypoglossal Nerve (12U1). Motor to muscles of tongue. Fila emerge from medulla oblongata, between olive and pyramid, and form two bundles, which pierce dura mater separately and unite in hypoglossal canal (ant. condyloid foramen). Trunk enters neck; lies at first medial to int. jugular vein and carotid artery ; passes laterally and then forwards between them, making ^-spiral twist around vagus ; descends under cover of styloid process and post, belly of digastric; at lower border of digastric it hooks round occipital artery, turns forwards over int. and ext. carotids, disappears again under cover of digastric and stylo-hyoid ; proceeds towards tongue between mylo- hyoid and hyo- glossus. (See also pp. 221, 226.) Branches.—Meningeal, to dura mater. R. descendens (Descendens hypoglossi) arises opposite int. carotid, descends in front of carotid sheath or within it ; is joined by r. descendens cervicalis from 2nd and 3rd cervical nerves, and they form loop called ansa hypoglossi, from which branches go to omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyreoid. R. thyreo- hyoideus descends to that muscle. Rami lingualcs supply genio-hyoid, stylo-glossus, hyo-glossus, genio-glossus and intrinsic muscles of tongue. Nucleus extends nearly whole length of medulla oblongata ; is continuous with base of ant. column (horn) of medulla spinalis ; lies under trigonum n. hypoglossi in upper part of medulla oblongata, and in ventral wall of central canal in lower part. Connections: with opposite motor area ; with opposite nucleus by commissural fibres ; with other nuclei, through medial long, bundle and fasc. ant. proprius. Some fibres ascend and join those of facial going to orbicularis oris. Fibres pass ventrally through whole thickness of medulla between substantia reticularis grisea and alba, and emerge between olive and pyramid. Communications of Nerve Trunk.—(1) With g nodosum.