THE HEART 259 muscle to septum. Musculi papillares, conical bundles continuous by their bases with wall of ventricle, give rise by apices to fine tendons called chords tendineae, which are inserted into cusps of tricuspid valve. Three sets of chordae tendineae : (1) from large anterior papillary muscle to anterior and inferior cusps ; (2) from small and irregular inferior muscle to inferior and medial cusps ; (3) from small papillary projections on septum to medial and anterior cusps. Left ventricle—below and anterior to left atrium, to the left of and posterior to right ventricle—forms small part of sterno-costal surface, greater part of left border and dia- phragmatic surface, and whole apex. Conical in shape. Base, directed dorsally and upwards, is continuous, by its lower and posterior part, with left atrium ; and gives origin to aorta above, anteriorly and to the right. Cavity is oval on section, and is divided into large body, into which atrium opens, and small aortic vestibule, situated above and anteriorly, below aortic orifice, and bounded by membranous part of septum and anterior cusp of mitral valve. Left atrio - ventricular orifice can admit two fingers, Situated posterior to left half of sternum, opposite 4th costal cartilage. Guarded by bicuspid valve (mitral), consisting of two large cusps—anterior and posterior—resembling those of right side. The anterior, situated between atrio ventricular and aortic orifices, is larger than the posterior, and is smooth on both surfaces, as blood passes into ventricle over one surface, and out of it over the other surface. Small inter- mediate cusps are usually placed between them at bases. Aortic orifice is situated posterior to left half of sternum, close to margin, opposite lower border of 3rd cartilage. Guarded by valve of 3 segments, anterior, right, and left, resembling those of pulmonary valve. Cavity is smooth walled in aortic vestibule and over septum, rough and sponge-like elsewhere, owing to trabeculse carneae. Papillary muscles—anterior and posterior—are large, and chorda? tendineae go from each to both cusps of mitral valve. Muscular wall of cavity (including septum) is three times as thick as that of right ventricle. Blood supply of substance of heart : coronary branches of aorta. Lymphatics end in mediastinal and tracheal glands. Nerves, through cardiac plexuses, from cervical sympathetic, vagus, and accessory through vagus.