RESPIRATORY APPARATUS 436 costal cartilage; extends laterallyand slightly upwards to meet oblique fissure about its middle, opposite mid-axillary line. Lobus inferior includes less of base than on left side. Lobus superior is smaller than in left lung, owing to wedge-shaped lobus medius, which is cut off" from it, and includes lower part of ant. border and greater part of pericardial hollow. Differences between Right and Left Lung.—Right lung, tri-lobed ; larger in ratio of n to io. Shorter, owing to upward projection of liver ; wider, because heart projects less to right side. Base more concave, because of liver ; peri- cardial hollow shallower ; cardiac notch absent. Different markings on medial surfaces. Arteries of Lungs.—Pulmonary convey blood for aeration. Bronchial supply lung substance, and their blood is returned partly by bronchial and partly by pulmonary veins. Lym- phatics end in broncho-pulmonary glands. Nerves, from vagus and sympathetic, through pulmonary plexuses. Relations of Medial Surface of Lung and Mediastinal Pleura Pleura intervenes between lung and structures mentioned below : i.e. the structures exposed by removal of lung, pleura (and pericardium) in a dissection of thorax from the side. On both sides the vertebral area is related to intercostal vessels, roots and trunks of splanchnic nerves, and on left side, in addition, to vertical parts of vena hemiazygos and v. hemiazygos accessoria. Mediastinal Area.—On right side the pericardial hollow is in relation to heart, pericardium, phrenic nerve and pericardiaco-phrenic vessels. Portions of heart in relation are right atrium and auricle and part of right ventricle. A groove extends upwards from peri- cardial hollow ; another vertical groove lies posterior to hilum and upper part of lig. pulmonale ; a narrow, sharply-cut horizontal groove, just above hilum, connects the two. The groove extending upwards from pericardial hollow lodges phrenic nerve and pericardiaco-phrenic vessels, right innominate vein and sup. vena cava, lower end of which is, however, inside pericardium. The groove behind hilum and lig. pulmonale lodges oesophagus or vena azygos or both, and the strip below its lower ‘end is separated from descending aorta by fatty areolar tissue. The horizontal groove is for arch of v. azygos, which here separates pleura and lung from trachea and vagus. Above horizontal groove there is an area related to trachea, vagus, cardiac nerves, and oesophagus ; and at upper part of this area is the beginning of groove for subclavian artery, which passes laterally on ant. surface, below apex. Area anterior to groove for sup. v. cava