DIGESTIVE APPARATUS 444 are longer than those of others. Roots of upper molars are divided into three parts, two lateral, one medial ; of lower molars into two, anterior and posterior, and each of these may be bifid at apex. Periods of Eruption. — ist molar about 6th year ; medial incisors, 7th ; lateral incisors, 8th ; ist premolar, 9th ; 2nd premolar, 10th; canine, nth; 2nd molar, 12th; 3rd molar, dens serotinus (wisdom tooth), 17th to 25th year. Vascular and Nerve Supply. —Maxillary teeth are supplied by superior alveolar branches of int. maxillary art. and its infra-orbital branch ; sup. alveolar branches of maxillary nerve and its infra-orbital branch ; and their lymph vessels end in submaxillary or ant. auricular glands. Mandibular teeth, by inf. alveolar branch of int. maxillary art. and mandibular nerve, and their lymph vessels end in submaxillary and upper deep cervical glands. Gingivae (Gums) are attached to alveolar margins of jaws; surround necks of teeth. Consist of dense but vascular fibrous tissue, covered with mucous membrane. Blood-vessels and Nerves.—Outer upper gum : superior alveolar and infra-orbital. Inner upper gum : superior alveolar and greater palatine vess. and n. and naso-palatine n. Outer lower gum : lower inferior labial, inf. alveolar and mental vess. and small branches of ext. maxillary ; mental and inf. alveolar nerves. Inner lower gum : lingual, sublingual, mylohyoid vess., inf. alveolar and its lingual branch ; lingual and inf. alveolar nerves. Lymph vessels from anterior part of outer mandibular gum end in submental glands ; from inner maxillary gum, in upper deep cervical ; from the remainder, in submaxillary lymph glands. SALIVARY GLANDS PAROTID. SUBMAX ILLARY. SUBLINGUAL. Parotid Gland.—Largest of the three ; lies in parotid recess below ear, posterior to mandible, enveloped in sheath prolonged from cervical fascia. Extends superficially up to zygomatic arch, downwards beyond angle of mandible, forwards over masseter as facial process, upper part of which may be isolated and called accessory parotid (socia parotidis). Shaped like an inverted and irregular 3-sided pyramid. Concave base fits against cartilaginous meatus and lateral part of bony meatus, its sharp anterior margin being wedged between meatus and mandibular joint. Apex projects down- wards over post, belly of digastric, and overlaps carotid