NEUROLOGY 374 PLEXUS LUMBALIS Lumbar plexus is formed by first 3 and part of 4th lumbar, and receives a communicating branch from 12th thoracic. It lies in substance of psoas major, on anterior surfaces of transverse processes. 1st nerve supplies psoas minor ; 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th supply quadratus lumborum ; 2nd, 3rd, and 4th supply psoas major and iliacus. The following named nerves arise from plexus :— Ilio-hypogastric n. (1 L. or 12 t., 1 l.) appears at lateral border of psoas ; runs across quadratus, posterior to kidney ; pierces posterior aponeurosis of transversus ; passes anteriorly, above iliac crest, between transversus and obliquus interims ; pierces obliquus internus, 1 inch in front of anterior iliac spine, and becomes ramus cutaneus anterior by piercing aponeurosis of obliquus externus, about 1 inch above subcutaneous inguinal ring. Supplies muscles between which it lies. Its ramus cutaneus lateralis pierces obliqui and descends over tubercle of iliac crest to supply skin of buttock. Ilio inguinal n. (1 L., or 12 t. and 1 I,.). Nearly same course as ilio-hypogastric, but is lower down ; gives off no lateral branch ; pierces obliquus internus further forwards ; becomes superficial by passing through subcutaneous in- guinal ring and external spermatic fascia. Supplies muscles between which it passes, skin of lower part of abdominal wall, of upper medial part of femoral trigone (Scarpa), of upper part of scrotum and penis, or labium majus. Genito-femoral n. (Genito-crural) (1, 2 L.) pierces psoas major, descends on its anterior surface, deep to ureter and branches of mesenteric vessels; divides into two: (1) ext. spermatic n. descends upon termination of external iliac artery, enters inguinal canal, supplies cremaster muscle, ends in skin of scrotum and adjacent thigh. (2) Lumbo-inguinal n. descends on lateral side of ext. iliac and femoral arteries, pierces deep fascia to supply skin of proximal part of front of thigh. Lateral cutaneous n. of thigh (2, 3 l.) appears at lateral border of psoas, above iliac crest; runs across iliacus to anterior superior iliac spine, deep to fascia iliaca, posterior to caecum on right side, iliac colon on left side ; enters thigh behind inguinal ligament (Poupart), and, passing superficial or deep to origin of sartorius, pierces deep fascia