NEUROLOGY 334 connected with hearing, and are called colliculi inferiores. Brachium quadrigeminum informs, more obvious than the superior, extends to corpus geniculatum mediale— an oval eminence under cover of pulvinar, at upper end of sulcus lateralis of mesencephalon,—and then turns upwards under cover of it into tegmentum, and ends in thalamus. Superior colliculus consists of stratum zonale, a superficial white layer of fibres from optic tract; stratum griseum, grey matter ; stratum opticum -grey matter and white fibres of optic radiation ; stratum lemnisci—grey matter and fibres of lemnisci. Other fibres connected with colliculus are pyramidal motor fibres, tecto-spinal tract, spino-tectal fibres, and fibres connecting it with nucleus of oculo-motor nerve and opposite colliculus. Inferior colliculus consists of grey nucleus encapsuled by fibres of lateral lemniscus which end in it. Cerebral peduncle (crus cerebri) consists of tegmentum dorsally and basis ventrally. Between them is a lamina of coloured matter called substantia nigra. On the surface they are marked off from one another laterally by sulcus lateralis, medially by sulcus n. oculomotorii, along which the roots of oculo-motor nerve emerge. Tegmentum is joined to its fellow. Between them, near dorsal surface, is the aquseductus cerebri, which tunnels mesencephalon, and connects 3rd and 4th ventricles. It is lined with ependyma, and surrounded by tube of grey matter, called stratum griseum centrale, which is continuous with grey matter on floor of 4th ventricle and walls of 3rd, and gives origin to oculo-motor and trochlear nerves and mesencephalic motor root of trigeminal. Tegmentum is continuous below with dorsal part of pons. It separates from its fellow above and enters subthalamic region. As they diverge, the medial parts of their upper surfaces take part in formation of posterior region of floor of 3rd ventricle. Bdsis Pedunculi (Crusta). — Seen on base of brain. Interpeduncular fossa separates it from its fellow, from which it diverges upwards, forwards, and laterally, becoming broader as it ascends. Post, cerebral and sup. cerebellar arteries and basilar vein curve backwards, and trochlear nerve forwards, over its surface. Optic tract is in contact with its lateral surface above, where it is continuous with internal capsule. Inferiorly it enters basilar part of pons. Nucleus ruber (red nucleus) lies in upper part of tegmentum,