189 DORSUM OF FOOT .-serted into dorsum of base of middle phalanx ; the two collateral pieces run on, join each other, and are inserted into dorsum of base of 3rd phalanx. The tendons replace the fibrous stratum of capsule on the dorsum of the nietatarso-phalangeal and interphalangeal joints. Peronaeus tertius arises in common with ext. dig. longus, but distal to it. Its tendon separates at ankle-joint, but is contained in •same compartment of lig. cruciatum. It passes superficial to extensor brevis to be inserted into dorsum of base of 5th metatarsal. Extensor digitorum brevis arises by fleshy fibres from anterior : part of dorsal surface of calcaneus (os calcis) and from deep surface and distal border of stem of lig. cruciatum (lower band of ant. annular). I It divides into 4 fleshy bellies, which extend obliquely, distally and 1 medially, across tarsus and metatarsus, beneath the tendons of longus, and end in 4 tendons for the medial 4 toes. Tendon to great toe (ext. hallucis brevis) crosses 1st dorsal metatarsal art. or dorsalis pedis as it dips towards sole, and is inserted independently into dorsum of base of 1st phalanx of hallux. Other three tendons join dorsal expansions of tendons of longus. Lateral branch of deep peroneal nerve (ant. tibial) supplies it. by fibres from 1.. 4, 5. S. 1. Dorsalis pedis artery begins on anterior as] ; ankle-joint, midway between malleoli, as a continuation of anterior tibial. It runs distally to proximal end of 1st intermetatarsal space, where it dips down into sole, and ends by joining plantar arch. Relations.—Vena: comites accompany it It lies on talus (astra- galus), navicular and 2nd cuneiform. Lig. cruciatum crosses its proximal part ; medial tendon of ext. dig. brevis often crosses it where it dips towards sole. Ext. hall, longus lies along its medial side. Medial branch of deep peroneal nerve (ant. tibial) runs along its lateral side ; and a little more laterally are the ext. dig. longus and brevis. Branches of Dorsalis Pedis. Cutaneous, lateral tarsal, (metatarsal), first dorsal metatarsal (interosseous) ; and, in the sole, the 1st plantar metatarsal (art. magna hallucis). Lateral tarsal artery arises opposite talus or navicular, runs laterally beneath ext. brevis, and anastomoses with peroneal artery and its perforating branch, and lateral malleolar artery, around and below lateral malleolus. Arcuate artery (metatarsal) runs laterally, over dorsum of bases of metatarsals, beneath ext. brevis ; gives a branch to fibular side of little toe and three dorsal metatarsal arteries (interosseous). These run distally, on interosseous muscles, in the lateral three spaces ; are joined by posterior and anterior perforating arteries from plantar arch and plantar metatarsals, respectively; and each divides at the cleft of the toes into two dorsal digital arteries, which ramify over 1st phalanges. First dorsal metatarsal artery (interosseous) arises at proximal end of 1st space ; runs distally on tst dorsal interosseous muscle, and divides into dorsal digital branches for sides of great toe and medial side of second toe.