23' MUSCLES OF EYELIDS Veins of scalp form a plexus drained by trunks which correspond to the arteries. Frontal and supra orbital veins drain the forehead, communicate with ophthalmic veins, and unite to form angular vein, i.e. the com- mencement of anterior facial vein. Superficial temporal vein drains temporal and adjoining parts of frontal and parietal regions ; joins middle temporal above zygoma to form posterior facial, which descends in front of ear, with superficial temporal artery, into parotid gland. Posterior auricular vein drains posterior parts of temporal and parietal regions ; descends posterior to the ear, and ends below ear by joining ext. jugular. Occipital vein drains the occipital and posterior parietal regions ; pierces trapezius, but, instead of accompanying occipital artery, it ends in the plexus in sub-occipital space, which is drained by vertebral and deep cervical veins. Emissary vein which passes through parietal foramen connects superior sagittal sinus with veins of posterior parietal region ; and the emissary vein which passes through mastoid foramen connects trans- verse (lateral) sinus with occipital vein. Lymphatics of Scalp.—Those from occipital region end in occipital glands, which lie on occipital attachment of trapezius. Those from posterior parts of parietal and temporal regions, i.e. posterior to level of ear, end in posterior auricular glands, which lie on mastoid insertion of sterno-mastoid. Those from anterior part of scalp end in anterior auricular glands, which lie on surface of parotid gland. Efferents from all these glands end in superficial cervical glands, which lie along ext. jugular vein, and in upper deep cervical glands, which lie along carotid sheath, down to level ot thyreoid cartilage. MUSCLES OF EYELIDS Orbicularis Oculi.—A sphincter lying in and around eyelids, in form of loops, attached medially to medial palpebral (tarsal) lig., medial angular process of frontal bone, frontal process of maxilla. No bony attachment laterally, but bundles in eyelids are connected with lateral tarsal ligament. Pars lacrimalis consists of a few fibres which spring from medial palpebral ligament, curve round the superficial aspect of lacrimal sac, and are inserted into lacrimal crest of lacrimal bone. Orbicularis closes eyelids and draws them medially ; part in eyelids and part beyond eyelids can each act independently, e.g. to close the eyelids; to protect the eyes without closing eyelids, l’ars lacrimalis compresses lacrimal sac. Some fibres conveyed to orbicularis by facial nerve are said to arise in nucleus of oculo-motor. Corrugator supercilii arises from medial end of superciliary arch.