BONES OF THE SKULL 33 maxilla. Inferior is free. Ossification : in cartilage, i centre at 5th month. Os Lacrimale.—Surfaces: medial lies against ethmoid and looks into nasal cavity; lateral forms part of medial wall of orbit. Borders : superior articulates with frontal ; anterior, with frontal process of maxilla; posterior, with lamina papyracea ; inferior, with maxilla and concha inferior. Process : hamulus lacrimalis on lateral surface. Ossification : in membrane, 1 centre at 9th week. Vomer. - Forms posterior part of nasal septum. Borders : superior splits into 2 alas and articulates with sphenoid ; anterior articulates with perpendicular lamina of ethmoid and septal cartilage ; inferior, with nasal crests of palatine and maxillae ; posterior is free. Ossification : in membrane, 2 centres, one on each side, at 8th week. The two plates have coalesced at puberty. Os Nasale. -Lies in bridge of nose. Surfaces: lateral, medial. Borders : anterior articulates with its fellow, and posteriorly with frontal spine, lamina perpendicularis, septal cartilage; posterior articulates with frontal process of maxilla. Ends : superior articulates with nasal notch of frontal ; inferior is attached to lateral nasal cartilage. Ossification : in membrane, 1 centre at 8th week. Maxillae form upper jaw. Each consists of body and 4 pro- cesses—frontal, zygomatic, alveolar, palatine. Corpus.—Encloses sinus maxillaris (antrum of ,Highmore). Surfaces: anterior (facial); infra-temporal (posterior) ends below in tuber maxillare ; orbital (superior) articulates by its medial border with lacrimal, ethmoid, and orbital process of palatine ; nasal (medial) shows opening into maxillary sinus and groove for naso lacrimal duct; articulates with palatine and inferior concha. Processus frontalis projects upwards and medially ; forms part of nose. Upper end lies against and articulates with anterior aspect of ethmoid and nasal notch of frontal. Surfaces : medial articulates with middle and inferior concha;. Lateral is partly in bridge of nose and partly in orbit, and is grooved in orbit for lacrimal sac (sulcus lacrimalis). Borders : anterior articulates with nasal ; posterior, with lacrimal. Processus zygomaticus projects laterally and articulates with zygomatic (malar). Processus alveolaris projects down- wards and bears the teeth. Processus palatinus projects medially ; helps to form floor of nasal cavity and roof of mouth. Medial border articulates with its fellow and with vomer ; posterior articulates with palatine. Ossification. -In membrane, 2 centres—1 for main part of bone, 1 for os incisivum (premaxilla), i.e. part carrying incisor teeth, and line of its fusion can be seen in young skull—appear at 6th week ; are (used at 3rd month. Alveolar process begins to appear at 4th