KNEE-JOINT 115 ally from ant. intercondylar fossa of tibia to post, part of medial surface of lateral condyle of femur. Lig. cruciatum posterius, tense in flexion, passes proximally, forwards and 1 medially from post, intercondylar fossa and popliteal notch of tibia to ant. part of lateral surface of medial condyle of !femur. It is separated from post, part of capsule merely by fatty tissue. (2) Menisci (Semilunar Cartilages). — Two curved fibro- cartilages, resting on peripheral parts of condyles of tibia. Distal surfaces flat, proximal concave for condyles of femur ; both surfaces covered with synovial membrane. Peripheral 1 margins, thick, convex, attached to capsule; the opposite margins are thin, concave and free. Extremities, or horns, are fibrous, and attached to tibia. Meniscus medialis, inearly semicircular, attached by anterior horn to anterior part of ant. intercondylar fossa, in front of ant. cruciate iligament ; by posterior horn to post, intercondylar fossa, in (front of post, cruciate lig. Tibial collateral lig. is adherent (to posterior part of its periphery. Meniscus lateralis, inearly circular, horns attached close together : ant. horn .to front of intercondyloid eminence, behind and blended \with ant. cruciate lig. ; post, horn to back of eminence, in (front of posterior end of medial meniscus ; a separate slip from its posterior border joins post, cruciate lig. and is attached to medial femoral condyle. Tendon of popliteus lies between its lateral margin and capsule and fibular collateral lig., and is separated from it by synovial sheath. Ligamentum transfer sum genii, a variable bundle, con- nects anterior margins of menisci. Coronary ligaments are the parts of the adherent capsule which connect menisci to margins of tibial condyles. Attached to tibial intercondylar space, from before backwards, are : (1) ant. end of medial meniscus, (2) ant. cruciate lig., (3) ant. end of lateral meniscus, (4) post, end of lateral meniscus, (5) post, end of medial meniscus, (6) post, cruciate lig. Synovial Stratum. Very extensive and complicated. Lines capsule, except (1) where it is separated from it by infra-patellar pad of fit, which fills interval between tibial and femoral condyles and patella ; (2) where it passes on to sides and around anterior aspect of cruciate ligaments, leaving intermediate area of posterior part of capsule (uncovered and separated from post, cruciate lig. merely by