26 OSTEOLOGY of 8th or gth rib, below which they are slightly shorter. Broader transversely than antero-posteriorly, and antero- posterior diameter is further diminished in median plane by forward projection of vertebral bodies. Lateral wall is formed by ribs, which slope downwards and ventrally, not parallel but spreading, so that intercostal spaces are wider in front than behind. Anterior wall is shorter than posterior, especially in median plane ; formed by sternum, anterior parts of first ten pairs of ribs and their cartilages. Posterior wall comprises thoracic vertebrae, and ribs as far as angles. Ribs have a backward direction as far as their angles, and form, with projecting vertebral bodies, a broad deep sulcus pulmonalis internally, for lodgment of thick posterior part of lung ; and assist in forming broad groove externally, occupied by sacro-spinalis. Angle of 1st rib coincides with tubercle. From 2nd to 8th the distance between angle and tubercle increases. Below that it diminishes slightly. Apertura Thoracis Superior (Inlet).—Small, reniform ; its plane slopes downwards and anteriorly. Bounded by 1st thoracic vertebra, 1st pair of costal arches and upper margin of manubrium. Occupied by apices of lungs and pleune ; longi colli, sterno - hyoids, sterno - thyreoids ; trachea, pretracheal fascia, oesophagus, remains of thymus; in- nominate, left common carotid, left subclavian, internal mammary, superior intercostal, pericardiaco-phrenic, and thyreoidea ima arteries ; innominate, inferior thyreoid and 1st intercostal veins ; thoracic and right lymphatic ducts ; vagi nerves and sympathetic trunks and their cervical cardiac branches, left recurrent nerve, cardiac branches of right recurrent nerve, phrenic and 1st thoracic nerves ; lymph glands, fat and areolar tissue. Relations at Superior Aperture of Thorax Cupola or dome of pleura, with underlying lung, occupies the lateral part on each side, and is roofed over by Sibson’s fascia, which spreads fanwise from 7th cervical transverse process to inner margin of tst rib. With the exception of the vessels and nerves in relation to neck of 1st rib of each side, the other structures occupy the interval between the two pleural sacs. Muscles.—Longus colli, on each side, is ascending on the bodies of the vertebrae, covered with prevertebral fascia. Sterno-thyreoid is ascending from post, aspect of manubrium and