WRIST, HAND AND DIGITS 149 longus tendon. Lateral division of median nerve supplies them by fibres derived ultimately from 6th and 7th cervical nerves (possibly c. 8. r. 1). (B) Adductor pollicis and interosseus primus volaris, which lie on ulnar side of flex. poll, longus tendon. Deep branch op ulnar supplies them by fibres derived from C. 8, T. 1. Abductor pollicis brevis is subcutaneous, on radial part of thenar eminence. It arises by' fleshy fibres from tubercle of navicular, ridge on multangulum majus (trapezium), transverse carpal lig. ; and is inserted by tendon into radial side of base of 1st phalanx of thumb. It abducts at carpo-metacarpal joint, and slightly flexes 1st phalanx. Flexor pollicis brevis is subcutaneous, on ulnar part of thenar eminence. It arises by fleshy and tendinous fibres from distal border of transverse carpal lig. (ant. annular), and often from ridge on multangulum majus (trapezium) ; and is inserted by tendon into 1st phalanx, in company with abductor. It ilexes 1st phalanx and metacarpal. Opponens pollicis is under cover of the preceding two. 11 arises by fleshy and tendinous fibres front transverse carpal lig. and ridge on multangulum majus, and' is inserted by fleshy and tendinous fibres into radial border and radial half of palmar surface of metacarpal of thumb. It flexes metacarpal and rotates it medially. Adductor pollicis lies deeply in radial half of palm, and has two fleshy heads, between which radial art. enters palm, (ai Oblique head arises from palmar surfaces of multangulum majus and minus (trapezium and trapezoid), capitatum (os magnum), bases of 2nd, 3rd, 4th metacarpals, ligaments connecting these bones, and fibrous sheath of flex, carpi radialis tendon. (£) Transverse head arises from palmar surface of shaft of 3rd metacarpal, and fascia covering interossei in 2nd and 3rd spaces. The heads join each other and are inserted by tendon into ulnar side of base of 1st phalanx of thumb, and often by a separate slip, which crosses dorsal to tendon of flex, pollicis longus, to radial side of base of 1st phalanx. They draw thumb and its metacarpal towards palm. Sesamoid bones are developed in tendons of insertion of adductor and flexor brevis. They replace the volar accessory ligament of metacarpo-phalangeal joint of thumb, and articulate with palmar surface of head of metacarpal. Interosseus primus volaris. called also deep head of plexor brevis, is in series with palmar interossei ; is very slender, and lies between adductor and 1st dorsal interosseous ; arises from ulnar side of base of metacarpal of thumb, and is inserted into ulnar side of base of 1st phalanx. Short muscles of little finger are the abductor, flexor brevis and opponens, and they form the hypothenar eminence. Deep branch of ulnar nerve supplies them by fibres derived from c. 8. r. 1. Abductor digiti quinti lies superficially in ulnar part of hypo thenar. It arises by fleshy fibres from pisiform, tendon of flexor