ORGANS OF THE SENSES 404 Cavum Nasi (Nasal Fossa).—Osseous boundaries, meatuses, communications and relations (see p. 50) ; osseous lateral wall is supplemented by lateral and alar cartilages; osseous septum by septal cartilage and medial crus of alar cartilage. Vestibulum nasi: dilated part inside nostril, lined with skin, on lower part of which hairs grow; limited above and behind by curved ridge called limen nasi. Remainder of nasal cavity is lined with muco-periosteum and is divided into regio olfactoria, the region of superior concha and corresponding part of septum, and regio respiratoria. Atrium meatus nasi: a depressed area, anterior to middle meatus, limited antero-superiorly by ridge called agger nasi. Bulla ethmoidalis : an eminence under cover of middle concha ; hiatus semilunaris : the curved slit below bulla—both in lateral wall of middle meatus. Membrana Mucosa.—Thick, very vascular, continuous with that of pharynx and sinuses in neighbourhood, adherent to periosteum, forming a muco-periosteum. In respiratory region it is covered with ciliated columnar epithelium and contains numerous glands ; in olfactory region, yellowish, more delicate, covered with non-ciliated columnar epithelium, contains tubular, branched olfactory glands. Arteries, spheno-palatine, ethmoidal, anterior palatine. Veins form plexuses, especially dense over concha: (plexus cavernosi con- charum), and are drained by facial, ethmoidal, spheno-palatine. Lymphatics end in gland in front of 2nd cervical vertebra, in sub- maxillary, and glands near greater horn of hyoid bone. Nerves : (1) Special sense: olfactory. (2) Ordinary sensation: Septum, naso-palatine and nasal from spheno-palatine ganglion, medial nasal of naso-ciliary. Lateral wall, lateral nasal of naso-ciliary, nasal from spheno-palatine gang, and from ant. palatine and ant. sup. alveolar. OCULUS Bulbus Oculi (Eyeball).—Lies in anterior part of orbit, protected by eyelids and conjunctiva. Composed of segments of two spheres : anterior corneal segment, with radius of 8 mm. ; posterior scleral segment, with radius of 12 mm. Union indicated externally by groove called sulcus sclerae. Central points of curvatures are anterior and posterior poles. Axis optica : straight line joining poles. ^Equator : imaginary line encircling eyeball, midway between poles. Meridiani: lines drawn from pole to pole, at right angles to equator. Diameters : sagittal and transverse, about 24 mm. ; vertical, 23.5 mm. Eyeball consists of three concentric tunics enclosing three refracting media. Tunica fibrosa oculi consists of sclera and cornea. Tunica vasculosa, of chorioid, ciliary body and iris. Third and innermost tunic is the retina.