MUSCLES AND FASCLE 162 bundles from distal part of anterior surface of femur. In- sertion : into synovial stratum of capsule of knee-joint. Nerve : L. 3, 4, through femoral. It draws up synovial stratum during extension of knee. Ilio-psoas consists of iliacus and psoas major. Their nerve supply is from L. 2, 3, 4, directly and through femoral (ant. crural). They flex thigh and can rotate it medially during flexion, and rotate it laterally when it is flexed, and when neck of femur is broken. Psoas flexes vertebral column also. A bursa lies between tendon of psoas and capsule of hip-joint. Femoral artery lies on psoas, femoral vein lies on contiguous margins of psoas and pectineus, femoral nerve lies between psoas and iliacus. Psoas major lies on posterior wall of abdomen ; at side of superior aperture of pelvis ; and in middle part of floor of femoral trigone (Scarpa’s triangle). Origin (fl.) : (1) anterior surfaces and lower borders of transverse processes of all lumbar vertebrse; (2) fibro-cartilage above each lumbar vertebra and adjacent margins of bodies of vertebra;, in- cluding 12th thoracic ; (3) fibrous arches covering lumbar vessels on sides of upper 4 lumbar vertebrae. Insertion : by tendon into trochanter minor. Iliacus lies in iliac fossa and in lateral part of floor of femoral trigone. Origin (fl.): circumferential part of iliac fossa, ala of sacrum, ant. sacro-iliac, lumbo-sacral, ilio- lumbar, ilio-femoral ligaments. Insertion (fl.) : into tendon of psoas major, and into lesser trochanter, and bone distal to lesser trochanter for about an inch. Psoas minor.—Absent in 40 per cent, of cases. Lies in abdomen, on anterior surface of psoas major. Arises by small fleshy belly from lateral margins of 12th thoracic and 1st lumbar vertebrae and fibro-cartilage between them. Inserted : by long tendon into pectineal line and eminence, and into fascia covering ilio-psoas. Nerve: L. 1, directly. It flexes vertebral column and tightens ilio-psoas fascia. Pectineus lies in proximal and medial part of floor of femoral trigone. Origin (fl.) : pectineal border and surface of pubis, lig. lacunare (Gimbcrnat), fascia covering it. Insertion (tend.): proximal h of line leading from post, aspect of trochanter minor to linea aspera. Nerve : L. 2, 3, through femoral (ant. crural). It flexes, adducts, and rotates thigh laterally.