324 NEUROLOGY (cinerea) is seen stretching up to rostrum of corpus callosum ; it forms a great part of ant. wall of 3rd ventricle. Interpeduncular fossa is bounded posteriorly by upper border of pons, postero-laterally by basis pedunculi, antero-laterally by optic tract, anteriorly by chiasma. Within it are struc- tures which lie in floor of 3rd ventricle : from behind forwards, posterior perforated substance (spot) ; corpora mamillaria, two small, pea-like bodies ; tuber cinereum, a slight elevation behind chiasma, continuous with infundi- bulum or stalk of hypophysis (pituitary body), which lies on sella turcica of sphenoid under diaphragma sellae, and has been detached in removal of brain. Vallecula Sylvii is a space lateral to optic chiasma. Int. carotid artery ends in it. Its floor is anterior perforated substance (spot), which is continuous above with basal ganglia. It is bounded medially by optic tract, chiasma and nerve, anteriorly by roots of olfactory tract, postero-laterally by uncus ; laterally it leads into fissura lateralis (Sylvius).1 Superficial Origin or Attachment of Nerves, AND THEIR EXIT FROM CRANIAL CAVITY I. Olfactory : olfactory bulb; foramina in lamina cribrosa of ethmoid. 2. Optic : chiasma ; optic foramen. 3. Oculo motor : oculo-motor sulcus on medial surface of basis pedunculi; superior orbital (sphenoidal) fissure. 4. Trochlear: anterior medullary velum (valve of Vieussens) at medial side of brachium conjunctivum (sup. cerebellar ped.) (origin not seen on the base); sup. orb. fissure. 5. Trigeminal: junction of pons and brachium pontis (middle peduncle); ophthalmic division through sup. orb. fissure ; maxillary through for. rotundum ; mandibular and motor root through for. ovale. 6. Abducent : lower border of pons at upper end of pyramid ; superior orbital fissure. 7. Facial, and 8. Acoustic (auditory) and N. intermedins (sensory root of facial): lower border of pons, at upper end of restiform body ; internal acoustic meatus. 9. Glosso - pharyngeal, and 10. Vagus : postero - lateral sulcus, between olive and restiform body; jugular foramen, n. Accessory : side of medulla oblongata below 9 and 10, side of medulla spinalis (spinal cord) between ant. and post, roots of spinal nerves as low as 5tU cervical; jugular foramen. 12. Hypoglossal: groove between olive and pyramid ; hypoglossal canal (ant. condyloid). 1 The “ vallecula ” defined here is only the medial end of the vallecula or fossa which develops into fissura lateralis.