342 NEUROLOGY Sulci.—Prsecentral, nearly parallel to s. centralis ; divided into separate superior and inferior parts ; superior frontal is directed anteriorly from superior part ; inferior frontal, directed anteriorly from inferior part. Anterior rami of fissura lateralis (Sylvii) run into lower part of lobe. Gyri.—G. centralis anterior (precentral, ascending frontal), between sulcus centralis and s. pra:centralis, extends from supero-medial margin to posterior ramus of fissura lateralis ; the most important of all gyri ; forms greater part of motor area. Lies under anterior part of parietal bone. Separated by meninges from main branches of anterior division of mid. meningeal art. Position on surface: anterior to sulcus centralis Rolandi. Superior frontal, above sup. frontal sulcus, and is found on medial surface also. Middle frontal, between sup. and inf. frontal sulci. Its middle part lies under frontal tuberosity (eminence), and is said to be occupied by centre for oculo-motor muscles. Inferior frontal, below inf. frontal sulcus. Anterior rami of lateral fissure (Sylvius) divide its lower part into three : pars basilaris, posteriorly ; pars triangularis, between the rami ; pars orbital is, anteriorly, turns round superciliary margin on to orbital surface. Temporal Lobe.—Bounded posteriorly by a line dropped from lateral parieto-occipital fissure ; superiorly by posterior ramus of fissura lateralis and a line continuing its main direction backwards ; inferiorly by infero-lateral border. Its anterior end is temporal pole. Sulci and Gyri. — Superior temporal sulcus, parallel to post, ramus of fissura lateralis and turns up into parietal lobe. Middle temporal sulcus, near infero-lateral margin, usually interrupted, also turns up into parietal lobe. These two sulci divide lateral surface into superior, middle, and inferior temporal gvri, the last of which turns round infero- lateral margin and appears on tentorial surface. Posterior branch of mid. meningeal artery runs parallel with middle gyrus or sulcus, separated from it by meninges. Upper surface of temporal lobe is concealed and presents some transverse sulci and gyri. Parietal Lobe.—Bounded superiorly by supero-medial margin ; anteriorly by s. centralis Rolandi,posteriorly by line drawn from lateral parieto-occipital fissure towards pre-occi- pital notch ; inferiorly by posterior part of post, ramus of lateral fissure and line continuing its main direction backwards.