FLOOR OF PELVIS 251 either piercing sacro-spinous and sacro-tuberous ligaments or threading its way downwards between them and coccygeus, supplying them, enters posterior angle of ischio-rectal fossa at the side of coccyx, and runs upon perineal surface of levator ani to the external sphincter. Perforating cutaneous branch of 2nd and 3rd sacral nerves either pierces coccygeus or passes out between it and levator ani, and, turning dorsally, it perforates sacro-tuberous lig. and lower border of glutteus maximus, and supplies skin of lower part of buttock. Structures related to Pelvic Surface of Floor.—The viscera in relation are imbedded in fascia and fat. which separate them from the muscles ; and vessels and nerves traverse the fascia to reach the viscera. Rectum is related to a great part of pelvic surfaces of coccygei and levatores, before piercing the floor. A portion of infero-lateral surface of bladder, on each side, and upper part of prostate are related to anterior part of levator. Lateral aspect of seminal vesicle is related to posterior part of levator, its upper end lying at the side of rectum, opposite ischial spine. Ureter runs downwards, ventrally and medially, in relation to posterior part of levator, from the level of ischial spine towards postero-lateral angle of bladder. Ductus deferens is separated by ureter from posterior part of levator, near ischial spine, where ductus turns sharply medially. Middle hsemorrhoidal and inferior vesical vessels run medially towards rectum and bladder, upon levator, on a deeper plane than the ureter. (Obturator vessels and nerve and obliterated umbilical artery and its superior vesical branches are above the level of origin of levator ani, i.e. nearer the superior aperture of pelvis.) In the female the relations of rectum and bladder to pelvic floor are as in the male. Uterus, uterine tubes and ovaries are above the level of the levatores. Broad ligament, on each side, is attached to levator, lateral to vagina. Ureter runs downwards, ventrally and medially upon levator, beneath broad ligament. Uterine artery runs medially upon levator, between the layers of broad ligament, at their attachment to pelvic floor, and crosses above ureter. Vaginal artery takes the place of inferior vesical, and lies on levator, below plane of ureter. Middle heemorrhoidal artery is as in male. Structures leaving Pelvis through Interval posterior to Floor Sciatic nerve (great sciatic) leaves pelvis between piriformis and lower margin of greater sciatic notch ; inferior gluteal nerve and posterior cutaneous nerve of thigh (small sciatic) leave the pelvis, posterior to sciatic nerve ; and nerve to quadratus femoris passes out anterior to sciatic nerve. Nerve to obturator internus passes out between piriformis and base of ischial spine, medial to sciatic nerve, lateral to internal pudendal vessels. It crosses base of ischial spine in buttock, gives