63 :-s or Names of Structures attached or related to them. Distal. Medial. Volar. aller convexity ; lultanguium ma- ss and minus Concavity distally for capitatum, flat proximally for lun- atum Broad, rough, con- cave ; volar radio- carpal and inter- carpal ligs. uilunar con• sanity ; capitatum Flat, quadrilateral ; triquetrum Large, convex, rough ; volar radio- carpal and inter- carpal ligs. ncavo - convex ; amatum Apex, rough ; ulnar collateral ligs. and dorsal lig. of carpus (post, annular) Flat with circular facet medially for pisiform ; capsula articularis, volar carpal ligs. g/i; capsula articularis ; dorsal lig. of carpus (post annular), carpus, ulnar collateral lig., lig. piso-hamatum and piso- iti quinti uuidU-shaped ; 1st letacarpal ; sur- 1 xinded by capsula micularis 1 .11 _;c proximal area for multangulum minus, small distal area for 2nd meta- carpal Narrow groove lodges tendon of flex, carpi rad. ; ridge and rough surface for trans- verse lig. of carpus, volar intercarpal and carpo-metacar- pal ligs.; abductor brevis, adductor, opponens, flexor brevis pollicis; ridge felt through ball of thumb ncavo-convex or .addle shaped ; 2nd metacarpal Concave; capitatum Small, rough ; volar intercarpal and carpo - metacarpal ligs., adductor pollicis -e large facet for rd metacarpal, •wo smaller for 2nd nd 4th Flat; hamatuin Convex, rough; volar intercarpal and carpo-metacar- pal ligs., adductor pollicis 100th, divided by ntero - posterior ; idge into twin facets for 4th and th metacar pals Concavo-convex and sloping proximally and laterally for triquetrum, rough edge distally for ulnar collateral ligs. Rough for volar inter- carpal ami carpo- metacarpal lig?. Presents hook fell through ball oflittle finger, gives attach- ment to transverse lig. of carpus, lig. piso-hamatum. op- ponens and flexor digiti quinti brevis Dorsal. Narrow, rough; dor- sal radio-carpal and intercarpal ligs. Small, rough ; dor- sal radio-carpal and intercarpal ligs. Confluent with proxi- mal surface; dorsal radio - carpal and intercarpal ligs. Flat, circular ; tri- quetrum Rough; dorsal inter- carpal and carpo- metacarpal ligs. radial artery* crosses it I^argc, rough ; dor- sal intercarpal and carpo - metacarpal ligs. Broad, flat, rough ; dorsal intercarpal and carpo - meta- carpal ligs. Broad, rough ; dor- sal intercarpal and carpo - metacarpal ligs.