504 EMBRYOLOGY impar. Sulcus terminalis of adult tongue indicates division between part formed by hyoid arch and that formed by tuberculum impar and first arch. Cartilage of 2nd arch is replaced by styloid process, stylo- hyoid lig., lesser horn and medial part of body of hyoid. Nerve of 2nd becomes facial. Ventral end of cartilage of 3rd persists to form greater horn and lateral part of body of hyoid ; rest disappears. Nerve is glosso-pharyngeal. Ventral ends of cartilages of 4th and 5th form cartilages of larynx. Nerves are superior laryngeal and recurrent. The Cervical or Precervical Sinus.—As growth proceeds, 3rd and 4th arches are overlapped by 2nd, and cleft between overlapping 2nd and submerged 3rd and 4th is called the precervical sinus. Platysma is an extension of musculature of 2nd arch. (Esophagus--Stomach—Duodenum Groove of furcula becomes a tube and is separated off to form cavity of larynx and trachea. Part of fore - gut from which it is separated becomes oesophagus, which is elongated by downgrowth of stomach. Stomach appears, about 4th week, as a fusiform dilatation of fore-gut, caudal to furcula, in region of heart. It descends into abdomen as diaphragm is formed. Dorsal surface grows more rapidly —hence the greater curvature. It is rotated so that left surface becomes ventral, and therefore the left vagus is found on antero- superior surface, in adult. Greater curvature continues to grow, and in a direction to the left and caudally. Mesentery of stomach, or dorsal mesogastrium, is originally attached at median plane, and its surfaces are right and left. Owing to rotation of stomach and continued growth of greater curvature, the right surface of mesogastrium comes to look ventrally, and the left, dorsally. Part of dorsal surface fuses with parietal peritoneum, so that line of attachment is to left of median plane above, and curves medially to reach median plane below. Duodenum also rotates. Its mesentery fuses with parietal peri- toneum and right side of duodenal loop becomes adherent to dorsal wall of abdomen. Rudiment of omental bursa (lesser sac) is produced by (1) rotation of stomach, (2) shifting of attachment of mesogastrium to the left, and (3) fixation of duodenum. Portion of mesogastrium connected with lower, right part of greater curvature protrudes caudally to form greater omentum. Spleen—Liver—Pancreas Spleen develops from mesoderm between layers of upper, left part of mesogastrium, and divides it into gastro-splenic and lieno-renal ligaments.