BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM 286 ileum, and vermiform process. Left artery lies upon aorta, sympathetic trunk, ureter, genito-femoral n., psoas, ext. iliac art. Covered by peritoneum, and crossed by left colic and sigmoid vessels, and iliac colon. At abd. inguinal ring each artery meets ductus deferens and turns round inf. epigastric artery. Branches: to ureter, to cremaster. Epididymal branch supplies epididymis and anastomoses with artery to ductus deferens. Testicular branches enter back of testis. Ovarian artery is the internal spermatic of the female, and has same relations as in male clown to margin of pelvis, where it turns medially over upper part of ext. iliac vessels, enters broad ligament to reach ovary. Gives branches also to ureter, uterine tube, ligamentum teres, and uterus. Cceliac artery arises from anterior aspect of first i inch of abdominal aorta, urns horizontally forwards for | inch, across lower border of caudate (spigelian) lobe of liver, and upper border of pancreas, and divides into left gastric, splenic and hepatic branches. Relations : surrounded by coeliac plexus ; median arcuate ligament and caudate lobe above ; crus of diaphragm and cceliac ganglion on each side; pancreas and splenic vein below. Omental bursa (lesser sac), separat- ing it from liver or lesser omentum, in front. Left gastric artery (coronary), the smallest, runs up and to the left on left crus, behind omental bursa, to oesophageal end of stomach ; sends oesophageal branches through hiatus oesophageus ; turns down over upper border of omental bursa (lesser sac), and runs along lesser curvature of stomach, between layers of lesser omentum, on ant. surface of omental bursa, giving branches to both surfaces of stomach ; ends by anastomosing with right gastric (pyloric). A. lienalis (splenic), the largest, runs to left and upwards, tortuously, along upper border of pancreas, upon left crus, suprarenal and kidney, dorsal to omental bursa and stomach, and divides into 5-8 splenic branches. Splenic vein lies below it, dorsal to pancreas. Branches : (a) Rami lienales (splenic) pass through lieno-renal ligament and enter hilum on gastric surface of spleen, (b) Pancreatic, (c) Aa. gastricse breves (vasa brevia), 5 or 6 run between layers of gastro-splenic lig. (omentum) to fundus of stomach, (d) Left gastro-epiploic artery arises near spleen, runs in gastro-splenic ligament to left end of stomach, and then along greater curvature, between 2 ant. layers of greater omentum, giving branches