OSTEOLOGY 6o to styloid process ; distinct only in middle Interosseous crest (medial margin) begins near tuberosity and ends distally by dividing into 2 lines which enclose triangular area near ulnar notch. Volar surface, between volar and inter- osseous margins, presents nutrient foramen on proximal directed towards elbow. Dorsal surface, between dorsal and interosseous margins, gives origin to muscles in proximal |, but in distal J is only covered by tendons which groove distal end. Lateral surface, between volar and dorsal borders, encroaches in its proximal J on volar and dorsal aspects, and presents a rough oval mark about its middle for insertion of pronator teres. Radius is convex medially in proximal .}, convex laterally in distal §. Biceps and pronator teres are inserted into maximum points of curves and their actions as supinator and pronator are thus enhanced. Ossification. — Primary centre at 7th week. Epiphyseal centres: 1 for capitulum, 5th-7 th yr., fuses 18-20; epiphyseal line is intra - capsular ; 1 for distal end, 2nd-3rd yr., fuses 20-25; epi- physeal line is extra-capsular ; 1 for tuberosity at 15 and soon fuses. Attachments. — Distal margin of lig. annulare (orbicular) and lateral margin of lig. quadratum around neck, loosely. Biceps to post, part of tuberosity and separated from ant. pari by bursa. Shaft: chorda obliqua just distal to tuberosity. Flex. dig. sublimis from proximal part of volar margin. Flex. poll, longus from proximal J of volar surface. Pronator quadratus to distal j- of volar surface and margin, to volar surface of distal end and triangle above ulnar notch. Interosseous membrane to interosseous crest and to the more dorsal of the two lines into which it divides. Supinator to proximal ^ of lateral surface, including its encroach- ments on to volar and dorsal aspects and extending proximally to neck. Pronator teres to middle of lateral surface. Abductor pollicis longus and ext. poll, brevis from dorsal surface. Distal end : volar radio-carpal lig. to distal ridge on volar surface. Radial collateral lig. of wrist to styloid process ; dorsal radio-carpal lig. to distal margin of dorsal surface. Base of triangular articular disc to edge between carpal surface and ulnar notch. Articular capsule of distal radio-ulnar joint to dorsal and volar margins of ulnar notch. Lateral end of dorsal carpal lig. (annular lig.) to ridge between volar and lateral surfaces, and its septa to ridges on dorsai surface. Brachio-radialis to proximal part of groove on lateral surface. Carpus (Wrist).—Composed of 8 small bones arranged in 2 rows, and named from lateral to medial side :—