266 BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM Relations.—Superficial: In carotid triangle: sterno-mastoid overlapping ; lingual vein, common facial vein : hypoglossal nerve. Above carotid triangle : posterior belly of digastric, stylo-hyoid ; facial nerve and posterior facial vein in substance of parotid gland, which first overlaps and then envelops artery. Deep: inferior constrictor below and int. carotid above, but separated from int. carotid and pharynx above by parotid gland, styloid process, stylo-pharyngeus muscle, glosso-pharyngeal n., pharyngeal branches of vagus and sympathetic. Superior laryngeal nerve and its branches are deep to both ext. and int. carotid arteries. Superior thyreoid artery arises from external carotid near its origin, anteriorly ; runs downwards, forwards, and medially to end in thyreoid gland. Relations : Superficial: sterno-mastoid overlapping origin ; omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, sterno - thyreoid ; superior thyreoid vein. Deep : inferior constrictor, external laryngeal nerve. See also pp. 210, 219. Branches. — Hyoid, superior laryngeal, sterno-mastoid, crico-thyreoid, glandular, muscular. Hyoid branch runs along lower border of hyoid bone, under cover of thyreo-hyoid muscle. Superior laryngeal runs forwards beneath thyreo-hyoid, pierces thyreo-hyoid membrane, together with int. laryngeal n., and supplies mucous membrane, muscles, and ligaments of larynx. Sterno-mastoid branch crosses common carotid to enter sterno-mastoid. Crico-thyreoid runs anteriorly, over or under sterno-thyreoid, over crico-thyreoid, to anterior surface of crico-thyreoid ligament, and anastomoses with its fellow. Terminal branches, anterior and posterior, supply thyreoid gland and adjacent muscles. Ascending pharyngeal artery arises from ext. carotid near origin, medially ; runs upwards to base of skull, giving branches to pharynx and prevertebral muscles, and ends in meningeal branches. Relations: Medial: constrictors of pharynx. Posterior: longus capitis (rect. cap. ant. major). Lateral-, int. carotid. Crossed anteriorly by stylo-pharyngeus, glosso-pharyngeal nerve, pharyngeal branch of vagus. Branches.—(1) Pharyngeal, to pharynx, palatine tonsil, auditory tube ; (2) prevertebral, to prevertebral muscles and lymph glands ; (3) posterior meningeal, one or more, pass through canalis hypo- glossi (ant. condyloid foramen), for. jugulare or f. lacerum to meninges ; (4) inferior tympanic accompanies tympanic nerve to tympanum; (5) palatine, when present, pierces pharyngeal aponeurosis and accompanies levator veli palatini to soft palate.