249 MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF PELVIS constricts lower end of rectum and increases angle between it and anal canal. Draws anus up over fecal mass at termination of defecation, and inverts anus, assisting sphincter to close it. Raises pelvic floor, e.g. in forced expiration. Pelvic surface is in relation to pelvic viscera ; perineal surface forms medial wall of ischio-rectal fossa. Triangular interval between anterior borders is occupied by prostate and urethra in male, vagina and urethra in female. These anterior fibres of the two sides embrace prostate, forming levator prostata in the male ; and form a second sphincter for vagina in the female. Posterior margin lies edge to edge with, or overlaps, coccygeus. Coccygeus is fused with pelvic surface of lig. sacro-spinosum (small sacro-sciatic). Origin (tend.): spine of ischium. Insertion (fl.-tend.): lowest piece of sacrum, 1st piece of coccyx. Nerves: s. 3, 4, directly. Raises pelvic floor, flexes coccyx. Parietal pelvic fascia is (1) the fascia covering piriformis, obturator interims, coccygeus, and (2) the fascia superior of urogenital diaphragm, covering pelvic surfaces of sphincter (compressor) urethra' and transversus perinaei profundus. Obturator fascia is divided at origin of levator ani into pelvic part above, and perineal part below. Perineal part lines lateral wall of ischio-rectal fossa. Fascia diaphragmatis pelvis inferior (anal fascia) covers perineal surface of levator ani, and is connected laterally with obturator fascia. Fascia diaphragmatis pelvis superior covers pelvic surface of levator ani. It is connected antero-lateraliy with pubis and obturator fascia, posteriorly with coccygeus fascia, medially with fascia in which pelvic viscera are imbedded and ensheathed. Ligamentum pubo-prostaticum vel pubo-vesicale medium, a band of fascia, thin in median plane, thickened on each side, extend- ing from pelvic surfaces of pubes, at symphysis, to junction of prostate with neck of bladder. Lig. pubo-vesicaJe laterale, continuous with lig. medium, is the adjoining part of fascia diaphragmatis pelvis superior, and is also connected with prostate and bladder. Fascia ensheathing viscera receives different names according to situation : prostalic, vesical, rectal, recto-vesical or recto-vaginal. The student is expressly advised not to burden his memory with any detailed account of the pelvic fascia : even if he can understand it. Cavum Retzii.—A space containing fat and areolar tissue be- tween bladder and ant. pelvic wall, extending on each side as far as hypogastric artery (internal iliac) and its visceral branches ; extend- ing upwards to umbilicus between peritoneum and abdominal walls, where it is bounded laterally by obliterated umbilical arteries; limited below by pubo-prostatic ligs. and fascia sup. of pelvic diaphragm. Fossa lschio-rectalis.—Bounded above, 2\ inches front surface, by junction of fascia inferior of pelvic diaphragm (anal fascia) with obturator fascia ; highest point is posterior, near