OSTEOLOGY 64 Metacarpus forms skeleton of palm ; consists of 5 bones, numbered 1 to 5 from radial to ulnar side. Each has (1) proximal end or base, which articulates with carpus; (2) a body or shaft; (3) distal end or head, which articulates with 1st phalanx. Heads of metacarpals form the proximal row of knuckles. In medial four (2-5): Capitulum (head): convex, smooth on distal and volar aspects, for articulation with phalanx and with volar accessory lig., which is attached on proximal side of head ; rough at sides for lig. collaterals. Corpus (shaft): curved longi- tudinally, with palmar concavity. Prismatic on transverse section— dorsal, lateral and medial surfaces. 2nd, 3rd, 4th each give origin to two dorsal interossei, 5th to one ; 2nd, 4th, 5th each give origin to one palmar interosseous. Adductor pollicis arises from 3rd; opponens dig. quinti is inserted into ulnar side of 5th. Basis : bases articulate with one another and with carpus ; volar, dorsal and interosseous ligaments connect them to one another and to carpus. Adductor pollicis arises from volar surface of 2, 3 and 4, and deep palmar arch lies just distal to them. Distinguishing features are on bases. 2nd is notched for multangulum minus; larger medial margin of notch articulates with capitatum, small lateral with multangulum majus; extensores carpi radiales are inserted into dorsum, flexor carpi radialis into volar surface. 3rd articulates with capitatum ; has styloid process dorso-laterally ; ext. carpi radialis brevis inserted into dorsum at base of styloid, flex, carpi rad. into volar surface. 4U1 is cuboidal; articulates with hamatum and slightly with capitatum ; double metacarpal facet is on lateral side. 5th, concavo-convex articular surface for hamatum, tubercle on medial side, metacarpal facet is on lateral side ; extensor carpi ulnaris inserted dorso-medially, lig. piso-metacarpeum on volar surface. 1st metacarpal: shorter, stouter than others; compressed from before backwards. Head : elongated transversely, grooved on volar surface by sesamoid bones in adductor and flexor pollicis brevis ; collateral ligaments attached at sides, and volar accessory, proximal to head. Shaft: volar surface divided by ridge into larger radial area for opponens and smaller ulnar area for 1st dorsal interosseous. Base : saddle-shaped articular surface for multangulum majus, surrounded by articular capsule; abductor poll, longus inserted into radial and volar surface of base, interosseus primus volaris arises from medial side. Usually does not articulate w/th 2nd. To determine the side to which a metacarpal belongs hold base upwards, volar surface forwards. Lateral aspect looks to its own side. Ossification. —Primary centre for shaft and base of 2, 3, 4, 5, in