443 TEETH AND GUMS chorda tympani (taste), to ant §. Glosso-pharyngeal (common sensory and taste), to post. A few branches from laryngeal (common sensory) to dorsum, near epiglottis. Papillae of Tongue.--(i) P. vallatee, about io in number, arranged in form of V, anterior and parallel to sulcus terntinalis. Each is a short cylinder surrounded by circular trench, outer wall of which is raised up as a collar. Serous glands open into trench, and taste buds lie in its walls. (2) P. fungiformes (et lenticulares). more numerous ; bright red in living subject; furnished with taste buds ; consist of rounded head attached by narrower base ; found chiefly at apex and margins. (3) P. conicse et flliformes, in great numbers, arranged in rows parallel to s. terminalis posteriorly, trans- verse and then irregular anteriorly. (4) P. foliatee. 5 or 6 vertical folds, studded with taste buds, on margins of tongue, anterior to glosso- palatine arches. TEETH AND GUMS Each tooth consists of a crown covered with adamantina (enamel) ; neck, surrounded by gum ; root, imbedded in jaw. Each encloses a cavity containing pulp, composed of connec- tive tissue, vessels and nerves, which enter through foramen in apex of root. Crown is chisel-shaped in incisor teeth, conical in canine ; has 2 tubercles (cusps) in premolar, a larger labial and smaller lingual ; 3 or 4 tubercles in upper molars, 4 or 5 in lower molars. Deciduous Teeth (Milk Teeth).—2 incisors, 1 canine. 2 molars, in each half of each jaw. Medial upper is the largest of incisors. In- cisors and canine have single roots. Roots of upper molars are divided into three fangs, of lower into two. Distinguished from permanent teeth by small size, constricted necks, and, in the case of molars, by wide divergence of fangs. Periods of eruption : very variable ; lower set precedes upper. Begins between 6th and 9th month after birth, completed about 24th month. Appear in following order: medial incisors, lateral incisors, first molars, canines, second molars. Permanent Teeth.—2 incisors, 1 canine, 2 premolars, 3 molars. Premolars replace deciduous molars. Permanent molars are not represented in deciduous dentition. As in case of deciduous teeth the upper medial incisor is largest of incisors and lower medial is smallest, with the result that teeth of the two jaws are not directly opposite, but each tooth of upper jaw touches two of lower teeth, except 3rd upper molar, which touches only 3rd lower molar, and, being smaller, it does not extend further back than lower molar. Roots of incisors, canines, lower and 2nd upper premolars are single. Root of 1st upper premolar is bifid. Roots of canine teeth