MUSCLES AND FASCIAE 180 of proximal part of leg. Anastomotic peroneal branch (ramus com- municans fibularis) passes superficial to lateral head of gastrocnemius, pierces deep fascia, joins medial sural branch of tibial nerve to form nervus suralis (ext. saphenous), which runs distally along with small saphenous vein to post, aspect of lateral malleolus, and along fibular margin of foot and little toe. Posterior cutaneous nerve of thigh (small sciatic) enters fossa at proximal angle, under cover of deep fascia ; sends a branch through deep fascia over proximal part of fossa; pierces deep fascia itself about middle of fossa, and supplies skin of proximal part of calf. Geniculate branch of obturator nerve is rarely seen. It emerges from substance of adductor magnus, and runs distally, closely applied to medial side of popliteal artery, to end in capsule of knee. FOOT AND TOES Surface Anatomy.—The malleoli are readily felt; the lateral malleolus is farther back and reaches a lower level than the medial. Sustentaculum tali is felt i inch below medial malleolus. One inch, or more, anterior to and below malleolus the tubercle of navicular is felt, with greater ease. The ball of the foot is formed by the meta- tarso-phalangeal joints, and is specially prominent at the medial side, on account of greater size of ist joint, and of the presence of sesamoid bones at that joint. Head, shaft and base of first meta- tarsal are readily palpated along medial side of foot. Between its base and the tubercle of navicular is the first cuneiform. Tendon descending to ist cuneiform and ist metatarsal base is tibialis anterior ; on its fibular side is the smaller tendon of ex- tensor hallucis longus. ^Dorsalis pedis artery lies on fibular side of ext. hallucis, from ankle to level of base (proximal end) of ist metatarsal; and deep peroneal nerve (ant. tibial) is immediately lateral to the artery. Tendons of ext. dig. longus and peroneeus tertius arc on fibular side of artery and nerve. All the tendons are brought into view when the muscles are set into action, and lig. cruciatum (lower band of ant. annular) may then be felt below ankle-joint. The swelling on dorsum of foot, anterior to lateral malleolus, on •lateral side of extensor tendons, is the fleshy belly of ext. dig. brevis. The knob felt beneath extensor tendons, i in. below ankle, antero- medial to lateral malleolus, when toes are pointed and foot inverted, is the supero-lateral part of head of talus (astragalus); supero-lateral part of its body may form a prominence near ankle-joint, close to medial side of lateral malleolus. Tendons of peronseus longus and brevis may be felt, passing downwards and forwards from posterior surface of lateral malleolus on to lateral surface of calcaneus (os calcis); and between them, below