LATERAL VENTRICLE 349 minent edge, called fimbria, which ends in tip of uncus, and is separated from underlying dentate fascia by fimbrio-dentate fissure. Columna Fornicis (Anterior Fillar).—Rounded; arches down- wards, anterior to foramen interventriculare (Monro), posterior to ant. commissure ; diverges from its fellow ; sinks into side wall of 3rd ventricle; descends to corpus mamillare, in which it ends. Around nucleus of c. mamillare the fibres of columna and of fasc. thalamo- mamillaris (p. 336) make fig. of 8 twist. Some fibres, called olfactory bundle, descend in front of ant. commissure, through septum pelluci- dum, join gyrus subcallosus, and end in medial root of olfactory tract and in uncus. Some turn backwards as stria medullaris under taenia thalami (p. 337). Stria terminalis joins columna. Fibres of fornix arise in hippocampus, dentate fascia and uncus. Most pass along crus and body into column, but many cross and run in opposite half of body and crus to opposite hippocampus, forming commissura hippocampi. Septum pellucidum is an antero posterior vertical septum between bodies and anterior horns of the two lateral ventricles ; attached by its edges to corpus callosum superiorly and anteriorly, to fornix inferiorly, occupying triangular interval between them. Antero-inferior angle, between columns of fornix and rostrum, ends in subcallosal gyri below. Consists of two laminae enclosing a cleft, called cavum septi pellucidi (fifth ventricle , shut in on all sides. Each lamina consists of a medial grey layer and a lateral white layer, covered with ependyma of lateral ventricle. VENTRICULUS LATERALIS Lateral ventricle is the cavity of hemisphere. Lined with ependyma ; communicates with 3rd ventricle and opposite lateral ventricle through foramen interventriculare (Monro). Consists of central part or body, and anterior, posterior and inferior horns or cornua. Anterior horn is the part anterior to for. interventricu- lare. Roof -, trunk of corpus callosum. Anterior wall-, genu of c. callosum. Medial wall: septum pellucidum. Floor: sloping, convex head of caudate nucleus. Roof and floor may meet laterally, or there may be an interval between them (lateral wall), where ependyma is separated from corona radiata by occipito-frontal bundle (p. 354). Pars centralis or body extends from for. interventricu- lare to splenium. Roof: trunk of c. callosum. Medial wall -, septum pellucidum. Floor -, caudate nucleus, stria terminalis (taenia semicircuiaris), vena terminalis (v. of