386 NEUROLOGY orbit between optic nerve and rectus lateralis, anterior or lateral to ophthalmic artery. Roots : long, sensory from naso-ciliary ; short, motor from inf. branch of oculo-motor. Sympathetic from plexus on int. carotid art. either independently or in company with long root. Branches : 15 to 20 short ciliary pass with optic nefve to back of eyeball, which they pierce, and, with long ciliary, are distributed within it. Maxillary nerve (Sup. max. div. of V.) runs anteriorly from semilunar ganglion, along infero-lateral border of cavernous sinus ; passes through for. rotundum and upper part of pterygo - palatine fossa, pterygo-maxillary fissure and infra-temporal fossa ; enters orbit through inf. orbital fissure (spheno-maxillary), where its name is changed to infra-orbital, which traverses infra-orbital groove, canal and foramen, accompanied by infra-orbital vessels, and ends on face by dividing, under cover of caput infra-orbitale (levator labii superioris) of quadratus lab. superioris, into branches for skin and conjunctiva of lower eyelid, skin of side of nose, cheek, upper lip and gums. Branches.—(I.) In cranial cavity: meningeal branch to dura mater. (II.) In pterygo-palatine (spheno-maxillary) fossa: two spheno- palatine nerves descend to spheno-palatine ganglion. (III.) In infra-temporal fossa : zygomatic n. (temporo-malar or orbital) passes through inf. orb. fissure, and along lateral wall of orbit, between bone and periosteum ; enters for. zygomaticum in zygomatic (malar) bone, divides in substance of bone into zygomatico-facial and zvgomatico-temporal branches, which emerge through foramina of corresponding names on its facial and temporal surfaces. Z. -facial supplies skin in malar region ; z.-temporal pierces temporal fascia near zygomatic bone and supplies skin of temporal region. (It may divide in orbit and enter separate foramina on zygomatic bone.) Posterior superior alveolar branches (post. sup. dental) arise just before nerve enters orbit, descend over infra-temporal surface of maxilla, supply gum and perforate maxilla to reach molar teeth. (IV.) In infra-orbital groove and canal : middle and anterior superior alveolar branches descend in wall of maxillary sinus and supply gums, mucous membrane of sinus ; premolar teeth (from middle branch), canine and incisor teeth and mucous membrane of nose (from anterior branch). (V.) On face : palpebral, nasal and labial, as above. Spheno-palatine ganglion (Meckel’s) is suspended from maxillary nerve by spheno-palatine nerves, in upper part of