438 RESPIRATORY APPARATUS mammary art. ; on right side the vein passes over rounded ant. margin of upper part of pleura and lung on to medial surface. Thoracic and right lymphatic ducts, on left and right sides re- spectively,—each ascends into neck between oesophagus and medial surface of pleura, arches laterally behind carotid sheath at higher level than pleura, turns downwards anterior to subclavian art. and pleura, lateral to int. jugular, to join innominate vein. Nerves.—Vagus and cervical cardiac branches of vagus and of sympathetic descend medial to int. jugular, on ant. aspect of pleura, and pass on to its medial aspect; phrenic nerve passes obliquely across int. mammary art., on ant. aspect of pleura, posterior to innominate vein, and turns over blunted ant. border on to medial aspect ; ansa subclavia loops round subclavian art. medial to int. jugular, anterior to pleura ; on right side the recurrent n. also hooks round. Sympa- thetic trunk and xst thoracic nerve are posterior to apex, on neck of ist rib, the nerve being lateral to the trunk, and between them are sup. intercostal art. and companion vein. Viscera.—Trachea and oesophagus are medial to each apex, separated by fatty areolar tissue in which, on right side, are vagus, cardiac nerves and right lymphatic duct; on left side, the phrenic, vagus, cardiac nerves, carotid and subclavian arteries and thoracic duct. Lymph glands lie in relation to vessels on all aspects. More Remote Relations.—Medial J of clavicle, sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyreoid. These conceal cervical pleura and the structures in front of it. Ant. jugular vein runs laterally just above clavicle, between sterno-mastoid and the other two muscles. RADIX PULMONIS Root of lung consists of pulmonary art., two pulmonary veins, bronchus, bronchial art. and veins, lymph vessels and glands, pulmonary nerves. Relations of these to one another.—From before back- wards : upper pulmonary vein, pulm. art., bronchus ; and bronchial vessels are on post, aspect of bronchus. From above downwards, on rigid side : eparterial bronchus, artery, hyparterial bronchus, lower vein ; on left side : artery, bronchus, lower vein. Relations of Whole Root.—Right side : Anterior : v. cava superior, phrenic nerve, ant. pulmonary plexus. Superior: v. azygos. Posterior -, post, pulmonary plexus. Inferior: lig. pulmonale. Left side. — Anterior -, phrenic nerve, ant. pulmonary plexus. Superior-, aortic arch. Posterior', descending aorta, post, pulmonary plexus. Inferior-, lig. pulmonale.