IO OSTEOLOGY eacl) siile. Whole facet is for ist rib, which articulates with only one vertebra. Spine is nearly horizontal, easily seen and felt, even more prominent than 7th cervical. Ninth may conform to type (in which case the costal fovea on 10th is incomplete) ; or it may lack inferior fovea. Tenth, eleventh and twelfth have each only one facet on side of body, and it encroaches on root of arch. 10th is recognised from the other two by facet on its transverse process, nth is dis- tinguished from 10th by absence of this facet, and from 12th by inferior articular processes, which look in typical direction, nth has its transverse process broken up into superior, inferior and lateral tubercles, homologous with mamillary process, and with accessory and small part of transverse process of lumbar vertebra, respectively; and its inferior articular surfaces are convex, and directed laterally and ventrally, like those of a lumbar vertebra. LUMBAR VERTEBRAE Distinguished by large size, by absence of foramen in transverse process, and absence of costal fovece. Common Characters. —Body is large and kidney-shaped. Roots of vertebral arch (pedicles) are short and stout. Laminae are thick, and are separated from those below by an interval near median plane, widest between 4th and 5th. Vertebral foramen is large and triangular. Spine is almost horizontal ; large, broad and hatchet-shaped, with thickened posterior border. Transverse process is long, slender, spatula- shaped. Articular processes are large ; superior pair are concave and look mainly medially, inferior pair convex and look laterally. Upper and lower surfaces of body are nearly flat; ventral surface is convex from side to side, concave from above downwards ; dorsal surface is slightly concave in both directions. Roots of arch are directed dorsally from near upper part of body ; therefore, superior vertebral notch is shallow, inferior is deep. Laminae are broad from above downwards, and are nearly vertical. Transverse processes are homologous with ribs, and project laterally and dorsally ; on back of base of each is a small tubercle, called accessory process. Superior articular processes look slightly dorsally as well as medially, and embrace inf. processes of vertebra above. On dorsal edge of each there is rounded tubercle, called mamillary process. Inf. artic. processes look ventrally as well as laterally. They are supported on lower and lateral parts of laminae, and are closer together than superior pair.