COST/E—RIBS in direction between those of ist rib and of typical rib. Costal groove is poorly marked. Well - marked rough elevation, near middle of outer surface, for lower part of ist digitation and whole of 2nd digitation of serratus anterior. Tenth rib has usually only one facet on head, and usually a facet on tubercle. Eleventh Rib.—Short. Only one facet on head. No facet on tubercle. Tubercle, angle and costal groove—all poorly marked. Twelfth Rib.—Very short. Only one facet on head. Tubercle, angle and costal groove are absent. Structures attached to 12th Rib and its Cartilage. Articular capsule and lig. radiatum to head. Ant. and post, costo- transverse ligs., lig. colli costas and lumbo-costal lig. to neck. To outer surface : vertebral aponeurosis, ilio-costalis, longissimus, levator costas, serratus posterior inferior, latissimus dorsi, obliquus externus abdominis. To upper border : intercostals. To lower border, lateral lumbo-costal arch (ext. arcuate lig.), quadratus lumborum, middle and ant. layers of lumbo-dorsal fascia, obliquus internus abdominis. To costal cartilage : diaphragm, transversus and obliquus internus abdominis, intercostals. Relations of 12th Rib.— Twelfth rib forms boundary line between thorax and abdomen posteriorly ; but the pleura, which, unless the rib is short, clothes only the medial or <j of its internal (or anterior) surface, crosses it at level of lateral border of sacro-spinalis (erector spina?), and extends for a varying distance below its vertebral end ; and the lung probably descends to the lower limit of the pleura on deep inspiration. Diaphragm is separated by pleura from ant. surface medially, but is in contact with it laterally. I'pper end of kidney, the suprarenal gland and perinephric fat are anterior, but separated from it by diaphragm and pleura. Branches of nth intercostal vessels are related to its upper border. Subcostal vessels and last thoracic nerve run along its lower border, being posterior to pleura, diaphragm and lateral lumbo-costal arch (ext. arcuate lig.) along the medial half of the border. Muscles of back cover its posterior surface, in its medial i. On the left side its tip and cartilage are separated from descending colon, at lateral border of kidney, by diaphragm and transversus abdominis ; and the spleen often lies along level of its up|rer border. On the right side the liver, being anterior to kidney, is not a close relation. When rib is long its tip and cartilage arc separated from upper end of ascending colon by diaphragm and transversus, and liver may be in close relation there. Sometimes it is so short that it does not reach beyond sacro-spinalis, nor beyond lateral border of kidney. Ossification of Ribs. —One primary centre appears at 6th