5i BONES OF SUPERIOR EXTREMITY depth ; but varies greatly in size ; opens by passage through ethmoid, called infundibulum, into hiatus semilunaris. Ce/luhe ethmoidales, air-cells or sinuses in labyrinth, divided into groups : anterior open into h. semilunaris ; middle, on surface of bulla ethmoidalis ; posterior, into superior meatus. Sphenoidal sinus, in body of sphenoid, separated from its fellow by a septum, opens into recessus spheno-ethmoidalis, the small interval above superior concha. Sinus in orbital process of palatine communicates with sphenoidal or posterior ethmoidal sinuses. Relations. — Above: frontal and sphenoidal sinuses, anterior and middle cranial fossa?. Below: mouth. Laterally : maxillary sinus, ethmoidal air-cells, orbit, ptery- goid, pterygo-palatine and infra-temporal fossa?. Posteriorly, it opens into nasal pharynx by choana, and anteriorly on to the face by apertura piriformis. BOXES OF SUPERIOR EXTREMITY SHOULDER GIRDLE -CLAVICLE AND SCAPULA Clavicula. —Lies nearly horizontally on anterior aspect of upper part of thorax; palpable in its whole length. Curved like italic letter f\ medial half convex forwards ; lateral half convex backwards, and flattened from above downwards. Sternal end can be felt overriding sternum. Rough above ; smooth below for articulation with sternum and 1st costal cartilage, articular disc intervening. Acromial end; flattened; facet on lateral edj;e looks laterally and downwards, and articulates with acromion of scapula, articular disc intervening. Shaft.—Medial 3 prismatic; lateral J flattened. Medial two-thirds: Surfaces; (1) anterior, convex and rough; (2) posterior, concave and smooth ; (3) inferior presents rough costal tuberosity medially, and longitudinal groove for sub- clavms laterally. Borders: superior, anterior, posterior. In a well-formed clavicle there are 4 surfaces in medial 3, the upper part of anterior surface making a distinct superior surface. Lateral third : Surfaces'. (1) superior, subcutaneous in middle ; roughened anteriorly and posteriorly by attach- ments of trapezius and deltoid muscles ; (2) inferior presents,