14 OSTEOLOGY flattened below; and from it 4 pairs of foramina inter- vertebralia pass laterally, and divide into anterior and posterior sacral foramina. Female sacrum is relatively broader than male, and is less uniformly curved, being usually flat above and abruptly curved below. Posterior wall of sacra! canal is formed by membrane where laminae of 5th 'sacral vertebrae are absent. Its Contents are: roots of sacral and coccygeal nerves, filum terminale, and their sheaths ; tube of dura mater, pervious to 3rd piece of sacrum ; lateral sacral vessels ; spinal plexus of veins. Hiatus sacralis transmits 5th sacral and coccygeal nerves and lilum terminale. Anterior sacral foramina decrease in size from above downwards. Each transmits—anterior branch (ant. primary division) of a sacral nerve and branches of lateral sacral vessels. The nerves, passing laterally, lie in the grooves leading away from the foramina. Posterior sacral foramina also decrease from above downwards. They lie directly opposite anterior foramina, and are smaller. They transmit—posterior branches (post primary divisions) of sacral nerves and emerging branches of lateral sacral vessels. Ala of sacrum is slightly concavo-convex and slopes down- wards and ventrally. Its convex lateral margin ends dorsally in a tubercle—the end of the transverse process. This is separated by a deep notch from sup. arlic. process, which is fused with repre- sentative of root of vertebral arch. The tubercles on median sacral crest represent spines of upper 4 sacral vertebrae. Sacral groove is formed by fused laminte. Laminae of 5th vertebra do not meet and spine is absent, and resulting gap is hiatus sacralis. Tubercles on articular sacral crest represent articular processes. They lie in line with intervals between spines. Articular processes of 5th project downwards as sacral cornua. Each tubercle of lateral sacral crest represents parts of tips of two transverse processes. First coccygeal vertebra may be fused to sacrum ; less often the 5th lumbar is partially or entirely fused, or 1st saoral may be partially free from 2nd. Attachments.—Intervertebral fibro-cartilage, ant. and post, longi- tudinal ligs. to body of 1st piece. Capsular ligament to sup. artic. process. Lig. flavum and supraspinous lig. to dorsal margin of vertebral foramen. Lumbo-sacral lig. and iliacus to ala. Ant. sacro-iliac lig. to ventral margin of auricular surface. Piriformis from ridges between ant. foramina and from adjoining pelvic surface of lateral mass. Coccygeus to surface below and lateral to 4th foramen. Sacro-spinalis, multifidus and glutteus maximus from dorsal surface. Long and short posterior sacro-iliac ligs. and lig. sacro-