77 PATELLA AND TIBIA nsipera, medial epicondylic line, adductor tubercle. Short head of biceps from lateral lip of linea aspera and proximal 3 of lateral epicondylic line. Patella. - Sesamoid bone, developed in tendon of quadri- ceps. Situated in front of distal end of femur. Its distal end is just proximal to level of line of knee-joint. Vasti and rectus femoris are attached to base (proximal border); vastus lateralis and medialis to lateral and medial borders, respectively ; lig. patella; to apex and rough distal part of posterior surface Anterior surface, separated from skin by bursa. Articu- lar surface, divided by vertical ridge into unequal areas correspond- ing to large lateral and small medial parts of patellar surfaced! femur ; vertical strip marked off along medial side articulates with condyle, at medial side of intercondylar notch, during full flexion ; remainder is divided by the vertical ridge and 2 transverse lines into 3 pairs of facets. Ossification begins at 3rd year and is com- pleted at puberty. Tibia.—Medial and larger bone of leg. Proximal End-—Larger than distal end; wider trans- versely than antero - posteriorly ; bent slightly backwards. Presents two condyles, readily felt at the sides, just distal to knee ; continuous with each other anteriorly and smooth for bursa under lig. patellae, but separated posteriorly by popliteal notch. Their proximal surfaces, smooth and articular, are separated by a rough strip, and the contiguous margins are raised up to form medial and lateral intercondyloid tubercles. Each proximal surface articulates centrally with a condyle of femur, peripherally with a meniscus (semilunar cartilage). Condylus medialis is larger than the lateral, and articular surface is more oval and more concave. On its postero- medial aspect there is a horizontal groove for insertion of semimembranosus. Condylus lateralis stands more abruptly away from shaft ; presents (1) a nearly circular, flat facet posteriorly, for articulation with head of fibula ; (2) smooth shallow groove on post, aspect, medial to facet, for passage of tendon of popliteus ; (3) well marked ridge, anterior to facet, for attachment of tractus iliotibialis (ilio-tibial band). Eminentia intercondyloidea (spine of tibia) is made up of intercondyloid tubercles and the rough area between them. Anterior and posterior intercondyloid fossce are rough de- pressions, anterior and posterior to eminentia.