464 DIGESTIVE APPARATUS post, surface of head of pancreas, where it meets pancreatic duct. Bile and pancreatic ducts pass obliquely through postero-medial wall of duodenum about its middle ; and both end in a dilated trunk, called ampulla of Valor, which opens on an eminence in duodenum, called papilla duodcni, over which one of the plicae circulares forms a “ hood.” (Plica longitudinalis duodcni is a ridge of mucous membrane which descends from papilla and is a guide to it.) PANCREAS Pancreas.—An elongated gland, lying obliquely across upper part of post, abdominal wall, in epigastrium and slightly in left hypochondrium. Subdivided into head, neck, body and tail, named in that order from right side towards left and upwards. Head lies in loop of duodenum. Post, surface rests against inf. v. cava, right renal vessels, left renal vein, and slightly on aorta. Ant. surface : covered with peritoneum of omental bursa above ; in direct contact with transverse colon at a lower level, and separated by peritoneum from jejunum, below level of colon. Lower part of head (processus un- cinatus) curves to left, behind sup. mesenteric vessels, and upwards behind neck, from which v. portae separates it. Bile duct descends between pancreas and inf. v. cava. Pan- creatico-duodenal vess. present varying relations to pancreas. Neck, about 1 in. long, arises from ant. aspect of upper part of head and passes to left and forwards and upwards. Posterior to it are portal vein and processus uncinatus, opposite 1st L. vertebra. Anteriorly it is separated from pyloro-duodenal junction by peritoneum of omental bursa (lesser sac). Gastro-duodenal art. and its pancreatico- duodenal branch descend at junction of head and neck. Body extends to left and upwards to spleen. Antetior surface : covered with peritoneum of omental bursa (lesser sac), and stomach rests on it ; a prominence on the upper part of body, near neck, is called tuber omentale, and abuts against lesser omentum, which separates it from liver. In- ferior surface: covered with peritoneum; rests upon duodeno- jejunal flexure, coils of jejunum, left end of transverse colon. Posterior surface is in relation with aorta and origin of sup. mesenteric art. ; splenic vein, left renal and suprarenal vessels, terminations of inf. mesenteric and left spermatic