DIGESTIVE APPARATUS 442 LINGUA (TONGUE) Body of tongue is subdivided by median fibrous septum into symmetrical halves,composed of: (i) Muscles—extrinsic: genio-glossus, hyo-glossus, stylo-glossus, glosso-palatinus ; i?itrinsic : superior and inferior longitudinal, vertical, trans- verse. (2) Finely divided fat, among muscles. (3) Glands— mucous, at sides and back ; serous, near vallate papillae ; sero-mucous (anterior lingual), among muscles on inferior surface, near apex. Dorsum linguae, covered with mucous membrane. Divided into two : (1) Pharyngeal part looks backwards into pharynx ; covered with smooth mucous membrane, studded with pitted nodules produced by underlying lymphoid follicles, collectively named tonsilla lingualis; connected with epiglottis by median glosso-epiglottic fold. (2) Oral part looks towards palate ; separated from pharyngeal part by V-shaped sulcus termi- nalis, limbs of which are directed anteriorly and laterally, towards glosso-palatine arch, from a median pit at apex of V, called foramen ccecum, which represents upper end of thyreo-glossal duct. Mucous membrane of oral part is roughened by papillae of various kinds.—See next page. Apex and lateral margins, anterior to glosso-palatine arches, are free and in contact with teeth. Inferior surface of free part of tongue is covered with smooth mucous membrane and is connected with floor of mouth by frenulum linguae. On each side, profunda vein (ranine) can be seen through mucous membrane. More laterally is a fringed fold, called plica fimbriata, under which the profunda art. (ranine) lies. Radix linguae is the fixed part connected by muscles and mucous membrane to hyoid bone, mandible, pharynx, epiglottis and palate. Arteries of Tongue.—Lingual—chiefly. Branches also from tonsillar of ext. maxillary and asc. pharyngeal. Very little anastomosis across median plane. Lymphatics : from tip, to submental glands ; from sides and middle, through lingual glands, to submaxillary and upper deep cervical glands ; from base, to upper deep cervical. One of deep cervical, lying deep to posterior belly of digastric, receives most of lymph vessels of tongue. Nerves.—Hypoglossal, to intrinsic and extrinsic muscles, except glosso-palatinus. Lingual (common sensory), including