BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM 256 In the interior the following are to be noted : Atrio- ventricular (tricuspid) orifice, at lower and anterior part, leading into ventricle. Opening of inf. vena cava, at lower and posterior part. Valve of inf. vena cava (Eustachian), a thin and sometimes fenestrated fold, at anterior and lower part of caval opening. Opening of coronary sinus, close to septum, between valve of inf. vena cava and atrio-ventricular orifice, and guarded by incompetent uni - cuspid valve of coronary sinus (Thebesian). Fossa ovalis, a depression on septum above opening of inferior cava. Limbus fossae ovalis (annulus ovalis), a curved ridge above and anterior to f. ovalis, and continuous below with valve of inf. vena cava. Fossa ovalis represents joramen ovale, by which atria com- municated before birth. Foramen may persist as small aperture under cover of upper part of limbus. Opening of vena cava sup., at upper and back part of atrium. Tuberculum intervenosum (of Lower), between openings of venae cavae, posterior to upper part of f. ovalis (cannot be seen in flaccid specimens). Crista terminalis, a strong muscular ridge, between caval openings, corresponding in position to sulcus terminalis on surface. Musculi pectinati, numerous parallel muscular ridges extending from crista over wall of atrium and auricle. Crista term, and valves of v. cava inf. and coron. sinus indicate junction of atrium proper and sinus venosus. Foramina venarum minimarum are small fossae scattered over walls of atrium ; vena; minima; from substance of heart open into some of them. Left atrium, with its auricle, also encloses one cavity, cuboidal in shape. Auricle, much smaller than on right side, is an elongated prolongation from anterior and upper part of atrium, and lies at left side of aorta and pulmonary artery, behind upper part of 3rd left cartilage and lower part of 2nd space. Musculi pectinati are found in its interior. Atrium lies posterior to and above left ventricle, to the left of and posterior to right atrium. Its posterior surface forms greater part of base of heart, and the anterior wall of oblique sinus of pericardium. It is separated from oeso- phagus and descending aorta by pericardium. Anterior surface is hidden by ascending aorta and pulmonary artery. Bifurcation of pulmonary artery is at its upper border. In its interior are (a) openings of four pulmonary veins at upper part of posterior surface, two on right side, two on left ; (l>) several scattered foramina venarum minimarum ;