281 RADIAL AND ULNAR ARTERIES intermuscular septum and anast. with sup. ulnar collateral and dorsal ulnar recurrent. Radial artery arises in cubital fossa, antero-medial to neck of radius, as a branch of bifurcation of brachial ; runs distally, with inclination laterally, to apex of styloid of radius ; then curves round lateral and dorsal aspects of wrist to reach proximal end of 1st intermetacarpal space; thence through intermetacarpal space into palm to end as deep volar arch. It is accompanied by venae comites. First Part.—Relations: Anterior-, overlapped by brachio- radialis proximally, superficial distally. Dorsal to it, in suc- cession, are biceps tendon, supinator, pronator teres insertion, flexor digitorum sublimis, flexor pollicis longus, pronator quadratus, distal end of radius. Lateral: superficial branch of radial nerve, brachio-radialis. Medial: pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis. Branches : radial recurrent, superficial volar, volar carpal, unnamed muscular. Radial recurrent arises near origin of radial, runs proximally to anastomose with ant. branch of profunda. Superficial volar arises near wrist, ends in muscles of ball of thumb, or may complete) superficial volar arch. R. carpeus volaris (Volar radial carpal) runs medially on distal end of radius. Second part lies upon collateral radio-carpal lig., os naviculare and multangulum majus (trapezium) ; crossed by tendons of abductor longus and ext. brevis and longus of thumb. Third part passes to palm between heads of 1st dorsal interosseous muscle, and between the two portions of adductor pollicis. Branches of Second Part.—(1) Dorsales pollicis run distally, one on each side of thumb. (2) Dorsalis indicia runs along lateral side of index. (3) R. carpeus dorsalis (Dorsal radial carpal runs medially on distal row of carpus to join similar branch of ulnar to form dorsal carpal arch, from which 3 dorsal metacarpal arteries run distally over 2nd, 3rd and 4th inter-metacarpal spaces ; they anastomose with arteries in palm by means of proximal and distal perforating arteries. Branches of Third Part.—A. princeps pollicis runs to the thumb, dividing into two, branches. A. volaris indicis radialis (Radialis indicis) runs to radial margin of index. Ulnar artery begins as branch of bifurcation of brachial in cubital fossa, antero-medial to neck of radius ; runs in proximal