300 BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM in v. azygos. Communicates with left sup. intercostal. Receives left bronchial. (Anterior intercostal veins end in musculo-phrenic and internal mammary.) Venae anonymae, dextra et sinistra (Innominate veins) (see also pp. 214, 217), begin in the neck, behind sternal ends of respective clavicles, on anterior aspect of pleural dome, by the union of int. jugular and subclavian. Right vein, 1 inch long, descends almost vertically on right side of innominate artery. Left, 3 inches long, passes obliquely to the right and downwards, between upper part of manubrium and the three branches of aortic arch. They end by uniting behind lower border of 1st right costal cartilage to form sup. v. cava. Tributaries.—A. In neck: 1. Right lymphatic duct on right side, thoracic duct on left side. 2. Vertebral veins: arise from intra-spinal plexuses ; leave upper end of vertebral canal, cross post, arch of atlas, and are joined by veins from sub-occipital plexus ; descend foramina transversaria as plexus around vertebral artery ; emerge from 6th for. transversarium as single vein which descends anterior to vertebral and subclavian arteries to end in innominate. Receives (i.) tributaries from deep muscles, bones, etc., of head and neck ; (ii.) offsets from spinal plexuses ; (iii.) anterior vertebral, accompanying asc. cervical art.; (iv.) deep cervical vein, accompanying art. profunda cervicis. 3. V. intercostalis suprema, from posterior part of 1st space, arches over apex of pleura to end in vertebral or innominate. B. In thorax : 4. Internal mammary veins—venae comites of int. mammary art. unite to form single vein before entering innominate at thoracic inlet. Possess numerous valves. Receive (i.) anterior intercostal veins from upper six spaces; (ii.) perforating; (iii.) muscular; (iv.) mediastinal, pericardial and thymic veins ; (v.) venae comites of sup. epigastric and musculo-phrenic art. 5. Inf. thyreoid veins descend on ant. surface of trachea in neck and end in one or other innominate in thorax. 6. Left superior intercostal, from 2nd and 3rd spaces, crosses left or anterior surface of aortic arch and joins left innominate vein. Veins of Head and Neck Internal jugular vein begins in jugular foramen, opposite lower border of ext. acoustic meatus, as continuation of transverse (lateral) sinus. Ends behind sternal end of