PERITONEAL CAVITY 47i part of left kidney, left suprarenal gland, coeliac art. and its branches, cceliac plexus, and crura of diaphragm. The part of omental bursa between caudate (Spigelian) lobe and right crus is a small recess bounded on right and above by reflection of peritoneum from crus on to caudate lobe, and on left side by posterior layer of lesser omentum passing from the fossa of the ductus venosus to diaphragm. Upper boundary of omental bursa, to the left of this recess, is formed by peritoneum reflected from diaphragm on to posterior surface of oesophageal end of stomach, and by inferior layer of gastro-phrenic ligament. Upper part of left border or boundary is formed by right or medial layers of gastro- splenic and lieno-renal ligaments. Lower part of left boundary, the lower boundary, and lower part of right boundary are formed by continuity of 2nd and 3rd layers of greater omentum. Upper part of right boundary is formed by reflection from posterior surface of duodenum to anterior surface of pancreas. Above that the right boundary is deficient, the omental bursa communicating there with great sac, through epiploic foramen. Foramen Epiploicum (Winslow). -A short peritoneal canal, posterior to free right border of lesser omentum, uniting the cavities of omental bursa and great sac, opposite upper part of 1st L. vertebra. Anterior are : portal vein, hepatic artery and bile duct, in free border of lesser omentum. Posterior: v. cava inferior and right crus. Superior: caudate process of caudate (Spigelian) lobe of liver. Inferior -, tst part of duodenum ; and portal vein, hepatic artery, bile duct, on their way to and from lesser omentum. Splenic, left gastric, and hepatic arteries begin liehind post, wall of omental bursa and end in front of ant. wall, between layers of omenta. Left gastric ends in front of bursa, having turned round its upper border, at uesophageal end of stomach. Hepatic comes to lie in front of for. epiploicum by turning round right border of bursa, at junction with inf. wall of for. epiploicum. Splenic art. runs behind bursa to kidney, passes into lieno-renal lig., lying therefore on left boundary of bursa ; sends its short gastric and gastro-epiploic branches over the part of left boundary formed by right layer of gastro-splenic ligament, to reach the stomach, which lies on anterior wall of bursa. Continuity of Peritoneal Membrane as seen in Section or traced in Cadaver Continuity of peritoneal membrane in great sac and in omental bursa may be traced in vertical and transverse directions.