OSTEOLOGY 46 passing to deep cervical glands. Fossa jugularis forms antero-lateral boundary of foramen ; on its lateral wall is a foramen which auricular branch of vagus enters. Carotid canal, in petrous temporal, anterior to jugular foramen; transmits int. carotid art. with plexus of sympathetic nerves from sup. cervical ganglion ; small veins connecting cavernous sinus with pharyngeal plexus ; meningeal lym- phatics passing to deep cervical glands. On ridge between jugular foramen and carotid canal is a foramen which tympanic branch of glosso pharyngeal enters. Rough quadri- lateral area on under surface of petrous, between carotid canal and for. lacerum, gives origin to levator veli palatini. BASIS CRANII INTERNA Fossa Cranii Anterior. — Bones: squama and pars orbitalis of frontal ; crista galli and lamina cribrosa of ethmoid ; small wings and adjoining part of body of sphenoid. Sutures : those between these bones. Median Part.—Crista galli stands up in middle ; divides anteriorly into processus alares; gives attachment to falx cerebri. Crista frontalis, on cerebral surface of frontal, gives attachment to falx cerebri; divides above to form margins of sagittal sulcus for superior sagittal sinus (sup. longitudinal). Foramen ccecum, at lower end of crest, between frontal and crista galli, transmits emissary vein connecting commencement of sup. sagittal sinus with veins of nasal cavity, or with angular vein. Nasal slit, at the side of alar process of crista galli, transmits anterior ethfnoidal nerve to interior of nose, where it becomes internal nasal n. Olfactory foramina in lamina cribrosa transmit olfactory nerves, with sheaths of dura mater and small vessels. Ethmoidal foramina, from orbit, open at side of lamina cribrosa, from between orbital part of frontal and ethmoidal labyrinth. Olfactory tract and bulb lie on groove on body of sphenoid and lamina cribrosa. Ethmoidal spine projects from ant. border of upper surface of sphenoid to articulate with post, edges of laminae cribrosae. Lateral part shows marks for gyri and sulci of frontal lobe, and grooves for ant. meningeal vessels. Orbital part of frontal bone roofs in orbit and ethmoidal air cells, and encloses part of frontal sinus. Posterior margin, formed by- small wing, is free and overhanging, projects into fissura