74 OSTEOLOGY medius crosses lateral surface, from postero - superior to antero-inferior angle ; trochanteric fossa (digital fossa) is a deep depression, for insertion of obturator externus, at posterior and distal part of medial surface ; posterior surface is joined to lesser trochanter by inter-trochanteric crest, on which there is a slight eminence called quadrate tubercle. Trochanter minor, small and pyramidal, is situated at distal part of junction of neck and shaft posteriorly. Distal End.— Lies close to its fellow. Two condyles project posteriorly and distally ; lie in horizontal plane when shaft is in natural position ; articulate with tibia and menisci of knee-joint distally; united anteriorly to form patellar surface for articulation with patella ; separated posteriorly by intercondyloid fossa, which is limited on proximal side by the linea intercondyloidea, Condylus lateralis, broader than medial, shorter antero- posteriorly, projects more anteriorly and extends to more proximal level, long' axis less oblique, and distal surface less convex. On posterior part of its lateral surface is a rough eminence, called lateral epicondyle. Distal to epicondyle is a pit for origin of popliteus ; popliteal groove extends proximally from pit, posterior to epicon- dyle, close to articular margin ; tendon of popliteus lies in groove during full flexion of knee, but crosses its distal lip during extension. Impression for origin of lateral head of gastrocnemius is proximal and posterior to epicondyle. Condylus medialis, more curved than the lateral, and projects farther distally when femur is vertical. Medial epicondyle, the prominence on its medial surface, stands farther away from shaft than the lateral ; adductor tubercle is eminence at its proximal part. Epicondyles and adductor tubercle are easily felt. Patellar surface, pulley-shaped, marked off from tibial surfaces of condyles by grooves produced by menisci (semi- lunar cartilages) ; can be felt through tendon of quadriceps when knee is flexed ; lateral part of pulley is the larger and more prominent. Corpus Femoris (Body or Shaft).—More or less cylin- drical. Expands at both ends, especially distally. In erect posture it slopes distally and medially, because distal ends of femora are in contact, while proximal ends of shafts are separated by pelvis and by the necks of the femora.