UROGENITAL APPARATUS 476 toneum, partly connected by lieno-renal ligament. Lateral: spleen above, descending colon below. Medial: duodeno-jejunal flexure ; inf. mesenteric vein ; ureter, which may be behind. Fibrous capsule of kidney splits at each lip of hilum, one layer going to form sheath for vessels and nerves outside hilum, the other becoming continuous with lining of sinus. Projecting into sinus are 12 to 15 small renal papillae, each perforated at apex by foramina papillaria, through which urine exudes from kidney tubules into calyces. Calyces renales, about 12 in number, are short tubes which embrace renal papillaj, and are continuous, at bases of papillae, with lining of sinus ; one calyx may surround two or three papillaj. Calyces unite to form pelvis renalis (pelvis of ureter), the dilated beginning of ureter. Kidney on section presents to naked eye a peripheral part—sub- stantia corticalis—granular in appearance, and a substantia medullaris, consisting of renal pyramids, in which kidney tubules show as faint striations. Apices of pyramids are directed towards sinus, and several combine to form one renal papilla. Cortical substance sends in prolongations, called columnte renales, between pyramids. In these the larger blood-vessels may be seen. Two of the main branches of renal art. at hilum are anterior to ureter and posterior to veins. A third branch is posterior to ureter. Accessory renal arteries may enter kidney above or below hilum. Nerves to kidney, from renal plexus, come ultimately from 10th, nth, 12th thoracic nerves. Lymphatics end in lumbar glands at the side of aorta. Ureter, about 10 inches long, begins in renal sinus as a dilatation, called pelvis renalis (pelvis of ureter), formed by union of 12 calyces. Pelvis issues from hilum, descends along medial margin of kidney or posterior to it, narrowing till, at lower end of kidney, it becomes ureter proper, which passes downwards and very slightly medially on psoas, to enter pelvis by crossing termination of common iliac or beginning of external iliac art. In pelvis it pursues an arched course, convexity of curve directed backwards and laterally, and it enters bladder at postero-lateral angle, ii in. from neck of bladder and 2 in. from its fellow. Ureters pierce bladder wall very obliquely so that their orifices are only 1 inch apart, and obliquity of passage serves the purpose of a valve. Position of abdominal portion is indicated in front by line from subcostal plane, iA to 2 in. from median plane, down- wards to end of common iliac, i.e. junction of upper and middle thirds of line drawn from point & in. below and to left of