146 MUSCLES AND FASCI/E flexed, is the tendon of flexor Bublimis to ring finger ; ulnar vessels and nerve lie between it and flex, carpi ulnaris. Tubercle of navicular is felt proximal to thenar eminence, in the angle between it and flex, carpi radialis. A line, concave towards forearm, drawn between pisiform and tubercle of navicular, indicates position of proximal margin of transverse carpal lig. (ant. annular). Ridge on multangulum majus (trapezium) is felt immediately distal to the tubercle, and the two may form one prominence, seen and felt best when hand is dorsi-flexed. Ridge on radial border of wrist, proximal to ball of thumb, is produced by tendons of abductor pollicis longus (ext. ossis tnetacarpi poll.) and ext. poll, brevis. When thumb is abducted and extended a hollow is produced on radial side of wrist, bounded in front by abductor and ext. brevis of thumb, behind by ext. longus of thumb and ext. carpi rad. longus. Navicular and multangulum majus (trapezium) form its floor. Radial artery crosses it. Branches of superficial branch of radial nerve can be felt crossing the tendons. Radial artery is felt beating on distal end of radius; its superficial volar branch runs across wrist-joint towards ulnar side of ball of thumb, and may be large enough to be seen beating. Line of metacarpo-phal- angeal joints is nearly opposite most distal crease on palm, about £ inch proximal to the crease at bases of fingers ; distal to these joints, the web of fingers is formed by the skin between the phalanges. First interphalangeal joint is opposite the more proximal of the 2 or 3 creases near middle of each finger. Second interphalangeal joint is just beyond the creases near end of finger. On the dorsum, the joints in each case are just beyond the knuckles, which are formed by the heads or distal ends of the mctacarpals and of first and second rows of phalanges. When hand is flexed, the bases of metacarpals can be seen and felt through extensor tendons, as a number of small irregular prominences. Volar or Palmar Aspect of Wrist, Hand and Digits Superficial fascia is thin and dense over centre of palm, and fat is divided into fine lobules by septa connecting skin to palmar aponeur- osis. It is more fatty and less fibrous near margins of palm and on digits, and at the free extremities of the digits it is thickened to form the pulp of the finger tips. On the digits it contains digital vessels and nerves. In the palm it contains small unnamed cutaneous vessels, cutaneous nerves, palmaris brevis and the superficial transverse ligament :— Terminal twigs of musculo-cutaneous nerve and of super- ficial branch of radial nerve (O.T. radial branch of musculo-spiral) supply skin over proximal and radial parts of thenar eminence, re- spectively. Palmar cutaneous branch of median nerve arises