MUSCLES AND FASCI/E I 82 connected with each other by transverse fibres. A few superficial fibres of each slip run on to skin of creases of toes ; main part divides into two bands which diverge and pass upwards to be attached to transverse metatarsal lig., and their anterior edges are continuous with proximal ends of fibrous flexor sheaths. Deep fascia on toes is thickened to form fibrous flexor or digital sheaths. They are attached to margins of ist phalanx in great toe, and ist and 2nd of other toes, and to margins of plantar accessory ligaments. Together with phalanges and ligaments they form tunnels occupied by flexor tendons and their mucous or synovial sheaths. They are firm and dense opposite phalanges, weak opposite joints, so that movements of joints are not interfered with. Plantar accessory ligaments and transverse metatarsal lig., mentioned above, are connected with joints. Plantar accessory lig., a dense fibrous plate, is attached firmly to plantar surface of base of ist phalanx, loosely to metatarsal, proximal to its head. Its dorsal surface is in contact with head of metatarsal, and forms part of its socket. Its plantar surface is covered by flexor tendons. Its margins are connected with fibrous flexor sheath, with slips of plantar apo- neurosis, with collateral ligs. of joint, and with transverse metatarsal lig. Interphalangeal joints have similar plantar accessory ligaments. Transverse metatarsal lig. consists of 4 flat bands (cf. hand, in which there are only 3 bands) connecting the margins of plantar accessory ligaments of metatarso-phalangeal joints. Digital vessels and nerves, and lumbricals, lie on their plantar aspects, interosseous muscles on their dorsal surfaces. As the tendons of flex. dig. longus, flex. hall, longus and tibialis posterior, and the post, tibial vessels, and tibial nerve pass from leg towards sole, they are bound down by a thickening of deep fascia of leg, called lig. laciniatum (int. annular). It extends from medial malleolus to medial process of tuber calcanei (int. tubercle of os calcis). Its proximal edge is continuous with fascia covering deep muscles of back of leg, and to a less extent with fascia covering superficial muscles. Its distal edge is continuous with medial part of plantar aponeurosis and gives origin to abductor hallucis. It is pierced, near calcanean attachment, by medial calcanean vessels and nerves. Under cover of it lie tibialis posterior, flex. dig. longus, post, tibial artery and venae comites, tibial nerve, flex, hallucis longus, in that order from medial to lateral side, each tendon having a separate mucous (synovial) sheath. First Layer of Muscles of Sole of Foot.—Abductor hallucis, flexor digitorum brevis, abductor digiti quinti. Abductor hallucis covers long tendons as they enter sole, and lies along medial side of sole. It arises by tendinous and fleshy fibres from medial process of tuber calcanei, lig. laciniatum (int. annular), investing fascia, and septum between it and flexor dig. brevis ; and is inserted by tendon into tibial side of base of ist phalanx of hallux.