498 EMBRYOLOGY Medial cells of somites of each side proliferate, migrate medially, surround notochord and neural tube in continuous sheath, called membranous vertebral column, from which are developed vertebra and their ligaments, greater part of intervertebral fibro- cartilages, membranes of brain and medulla spinalis (spinal cord). Other parts of somites form vertebral muscles and subcutaneous tissues of back, and probably of limbs and body wall. Head part of paraxial mesoderm forms muscles of eyeball and tongue, and muscles connecting head to shoulder girdle. Surface ectoderm of embryo forms epithelium of skin ; sweat, sebaceous, mammary and lacrimal glands; conjunctiva; hair and hair follicles; nails and adamantine (enamel) of teeth; epithelium and glands of roof of mouth, inner surfaces of cheeks, nasal cavities and sinuses arising from them, and ant. lobe of hypophysis (pituitary body) ; epithelium of parotid gland and lower part of anal canal, epithelium of external acoustic meatus, and outer layer of tympanic membrane ; auditory and olfactory epithelial elements and those of lens and cornea. Neural ectoderm gives rise to cells, fibres and neuroglia of nervous system, central and peripheral ; epithelium of retina, post, lobe of hypophysis, pineal body. Entoderm gives rise to epithelium of alimentary canal, except part of mouth external to inner gum and terminal part of anal canal ; also to epithelium of auditory (Eustachian) tube, tympanic cavity, trachea, bronchi, vesicles of lung ; taste buds of tongue, submaxillary and sublingual glands, liver, gall-bladder, pancreas, and all other glands which open inside teeth ; vesicles of thyreoid gland, cell nests of thymus, urinary bladder, part of urethra. APPENDAGES OF EMBRYO AND FtETUS Amnion, Chorion, Umbilical Vesicle, Allantois The embryo is enclosed in two membranes, the amnion and the chorion. The chorion consists of trophoblast and its mesodermal lining. It is greatly thickened and specialised in the region where it first becomes adherent to uterine mucous membrane, which also is thickened in that region ; and from these thickenings the placenta is formed. The embryo is connected with the placenta by the umbilical cord. All these, except the maternal portion of the placenta, are formed from the fertilised ovum. The ovum is fertilised probably in upper part of uterine (Fallopian) tube; enters uterus either in morula or early blastula stage, and at once becomes imbedded in uterine mucous membrane. Mucous membrane of uterus is greatly increased in thickness and vascularity in order to receive ovum, and is then called decidua.