LYMPH GLANDS OF LIMBS AND ABDOMEN 315 Axillary :—(1) Lateral, along axillary vessels and on floor of axilla; afferents from whole upper limb, from cubital, pectoral, subscapular glands ; efferents to subclavian trunk and supra-clavicular glands. See also pp. 135, 136. (2 Pectoral, in angle between pectoral muscles and serratus anterior ; afferents from antero-lateral walls of body above umbilicus, mammary gland ; efferents to lateral glands. (3) Subscapular, along lower border of subscapularis ; afferents from postero-lateral walls of body above level of umbilicus, lower and back part of neck ; effe-ents to lateral glands. Lymph Glands of Inferior Extremity Anterior tibial, one on ant. surface of proximal part of interosseous membrane ; afferents from dorsum of foot and front of leg ; efferents to popliteal glands. Popliteal, in fat of popliteal fossa ; afferents from sole of foot, back of leg, knee-joint, anterior tibial gland ; efferents to subinguinal glands. Inguinal, just above inguinal ligament, between layers of superficial fascia ; not always present; afferents from anterior abdominal wall below umbilicus ; efferents to superficial or deep subinguinal glands. Superficial subinguinal, just below and parallel to inguinal lig., and along proximal end of vena saphena magna, and on medial side of fossa ovalis (saphenous opening) ; afferents from lower and lateral part of abdominal wall, penis, scrotum, external female genital's and lower 4 of vagina, perimeum, anus, anal canal ; foot, leg, thigh and buttock ; efferents to deep subinguinal anil iliac glands. Deep subinguinal, at medial side of proximal end of femoral vein, and one in femoral (crural) canal ; afferents from deep parts of thigh, penis or clitoris; inguinal, superficial subinguinal and popliteal glands ; efferents to iliac glands. Lymph Glands of Abdomen and Pelvis Inferior epigastric, along inf. epigastric art. ; afferents from adjacent parts, including umbilicus ; efferents to ext. iliac glands. Iliac, arranged around external and common iliac arteries. Afferents to external iliac glands from inguinal and subinguinal glands, deep parts of abdominal wall below umbilicus, adductor muscles, neck of bladder, prostate, urethra, deep parts of penis, cervix uteri, upper part of vagina. Efferents to common iliac glands, and from these to lumbar glands. Hypogastric, along hypogastric (internal iliac) artery and its branches ; afferents from pelvic viscera, deep parts of buttock and back of thigh ; efferents to common iliac glands. Vesical, in retro-pubic fat and along umbilical art. ; afferents from bladder ; efferents to ext. iliac glands. Ano