45i THE STOMACH junction ; and it cuts the pylorus of stomach, the lower margin of liver at median plane, the kidneys above the middle of their hila, neck of pancreas, origin of sup. mesenteric art., and the ist L. vertebra. Pelvis is bounded by bones and ligaments of pelvis minor, and by transversus perinaei profundus and sphincter urethra; anteriorly; obturator internus laterally ; piriformes and coccygei posteriorly. Levatores ani form a partition separating pelvic cavity proper from ischio-rectal fossa;. Relations of organs in abdomen are exceedingly variable, not only in different subjects, but in the same subject at different periods of life. They vary also from hour to hour, owing to changes in posture of the body and to varying degrees of distension of hollow viscera, while pendulum-like variations occur with every inspiration and expiration. Relations given are those which are considered to represent the average conditions found in dead adult subjects lying in the supine position. VENTRICULUS (CASTER) Stomach.—Most dilated part of alimentary canal ; lies in upper left quadrant of abdomen, in epigastrium and left hypo- chondrium. Piriform in shape. Possesses antero - superior and postcro-inferior surfaces ; lesser curvature, forming right and upper concave border ; greater curvature, forming left and lower convex border. Consists of (i) cardia.the region where oesophagus enters it; (2) fundus, the enlarged upper end, above level of oesophageal entrance ; (3) body ; (4) pyloric antrum, a secondary dilata- tion separated by (5) pyloric canal from (6) pylorus, which joins duodenum. Junction is marked by pyloric constriction and muscle of stomach is thickened there (pyloric sphincter) and bulges in the mucous membrane to form pyloric valve. Pyloric canal is 1 in. long and nearly cylindrical, and enlarges very little, even when stomach is full. (Esophageal orifice lies about 4 in. behind 7th left costal cartilage, 1 in. from median plane. Fundus rises to level of 5th rib in mid-clavicular line ; and is separated by diaphragm from pericardium and heart. Pylorus lies against neck of pancreas, opposite ist L. vertebra, h in. to the right of median plane, about a hand’s-breadth below xiphisternal junction, i.e. in transpyloricplane ; easily recognised owing to thickening of its muscular coat ; and a vein crosses its ant. surface, beneath peritoneum, at its junction with duodenum.