RONES OF THE SKULL 3' Pars petrosa (Petrous temporal!, pyramidal. Hardest hone in body. Surfaces: anterior, posterior, inferior. Apex articulates with sphenoid, in angle between great wing and body. Base, fused with mastoid. (Original foetal anterior surface is partly fused with squamous and tympanic parts, and partly free, forming medial boundaries of tympanic cavity and antrum, and of canals for auditory tube and tensor tympani.) Borders or Angles: Superior gives attachment to tentorium ; anterior partly articulates with great wing of sphenoid and is partly fused with squamous ; posterior articulates with basilar part of occipital. Processus styloideus projects from lower surface, downwards and anteriorly. Ossification. — In cartilage. 4 centres appear at 5th foetal month and rapidly fuse. Styloid process is ossified from cartilage of 2nd visceral arch by 2 centres which appear just before and after birth, and fuse in adult life. Pars mastoidea.—Surfaces : lateral gives attachment to muscles; and medial forms part of post, cranial fossa. Margo occipitalis articulates with occipital, posteriorly. Margo parietalis, with parietal, above. Processus mastoideus projects downwards. Ossified by extension from petrous. Pars tympanica.—A curved plate forming anterior, inferior and posterior walls of external acoustic meatus. Ossification.—1 centre appears at end of 3rd month. At birth, tympanic part is not a plate but a ring, incomplete above; and temporal bone consists of squamous, petro-mastoid, tympanic ring, and base of styloid—which all join during 1st year. Os Sphenoidale lies in base and at sides of skull, anterior to occipital and temporals, posterior to frontal and ethmoid. Consists of body, 2 small wings, 2 great wings, 2 pterygoid processes. Corpus encloses 2 large sinuses, which appear about 7th year. Surfaces: superior; 2 lateral articulate with apices of petrous temporal: inferior, with vomer and sphenoidal process of palatine ; anterior, with ethmoid and orbital process of palatine ; posterior, fused with basilar part of occipital after 25th year. Ala parva projects laterally from anterior and upper part of body. Its two roots enclose optic foramen. Surfaces : superior, inferior. Borders : anterior articulates with orbital plate of frontal; posterior is free and ends medially as anterior clinoid process. Ala magna projects laterally from lateral surface of body. Sur- faces : orbital, cerebral, temporal, infra-temporal, spheno-maxillary. Borders : posterior forms anterior margin of foramen lacerum, and articulates with petrous temporal;postero lateral (margo squamosus 1 articulates with squamous temporal ; antero-medial forms lower margin of superior orbital fissure ; anlero-tnferior forms upper margin of inferior orbital fissure. Upper edges of cerebral, orbital and temporal surfaces enclose a triangle (margo frontalis) which articulates with frontal. Anterior edges of temporal and orbital