MUSCLES AND FASCI/E 190 Deep peroneal nerve (anterior tibial) enters foot on lateral side of dorsalis pedis, and divides into medial and lateral branches. Medial branch runs along lateral side of dorsalis pedis, giving branches to joints ; accompanies 1st dorsal metatarsal artery, giving a branch to 1st dorsal interosseous muscle (said to be sensory); pierces deep fascia and supplies contiguous sides of great and second toes. Lateral branch turns laterally, and ends under ext. dig. brevis, by giving branches to it, to joints, and a branch (said to be sensory) to 2nd dorsal interosseous muscle. Classification of Muscles of Lower Limb As in the upper limb, the muscles of the lower limb have been classified according to regions. The following grouping is based on their attachments and the joints upon which they act. Note that the shoulder girdle is movable and the pelvic girdle is rigid. All the muscles connecting shoulder girdle to axial skeleton, except sterno-cleido-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and omo-byoid, act primarily on the girdle, but may act on the axial skeleton if the shoulder girdle is fixed. The muscles passing between pelvic girdle and trunk—sacrospinalis, quadratus lumborum, psoas minor, trans- versus and obliquus externus and interims abdominis, rectus abdominis, coccygeus, (levator ani)—act on the trunk, but may, in the unusual circumstance of the upper part of the trunk being more fixed than the lower, move the pelvic girdle, together with the lower part of the vertebral column, at the movable joints of the vertebral column. Muscle extending from vertebral column to femur, acting on vertebral joints and hip-joint. Psoas major. Muscles extending from vertebral column and pelvic girdle to femur, acting on hip-joint. Glutreus maximus, piriformis. From pelvic girdle to femur, acting on hip-joint. (duteous medius and minimus, obturator externus and interims, and gemelli, quadratus femoris, iliacus (attached also to sacrum), pectineus, adductor longus, brevis and magnus. From pelvic girdle to tibia, acting on hip and knee joints. Sartorius, gracilis, sentilendinosus, semimembranosus, rectus femoris. From pelvic girdle and femur to fibula, acting on hip and knee joints (and tibio-fibular joint). Biceps. From femur to tibia, acting on knee-joint. Vastus lateralis, medialis and intermedius (crureus), and popliteus. From femur to tarsus, acting on knee .and ankle joints. Gastro- cnemius, plantaris. From bones of leg to tarsus, acting on ankle-joint. Soleus. From bones of leg to tarsus and metatarsus, acting on tarso- metatarsal, intertarsal and ankle joints. Tibialis anterior and posterior, and peronasus longus.