RESPIRATORY APPARATUS 426 posteriorly by pericardium. Above level of 4th cartilage it exists only after dissection. Contains areolar tissue, lymph glands and vessels. (4) Posterior mediastinum, behind pericardium. Bounded anteriorly by pericardium and post, surface of diaphragm, posteriorly by lower 8 TH. vertebrae, at sides by mediastinal pleura. Contents : descending thoracic aorta and its branches, oesophagus, vagi, azygos and hemiazygos veins, thoracic duct, post, mediastinal lymph glands. Relations in Superior Mediastinum Thymus.—Two lobes bound together and ensheathed by fascia. Lies posterior to manubrium and sterno-hyoids and sterno-thyreoids ; overlapped below by pleurae. Lies anterior to left innominate and inf. thyreoid veins ; aortic arch, innominate and left common carotid arteries. It extends up into neck, lying upon these two arteries and trachea ; and inferiorly it reaches the pericardium. Arteries : from int. mammary and thyreoid. Nerves : from vagus and sympathetic. Lymphatics end in ant. mediastinal, sternal and tracheo-bronchial and lower deep cervical glands. Right innominate vein begins in neck, where it lies between medial end of clavicle and pleura (p. 214). In thorax, 1st cartilage is anterior to it ; phrenic nerve, pleura, lung are lateral; innominate art. is medial; trachea is postero-medial, some distance away. It lies in a groove on medial surface of pleura and lung, so that they are somewhat posterior and anterior as well as lateral, and overlap its termination at iower border of 1st cartilage. Tributaries: vertebral and 1st intercostal vein and right lymphatic duct, in neck ; int. mammary and inf. thyreoid veins, in thorax. Left innominate vein also begins in neck, between clavicle and pleura (p. 217). In thorax it passes to the right and slightly downwards, near upper border of manubrium, posterior to thymus, sterno-thyreoids, manubrium and 1st right cartilage, to end at its lower border by joining right vein to form sup. cava ; anterior to left common carotid and innominate art., and, between them on deeper plane, trachea and pre - tracheal fascia. Aortic arch is inferior. Tributaries correspond to those of right vein, and, in addition, the left superior intercostal vein ends in it. Inferior thyreoid, veins run downwards for a short distance in thorax, anterior to trachea and innominate artery, posterior to thymus, and end in respective innominates, or may join into one trunk which may end in either innominate. Venae comites of int. mammary art. unite to form one trunk, on each side, which ends in innominate vein, at superior aperture of thorax. Left superior intercostal vein, from 2nd and 3rd spaces, descends slightly to aortic arch, then passes forwards, upwards and to the right, across aortic arch and root of left subclavian artery, to end in