94 ARTICULATIONS Cranial Ligaments not directly associated with Joints Ligamentum stylomandibulare, a portion of sheath of parotid gland derived from cervical fascia, extends from styloid process to posterior border and angle of mandible ; separates parotid and submaxillary glands. Lig. stylohyoideum, from tip of styloid to lesser horn of hyoid bone ; lies between hyo-glossus and genio-glossus ; may contain fleshy fibres, may ossify, and corresponds to epihyal found in many animals ; derived from membrane around cartilage of 2nd arch. Lig. pterygo-spinosiun, from lateral pterygoid plate to spine of sphenoid. May ossify and form, with base of skull, a foramen transmitting nerves to ptcry- goideus externus, temporalis and masseter. ARTICULATIONES COSTOVERTEBRALES Costo-vertebral joints are diarthrodial. Articulationes Capitulorum.—Head of typical rib with vertebra of corresponding number and vertebra above and fibro- cartilage between them. Articular capsule, attached to margins of articulating surfaces. Lig. radiatum, the thickened anterior part of capsule, radiates in three bands from anterior surface of head of rib to fibro-cartilage and bodies of the two vertebra ; pleura and sympathetic trunk are related to its anterior surface. Inter- articular ligament extends from crest of head of rib to fibro- cartilage, and is attached to capsule in front and behind. It divides joint cavity into upper and lower parts; absent in 1st, loth, I ith, 12th joints, where rib articulates with only one vertebra. Articulationes Costo-transversariai.—Tubercle of rib with transverse process of vertebra of corresponding number. Absent in nth and 12th ribs. Articular capsule surrounds joint. Its greatly thickened postero-lateral part, attached to rough part of tubercle and to transverse process near tip, is called lig. tuberculi costa (post, costo-transverse). Accessory Ligaments.—(1) Anterior costo-lranverse lig., from crest of neck of rib, upwards and laterally, to transverse pro- cess above; absent from 1st rib ; continuous laterally with post, intercostal membrane. Medial free border bounds aperture for transmission dorsally of posterior branches of intercostal vessels ; posterior surface related to longissimus dorsi; anterior, to intercostal vessels and nerve. Lig. Innibocostale, in the same series, extends from 1st lumbar transverse process to neck of 12th rib and 12th