SKI'LL 31 / SKULL Brain is surrounded by membranous capsule continuous with that surrounding medulla spinalis (spinal cord) and notochord. Chondri- fication begins in base, but ossification of membranous capsule begins in calvaria before chondrifying process has extended so far. Bones formed in membrane are frontal, parietals, squamous temporals, and occipital above nuchal lines. Centres appear for these about 7th week : 1 for each half of frontal, at frontal tuber (eminence) ; 1 for each parietal, at parietal tuber (eminence); 1 for squamo-zygomatic, at base of zygoma ; 1 for each half of occipital, near protuberance. Eminences of frontal and parietals are produced owing to greater convexity when bone is first formed—sphere of skull at the time having small radius. Fonticuli (Fontanelles) are unossified spaces at angles of parietal. They are closed by extension of bones around them. They are closed at birth, or shortly after, except the anterior, the largest, which closes at end of 2nd year. Ossa suturarum (Wormian bones) are formed by small ossific centres w hich sometimes appear in region of smaller fontanelles and help to close them. Sagittal fonta- nelle is an unossified space in region of parietal foramen. If it is unclosed at birth the parietal foramA will be large in the adult f>one. In base of skull, a basi-cranial plate of cartilage partly encloses notochord. Anteriorly, it forms basi-occipital, post, part of body of sphenoid and dorsum selhr. Posteriorly, it sends backwards an ex- pansion on each side. These meet over hind-brain, enclose foramen magnum and form lateral parts of occipital and squamous part of occipital below sup. nuchal line. Fusion between them, behind fora- men magnum, is not complete till shortly after birth. Space between them is occipitalfontanelle. It is filled by extension of atlanto-occipital membrane. It is the commonest site for cerebral meningocele. Periotic capsule is a mass of cartilage surrounding membranous labyrinth and int. carotid art. It formspetro-masloid part of temporal, cartilage of auditory (Eustachian) tube, and cartilage which fills fora- men lacerum. Ethmoidal plate of cartilage lies in front of notochord. Posteriorly it joins basi-cranial plate. It forms lamina cribrosa of ethmoid and anterior part of body of sphenoid. 11 is cleft by cranio-pharyrtgeal canal, an opening through which a diverticulum from stomodaeal ectoderm passes to form anterior lobe of hypophysis (pituitary body). A process from ethmoidal plate grows down into median nasal process. Part of that remains as septal cartilage of nose ; part is ossified into perpen- dicular lamina of ethmoid ; vomer arises in membrane surrounding posterior part. Processes grow out from plate, on each side, to form great wmg of sphenoid and lateral pterygoid lamina, small wing of sphenoid, labyrinth of ethmoid and lateral and alar cartilages of nose.