91 MUSCULAE ATTAOHTS. of BS. of LOWER LIMB-2nd T The muscules attached to the FEMUR — Are twftnty.four in number, and are attached as follows: - Vastus Extemus - Anferior border of cri eafc trochanter & horizontal ridsre on its outer sur- face; rough line from pri-eat trochanter to linea aspera; who'e length of outer lip of linea aspera and line from linea aspera to oater condyle. Vastus Interjtus - Line from inner si lo of neck of femur to linea aspera; whole length of inner lip of linea aspera & line from linea aspera to inner condyle ; inner surface. Crureus — Anterior & outer sarfaces from anterior intertrochanteric Hue to within a few inches of condyles. Taking the vastus internus & the crureus as forming but one muscle, and describing the Quadriceps extensor femoris as a TrkepSy we may say that the "VASTUS INTERNUS" arises from: - line from inner side of neck of femur to linea aspera; whole length of inner lip of linea aspera & line from linea aspera to inner condyle; nearly whole of inner, anterior and outer surfaces of shaft of femur. Suhcrureus - Lower part of anterior surface < Psoas Magnus - Lesser trochanter. Iliacus - Upper part of line from trochanter minor to linea aspera in front of pectineus. Pedineus - Upper part of line from trochanter minor to linea aspera, & into the bone be- hind trochanter minor. Adductor Longus - Middle third of inner lip of linea aspera between vastus internus & ad- ductor magnus. Adductor Brems-JJp^er part of linea aspera & lower part of line from it to lesser tro- chanter below & behind pectineus. Adductor Magnus - Lower part of line from great trochanter to linea aspera, whole length of inner lip of linea aspera & line from it to inner condyle; by a strong tendon into tubercle at upper & back part of inner condyle. Biceps (Short Head) - Whole length of outer lip of linea aspera between adductor magnua & vastus externus, and from inferior external division of linea aspera to within two inches of outer condyle. Gluteus Maximus - Eough line from great trochanter to linea aspera. Gluteus Medius - Oblique line on outer surface of great trochanter. Gluteus Minimus - Anterior border of great trochanter. Pyriformis - Posterior part of upper border of great trochanter. Obturator Internus - Upper border of great trochanter in front of pyriformis. } Indireotly.byjoioingtendonofforegoing. Quadratus Femoris - Upper part of linea quadrati on back of great trochanter. Obturator Externus - Digital fossa. Gastrocnemius - Depressions at upper and back part of condyles, and lower part of the two inferior divisions of linea aspera. Plantaris - Lower part of outer division of linea aspera. - Anterior «& deepest part of groove on outer side of outer condyle of femur below tubercle for external lateral ligament of knee-joint. Semimembranosus - Posterior & upper part of outer condyle.