278 THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. The upper enlarged part of spinal cord. Extends from lower border of Pons Varolii, a&ove, to point of deoussatioa of anterior pyramids- below, which point corresponds pretty nearly to uppor border of a^Jas. Flattened from above downwards and forwards, and presents: Anteko-inferiok Aspect - Rests upon basilar groove. PosTEEO-suPERiOR AsPECT - Forms part superiorly of floor of 4th ventricle, and is con- tinuous inferiorly with posterior surface of cord. Divided, as is the cord, into two lateral halves, by Antero-Median Fissure - Continuous below with that of cord, being partly interrupted, however, by decussation of anterior pyramids. Terminates above, just below the pons, in a small recess, the foramen coecum. Postero-Medtan Fissure - Continued above into ventricle of Arantius & postero- median fissure on floor of 4th ventricle, and below into postero-median fissure of cord. SURFACE OP THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. Each half presents from before backwards between the two median fissures j Anterior PyranOLid - Pyramidal.shaped bundle of white fibres, the apparent pro. longation of anterior column of cord ; narrow below, enlarged and rounded oflF above, constricted just below the pons. Gives origin in its upper part to 6th. cranial nerve. Olivary Body - Oval prominent mass broader above than below, shorter than, but about as broad as, the pyramid. - It is separated from the pyramid by a narrow » groove, which gives origin to 9th or hypo-glossal nerve, and from the lower part of which numerous arciform fibres are seen to proceed. These wind upwards and outwards round lower end of olivary body, sometimes crossing its surface. A few arciform fibres emerge from the anterior median fissure, and cross anterior aspect of pyramid (Sappey, Hirschield). Lateral Tract - is continuous with lateral column of cord. It is broad below, where it includes all that part of the medulla comprised between anterior pyramid and restiform body ; above it is pushed backwards, and is narrowed, by the pro- jection of the olivary body. It is separated from restiform body by a slight groove situated in a line with posterior lateral fissure of cord, and gives origin from above downwards to the facial, glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric & spinal accessory nerves. Restiform Body or Fasciculus Cuneatus - is the outer & larger, while the Posterior Pyramid or Fasciculus Gracilis - Is the inner & smaller portion of a wide & thick bundle of white fibres continuous below with posterior column of cord, which bundle diverges from its fellow superiorly, and thus both exposes grey matter of fioor of 4th ventricle and forms lower part of lateral boundary of that cavity. This wide & thick bundle used lo be called, and ia still sometimes called ihe restiform body. - From its inner edge there projects inwards a thin lamina of white matter termed the ligula, which may be considered , as forming part of roof of 4th ventricle. Opposite apex of calamus scriptorius the posterior pyramid presents an enlargement, the processus clavatiis. In front of the processus cuneatus, behind & a little below olivary body & in a line with postero-lateral fissure of cord, is a small greyish eminence, the g7-ey tubercle of Rolando, which is formed by the projection of the substantia gelatinosa. Grey Matter of Floor of 4th Ventricle - Vide 4th ^eatrido.