143 THE VAS DEFERENS, VESICUL^ SEMINALE^ CuLATORY DUCTS. VAS DEFERENS Ascends on mner side of epididymis along lower three-fourths of posterior border of tea- ticle, to which it is attached by firm areolar tissue. Along back of spermatic cord to external abdominal ring ; Through external abdominal ring, inguinal canal & internal abdominal ring; Downwards, backwards, inwards to base of bladder, passing on outer side of epigastric & obliterated hypogastric arteries and then on inner side of ureter; Forwards & inwards between bladder & rectum, along inner side of vesicula seminalis becoming enlarged & sacculated; Narrows to a point, and joins opposite base of prostate with duct of corresponding vesi- cula seminalis, to form the common seminal or ejaculatory duct. Its canal is very small. Its walls are very thick & dense, and consist from without inwards of a cellular coat, of a muscular coat presenting two longitudinal layers & an intermediate circular layer of fibres, and of a mucous coat covered with colum- nar non-ciliated epithelium. The vas aberrans of Haller communicates with the canal of the Epididymis or with the commencement of the vas deferens. YESIGULuE SEMINALES Two lobnlated membranous pouches about 2J inches long obliquely disposed between base of bladder & second part of rectum, and presenting: Post. Diverging Extremities - Enlarged, and reach as far back aa^ter- mination of ureters. Ant. Converging Extremities ~ Pointed; join at base of prostate with termin- ation of the corresponding vas deferens to form the common seminal or ejaculatory duct. Upper Surface - in contact with base of bladder. Under Surface ~ Rests upon second part of rectum, from which it is sepa- rated by a process of the recto-vesical layer of the pelvic fascia. They have the enlarged & sacculated vasa deferentia to their inner side, and bound laterally a triangular portion of the base of the bladder which corresponds to trigonum vesicse. Each vesicula seminalis consists of a tube from four to six inches long, and of about the diameter of a crow quill. This tube is irregularly coiled upon itself, and. gives off numerous ccecal diverticula, which, as well as the coils of the tube, are bound together by firm areolar tissue. Its walls are thin, and consist of fibrous, muscular & mucous coats, the epithelium of the latter being squamous. EJACULATORY DUCTS Two small canals about f of an inch in length formed by the junction opposite the base of the prostate of the vas deferens with the duct of the vesicula seminalis. They pass forwards & inwards through the substance of the prostate along the side of the verumontanum, and terminate by a slit-like opening upon or within the mar- gins of the vesicula prostatica or sinus poqularia. Their walls are thin, and eonsiet of a delicate fibrous coat & of muscular & mucous coal*.