110 MUSCLES of the ABDOMEN. iExternail Oblique - Outer surface & lower borders of the eight lower ribs, interdigita ting by four or five slips with serratus magnus & by three or four with latissimus dorsi. By fleshy fibres into anterior half of outer lip of crest of ilium, and aponeurosis forms in succession : \ Pouparfs ligament; Gimbernafs ligament; Outer pillar of external abdominal ring; Inner pillar of external abdominal ring : Superficial part of linea alba by decussating with its fellow, and perhaps also after decussating the Triangular ligament & intercolumnar fascia of opposite side. (Vide ab- dominal Aponeuroses) IntemSll Oblique - Outer half of Poupart's ligament j anterior two-thirds of middle lip of crest of ilium j posterior layer of lumbar fascia. Lower border of cartilages of four lower ribs; linea alba; crest of pubes & pectineal line behind Gimbernat's ligament to the extent of about \ an inch, forming part of the conjoined tendon. TranSVersalis - Outer third of Poupart's ligament; anterior three-fourths of inner lip of crest of the iliura; inner surface of caHilages of six lower ribs interdigita. ting with Diaphragm; by lumbar fascia from tips of spinous processes, tip & bases of transverse processes of all the lumbar vertebrae. Linea alba; crest of pubes & pectineal line behind Gimbernat's ligament to the extent of about \ an inch, forming part of the conjoined tendon. Rectus Abdominis - By two heads from crest of pubes & ligamentous fibres cove symphysis. Cartilages of hth, Qth & 1th ribs & side of ensiform cartilage. This muscle is traversed by from 3 to 5 linece transversee, irregular ten^ dinous intersections, which interrupt the superficial fibres and adhere firmly anterior wall of sheath j these are situated opposite umbilicus, between umbilici & ensiform cartilage, and, frequently, one or two less complete ones, near i below umbilicus. Pyramidalis - Front of pubes & anterior pubic ligament. Linea alba midway between pubes & umbilicus. - Is often absent on one] or both sides. Cremaster - From middle of Poupart's ligament internally to lowest fibres of internal oblique & transversalis, and by a small pointed tendon from front of pubes & sheath of rectus, forming large external, and smaller & less constant internal bundles. Is the everted gubernaculum testis with a few additional fibres of the internal oblique, and sometimes of the transversalis, drawn or pushed down by the testicle during its descent (Curling). Quadratus Lumborum. Anterior Portion - Upper border of transverse processes of the two or three lower lumbar vertebrae. Inner half of lower border of last rib. Posterior Portion - Ilio-lumbar ligament, and for about 2 or 3 inches from poste- rior part of inner lip of crest of ilium. Apices of transverse processes of the 4 upper lumbar vertebrae, and inner half of lower border of last rib, N.—These muscles are supplied by the lower intercostal, ilio-hypogastric, & ilio-inguinal nerves. The quadratus lumborum also receiroa branches from the anterior diyisions of the lumbar nenres.