THE THREE GROUPS of VERTEBRiE. 8 CERVICAL VERTEBRiE — The smallest. Present: - ^ BODY — Small, broad from side to side. Presents: - Upper Surface - Concave from side to side, and rounded off anteriorly. Under Surface - Convex from side to side, and prolonged downwards anteriorly. Anterior Surface - Situated therefore on a lower level than the posterior. PEDICLES —Arise from lower part of body, and of the two NOTCHES — The superior ones are the deepest, and somewhat the narrowosb. LAMINA — Long and narrow. FORAMEN — Large and triangular. SPINOUS PROCESS — Projects horizontally backwards, and is short, bifid, & grooved inferiorly. TRANSVERSE PROCESSES — Short, bifid, grooved superiorly, perforated at their base for passage of vertebral artery & vein, and situated on the outer side of the pedicles, in fron t of the articular processes. The existence of the foramen at the base of the cervical transverse pro- cesses, and the situation of these processes on the outer side of the pedicles, are owing to their being foi'med of two roots, which roots correspond, the anterior one to the transverse processes properly so-called, the anterior one to the ribs. AETICULAEr PROCESSES — Form a small vertical column. The superior ones look upwards & backwards, the inferior ones look downwards & forwards. DORSAL VERTEBKwSJ — Intermediate in size. Present: - BODY — Heart-shaped, thicker behind than in front, and has two demi-facets on each side, which facets articulate with the heads of the ribs. PEDICLES —Arise from upper part of body, and of the two NOTCHES —The inferior ones are the deepest and broadest. LAMINA — Short & broad. FORAMEN — Small & round. SPINOUS PROCESS — Long, triangular, oblique, and ends in a single tubercle. TRANSVERSE PROCESSES — Long, thick, obliquely directed outwards & backwards, and situated behind the articular processes the pedicles. Their extremity is enlarged, and presents in front an articular facet for tubercle of correspond- ing rib. From the back of the extremity of the few lower dorsal transverse proces. ses arise three tubercles, termed external, inferior, & superior, which tubercles correspond respectively to the transverse processes of tho lumbar vertebraa, and to the accessory & mammillary tubercles found, the former on the back of the transverse processes, the latter on the back of the superior articular processes of the lumbar vertebrae. ARTICULAR PROCESSES — Nearly vertical. The superior ones look backwards & outwards, the inferior ones look forwards & inwards. liUMBAR VERTEBR.^ ~ The largest. Present: - BODY — Large, broadest from side to side, rather thicker in front than behind. PEDICLES — Thick ; arise from upper part of body, and of the two NOTCHES — The inferior ones are the deepest & broadest. LAMINA — Short, broad & thick. FORAMEN — Triangular, lai'ger than in the dorsal I'egion, smaller than in the oerr«ty »i SPINOUS PROCESS —Thick, quadrilateral, and ends in a rough vertical border. TRANSVERSE PROCESSES — Long, slender, directed transversely outwards, and situated in front of the articular processes, but behind the pedicles, and in a line with the external tubercles of the lower dorsal transverse processes, to which they correspond. On the back of each, near its base, is a small tubercle the accessory tubercle, which points downwards & inwards, and which corresponds to the inferior tubercles on the lower dorsal transverse processes. ARTICULAR PROCESSES — Thick, strong & vertical. The superior ones are concave, look backwards & iawards, and are fai'ther apart than the inferior ones, which they embrace. The inferior ones are convex, look forwards & outwards, and are nearer to each other than are the superior ones. On the back of each superior articular process is a small tubercle, the mammillary tubercUt which corresponds to the superior tubercles on the lower dorsal transverse processea-