100 PARTS CONCERNED in INGUINAL HERNIA—1st T. tMna the inguinal & scrotal regions. From the latter are derived the superficial coverings of large hernije, which superficial coverings are the same as those of the cord & testis. The former comprises the parts more directly concerned in the occurence of the protrusion, and in the siu-gical operations thereby required. SCROTAL REGION — vide " coverings of Cord & Testis." INGUINAL REGION — Bounded by Poupart's ligament, median line, horizontal line through anterior superior spine of ilium. Presents for examination the following strata, between which the inguinal canal is comprised. Skin - Thin, freely movable, depressed over Poupart's ligament. Superficial Fascia - Continuous with that of thigh, scrotum (dartos) & perineeum. Divided into superficial & deep layers by the superficial vessels & nerves. Superficial Layer - Thick, areolar, & more or less distended with fat. Passes over Poupart's ligament without adhering to it. Deep Later - Thin, membranous, contains no fat; adheres to Poupart's ligament. SUPERFICIAL VESSELS & NEKVES — Are: Arteries - Superficial epigastric, superficial circumflex iliac, superficial external pudic. Vezns - Corresponding ; open into internal saphenous. Lymphatics - Converge towards the Superior or Abdominal set of Inguinal Lymphatic Glands - Three or four, small, obliquely disposed along Poupart's ligament; receive lymphatics of penis, scrotum, perinseum, lower part of abdomen & buttock. Nerves - Ilio-inguinal, & hypogastric branch of ilio-hypogastric. Aponeurosis of External Oblique - its fibres are oblique downwards & inwards, and form in succession Poupart's ligament, Gimbernat's ligament. Outer or Inferior pillar of external abdominal ring. Inner or Superior pillar. Superficial part of Linea Alba by decussating with their fellows, and perhaps also, after decussating, the Triangular ligament & the Intercolumnarfibres of opposite side (Vide Abdominal Aponeuroses). Continuous with this stratum of fibres is the Intercolumnar or external sperma- tic fascia, thin, closely adherent to margin of external abdominal ring, and prolonged downwards into a tubular process around cord and testis. Lower Part of Internal Oblique - Thin & pale. Its fibres, which arise from outer half of Poupart's ligament, pass inwards over spermatic cord (or round ligament), and then curve downwards behind it & behind external abdominal ring & Gimbernat's ligament, covering inner two-thirds of Hesselbach's triangle and forming part of conjoined tendon of internal oblique & transversalis, and, becoming tendinous, are inserted over the extent of about half an inch into crest of pubes in front of rectus and into Uio-pectineal line behind Gimbernat's ligament. The Cremaster Muscle - (Vide " Muscles of the Abdomen " & Coverings of the Testicle "\ is connected with lowest fibres of internal oblique, and occasionally also with some of the lowest fibres of transversalis. Lower Part of Transversalis - Also thin & pale, its fibres, which arise from outer third of Poupart's ligament, take the same course as preceding, and, also becoming tendinous, are inserted with them into crest of pubes and ilio-pectineal line to the extent of about an inch, completing conjoined tendon, Fascia Transversalis - Part of the general layer of fascia which lines the abdominal & pelvic cavities. In the inguinal region it is thick and dense, and presents the following points of interest: - AT CIRCUMFERENCE OF INTERNAL ABDOMINAL RING - It is prolonged into a tubular process of membrane, the infundibuliform fascia, which descends round the cord & testis, forming the fascia Jn-opria round the latter. AT LOWER PART OF REGION - It is, - In Front of Femoral Vessels - First thickened into an oblique band adherent to Poupart's ligament & termed the deep crural arch, and then continued downwards beneath Poupart's ligament in front of the vessels to form anterior wall of femoral sheath. Externally to Femoral Vessels - Attached to outer part of Poupart's ligament, and con- tinuous with fascia iliaca. Internally to Femoral Vessels - Attached to crest of pubes & ilio-pectineal line behind conjoined tendon & Gimbernat's ligament. That part of the fascia transversalis which lies above Poupart's ligament between outer border of rectus muscle & epigastric artery (Hesselbach's triangle) is interesting as being the part which forms a covering to direct inguinal hernia. Subperitonial Areolar Tissue - More or less distended with fat. Forms a bed in which the epigastric artery passes upwards & inwards along lower & inner boundaries of internal abdominal ring ; is con- tinued into a loose sheath round the cord. Peritoneum - Presents, before the superficial strata of the abdominal wall have been dissected, the two Ifiguinal Fossce, internal &' external, which fossse correspond respectively to the external & internal abdominal rings, and are separated by an oblique crescentic fold of variable -width & prominence. formed by the epigastric & obliterated hypogastric arteries.