26 UNDER SURFACE of BASE of SKULL. Is bounded from before backwards by • Alveolar arch (2r» teeth of upper jaw ; Lower border of malar bone^ zygoma <5r» imaginary line from zygoma to mastoid process} Superior curved line of occipital bone. Grouping points of interest on under surface of skull, the latter may be said to present from before backwards: Roof of Mouth; Posterior Aperture of Nares : Under Surface of Basilar Process, on each side of which is a Quadrilateral Space, the angles of which are formed by the Condyle of the occipital bone, and by the Pterygoid, Zygomatic and Mastoid Processes. Under Surface of Reviaining Part of Occipital Bone. ROOF OF THE MOUTH Is formed by palate processes of superior maxillary & horizontal plates of palate bones, and is bounded laterally & in front by alveolar arch. Is concave, uneven & marked by a crucial suture, and presents from before backwards & outwards: Lower opening of anterior palatine canal, into which may be seen to open, laterally Foramina of Stenson for anterior palatine vessels, and in middle line, Fora??iina of Scarpa for naso-palatine nerves; A groove leading to Posterior palatine foramen for post, palatine vessels & ant. or great palatine n.; Transverse ridge for attachment of aponeurosis of tensor palati; Accessory or small palatine foramina, posterior <2r* external, for posterior or small, and the external palatine nerves. POSTERIOR APERTURE OF THE NARES Is bounded by body of sphenoid, horizontal plate of palate bone, and inner plates of pterygoid processes, which latter present inferiorly Hamtilar process for reflection of tendon of tensor palati, and superiorly, Scaphoid fossa for origin of that muscle. Is divided it;to two by vomer, and presents inferiorly Poiierior nasal spine for origin of azygos uvulse, and superiorly Expanded aloe of vomer, which articulate with rostrum & with vaginal processes of sphenoid, and on either side of which are Pterygo-palatine canals formed in part by sphenoid & in part by palate bones, and giving4)assage to pterygo-palatine vessels & nerves. UNDER SUJIFACE OF THE BASILAR PROCESS Presents i:i middle line Pharyngeal i t-ine for median raphe & superior constrictor of pharynx, and laterally, Rough depj'es'sions for insertion of recti capitis antici major & minor. QUADRILATORAL SPACE—y. next Tablet. UNDER SURFACE OF THE OCCIPITAL BONE (Remaining Part)-Pre. sents: Foramen magnum for cord & its membranes, vertebral arteries & spinal accessory nerves, on outer side of which foramen are Condyles of occipital boiie having Jugular process on their onter fide, Anterior condyloid foramen in front. Posterior condyloid fossa sometimes perforated by the posterior condyloid foramen behind. Ext. Occipital Crest giving oiF laterally Superior 6^ Inferior ctirved lines, and ending posteriorly in External occipital p7'otuberance. For parts just mentioned see Occipital Bone.