70 MUSCLES of LOWER LIMB—3rd Tablet. ANTERIOR TIBIO-PIBULAR REGION. Tibisilis Anticus - Outer tuberosity & upper two'thirds of outer surface of shaft of til^la; adjoining part of the interosseous membrane; intermuscular septum between it & extensor longus digitorumj deep fascia. Inner & under surfaces of internal cuneiform bone & base of first meta. tarsa\. — !s. by anterior tibial nerve. Extensor Longus Digitorum - Outer tuberosity of tibia; upper three-fourths of an- terior surface of shaft of fibula j interosseous membrane j septa between it and tibialis anticus & peronei muscles; deep fascia. Bases of 2n(l & 3rd phalanges of four outer toes. - S. by anterior tibial nerve. Extensor Proprius Pollicis - Middle two-fourths of anterior surface of shaft of fibula internally to extensor longus digitorum ; interosseous membrane. Base of last phalanx of great toe. - S. by anterior tibial nerve. PeroneUS Tertius - Lower fourth of anterior surface of shaft of fibula; lower part of interosseous membrane; intermuscular septum between it & peroneus brevis. Base of 5th metatarsal bone. - S. by anterior tibial nerve. FIBULAR REGION. Peroneus Longus - Head & upper two-thirds of outer surface & of anterior & posterior borders of fibula j intermuscular septa between it & muscles of front & back of leg ; deep fascia. Outer side of base of first metatarsal bone. - S. by musoulo-outaneous branch of exisrnal popliteal nerve. Peroneus Brevis - liOwer two-thirds of outer surface of shaft of fibula, passing upwards in a pointed process beneath peroneus longus j intermuscular septa between it & muscles of front & back of leg. Base of fifth metatarsal bone. - S. by musoalo-outaneoua branch of exter- nal popliteal nerve. MUSCLES of the FOOT. DORSAL EEGION. Extensor Brevis Digitorum - Outer & uppor surfaces of greater process of OS calcis, calcaneo-astragaloid ligament, anterior annular ligament of tarsus. First phalanx of great toe & outer sides of long extensor tendons of 2nd, 3rd, & 4th toes, - S. hj external branch of anterior tibial nerve.