119 THE PANCREAS. Lies behind stomach & lesser bag of peritoneum opposite first lumbar vertebra. It is long, narrow, flattened from before backwards, & of a reddish cream-colour, and presents» Head, or Right Enlarged Extremity - Curves downwards, and is embraced by con. cavity of duodenum, the ductus communis choledochus & the pancreatico- duodenal arteries lying between the two organs, the former behind, the latter in front. - The lower & back part of the head (sometimes detached from the remainder of the gland, and then called the lesser pancreas), passes to the left behind superior mesenteric vessels, forming the posterior wall of an incomplete canal in which these vessels are enclosed. Body, or Central Flattened Portion - Presents: Anterior Surpace - Convex, covered by peritoneum belonging to lesser bag, & by posterior surface of stomach. Posterior Surface - Coscave; in relation with: Pillars of diaphragm^ left quadratus lumborum, left kidney &' left suprarenal capsule ; Aortuy vena cava^ mesenteric vessels^ commencement of vena portcs, (2r» left renal vessels. Upper Border - Thick, corresponds to coeliac axis, and is deeply grooved for splenis artery & vein. Lower Border - Thinner, separated from transverse portion of duodenum by superior mesenteric vessels. Lesser End, or Tail -I^ies a little higher than the head, in contact with left kidney & left suprarenal capsule, & lower & back part of spleen, to which latter organ it is-slightly adherent, PANCREATIC DUCT, or CANAL OF WIRSUNG - Buns from left to righb through whole length of the gland, lying in the vicinity of its anterior surface & lower border. In the head it curves downwards on left side of ductus com- munis choledochus. Both ducts then perforate together the muscular coat of the intestine, run side by side for about three-quarters of an inch beneath mucous membrane, and open by a common orifice situated on inner wall of descending portion of duodenum a little below its middle, about three or four inches from pylorus. The duct from the lesser pancreas opens into canal of Wirsung near its termination, or, sometimes, forms a supplementary canal which opens separately into duodenum an inch or more above canal of Wirsung. STHiXJCTUiRHi — The pancreas is a racemose or conglomerate gland and is very similar to the salivary glands, excepting that its tissue is somewhat softer & looser. Yessels & .Nerves - Arteries from the splenic and superior & inferior pancreatico- duodenal. - Veins open into the splenic & mesenteric. - Lymphatics ojaen into the lumbar glands. - Nerves are from solar plexus.