THE SURFACE of the CEREBRTTM. 267 The cerebral hernisplieres ai'e now described as presenting five lobes: the frontal, parietal, occipital & temporo-sphenoidal lobes, and the central lobe or Island of Reil. These lobes are seen most extensively on the iipper or convex surface of the hemispheres. UPPER OR CONVEX SURFACE OF THE CEREBRUM : -Presents: FOUR PRINCIPAL FISSURES — Which partly separate the five lobes ASCENDma & HORIZONTAL LIMBS OF THE FISSURE OF SYLVIUS — The former ascends in front of the central lobe and amongst the frontal convolutions.*- The latter passes backwards behind the central lobe, and separates the temporo-sphenoidal lobe from the frontal & parietal lobes. - FISSURE OF ROLANDO — Begins near the middle of the longitudinal fissure ' and passes downwards & forwards to near the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius, separating the frontal & parietal lobes. EXTERNAL PARIETO-OCOIPITAL FISSURE — Separates the parietal and occipital lobes above. - Is very variable in extent, and is sometimes scarcely recognisable except by its being continuous with the internal parieto-occipital fissure, or perpendicular fissure of the inner surface of the hemispheres. OUTER SURFACE OP THE FIVE LOBES: Frontal Lobe -Pi'esents: Ascending Frontal Convolution - Forms the anterior boundary of the fissure of Rolando, and is continuous round the lower end of that fissure with the ascending parietal convolution. It is joined in front to the Superior, Middle & Inferior Transverse Frontal Convolutions, - Which pass forwards one above the other to the anterior extremity of the hemisphere; Parietal Lobe - Presents : Ascending Parietal Convolution - Forms the posterior boundary of the fissure Rolando, and is continuous below round the lower end of that fissure, with the ascending frontal convolution. - Behind this convolution ai'e three complex and variable convolutions termed the parietal lobule, the supra- marginal convolution & the angular gyrus. Parietal Lobule-Is situated on the side of the longitudinal fissure between the parieto-occipital' fissure, & the fissure of Rolando, and, is contin- uous in front with the upper part of the ascending parietal convolution, and joined behind to the superior occipital by the first annectant con- volution. Supra-marginal Convolution - Is situated below and in front of the preceding and in front of the angular gyrus. It is separated from the ascending parietal convolution by the intra-parietal fissure, and is connected behind with the angular gyrus. Angular Gyrus - Is situated behind the preceding, below and behind the par- ietal lobule. It blends below with the superior & middle temporo-sphe- noidal convolutions, and is connected behind with the middle occipital by the second annectant convolution. Temporo-Sphenoidal Lobe - Presents three well marked antero-posterior con. volutions, which are superposed to each other. Sup. Temporo-Sphenoidal Convolution - Lies between the horizontal limb Ox the fissure of Sylvius and the parallel fissure, and is continuous behind with the angular gyrus. Middle Temporo-sphenoidal Convolution - Is separated from the lower one by the inferior temporo-sphenoidal fissure, and is continuous posteriorly with the angular gyrus and connected by the third annectant with the middle occipital convolution. Inf. Temporo-sphenoidal Convolution-Is partly seen on the under surface of the cerebrum, and is connected behind to the third occipital by the fourth annectant convolution. Occipital Lobe — Presents three rather badly defined convolutions, which are superposed to each other, and are more or less antero-posterior. Sup. Occipital Convolution - Is connected to the parietal lobule by the first annectant convolution. Middle Occipital Convolution - Is connected to the angular gyrus & to the middle temporo-sphenoidal convolution by the second and third annec- tant convolutions. Inp. Occipital Convolution - Is connected to the inferior temporo-sphenoidal convolution by the fourth annectant convolution. Central Lobe or Island of Rail - is deeply situated between the frontal & temporo-sphenoidal lobes at the bottom of the outer part of the fissure of Sylvius. It presents five or six convolutions, which are nearly straight and mainly directed upwards and outwards, and of which (he posterior ones are the largest. *AikI is sometimes called the precentral sulcus.