123 UNDER SURFACE of the LIVER. Concave uneven, looks downwards & backwards, and covers stomach, duodenum, hepatic flexure of colon, right kidney & right suprarenal capsule. Presents four fissures, one of which is divided into two, and two primary lobes, of which the right one, or right lobe proper, presents three sub-lobes or lobules. FISSURES — A-re the: Longitudinal Fissure - Separates right & left lobes, and extends from deep notch on anterior bqrder as far backwards as posterior border. It is divided into: Umbilical Fissure - Its anterior & deepest two-thirds, situated in front of trans- verse fissure; contains umbilical vein in the foetus, and its obliterated remains in the adult. Is often bridged over posteriorly by a band of liver substance, the pons hepaticus. Fissure for the Ductus Venosus - Its posterior & shallowest third j contains the duo- tus venosus in the foetus, & its obliterated remains in the adult. Transverse Fissure - Extends transversely to the right from longitudinal fissure for about two inches, lying nearer to posterior than to anterior border. - It transmits hepatic artery, bile duct, portal vein, lymphatics & nerves, the hepatic artery lying to the left & in front, the bile duct to the right & in front, and the portal vein behind. Fissure or Fossa of the Gall-Bladder - Shallow, broadest in front, nearly parallel to longitudinal fissure on right side of which it is situated, and extends from an- terior border to near right extremity of transverse fissure. Fissure for the Inf. Vena Cava - Extends from behind lobus caudatus to poster- ior border of liver, where it joins with fissure for ductus venosus. Is often trans- formed into a complete foramen, by a prolongation of the lobus Spigelii. It gives exit to the hepatic veins which here open into the inferior cava. LOBES — -A-re the: Right Lobe - The largest. Presents the three last named fissures, and also, further to the right, the impressio colica for hepatic flexure of colon, behind which is the im.' pressio renalis for right kidney & right suprarenal capsule. - It also presents the three following sub-lobes: LoBUS Quadratus -• Situated in front of transverse fissure, between fissure for the gall-bladder & umbilical fissure j quadrilateral & broadest from before backwards. Lobus Spigelii - Situated behind transverse fissure, between fissure for ductus venosus, & fissure for inferior vena cava; more prominent than former, but less regular in shape. Projects into lesser sac of peritoneum. Lobus Caudatus - A prominent ridge extending from front part of lobus Spigelii to under surface of right lobe proper; forms anterior boundary of fissure for inferior vena cava & upper boundary of foramen of Winslow. Left Lobe - is smaller than the right. Its under surface rests upon th© stomach, and sometimes extends as far as upper border of spleen.