34 THE MAMMA. Rudimentary in the male, small in the female before puberty; increases in s'ze during pregnancy & after delivery. - Presents; POSTERIOR SURFACE, or BASE — Somewhat concave; nearly circular, but slightly elonj^ated from below upwards & outwards. Rests upon pectoralis major & fascia covering it, and extends from 3rd rib to the 6th or 7th, and from side of sternum to axilla. ANTERIOR SURFACE — Presents, a little below its middle, the nipple surrounded by the areola. Nipple - Cylindrical or conical; presents at its apex the openings of the lactiferous ducts. Its surface is of a pink or brownish hue, wrinkled, provided with papillae, and, near its base, with some sebaceous glands. It is susceptible of a sort of erection due mainly to the contraction of its muscular fibres. Areolai - Rosy in the virgin; larger & darker in colour after the second month of pregnancy & during lactation (when its sebaceous glands enlarge consider- ably), and also somewhat so during the remainder of life. CUTANEOUS NERVES. Superficial Descending - Several large branches from 3rd & 4th. Descend between sterno-mastoid & trapezius, and divide into branches: Sternal - Cross origin of sterno-mastoid to integument of front of chest as far as middle line. Claviculak - Cross clavicle (sometimes one of them perforates the bone) to integument over pectoralis major & deltoid, communicating with cuta- neous branches of the superior intercostal nerves. Acromial - Over acromion & clavicular origin of trapezius to integumentf of outer & back part of shoulder. Lateral Cutaneous-Pierce intercostals & serratus magnus midway between vertebrae & sternum, and divide into : - Antej'ior Offset - Forwards to integument of side of chest & mamma, and to upper digitations of external oblique., ; Fosterior Offset - Backwards to integument over latissimus dorsi & scapula. The posterior oflfset of the lateral cutaneous branch of the 2nd intercostal nerve, is called the intercosto-hume7'al nerve. It crosses the axilla, joins with lesser internal cutaneous nerve or nerve of Wrisberg & with internal cutaneous branch of musculo-spiral, and pierces deep fascia to integument of upper inner & back part of arm ; its size varies inversely with that of the nerve of Wrisberg. There is frequently a second intercosto-humeral nerve derived from the 3rd intercostal. Anterior Cutaneous-The termination of intercostal trunk. Pierce internal inter. costals & pectoralis major by side of sternum, and turn outwards to integu- ment of mamma & front of chest. The second joins with the clavicular branches of the superficial cervical plexus.