60 FASCIA & SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES of the HAND & WRIST. FASCI^ffi — Are rather ligaments than fasciEe proper, and are therefore described here. Anterior Annular Ligament of the Wrist - Continuous above with deep fascia of forearm, and below with palmar fascia; extends from Pisiform bone <Sr» unciform process of unciform to Tubercle of scaphoid^ (S^ ridge on anterior surface of trapezium. It is pierced by tendon of flexor carpi radialis. Beneath it pass the flexores sublimis & profundus dif?itorum enclosed in one synovial sheath, the flexor longus pollicis enclosed in another sheath, and the median n. Into its anterior surface & upper border are inserted a few fibres of the pal maris longus & flexor carpi ulnaris. From its lower border arise in part the abductor, opponens & outer head of flexor brevis pollicis, and the flexor brevis & opponens minimi digiti. Posterior Annular Ligament of the Wrist - Thinner than foregoing, from Cuneiform <2r» pisijorm bones^ and lower part of ulna to Styloid process ridges on posterior aspect of radius. Presents six divisions or compartments lined each of them with a separate synovial membrane, and which, from without inwards, correspond to the following osseous grooves, and transmit the following muscles I. - Corresponds to shallow groove on outer side of styloid process of radius. — Trans- mits extensores ossis metacarpi ^ primi internodii pollicis. 3. - Corresponds to broad shallow groove on posterior aspect of styloid process. — Transmits extensores carpi radiates longior dr* brevior. 3. - Corresponds to narrow (Sr* deep groove on back of lower extremity of radius. - Transmits extensor secundi internodii pollicis. 4. - Corresponds to broad shallow groove on back of lower extremity of radius. - Transmits extensores indicis dr* communis digitorum. ^. - Corresponds to groove at point of articulation of radius ^ ulna. — Transmits extensor minimi digiti^ 6. - Corresponds to groove on back of head of ulna. — Transmits extensor carpi ulnaris. Palmar Fascia — Consists of Two Latekal Portions - Thin. Cover muscles of thumb & little finger, and gend pro- cesses between them. Central Portion — Thick, strong, triangular; firmly adherent to integument; covers superficial palmar arch, flexor tendons, & median & ulnar nerves, and gives origin internally to palmaris brevis. It is narrow above, where ib receives expanded tendon of palmaris longus, and is attached to anterior annular ligament; and broad below, where it divides into four slips bound together by transverse fibres. Each slip subdivides into two processes, which processes embrace the flexor tendons, and become attached to bases of first phalanges & glenoid ligaments. Between the slips are seen the palmar interosseous & digital arteries, the terminal branches of the median & ulnar nerves, & the' tendons of the lumbrioales. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES — Are articular & tendinous. Articular - Five : - 1. - Membrana Sacciformis of the inferior radio-ulnar articulation. 2. - Synovial membrane of the radio-carpal articulation, comprised between the first row of carpal bones & the under surface of the radius & trian- gular fibro.oartilage. 3. - General synovial membrane of the carpus, comprised between bones of first row, between bones of second row, between the two rows of bones, between the second row of carpal bones & the four inner metacarpal bones, and finally between the four inner metacarpal bones. 4. - Synovial membrane of the carpo-metacarpal articulation of the thumb. 5. - Synovial membrane of the articulation between the cuneiform 6^ pisiform,. Tendinous - "Vide Anterior & Posterior Annular Ligaments.