102 SURGICAL ANATOMY of INGUINAL HERNIA. Principal points of interest are the coverings of the hernia, and the relations of the neck of the sac & of the seat of stricture. - For the rest see "Inguinal Hernia" among Tablets on Surgery. COVERINGS — DiflTer in the oblique & direct forms, and are slightly modified also in the congenital & infantile varieties of the former, and in the external & internal varieties of the latter. They are as follows:— OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA Of the Adult Fkom within Outwards : Peritoneum^ subserous areolar tissue^ infundibuliform fascia^ cremasteric fascia^ iritercolumnar fascia^ superficial fascia ^ skin. Fkom without Inwards : Skin, superficial fascia, intercolumnar fascia, ci emasteric fascia, infundibuliform fascia, subserous areolar tissue, peiitoneufti. Congenital Variety - Descends directly into tunica vaginalis through pouch of peritoneum which accompanies cord & testis into scrotum, and which has abnormally remained unclosed. Its coverings are the same as those of testicle: - Skin, dartos, intercohivmar fascia, cretnasteric fascia, fascia propria, tunica vaginalis refiexa. Infantile Variety - Descends into the still patent upper part of the imper- fectly closed pouch of peritoneum, and becomes more or less completely invested, especially in front, by the posterior part of the tunica vagin- alis reflexa. Its coverings are the same aa those of foregoing variety with two additional layers of peritoneum PIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA 1 Internal or Common Variety - (Protrudes through inner part of Hessel-i bach's triangle, on inner side of obliterated hypogastric artery). F&OU WITHIN Outwards : g^ Peritoneum, subserous areolar tissue, fascia transversalis (the general f. tr., not the infundibuliform process) conjoined tendon (or not, since it is frequently ruptured instead of being pushed forwards) intercolumnar fascia^ superficial fascia ^ skin. From without Inwards : Skin, superficial fascia, intercolumnar fascia, conjoined tendon (or not), fascia transversalis, subserous areolar tissue peritoneum. External Variety - (Protrudes through outer part of Hesselbach's triangle, on outer side of obliterated hypogastric artery, & externally to the conjoined tendon) - This exceptional form of inguinal hernia, passes through a considerable portion of the inguinal canal, and greatly re- sembles the oblique hernia both by presenting a certain degree of obliquity and by having very nearly the same coverings; the covering derived from the cremasteric fascia is alone rather less complete. RELATIONS OP NECK OP SAC & SEAT OP STRICTURE - The neck of the sac lies IN OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA - On outer side of epigastric artery and in front of spermatic cord, the elements of which ma^, however, be more or less scattered round the neck of the sac. IN DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA - On inner side of epigastric artery, in front & slightly on inner side of spermatic cord. On account of the uncertainty -of the diagnosis between the oblique & direct herniae it is an accepted rule in surgery to divide a deep seated stricture directly upwards from middle of upper margin of constricting ring, that is to say in the direction of the epigastric yessela.