249 THE THORACIC & RIGHT LYMPHATIC DUCTS. THORACIC DUCT — Commenoea in receptaculum chyli, passes through aortic opening of diaphragm, and then ascends in front of spine as high as 4th dorsal vertebra, /yiug behind oesophagus, between aorta & vena azygos major. It then inclines to the left, and ascends first behind arch of aorta and then behind first portion of subclavian artery of left sidej and finally, opposite upper border of 7th cervical vertebra, it arches forwards above pleura & in front of scalenus anticus, and opens into angle of junction between left internal jugular & subclavian veins, its opening being guarded by a pair of valves. It is somewhat tortuous in its course, constricted at intervals on account of the valves it contains; of the size of a goose-quill at its commencement, somewhat narrower in the thorax, again enlarged at the root of the neck. Somecimos it bifurcates, its left division taking the usual course, its right division joining the right lymphatic duct. - It is the common trunk of all the lymphatics of the body, except those of the right side of the head, neck, & thorax, right upper limb, right lung, right side of the heart, & part of the convex surface of the liver. Receptaculum Chyli - is a dilatation of the commencement of the thoracic duct, which lies in front of the 2nd lumbar vertebra, behind & to right side of the aorta, and between it and the vena azygos major & the right crus of the diaphragm. It receives the trunks of the lacteal vessels, and four or five large trunks from the lumbar lymphatic gland?. RIGHT LYMPHATIC DUCT — Is a short thick trunk from half an inch to an incii in length and of about a line or a line & a half in diameter, which collects the lymph from the right side of the head, neck, & thorax, right upper limb, right lung, i-ight side of the heart, & part of the convex surface of the liver. It opens into the angle of junction between the right internal jugular & right subclavian veins, its oponing being guarded by a pair of valves. SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL ARTERY. From upper & back part of 1st portion of subclavian on left side, of 2nd portion on right side. Passes backwards for a short distance, and gives off its deep cervical branch ; it then descends in front of neck of 1st rib, or in front of necks of 1st & 2nd ribs on outer side of 1st dorsal gang- lion of sympathetic, gives off one or two branches similar to the aortic intercostals, and joins with the first of the latter arteries. Deep Cervical or Pbofunda Cervicis - Sometimes arises directly from subclavian. Backwards between neck of 1st rib & transverse process of 7th cervical vertebra, and ascends between complexns & semispinalis colli, anasto- mosing with vertebral artery & deep branch of arteria princeps cervicis. ^ SO