259 THE LARYNX-~2nd Tablet. LIGAMENTS — Are, EXTRINSIC — Three; connect larynx to hyoid bono. ~They are? Thyro-Hyoid, Membrane - Broad fibro.elastio membrane from Upper border of thyroid cartilage to Upper border of hyoid bone, being separated from posterior surface of hyoid bone by a little loose cellular tissue in which a bursa is usually found. It is thickest towards middle and perforated laterally by superior laryn- geal vessels & nerves. Behind it are the epiglottis & the mucous mem- brane of the base of the tongue, with a considerable amount of adipose tissue & some mucous glands. Lateral Thyro-Hyoid Ligaments Rounded fibro.elastic cords from Superior cornua of thyroid cartilage to Extremities of greater cormta of hyoid bone. - These ligaments often contain a small cartilaginous nodule, the cartilago triticea. INTRINSIC — Connect cartilages of larynx as follows: On the one hand the cricoid to the thyroid & arytaenoid, on the other the epiglottis to the thyroid. - They are: CriCO'-Thyroid Membrane - Tellow elastic lamina divided into: Centkal Portion - Thick, triangular, broadest below; connects Contiguous margins of cricoid ^ thyroid. Lateral Portions - Thinner; extend from Upper border of cricoid cartilage as far back as crico-thyroid arthrodia to Lower border of inferior or true vocal cord, uniting firmly with the latter, especially in front. - The central portion is concealed by crico-thyroid muscles, except in mesial line, and is crossed by crico-thyroid branches of superior thyroid arteries; the lateral portions are covered by the thyro- & lateral crico-arytsenoid muscles, and are lined internally by mucous membrane of larynx. CricO-Tliyroid Capsules - Thin, strongest behind ; enclose the arthrodial articulations between cricoid & inferior cornua of thyroid, and are lined internally with synovial membrane. Posterior Crico-Arytsenoid. Ligament - Short but strong band from Back of cricoid cartilage to Back of base of arytcenoid. Crico-Arytsenoid Capsules - Thin* surround the arthrodial articulations between upper border of cricoid cartilage & bases of the arytaenoid, and are lined internally with synovial membrane. Thyro-Epiglottic Ligament - Long & slender band connecting Apex of epiglottis to Upper part of receding angle of thyroid. Hyo-Epiglottic Ligament ~ Somewhat indistinct; extends amidst a con- siderable amount of adipose tissue from Anterior surface of epiglottis to Upper border of hyoid bone. To the foregoing ligaments must be added the superior & inferior thyro-arytsenoid described with the vocal cords, and the somewhat indistinct abro-cartilaginous capsules frequently found^ between the arytsenoid cartilages & the oomicula laryngis.