19 SUPEEIOR MAXILLARY B0NE-2nd Tablet. MALAR PROCESS—Triangular, and presents: Ant. Surface - Concave, forms part of canine fossa; Post. Surface - Concave, forms part of zygomatic fossa j Sup. Surface - Rough for articulation with malar bone. NASAL PROCESS — Triangular, and presents: Outer Surface - Concave, gives attachment to orbicularis palpebrarum, tendo oculi, levator labii superioris alaeque uasi. Inner Surface - Presents from above downwards : Rough stirface, which articulates with ethmoid bone ; Superior turbinated crest which articulates with middle turbinated bone; Inferior turbinated crest with the two grooves already described. Ant. Border - Thin, serrated above for articulation with nasal bone, and continuous below with margin of the deep notch, which bounds laterally the anterior aperture of the nasal fossae. Post. Border - Presents a groove which forms part of nasal duct, of which groove the Inner inargin articulates with lachrymal bone, while the Outer jfiargin forms part of circumference of orbit, and presents the Lachrymal tubercle at its junction with orbital surface. ALVEOLAR PROCESS — Forms a curve of a semi-horse-shoe shape. Is thicker behind than in front, and presents eight alveoli in adults, five in children. PALATE PROCESS — Presents : Upper Surface - Concave from side to side. Forms part of floor of nasal fossa, and presents in front the Incisor forai7ien or foramen of Stenson, which is completed on its inner side by a thin lamina of bone directed backwards from its anterior to its posterior border (from the latter of which this lamina remains disconnected in youth). This foramen leads below into the Anterior palatine canal formed by the junction of the two bones, into which canal when it is viewed from below, are also seen to open two other small foramina, the Foramina of Scarpa situated in the suture between the two lamina3. - The foramina of Stenson transmit the anterior palatine vessels, while the foramina of Scarpa transmit the naso-palatine nerves, of which the right one is said to be posterior to the left. Under Surface - Concave, rough, forms part of roof of mouth. - Is channelled by a Groove (sometimes by a canal) for the posterior palatine vessels & anterior or great palatine nerve, and presents behind anterior part of lower orifice of Posterior palatine canal, t Inner Border - Raised into a ridge which forms with its fello.w a groove for vomer, and presents in front the Anterior nasal spine. Ant. Border - Forms lower part of anterior aperture of nasal fcasse. Post. Border - Articulates with horizontal plate of palate bone. tror foramina of Stenson & Scarpa, see Eoof of mouth, p. 26.