260 THE LARYNX-3rd Tablet. MUSCLES of the GLOTTIS — Are four on each side, and one in the middle line. CriCO-ThyroideuS - Front & sides of cricoid cartilage. Lower border & inferior cornu of thyroid cartilage. - S. by superior laryn- geal nerve. Tz'Us the thyroid cartilage forwards^ and thus elongates dr» tenses the vocal cords, ThyrO-ArytgenoideUS - Lower part of receding angle of thyroid cartilage, & posterior surface of crico-thyroid membrane. By two fasciculi into anterior surface of arytaenoid cartilage, and into anterior or internal angle of its base. - S. by recurrent laryngeal nerve. Draws the arytcenoid cartilage forwards, and thus shortens and relaxes the vocal cord ; it also assists in compressing the saccuhis laryngis. The former action is that of its lower & stronger fasciculus, which lies parallel with, & on the outer side of, the inferior or true vocal cord; the latter action is that of its upper & thinner | fasciculus, which lies on the outer side of the sacculus laryngis. CriCO-Arytsenoideus Lateralis - Side of upper border of cricoid cartilage. External or posterior angle of base of arytaenoid cartilage. - S. by recur- rent laryngeal nerve. Rotate the arytcenoid cartilages so as to bring together their anterior or internal angles the true vocal cords which are attached to them, and thus constrict the glottis. CriCO-Arytsenoideus Posticus - Broad depression on side of posterior surface of j cricoid cartilage. 1 External or posterior angle of base of arytaenoid cartilage. - S. by recur-l rent laryngeal nerve. I Rotate the arytcenoid cartilages so as to separate their anterior or internal angles^ the true vocal cords which are attached to them, and thus dilate the glottis, \ ArytsenoideuS - Posterior surface & outer border of both arytaeuoid cartilages, pre- senting superficial oblique «fe deep transverse fibres. - S. by both the superior & the inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerves. Bring together the two arytcenoid cartilages, and thus constrict the glottis, espe- cially in its posterior part, - Sometimes a small fasciculus, the Kerato-cricoideus (Merkel), extends, below the preceding, from the cricoid cartilage to the inferior I cornu of the thyroid cartilage. MUSCLES of the EPIGLOTTIS — Are three in number. Thyro-Epiglottideus or Depressor Epiglottidis - inner surface of the thyroid cartilage externally to origin of thyro-arytaeaoid. Margin of epiglottis & arytseno-epiglottideau fold. Depresses the epiglottis, and assists in compressing the saccul'us laryngis, Arytseno-Epiglottideus Inferior or Compressor Sacculi Laryngis - Ary. tsenoid cartilage just above false vocal cord. Margin of epiglottis. Depresses the epiglottis, and assists in compressing the sacculus laryngis, Arytseno-Epiglottideus Superior - Apex of arytaenoid cartilage. Arytaeno-epiglottidean fold. Constricts the superior aperture of the larynx during the second act of deglutition. — The oblique fibres of the arytaenoideus are sometimes considered as belonging to the arytaeno.epiglottidei, which muscles would then decussate ia the middle line behind the horizontal fibres of the arytaanoideus, or arytaenoideus proper.