293 PXJDIO NEEVE. Prom lower part of sacral plexus. With pudio artery through lower part of great saoro-soiatio foramen on inner side of great sciatic nerve. Winds round spine of ischium, and re-enters pelvis through bsaer sa"cro-sciatic foramen, where it gives off inferior heemorrhoidal nerve. Forwards along outer wall of ischio-rectal fossa above pudic artery, both nerve & artery being covered by obturator fascia, and divides into perinseal nerve & dorsal nerve of the penis. PERINiSAL NERVE — The larger. Accompanies superficial perinasal artery, and divides into branches: - Cutaneous or Superficial Perinseal - Two in number: Posterior or Internal - Gives filaments to skin in front of anus (and to the sphincter ani, Grray), and communicates with the inferior haemorrholdat nerve. It then passes forwai'ds to the scrotum or labium on the inner side of the following nerve with which it communicates anteriorly. Anterior or External - Forwards on outer side of foregoing to scrotum & integu- ment of penis, or labium. Communicates with foregoing, and with inferior pudendal, and gives a few twigs to levator ani. Muscular - G-enerally arise by a common trunk, which passes forwards and inwards under cover of trans versus perinsei, and supplies anterior extremity of sphincter ani, transversus perinsei, erector penis, accelerator urina3 & com- pressor urethras j a twig is given to the bulb of the urethra. DORSAL NERVE OF THE PENIS —■ The smaller. With pudic artery along rami of ischium & pubea between the two layers of deep perinseal fascia, and through suspensory ligament and along dorsum of penis to glans. Supplies skin of dorsum & sides of penis, and gives a large branch to corpus cavernosum. - Dorsal nerve of clitoris in female is smaller, but similarly distributed Inferior Hsemorrhoidal Nerve - May be derived directly from sacral plexus. Crosses ischio-rectal fossa towards lower end of rectum, and gives off num- erous branches to sphincter ani & integument round anus 5 communicates with superficial peringeal & inferior pudendal. INFERIOR THYROID ARTERY. (.Vide page 159.) Tortuous course upwards & inwards behind common carotid artery & sympathetic nerve, (the middle '.'ervical ganglion, when present, resting upon it) to under surface of thyroid gland, and anastomoses with the other thyroid arteries. - Gives off branches: Ascending Cervical - Ascends between scalenus anticus & rectus capitis anticus major; gives branches to deep muscles of neck, and, through the inter- vertebral foramina, to spinal cord & its membranes and bodies of the vertebrae. Laryngeal - Upon trachea to back of larynx; supplies muscles & mucous mem- brane. Tracheal - Join below with bronchial. OESOPHAGEAL - Descond upon oesophagus.