68 OBTURATOR NERVE. Arisea mainly from 3rd & 4th lumbar nerveg, but receives also a fasciculus from tlie 2nc (Sappey, Hirschfeldt, & Quain's diagram of lumbar plexus). Descends through inner fibres of psoas, and emerges from inner border of that rauscla opposite brim of pelvis. Along outer wall of pelvis above obturator vessels to upper part of obturator foramen; enters thigh, and divides into: Anterior Branch - The smaller. Descends in front of adductor brevis, and behind pec- tineus & adductor longus, to femoral artery, upon which it is distributed below the latter muscle. Gives off branches; - Articular - To hip-joint; arises near obturator foramen. Muscular - To gracilis & adductor longus, and sometimes to pectinens & adductor brevis; Anastomotic to Internal Cutaneous & Internal Saphenous Nerves - Arises opposite lower border of adductor longus, and forms with the foregoing nerves a plexiform network beneath deep fascia of thigh. Sometimes this anterior branch of the obturator nerve, and its communicating offset to the internal cutaneous & internal saphenous nerves, are larger than usual. The latter then gives off cutaneous filaments to the skin of the lower & inner part of the thigh, and descends along the posterior bor- der of the sartorius to the inner side of the knee-joint; here it pierces the deep fascia, communicates again with the internal saphenous nerve (which is then smaller than usual), and supplies the skin of the inner side of the leg as low as its middle. Posterior Branch. - The larger. Pierces upper fibres of obturator externus, and des- cends behind adductor brevis in front of adductor magnus; gives off branches: - Muscular - To obturator externus & adductor magnus (and to adductor brevis, when the latter is not supplied by the anterior branch of the nerve). Articular - Through opening in lovrer part of adductor magnus, and upon the pop- liteal artery to back of knee-joint. ACCESSORY OBTURATOR NERVE Arises (when it exists) either directly from obturator nerve, or, by separate filaments, from the 2nd, 3rd, & 4th lumbar. Descends along inner side of psoas, crosses front of pubes, gets behind pectineus, and divides into branches to pectineus & hip-joint. Communicates with anterior branch of obtursvtor nerve; the communicating branch is some- times large, and is then prolonged as a cataneous nerve to the thigh & leg (Gray)