169 PNEUMOGASTBIC NERVE. Arises from lateral trad of medulla oblongata below ghsso-pharyngeal above spinal accessory. — Its deep origin is from a grey nucleus on floor of fourth ventricle. Through jugular foramen behind glosso-pharyngeal «& in same sheath as spinal accessory. Presents two ganglia, one in aiid one below jugular foramen : Sup. or Jugular G. or G-. op the Eoot — Small, greyish, rounded. Anastom. with facial, glosso-pharyngeal, spinal accessory 6^ sympathetic. Inf. G. or G. op the Trunk — Reddish, cylindrical, nearly an i«ich in length. Anastom. with hypoglossal, spinal accessory, sympathetic, loop between two first cervical nerves. Descends behind & between int. & comm. carotid arteries & int. jugular v. and in same sheath j Then, On Right Side : Between subclavian art. & v. and along side of trachea to back of root of lung, where spreads out into posterior pulmonary plexus. Along side of oesophagus in the shape of two or more separate cords, which form oesophageal plexus with nerve of opposite side. As a single cord along back of oesophagus to posterior surface of stomach, and joins solar & splenic plexuses. On Lept Side : Between and in front of left comm. carotid & left subclavian arteries behind left innominate vein. Across arch of aorta to back of root of lung, where similarly spreads out and joins with its fellow. Along side of oesophagus as above. As a single cord along front of oesophagus to anterior surface of stomach, and joins left hepatic plexus. BRANCHES: Auricular Br. Arises from g. of the root, and joins with glosso-pharyngeal. Across jugular fossa & through opening in temporal bone near styloid process % Between mastoid process & ext. audit, meatus to integument of back of pinna. Gives off: Ascending Br,, which joins trunk of facial in aqueductus Fallopii j Descending Br., which joins auricular branch of facial. Pharyngeal Br. — Arises from upper part of ganglion of the trunk; Crosses internal carotid art. either in front or behind; Anast. with glosso-pharyngeal, sup. laryngeal & sympathetic, and forms pha- ryngeal plexus to muscles & mucous membrane of pharynx. Sup. Laryngeal N. — Arises from middle of ganglion of the trunk. Descends by side of pharynx behind int. carotid artery, and divides into: EXT. LARYNGEAL BR. — Joins with pharyngeal plexus & sup. car- diac nerve, and supplies crico-thyroid & inf. constrictor. TNT. LARYNGEAL BR. — Pierces thyro-hyoid membrane to aryte- noid muscle and mucous membrane of larynx, base of tonguo & aryteno-epiglottidean folds. Recurr. Laryngeal N. — Ar. in front of, and passes below & behind, subclav. art. on right side, arch of-aorta, on left, giving twigs to deep cardiac plexus; Behind comm. carotid & inf. thyroid arteries, and in groove between trachea & oesophagus. Beneath inf. constrictor to all the muscles of the larynx except crico-thyroid. Gives brs. to inf. constrictor, and anastomoses with ext. laryngeal. Cardiac Brs. — Divided into: Cervical Cardiac i ^r-j xt fj-u ti x Thoracic Cardiac S ^'^^ ^^^^^^ °^ Pulmonary Brs. — Divided into Anterior and Posterior, and form the ant. & post. pulmonary plexuses. (Vide nerves of the lung.) Esophageal Brs. — Arise, some above, but most of them below, the pulmonary. Gastric Brs. — Right pneumogastric supplies post, aspect of stomach and joins so. lar & splenic plexuses; left pneumog. supplies ant. aspect, and joins left hepatic plexus.