147 STRUCTURE of the PENIS. CORPORA CAVERNOSA — Arise from the anterior & inner part of the two ischial tuberosities, and from the ascending rami of the ischia & descending rami of the pubea, by two pointed prolongations, the crwa penis. These pass forwards & inwards, present a slight enlargement, the bulb of the corpus (r«wr;wj?/;«, and unite to form the body of the penis. - The body of the penis presents on its upper surface a narrow median groove for the dorsal vessels & nerves of the organ, and, on its under surface a broader groove, which receives the corpns spongiosum. It ends anteriorly in a rounded extremity over- lapped by the base of the glans. CORPUS SPONGIOSUM — Commences between the two converging crura of the corpora cavernosa by an expanded portion, the bulb of the urethra. This latter is penetrated superiorly by the membranous portion of the urethra, is marked inferiorly by a partial division into two lobes, and is surrounded by the accelerator urinse muscle & by a pro- longation of the anterior or descending layer of the deep perinseal fascia, - It passes for- wards, as an erectile tube, round the spongy portion of the urethra, and terminates in the glans penis, a conical enlargement, which overlaps the anterior rounded extremity of the two corpora cavernosa. STRUCTURE of the CORPORA CAVERNOSA & SPONGIOSUM - They consist of: Fibrous Investment - Thick, dense, firm, especially over the corpora o»vernos», highly elastic, but incapable of more than a certain degree of distention; formed of white & yellow elastic fibrous tissues and of unstriped muscular fibres disposed longitudinally in the superficial strata, circularly in the deeper ones. It forms but an incomplete septum between the two corpora cavernosa in their points of contact: - The septum is thick & imperforate behind, but it only consists in front of a few vertical bands arranged somewhat like the teeth of a comb, and forming the septum peciitiiforme. It gives off numerous trabeculae from its inner surface. - In the corpora cavernosa the trabeculae are strongest towards the periphery, and tbe com- partments they bound are transversely or circularly disposed «& largest towards the centre. In the corpus spongiosum the trabeculae are more deli, cate, and the compartments are longitudinal & more uniform, except in the glans penis where their arrangement is somewhat complex. Erectile Tissue - Consists of afferent arteries, a venous plexus, & efferent veins. Afferekt Arteries - Are the arteries of the corpora cavernosa & the arteries of the bulb, and twigs from the internal pudic & the dorsal arteries of the penis. Some of the branches of these arteries terminate in capil- lary plexuses as in other parts of the body. Others, the helicine arteries,'vfhich are said to be especially numerous towards the root of the penis and to be wanting in the glans, become convoluted, and forming tendril-like twigs, project singly or in tufts into the ve wua spaces, and end in dilated extremities which are either open or closed (MiiUer). This is denied however by Valentin, who describes the smallest branches of the arteries as ending in wide funnel-shaped orifices, which open directly into the venous spcjices. Venous Plexus - Is very intricate. So numerous & large are the communica- tions between the veins that the blood appears to be effused into a system of extra-vascular structures. Ebperent Veins - Some emerge from the corona glandis and from the upper & under surfaces of the corpora cavernosa, and join the dorsal vein of the penis j most pass out at the root of the penis, and join the prosta- tic plexus & the pudic veins. The proper nerves of the cavernous structures are 14 derived mainly from the pelvic & prostatic plexuses of the sympathetic, but partly also from the pudic nerve.