131 LATERAL BRANCHES of the LUMBAR PLEXUS. ILIO-HYPOGASTRIC - From 1st lumbar. Emerges from upper part of outer border of Psoas. Crosses quadratug lumborum. Perforates transversalis, and divides between it & internal oblique into branches : - Iliac - Pierces internal & external oblique just above crest of ilium, and supplies skin of gluteal region behind lateral cutaneous branch of twelfth dorsal nerv®. Hypogastric - Forwards between internal oblique & transversalis, communicating with ilio-inguinal. Pierces internal oblique & aponeurosis of external oblique a little above the external abdominal ring, and supplies skin of hypogas- tric region. ILIO-INGUINAL — From 1st lumbar; smaller than foregoing. Pierces psoas, and crosses quadratus lumborum immediately beloiv ilio-hypogastric. Pierces transversalis, and communicates with hypogastric branch of ilio-hypogastrio between that muscle and the internal oblique, which it pierces a little further on. Through inguinal canal in front of spermatic cord; and supplies skin of upper & inner part of thigh and of scrotum & penis, or of labium pudendi. Is sometimes small, and then ends by joining the ilio-hypogastric near crest of ilium; in that case a branch of the ilio-hypogastric takes the place of the ilio-inguinal. GENITO-CRURAL — From 2nd lumbar nerve, and by a few filaments from the Isc, Descends obliquely through substance, and afterwards on anterior stcrface of psoas^ and divides into branches : - Genital - Over external iliac artery, and through inguinal canal behind spermatic cord, to cremaster muscle & scrotum; - in female behind round ligament to labium. Crural - Beneath Poupart s ligament on inner side of psoas. Pierces fascia lata on outer side of femoral artery, and supplies skin of upper and front part of thigh; communicates with middle cutaneous. EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS — From 2nd lumbar nerve, and, by a few filaments, from the 3rd. Pierces psoas muscle towards its middle and crosses iliacus. Passes beneath Poupart's ligament thro^igh notch below anterior superior spme of ilium, and divides into branches: — ANTERioa - Pierces fascia lata about four inches below Poupart's ligament, and supplict skin of anterior & outer aspects of thigh as low as koea. Posterior - Supplies skin of outer & posterior aspect of thigh.