14 THE SPHENOID BONE. Is situated at front part of base of skall, and articulates with the 7 other cranial bones & with Presents for examination : vomer & both malar & palate bones. BODY — Is cuboid, but presents only four free surfaces, the two lateral surfaces being continuous . ^ „ ^^^^ wings & pterygoid processes. UPPER SURFACE —Presents from before backwards: Ethmoidal spme, which articulates with ethmoid j Smooth surface slightly elevated in median line, and which supports olfactory nerves j Optic groove leading laterally to optic foramen,* Olivary process ; Pituitary fossa or sella turcica bounded laterally & in front by middle clinoid processes; Dorsum sella notched laterally for 6th pair of cranial nerves, and presenting posterior • clinoid processes at its superior angles. On each side of body is the Cavernous gjvove curved like an italic ^ for internal carotid artery. ANTERIOR SURFACE — Presents in middle line the Sphenoidal crest, which articulates with perpendicular plate of ethmoid; on either side the Openings of the sphenoidal sinuses, which are partly closed in front by the Sphenoidal turbinated bones or bones of Berlin. - This surf, articulates laterally with OS planum of ethmoid, and inferiorly with orbital process of palate bone. UNDER SURFACE — Presents in middle line the Rostrum, which is received between the alae ot the vomer, and is continuous anteriorly with sphenoidal crest; on each side of the rostrum is the Vaginal process, which passes inwards beneath, and articulates with, the alae of the vomer, and externally to which is the Pterygo.palatine groove, which forms pterygo-palatine canal with sphenoidal ^0^r*^-r~LT^-ef^-r^ rM-r-p-n..-, . . . , proccss of palatc bonc. POSTERIOR SURFACE — Articulates with basilar process of occipital bone, with which GREATER WINGS — Present: it unites at age of 18 or 20. SUPERIOR or CEREBRAL SURFACE — Forms part of middle fossa of base ol skull, and presents from before backwards at its inner part; Foramen rotundum for superior maxillary nerve; Foramen ovale for inferior maxillary & small petrosal nerves & small meningeal artery, on the inner side of which latter foramen is sometimes seen the Forai7ien Vesalii for a small vein; Foramen spinosu??i for middle meningeal artery. EXTERNAL SURFACE — Is divided by pterygoid ridge into: Superior part, which enters into formation of temporal fossa, and Inferior part, which assists in forming zygomatic fossa, and presents posteriorly Spine of sphenoid for internal lateral ligament of jaw & laxator tympani muscle. ANTERIOR or ORBITAL SURFACE — Quadrilateral; assists in forming outer wall of orbit and sphenoidal & spheno-maxillary fissures, and articulates with frontal & malar bones. Presents a small spine for lower head of external rectus. CIRCUMFERENCE. From Back op Body to Spine - Forms anterior or outer margin of foramen lacerum medium, in front, and articulates, behind, with petrous portion of temporal b. Fkom Spine to Tip - Articulates with squamous portion of temporal bone, being bevelled internally below, externally above. From Tip to Front op Body - Presents externally a broad triangular surface for frontal bone, and forms, internally, lower boundary of sphenoidal fissure. LESSER WINGS or PROCESSES of INGRASSIAS — Long, thin, triangular: UPPER SURFACE — Smooth, forms part of anterior fossa of base of skull; UNDER SURFACE — Forms back of roof of orbit and upper boundary of sphenoidal fissure, which latter is bounded internally by body of sphenoid, and transmits 3rd, 4th & 6th nerves, and ophthalmic nerve & vein. ANTERIOR BORDER — Articulates with frontal bone; POSTERIOR BORDER — Forms at its inner extremity the anterior clinoid process. INNER EXTREMITY — Presents two roots which bound optic foramen. PTERYGOID PROCESS — consists of two plates which bound pterygoid fossa, and are separated below by a triangular notch filled up by pterygoid process of palate bono. - Its • ANTERIOR SURFACE — Forms posterior wall of spheno-maxillary fossa, and presents anterior orifice of vidian canal. EXTERNAL PTERYGOID PLATE — Broad, thin, inclined outwards. Forms inner & outer walls of zygomatic & pterygoid fossae respectively, and gives attachment to internal & external pterygoid muscles. INTERNAL PTERYGOID PLATE — Narrower «& longer. Its Outer & inner surfaces - Form respectively inner boundary of pterygoid fossa & outer boundary of posterior nares. At its apex it presents Hamular process for reflection of tendon of tensor palatix Sb&d at its base &-a//^«</j'5>wa for origin of that mnsole.