56 THE SHOULDEK-JOINT. Is an enarthrodial articulation, though not a typical one; for the glenoid cavity of the scapula is, in comparison with the head of the humerus, remarkably small & shallow, and there is'little more than a mere apposition between the two bones. Considerable mobility ia thus provided for. Displacement is, on the other hand, prevented to a great extent by thel presence of the acromion & coracoid processes & coraco-acromial ligament. — The articular cartilage is thickest in the centre, on the head of th^ humerus, thickest at the periphery, on the glenoid cavity, LIGAMENTS: Capsular - From Neck of scapula rotmd margin of glenoid cavity to Anatomical neck of humerus, extending farthest down humerus along its inner aspect. This capsule is thicker above than below. It is strengthened by the coraoo- humeral ligament externally, by the tendons of the supra- & infraspinatus & teres minor behind, and by that of the subscapularis in front. It has two, sometimes three openings, through which the synovial mem- brane is prolonged upon the tendons of the subscapularis & biceps, and sometimes upon that of the infraspinatus. The tendon of the long head of the biceps per- forates the lower part of the capsule, and becomes surrounded, within the joint, by a complete sheath of synovial membrane. It is remarkably loose, and, when the muscles are cut, it admits of the bones being separated more than an inch. The bones are therefore kept in apposition less by the ligaments themselves than by muscular action & atmospheric pressure. CoraCO-humeral, or Accessory - strong flat band intimately blended with the capsule, and extending obliquely from Root &> outer border of coracoid process to Front of great tuberosity of humerus. Glenoid - Would be better described as an extension of the glenoid cavity than as a liga- ment, for, unlike the cotyloid ligament of the hip-joint, it does not assist in keeping the bones together. It is a fibro-cartilaginous ring triangular on section j its thickest portion is attached to the circumference of the glenoid cavity, and its sharp edge is free. It is continuous above with the tendon of the long head of the biceps, by the bifurcation of which it is partly formed. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE — Is prolonged through the above mentioned openings in the capsule Upon the tendon of the biceps, in the shape of a complete sheath, which allows the tendon to traverse the articular cavity without being contained therein; Upon the tendon of the subscapularis in the shape of a pouch of variable size comprised between the tendon & the subscapular fossa ; and sometimes Uf^n the tendon of the infraspinatus va. a similar manner; an independent bursa exist- ing at other times between the muscle & the infraspinous fossa. - An independent bursa exists between the upper part of the capsule & the coraco-acromial ligament & deltoid. VASCULAR & NERVE SUPPLY — From the circumflex & supra-scapular vessels & nerves. MOVEMENTS — The shoulder joint is the freest of all the joints of the body, and admits of movement in every direction. The acromion & coracoid processes & the coraco- acromial ligament prevent displacement upwards of the head of the humerus, and limit, unless the scapula be displaced, the elevation of the arm to aboufc the horizontal position.