215 STRUCTURE of the PHARYNX. Presents three coats, which, from without inwards, are muscular, fibrous, mucous; and vessels & nerves, MUSCULAR COAT — Is formed by: Inferior Constrictor - Side of cricoid cartilage; oblique line on outer surface of ala of thyroid cartilage & surface behind it, and inferior cornu. Eaph6 on posterior median line of pharynx; its inferior fibres being hori- zontal & continuous with those of oesophagus, and its superior fibres passing obliquely upwards and overlapping those of the middle constrictor. - S. by pharyngeal pleicus and external & recurrent laryngeal nerves. Middle Constrictor - Whole extent of upper surface of great cornu of hyoid bone, lesser cornu, stylo-hyoid ligament. Raph6 on posterior median line of pharynx; its inferior fibres descending beneath inferior constrictor, its middle fibres being horizontal, and its sup- erior fibres overlapping superior constrictor & stylo-pharyngens. - S. by pharyn- geal plexus. Superior Constrictor - Lower third of free margin of internal pterygoid plate, its hamular process, & contiguous part of palate bone; pterygo-maxillary ligament j alveolar process of inferior maxilla above mylo-hyoid ridge; side of tongue. Eaph6 on posterior median line of pharynx; its superior fibres ascending by means of strong fibrous band below mentioned, to pharyngeal spine on basilar process, its lower fibres being horizontal. - S. by pharyngeal plexus. Stylo-pharyn^eUS - inner side of base of styloid process. With palato-pharyngeus into posterior border of thyroid cartilagre & sido of pharynx. - S. by pharyngeal plexus & glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Palato-pharyngeus - Posterior surface of soft palate by two heads separated by ; levator palati. With stylo-pharyngeus into posterior border of thyroid cartilage & side of pharynx. - S. by pharyngeal plexus. SalpingO-pharyngeUS (Santorini) - Small fasciculus from outer surface of cartila- ginous portion of Eustachian tube to stylo-pharyngeus, with which it blends inferiorly. Is often wanting. Other accessory muscles, the petro-, spheno-, & occipito-pharyngei, are also described; but they are rarely met with. Relations-The constrictors overlap each other from below upwards. The stylo- pharyngeus passes between superior & middle constrictors; the superior laryngeal nerve between the middle & inferior constrictors; the recurrent laryngeal nerve beneath the inferior. - (Vide also relations of pharynx in foregoing Tablet). FIBROUS COAT, or PHARYNGEAL APONEUROSIS — Thick above, thin below. Attached to petrous portion of temporal bone, under surface of body of sphen- oid, and, by means of a strong fibrous band (cranio-pharyngeal ligament, Thomson & Cleland), to pharyngeal spine on under surface of basilar process. MUCOUS MEMBRANE — Thick on under surface of body of sphenoid; covered wiih columnar ciliated epithelium as low down as fioor of nares, with squamous epitheliam below. Beneath it are found numerous glands, which are simple & compound follicular and racemose. VESSELS & NERVES — Arteries. Ascending pharyngeal, pterygo-palatine, superior or descending palatine, superior thyroid. - Veins. Open into the superior thyroid & internal jugular. - Lymphatics. Open into deep glands of neck. - Nerves. From pharyngeal plexus, and from external & recurrent laryngeal nerves.