246 THE TRACHEA & BRONCHI. THE TRACHEA. From 5th cervical vertebra to 3rd dorsal. Pirnij rounded, & supported by cartila. ginous rings in front, flattened & membranous behind. Relations. In FfiONT - Isthmus of thyroid gland, inferior thyroid veins, & thyroidea ima artery (when the latter exists). Remains of thymus gland, left innominate vein, arch of aorta with innominate & left common carotid arteries, great or deep cardiac plexus, bifurcation of pulmonaiy artery. Sterno-hyoid & -thyroid, anastomotic branch between the anterior jugular veins, sternum, fascia, & skin. Behind - (Esophagus, which deviates to the left towards lower part of neck; right recurrent laryngeal nerve. On Either Side - Lateral lobe of thyroid gland; common carotid artery, internal jugu. lar vein, pneumogastric & sympathetic nerves; inferior thyroid artery, left recurrent laryngeal nerve (the right nerve lies some- what behind the trachea). Innominate & common carotid arteries, pneumogastric & left recur- rent laryngeal nerves; - and farther off, but internally to the pleurae, right innominate vein & right phrenic nerve, on the right side, left subclavian artery & left phrenic nerve, on the left. THE BRONCHI Commence opposite the 3rd dorsal vertebra a little to the left of the middle line; the internal septum which marks the separation of the two tubes being slightly deviated to the left by the preponderance in diameter of the right bronchus over the left one. Both divide in the root of the lung into a large inferior and a somewhat smaller superior branch, the former of which, on the right side, gives off" a small branch to the middle lobe of the right lung. RIGHT BRONCHUS - About an inch in length, wider, more horizontal than the left one; enters root of lung opposite 4th dorsal vertebra. - It lies behind the superior vena cava & the right auricle; the right pulmonary artery lies at first below it, and then in front of it; the vena azygos major arches over it from behind. LEFT BRONCHUS —Smaller, more oblique, nearly two inches long; enters root of lung opposite 5th dorsal vertebra. - It passes beneath the arch of the aorta; the left pulmonary artery lies at first above it, and then in froat of it; behind it are the descending portion of the arch, the oesophagus & the thoracic duct.