POSTERIOR BRANCHES of the EXTERNAL CAROTID. OCCIPITAL — Arises just below ^sterior belly of digastric, and is crossed close to itfl origin by hypoglossal nervejr Upwards and backwards beneath posterior belly of digastric, stylo-hyoid, & portion of parotid gland, crossing internal carotid artery, internal jugular vein, glosso.pharyngeal, pneumogastrio & spinal accessory nerves, - and then between mastoid process & transverse process of atlas. Horizontally backwards in occipital groove beneath eterno-mastoid, digastric, spleniua & trachelo-mastoid, - and then between trapezius & complexua. Pierces tipper part of trapezius, ascends beneath integument with great occipital nerve, and divides into numerous branches to upper & back part of head. Gives off branches: Muscular - Numerous small ones, and one large one to upper part of sterno- mastoid. Auricular - To back of ear. Meningeal - Through jugular foramen to dura mater of posterior fossa. Arteria Princeps Cervicis - Descends beneath splenius, and divides into: Superficial Be. - Descends between splenius & complexus, and anasto- moses with superficial cervical branch of transversalis colli. Deep Br. - Descends beneath complexus, and anastomoses with vertebral & with deep cervical branch of superior intercostal. 3P0ST. AURICULAR — Arises beneath or above digastric & stylo-hyoid, and ascends under cover of parotid gland & beneath facial nerve to groove between cartilage of ear and mastoid process, where divides into Ant. & Post. Branches - Which communicate respectively with posterior branch of temporal & with occipital, and of which the former gives off numerous branches to back of ear. - Gives off Stylo-mastoid Art. ( Sometimes derived from occipital). - Through stylo- mastoid foramen to tympanum & semicircular canals, joining with tym- panic branch of internal maxillary, with which it forma in young sub- jects ft vascular circle round membrana tympani. INTERNAL BRANCH of the EXTERNAL CAROTID. ASCENDING PHARYNGEAL Long, slender; from back of external carotid near its origin. ikicends vertically to base of skull, in front of internal carotid artery and between that vessel & side of pharynx, giving off branches: External - Small, irregular, to 8th, 9th, and sympathetic nerves, and adjoining ^ - muscles. ' Pharyngeal - Three or four} to the three constrictors, stylo-pbaryngeus, Eus- "■ tachian tube, soft palate & tonsil. Meningeal - To dura mater through foramina lacera posterius & medium, and Bometimes through anterior condyloid foramen