15 THE ETHMOID BONE. Light, spongy, cuboid, projects downwards from between orbital plates of fronts, and enters into formation of orbits & nasal fossaa. Articulates with fj-ontal, sphenoid & sphenoidal turbinated bones^ both nasal, supei'ior maxillary^ „ , , lachrymal^ palate, inferior turbinated &[> vomer. May be divided into three parts : HORIZONTAL OR CRIBRIFORM PLATE - Received into ethmoidal notch of frontal. Forms part of roof of nose & of anterior fossa of base of skull, and presents in the median line the Crista galli, which gives attachment to falx cerebri, and articulates below <6 in front with frontal bone, completing foramen coecum; - and on each side Three rows of foramina for branches of the olfactory nerve, and more anteriorly a Fissure for nasal branch of ophthalmic nei've. PERPENDICULAR PLATE — Descends from under surface of former, and assists in forming nasal septum. Is more or less inclined to one or other side, and presents numerous grooves for branches of olfactory nerve. Articulates in front with frontal spine and nasal bones, behind with crest of sphenoid & vomer, and joins below with triangular cartilage of nose. LATERAL lillASSES — Cubold, and enclose a number of irregular cavities, the ethmoid cells, which are divided into an anterior & a posterior set. Their Anterior, Upper & Posterior Surfaces - Present numerous half-cells, which are ' completed respectively by articulation with Lachrymal bones & nasal processes of superior maxilla^ Frontal bone. Sphenoidal turbinated bones & orbital processes of palate bones. - The upper surface also presents two grooves which assist in forming the anterior & posterior ethmoidal foramina. Outer Surface - Presents a thin smooth plate of bone the os planum which forms inner wall of orbit, and articulates with •. Lachrymal bone, in front; Orbital plate of frontal, Body of sphenoid, hehmd ; Superior maxillary & orbital process of palate bone, below. Under Surface - Presents under surface of middle turbinated process and the projecting Unciform process, which articulates with inferior turbinated bone, and assists in forming inner wall of the antrum of Highmore. Inner Surface - Forms part of outer wall of nasal fossae, and presents from above down- wards the Superior turbinated process, small and corresponding to post part of nasal fossae j Superior meatus, which communicates with posterior ethmoidal cells ; Middle turbinated process, which extends along whole length of lateral mass; Middle meatus, which communicates with the anterior ethnaoidal cells (and through these with the frontal sinus ) by means of a wide funnel-shaped canal, the Jnfundibulum,