223 FIRST or OLFACTORY NERVE Arises by three roots. THE THREE ROOTS - Ave the : External or Long Root — Arises from the posterior border of the fissure of Sylvius^ and is said to be traceable to the corpus striatum, the anterior commissure, the tha- lamus opticus & the Island of Rail. It passes forwards and inwards along the anterior margin of the locus perforatua anticus. Internal or Short Root — Arises from the posterior and inner part of the anterior lobe^ and is said by Foville to be connected with the longitudinal fibres of the gyrus fornicatus or convolution of the corpus callosum. It passes forwards & outwards, and joins the foregoing root just above the origin of the middle or grey root. Middle or Grey Root — Begins in a pyramidal eminence, the caruncula mammilla' ris, of the grey matter of the posterior part of the anterior lobe, and is continued upon the upper surface of the nerve with a few white fibres derived from the corpus striatum. The three roots coalesce and form a prismoid band, the OLFACTORY PROCESS, — which passes forwards in a deep sulcus along the side of lon« gitudinal fissure, and expands into the OLFACTORY BULB, — from the under surface of which are given oflE" about twenty TERMINAL BRS., — which pass through the foramina in the cribriform plate of the eth- moid, and — formin g three sets distributed respectively over the 7'oof of the nose, <yvQV the upper third of the septum, and over the superior 6^ middle turbinated bones — proceed between the fibrous & mucous layers of the Schneiderian membrane, ramify and uni- te and form a plexus with narrow elongated meshes, and probably terminate in the deep processes of the olfactory cells of Schultze. These latter cells are spindle-shaped nucleated bodies, which stand vertically in great numbers among the columnar epithelial cells of the olfactory region; their extremities are continued into two thread-like processes, one of which terminates abruptly on a level with the free extremities of the epithelial cells, while the other passes downwards towards the attached surface of the mucous membrane. = f The olfactory nerve contains a large proportion of the grey matter, and is soft and pulpy. Its filaments are deficient in the white substance of Schwann, and are granular and nucleated like the gelatinous nerve-fibres of Eemak.