204 FIFTH NEBVE. Arises by two roots, anterior small or motor, posterior large or sensory, from side of pons Varolii nearer to upper than to lower border. Its deep origin is said to be from lateral tract of medulla behind olivary body, from grey nucleus on floor of 4tli ventricle between restiform body & fasciculi teretes, from tubercle of Eolando; its motor root appears to arise from pyramidal body. Through opening in dura mater near apex of petrous portion of temporal bone. Sensory root to Gasserian ganglion; motor root to inferior maxillary nerve outside cranium, Gasserian ganglion - Crescentic. Situated in a depression near apex of pe- trous portion of temporal bone, and receives filaments from carotid plex. Gives off anteriorly ophthalmic, superior & inferior maxillary ner'?^es, and laterally, small branches to tentorium cerebelli & dura mater of middle fossa, and one to 6th nerve in cavernous sinus. OPHTHALMIC NERVE — The smallest of the three divisions of the 5th pair. Through outer wall of cavernous sinus below 3rd & 4th nerves, being joined by filaments from cavernous plexus and frequently from 4th nerve, and giving oflf recurrent branches to tentorium. Divides near sphenoidal fissure into lachrymal, frontal, nasal. LACHRYMAL N. - The smallest. Through outer & narrowest part of sphenoidal fissure, and along upper border of exter- nal rectus to lachrymal gland, conjunctiva & skin of upper eyelid. — Joins with orbital branch of superior maxillary nerve. FRONTAL N. — The largest. Through highest & broadest part of sphenoidal fissure j Along middle line of orbit between levator palpebrae superioris & periosteum, and divi- des into: SUPEAORBITAL BR. — The largest. Through supraorbital foramen or notch, and ascends to corrugator supercilii, occipito-frontalis & orbicularis pal- pebrarum, and to periosteum & integument, the cutaneous branches, two in number, lying at first beneath the muscles. SUPRATROCHLEAR BR. — The smallest. Above pulley of supenor oblique, and same destribution. Joins with infratrochlear branch of nasaL NASAL N.—Intermediate in size. Vide p. 207.