290 TABLEAU of the CRANIAL NERVES. First or Olfactory - Arises by three roots: • Ext. or Long Root - From posterior border of fissure of Sylvius. Int. or Short Root - From posterior & ijtner part of jfrontal lobe. Middle or Grey Root - From carunatla mammillaris. - Presents olfactory process, olfactory bulb, terminal branches. SoCOnd or Optic - From anterior posterior quadrigeminal and internal ^ external geniculate bodies^ and optic thalamus. - Presents optic tract, optic commissure or chiasma, & optic nerve proper. Tllird or lector Oculi - From inner border of cms cerebri just in front of Pons 'Varolii. - Supplies all the muscles of the orbit except superior oblique & external rectus, and gives off motor root to lenticular ganglion. Fourth^ Trochlearis or PatheticUS - From upper part of valve of Vieussens. - Supplies superior oblique. Fifth, Trigeminal or Trifacial - Vide next Tableau. Sixtll or AbdUCenS - From constricted part of corpus pyramidale close to pons Varolii or from lower border of pons itself. ~ Supplies external rectus. Facial or Portio dura of the 7th ~ From upper part of lateral tract of medulla oblongata in groove between olivary & restiform bodies. Anastomoses - With auditory, glosso-pharyngtal, pneumogastric, aurictdo-tempoj-al, great auricular; - also large, small, & external peti'osal nerves join Meckel's £r» ' Arnold's ganglia sympathetic. Branches - Large, small, external petrosal, tympanic, chorda tympani, posterior atiricular, muscular (to stylo-hyoid & posterior belly of digastric), temporo- cervico-facial. Auditory or Portio Mollis of the 7th - "From foor of A^th ventricle, its fibres of origin forming the lineie transversa:, and also from the restiform body & perhaps from pons Varolii. - Divides into vestibular & cochlear nerves. GlOSSO-pharyngeal - From lateral tract of medulla oblongata above pneumogastric. Presents two ganglia in anterior or inner part of jugular foramen, the superior or jugular, and the inferior or petrous. Anastomoses - With pneumogastric & facial, and through Jacobson's nerve with carotid plexus and great 6^ small petrosal nerves. Bkanches - Tympanic,carotid,pharyngeal)7nuscular (to stylo-pharyngeus & constric tors), tonsillar^ lingual. Pneumogastric - From lateral tract of medulla oblongata belozv glosso-pharyngeal above spinal accessory. - Presents two ganglia,- superior or jugular, small, rounded, situated in jugular foramen,- infei-ior or petrosal, large, cylindrical, situated below the foramen. Anastomoses - With facial^ the tivo other branches of the %th, hypoglossal, sympathetic^ loop between the two first cervical nerves. Blanches - Auricular,pharyngeal, superior lary^tgeal, inferior or recurrent lajyngeal^ cardiac, pulmonary, oesophageal &' gastric. Spinal Accessory - ACCESSORY POETION - From lateral tract of medulla oblongata helo%o pneumogastric. Joins pneumogastric, and assists in forming the pharyngeal, superior & inferior laryngeal branches of the latter. SPINAL POETION ~ From lateral column of the cord as low as ^th or Qth cervical nerves. - Enters skull through foramen magnum, leaves it through jugular fora- men in same sheath as pneumogastric, and supplies under surface of trapezius hypoglossal " From groove between anterior pyramid & olivary body by ten or twelve filaments, which form two bundles. Leaves skull through anterior condyloid foramen. Anastomoses - Witk fneumogastric, sympathetic, two first cervical nerves & gustatory. BRANCims - Descendens noni, muscular (to thjro- & genio-hyoid), (to stylo- glossus, hyo-glossus, genio-hyo-glossus So stibstance of the tongue).