183 FACIAL N. or PORTIO DURA of the 7th PAIR. Arises from upper part of lateral tract of medulla oblongata in groove hetweeti olivary & restiform bodies. — Its deep origin is from a grey nucleus on floor of 4th ventricle & from nucleus of motor root of 5th nerve, and also, by its accessory portion or portio intermedia of Wrisberg, from lateral column of cord. Through internal auditory meatus with portio mollis, lying in a groove upon the latter and portio intermedia of Wrisberg lying between tha two. Through aqueductus Fallopii, in which runs outwards, backwards, downwards: - between cochlea and vestibule to hiatus Fallopii, where presenta geniculate ganglion or intumescentia gangliformis. Backwards - in inner wall of tympanum above fenestra ovalis. Downwards - to stylo-mastoid foramen. Forwards in substance of parotid gland crossing external carotid artery, and divides behind ramus of jaw into temporo-facial & cervico-facial branches, forming pes anseriQUS. Its branches may be divided into branches of communication & branches of distribution. BRANCHES OP COMMUNICATION -Arej In Meatus Auditorius Internus: One or two filaments to Auditoey N, In Aqueductus Fallopii; Large Petrosal N.-to Meckel's ganglion, and supplies levatorpalati&• azygos uvula ; Small Petrosal N. - to Otic ganglion, and supplies tensor palati 6r> tensor tympani, Ext. Petrosal N. - to sympathetic on middle meningeal artery. After Exit from Stylo-mastoid Foramen: Branches to: Glosso-pharyngeal, Pneumogastric & Carotid Plexus - Arise from posterior auricular nerve & from nerves to stylo-hyoid & posterior belly of digastric. Auriculo-temporal - From temporo-facial branch. Great Auricular - From posterior auricular & cervico-facial branches. On the Face: The terminal filaments join with the three divisions of the Fifth N. BRANCHES OF DISTRIBUTION - Are? In Aqueductus Fallopii: TYMPANIC BR. - To stapedius laxator tympani; CHORDA TYMPANI - Enters tymp. between membr. tympani & base of pyramid| Between handle of malleus & long process of incus. Through canal of Huguier on inner side of Glaserian fissure j Joins gustatory nerve between the two pterygoid muscles; To submaxillary ganglion & lingualis superior. After Exit from Stylo-mastoid Foramen: POST. AURICULAE. N. - Over mastoid process to integument and retrahens anrem & posterior belly of occipito-frontalis, and anastomoses with auricn- laris magnus & posterior auricular branch of pneumogastrio. BBS. TO STYLO-HYOID & POST. BELLY of DIGASTRIC - Arise in common, and join, the former with carotid plexus, the latter with glosso-pharyngeal. On the Face: TEMPORO-FACIAL BR. - The larger. Anastomoses with auriculo-temporal, and divides into temporal^ malar dr* infraorbital branches. OEBrVICO-FACIAL - The smaller. Anastomoses with great auricular, and divides. into buccal, supramaxillary inframaxillary branches These terminal branches of the facial nerve supply all the muscles of expression of the face & the platysma, and anastomose with the ophthalmic, superior & infprior maxillary nerves and with the, great aurionlar