52 MUSCULO-SPIRAL & CIRCUMFLEX NERVES. MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE The largest branch of brachial plexus. Arises from posterior cord in common with circumflex, and lies at first behind 3rd part of axillary artery & upper part of brachial. Downwards & outwards in front of tendons of teres major & latissimus dorsi, and in spiral groove with superior profunda artery. Between brachialis anticus & supinator longus to front of external condyle, where it divides into radial & posterior interosseous nerves. Its branches are: iCtluSCUlail!' - To triceps, anconeus, brachialis anticus, supinator longus, ex- tensor carpi radialis longior. Cutaneous - Three, small, one internal, two external; to integument of inner & posterior, and of outer & anterior aspects of arm, and of outer aspect of fore-arm. RADIAL NERVE - The smaller. Down front of outer side of fore-arm beneath supinator longus, lying on outer side of radial artery, which artery is distant from it in upper third & close to it in middle third. Winds outwards & backwards beneath tendon of supinator longus about three inches above wrisfc, pierces deep fascia, and divides into branches : External - The smaller. To outer side & ball of thumb j joins with posterior branch of external cutaneous. Ikttebnal - The larger. To integument, & remainder df 3J fingers on outer side of hand j joins with external cutaneous & with dorsal cutaneous branch of ulnar. - Adjoining sides of middle & ring fingers may be supplied by same nerve, which may be either the radial or the ulnar, POSTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS NERVE - The larger. Through substance of supinator brevis to back of fore-arm. Between superficial & deep muscles of posterior aspect of fore-arm, supplying them all except anconeus, supinator longus, & extensor carpi radialis longior. Beneath extensores seoundi internodii poUicis & communis digitorum to back of carpus, where it becomes ganglionic and supplies articulations of wrist. CIRCUMFLEX NERVE From posterior cord of brachial plexus in common with musoulo-spiral. Downwards & outwards behind axillary artery in front of subsoapalaris. Backwards, with posterior circumflex vessels, through quadrilateral space bounded by teres major, teres minor, long head of triceps, & humerus. Gives off a small twig to shoulder-joint, and divides into: Superior Branch. - The larger. Round neck of humerus as far as anter- ior border of deltoid; supplies deltoid, and gives ofl" cutaneous filaments which perforate the muscle to integument over lower part of shoulder. Inferior Rranch. - The smaller Supplies teres minor, back ,art of deltoid, & integument over back of shoulder; has frequently a gangliform enlargement on branch to teres miaoK;