142 STRUCTURE of the TESTICLE & EPIDIDYMIS. STRUCTURE of the TESTICLE — Presents for examination: - THREE IMMEDIATE COVERINGS : — Tunica Vaginalis - "Vide Coverings of the testicle. Tunica Albuginea - Thick, dense, bluish-vehite, fibrous membrane, covered exter. nally by the tunica vaginalis propria except along the points of attach- ment of the epididymis & vas deferens, and reflected into the interior of the testicle along its posterior or upper border in tbe shape of au incom- plete vertical septum, the mediastinum testis or Corpus Highmorianum. This latter body supports the vessels & nerves and the excretory ducts of the testicle in their passage to or from the gland, and gives off numerous trabeculaD, which radiate towards the whole extent of the inner surface of the tunica albuginea, and inclose the numerous pyramidal spaces con- taining the lobules of the gland substance. Tunica VasCUloSa or Pia Mater Testis - Consists of a plexus of blood-vessels held together by delicate areolar tissue, and formed by the subdivision of the superficial set of brs. of the spermatic artery. Branches given off by this plexus, penetrate into the substance of the gland, supported by the trabecalse. PROPER SUBSTANCE or PARENCHYMA - Consists of numerous pyramidal lobules contained in the pyramidal spaces bounded by the trabeculae, and pre- senting a base directed towards the surface of the testicle and an apex directed towards the mediastinum. Of these lobules the central ones are the largest. The degree to which the lobules are isolated by the trabeculae is somewhat vari. able, hence the different estimates of their number, 250 (Berres), 400 (Krause). Each lohile consists of from one to three or more tubuli seminiferi, the number & the length of which tubuli has also been variously estimated,- 300, sixteen feet in length (Monro), 840, two feet & a quarter in length (Lautij). - The diameter of the tubuli is from to -j-i^ of an inch. They consist from without inwards of a delicate fibro-areolar coat, a basement membrane, and sometimes a layer of granular nucleated epithelium. The epithelium is absent, however, when the gland is particularly active; the tubuli are then filled witb-oells of different sizea without any regular arrangement, Th-Q tiibuli seminiferi commence towards the surface of tiie testicle, sometiraea by free coecal or blind extremities, but more commonly by anastomatic loops. They are exceedingly convoluted in the peripheral part of the gland ; their convolutions are of two orders, viz., a fine & regular undulation giving a granular appear, ance to the whole of their mass, and a more complicated folding' of the undulating tube. Towards the apices of the lobules they become straighter, and they coalesce into from twenty to thirty straight tubes the vasa recta^ which are from -^^^ to Jg .) of an inch in diameter. The vasa recta enter the mediastinum, and passing upwards & backwards, they form within that body a network of anastomosing tubules, the rete testis or rete vasculosum testis. ,, The rete testis is continued superiorly into from twelve to fifteen or twenty vasa efferentia The vasa efferentia perforate the tunica albuginea at the upper & back part of the testicle. In their extra-testicular course, which is about 6 or 8 inches long, they are at first straight & relatively wide, but they soon become convoluted & slightly narrowed, and form a series of conical masses, the coni vasculosis which latter constitute together the globus major of the epididymis. They are lined with ciliated epithelium. The excretory ducts of the testicle open finally into the commencement ol the canal of the epididymis at apparently narrow intervals, which intervalsp however, are seen, when the canal of the epididymis is unravelled, to measure fronj two to thrge inches in length- STRUCTURE of the EPIDIDYMIS —The epididymis consists of a single tube about , , . twenty feet long, by which the tubuli seminiferi open into the vas deferens. Itfi is at first veiy thin & exceedingly convoluted, and of a diameter of about of inch. It diminishes a little in size for a short distance, but it soon increases con- siderably, the thickness of its walls increasing also, and its course becoming less ^ tortuous. A little fine areolar tissue binds its convolutions together, thicker septa being interposed between the larger masses of coils termed lobes, which latter arajj' mostly transverse in direction. The epithelium of the canal of the epididymis is' ciliated (Becker, Kolliker). - The Vas aberrans of Haller (Vide spermatic cord) is' usually concected either with the oaual of the epididymis or with the commence- ■ ment of the vas deferens. \