252 STRUCTURE of the HEART-lst Tablet. Presents for examination the fibrous rings of the arterial & auriculo-ventricular openinga, and the muscular fibres. Tl BROUS RINGS — The aortic & the two auriculo-ventricular rings lie close together behind the centre of the sternum on a level with the 3rd costal cartilages, and are bound together by a fibro-cartilaginous mass which becomes ossified in some of the larger animals. - The aortic ring lies ia front of the left auriculo-ventricular; the right auriculo-ventricular ring lies between, & to the right of, the two others. - The fibrous ring of the pulmonary artery is situated at the apex of the infundibulam opposite the upper border of the 3rd costal cartilage of the left side close to the sternum. These rings give attachment to the mitral .tricuspid & semilunar valves, to the muscular fibres of the auricles, and to some of the most superficial fibres of the ven- ti'icles. The margin of the arterial rings which is turned towards the auricles, is scalloped into three semilunar notches filled up by corresponding projections of the middle coat of the artery, the attachment of the arteries to the rings being strength- ened externally by the pericardium and internally by the endocardium. MUSCULAR FIBRES — -A-re striated, but are about | smaller than those of striated mus- cles generally, and their striation is not so distinct. They divide and anastomose with each other, and they often contain fat cells. Their perimysium is but scanty. Fibres of the Auricles - ■A^i'Q mostly transverse, superficial, & common to both auricles; some however lie deeper, and are proper to each auricle. SuPEKFiCJAL, Teaksveese, OR CoMMON FIBRES - Surrouud mainly the base of the sinuses, and are most marked anteriorly. Some dip into the inter- aurioular septum. Deei' OR Proper Fibres - May be divided into: Looped Fibres - Arch over each auricle from before backwards, and are at- tached to the auriculo-ventricular rings both in front & behind. Annular Fibres - Encircle the appendices aurioulse, and the venae cavge, pul- monary & coronary veins, extending for some distance upon the veins. Fibrss of the Ventricles - Vi<i© aext Tablet.