137 THE BEOTUM. Coramences opposite left Bacro-illao synchondtosia. Passes downwards & to the riglit to middle, or to a little to the right of middle, of third piece of saonam. Curves forwards upon concavity of sacrum & coccyx, regaining middle line if latter has been passed. Inclines downwards & backwards to amw. Is smooth & cylindrical, not sacculated; about 8 inches long. Rather narrower above than sigmoid flexure, but it increases as it descends, and is greatly dilated just above anus. - Divided into three parts: UPPER PART — From sacro-iliao synchondrosis to middle, or to a little to the right of middle, of third piece of sacrum j about 4 inches long. Almost completely surrounded by meso-reotum. Separated by small intestine from bladder, in the male, & from uterus & vagina, in the female J and connected inferiorly with latter organs by the folds of peritoneum which form margins of recto-vesical & recto-vaginal pouches respectively. Rests upon pyriformis muscle & sacral plexus of left side. Has to its left side left ureter & branches of left internal iliac artery. MIDDLE PART — From middle of third piece of sacrum to tip of coccyx; about 3 inches long. Covered by peritoneum in front & at sides above, in front only towards middle, not at all below. In relation below & in front with: In the Male - Triangular portion of base of bladder, vesioulse seminales & vasa deferentia, and under surface of prostate. In the Female - Middle part of posterior wall of vagina, to which it is closely adherent. LOWER PART — From tip of coccyx to anus j about an inch in length. Invested by the internal & external sphincters & by the levatores ani. Separated by a triangular space, the perinasum, from membranous portion of urethra & bulb, in the male, from vagina, in the female. STRUCTURE — Presents: Serous Coat - Covers upper & middle parts of rectum, the former almost comple- tely, the latter in front & at sides above, in front only towards middle, not at all below. Muscular Coat - Very thick; consists of fibres: External Longitudinal - Form a thick uniform layer all round intestine. Internal Cieculae - Are most numerous at lower end of rectum, where they form internal sphincter Cellular Coat - Forms a loose connection between the muscular & mucous coats. Mucous Membrane - Thick, very vascular, freely movable upon muscular coat. Presents; Longitudinal Folds - Most marked below; due to contraction of sphincter and disappear on distention. Peemanent Transverse Folds, or Folds op Houston - Three principal ones, semilunar, sometimes half an inch in depth, situated at upper part on right side, near middle of rectum on left side, and at front part opposite base of bladder. Vessels & Nerves - Arteries. From superior, middle & inferior hoemorrhoidalj they form a rich network beneath & within mucous membrane, the meshes of which network are mainly longitudinal in lower part of rectum, and connected opposite anus, by large transverse branches (Quain).-Veins Also mainly longitudinal near anus; open partly into internal iliacs & partly into inferior mesenteric. - Lymphatics. Open into glands in hollow of sacrum, or into lumbar glands. - Nerves. From sacral plexus, 4th •acral & inferior hoemorrhoidal nerves, and from inferior mesenteric & bjrpogastric plexuses. 18a