115 CCELIAC AXIS. Short thick trunk, from front of aorta between pillars of diaphragm. Forwards above pancreas and between lobns Spigelii & right semilunar ganglion on the right, and left semilunar ganglion & cardiac end of stomach on the left, for about half an inch,' and divides into; GASTRIC, OR CORONARIA VENTRICULI - The smallest. Upwards and to the left to cardiac orifice of stomach. Along lesser curvature between layers of lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum to pylorus, where inosculates with pyloric branch of hepatic; gives branches to both sur- faces of stomach. HEPATIC - Intermediate in size in the adult j the largest in the foetus. Upwards and to the right in front of foramen of Winslow, between the two layers and along right border of lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum, - ductus communis choledochus lying to the right, and the vena portee behind, - and divides in transverse fissure of liver into two branches, which accompany divisions of vena portse & hepatic duct to right & left lobes. Gives off branches Pyloric - To pylorus, and along lesser curvature, inosculating with gastric. Gastro-duodenalis - Large ? downwards behind duodenum, and divides into: Gastro-epiploica dextra - Along greater curvature of stomach between layers of great omentum, giving branches to both surfaces of stomach and to omentum, and inosculates with gastro-epiploica sinistra. Pancreatico-duodenalis Superior - Descends between pancreas and duo- denum and anastomoses with inferior pancreatico-duodenalis, a branch of superior mesenteric. Cystic - Arises from right division. - Upwards to neck of gall bladder, and ramifies on its under surface, and between it & liver. SPLENIC - The largest. Tortuous course to the left behind upper border of pancreas and above splenic vein, and divides into numerous branches which enter hilum of spleen. - Gives off: Pancreaticse parvse - Numerous, small. Pancreatica magna - From left to right along posterior surface of pancreas. Vasa brevia - From five to seven in number; between layers of gastro-splenic omentum to splenic end of stomach. Gastro-epiploica sinistra-Along greater curvature of stomach between layers of great omentum, giving branches to both surfaces of stomach & to omentum, and inosculating with gastro-epiploica dextra.