145 THE PROSTATE GLAND. Is a pale firm glandular structure of about the size & shape of a horse-chesnut, situated beneath the trigonum vesicae and around the neck of the bladder & commencement of the urethra; below and behind the symphysis pubis & the pubo-prostatic ligaments or anterior tru» ]iga. ments of the bladder; above & in front of the second part of the rectum and the-point of decussation of those anterior or inner fibres of the levator ani which form the levator prostatas; between the two lateral halves of the posterior or ascending layer of th.e deep porineeal fascia or triangular ligament, and between the two lateral halves of the ascending portion of the recto-vesical layer of the pelvic fascia. It measures normally from 1^ to inches in its antero-posterior diameter, If inches in its greatest transverse diameter (Sir H. Thompson), and about f of an inch in depth; these measurements undergo, however, great variations in old persons, who are frequently the subjects of enlarged prostate. St consists of two lateral lobes separated behind by a deep notch, and of a third or middle lobe which is normally but a small rounded or triangular mass fitted in between the two lateral lobes in the under part of the organ, ard lying between the ejaculatory ducts immediately beneath the neck of the bladder. The degree of development of this middle lobe, is however, very variable, it being often much enlarged in advanced life, and then pro- jecting into the neck of the bladder so as to impede the passage of urine. Cfc presents for examination: BAS£j — Directed backwards & upwards towards the trigonum vesicae & the neck of the bladder, and notched posteriorly. APEX — Passes downwards & forwards between the posterior or ascending layers of the deep perinaeal fascia or triangular ligament. UPPER SURFACE — Covered by and connected to the pubo-prostatic ligaments or ant. true ligaments of the bladder and the front part of the recto-vesical layer of the pelvic fascia. Is situated about | of an inch below & behind the symphysis pubis, and presents a slight longitudinal furrow. UNDER SURFACE — Rests upon the lower part of the second portion of the rectum (just opposite the bend between the second & third portions), a process of the recto- vesical layer of the pelvic fascia being interposed between the two organs. Presents a slight depression, or sometimes two converging grooves which correspond to the ejaculatory ducts and which demarcate the central lobe. LATERAL SURFACES — Covered by the layers of fascia above mentioned, by those anterior or inner fibres of the levatores ani which go to form the levator prostatas, and by fche reflections of the peritoneum from the bladder to the sides of the pelvis which reflections form the lateral false ligaments of the bladder. It is perforated by the urethra, which usually lies nearer its Upper than its lower surface, and also by the ejaculatory ducts which pass forwards & inwards through the lower part of the gland along the side of the verumontanum, and terminate by a slit-like opening upon or within the margins of the vesicula prostatica or sinus pocularis. STHUCTUHEj — Structurally the prostate presents: Fibrous Capsule — Distinct from the fibrous investment derived from the two halves of the posterior or ascending layer of the deep perinaeal fascia & from the recto-vesical layer of the pelvic fascia, and separated from these by prosta- tic plexus of veins. It sends off fibrous prolongations into the interior of the gland. Glaildular Subtance — Consists of follicular pouches which are grouped around, and open into, numerous elongated canals, by the junction of which from twelve to twenty excretory ducts are formed; these open into the prostatic sinus on the floor of the prostatic portion of the urethra. Muscular Fibres — Are abundant in the fibrous capsule. The urethra is surroun- ded, as it passes through the prostate, by a thick layer of circular fibres con- tinuous behind with the fibres of the sphintt^jefr vesicsd, and in front with those of the membranous portion of the urethra. Vessels & Nerves ^ Arteries are derived from the internal pudic, vesical & middle hssmorrhoidal. Veins form an important plexus around sides & base of prostate i they receive in front the dorsal vein of the penis, aud open bahind into internal iliac vein. Lymphatics r&mify on the outer snr^e of the capsule. Nerves are derived from hypogastric plexus. 19