44 BADIAL ARTERY The smaller branch of bifarcation of brachial half an inch below bend of elbow or opposlio ■ neck of radina. Down front of outer side of forearm to a little to inner side of styloid process of radius. Round outer side of carpus beneath extensor tendons of thumb. Through upper part of first interosseous space between the two heads of abductor indicis. Over bases of metacarpal bones & interossei, and beneath flexor tendons, lumbrioales & nerves to base of 5th metacarpal bone, where inosculates with communicating branch of ulnar, forming deep palmar arch. Lies a finger's breadth above level of superficial palmar arch. RELATIONS in FOREARM: In Feont - Skin, superficial fascia, deep fascia, supinator longua. Behind - Tendon of biceps, supinator brevis, pronator radii teres, flexor sublimift digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, pronator quadratua, lower end of radius. On Outer Side - Supinator longus, radial nerve in middle third. On Inner Side - Pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis. BRANCHES: IN FOREARM: Hadiail recurrent — From upper part. Between brachialis anticus A supinator lon« gus, and anastomoses with interosseous recurrent & suj^erior profunda. Muscular — Numerous, to muscles on either side. Ant. carpal — From lower part. Joins with anterior carpal branch of ulnar beneath deep flexor tendons; gives twigs to articulations of carpus. Superficialis V0I33 — From termination of artery in forearm. Small, and ends in mascles of thumb j or of more considerable size, and joins with & com- pletes superficial palmar arch. ON BACK OF WRIST : Post, carpal — Over back of carpus beneath extensor tendons. Joins with posterior carpal branch of ulnar to form posterior carpal arch, which anastomoses with termination of anterior interosseous artery of forearm, and gives off: Dorsal Interosseous Arteries op Third & Fourth Spaces - Anastomose at upper part of interosseous spaces with perforating branches of deep palmar arch. - Are usually exhausted in sheaths of tendons, interossei & integument over back of first phalanges, but are sometimes larger than usual, and are then prolonged upon dorsum of fingers in the shape of dorsal digital branches similar to those of thumb & outer side ot index, and of toes. Metacarpal, or Dorsal Interosseous Art. of Second Space — Arises be. neath extensor tendons of thumb, sometimes in common with posterior car- pal, and is similar to, but larger than, the foregoing interosseous arteries. Correspond together to a first dorsal interosseous artery, Dorsales pollicis r The former supplies dorsal digital branches to both sides of back x\ -IS z^jz: 1 of thumb, the latter forms the dorsal digital branch of outer side Dorsalis mdicis 3 ofbao]jofin^ex. IN PALM or HAND "^ Correspond together to a first palmar interosseone artery, j/rmceps pollicis f The former supplies palmar digital branches to both sides of . J. . { front of thumb, the latter forms the palmar digital branch of KadiallS mdlClS 3 outer side of front of index. Perforating — Three. Through upper part of three inner interosseous spaces, and anastomose with corresponding dorsal interosseous arteries. Deep palmar interosseous — Usually three or four, but very variable in size & number. Descend in front of interosseous spaces, join with superficial pal. mar interosseous branches from superficial palmar arch, and then bifurcate to form palmar digital branches to 3^ fingers on inner side of hand