250 INTERIOR of the HEART. RIGHT SIDE. Is larger in its auricular portion, and has thinner walls than the left. AURICLE — Divided into: Appendix Auriculse - Narrow indented pouch, which overlaps the arch of the aorta, and presents on its inner surface the musculi pectinatit which extend somewhat into the sinus. Sinus - The central cavity; presents: - Opening of the Superior Vena Cava - Somewhat smaller than that of the inferior cava; situated at the upper & front part; looks down- wards & forwards, and has near it the Tubercle of Lower — Small eminence, scarcely visible in man, situated on ri(?ht wall of auricle between the two vense cavse. Opening gi- the Inferior Vena Cava - Somewhat larger than that of the superior cava; situated at the lower & back part near the septum ; looks upwards & inwards, and presents the Eustachian Valve - Semilunar in form with concave free, and convex at- tached margins; situated below the opening of the inferior vena cava between it & the auriculo-ventricular opening, and passes up- wards & to the left to the anterior margin of the annulus ovalis. Small in the adult. Contains a few muscular fibres. Opening op the Coronary Sinus - Situated below the opening of the inferior vena cava & the Eustachian valve. Presents the Coronary Valve or Valve of Thebesius. Foramina Thebesii - Some of which are the openings of the vense cordis minimae, while others are but small blind depressions. AuRicuLO.Ventricular Opening - With the tricuspid valve (Vide below). Foramen Ovale - In the foetus. Situated at the lower & back part of septum above opening of inferior vena cava; replaced in adult by the Fossa Ovalis - Oval depression surrounded by a prominent circular rim, the Annulus Ovalis^ - and which often presents a small valvular open".ng at its upper part. VENTRICLE — Triangular in shape, and has much thinner walls than the left one. Prolonged upwards & to the left into the Infundibulum or Conns arteriosus. Presents: - Aueiculo-Ventricular Opening - Oval, broadest from side to side. Situated behind the centre of the sternum on a level with the 3rd costal car- tilages, on the right side of the aortic & left auriculo-ventricular openings. Guarded by the? Tricuspid Valve - Presents three triangular segments, which are attached superiorly to the margin of the auriculo-ventricular ring & laterally to each other, and of which the left one is the largest. They are formed by a central fibrous lamina attached superiorly to the fib- rous ring of the opening and covered by a duplicature of the endo- cardium. Their under surface & borders give attachment to the chordce tendinece. Opewing of the Pulmonary Artery - Situated at the apex of the conus arte- riosus opposite the upper border of the third costal cartilage of the left side close to the sternum. Guarded by the Semilunar Valves - Three; formed of fibrous tissue surrounded by a du- plicature of the endocardium, and present: Convex margin - Attached to the fibrous ring of the orifice; Free margin - Slightly concave, strengthened by a bundle of tendinous fibres, presenting in the centre a fibro-cartilaginous nodule, the corpus Arantii, and laterally two thin lunated portions, the lunulcs. Above the valves are three small pouches, the Sinuses of Valsalva. CoLUMNiE Carney - Three sorts, which are attached respectively by one side, by both extremities, by one extremity only, to the wall of the ven- tricle. The latter are the Musculi Papillares - Three or four j give origin to the Chorda Tendinece.