139 THE BLADDER. When Empty, - Is deeply situated behind pubes, in front of rectum, in the male, of uterus & vagina, in female, and is compressed from before backwards & triangular with base downwards ^ Moderately full, - Is rounded, and partly fills pelvis ; Distended^ - Becomes egg-shaped, curves slightly forwards, and rises into abdominal cavity some- times as high as umbilicus. In Female bladder is normally smaller, though sometimes larger through disten- tion, and is widest from side to side. In Children it is conical, and points up higher into abdomen. Presents: Ant, Surface - Destitute of peritoneum, and in relation with triangular ligament of urethra, pubes & pubo-prostatic ligaments, and with anterior wall of ab- domen in children, and also in adults when bladder is distended. Post. Surface - Covered by peritoneum, and separated by convolutions of small intestine from rectum in the male, and uterus in the female. Lateral Surfaces - Cross^ed towards their middle by obliterated hypogastric artery, below & behind by ureter, above & behind in male by vas deferens, which latter first crosses hypogastric artery externally, "and then passes between bladder & ureter. - Covered by peritoneum above & behind hypo- gastric artery, and rest below & in front on pelvic fascia. Apex - Connected to umbilicus by urachus & by obliterated hypogastric arteries, behind which it is covered by peritoneum. Base or Fundus - The enlarged part directed downwards & backwards. - In relation with In the Male - Second portion of rectum, upon which rests the part bounded by the recto-vesical fold of the peritoneum, the vesiculse sominales & vasa deferentia, and the prostate gland. — Is covered behind by peri- toneum, the recto-vesical fold descending to about four inches from the anus when the bladder is distended, and nearly reaching the prostate when the bladder is empty. In the Female - Anterior wall of vagina & lower part of cervix uteri. Neck - Directed downwards & forwards, and now known to be the lowest part of the bladder both in the male & female, when in the erect posture; is sur- rounded in the male by the prostate gland. LIGAMENTS of the BLADDER Are five true ligaments, and five false ones formed by peritoneum. TilU£j LIGAMENTS — Anterior & Lateral formed by pelvic fascia & Superior or Urachus, a remnant of allantois. ANT. OR PUBO-PROSTATIC LIGAMENTS — From back of pubes on either side of symphysis to front of neck of bladder & upper surface of. prostate. Contain a few muscular fibres passing to bladder, and are separated by a narrow groove containing dorsal vein of penis. LATERAL LIGAMENTS — Broad k thin; formed by recto-vesical layer of pel- vic fascia as it passes from upper surface of levator ani to capsule of pros- tate & side of bladd sr. URACHUS, OR SUP. LIGAMENT — Fibro-miiscular cord extending from apex of bladder, where it is wide & expanded, to umbilicus, where it is contracted and lost in umbilical cicatrix. Sometimes partly pervious, communicating with bladder, sometimes completely pervious forming umbilical urinary fistula. FALSE LrGAMENTS — Posterior, Lateral & Superior. POST. FALSE LIGAMENTS — The margins of the recto-vesical pouch of perito- neum in the male, of the utero-vesical pouch in the female, where they are much smaller. Contain the obliterated hypogastric arteries & ureters. LATERAL FALSE LIGAMENTS — From sides of pelvis to sides of bladder. SUP, FALSE JilGAMENT — Over urachus & obliterated hypogastric arteries to ambilions.