74 MUSCLES of L.OWER-4th Tablet. GLUTEAL REGION. Gluteus Maximus - Superior curved line on dorsum ilii & rough Burface between it & posterior fifth of crest of ilium ; sides of lower part of sacrum and coccyx & ten- dinous expansion over back of sacrum ; posterior surface of great sacro-solatio ligament. Fascia lata covering outer side of thigh, & rough line from great trochan- ter to linea aspera. - S. by inferior gluteal nerve. Gluteus Medius - Dorsum ilii between superior & middle curved lines & outer lip of crest between them ; fascia covering anterior part of the muscle. Oblique line on outer surface of great trochanter. - S. by superior gluteal nerve. Gluteus Minimus - Dorsum ilii between middle & inferior curved lines. Anterior border of great trochanter. - S. by superior gluteal nerve. Pyriformis - By three fleshy digitations from front of sacrum between first, second, third, & fourth anterior sacral foramina & from grooves leading from them; margin of great sacro-sciatic foramen & anterior surface of great sacro-sciatic ligament. Posterior part of upper border of great trochanter. - S. by one of the mas- cular Ipranches of sacral plexus. Obturator Internus - Whole of inner surface of true pelvis in front of and behind ob- turator foramen; inner surface of obturator membrane & fibrous arch which completes canal for obturator vessels & nerve. Upper border of great trochanter in front of pyriformis. - S. by one of the muscular branches of sacral plexus. Gemellus Superior - Outer surface of spine of ischium. Upper part of tendon of obturator internus. - S. by one of the muscular branches of sacral plexus. Gemellus Inferior - Upper part of outer Hp of tuberosity of ischium. Lower border of tendon of obturator internus. - S. by one of the muscular branches of sacral plexus. Quadratus Femoris - Outer border of tuberosity of ischium. Upper part of linea quadrati on back of great trochanter. - S. by one of the muscular branches of sacral plexus. Obturator ExternUS - inner two-thirds of outer surface of obturator membrane; cir- cumference of obturator foramen, and fibrous arch which completes canal for obturator vessels & nerve. Digital fossa of femur. - S. by obturator nerve.