72 EXTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE. The smaller of the two terminal branches of great soiatio. Along outer side of popliteal space close to biceps. Pierces peroneus longus an inch below head of fibula, and divides into anterior tibial & musculo-contaneous. Gives off branches: - Articular - Three; accompany the two external articular & the recurrent tibial arteries to knee-joint. Cutaneous - Two or three; supply integument of outer & back part of leg; one, the communicans fibularis, crossses outer head of gastroc- nemius, and joins the communicans tibialis to form external or short saphenous nerve (V. below). Anterior Tibial Nerve - Beneath extensor longus digitorum to front of interosseous; membrane; along outer side, in front of, and again along outer Bide of anterior tibial artery to front of ankle-joint. - Supplies muscles of front of leg, and divides into : External Branch - Beneath extensor brevis digitorum, which it supplies; becomes ganglionic, and supplies articulations of tarsus. Imtehnal Beanch - With dorsalis pedis artery along inner side of dorsum of foot; supplies adjoining sides of great & second toes, and joins with musculo-cutaneous. MuSCUlo-CutaneonS Nerve - Between peronei muscles, which it supplies, and extensor longus digitorum; pierces deep fascia about lower third of front of leg, and divides into; Inteknal Branch - Supplies inner side of great toe, adjoining sides of 2nd & 3rd toes, & integument of inner side of foot; joins with internal saphenous & anterior tibial. External Branch - Supplies adjoining sides of 3rd, 4th, & 5th toes, and integ- ument of outer side of foot; joins with external or short saphenous. External Saphenous Nerve—Behind outer malleolus with external saphenous vein, and supplies integument of outer side of foot & little toe; joins with musculo-cutaneous. Is sometimes larger than usual, and then supplies both sides of little toe, and outer side of 4th, EXTERNAL or SHORT SAPHENOUS VEIN — Commences at outev side of arch on dorsum of foot. Accompanies external or short sap^nous nerve behind outer malleolus, along outer border of, & over, tendo Aobillis, and between the two heads of gastrocnemius; it then perforates deep fascia at lower part of popliteal space, and opens into the popliteal. It receives numerous branches from back of leg, and communicates with deep veins on dorsum of foot & behind external malleolus. It is provided with two valves, ore of which is always found near its termination.