124 PORTAL SYSTEM. PORTAL TRUNK — Formed by junction of splenic* superior mesenteric veins behind upper border of head of pancreas. Upwards & to the right in right or free border of lesser or gastro-hepatio omentum, lying between & behind hepatic artery & bile duct, in front of foramen of Winslow. Expands near right extremity of transverse fissure of liver into the sinus of the portal vein, and divides into right branch, the larger & shorter, and left branch, the smaller & longer; which branches ramify in portal canals with branches of hepatio artery, bile ducts, deep lymphatics, & nerves. (For distribution of portal vein in the liver and its continuation into the hepatic veins, vide Structure of Liver). - Receives veins: Gastric Cystic - The former runs from cardia to pylorus; the latter frequently opens into right branch of portal vein. Splenic Vein - Arises by five or six branches of considerable size, which emerge from bilum of spleen and join to form one large trunk, which trunk takes a straight course from left to right behind upper border of pancreas, below splenic artery, and, at upper border of right extremity or head of pancreas, joins with superior mesenteric to form the portal trunk. Receives veins: Inferior Mesenteric (Vide below), Vasa Brevia, Left Gastro-Epiploie^ Pancreatic dr' Pancreatico-Duodenal, Superior JVCesenteric Vein - Arises from area of distribution of superior mesenteric artery, (small intestine, coecum, ascending portion &• right half of trans- verse portion of colon), its branches corresponding to those of the artery. Its trunk lies to the right & a little in front of the artery, and passes with it in front of transvei'se portion of duodenum & behind pancreas, and, at upper border of head of pancreas, joins with splenic vein to form the portal trunk. Inferior Mesenteric Vein - Arises from area of distribution of inferior mesen- teric arteiy (upper part of rectum, sigmoid flexure, descending portion & loft half of transverse portion of colon), - its superior hsemorrhoidal branch anastomosing with the middle & inferior hsemor- rhoidal branches of the internal iliac & pudic, and thus establishing an important communication between the portal «& general venous systems, which communication is supplemented, according to Kiernan, by communications between the right renal vein & the veina of the ascending colon (fc duodenum, and by communications in the coronary ligament of the liver between the phrenic & the superficial branches of the portal vein. Ascends beneath peritoneum and behind transverse portion of duodenum & pancreas, aud opens into splenicb The portal system contains no valves.