218 THE VERTEBEAL ARTERY Arises from upper & back part of first portion of subclavian. Upwards & backwards to foramen in transverse process of 6th cervical vertebra, passing behind vasculo-nervous bundle of the neck and more particularly behind inferior thyroid artery & internal jugular vein, and then between scalenus anticus & longus colli. Upwards through the series of foramina in the transverse processes as far as upper border of axis with the vertebral vein and a plexus of the sympathetic, the artery lying between the vein which is in front, and the cervical nerves which emerge behind from the intervertebral foramina. Upwards & outwards to, and then tlirough, foramen in transverse process of atlas. Backwards & inwards behind lateral mass in groove on posterior arch of atlas, lying in the trian- gular space between the recti & obliqui muscles, and being crossed by the posterior branch of the suboccipital nerve and covered by the complexus Pierces posterior occipito-atloid ligament, and enters the skull through the foramen magnum. Winds round medulla oblongata between hypoglossal nerve and anterior root of suboccipital; ascends obliquely between anterior surface of medulla oblongata & basilar process, and joins its fellow opposite lower border of pons Varolii to form basilar trunk. BRANCHES — Are cervical & cranial. CERVICAL: Muscula<r - Several, small, to the deep muscles of the neck. Lateral Spinal - Through intervertebral foramina, and divide into t ^wif. ^ra;«<r^-To posterior surface of bodies of vertebrae; J'osi. Branch - To roots of nerves, cord & its membranes. . ^. CRANIAL: Posterior Meningeal - Two or three, small, to dura mater of cerebellar fossa. Posterior & Anterior Spinal - Arise respectively behind upper part of cord and in front of medulla. The two posterior descend behind the roots of the spinal nerves; The two anterior unite into a single trunk, which descends along middle line of cord. Both join with, and are reinforced by, the numerous spinal branches derived from the vertebral, ascending cervical, inferior thyroid, the intercostal, lumbar, ilio-lumbar and lateral sacral; and are thus each of them con- tinued as small tortuous vessels, or rather as a series of inosculating vessels, down to the extremity of the cord, where they resolve into twigs to Cauda equina. Posterior Inferior Cerebellar - Backwards round medulla between pneumo- gastric & spinal accessory nerves, and over restiform body to median fissure or valley on under surface of cerebellum. Grives off an offset to •under surface of cerebral hemisphere and twigs to choroid plexus of 4th ventricle.