THE HIP-JOINT. Is f^e typical euarthrodial articulation. ARTICULAR SURFACES: Acetabulum - Deep, hemispherical, further deepened in the fresh condition by the cotyloid & transverse ligaments. Looks downwards, outwards & forwards. Is divided into : Incomplete Articular Einq - Broadest above & behind, and deficient below & in front. Central Non-Akticular Depression - Continuous with cotyloid notch; lodges a mass of fat, which forms a bed for the round ligament. Head of Femur - Forms nearly two-thirds of a sphere, and, in the normal position of the limb, looks upwards, inwards & forwards. It presents a little below & behind its centre a small circular depression for attachment of ligamentum teres j near this depression the cartilage is thicker than elsewhere. LIGAMENTS -Are..- Capsular - Short & thick, especially above & in front; thinner & looser below & behind; some- times perforated beneath psoas. - It extends from Oufer lip of margin of acetabulum within two or three lines of the cotyloid ligament^ and^ opposite the cotyloid notch, from transverse ligament 6^ edge of obturator foramen to Anterior intertrochanteric line in front; base of neck offemtir, above; and, behind, to back of neck of femur, within about half an inch from lesser trochanter posterior intertrochanteric line. Ilio-Femoral or Accessory - A thickened band closely connected with front of capsule, which extends obliquely from Anterior inferior spine of ilium to Lower part of anterior intertrochanteric line. There are also several other accessory bands, viz., one on the outer side of the ilio-femoral termed the Ilio-trochanteric, one on the inner side of the ilio-femoral termed the Pubo-femoral; also a transverse band at the back of the joint. Round Ligament or Ligamentum Teres - Interarticular band about an inch long and of very variable strength & thickness, attached, on the one hand, to Depression a little below 6^ behind centre of head of femurs and on the other hand, dividing into two fasciculi, to Margins of cotyloid notch', the two fasciculi blending with the transverse ligament. It conveys a few vessels to head of femur. Cotyloid - Incomplete fibro-cartilaginous ring triangular on section, presenting a base attached to margin of acetabulum, and a sharp free edge which closely embraces head of femur. It is thickest above & behind, and deficient opposite the cotyloid notch, where it is con. tinned into the transverse ligament. It consists of closely interlaced oblique fibres arising from the difi'erent points of the rim of the bone. Transverse - strong flattened band, a continuation of the foregoing, which extends from one side of the cotyloid notch to the other, transforming it into a complete foramen. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE — Invests whole of anterior surface & greater part of posterior sur. face of ueck of femur, cotyloid ligament, mass of fat at bottom of acetabulum, & ligamentum teres. - It communicates sometimes through a small opening in the capsule with the bursa beneath psoas & iliacus. VASCULAR & NERVE SUPPLY — From obturator, sciatic & internal circumflex arteries, and from great sciatic, obturator & accessory obturator nerves. MOVEMENTS — -^I'e flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, rotation & circumduction. - Flexion is freer then extension: the thigh can be brought forwards till it touches the ab- domen, but it cannot be carried backwards to anything like the same extent. Flexion, in fact, is scarcely interfered with by the posterior part of the capsule, which is thin & loose ; exten- sion, on the contary, is soon arrested by the ilio-femoral ligament and by the anterior part of the capsule, which is short & thick. - Of the two lateral movements abduction is the freest; it is checked by the action of the pubo-femoral band. Adduction is checked mainly by the two limbs coming in contact, but also partly by the action of the ilio-trochanteric band. When however flexion & adduction are combined, so that one limb passes in front of the other, the double movement may be carried very far; it is at last arrested, by the action of the round ligament. The round liga- ment is also tensed when flexion & abduction are combined and carried to a considerable extent, and when the limb is rotated outwards. Rotation inwards is freer than rotation outwards (rotation being measured from the inter, mediate position which the foot normally occupies in standing) ; this is partly due to the greater laxity of the capsule behind than in front, and partly also to the direction forwards both of the head of the femur & of the acetabulum. Rotation takes place round an imaginary line extending from the head of the femur to the centre of the knee-joint. - Circumduction, as all other movements generally, is much less free in the hip than in the sholder-joint. The weight of the limb at the hip-joint is normally supported by atmospheric pressure : - In consequence of the complete exclusion of air from the joint through the accurate adapta- tion of the cotyloid & transverse ligaments to the head of the femur, the latter is firmly re- tained in the acetabulum even after all the soft parts around the joint have been divided; if air be allowed to penetrate into the ioint through a perforation of the acetabulum from withiD, tie limb will immediately drop.