127 BRANCHES of the ABDOMINAL AORTA. Inferior Phrenic - Two. Arise separately or by a common trunk either trom coeliao axis,or from aorta immediately above the latter. Upwards and outwards behind oesophagus on left side, behind vena cava on risfht side, to central tendon of diaphragm, and divide into; Internal Branch - To front part of diaphragm communicating with its fellow & with musculo-phrenio External Branch - To side of thorax, communicating with intercostals. Gives off small stiperior capsular branches to suprarenal capsule. Coeliac Axis - Yid j p. 115. Superior Mesenteric - "Vide p. 114. Suprarenal - Two. Small in adult, but in foetus as large as renal. To suprarenal capsuleSj anastomosing with capsular branches of phrenic & renal. Henal or Emulgent - Two. Large, from sides of aorta just below superior mesenteric. Nearly horizontally outwards behind renal vein, and divide, each of them, into four or five branches, which penetrate into hilum of kidney in front of pelvis. - Give ofl small injerior capsular branches to suprarenal capsule, and twigs to pelvis & ureter. Right artery passes behind inf. vena cava, is longer than left one, and lies a little lower. Renal arteries vary considerably in coincidence with variations of kidneys in situation, size, and number. - They may arise from front of aorta near its bifurcation, or from common or internal iliac; - they may divide into branches sooner than usual, or may be replaced by several arteries which arise separately from side of aorta J - one may be wanting, or there may be a supernumerary artery corres- ponding to a supernumerary kidney. Spermatic - Two; long & slender. From front of aorta a little below renal. Downwards and outwards beneath peritoneum to brim of pelvis crossing psoas & ureter and, on right side, inferior vena cava. Forwards in front of external iliac artery to internal abdominal ring, being crossed on right side by termination ot ileum, on left side by sigmoid flexure of colon. Through inguinal canal and down to back of testis with other constituents of spermatic cord, becoming tortuous near its termination, and giving twigs to epididymis, which twigs join with artery of vas deferens j pierces tunica albuginea to sub- stance of testis. t>V"ARIAN ARTERY - In female. Same course down to brim of pelvis, then passes down. wards & inwards to attached margin of ovary between layers of broad ligament of uterus; joins with uterine on side of uterus; gives branches to Fallopian tube and twigs to round ligament, which twigs are sometimes contuiued through in- gu nal canal to integument of labium & groin. Both these arteries are short during first part of foetal life, when testes & ovaries lie just below kidneys, and become elongated only when these organs descend into pelvis. Inferior Mesenteric - "Vide p. 144 Lumbar - Usually four; from back of aorta. Round bodies of lunbar vertebrae beneath psoas, the two upper ones passing also beneath pillars of diaphragm, and those of right side beneath inferior vena cava ; and divide between transverse processes into: Abdominal Branch - Behind quadratus lumborum (the lowest one sometimes in front), and between abdominal muscles, joining with epigastric, internal mammary, intercostals, ilio-lumbar & circumflex iliac. Dorsal Branch - Sends a spinal branch through intervertebral foramen to cauda equina & posterior surface of bodies of vertebrae, and passes backwards to muscles & integument of back. Sacra Media - Small; from back of aorta at point of bifurcation. Descends upon middle ofsac um, anastomosing with both lateral sacraL