272 PARTS SEEN on FLOOR of LATERAL VENTRICLE Are from before backwiardi . CORPUS STRIATUM — Large pear-shaped mass of grey matter embedded externally in white substance of frontal lobe. Presents: Ant. Extremity - Broad j projects into anterior part of body of lateral ventricle, forming part of its floor, and into anterior cornii of the same cavity. Post. Extremity - Narrow; passes backwards and outwards on outer side of optic thalamus. The corpus striatum is divided into two portions, the intra- & extra-ventricular, by a layer or stratum of ascending & diverging white fibres which form the peden or the corona radiata of Reil. Part of these fibres are derived from the inferior or fas- ciculated portion, and also from the upper part or tegmentum, of the crus cerebri; part of them originate in the corpus striatum. T^NIA SEMICIROULARIS —Whitish semi-transparent band of fibres, which descends an- teriorly in connection with anterior crus of fornix, and is lost posteriorly in descending cornu of lateral ventricle; it partly conceals the vena corporis striati. OPTIC THALAMUS — Large ovoid mass of grey matter white superficially, similar to corpus striatum, behind & internally to which it is situated, and similarly traversed by numerous ascending & diverging white fibres, which are partly derived from upper portion of eras cerebri, olivary fasciculus, fasciculus teres, processus e cerebello ad testes & corpoi-a quadri- gemina, and which partly originate in the thalamus. Presents: Ant. Extremity - Narrow, situated behind anterior crus of fornix; forms posterior boundary of foramen of Monro. Post. Extremity - Broad & rounded. Projects into descending cornu of lateral ventricle, and is continuous on inner side with tubercula quadrigemina. Upper Surface - Anteriorly it forms part of floor of lateral ventricle, and presents a slight elevation, the anterior tubercle; posteriorly it is covered by fornix, which rests upon it. Under Surface - Continuous with posterior rounded extremity. In its posterior part it forma roof of descending cornu of lateral ventricle, and presents two small eminences, the corpora genkulata internum et extermtm, which are connected respectively with inner & outer bands of origin of optic tract. In its anterior part it rests upon the crus cerebri, and is penetrated by the radiating fibres above mentioned. Inner Surface - Forms lateral boundary of 3rd ventricle. Is joined to its fellow by the middle, soft, or grey commissure, and presents inferiorly the grey matter of the interior of the thalamus uncovered by the white. The superior peduncle of the pineal gland sepa- rates this surface from the upper. Outer Surface - Continuous anteriorly with posterior narrow extremity of corpus striatum, and embedded posteriorly in white substance of temporo-sphenoidal lobe. CHOROID PLEXUS — The thick, convoluted & fringe-like margin of the velum interpositum. - Vide Velum interpositum. CORPUS FIMBRIATUM or TAENIA HIPPOCAMPI — The thin lateral margin of the posterior crus of the fornix. FORNIX — Triangular longitudinal lamella of white matter broad behind, narrow in front, situated below corpus callosum with which it is joined behind, and to which it is connected in front by septum lucidum; forms roof of third & posterior part of floor of both lateral ventricles. Presents: Body - Presents: .Swr/a^r^" - Joined behind with corpus callosum, and connected in front to the same by septum lucidum; forms posterior part of floor of both lateral ventricles. Under Surface - Marked posteriorly by a few transverse & anteriorly converging fibres, which form the lyra. Forms centrally the roof of 3rd ventricle; rests laterally upon optic thalami. Is covered by velum interpositum. Anterior Crura - Descend behind anterior white commissure & in front of optic thalamus, forming anterior boundary of foramen of Monro, and perforate grey substance of floor of 3rd ventricle to corpora albicantia, in which they twist upon themselves; they then ascend to corresponding optic thalamus. Posterior Crura - Diverge into the descending cornua of lateral ventricles, becoming continuous ■y^'ith inner border of hippocampus major. Their thin lateral margin is the corpus fim- briatum or tcenia hippocampi.