254 NEBVES of the HEAKT Are derived from the cardiac plexuses, which plexuses are formed by the cardiac branches of the sympathetic and of the pnemnogastric & recurrent laryngeal. CARDIAC NERVES — Are the three cardiac nerves of the sympathetic, the cervical- cardiac & the thoraciccardiac nerves of the pneumogastric, and the cardiac bran- ches of the recurrent laryngeal. CARDIAC NERVES OF THE SYMPATHETIC - Are three in number, supei'ior or superficial^ middle or great, &^ inferior, and arise normally from the cor- responding cervical ganglia. The; superior cardiac nerve, however, frequently arises partly from the communicating cord below the superior ganglion, and the inferior one partly from the first dorsal ganglion; when the middle ganglion is absent the middle cardiac nerve arises from the commiinicating cord between the superior & inferior ganglia. These nerves pass downwards & inwards to the base of the heart either singly or in con- nection with each other or with the other cardiac nerves, varying considerably in their relative size and in their precise relations to adjoining structures; when one of them is smaller than usual one of the others is increased in size. On the right side of the neck the superior &' the middle cardiac nerves pass downwards behind the common carotid artery, the former passing also in front of the inferior thyroid artery & recurrent laryngeal nerve. They then cross the subclavian artery either in front or behind, and descend tipon the trachea to the right side of the great or deep cardiac plexus. - On the left side the superior cardiac ne7've usually descends into the thorax between ^ in front ^the left co??tmon carotid left subclavian arteries and crosses anteriorly the arch of the aorta to the superfi' cial cardiac plexus ; sometimes however it lies deeper than usual and then passes "behind the aorta to the deep cardiac plexus. - The left middle cardiac nerve passes into the thorax between dr^ behind the left common carotid left subclavian arteries, and then descends behind the arch of the aorta to the left side of the deep cardiac plexus. The inferior cardiac nerve passes downwards & inwards to the deep cardiac plexus behind the subclavian artery, and also, on the right side, behind the innofninate. CARDIAC NS. of the PNEUMOGASTRIC & RECURR. LARYNGEAL Are divided into: Cervical Cardiac - Are divided into: Upper Cervical Cardiac - Small branches which join the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic. Lower Cervical Cardiac - One large branch which, on the right side, des- cends along the innominate artery and joins one of the cardiac nerves destined to the deep cardiac plexus, and, on the left side, crosses the arch of the aorta to the superficial cardiac plexus. Thoracic Cardiac - Arise on the right side both from the trunk of the pneumo. gastric & from its recurrent laryngeal branch, but on the left side from the recurrent branch only. They all go to the deep cardiac plexus either singly or in connection with the other deep cardiac nerves.