138 THE KIDNEY. Is situated in lumbar region behind peritoneum, and extends from 11th rib to near crest ol ilium, right kidney lying a little lower than left one. Presents: Ant. Surface - Convex, looking slightly outwards, covered at upper & outer part by peritoneum, and in relation with: On Eight Side - Eight lobe of liver, descending portion of duodenum, ascending colon. On Left Side - Tail of pancreas, lower end of spleen, descending colon. Post. Surface - Flat; rests upon 11th & 12th ribs, crus of diaphragm, psoas magnus, and anterior lamella of aponeurosis of transversalis, which latter separates it from quadratus lumborum. Sup. Extremity - Thick, rounded, directed inwards, covered by suprarenal capsule. Corres- ponds on left side to upper border, on right side to lower border, of 11th rib. Inf. Extremity - Smaller, flattened, directed outwards. Descends to near crest of ilium. Outer Border - Convex, directed backwards & slightly upwards. Inner Border - Concave, directed forwards & slightly downwards. Presents the hilum, a Ion- gitudinal fissure most marked behind, which leads into the sinusy and contains from before backwards renal vein, renal artery & ureter. The kidneys are subject to frequent VARIATIONS in: Form & Size - One or both being longer «& narrower, or shorter & more roun. ded; or one being more or less enlarged & the other proportionately diminished. Situation - One or both being situated lower down than usual, occasionally in the pelvis. Number - There being but one kidney sometimes of a horse-shoe shape & situa- ted in front of the vertebrae, or there being a supernumerary kidney. THE URETER. The excretory duct of the kidney commences in the Calicesj - small tubes from 7 to 13 in number, which embrace each of them one, two or more papillae, and join to form the Infundibula, - larger tubes usually three in number, which join to form the Pelvis - funnel §haped dilatation of upper part of ureter compressed from before backwards, and situated at lower & back part of hilum. The ureter passes: Downwards & inwards upon psoas, beneath peritoneum & spermatic vessels, and, on the right side, on right side of inferior vena cava; Over common or external iliac artery, being covered by termination of ileum on the right side, by sigmoid flexure of colon, on the left; Forwards & inwards,- In the Male - In posterior false ligament of bladder, and on outer side of vas deferens & below obliterated hypogastric artery. In the Female - In posterior ligament of uterus and over side of cervix uteri & upper part of vagina, - to posterior angle of trigonum vesicae, passing obliquely through walls of bladder for about f of an inch. It is from 16 to 18 inches long, and of about the diameter of a crow-quill. The oalices, infundibula, pelvis & ureter are formed of fibrous, muscular & mucous coats. The muscular coat consists, in the greater part of the ureter, of two longitudinal layers comprising an intermediate circular onej the epithelium of the mucoua coat is spheroidal