230 INNOMINATE VS. & SUP. VENA CAVA. INNOMINATE VEINS — Two large trnnks formed by junction of internal jugular A subclavian behind corresponding sterno-elaricular articulation, KIGHT INNOMINATE — An inch & a half long, some what smaller than the left, and nearly vertical. Lies superficial & external to innominate artery, and is separated externally from right lung by right phrenic nerve & pleura. Joins with left innominate just below cartilage of 1st rib to form superior cava. Receives; Right Lymphatic Duct - At its origin, in angle of junction between right subclavian vein & right internal jugular. Tributary Branches: - Right Vertebral^ internal Mammary^ Inferior Thy- roidi <Sr= Superior Intercostal. LEFT INNOMINATE — Three inches long, & somewhat larger than the right. Descends obliquely from behind left sterno-clavicular articulation to just below 1st costal cartilage of right side, lying in front of innominate, left common carotid & subclavian arteries, and behind sterno-hyoid & -thyroid muscles, remains of thymus gland, & sternumi. Receives Thoracic Duct - At its origin, in angle of junction between left subclav- ian yein & left internal jugular. Tributary Branches : Irft Vertebral, internal Mammary, Inferior Thyroid, Superior Intercostal, and sometimes some small Thymic Pericardiac Veins. - The innominate veins have no valves. SUPERIOR VENA CAVA — short thick trunk (21 to 3 inches long), slightly curved, & convex to the right. Descends vertically along right side of ascending portion of arch of aorta & in front of root of right lung from just below 1st costal cartilage of right side, enters fibrous bag of pericardium about an inch and a half above the heart, becomes invested anteriorly by serous layer on the same bag, and opens into upper & front part of right auricle; is separated externally froai right lung by right phrenic nerve & pleura, and its anterior relations are the same as those of the innominate. - Receives Tributary Branches; - Vena Azygos Major, and some small Pericardiac &» Mediastinal Veins. - Has no valves^