Ill PERITONEUM -1st Tablet, The peritoneum is by far the most; extensive & complex serous membrane of the body. To describe it completely it is neCsessary to trace: 1. - The two sacs separately in the vertical direction & in the middle line; 2. -The two sacs together in the veitiCal direction; 3. - The greater sac horizontally below the level of the umbilicus; 4. - The two sacs together horizontally above the level of the umbilicus, or through the foramen of Winslow; 5. - The ligaments formed by the peritoneum, and the omenta & mesenteries. Along the colon & upper part of the rectum the peritoneum is thrown into numerous pendu- lous processes filled with adipose tissue and termed the appendices epiploicaa. THE TWO SACS SEPARATELY. THE GREATER SAC. Starting from umbilicus the peritoneum passes { - Over anterior wall of abdomen & diaphragm; Over upper surface of liver, forming suspensory or falcifornt ligament &* upper layer of Over under surface of liver to transverse fissure; coronary ligament, To lesser curvature of stomach & first portion of duodenum, forming anterior layer Over anterior surface of stomach; ^ 'f^''''^ or gastro-hepatic omentum , Downwards in front of intestine, forming anterior layer of great omentum ; Upwards to transverse colon, forming posterior layer of great omentum ; Over under surface of transverse colon ; To spine, forming inferior layer of transverse meso-colon & covering under surface of transverse portion of duodenum ; (In the foetus, also occasionally in the child, and evei?, though very rarely in the adult, the layer of peritoneum which continues the posterior layer of the great omentum ascends in front of the transverse colon without adhering to it, or adhering to it but slightly, and then passes backwards to the spine a^ove the transverse 'neso-colon. The transverse meso-colon is then formed by the peritoneum again passing forwards from the spine to the transverse colon, sur- rounding the latter, artd for the secojid time passing backwards to the spine. The pouch between the transverse meso-colon & the posterior layer of the great omentum subsequently disappears by degrees, adhesions amounting finally to complete fusion of the two layers into one, beiug established between the two walls of the pouch before adult age is reached). Along superior mesenteric artery, round small intestine and back to spine, forming Downwards in front of spine & Aorta; mesentery; Over upper part of rectum, forming meso-recium; Forwards: In Male : - To bladder, forming posterior false ligaments of bladder 6>» recto- vesical pouch ; In Female : - To vagina & uterus, ^orrcm^^ posterior ligaments of uterus & recto- vaginal pouch', and then over uterus «& from uterus to bladder, forming anterior ligaments of uterus & utero-vesical pouch; Over bladder and from bladder to anterior wall of abdomen; Up to umbilicus, covering urachus & obliterated hypogastric a,rterie3. THE LESSER SAC, or SAC of the OMENTUM. Begins at the foramen of Winslow, Foramen of Winslow - is a constriction of the peritoneum bounded by; In Front - Lesser omentum containing first part of duodenum, hepatic artery, bile duct & portal vein j Behind - Right crus of diaphragm & inferior vena cava; Above - Lobus Spigelii of liver (or rather 1obns caudatus) } Below - Hepatic artery as it passes forwards from Aorta. From this point the peritoneum passes: - Downwards to lesser curvature of stomach, forming posterior layer of lesser or gastro- O^er posterior surface of stomach; hepatic omentum. Downwards in front of intestine and then upwards, forming the two internal layers of Over upper surface of transverse colon ; ^^^(^^ omentum ; To spine, forming upper layer of transverse meso-colon ; Over pancreas; To under surface of liver, forming inferior layer of coronary ligament, and over posterior part of under surface of liver to foromeu of Wissloi?.