240 CORONARY or CARDIAC VESSELS. CORONARY OR CARDIAC ARTERIES — Two. From uppsr part of the bulgings corresponding to the two anterior sinuses of Valsalva just above free margin of semi- lunar valves. Left or Anterior - The smaller. Forwards & to the left between pulmonary artery & left auricular appendix, and divides into branches: Horizontal - The smaller; along left auriculo-ventricular groove, and joins with horizontal branch of right or posterior coronary. Descending - The larger; along anterior interventricular groove to apex of heart, where it joins with descending branch of right or posterior coronary. Right or Posterior - The larger. Forwards & to the right between pulmonary artery & right auricular appendix, and then backwards along right auriculo- ventricular groove, sending a large branch down riarht border of heart, and divides into branches • Horizontal - The smaller • along left auriculo-ventricular groove, and joins with horizontal branch of left or anterior coronary. Descending - The larger; along posterior interventricular groove to apex of heart, where it joins with descending branch of left or anterior coronary. CORONARY OR CARDIAC VEINS. Great Cardiac Vein - Ascends from apex of heart along anterior interventricular groove, turns backwards along left auriculo-ventricular groove, receiving an ascending branch of some size from left border of heart, and opens into . left extremity of the coronary sinus, its opening being guarded by two valves. Posterior Cardiac Vein - Ascends from apex of heart, where it communicates with preceding, along posterior interventricular groove, and opens into right extremity of coronary sinus, its opening being guarded by a valve. It receives the veins from the posterior surface of both ventricles. Coronary Sinus - Thick trunk about an inch long situated at back part of left auriculo-ventricular groove, and partly covered & concealed by muscular fibres of left auricle. It receives the great & posterior cardiac veins, and a small vein, the remnant of the left superior cardinal vein of the embryo (Marshall), which passes downwards & to the right along back part of left auricle. It opens into the lower & back part of the right auricle close to the septum, below the opening of the inferior vena cava & Eustachian valve. Its opening is guarded by the valve of Thebesius. Small or Anterior Cardiac Veins & Vense Cordis Minimse - Several smaii branches, which collect the blood from the anterior surface of the right ventricle, and from the muscular substance of the heart, and which open separately into the lower part of the right auricle (foramina Thebesii) ; one, larger than the others, runs along the right border of the heart.