103 THE ISOHIO-REOTAL REGION. Corresponds to the portion of outlet of pelvis situated behind a line drawn from front part of ono tuber ischii to that of the other. It is bounded in front by above mentioned line; its apex is at point of coccyx; its sides are formed by tuberosities of ischium, great sacro-sciatio ligaments & great glutei muscles. It contains terminal portion of rectum surrounded by levatores ani and the internal & external sphincters, and on each side of which is the ischio-rectal fossa. It is triangular in form and depressed centrally towards anus, rouiad which aperture the integu- ment is thrown into numerous folds, and becomes continuous with mucous membrane of intestine. The skin is dark, but thicker & less movable than on peringeum proper, and contains a few hair-foUioles. The subcutaneous areolar tissue or superficial fascia hardly exists in centre of region, or over sphincter ani, which muscle is closely adherent to integument; but it is abundant laterally, where it is loaded with a large amount of fat, and where it dips into and fillg the ischio-rectal fossa. ISCHIO-RECTAL FOSSA Is a large excavation which sinks deeply into pelvis on either side of rectum, and which is filled with a considerable amount of loose fatty areolar tissue. • It is wide & triangular at its Base^ - Which corresponds to integument, but it is flattened from side to side and diminished in size superiorly. - Ita Inner Wall - is oblique downwards & inwards and formed by under surface of levator ani & by sphincter, which muscles are covered by anal fascia. Outer Wall - is vertical, and is formed by obturator internus covered by obturato" fascia j it presents the pudic vessels & nerve enclosed in a sheath of fascitt. It is bounded: Above - By junction of anal & obturator fascise. In Front - By junction of the same fasciae superiorly, and, inferiorly, by junction Oi the superficial & deep perinseal fasciaa behind transversus perinsei. Behind - By sacro-sciatio ligaments, coccygeus & the gluteus maximus. X The vessels & nerves it contains are the: Inferior hcemorrhoidal, in the centre; Pudic, in the outer wall; Superficialperin(zal, in front; A branch ofMh sacral nerve, and branches of sciatic artery- dr» small sciatic nerve^ behind; the branches of the latter nerve winding round lower border f, - • V of glut euB maximus. Above levator ani is the recto-vesioal layer of the pelvic faaoia (Vide Pelvio F.)