62 MUSCLES of LOWER LIMB-lst Tablet. ILIAC REGION. Psoas Magnus - Bases of transverse processes of lumbar vertebrae, and by five slips from sides of bodies of lumbar & last dorsal vertebrae & from corres- ponding intervertebral substances; the slips being connected by tendinous arches which extend across the constricted part of the bodies of the vertebrae. Lesser trochanter of femur. - S. by anterior branches of lumbar nerves. Psoas Parvus - Sides of bodies of last dorsal & first lumbar vertebrae & corresponding intervertebral substance. Ilio-pectineal eminence. ' S. by anterior branches of lumbar nerves. - Is frequently absent. IliaCUS - Iliac fossa & inner lip of crest of ilium; ilio-lumbar ligamentj base of sacrum; anterior superior & anterior inferior spines of ilium & notch between them J capsule of hip-joint. Outer side of tendon of psoas, and upper part of line from lesser tro- chanter to linea aspera in front of peotineus. - S. by anterior urural nerve. ANTERIOR FEMORAL REGION. Tensor Vaginse Femoris - Anterior superior spinous process and anterior part of * outer lip of crest of ilium. Fascia lata about J down outer side of thigh. - S. by superior gluteal nerve. SartoriuS - Anterior superior spinous process of ilium & upper half of notch below it. Upper part of inner surface of shaft of tibia covering tendons of gracilis & semitendinosus. - S. by middle or internal cutaneous branch of anterior crural nerve. Rectus Femoris - Anterior inferior spinous process of ilium (straight tendon) ; groove above brim of acetabulum (reflected tendon). Upper border of patella in common with vasti & crureus. - S. by anterior crural nerve. Vastus Externus - Anterior border of great trochanter & horizontal ridge on its outer surface; rough line from great trochanter to linea aspera; whole length of outer lip of linea aspera & line from linea aspera to outer condyle j external inter- muscular septum. Outer border of patella & slightly into head of tibia. - S. by anterior ^ crural nerve. Vastus Internus - Line from inner side of neck of femur to linea aspera; whole length of inner lip of linea aspera & lino from linea aspera to inner condyle; inner sur- face of femur; internal intermuscular septum. Inner border of patella & slightly into head of tibia. - S. by anterior crural nerve. Crureus - Anterior & outer surfaces of femur reaching from anterior intertrochanteric line to within a few inches of condyles. Upper border of patella in common with rectus & vasti. - S. by anterior crural nerve. Taking the vastus internus & the crureus as forming but one muscle, and describing the Quadriceps extensor feinoris as a Triceps^ we may say that the "VASTUS INTERNUS" arises from: -line from inner side of neck of femur to linea aspera; whole length of inner lip of linea aspera & line from linea aspera to inner condyle; nearly whole of innery anterior and outer surfaces of shaft of femur; internal intermuscular septum; - and that it is inserted into tendon of rectus & borders of patella, and slightly into head of tibia. Subcrureus - Lower part of anterior surface of femur. Upper part of synovial membrane of knee-joint. - S. by anterior crural nerve.