175 MUSCLES of the PA0E~2nd Tablet. MUSCLES OP THE NOSE. Pyramidalis Nasi - Continuous superiorly with innermost fibres of ocoipito-froutalie. Aponeurosis of compressor nasi. Compressor Nasi - Lower & inner part of canine fosa. Aponeurosis continuous with that of its fellow over bridge of nose. Levator Labii Superioris Alseque Nasi - Upper part of nasal process of superior maxilla. Cartilage of ala of nose and upper lip blending with orbicularis & levator labii superioris proprius. Depressor Alsa Nasi - Myrtiform fossa or incisor fossa of upper jaw. Septum and back part of ala of nose. Irregular and indistinct fasciculi may be found over the alar cartilages forming the: Levator Pkopkius Al^e Nasi Posterior or Dilatator Naris Posterior, Levator Proprius Al^, Nasi Anterior or Dilatator Naris Anterior, Compressor Narium Minor. MUSCLES OP THE EYELIDS. Orbicularis Palpebrarum - Anterior surface and edges of tendo oculi, internal an- gular process of frontal, nasal process of superior maxilla in front of lachrymal groove. Orbicular Portion - Thick & red, forms complete ellipses, and blends superiorly with occipito-frontalis and corrugator supercilii. Palpebral OR Ciliary Portion - Thin & pale, forms a series of concentric curves, and is inserted externally into external tarsal ligament & malar bone. : TENDO OCULI OE TENDO PALPEBRARUM - From nasal process of superior maxilla in front of lachrymal groove. Crosses anterior aspect of lachrymal sac, giving off a fibrous lamina, the reflected portion of the tendo oculi, which passes backwards & inwards behind lachrymal sac to be attached to ridge on lachrymal bone. Bifurcates and is attached to inner extremity of each tarsal cartilage, Corrugator Supercilii - Tanner extremity of superciliary ridge of frontal. Under surface of orbicularis & occipito-frontalis. Tensor Tarsi - Ridge & posterior part of outer surface of lachrymal bone. Crosses posterior aspect of lachrymal sac, and divides into two slips «rhich are inserted into tarsal cartilages near punota laohrymalia. - May be con- sidered as a deep part of ciliary portion of orbicularis. Levator Palpebrse Superioris - Under surface of lesser wing of sphenoid in front of optic foramen and externally to superior oblique. XJjpper border of tarsal cartilage.