209 OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. Arises from internal carotid as that vessel emerges from oavernons sinus between optio nerre 4 anterior olinoid process. Through optic foramen below & on outer side of optio nerve. Over optio nerve, and forwards beneath superior oblique to superior internal angle of orbit, where divides into frontal & nasal. BRANCHES -— May be divided iutoi ORBITAL GROUP: Ladirymal - With lachrymal nerve & above external rectus to lachrymal glanfi & upper eyelid. Gives off small malar & temporal branches, which per- ' forate malar bone to temporal fossa & cheek. Supraorbital - With frontal nerve & above the muscles to supraorbital foramen, where divides into superficial «fe deep branches to integument & masole? of forehead & pericranium. ethmoidal - Anterior & posterior. Through anterior & posterior ethmoidal foramina (former with nasal nerve), giving branches to ethmoidal cells & dura mater, and then through foramina in cribriform plate of ethmoid to septum & outer wall of nose. Palpebral - Superior & inferior. Encircle eyelids near free margin & beneath orbicularis, and anastomose with infraorbital & with orbital branch o^ temporal. Frontal — From orbit at its superior internal angle to skin & muscles of forehead & pericraaium, joining with supraorbital. Nasal - Above tendo oouli, and divides into dorsalis nasi to dorsum of nose and anastomotic branch to angular branch of facial OCULAR group: Muscular - Very variable, usually divided into: SuPEiiioE - Smaller, to levator palpebrse superioris, superior rectus & supe. rior oblique; Inferioe - Larger, to inferior oblique & the other recti, and gives off most of the anterior ciliary arteries. Ciliary - May be divided into: SHOKT POSTERIOR - Surround optio nerve, and through sclerotic a line or two from the^erve to ciliary processes & choreic! LONG - Two. Through back part of sclerotic, and between sclerotic & choroid on either side of eyeball to ciliary body, where bifurcate and form great arterial circle of iris, from which small twigs converge to free margin of iris forming lesser arterial circie. ANTERIOR - Chiefly from muscular. Through sclerotic a line or two from margin of cornea to great arterial circle of iris. Centralis RetinSS - Pierces optic nerve, and forwards in its substance to retina. In foetus a small branch passes forwards through vitreous body to posterior part of capsule of lens.