20 THE PALATE BONE-lst Tablet, Presents horizontal and vertical platest -from the point of junction of wtioh two plates the pterygoid process jpro^ectB backwards & outwards, -while from the upper border of the vertical plate project upwards, the orbital process in front, and the sphenoidal process behind. It articulates with its fellow^ the superior maxilla^ sphenoid, ethmoid^ inferior turbinated & vomer. It assists in forming -principally, the floor & outer wall of the nasal fossa and the roof of the mouth, and -secondarily, the floor of the orbits the pterygoid & spheno'maxillary fossa, and the inner wall of the Antrum of High more. HORIZONTAL PLATE - Presents : Sup. or Nasal Sueface - Smooth and concave from side to side, forms posterior part of floor of nasal fossa. Inf. or Buccal Surface - Eough, marked posteriorly by a Transverse ridge for attachment of aponeurosis of tensor palati, and more externally by a Deep notch, which assists in forming the posterior palatine foramen. A little further back, on the under surface of the pterygoid process, are the External h posterior small palatine foramina for external and posterior palatine nerves. Anterior Border - Serrated for articulation with palate process of superior maxilla. Posterior Border - Free for attachment of soft palate. Inner Border - Thick, surmounted by a ridge, which forms with its fellow a groove for vomer j presents posteriorly the Posterior nasal spine for azygos uvulae. VERTICAL PLATE - Presents: Inner Surface - Presents the Superior & middle turbinated crests, above, between & below which are seen A narrow &> two wider horizontal grooves, which form part respectively of the superior, middle & infei-ior meatuses. Outer Surface - Presents towards its middle a Smooth surface, which forms the inner wall of the spheno-maxillary fossa, and is prolonged inferiorly into a ■ Vertical groove, which assists in forming the posterior palatine canal. In front of these is a Rough surface, which articulates with the superior maxilla; and further forwards still a Narrow smooth surface, which forms part of inner wall of antrum. Behind is a Rough surface, which articulates above with the pterygoid process of the sphenoid, below with the superior maxilla. Anterior Border - Thin, irregular, presents a projecting lamina, the Maxillary process, which assists in closing the lower part of the orifice of the antrum, and, forming a schindylesis, penetrates into a fissure of the superior maxilla at the lower part of that orifice. Posterior Border - Articulates with the inner plate of the pterygoid process. Upper Border - Presents the Orbital process in front, the Sphenoidal process behind, which processes are separated by a deep Notch forming the greater part of the spheno-palatine foramen (which foramen is completed above by the sphenoidal turbinated bone).