179 FACIAL N. or PORTIO DURA of the 7th PAIR. Arises from upper part of laieral irdet of medulla, oblongata in groovi betwim oKvarv & resttform bodies. — Its deep origin is from a grey nucleus on floor of 4th ventricle & from nucleus of motor root of 5th nerve, and also, by its accessory portion or portio intermedia of Wrisberg, from lateral column of cord. Through internal auditory meatus with portio mollis, lying in a groove upon the latter and pprtio ipitermedia of Wrisberg lying between the two,^ Through aqueductus Fallopii, in which runs outwards, backwards, downwards: Outwards - between cochlea and vestibule to hiatus Fallopii, where presents geniculate ganglion or intumescentia gangliformis. Backwards - in inner wall of tympanum above fenestra ovalis. Downwards - to stylo-mastoid foramen. Forwards in substance of parotid gland crossing external carotid artery, and divides behind ramus of jaw into temporo.facial & cervico-facial branches, forming pes anserinus. Its branches may be divided into branches of communication & branches of distribution. BRANCHES OF COMMUNICATION - Are: In Meatus Auditorius Internus: ^ One or two filaments to Auditory IsT, In Aqueductus Falloppii: Large Petrosal IST.-to Meckel's ganglion, and supplies levatorpalati&^d&ygosuvu!oe ; Small Petrosal N. - to Otic ganglion, and supplies tensor palati ^ tensor tympani; Ext. Petrosal N. - to sympathetic on middle meningeal artery. After Exit from Stylo-mastoid Foramen: Branches to: Glosso-pharyngeal, Pneumogastric & Carotid Plexus - Arise from posterior auricular nerve & from nerves to stylo-hyoid & posterior belly of digastric. Auriculo-temporal - From temporo-facial branch. , ; Great 4^URicuLAR -From posterior auricular & cervico-facial branches. On the Face: The terminal filaments join with the three divisions of the Fifth N, BRANCHES OF DISTRIBUTION - Arej In Aqueductus Fallopii: TYMPANIC BR. - To stapedius laxator tympani; CHORDA TYMPANI - Enters tymp. between membr. tympani & base of pyramid} Between handle of malleus & long process of incus. Through canal of Huguier on inner side of G-laserian fissure j Joins gustatory nerve between the two pterygoid muscles J To submaxillary ganglion & lingualis superior. After Exit from Stylo-mastoid Foramen: POST. AURICULAR N. - Over mastoid process to integument and retrahens aurem & posterior belly of occipito-frontalis, and anastomoses with auricu- laris magnus & posterior auricular branch of pneumogastric. BRS. TO STYLO-HYOID & POST. BELLY or DIGASTRIC - Arise in common, and join, the former with carotid plexus, the latter with glosso-pharyngeal. On the Face: TEMPORO-FACIAL BR. - The larger. Anastomoses with auriculo-temporal, and divides into temporal, malar <Sr* infraorbital branches, CERVICO-FACIAL - The smaller. Anastomoses with great auricular, and divides, into buccal, supramaxillary ^ inframaxillary branches These terminal branches of the facial nerve supply all the muscles of expression of the face k the platysma, and anastomose with the ophthalmic, superior & inferior maxillary nerves and with th©.' great auricular