537 POULTRY Add a little chicken jelly to the bird’s cooking-liquor, which should not have been cleared of grease, but merely strained through a napkin; and pour this sauce over the pullet. Do not serve until twenty-four hours have elapsed, and clear of grease as directed under “ Poularde au Champagne ” (No. 1688). Serve the terrine in a block of ice, or on a dish with broken ice all round. 1702—TERRINE DE POULARDE EN CONSERVE Prepare the pullet as explained above, and put it in a box just large enough to hold it. Seal up the box; mark the top with a bit of tin; put it in a stewpan with enough water to cover it, and boil for two hours. This done, withdraw the box and cool it, placing it upside down, that the grease may be at the bottom and the breast coated with jelly. 1703—AILERONS DE POULET A LA CARMELITE Poach a chicken & la Reine; let it cool; raise its supremes and leave the humerus bones attached, after having duly cleared them of all meat; skin the supremes, and coat them with a little jelly. Garnish a timbale, just large enough to hold the two wings, half-way up with crayfish mousse. Upon this mousse, set the two supremes, opposite one another, and between them set a row of shelled and trimmed crayfishes’ tails, cooked as for bisque. Cover the whole with a succulent half-set chicken jelly, and place in the refrigerator for two hours. 1704—AILERONS DE POULET LADY WILMER Poach three fleshy, spring chickens, taking care to have the supremes just cooked. Leave to cool, and raise the wings as in the preceding recipe, trim them and coat them with jelly. With the meat of three legs, prepare a chicken mousse, and mould it in a dome-mould. When the mousse is set, turn it out on a dish, and place the wings all round, fixing them on the mousse, with their points upwards, by means of a little half-set jelly. Cover the mousse on top, and the gaps between the points of the supremes with chopped truffle and chopped tongue, laid alternately. In the middle of the viousse, set a fine, glazed truffle, pierced by a small hatclet. 1705—ASPIC DE POULET A L’lTALIENNE Clothe a border mould with aspic jelly, in accordance with the procedure described under “ Aspic de Homard ” (No. 954),