VEGETABLES AND FARINACEOUS PRODUCTS 655 in enough white consomm^ to almost cover them, and two oz. of butter per pint of consomm£. At the last moment roll them in their cooking-liquor, reduced to a glaze. For the preparation with colouration: Cook the onions very gently in butter, with a pinch of powdered sugar, so that the cooking and the colouring may be effected together. 2184—PUREE D’OIGNONS, dite SOUBISE See No. 104, in the chapter on sauces. 2185—SORREL (Oseille) Having shredded the sorrel and washed it in several waters, set it to cook gently in a little water. This done, thoroughly drain it on a sieve and mix it with a pale roux, consisting of two oz. of butter and one oz. of flour. Add one and one-quarter pints of consommd, salt, and a pinch of sugar to it, and braise it in the oven for two hours. Then rub it through tammy; thicken it with the yolks of six eggs or three whole eggs beaten to a stiff froth and strained through a strainer. Heat, and finish with one-sixth pint of cream and five oz. of butter. Dish in a timbale, and sprinkle with strong, veal stock. 2186—OXALIS Cook this in boiling salted water after having well cleaned and washed it. It may then be prepared “ k la Creme,” stuffed, or “ au Gratin.” Oxalis pur£e is called Purde Br^silienne, and is prepared in the same way as turnip puree. 2187—SWEET POTATOES Swreet potatoes are generally served, baked in their skins, and accompanied by fresh butter. They may also be prepared according to the majority of potato-recipes, especially the following : — Sautees, Gratinees, Mashed, Duchesse, &c. They may also be fried; but, in that case, they should be served the moment they are ready, for they soften very quickly. Finally, they may be prepared souffle-fashion, after the directions given under “ Souffle de Pommes de Terre.” 2188—PEAS (Petits Pois) Whatever be the treatment to which peas are to be subjected, always take them very green and freshly gathered, and shell them only at the last minute. Peas are one of the vegetables most prone to lose their quality through want of care. If pre-