356 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY Cover the garnish with a little financi&re sauce, and send the same sauce separately. 1053— FILET DE B(EUF GASTRONOME Insert truffles, cut to the shape of ordinary larding-bacon, into the fillet, and set the latter to marinade for four or five hours in one-quarter pint of Madeira. This done, thoroughly wipe it; cover it with slices of bacon, and braise it in Madeira. When about to serve it, remove the slices of bacon; glaze it slightly, and set it on a long dish. Surround it with a garnish consisting of (i) large and thick slices of truffle, cooked in a fine mirepoix with champagne; (2) fine chestnuts cooked in consomm6 and glazed; (3) fine cocks’ kidneys, rolled in pale, thin meat-glaze; (4) noodles tossed in butter. These different garnishes should be arranged in alternate heaps, and connected by means of medium-sized truffles cooked in Madeira. Sauce to be sent separately.—-Half-glaze combined with the cooking-liquor of the truffles, strained through linen and reduced to two-thirds. 1054— FILET DE BCEUF GODARD Lard the fillet with alternate strips of bacon and salted tongue, and poele it. Glaze it a few minutes before serving; set it on a long dish, and surround it with a garnish con- sisting of (1) quenelles of ordinary forcemeat with chopped mushrooms and truffles added thereto, moulded by means of a coffee-spoon, and poached just before dishing up; (2) turned and cooked button-mushroom heads; (3) glazed lamb sweet- breads; (4) cocks’ combs and kidneys; (5) truffles fashioned like olives. Slightly coat these garnishes, which should be arranged in heaps, with sauce; finish the dish with four oval quenelles decked with tongue and truffle, and place one of these at either end and side of the dish. Sauce to be sent separately.—A Godard sauce combined with the cooking-liquor of the fillet, cleared of all grease and reduced. ,055—FILET DE BCEUF HONGROISE Lard the fillet and roast it. Set it on a long dish and surround it with a garnish con- sisting of medium-sized onions, cooked in white consomm£, and glazed in butter at the last minute. Sauce to be sent separately.—Thin Soubise with paprika.