RELEVES AND ENTREES 353 Thus, as the two above examples show, the parts played by the Relevds and Entries respectively are very far from being clearly defined; and I therefore resolved to treat of them both in the same chapter, and to append a few grills (usually accompanied by various sauces and garnishes), which are really only luncheon-roasts. The indications given concerning the class to which the recipes belong will suffice to avoid confusion. RELEVES AND ENTREES OF BUTCHER’S MEAT BEEF 1043—FILLET OF BEEF (Relevd) Fillet of beef for a Relev£ may consist either of the whole piece, trimmed, studded, or larded, or a more or less large piece cut from the whole, and treated after one of the methods suited to the whole fillet. The fillet may be braised, poeled, or roasted; but the last two modes of preparation suit it best, as it is generally preferred underdone and somewhat red towards the centre. The garnishes for a Relev6 of fillet of beef are as numerous as they are varied; and, as they are applicable not only to fillet of beef but to all Relev^s of butcher’s meat, I give them here in preference, since fillet of beef may be considered the choicest of Relev&s. 1044—FILETS DE BCEUF ANDALOUSE Having removed all the connective tissue from the fillet, lard it with thin strips of bacon, and poele or roast it. Glaze it at the last moment; set it on a long dish, and surround it with : — (1) Some grilled half-capsicums, filled with rice k la grecque (No. 2253); (2) roundels of egg-plant, two inches in diameter and one inch thick, hollowed out to form cases, fried in oil, and garnished with concassed tomatoes tossed in oil. Arrange the half-capsicums and the egg-plant alternately round the fillet, and place a grilled chipolata sausage between each. Sauce to be sent separately.—The gravy taken from the poeling-stock, strained, cleared of all grease, and thickened. 1045—FILET DE BCEUF BOUQUETIERE Having larded the fillet and poeled or roasted it, set it on a long dish and surround it with :—(1) Small heaps of carrots and turnips, turned by means of a small grooved spoon, and cooked in consomm£; (2) small heaps of little potatoes turned to the shape of olives and cooked in butter; (3) small heaps of A A