721 ENTREMETS by means of the piping-bag, from the same cream as that already used. 2438—VARIOUS CHARLOTTES Charlottes may be made with pears, peaches, apricots, &c., after the same procedure as that directed under No. 2436. The most important point to be remembered in their preparation is that the stewed fruit used should be very stiff; otherwise it so softens the shell of bread that the Charlotte collapses as soon as it is turned out. It is no less important that the mould should be as full as possible of the preparation used ; for, as already explained, the latter settles in the cooking process. 2439—CREME A LA REGENCE Saturate half a pound of “ Biscuits a la Cuiller ” with Maraschino- Kirsch, and then dip them into a quart of boiled milk. Rub them through a silk sieve, and add eight eggs, ten egg-yolks, two-thirds pound of powdered sugar and a small pinch of table salt. Pour the whole into a shallow, Charlotte mould, and set to poach in a bain-marie for about thirty-five minutes. Let the mould rest for a few minutes ; turn out its contents on a dish and surround the base of the cream with a crown of stewed half-apricots, each garnished with a preserved cherry. Coat the whole with an apricot syrup, flavoured with Kirsch and Maraschino. 2440—CREME MERINGUEE Prepare some “ Creme a la R^gence ” as above, and poach it in a buttered deep border-mould. Poach in a bain-marie ; turn out on a dish, and garnish the middle of the border with Italian meringue (No 2383), combined with a salpicon of preserved fruit, macerated in Kirsch. Decorate the border by means of a piping-bag, fitted with a grooved pipe and filled with plain, Italian meringue, without the fruit ; and set to brown in a moderate oven. Serve an orange-flavoured, English custard separately. 2441—VILLAGE CUSTARD Saturate five ounces of dry biscuits with Kirsch and Anisette, and set them in a deep dish in layers, alternated with coatings of stewed, seasonable fruit, such as pears, apples, etc. Cover the whole with the following preparation : one-half pound of powdered sugar mixed with eight eggs and the yolks of four, and 3 A