244 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY should be laid, by means of a piping-bag, upon thin roundels of truffle, and poached in consomm^. This soup may also be prepared as a cream. 695a—COLD CHICKEN VELOUTE FOR SUPPERS The preparation of these velout^s requires the utmost care, but, as a rule, they are very much liked. Prepare a white roux from one oz. of butter and one and one-sixth oz. of flour per quart of the moistening. Dilute with some very strong clear consomm^, thoroughly cleared of grease; boil, and despumate for one and one-half hours, adding meanwhile half as much consomm6 as served in the moistening of the velout£. When the velout£ is thoroughly despumated and entirely cleared of grease, strain it through a silk sieve, and add, per quart, one-quarter pint of very fresh thin cream. Cool, stirring incessantly the while; once more strain the velout^ through the sieve when it is cold, and, if necessary, add some of the consomm£ already used, in order to give the velout£ the con- sistence of a thickened consomm£. Serve it in cups, and see that it be sufficiently thin to not impaste the mouth of the consumer. This velout£ is usually served as it stands, but it allows of various condimentary adjuncts. Such are :—Tomato and cap- sicum essences; crayfish, shrimp, or game creams. These creams or essences should be of consummate delicacy, and ought to lend only a very delicate flavour to the velout£. 696—CREME D’ARTICHAUTS AU BEURRE DE NOISETTE Have ready one and one-half pints of Bechamel. Parboil, finely mince, and stew in butter four large artichoke-bottoms. Pound the latter; put them in the Bechamel, and rub the whole through tammy. Add the necessary quantity of white consomm£ or milk, and set to heat without allowing to boil. Finish the preparation, when dishing up, with one-quarter pint of cream and one oz. of hazel-nut butter (No. 155). Remarks relative to Creams.—I remind the reader here that (1) the thickening element of creams is a Bechamel prepared in the usual way (see No. 28); (2) in the preparation of a cream, of what kind soever, the Bechamel should constitute half of the whole, the basic ingredient a quarter, and the white con- sommd or milk the remaining quarter.