SAVOURIES 681 butter, the size of a hazel-nut, and one-half coffeespoonful of cream. Set a mushroom on each piece of toast, which should be two inches in diameter and fried in butter. Dish them on an egg-tray, and cover them with a special, small, glass bell, four inches in diameter and two inches high, the rim of which must rest on the bottom of a dish, the diameter of which should be such as to fit the bell. Put the dishes on the side of the stove, and cook in moderate heat for about twenty-five minutes. 2311—CONDES AU FROMAGE Prepare a ribbon from puff-paste trimmings, as in the case of No. 2299. Spread thereon a thick layer of very reduced Bechamel sauce, flavoured with cayenne, and combined, when cold, with very small dice of Gruy&re and Parmesan. Cut up and cook as for No. 2299. 2312—CREME FR1TE AU FROMAGE Mix together four oz. of flour, two and one-half oz. of rice cream, three eggs, and two egg-yolks. Dilute with one pint of milk; season with salt, cayenne, and nutmeg; boil, and cook for five minutes over an open fire, stirring incessantly the while. Add four oz. of grated Gruy&re; spread this preparation on a buttered tray; leave it to cool, and then cut it into elongated lozenges. Roll the latter in beaten egg and bread-crumbs mixed with grated cheese, and fry them at the last moment. Dish them on a napkin. 2313—CROQUETTES DE CAMEMBERT Dilute two oz. of flour and two oz. of rice cream with one- third pint of milk. Add one lb. of cleaned camembert, cut into dice, five oz. of butter, salt, cayenne, and nutmeg. Cook the preparation, stirring it the while; cool it; spread it on a tray; mould it to the shape of small quoits; treat these twice a Vanglaise, and fry them. 2314—DEUCES DE FOIE GRAS Take some fresh, well-seasoned foie gras, studded with truffles, and covered with slices of bacon, and poach it in a basin with good aspic jelly flavoured with dry champagne or Rhine wine. Leave to cool for twenty-four hours; clear the jelly of grease, first by means of a spoon, and then with boiling water.