GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 480 1462— POULARDE CUSSY Braise the pullet. Dish it and surround it with whole truffles, cooked in Mirepoix with Madeira, and alternated with fine, grilled mushrooms, garnished with artichoke pur^e. In front of the pullet set a small, silver shell, in which shape a pyramid of large cocks’ combs, heated in butter. 1463— POULARDE EN DEMI-DEUIL Between the skin and the fillets of the fowl insert a few fine slices of raw truffle. Lard the pullet and poach it. When it is ready, strain the cooking-liquor through a napkin ; reduce it, and add it to a very white supreme sauce, containing slices of truffle. Dish the pullet; cook it with some of the sauce, and send what remains, separately, in a sauceboat. 1464— POULARDE DEMIDOFF Poele the pullet. When it is three-parts done, put it into a cocotte and surround it with the following garnish, prepared in advance and stewed in butter; viz one-half lb. of carrots and five oz. of turnips, cut into grooved crescents, one inch in diameter; five oz. of small onions cut into thin roundels, and five oz. of celery. Complete the cooking of the pullet with this garnish, and add to it, when about to serve, three oz. of truffles, cut to the shape of crescents, and one-sixth pint of chicken stock. Serve the preparation in the cocotte, after having cleared the liquor of all grease. 1465— POULARDE DERBY Stuff the pullet with rice, prepared after recipe No. 2256; and poele it. Dish, and surround it with collops of foie-gras, tossed in butter (each set on a small, fried crouton), and alter- nate these with large, whole truffles, cooked in champagne. As an adjunct, serve the pullet’s cooking-liquor, cleared of all grease, combined with the cooking-liquor of the truffles and one-sixth pint of veal gravy. Reduce the whole to one-sixth pint and thicken with arrow-root. 1466— POULARDE DIVA Stuff the pullet with rice, prepared after recipe No. 2256, and poach it without colouration. Dish it, and coat it with supreme sauce, flavoured with paprika. Send a garnish consisting of cepes with cream, separately.