POULTRY 527 these various products like the chicken, and mix them there- with ; then add one-half pint of very reduced and finished Alle- mande sauce to the whole; set the preparation to dry for a few minutes over an open fire; this done, remove it from the latter, and thicken it with the yolks of four raw eggs, which should be quickly mixed with it. Now pour the preparation into a very clean, buttered tray, and butter its surface, lest a crust form thereon during the cooling. When the preparation is quite cold, transfer it, by means of a spoon, in pieces weighing about two oz., to a flour-dusted mixing board. Make the croquettes and cutlets about the desired shape; dip them into an anglaise, and roll them in fine bread-crumbs. Definitely shape them; plunge them into very hot fat; keep them therein till they have acquired a fine golden colour; drain them, and dish them in a crown on a nap- kin, with a heap of fried parsley in the middle. Croquettes and cutlets may be garnished as fancy sug- gests, but the accompaniment should always be served sepa- rately. Tomato and P6rigueux sauces are the most commonly used, and the best garnishes for the purpose are all the purges, peas, French beans, and jardinieres. Chickens’ Livers (Foies de Volaille) 1665—BROCHETTES DE FOIES DE VOLAILLE Collop the livers; quickly stiffen them in butter, and then treat them exactly as explained under “ Brochettes de Rognons ” (No. 1343). 1666—FOIES DE VOLAILLE ET ROGNONS SAUTES AU VIN ROUGE Proceed according to the recipe given under “ Rognons Sautes au Champagne ” (No. 1333), using sliced chickens’ livers and cocks’ kidneys in equal quantities, and substituting excellent red wine for the Champagne. N.B.—Chickens’ livers are also prepared sautes chasseur; sautes fines herbes, au gratin; en coquilles; en pilaw, &c. Refer to sheeps’ kidneys for these preparations. 1667—FRICASSEE DE POULET A L’ANCIENNE For a fricassee cut up the chicken as for a saute, but divide the legs into two. The procedure is exactly that of “ Fricassee de Veau ” (No. 1276)—that is to say, the chicken is cooked in the sauce. About ten minutes before serving, add ten small onions,