GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 592 1871— EPIGRAMMES DE PERDREAU Raise the young partridge’s fillets, leaving the wing-bone attached to the carcass, and put them aside. From the minion fillets and the meat of the legs, prepare a mousseline forcemeat; mould the latter in very small buttered cutlet moulds, and set to poach. Roll the fillets in melted butter and bread-crumbs, and grill them gently. Dip the cutlets in beaten egg; roll them in finely- chopped truffles; press upon the latter with the flat of a knife, that they may combine with the egg; adjust the shape of the cutlets, and toss them in butter. Dish in the form of a circle, alternating the fillets and the cutlets; pour in their midst a cullis prepared from the par- tridge’s carcasses, and serve a chestnut pur£e separately. 1872— TIMBALE DE PERDREAU DIANE Line a liberally-buttered, shallow mould with crescents of truffle arranged in superposed rows, and then completely cover the bottom and sides of the mould with a layer, two-thirds in. thick, of raw partridge forcemeat. Place the mould in the front of the oven that the forcemeat may be poached; and then spread another layer of gratin force- meat of game. Fill the utensil with a garnish of small quenelles consisting of truffled partridge forcemeat, mushrooms and slices of truf- fles, cohered with a reduced Madeira sauce. Cover the garnish with a small coat of forcemeat, and poach in the bain-marie for from thirty to thirty-five minutes. When about to serve, turn out on a dish, and deck the tim- bale with a crown of partridges’ supremes, raised from birds fresh from the spit or the oven. Surround the base of the timbale with a thread of Diane sauce, and send a sauceboat of the latter separately. 1873— PERDREAUX FROIDS The various recipes given for cold pheasant also suit cold partridge; it is only necessary therefore to replace the word “pheasant” by “partridge” in the formulae referred to. 1874— WOODCOCK AND SNIPE(BECASSE ET BECASSINES) If grouse, which can only be thoroughly appreciated in its native country, wyere extinct, woodcock would be the leading feathered game. But the latter have this advantage over the former, namely : that their fumet is not so fugitive, and that they may be kept much longer. Woodcock does not yield its full quality unless it be moderately high.