GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 566 Dish them in a circle; garnish their midst with asparagus- heads cohered with butter, and serve a light, Madeira sauce separately. 1786— SUPREMES DE PIGEONNEAUX A LA DIPLOMATE Raise the fillets and slightly flatten them; stiffen them in butter, and leave them to cool under slight pressure. This done, dip them in a Villeroy sauce, combined with chopped herbs and mushrooms, and cool them. Dip each fillet in beaten egg; roll them in bread-crumbs, and fry just before serving. Dish in a circle, and in their midst set a heap of fried parsley. Send separately a garnish of pigeon quenelles, mush- rooms, and small, olive-shaped truffles, to which a half-glaze sauce flavoured with pigeon essence has been added. 1787— SUPREMES DE PIGEONNEAUX A LA SAINT-CLAIR With the meat of the legs prepare a mousseline forcemeat, and, with the latter, make some quenelles the size of small olives, and set them to poach. Poele the breasts, without colouration, on a thick litter of sliced onions, and keep them underdone. Add a little velout6 to the onions; rub them through tammy, and put the quenelles in this sauce. In the middle of a shallow croustade, set a pyramid of cepes tossed in butter. Raise the fillets; skin them, and set them on the cepes; coat them with the prepared sauce; surround with & thread of meat glaze, and place the quenelles all round. 1788— SUPREMES DE PIGEONNEAUX A LA MARIGNY Cut off the legs, and, with their meat, prepare a forcemeat. Poach the latter on a tray, and stamp it out with an oval cutter into pieces the size of the supremes. Cover the breasts with slices of bacon, and poele them, taking care to only just cook them. Quickly raise the supremes, skin them, and set each upon an oval of forcemeat, sticking them on by means of a little gratin forcemeat. Put the supremes in the oven for a moment, that this forcemeat may poach. Dish the supremes round a pyramid consisting of a smooth pur4e of peas, and coat with a velout6 sauce, finished with an essence prepared from the remains and the poeling-Mquor of the breasts. 1789— SUPREMES DE PIGEONNEAUX AUX TRUFFES Raise the supremes, flatten them slightly; toss them in clarified butter, and set them on a border of smooth forcemeat,