694 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY purpose for which it is intended, add a more or less large quantity of chopped almonds, according as to whether the pralin be required thick or slightly liquid for spreading. Cover it with a piece of white paper, moistened with white of egg, that it may remain moist if kept for some time. (2) If it is to be added to a souffle preparation, to a souffled omelet, to a preparation of ice, or to a custard, it is a nougat powder which is prepared as follows: — Gently melt one lb. of powdered sugar in a small saucepan, taking care not to let it acquire a deeper shade than old gold. Mix twenty oz. of dried almonds with it; turn the whole out on to the corner of a slightly-oiled marble slab (or on an over- turned saucepan-lid), and leave to cool. When the nougat is quite cold, pound it and rub it through a sieve. Pound and rub what remains in the sieve until the whole goes through. Put the powder in a well-closed box, and place the latter in a dry place. 2353— CURRANTS AND SULTANAS Sultanas and currants should always be at hand, ready and cleaned. To clean them, first dredge them and then rub them in a towel, closed to form a sort of purse. Now, turn them into a sieve or colander, which shake vigorously, that the flour and the detached stems may be eliminated; then examine them, one by one, to make sure that no stems remain. Currants should be examined with very particular care, as small stones often get in among them. Put the currants and the sultanas asidef each in a box or a drawer. 2354— ESSENCES AND FLAVOURINGS The various essences used in pastry are bought ready-made. The flavourings Consist of those products treated by infusion, such as vanilla; of grated or infused products, such as lemon and orange rinds; and liqueurs in general. Fruit juices only become flavours when a liqueur in keeping with the fruit from which they were extracted has been added to them. 2355— GILDING PREPARATION This consists of beaten eggs. Its purpose is to ensure the colouration of certain cakes, whereon it is smeared by means ot a brush. In some cases this gilding may be combined with a little water, as, for instance, when the heat of the oven is too