84 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY steeped in milk and well pressed; one-half oz. of onion and one- half oz. of chopped shallots, slightly cooked in butter, and cold; one oz. of raw mushrooms, chopped and well pressed in a towel; a tablespoonful of chopped parsley; a piece of garlic the size of a pea, crushed; salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and two eggs. Mix it as above. 205—FORCEMEAT BALLS OR QUENELLES Divers ways of Moulding and Poaching them.—Whatever be the required size or shape of quenelles there are four ways of making them :—(1) By rolling them; (2) by moulding them with a spoon; (3) by forming them with a piping-bag; (4) by mould- ing them by hand into the shape of a kidney. 1. To roll quenelles it is necessary to keep the forcemeat somewhat stiff, and therefore this process could not well apply to the mousseline forcemeats. Place one-quarter lb. of forcemeat, when ready, on a floured board, and, with hands covered in flour, roll the preparation until it has lengthened itself into the form of a sausage, the thickness of which depends upon the required size of the intended quenelles. Cut up the sausage of forcemeat laterally with a floured knife, and roll each section with the finger-ends until the length it assumes is thrice that of its diameter. The balls should be put aside on a floured tray as soon as they are made. The Poaching of Rolled Quenelles.—When all the force- meat has been used up, the balls are gently tilted into a sauce- pan containing boiling, salted water, so calculated in quan- tity as to allow of their not being too tightly squeezed. The saucepan is covered and kept on the side of the fire until all the balls have risen to the surface and are almost out of the water. They are then removed with a skimmer and placed in a bowl of cold water. At last, when they have properly cooled, they are carefully drained on a cloth and put aside on a dish until required. When the quenelles are needed for immediate use it would be better not to cool them. 2. To Mould Quenelles with a Spoon.—This method may be applied to all forcemeats, and allows of the balls being much softer, as the forcemeat need not be so stiff. First, butter the saut^pan or the tray, whereon the balls are to be laid, by means of a brush, and let the butter cool. Put the saut^pan on the table in front and a little to the right of one; on the left, place the saut^pan or bowl contain- ing the forcemeat, and on the further side of the buttered saut£-