382 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY Add the sauce, combined with the jelly, after having passed it through a strainer, and put the whole in the cool for a few hours. Turn out just before serving, and surround with very light, chopped jelly. 1151— PIECE DE BCEUF A LA NOAILLES Lard the piece of beef, and marinade it in brandy and red wine. This done, dry it thoroughly, and brown it evenly in butter all over; moisten it with its marinade and an equal quantity of veal gravy, and set to cook gently. When the meat is half-cooked, surround it with two lbs. of minced onions, tossed in butter, and three oz. of rice. Complete the cooking of the piece with onions and rice. Now withdraw the piece of beef, and quickly rub the onions and the rice through tammy. Reduce this Soubise with rice for a few moments. Neatly trim the piece of beef; cut it into even slices; recon- struct it on a dish, and between each slice pour a tablespoonful of Soubise puree. Cover the reconstructed piece of beef with the remainder of the Soubise; sprinkle the surface with two tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs fried in butter, and some melted butter, and put the whole in the oven, that the gratin may form speedily. 1152— THE RUMP Rumpsteak and Beefsteak. The rump is that portion of the sirloin of beef which touches the top of the haunch. It may be braised, but it is more often grilled in slices from one inch to one and one-half inches thick, which are called “ rumpsteaks.” With reference to this subject, it is as well to point out that the term “ Beefsteak,” so hackneyed in France, is scarcely used in England, owing to its want of precision. In France, beefsteak is either a cut from the fillet, the upper- fillet, or the rump, according to the standing of the catering- house which supplies it. But the nature of the piece cannot very well be mistaken, inasmuch as the term beefsteak, which designates it, is generally followed by other French words which reveal its origin, whereas in England the term “ Beefsteak ” does not convey any particular meaning. Rumpsteak is either grilled or sauted, but whatever be the method of cooking it, it is generally served plain.