THE SMALL COMPOUND SAUCES 27 one side, so that the butter may be drained; moisten with one bottle of excellent red wine; reduce the latter by half; add one pint of Lenten Espagnole, and allow to cook gently for half an hour. Rub the sauce through a sieve, pressing it so as to extract all the essence. Let it rest awhile; carefully remove the fat which has risen to the surface, and add one liqueur-glass of burnt brandy, one-half pint of red wine, and as much fish fumet. Boil again, then move stewpan to the side of fire to despumate for one and one-half hours. Frequently re- move what the ebullition causes to rise to the surface, this second period of cooking being only to ensure the purification of the sauce. If the ebullition has been well effected, the sauce should reach the proper degree of reduction and despumation at the same moment of time. It is then strained through muslin or tammy, and it is finished at the last minute with a few drops of anchovy essence and four oz. of butter per quart of sauce. N.B.—The Genevoise Sauce, like all red-wine sauces, may be served without being buttered. It is thus clearer and more sightly in colour, but the addition of butter in small quantities makes it mellower and more palatable. 38a—REMARKS ON RED-WINE SAUCES In the general repertory of cooking we also have, in the way of red-wine sauces, the “ Bourguignonne,” “ Matelote,” and “ Red-Wine ” sauces, which are closely allied to the “ Genevoise,” and only differ from it in details of procedure. The “ Bourguignonne ” Sauce is composed of red-wine accompanied by aromatics, and reduced by half. In accord- ance with ordinary principles, it is thickened by means of three oz. of manied butter per quart of reduced wine. This sauce is buttered with four oz. of butter per quart, and is espe- cially regarded as a domestic preparation for poached, moulded, and hard-boiled eggs. “ Matelote ” Sauce is made from Court-bouillon, with red wine which has been used for cooking fish. This Court- bouillon, with the mushroom parings added, is reduced by two-thirds, and is thickened with one pint of Lenten Espagnole per pint of the reduced Court-bouillon. This sauce should be reduced by a third, strained through a tammy, and finished by means of two oz. of butter and a little cayenne per pint of sauce. The Red-Wine Sauce resembles the two preceding ones in so far as it contains mirepoix browned in butter and diluted