GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 36 fire, reduce the sauce by a third, stirring constantly the while, and gradually add one-half pint of very fresh cream. When the sauce has reached the desired degree of consistency rub it through a tammy, and stir it frequently while it cools, for fear of a skin forming on its surface, for if this happened it would have to be strained again. When dishing up, this sauce should be cold, so that it may properly coat immersed solids and yet be liquid enough to admit of the latter being easily steeped into it. 73— ORDINARY CHAUD-FROID SAUCE Proceed exactly as above, substituting Allemande Sauce for the velout6, and reducing the quantity of cream to one-quarter pint. Observe the same precautions while cooling. 74— CHAUD-FROID SAUCE, A L’AURORE Prepare a white Chaud-Froid (No. 72). The same may be coloured by the addition of fine red tomato pur£e—more or less to match the desired shade—or by an infusion of paprika, according to the use for which it is intended. This last pro- duct is preferable when not too deep a shade is required. 75— CHAUD-FROID SAUCE, AU VERT-PRE Add to the velout6 of the white Chaud-Froid sauce, at the same time as the jelly, an infusion prepared thus:—Boil one- quarter pint of white wine, and add to it one pinch of chervil stalks, a similar quantity of tarragon leaves, chives, and parsley leaves. Cover, allow infusion to proceed away from the fire for ten minutes, and strain through linen. Treat the sauce as explained, and finish with spinach-green (No. 143). The shade of the sauce must not be too pronounced, but must remain a pale green. The colouring principle must therefore be added with caution and in small quantities, until the correct shade is obtained. Use this sauce for Chaud-froids of fowl, particularly that kind distinguished as “ Printanier.” 76— LENT CHAUD-FROID SAUCE Proceed as for white Chaud-Froid, using the same quantities, and taking note of the following modifications :— 1. Substitute fish veloutd for ordinary velout£. 2. Substitute white fish jelly for poultry jelly. Remarks.—I have adopted the use of this ordinary Chaud- Froid sauce for the glazing of fillets and escalopes of fish and shell-fish, instead of cleared Mayonnaise, formerly used, which