RELEVES AND ENTREES 433 Dubarry, Duchesse, Japonaise, Jardiniere, Lorette, Macedoine, Montmorency, Moderne, Nivernaise, Orientate, Petit-Due, Provengale, Renaissance, Richelieu, St. Germain. Apart from these compound garnishes, the following simple garnishes also suit admirably, either alone, or separated by some kind of potato preparation : — Braised Lettuce, stuffed with ordinary forcemeat or rice. Cabbages, moulded to the shape of small balls, braised and stuffed with fine mince-meat or rice. Haricot-beans, Peas and Broad-beans, cohered with butter, Asparagus-heads, white or green, cooked and cohered with butter. Celery, Endives, and Chicory, all braised. Brussels Sprouts, Cauliflowers, Brocoli, etc. Finally, the garnishes and modes of preparation termed : a VAnglaise, a la Boulangere, Braises, Marine en Chevreuit, which I give below for the leg and the shoulder, may be applied perfectly well to other large pieces of mutton. 1303— LARGE COLD J0INT5 OF MUTTON Refer to Cold Beef; in all cases keep the dishing simple. The garnishing is optional. 1304— LEG AND SHOULDER OF MUTTON Legs of mutton or lamb ought never to appear on any but an ordinary luncheon menu. Although, strictly speaking, they should always be served after one of the ways described here- after, all the garnishes given above may be applied to them. Shoulders may be roasted whole; but they may also be boned, seasoned inside, rolled up, and firmly strung. They may be treated like the legs, and the same garnishes are suited to them. 1305—GIGOT BOUILLI A L’ANGLAISE Trim the leg, shorten it in the region of the tibia bone, and plunge it into a stewpan of boiling water, salted in the propor- tion of one-third oz. of salt per quart of water. For an ordinary leg, add : three medium-sized carrots, two onions, each stuck with a clove, a faggot, and two cloves of garlic. Let the leg cook for a quarter of an hour for each two lbs. of its weight. Dish with vegetables all round, and serve at tht same time a butter sauce with capers. N.B.—Leg of mutton a Vanglaise may be accompanied by F F