EGGS 179 crusts. Formerly, it was customary to garnish scrambled eggs served in a silver timbale with small, variously-shaped pieces of toast, or with small scraps of puff-paste, cooked without colouration, and shaped like crescents, lozenges, rings, palm- ettes, &c. This method has something to recommend it, and may always be adopted. In old cookery, scrambled eggs were sanctioned only when cooked in a bain-marie. This measure certainly ensured their bein^ properly cooked, but it consider- ably lengthened the procedure. The latter may therefore be shortened by cooking the eggs in the usual way, i.e., in a utensil in direct contact with the fire; but in this case the heat must be moderate, in order that, the process of cooking being progressive and gradual, perfect homogeneity of the particles of the eggs (effecting the smoothness of the preparation) may result. 460—METHOD OF SCRAMBLING EGGS For six eggs, slightly heat one oz. of butter in a thick- bottomed saut£-pan. Add the six eggs, beaten moderately, together with a large pinch of salt-and a little pepper; place the pan on a moderate fire, and stir constantly with a wooden spoon, taking care to avoid anything in the way of sudden, fierce heat, which, by instantaneously solidifying the egg- molecules, would cause lumps to form in the mass—a thing which, above all, should be guarded against. When, by cooking, the eggs have acquired the proper con- sistence, and are still smooth and creamy, take the saut£-pan off the fire,- and finish the preparation by means of one and one-half oz. of butter (divided into small quantities) and three tablespoonfuls of cream. Only whisk the eggs to be scrambled when absolutely necessary. N.B.—Having given the mode of procedure, which is un- alterable for scrambled eggs, I shall now pass on, in the follow- ing recipes, to the various garnishes suited to this kind of dish. The quantities I give are those required for six scrambled eggs. 461—SCRAMBLED EGGS A LA BOHEMIENNE Take one cottage brioche for every two eggs. Remove the tops of the brioches, and the crumb from the remaining portions, so as to form cases of these. Add one-half oz. of foie gras to the scrambled eggs, and half as much truffles, cut into dice, for every two eggs. Fill the emptied brioches with this pre- paration, and place a slice of truffle coated with meat-glaze upon each. N 2