RELEVES AND ENTREES 4” 1228—ESCALOPES DE RIS DE VEAU JUDIC Blanch and cool the sweetbreads, and cut them into slices. Prepare and poach a roll of chicken forcemeat, large enough to allow of slices being cut therefrom of the same size as those of the sweetbreads. Season, dredge, and toss the slices of sweetbread in butter, and dish them in the form of a crown, each on a roundel of the poached chicken forcemeat. On each slice place a very small, braised, and well-trimmed lettuce, a slice of truffle, and a cock’s kidney. Send a sauceboat of thickened gravy separately. 1229—ESCALOPES DE RIS DE VEAU A LA MARECHALE Braise the veal sweetbreads, keeping them somewhat firm, and cut them into slices. Treat the latter a Vanglaise; brown them in clarified butter, and dish them in a circle, placing a fine slice of truffle between each. In the middle of the dish arrange a fine heap of asparagus- heads cohered with butter. 1230—RIS DE VEAU GRILLES After having blanched, cooked, and trimmed the sweet- breads, set them to get quite cold under pressure. Then cut them in two, laterally, at their thickest point; dip each piece into melted butter, and grill gently, basting frequently the while with melted butter. The sweetbreads may also be grilled whole, but the process is perforce a more lengthy one. 1231— RIS DE VEAU GRILLES CARMAGO Cook a brioche, without sugar, in a fluted mould, the aper- ture of which is a little larger than the veal sweetbreads. Care- fully remove the top of the brioche, following the direction of the fluting, and withdraw all the crumb from the inside. Fill this kind of croustade, two-thirds full, with a garnish consisting of peas, prepared la fran9aise,” and carrots “ h la Vichy,” in equal quantities. Set the grilled veal sweetbreads on this garnish, and cover it with slices of grilled bacon. Dish on a napkin and serve at once. 1232— RIS DE VEAU GRILLE GISMONDA Prepare a shallow croustade, without colouration, in an oval flawn ring of the same length as the veal sweetbread. Grill the veal sweetbread after the manner already described.