RELEV&S AND ENTREES G G 2 45» When it is almost cooked, sprinkle it again with melted butter and bread-crumbs, and let it acquire a golden colour while completely cooking it. Serve very hot with mint sauce and a suitable garnish. *365—CARRE D’AGNEAU MIREILLE Prepare some Anna potatoes (No. 2203) in an oval earthen- ware dish, and add a third of the quantity of potatoes of raw, minced artichoke-bottoms. When the potatoes are three-parts cooked, stiffen the neck in butter; place it on the potatoes, and complete the cooking of the two, basting often the while with melted butter. Send the preparation to the table on the dish that has served in the cooking process. 1366—CARRE D’AGNEAU PRINTANIER Prepare the following garnish : eight small onions, half- cooked in butter; ten carrots of the size and shape of garlic cloves, cooked in consomm^ and glazed; and ten turnips of the same shape and size, similarly treated. Put these vegetables into a cocotte with three tablespoonfuls of fresh peas; the same quantity of raw, French beans, cut into lozenge form; two or three tablespoonfuls of good and very clear stock, and complete the cooking of the whole. Meanwhile, poele the neck of lamb, which should have been shortened and trimmed in the usual way. Dish the neck of lamb and serve the vegetables in the cocotte. 1367—CARRE D’AGNEAU SOUBISE Having shortened and trimmed the neck of lamb, stiffen it in butter; surround it with one-half lb. of finely-minced and well-blanched onions, and complete the cooking of both by stewing. This done, transfer the neck to a dish and keep it hot. Add one-quarter pint of boiling Bechamel sauce to the onions, and rub them quickly through tammy or a fine sieve. Heat this Soubise; finish it with one and one-half oz. of butter, and pour it over the neck. Border the dish with a thread of rather light meat glaze, and serve. 1368—CARRE D’AGNEAU A LA TOSCANE Shorten the neck of lamb ; suppress the cartilaginous portions and stiffen it in butter. Garnish the bottom of an oval earthen- ware dish, of the same size as the neck, with a layer of Anna potatoes (No. 2203). Set the neck on this layer, and cover it