GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 486 be oval, set a small silver shell of the same height as the cushion on which the pullet lies. Garnish these shells with very white, curled cocks’ combs and cocks’ kidneys. Add the reduced braising-liquor to a half- glaze sauce, flavoured with truffle essence; cover the bottom of the dish with some of this sauce, and send what remains, separately, in a sauceboat. [490—POULARDE A LA MANCIN1 Poach the pullet. Remove the supremes; suppress the bones of the breast without touching either the pinions or the legs, and set the carcass, thus prepared, on a very low cushion of bread or rice, so that it may be steady. Fill the carcass with macaroni, cohered with cheese and cream, and combined with three oz. of foie gras in dice, and one-half oz. of a julienne of truffles. Slice the supremes, and reconstruct them on the macaroni, placing a fine slice of truffle between each. Coat the pullet with a stiff and unctuous cream sauce; sprinkle with grated cheese, and glaze quickly at the salamander. Serve separately a creamy supreme sauce. 1491— POULARDE MARGUERITE DE SAVOIE Fry quickly ten larks in butter, insert these info a fine pullet, and braise the latter in veal stock and white Savoy wine, in equal quantities. Prepare a milk polenta (No. 2294); spread it on a tray in layers one inch thick, and let it cool. Now stamp it with a round cutter one and one-half inches in diameter, and, a few minutes before serving, dredge these roundels of polenta, and brown them in clarified butter. Just before dishing up, sprinkle them with grated Parmesan, and glaze them quickly at the salamander. Dish the pullet on a very low cushion of fried bread; sur- round it with the glazed roundels of polenta; pour a little of the fowl’s cooking-liquor, thickened, over the dish, and send what remains of it in a sauceboat. Serve at the same time a vegetable-dish of white Piedmont truffles, slightly heated in a Tittle butter and some consomm£. 1492— POUI ARDE A LA M^NAGfeRE Poach the pullet in some rather gelatinous white stock. Slice six carrots, six new potatoes, six new onions; put the whole into a saucepan, and cook gently in the fowl’s poaching- liquor, with the lid of the saucepan off. When the vegetables