LEADING CULINARY OPERATIONS IOI shell-fish used. These pieces should have been put aside from the first. 242—THE VELOUT^S These differ from the purges, cullises, and bisques in that their invariable thickening element is a velout4 whose prepara- tion is in harmony with the nature of the ingredients of the soup, these being either vegetables, poultry, game, fish, or shell-fish. The Preparation of the Veloute.—Allow three and one-half oz. of white roux per quart of the diluent. This diluent should be ordinary consomm6 for a velout£ of vegetables or herbs, chicken consomm^ for a poultry velout£, or very clear fish fumet for a fish or shell-fish velout£. The procedure is exactly the same as that described under No. 25 of the leading sauces. The Apportionment of the Ingredients.—In general, the quantities of each constituent are in the following proportion : — Velout6, one-half; the pur£e of the substance which character- ises the soup, one-quarter; the consomm6 used to bring the soup to its proper consistence, one-quarter. In respect of finish- ing ingredients, use, for thickening, the yolks of three eggs and one-fifth pint of cream per quart of soup. Thus for four quarts of poultry velout^ we arrive at the following quantities :— Poultry veloute, three pints; pur^e of fowl obtained from a cleaned and drawn hen weighing about three lbs., one quart; consomm4 for regulating consistence, one quart; leason, twelve yolks and four-fifths pint of cream. Rules Relative to the Preparation.—If the velout6 is to be of lettuce, chicory, celery, or mixed herbs, these ingredients are scalded for five minutes, drained, gently stewed in butter, and added to the prepared velout6 in which their cooking is completed. If carrots, turnips, onions, &c., are to be treated, finely mince them, stew them in butter without allowing them to acquire any colour, and add them to the velout£. If fowl be the base, cook it in the velout^. This done, with- draw it, remove the meat, finely pound same, and add it to the velout£, which is then rubbed through tammy. In the case of fish the procedure is the same as for fowl. For game, roast or saute the selected piece, bone it, finely pound the meat, and combine the latter with the velout£, which should then be rubbed through tammy. For shell-fish, cook these in a mirepoix, finely pound them together with the latter, add to the velout£, and pass the whole through tammy.