499 POULTRY Swill the saucepan with two tablespoonfuls of consommd; add three tablespoonfuls of pale glaze, a few drops of lemon juice, and one and one-half oz. of butter; and pour this sauce over the chicken. 1540—POULET SAUTE BRETONNE Stiffen the pieces without colouring them, and add thereto three oz. of the white of a leek and the half of an onion, both sliced and stewed in butter beforehand. Cover and set in the oven. About five minutes before the fowl is quite cooked, add three oz. of mushrooms, minced raw and tossed in butter. Dish the pullet, add one-sixth pint of supreme sauce and as much cream to the vegetables; reduce to half, and pour the sauce and the vegetables over the chicken. 1541— POULET SAUT6 AUX cEpes SautS the chicken in oil. When it is cooked, drain away the oil, dish it; heat three chopped shallots in the sautdpan; swill with one-quarter pint of white wine; reduce, and complete with one and one-half oz. of butter. Pour this sauce over the chicken, and surround the latter with eight oz. of cepes, sauted k la Bordelaise. Sprinkle a pinch of chopped parsley over the chicken. 1542— POULET SAUTls CHAMPEAUX Saute the chicken in butter; dish it, and surround it with small onions and potatoes (the size of hazel-nuts), both cooked in butter beforehand. Swill with a little white wine; add one- sixth pint of veal gravy and one tablespoonful of meat glaze; reduce; finish with one and one-half oz. of butter; and pour this sauce over the chicken. *543—POULET SAUTE CHASSEUR Saute the chicken in equal quantities of butter and oil, and dish it. Swill the saucepan with a few tablespoonfuls of white wine, and reduce; add one-quarter pint of Chasseur Sauce Escoffier; heat; pour over the chicken, and sprinkle the latter with a pinch of concassed parsley. 1544—POULET SAUTE CYNTHIA Sauti the chicken in butter and dish it. Swill the saucepan with a glass of dry champagne; reduce to half; add one tablespoonful of light poultry glaze; finish with two and one-half oz. of butter, the juice of half a lemon, and one tablespoonful of dry Curasao; pour this sauce over the chicken. K K 2