GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 360 round it with the following, alternated :—Tomatoes and mush- rooms stuffed k la Proven^ale (Nos. 2266 and 2075). Send a tomated half-glaze sauce, separately. 1069— FILET DE BCEUF R^GENCE Marinade the fillet in Rhine wine two or three hours in advance; cover it with a Matignon (No. 227); envelop the fillet and the Matignon in slices of bacon, and set the whole to braise with its marinade. A few minutes before dishing up, remove the slices of bacon and the Matignon, and glaze the fillet. Set it on a long dish, and surround it with the following garnish, which, except for the decorated quenelles, which are left plain, should be arranged in distinct heaps, and slightly coated with sauce :—(1) quenelles of ordinary forcemeat, com- bined with chopped tongue, moulded by means of a coffee- spoon, and poached at the last minute; (2) collops of foie gras tossed in butter; (3) fine cocks’ combs; (4) very white, cooked mushroom-heads, and truffles shaped like large olives. Send, separately, the braising-liquor of the fillet, cleared of all grease, strained with pressure, reduced, and added to a half- glaze sauce. 1070— FILET DE BCEUF RENAISSANCE Lard the fillet and poele it. Glaze it at the last minute; set it on a long dish, and sur- round it with a garnish of early-season vegetables, comprising carrots and turnips, raised by means of a large, round, grooved spoon-cutter, cooked in consomm£ and glazed; very green peas; small French beans; small faggots of asparagus-heads; portions of cauliflowers, and small potatoes cooked in butter. Renaissance garnish is, however, subject to no fixed rules, and it may consist of all the available early-season vegetables, small artichoke-bottoms included. Send a clear gravy separately 1071— FILET DE BCEUF RICHELIEU Lard the fillet, and either poele or roast if. If it be poeled, glaze it in good time; set it on a long dish, and surround it with the following garnish, which should be arranged in distinct heaps and in such wise as to contrast its colouring :—(1) Small tomatoes and medium-sized mushrooms, stuffed; (2) small or half-lettuces, braised and well trimmed; (3) potatoes, the size of pigeons’ eggs, cooked in butter and prepared just in time for the dishing up.