GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 206 the cooking gently, taking care to remove all grease, with the view of obtaining a very clear consomm£. Pour into the soup-tureen, and add a few thin slices of French soup “ flute,” slightly dried. 567— CONSOMME FLORENTINE With fine chicken forcemeat make twenty-four small quen- elles on a buttered tray, their shape being that of small Mecca loaves. To the forcemeat of six of these quenelles add some very finely chopped tongue; add white chicken-meat to that of another six; and to that of the remaining twelve add some very reduced spinach pur^e. The quenelles with spinach should number twice those with the other two ingredients, in order that the preparation may be in keeping with its designation “ & la Florentine.” Poach the quenelles; put them in the soup-tureen with two tablespoonfuls of very green, cooked peas. When about to serve, pour one quart of very clear, boiling chicken consomm£ over this garnish, and add a pinch of chervil pinches. 568— CONSOMME GAULOISE Prepare two dariole-moulds of ham royale, and poach the latter in a small, well-buttered Charlotte mould. When quite cold, cut it into large lozenges, and put these into the soup- tureen with six small cocks’ combs and six small cocks’ kidneys (these latter as small as possible). When about to serve, pour over this garnish one quart of chicken consomm£, thickened slightly with two tablespoonfuls of poached tapioca, strained through linen. 569— CONSOMME GEORGE SAND Have ready one quart of consomm^ flavoured with very clear fish fumet. Also prepare twelve small quenelles of whiting forcemeat, finished with crayfish butter; stew twelve morels, which should be left whole if very small, and cut into two if they are of medium size; twelve small slices of poached carps’ milt, and twelve little roundels of French soup “ flutes.” Put the poached quenelles and the stewed morels into the soup-tureen; pour therein the boiling, fish consommd, and send the slices of carps’ milt set on the roundels of French soup " flute ” separately to the table.