GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 616 early-season lettuce and cos lettuce, and is made up of three parts of very fresh and not very thick cream to one part of vinegar. 3. Egg seasoning is prepared from crushed hard-boiled yolks of egg, mixed in the salad-bowl with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. The whites of egg, cut into thin strips, are added to the salad. This seasoning may also be a light mayonnaise sauce. 4. Bacon seasoning is used especially for dandelion, red- cabbage, and corn salads. In this case the oil is replaced by the grease of the bacon dice, which are melted and frizzled in the omelet-pan. This grease is poured, while hot, with the bacon dice, over the salad, which should be in a hot salad-bowl and already seasoned with salt, pepper, and the vinegar which has served in swilling the omelet-pan. 5. Mustard with cream seasoning is used particularly with beetroot salads, with salads of celeriac, and with green salads wherein beetroot plays a major part. It is made up of a small tablespoonful of mustard, mixed with one-third pint of fresh and somewhat thin cream, the juice of a fair-sized lemon, salt, and pepper. N.B.—I should like to point out that mayonnaise sauce must only be used in very small quantities in the seasoning of salads. It is indigestible, and many constitutions cannot suffer it, especially at night at the end of a dinner. Raw onion should likewise only be used in salads with great moderation, in view of the fact that so many do not like it. In any case, it should be finely ciseled, washed in fresh water, and pressed in the corner of a towel. 1985— SIMPLE SALADS They comprise, in the first place, those salads known under the name of green salads. Such are lettuce, cos lettuce, chicory, endive, batavia, celery, corn-salad, dandelion, pur- slain, dittander, rampion, salsify leaves, white dandelion, &c. 1986— SALADS DE BETTERAVE (Beetroot Salad) Beetroot is really the accompaniment of compound and simple salads, and it is always best to cook it in the oven. If it be prepared specially as a salad, cut it into a julienne or into thin roundels; flavour it with onions, first baked in cinders and then finely chopped, and season it with mustard sauce or with oil, according to fancy. Always add some chopped herbs.