22 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY and then pass it through a tammy into a tureen ; butter the top, lest a crust should form. When Bechamel is intended for Lenten preparations, the veal must be omitted. There is another way of making the sauce. After having boiled the milk, the seasoning and aromatics should be added; the saucepan is then covered and placed on a corner of the stove, so as to ensure a thorough infusion. The boiling milk must now be poured on to the roux which has been separately prepared, and the sauce should then cook for one quarter of an hour only. 29—TOMATO SAUCE Quantities Required for Four Quarts. 5 oz. of salted breast of pork, rather fat. 6 oz. of carrots cut into cubes. 6 oz. of onions cut into cubes. 1 bay leaf and 1 small sprig of thyme. 5 oz. of flour. 2 oz. of butter, \ oz. of salt, 1 oz. of sugar, a pinch of pepper. 10 lbs. of raw tomatoes or 4 quarts of same, mashed. 2 quarts of white stock. Preparation.—Fry the pork with the butter in a tall, thick- bottomed saucepan. When the pork is nearly melted, add the carrots, onions, and aromatics. Cook and stir the vegetables, then add the flour, which should be allowed to cook until it begins to brown. Now put in the tomatoes and white stock, mix the whole well, and set to boil on an open fire. At this point add the seasoning and a crushed clove of garlic, cover the saucepan, and place in a moderate oven, where it may cook for one and one-half hours. At the end of this time the sauce should be passed through a sieve or tammy, and it should boil while being stirred. Finally, pour it into a tureen, and butter its surface to avoid the formation of a skin. Remarks.—A pur£e of tomatoes is also used in cookery; it is prepared in precisely the same fashion, except that the flour is omitted and only one pint of white stock is added. 30—HOLLANDAISE SAUCE Quantities Required for One Quart.—One and one-half lbs. of butter, the yolks of six eggs, one pinch of mignonette pepper and one-quarter oz. of salt, three tablespoonfuls of good vinegar. Preparation.—Put the salt, the mignonette, the vinegar, and as much water in a small saucepan, and reduce by three-quarters on the fire. Move the saucepan to a corner of the fire or into