468 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY tablespoonfuls of reduced and very cold Bechamel sauce per lb. of raw ham. Keep the forcemeat somewhat stiff, and finish it with the whites of four eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, per lb. of ham. 1425— SOUFFLE DE JAMBON ALEXANDRA Make the souffle preparation after one of the methods given above. Spread it in layers in a buttered timbale, alternating the layers of souffle with others of asparagus-heads cohered with butter. Smooth the surface to the shape of a dome; decorate with a fine slice of truffle, and cook in a moderate oven, of a temperature suited to this kind of preparation. Serve the souffle as soon as it is ready. If it be small, spread only one layer of asparagus-heads in the middle of it. If it be large, spread two or three layers of asparagus-heads. 1426— SOUFFLE! DE JAMBON CARMEN Add to the selected one of the two souffle preparations— either will do—for one lb. of ham, the pur£e of one-half lb. of pressed tomatoes, cooked in butter with one half-capsicum, rubbed through a sieve and very much reduced. Dish the souffle in a buttered timbale; sprinkle the surface with a pinch of red capsicum, cut in fine julienne fashion, and cook as described above. 1427— SOUFFLE DE JAMBON GASTRONOME Dish the selected ham souffle preparation in layers in a buttered timbale, and between each layer of it spread a litter of noodles, tossed in butter. Sprinkle the surface with chopped truffles; set a ball of truffle well in the centre of the souffle, and cook in the usual way. 1428— SOUFFLE DE JAMBON MILANAISE Dish the ham souffle preparation in a buttered timbale, and spread it in alternate layers with a fine garnish & la Milanaise (No. 1258). Deck the surface with small pieces of poached macaroni, fried in butter; sprinkle with grated cheese, and cook the souffle in a moderate oven. 1429— SOUFFLE DE JAMBON PERIGOURDINE Dish the souffle preparation in layers in a buttered timbale, and between each layer spread a litter of truffle slices. Be- sprinkle the surface with chopped truffles, and cook the souffle in the usual way.