594 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 1878— BECASSE SOUVAROFF Proceed exactly as for “ Faisan k la Souvaroff ” (No. 1845), after making due allowance for the size of the bird in regard to the quantity of truffles and foie gras. 1879— MOUSSES ET MOUSSELINES DE BECASSE Proceed as indicated in No. 1850. 1880— TIMBALE DE BECASSE.METTERNICH Prepare a somewhat shallow, decorated timbale crust. Roast the woodcocks and keep them underdone. Raise the supremes and put them in the timbale, separating them by collops of fresh foie gras, sauted at the last moment. Pound the remains of the woodcocks, including their car- casses; thin the pur^e with truffle essence; rub it through a sieve, pressing heavily the while, and then rub it through tammy. Heat the cullis thus obtained, without letting it boil; finish it with a little lemon juice, liqueur-brandy and butter, and pour it into the timbale over the pieces of woodcock and the foie gras collops. Dish the timbale on a folded napkin, lying on a round dish. 1881— TIMBALE DE BECASSE NESSELRODE Poele the wroodcocks and keep them underdone. As soon as they are cooked, raise their fillets and put these aside. Bone the remains, and pound the meat thus obtained, to- gether with a quarter of its weight of raw foie gras. Rub through a sieve, and add an equal weight of game forcemeat, prepared with panada and butter. Add the chopped carcasses and a glassful of liqueur brandy to the poeling-liquor; cook for a few minutes; strain, and in this stock poach five oz. of olive-shaped truffles (for an ordinary timbale). Line a buttered Charlotte-mould with short paste; cover its bottom and sides with the prepared forcemeat, and against this forcemeat set the woodcock’s supremes, cut into collops. Garnish the centre with the truffles, and cover these with a few tablespoonfuls of Espagnole, reduced with some of the fumet. Close the timbale with a layer of paste, as explained in the various preceding timbale recipes, and bake in a good, moderate oven for about forty-five minutes. When about to serve, turn out the timbale on a dish; pour into the former some half-glaze sauce combined with what remains of the fumet, and send a sauceboat of the same sauce separately.