POULTRY 523 At the end of thirty-five minutes transfer the pieces to an- other saucepan; put back the bacon; add twenty-four small onions, tossed in butter, one lb. of turnips shaped like elongated olives and glazed, and strain the sauce over the whole. Complete the cooking gently, and serve in a timbale. N.B.—With the same procedure, the giblets may be pre- pared with peas; with mixed, new vegetables; k la chipolata, &c. 1653—GIBLET PIE Fry the giblets, cut into pieces, in butter; sprinkle them moderately with, flour; cook the latter, and moisten with just sufficient consomm^ to make a clear sauce which will just cover the pieces. Three-parts cook, and leave to cool. This done, pour the whole into a pie-dish; cover with a layer of puff-paste, which should be sealed down to a strip of paste, stuck to the edge of the dish; gild; streak, and bake in a mode- rately warm oven for from twenty-five to thirty minutes. 1654—BALLOTINES ET JAMBONNEAUX These preparations are useful for disposing of any odd legs of fowls, the other parts of which have been already used. The legs are boned and stuffed, and the skin, which should be pur- posely left long if this preparation be contemplated, is then sewn up. The stuffing used varies according to the kind of dish in preparation, but good sausage-meat is most commonly used. Ballotines or Jambonneaux are braised, and they may be accompanied by any garnish suited to fowl. If they be prepared for serving cold, coat them with jelly, or cover them with brown or white chaud-froid sauce, and garnish them according to fancy. Boudins et Quenelles de Volaille 1655—BOUDINS DE VOLAILLE A LA RICHELIEU Take the required amount of chicken forcemeat, prepared with panada and cream, and divide it into three-oz. portions. Roll these portions into sausage-form, and open them so as to stuff them with some white chicken-meat, truffle and mushroom salpicon, cohered with reduced Allemande sauce. These quenelles may also be moulded in little, rectangular cases, used in biscuit-making, as follows:—Line the bottom and sides of the moulds, which should be well buttered, with a thickness of one-third inch of forcemeat; garnish the centre with salpicon; cover with forcemeat up to the edges, and smooth with the blade of a small knife dipped in tepid water.