658 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 219S—PIMENTOS FARCIS For this purpose take some small, green, carrot-shaped cap- sicums. Remove their stems, after having skinned them ; empty them, and half-fill them with half-cooked, pilaff rice. Then set them in a saut^pan, and carefully braise them with excellent stock. 2199— CAPSICUMS FOR GARNISHING For this purpose, the large red, Spanish capsicums are best. Braise them when they are peeled, and, when cooked, cut them up as the requirements may suggest. 2200— PUREE DE PIMENTOS Braise some large, red capsicums, with two-thirds of their weight of rice. When the whole is well cooked, rub it through a sieve, and add butter to the extent of two oz. per quart of the preparation. N.B.—This purde is particularly well suited to poached fowls and white meats, and it is well to keep it thin. 2201— POTATOES (Pommes de Terre) Ordinary potatoes are rarely of good quality in England, and they do not lend themselves as well as certain Continental varieties do to the various culinary uses to which this valuable tuber may be put. The very best kinds of potato are almost unknown in Eng- land, and the Dutch and Vitelotte potatoes have to be imported. 2202— POMMES DE TERRE A L’ANGLAISE Turn the potatoes to the shape of large garlic cloves, and cook them in salted water or steam. They accompany more especially boiled fish. The English method is to cook them without salt. 2203— POMMES DE TERRE ANNA Cut them to the shape of cylinders; slice these into thin roundels; wash them, and dry them in a piece of linen. Set these roundels in circles on the bottom of the mould proper to this potato preparation, or in a well-buttered thick- bottomed saut^pan ; let them overlap one another, and let the lay of each circle be reversed. Season; spread a coat of butter upon the first layer, and proceed in the same way with a second layer. Make five or six layers in this way, seasoning and spread- ing butter over each. Cover the utensil; cook in a good oven for thirty minutes;