628 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 2042— ASPERGES A LA POLONAISE Thoroughly drain the asparagus; set it on a long dish, in rows, and besprinkle the heads with hard-boiled egg-yolk and chopped parsley, mixed. When about to serve, cover the heads with nut-brown butter, combined with one oz. of very fresh and fine bread-crumbs per four oz. of butter. 2043— ASPARAGUS WITH VARIOUS SAUCES Butter sauce, Hollandaise, Mousseline, and Maltese sauces are the most usual adjuncts to asparagus. B6arnaise sauce without herbs is also served occasionally, likewise melted butter. When eaten cold, it may be served with oil and vinegar or a mayonnaise—more particularly a Chantilly mayonnaise, i.e., one to which beaten cream has been added. 2044— SPREW WITH BUTTER (Pointes d’Asperges) Sprew or green asparagus is chiefly used for garnishing or as a garnishing ingredient, but it may also be served as a vegetable with perfect propriety. Cut the heads into two-inch lengths, and put them together in faggots. Cut what remains of them into bits the size of peas. After having washed the latter, plunge them into boiling salted water, and cook them quickly, that they may keep green. This done, thoroughly drain them; let their moisture evaporate by tossing them over the fire; cohere them with butter, away from the fire, and dish them in a timbale with the faggots on top. They are usually served in small patty crusts, or in small tartlet crusts, with a few sprew tops on each small patty or tartlet. 2045— POINTES D’ASPERGES A LA CREME Prepare them, and cook them in salted water as above. Their cohesion with cream is in pursuance of the procedure common to other vegetables similarly prepared, and they are served like those of No. 2044. Egg-Plant (Aubergines) 2046— AUBERGINES A L’EGYPTIENNE Cut them into two lengthwise; trim them round the edges; cisel the middle of each with the view of facilitating the cook- ing process, and cook them. Drain them ; remove the pulp from their insides, and set the shells on a buttered gratin dish. This done, chop up the withdrawn pulp; add thereto a little