RELEVES AND ENTREES 405 put them in a timbale, and cover them with a financi&re garnish ; adding a few small slices of tongue and brain. 1212—TETE DE VEAU A LA POULETTE Cook the calf’s head in a blanc. Cut the pieces of the head into small slices, somewhat aslant, and toss them into a previously-prepared poulette sauce (No. 101). Dish in a timbale, and sprinkle with a pinch of chopped parsley. 1213—TETE DE VEAU EN TORTUE With a round cutter one, two, or three in. in diameter, cut up the pieces of calf’s head, the meat of which must be entirely suppressed. For this preparation, only the skin of the head should be used. Put the pieces of head in a timbale or on a dish, and cover them with a Tortue garnish. Tortue garnish consists of: Small quenelles of veal force- meat with butter; cock’s combs and kidneys; small mushrooms; stoned, stuffed and poached olives; slices of truffle; gherkins cut to the shape of olives (these should only be put into the sauce at the last moment); and Tortue sauce. This garnish comprises, besides, among unsauced ingre- dients: Slices of tongue and calf’s brain; small, trussed cray- fish, cooked in court-bouillon; fried eggs, the half of whose raw whites should be suppressed; and small croutons of bread- crumb, fried in butter at the last moment. 1214—T^TE DE VEAU A LA VINAIGRETTE OU A L’HUILE Set the boiling pieces of calf’s head on a napkin, lying on a dish. Surround them with slices of tongue, collops of brain, and sprigs of very green, curled-leaf parsley. Serve separately, on a hors-d’oeuvre dish, without mixing them, capers, chopped onion and parsley. Send to the table at the same time a sauceboat of vinai- grette or sauce & l’huile, prepared by mixing one part of vinegar, two parts of oil, and one part of the calf’s-head cooking-liquor, together with the necessary salt and pepper. 1215—ESCALOPES DE VEAU Collops of veal may be cut from either the fillet or the saddle; but they are more often cut from the cushion. Their weight varies from three to four oz., and they should always be cleared of all connective tissue. They may be fashioned to the shape of ovals, or curve-based triangles, and they should