FISH 291 should be buttered and garnished with a small onion, chopped. Moisten with one-quarter pint of ordinary white wine, as much fish fumet, and a few tablespoonfuls of the cooking-liquor of mushrooms. Poach gently with lid on. Drain and dish the sole, and coat it with a white wine sauce, prepared in accordance with one of the methods given in the chapter on Sauces (No. 111). Glaze quickly, or serve without glazing. N.B.—“ Sole au Vin Blanc ” may be prepared after the above recipe, but ordinary white wine may be replaced by one of the Rhine wines or Moselle, by some Johannisberg, or by a good white Burgundy or Bordeaux wine, such as Chablis- Moutonne, Savigny, Montrachet, Barsac, Sauternes, and even Chateau-Yquem or Ch&teau-Latour. In any of these cases the name of the wine may be men- tioned, and on the menu may be written Sole au Barsac, Sole au Chateau-Yquem, &c. 860—SOLE D1EPPOISE Poach the sole with one-sixth pint of fish fumet and a few tablespoonfuls of the cooking-liquor of mussels. Drain and dish the sole, surround it with poached mussels (shelled and cleared of their beards) and shrimps’ tails, and coat the fish and the garnish with a white wine sauce combined with the reduced cooking-liquor. 861—SOLE DIPLOMATE Poach the sole in very clear fish fumet. Drain it, dish it, and coat it with Diplomate sauce. Set upon it a row of six fine slices of black truffle; these should have been previously glazed with pale meat-glaze. 862—SOLE BONNE FEMME Butter the bottom of the dish intended for the sole, and besprinkle it with two chopped shallots, one pinch of parsley, and one and one-half oz. of raw minced mushrooms. Lay the sole upon this garnish, moisten with one-quarter pint of white wine and as much fish fumet, and poach gently, taking care to baste from time to time. When the sole is poached, drain off the cooking-liquor into a vegetable-pan, and reduce it quickly to half; effect the leason with two tablespoonfuls of fish velout£, and finish the sauce with two oz. of butter. Coat the sole with this sauce and sC- it to glaze in a fierce oven or at a salamander. U 2