390 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY with a Soubise consisting of the onion and the sauce rubbed through tammy. 1175— EMINCE DE B(EUF Cold roast or boiled meats may be warmed up in many different ways. In their preparation, however, the reader should follow one rule, the non-observance of which invariably leads to failure. Whatever the meat be, it should first be cut into the thinnest possible slices; set on a dish, and covered with a boiling sauce or garnish, which should effect its warming up. If the meat boil in the sauce or garnish, it toughens, and this, above all, should be avoided when roast meat is used. Sauces suited to Eminces are the Bordelaise, the Piquante, the Italienne, the Chasseur, the Poivrade, the P^rigueux, and the Tomato. 1176— EMINCE DE BCEUF EN MIROTON For one lb. of beef mince two fine onions somewhat finely, and toss them in butter until they are evenly and well gilded. Sprinkle with one-half tablespoonful of flour; set to cook for a moment, and then moisten with one-half glassful of white wine and one-half pint of consomm^; season with a pinch of pepper; boil, and leave to cook gently for seven or eight minutes. The flour may be dispensed with, but, in this case, the white wine is reduced to two-thirds, one-half pint of half-glaze is added, and the whole is cooked for seven or eight minutes. Cut the beef into very thin slices, and set these on a dish. A minute before serving, add a few drops of vinegar to the onions; cover the meat with the onions and the sauce; stand the dish for a moment on the hob, and sprinkle it slightly with chopped parsley. N.B.—When the miroton is prepared with boiled beef, the slices should be cut somewhat more thickly, and left to simmer gently in the sauce for as long as possble—an hour or more if necessary. The miroton is then dished with some minced gherkins, sprinkled with raspings, and placed in the oven at the last moment for the gratin to form. , ,77—GOULASH DE BCEUF A LA HONGROISE Cut three lbs. of ribs or shoulder of beef into squares weigh- ing about three oz. each. Fry these pieces on a moderate fire in four oz. of lard, together with one-half lb. of onions cut into large dice, until the latter acquire a nice, even, golden colour.