338 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY time. When taking them out of the oven, dish them on a napkin and serve immediately. 999— CAISSES DE LAITANCES A LA NANTUA Poach the milts in salted water. Drain them, and cut them into small slices thicker than their length. Place these slices in small pleated porcelain cases with two crayfish tails in each. Fill up the cases with Nantua sauce, and lay a fine slice of truffle over the centre of each case. 1000— JOHN DORY (St. Pierre) This fish, which is in the highest degree unsightly, is pos- sessed of flesh whose firmness, whiteness, and delicacy are of the rarest excellence; and, when quite fresh, its fillets are certainly equal in quality to those of the chicken-turbot and the sole. Albeit the dory is not as popular as it deserves to be, and this is owing either to its unsightliness, which may prejudice the opinion of gourmets against it, to people’s indifference with regard to it, or to a mere trick of fashion. While I admit its unpopularity, however, I should strongly recommend all lovers of fish to give it a trial. Let them prepare the dory’s fillets after the recipes given under Fillets of Sole and Chicken-turbot, and, provided the directions be properly carried out, I venture to believe that the prevailing aversion to dory will very soon be found to have no warrant in fact. 1001— FRESH HADDOCK (Eglefin) This fish is chiefly eaten smoked, under the name of haddock. When it is fresh, it may be prepared after the recipes given for cod, to which it is quite equal in the matter of delicacy. 1002— SMELT (Eperlans) Owing to their small size, smelts only lend themselves to a very limited number of preparations. They are usually served either on little skewers or dished in a heap on a napkin, with fried parsley and grooved half-lemons; those on skewers are dished flat with the same garnish. Large smelts may be treated after the recipes immediately following. ,003—6PERLANS A l’anglaise Open the smelts down the back and carefully bone, without disfiguring them. Treat them a Vanglaise with fine bread- crumbs, and pat them lightly with the flat of a knife, that the oread-crumbs may adhere well.