VEGETABLES AND FARINACEOUS PRODUCTS 635 2077—TARTELETTES GRILLEES AUX CHAMPIGNONS These tartlets constitute an excellent and beautiful garnish, more particularly for Tournedos and Noisettes. Proceed ex- actly as for No. 2076, but use tartlet moulds the size of which is determined by the dimensions of the piece or preparation which they are to accompany. 2078—TURNED AND GROOVED MUSHROOMS FOR GARNISHING Take some very fresh mushrooms; wash and drain them quickly. Suppress their stalks flush with their heads; turn or groove the latter with the point of a small knife, and throw them, one by one, into a boiling liquor prepared as follows : — For two lbs. of mushrooms, put one-sixth pint of water, one-third oz. of salt, two oz. of butter, and the juice of one and one-half lemons, in a saucepan. Boil; add the mushrooms, and cook for five minutes. Transfer to a bowl immediately, and cover with a piece of buttered paper. 2079—PUR^E DE CHAMPIGNONS Clean, wash, and dry two lbs. of mushrooms. Quickly peel them, and rub them through a sieve. Put this pur^e of raw mushrooms into a saut^pan with two-thirds pint of reduced Bechamel sauce, and one-sixth pint of cream. Season with salt, white pepper, and nutmeg; reduce over an open fire for a few minutes, and finish, away from the fire, with three oz. of best butter. 2080—MORELS (Morilles) The Spring mushroom or Morel is the one most preferred by connoisseurs. There are two kinds of morels—the pale and the brown kind—both excellent, though some prefer the former to the latter, and vice versS. In spite of what connoisseurs may say regarding the error of washing morels, I advocate the operation, and urge the reader to effect it carefully, and without omitting to open out the alveolate parts, so as to wash away any sand particles that may be lodged therein. The Cooking of Morels.—If they be small, leave them whole; if large, halve or quarter them. After having properly drained them, put them in a saucepan with two oz. of butter, the juice of a lemon, and a pinch of salt and another of pepper per lb. of morels. Boil, and then stew for ten or twelve minutes. Never forget that the vegetable juices produced by the morels should be reduced and added to their accompanying sauce.