254 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY of royale (No. 209). Finely pound what remains of the wood- cock, and combine with the resulting pur£e one and one-half pints of game velout£ prepared with essence of woodcock. Cover the stewpan and place it in the bain-marie for thirty- five minutes. Now rub the whole through tammy; heat without boiling, and finish, when dishing up, with one and one-half oz. of butter, one and one-half oz. of cooked foie-gras pur^e, diluted with a few tablespoonfuls of the soup, one and one-half tablespoonfuls of cream, and one and one-half tablespoonfuls of burnt liqueur brandy. Garnish with the royale cut into dice, and the reserved fillet of woodcock, stiffened in butter at the last moment, and cut into thin slices. 734— POTAGE REGENCE Prepare one quart of barley cream in accordance with the directions under No. 712. Finish it, when dishing up, with an ordinary leason and one and one-half oz. of crayfish butter. Garnish with twelve small, grooved quenelles of chicken forcemeat finished with crayfish butter; one tablespoonful of small pearl barley, well cooked; and six small cocks’ combs, freshly poached and very white. 735— POTAGE ROSSOLN1K Prepare (1) one quart of light, poultry velout£ combined with cucumber juice; (2) ten pieces of parsley root and the same quantity of celery root, turned to the shape of small, new carrots, and split crosswise at their base; (3) twenty small lozenges of salted cucumber. Parboil the roots and the cucumber lozenges for fifteen minutes, and add them to the velout£ when about to cook the latter. Cook the whole gently for forty minutes, despumating the velout6 the while. Finish with one and one-half tablespoon- fuls of cucumber juice, and an ordinary leason. Garnish with small chicken-forcemeat quenelles. 736— POT AGE DE SANTE Cook quickly, in salted water, three medium-sized, peeled, and quartered potatoes. When their pulps seem soft to the touch, drain them; rub them through a fine sieve, and dilute the resulting pur£e with one and one-half pints of white con- somm£. Add two tablespoonfuls of sorrel melted in butter, and finish the preparation with an ordinary leason and one oz. of butter.