442 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY combined with poached dice of marrow, a pinch of chopped parsley, and three oz. of sliced cbpes, tossed in butter and oil and well drained. Return the kidneys to the saucepan; toss them in the sauce, and dish in a timbale. *332—ROQNONS SAUTES CARVALHO Fry the skinned, halved and seasoned mutton kidneys in butter, and dish them, each on a small crouton of bread-crumb, cut to the shape of a cock’s comb and fried in butter. On each half-kidney, set a small cooked mushroom and a slice of truffle. Swill the saucepan with Madeira; add a little half-glaze; put in a small quantity of butter, away from the fire, and pour this sauce over the kidneys. 1333— ROQNONS SAUTES AU CHAMPAGNE Remove the outer skin from the mutton kidneys; cut them in two lengthwise; season them; fry them quickly in butter, and dish in a timbale. Swill the saucepan with one-half pint of champagne per six kidneys; reduce almost entirely; add two tablespoonfuls of melted meat glaze; add a small quantity of butter, and pour this sauce over the kidneys. N.B.—The preparation of kidneys sauted with wine always follows the same principle; that is to say, the saucepan in which the kidneys have cooked is always swilled with a quantity of wine, in proportion to the number of kidneys; a proportionate amount of meat glaze is then added, and after the sauce has been slightly buttered, the kidneys are tossed in it. 1334— ROQNONS SAUTES HONQROISE Remove the outer skin from the mutton kidneys; cut them into halves; slice and season them; fry them in butter, and drain them. In the saucepan that has served in the cooking of the kidneys, fry a chopped onion with butter, and add thereto a pinch of paprika. Moisten with a tablespoonful of cream, and reduce; add one-sixth of a pint of velout6, boil for a moment, and rub through tammy. Heat this sauce; put the kidneys into it, toss them for a minute, so as to heat without boiling them, and dish in a timbale. 1335— ROGNONS SAUTES CHASSEUR Quickly fry the sliced mutton kidneys in butter and drain them.