779 ENTREMETS 2703—PECHES A L’IMPIs RATRICE Cut the peaches in two ; poach them in a vanilla-flavoured syrup, and let them cool. Then drain and dry them ; garnish the cut side of each of the half-peaches with enough vanilla ice-cream to give them the appearance of whole fruit. Coat the peach-side of each with some stiff apricot sauce, and roll them in pralined splintered almonds. Dish these peaches upon a cushion of GJnoise, saturated with Kirsch and Maraschino, set upon a dry-paste base, and glazed with raspberry glaze. Veil the whole with spun sugar. 2704—PECHES ROSE-CHESRI Poach the peaches in vanilla-flavoured syrup, and let them cool. Dish them in a timbale ; cover them with a purde of pine- apple with Clicquot, and serve very cold. 2705—PECHES ROSE-POMPON Scald and peel some fine peaches ; poach them in vanilla- flavoured syrup, and let %them cool. Stone them without opening or breaking them overmuch, and in the place of the stone, put some very firm vanilla ice-cream. Set these reconstructed peaches in a silver timbale, upon a layer of raspberry ice; cover them with pralined Chantilly cream ; and before serving put them for thirty minutes in the refrigerator. At the last moment, veil the timbale with pink, spun sugar. Pears (Poires). 2706—POIRES ALMA Peel the pears and poach them in a syrup made from one quart of water, one-half pint of port wine, eight ounces of sugar, and the blanched and chopped zest of an orange. Cool: dish them in a timbale ; sprinkle them with powdered pralin, and serve a Chantilly cream at the same time. 2707—POIRES CARDINAL Poach the pears in a vanilla-flavoured syrup, and then proceed as directed under No. 2697. 2708—POIRES A LA CARIGNAN Evenly turn some very fine dessert pears, and cook them in a vanilla-flavoured syrup ; keeping them fairly firm. Drain them on a dish and let them cool. This done, trim them flat at their base, and empty them from underneath by means of a root spoon, after having outlined the circumference of the opening with an even round cutter.