ICES 795 Various Ices. 2777—GLACE ALHAMBRA Take a Madeleine-mould; clothe its bottom and sides with vanilla ice-cream and fill it with Chantilly cream, combined with fresh strawberries, macerated for two hours in Kiimmel, which should afterwards be added to the Chantilly cream. 2778—GLACE CARMEN Take a fluted mould. Garnish it with vertical and alternate layers of raspberry ice, coffee ice, and vanilla ice-cream. 2779—GLACE COMTESSE MARIE Take a special square mould, even or ornamented on the top. Clothe it with strawberry ice ; fill it with vanilla ice-cream ; and, after turning it out, decorate it, by means of a piping-bag (fitted with a grooved pipe), with vanilla ice-cream. 2780—GLACE COUCHER DE SOLEIL Select one pound of fine very ripe strawberries, and put them in a silver timbale. Sprinkle them with ten ounces of powdered sugar and one liqueur-glass full of Grand-Marnier liqueur; cover the timbale and keep it on ice for half an hour. Then rub the strawberries through a sieve ; and, with their purde, make a preparation after the directions given under Fruit Ices. Freeze this preparation in the freezer, and, when it is set, combine with it one pint of Chantilly cream. Now cover the freezer ; surround it afresh with ice if necessary, and keep it thus for thirty-five to forty minutes. This done, dish the ice prepara- tion with care in pyramid form in crystal bowls. N.B.—This ice gets its name from its colour, which should be that of the western sky during a fine sunset. 2781—GLACE DAME-JEANNE Take a Madeleine-mould; clothe it with vanilla ice-cream, and fill it with Chantilly cream, combined with pralined orange flowers. 2782—GLACE DORA Take a Madeleine-mould; clothe it with vanilla ice-cream, and fill it with Kirsch-flavoured Chantilly cream combined with pine- apple dice and Bar red-currant jam. 2783—GLACE EiTOILE DU BERGER Take a star-shaped mould, or a Madeleine-mould with a star on its bottom. Clothe it with raspberry ice, and fill it with Benedictine flavoured Mousse.