HORS-D’CEUVRES 161 Special Paste for Tartlets and Barquettes.—Sift one lb. of flour on to a mixing-board; make a hole in the centre, into which put one-eighth oz. of salt, one-half lb. of cold, melted butter, one egg, the yolks of two, and a few drops of water. Mix the whole into a paste, handling it as little as possible; roll it into a ball, and put it aside in the cool for two hours. The Preparation of Tartlet- and Barquette-crusts.—Roll out the paste to the thickness of one-eighth inch, and stamp it with an indented fancy-cutter into pieces of the same size as the tartlet-moulds to be used, which in this case are the same as for “petits fours,” and, therefore, very small. The fancy-cutter should be round for tartlets, and oval for barquettes. Lay the paste in the moulds, prick the parts lying on the bottom, lest they should blister, garnish the insides with pieces of kitchen-paper to protect the paste, and fill them with rice or flour. Bake in a moderate oven; remove the rice or flour, the sole object of which was to preserve the shape of the tartlets or barquettes; turn the latter out of their moulds, and set them to cool. The Garnishes of Tartlets and Barquettes.—These may be divided into two classes, viz., (i) those with a compound butter for base, (2) those with an aspic jelly base. The first class comprises all the garnishes I gave for Canapes and Toast, as also all those which the operator’s fancy, taste, and inventiveness may devise. The second class generally consists of a layer, on the bottom, of some kind of mousse, upon which a whole piece of a different colour from the mousse is placed, and which is then coated with a very clear jelly. Example.—Garnish the bottom of a tartlet or barquette with a coating of pink, shrimp, crayfish or lobster mousse. Upon this lay a very white poached oyster, or a slice of hard-boiled egg, stamped with an indented fancy-cutter. In the centre of the yolk put a little lobster coral, and coat the whole with jelly to the level of the tartlet edges. The explanations given above warrant my refraining from a more detailed discussion of these delicate preparations. Suffi- cient has been said to allow of any operator, with a little taste and inventiveness, easily making an endless variety of com- binations. 388—TUNNY IN OIL This is found on the market, and it may be served as it stands. It is very greatly used as a garnish for hors-d’oeuvres. M