ENTREMETS 713 Finish, away from the fire, with four oz. of butter, five egg- yolks, and twelve whites, whisked to a very stiff froth. Souffli Preparation with a Fruit Base.—Take one lb. of sugar cooked to the small-crack stage ; add thereto one lb. of the pulp or puree of the fruit under treatment, and ten egg-whites, beaten to a stiff froth. Proceed thus: Having cooked the sugar to the extent stated above, add to it the fruit pulp. If the latter reduces the sugar a stage or two, cook it afresh in order to return it to the small- crack stage; and, when this is reached, pour it over the whites. Dishing and Cooking of Souffles.—Whatever the souffles may consist of, dish them in a timbale, or in a special false-bottomed dish, buttered and sugared inside. Cook in a somewhat moderate oven, that the heat may reach the centre of the souffle by degrees. Two minutes before withdrawing the souffle from the oven, sprinkle it with icing sugar, which, when it becomes caramel upon the surface of the souffld, constitutes the glazing. The decoration of souffles is optional, and, in any case, should not be overdone. Hot Sauces for Entremets 2406—ENGLISH SAUCE See the Custard recipe (No. 2397). 2407—CHOCOLATE SAUCE Dissolve half-lb. of grated chocolate in two-thirds pint of water. Add a tablespoonful of vanilla sugar ; cook gently for twenty-five minutes, and complete at the last moment with three table- spoonfuls of cream and a piece of best butter, the size of a walnut. 2408—SABAYON Mix one lb. of powdered sugar with twelve egg-yolks, in a basin, until the mixture has whitened slightly. Dilute with one quart of dry, white wine ; pour the whole in a narrow bain-marie, which should be placed in a receptacle containing boiling water, and whisk it until it is four times its former size, and is firm and frothy. N.B.—Sabayon may also be made with milk instead of white wine, and it may be flavoured according to fancy. 2409—FRUIT SAUCE Apricots, red-currants, greengages and mirabelle plums are the best fruits for sweet sauces. Other fruits, such as peaches, William