HORS-D’CEUVRES J53 352—SALAD OF FILLETED SALTED HERRINGS Remove the fillets whole; take off the skins; set to soak and then trim them. Dish, and cover them with the following sauce:—Add the pur£e of eight soft roes, moistened with two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, to four tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise. Season with onion, parsley, chervil, chives, and tarragon, all finely chopped; flavour moderately with cayenne. 353—FRESH HERRINGS MARINADED IN WHITE WINE For twelve herrings, put one pint of white wine into a sauce- pan, with one-quarter pint of vinegar, an onion cut into thin slices, half a carrot cut into grooved roundels, a faggot, the necessary salt, and a few peppercorns. Set to boil gently for twenty minutes. Place the cleaned herrings in a saut^-pan, pour the boiling marinade upon them, and let them poach for fifteen minutes. Serve them very cold with the marinade, the roundels of carrot, and thin strips of onion. 354—LUCAS HERRINGS Raise the fillets from fine salted herrings, soak them first in cold water, and then in milk for an hour. Prepare a sauce as follows :—Beat up the yolks of two eggs in a bowl with salt and pepper and one tablespoonful of mustard; add five tablespoonfuls of oil and two of vinegar, proceeding as in the case of mayonnaise, and complete with shallots and one dessertspoonful of chopped chervil and gherkins. Season with cayenne, immerse the drained and dried fillets of herrings in this sauce, and send them to the table on a hors-d’oeuvre dish. 355—HERRINGS A LA LIVONIENNE Take some fine salted herrings’ fillets, clean them, and cut them into dice. Place these in a bowl, and add thereto, in equal quantities, some cold, boiled potatoes and russet apples cut into dice, parsley, chervil, and chopped fennel and tarragon. Season with oil and vinegar, salt and pepper; make the pre- paration into shapes resembling herrings, and place the heads and tails, which should have been put aside for the purpose, at each extremity of every supposed herring. 356—HERRINGS A LA RUSSE Cut some fine, cleaned fillets of salted herrings into thin slices. Dish up, and alternate the rows of sliced fillets with