266 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY a Lenten dish, the fish may be covered with slices of bacon while cooking. In any case, baste it often. Take care not to close the lid down too tightly, in order that the liquor may be reduced simultaneously with the cooking of the fish. When the operation is almost completed, take the lid off the fish-kettle with the view of glazing the fish; then take the former off the fire. Now withdraw the drainer with the fish upon it, and lay it athwart the top of the fish-kettle, and let it drain; tilt the fish on to a dish, and cover the latter pending its despatch to the table. Strain the stock remaining in the fish-kettle through a strainer; let it stand for ten minutes, re- move all the grease that has formed on its surface, and use it to complete the sauce as I directed above. Braised fish are generally accompanied by a garnish, the constituents of which I shall give in the particular recipes relating to braising. 781—THE GRILLING OF FISH This method is best suited to small fish, to medium-sized chicken-turbots, and to large-sectioned fish. Unless they are very small, it is best to gash both sides of fish intended for grilling; the reasons given above for this measure likewise apply here. All white and naturally dry fish should be rolled in flour and besprinkled with butter or very good oil before being placed on the grill to be exposed to the heat of the fire. The flour forms a crust around the fish, which keeps it from drying and gives it that golden colour quite peculiar to objects thus treated. Salmon, trout, red mullet, mackerel, and herrings, the flesh whereof is fatty, need not be floured, but only besprinkled with melted butter. Owing to the somewhat fragile texture of most fish, a special double gridiron is used, by means of which they may be turned without fear of damage. This gridiron is placed upon the ordinary grill. I have already given in Part I. of this work the radical principles of grilling (Nos. 257 and 260); to this, therefore, the reader is begged to refer. Grilled fish are served on a very hot dish, without paper or a napkin; they are garnished with fresh parsley and grooved slices of lemon. Butter k la Maitre d’Hotel, anchovy butter, devilled sauce, Roberts’ sauce Escoffier, and butter k la Ravigote constitute the best adjuncts to grilled fish.