98 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY of this kind naturally led me to a new classification of soups, and this I shall disclose later. I shall not make any lengthy attempt here to refute the argu- ments of certain autocrats of the dinner-table who, not so many years ago, urged the total abolition of soups. I shall only submit to their notice the following quotation from Grimod de la Regni&re, one of our most illustrious gastronomists: “ Soup is to a dinner what the porch or gateway is to a building,” that is to say, it must not only form the first portion thereof, but it must be so devised as to convey some idea of the whole to which it be- longs; or, after the manner of an overture in a light opera, it should divulge what is to be the dominant phrase of the melody throughout. I am at one with Grimod in this, and believe that soups have come to stay. Of all the items on a menu, soup is that which exacts the most delicate perfection and the strictest attention, for upon the first impression it gives to the diner the success of the latter part of the meal largely depends. Soups should be served as hot as possible in very warm plates, especially in the case of consommes when these have been pre- ceded by cold hors-d’oeuvres. Hors-d’oeuvres are pointless in a dinner, and even when oysters stand as such they should only be allowed at meals which include no soup. Those hors-d’oeuvres which consist of various fish, smoked or in oil, and strongly seasoned salads, leave a disagreeable taste on the consumer’s palate and make the soup which follows seem flat and insipid if the latter be not served boiling hot. Classification of Soups This includes (i) clear soups, (2) thick soups, (3) special soups of various kinds, (4) classical vegetable soups, including some local preparations. 237—CLEAR SOUPS Clear soups, of whatever nature the base thereof may be, whether butcher’s meat, poultry, game, fish, shell-fish, or turtle, &c., are made according to one method only. They are always clear consommes to which has been added a slight gar- nish in keeping with the nature of the consomm£.