425 RELEVES AND ENTREES i.e., either small heads of celery cut into two or four, or car- doons, cut into pieces and well blanched. The endives are not blanched; they need only be well washed and put with the veal. When cooked, drain the vegetables, trim them, and dish them in a timbale with the veal and the sauce; the latter pre- pared as directed and strained over the meat. 1275—BLANQUETTE DE VEAU AUX NOUILLES Proceed as for “ Blanquette & l’ancienne,” but suppress the garnish of onions and mushrooms. When the blanquette is dished, set thereon heaps of noodles, parboiled and cohered with butter, and cover these with raw noodles tossed quickly in butter; allow three oz. of tossed noodles per lb. of those cohered. 1276—FRICASSEE DE VEAU Fricassee differs from blanquette in this, namely, that the pieces of veal in the former are stiffened in butter without colour- ation. When the meat has been well stiffened, besprinkle it with about one oz. of flour per lb.; cook this flour with the meat for a few minutes; then moisten the fricassee with white stock; season, and set to boil, stirring the while. All the garnishes of mushrooms and vegetables given for blanquette may be served with fricassee; but in the case of the latter, both the meat and the garnish are cooked in the sauce, the leason of which is effected by means of egg-yolks and cream, as for blanquette. 1277—FRICADELLES Fricadelles are a kind of meat balls, somewhat like those commonly prepared in private households. They are made from raw or cooked meat, in the following manner : — Fricadelles with Raw Meat.—For ten fricadelles, each weighing three and one-half oz., chop up one lb. of very lean veal, cleared of all fat and gristle, together with two-thirds of a lb. of butter. Put the whole into a bowl, and add thereto five oz. of soaked and well-pressed crumb of bread, two eggs, half an oz. of salt, a pinch of pepper and a little nutmeg, and two oz. of chopped onion cooked in butter without colouration. Mix the whole well, and divide it up into portions weighing three and one-half oz. Fashion these portions to the shape of quoits, by first rolling them into balls on a flour-dusted board, and afterwards flattening them out with the flat of a knife. Heat some butter or very pure fat in a saut^pan; put the