264 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY the case of flat-fish, partly detach the two underlying fillets on either side of the back-bone instead of gashing them. All fish intended for frying (except Blanchailles and White- bait) should first be steeped in salted milk, then rolled in flour before being plunged into the hot fat. If they be “ panes a Vanglaise,” however, as they generally are in England, the milk may be dispensed with, in which case, after they have been lightly coated with flour, they are completely dipped in an anglaise (No. 174) and afterwards rolled in white bread- crumbs. They should then be patted with the blade of a knife so as to ensure the cohesion of the whole coating, and, finally, the latter should be criss-crossed with the back of a knife with the view of improving the appearance when fried. Fried fish are served either on a napkin, on a drainer, or on special dish-papers. They are garnished with fried parsley and properly trimmed half-lemons. 778—THE COOKING OF FISH A LA MEUNieRE This excellent mode of procedure is only suited to small fish or the slices of larger ones. Nevertheless, it may be re- sorted to for chicken-turbots, provided their weight do not exceed four lbs. The operation consists in cooking the fish (or slices or fillets of fish) in the frying-pan with very hot butter, after having seasoned them and sprinkled them with flour. If the fish are very small, ordinary butter is used; if, on the other hand, they are large, the procedure demands clarified butter. When the fish is sufficiently coloured on one side, it is turned over for the completion of the operation. This done, it is transferred, by means of a spatula, to a hot dish, whereon, after having been salted, it is sent to the table. It may be served as it is with a garnish of trimmed half- lemons. Fish prepared in this way are termed “ dor^s ” (gilded), “Soles dor£s,” “Turbotins dor^s,” &c., in order to distin- guish them from those prepared k la Meuni&re. If the fish is announced “ k la MeunRre,” a few drops of lemon should be sprinkled upon it; it should be seasoned with salt and pepper, and garnished with concassed, scalded pars- ley. At the last moment a piece of butter, in proportion to the size of the fish, is put in the frying-pan, and is heated until it begins to brown slightly. This is poured over the fish imme- diately, and the latter is sent to the table at once while still