FISH 343 are the same as for salmon mousselines, and the preparations suited to the latter may likewise be applied to mousselines de merlans. (See Mousselines de Saumon, Nos. 797 to 799.) 1018—FILETS DE MERLAN AU GRATIN Raise the fillets from some whitings, and leave the bones quite clean. Lay them on a buttered dish besprinkled with chopped shallots, the bottom of which should have been covered with a few tablespoonfuls of gratin sauce. Surround the fillets with slices of raw mushrooms; set two small, cooked mushrooms upon each fillet; pour a few tablespoonfuls of white wine into the dish, and cover the whole with gratin sauce. Sprinkle with fine raspings and melted butter, and put the dish in a sufficiently fierce oven to (1) reduce the sauce; (2) allow the gratin to form; and (3) cook the fillets at the same moment of time. In respect of this operation, refer to Complete Gratin, No. 269. When taking the dish from the oven, sprinkle a little chopped parsley and a few drops of lemon juice over it, N.B.—If the whiting be treated whole, the procedure remains the same. 1019— PAUPIETTES DE MERLAN AU GRATIN Raise some fillets of whiting; coat them with a fish force- meat combined with fine herbs, and roll them into scrolls. Set these rolled fillets on a round, buttered gratin dish sprinkled with chopped shallots, the bottom of which should have been covered with gratin sauce. Surround them with a border of sliced, raw mushrooms; place a small, cooked mushroom on each fillet, and proceed for the rest of the operation exactly as explained under “ Filets de Merlan au Gratin.” 1020— MERLAN EN LORGNETTE AU GRATIN Separate the fillets from the bones, proceeding from the tail o the head, and completely remove the spine near the head. Cover the fillets with fish forcemeat “ aux fines herbes,” and roll them into scrolls with their tail-ends inside. Set them on a round dish sprinkled with chopped shallots and covered with gratin sauce, placing them side by side, all round the dish, with the whitings’ heads in the centre; and proceed for the rest of the operation as explained under No. 1018. N.B.—Whitings prepared in this way may be treated with white wine, Dieppoise, Bercy, fried, &c.