335 FISH under No. 195. Mould this forcemeat, by means of a table- spoon, into large quenelles, in the centre of which lay two cold poached oysters. Poach these quenelles after the manner of ordinary mous- selines. This done, drain them on a piece of linen; arrange them in a circle on a round dish, and cover them with highly- seasoned Supreme sauce. Decorate each quenelle with a fine slice of truffle, and garnish the middle of the dish with some asparagus-tops, cohered with butter. 987—BASS (Bar) This excellent fish is very little known, and, consequently, rarely sought after in England. The large specimens are served, boiled, with the same kind of sauce as for turbot. The smaller ones are chiefly served k la Meuni&re or fried. 988—BRILL (Barbue) Served whole, brill may be looked upon as the understudy, as it were, of the chicken-turbot, and all the preparations given for the latter may be adapted to the former. If it be preferred filleted, it may be treated after the recipes given for fillets of sole. Hence for brill cooked whole refer to chicken-turbot and the recipes Nos. 925 to 938, and for filleted brill see recipes Nos. 865 to 922. 989—BLOATERS Bloaters, or herrings partially dried in smoke, form one of the nicest breakfast dishes. As a rule, they are simply grilled over a moderate fire. It should be borne in mind that, as these fish are only partially salted and smoked, they will not keep very long. COD. (CABILLAUD.) If cod were less common, it would be held in as high esteem as salmon; for, when it is really fresh and of good quality, the delicacy and delicious flavour of its flesh admit of its ranking among the finest of fish. 990—CABILLAUD BOUILLI Fresh cod is mostly served boiled, either whole, in sections, or in dames, and the directions given under “ The Boiling of Fish ” (No. 776) apply particularly to this fish. Boiled fresh cod is always accompanied by its liver, poached in salted water, and very floury potatoes, boiled at the last minute, must always be sent to the table with it. Served thus with an oyster sauce, a HolJandaise sauce, or