COLD SAUCES AND COMPOUND BUTTERS 49 Complete with three tablespoonfuls of pur£e of herbs, pre- pared with equal quantities of chervil, parsley, tarragon, and fresh pimpernel, scalded for one minute. Cool quickly, press so as to expel the water, and pass through a fine sieve. Serve this sauce with cold fish. 125—GRIBICHE SAUCE Crush in a basin the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs, and work them into a smooth paste, together with a large tablespoon- ful of French mustard, the necessary salt, a little pepper, and make up the sauce with one pint of oil. Complete with one dessertspoonful of parsley, chervil, and tarragon (chopped and mixed), as many capers and gherkins, evenly mixed, and the hard-boiled whites of three eggs, cut short, Julienne-fashion. This sauce is chiefly used with cold fish. 126—MAYONNAISE SAUCE Put in a basin the yolks of six raw eggs, after having removed the cores. Season them with one-half oz. of table- salt and a little cayenne pepper. Gradually pour one-fifth pint of vinegar on the yolks while whisking them briskly. When the vinegar is absorbed add one quart of oil, letting the latter trickle down in a thread, constantly stirring the sauce meanwhile. The sauce is finished by the addition of the juice of a lemon and three tablespoonfuls of boiling water—the purpose of the latter being to ensure the coherence of the sauce and to prevent its turning. Mayonnaise prepared in this way is rather liquid, but it need only be left to rest a few hours in order to thicken con- siderably. Unless it be exposed to too low a temperature, the Mayonnaise, prepared as above, never turns, and may be kept for several days without the fear of anything happening to it. Merely cover it to keep the dust away. Remarks.—In the matter of that sauce there exist endless prejudices, which I must attempt to refute :—- 1. If the sauce forms badly, or not at all, the reason is that the oil has been added too rapidly at first, before the addition of the vinegar, and that its assimilation by the yolks has not operated normally. 2. It is quite an error to suppose that it is necessary to work over ice or in a cold room. Cold is rather deleterious to the Mayonnaise, and is invariably the cause of this sauce turn- ing in winter. In the cold season the oil should be slightly E