VEGETABLES AND FARINACEOUS PRODUCTS 661 2217—CHIPPED POTATOES Cut the potatoes into thin roundels, by means of a special plane; put them into cold water for ten minutes; drain them; dry them in linen, and fry them, keeping them very crisp. Serve them cold or hot, with game roasted in the English way. 2218—POMMES DE TERRE COLLERETTE Turn the potatoes to the shape of corks, and cut them with a special knife which grooves them. Treat them like chipped potatoes. 2219—POMMES DE TERRE PAILLES Cut the potatoes into a long, thin julienne; wash them and thoroughly dry them on a piece of linen. Put them into hot fat; and, at the end of a few minutes, drain them in a frying-basket. Just before serving them, plunge them afresh into smoking fat, that they may be very crisp; drain them on a piece of linen, and salt them moderately. 2220— POMMES DE TERRE PONT-NEUF Trim the potatoes square, and cut them into rods of half-inch sides. Plunge them into hot fat, and leave them there until they are crisp outside and creamy in. This preparation represents the generic type of fried potatoes. 2221— POMMES DE TERRE SOUFFLEES Trim the potatoes square, and carefully cut them into slices one-eighth inch thick. Wash them in cold water; thoroughly dry them, and put them into moderately hot fat. As soon as the potatoes are in it, gradually heat the fat until they are cooked—which they are known to be when they rise to the surface of the frying fat. Drain them in the frying-basket, and at once immerse them in fresh and hotter fat. This final immersion effects the puffing, which results from the sudden contact with intense heat. Leave the potatoes to dry; drain them on a stretched piece of linen; salt them moderately, and dish them. 2222—QRATIN DE POMMES DE TERRE A LA DAUPHINOISE Finely slice two lbs. of fair-sized Dutch potatoes. Put them in a basin, and add thereto salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, one beaten egg, one and one-half pints of boiled milk, and four oz. of fresh, grated Gruyere. Thoroughly mix up the whole. Pour this preparation into earthenware dishes, rubbed with garlic and well buttered; copiously sprinkle with grated