526 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY Add to this butter twenty-four fine cocks’ kidneys (it is essential that these should be fresh); season them with salt, pepper, and a little red pepper, and cook them for from five to six minutes, which should prove sufficient. Meanwhile, prepare twelve croutons of bread-crumbs, one- third inch thick, stamped out with a round cutter two-thirds inch in diameter. Fry these croutons in butter at the last minute. Put four fine, very black truffles, cut into somewhat thick slices, into the required quantity of reduced half-glaze sauce; add the kidneys, drained of their butter, as well as the fried crusts, one and one-half oz. of very best butter, and a few drops of lemon juice, and roll the saucepan gently, that the butter may thoroughly combine with the sauce. Dish immediately in a very hot, silver timbale, and serve instantly. 1664—ROQNONS DE COQ FARCIS POUR ENTREES FROIDES, GARNITURES, ETC. Choose some fine, cooked kidneys, and cut them into two lengthwise. Trim them slightly underneath, that they may lie steady. Stuff them by means of a piping-bag with a highly seasoned pur6e of foie gras, or of ham, of the white of a chicken and truffles, combined with an equal weight of fresh butter. Coat them with a pink or white chaud-froid sauce, according to the requirements; set them in a low timbale, and cover them with light jelly. They may also be put into petits-fours moulds, surrounded with jelly, and used as a garnish for cold fowls. 1664a—CHICKEN CROQUETTES AND CUTLETS The croquettes and cutlets with which we are now concerned are made up of exactly the same constituents, and only differ in the matter of shape, the croquettes, as a rule, being shaped either like corks or rectangles; sometimes, too, like quoits; whereas the cutlets, as their name implies, are made in cutlet- shaped moulds. The preparation from which they are made is as follows : — One lb. of the meat of a poached or roast fowl, thoroughly cleared of all skin, cartilage, and bones, and cut into small regular dice1; six oz. of cooked mushrooms; an equal amount of salted ox-tongue or York ham, and four oz. of truffles. Cut 1 When prepared as directed above, all meats, whether of poultry, game, fish, Crustacea or mollusca, &c., may serve in the preparation of croquettes or cutlets.