ENTREMETS 747 Cherries (Cerises). 2566—JUBILEE CHERRIES Stone some fine cherries ; poach them in syrup, and set them in small silver timbales. Reduce the syrup and thicken it with a little arrowroot, diluted with cold water ; allowing one table-spoonful of arrowroot per half-pint of syrup. Cover the cherries with the thickened syrup ; pour a coffee-spoonful of heated Kirsch into each timbale, and set a light to each when serving. 3567—CHERRIES A LA VALERIA Prepare some tartlet crusts for sugared paste. Garnish the bottom of each with red-currant ice, combined with cream, and cover the latter with vanilla-flavoured, Italian meringue, laid on by means of a piping-bag. Upon this meringue set the stoned cherries, poached in sugared Bordeaux wine, and arrange the tartlets on a dish. Lay the dish on a tray containing broken ice, and set the tray in the oven in order to dry the meringue. On withdrawing the dish from the oven, quickly coat the cherries with red-currant syrup; sprinkle the latter with chopped pistachios, and dish the tartlets on a napkin. 2568—ME RING UED CHERRY FLAWN Line a buttered flawn-ring with fine paste: prick the bottom ; garnish with stoned cherries after the manner of an ordinary flawn, and fill up with custard (No. 2397). Cook in the usual way. On taking the flawn out of the oven, remove the ring, and finish the former like an ordinary meringue-coated flawn. N.B.—All fruits used in the preparation of ordinary flawns may be similarly prepared for meringue-coated flawns. Only such fruits as strawberries and grapes, which are not cooked with the crust, are unsuited to this kind of preparation. 2569—NECTARINES Nectarines may be prepared after all the recipes given for peaches. I shall not, therefore, give any recipes which are proper to them. See peaches. Oranges and Tangerines (Oranges et Mandarines). 2570—ORANGES A LA NORWEGIENNE Cut a slice of peel from the top of each of the oranges, and empty them by means of a spoon. Three-parts fill the emptied peels with orange or tangerine ice, in accordance with the fruit