GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 814 The consistence of a Sherbet, of what kind soever, should be such as to allow of its being drunk. 2928— VARIOUS SORBETS Having pointed out that Sherbets may be prepared from the juices of every fruit such as Pine-apple, Cherries, Strawberries, Raspberries, Red-currants, etc., and from every wine and liqueur such as Port, Samos wine, Marsala, Johannisburg, Rum, Kirsch, Liqueur-Brandy, etc., and since the procedure is the same in every case, there is no need to devote a special article to each. 2929— SORBET A LA SICILIENNE Keep a very green water melon in the refrigerator for three hours. One hour before serving, open it on top, as directed under “ Surprise Melon," and withdraw the seeds. Then, detach the pulp by means of a silver spoon, without withdrawing it from the fruit; sprinkle it with Maraschino, and put the whole back into the refrigerator. Dish on fragmented ice or on a block of the latter, and serve the pulp before the diners in Sherbet glasses. 2930— GRANITES Granites answer the same purpose as Sherbets, while they may also be introduced into certain culinary preparations. The bases of these preparations consist of very thin syrups made from fruit juices, and not overreaching fourteen degrees (saccharometer). Granites consist only of iced syrups, and are not combined with any Italian or other meringue. As in the case of the Sherbets, but more particularly in regard to these, the operator should remember not to stir the syrup during the freezing process, lest it turn ; and, when it is congealed, it should form a light, granulated mass. 2931— MARQUISES Marquises are generally made from strawberries or pine-apple, with Kirsch. The preparation is that of a Sherbet with Kirsch, registering I7°by the saccharometer. The freezing is done as for Granites ; but it should be carried a little further. When about to serve, mix the preparation per pint thereof with half a pint of very stiff Chantilly cream, combined with a strawberry or pine-apple puree, subject to the designation of the Marquise.