SOUPS 249 preparation, when dishing up, with the necessary quantity of cream. This soup may also be prepared with barley-meal, the pro- cedure in that case being the same as that of the “ Cr6me de Riz ” above. Garnish with very fine, well-cooked pearl barley. This soup may also be prepared as a velout6. 713—CREME DE VOLAILLE PRINCESSE Mix one and one-half pints of thin Bechamel with one-half pint of chicken pur£e. Rub through tammy; add one-half pint of white consomm6 to the preparation, or the same quantity of boiled milk; heat without allowing to boil, and finish with cream when dishing up. Garnish with twenty very small slices of chicken fillets, white asparagus-heads, and chervil finches. This soup may also be prepared as a velout6. 714—crEme reine-margot Mix one-half pint of chicken pur£e with one pint of thin B6chamel. Rub through tammy; add one and one-half pints of white consomm£ and one-quarter pint of almond milk (No. 678). Heat without allowing to boil, and finish with cream. Garnish with very small grooved quenelles of chicken force- meat combined with one oz. of pistachio pur£e per three oz. of forcemeat. This soup may also be prepared as a velout6. 715—POTAGE A L’AURORE Wash one-quarter lb. of fine pearl barley in plenty of water. Put it into a stewpan with one quart of consomm6, as much water, a faggot comprising parsley, celery, and chervil, and set to cook very gently for five hours. While the cooking pro- gresses, take care to remove all the skin which forms on the surface, in order that the cooking-liquor may remain very clear. When the barley is well cooked, transfer it to another stew- pan, and add to it four tablespoonfuls of a thick and very red tomato pur£e, strained through muslin, and two tablespoonfuls of celery, minced in faysanne-fashion, stewed in butter, and finally cooked in consomm6. This excellent soup should not be made too thick. 716—POTAGE BAGRATION GRAS Cut two-thirds lb. of very white fillet of veal into large dice, and stiffen these in butter without letting them acquire any