3H GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY Meantime toss three oz. of minced mushrooms in three oz. of butter. When the turbot is ready, drain it; dish it; sur- round, it with the tossed mushrooms, and keep it hot. Strain the cooking-liquor into a vegetable-pan, and reduce it to half. Thicken it with a piece of manied butter the size of a walnut; add three oz. of butter; pour this sauce over the chicken-turbot and its garnish, and set to glaze quickly. 932— TURBOTIN A LA MODE DE HOLLANDE Poach the chicken-turbot in salted water. Drain it, dish it, and upon it lay a lobster cooked in court-bouillon. The shell of the lobster should have been opened along the top of the tail, and the meat of the tail should have been quickly sliced and returned to its place. Send to the table at the same time (1) a timbale of floury potatoes, freshly cooked a I’anglaise; (2) a sauceboat containing egg sauce with melted butter (No. 117). 933— TURBOTIN MIRABEAU Poach the fish in court-bouillon with Sauterne wine, as directed under “ Turbotin h l’Amiral ” (No. 926). Drain it; dish it, and coat it in alternate bands with white wine and Gen&voise sauces. Along the lines formed by the meeting of the sauces lay thin strips of anchovy fillets placed end to end. Decorate the bands of white sauce with slices of truffle, and the bands of brown sauce with blanched tarragon leaves. 934— TURBOTIN PARISIENNE Poach the fish in court-bouillon with Sauterne wine. Drain it, dish it, and round it arrange a border composed of alternate slices of truffles and mushrooms. Coat the fish with white-wine sauce, and surround it with trussed crayfish cooked in court- bouillon. N.B.—For fish h la Parisienne, the garnish of sliced truffles and mushrooms may be set on the dish, either conspicuously or the reverse; i.e., it may be laid round the fish and covered by the sauce, or arranged in the form of an oval on the fish after the latter has been sauced. In either case the slices of truffles and mushrooms should be laid alternately. 935— TURBOTIN REGENCE Poach the chicken-turbot in a sufficient quantity of pre- viously-prepared court-bouillon with Chablis wine. For a fish weighing three lbs. (enough for ten people), pre- pare the following garnish :—Twenty small spoon-moulded