EGGS 193 Garnish the centre of a dish with a salad of asparagus-tops ; surround this with fine slices of cold potato, cooked in water and cut up with an even fancy-cutter, one inch in diameter, and arrange the eggs all round. 528—COLD EGGS CAPUCINE Carefully dry some cold, poached eggs, and half-coat them lengthwise with a white chaud-froid sauce; complete the coating on the other side with a smooth pur^e of truffles, thickened with jelly. Leave these two coats to set, placing the eggs in the cool or on ice for that purpose. Garnish the centre of a round dish with a small pyramid of cold, truffled Brandade of morne, and set the eggs round the latter. 529—COLD EGGS CARfeME Cook the eggs on the dish, leave them to cool, and trim them with an even fancy-cutter, oval in shape. Place each egg on an oval tartlet-crust, garnished with dice of cooked salmon, cohered with mayonnaise. Surround with a thread of caviare, and lay a thin slice of very black truffle on each egg. 530—COLD EGGS COLBERT Garnish some small, oval moulds in Chartreuse fashion, i.e., like a draught-board. Put a small, cold, poached egg into each mould, fill up with melted, white jelly, and leave to set. Garnish the centre of a dish with a heaped vegetable salad; arrange the eggs taken from their moulds around this, and surround with a little chopped jelly. 53,—COLD EGGS COLINETTE Let a thin coat of white jelly set upon the bottom and sides of some small, oval moulds. Garnish the latter with some small dice, consisting of white of egg and trulffes, placing them so as to simulate a draught-board; now insert a very small, cold, poached egg into each mould, and fill up with a melted jelly. Garnish the centre of a dish with a “ Rachel ” salad, en- circled by a ring of sliced, cold potatoes, cooked in water, and place the eggs, removed from their moulds, all round. Border the dish with indented crescents of white jelly. 532—COLD EGGS WITH TARRAGON Mould these in baba-moulds, or in porcelain cocottes; some- times they may simply be dished up on small tartlet-crusts. O