541 POULTRY 1711—MOUSSE DE VOLAILLE FROIDE The carefully boned and skinned meat of a poached fowl may be used in the preparation of this mousse, but a freshly- roasted fowl, scarcely cooled, is preferable; the latter’s flavour being more delicate and more distinct. The quantities and the mode of procedure for cold fowl mousse are those given under “ mousse de tomates ” (No. 814). The various mousse recipes which I gave for trout (Nos. 813 and 815) may be applied to cold fillets of fowl. In this case, the latter may be coated with some kind of chaud-froid sauce, or simply glazed with jelly, and soberly decorated. These mousses constitute excellent dishes for suppers, and from a very long list of them I may quote : — Mousse de jambon au blanc de poulet. Mousse de foie gras au blanc de poulet Mousse de langue au blanc de poulet. Mousse de tomates au blanc de poulet. Mousse d’dcrevisses au blanc de poulet. Mousse d’airelles ou de canneberges au blanc de poulet. Mousse de physalis au blanc de poulet. 1712—MAYONNAISE DE VOLAILLE Garnish the bottom of a salad-bowl with ciseled lettuce, arranging it in the shape of a dome. Season with a little salt and a few drops of vinegar. Upon this salad arrange the cold collops of boiled or roast fowl, carefully cleared of all skin. Cover with mayonnaise sauce; smooth the latter and decorate with capers; small stoned olives; anchovy fillets; quartered hard-boiled eggs; small quartered or whole lettuce hearts. Arrange these decorating constituents according to fancy, as no hard and fast rule can be given. When about to serve, mix as for a S^Iad. 1713—CHICKEN SALAD This dish consists of the same ingredients as the preceding one, except for the mayonnaise, which is replaced by an ordinary seasoning added just before mixing and serving. 1714—PATE DE POULET Line a raised-pie mould with patty paste (No. 2359), taking care to leave a fine crest. Bone a fowl weighing about four or five lbs. Set the supremes (each cut into three collops) to marinade in a glass