GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 698 worked, it will be found to acquire an elasticity which not onlv makes it difficult to cut up, but also tends to make it shrink in the baking. 2367— PUFF-PASTE TRIMMINGS OR HALF PUFF-PASTE These are very useful in pastry work, for tartlets, barquettes, croutons, &c. When the puff-paste is cut up, the trimmings should therefore be rolled into a ball, and put aside in the cool. Nevertheless they must be used within the space of two days in summer and four days in winter. 2368— ORDINARY BRIOCHE PASTE (1) Sift one lb. of flour on to the board; take a quarter of it, make a hollow in it, and put therein one-quarter oz. of very fresh, dry yeast. Mix the yeast and the flour with a little tepid water, so as to obtain a soft paste which is the leaven. Roll this paste into a ball; make twyo slits in its top, at right angles to one another, and place it in a small basin. Cover the latter, and put it in a somewhat warm place, that the leaven may be sure to ferment. (2) Make a hollow in the remaining flour, and put into it one- quarter oz. of salt, and one and one-half oz. of sugar, together with two tablespoonfuls of milk to melt it, one-third of the whole amount of the butter to be used, namely, four oz., and four eggs. Begin by thoroughly mixing the butter, eggs and seasoning, and then combine the flour therewith, by degrees. When the paste forms a compact mass, knead and pull it about with the hands, that it may be light. When, at the end of a few minutes, it has acquired a certain resilience, make a hole in the middle of it and add one egg. Mix the latter with the paste; work it afresh, and after an interval of two minutes add one more egg in the same way. The total number of eggs for the quantities of other ingredients given above should be six. (3) Add the remaining butter (eight oz.) to the paste; the former being manied and even softened, just sufficiently to make it of the same consistence as the paste. Spread it on the latter, and mix the two; kneading small portions at a time, and combining those portions so as to mix the two elements completely. At this stage, overturn the paste and spread the leaven (which should now be equal to twice its original bulk) upon it. Mix it well as in the case of the butter, without working the paste.