VEGETABLES AND FARINACEOUS PRODUCTS 671 Truffles (Truffes) Truffles are used especially as a garnish; but they may also be served as a vegetable or a hors-d’oeuvre. When so served, they should be prepared very simply; for they require no refining treatment to make them perfect. 2275—TRUFFES SOUS LA CENDRE Take some large truffles, and clean them well. Season them with salt and pepper and a few drops of liqueur brandy; com- pletely enclose them in a layer of patty paste, and bake them in the oven from twenty-five to thirty minutes. Serve them in their case of paste. 2276—TRUFFES AU CHAMPAGNE Take some fine, well-cleaned truffles; season them, and cook them, with lid on, in champagne. This done, set them in a timbale, or in small silver sauce- pans. Almost completely reduce the champagne; add thereto a little thin, strong, veal stock; strain the whole through muslin; pour it over the truffles, and place these on the side of the stove for ten minutes without allowing the stock to boil. 2277—TRUFFES A LA CREME Cut one lb. of raw, peeled truffles into thick slices. Season them with salt and pepper, and cook them very gently in two oz. of butter and a few drops of burnt liqueur brandy. Reduce to a stiff consistence one-half pint of cream with three tablespoonfuls of Bechamel sauce; add some truffle cook- ing-liquor and the necessary quantity of cream ; complete with two oz. of best butter; mix the truffles with this sauce, and serve in a vol-au-vent crust. 2278—TRUFFES A LA SERVIETTE Under this head are served “Truffes au Champagne,” the recipe for which is given above, but the champagne should be replaced by Madeira. Dish them in a timbale, set in a napkin folded to represent an artichoke. But it would be very much more reasonable to serve “ Truffes h la cendre ” under this head, serving them under a folded napkin, as for “ Pommes de terre en robe de chambre” (potatoes in their skins). 2279—TIMBALE DE TRUFFES Line a buttered timbale mould with ordinary patty paste. Garnish its bottom and sides with slices of bacon, and fill