VEGETABLES AND FARINACEOUS PRODUCTS 631 cut into roundels and arranged in a crown, with a slice of poached marrow on each roundel of heart. Cover the whole with marrow sauce. 2058—C(EUR DE CARDON AUX FINES HERBES Having cooked the heart of the cardoon, trim it all round so as to give it the cylindrical shape, and cut it laterally into roundels one-third inch thick. Roll these roundels in some pale, thin, buttered meat glaze, combined with chopped herbs. Prepared in this way, the heart of a cardoon constitutes an excellent garnish for Tournedos and sauted chickens. Carrots (Carottes) 2059—CAROTTES GLACISES POUR GARNITURES New carrots are not parboiled; they are turned, whole, halved, or quartered, according to their size, and then trimmed. If old, they should be turned to the shape of elongated olives, and parboiled before being set to cook. Put the carrots in a saucepan with enQUgh water to cover them well, one-half oz. of salt, one oz. of sugar, and two oz. of butter per pint of water. Cook until the water has almost entirely evaporated, so that the reduction may have the consistence of a syrup. Saute the carrots in this reduction, that they may be covered with a brilliant coat. Whatever be the ultimate purpose for which the carrots are intended, they should be prepared in this way. 2060—CAROTTES A LA CRfeME Prepare the carrots as above, and, when the moistening is reduced to the consistence of a syrup, cover them with boiling cream. Sufficiently reduce the latter, and dish in a timbale. 2061—CAROTTES A LA VICHY Slice the carrots, and, if they be old, parboil them. Treat them exactly after the manner of the “ Glazed Carrots” of No. 2059; dish them in a timbale, and sprinkle them with chopped parsley. 2062—PUREE DE CAROTTES Slice the carrots, and cook them in slightly-salted water, with sugar and butter, as for “ Glazed Carrots,” and a quarter of their weight of rice. Drain them as soon as they are cooked; rub them through a fine sieve; transfer the pur£e to a saut£-