288 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 847— SOLE MEUNIERE AUX RAISINS The sole being ready, encircle it with fresh skinned Mus- cadel grapes prepared in advance. 848— SOLE MEUNIERE A L’ORANGE When the sole is cooked and dished, lay thereon a row of orange slices, peeled to the pulp and thoroughly pipped, or some sections of oranges, likewise peeled to the pulp and care- fully pipped. This done, cover the sole and the garnish with lightly-browned butter and serve instantly. 849— SOLE LUTECE Line the bottom of the dish intended for the sole with a coating of shredded spinach tossed in lightly-browned butter. Place the sole, prepared k la Meuni&re, upon this spinach; lay a few rundles of onion and slices of artichoke-bottom tossed in butter upon the fish; and on either side of the sole lay a border of potato-slices, freshly cooked in salted water and well browned in butter. At the last moment cover the whole with lightly-browned butter. 850— SOLE MURAT Toss in butter, separately (1) one medium-sized potato cut into dice; (2) two small raw artichoke-bottoms, likewise cut into dice. Prepare the sole k la Meuni&re, dish it, and surround it with the tossed potato and artichoke-bottom, mixed when cooked. Lay on the sole five slices of tomato, one-half inch thick, seasoned, dredged, and tossed in very hot oil; sprinkle a few drops of pale melted meat-glaze, a little lemon-juice, and a pinch of concassed parsley over the sole, and cover the whole with slightly-browned butter. Serve instantly. 851— SOLE A LA PROVENCALE Poach the sole in one-sixth pint of fish fumet, two table- spoonfuls of oil and a piece, the size of a pea, of garlic, well crushed. Drain and dish the sole. Coat it with Proven^ale sauce combined with the reduced cooking-liquor, and sprinkle a little concassed parsley over it. Surround the sole with four little tomatoes and four medium-sized mushrooms stuffed with duxelles flavoured with a mite of garlic; these latter should be put in the oven just in time for them to be ready at the dishing up of the fish.