LEADING CULINARY OPERATIONS 125 the latter’s constituents and its purity. The various degrees may be classified as moderately hot, hot, very hot. The expression “ boiling hot ” is unsuitable, seeing that fat never boils. Butter (an occasional frying medium) cannot over- reach 248° F. without burning, whereas if it be thoroughly purified it can attain from 269° to 2750 F.—a temperature which is clearly below what would be needed for work on a large scale. Animal greases used in ordinary frying reach from 2750 to 284° F. when moderately hot, 320° F. when hot, and 356° F. when very hot; in the last case they smoke slightly. Pork-fat (lard), when used alone, reaches 3920 F. without burning. Very pure goose dripping withstands 428° F.; and, finally, vegetable fats may reach, without burning, 482° F. in the case of cocoa-nut butter, 518° F. with ordinary oils, and 5540 in the case of olive oil. The temperature of ordinary frying fat may be tested thus : it is moderately hot when, after throwing a sprig of parsley or a crust of bread into it, it begins to bubble immediately; it is hot if it crackles when a slightly moist object is thrust into it; it is very hot when it gives off a thin white smoke per- ceptible to the smell. The first temperature, “moderately hot,” is used (1) for all products containing vegetable water the complete evaporation of which is necessary; (2) for fish whose volume exacts a cook- ing process by means of penetration, previous to that with con- centration. In the first degree of heat with which it is used the frying fat therefore only effects a kind of preparatory operation. The second temperature, “ hot,” is used for all products which have previously undergone an initial cooking process in the first temperature, either for evaporation or penetration, and its object is either to finish them or to cover them with a crimped coating. It is also applicable to those products upon which the frying fat must act immediately by concentration—that is to say, by forming a set coating around them which prevents the escape of the contained substances. Objects treated with this temperature are: all those panes d. Vanglaise or covered with batter, such as various croquettes, cromesquis, cutlets, and collops k la Villeroy, fritters of all kinds, fried creams, 8x. In this case the frying medium acts by setting, which in certain cases is exceedingly necessary. 1. If the objects in question are pands a I’anglaise, i.e.,