VEGETABLES AND FARINACEOUS PRODUCTS 639 commonly used, but the leaves are cooked in the English way when they are tender. 6. Brussels sprouts. 7. Kohlrabi: the roots of these may be dished as turnips, and the leaves cooked in the English way, provided they be young and tender. 2096—WHITE CABBAGE5 (Choux Blancs) In an extreme case, these cabbages may be braised like the green Savoys, but they are usually too firm, and they are there- fore only used in the preparation of sauerkraut. 2097—SAUERKRAUT (Choucroute) If the sauerkraut be somewhat old, set it to soak in cold water for a few hours. It is best, however, to avoid this measure, if possible, and to use only fresh sauerkraut. When about to cook it, drain it, if it has been soaked, and press all the water out of it. Then pull it to pieces in such a way as to leave no massed leaves; season it with salt and pepper, and put it into a braising-pan lined with slices of bacon. Add, for ten lbs. of sauerkraut, three quartered carrots, three medium-sized onions, each stuck with a clove, a large faggot, three oz. of juniper berries and one-half oz. of peppercorns contained in a canvas bag, six oz. of goose dripping or lard, and one lb. of blanched breast of bacon, the latter to be with- drawn after one hour’s cooking. Moisten, just enough to cover, with white consomm^; cover with slices of bacon; boil, and then cook in the oven for five hours with lid on. To serve Sauerkraut.—Withdraw the vegetables, the faggot, and the juniper berries, and set the sauerkraut in a timbale, after having well drained it. Surround it with thin slices of ham, rectangles of bacon, and some poached Frankfort or Strasburg sausages. Red Cabbages (Choux Rouges) 2098—CHOUX ROUGES A LA FLAMANDE Quarter the cabbages, suppress the outside leaves and the stumps, and cut the trimmed leaves into a fine julienne. Season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; sprinkle with vinegar, and put this julienne into a well-buttered earthenware cocotte. Cover and cook in a moderate oven. When the cooking is three-parts done, add four peeled and quartered russet apples and a tablespoonful of moist or pow- dered sugar.