83 ELEMENTARY PREPARATIONS Pound the bacon, veal, and liver quickly and finely, while adding consecutively six oz. of butter, the yolks of six eggs, the gravy that has been put aside, one-third pint of cold, reduced Espagnole, and the Madeira used for swilling. Strain through a sieve, place in a tureen, and smooth with the wooden spoon. N.B.—To make a gratin forcemeat with game, substitute for the veal that game-meat which may happen to be required. 203—PIKE FORCEMEAT FOR QUENELLES A LA LYONNAISE Forcemeats prepared with the flesh of the pike are extremely delicate. Subject to circumstances, they may be prepared according to any one of the three formulas (Nos. 193, 194, 195). There is another excellent method of preparing this forcemeat which I shall submit here, as it is specially used for the prepara- tion of pike forcemeat h la Lyonnaise. Pound in a mortar one lb. of the meat of a pike, without the skin or bones; combine with this one-half lb. of stiff frangi- pan, season with salt and nutmeg, pass through a sieve, and put back into the mortar. Vigorously work the forcemeat in order to make it cohere, and gradually add to it one-half lb. of melted beef-fat. The whole half-pound, however, need not necessarily be beef-fat; beef-marrow or butter may form part of it in the proportion of half the weight of the beef-fat. When the forcemeat is very fine and smooth, withdraw it from the mortar and place it in a bowl surrounded with ice until wanted. 204—SPECIAL STUFFINGS FOR FISH These preparations diverge slightly from the forcemeats given above, and they are of two kinds. They are used to stuff such fish as mackerel, herring, shad, &c., to which they lend a condimentary touch that makes these fish more agree- able to the taste, and certainly more digestible. First Method.—Put into a bowl four oz. of raw, chopped milt, two oz. of bread-crumb, steeped in milk and well pressed, and one and one-half oz. of the following fine herbs, mixed in equal quantities and finely chopped:—Chives, parsley, chervil, shal- lots, sweet basil, half a garlic clove (crushed), then two whole eggs, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Chop up all these ingredients together so as to mix them thoroughly. Second Method.—Put into a bowl four oz. of bread-crumb G 2