GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 158 373— VARIOUS HARD-BOILED EGGS With hard-boiled eggs for base, a large number of hors- d’oeuvres may be made. I shall limit myself to a few only, which, by means of a small change in their form, garnish, or ornamentation, may be varied at will : — Egg Discs.—Cut the eggs laterally into roundels one-third inch in thickness, and discard the two end-pieces of each egg, in order that the shapes may be almost uniform, and that the yolks may appear about the same size throughout. In the centre of each roundel make a little rosette of butter, by means of a small, grooved pipe. Different butters, such as the Shrimp, Montpellier, Caviare, and other kinds, may be used with the view of varying the colours. Halved, Stuffed Eggs.—Take some very small, hard-boiled eggs; cut them into two, lengthwise; remove the yolks, and trim the oval hollow of each of the remaining whites to the shape of an oblong, the edges of which may then be indented. Garnish, either with a pur£e of tunny, salmon, milt, &c., or a hash or salpicon of lobster, shrimp, &c., thickened by means of a mayonnaise with jelly, or a fine macedoine of vege- tables with mayonnaise, or a pur6e composed of the withdrawn yolks combined with a little butter, some cold Bechamel sauce, and herbs. Quartered, Stuffed Eggs.—The simplest way of doing this is to proceed as above, to stuff the halved white with a buttered pur£e, or a pur£e mixed with jelly, to leave the stuffing to set, and then to cut the halves in two. Salad of Eggs.—With alternate rows of sliced eggs and either tomatoes, potatoes, cucumbers, or beetroot, and a salad- seasoning composed of oil and vinegar or cream, a dozen different salads may be prepared, each of which constitutes an excellent hors-d’oeuvre. 374— LARK pate For this hors-d’oeuvre use the ready-made pat£, which is obtained either in pots or crusts. Thoroughly set it by means of ice; turn it out of its receptacle, cut it into very small and thin slices, and arrange them on a hors-d’oeuvre dish with a little broken jelly in the middle. 375— MILD, GRILLED CAPSICUM Grill the capsicum on a moderate fire until the skins are so scorched as to be easily removed.