444 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY season them, and grill them in a somewhat fierce oven. Set them, with the skewers withdrawn, upon a hot dish, and put into the cavity of each a piece of softened, Maitre-d’hotel butter, the size of a hazel nut. ,34I_ROGNONS BROCHETTE A L’ESPAGNOLE Prepare the mutton kidneys as above. Grill the same quantity of small, pressed and seasoned half- tomatoes. Garnish these tomatoes with a piece, the size of a walnut, of Maitre-d’hotel butter, combined with two-thirds oz. of chopped capsicum per three oz. of butter. Dish these toma- toes in a circle; set a kidney on each, and surround with a border consisting of rings of onion, seasoned, dredged and crisply fried in oil. 1342— ROGNONS BROCHETTE AU VERT PRI* Prepare the mutton kidneys exactly as explained under the first of this kind of recipes, and surround them with small heaps of straw potatoes and bunches of very green parsley. 1343— BROCHETTES DE ROGNONS Remove the outer skin from the mutton kidneys, and cut them into roundels one-third in. thick. Season these roundels and stiffen them in butter over a very fierce fire. Impale them on skewers, alternating them with squares of blanched lean bacon and slices of sauted mushrooms. Sprinkle with melted butter and raspings, and grill. These brochettes are generally served as they stand. Various Preparations of Mutton. % 1344— C ASSO U LET (1) Set one quart of haricot beans to cook with two quarts of water, one-third oz. of salt, one carrot, one onion stuck with a clove, one faggot, six garlic cloves, and two-thirds lb. of fresh pork rind, blanched and strung together. Boil; skim; cover, and cook gently for one hour. At the end of this time, add two-thirds lb. of breast of pork, and a sausage with garlic, of the same weight as the pork. Salt the beans very moderately, allowing for the reduction which they have ultimately to undergo. Complete the cooking of the whole gently. (2) Fry gently in lard one lb. of shoulder, and the same weight of breast, of mutton; both cut into pieces one and one- half oz. in weight. This done, drain away half the grease; add two chopped