GLOSSARY XIV Contise, to incise a piece of meat at stated intervals, and to insert slices of truffle, or other substance, into each incision. Crepinettes, see No. 1410. Croustade, see No. 2393. Crodtons, pieces of bread of various shapes and sizes, fried in butter. In the case of aspic jelly, crofttons stand for variously shaped pieces used in bordering dishes. Cut, Brunoise-fashion = to cut a product into small dice. Cut, Julienne-fashion = to cut a product into match-shaped rods. Cut, Paysanne-fashion = to cut a product into triangles. Dariole-moulds, small Baba-moulds, q.v. Dame, see No. 184. Daubilre, an earthenware utensil used in the cooking of Daubes. Iscarlate (A P), salted meat is said to be k l’^carlate when it is swathed in a coat of scarlet jelly. Escarole, Batavia chicory. Feuilletes, a kind of puffs made from puff-paste. Flute (French, soup), a long crisp roll of bread. Fondue, (1) a cheese preparation; (2) a pulpy state to which such vege- tables as tomatoes, sorrel, &c., are reduced by cooking. Fumet, a kind of essence extracted from fish, game, &c. Galette, a large quoit, made from puff-paste or short-paste, &c. Gaufrette, a special wafer. Genoise, see No. 2376. Gild, Gilding, Gilded (1) to cover an object with beaten eggs, by means of a brush; (2) to give a golden sheen to objects by means of heat. Gratin, Gratined, see No. 268 to 272 inclusive. Hatelet, an ornamental skewer; the word sometimes stands for Attereaux. fulienne, Julienne-fashion, see Cut. Langoustine, a small variety of the Spiny Lobster. Large-Ball Stage, see Stages in the Cooking of Sugar, below. Large- Crack Stage, see Stages in the Cooking of Sugar, below. Large-Thread Stage, see Stages in the Cooking of Sugar, below. Macedoine, a mixture of early-season vegetables or fruit. Madeleine-mould, a mould in the shape of a narrow scallop-shelL Manied (said of butter), see No. 151. Marinade, see No. 168. Meringue, see No. 2382. Meringued = coated with meringue. Mirepoix, see No. 228. Mise-en-place, a general name given to those elementary preparations which are constantly resorted to during the various stages of most culinary operations. Morue, Newfoundland or Iceland salt-cod. Mousses, a class of light, hot or cold preparations of fish, meat, poultry, game, etc., and sweets, moulded in large moulds in sufficient quan- tities for several people.