VEGETABLES AND FARINACEOUS PRODUCTS 6<o turn the whole over, if necessary, to equalise the colouring; turn out upon a saucepan-lid, to drain away the butter, and then tilt the whole on to a dish. 2204—POMMES ANNA FOR GARNISHING Either dariole- or baba-moulds may be used for this purpose; but they should be tinned copper ones if possible. After having thoroughly buttered them, garnish them with thin roundels of potato, cut to the diameter of the moulds, seasoned, and set one upon the other. Set the moulds on a tray containing enough very hot fat to reach half-way up to their brims, and cook in a very hot oven for twenty-five minutes. Turn out just before serving. 2205—POMMES DE TERRE BERNY Add chopped truffles to some “ Croquette ” paste (No. 219), in the proportion of two oz. of the former to one lb. of the latter; and divide up this preparation into two-oz. portions. Mould these to shapes resembling apricots; dip them in beaten eggs (No. 174), and roll them in almonds cut into the thinnest possible splinters. Plunge the potato balls into hot fat five or six minutes before serving. 2206—POMMES DE TERRE A LA BOULANGERS This preparation has been given in various recipes (see No. 1307). 2207—POMMES DE TERRE BYRON Prepare the required amount of “ Pommes Macaire ” (No. 2228), and cook in butter in a small frying-pan. Dish; sprinkle copiously with cream and grated cheese, and set to glaze quickly. 2208—POMMES DE TERRE CHATEAU Turn them to the shape of large olives; season them; cook them gently in clarified butter, that they may be golden and very soft; and, just before serving, sprinkle them moderately with chopped parsley. 2209—POMMES DE TERRE A LA CREME Vitelotte or new kidney potatoes are needed for this prepara- tion. Cook them in salted water; peel them as soon as this is done, and cut them into rather thick roundels. Put them in a sautd- pan; moisten, enough to cover them, with boiling cream; season, and reduce the cream. At the last moment, finish with raw cream. U U 2