GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 43« and one coffeespoonful of red-currant jelly; add one coffee- spoonful of each of the following short julienne garnishes to the sauce; viz.: hard-boiled white of egg; very red, salted tongue; gherkins; mushrooms, and truffles. 1317— C6TELETTE5 A LA SfiVIGNE Have ready a preparation of mushroom and artichoke- bottom croquettes, in the proportion of one heaped tablespoonful for each cutlet. Fry the cutlets in butter, on one side only. Garnish the fried side of each, dome-fashion, with the above preparation; treat them a. Vanglaise, and sprinkle them with melted butter. Put them in the oven to complete their cooking, and, at the same time, to colour their coating of egg and bread-crumbs. Dish in the form of a crown. 1318— C6TELETTES a la suedoise Place the cutlets on a dish, and drop thereon some minced onions and shallots, bits of parsley stalks, thyme and bay. Sprinkle them with the juice of a lemon and a few drops of oil, and leave them to marinade for thirty minutes, turning diem over the while, from time to time. This done, dry them; dip them in melted butter, sprinkle them with bread-crumbs, and grill them. Dish them in the form of a crown, and garnish the centre of the dish with the following, which may also be sent separ- ately : one-half lb. of peeled and finely-sliced apples, quickly stewed to a pur£e with the third of a wineglassful of white wine. When about to serve, add to this pur£e two and one- half oz. of finely-grated horse-radish, or the latter grated and afterwards finely chopped. 1319— C6TELETTES en BELLE VUE Proceed after one of the recipes given for veal cutlets and grenadins “en Belle Vue.” 1320— COTELETTES EN CHAUDFROID Cut some very regular cutlets from a neck of mutton or lamb, which should have been trimmed as explained, braised, and left to cook in its braising-liquor. Clear all grease from the latter; strain it; reduce it, and add to it a brown chaud- froid sauce (No. 34). Dip the cutlets in the sauce when it is almost cold; set them on a tray; deck the kernel of meat in each with a fine slice