RELEVES AND ENTREES 441 1328—PIEDS DE MOUTON TYROLIENNE Cook a fair-sized chopped onion in butter, together with three peeled, pressed, and roughly-chopped tomatoes. Season with salt and pepper; add a pinch of chopped parsley, a little crushed garlic, one-sixth of a pint of Poivrade sauce, and twenty freshly-cooked and well-drained sheep’s trotters. Simmer for ten minutes and dish in a timbale. 1329—MUTTON KIDNEYS Mutton kidneys are either grilled or sauted. When they are to be grilled, first remove the fine skin enveloping them, cut them in halves, without completely severing them on their con- cave side, and impale them on a small skewer, with the view of keeping them open during the grilling operation. Before grilling they may or may not be dipped in melted butter and rolled in bread-crumb. When they are to be sauted, clear the kidneys, as before, of the thin skin which envelops them; cut them into halves, and then into slices one-quarter in. thick. Kidneys, of what kind soever, should be cooked very quickly, otherwise they harden. After having seasoned them, put them into very hot butter, and toss them over a fierce fire in order to stiffen them. This done, drain them; and let them stand for a few minutes, that they may exude the blood they contain, which sometimes has a distinct ammoniacal smell. Meanwhile, swill the utensil in which they have been sauted, and finish the sauce, to which they are added when dishing up. Never let the kidneys boil in the sauce, for they would immediately harden. 1330—ROQNONS 5AUTES BERCY Slice, season, and quickly toss the mutton kidneys in butter, and drain them. For six kidneys put one tablespoonful of finely-chopped shallots into the saucepan, and just heat it. Moisten with one- sixth of a pint of white wine; reduce to half; add two table- spoonfuls of melted meat glaze, and a few drops of lemon- juice, and put the kidneys in this sauce. Add two and one- half oz. of butter, cut into small pieces; melt this on the corner of the stove, tossing and rolling the pan the while; dish in a timbale, and sprinkle a pinch of chopped parsley over the kidneys. 1331—ROQNONS SAUTES BORDELAISE ’ Fry the mutton kidneys, and drain them as above. Put into the saucepan one-third of a pint of Bordelaise sauce