424 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY gravy that has drained from it; heat the whole well, without boiling, and serve on very hot plates. 1272— TENDRONS DE VEAU The tendrons are cut from breast of veal. They are, in fact, the extreme ends of the ribs, including the cartilage of the sternum. If the tendrons are braised, treat them after the manner described under “ The Braising of White Meats ” (No. 248); or, simply stew them in butter; moisten them with excellent veal stock, and baste them frequently while cooking them. They may also be treated like an ordinary veal saute, from which they only differ in shape, and the various preparations of which may be adapted to them. The garnishes best suited to them are those of early-season vegetables, and, as a matter of fact, the latter, together with such pastes as noodles, macaroni, spaghetti, etc., are the gar- nishes most often served with them. 1273— BLANQUETTE DE VEAU A L’ANCIENNE Cut the veal tendrons into pieces weighing about three oz. Then, slightly blanch them; cool them, and put them into a saucepan with enough white stock to cover; add a very little salt; set to boil, and skim. For two lbs. of tendrons, add one small carrot; one fair- sized onion, stuck wdth a clove; a faggot, consisting of one leek, parsley stalks, and a fragment of thyme and bay; and set to cook gently for one and one-half hours. Prepare a white roux from one and one-half oz. of butter and one and one-half oz. of flour; moisten with one pint of veal cooking-liquor; add one oz. of mushroom parings, and cook for a quarter of an hour, despumating the sauce the while. Transfer the pieces of tendron, one by one, to a saut^pan with twelve small onions cooked in consomm£, and fifteen small, cooked and very white mushrooms. Finish the sauce with a leason of two egg-yolks, mixed with three tablespoonfuls of cream and a few drops of lemon juice; strain it over the veal and its garnish; heat without boiling; dish in a timbale, and sprinkle with a pinch of chopped parsley. N.B. This blanquette may also be prepared with noodles or ckpes, instead of with ordinary mushrooms. 1274— BLANQUETTE DE VEAU AUX CELERIS, CARDONS, ETC. Prepare the blanquette exactly as explained above, and set it to cook with the veal and the vegetable selected for the garnish,