39i RELEVES AND ENTREES Season with one-third oz. of salt and the necessary quantity of paprika; add one and one-quarter lbs. of peeled, pressed, and quartered tomatoes, and one-sixth pint of water. Cover and cook in the oven for one and one-half hours. This done, add one-third pint of water and one and one- quarter lbs. of quartered potatoes to the Goulash. Continue the cooking in the oven, basting often the while, and do not stop the operation until the moistening-liquor is entirely reduced. When about to serve, dish the Goulash in a timbale. 1178—HACHIS DE BGEUF A L’AMERICAINE Cut the meat into small cubes. Also cut into dice the same weight of potatoes as of meat. Season these potatoes and toss them in butter. This done, put half their quantity into a saucepan with the meat dice, and cohere the whole with a few tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce and reduced veal gravy. Heat without allowing to boil; dish in a hot timbale; distribute the remainder of the potatoes, which should be crisply fried, over the hash, and sprinkle with a pinch of freshly-chopped parsley. 1179—HACHIS DE BCEUF PARMENTIER Bake some fine potatoes in the oven. The moment they are done, slice off a piece of their baked shell, and remove the pulp from their insides by means of a spoon handle. Crush this pulp with a fork, and toss it in butter as for “ pommes de terre Macaire.” Then add to it as much beef in dice as there is pulp; two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion cooked in butter per lb. of the preparation; a pinch of chopped parsley, and a few drops of vinegar. Now toss the whole together for a few minutes, and then fill the empty potato shells with the preparation. Sprinkle with Lyonnaise sauce rubbed through tammy, and add as much of it as the hash will absorb. Replace the portion of shell cut off at the first, that the potatoes may seem untouched; arrange them on a dish, and put the latter in the oven for ten minutes. When about to serve, dish the stuffed potatoes on a napkin. 1180—TRIPES A LA MODE DE CAEN In the preparation of this culinary speciality of Normandy, a very common mistake is often made; to wit, that of using calves’ feet instead of those of the ox, an innovation to which there are many objections.