GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 786 meringues sever from them. Complete the poaching of the meringues, and drain them. Set these meringues, two by two, in silver or porcelain egg-dishes ; place a fine, poached half apricot in the middle of each, and cover the whole with a few teaspoonfuls of English custard. 2738— MOUSSELINE OF EGGS, MIMI This is a preparation of ordinary Italian meringue, poached in a bain-marie, in a caramel-clothed mould. Let the contents get quite cold before turning out, and serve some stewed, fresh fruit and an English custard separately. 2739— RICE A L’IMPERATRICE Make a vanilla-flavoured preparation of rice for entremets, using the quantities of milk and sugar already prescribed. When the rice is cooked, and somewhat cold, add to it four oz. ot a jilptcon of candied fruit and four tablespoonfuls of apricot jam, per one-half lb. of raw rice. Then combine with it an equal quantity of Kirsch-flavoured Bavarois preparation, or one pint of thick English custard and one pint of whipped cream. Let a layer of red-currant jelly set upon the bottom of a Bavarois mould ; then pour the above preparation into the latter and let the whole set, either in the cool or surrounded by ice. When about to serve, turn out on a napkin. 2740— RICE A LA MALTAISE Prepare the rice with milk as above, but flavour it with orange rind, and omit the apricot jam and the candied fruit salpicon. Combine with it an equal quantity of orange Bavarois preparation; pour the whole into a dome-mould, and let it set on ice. When about to serve, turn out upon a round dish, and cover it with alternate rows of orange-sections, skinned raw and macerated in a syrup flavoured with orange-rind. 2741— SUEDOISE OF FRUIT As I mentioned in my remarks upon the preparation of jellies, a Su^doise of fruit is a jelly moulded in an aspic mould and garnished with layers of stewed fruit, the colours and kinds of which should be contrasted as much as possible. 2742— FRAISALIA TIMBALE Prepare a timbale of Savarin paste in a Charlotte mould. When it is baked and cooled, remove the crumb from its inside leaving a thickness of half an inch on its bottom and sides ; smear it thinly with Kirsch-flavoured syrup, and return the timbale to the mould.