812 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY Fill up the mould with a Bombe-preparation of pomegranate juice, flavoured with Kirsch ; close the mould, keep it in ice for two hours, and turn out the pudding on a napkin when about to serve. Serve an iced, vanilla syrup separately. 2923— PUDDING SEYMOUR Cut a Mousseline Brioche into thin slices, and set these to soak in raw, sweetened and Kirsch-flavoured cream. Peel and finely slice some peaches, and poach them in vanilla-flavoured syrup; also peel some very ripe William pears. Prepare a pink Bombe-preparation, flavoured with Kirsch and Orgeat; and then fill up the mould with alternate layers of the slices of Brioche and of fruit, with Bar red-currant jam added; and the Bombe-preparation. Close the mould, keep it in ice for two hours, and turn out the pudding on a napkin. 2924— ICED SOUFFLES The preparation differs according as to whether the Souffles be prepared with fruit, or with such flavours as Vanilla, Coffee, Chocolate, etc. The last named are made with the Iced-Mousse preparation (No. 2916), which may also serve for the fruit Souffles; but, in the case of the latter, the following preparation is preferable:— Whisk the whites of ten eggs to a very stiff froth, and add to this one and one-tenth lbs. of sugar cooked to the small-crack stage. Transfer the whole to a basin ; flavour according to fancy, and add one pint of a pur£e of fruit and one pint of very stiffly- whisked cream. 2925— THE MOULDING OF LARGE AND SMALL ICED SOUFFLES Mould the large ones in ordinary Soufftt timbales, which should be lined with bands of white paper, fixed with butter, and overreaching the edges of the timbales by one and a half to two inches, that the preparation, in projecting above the brims of the utensils, may appear like a SouffM when the paper is removed. The small Souffles are moulded in cases or in small silver cassolettes, which are likewise wrapped in bands of paper, that the preparation may rise above their brims. As soon as they are moulded, put the Souffles in a very cold refrigerator ; and when about to serve them, carefully remove the bands of paper which, once the preparation has solidified, have served their purpose; and