FISH 337 deep, liberally-buttered tray. Moisten with white wine to the height of the slices; add chopped shallots and “ fines herbes,” and garnish the fish with roundels of pipped lemon, peeled to the pulp. Set to boil, and then poach in the oven for twelve minutes. Place the slices on a dish; thicken their cooking-liquor with crushed biscotte; cook it for five minutes; pour it over the slices, and serve. 995—CABILLAUD A LA PORTUQAISE For ten people, cut five slices of fresh cod, each weighing one-half lb., and season them with salt and pepper. Put these slices into a saut^pan containing the following garnish, into which they should be pressed:—Three oz. of butter and one- sixth pint of oil; one large onion, chopped and lightly coloured in butter; a bit of crushed garlic the size of a pea; one faggot; two pinches of concassed parsley; eight medium-sized, peeled, pressed, and minced tomatoes, and one-third pint of white wine. Cover the saut^pan, and set to boil on an open fire for five minutes. Now take the lid off the saucepan, and leave it to cook for twelve minutes on the side of the fire, in order that the liquid may be reduced and the fish cooked at the same moment of time. Set the slices on a long dish; withdraw the faggot, and pour the garnish and the cooking-liquor over the fish. 996—LAITANCES DE CARPE (Carp’s Milt) The milt of a carp makes a very delicate dish. It is served either as a second fish at a dinner; as a garnish to large fish Relev£s, after having been poached in salted water; or cut while raw into slices which are generally treated d la Meuniere. 997—LAITANCES A LA MEUNIERE Prepare them whole or in collops, in pursuance of the direc- tions given under “ The Cooking of Fish k la Meuniere ” (No. 778). 998—BARQUETTES DE LAITANCES A LA FLORENTINE Poach the milts in salted water; cut them into small, long slices, and set them in barquette crusts prepared in advance. Cover the sliced milts with a souffle au Parmesan (No. 2295a), and shape the latter slightly after the manner of a dome Arrange the barquettes on a dish, and put them in a moderate oven, that they may cook and the souffle be glazed at the same z