GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 458 sage; (2) one and one-half lbs. of raw, sliced potatoes, and one large, chopped onion. Garnish the bottom of the dish with a litter of collops; cover with potatoes and onions; spread another litter of collops, and begin again in the same order. Add one-quarter pint of water; cover with a layer of fine paste or puff-paste trimmings, which should be well sealed down round the edges; gild with beaten egg; streak the paste with the prongs of a fork; make a slit in the centre of the covering of paste for the escape of steam, and bake in a moderate oven for about two hours. Fresh-pork Cutlets. *393—FRESH-PORK CUTLETS A LA CHARCUTIERE Season the cutlets; dip them in melted butter, and sprinkle them with fine raspings. Grill them gently, and baste them from time to time. Dish them in a circle; pour a Charcuti&re sauce in their midst, and serve a timbale of potato pur£e separately. Charcutiere sauce for eight or ten cutlets : prepare one pint of Robert sauce (No. 52) and mix with it, just before dishing up, two oz. of gherkins, cut in short julienne fashion or minced. 1394— FRESH-PORK CUTLETS A LA FLAMANDE Season the cutlets, and fry them on both sides in butter or fat. Meanwhile, peel and slice some eating apples, allowing three oz. of the latter for each cutlet, and put them in an earthenware dish. Set upon them the half-fried cutlets; sprinkle with fat, and complete their cooking, as well as that of the apples, in the oven. Serve the dish as it stands. 1395— c6tes de porc frais a la milanaise Treat the cutlets a Vanglaise, but remember to add one quart of grated Parmesan to the bread-crumbs. Cook them gently in butter. Dish in a circle; set a milanaise garnish (No. 1258) in the centre, and serve a tomato sauce separately. 1396— FRESH-PORK CUTLETS WITH PIQUANTE OR ROBERT SAUCE Season and grill or saute the cutlets. Dish them in a circle, with Piquante or Robert sauce in their midst. N.B.—(1) Cutlets accompanied by either of the two above- menti^ed sauces, may be treated with melted butter and bread-