relev£s and entrees 465 1416—JAMBON A LA CHANOINESSE Having poached the ham as explained above, braise it in white wine, adding thereto three oz. of mushroom parings. Dish and send separately a garnish of large, fresh noodles, cohered with butter and a Soubise pur£e, and completed with a julienne of truffles. Serve separately a half-glaze sauce, combined with the brais- ing-liquor, cleared of all grease and reduced. 1417—JAMBON A LA CHOUCROClTE Completely cook the ham by poaching; skin and trim it. If served whole, send, separately, some braised sauerkraut and potatoes, freshly cooked a I’anglaise. Serve a half-glaze sauce with Rhine wine at the same time. If served already carved, arrange the slices in a circle on a round dish; put the sauerkraut in their midst, and border with the potatoes. Serve, separately, the same sauce as before. 1418—JAMBON A LA MAILLOT Poach the ham; braise it, and glaze it at the last moment. Set it on a long dish, and surround it with the following garnish, arranged in alternate heaps:—Carrots and turnips, cut to the shape of large, elongated olives, cooked separately in consomm6, and glazed; small onions cooked in butter; braised and trimmed half-lettuces; peas and French beans cohered with butter separately. , Serve apart a thickened gravy combined with some of the braising-liquor, cleared of all grease. 1419—JAMBON A LA PRAGUE SOUS LA CENDRE Poach the ham and drain it on a dish. Remove the skin and all the black, outside parts. Prepare a piece of patty paste large enough to enclose the ham. Besprinkle the surface of the ham with powdered sugar; glaze quickly at the salamander, and place the ham (glazed side undermost) on the layer of paste. Draw the ends of the paste towards each other; seal them together, with the help of a little moisture, in such wise as to enclose the ham completely; turn the latter over, and put it on a tray with the sealed side of the paste lying underneath. Gild and streak, make a slit in the middle of the paste for the escape of steam, and put the joint in the oven. Leave it there until the paste is dry and well coloured. After taking the ham out of the oven, inject into it, through a pre- II II