GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 632 pan, and dry it over a fierce fire, together with three oz. of butter per lb. of pur£e. Now add a sufficient quantity of either milk or consomm6 to give it the consistence of an ordinary pur£e. Dish in a timbale with triangular croutons of bread-crumbs, fried in butter at the last moment. This pur£e is very commonly served as a garnish with braised pieces of veal. 2063— FLAN AUX CAROTTES This is served either as a vegetable or a sweet. Line a flawn ring with good, short paste (No. 2358); coat the inside of the flawn with a round piece of paper, and fill it with rice or split peas. Bake it without letting it brown; re- move the split peas or the rice, as also the paper, and garnish the flawn crust with a slightly sugared pur6e of carrots. Cover this pur^e with half-discs of carrot cooked as for No. 2059, and kept unbroken. Coat with the cooking-liquor of the carrots reduced to a syrup, and put the flawn in the oven for five minutes. 2064— CELERY (Celeri) Celery for braising should be non-fibrous, white, and very tender. Cut the sticks till they measure only eight inches from their roots; remove the green leaves all round; trim the root; wash with great care, parboil for one-quarter hour, and cool. This done, braise them after recipe No. 275. When they are cooked, cut each stick into three pieces, and double up each section before dishing and serving. 2065— VARIOUS PREPARATIONS OF CELERY The recipes given for cardoons may be applied to celery. On referring to the respective recipes, therefore, celery may be prepared : — Au Parmesan, Sauce Mornay, a la Milanaise, Italienne, Hollandaise, with gravy, &c. 2066— pur£e de celeri Slice the celery; parboil it, and stew it, until it is quite cooked, in a little very fat consomme. Drain as soon as cooked; rub through a sieve, adding the while the cooking-liquor cleared of all grease; thicken the pur^e with about one quart of very white and firm potato pur^e; heat; add butter at the last moment, and dish in a timbale.