37i RELEVES AND ENTREES All these vegetables should be equally apportioned. Add salt, butter, and a very little water, for the cooking of the vegetables should be effected mainly by the concentration of steam inside the cocotte, which, for the purpose, should therefore be well closed. Fry the tournedos in butter, and dish them upon the vege- tables in the cocotte at the last moment. 1109—TOURNEDOS A LA MEX1CAINE Prepare (1) a fondue of peeled and pressed tomatoes, cooked in butter, well reduced, and in the proportion of one table- spoonful per mushroom; (2) as many large grilled mushrooms as there are tournedos, while the latter are being fried; (3) some grilled or fried capsicums in the proportion of half a one per tournedos. Season the tournedos, and fry them in oil and butter in equal quantities. Dish them each on a mushroom garnished with the fondue of tomatoes, and cover them with the grilled or fried capsicums. mo—TOURNEDOS MIKADO Select some fine, rather firm tomatoes—“ Mikados,” as they are called—and cut them in two laterally. Squeeze them with the object of expressing all their juice and seeds; season them inside, and grill them so that they may be ready at the same time as the tournedos. Season the latter and fry them in butter. Dish them in the form of a crown, each on a grilled half- tomato, and garnish the centre of the dish with Japanese artichokes tossed in butter. mi—TOURNEDOS MIRABEAU Grill the tournedos. Lay eight fine strips of anchovy fillets upon each, crossing the former after the manner of a lattice. Cover the edges with a crown of blanched tarragon leaves, and set a large stoned olive in the middle of each tournedos. Send some half-melted anchovy butter separately, and allow two-thirds oz. of it for each tournedos. 1112—TOURNEDOS MIREILLE For ten tournedos, prepare in advance, (1) five croustades from the preparation used for “ pommes Duchesse.” To make these croustades, fill some buttered dariole-moulds with the preparation referred to, taking care to press it snugly into them. Dip the moulds into tepid water, turn out, treat the mouldings B B 2