FISH 34i When haddock is served at lunch, send to the table with it an egg-sauce and a timbale of potatoes, freshly cooked a. V anglais e. Mackerel (Maquereau) 1009—MAQUEREAU BOUILLI, SAUCE AUX GROSEILLES Cut the mackerels into three, crosswise, and poach them in court-bouillon with vinegar (No. 163), seasoned with a pinch of fennel per pint. Drain them on a napkin; skin them, and dish them with curled-leaf parsley all round. With the mackerels serve a gooseberry sauce prepared as follows: — Green Gooseberry Sauce proper to Mackerel.—Cook one lb. of green gooseberries in a copper sugar boiler with three oz. of sugar and enough water to cover them, and then rub them through tammy. 1010—MAQUEREAU GRILLE Cut off the extremity of the mackerels’ mouths; open them down the back, without dividing them into two. Season them; sprinkle them with melted butter, and grill them gently, taking care to baste them by means of a brush with melted butter while they are cooking. Set them on a round, hot dish, and sprinkle them with half-melted butter k la Maitre-d’H6tel, after having drawn their halves together, that they may seem natural and untouched. Or surround them with grooved slices of lemon, and send a “ Sauce Diable Escoffier ” to the table separately. This sauce constitutes an excellent adjunct to grilled mackerel. 1011—FILETS DE MAQUEREAU AUX FINES HERBES Raise some mackerels’ fillets in such wise as to leave the bones quite clean. Arrange the fillets on a buttered dish, and poach them in white wine and the cooking-liquor of mushrooms in equal quantities. Take care to cover them while they are being poached. This done, drain them; skin them; set them on a long dish, and cover them with a herb sauce (No. 83), combined with their cooking-liquor strained through linen and reduced. 1012—FILETS DE MAQUEREAU AU PERSIL Raise the fillets as before, and poach them in a white-wine court-bouillon with one-half oz. of parsley leaves per pint. Drain them; skin them; set them on a long dish, and cover