218 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY into the soup-tureen ; pour therein the boiling beef consomm6, and add a pinch of chervil pinches. 608— CONSOMME ROSSINI Prepare one quart of chicken consomm6, slightly thickened with two tablespoonfuls of poached tapioca strained through linen. Make eighteen profiterolles, from pate a choux without sugar (No. 2374), to the size of hazel-nuts. Bake them in a moderate oven, keeping them very crisp, and garnish them, inside, with a foie-gras and truffle pur^e. When about to serve, pour the consomm^ into the soup- tureen, and dish the profiterolles separately, after having placed them in good time in the front of the oven, so that they may reach the table very hot. 609— CONSOMME ROTHSCHILD Have ready one quart of game consomm^, prepared with pheasant fumet. Add thereto, when about to serve, one-quarter pint of reduced Sauterne. Make two dariole-moulds of royale from a preparation consisting of one-third of the whole of pur£e of pheasant, one-third of chestnut pur£e, and one-third of pheasant salmis sauce. Poach the royale; cut it into grooved roundels, and place these in the soup-tureen with one table- spoonful of a julienne of fillets of pheasant. When about to serve, pour the boiling consomm^ over the garnish. 610— CONSOMME SAINT HUBERT Take one quart of game consomm£, prepared with venison fumet. Finish the consomm6, at the time of serving, with one- quarter pint of Marsala. Make three dariole-moulds of royale from a preparation con- sisting of one-third of the whole of venison pur£e, one-third of lentil pur£e, and one-third of reduced game Espagnole. Poach the royale in a small Charlotte mould, and, when it has cooled, cut it up with a fancy-cutter of the shape of a cross. Put the crosses of royale into the soup-tureen with two table- spoonfuls of a julienne consisting of fillets of hare, and pour thereon the boiling consomm6. 611— POTAGE SARAH BERNHARDT Sprinkle three tablespoonfuls of tapioca into one quart of boiling chicken consomm£, and leave to poach gently for fifteen or eighteen minutes.