GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 732 the case of a quart pudding-basin or mould, let it cook for about three hours. N.B.—This pudding may be made with other fleshy fruit, as also with certain vegetables such as the pumpkin, etc. 2486— PLUM PUDDING Put into a basin one lb. of chopped suet; one lb. of bread- crumb ; half lb. of flour ; half lb. of peeled and chopped apples ; half lb. each of Malaga raisins, currants and sultanas ; two oz. each of candied orange, lemon and cedrat rinds, cut into small dice ; two oz. of ginger; four oz. of chopped almonds ; eight oz. of powdered sugar ; the juice and the chopped rind of half an orange and half a lemon ; one-third oz. of mixed spices, containing a large quantity of cinnamon ; three eggs ; quarter of a pint of rum or brandy, and one-third of a pint of stout. The fruit should, if possible, have previously macerated in liqueur for a long time. Thoroughly mix the whole. Pour the preparation into white earthenware pudding-basins, with projecting rims ; press it into them, and then wrap them in a buttered and flour-dusted cloth which tie into a knot on top. Cook in boiling water or in steam for four hours. When about to serve, sprinkle the puddings with heated brandy or rum, and set them alight, or accompany them, either with a sabayon with rum, with Brandy Butter (as directed under “ Gil-Blas pancakes ” but without sugar), or with an English custard thickened with arrowroot. 2487— AMERICAN PUDDING Put into a basin two and a half oz. of bread-crumb ; three oz. of powdered sugar ; three oz. of flour ; two and a half oz. of marrow and an equal quantity of suet (both chopped); three oz. of candied fruit cut into dice ; one egg and three egg-yolks, a pinch of chopped orange or lemon zest ; a little nutmeg and cinnamon, and a liqueur-glassful of brandy or rum. Mix up the whole ; pour the preparation into a buttered and dredged mould or basin, and cook in the bain-marie. Serve a sabayon with rum at the same time. 2488— MARROW PUDDING Melt half a lb. of beef-marrow and two oz. of suet, in a bam- I marie, and let it get tepid. Then work this grease in a basin with half a lb. of powdered sugar ; three oz. of bread-crumbs, dipped in milk and pressed ; three whole eggs and eight egg-yolks ; half a lb. of candied fruit, cut into dice ; three oz. of sultanas and two oz. of pipped, Malaga raisins.