306 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY in order to poach the forcemeat, which, in adhering to the fillets, gives the required firmness to the timbale. When the forcemeat has been poached and is stiff, with- draw the timbale from the oven, and cut off the pieces of fillet that project above the edges of the mould. Fill the timbale to within one-third inch of its brim with a garnish of shrimps and poached oysters and mussels, small button-mushrooms, and slices of truffle, all of which should be cohered with a thick and highly-seasoned Bechamel sauce. Cover this garnish with the projecting pieces of fillets, already cut off, and close the timbale by means of a thin layer of that forcemeat which served in coating the fillets. Poach for thirty minutes in a bain-marie and in a moderate oven. After taking the timbale out of the bain-marie, let it stand fora few minutes; overturn it on a round dish; take off the mould; deck it on top with a garland con- sisting of six little paupiettes of salmon, each stuffed with a cray- fish tail, and surmounted by an encrusted crayfish carapace. Serve a Nantua sauce separately. 913— TIMBALE DE FILETS DE SOLES MARQUISE For a timbale large enough for ten people, prepare: — 1. An even or fluted timbale crust. 2. A garnish consisting of twelve rolled or folded fillets of sole poached in fish fumet, twelve poached oysters (cleared of their beards), twenty-four small quenelles of salmon, and twenty slices of truffle. Heat this garnish after having added a few drops of fish fumet to it, and then thicken it with one-half pint of white-wine sauce prepared with paprika. Put the above garnish into the timbale, which should be very hot; set the latter on a folded napkin, and serve at once. 914— The Preparation of PAUPIETTES OF FILLETS OF SOLE SALMON, &c. The paupiettes (or fillets rolled after the manner of a scroll) are served either as entries like fillets of sole, of which they are but a special kind, or as a garnish. For the second purpose, not only should they be smaller than for the first, but very small fillets are generally selected for the preparation of the paupiettes. In order to make paupiettes, first remove the nervous film from the outside surfaces of the fillets, and then slightly flatten the latter with the blade of a large knife; trim them on both sides, and coat them on their flayed side with a thin layer of fish forcemeat, truffled or not, in accordance with the requirements.