SOUPS 23} 671—VELOUTE AGNES SOREL (1) Prepare one and one-half pints of poultry velout£, keep- ing it somewhat thin. (2) Clean, wash, peel, and quickly pound eight oz. of very fresh mushrooms, newly gathered if possible. Rub through a fine sieve, and add the resulting pur£e of raw mushrooms to the velout£. Bring the whole to the boil once or twice, and this done rub through tammy immediately. Finish with the leason and add butter when dishing up. Garnish with one tablespoonful of a julienne of raw mush- rooms tossed in butter, one tablespoonful of chicken fillets, and as much salted tongue, both of which should also be cut in julienne-fashion. N.B.—With regard to velout^s I remind the reader that the velout£ of ordinary consistence represents one-half of the soup, the pur^e typifying the latter represents one-quarter, while the consomm6 required to bring the soup to the correct degree of consistence should be in the proportion of the remaining quarter. The leason, per quart of the soup, should consist of the yolks of three eggs and one-sixth pint of cream, while the average quantity of butter should measure about two and one-half oz. (see No. 242). This soup may also be prepared as a cream. 672—VELOUTE DE BLANCHAILLE AU CURRIE Bear in mind that this soup ought to be made and served within the space of twenty minutes, for if it be left to stand for however short a time, it will most probably turn, in spite of every possible precaution. Cook three oz. of finely chopped onion in butter without colouration, besprinkle with one-half coffeespoonful of curry, moisten with one and one-half pints of boiling water, add a faggot, a pinch of salt, a few sprigs of saffron (or a little of it powdered), and two oz. of Viennese bread. Set to boil for ten minutes; this done add three-quarters lb. of very fresh Blanchailles, and cook over a brisk fire. Rub through a hair-sieve, finish by means of a leason con- sisting of the yolks of three eggs and one-fifth pint of cream, and pour the whole into the soup-tureen over some dried slices of bread (buttered), over rice, or over some previously poached vermicelli. Serve at once.