422 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 1263— COTE DE VEAU FROIDE RUBENS Trim the veal cutlet; coat it with half-melted aspic, and cover it with young hop shoots, cohered with tomato sauce cleared by means of aspic. Let the sauce thoroughly set, and then put the cutlet between two layers of aspic as explained above. N.B. Cold veal cutlets may also be served Belle-vue fashion, after the very simple manner described under “ Gren- adins en Belle-vue ” (No. 1217). 1264— ROQNON DE VEAU When sauted after the usual manner, veal kidney admits of all the preparations given for sheep’s kidney. (See the chapter on Mutton.) * shall now, therefore, only give those recipes which are proper to veal kidney. 1265— ROQNON DE VEAU EN CASSEROLE Trim the veal kidney and only leave a very slight layer of fat all round it. Heat one oz. of butter in a small, earthenware saucepan, also called “ cocotte put the seasoned kidney into the latter, and cook it gently for about thirty minutes, taking care to turn it often the while. At the last minute sprinkle it with a tablespoonful of good veal gravy. Serve it in the cocotte as it stands. 1266— ROQNON DE VEAU EN COCOTTE Prepare the veal kidney and fry it in butter, as in the case of the “ en casserole ” dish. Surround it with one and one-half oz. of small pieces of blanched bacon, tossed in butter; one and one-half oz. of raw, quartered mushrooms, also tossed, and one and one-half oz. of small blanched potatoes, of the size and shape of garlic cloves, and the same quantity of small, glazed onions. Complete the cooking of the whole gently. At the last minute, add a tablespoonful of good, veal gravy, and serve the cocotte as it stands. 1267— ROGNON DE VEAU GRILLE Trim the veal kidney, and leave a slight layer of fat all round it. Cut it in half lengthwise, without completely separating the two halves, and impale it on a small skewer, with the view of keeping it in shape. Season with salt and pepper, and grill it gently; basting it often the while with melted butter.