FISH 305 and the slices of truffle into the lobster sauce. Heat the whole well, without boiling; pour the sauce and garnish into the timbale crust, and deck the top with twelve fine slices of truffle. Dish the timbale on a folded napkin, and serve instantly. 911— TIMBALE DE FILETS DE SOLES GRIMALDI Prepare:—(1) A rather deep timbale crust, and decorate it with noodle paste. (2) Cook, as for bisque, twenty-four small langoustines; wrench off their tails; cut them into two length- wise, and keep them hot in butter. (3) Finely pound the lan- goustines’ carapaces, and add thereto one-third pint of fine Bechamel. Rub through a fine sieve first, and then through tammy. Put the resulting cullis into a saucepan, and heat without boiling it; intensify the seasoning; add a few table- spoonfuls of cream, little by little; put the prepared tails in the cullis, and keep the latter in the bain-marie. (4) Cut four oz. of blanched and somewhat stiff macaroni into pieces, and add thereto one-sixth pint of cream and three oz. of sliced truffle. Heat until the macaroni has completely absorbed the cream; thicken with one-sixth pint of Bechamel sauce finished with fish fumet; add one and one-half oz. of butter cut into small lumps, and keep hot. (5) Coat sixteen fillets of sole with truffled fish forcemeat; roll the fillets into scroll-form, and, at the last minute, poach them in fish fumet. To garnish the timbale, spread a layer of macaroni on the bottom thereof, lay half of the rolled fillets upon the macaroni, and cover these with half of the langoustines’ tails in the cullis. Repeat the procedure, in the same order, with what is left of the garnishes, and finish the timbale with a layer of the langoustines’ tails. Set the timbale on a folded napkin lying on a dish, and serve immediately. 912— TIMBALE DE FILETS DE SOLES CAR^ME Flatten the fillets of three medium-sized soles, and trim them neatly. Liberally butter a pound-cake mould, and line it with the fillets, placing them side by side with their tails lying round the centre of the bottom of the mould, and their opposite ends projecting above the brim. Press them well, that they may take the shape of the mould. Completely coat the fillets with a layer, one-half inch thick, of fish forcemeat. Put the mould in the front of the oven for a few minutes x