EGGS 173 into discs about one-half inch thick. Prepare also in advance one-half pint of Nantua sauce. Garnish the crust with alternate layers of sliced artichoke- bcttoms, egg-discs, and sliced truffles. Finish with a coating of sauce and a ring of sliced truffles. Dish up the crust on a napkin. 435—HARD-BOILED EGGS CHIMAY Cut the eggs, lengthwise, in two. Remove the yolks, pound them into a paste, and add thereto an equal quantity of dry Duxelle (No. ’223). Fill the empty whites with the preparation; place them on a buttered grafm-dish; cover them with Mornay sauce; besprinkle with grated cheese; pour a few drops of melted butter upon the sauce, and set to glaze in a fierce oven. 436—HARD-BOILED EGGS IN CROQUETTES Cut the eggs into small dice (white and yolks). Per six eggs add five oz. of cooked mushrooms and one oz. of truffles, cut into dice. Thicken the whole with one-quarter pint of reduced Bechamel, and spread on a plate to cool. When cold, divide the preparation into portions weighing about two oz.; roll these portions into balls on a floured mixing- board, and then shape them like eggs. Dip them into an anglaise (No. 174), taking care to cover them well with it, and then roll them in fine and fresh bread-crumbs, letting this operation avail for finishing off the shape. Put them into hot fat seven or eight minutes before dishing up; drain, salt moderately, place on a napkin, with a centre garnish of very green, fried parsley, and send a cream sauce to the table with them. 437—HARD-BOILED EGGS IN RISSOLES Make a preparation of eggs, as for the croquettes, using a little more sauce. Roll some puff-paste trimmings to a thick- ness of one-quarter inch, and stamp it with a round indented cutter two and one-half inches in diameter. Place a small tablespoonful of the preparation in the middle of each piece of paste; moisten slightly all round, and make the rissoles by folding the outside edges of the paste over one another to look like a closed purse, taking care to press them well together so as to join them, thus completely enclosing the preparation. Treat them a l’anglaise; put them into hot fat