VEGETABLES AND FARINACEOUS PRODUCTS 653 If they are intended for the stuffing of a goose or a turkey, keep them somewhat firm. 2174—BRAISED AND GLAZED CHESTNUTS Take some very large chestnuts, and dip them in hot fat in order to peel them. Then set them in one layer, one against the other in a sautdpan. If they were heaped, only a poor result could be obtained. Moisten them, just enough to cover, with strong veal stock, and stir them as little as possible while they are cooking, so as to avoid breaking them. When they are three-parts cooked, reduce the moistening, and gently roll the chestnuts in the glaze resulting from this reduction, that they may be covered with a brilliant coating. Chestnuts prepared in this way serve more particularly as a garnish. 2175—PUREE DE MARRONS Having thoroughly peeled the chestnuts, cook them in white consomm6, with a celery stalk as in the case of No. 2173, and one-half oz. of sugar per lb. of chestnuts. Continue cooking until they may be easily crushed; rub them through tammy, and treat the pur£e as directed in the case of the preceding ones. 2176—TURNIPS (Navets) Whether served as vegetables or as a garnish, turnips are prepared like carrots. They may, therefore, either be served glazed, or “ & la Creme,” &c. They may also be served stuffed, after the following re- cipes : — 2177— STUFFED TURNIPS.—A Take some round, medium-sized turnips, fairly equal in size. Peel them, and, in so doing, shape them nicely; then, by means of a round fancy-cutter, cut them deeply at their base, pressing the instrument into the pulp. This done, thoroughly parboil and empty them. With the withdrawn pulp, prepare a pur£e, to which add an equal quantity of mashed potatoes. Garnish the turnips with this pur£e, and shape the visible portion of the latter dome- fashion. Set the stuffed turnips in a sautepan, and complete their cooking in butter, taking care to baste them frequently. 2178— STUFFED TURNIPS.—B Prepare the turnips as above; but stuff them with a pre- paration of semolina cooked in consomm^ and combined with grated Parmesan.