469 RELEVES AND ENTREES 1430—MOUSSES ET MOUSSELINES CHAUDES DE JAMBON Mousses and Mousselines are made from the same prepara- tion as “ Farce mousseline de jambon,” in pursuance of the general principles given under No. 195. The need of differentiating the terms arises from the fact that mousses are poached in a mould the contents of which are sufficient for a number of people, whereas mousselines are spoon- moulded quenelles, shaped like eggs. In the preparation of “ Farce mousseline de jambon ” it is necessary to allow, in the salt seasoning, for the amount of salting the ham has already received. If the meat of the ham is not very red, the colour of the forcemeat may be intensified by means of a little vegetable red, in order that it may be of a distinct pink shade. 1431—TREATMENT AND ACCOMPANIMENT OF HAM M0U5SE Put the forcemeat in a deep border-mould, somewhat like a Charlotte, and poach it under cover in a bain-marie. That the poaching may be regular, keep in water at a con- stant temperature of 205° or 208° Fahrenheit, and allow forty- five minutes for the operation in the case of a mousse made in a quart mould. The preparation is seen to be cooked when it swells and rises in the mould. As soon as this occurs, withdraw the latter from the bain- marie; let it stand for five minutes, that its contents may settle; turn it upside-down on a dish, and wait two minutes before removing the mould. In any case, do not take off the mould until the liquid which has drained from it, all round the dish, has been soaked up. Ham mousses are chiefly accompanied by Supreme sauce, or Velout6s with curry or paprika; some- times, too, a highly-seasoned and buttered half-glaze sauce, with Madeira, Port, or Marsala may be used. The most suit- able garnishes for ham mousses are those I have already given for Ham. 1432—TREATMENT AND POACHING OF HAM M0U5SELINES As I have already stated, moussclines, like quenelles, are moulded with a spoon. They may also be laid, by means of a piping-bag, on the bottom of the well-buttered saut^pan in which they are to be poached; they are shaped like meringues, even or grooved,