POULTRY 53* 1683—SOUFFLES DE VOLAILLE For dinners on a large scale, it is in every way preferable to use raw chicken-meat. For small services, cooked chicken- meat suits perfectly. N.B.—The time allowed for cooking chicken souffles with cooked chicken-meat is comparatively long, and it is better to cook them a little too much than not enough. For a souffle made in a quart timbale, and cooked in a moderate oven as directed, allow from about twenty-five to thirty minutes. 1684—SOUFFLE DE VOLAILLE WITH RAW MEAT Prepare two lbs. of mousseline forcemeat of chicken, accord- ing to recipe No. 195; add to this the whites of fpur eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Dish in buttered timbales, and cook in a moderate oven. 1685—SOUFFLE DE VOLAILLE WITH COOKED MEAT Finely pound one lb. of the white of cooked chicken-meat; add thereto six tablespoonfuls of cold, reduced, Bdchamel sauce. Rub through tammy. Heat this preparation in a saucepan, without allowing it to boil, and add to it one and one-half oz. of butter, the yolks of five eggs, and the whites of six, beaten to a stiff froth. Dish in a buttered timbale, and cook in a moderate oven. Supreme sauce and the other derivatives of Allemande sauce form the best accompaniments to chicken souffles. 1686—SOUFFLE DE VOLAILLE A LA PERIGORD This may be made from either one of the two above-men* tioned preparations, but there must be added to it three and one- half oz. of chopped truffles. The preparation is then spread in layers separated by slices of truffle, which should weigh about three and one-half oz. in all, in order to be in proportion to the quantities already given. Cold Preparations of Fowl. 1687—POULARDE A LA CARMELITE Poach the pullet; raise the supremes and remove their skin; slice them; coat them with white chaud-froid sauce, and de- corate them soberly with pieces of truffle. Trim the carcass: coat it outside with white chaud-froid sauce, and fill it with a fine crayfish mousse, reconstructing it exactly in so doing. Cause a mousse to set in a refrigerator; place the collops of MM2