11 FONDS DE CUISINE five hours. At the end of this time put the stock into another stewpan, add the meat and the vegetables, add water, if neces- sary, to keep the quantity of liquid at five quarts, let it boil, and allow it to cook slowly for another three hours, after which remove all grease from the stock, pass the latter through a fine strainer or a colander, and put it aside until wanted. Remarks upon White Stock.—One should contrive to make this stock as gelatinous as possible. It is therefore an indis- pensable measure that the bones be well broken up and cooked for at least eight hours. Veal never yields such clear stock as beef; nevertheless, the consomme obtained from veal should not be turbid. It must, on the contrary, be kept as clear and as white as possible. Poultry Stock is made by adding two old fowls to the above veal stock, and these should be put into the liquor with the meat. Fish Stock ii—WHITE FISH STOCK Quantities for making Four Quarts. 4 lbs. of trimmings and bones of 2 oz. of parsley, root or stalks. sole or whiting. \ bottle of white wine. £ lb. of sliced, blanched onions. Preparation.—Butter the bottom of a thick, tall stewpan, put in the blanched onions and the parsley-stalks, and upon these aromatics lay the fish remains. Add the juice of a lemon, cover the stewpan, put it on the fire, and allow the fish to exude its essence, jerking the pan at intervals. Moisten, in the first place, with the white wine; then, with the lid off, reduce the liquid to about half. Now add four quarts of cold water, bring to the boil, skim, and then leave to cook for twenty minutes, only, on a moderate fire. The time allowed is ample for the purpose of extracting the aromatic and gelatinous properties contained in the bones, and a more protracted stew- ing would only impair the savour of the stock. Remarks upon White Fish Stock.—The formula which I give above diverges considerably from that commonly used, for, as a rule, fish stock is diluted far too much, and is stewed for much too long a time. I have observed that fish stock may be greatly improved by rapid cooking, and it was this considera- tion that led me to dilute it scantily, so as to avoid prolonged reduction.