466 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY pared hole, a large wineglassful of Port wine or Sherry. Stop up the hole with a little pellet of paste; dish, and serve imme- diately. Serve at the same time a garnish of Gnochi, spinach, or Souffle au Parmesan (No. 2295A). The best adjunct to Prague ham is a very light glaze pre- pared with Port wine, and buttered at the last minute. 1419a—JAMBON DE PRAGUE A LA METTERN1CH Prepare a ham “ sous la cendre ” as described above. Send to the table with it as many fine collops of foie-gras, tossed in butter and each covered with a nice slice of truffle, as there are diners. Send also a timbale of asparagus-heads. The waiter in charge then puts a slice of ham, a collop of foie-gras, and a tablespoonful of asparagus-heads on each plate and serves. The sauce should be a Madeira flavoured with truffle essence. 1419b—JAMBON DE PRAGUE A LA NORFOLK Prepare a ham as in No. 1419. Serve each slice of it with one collop of braised veal sweetbread and one tablespoonful of fresh peas a la paysanne. Send as an adjunct the braising-liquor of the veal sweet- bread. 1420— VARIOUS GARNISHES FOR BRAISED HAM The garnishes best suited to ham relev^s are : — Spinach; new broad beans; braised lettuce; endives; fresh peas a la paysanne. Noodles; Spaghetti; various Macaronis; Gnochi; Purees of fresh beans, broad beans. The most usual accompanying sauce is half-glaze with Madeira. 1421— JAMBON SOUFFLE This is a variety of the ham souffles given hereafter. The preparation used is the same, and it may be made either from raw or from cooked ham. After having completely boned it, but for the end bone, which must be kept, cook the ham, and cool it. Now cut it horizontally, one-half inch above its bone, from the extremity of the end bone to the head of the latter. At the last-mentioned point, make a vertical incision meeting and end- ing at the first; remove the cushion of ham, which should by now be quite separated from the rest of the joint, and put aside for some future purpose.