GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 570 1799— 5ELLE DE CHEVREUIL AVEC SAUCES DIVERSES Saddle of roebuck may also be served with the following sauces:—Poivrade, Venison, Grand-Veneur, Moscovite, Roberts, &c. The selected accompaniment determines the title of the dish. 1800— NOISETTES ET C6TELETTES DE CHEVREUIL The same recipes may be applied to both. Trim them after the manner of lamb noisettes or cutlets. They may be mode- rately marinaded, but they may also be used fresh. In the latter case, fry them in butter over a somewhat fierce fire, like the lamb noisettes. If they have been marinaded, it is better to toss them very quickly in very hot oil, and then to dry them before dishing them. It is in the dishing only that the noisettes and the cutlets differ; for, whereas the latter are always dished in a crown, one overlapping the other, or each separated from the rest by croutons of bread-crumb fried in butter, the noisettes are always dished in a circle on small, oval croutons fried in butte^ or on tartlet crusts containing some kind of garnish. 1801— COTELETTES DE CHEVREUIL CONTI Saute the cutlets in very hot oil; dry them; dish them in a crown, and separate them by similarly-shaped collops of salted tongue. Swill the saucepan with a little white wine; add this liquor to a Poivrade sauce, and coat the cutlets with it. Serve a light, buttered pur£e of lentils at the same time. 1802— C6TELETTES DE CHEVREUIL DIANE Spread an even layer, one-third inch thick, of mousseline game forcemeat on a tray. Poach this forcemeat in a steamer or in a very moderate oven, and cut it into triangles equal in size to the cutlets. Toss the latter as already explained; dish them in a crown, and separate them by croutons of forcemeat already prepared. Coat the whole with poivrade sauce, thinned by means of a little beaten cream, and garnished with crescents of truffle and hard-boiled white of egg, and serve a purde of chestnuts at the same time. 1803— NOISETTES DE CHEVREUIL AU GENIEVRE Cook the noisettes in smoking oil. Dry them, dish them,