RELEVES AND ENTREES 463 1411— CREPINETTES A LA CENDRILLON Prepare the crepinettes as above; wrap them in a double sheet of buttered paper; over them set a heap of cinders covered with burning embers, and keep the latter alive for a space of twenty minutes, when the cooking operation should be com- pleted. Formerly, the above was the mode of procedure, but now- adays the crepinettes are merely enveloped, each in an oval layer of paste. They are then gilded, their tops are streaked, and, after having been laid on a tray, they are baked in a warm oven for twenty minutes. This done, they are dished on a napkin. 1412—SAUCISSES ANGLAISES The most well-known of English sausages are those of Cambridge. They are cooked like the French kind, and they are often served at breakfasts as an adjunct to bacon. Sometimes, too, they serve as a garnish to roast fowls, young turkeys, &c. Their seasoning is often excessive. 1413—SAUCISSES AU VIN BLANC First Method.—Put the sausages in a well-buttered saut£- pan; poach them gently in the oven, and dish them on thin crusts of bread fried in butter. For twelve sausages, swill the saut^pan with one-sixth pint of white wine; reduce this to half; add one-sixth pint of half- glaze sauce; boil for a few minutes, and finish, away from the fire, with one and one-half oz. of butter. Pour this sauce over the sausages. Second Method.—Stiffen the sausages in butter; add one- third pint of white wTine, and complete their poaching. Set them on fried crusts; reduce the wine by two-thirds, and add thereto the yolk of one egg, a few drops of lemon juice, two tablespoonfuls of pale melted meat-glaze, and three oz. of butter. Pour the sauce over the sausages. 1414—SAUCISSES DE FRANCFORT ET DE STRASBOURG Plunge the sausages into a saucepanful of boiling water, and then poach them for no more than ten minutes; should they be allowed to cook for a longer time, they would only lose their quality. They may be served with a hors-d’oeuvre dish of grated horse-radish, and an apple sauce separately; but their proper adjunct is braised sauerkraut.