RELEVES AND ENTREES 4U At either end place some crayfishes’ carapaces (in the pro- portion of two to each sweetbread), garnished with chicken forcemeat combined with crayfish butter, and poached. Serve, separately, an Allemande sauce prepared with cray- fish butter. 1237—RIS DE VEAU A LA REGENCE Stud the sweetbreads with truffles, and braise them without colouration. Dish them; pour their reduced braising-liquor round the dish, and surround them with a R^gence garnish, arranged in alternate heaps representing the constituents of the former, which are: quenelles of fine truffled chicken forcemeat; small grooved mushrooms; curled cocks’ combs, and truffles cut to the shape of olives. Serve separately an Allemande sauce, flavoured with truffle essence. 1238—RIS DE VEAU SOUS LA CENDRE Stud the veal sweetbreads with truffles and tongue, and three-parts braise them. Cut some slices of salted tongue of the same size as the sweetbreads, garnish them with slices of truffle, and set a sweet- bread on each. Cover each sweetbread with a layer of short paste (No. 2358); set them on a tray; gild; flute; make a small incision on the top of the paste to allow the escape of steam, and bake in a hot oven for thirty minutes. When withdrawing them from the oven, pour in some half- glaze sauce with Madeira, and dish them on a napkin. 1239—RIS DE VEAU A LA TOULOUSAINE Stud the sweetbreads with truffles and braise them without colouration. Dish them with the Toulousaine garnish, arranged in heaps all round, and surround the latter with a thread of meat-glaze. Toulousaine garnish comprises small chicken-forcemeat quenelles; cocks’ combs and kidneys; very white button-mush- room heads, and slices of truffle. Serve, separately, an Allemande flavoured with mushroom essence. 1240—CROUSTADE DE RIS DE VEAU A LA FINANClfeRE Prepare (1) the required number of small, fluted croustades, baked without colouration in rather large tartlet moulds. (2) The same number of slices of braised veal sweetbread as there are croustades, and of the same size. (3) A financi&re garnish, consisting of very small chicken-forcemeat quenelles; grooved