8o2 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 2824— ICED BISCUIT PRINCESSE Mould and leave to set a biscuit-pralined preparation. After having cut up the moulding, surround it with splintered and pralined almonds. Decorate the pieces with vanilla ice-cream and tangerine ice. 2825— ICED BISCUIT SIGURD Mould the base with strawberry and the top with pistachio biscuit preparation. When the biscuit is frozen, cut it into rectangular slices, and sandwich each slice between two sugar wafers. 2826— BOMBES (Generic Recipe) Originally, Bombes were made from an ordinary ice preparation, in spherical moulds ; hence their name, which is once more justified by their arrangement, consisting as it used to do of superposed and concentric layers, the outermost of which was very thin. Now- adays, Bombes are more often moulded in the shape of shells, but the preparation from which they are made is much more delicate than it was formerly. 2827— PREPARATION FOR BOMBES Gradually mix thirty-two egg-yolks with one quart of syrup at 28°. Put the whole on a very moderate fire, whisking it as for a GJnoise, and, when the preparation is firm enough and taken off the fire, continue whisking it over ice until it is quite cold. Then add the selected flavour, and one and one-third quarts of stiffly- whipped cream. 2828— THE MOULDING OF BOMBES First clothe the bottom and sides of a mould with the ice preparation denoted by the name of the Bombe. This coat, which should vary in thickness in accordance with the size of the mould, should be somewhat thin, and made from an ordinary ice prepara- tion, which is suited better than any other kind to this class of dish. The middle is then filled with a Bombe preparation, flavoured as directed, or with a Mousse preparation. The whole is then covered with a round piece of white paper, and the mould is hermetically sealed with its cover, set to freeze, and left for two or three hours in the ice. When about to serve, take the mould out of the ice; wash it with cold water ; dip it quickly in tepid water; dry it with a towel, and overturn the mould on a napkin or on a block of ice.