FISH 269 dice; one lb. of well-cooked pilaff rice; and three-quarters pint of Bechamel flavoured with curry. Dish in a hot timbale, alternating the various products, and finish with a coating of sauce. 788—COTELETTES DE SAUMON Prepare some mousseline forcemeat for salmon, the quantity whereof will be in accordance with the number of cutlets to be made, and rub it through a coarse sieve. Line the bottom and sides of some buttered tin moulds, shaped like cutlets, with a coating one-half inch thick of the prepared forcemeat. Fill the moulds to within one-third inch of their brims with a cold salpicon of mushrooms and truffles, thickened by means of reduced Allemande sauce, &nd cover this with the forcemeat. Set the cutlets to poach, turn out the moulds; treat the cutlets a Vanglaise, and cook them with clarified butter. Arrange in a circle round a dish, put a frill on a piece of fried bread counterfeiting the bone of the cutlet, garnish with fried parsley, and send to the table, separately, a “ Dieppoise ” sauce, Shrimp sauce, or a pur6e of fresh vegetables, such as peas, carrots, &c. In the latter case, serve at the same time a sauce in keeping with the garnish. 789—COULIBIAC DE SAUMON Preparation.—Have ready two lbs. of ordinary brioche paste without sugar (No. 2368). Stiffen in butter one and one-half lbs. of small salmon collops, and prepare one-sixth lb. of mush- rooms and one chopped onion (both of which should be fried in butter), one-half lb. of semolina kache (No. 2292) or the same weight of rice cooked in consomm£; two hard-boiled eggs, chopped; and one lb. of vesiga, roughly chopped and cooked in consomm£. For this weight of cooked vesiga about two and one-half oz. of dried vesiga will be needed, which should be soaked for at least four hours in cold water, and then cooked for three and one-half hours in white consomm£. It may also be cooked in water. Roll the brioche paste into rectangles twelve inches long by eight inches wide, and spread thereon in successive layers the kache or the rice, the collops of salmon, the chopped vesiga, the eggs, the mushrooms, and the onion, and finish with a layer of kache or rice. Moisten the edges of the paste ana draw the longest ends of it towards each other over the enu-