EGGS 169 Remarks.—(1) Poached or soft-boiled eggs, when dished upon fried rusks, feuilletes, or tartlets, should, before being placed on the latter, be covered with sauce. Also before being treated with sauce they should be well drained. (2) Having given the general outlines of the procedure, I shall now pass on to the particular recipes, stating them briefly, and reminding the reader that all of them apply equally to poached and soft-boiled eggs. Thus “ Poached Eggs Mireille ” stands for “ Poached or Soft-boiled Eggs Mireille.” 414—POACHED EGGS ARGENTEUIL Garnish the bottom of some tartlet-crusts with asparagus cut into pieces and cooked, and six green asparagus-heads, about one and one-half inches in length, arranged like a star. Place an egg, coated with cream sauce mixed with half its volume of asparagus pur^e, upon each tartlet. 415—POACHED EGGS A L’AURORE Coat the eggs with Aurora sauce, and dish them on oval feuilletes if poached, or upright on feuilletes in the shape of rings if soft-boiled. 416—POACHED EGGS EN BERCEAU Bake some fine Dutch potatoes in the oven. Cut each potato in half, lengthwise, with the point of a small knife, and remove the pulp. Emptied in this way, the halved potatoes resemble little cradles. Coat the interior of each cradle with a fine chicken mincemeat mixed with cream, and place an egg coated with Aurora sauce in each. 417—POACHED EGGS A LA BOHEMIENNE Garnish the bottom of some tartlet-crusts with a salpicon of foie-gras and truffles cohered with a few tablespoonfuls of the following sauce :—For six eggs, dissolve one teaspoonful of white-meat glaze; add thereto half a teaspoonful of truffle essence, and finish with a lump of butter about the size of a pigeon’s egg. Take enough of this sauce to effect the cohering of the salpicon ; coat the eggs with Hungarian sauce, and place one upon each garnished tartlet. 418—POACHED EGGS BOIELDIEU Garnish the tartlets with a white-chicken-meat, foie-gras, and truffle salpicon cohered with poultry velout6. Coat the eggs with a reduced and thickened poultry gravy.