370 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY must be cohered per lb. with one egg and three yolks, finished with two oz. of butter, put into well-buttered dariole-moulds, and set these to poach fifteen minutes in advance. (2) Ten small artichoke-bottoms garnished with reduced Soubise. Season the tournedos; fry them in butter; dish them, and surround them with the timbales and the artichoke-bottoms, alternating the two garnishes. 104—TOURNEDOS MARECHALE Season the tournedos; fry them in butter, and dish them upon fried crusts. On each of the tournedos set a large, glazed slice of truffle, and surround them with little heaps of asparagus- heads cohered with butter. 1105— TOURNEDOS MARIE-LOUISE Season the tournedos, and fry them in butter. Dish them, in the form of a crown, upon crusts one-third inch thick, fried in butter. On each tournedos set a small artichoke-bottom, stewed in butter, garnished in the shape of a dome, by means of a piping-bag, with a pur£e of mushrooms combined with a quart of very reduced Soubise. 1106— TOURNEDOS MASCOTTE Season the tournedos, and fry them in butter. Have a garnish ready consisting of raw, quartered artichoke- bottoms fried in butter; small, olive-shaped potatoes, also cooked in butter; and olive-shaped truffles. When about to serve, dish the tournedos in a cocotte with the garnish above described. Swill the saut6-pan with white wine; add thereto a little gravy; reduce the whole, strain it into the cocotte, and put the latter in the front of the oven for a minute or two. 1107— TOURNEDOS MASSENA Season the tournedos and fry them in butter; dish them on fried crusts of the same size, and, in the middle of each tour- nedos, set a large slice of poached marrow. Surround with a row of small artichoke-bottoms, garnished with very stiff B^arnaise sauce. 1108— TOURNEDOS A LA MENAGERE Put into an earthenware cocotte the following vegetables, which should be in proportion to the number of tournedos : — Haricot butter or “Princesse” cut into small pieces, minced new carrots, very small new onions, and very fresh peas.