90 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 216— DIRECTIONS FOR SOUP WITH PASTES Vermicelli and the various Italian pastes should measure about three oz. per quart of consomm£. They should first be thrown into boiling, salted water, where they are left to poach for three minutes, whereupon they are drained, cooled, and their cooking is completed in the consomm6. The parboiling of these pastes is necessary in order to get rid of the little agglomerations of flour which adhere to them, and which would otherwise make the consomm^ cloudy. Tapioca, sago, salep, &c., should also be apportioned at about three oz. per quart. But this is only an average, for the quality of this kind of products varies greatly, and it is best to choose the goods of an excellent maker, and, in order to avoid surprises, to abide by that choice. These products need no parboiling; they are merely sprinkled into the boiling consomm£ while stirring the latter, and they are left to cook until the soup is quite clear. The boiling should be gentle, and the scum should be removed as often as it forms. The time allowed for cooking naturally varies in accord- ance with the quality of the goods, but the absolute trans- parency of the consomm^ is an infallible sign of its having been completed. Brazilian, Japanese, and other pearls are used in the same quantities, but they should poach for thirty minutes if required to be very transparent. 217— THREADED EGGS Beat up three eggs in a bowl, season with salt and pepper, and strain through a sieve. Now pour the eggs into a fine strainer, hold same over a saut^pan containing some boiling consomm6, and shift it about in such wise as to let the egg fall in threads into the boiling liquid beneath, and thus imme- diately coagulate. Drain the egg-threads very carefully lest they break. 218— PROFITEROLLES FOR SOUPS These consist of little choux about the size of a large hazel- nut, stuffed with some kinds of pur£e, such as that of foie gras with cream, or of chicken, or of vegetables, &c. Four pro- fiterolles should be allowed for each person. To make profiterolles, put a few tablespoonfuls of “ pate a choux ” without sugar (No. 2374) into a piping-bag fitted with