735 ENTREMETS 2502—ENGLISH RICE PUDDING The quantities for this pudding are: six cz. of rice, one quart of milk (flavoured according to fancy), two oz. of sugar and three oz. of butter. The grains of rice should be kept somewhat firm, but the whole should be rather liquid. Thicken with three eggs ; cook the preparation in the oven, in a pie-dish ; and on taking the pudding out of the oven sprinkle its surface with icing sugar. 2503—RICE AND CHOCOLATE PUDDING Add two oz. of chocolate to every lb. of the preparation of rice, made after No. 2404, and combine therewith the whites of three eggs beaten to a fairly stiff froth ; pour the preparation into a buttered pie-dish, and cook in the oven. Serve some chocolate custard (combined with its bulk of whisked cream) separately. * N.B.—This sweet may be served hot or cold. Souffl^d Puddings. 2504—SAXON PUDDING Work four oz. of butter to a pomade in a basin. Add four oz. of powdered sugar and four oz. of sifted flour, and dilute with two-thirds pint of boiled milk. Boil this preparation, stirring it the while ; and dry it over a fierce fire as in the case of a panada for a “ Pate a choux.” Take off the fire ; thicken with five egg-yolks ; and then care- fully mix with it the five whites beaten to a stiff froth. Pour into well-buttered moulds, and poach in a bain-marie. As an accompaniment serve an English custard or a Sabayon, flavoured according to fancy. 2505—ALMOND SOUFFLED PUDDING Make a preparation as for No. 2504, but use almond milk instead of cow’s milk. Pour the preparation into buttered moulds, sprinkled with splintered and grilled almonds, and poach in a bain- marie. As an accompaniment serve a white-wine Sabayon flavoured with orgeat. 2506—SOUFFLED PUDDING, DENISE Finely pound four oz. of freshly-washed and peeled almonds, and add thereto, from time to time, a few drops of fresh water. When the almonds form a smooth paste, add the necessary quantity of water to them to produce one pint of milk. Strain through muslin and slightly twist the latter in order to express all the contained liquid.