FISH 265 covered by the froth resulting from the contact of the butter with the parsley. 779— THE POACHING OF FISH This method is best suited to sole, chicken-turbots, and brill, as well as to the fillets of various fish. Having laid the fish to be poached in a baking-tray or a saut^pan, either of which should have been previously but- tered, season it moderately with salt and moisten with a little very white fish or mushroom fumet; very often the two latter are mixed. Cover the utensil, push it into a moderate oven, and baste from time to time, especially when a large fish is cooking. When the fish is done, drain it carefully, place it on a dish, and, as a rule, reduce the poaching-liquor and add it to the sauce. Poached fish are always served sauced; i.e., covered with the sauce which properly forms their accompani- ment. More often than not they are garnished after the manner which will be described later. I most emphatically urge : (1) the use of very little fish fumet for the poaching, but this fumet should be perfect and should, above all, not be cooked for longer than the required time; (2) that the fish be not covered with buttered paper as is often done, for nowadays a suitable paper is very rarely found. All papers found on the market are, owing to the chemical products used in their manufacture, liable to impart a more or less pun- gent smell to the objects they enclose, which in either degree would prove seriously prejudicial to the preparation. These remarks not only apply to fish, but to all those objects with which paper was formerly used at some stage in their cooking process. 780— THE BRAISING OF FISH This method is generally applied to whole or sliced salmon, to trout, and to chicken-turbot. Sometimes the fish treated in this way is larded on one side with strips of bacon-fat, truffles, gherkins, or carrots. The mode of procedure is exactly the same as that described under the “ Braising of White Meats ” (No. 248). Moisten these braisings in the proportion of one- half with white wine or red wine (according as to how the fish is to be served), and for the other half use a light fish fumet. Place the fish on the drainer of a fish-kettle just large enough to hold the former, and moisten in such wise that the cooking- liquor at the beginning of the operation does not cover more than three-quarters of the depth of the fish. Unless it be for