ENTREMETS 729 In the centre of the savarin set a cushion of Gfaioise sufficiently thick to reach half-way up the former. At the last moment, turn out upon this cushion an iced strawberry mousse, made in an iced madeleine-mould, the diameter of which should be that of the bore of the savarin. Cover the moitsse with a coat of Italian meringue with kirsch, shaping it like a cone of which the base rests upon the top of the savarin. By means of a piping-bag, fitted with a small pipe, quickly decorate the cone, as also the savarin, with the same meringue ; colour it in the oven, and serve it instantly. 2475—VARIOUS SURPRISE OMELETS With the generic example given this kind of omelets may be indefinitely varied by changing the ice preparation inside. The superficial appearance remains the same, but every change in the inside garnish should be made known in the title of the dish. Pannequets. 2476—PANNEQUETS WITH JAM Prepare some very thin pancakes ; coat them with some kind of jam, roll them up, trim them aslant at either end, and cut them into two lozenges. Place these lozenges on a tray, sprinkle them with icing sugar, set them to glaze in a fierce oven, and dish them on a napkin. 2477—PANNEQUETS A LA CREME Coat the pancakes with frangipan cream, and sprinkle the latter with crushed macaroons. For the rest of the procedure follow No. 2476. 2478—PANNEQUETS MERINGUES Coat the pancakes with Italian meringue, flavoured with kirsch and maraschino; roll them up, cut them into lozenges as above, and set them on a tray. Decorate them by means of the piping- bag with the same meringue; sprinkle them with icing sugar, and set them to colour quickly in the oven. 2479—PUDDINGS English puddings are almost innumerable ; but many of them lie more within the pastrycook’s than the cook’s province, and their enumeration here could not serve a very useful purpose. The name Pudding is, moreover, applied to a whole host of preparations which are really nothing more than custards—as, for example, “custard pudding.” If both of the foregoing kinds of puddings be passed over, puddings proper which belong to hot sweets may be divided into eight classes, of which I shall first give the generic recipes, from