389 RELEVES AND ENTREES grated bacon in an earthenware stewpan, and brown therein twelve small onions, fifteen carrots in the shape of olives, two sticks of celery cut into pieces of the same size as the carrots, and four cloves of garlic. Add the marinaded pieces of meat, which should have been properly dried; fry the whole, meat and vegetables, for a further seven or eight minutes, and moisten with the marinade and two glasses more of red wine. Complete with one-half lb. of fresh bacon rind, blanched and cut into square pieces of two-thirds inch side; a faggot made up of parsley stalks, thyme, bay, and, in the centre, a small piece of dry lemon rind. Set to boil, completely close the stew- pan, and leave to cook in a moderate oven for six or seven hours. When about to serve, remove the faggot, clear all grease from the gravy, and dish in a hot timbale, or serve the “ daube ” in the stewpan itself. 1173—DAUBE A LA PROVENCALE FROIDE A daube is rarely prepared specially for cold dishing; gene- rally the remains of one already served hot are used. Take the pieces, one by one, with a fork, and place them in a terrine a ■pate with the carrots, onions, and squares of bacon rind, which have remained almost untouched. Strain the gravy over them through an ordinary strainer, pressing lightly the while, and leave to cool. When about to serve, turn out the daube on a cold dish, and surround with chopped aspic jelly. 1174—CARBONNADES A LA FLAMANDE Cut three lbs. of lean shoulder or cushion of beef into thin, short slices. Season the latter with salt and pepper, and brown them quickly on both sides in stock fat. At the same time toss one and one-quarter lbs. of minced onions in butter, until they are well browned. Put the slices of beef and the onions in alternate layers into a saucepan, and in their midst place a faggot. Drain the grease from the saut^pan in which the slices were fried; swill with one and one-half pints of beer (old Lambic in preference); add the same quantity of brown stock, thicken with four oz. of brown roux; finish the seasoning with one and one- half oz. of powdered sugar; set to boil, stirring the while, and strain this sauce over the slices of beef and the onions. Cover and cook gently in the oven for from two and one-half to three hours. N.B.—Carbonades are served thus, mingled with the onions ; but they may also be dished in a timbale and covered