535 POULTRY Border the dish with fine crotitons of jelly, and serve a mayonnaise sauce at the same time. 1696—POULARDE A LA LAMBERTYE Poach the pullet and let it cool thoroughly. Raise the supremes, suppress the bones of the breast and garnish the cavity with a cold chicken mousse, combined with a quarter of its volume of foie-gras pur^e, shaping the latter in such wise as to reconstruct the bird. Cut the supremes into thin, long slices; coat them with white chaud-froid sauce, and place them on the mousse, pressing them lightly one upon the other. Deck with pieces of truffle; glaze with chicken jelly; set in a square, entree dish, and surround with melted jelly. When about to serve, incrust the dish in a block of ice. 1697—POULARDE A LA NEVA Stuff the pullet with chicken forcemeat (No. 200), combined with foie gras and truffles, cut into dice; poach it in chicken stock and let it cool. This done, coat the piece with white chaud-froid sauce, decorate with jelly, and leave to set. Set the pullet on a cushion of rice, lying on a long dish. Behind the bird, arrange a fine, vegetable salad in a shell of carVed rice, or in a large, silver shell. Border the dish with neatly-cut croutons of pale jelly. 1698—POULARDE ROSE DE MAI Poach the pullet and, when it is quite cold, raise its supremes and remove the bones of the breast. Coat the carcass with a white chaud-froid sauce; decorate as fancy may dictate; garnish with a mousse of tomatoes (No. 814), and arrange the latter in such wise as to reconstruct the bird. Slice the supremes-, coat them with white chaud-froid sauce; decorate with truffles, and glaze with chicken jelly. Garnish with the same mousse as that already used for the pullet, as many small, barquette-moulds as there are chaud-froid-coated slices, and leave to set. Put the pullets on a low cushion of rice, placed on a long dish; surround it with the barquettes of mousse, turned out at the last moment; set a chaud-froid-coated slice on each bar- quette, and distribute crotitons of jelly over the dish. 1699—POULARDE ROSE MARIE Having poached and cooled the pullet, raise its supremes; cut these into collops, and coat them with white chaud-froid sauce. Trim the carcass, leaving the wings attached; garnish