SOUPS 235 glass of burnt brandy. The resulting gravy should be added to the soup. Now finely pound these meats together with one-half pint of cooked and drained lentils. When the whole has become a smooth pur^e add the cooking-liquor of the lentils and the swillings referred to above and rub through tammy. Finish the cullis with the necessary quantity of consomm£, heat it, and pass it through a strainer. Add butter at the last moment and season moderately. Garnish with three tablesponfuls of small, very fresh mush- rooms; these to be finely minced and tossed in butter. 666—COULIS DE QRIVES AU PAIN NOIR, otherwise A L’ARDENNAISE Fry four fine thrushes in butter and complete their cooking in one pint of feathered game consomm^ containing five oz. of rye-bread dice fried in butter. These dice constitute in this case the thickening element of the soup. Remove and put aside the thrushes’ fillets, finely pound the carcasses together with two juniper-berries, add the leason of bread dice, and rub through tammy. Add to the resulting pur£e one-quarter pint of feathered- game consomm6, set to boil, and pass through a strainer. Finish the cullis with two and one-half oz. of butter and four tablespoonfuls of cream. Garnish with the reserved fillets cut into thin slices or into a julienne. 667—COULIS DE GROUSE OU DE GELINOTTE A L’ANCIENNE Proceed as in No. 666 in so far as the preparatory details and the quantities are concerned, but take note of the following changes in other directions: — (1) Substitute for the thrushes two grouse or two hazel-hens, taking care to discard the legs and the carcasses. (2) Use ordinary bread dice instead of those of rye-bread. 668—COULIS DE LAPEREAU AU CURRIE Cut the legs of a young wild rabbit into small pieces, stiffen these in butter, and put them into the stewpan with a few roundels of carrot and onion, one small faggot of parsley and celery, and one quart of white consomm£. Set to cook gently. Also lightly brown in butter two tablesponfuls of chopped onion, besprinkle with one-half tablespoonful of fecula and a