446 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY Moisten with the marinade, strained through a sieve, and one-fifth pint of brown stock; cover with slices of bacon; close the daubihe, and seal down the lid by means of a thread of soft paste, in order that the steam may be concentrated inside. Boil on the side of the stove; put the daubihe in an oven of regular heat (a baker’s oven if possible) that the cooking process may be gentle and steady, and cook for five hours. When about to serve, uncover the daubihe; remove the overlying slices of bacon; clear of grease; remove the faggot, and dish the daubihe on a napkin. N.B.—According to the household method, the “ Daube ” is served in the daubihe itself ; but, subject to the demands of the service and in order that the preparation may keep its bucolic character, it may be served in small earthenware utensils. >347—DAUBE FROIDE Cold Daube constitutes an excellent luncheon dish. All that is needed is to put what is left into a small daubihe, where, as a result of the binding properties of the pork rinds, it will set in a mass. When about to serve, turn out on a round dish; surround with very light, chopped jelly; and carve into very thin slices. 1348— EMINCES ET HACHI5 An unalterable principle governs the preparation of eminc^s and hashes, which is that the meats constituting these dishes should never boil if it be desired that they be not hard. They should, therefore, only be heated in their accom- panying garnish or sauce, and in the case of eminc^s, cut as finely as possible. For the various recipes under this head, see the Chapter on Beef. (Nos. 1175, 1178 and 1179.) 1349— HARICOT DE MOUTON Heat three oz. of lard in a saut^pan. Put therein one-half lb. of lean bacon, cut into dice and blanched, and twenty small onions. When the bacon is frizzled and the onions have acquired a good colour, drain both on a dish. In the same fat, fry three lbs. of breast, neck and shoulder of mutton, all three being cut into pieces weighing about three oz. Keep the meat in the fat until each piece of it has acquired a frizzled coat. Drain away half of the grease; add three crushed cloves of garlic; dust with two tablespoonfuls of flour, and cook the latter, stirring the while. Moisten with one quart of water; season with one-third oz.