818 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY Let the whole cool and infuse for two hours, and strain it through muslin or through a woollen bag. Add a piece of very clean ice and sufficient seltzer water to reduce the syrup to g°. Keep the preparation in the cool for a further twenty minutes, and finish it, when about to serve, with two tablespoonfuls of orange-flower water. 2942— KALTSCHALE Peel and slice one-half lb. of peaches and an equal quantity of pineapple ; add four oz. of ripe, melon pulp, cut into dice, and four oz. of a mixture of raspberries and red and white currants, cleared of their stalks. Put these fruits in a silver timbale and keep the latter on ice. Set a little cinnamon to infuse in a half- bottleful of boiling, white wine; add six oz. of sugar and the zest of one lemon ; and let the whole cool. Then add half a pint of a mixed puree of strawberries and red-currants to this infusion. Filter the whole, and complete it by the addition of a bottle of champagne. Pour this preparation over the fruit, and serve the timbale very cold. 2943— ORANGEADE Proceed as for lemonade, but use the juice and zests of orange rinds instead of those of lemons, and the juice of only half a lemon. Put very thin slices of orange in the glasses. 2944— PUNCH WITH KIRSCH Throw a good half oz. of tea into one quart of boiling water, and let it infuse for ten minutes. Put into a punch or salad-bowl one lb. of loaf-sugar ; strain the infusion of tea over the sugar, and dissolve the latter; stirring the while with a silver spoon. Add one and a half pints of Kirsch, set it alight, and serve in glasses. 2945— PUNCH WITH RUM Make an infusion as above, with the same amount of tea and one quart of boiling water. Strain it over one lb. of loaf-sugar, in a punch-bowl, and let the sugar dissolve. Add a few thin slices of lemon, and one and a half pints of rum, and set light to it. Serve with a slice of lemon in each glass. 2946— PUNCH MARQUI5E Put into a small, copper saucepan one quart of Sauterne wine, half-lb. of loaf-sugar, and the zest of the rind of one lemon bound round a clove. Dissolve the sugar; heat the wine until it becomes