4 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY broth has been strained, so as not to run the risk of disturbing the latter. The quality of the meat goes a long way towards settling the quality of the consomme. In order that the latter be perfect, it is essential that the meat used should be that of comparatively old animals whose flesh is well set and rich in flavour. This is a sine qua non, and the lack of meat coming from old animals in England accounts for the difficulty attaching to the making of a good consomme and savoury sauces in this country. Cattle in England are killed at an age varying from three to four years at the most; the meat thus obtained has no equal for the purpose of roasts and grills, and anything approaching it is rarely met with on the Continent. But when this same meat is used for boiling or braising, it does not contain enough juice or flavour to yield a satisfactory result. This shortcoming is furthermore aggravated by a fault that many commit who are employed in the making of consommes and stock. The fault in question consists in cooking the bones simultaneously with the meat. Now to extract that gelatinous element from bone which produces the mellowness character- istic of all good consommes, it is necessary that the gelatigenous bodies should be cooked for twelve hours at least, and even after that time has elapsed they are still not entirely spent. On the Continent the quality of the meat easily compensates for this technical error, but such is certainly not the case in England, where five hours’ stewing only results in a flat and insipid consomm6. I therefore believe that, in the case of either consomme or stock, the formulas of which I shall give later, it would be ad- visable for the bones to stew at least twelve hours, and this only after they have been well broken up, while the quantity of water used should be so calculated as to suffice exactly for the im- mersion of the meat that must follow. The contents of this first stock-pot should include half of the vegetables mentioned, and the consomme thus obtained, after having been strained and cooled, will take the place of the water in the recipe, in accord- ance with the directions I have given above. The Uses of White Consomm6 White consomme is used in the preparation of clarified con- sommes, in which case it undergoes a process of clarifying, the directions for which will be given later. It also serves as the liquor for thick soups, poached fowls, &c. It must be limpid.