ENTREMETS 755 Between each egg place a small slice of pine-apple, cut to the shape of a cock’s comb. Thicken the poaching-milk with five eggs and six egg-yolks per quart; pass it through a strainer: pour the preparation over the eggs, and put the flawn in a mild oven, that the cream may be poached and slightly coloured. 2608—PAIN PERDU OR GILDED CRUST Cut some slices one-half inch thick from a brioche or a stale loaf and dip them in cold sugared and vanilla-flavoured milk. Drain the slices ; dip them in some slightly-sugared beaten eggs, and place them in a frying-pan containing some very hot clarified butter. Brown them on both sides ; drain them; sprinkle them with vanilla sugar, and dish them on a napkin. 2609—FRUIT SUPREME A LA GABRIELLE Prepare (1) a border of apples, stewed as for a Charlotte, thickened with eggs, and poached in a buttered and ornamented border mould. (2) A macedoine of fruit, the quantity of which should be in proportion to the capacity of the mould and consisting of quartered pears, cooked in syrup; pine-apple, cut into large lozenges ; half-sugared cherries; angelica, stamped into leaf-shapes by means of the fancy-cutter; and currants and sultanas, swelled in syrup. Set all these fruits in a sautdpan. To every pint of the pear-syrup add one lb. of sugar, and cook the mixture to the small-ball stage. This done, reduce it by adding one-sixth pint of very thick almond milk ; pour this over the fruit, and simmer very gently for ten minutes. Turn out the border of apples, poached in a bain-marie, upon a dish, and surround it with a border of candied cherries. Complete the macedoine away from the fire with a little very best butter; pour it into the border, and sprinkle on it some peeled and finely- splintered almonds. 2610—SCHALETH A LA JUIVE Line a greased iron saucepan, or a large mould for “ Pommes Anna,” with a thin layer of ordinary noodle paste, and fill it up with the following preparation :—For a utensil large enough to hold one and a half quarts:—one and three quarter lbs. of stiffly stewed russet apples ; one and a quarter lbs. in all of pipped Malaga raisins, currants, and sultanas (swelled in tepid water) in equal quantities ; the finely chopped half-zests of an orange and a lemon; a mite of grated nutmeg; four oz. powdered sugar ; four whole eggs and the yolks of six; and a quarter of a pint of Malaga wine. Mix the whole well, in advance. Cover with a layer of noodle paste; seal the latter well down C 2