ENTREMETS 783 as to reconstruct the biscuit, and coat the latter with a layer of sweetened and vanilla-flavoured Chantilly cream. Sprinkle the cream with splintered pistachios and currants; set the whole on a tazza, and surround it with vanilla-flavoured English custard, or raspberry syrup. 2724—MILK JUNKET Gently heat one quart of milk. When it has reached 95° F. take it off the fire ; add two and one-half oz. of sugar to it; flavour it as fancy may suggest; put into it six drops of russet-apple essence (or two pastils of russet-apple essence, dissolved in six drops of water); pour it into a timbale, and serve it very cold. N.B.—This very delicate and simple entremet is little else, in- deed, than flavoured and sweetened milk, caused to set by the combined agencies of heat and russet-apple essence. 2725—MACEDOINE OF COOLED FRUIT Take some fresh fruit of the season, such as ripe William pears and peaches, peeled and sliced apricots and bananas, and add to it some small or large strawberries, raspberries, white- and red-currants ; skinned, fresh almonds, etc. Set these fruits in a timbale surrounded by ice, mixing them well together; sprinkle them with a syrup at 30° (saccharom.), flavoured with Kirsch or Maraschino, and let them macerate for an hour or two; taking care to toss them from time to time. 2726—EUGENIA: ITALIAN CREAM Select some very ripe Eugenia; peel, slice, and set to macerate in a bowl, with Maraschino-flavoured syrup. Set the fruit in a timbale, upon a layer of vanilla ice-cream ; decorate them on top with Chantilly cream, and sprinkle the latter with crystallised violets. 2727—MARQUISE ALICE Prepare a /ra/z>z-flavoured Bavarois in a manque mould: garnish the inside with lady’s-finger biscuits, saturated with Anisette. Turn it out on a dish, and completely cover it with an even coat of very stiff, sweetened and vanilla-flavoured Chantilly cream. On top, lay some parallel lines of red-currant jelly, by means of the piping-bag; and then cut these lines at right angles, with the point of a small knife. Surround the base with small puff- paste triangles, coated with “ Pralin a Condd" dried in the oven.