IO GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY used to cook meat which must be salted before being cooked, and which, therefore, imparts the necessary salt to its sur- rounding liquor. Brown stock ought to be the colour of fine burnt amber, and it must be transparent. It is used in making meat-glazes after reduction, also to moisten meat for braising and to prepare brown sauces. 8—BROWN GAME STOCK There is no difference between the game consommes and game stock, or, otherwise stated, ordinary game consomm6 and brown game stock are one and the same thing. The dis- tinction lies in the ultimate use of this preparation; it is clari- fied, as we have shown (Formula 5), if it be intended for a clear soup, and it is used in its original state if it is to be used for a thick game soup, for a sauce, or for reducing. 9—BROWN VEAL STOCK Brown veal stock requires the same quantities of shin and trimmings of veal as white veal stock (Formula 10). The time allowed for cooking is, however, a little shorter, and this opera- tion may be completed within eight hours. This stock is mostly used as the liquor for poultry and poeled game, while it may also serve in the preparation of thickened veal stock. Being quite neutral in taste, it lends itself to all purposes, and readily takes up the aroma of the meat with which it may happen to be combined. It is admirably suited to the poaching of quails, and nothing can supplant it in this particular. IO—WHITE VEAL STOCK, AND POULTRY STOCK Quantities for making Four Quarts. 8 lbs. of shin of veal, or lean and fresh veal trimmings. 1 or 2 fowls’ carcases, raw if they are handy. 12 oz. of carrots. 6 oz. of onions stuck with a clove. 5! quarts of cold water. 4 oz. of leeks strung with a stick of celery. 1 faggot, including 1 oz. of parsley, 1 bay leaf, and a small sprig of thyme. Preparation.—Bone the shins, string the meat, break up the bones as small as possible, and put them in a stewpan with the water. Place on an open fire, allow to boil, skim carefully, and then move to a side of the fire to cook very gently for