395 RELEVES AND ENTREES The process of braising, whether it be in respect of the saddle or other veal Relev^s, such as the cushion, the loin, the neck, &c., demands particular care, must be accompanied by frequent basting, and should always be carried on with short moistening. 1182— SELLE DE VEAU A LA CHARTREUSE Braise the saddle, and glaze it at the last moment, after having removed the slices of bacon. Set it on a long dish, and, at each end of the latter, place a chartreuse of vegetables. Round the joint put a few tablespoonfuls of the braising- liquor, cleared of all grease, reduced, and well-strained; and serve what remains in a sauceboat. Chartreuses of Vegetables.—Take two dome- or Charlotte- moulds, capable of holding two-thirds of a quart. Butter them liberally; line them with buttered paper, and on the latter, over the bottom and sides of the utensil, lay carrots, turnips, peas, and French beans; each of which vegetables should be cooked in a way suited to its nature. This operation, which is some- what finicking, may either be effected on the plan of a draught- board, or the different vegetables may be superposed in alter- nate row’s of varying colours. When the moulds are garnished in this way, spread thereon, over the vegetables, a layer of forcemeat softened w’ith beaten white of egg; the object of this measure is to keep the vegetable decoration in position, and this is effected by the poaching of the forcemeat before the chartreuse is filled with ifs garnish. This done, fill the moulds to within one-third inch of their brims with a Macedoine of vegetables cohered by means of stiff Bechamel and cream, and cover with a layer of forcemeat. Set these chartreuses to poach thirty-five minutes before serving, and take care to let them rest for five minutes before unmoulding them on either side of the saddle. 1183— SELLE DE VEAU A LA METTERNICH Braise the saddle, and, when it is ready, put it on a dish. Now draw a line within one-half inch of its extreme edge on either side and end, pressing the point of a small knife along the meat in so doing. Proceed in the same way on either side of the chine, and remove the fillets from the joint, severing them from the bone with care. Cut the fillets into regular collops, keeping the knife some- what at a slant. In the double cavity left by the fillets spread a few table- spoonfuls of Bechamel with paprika; return the colloped fillets