GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 6o8 True, good results are obtained from poaching mutton and poeling home-lamb; but it is advisable only to have recourse to these methods when a menu requires varying. The Mutton joints roasted are the Leg, the Double or Pair of Hind-legs, the Baron or (Hindquarters), the Saddle and the Neck. The Shoulder also makes an excellent roast, but it may only appear on more or less unimportant menus. Roast joints of mutton and lamb are always accompanied by Mint Sauce (No. 136). 1953- PORK ROASTS Pork roasts may only appear on very ordinary menus, and really belong to domestic cookery. The pork joints for roasting are the Legs, the Fillets, and the Neck. The joints selected should be those derived from very young animals, and the rind should be left upon them, and cut deeply in criss-cross lines, so as to form a lozenge pattern. Pork should always be roasted before a fierce fire, and it is accompanied by its gravy and Sage and Onions (No. 1944) or Apple sauce (No. 112). Sometimes Apple sauce is replaced by Cranberry sauce (No. 115); while Roberts sauce Escoffier is also admirably suited to these roasts. 1954— VENISON ROASTS I have already pointed out that Roebuck is not very much eaten in England, and that this excellent ground game must be used without having been marinaded. Every piece of roe- buck must be trimmed and cleared of tendons, larded with larding bacon, or, at least, carefully wrapped in the latter; and roasted before a fierce fire and kept underdone towards the centre. The joints of roebuck most commonly roasted are the Legs and the Saddle. The fallow Deer and the Stag supply the greater part of the Venison consumed in England; and when these animals are of good quality their flesh is covered by a thick coat of white fat, which is very highly esteemed by connoisseurs. Only the neck and the haunch are roasted, and the latter consists of one leg with half of the saddle attached. This venison is never marinaded, but it should be kept for as long as possible in a dry and well-aired place, that the meat may be gamy. Before hanging the joint, dredge it well with a mixture of flour and pepper, that it may keep dry and free from the flies.