771 ENTREMETS 2665—PUDDING OR “CR6ME REINE DES FEES” Prepare the whites of four eggs as for Italian meringue (No. 2383), and add to the sugar, while cooking, its bulk of quince jelly, and, at the last moment, one and a half ounces of candied fruit, cut into dice, macerated in Kirsch and carefully drained. Set the mervigue, in shapes resembling large buttons, on a sheet of paper. Boil in a utensil large enough to take the sheet of paper, four quarts of water, containing two and a half lb. of sugar and one- quarter pint of Kirsch. Slip the sheet of paper into this boiling syrup ; withdraw it as soon as it easily separates from the pieces of meringue; poach the latter; drain them on a piece of linen and let them cool. Meanwhile, make two Bavarois preparations ; one white and vanilla-flavoured, and the other pink and flavoured with Curagoa. In these preparations the quantity of whisked cream should be twice as much as for ordinary Bavarois, whereas the quantity of gelatine should be reduced by half. Set these preparations in even, alternate layers, in a slightly- oiled iced -Madeleine mould, distributing the meritigues between each layer. Cover the mould with a piece of paper and a lid, and keep it surrounded by ice for two hours. When about to serve, turn it out on a napkin. COLD FRUIT ENTREMETS. Apricots (Abricots). 2666—ABRICOTS A LA PARISIENNE Poach the halved apricots in vanilla-flavoured syrup. Cool them and drain them ; and reconstruct the apricots by joining the halves together with a piece of vanilla ice-crcam, the size of a walnut, in the centre. Set these apricots upon some large overturned macaroons; cover with vanilla-flavoured Chantilly cream, shaped like a cone and sprinkle with fine filbert pralin. 2667—ABRICOTS A LA ROYALE Take some fairly deep tartlet moulds, and set in them some fine( cold, half-apricots, poached in vanilla-flavoured syrup. Fill up the tartlet moulds with very limpid, Kirsch-flavoured jelly. Prepare a shallow, GJnoise border, glazed with red-currant jelly, cooked to the small-thread stage, and sprinkle with chopped pistachios. 3 D 2