346 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 1029— MORUE A LA CREOLE Finely mince an onion, and cook it gently in butter until it is of a nice golden colour. Spread it on the bottom of a little oval earthenware dish, and set three tomatoes prepared k la Proven9ale (No. 2268) upon it. Poach one lb of morue; drain it as soon as ready, and flake it while clearing it of all skin and bones. Lay this flaked morue on the slices of tomato; cover it with three mild cap- sicums, split and broiled; sprinkle the whole with a few drops of lemon juice and one oz. of lightly-browned butter, and put the dish in the oven for a few minutes. Serve very hot. Icelandic or Newfoundland morue may be used. 1030— CABILLAUD SALE, OR MORUE A LA HOLLANDAISE Proceed exactly as for “Sole & la Hollandaise ” (No. 829). Both kinds suit this preparation. 1031— CABILLAUD SALE, OR MORUE A L’INDIENNE Poach one lb. of salted cod or morue, and flake it while clearing it of all skin and bones. Mix this flaked fish with two-thirds pint of Indienne sauce, and dish it in a hot timbale. Serve some rice k l’lndienne separately. Both kinds of fish are suited to this dish. 1032— MORUE A LA LYONNAISE Poach one lb. of morue, and flake it as explained above. Finely mince a medium-sized onion, and toss it in butter. Also toss three medium-sized potatoes cut into roundels. Heat one oz. of butter and two tablespoonfuls of oil in a frying-pan; put therein the flaked morue and the potatoes, and toss the whole over a brisk fire for a few minutes. When about to dish up, add a few drops of vinegar. Dish in a hot timbale, and sprinkle the morue with a pinch of chopped parsley. Use either the Icelandic or the Newfoundland fish for this preparation. 1033— SOUFFLE DE MORUE Finely pound one-quarter lb. of freshly poached and flaked morue, and add thereto, little by little, two tablespoonfuls of hot and very thick Bechamel sauce. When the paste is very smooth, season it; put into a saucepan, heat it, and add the yolks of three eggs, and four whites beaten to a stiff froth. Put the whole into a buttered souffle-saucepan, and cook after the manner of an ordinary souffle. Take either Icelandic or Newfoundland morue for this dish.