ENTREMETS 707 2395-FLAWN CRUST With short or any other kind of paste prepare a layer one- sixth inch thick, the diameter of which should be one-fourth as long again as that of the flawn-ring used. Raise this layer, and place it upon the previously-buttered flawn-ring, pressing it with the fingers, that it may assume the shape of the mould. Then roll the pin across the ring, in order that the overlapping paste may be cut away; press the thickness of paste that has been formed between the fingers in such a way as to make it project above the edges of the flawm-ring, and form a regular crest. Pinch this crest with the pastry pincers, and set the flawn-ring on a small round baking sheet. Prick it with the point of a small knife; line its bottom and sides with slightly-buttered, good paper; fill the ring with dry lentils or split peas, and bake in a moderately hot oven for about twenty-five minutes. Then remove the lentils and paper, as also the ring, and return the flawn to the oven for a few minutes to brown, if it is not already sufficiently coloured. If the paste be required very dry, place the flawn in the drying-box for a little while, or gild it inside, and set it in the front of the oven for a few minutes. 2396—THE LINING AND COVERING OF RAISED AND DRESSED PIES The moulds for Raised Pies are oval or round. If they are round, make a layer of patty paste, one-half inch thick, in pro- portion to the size of the mould. Sprinkle this paste with flour, fold it in two, and shape it like a skullcap, after the manner described under “ Timbale Crust.” It is only necessary to press this skullcap of paste into the buttered mould in order to give it the shape of the latter. If the mould is oval, proceed in the same way, giving the skullcap an oval shape. When the raised pie is filled, first cover the garnish with a somewhat thin, round, or oval layer of paste, in accordance with the shape of the mould, and seal it well down upon the moistened edges. Then cut away the superfluous paste of the crest, so as to make the latter even and neat, and pinch it out- side and in. Raised pies are covered in two ways—either with a layer of puff-paste, or with leaves of paste stamped out with a round cutter or a knife, the veins being imitated with the back of a knife. In the first case, prepare a layer of puff-paste one-third inch thick, equal in size to the inside of the patty. Drop this layer z z 2