FISH 3°7 Now roll them into scroll-form; smooth the forcemeat that projects from the top end, and the paupieltes are done. Stand them upright in a buttered sauffipan to poach, and take care to place them snugly together lest they lose their shape while the operation is in progress. Moisten them with sufficient fish fumet (No. u) to cover them; poach them in a moderate oven, and remember, as in the case of fillets of sole, not to let the poaching-liquor boil. All the garnishes and sauces suited to fillets of sole likewise obtain with paupiettes, provided the difference in their shape be taken into account when dishing up. For salmon paupiettes, cut slices two-thirds inch wide, one- half inch thick, and the length of a fillet of sole, from a skinned fillet of salmon. In view of the unusual fragility of salmon’s flesh, the slices of fillets should be carefully flattened in order to give them the width and thickness of a fillet of sole. This done, spread forcemeat on them, and roll them as explained above. Soles and Fillets of Sole (Cold) 915—ASPIC DE FILETS DE SOLES An essential point in the making of an aspic is the clearness of the fish jelly. For a sole aspic, take some white fish aspic, which is at once succulent, limpid, and just sufficiently viscous to allow of its being turned out of a mould without breaking. For the purpose under consideration, moulds with plain or decorated borders are generally used, and there are two modes of procedure : — 1. For a mould capable of holding one quart, fold twelve small fillets of sole and poach them in butter and lemon juice, taking care to keep them very white. This done, set them to cool under a light weight. Pour a few tablespoonfuls of melted fish jelly into the mould, which should be lying amidst broken ice. As soon as the jelly begins to set, decorate it tastefully with pieces (lozenges, cres- cents, &c.) of very black truffle and the poached white of an egg. Capers, tarragon leaves, thin roundels of small radishes, &c., may also he used for the purpose of decoration. When this part of the procedure has been satisfactorily effected, sprinkle a few drops of the same jelly over the decorat- ing particles, in order to fix them and prevent their shifting during the subsequent stages of the process. Now add enough melted jelly to cover the bottom of the mould with a layer one inch thick, and leave this to set. x 2