489 POULTRY 1503— POULARDE A LA PERIGORD Stuff the pullet with one-half lb. of truffles in the shape of large olives, cooked in two oz. of melted pork fat, and mixed, while hot, with one lb. of fresh, grated pork fat, rubbed through a sieve. String the piece, taking care to close all its openings, and poele it gently. Dish it; coat it with a very fine half-glaze sauce, made from the ^oeh'wg-liquor and finished with truffle essence. 1504— POULARDE PETITE MARIEE Poach the pullet in a little white stock, and surround it (when setting it to cook) with six small new onions, six small carrots, six small new potatoes, and one-quarter pint of freshly-shelled peas. Set the pullet in a cocoite with the garnish of vegetables, and coat it with its reduced cooking-liquor, combined with some excellent supreme sauce. *505—POULARDE A LA PIEMONTAISE Stuff the pullet with two-thirds lb. of rizotto combined with one-half lb. of white sliced truffles, and poele it in the usual way. Dish it, and serve at the same time a thickened chicken gravy to which has been added the reduced f oeling-Wquor. 1506—POULARDE A LA PORTUGAISE Stuff the pullet with three-quarters lb. of rice, combined with five oz. of peeled and concassed tomatoes, cooked in butter. Poele the pullet. Dish it; coat it with a Portugaise sauce, combined with the poeling-liquor, and surround it with a garnish of medium-sized tomatoes, stuffed with rice “ k la Portugaise.” 1507—POULARDE PRINCE5SE Poach the pullet. Dish it, and coat it with an Allemande sauce, flavoured with mushroom essence and finished with two oz. of asparagus-head butter per pint of sauce. Surround it with croustades of Duches.se potatoes, rolled in breadcrumbs and melted butter, fried, emptied, then garnished with asparagus-heads cohered with butter, and each surmounted by a fine slice of truffle. Between each croustade set a faggot of very green asparagus- tiCcids* 1508—POULARDE PRINCESSE HELENE Stuff the pullet with rice prepared after recipe (No. 2256), and poach it. Dish it; coat it with supreme sauce, and sur- round it with spinach subrics, cooked at the last moment; add