57i GAME and coat them with the same sauce as that given under “ Selle au Geni&vre ” (No. 1798). Serve some stewed apples at the same time. 1804—NOISETTES DE CHEVREUIL ROMANOFF Cook the noisettes; set them on stuffed sections of cucumber, prepared after No. 2124a, and place a slice of truffle on each noisette. Coat with a Poivrade sauce with cream, and serve a mushroom pur£e separately. 1805—NOISETTES DE CHEVREUIL VALENCIA Cook the noisettes, and dish them in a circle, each on a round crouton of brioche fried in butter, and coat lightly with bigarrade sauce. Serve a sauceboat of bigarrade sauce and an orange salad at the same time. 1806—NOISETTES DE CHEVREUIL VILLENEUVE Carefully clear the meat of the roebuck of all tendons, and chop it up with a knife, combining with it the while the third of its weight of fresh butter, as much bread-crumb, soaked in milk, and pressed, and one-third pint of fresh cream per lb. of meat. Season, divide into portions weighing two oz., mould to a nice round shape, wrap in pig’s caul, cook quickly at the last moment, and dish in the form of a crown. Coat with Chasseur sauce, and send a timbale of celery pur6e separately. 1807—NOISETTES DE CHEVREUIL WALKYRIE Saute the noisettes in the usual way, and dish them in the form of a crown, each on a small quoit of “ Pommes Berny ” (No. 2184). On each noisette lay a fine, grilled mushroom, garnished with a rosette of Soubise pur£e, made by means of a piping-bag fitted with a grooved pipe. Pour a little venison sauce over the dish, and send a sauceboat of it separately. N.B.—Roebuck noisettes and cutlets are still served with purges of chestnuts or celery, with truffles, cepes, mushrooms, &c. The sauces best suited to them are Poivrade sauce and its derivatives, such as Venison sauce, Grand-Veneur sauce, Romaine sauce, &c., also Roberts sauce Escoffier. 1808—CIVET DE CHEVREUIL For “ Civet de Chevreuil ” the shoulders, the neck, and the breast are used, and these pieces are cut up and set to marinade six hours beforehand with the aromatics and the same red wine as that with which the civet will be moistened.