GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 760 2626— BLANC-MANQE WITH FRUIT AND LIQUEURS All fruits, reduced to purges, may serve in the preparation of blanc-manges, and the apportionment of the ingredients should be as follows :—the puree of the selected fruit and the preparation given above (including the same amount of gelatine) should be mixed in equal quantities. These blanc-manges take the name of the fruit with which they are prepared, i.e.: strawberries, raspberries, apricots, peaches, etc. They may also be prepared with liqueurs, which should be in the proportion of one liqueur glassful to one quart of the preparation. The best liqueurs for the purpose are Kirsch, Maraschino and Rum. Blanc-manges are also made from chocolate and coffee, although the flavour of the latter does not blend so well with that of almonds as do the other products. 2627— BLANC-MANQES “ RUBANNES ” Prepare these as directed under No. 2621, spreading the differ- ently flavoured and coloured blanc-mange preparations in alternate even and regular layers. N.B.—Blanc-mange preparations may also be dished in silver timbales, in good china cases, or in deep dishes. By this means, to the great improvement of the preparation, the gelatine may be reduced to a minimum quantity, just enough to ensure the setting of the blanc-mange and no more. And the thing is quite possible inasmuch as there is no question of turning out the entremet. In his book “ The Parisian Cook,” Careme recommends the addition to the Blanc-mange of a quarter of its volume of very fresh, good cream ; and the advice, coming as it does from such an authoritative source, is worth following. 2628— ENGLISH BLANC-MANGE Boil one quart of milk, containing four oz. ot sugar, and pour it over a quarter of a lb. of corn-flour diluted with half a pint of cold milk ; stirring briskly the while. Smooth the preparation with the whisk, and cook it over an open fire for a few minutes, without ceasing to stir. On taking it off the fire, flavour it according to taste ; and pour it, very hot, into moulds previously moistened with syrup, that the mouldings may turn out glossy and smooth. Let the contents of the moulds set; turn them out, and serve them very cold either plain or with an accompaniment of stewed fruit.