GARNISHING FOR RELEVES AND ENTREES 95 Cut into dice four oz. of the red part only of carrots, the same quantity of onion, and one oz. of parsley stalks. In order that the Mirepoix may be still finer, these ingredients may now be chopped, but in this case it is advisable to tho- roughly press them in a corner of a towel, so as to squeeze out their vegetable moisture, the mere process of stewing not being sufficient for this purpose. Should this water be allowed to remain in the Mirepoix, more particularly if the latter must be kept some time, it would probably give rise to mustiness or fermentation. Put the ingredients into a small stewpan with one and one- half oz. of butter and a little powdered thyme and bay, and stew until all are well cooked. This done, turn the preparation out into a small bowl, heap it together with the back of a fork, cover it with a piece of white, buttered paper, and put aside until wanted. 230—VARIOUS SALPICONS This term stands for a certain preparatory method applied to a series of preparations. Salpicons are simple or compound. Simple if they only con- tain one product, such as the meat of a fowl, or of game, butcher’s meat, foie gras, various fish, ham or tongue, mush- rooms, truffles, &c. Compound if they consist of two or more of the above-mentioned ingredients which may happen to combine suitably. The preparatory method consists in cutting the various in- gredients into dice. The series of preparations arises from the many possible com- binations of the products, each particular combination bearing its own name. Thus Salpicons may be Royal, Financier, Chasseur, Parisien, Montglas, &c.; of whichever kind, however, Salpicons are always incorporated with a vehicular sauce which is in accord- ance with their constituents. 231—BATTER FOR VARIOUS FRITTERS Put into a bowl one lb. of sifted flour, one-quarter oz. of salt, one tablespoonful of oil or melted butter, and the necessary quantity of barely lukewarm water. If the batter is to be used at once mix the ingredients by turning them over and over with- out stirring with the spoon, for this would give the preparation an elasticity which would prevent its adhering to immersed solids. Should the batter be prepared beforehand, however, it may be