752 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 2593— POMMES A LA CHATELAINE Take some medium-sized apples, and prepare them like those of No. 2590. Set them on a buttered dish; fill the hollow in each with a salpicon of half-sugared cherries, cohered with apricot pur6e; cover with thin, frangipan cream; sprinkle with crushed biscuits and macaroons and melted butter, and set the gratin to form in a fierce oven. 2594— POMMES A LA CHEVREUSE On a dish, set a cushion of a preparation for semolina croquettes. All round arrange a close border of quartered apples cooked in vanilla-flavoured syrup; garnish the centre with a salpicon of candied fruit and raisins, cohered with an apricot puree, and cover with a thin coat of semolina. Cover the whole with ordinary meringue, shaped like a dome ; sprinkle some chopped pistachios upon the latter; dredge with icing sugar, and set to brown in a mild oven. On taking the dish out of the oven deck the top of the dome with a rosette of elongated angelica lozenges; place a small apple, cooked in pink syrup, in the middle of the rosette, and surround the base of the entremet with a circle of alternated white and pink, quartered apples. 2595— POMMES A LA CONDE2 Poach some fine, peeled and trimmed apples in vanilla-flavoured syrup. Dish them on a border of rice, decorated with cherries and angelica, as explained under No. 2551. 2596— POMMES GRATINEES Set the quartered apples, poached in vanilla-flavoured syrup, upon a base of minced apples prepared as for a Charlotte and kept somewhat stiff. Cover with fairly thin pralin k Condd; sprinkle with icing sugar, and place the dish in a mild oven, that the pralin may dry and colour slightly. 2597— POMMES MERINGUEES Set the quartered apples, poached in vanilla-flavoured syrup, upon a base of rice for croquettes, or of a mince as for a Charlotte. Cover with ordinary meringue, and smooth the latter, giving it the shape of a dome or a Charlotte; decorate with the same meringue; sprinkle with icing sugar, and bake and brown in a mild oven. 2598— POMMES A LA MOSCOVITE Take some well-shaped apples, uniform in size; trim to within