GAME 589 1861—suprPmes de FA 15an chatelaine Raise the supremes and prepare them exactly like the supremes of fowl in “ Chaud-froid F^lix Faure ” (No. 1691). Poach them; cool them, and cut them into medallions as explained. Cover half of these medallions with chicken Mousse, and the other half with pheasant Mousse. Keep on ice for some time that the Mousse may set. This done, coat the first lot with brown chaud-froid sauce and the second lot with white chaud- froid sauce. Deck each medallion with small pieces of truffle. Set them in a deep, square dish (alternating the two colours), and cover with very clear, succulent aspic jelly. Leave to set and serve on a block of ice. 1862—SUPREMES DE FAISAN GASTRONOME Poele the pheasant in Madeira and let it cool. Raise the fillets; cut them into thin, regular slices; coat them with brown chaud-froid sauce, and decorate according to fancy. With the trimmings and the meat of the legs, prepare a pheasant Mousse after the manner described under No. 1711, and mould it in a Parfait mould which should have the depth of the chaud-froid- coated slices. When this Mousse has set, turn it out on a dish and place the slices all round, standing them upright and letting them lean one against the other. Surround with a crown of fine, fair-sized, peeled truffles, cooked in Champagne, and set one of them on the top of the Mousse, fixing it there by means of a hatelet. Border the dish with fine croutons of aspic. 1863—TERRINE DE FAISAN Prepare it after the manner of the “ Terrine de Li£vre ” (No. 1825), and take care to make due allowance, in the cooking, for the difference, in the matter of tenderness, between the two meats. But the explanations already given on this subject ought to suffice for ascertaining whether or not the patty have cooked sufficiently. PARTRIDGE (PERDRIX ET PERDREAUX) Three kinds of partridges are used in Cookery :—the Grey Partridge, which is commonest in flat country, and which is also the most highly esteemed; the Red Partridge, which is to be found in hilly and wooded country; and the Bartavelle (perdix vertevella), which is a somewhat larger species than the two former. To these three kinds may be added the American