792 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY when the preparation is congealed, it may be combined with one- sixth pint of whipped cream per quart. 2758— PREPARATIONS FOR FRUIT ICES The base of these preparations is a syrup of sugar at 320 (saccharom.), to which a pur^e of fruit, an essence, or a liqueur is added, which will give the ice its character. All these preparations require lemon juice, the quantity of which varies according to the acidity of the fruit used, but which, even in the case of the tartest fruits, should not measure less than the amount that maybe extracted from a whole lemon per quart of the preparation. Orange juice may also be used, more especially for red-fruit ices ; while the juices of the orange and the lemons combined throw the flavour of the fruit under treatment into remarkable relief. In the season the juices are extracted from fresh fruit, pressed and rubbed through tammy. When the season is over the preserved juice of fruit is used. All red-fruit ices are improved, once they are set, by an addition of half pint of raw, fresh cream per quart of the preparation. 2759— the making of fruit ice preparations These preparations are made in two ways as follows :— (1) Rub the fruit through a fine sieve, after having pounded it if its nature admit of it. Dilute the pur£e with an equal quantity of cold sugar syrup at 320 (saccharom.), and add lemon juice in a quantity subject to the acidity of the treated fruit. This mixture of ingredients should always be cold, and should be tested with saccharom (pese-sirops). If the instrument marks more than the proper degree, dilute the preparation with a little water ; if it mark less, add syrup until the required degree is reached. (2) Pound the fruit with an average quantity of ten oz. of sugar per lb.; but remember that this proportion may be modified either way, subject to the sweetness of the fruit used. Rub the whole through a sieve ; and then, to obtain the proper degree of strength, add the necessary quantity of filtered water. 2760— LIQUEUR-ICE PREPARATIONS These preparations are made by adding to the syrup or the cream which forms the base of the ice a given quantity of the selected liqueur, the latter being generally added when the preparation is cold. The proportion of one-fifth pint of liqueur per quart of syrup may be taken as an average. Subject to the requirements this liqueur