GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 38 Cook the flour for some minutes without letting it acquire any colour, and dilute with one and one-half pints of white stock. Boil, cook gently for three-quarters of an hour, and rub through a tammy. Now heat the sauce, remove its grease, and keep it in the bain-viarie. Serve this sauce with fish, shell-fish, poultry, and various egg-preparations. N.B.—This sauce is sometimes flavoured with cocoa-nut milk in the proportion of one-quarter of the diluent. 8a—DIPLOMATE SAUCE Take one pint of Normande Sauce, prepared according to No. 99, and finish it with two oz. of lobster butter and three tablespoonfuls of lobster meat, and truffles cut into small, regular tubes. 83— HERB SAUCE Prepare one pint of white-wine sauce (No. hi). Finish it away from the fire with three oz. of shallot butter, a tablespoon- ful of parsley, chervil, tarragon, and chives, chopped and mixed. Serve this sauce with boiled or poached fish. 84— GOOSEBERRY SAUCE Prepare one pint of butter sauce, Formula No. 66. Mean- while put one lb. of green gooseberries into a small copper saucepan containing boiling water. Boil for five minutes, then drain the gooseberries, and put them in a little stewpan with one-half pint of white wine and three oz. of powdered sugar. Gently cook the gooseberries, rub them through a tammy, and add the resulting pulp to the butter sauce. This sauce is excel- lent with grilled mackerel and the poached fillets of that fish. 85— HUNGARIAN SAUCE Gently fry in butter, without colouring, two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions seasoned with table-salt and half a teaspoon- ful of paprika. Moisten with one-quarter pint of white wine, add a small faggot, reduce the wine by two-thirds, and remove the herbs. Finish with one pint of ordinary or Lenten Velout^, accord- ing to the use for which the sauce is intended, and boil moder- ately for five minutes. Then rub the sauce through a tammy, and complete it with two oz. of butter. Remember this sauce should be of a tender, pink shade, which it must owe to the paprika alone.