2j6 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY dish to be sent to the table. Upon this aspic jelly lay a cushion the same shape as the fish, of semolina, or of carved rice. Set the piece (salmon or darne), decorated and glazed, upon this cushion, and lay thereon a row of fine prawns, cleared of their abdominal shell. Surround with a garnish of small cucumber timbales, well parboiled, marinaded, and garnished dome-fashion, with a pur£e of smoked salmon; halved, hard-boiled eggs, glazed with aspic; very small tomatoes, or halved medium-sized ones, peeled, pressed in the corner of a towel to return them to their original shape, stuck with a bit of parsley-stalk, and decorated with leaves of green butter moulded by means of the piping- bag ; and small barquettes of cooked and marinaded beetroot, garnished with shrimps’ tails cohered with mayonnaise. Send a Russe sauce separately. 807— COTELETTES FROIDES DE SAUMON Liberally butter some tin cutlet-shaped moulds. Line their bottoms and sides with a very red slice of salmon, as thin as a piece of cardboard. This slice should be long enough to project outside the brim of the mould to the extent of one-half inch. Garnish the insides of the moulds with well-seasoned salmon meat, and draw the projecting lengths of salmon across this meat so as to enclose the latter and finish off the cutlets. Arrange the moulds on a baking-tray; poach the cutlets, dry, in a moderate oven; turn them out of their moulds on to another tray as soon as they are poached, and let them cool. Then coat them with a half-melted aspic, and decorate them according to fancy, either with very green peas or a leaf of chervil with a bit of lobster coral in its centre—in a word, some- thing simple and neat. These cutlets, which are generally served at ball-suppers, may be dished on a tazza, on a cushion of rice, semolina, corn- flour, or stearine, and laid almost vertically against a pyramid of vegetable salad cohered by means of mayonnaise with aspic. In this case the dish is finished off with a hatelet stuck into the middle of the pyramid. The cutlets may also be arranged in a circle on a flat, shal- low, silver or crystal dish, and covered with a delicate cold melted jelly. Whatever be the selected method of dishing, always send to the table with the cutlet a sauceboat of cold sauce. 808— M^DAILLONS DE SAUMON These m£daillons have the same purpose as the cutlets already described, and are prepared thus: —