275 FISH Surround it with grooved sections of cucumber hollowed to represent small timbales, well parboiled, marinaded with a few drops of oil and lemon-juice and filled with a vegetable salad thickened with mayonnaise; indented, halved eggs filled with caviare; and tartlets of vegetable salad cohered with mayon- naise, and garnished, each with a crayfish-shell stuffed with crayfish mousse; alternate these various garnishes, and encircle with a border of jelly dice. 804— SAUMON FROID, OU DARNE DE SAUMON FROID EN BELLE-VUE Skin the salmon or the darne, set the piece upright upon the belly side, and decorate the fillets with pieces of truffles, poached white of egg, chervil leaves, and tarragon, &c. Coat the garnish with a little melted fish aspic so as to fix it. This done, sprinkle the piece, again and again, with the same melted aspic jelly in order to cover it with a kind of trans- parent veil. Place the piece thus prepared in a crystal receptacle similarly shaped to the fish, and fill the former to the brim with very clear, melted jelly. When dishing up, incrust the receptable containing the fish in a block of clean ice which, in its turn, is laid on the dish to be sent to the table. Another way is to place the crystal utensil direct upon the dish and to surround the former with broken ice. 805— SAUMON FROID, OU DARNE DE SAUMON FROID AU CHAMBERTIN Poach the salmon or the darne in a court-bouillon consist- ing of very clear fish fumet and Chambertin wine, in equal quantities, and leave to cool. Prepare an aspic jelly from the court-bouillon. Skin and decorate the salmon or the darne and glaze it with white aspic jelly, exactly as directed above, in the case of the Belle-vue. Dish in the same way, in a crystal receptacle, and fill the latter with the prepared aspic jelly. Serve on a block of ice, or with broken ice around the utensil. 806— SAUMON FROID, OU DARNE DE SAUMON FROID A LA NORVEGIENNE Skin and decorate the salmon or the darne, and glaze it with white aspic jelly precisely as in No. 804. Let a coating of very clear jelly set on the bottom of the T 2