ENTREMETS 735 Dish in the shape of a dome ; surround the base with large straw- berries, rolled in beaten egg-whites and then in semolina sugar, and decorate the surface with large and very red half-strawberries. 2733—MONT=BLANC AUX MARRONS Cook some chestnuts in sweetened and vanilla-flavoured milk and rub them through a sieve, over an overturned, even border- mould ; in order that the chestnut puree, falling in the form of vermicelli, may garnish the mould naturally. Fill up the mould with the pured that has fallen over the sides of the mould ; turn out the border on a dish, and in the midst set an irregular and jagged mound of sugared and vanilla-flavoured Chantilly cream. 2734—MONT-ROSE Prepare a Charlotte, Plombiere in a shallow Madeleine ice- mould. Having turned out the Charlotte on a dish, cover it on top with tablespoonfuls of Chantilly cream, combined with a puree of fresh raspberries, and so shaped as to imitate a pyramidic rock. 2735—(HUFS A LA NEIGE Mould some ordinary meringue, by means of a spoon, to repre- sent eggs ; and drop the mouldings into a saut^pan containing some boiling sugared and vanilla-flavoured milk. Turn the meringues over in the milk, that they may poach evenly, and, as soon as they are firm, drain them in a sieve. Strain the milk through muslin ; add six egg yolks, and with it prepare an English custard. Set the egg-shaped meringues on a tazza and cover them with the prepared custard, kept very cold. 2736—MOULDED CEUFS A LA NEIGE Prepare the meringues and the English custard as above ; but to the latter add five or six gelatine leaves soaked in cold water. Set the egg-shaped meringues in an oiled border-mould ; cover them with the very cold custard, which, however, should not have set; and let the preparation set in the cool, or surrounded by ice. 2737—MOUSSELINES D’OEUFS rejane By means of a piping-bag, fitted with an even pipe, lay some ordinary meringues upon sheets of white paper, in shapes resembling large macaroons. Slip the sheets of paper into boiling, sugared and vanilla- flavoured milk, and withdraw the sheets of paper as soon as the 3 E