A GUIDE, TO MODERN COOKERY SOME PRESS OPINIONS. “ This is probably one of the most important cookery books issued this century, and will, it may be presumed, eventually take its place alongside the familiar culinary classics of former days. It is especially interesting as marking^ the inauguration of an entirely new style of living. M. Escoffier’s book is a culinary education in itself, and should take rank as a standard, be studied by all house- keepers who have either large households or gourmets to cater for, and should most certainly be placed in the hands of all persons training for high-class cookery teachers.”—Queen. “ His book is comprehensive. It begins at the beginning and explains the principles, so that a lady who reads it may talk learnedly to her cook ; it deals fully with all the old-established dishes of different countries; but its main feature is the number of delightful novelties which it introduces to notice. There are plenty of recipes which may be applied with advantage in the middle-class household where the lady in the kitchen has nobody under her, for M. Escoffier’s directions deal alike with humble and elaborate preparations.”—Outlook. “ It is a big book written by a great cook, and it will be useful not only to accom- plished cooks and experienced housekeepers, but also to beginners in the kitchen and the housekeeper’s room, for M. Escoffier takes nothing for granted and explains very patiently all the groundwork of the art of cookery before he discussed the haute cuisine. It contains much that is interesting to the gourmet as well as much that is useful to the cook, for he has little tales to tell concerning some of the dishes, and now and again a scrap of history crops up.”—Tatler. “Even as you take up the volume a sense of pleasurable anticipation takes possession of you, so pleasing is the cover, so clear and bold is the type, and sc delightful to the touch is the paper on which is printed the garnered wisdom of the famous chef. A little reading will soon show you that it is as full of sound wisdom, and of fresh and interesting information, as Brillat-Savarin’s “ Physiologic du Goflt.”—The Westminster Gazette. “ The ordinary good plain British cook will discover something worth the learning on every page ; the worried mistresses of small establishments will cherish the hookas a treasure-house of new ideas ; the man who likes a good dinner but has no special knowledge of the art of the kitchen will find the preface and the introductions to the chapters capital reading ; and everv English-speaking gourmet will have a well thumbed copy of this very modern Guide ” upon his book-shelf. The book is a comprehensive one, and at the same time a simple one. It is a book that should be in every house.”—Pall Mall Gazette.