192 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY Cold Eggs The preparation of cold eggs is not limited by classical rules; it rests with the skill and artistic imagination of the operator, and, since fancifulness and originality are always closely allied to artistic imagination, it follows that the varieties evolved may be infinite. Indeed, so various and numerous are the recipes dealing with this kind of egg-preparations that I must limit myself to a selection only of the more customary ones, culled as far as possible from my own repertory. 525— COLD EGGS ALEXANDRA Take some cold, well-trimmed, poached eggs; dry them and cover them with a white chaud-froid sauce. Place a fine in- dented slice of truffle in the centre of each, and sprinkle with a cold, white, melted aspic jelly until they are thinly coated there- with. Slip the point of a small knife round each egg with the view of moving them more easily, and transfer them to oval tartlet-crusts made from puff-paste trimmings, baked without colouration. Lay a border of caviare round the eggs; dish them in the form of a crown, and put some chopped jelly in the centre. 526— COLD EGGS A L’ANDALOUSE Cover some cold, well-dried, poached eggs with a tomato pur£e combined with a full third of its volume of Soubise pur£e and one-half pint of melted aspic jelly per pint of sauce. Cut some pimentos, marinaded in oil, into very thin strips, and lay these, after the manner of a lattice, upon each egg. Now garnish as many oiled, oval tartlet-moulds as there are eggs with tomato pur£e, thickened with jelly, and let the garnish set on ice. Turn out the moulds, and put an egg upon each of the tomato tartlets; arrange the latter in a circle on a dish surrounded with a chain composed of linked rings of onion, and garnish the centre with chopped, white jelly. 527— COLD EGGS ARGENTEUIL Coat some well-dried, soft-boiled eggs, slightly cut at their base to make them stand, with a white chaud-froid sauce com- bined with a good third of its volume of asparagus-tops pur£e. Sprinkle repeatedly with cold, melted, white jelly, until a glossy coating is obtained.