GAME 583 1838—FAISAN A LA GEORGIENNE Truss the pheasant as for an entree, and put it into a sauce- pan with thirty fresh, halved, and well-peeled walnuts; the juice of two lbs. of grapes and of four oranges, pressed on a sieve; a wineglassful of Malmsey wine; a glassful of strong, green tea; one and one-half oz. of butter, and the necessary seasoning. Poach the pheasant in this preparation for about thirty minutes, and colour it when it is almost cooked. When about to serve, dish it and surround it with fresh walnuts. Strain the cooking-liquor through a napkin; add thereto one-third pint of game Espagnole, and reduce to half. Slightly coat the pheasant and its garnish with the sauce, and serve what remains of the latter separately. 1839—FAISAN GRILLE DIABLE For this preparation only young pheasants are used; although, provided they be tender, adult pheasants will answer the purpose. The procedure is precisely the same as that de- scribed under “ Poulet Grille ” (No. 1636). 1840—FAISAN KOTSCHOUBEY Cook the pheasant “ en casserole,” and add to it, when it is almost done, two oz. of fine, raw truffle slices, and a little excellent game glaze, clear and well buttered. Serve the following garnish separately :—Fry in butter four oz. of blanched, fresh breast of bacon, cut into dice. When the pieces are properly frizzled, add to them one lb. of freshly- cooked, well-drained, uncooled, and roughly-chopped Brussels sprouts. Add two oz. of fresh butter, a little pepper and grated nutmeg, and stew gently for one-half hour, that the garnish may just be ready in time for dishing. 1841—FAISAN A LA NORMANDE Colour the pheasant in butter. Meanwhile quarter, peel, mince, and slightly toss in butter six medium-sized apples. Garnish the bottom of a terrine with a layer of these apples; set the browned pheasant thereon; surround it with what remains of the apples; sprinkle it with a few tablespoonfuls of fresh cream; cover the terrine, and cook in the oven for from twenty to twenty-eight minutes. Serve the preparation in the terrine,