359 RELEVES AND ENTRIES round it with garnish as follows:—(i) Heaps of small carrbts, shaped like elongated olives, cooked in white consomm6 and a little butter and sugar, and rolled in their cooking-liquor (re- duced to the consistence of syrup), with the view of glazing them. Send the poeling-liquor (cleared of all grease and strained) to the table separately. 1064—FILET DE BCEUF ORIENTALE Roast the fillet “ plain,” i.e., without previously larding it. Set it on a long dish, and surround it with the following garnish, taking care to alternate the ingredients, viz., (1) tim- bales of rice h la grecque (No. 2253) moulded in buttered dariole- moulds, each timbale being placed on a medium-sized half- tomato, seasoned and tossed in butter; (2) croquettes of sweet potatoes, moulded to the shape of corks, and fried just before dishing up. Send to the table, separately, a highly seasoned tomato sauce. 1065—FILET DE BCEUF PERIGOURDINE Lard the fillet and poele it. Glaze it just before dishing up; set it on a long dish, and surround it with medium-sized truffles, freshly cooked in Madeira and fine mirepoix, and glazed. Send a P£rigueux sauce separately. 1066—FILET DE BCEUF PETIT DUC Lard the fillet and poele it. Glaze it in good time; set it on a long dish, and surround it with the following gafnish:—(1) crisp, small patties of puff paste garnished with asparagus-heads cohered by means of cream sauce; (2) medium-sized artichoke-bottoms, prepared in the usual way, and garnished with slices of truffle. Send, separately, a light, meat glaze, combined with four oz. of butter per one-half pint. 1067—FILET DE BCEUF PORTUGAISE Lard the fillet and roast it. Set it on a long dish, and garnish it as follows : — 1. A row of medium-sized, stuffed tomatoes on either side. 2. At either end a nice heap of potatoes, shaped like long olives, and cooked in butter just before dishing up. Send a light, Portugaise sauce separately. 1068—FILET DE BCEUF PROVENCALE Lard the fillet and poele it. Glaze it at the last minute; set it on a long dish, and sur-