333 FISH 978—PETITS SOUFFLES FROIDS D’ECREVISSES Prepare the crayfish mousse as directed under No. 976, and replace the fish velout£ by cold Bechamel. The addition of sauce is even unnecessary in this case, and the preparation may be all the more delicate for consisting only of the crayfish cullis and two tablespoonfuls of fish jelly. For the moulding of these small souffles I can only repeat what I said under “ Petites Mousses de Homard ” (No. 958). Let a thin coating of jelly set on the bottom of the small cassolettes or timbales used; garnish their insides with a band of white paper, reaching one inch above their brims; stick the end of this band with a little batter. Now garnish the timbales with mousse, letting it project above their edges to the extent of two-thirds of an inch, and leave it to set in the cool. When about to serve, remove the band of paper, holding in the projecting mousse, and the appearance of the garnished timbales is exactly that of small, hot souffles. Allow one souffle for each person. 979—SHRIMPS AND PRAWNS (Crevettes Grises et Crevettes Roses) Prawns are chiefly used for hors-d’oeuvres, but they may, nevertheless, be prepared in Aspics; Mousses; small cold Souffles, &c. As regards shrimps, their use is entirely limited to gar- nishes, hors-d’oeuvres, and to the preparation of soups, shrimp butters, and creams. OYSTERS. (HUlTRES.) Though oysters are nicer raw, there are so many culinary preparations of which they form the leading constituent, and such a number of garnishing uses to which they may be put, that I feel compelled to mention some of these. 980—HUlTRES A LA FAVORITE Poach the oysters (cleared of their beards) in their own liquor, which should have been carefully collected when open- ing them. Clean their hollow shells, and place them on a tray covered with a layer of salt one-half inch thick. Garnish them with Bechamel; upon the latter, in each shell, lay an oyster decked with a slice of truffle; cover with the same sauce; besprinkle with grated Parmesan and melted butter, and set to glaze quickly. Serve immediately.