POULTRY 479 joints, and cut off the claws, aslant, just below the same joints. Garnish the boned regions with godiveau prepared with cream close the opening by means of a few stitches of strong cotton, and truss each leg in such a manner as to imitate a small duck. Poach these stuffed legs in stock made from the pullet’s carcass. Also poach the supremes and the minion fillets in good time, with a little mushroom cooking-liquor, and a few drops of lemon juice. With a pinch of flour mixed with water, stick a fried crouton (the shape of a pyramid, three inches high and of twro inch base) in the middle of a dish. Around this pyramid, arrange the twro stuffed legs and the two supremes; putting each of them on a decorated quenelle with the view of slightly raising them. Set the minion fillets on the legs, and, between the latter and the supremes, lay small heaps of cocks’ combs and kidneys, and some very white mush- room-heads. Pierce the crouton with a liatelet garnished with one truffle, one fine cock’s comb, and a large mushroom. Serve a supreme sauce separately. N.B.—This dish is generally bordered, either with noodle- paste, white English paste, or with a chased silver border. 1459—POULARDE CHIMAY Stuff the pullet with one-half lb. of half-poached noodles, tossed in butter, and combined with a little cream and three oz. of foie-gras cut into large dice. Poele it gently; dish it, and coat it with some of its poeling- liquor, thickened. Distribute over the pullet a copious amount of raw noodles, sauted in clarified butter; and serve the remainder of the thick- ened poeling-liquor separately. 1460—POULARDE CHIPOLATA Poele the pullet and put it into a terrine a pate with a gar- nish consisting of small, glazed onions; chipolata sausages, poached in butter; chestnuts cooked in consomm^; fried pieces of baco'n; and, if desired, some small glazed carrots. Add the pullet’s cooking-liquor, and simmer for ten minutes before serving. 1461—POULARDE A LA CHIVRY Poach the pullet. Dish it and coat it with Chivry sauce (No. 78). Serve a Macedoine of new vegetables* cohered with butter or cream, separately.