743 ENTREMETS thread, stage, and decorate with pieces of puff-paste in the shape of crescents, lozenges, roundels, etc., colourlessly baked in a moderate oven. When about to serve, pour in a garnish of stoned cherries, cooked in a thin syrup, thickened with raspberry-flavoured red-currant jelly. 2546—TIMBALE A LA PARISIENNE Cook a brioche in a Charlotte-mould, and, when it is quite cold, remove the crumb from its inside as above. Coat the outside with apricot jam, and decorate with candied fruit. When about to serve, pour into it a garnish consisting of peeled and quartered pears, apples, peaches and apricots, cooked in vanilla-flavoured syrup ; pine-apple cut into large dice, lozenges of angelica; half- almonds; and raisins, swelled in tepid water. Cohere this garnish with a Kirsch-flavoured apricot pur£e. 2547—timbale a la favart Cook a brioche in a Richelieu-mould, and hollow it out and decorate it as above. The garnish of this timbale consists of only whole or halved fruit, and vanilla-flavoured chestnuts; and these are cohered with Kirsch-flavoured apricot syrup, combined with one quart of a pur<£e of chestnut remains. Pour the garnish into the timbale just before serving. Hot Fruit Entremets. 2548—APRICOTS (Abricots) Whether fresh or preserved, apricots used for sweets should always be peeled. When preserved apricots are used, it is well to cook them again before using them, for sometimes they are inclined to be too firm. 2549—APRICOTS A LA BOURDALOUE Prepare a flawn-crust, and bake it without colouration. Garnish its bottom with a layer of thin frangipan cream, combined with crushed macaroons. Upon this cream set some half-apricots, poached in vanilla-flavoured syrup, and cover them with a layer of the same cream. Sprinkle the surface with crushed macaroons and melted butter and glaze quickly. N.B.—The above is the usual procedure, but fruit “ k la Bourdaloue” may also be prepared in the following ways: (1) Set the fruit in a shallow timbale, between two layers of cream, the upper one of which should be covered with gratin ; (2) set the fruit in a border of rice or semolina, with the same coat of gratin upon the