ENTREMETS 775 the start, and keep in a refrigerator for two hours, surrounded by ice. Dish on a napkin at the last moment 2682—FRAISES “REVE DE BEBE ” Select a fair-sized, very ripe pine-apple, cut off a slice of it at the top and withdraw all its pulp without bursting the rind. Prepare a square cushion of GJnoise, about two inches thick ; slightly hollow it out towards its centre, that the emptied pine- apple may be set upright upon it; and stick the cushion upon a dry-paste base, of the same size and shape as the former. Glaze the GJnoise cushion with pink fondant, decorate with “royale” glaze, and set a large strawberry at each corner. Slice half of the withdrawn pine-apple pulp, and macerate it with Kirsch, Maraschino and sugar. Pound the remaining pulp and press it in order to extract its juice. Set to macerate with this pine-apple juice a sufficient quantity of strawberries to three-parts fill the pine-apple. When about to serve, fill the emptied pine-apple with successive and alternate layers ^f pine-apple with Kirsch and strawberries ; and, between each layer, spread a coat of vanilla-flavoured, Chantilly cream. Close the pine-apple with the slice cut off at the start, and set it upright in the hollow of the cushion. Serve the preparation very cold. 2683— FRAISES A LA RITZ Set some well-sugared and cooled strawberries in a timbale, and cover them with the following preparation : rub half-pound of wild strawberries through a sieve ; add a little Melba sauce to the purde, that it may acquire a pink tint; and then add the same quantity of very stiff vanilla-flavoured Chantilly cream. Thoroughly cool these strawberries before serving them. 2684— FRAISES CARDINAL Set some fine, cooled strawberries in a timbale ; coat them with Melba sauce, or a purde of fresh raspberries, and sprinkle the latter with splintered fresh almonds. 2685—FRAISES ZELMA KUNTZ Set some fine, cooled strawberries in a timbale. Cover them with a raspberry pur^e, combined with an equal quantity of Chantilly cream. Decorate, by means of the piping-bag, with Chantilly cream, and sprinkle with a powdered pralin of filberts.