593 GAME 1875—BECASSE DE CAREME Sprinkle the woodcock with a few drops of oil, and roast it, keeping it underdone. As soon as it is cooked, divide it into two lengthwise, and cut each half of the breast into two collops. Mix half a coffeespoonful of French mustard in a small vegetable-pan, with a few drops of lemon juice. Roll the pieces of woodcock in this mustard, and keep them hot. Chop up the carcass and the intestines; sprinkle with a glassful of burnt liqueur brandy; reduce; add a tablespoonful of game fumet, and cook for five minutes. Strain through a strainer, pressing on the pieces of wood- cock in so doing, and rock the saucepan, that the pieces may be coated with the cullis. Dish in a hot timbale, and, upon the pieces, set the woodcock’s head. N.B.—Becasse a la fine Champagne is prepared in the same way, but without mustard. Cut it into six pieces: wings, legs and two halves of the breast, and put these pieces into a round cocotte. Swill the saucepan with burnt liqueur brandy; add the chopped intestines, mixed with the juices of the pressed carcass; add a tablespoonful of fumet, a little lemon juice, and a little cayenne, and pour this cullis (heated but not boiled) over the pieces. Becasse a la Riche is prepared in the same way, but:—(1) the pieces are dished on a crouton of fried bread, coated with gratin forcemeat of game; (2) the sauce is thickened with a little foie-gras pur£e and one oz. of butter, and then strained over the pieces through a coarse strainer, during which process the operator should press with a spoon or a whisk. 1876—BECASSE A LA FAVART Proceed as for “ Caneton rouennais Souffle ” (No. 1764), and remember to add the woodcock’s intestines to the force- meat. When the carcass is garnished, set the sliced supremes on the forcemeat, with a row of sliced truffles in the middle. The forcemeat should poach for about twenty minutes. Serve at the same time a half-glaze sauce, flavoured with woodcock fumet. 1877—SALMIS DE BECASSE Under the article “ Pheasant,” I gave the generic recipe for Salmis, which may be applied to all feathered game. In regard to the Woodcock Salmis, the operator should remember to add the bird’s intestines to the sauce, and to keep the meat rather under- than overdone. Q Q