SOUPS 207 570— CONSOMME GERMAINE Prepare two dariole-moulds of royale made from a pur£e of very green peas, combined with a tablespoonful of Mire- poix stewed in butter, and a strong pinch of small, chervil pinches; eighteen small quenelles of chicken forcemeat with cream, moulded to the form of pastils. When the royale is cold, cut it into regular roundels, and put these into the soup-tureen with the poached quenelles. When about to serve, pour one quart of boiling chicken oonsomm^ over the garnish. 571— CONSOMME GIRONDINE Prepare (1) one quart of highly-seasoned beef consomm^; (2) two baba-moulds of ordinary royale made with whole eggs and combined with two tablespoonfuls of cooked and finely- chopped lean ham; (3) three tablespoonfuls of a julienne of carrots (the red part only) stewed in butter, the cooking of which should be completed in the consommd. Put the royale, cut into large, regular lozenges, and the julienne of carrots into the soup-tureen, and pour in the boiling beef consomm^. 572—CONSOMME GRIMALDI Have ready one quart of excellent ordinary consomm^, to which have been added, while clarifying, four tablespoonfuls of raw tomato pur£e, strained through fine linen. Also prepare two dariole-moulds of ordinary royale, and three tablespoonfuls of a fine julienne of the white of celery, stewed in butter, finally cooked in the consomm£, and with all grease removed. Put the royale, cut into large dice, and the julienne of celery into the soup-tureen, and pour thereon the boiling con- somme with tomatoes. 573—CONSOMME IMPERIALE Prepare three dariole-moulds of mousseline forcemeat of fowl (No. 195), and put it to poach in a small Charlotte mould. When quite cold, cut it, by means of a cutter, into roundels the size of a penny, and put these in the soup-tureen with six small blanched cocks’ combs and three sliced cocks’ kidneys, and two tablespoonfuls of very green peas. Pour over this garnish one quart of chicken consomm^, thickened with three tablespoonfuls of poached tapioca strained through linen.