493 POULTRY containing boiling water, wherein the dish which holds the pullet is placed, is highly recommended, but the ideal method of poaching this sort of preparations is by means of a steamer. 1519—POULARDE STANLEY Stuff the pullet with one-half lb. of rice, three oz. of mush- rooms, and three oz. of a julienne of truffles. Poach it with one lb. two oz. of sliced and blanched onions, seasoned with a pinch of curry. When the pullet is ready, rub the cooking- liquor and the onions through tammy. Add one-third pint of Velout6 and one-third pint of cream to this cullis; reduce to a stiff consistence; rub once more through tammy, and finish with one-sitfth pint of cream. 1520—POULARDE SOUVAROFF Stuff the pullet with one-half lb. of foie gras and five oz. of truffles cut into large dice, and three-parts poele it. Now put it into a cocotte with ten fair-sized truffles stewed in Madeira for a few minutes in the same saucepan as that in which the pullet wras poeled. Moisten with one-sixth pint of veal stock; close the cocotte; seal the cover with a thread of paste, and complete the cooking in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Serve the fowl as it stands in the cocotte. 1521—POULARDE SYLVANA Stuff the pullet with one lb. of mushrooms, tossed in brown butter, and half-brown it in the oven. Meanwhile put one pint of fresh peas into a saucepan, to- gether with ten small new onions, one small lettuce cut julienne- fashion, and a faggot consisting of parsley stalks, chervil, and a sprig of mint. Add salt, sugar, two oz. of butter, and mix the whole up together. Moisten with two small tablespoonfuls of water; cover and half-cook, taking care to toss from time to time during the operation. When the pullet is half-cooked, put it into a cocotte lined w-ith a thin layer of paste, overreaching the edges of the cocotte by about two incl es. Surround it with a garnish of peas; cover it with a slice of bacon, and close the cocotte with its cover. Draw the overlap- ping paste over the latter; seal it down with some white of egg, that it may be hermetically closed, and set in the oven for about forty-five minutes. Serve the preparation as it stands in the cocotte. A sauce- boat of good chicken gravy may be served separately.