404 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY should be short and the cooking process gentle. For a piece weighing four lbs. when stuffed, allow three hours in a moderate and regular oven. Glaze breast of veal at the last moment, as in the case of other braised meats. 1209— TETE DE VEAU (Relevd and Entree) Nowadays, calf’s head is rarely served whole, as was the custom formerly. Still more rarely, however, is it served at a dinner of any importance; and it has now, by almost general consent, been relegated to luncheon menus where, indeed, it has found its proper place. After having boned the head, soak it or hold it under a running tap, for a sufficiently long time to allow of its being entirely cleared of blood. Then, blanch it for a good half-hour; cool it in cold water; drain it, and rub it with a piece of lemon to avoid its blackening. If it is to be cooked whole, as sometimes happens, wrap it in a napkin, that it may be easily handled; if not, cut it into pieces. In either case, plunge it immediately into a boiling blanc (No. 167). With a view of keeping the calf’s head from contact with the air, which would blacken it, cover it with a napkin, or cover the liquid with chopped suet. A layer of chopped suet is the best possible means of keeping the air from the calf’s head. Whatever be the method of serving calf’s head, it is the rule to send slices of tongue and collops of brain to the table with it. The tongue may be cooked simultaneously with the head, and the brain is poached as described under No. 1289. 1210— TfeTE DE VEAU A L’ANGLAISE Calf’s head a Vanglaise is cooked in a blanc, as explained above; but in halves and unboned. Dish it on a napkin with sprays of very green parsley and a piece of boiled bacon. Send a sauceboat of parsley sauce (No. 119a) to the table at the same time. 1211— TETE DE VEAU A LA FINANCIERE Cook the calf’s head in a blanc as already directed. Sup- press portions of the meat, where the latter is thick, in such wise as to leave only a very little on the skin. Cut of pieces into squares of one, two or three in. side;