256 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 741— SOUPE AUX ABATIS DE VOLAILLE A L’ANGLAISE Cut1 the necks into three, the gizzards into four, and the pinions into two. Brown one-half lb. of these giblets in a thick-bottomed stewpan with one oz. of butter. Sprinkle with one tablespoonful of flour; slightly colour the latter, and moisten with one quart of white consomm£ and one pint of water. Add a faggot containing one stick of celery, and set to cook gently for three hours. When the pieces of giblets are cooked, drain them, trim them, and put them into a stewpan with one dessertspoonful of parboiled rice and a heaped tablespoonful of the white of celery, minced and fried in butter. Strain the cooking-liquor of the giblets, through a strainer, over the enumerated garnishes; set to cook gently for another quarter of an hour; season strongly with pepper, and serve. 742— SOUPE AUX CERISES Stone two-thirds lb. of small, fleshy cherries, and put twenty aside for garnishing purposes. Put the others into a sugar- boiler with two-thirds pint of hot water, a small strip of lemon rind, and a fragment of cinnamon, and set to boil quickly for eight minutes. Also boil in another sugar-boiler one-half pint of Port or Bordeaux wine. Crush half of the cherry-stones in the mortar; put them into the boiled wine, and let them infuse, away from the fire. Rub the cooked cherries through a fine sieve; dilute the pur£e with the juice thickened by means of one tablespoonful of fecula moistened with cold water; add the cherries put aside for the garnish, and one-half tablespoonful of castor sugar, and again set to boil for four minutes. Complete the preparation with the infusion strained through muslin; pour it into the soup-tureen, and add a few biscottes. For the sake of variety, lady’s-finger biscuits may be sub- stituted for the biscottes. 743— COCKY-LEEKI SOUP Set half a fowl to cook very gently in one and one-half pints of light and clear veal stock with a few aromatics. Also prepare a julienne of the white of three leeks; stew this in butter without colouration, and complete the cooking thereof in the cooking-liquor of the fowl, strained and poured carefully away.