386 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY seasoned sauce, the sections should first be covered with a coat of mustard, then dipped in melted butter, and finally rolled in bread-crumbs. 1163— QUEUE DE BCEUF EN HOCHEPOT Cut the tail into sections, and put these into a stewpan of convenient size, with two pig’s trotters, each of which must be cut into four or five pieces, and one pig’s ear. Cover the whole with cold water; add salt to the extent of one-third oz. per quart of the liquid; set to boil; skim, and leave to cook gently for two hours. This done, add one small cabbage, cut into quarters, par- boiled and cooled; ten small onions; five oz. of carrots, and the same weight of turnips, cut to the shape of large, garlic cloves. Set the whole to cook for a further two hours at least. When about to serve, dish the sections of tail in a circle; put the vegetable garnish in the centre, and surround the latter with the pig’s ear cut into small, narrow strips, and ten grilled chipolata sausages. Serve, separately, a timbale of potatoes cooked a I’anglaise. Various Preparations of Beef. 1164— STEWED STEAKS AND ONIONS Select some steaks one and one-third inches thick; fry them in butter on both sides, and set them to braise in short moisten- ing, with a sufficient quantity of quartered and browned onions to constitute an abundant garnish. Leave the whole to cook gently for three hours. Dish the steak, and surround it with the onions and the braising-liquor cleared of all grease and reduced. 1165— SALT BEEF The pieces of beef chiefly selected for salting are brisket, silver side, and round of beef, and these are always boiled for a more or less lengthy period, according to their size. To the cooking-liquor is added a copious garnish of carrots and turnips. These are served with the meat, together with a sauceboat of cooking-liquor and a suet dumpling, prepared as follows : — 1166— SUET DUMPLING Finely chop up some suet; add to it an equal quantity of flour and about one-quarter oz. of salt per lb. of suet and flour. Moisten with just enough water to make a thick paste of