VEGETABLES AND FARINACEOUS PRODUCTS 627 2038—ASPARAGUS (Asperges) The best-known varieties of asparagus in England are : — 1. The Lauris asparagus, which is par excellence the early- season kind. 2. The green, Parisian asparagus, which is very small, and of which the most diminutive sticks, also called sprew, serve for garnishes. 3. The Argenteuil asparagus—very much in demand while it is in season. 4. English asparagus, which is somewhat delicate in quality, but inclined to be small. During the season there are, besides, several other kinds of asparagus imported from Spain or France, which, though not equal to the four kinds above mentioned, may nevertheless be used for soups or gar- nishes instead of asparagus-heads or sprew. Asparagus should be had as fresh as possible; it should be cleaned with care, quickly washed, tied into faggots, and cooked in plenty of salted water. Certain kinds, the flavour of which is somewhat bitter, should be transferred to other water as soon as cooked, with the view of reducing their bitterness. Asparagus is dished on special silver drainers, or on napkins. 2039—A5PERGE5 A LA FLAMANDE According to Flemish custom, asparagus is served with one hot, hard-boiled half-egg, and one oz. of melted butter per person. The egg-yolk is crushed, seasoned, and finished with the butter by the consumers themselves. This accompaniment may also be prepared beforehand and served in a sauceboat. 2040—ASPERGES AU GRATIN Dish the asparagus in rows, and coat the heads of each row with a little Mornay sauce. When all are dished, two- thirds cover the bunch with a band of buttered paper, and coat the uncovered portion with Mornay sauce. Sprinkle with grated Parmesan; glaze quickly at the salamander, remove the paper, and serve at once. 2041—ASPERGES A LA MILANAISE Having thoroughly drained the asparagus, set it on a long, buttered dish sprinkled with grated Parmesan; arrange it in successive rows, each of which sprinkle in the region of the heads with grated Parmesan. When about to serve, cover the cheese-powdered parts copiously with nut-brown butter, and set to glaze slightly at the salamander. s s 2