618 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY Then season with oil and vinegar, add some chopped chervil and parsley, and stir with care lest the roundels break. 1995— TOMATO SALAD Select some medium-sized and rather firm tomatoes, and scald them. Then skin them; cut them in two crosswise; press them to clear them of juice and seeds; cut them into thin strips; season them with oil and vinegar, and add some chopped tarragon. 1996— COMPOUND SALADS Unless they leave the kitchen to be served immediately, compound salads are dished without their constituents being mixed. As the latter are generally of various colours, they are seasoned and dished in distinct heaps of contrasted shades. The dishing of compound salads is finished by means of borders consisting of pieces of very red beetroot, gherkins, truffles, roundels of potatoes, and radishes. The method of arranging these vegetables constitutes the decoration, and the latter, being subject to no rules, is merely a matter of taste. I do not advise the moulding of compound salads, for the increased sightliness resulting therefrom is small compared with the loss in the taste of the preparation. The simplest form of dishing is the best, and fancifulness should not be indulged in, beyond the arrangement of the vegetables in a pyramid, surrounded by a decorated border of jelly. 1997— SALADE ALLEMANDE Take equal quantities of potatoes and apples, gherkins, and herring-fillets, all cut into dice and arranged in heaps. Season with hard-boiled egg sauce, and decorate with very red beet- root. 1998— SALADE AMERICAINE Peel and press some tomatoes, and cut them into thin slices; cut some potatoes into thin roundels, and prepare a short julienne of celery. Decorate with roundels of hard-boiled eggs and thin onion rings. Season with oil and vinegar. 1999— SALADE ANDALOUSE Peel and quarter some small tomatoes; cut some mild cap- sicums julienne-fashion; cook some rice plainly in salted water, keeping each grain separate; add a little crushed garlic and chopped onion and parsley. Season with oil and vinegar.