GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 302 Venetian sauce combined with the reduced cooking-liquor of the fillets. 901— FILETS DE SOLES VERDI Prepare a garnish of macaroni cut into dice; cohere this with cream and grated Gruy£re and Parmesan, and add three oz. of lobster meat and one and one-half oz. of truffles in dice per every one-half lb. of the macaroni. Poach the fillets of sole in fish fumet, keeping the fillets in their natural state. Lay the macaroni very evenly on the dish; set the poached fillets of sole upon it; coat with Mornay sauce, and set to glaze quickly. 902— FILETS DE SOLES VICTORIA Fold the fillets, and poach them in fish fumet. Arrange them in an oval on a dish, and garnish the centre with three oz. of the meat from the tail of the spiny lobster, and one oz. of truffle in dice per every four fillets. Coat the fillets and the garnish with Victoria sauce, and set to glaze quickly. 903— FILETS DE SOLES VERONIQUE Raise the fillets of a fine sole; beat them slightly; fold and season them, and put them in a special earthenware, buttered dish. With the bones, some of the trimmings of the fish, a little minced onion, some parsley stalks, a few drops of lemon juice, and white wine and water, prepare two spoonfuls of fumet. This done, strain it over the fillets, and poach them gently. Drain them carefully; reduce the fumet to the consistence of a syrup, and finish it with one and one-half oz. of butter. Arrange the fillets in an oval on the dish whereon they have been poached; cover them with the buttered fumet, and set to glaze quickly. When about to serve, set a pyramid of skinned and very cold muscadel grapes in the middle of the dish. Put a cover on the dish, and serve immediately. 904— FILETS DE SOLES WALEWSKA Poach the fillets in fish fumet, keeping them in their natural state. Dish, and surround them with three langoustines’ tails cut into two lengthwise, and stewed in butter (with lid on) with six fine slices of raw truffle. Coat with a delicate Mornay sauce, and set to glaze quickly. N.B.—The Mornay sauce may, according to circumstances, be combined with one and one-half oz. of langoustine buttei per pint.