672 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY up the mould with raw, peeled truffles, seasoned with salt and pepper. Add a glassful of Madeira, two tablespoonfuls of pale chicken or veal glaze; cover with a slice of bacon, and close up the timbale, in the usual way, with a layer of paste. Gild with beaten eggs, and bake in a hot oven for fifty minutes. When about to serve, turn out and dish on a napkin. Farinaceous Products 2280— GNOCHI AU GRATIN Prepare a “ pate k choux ” after recipe No. 2374, from the following ingredients:—one pint of milk, a pinch of salt, and a little nutmeg, four oz. of butter, two-thirds lb. of flour, and six eggs. When the paste is ready, combine with it four oz. of grated Parmesan. Divide this paste into portions the size of walnuts; drop them into boiling, salted water, and poach them. As soon as the gnochi rise to the surface of the water, and seem resilient to the touch, drain them on a piece of linen. Coat the bottom of a gratin-dish with Mornay sauce; set the gnochi upon the latter; cover them with the same sauce; sprinkle with grated cheese and melted butter, and set the gratin to form in a moderate oven for from fifteen to twenty minutes. 2281— GNOCHI A LA ROMAINE Scatter two-thirds lb. of semolina over a quart of boiling milk. Season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and cook gently for twenty minutes. Take the utensil off the fire; thicken the semolina with the yolks of two eggs, and spread it on a moist- ened tray, in a layer one-half in. thick. When it is quite cold stamp it out with a round cutter, two in. in diameter. Set the gnochi in shallow, buttered tim- bales; sprinkle with grated Gruy^re and Parmesan, and with a little melted butter, and set the gratin to form. 2282— GNOCHI DE POMMES DE TERRE Cook two lbs. of potatoes in the English way. Drain them as soon as they are cooked, and work the pur£e, while it is very hot, with one and one-half oz. of butter, two small eggs, two egg-yolks, one-third lb. of flour, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Divide up this preparation into portions the size of walnuts; roll them into balls; press upon them lightly with a fork to give them a criss-cross pattern, and poach them in boiling water. Drain them on a piece of linen; dish them in layers, sprink-