GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 500 Surround the latter with three oz. of grapes, cleared of all skin and pips, and ten sections of an orange, peeled in suchwise that the pulp of the fruit is raw. 1545— POULET SAUTE DEMIDOFF Colour the chicken in butter; add the vegetable garnish given for “ Poularde & la Demidoff ” (1464), and put the two to stew in the oven. About ten minutes before the cooking is com- pleted, add two oz. of truffles, cut to the shape of crescents like the carrots and turnips, and three tablespoonfuls of good veal stock. Dish the pieces of chicken, and cover them with the garnish. 1546— POULET SAUTE A LA DORIA Colour the pieces of chicken in oil and butter; add thereto one-half lb. of cucumber cut to the shape of garlic cloves; and complete the cooking by stewing in the oven. Dish the chicken with the cucumber upon it. Swill the saucepan with one tablespoonful of veal gravy and a few drops of lemon juice; and sprinkle the chicken and its garnish with this swilling-liquor, to which add one and one-half oz. of brown butter. 1547— POULET SAUTE A LA DURAND Dredge the seasoned pieces of chicken, and toss them in oil. Dish them in the form of a crown; garnish their midst with a fine heap of roundels of fried onion; and, in the centre of the latter, set a cone, made from a very thin slice of ham and filled with concassed tomatoes cooked in butter. 1548— POULET SAUTE A L’EGYPTIENNE Colour the pieces of chicken in oil. Toss in oil, together, three oz. of onion, and two oz. of mushrooms, sliced; and six oz. of raw ham, cut into dice. Set the pieces of chicken in a cocotte, alternating them with the garnish, which should have been well-drained; cover with two tomatoes, cut into thick slices; cover the cocotte, and com- plete the cooking in the oven for twenty minutes. When about to serve, sprinkle with a tablespoonful of veal stock. i54Sr~POULET SAUTE A L’ESPAGNOLE Saute the chicken in oil. Drain the latter away, and add one-half lb. of pilaff rice, combined with one and one-half oz. of capsicums in dice; three oz. of large green peas, cooked d I’anglaise, and two sliced and poached sausages.