5i7 POULTRY In the middle of these joined supremes of chicken, put an ortolan; wrap it in them, and tie them round once or twice with string, that they may keep the shape of a panpiette. Set these paupiettes in a shallow saut^pan, and, five minutes before serving, sprinkle them with four oz. of boiling butter; salt moderately, and cook in a fierce oven. After having removed the string, set each nonnette on a square, hollowed crouton of bread-crumb, fried in butter, and coated inside with foie-gras pur^e. Coat moderately with a light chicken glaze, finished with butter, and squeeze a drop of lemon juice on each nonnette. 1627—URSULINES DE NANCY Prepare some barquette crusts. Mould some chicken forcemeat into large, round, regular quenelles, and poach them in some white consomm^, in time for them to be ready when the Ursulines are being dished. A few moments before serving, garnish the barquette crusts with foie-gras pur6e, thinned with a little good half-glaze, flavoured with port or sherry wine. In the middle of each gar- nished barquette, set a well-drained mousseline quenelle; deck each quenelle with a thin and wide slice of truffle; set a small heap of asparagus-heads, cohered with butter, at either end of the barquettes, that is to say, on either side of the quenelle; and slightly coat the latter with chicken glaze, finished with butter. Serve, separately, a sauceboat containing some of the same chicken glaze with butter. 1628—FILETS DE POULET A LA SAINT-GERMAIN Season the fillets, dip them in melted butter and roll them in bread-crumbs; grill them gently, each on a sheet of oiled paper, and sprinkle with clarified butter during the operation. Dish the grilled fillets, and serve at the same time :—(1) a B^arnaise sauce; (2) a timbale containing a puree of foie gras with cream. 1629—FILETS DE POULET MIREILLE Prepare a garnish as for No. 1365; i.e., sliced, raw potatoes and artichoke-bottoms, set in a small earthenware dish and cooked as “ Pommes Anna.” Saute the fillets in butter at the last moment; put them on the garnish, and sprinkle them with nut-brown butter.