162 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 389— TUNNY WITH TOMATOES Lay alternate slices of tunny and tomato upon a hors- d’oeuvre dish, and between each slice lay a thin round of onion. Garnish the edge of the dish with a border composed of sliced potato, and sprinkle the whole with an ordinary salad seasoning. 390— MOCK TOMATOES Select some about the size of a walnut, and peel them care- fully. Press them in a piece of linen, and set them to marinade for half an hour in oil and vinegar. Then stick a small piece of parsley stalk into each tomato, in imitation of the stalk, and surround it with little leaves made from green butter by means of a small piping-bag. 391— TOMATOES A L’AMERICAINE Select some firm, medium-sized tomatoes, and cut them into thin slices. Put them into a dish with salt, pepper, oil, and a few drops of vinegar, and leave them to marinade for twenty minutes. Then arrange them on a hors-d’oeuvre dish, gar- nishing the border with fine rings of onion. 392— TOMATOES A LA MONEGASQUE Select some small tomatoes about the size of walnuts, and cut a slice from each in the region of the stalk. Squeeze out all their water and seeds, and marinade them, inside, for twenty minutes. Prepare a mince of tunny with oil, and add thereto, per two oz. of the fish, half a tablespoonful of finely- chopped onion, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, chervil, and tarragon, and a small, hard-boiled egg, also chopped. Thicken the whole with a tablespoonful of thick mayon- naise; put it into a bag fitted with a smooth, medium-sized pipe, and garnish the tomatoes with the preparation, using enough of the latter to form a kind of dome upon each tomato. 393— QUARTERED TOMATOES Use medium-sized tomatoes, somewhat firm and with very smooth skins. Peel them and empty them, and then fill them, either with a fish pur^e cleared with jelly, or with a macedoine of vegetables thickened by means of a mayonnaise wTith jelly. Place on ice for half an hour, and cut the tomatoes into regular quarters. The tomatoes may also be cut into four, previous to stuffing them, whereupon they may, with the help