439 RELEVES AND ENTREES of truffle, and sprinkle with cold, melted aspic. When the sauce has set well, pass the point of a small knife round the cutlets, with the view of removing the superfluous sauce; and either dish them round a vegetable salad, cohered and moulded, or simply dish them in the form of a circle and place a pyramid of cohered, vegetable salad in their midst. 1321—NOISETTES DE MOUTON Mutton noisettes, and especially those of lamb, may be classed among the choicest of entries. They are cut from either the fillet or the neck; but, in the latter case, only the first six or seven ribs are used. Noisettes are grilled or sauted, and all the recipes given for Tournedos (Nos. 1077 to 1139) and for cutlets, may be applied to them. 1322—MINION FILLETS The minion fillets of mutton or lamb consist of the two muscles which lie under the saddle. Their mode of preparation changes according to their size. Thus, if they are small, they are served whole, after having been trimmed, sometimes larded; and sauted. If they are large, they are divided into two or three parts, cut laterally and aslant; they are flattened, trimmed to the shape of ellipses, seasoned, dipped in melted butter, sprinkled with fine bread-crumbs, and finally, gently grilled. Minion fillets of beef, obtained from the narrow extremity or head of the fillet, are also used occasionally; and these are generally flattened, dipped in butter and fine bread-crumbs, and grilled. These fillets are served chiefly with vegetable purges or with macedoines of fresh vegetables. The sauces best suited to them are the B^arnaise and the Robert Escoffier. 1323—SHEEP’S TONGUES Salted or fresh sheep’s tongues make an excellent luncheon entree. They are cooked after the manner of ox and calf’s tongues, due allowance being made for the difference of size. The various garnishes given for ox and calf’s tongues may also be used in this case. 1324—SHEEP’S TROTTERS Sheep’s trotters, as they reach us from the purveyor, should first be well singed over spirits of wine, and then rubbed with a clean piece of linen. The little tuft of hair in the cleft of