GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 578 Finish with a layer of forcemeat; cover with a slice of bacon; sprinkle a pinch of powdered thyme and bay over the latter; close the pie with a layer of paste, which should be sealed down round the moistened edges; pinch the crest inside and out, and finish off the pie by means of imitation leaves made from paste. Gild; bake in a moderate oven, and, when the pie is almost cold, pour some jelly flavoured with hare fumet into it. 1835—TERRINE DE LIEVRE A “ Terrine ” or Patty is only a pie without a crust, and it allows of the same forcemeat and of the same garnish of bacon strips as the latter. The terrine should first be lined with slices of bacon, whereupon it is garnished like the pie with alternate layers of forcemeat, bacon strips, hares’ fillets, and truffles. Cover with a slice of bacon; sprinkle the centre of the latter with a little powdered thyme and bay, and a little spice. Put the lid on the terrine, place it in a saucepan containing a little water, and set it to cook in the oven. The time allowed for cooking is naturally subject to the size of the terrine. It is known to be quite cooked when the grease which rises to the surface is quite clear. As long as this grease is turbid, raw juices are still issuing from the forcemeat and the garnish inside. Another method of telling is by the -insertion of a needle. If the latter with- draws evenly heated throughout its length, the terrine is cooked. If the patty is to be served immediately, add some aspic to it when it is just tepid, and set it to cool under slight pressure. When quite cold, clear it of grease; trim its surface, and cut it up in the utensil. If it is to be served whole and presented, set it to cool under greater pressure; turn it out, and trim it all round. This done, cause a layer of jelly to set on the bottom of the terrine; return the trimmed patty to the latter, and surround it with melted aspic jelly. When about to serve, turn it out after the manner of an aspic; set it on a long dish, and border the latter with jelly croutons. If it have to be kept some time, proceed as above, but use lard instead of aspic, and keep it well covered and in the cool. 1826—YOUNG WILD RABBIT (LAPEREAUX) Use the w’ild rather than the tame young rabbit, and test its age after the manner described in regard to the hare, and