POULTRY 481 N.B.—This dish was served for the first time to Mme. Adelina Patti, the great singer. 1467—POULARDE DEVONSHIRE Bone the breast of a fine pullet; season it inside, and fill it with a chicken forcemeat, prepared with cream and mixed with half its weight of very fine sausage-meat. In the middle of the pullet set a nice salted and cooked calf’s tongue, trimmed and cleared of all cartilage; and place it so that its thin end lies in the region of the bird’s tail. Sew up the pullet’s belly with thin string, allowing the skin sufficient play not to tear under the pressure of the forcemeat, which swells while cooking. Truss, cover the pullet with a slice of larding bacon, poach, and drain it. When about to serve, make an incision around the breast with the point of a knife; detach the stuffing with the blade of a knife, passed horizontally on a level with the spine, and cut off, at a stroke, the piece consisting of the pullet’s breast, the stuffing, and the calf’s tongue. Dish the carcass with the legs and wings still attached, on a low cushion. Cut the breast, lengthwise, into two; and, if the fowl has been properly stuffed, the tongue should then be found neatly bisected. Slice each half, and return them to the carcass in suchwise as to reconstruct the bird and give it an untouched appearance. Coat lightly with Allemande sauce, combined with very red tongue, cut into dice; and surround with a border of timbales made from a pur6e of fresh peas (No. 2196), each set on an arti- choke bottom. Serve a sauceboat of the same sauce as that with which the pullet was coated. 1468—POULARDE A L’ECOSSAISE Stuff the pullet with pearl barley cooked in white consomm£, well drained, and combined, per lb., with an equal quantity of fine sausage-meat (to which has been added a chopped onion, cooked in butter), and two tablespoonfuls of cream. Poach the pullet in the usual way; dish it and coat it with Ecossaise sauce, i.e., an Allemande sauce, combined with a brunoise of vegetables : carrots, onions, leeks, and celery, and a large part of the reduced pullet’s poaching-liquor. Serve a garnish of French beans with cream, separately. 1469—POULARDE EDOUARD VII Stuff the pullet with rice, prepared after recipe No. 2256, and poach it without colouration. Dish it, and coat it with a