761 ENTREMETS Charlottes. 2629—CHARLOTTE A L’ARLEQUINE Line the bottom of a Charlotte mould with a round piece of paper, and garnish the sides with upright pieces of GJnoise, glazed white, pink and pale-green ; alternating the colours and pressing the uprights snugly one against the other. Meanwhile, take some strawberry, chocolate, pistachio and apricot Bavarois preparations, and let them set in flawn-rings, lying on pieces of oiled paper. Cut the Bavarois preparations into large dice, and mix them with an ordinary, and somewhat liquid, cream Bavarois preparation. Pour the whole into the mould, and leave to cool. When about to serve, turn out the Charlotte; remove the piece of paper and replace it by a thin Ghioise top, glazed with “ fondant ” and decorated with candied fruit. 2630—CHARLOTTE CARMEN Line the Charlotte with gaufrettes, and garnish it with the fol- lowing preparation :—eight oz. of stewed tomatoes; four oz. of stewed red-capsicums, a pinch of powdered ginger, three oz. of candied ginger cut into dice, the juice of three lemons, half a pint of hot syrup at 320 (saccharom.), and five dissolved gelatine leaves. Mix up the whole, and, when the preparation begins to thicken, add to it one and three-quarter pints of whisked cream. 2631—CHARLOTTE A LA CHANTILLY Prepare the Charlotte with gaufrettes, stuck directly upon a round base of cby paste, either with apricot jam cooked to the small-thread stage or with sugar cooked to the small-crack stage. As a help, a Charlotte mould may be used for this operation ; it may be laid on the dry-paste base and removed when thqgaufrettes are all stuck. Garnish with whisked, sugared and vanilla-flavoured cream built up in pyramid-form, and decorate its surface, by means of a spoon, with the same cream, slightly tinted with pink. 2632—BAQUET ET PANIER A LA CHANTILLY A “Baquet” (bucket) is made with lady’s-finger biscuits, well trimmed and stuck upon a base of dry paste with sugar cooked to the large-crack stage. In the middle, and on either side of the baquet, set a biscuit, somewhat higher than the rest, with a hole in its top end, cut by means of a small round cutter; and surround the baquet with small threads of chocolate-flavoured almond paste, in imitation of iron hoops.