547 POULTRY Cut the gosling into pieces and proceed exactly as for “ Civet de Li&vre ” (No. 1821). 1725—OISON AU RAIFORT Braise the gosling. Dish it and surround it, either with noodles with butter, or rice au gras (No. 2252). Besprinkle the garnish with the re- duced braising-liquor, and serve a horse-radish sauce with cream (No. 138), separately. N.B.—Besides these various recipes, goslings may also be prepared like young turkeys, i.e., with chestnuts, h la Chip- olata, en Daube; or with turnips, peas, and “ en Salmis,” like Duck. 1726—FOIE GRAS Foies gras are supplied either by geese or ducks. Goose’s liver is larger, firmer and less readily melted than that of the duck. As a rule the former should be selected in preference, more particularly in the matter of hot dishes. Nevertheless, failing goose’s liver, duck’s liver may be used and with very good results when its quality is good. Foies gras are used in the preparation of terrines, raised pies, parfaits and mousses, which are among the most delicate and richest of cold dishes. They may also be used as a garnishing ingredient, in the form of collops or mousseline quenelles. Finally, they may also be served as hot entries. When a whole foie gras is to be served hot, it must first be trimmed, studded with raw truffles which have been previously peeled, quartered, seasoned with salt and pepper, stiffened in a glassful of brandy, together with a bay-leaf, and cooled in a thoroughly closed terrine. When the foie gras has been studded with truffles, wrap it in thin slices of bacon or a piece of pig’s caul, and set it in a thoroughly-sealed terrine before cooking it. The best way to cook foie gras, when it is to be served whole and hot, is to bake it in a crust of paste that can absorb the excess of grease produced by the melting of the liver. For this purpose prepare two layers of patty paste, a little larger than the liver. On one of these layers, set the liver wrapped in slices of bacon; and, if possible, surround it with whole fair-sized truffles, peeled. Set half a bay-leaf on the liver; moisten the edges of the paste; cover the whole with the other layer of paste; seal it down with the thumb, and fold over the edges of the paste to form a regular, ornamented border which, besides N N 2