691 ENTREMETS the film taken from the end of the finger breaks “ clean ” in the teeth, like glass. This is the large-crack state, the last of the cooking stages, and as soon as it has been reached the utensil should be taken off the fire, lest a few seconds more turn the sugar to caramel. To prevent the granulating of the sugar, a few drops of lemon juice may be added to it; or, better still, a tablespoonful of glucose per lb. 2345—GLACE A L’ANCIENNE Put the required amount of icing sugar in a small saucepan, the quantity used being in proportion to the object to be glazed. If it be flavoured with vanilla, orange^ or lemon, dilute it with a little water, keeping it somewhat stiff; add some vanilla- flavoured sugar or grated orange-rind, and stir it up well for a few minutes. Then make it lukewarm, so that it may run easily and dry quickly, and pour it over the object to be treated. For the above-mentioned flavours, an infusion of vanilla or orange-rind may be prepared, and this may serve in diluting the glaze. The flavours may also be used in the form of essences, provided it be remembered that they are usually very strong thus, and must be used with caution. If liqueur glazes are in question, such as Kirsch, Rum, Anisette, or Marasquin, &c., the glaze is diluted with the liqueur and made lukewarm as directed above. 2346—GLACE AU FONDANT Preparation of the “ Fondant.”—Put some loaf sugar into a small saucepan, the quantity being in accordance with the amount of “ Fondant ” required. Moisten with just enough water to melt the sugar, and set to cook as directed under “ The Cooking of Sugar.” Stop the cooking precisely at 230° F. between the large- thread stage and the small-ball stage, and pour the sugar on a moderately-oiled marble slab. Let it half cool for a few minutes; then, with a spatula, move it about well in all direc- tions, taking care that no portion of the sugar on the marble is left untouched by the spatula, for any such portion would harden and form lumps in the Fondant. After ten to fifteen minutes’ work with the spatula, the sugar should have become a white, slightly granulated paste. Heap the latter together, and scrape the marble slab with the blade of a strong knife. Carefully knead this paste (No. 2357) with the palm of the hand until it is very thin and smooth, whereupon the Fondant is ready for use. Y Y 2