GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 490 to this garnish some shavings of white truffles, barely heated in butter, and set in a shell placed behind the fowl. 1509— POULARDE REGENCE Stuff the pullet with one lb. of mousseline forcemeat of chicken, combined with three oz. of crayfish pur£e, and poach it. Dish it; coat it with Allemande sauce, flavoured with truffle essence, and surround it with the following garnish, arranged in small heaps:—Spoon-moulded quenelles of mousseline, chicken forcemeat; white, curled, cocks’ combs; slices of raw foie gras, stamped out with a round cutter, and tossed in butter; small, grooved, cooked, and very white mushrooms; olive-shaped truffles, and one round quenelle decorated with truffles at either end of the dish. 1510— POULARDE DE LA REINE ANNE Poele the pullet. When it is ready, remove the supremes and the breast bones, and fill the carcass with a garnish of macaroni and cream, com- bined with foie gras and truffle dice. Cover the macaroni with Mornay sauce; glaze quickly, and dish the pullet on a low- cushion. Surround it with small tartlet crusts garnished with cocks’ combs and kidneys, cohered with Allemande sauce, and set a slice of the supremes on each tartlet. Put a silver shell con- taining a pyramid of truffles behind the fowl. Serve an Allemande sauce, flavoured with truffle essence, separately. 1511— POULARDE REINE MARGOT Stuff the pullet with two-thirds lb. of mousseline forcemeat of chicken, combined with two oz. of almond pur^e, and poach it. Dish it; coat it with supreme sauce, finished with a little almond milk, and surround it with quenelles prepared with pistachio butter and quenelles prepared with crayfish butter, arranged alternately. 1512— POULARDE REINE MARGUERITE Poach the pullet. Remove the supremes and the breast bone, without touching either the wings or the legs, and set the carcass, thus trimmed, on a low cushion of bread or rice. Finely slice the supremes; add as many slices of truffle as there are collops of supremes, and combine the whole with a souffle preparation with Par- mesan, which should not be too light.