GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 28o 9. Chambertin Mousse with fillets of trout decked like No. 8. N.B.—In the making of “Mousse au Volnay ” and “ au Chambertin ’’ the base of the preparations is supplied by cleared velouffi, to which is added the reduced cooking-liquor of the trout. All these recipes are equally suitable for sole or chicken- turbot. 815a—ONDINES AUX CREVETTES ROSES Prepare a very delicate trout mousse, mould it in egg-moulds, and garnish the centre with trimmed prawns’ tails. Let the mousse set; then speedily turn the undines out of their moulds, and lay them in a deep entree-dish. Between each of them lay a few prawns, the tails of which should be shelled. Cover the whole, little by little, with some excellent, half-melted jelly; here and there add a few sprigs of chervil, and then fill up the dish with jelly, so as to completely cover the mousses. 816— FRESH-WATER TROUT The best are those procured in mountainous districts, where the clear water they inhabit is constantly refreshed by strong currents. The two leading methods of preparing them are called, re- spectively, “ Au bleu ” and “ & la Meuni&re.” Having already described the latter, I shall now give my attention to “ Truite au bleu.” This preparation is held in very high esteem in Switzerland and Germany, where fresh-water trout are not only plentiful, but of excellent quality. 817— TRUITES AU BLEU The essential condition for this dish consists in having live trout. Prepare a court-bouillon with plenty of vinegar (No. 163), and keep it boiling in a rather shallow basin. About ten minutes before dishing them, take the trout out of water; stun them by a blow on the head; empty and clean them very quickly, and plunge them into the boiling liquid, where they will immediately shrivel, while their skin will break in all directions. A few minutes will suffice to cook trout the average weight of which is one-third lb. Drain them and dish them immediately upon a napkin, with curled-leaf parsley all round. Serve them with a Hollandaise sauce or melted butter.