GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 5H and well squeezed, and the same weight of fresh butter; and then an equal quantity of fresh cream, which should be added little by little. Season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Divide up this preparation into portions equal in size to the supremes, and shape them exactly like the latter; in short, reconstruct the supremes exactly with this mince-meat. Dredge; cook in clarified butter, and serve as soon as ready. There is no hard and fast rule for the garnishing of these supremes; the garnish is therefore optional. 1615— SUPREMES DE VOLAILLE REGENCE Cut the supremes into heart shapes; flatten them slightly, and poach them. Set each supreme on a quenelle of chicken forcemeat, prepared with crayfish butter, and dish in the form of a crown. Coat with Allemande sauce, flavoured with truffle essence, and, on each supreme, set an olive-shaped truffle and a cock’s kidney—the two separated by a cock’s comb. 1616— SUPREMES DE VOLAILLE RICHELIEU Treat the supremes a I’anglaise, and cook them in clarified butter. Dish them; coat them with half-melted butter h la Maitre d’hdtel, and set four fine slices of truffle on each supreme. 1617— SUPREMES DE VOLAILLE ROSSINI Sautd the supremes in butter, and dish them on collops of foie gras, arranged in the form of a crown and also tossed in butter. Coat with a stfong Madeira sauce, combined with slices of truffle. 1618— SUPREMES DE VOLAILLE TALLEYRAND Prepare :—(1) a croustade of lining paste, of a size in propor- tion to the garnish to be put inside it, just as the garnish should be in proportion to the number of supremes:—(2) a garnish of macaroni with cream, combined with three oz. of foie gras and three oz. of truffles in dice, per one-half lb. of macaroni. Cut the suprimes to the shape of hearts; stuff them with godiveau with cream (No. 198), mixed with half its bulk of a pur£e of foie gras, and poach them dry. Put the macaroni in the croustade, shaping it like a dome in so doing; coat the supremes with Allemande sauce, and set them in a crown on the timbale and round the dome of macaroni. Send a sauceboat of velout£ to the table separately.