38i RELEVES AND ENTREES Vanglaise. The last two vegetables should be set in alternate heaps with the cabbages and the bacon (cut into small rectangles) and the sausage (cut into roundels) should be distributed all round. Serve separately the gravy of the piece of beef, cleared of all grease, reduced to a half-glaze and strained. 1149— PIECE DE BCEUF A LA MODE CHAUDE Lard the piece of beef, which should not, if possible, weigh more than from four to five lbs. The strips of bacon used for larding ought to have been prepared fifteen or twenty minutes in advance, marinaded in a few tablespoonfuls of brandy, and sprinkled with parsley just before being used. Rub the piece with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and put it into a basin with one bottle of red wine and one-fifth pint of brandy, and set it to marinade for four or five hours, taking care to turn it over from time to time. Then set it to braise after the manner described under No. 247; add its marinade to the moistening, and surround it with three small, boned, blanched, and strung calf’s feet. When the cooking is three-quarters done, transfer the piece of beef to another saucepan, and surround it with the following garnish : — 1. About one-quarter lb. of carrots turned to the shape of elongated olives, and already two-thirds cooked. 2. Small onions coloured in two-thirds lb. of butter. 3. The calf’s feet cut into small, square, or rectangular pieces. Strain the braising-liquor over the whole, and complete the cooking gently. When about to serve, either glaze the piece of beef, or dish it plain; coat it lightly with sauce, and send what remains of the latter, with the garnish, in a timbale. 1150— PIECE DE BCEUF A LA MODE FROIDE Boeuf h la mode is very rarely prepared specially for cold dishing, the remains of a fine piece being generally used for that purpose. The piece of meat must first be well trimmed. If the quantity of sauce do not seem enough, or if the sauce itself seem too stiff, add a third of its volume of aspic jelly to it. For moulding, take a terrine a pate, a mould, or other utensil capable of holding the piece of meat, its garnish, and its sauce. Deck the bottom of the utensil in any suitable way with the carrots and the onions, and surround the piece with what remains of the latter and the dice of calf’s foot.