FISH 285 Drain as soon as poached, and surround with potato-balls the size of walnuts, cooked in salted water, and kept whole. Cover the sole with white-wine sauce, and lay a thread of shrimp sauce over the garnish. 833—SOLE AU GRATIN Partly separate the fillets from the bones on the upper side of the fish, and slip a lump of butter, the size of a walnut, under each. This done, place the sole on a well-buttered gratin dish, on the bottom of which a pinch of chopped shallots and parsley has been sprinkled, together with one or two tablespoonfuls of Gratin sauce. Lay four cooked mushrooms along the sole, and surround it with one oz. of raw mushrooms^ cut into rather thin slices. Add two tablespoonfuls of white wine; cover the sole with Gratin sauce; sprinkle with fine raspings followed by melted butter, and set the gratin to form in pursuance of the directions given under complete Gratin (No. 269). When taking the sole from the oven, sprinkle a few drops of lemon juice and a pinch of chopped parsley upon it, and serve at once. 834—SOLE AU CHAMBERTIN Season the sole and poach it on a buttered dish with one- third pint of Chambertin wine. As soon as it is poached, drain it, dish it, and keep it hot. Reduce the cooking-liquor to half, add thereto a little freshly- ground pepper and two or three drops of lemon-juice, thicken with a lump of manied butter the size of a walnut, and finish the sauce with one and one-half oz. of butter. Cover the sole with the sauce, set to glaze quickly, and gar- nish both sides of the dish with a little heap of julienne of filleted sole, seasoned, dredged, and tossed in clarified butter at the last moment so that it may be very crisp. 835—Remarks concerning “ SOLES AUX GRANDS VINS ” Taking recipe No. 834 as a model, and putting into requi- sition all the good wines of Burgundy and Bordeaux, the fol- lowing varieties are obtained, viz. :—Soles au Volnay, au Pommard, au Romanee, au Clos-Vougeot, or soles au Saint- Estfephe, au Chateau-Larose, au Saint-Emilion, &c., &c. 836—SOLE MONTGOLFIER Poach the sole in one-sixth pint of white wine and as much of the cooking-liquor of mushrooms. Drain, dish, and cover it