GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 454 piping-bag, fitted with an even pipe, cover the cutlets with some souffle au Parmesan (No. 2295A); dish them in a circle, and put them in the oven for five minutes, that the souffle may poach. After withdrawing them from the oven, garnish the centre of the dish with a heap of asparagus-heads, cohered with butter. 1377— COTELETTHS D’AGNEAU DE LAIT FARCIES A LA PERIGUEUX Cook the cutlets in butter on one side only, and cool them under slight pressure. Garnish the cooked side of each with a tablespoonful of forcemeat with butter (No. 193), which should have received a copious addition of chopped truffles. Shape this forcemeat dome-fashion, by means of the flat of a small knife, dipped in tepid water, and set the cutlets, one by one, on a tray. Now put them in the front of the oven for seven or eight minutes that the forcemeat may be poached. Dish them in a circle, and pour a P^rigueux sauce in their midst. 1378— EPIGRAMMES D’AGNEAU A lamb “ epigram ” consists of a cutlet, and a piece of braised breast, cooled under slight pressure and cut to the shape of a heart of the same size as the cutlets. The cutlets and the pieces of breast must be treated a Vanglaise, and sauted or grilled according to circumstance. Epigrams should be dished in a circle, the cutlets and the pieces being alternated. They are usually garnished with braised chicory, or mace- doines of early-season vegetables. 1379— RIS D’AGNEAU Lamb sweetbreads are, according to circumstances, either used as the principal constituent of various preparations, or they answer the purpose of a garnish. Due allowance having been made for their particular size, they may be treated after the same manner as veal sweetbreads; that is to say, once they have been cleared of blood, they are blanched and braised according to the nature of the selected mode of preparation. If they are to form part of a large garnish, cohered by means of a brown sauce, they are braised brown and glazed. If they stand as an adjunct to poached fowl, they may be either studded or left plain, and braised white. Apart from their two uses as principal and garnishing con-