POULTRY 529 1671—MOUSSELINES DE VOLAILLE ALEXANDRA Mould and poach the Mousselines. Drain them, and set them in a circle on a round dish; place on each a fine slice of cooked fowl, and upon the latter a slice of truffle. Coat with Mornay sauce, glaze quickly, and, in the middle of the mous- selines, set a heap of asparagus-heads or small peas, cohered with butter. 1672—MOUSSELINES DE VOLAILLE A L’INDIENNE Prepare the mousselines as above; set them in a circle on a round dish; coat with Indienne sauce, and serve a timbale of rice & l’lndienne separately. 1673— MOUSSELINES DE VOLAILLE AU PAPRIKA When the mousselines are poached and dished, set upon each a fine collop of supreme, and coat with supreme sauce with paprika. Surround them with small timbales of pilaff rice com- bined with concassed tomatoes cooked in butter. 1674— MOUSSELINES DE VOLAILLE A LA PATTI Proceed as for “ Mousselines Alexandra,” but coat them with supreme sauce, finished with crayfish butter. In their midst set a heap of asparagus-heads, cohered with butter, and upon these lay some fine slices of glazed truffles. 1675—MOUSSELINES DE VOLAILLE A LA SICILIENNE Prepare the mousselines as above, and set them, each on an oval tartlet, garnished with macaroni & la Napolitaine. Coat them with supreme sauce; besprinkle with grated Parmesan, and glaze quickly. 1676—SYLPHIDES DE VOLAILLE Prepare and poach the mousselines in the usual way. Garnish the bottom of some barquettes with Mornay sauce, and put a mousseline into each barquette. Set a collop of fowl on each mousseline, and cover them with a somewhat stiff preparation of souff!6 au Parmesan (No. 2295a), applied ornamentally by means of a piping-bag fitted with an even pipe. Put the sylphides in the oven, in order to cook the souffle, and serve instantly. 1677—MOUSSELINES DE VOLAILLE A LA FLORENTINE Proceed as for the sylphides; taking note only of this differ- ence, viz., that the bottom of the barquettes must be garnished with shredded spinach stewed in butter. For the other details of the operation the procedure is the same. M M