233 SOUPS Set to cook gently, rub through tammy, and finish with the necessary quantity of consomm£. When about to serve complete the pur6e by adding thereto, away from the fire, two oz. of butter. Garnish with two tablesponfuls of poached rice, each grain being separate, and the same quantity of peeled tomatoes cut into dice and briskly tossed in butter. This soup may also be prepared as a velout£ or a cream. 660—PUREE DE TOMATES AU TAPIOCA, otherwise WALDEiZE Prepare one and one-half pints of tapioca in white con- somme, and keep it a little lighter than ordinary tapioca. Also press, peel, and cut into dice the pulp of three medium-sized, very red tomatoes; poach these dice in some consomme and mix them with the tapioca. Or, failing fresh tomatoes, add to the tapioca two table- spoonfuls of concentrated tomato puree diluted in a bowd with some white consomme. Send two oz. of grated cheese to the table separately. 661—PUREE DE TOPINAMBOUR, otherwise PALESTINE Finely mince two lbs. of Jerusalem artichokes and stew them in one oz. of butter. Add five torrefied and crushed filberts, moistened with one pint of white consomm6, and set to cook gently. Rub through tammy; finish the pur£e with one-quarter pint of milk, in which one tablespoonful of fecula has been diluted, cold. Set to boil and add butter when dishing up. Garnish with small bread dice fried in butter. This soup may also be prepared as a velout£ or a cream. 662—BISQUE D’ECREVISSES (1) Cut into very small dice one oz. of carrot, one oz. of onion, and two parsley stalks. Add a fragment of thyme and bay; brown this mirepoix with butter, in a saut^pan; throw in fifteen crayfish for “ Bisque ” (their average weight being about one and one-third oz.), and toss them in the mirepoix until they acquire a very red colour. Sprinkle with two tablespoonfuls of burnt brandy and one-quarter pint of white wine, season with a large pinch of saft and a pinch of ground pepper, and set to reduce. This done, moisten with one-quarter pint of white consomm^ and leave to cook for ten minutes.