RELEVES AND ENTREES 397 Coat the surface of the joint with the same sauce, and set to glaze quickly. Serve the braising-liquor, cleared of all grease and strained, separately; as also a timbale of rizotto & la Pi^montaise (No. 2258). 1187—SELLE DE VEAU PRINCE ORLOFF Braise the saddle and proceed as above, placing between the collops of fillet a little Soubise sauce and a fine slice of truffle. Coat the surface of the joint with Mornay sauce, combined with one quart of highly-seasoned Soubise, and set to glaze quickly. N.B.—This saddle may be accompanied either by a garnish of asparagus-heads or by cucumbers with cream. 1188—SELLE DE VEAU A LA ROMANOFF Braise the saddle; remove the fillets, and cut the latter into collops as for “ Selle h la Metternich.” Reconstruct the fillets, placing a small quantity of minced mushrooms, cohered by means of a few tablespoonfuls of cream, between the collops, and coat the surface of the joint with highly-seasoned Bechamel sauce, finished with four oz. of crayfish butter per quart. Surround the piece with a border of braised half-fennels. Serve the braising-liquor, cleared of all grease, reduced and strained, separately. 1189—SELLE DE VEAU A LA TOSCA Braise the saddle, and then prepare it as for No. 1183. Almost completely fill the cavities left by the fillets with a garnish of macaroni, cut into short lengths, cohered with cream, and combined with a julienne of truffles. Reconstruct the fillets upon this garnish and coat the collops with Mornay sauce, placing a slice of truffle between the collops. The reconstructed fillets thus appear raised on either side of the chine. Coat the surface of the joint with the same sauce as that already used, and set to glaze quickly. Send the braising- liquor, cleared of all grease and strained, to the table separately. 1190—SELLE DE VEAU A LA RENAISSANCE Braise the saddle, and glaze it at the last moment. Dish it and surround it with a large heap of cauliflower at either end; on either side, nice heaps of carrots and turnips, raised by means of an oval, grooved spoon-cutter, cooked in consomm^ and glazed; peas; French beans in lozenge-form; asparagus-