ENTREMETS 693 moderately warm drying-box, and keep it in the dry in well- closed boxes. 2349— VANILLA SUGAR The vanilla sticks which have served in preparing infusions still possess some flavour. Reserve them, therefore, for the making of vanilla sugar. After having gently dried them in the drying-box, finely pound them with twice their weight of loaf sugar; sift through a silken sieve, and again pound the bits remaining on the silk of the sieve until every particle goes through. Keep the pre- paration in a well-closed box in the dry. 2350— CANDIED FRUIT These are used in the decoration of certain cakes, and as the constituent ingredients of others. They comprise angelica, golden and green chinois, cherries, plums, red and white pears, &c. Candied fruit may be bought ready-prepared. 235*— APPLE JELLY FOR DECORATING Quarter, peel, and core the apples (preferably russets), and throw them, one by one, in a bowl of fresh water to prevent their getting brown. Then put them in a copper basin with one and one-half pints of water per two lbs. of apples, and cook them gently without touching them. This done, pour away their juice, and return it to the basin together with two lbs. of sugar per quart. Boil; skim with great care, that the jelly may be clear, and cook over a fierce fire until the jelly has reached a stage which may be ascertained thus:—(1) When on taking the skimmer out of the basin, the jelly adhering to it seems to mass itself towards the middle of the skimmer; or:—(2) When the jelly breaks up into large drops, separated one from the other. Then take the jelly off the fire; add some carmine to it, drop by drop, until it acquires a rosy hue; strain it again through a fine piece of linen, that it may be perfectly limpid, and finally pour it into tin receptacles to cool. Put aside until wanted. 2352—PRALIW (1) If it be for the purpose of covering certain cakes, or for forming a glaze on a fruit entremet, prepare it thus:—Put the whites of two eggs and three tablespoonfuls of icing sugar in a small basin. Mix and stir briskly with a small, wooden spoon, until the paste becomes somewhat thick. Then, subject to the