279 FISH 814—PREPARATION DE LA MOUSSE DE TOMATES This mousse, like those which I shall give later, is really a bavarois without sugar. Its recipe is exactly the same as that of the “ bavarois of fruit,” except with regard to the question of sugar. Cook one-half lb. of tomato pulp (cleared of skin and seeds, and roughly chopped) in one oz. of butter. When the pulp has thoroughly mingled with the butter, add thereto two table- spoonfuls of velout6 thickened by means of eight leaves of gelatine per quart of the sauce. Rub through tammy, and add to the preparation, when almost cold, half of its volume of barely-whipped cream. Taste the mousse; season with a few drops of lemon juice, and if it still seems flat, add the necessary salt and a very little cayenne. N.B.—It will be seen that I prescribe cream only half- whipped. This precaution, however, does not apply to “ Mousse de Tomates ” alone, but to all mousses. Well- whipped cream imparts a dry and woolly taste to them, whereas, when it is only half-whipped, it renders them unctuous and fresh to the palate. From the point of view of delicacy, the respective results of the two methods do not bear comparison. 815—OTHER PREPARATIONS OF TROUT after the same recipe By proceeding exactly as directed in the foregoing recipe, and by substituting one of the following mousses for the “ Mousse de Tomates,” it will be found that considerable variety may be introduced into menus : — 1. Crayfish Mousse with fillets of trout, decked with crayfish tails and tarragon leaves. 2. Lobster Mousse with fillets of trout, decked with slices of lobster, coral, and chervil. 3. Shrimp Mousse with fillets of trout, decked with crayfish tails and capers. 4. Capsicum Mousse with fillets of trout, decked with strips of grilled capsicum. 5. Physalia Mousse with fillets of trout, decked with chervil, tarragon, and bunches of physalia around the fillets. 6. Green Pimentos Mousse with fillets of trout, decked with strips of green pimentos. 7. Early-season Herb Mousse with fillets of trout, decked with chopped, hard-boiled eggs, and chopped parsley. 8. Volnay Mousse with fillets of trout, decked with anchovv fillets, capers, and olives.