SOUPS 2*3 pose the point of a needle, and, when the nests are quite clean, drain them and put them into the consomm6. At this stage set the consomm£ to boil, gently, for thirty or thirty-five minutes without interruption. During this time the gummy portions of the nests will melt into the consomm£, giving the latter its characteristic viscidity, and there will only remain visible those portions which, in the natural state, constitute the framework of the nests; that is to say, little threads not unlike superfine transparent vermicelli. 592—CONSOMME AUX (EUFS DE FAUVETTE I introduced this consomm6 in honour of the illustrious singer, Adelina Patti. It consists of a chicken consomm^, which should be made as perfect as possible, and a garnish composed of the poached eggs of small birds. 593—CONSOMME OLGA Prepare one quart of excellent ordinary consomm^, and add thereto, when about to serve and away from the fire, one-quarter pint of port wine. Also cut into a fine julienne the quarter of a small celeriac, the white of a leek, and the red part only of a small carrot. Stew this julienne in butter and complete its cooking in con- somme, reducing the latter to a glaze. When about to serve put this julienne in a soup tureen, add a few tablespoonfuls of a julienne of salted gherkins, and pour thereon the consommd with port. 594—CONSOMME D’ORLEiANS Lay on a buttered tray ten small quenelles of ordinary chicken forcemeat, ten others of chicken forcemeat combined with a very red tomato pur£e, and ten more of the same force- meat, combined with a pur£e of spinach, all the quenelles being grooved. Ten minutes before serving poach these quenelles, drain them, put them in the soup-tureen, and pour therein one quart of chicken consomm4 thickened with three tablespoonfuls of poached tapioca strained through linen. Add a pinch of chervil pluches. 595—CONSOMME D’ORSAV Prepare one quart of very clear chicken consomm£, also make fifteen small quenelles of pigeon forcemeat moulded to the shape of eggs by means of a very small spoon, and poach the yolks of ten eggs, taking care to keep them very soft.