6l2 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY In Germany, the pan in which the Rable is roasted is swilled with sour cream, and this cream constitutes the accom- paniment. Sometimes a few drops of lemon juice or a table- spoon of melted meat glaze is added. 1968— YOUNG RABBIT The various recipes for Hare also apply to the young wild rabbit. Feathered-Game Roasts 1969— FAISAN R6TI Everything I said in the preceding chapter concerning the classification of feathered game applies in this instance. All birds intended for roasting should be young, plump, and fat. They should also be high in the case of pheasants, partridges, and the various kinds of woodcock and snipe. A pheasant for roasting should always be covered with slices of bacon. An excellent practice which greatly improves the bird is that of stuffing it with a piece of fresh pork fat, pounded with peelings of fresh truffles, if possible. Instead of well-pounded fresh pork fat, an equal weight of fresh butter may be used. This fatty substance impregnates the meat when it melts, and keeps the bird from becoming dry while cooking. The method also applies to partridge. Roast pheasant is generally accom- panied by two trimmed half-lemons and a dish of potato chips. The gravy, which should be fat, is served in a sauceboat, and bread sauce or some bread-crumbs fried in butter are sent at the same time. 1970— FAISAN R6TI A LA PERIGOURDINE Stuff the pheasant with two oz. of pounded fresh pork fat, two oz. of foie-gras trimmings, and a similar quantity of raw- truffle parings, the whole pounded together and combined with one-half lb. of raw truffles, cut into large dice. After having covered the pheasant with slices of bacon, roast it in accordance with the directions given under Truffled Pullet. It is better, however, to cook and serve it in a cocotte. 1971— FAISAN A LA GUNZBOURG Bone two fine snipes; empty them of their intestines; fry these in butter, and crush them on a plate. Chop up the meat of the snipes, combining half its weight of cream with it, and as much butter; season with salt and pepper, and add the crushed intestines and four oz. of truffles cut into large dice.