VEGETABLES AND FARINACEOUS PRODUCTS 657 lettuce whole, and to mix it with the peas afterwards, if it be so desired. The lettuce may also be quartered and laid on the peas without being mixed with them. 2194—PETITS POIS A LA MENTHE Cook the peas in salted water, together with a bunch of fresh mint. Then prepare them in the English way or “ au Beurre,” and lay a few parboiled mint leaves upon them when serving. 219s—PUR^E DE POIS FRAIS, dite SAINT-GERMAIN Cook the peas with just enough boiling water to cover them, and season it with one-half oz. of salt, and one-sixth oz. of sugar per quart. Add a lettuce and a few parsley leaves (tied to- gether). When the peas are cooked, drain them; and reduce their cooking-liquor while they are being rubbed through a sieve. Work the pur^e with four oz. of fresh butter per quart, and finally add to it the cooking-liquor, reduced almost to a glaze. 2196— MOULDED PEASE PUR^E FOR GARNISH Prepare the pur^e as above; but keep it a little creamier. Mix with it, per quart, two whole eggs and the yolks of three, beaten and strained through muslin. With this preparation, fill some dariole- or baba-moulds, according to the piece for which the timbales are intended, and poach them in a bain-marie for from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Remember to let them stand for five minutes before un- moulding them. N.B.—Timbales of haricot-beans, flageolets, or lentil pur£e, are prepared similarly. 2197— CAPSICUM OR PIMENTOS (Poivrons doux) The capsicums used in cookery are of various kinds : the Chilian and Cayenne kinds (Chili and Cayenne peppers) which have a strong, burning taste, are only used as condiments. The large or mild capsicums, green, red, or yellow, are used more particularly as garnishes. Although the difference in their colouration is accompanied by a difference of quality,' they are not easily distinguished in this respect; and, although the large, red Spanish capsicums are the best, the other varieties may be treated in the same way as the former. Whatever be the kind of capsicums used, either grill or scald them in order to skin them, and clear them of their seeds. According to the purpose they are intended for, they are either cut up or left whole. U U