ENTREMETS 733 Pour this preparation into an even, deep, buttered and dredged border-mould ; and poach in the bain-marie. Serve a sabayon with rum at the same time. Bread Puddings. 2489—ENGLISH BREAD PUDDING Butter some thin slices of crumb of bread and distribute over them some currants and sultanas, swelled in tepid water and well drained. Set these slices in a pie-dish; cover with preparation No. 2638, and poach in front of the oven. 2490— FRENCH BREAD PUDDING Soak two-thirds of a lb. of white bread-crumb in one and three- quarter pints of boiled milk, flavoured with vanilla and containing eight oz. of sugar. Rub through a sieve and add : four whole eggs, six egg-yolks, and four egg-whites, beaten to a stiff froth. Pour this preparation into a deep, buttered border-mould, dusted with bread-crumbs ; and poach in bain-marie. As an accompaniment, serve either an English custard, a vanilla- flavoured sabayon, or a fruit sauce. 2491— GERMAN BREAD PUDDING Soak two-thirds of a lb. of brown bread-crumb in one and three quarter pints of Rhine wine, Moselle or beer, containing half a lb. of moist sugar and a little cinnamon. Rub through a sieve and add four eggs, six egg-yolks, five oz. of melted butter, and the whites of four eggs beaten to a froth. Poach in a bain-marie as in the preceding case. The adjunct to this pudding is invariably a fruit syrup. 2492—SCOTCH BREAD PUDDING Proceed exactly as for No. 2490, but add five oz. of sliced seasonable fruit. Mould and poach in the same way, and serve a red-currant sauce flavoured with raspberries, as an accom- paniment. Paste Puddings. 2493—TAPIOCA Sprinkle eight oz. of tapioca into one and three-quarter pints ot boiling milk, containing four oz. of sugar, a pinch of salt and three oz. of butter. Cook in the oven for twenty minutes ; transfer the preparation to another saucepan, and add to it six egg-yolks, two and a half oz. of butter, and the whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the whole into a well-buttered cylinder-mould, sprinkled with tapioca, and poach in the bain-marie until the preparation