208 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 574— CONSOMME A L’INDIENNE Have ready one quart of ordinary consomm^ seasoned with curry. Also prepare three baba-moulds of royale made from cocoanut milk, and, when quite cold, cut into small dice. Put this royale into the soup-tureen; pour on it the boil- ing consomm£ with curry, and send to the table, separately, four tablespoonfuls of Rice k l’lndienne (No. 2254). 575— CONSOMME A L’INFANTE With some pate a choux (No. 2374) prepare eighteen fro- fiterolles of the size of hazel-nuts. Cook them, taking care to keep them very crisp, and stuff them when cold with pur£e de foie gras moistened with velout£. Put two tablespoonfuls of a fine julienne of mild capsicum into the soup-tureen, and pour thereon one quart of boiling chicken consomm£, moderately thickened with poached tapioca strained through linen. Serve the profiterolles of foie gras separately, after having heated them in the front of the oven. N.B.—The garnish of Consomm£ k l’lnfante may consist only of the profiterolles, and the julienne of capsicum may be suppressed; this is a matter of taste. 576— CONSOMME JACQUELINE With a small spoon-cutter, pick from out some carrots twenty-four little oval pellets, which should be cooked in the consomm£. Prepare two baba-moulds of royale with cream. Put into the soup-tureen the pellets of carrots and the royale cut to the shape of pastils, one tablespoonful of peas, the same quantity of very green asparagus-heads, and one tablespoonful of rice. When about to serve, pour one quart of boiling chicken consomm6 over this garnish. 576a—CONSOMME JULIENNE Cut into fillets, two inches in length, the red part only of two medium-sized carrots, one medium-sized turnip, one leek, half a stick of celery, some cabbage leaves, and half an onion. Season these vegetables with a pinch of salt and as much castor sugar; stew them in one oz. of butter; moisten with one and one-half pints of white consomm6, and then add two oz. of small parboiled cabbages, cut after the manner of the other vegetables. Finish the cooking gently, removing the grease the while,