VEGETABLES AND FARINACEOUS PRODUCTS 673 ling some grated cheese between each layer; sprinkle some grated cheese over the top surface; bedew liberally with melted butter, and set the gratin to form in a hot oven. 2283—NOQUES AU PARMESAN Put into a previously-heated basin one-half lb. of vianied butter, and work the latter with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; adding to it, little by little, two eggs and two well-beaten egg- yolks, five oz. of flour, and the white of an egg, also beaten to a stiff froth. Divide up the preparation into portions the size of hazel- nuts; drop these portions into a saut^pan of boiling, salted water, and let them poach. Drain the noques on a piece of linen; dish them in a tim- bale; sprinkle them copiously with grated cheese and with nut-brown butter. 2284—MACARONI Under this head are included all tubular pastes from Spag- hetti, the size of which is not larger than thick vermicelli, to canneloni, the bore of which is one-half in. in diameter. All these pastes are cooked in boiling water, salted to the extent of one-third oz. per quart. Macaroni, like other pastes of a similar nature, should not be cooled. The most one can do, if the cooking has to be stopped at a given moment, is to pour a little cold water into the saucepan and then to take it off the fire. 2285—MACARONI A L’lTALIENNE Cook the macaroni in boiling water; completely drain it; put it into a saut^pan, and toss it over the fire to dry. Season it with salt, pepper and nutmeg; cohere it with five oz. of grated Gruyere and Parmesan, in equal quantities, and two oz. of butter, cut into small pieces, per lb. of macaroni. Saute the whole well to ensure the leason, and dish in a timbale. 2286—MACARONI AU GRATIN Prepare the macaroni after No. 2285, adding to it a little Bechamel sauce; and set it on a buttered gratin-dish, be- sprinkled with grated cheese. Sprinkle the surface of the pre- paration with grated cheese and raspings, mixed, and with melted butter, and set the gratin to form in a fierce oven. 2287—MACARONI AU JUS Parboil the macaroni in salted water, keeping it somewhat firm; drain it, cut it into short lengths, and simmer it in beef x x