GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 55° 1731— SOUFFLE DE FOIE GRAS Rub two-thirds lb. of foie gras and three and one-half oz. of raw truffles through a fine sieve. Mix the two purges in a basin, and add two-thirds lb. of raw chicken-meat, pounded with the whites of four eggs, and rubbed through a fine sieve. Season; work the preparation on ice, and add to it, little by little, one-half pint of rich, thick, and very fresh cream, then the well-stiffened whites of four eggs. Dish in a buttered souffle saucepan, and poach under cover in the bain-uiarie for from thirty to thirty-five minutes. Serve a Madeira sauce, flavoured with truffle essence, separately. 1732— TIMBALE DE FOIE GRAS A L’ALSACIENNE Prepare an ordinary timbale crust. When about to serve, fill it with layers of noodles with cream, separated by alternate layers of foie-gras collops, sauted in butter, and slices of truffles. Complete with some raw noodles, tossed in butter and dis- tributed over the last layer of cohered noodles. Cover the timbale, and serve a supreme sauce, flavoured with truffle essence, separately. 1733— TIMBALE DE FOIE GRAS CAMBACERFS Line a buttered dome-mould with rings of large poached macaroni. These rings should be one-fifth inch thick, and should be garnished inside with very black truffle purde, cohered by means of a little forcemeat. When the mould is lined, coat it inside with a layer of chicken forcemeat combined with truffle purde. Put the mould for a few minutes in a moderate oven, that the forcemeat may poach. Reduce one-third pint of Bechamel sauce, combined with four to five tablespoonfuls of truffle and chicken essence, to half; mix therewith one-half lb. of poached macaroni, cut into lengths of one inch, and four tablespoonfuls of foie-gras and truffle pur£e, made from trimmings. Mix the whole thoroughly. Garnish the timbale with this macaroni, spreading it in layers, separated by other alternate layers of foie-gras collops, poached in Madeira, and slices of truffle. Cover the garnish with a layer of forcemeat, and poach in the bain-marie, allow- ing forty-five minutes for a quart-mould. Let the mould stand for a few minutes before emptying it; turn ou» the timbale upon a round dish; surround it with a