258 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 747— MILLE-FANTI First make the following preparation :—Beat two small eggs to a stiff froth, and mix therewith one and one-half oz. of the crumb of very good white bread, one oz. of grated Parmesan, and a little nutmeg. Boil one and two-thirds pints of white consomm^, and pour the above preparation therein, little by little, stirring briskly the while with the whisk. Then move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put the lid on, and set to cook gently for seven or eight minutes. When about to serve, stir the soup with a whisk, and pour it into the soup-tureen. 748— MULLIGATAWNY SOUP Cut a small fowl, or half a medium-sized one, into little pieces, and put these in a stewpan with a few roundels of carrot and onion, a small bunch of parsley and celery, one-half oz. of mushroom parings and one quart of white consomm^. Set to boil, and then let cook gently. Also lightly brown in butter half a medium-sized onion, chopped; besprinkle it with one dessertspoonful of fecula and one coffeespoonful of curry; moisten with the cooking-liquor of the fowl, strained through a sieve; boil, and set to cook gently for seven or eight minutes. Now rub the whole through tammy, and leave it to despumate for twenty minutes, adding one tablespoonful of consomm6, from time to time, with the view of promoting the despumation, i.e., the purification of the soup. When about to serve, finish the preparation with three or four tablespoonfuls of cream. Pour the whole into the soup- tureen ; add a portion of the meat of the fowl, cut into thin slices, and serve separately two oz. of rice k l’lndienne. 749— SOUPE AUX GOMBOS OU OKRA This soup is held in high esteem by Americans. It is served either with garnish, as I direct below, or as a consomm£, hot or cold, or in cups, after it has been strained. Fry one medium-sized chopped onion in two oz. of butter, without letting it acquire any colour. Add one-quarter lb. of fresh lean bacon, or raw ham cut into medium-sized dice; fry for a few minutes, and add about one lb. of boned chicken- meat cut into large dice (the white parts of the chicken are used in preference); let these ingredients stiffen well; take care to stir fairly often, and moisten with two quarts of white chicken consomm£. Boil, and set to cook gently for twenty or twenty- five minutes with lid on.