GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 222 Finally, strain the soup through a napkin; add the pieces of flesh from the carapace and plastron which were put aside for the garnish, and keep it until wanted in specially-made sandstone jars. The Serving of the Soup.—When about to serve this soup, heat it; test and rectify its seasoning, and finish it off by means of a port wine glass of very old Madeira to every quart. Very often a milk punch is served wjth turtle soup, the recipe being: — Milk Punch.—Prepare a syrup from one-half pint of water and three and one-half oz. of sugar, the consistence at the boil being 170 (Baum6’s Hydrometer). Set to infuse in this syrup two orange and two lemon zests. Strain at the end of ten minutes, and add one-half pint of rum, one-fifth pint of kirsch, two-thirds pint of milk, and the juice of three oranges and three lemons. Mix thoroughly. Let it stand for three hours; filter, and serve cold. 615— CONSOMME TOSCA Have ready one quart of chicken consomm6 thickened with three tablespoonfuls of poached tapioca strained through linen. Also prepare two tablespoonfuls of a julienne of carrots stewed in butter, the cooking of which is completed in the con- somm6; ten small quenelles of chicken forcemeat, combined, in the proportion of one-third, with foie gras and chopped truffles; ten small, very crisp profiterolles, stuffed with a pur£e of chicken with pistachio kernels. Put the quenelles and the julienne into the soup-tureen, pour therein the boiling consomm6, and send the profiterolles to the table separately, and very hot. 616- CONSOMME VERT PRE Sprinkle two tablespoonfuls of tapioca into one quart of boiling corisomm£, and set to cook gently for a quarter of an hour. Put into the soup-tureen one tablespoonful of asparagus- heads, the same quantity of peas and of French beans cut into lozenges, a few roundels of sorrel leaves, and as many roundels of poached lettuce leaves. Pour the boiling consomm^, with tapioca, over this garnish, and add a large pinch of chervil pluches.