VEGETABLES AND FARINACEOUS PRODUCTS 663 Plunge these crescents into very hot fat about six minutes before serving. 2227—POMMES DE TERRE A LA LYONNA1SE Cut some peeled and plain-boiled potatoes into roundels, and toss these in butter in a frying-pan. Likewise toss some sliced onions in butter, the quantity of the former measuring one- fourth of that of the potatoes. When the onions are of a nice golden colour, add them to the sauted potatoes; season with salt and pepper; saute the two products together for a few minutes, that they may mix thoroughly, and dish them in a timbale with chopped parsley. 2228—POMMES DE TERRE MACAIRE Bake some Dutch potatoes in the oven. As soon as they are done, empty them and collect their pulp on a dish; season it with salt and pepper, and work it with a fork; adding to it, the while, one and one-half oz. of butter per lb. Spread this preparation in the form of a galctte on the bottom of an omelet-pan containing some very hot, clarified butter, and brown it well on both sides. 2229—POMMES DE TERRE MAIRE Prepare these exactly like “ Pommes k la Cr£me.” 2230—POMMES DE TERRE A LA MA1TRE-D’H6TEL Cook some medium-sized Dutch potatoes in salted water; peel them ; cut them into roundels while they are still quite hot, and cover them with boiling milk. Season them with salt and white pepper; completely reduce the milk, and dish them in a timbale with chopped parsley. 2231—POMMES DE TERRE MARQUISE Mix some very reduced and very red tomato pur£e with the preparation for “ Pommes Duchesse,” in the proportion of three tablespoonfuls of the former per lb. of the latter. Set this preparation on buttered trays (by means of a piping- bag fitted with a large, grooved pipe) in shapes resembling half-eggs. Gild them slightly with beaten eggs, and set them in a some- what hot oven seven or eight minutes before serving. 2232—POMMES DE TERRE A LA MENTHE Cook some fair-sized new potatoes in the English w^ay, and add a bunch of mint to them. Dish them in a timbale, and set a mint-leaf (from the bunch) upon each potato.