FISH 339 Cook them in clarified butter; set them on a long hot dish, and besprinkle them with half-melted butter k la Maitre-d’H6tel (No. 150). 1004—EPERLANS AU GRATIN Proceed as for “ Merlans au Gratin ” (No. 1018), but allow- ing for the difference between the sizes of the two fish, put the smelts in a fiercer oven than the whiting, in order that they may be cooked simultaneously with the formation of the gratin. 1005—EPERLANS GRILLES Open them down the back, and remove the bulk of their spine, leaving a small piece only in the region of the tail, and another small piece at the head. Season, dredge, and sprinkle them with melted butter, and grill them quickly. Set them on a long, hot dish; surround them with slices of lemon and bunches of fried parsley, and serve separately either some half-melted butter k la Maitre-d’Hotel, or a sauce suited to grilled fish. 1006—MOUSSELINES D’EPERLANS Proceed exactly as for Mousselines de Saumon (No. 797). To prepare the forcemeat, follow the directions under No. 195; but note the following changes :—Of the whole quantity of the meat of fish, that of the smelt should only measure one-third; the other two-thirds should be supplied by the sole, dory, or whiting. The object of this disproportion has already been explained under “ Velout£ d’Eperlans ” (No. 680). The flesh of the smelt is of a much too decided flavour to be used alone, and when this flavour dominates, it becomes positively disagreeable; hence the need of a fish whose flesh is almost neutral in so far as taste is concerned. But this addition of a fish foreign to the base of the preparation fulfils a double purpose; for, while it effectually weakens the pungency of the smelt’s flesh, it also enables the whole preparation to absorb a much larger quantity of cream, and this last circumstance can only allow of the mousselines being lighter and mellower. 1007—MOUSSE CHAUDE D’EPERLANS A LA ROYALE Take a Charlotte-mould, of a size in proportion to the number of people to be served, and butter its bottom and sides. Cover the bottom of the mould with a round piece of buttered kitchen paper, and do the same on the sides. Prepare the required quantity of smelts’ fillets; slightly flatten them in order to break their fibreSi and trim them all to the same length and width.