692 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY It need now only be heaped in a receptacle, covered with a damp cloth, and kept somewhat dry. To Glaze with “ Fondant—Put the required amount of it into a saucepan; work it over a slow fire for a while, in order to soften it, and moisten it, little by little, with water when a dry flavour or an essence is used, or, otherwise, with the selected liqueur Warm slightly in order to make the glaze very liquid and to ensure its speedy drying, and pour it, at one tilt, over the object to be glazed. With the help of some colour, the glaze is generally given the tint of the fruit which flavours it. 2346a—SUCRE EN GLACE (Icing Sugar) This is sugar strained through a silken drum-sieve. The sugar strained through this silk has the delicacy of starch. At times it is used instead of Fondant for the glazing of cakes, but it is mostly used for white and caramel glazings. For this purpose the sugar is held in a tin box, covered with a lid pierced with small holes, called a sugar dredger. To glaze white is to cover a cake, a fritter, or other object with a coat of icing sugar. This operation is effected by shak- ing the sugar dredger over the object to be glazed. To glaze with caramel is to cover a Souffle, a souffled omelet, fruit fritters, a custard, Pannequets, or other objects with a coat of icing sugar. By placing the sugar-coated object in fierce heat, a few minutes suffice to melt the sugar, which is con- verted into a brilliant covering of caramel. 2347— SUGAR GRAINS These are used in pastry to border certain cakes, or to sur- round the sugared-paste bases on which cakes are set. For this purpose the parts to which the sugar is expected to adhere must be besmeared with cooked apricot. To make them, roughly pound some loaf sugar, and sift the latter first through a coarse strainer, and then through a finer one, according to the size the sugar grains are required to be. The powder will, of course, fall and leave the grains clean. 2348— COLOURED SUGAR GRAINS To colour sugar grains, spread them on a piece of paper, and add a drop of liquid vegetable-colouring or a very little coloured paste per tablespoonful of sugar. The amount of colouring matter may either be lessened or increased, accord- ing to the strength the shade is required to be. Rub the sugar in the hand to colour it evenly; dry it in a