474 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY rubbed fowl into boiling white stock; this will be found to sufficiently harden the flesh to allow of its being treated in the required way. The products used for studding and larding are, according to circumstances, ham or tongue, truffles or mush- rooms, and sometimes, the red part of a carrot for the larding. Only truffles, ham and tongue are used for studding. Poeled fowls are trussed as above; they are covered with slices of bacon in order that the fillets may be protected during the first stages of the cooking; then they are cooked in butter on poeling-aromatics, under cover and in a deep, thick sauce- pan. When the piece is almost cooked, just moisten it a little, either with rich poultry-stock, with the cooking-liquor of truffles or mushrooms, with Madeira, red or white wine, &c. This moistening serves in the basting of the fowl and must there- fore be renewed if it reduces too quickly. After having been cleared of all grease, it is always added to the sauce which accompanies the piece of poultry. Braised fowls are always treated after the manner described under No. 248; they are not rubbed with lemon, but they are covered with slices of bacon. The latter should only cover the breast, but be thick, notwithstanding; for they protect the belly, which, without them, would shrivel by the time the legs cooked. The covering of bacon is essential to all pieces of poultry, whether these be poached, poeled, braised or roasted. 1444—THE WAY TO 5ERVE POULTRY RELEVES QUICKLY AND HOT I feel bound to call the reader’s attention to this very im- portant point in culinary work Owing to the difficulties involved in the carving of the fowl and the placing and arranging of the pieces and their garnish upon the consumers’ plates—both of which operations require dexterity and expertness, which those in charge very often do not possess, or thanks to the inefficiency of particular installa- tions, or wfflat not, I have noticed for some considerable time, that the method of serving large pieces of poultry is, in many cases, very far from being the right one. For, indeed, how often does not the diner find himself pre- sented with a plate of fowl which is neither appetisingly dainty nor yet sufficiently hot 1 It follows from this, that all the care and trouble devoted by a chef to the preparation of the dish are entirely wasted. Now, I have tried to improve this state of affairs, by planning a method of serving which would be at once simple and expeditious, without necessarily being devoid of tastefulness and presentability.