GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 580 Besides, an old bird should never be served; it ought only to be used in the preparation of game stock or forcemeats. The birds belonging to the remaining classes are prepared fresh ; or, if it be thought necessary to let them hang for a few days, at least they should not be allowed to get high, more particularly the aquatic ones, because gaminess is, if anything, deleterious to the flavour of their flesh. 1828— PHEASANT (FAISAN) When this bird is young, its legs are grey and the ventral end of the sternum is tender and flexible. But with pheasants, as with partridges, an infallible sign of youth may be discovered at the extremity of the last large feather in the wing. If this feather be pointed, the bird is young; if it be round, the reverse is the case. 1829— FAISAN A LA MODE D’ALCANTARA This recipe comes from the famous Alcantara convent. His- tory tells us that at the beginning of the Portuguese campaign in 1807 the convent’s library was pillaged by Junot’s soldiers, and its precious manuscripts were used in the making of cart- ridges. Now it happened that an officer of the commissariat who was witnessing the event found, among a collection of recipes selected by the monks, the particular one now under our notice, which was applied only to partridges. It struck him as interesting, and after trying it when he re- turned to France in the following year, he surrendered it to the Duchess of Abrant&s, who noted it in her memoirs. It represents, perhaps, the only good thing the French derived from that unfortunate campaign, and it would tend to prove that foie gras and truffles, which had been known for so long in Languedoc and Gascony, were also known in Estre- madura, where, even at the present day, tolerably good truffles are to be found. The procedure is as follows :— Empty the pheasant from the front; bone its breast, and stuff it with fine ducks’ foies gras, mixed with quartered truffles, cooked in port wine. Marinade the pheasant for three days in port wine, taking care that it be well covered therewith. This done, cook it “ en casserole ” (the original recipe says on the spit, but the sauce- pan is more suitable). Reduce the port wine of the marinade; add to it a dozen medium-sized truffles; set the pheasant on these truffles, and heat for a further ten minutes.