210 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 580— CONSOMME MARQUISE Prepare one quart of good, ordinary consomm^, to which three sticks of celery have been added, while clarifying, in order that the taste of the celery may be very decided. Make thirty small quenelles of chicken forcemeat combined with finely-chopped filberts, giving them the shape of pastils. Poach these quenelles ten minutes before serving. Also poach in court-bouillon two calf’s piths, and cut them into thin roundels. * Put the poached quenelles and the roundels of calf’s piths into the soup-tureen, and pour thereon the boiling consomm^. 581— CONSOMME MERCEDfiS Prepare one quart of chicken consomm6 with pimentos, com- bined, at the last minute, away from the fire, with one-half pint of sherry. Put into the soup-tureen two tablespoonfuls of capsicum, cut in fine julienne-fashion and short, and some small, freshly- cooked cocks’ combs. When about to serve, pour the consomm6 over this garnish. 582— CONSOMME MESSALINE Prepare one quart of chicken consomm^, and add thereto, while clarifying, one-quarter pint of tomato essence, obtained by reducing the moisture contained by the tomato to a syrup. Put into the soup-tureen twelve small, freshly-poached cocks’ combs, two tablespoonfuls of Spanish capsicum cut into a julienne and poached in the consomm^ if fresh (this should have been previously grilled, with the view of removing the skins), and two tablespoonfuls of poached rice, every grain of which should be distinct. Pour the boiling consomm^ over this garnish. 583— CONSOMME; METTERNICH Prepare one quart of game consomm4 with pheasant fumet. Also poach two dariole-moulds of royale, made from a pur£e of artichokes combined with some tablespoonfuls of the reduced game Espagnole. Cut this royale into dice; put these into a soup-tureen with one tablespoonful of a jidienne of pheasant fillets, and pour thereon the boiling consomme. 584— CONSOMME A LA MILANAISE Cook in slightly salted boiling water two oz. of moderately thick macaroni. As soon as it is cooked, drain it, lay it on a piece of linen, and cut it into small rings. Also prepare one-