GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 320 947— HOMARD A LA MORNAY, otherwise AU GRATIN Proceed in all points as directed under “ Homard Cardinal ” (No. 943), but substitute Mornay sauce for Cardinal. Homard A la New-burg This dish may be prepared in two ways—with raw lobster and with the latter cooked some time beforehand. The second way is the more correct, but the first, which is less troublesome to prepare, is more suited to the work of large establishments. 948— HOMARD A LA NEW-BURG (with raw lobster) Cut up the live lobster, and fry it in oil and butter as ex- plained under “ Homard & l’Am^ricaine.” When the pieces of lobster are stiffened and coloured, clear them of all grease; swill the sautepan with one tablespoonful of burnt brandy and one-half pint of Marsala. Reduce by a third; season, and add two-thirds pint of cream and one-sixth pint of fish fumet. Cover and set to cook for fifteen minutes. Take out the pieces of lobster; withdraw the meat there- from, and keep it hot in a covered timbale. Thicken the sauce with the reserved intestines and coral of the lobster, which should be chopped in combination with one oz. of butter. Set to boil a second time; rub the sauce through tammy, and pour it over the pieces of lobster. 949— HOMARD A LA NEW-BURG (with the lobster cooked) Cook the lobster in court-bouillon. Remove the shell from the tail; take the meat therefrom, and cut it into regular slices. Lay these slices in a liberally-buttered sautepan, season strongly, and heat the slices on both sides until the outside membrane acquires a fine red colour. Moisten with enough Madeira to almost cover the slices, and reduce the moistening almost entirely. When dishing up, pour a leason, composed of one and one-quarter pints of cream and two egg-yolks, over the slices. Stir gently on the side of the fire until the thickening has been effected by the cooking of the egg-yolks, and serve in a lukewarm timbale. 950— HOMARD A LA PALESTINE Cut up the live lobster and toss it in butter with a mirepoix prepared in advance, as for crayfish intended for potage bisque. Moisten with two-thirds pint of white wine, one pint of