EGGS 189 509—OMELET WITH MORELS Mince and toss in butter two oz. of very firm morels. Two should be put aside, which, after having been cut in two, length- wise, and sauted with the others, should be placed on a dish when the omelet is about to be made. Having dished the latter, place the four sauted and reserved pieces of morels upon it, and surround it with a thread of half-glaze. 510—OMELET MOUSSELINE Beat the yolks of three eggs in a bowl with a small pinch of salt and a tablespoonful of very thick cream. Add thereto the three whites, whisked to a stiff froth, and pour this pre- paration into a wide omelet-pan containing one oz. of very hot butter. Sautt the omelet, tossing it very quickly, and taking care to turn the outside edges of the preparation constantly towards the centre; when the whole mass seems uniformly set, roll the omelet up quickly, and dish it. This omelet should be sent to the table immediately. 510a—OMELET WITH MOUSSERONS Mince two oz. of very fresh mousserons; toss them in butter in the omelet-pan; add thereto the eggs mixed with a pinch of chopped parsley; make the omelet, dish it, and surround it with a thread of half-glaze. Si 1—OMELET A LA NANTUA Add to the omelet six little crayfishes’ tails, each of which must be cut into three, and the whole mixed with a little Nantua sauce. Put two fine crayfishes’ tails on the omelet, making them touch at their thicker ends, and surround with a thread of Nantua sauce. 512—OMELET PARMENTIER Add a pinch of chopped parsley to the eggs, and, when about to pour the latter into the omelet-pan, add two table- spoonfuls of potato cut into dice, seasoned, sauted in butter, and very hot. Make the omelet in the usual way. 513—OMELET A LA PAYSANNE Frizzle with butter, in the omelet-pan, two oz. of breast of bacon cut into dice. Add to the eggs one tablespoonful of finely-sliced potatoes sauted in butter, one-half tablespoonful of cissled sorrel stewed in butter, and a pinch of concassed chervil. Pour the whole over the bacon-dice; cook the eggs quickly,