252 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY Remarks concerning the Possible Variation of this Soup.- The mode of procedure adopted in the case of the Germiny could, if necessary, be applied to all thick soups, and it would then constitute a class to which the term “ Cream ” would be better suited than it is at present to the soups thus designated. Instead of the ordinary white consomm£, which is used in its preparation, a consomm^ may be used in which such vege- tables as carrots, turnips, peas, &c., are cooked, the latter being reserved for the garnish, while the cooking-liquor is thickened with egg-yolks and cream in accordance with the quantities and directions given in the above recipe. A carrot cream, a cream of fresh peas, or of asparagus-heads, prepared in this way, would be much more delicate than those prepared after the ordinary recipes. The essential point in this series of soups is the leason; this should consist of enough egg-yolks to render the preparations sufficiently thick and creamy. 725— POTAGE AUX HERBES Cut two oz. of sorrel leaves into a julienne, and stew them in butter with one oz. of watercress leaves, one oz. of chervil pinches, and young pimpernel. Add one and one-half pints of water, the necessary salt, three medium-sized, peeled, and quartered potatoes, and cook gently. Drain and reserve the cooking-liquor; crush the potatoes; dilute the pur£e with the cooking-liquor, and rub through tammy. Set to boil, and finish, when dishing up, with three oz. of Printanier butter with herbs, combined with a few leaves of sweet basil. Add a pinch of chervil pluches. 726— POTAGE JUBILEE, otherwise BALVET Prepare, according to the directions given (No. 648), one and one-half pints of a purde of fresh peas, and add thereto one- half pint of consomm6 of “ La Petite Marmite.” Set to boil, and finish with two oz. of butter. Garnish with the vegetables from the Marmite, prepared as for Croute au Pot. 717—POTAGE LONGCHAMPS Refer to the derivative soups of the “ Pur6e de Pois ” (No. 654). 728—POTAGE LAVALLIERE Prepare one and one-half pints of “ Cr£me de Volaille ” (No. 713), finished with a leason of egg-yolks and cream; also