780 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY Fill them with a preparation of “ Bombe au chocolat pralin£ ” (see Bombe, No 2826). Close them up with a little roundel of G/noise, stamped out by means of the same cutter as that used above. Set the pears on a tray ; coat them speedily with apricot jam cooked to the small-thread stage; glaze them with chocolate fondant, and keep them for three hours in a very cold refrigerator. Meanwhile, prepare as many small GJnoise squares as there are pears; and make them one-quarter inch wider than the diameter of the pears. Saturate these square bases with Anisette, and by means of a little apricot jam cooked to the small-thread stage, stick each of them on to very thin, dry-paste bases of the same size. Coat these prepared bases with the same apricot jam, and garnish them all round, as also their uncovered corners, with pralined splintered almonds. When about to serve, take the pears out of the refrigerator, set them on these bases : stick into each a stalk and a leaf, made from pulled sugar ; and dish on a napkin. N.B.—Each pear should be cut vertically into two, three, or four pieces, subject to its size. 2709— POIRES FELICIA Poach some quartered William pears in vanilla-flavoured syrup and let them cool. Cook also, in a pink syrup, some very small halved pears. Dish the quarters in the middle of a border of Viennese cream (No. 2641) laid out upon a dish. Cover them with a pyramid of vanilla-flavoured Chantilly cream, and sprinkle its surface with crushed, red pralines. Surround the cream border with the pink half-pears. 2710— POIRES A LA FLORENTINE Fill an oiled border-mould with a semolina Bavarois prepara- tion, and let it set. Turn it out at the last moment, and garnish the middle of the border with stewed pears, cohered by means of a vanilla-flavoured apricot pur£e. 2711— POIRES HEiLENE Poach the pears in vanilla-flavoured syrup and let them cool. When about to serve, dish them in a timbale upon a layer of vanilla ice-cream, sprinkled with crystallised violets. Serve a hot, chocolate sauce separately. 2712— POIRES MARQUISE Cook the pears in a vanilla-flavoured syrup, and drain them thaJ: they may cool. This done, coat them again and again with