575 GAME same number of bread-crumb croutons as there are collops, and make them of the same size as the latter, though half as thick; (2) the same number of thick slices of truffle, cooked at the last minute in a little Madeira. Toss the collops of fillet quickly in clarified butter; colour the croutons in butter at the same time, and mix the latter with the collops and the truffles in a saucepan. Swill the saut^pan with the Madeira in which the truffles have cooked; add a little succulent pale glaze; reduce suffi- ciently; strain the sauce through a sieve; finish it liberally with butter; add it to the sauted collops, and serve the latter in a very hot timbale. N.B.—This recipe was given by the Comte de Mornay him- self to the proprietors of the famous Parisian restaurant, and for a long while the dish was one of the specialities of a house no longer extant. 1818—FILETS DE LEVRAUT A LA VENDOME After having contised the leveret’s fillets, roll them round a buttered tin mould, and fasten them with a string, that they may form rings. Set to poach. Meanwhile, spread on a buttered tray a layer one-half inch thick of game forcemeat; poach the latter; stamp it out by means of an even cutter into roundels of the same size as the rings, and set one of these on each of the force- meat roundels, fixing it by means of a little raw forcemeat. Cut the minion fillets into collops, and quickly toss them in butter with an equal quantity of mushrooms and five oz. of raw, sliced truffles. Swill the saucepan with a little brandy and the poaching- liquor of the fillet-rings; add a little poivrade sauce; finish this sauce with butter, and plunge therein the collops of fillet, the mushrooms, and the truffles. Set the rings in a circle on a dish, and fill them with this garnish. Serve separately a sauceboat of poivrade sauce and a timbale of chestnut pur^e. 1819—MOUSSES ET MOUSSELINES DE LlEVRE Proceed exactly as for all other mousses and mousselines, except, of course, in regard to the basic ingredient, which in this case is the meat of a hare. 1820—SOUFFLE DE LlEVRE With one lb. of the meat of a hare, prepare a light mous- seline forcemeat; add thereto the whites of two eggs,