GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 300 893— FILETS DE SOLES ORLY Season the fillets; dip them into batter and, a few minutes before serving, put them into very hot fat. Drain them; dish them on a napkin with fried parsley, and serve a tomato sauce separately. N.B.—There are several ways of preparing these fillets of sole. Thus they may be simply dipped in milk, dredged, and impaled on a hatelet. They may also be marinaded, treated a Vanglaise, and twisted into cork-screw shape. Always, however, dish them on a napkin with fried parsley and, in every case, send a tomato sauce to the table separately. This last accompaniment is essential. 894— FILETS DE SOLES OLGA, otherwise “ OTERO ” Bake beforehand, in the oven, as many fine, well-washed potatoes as there are fillets of sole. As soon as they are done, remove a piece of the baked shell, and withdraw the pulp in such wise as to leave nothing but the long, parched shells. Fold the fillets, and poach them with a little excellent fish fumet. Garnish the bottom of each prepared shell with a tablespoonful of shelled shrimps’ tails, cohered with a white-wine sauce. Put a poached fillet of sole upon this garnish; cover with sufficient Mornay sauce to completely fill the shell; sprinkle with grated cheese, and glaze quickly. Dish on a napkin the moment the fillets have been taken from the oven, and serve immediately. 895— FILETS DE SOLES POLIGNAC Fold the fillets, and poach them in one-quarter pint of white wine, a few tablespoonfuls of the cooking-liquor of mushrooms, and a piece of butter about the size of a walnut. Dish the fillets in an oval. Reduce the cooking-liquor to half; thicken it by means of two tablespoonfuls, bare, of fish velouffi; finish the sauce with one oz. of butter, and add thereto three small, cooked, finely-minced mushrooms, and one table- spoonful of a julienne of truffles. Coat the fillets with sauce, and set to glaze. 896— FILETS DE SOLES PAYSANNE For the fillets of soles, cut two small carrots, two new onions, a stick of celery, and the white of one leek in paysanne fashion. Season these vegetables with a very little table-salt and a pinch of sugar; stew them in butter; moisten sufficiently to cover them with lukewarm water; and add a few pieces of broccoli, a table- spoonful of peas, and the same quantity of French beans cut into lozenges.