3H FISH aspic jelly, that the latter be limpid, succulent, and just suffi- ciently firm not to break when withdrawn from the mould. Decorate the bottom of the mould with bits of truffle, poached white of egg, lobster coral, capers, and tarragon leaves. The decorative design cannot be described; it must be left to the taste and fancy of the operator; all I can urge is that it be as regular and symmetrical as possible. Fix the decoration by means of a few drops of jelly; then cover the whole with a thickness of one inch of the same jelly, and leave the latter to set. Upon this layer of jelly arrange rows of thin slices of lobster meat and slices of truffles placed alternately and slightly overlapping. Now add enough jelly to cover these slices, and continue filling up the mould with varying layers consisting respectively of jelly (one inch thick) and the slices above described. When about to serve, dip the mould in hot water; dry it, and turn out the aspic upon a dish covered with a napkin. 955—COTBLETTES DE HOMARD ARKANGEL Prepare a salpicon of lobster meat in dice combined with its weight of caviare, the whole quantity being in proportion to the number of cotelettes required. Thicken the salpicon with an equal quantity of lobster mousse (No. 956), and at once garnish some moderately oiled cutlet-moulds with the preparation. As soon as the latter has set, turn out the cutlets; coat them with a fish chaud-froid sauce, finished with lobster butter; and deck each with a fine, grooved slice of truffle. Glaze them with cold melted jelly, and keep them in the cool until required to be served. Arrange them in a circle on a round dish; garnish the centre with chopped white jelly, and serve a Russian salad separately. 956—MOUSSE DE HOMARD Cook the lobster in a few tablespoonfuls of previously- prepared fine mirepoix, one half-bottle of white wine, and a small glass of burnt brandy. Leave to cool in the cooking- liquor. Now split the lobster in two, with the v^ew of with- drawing its meat. Finely pound the latter while adding thereto, little by little, one-third pint of cold fish velouffi per lb. of meat. Rub through a sieve; put the resulting pur6e in a vegetable-pan lying on ice, and stir for a few minutes. This done, add a little good fish jelly, melted and cold, and one- third pint of barely-whipped cream. Taste; rectify the season- ing, and warm it slightly with cayenne. IT 9