LES R6TIS ET LES SALADES 613 Stuff a fine pheasant with this preparation; roast it “ en casserole,” or rather in a cocotte. At the last moment sprinkle with a little fumet, prepared from the snipes’ carcasses. 1972—PARTRIDGES The above recipes, dealing with pheasants, may be applied to partridges. 1973—quails Select them white, very fat, and with the fat firm. Wrap them in a buttered vine-leaf and a thin slice of bacon, and roast them before a fierce fire for ten or twelve minutes. Dish on small bread-crumb croutons, fried in butter with half-lemons. Serve their gravy, which, of course, should be very short, separately. 1974—ROAST ORTOLANS Wrap each in a vine-leaf; set them on a tray, moistened with salted water, and cause them to set in a fierce oven for four or five minutes. The small amount of water lying on the bottom of the utensil produces an evaporation which prevents the ortolans’ fat from melting; consequently there is no need of slices of bacon, butter, or gravy. Each ortolan may be served in a half-lemon, shaped like a basket. N.B.—The ortolan is sufficient in itself, and it ought only to be eaten roasted. The products sometimes served as ad- juncts to it, such as truffles and foie gras, are deleterious, if anything, to its quality, for they modify the delicacy of its flavour, and this modification is more particularly noticeable the more highly flavoured the adjunctive products may be. With its accompaniments it becomes a sumptuous dish, for the simple reason that it is expensive; but it does not follow that the true connoisseur will like it; it must be plainly roasted to suit him. *975—ORTOLANS AUX QUESTCHES Cut two large questches into halves, and allow one half for each ortolan. Garnish the inside of each with a piece of butter the size of a hazel-nut; set them on a tray, and put them in the oven. When they are almost cooked, on each half of the questches place a moistened ortolan, wrapped in a vine-leaf, and bake them in a very hot oven for four minutes. Salt them when taking them out of the oven, and sprinkle them, by means of a brush, with verjuice.