SOUPS 257 Pour the preparation into the soup-tureen, and add the meat of the fowl, cut into a julienne. Serve some stewed prunes separately, but this is optional. 744—SOUPE AUX FOIES DE VOLAILLE Make a roux from one and one-half oz. of butter and as much flour. When it has acquired a nice, light-brown colour, moisten it with one quart of white consomm£ or brown stock, and set to boil, stirring the while. Add one-half lb. of raw chickens’ livers rubbed through a sieve, and set to cook for fifteen minutes. Rub the whole through tammy; season strongly with pepper; heat, and com- plete the preparation, at the last moment, with one-quarter lb. of sliced chickens’ livers, tossed in butter, and one wineglass of good Madeira. 745—SOUPE JULIENNE DARBLAY Cook quickly in salted water two-small, peeled, and quartered potatoes. Drain them, rub them through a fine sieve, and dilute the pur£e with one and one-half pints of white consomm^. Add three tablespoonfuls of a julienne made in accordance with the above recipe; heat, and finish the preparation with an ordinary leason and one and one-half oz. of butter. 746—MINESTRONE Brown the minced white of two small leeks and one-third of an onion, also minced, in one oz. of chopped, fresh breast of bacon, and one-half oz. of grated, fat bacon. Moisten with one and one-half pints of white consomm£, and add one-third of a carrot, one-third of a turnip, half a stick of celery, two oz. of small cabbage, and one small potato, or one-half of a medium-sized one, all of which vegetables must be finely minced. About twenty-five minutes after the soup has started cook- ing, complete it with two tablespoonfuls of peas, a few French beans cut into lozenges, and one and one-half oz. of rice, or the same quantity of very thin macaroni broken into very small pieces. This done, set to cook again for thirty minutes. A few minutes Before serving, add to the soup one small, crushed clove of garlic, three leaves of sweet basil, and a small pinch of chopped chervil pluches; mix the whole with one-half table- spoonful of grated bacon. Send to the table, separately, at the same time as the soup some freshly grated Gruy£re. S