RELEVES AND ENTREES 385 this thickened cooking-liquor over the sections of the tail and the mushrooms, and set to boil very gently for ten minutes. Serve thus in the cocotte set on a dish, and send a timbale of chestnut pur£e to the table at the same time. 1161—QUEUE DE BCEUF FARCIE Choose a large ox tail, and bone it carefully without burst- ing it. Lay it on a napkin, and stuff it with a forcemeat consisting of the following ingredients :—Three-quarters lb. of very lean beef and one-half lb. of chopped fat bacon, the two mixed with four oz. of bread-crumbs soaked in milk and pressed; two whole eggs; three oz. of truffle peel; one-half oz. of salt, a pinch of pepper, and a very little spice. Sew up the tail, cover it with a piece of linen after the manner of a galantine, and cook it gently for three hours in a very light stock with vegetables as for boiled beef. At the end of the three hours take it out of the linen; put it into a sautepan, the bottom of which should be garnished as for a braising; add a little of the cooking-liquor of the tail, and complete the cooking, basting often the while. Take care to baste more frequently towards the close of the operation with the view of properly glazing the meat. When about to serve, dish it, after having removed all string, and lightly coat the bottom of the dish with a sauce consisting of the cooking-liquor, reduced and thickened with arrow-root. Send what remains of the cooking-liquor in a sauceboat. Serve separately either a pur£e, a garnish of braised vege- tables, or one of the sauces suited to pieces of beef. 1162—QUEUE DE BGEUF GRILLEE Cut the tail into sections twice the usual length, and cook these in a stewpan for five hours with salted water and aromatics. Drain the sections; dry them well; dip them in melted butter, and roll them in very fine bread-crumbs. Sprinkle with melted butter, and set to grill gently. Grilled ox tail may be served with any vegetable pur£e. An ordinary Soubise, or one prepared la Noailles,” as ex- plained under the piece of beef of that name, also suits very well. In any case, the Soubise should be sufficiently thick. Such sauces as h la Diable, Hach^e, Piquante, Robert, Tomato, Italienne, &c., are also suited to grilled ox tail. N.B.—When the adjunct to grilled ox tail is a highly- c c