GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 3°4 Send a sauceboat of Bechamel sauce, fihished with lobster butter, to the table at the same time as the fish. 908— TURBAN DE FILETS DE SOLES ET SALMON VILLARET Proceed as in the preceding recipe, but alternate the fillets of sole with very red slices of salmon of the same size as the fillets. The combination yields an excellent result, and the varying strips of white and orange which constitute the body of the moulded crown lend sightliness to the dish. N.B.—The designation “ k la Villaret,” relating to the crown alone, in no w ise affects the constituents of the garnish; these may either remain the same as those of the preceding recipe, or may be replaced by something similar. THe sauce alone remains unalterable, and this should be a good Bechamel finished with lobster butter. 909— TIMBALE DE FILETS DE SOLES CARDINAL For ten people, prepare a timbale crust (No. 2394) the diameter of which should be greater than the height; line it with fine, short paste, and decorate it with noodle paste. Raise the fillets of three medium-sized soles, flatten them slightly; coat them with whiting forcemeat prepared with cray- fish butter, and roll them into scroll-form. Also prepare ten small slices of the meat of a medium-sized ordinary or spiny lobster’s tail, ten small grooved and cooked mushrooms, fifteen slices of truffle, and three-quarters pint of Cardinal sauce finished wfith a lobster butter. When about to serve, lay the poached, rolled fillets of sole (well drained) in a circle round the bottom of the timbale; put the slices of lobster and the mushrooms in the centre, and cover the whole with Cardinal sauce. Set upon the sauce, just over the centre of the timbale, a large, grooved mushroom (cooked and kept very white), and encircle the latter with fifteen slices of truffle. Place the timbale, thus garnished, on a folded napkin lying on a dish, and serve at once. 910— TIMBALE DE FILETS DE SOLES CARMELITE Prepare (1) a timbale crust as above; (2) a lobster k la New-burg made from raw lobster (No. 948); (3) twelve rolled fillets of sole stuffed with fish forcemeat finished with lobster butter; (4) three oz. of sliced truffles. Poach the rolled fillets in fish fumet; slice the meat of the lobster’s tail, and put the poached fillets, the slices of lobster