GARNISHING FOR RELEVfiS AND ENTRIES 93 221—DUCHESSE POTATOES These are the same as the croquettes, though they are differently treated. They are made on a floured board in the shape of diminutive cottage-loaves, little shuttle-shaped loaves, small quoits, and lozenges or rectangles. They are gilded with beaten egg, and when their shape is that of quoits, rectangles, or lozenges, they are streaked by means of a small knife. After this operation, which is to prevent the gilding from blistering, they are baked in the oven for a few minutes previous to being used in dressing the dishes they accompany. 222—MARQUISE POTATOES Take one lb. of croquette paste and add thereto six oz. of very red, reduced tomato-pur£e. Pour this mixture into a bag fitted with a large, grooved pipe, and squeeze it out upon a baking-tray in shapes resembling large meringues. Slightly gild their surfaces with beaten egg, and put them into the oven for a few minutes before using them to dress the dish. 223—ORDINARY OR DRY DUXELLE The uses of Duxelle are legion, and it is prepared thus:— Slightly fry one teaspoonful of onions in one tablespoonful of butter and oil mixed. Add to this four tablespoonfuls of mush- room stalks and parings, chopped and well pressed in a towel with the view of expelling their vegetable moisture. Stir over a brisk fire until the latter has completely evaporated; season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and one coffeespoonful of well- chopped parsley, mixing the whole thoroughly. Transfer to a bowl, cover with a piece of white, buttered paper, and put aside until wanted. 224—DUXELLE FOR STUFFED VEGETABLES (Tomatoes, Mushrooms, &c.) Put six tablespoonfuls of dry duxelle into a small stewpan, and add thereto three tablespoonfuls of half-glaze sauce con- taining plenty of tomato, crushed garlic the size of a pea, and two tablespoonfuls of white wine. Set to simmer until the required degree of consistence is reached. N.B.—A tablespoonful of fine, fresh bread-crumbs may be added to the duxelle in order to thicken it.