35§ GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY Send to the table, separately, a Madeira sauce finished with the poeling-liquor, cleared of all grease and reduced. 1061— FILET DE BGEUF MODERNE Lard the fillet alternately with bacon and tongue, and poele it. Glaze it just before dishing; set it on a long dish, and sur- round it with garnish as follows :—On either side of the fillet lay a row of small “ chartreuses,” made in small, hexagonal moulds. To make these “chartreuses,” butter the moulds and deck the bottom of each with a slice of truffle, big enough to almost entirely cover it. Now line the sides of the moulds with various vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, peas, and French beans; each of which vegetables should be cooked as its nature requires. Arrange them in such wise as to vary their colours, and spread over the whole a thin layer of rather flimsy forcemeat. Fill up the moulds with braised cabbage, which should be well pressed with the view of ridding it of all its moisture, and put the chartreuses in a bain-marie ten minutes before dishing the fillet. At either end of the fillet set some braised half-lettuces, arranging them so that they frame the ends of the fillet in half-circles. Between the lettuce and the chartreuses set four round quenelles, decorated with salted tongue and poached in time to be ready for the dishing of the meat. Send to the table, separately, the poeling-Wquor of the fillet, cleared of all grease, strained, and slightly thickened with arrowroot. 1062— FILET DE BCEUF MONTMORENCY Lard the fillet and poele it. Glaze it just before dishing up, and set it on a long dish. Send to the table, separately, a Madeira sauce finished with the poeling-liquor of the fillet, to which add (per pint of the sauce) three tablespoonfuls of red-currant jelly; two tablespoon- fuls of finely-grated horse-radish, or the latter finely grated first, and then chopped; thirty moderately-sweetened cherries, set to soak in tepid water seven or eight minutes beforehand, and drained just before being added to the sauce. 1063— FILET DE BCEUF NIVERNAISE Lard the fillet and poele it. Glaze it at the last moment; set it on a long dish, and sur-