GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 400 Among the paste garnishes:—Noodles, Macaroni, Spa- ghetti, variously prepared; various Gnocchi, &c. And, in addition to all these, the garnishes already given under Beef Relev^s, which need not be repeated here. I shall, therefore, give only three recipes which are proper to cushion of veal; though even these should be regarded as mere curiosities, seeing that, far from recommending them, I consider them rather as gastronomical mistakes. But some provision must be made for outlandish tastes, and, for this reason alone, I include the following recipes. 1199— NOIX DE VEAU EN SURPRISE Braise the cushion of veal, keeping it somewhat firm. This done, set it on a dish, and let it almost cool. Then cut a slice from it laterally, at a point one-third inch of its height from the top; and, within one-half inch of its edges, make a circular incision, pressing the point of a sharp knife into the meat, and withdraw the centre of the cushion. Take care to leave the same thickness of meat on the sides as on the bottom, that is to say, about one-half inch. The cushion of veal, thus emptied, should have the appearance of a round or oval case. If the meat withdrawn from the centre of the cushion is to serve for the garnish, or is to be used sliced to surround the case, cut it from out the whole in the largest possible pieces, in order that slices may easily be cut therefrom. The inside of the emptied cushion of veal is then garnished according to fancy; the top of the piece that was cut off at the start is returned to its place, with the view of giving the piece an untouched appearance, and the whole is put in the oven for a few minutes that it may be hot for serving. The braising-liquor, cleared of grease and strained, should be sent to the table separately. 1200— NOIX DE VEAU EN SURPRISE A LA MACEDOINE Braise the cushion of veal, and hollow it out as explained above. Meanwhile (i) prepare a Macedoine garnish, or mixed Jar- diniere (cohered with butter or cream), the quantity of which should be in proportion to the size of the case; (2) cut the meat, withdrawn from the centre of the cushion, into thin rectangles. Garnish the bottom of the case with a layer of Macedoine, and set thereon a litter consisting of the rectangles of meat. Cover with Macedoine; set thereon another litter of the pieces