EGGS 183 480—SCRAMBLED EGGS, ROTHSCHILD Finely pound the remains of six crayfish (cooked in Mire- poix) the tails of which have been put aside, and add thereto, little by little, two tablespoonfuls of thick cream. Rub through tammy. Add this crayfish cream to the six beaten eggs; season, and cook on a moderate fire with the object of obtaining a smooth, soft, and creamy preparation. Serve in a timbale and garnish, firstly with a small faggot of asparagus-heads placed in the middle of the eggs, secondly with crayfish tails arranged in a circle round the asparagus, and thirdly with large slices of very black truffles arranged in a crown around the crayfish tails. 481—SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH TRUFFLES Add one tablespoonful of truffles, cooked in Madeira and cut into dice, to the scrambled eggs. Place these in a timbale, and garnish with a crown of sliced truffles. Or place the preparation in tartlet-crusts, made from trim- mings of puff-paste and baked without colouration, with a large slice of truffle on the eggs, in each tartlet. 482—FRIED EGGS In the long series of egg-preparations, fried eggs are those which hold the least important place, for the fried eggs which are so commonly served at breakfasts in England and America are really eggs a, la poele. The real fried egg is almost un- known in England and America. As a rule, the garnish given to this kind of eggs is served apart, while the latter are dished, either on a napkin or on pieces of toast, with a little fried parsley laid in the middle of the dish. 483—the preparation of fried eggs Any fat, provided it be well purified, may be used for these eggs, but oil is the more customary frying medium. To do these eggs properly, only one should be dealt with at a time. Heat some oil in an omelet-pan until it begins to smoke slightly; break the egg on a plate; season it, and let it slide into the pan. Then, with a wooden spoon, quickly cover up the yolk with the solidified portions of the white, in order to keep the former soft. Drain the egg on a piece of stretched linen, and proceed in the same way with the other eggs until the required quantity has been treated.