RELEVES AND ENTREES 47T Now roll up the ham; bind it tightly in a piece of linen, and cool it under pressure. Whether boned or unboned, skin it when it is cold; remove some of its fat, and sprinkle it wdth cold, melted aspic until the latter covers it evenly. Dish it up; fix a frill to it, and surround it with fine aspic dice. 1438—JAMBON SOUFFLE FROID Proceed exactly as in No. 1421, but substitute for the souffle preparation therein described the cold ham mousse below. 1439—MOUSSE FROIDE DE JAMBON The Preparation of the Mousse.—Finely pound one lb. of very lean, cooked ham; add to it one-third pint of cold Velouffi, and rub through a fine sieve. Put the resulting pur^e into a basin; season it; work it on ice for a few minutes, and mix therewith, little by little, one- quarter pint of melted aspic. Finally combine two-thirds pint of half-beaten cream wdth it. The mousse may be moulded, either in an aspic-clothed mould, decorated with truffles, as explained under No. 956, or in small cassolettes, lined with a thin strip of paper inside their brims, after the manner of small, cold souffles. As the dishing and serving of mousses are always the same, the reader is begged to refer to those recipes dealing with the question. 1440—MOUSSE FROIDE DE JAMBON A L’ALSACIENNE Take a deep, square dish and garnish it, half-full, with fine, ham mousse. Even the surface of this layer of mousse, and, when it has set, arrange upon it some shells, raised by means of a spoon dipped in hot water, from a foie-gras Parfait. As soon as this is done, pour over the foie-gras shells, a sufficient quantity to cover them of half-melted succulent chicken aspic with Madeira, and let this jelly set. When about to serve, incrust the dish in a block of ice. 1441—MOUSSE DE JAMBON AU BLANC DE POULET Garnish a deep, square dish with some ham mousse. When the latter has set, arrange thereon the supremes of a very white, poached fowl. These supremes, cut into regular collops, should be coated wdth a white chaud-froid sauce. Cover with aspic, as directed under “ Mousse h l’Alsacienne,” and serve. N.B.—If desired, the collops need not be coated with chaud- froid sauce, but, in this case, they should be covered with aspic.