744 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY cream ; (3) set the fruit in a border of Genoise, combined with apricots. 2550— APRICOTS A LA COLBERT Poach some fine half-apricots in syrup, keeping them somewhat firm. Drain them ; dry them, and garnish their hollows with “ rice for entremets ” (No. 2404) in suchwise as to reconstruct the fruit. Treat them d Fanglaise, with very fine bread-crumbs; fry just before dishing, and drain. Stick a small stalk of angelica into each apricot, in imitation of the stems, and dish them on a napkin. Serve a Kirsch-flavoured apricot sauce separately. 2551— APRICOTS A LA CONDE On a round dish prepare a border of vanilla-flavoured, sweet rice, either by means of a knife, or by means of an even, buttered, border-mould. Upon this border set some apricots poached in syrup ; decorate with candied fruit, and coat with a Kirsch-flavoured apricot syrup. 2552— APRICOTS A LA CONDE (2nd Method) Set a crown of small Gtnoise roundels on a dish ; on each roundel set a fine poached half-apricot (convex side undermost), and set a half-sugared cherry in the hollow of each half-apricot. In the middle of the crown arrange a pyramid of rice croquettes, the size and shape of apricots. Serve a Kirsch-flavoured apricot sauce separately. 2553— APRICOTS A LA CUSSY Garnish the flat side of some macaroons with a layer of smooth fruit salpicon, cohered with an apricot pur6e ; set a fine poached half-apricot on each macaroon, coat with Italian meringue ; dish in the form of a crown, and place the dish in a moderate oven for a few minutes to dry, but not to colour, the meringue. Serve a Kirsch-flavoured apricot sauce separately. 2554— ABRICOTS GRATINES Spread an even layer, one inch thick, of stiff stewed apples or stewed semolina (prepared like rice for entremets) on a dish. Set thereon some fine half-apricots poached in syrup ; entirely cover the latter with a somewhat thin preparation of “ Pralin a Cond£,” sprinkle with icing sugar, and set the dish in the oven to slightly colour the pralin.