406 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY be more or less flattened, according to their use. Thus, when they are to be plainly tossed, to be afterwards served with a sauced garnish or with a sauce, they are simply beaten in order to break the fibres of the meat, without flattening the latter too much; but if, on the contrary, they are to be treated a Vanglaise, they should be beaten very thin with the moistened beater. In either case, they should be cooked somewhat quickly in clarified butter; for, if their cooking lag at all, their meat hardens. All the garnishes of veal cutlets, and a large number of those of the cushion, may be served with the collops. These garnishes may be set on the same dish with the collops when the latter are plainly tossed; but, in the case of collops treated a Vanglaise, the garnish or sauce which accompanies them should be served separately, lest its moisture soften the crisp coating of the collops. 1216— GRENADINS Grenadins are veal collops larded with rows of very thin bacon strips, and cut somewhat thicker than ordinary collops. They are really small fricandeaux, the braising of which is a comparatively lengthy operation; for their cooking must be the same as that of the fricandeaux, and needs quite as much atten- tion. In order that the grenadins be not too dry, they should be frequently basted with their braising-liquor. When they are cooked, glaze them -rapidly, and dish them with one of the garnishes given for the cushion of veal. 1217— GRENADINS FROIDS EN BELLEVUE This dish may be prepared in several more or less compli- cated ways; here is a simple way :— Take as many shell-shaped hors-d’oeuvre dishes as there are grenadins. Let a thin coat of jelly set on the bottom of each, and set thereon a slight decoration composed of bits of carrot, turnip, peas, French beans in lozenge-form, &c. Put a gren- adin, larded side undermost (i.e., upside down) into each hors- d’oeuvre dish; add enough melted aspic jelly to reach half-way up the thickness of the grenadin. When this jelly has set, lay on it, all round the grenadin, a border consisting of carrots, turnips, French beans and peas. Sprinkle these vegetables with a few drops of jelly, so as to fix them, and keep them from floating, and then fill up the hors-d’oeuvre dishes with jelly. When about to serve, dip the hors-d’oeuvre dishes into hot