LES ROTIS ET LES SALADES 607 1949—ROAST SIRLOIN These enormous pieces are scarcely trimmed; the excess of flank alone is suppressed; but the fillet must remain covered by a considerable thickness of fat, which protects it while roasting. Without this precautionary measure, the under-cut would be cooked long before the upper-fillet, and would dry up. The fire should be concentrated, regular and not too fierce for this joint. The flat bones of the vertebrae must be broken at their base, but not detached. 1950—FILLET OF BEEF Fillet of beef intended for roasting should be carefully cleared of its two sinewy envelopes. But, since this trimming tends to let it dry while cooking, were the meat left as it stands, it is customary to lard it with strips of fresh fat bacon, which protect it; or it may be wrapped in slices of bacon. In certain cir- cumstances, it is covered on top and beneath with slices of beef fat, flattened to the thickness of a rasher of bacon by means of a beater, and tied on with string. Fillet of beef should be cooked with a somewhat fierce fire, and, in England, it is usually kept underdone towards the centre. N.B.—Large roast joints of beef are always accompanied by Yorkshire pudding, grated Horse-radish or Horse-radish sauce (No. 119 or 138). 195*—R6TIS DE VEAU (Veal Roasts) In my opinion, the spit does not suit veal, whatever be the quality of the latter. Poeling (No. 250) is preferable and suits it better. The quality of meat can but be enhanced under the treat- ment I suggest, more particularly as the poeling-Uquor con- stitutes a much richer gravy than that which generally accom- panies veal roasted on the spit. In English cookery roast veal is always accompanied by boiled ham or breast of bacon. Veal Stuffing (No. 1945) poached in steam in a special mould, and cut into slices, is sent at the same time. Roast joints of veal are generally the Loin, the best end, the Neck or the Fillet. Sometimes, too, but more rarely, the Cushion is roasted. 1952—MUTTON AND LAMB ROASTS Mutton and Lamb are the best possible meats to roast, and, as far as they are concerned, the culinary treatment might be limited to roasting.