502 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY *554—POULET SAUTE AUX FINES HERBES Saute the chicken in butter, and two minutes before dishing it, sprinkle it with one-half oz. of chopped shallots. Swill the saut^pan with one-sixth pint of white wine; reduce; add three tablespoonfuls of strong, veal gravy and as much half-glaze sauce; and finish the sauce, away from the fire, with one and one-half oz. of butter and a coffeespoonful of chopped parsley, chervil, and tarragon. Pour it over the chicken. *555—POULET SAUTE FORESTIERE Sautd the chicken in butter; sprinkle it with a table- spoonful of chopped shallots; add five oz. of quartered morels; stew in the oven for ten minutes, and dish the chicken. Swill with white wine; add one-sixth pint of veal stock; reduce, and pour over the chicken with the morels. Surround with four small heaps of potatoes, cut into large dice and tossed in butter; put a rectangle of frizzled bacon between each heap, and sprinkle a pinch of chopped parsley over the chicken. 1556—POULET SAUTE QABRIELLE Saute the chicken in butter, without colouration, and dish it. Swill with one-eighth pint of mushroom cooking-liquor; add three tablespoonfuls of Bdchamel sauce, and three tablespoonfuls of cream; reduce, and finish the sauce, away from the fire, with one and one-half oz. of butter. Pour this sauce over the chicken; sprinkle on it some very black truffle, cut julienne-fashion, and surround it with little leaves of puff-paste, baked white. *557—POULET SAUT^ GEORGINA Saute the pullet in butter with twelve small new onions and a small faggot, containing a sprig of fennel. Dish the chicken. Swill with three tablespoonfuls of mushroom cooking-liquor and as much Rhine wine; add one-fifth pint of cream; twelve mushroom-heads, sliced; and reduce the cream to half. Complete with a pinch of chopped chervil and tarragon, and pour over the chicken. 1558—POULET SAUTE! HONGROISE Prepare a sufficient quantity of pilaff rice, combined with concassed tomatoes, to make a border. Saute the chicken in butter, without colouration, with a chopped half-onion and a little paprika. When the onion is slightly coloured, add three peeled and quartered tomatoes, and