581 GAME N.B.—This last part of the recipe may be advantageously replaced by the la Souvaroff ” treatment—that is to say, having placed the pheasant and the truffles in a terrine, sprinkle them with the reduced port combined with slightly buttered game glaze; then hermetically seal down the lid of the terrine, and complete the cooking in the oven. 1830—FAISAN A L’ANGOUMOISE Stuff the pheasant with a preparation consisting of two- thirds lb. of very fresh pork fat, rubbed through a sieve; four oz. of raw, peeled, and quartered truffles, and four oz. of fine chestnuts, cooked in consomm£. This preparation, which should be seasoned as for the ordinary truffling (No. 1956), ought to be quite cold when inserted into the pheasant. Wrap the bird in slices of bacon; roast it gently for three- quarters of an hour, and take care to remove the slices of bacon seven or eight minutes before the cooking is completed, that the outside of the piece may be coloured. Set on a long dish, and serve a P^rigueux sauce at the same time. 1831—FAISAN A LA BOHEMIENNE Season a small foie gras with salt and paprika; stud it with raw quartered truffles, and poach it in Madeira for twenty minutes. When it is cold, insert it into the pheasant, which should be high. Truss the bird, and cook it in butter in a sauce- pan or a cocotte for forty-five minutes. When about to serve, remove some of the butter used in cooking; sprinkle the pheasant with a glassful of burnt brandy, and add a few table- spoonfuls of reduced game gravy to the cooking-liquor. Serve the pheasant in its cooking utensil. 1832—FAISAN EN CASSEROLE Truss the pheasant as for an entr4e, and poele it in butter only. This done, swill the saucepan with a few drops of brandy and a tablespoonful of game gravy. Cover the utensil, and serve the dish burning hot. 1833—FAISAN EN COCOTTE Proceed exactly as for pheasant “ en casserole,” and, when the cooking is two-thirds done, surround it with a garnish of small onions cooked in butter; small, cooked mushroom-heads and olive-shaped truffles, the latter taking the place of the