749 ENTREMETS 2577—p£ches gratinees Proceed exactly as for No. 2554. 2578—PECHES MERINGUES Prepare a colourlessly-baked, flawn crust; garnish the bottom of it with frangipan cream prepared with pralin, and upon this cream set whole or halved, poached peaches. Cover with meringue and finish as explained under No. 2555. 2579—PECHES MAINTENON Take some biscuit, baked in a dome-mould and completely cooled. Cut it transversely into slices, and coat each of the latter with frangipan cream, combined with a salpicon of candied fruit and chopped, grilled almonds. Join the slices together in suchwise as to reconstruct the biscuit, and cover the latter with Italian meringue. Decorate by means of the piping-bag, and dry in the oven. Surround the biscuit with a border of fine half-peaches poached in a vanilla-flavoured syrup. 2580—PECHES A LA VANILLE Poach the halved or whole peaches in a vanilla-flavoured syrup, and set them in a timbale. Cover them to within half their height with the syrup used in poaching, thickened with arrowroot slightly tinted with pink, and combined with vanilla cream. Pears (Poires). 2581—POIRES A LA BOURDALOUE If the pears be of medium size, halve them ; if they are large, quarter them. Carefully trim the sections. Cook the pears in a vanilla-flavoured syrup, and for the rest of the operation follow No. 2549. The remarks appended to No. 2549 apply equally to pears and to all fruit prepared according to the particular recipe referred to. 2582—POIRES A LA CONDE Very small pears turned with great care are admirably suited to this entremet. If they are of medium size, halve them. Cook them in vanilla-flavoured syrup, and dish them on a border of rice as directed under No. 2551. 2583—POIRES A L’IMPERATRICE Quarter and properly trim the pears, and cook them in vanilla- flavoured syrup. Dish them in a shallow timbale between two layers of vanilla-flavoured rice for entremets, combined with a little frangipan cream. Sprinkle the upper layer with crushed macaroons and melted butter, and set the gratin to form.