45 THE SMALL COMPOUND SAUCES Remarks.—i. Villeroy sauce, of whatsoever kind, is solely used for the coating of preparations said to be “ h la Villeroy.” 2. The Villeroy Tomatde may be finally seasoned with curry or paprika, according to the preparation for which it is intended. hi—WHITE WINE SAUCE The three following methods are employed in making it: — 1. Add one-quarter pint of fish fumet to one pint of thickened Velout6, and reduce by half. Finish the sauce, away from the fire, with four oz. of butter. Thus prepared, this white wine sauce is suitable for glazed fish. 2. Almost entirely reduce one-quarter pint of fish fumet. To this reduction add the yolks of four eggs, mixing them well in it, and follow with one lb. of butter, added by degrees, paying heed to the precautions indicated under sauce Hollandaise No. 30. 3. Put the yolks of five eggs into a small stewpan and mix them with one tablespoonful of cold fish-stock. Put the stew- pan in a bain-marie and finish the sauce with one lb. of butter, meanwhile adding from time to time, and in small quantities, six tablespoonfuls of excellent fish fumet. The procedure in this sauce is, in short, exactly that of the Hollandaise, with this distinction,. that here fish fumet takes the place of the water. Hot English Sauces 112— APPLE SAUCE Quarter, peel, core, and chop two lbs. of medium-sized apples; place these in a stewpan with one tablespoonful of powdered sugar, a bit of cinnamon, and a few tablespoonfuls of water. Cook the whole gently with lid on, and smooth the pur£e with a whisk when dishing up. Serve this sauce lukewarm with duck, goose, roast hare, &c. 113— BREAD SAUCE Boil one pint of milk, and add three oz. of fresh, white bread-crumb, a little salt, a small onion with a clove stuck in it, and one oz. of butter. Cook gently for about a quarter of an hour, remove the onion, smooth the sauce with a whisk, and finish it with a few tablespoonfuls of cream. This sauce is served with roast fowl and roast feathered game.