GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 44 button-mushrooms, and sliced cocks’ combs and kidneys. The whole covered by half-glaze with Madeira, in the proportion of one tablespoonful per croustade. (5) As many fine slices of truffle as there are croustades. Put a tablespoonful of the garnish into each croustade; set thereon a slice of sweetbread; put a slice of truffle upon that, and dish the croustades on a folded napkin. 1241— PATE CHAUD DE RIS DE VEAU Butter an ordinary round hot raised pie, or a Charlotte- mould. Take about one and one-half lbs. of short paste and roll it into galettes, one-third inch thick; fold the paste over after having dredged it slightly; draw the two ends gently towards the centre, to form a kind of skullcap, which, when placed in the mould, immediately lines the latter. Avoid making folds in the paste while preparing the skullcap, for they would spoil the look of the patty when turned out. Press the paste on the bottom and sides of the mould, that the latter may impart its shape to its lining, and cut the pro- jecting paste to within half inch of the brim. Now coat the bottom and sides of the mould with a layer of chicken force- meat, of an even thickness of two-thirds of an inch. Pour into the centre of the mould a garnish composed of slices of poached veal sweetbread; sliced and cooked mush- rooms and sliced truffles; the whole covered with reduced and somewhat stiff Allemande sauce, flavoured with mushroom essence. Cover the garnish with a coating of forcemeat, and close the patty with a layer of paste, the edges of which should be moistened and sealed down all round the brim of the mould. Pinch the rim of paste inside and outside, and finish off with leaves of paste stamped out with a fancy-cutter, ribbed by means of the back of a knife, and laid upon the paste cover. Gild with beaten egg; make a central slit for the escape of steam, and set to bake in a hot oven, for from forty-five to fifty minutes. When taking the patty out of the oven, turn it out and dish it on a napkin. 1242— TIMBALE DE RIS DE VEAU Butter a timbale mould and decorate its sides with thin pieces of noodle paste, in the shape of lozenges, crescents, indented rings, discs and imitation-leaves. Excellent ornamental arrangements may be effected thus; but the reader should bear in mind that the simplest are the best. Prepare a skullcap of paste as explained under No. 1241;