POULTRY 5*5 one-half oz. of chopped mushrooms cooked in butter, and a pinch of chopped parsley. Line the bottom and sides of a pie-dish with thin slices of veal; set the pieces of fowl inside, putting the legs undermost: add five oz. of thin slices of bacon; the yolks of four hard- boiled eggs cut into two; and moisten sufficiently to three-parts cover with chicken consomm£. Cover with a layer of puff- paste, which should be sealed down to a strip of paste stuck to the edges of the pie-dish; gild; streak; make a slit in the middle of the paste, and bake in a moderate oven for one and one-half hours. When taking the pie out of the oven, pour a few table- spoonfuls of strong gravy into it. 1661—CRATES ET ROGNONS DE COQ In order to prepare cocks’ combs and kidneys, they should be first set to soak in cold water for a few hours. If they are fresh, they should be put in a saucepan of cold water; the latter should be made lukewarm, and they should then be drained and rubbed in a towel that their skins may be removed. This done, they are trimmed, and kept in fresh water, which ought to be frequently changed until they are quite white. They may then be cooked in a very light Blanc (No. 167). The kidneys are merely soaked in cold water for a few hours, and put to cook with the combs a few minutes before the latter are ready. Cocks’ combs and kidneys are mostly used as garnish; nevertheless, they also serve in the preparation of special dishes, for which I shall now give a few recipes. 1662—CRETES ET ROGNONS DE COQ A LA GRECQUE About twenty-five minutes before serving, prepare a pint of pilaff rice, combined with one half-capsicum cut into dice, and a very little saffron. Also prepare ten roundels of egg-plant, seasoned, dredged, and fried in oil just before dishing. The moment the rice is cooked, add thereto twenty-four very fresh cocks’ kidneys, frizzled in butter, and twelve fine blanched cocks’ combs, poeled after the manner of lambs’ sweetbreads. Set the whole in a silver saucepan, arrange the egg-plant roundels in a circle on the rice, and serve instantly. 1663 -DESIRS DE MASCOTTE Put three oz. of butter in a vegetable-pan, and fry it nut- brown.