relev£s and entries 355 poeling-liquor; (3) small heaps of lightly browned potatoes, cooked in butter at the last moment. Sauce to be sent separately.—The reduced poeling-liquor of the fillet, cleared of all grease and added to a Madeira sauce. 1048—FILET DE BCEUF CLAMART Lard the fillet and roast it. Set it on a long dish and surround it with :—(1) Little tartlet-crusts garnished with peas, prepared k la Fran^aise (No. 2193), combined with the ciseled lettuce used in their cooking- process, and cohered with butter; (2) small quoits of “ Pommes Macaire ” (No. 2228). Arrange the tartlet-crusts and the quoits alternately. Sauce to be sent separately.—The gravy slightly thickened. 1049—FILET DE BCEUF DAUPHINE Lard the fillet and poele it. Glaze it at the last moment; set it on a long dish, and surround it with a garnish of potato croquettes k la Dauphine, moulded to the shape of corks, and fried just before dishing up. Sauce to be sent separately.—Pale half-glaze with Madeira. 1050—FILET DE BCEUF DUBARRY Lard the fillet with bacon, and roast it. Set it on a long dish, and surround it with small heaps of cauliflower moulded to the shape of balls, coated with Mornay sauce, besprinkled with grated cheese, and put in the oven for the gratin to form just in time for the dishing up. Send a thickened gravy to the table separately. 1051— FILET DE BCEUF DUCHESSE Either roast or poele the larded fillet. If it be poeled, glaze it at the last moment. Set it on a long dish and surround it with potatoes & la Duchesse (the shape of which may be varied according to fancy), lightly browned and coloured in the oven for a few minutes before the dishing. Sauce to be sent separately.—Half-glaze with Madeira. 1052-FILET DE BCEUF FINANCIERE Poele the larded fillet. Glaze it at the last moment and set it on a long dish. Surround it with a garnish consisting of (1) quenelles of ordinary forcemeat; (2) grooved and cooked button-mushroom heads; (3) cocks’ combs and kidneys; (4) turned and blanched olives. Each garnish should be placed on the dish in distinct heaps. A A 2