RELEVES AND ENTREES 419 third oz. of salt, a pinch of pepper, and a little nutmeg. Add, little by little, five oz. of very cold frangipane panada, and two eggs. Rub through a sieve; put the forcemeat in a bowl; work it over ice, and finish it with two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions, cooked in butter, without colouration; the yolks of two eggs, and quarter pint of thick cream, added by degrees. Pour this forcemeat into a well-buttered quart Charlotte- mould; knock the latter gently on a folded serviette, with the view of settling its contents, and put it to poach in the oven in a bain-marie, for about forty-five minutes. When taking the loaf out of the oven, let it stand for five minutes, that the forcemeat inside may thoroughly settle; turn it out on a round dish, and cover it with a Duxelles, Italienne, Bordelaise, brown caper, or other sauce. 1253—COTES DE VEAL Veal cutlets may either be grilled or sauted, but the second method of cooking them is, in most cases, preferable. When they are sauted, the cutlets should be cooked in clari- fied butter, over a somewhat fierce fire and in a utensil large enough to hold them without crowding. This done, dish them; pour away the butter in which they have been cooked; swill the saucepan, i.e., dissolve the concen- trated gravy adhering to the sides and bottom of it with a liquid in keeping with the garnish; either mushroom cooking-liquor, white or red wine, or Madeira, etc.; and add this swilling- liquor, reduced, to the accompanying sauce. The latter is generally a buttered half-glaze, but the best adjunct to veal cutlets is a pale meat glaze, moderately buttered. All vegetable and paste garnishes, given under Cushion of Veal, suit veal cutlets. I must therefore beg the reader to refer to those recipes, as circumstances may dictate; and restrict myself to a few formulae which, in my opinion, are suited more particularly to veal cutlets. 1254—COTE DE VEAU A LA BONNE FEMME Put the veal cutlet into an earthenware saucepan, with one and one-half oz. of butter, and brown it well on both sides. Add six small onions cooked in butter, three oz. of potatoes cut into roundels; and complete the cooking gently in the oven, keeping the saucepan covered. Serve the preparation in the saucepan as it stands. E e 2