ELEMENTARY PREPARATIONS 81 of the very dry fat of kidneys of beef. First, chop these up separately, then combine and pound them in the mortar. Season with one-half oz. of salt, a little pepper, some nutmeg, and pound afresh until the veal and fat become a homogeneous mass. Now add four eggs, consecutively, and at intervals of a few minutes, without ceasing to pound, and taking care only to insert each egg after the preceding one has been properly mixed with the mass. Spread the forcemeat thus prepared on a dish, and put the latter on ice until the next day. The next day pound once more, and add little by little four- teen oz. of very clean ice (in small pieces); or, instead, an equal weight of iced water, adding this also very gradually. When the godiveau is properly moistened, poach a small por- tion of it in boiling water in order to test its consistence. If it be too firm, add some more ice to it; if, on the other hand, it seem too flimsy, add a little of the white of an egg. For the uses of godiveau and quenelles see No. 205. 199—VEAL FORCEMEAT WITH FAT AND CREAM Chop finely and apart one lb. of very white fillet of veal, with tendons removed, cut into cubes, and one lb. of the fat of pared kidney of beef. Combine the veal and the fat in the mortar, and pound until the two ingredients form a fine and even paste. Season with one- half oz. of salt, a little pepper, and some nutmeg, and add con- secutively two eggs and two yolks, after the manner of the pre- ceding recipe and without ceasing to pound. Strain through a sieve, spread the forcemeat on a dish, and keep it on ice until the next day. Next day pound the forcemeat again for a few minutes, and add to it, little by little, one and one-half pints of cream. Test as before, and rectify if necessary, either by adding cream or by thickening with the white of an egg. 200-CHICKEN forcemeat for galan- tines, PIES AND TERRINES The exact weight of chicken-meat used as the base of this forcemeat determines the quantities of its other ingredients. Thus the weight of meat afforded by a fowl weighing four lbs. is estimated at twenty oz. after deducting the fillets which are always reserved. Hence the quantities for the forcemeat are regulated thus:— Chicken-meat, twenty oz.; lean pork, eight oz.; fillet of veal, c