522 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY hot oven; put them in a cocotte, and complete their cooking in the oven. At the last moment sprinkle them with a few drops of lemon juice and nut-brown butter, combined with one oz. of bread-crumbs per four oz. of butter. 1649— POUSSINS A LA TARTARS Proceed exactly as for “ Poulet a la Tartare.” 1650— TOURTE DE POUSSINS A LA PAYSANNE Prepare a round layer of short paste, ten inches in diameter. Upon this paste spread two-thirds lb. of sausage-meat, com- bined with five oz. of dry Duxelles, taking care to leave a margin two inches wide of bare paste all round. Upon this coating of forcemeat set ten half-chicks, stiffened in butter; sprinkle two-thirds lb. of chopped mushrooms, sauted in butter, over them; spread a second coating of sausage-meat and Duxelles over the whole; cover with a very thin slice of bacon, and close the whole with a layer of paste a little larger than the underlying one, the edges of which should have been moistened. Seal the two edges, and pleat regularly; gild; streak; make a slit in the top, and bake in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. When taking the tourte out of the oven, pour into it, through the slit in its cover, a few tablespoonfuls of half-glaze sauce. 1651— POUSSINS A LA VIENNOISE Cut the chicks each into four pieces; season them; dredge them; dip them in beaten egg, and roll them in bread-crumbs. A few minutes before serving, put them in hot fat; drain them, and dish them in pyramid form on a folded napkin. Surround with fried parsley and sections of lemon, and serve very hot. Various Preparations of Fowl 1652— ABATIS AUX NAVETS Fry one-half lb. of blanched breast of pork, cut into dice, in butter. Drain, and fry in the same'saut^pan three lbs. of giblets, cut into pieces (all except the livers, which are only added one- quarter hour before dishing). Sprinkle with two and one- half oz. of flour; mix the latter with the pieces, and cook it in the oven for seven or eight minutes; moisten with three pints of white stock. Season with a pinch of pepper; add a faggot and a crushed, garlic clove; set to boil, stirring the while; cover, and place in a somewhat hot oven, that the pre- paration may boil gently.