GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 202 552— CONSOMME CHARTREUSE Prepare (1) eighteen small ravioles (No. 2296)—six from spinach pur£e, six from foie-gras pur£e, and the remaining six from chopped mushrooms; (2) two small tablespoonfuls ol tomato dice. Ten minutes before serving, poach the ravioles in boiling, salted water, and the tomato dice in some of the consomm^. Put the ravioles and the tomato dice (well drained) into the soup-tureen, and pour over them one quart of consomm£ with a moderate addition of tapioca. Add a pinch of chervil pluches. 553— -CONSOMME AUX CHEVEUX D’ANGE About two minutes before serving, plunge three oz. of very fine vermicelli, known as Angel’s Hair (Cheveux d’Arige) into one quart of excellent, boiling consomm6. An instant only is needed to poach the vermicelli, and the latter does not require to be blanched. This soup, like those containing pastes, should be accom- panied by freshly-grated Parmesan cheese. 554— CONSOMME COLBERT Have ready one quart of excellent Printanier chicken con- somme (No. 601). Also poach six small eggs in slightly salted and acidulated water. The eggs should be as small and as fresh as possible, both of which conditions are absolutely neces- sary for a proper poaching (see poached eggs, No. 411). Set these eggs in a small timbale with a little consomme, and send them to the table with the Printanier. Having poured the latter into the plates, put one of the eggs into each of these. 555— CONSOMME COLOMBINE Prepare a good tablespoonful of carrot pearls, and as many turnip pearls, keeping the latter very white. Cook them in the customary way, and put them in the soup-tureen with one tablespoonful of very green peas, one tablespoonful of a julienne of roast-pigeon fillets, and six poached pigeons’ eggs, which latter should be sent to the table in a timbale at the same time as the consommG Pour over the other garnish one quart of very clear, boiling, chicken consomm^, and serve immediately. This soup can only appear on summer and spring menus, when the pigeons’ eggs are in season.