POULTRY Soi Cover the saut^pan, and set the whole to stew in the oven for ten minutes. Dish the chicken; cover it with the garnish, and surround it with six small grilled tomatoes. 1550—POULET SAUTE A L’ESTRAGON Toss the chicken in butter, and dish it. Swill the saut^pan with one-sixth pint of white wine; reduce to half; add one-sixth pint of gravy in which tarragon has been infused, and thicken with arrowroot. Pour this sauce over the chicken, and decorate its wings with sprays of parboiled tarragon leaves. *551— POULET SAUTE FEDORA Saute the chicken in butter, without colouration, with four oz. of raw, sliced truffles; and dish. Swill with one-sixth pint of cream; add three tablespoonfuls of Bechamel sauce, and reduce to half. Finish, away from the fire, with one and one-half oz. of crayfish butter, a few drops of lemon juice, and a little cayenne; add four oz. of parboiled asparagus-heads to this sauce, and pour it over the chicken. Or, after having cohered them with butter, the asparagus-heads may be arranged in heaps round the fowl. 1552—POULET SAUTE AU FENOU1L Saute the chicken in butter, without colouration; swill with cream; add three quartered tuberose fennels, trimmed to the shape of garlic cloves and parboiled, and complete the cooking of the fennels and the chicken, together. Set the pieces of fennel in the form of a crown on a special earthenwarg dish, and put the chicken in their midst, placing the pieces side by side. Coat with Mornay sauce, flavoured with chicken essence, and set to glaze. 1553—POULET SAUTE A LA FERMlfcRE Slice three oz. of the red part of a carrot, the same quantity of turnip, two oz. of celery, and half an onion. Season with a little salt and sugar, and half-stew in butter. Brown the pieces of chicken in butter; put them in the cocotte with the garnish of vegetables; add thereto two and one- half oz. of ham cut into dice, and complete the cooking of both the chicken and the vegetables, in the oven. When about to serve, sprinkle with four or five tablespoon- fuls of veal stock.