739 ENTREMETS 2519—SOUFFLES Although souffles are generally served unaccompanied, some stewed, seasonable fruit, or a macedoine of fresh fruit, may, never- theless, be served with them. This, of course, only applies to soufflis with a fruit base. I have already given the formulae for so7ifflJs {No. 2405); I need now, therefore, only give the peculiarities of each particular souffle. 2520—FRUIT SOUFFLE IN A CROUSTADE Line a round, shallow, well-buttered, croustade-mould with a very thin layer of sugared paste. Spread some vanilla-flavouted, stewed apples on the bottom, and upon it lay a garnish of various seasonable fresh stewed fruits—quartered if large. The mould ought now to be half-filled. Fill it up with a vanilla-flavoured souffle preparation, and cook it in a moderate oven for about twenty-five minutes. On withdrawing it from the oven, carefully turn it out on a dish ; pour a few tablespoonfuls of heated rum into the latter, and set a light to it when serving. 2521—ALMOND SOUFFLE Make a preparation of souffle with cream, but use almond milk instead of cow’s milk, add one and a half oz. of slightly-grilled, chopped almonds, per half pint of almond milk. Dish and cook in the usual way. 2522—SOUFFLE WITH FRESH ALMONDS Proceed exactly as above, but use fresh splintered almonds instead of grilled, chopped ones. 2523—SOUFFLE WITH FILBERT Make the souffle preparation from milk in which two oz. of filbert pralin per one-sixth pint have previously been infused. Dish and cook the souffle in the usual way. 2524—souffl£ a la camargo Make a souffle preparation of tangerines, and another of filberts as above. Dish the two preparations in layers, alternated by “ lady’s-finger biscuits,” saturated with Curasao liqueur. 2525—PAULETTE SOUFFLE Take vanilla-flavoured, souffle preparation, thickened somewhat more than the ordinary kind, and add to it five tablespoonfuls of strawberry pur£e. Serve some well-cooled strawberries, coated with raspberry purde, separately. 2526—CHERRY SOUFFLE Prepare a souffle with Kirsch, accompany it with some stewed stoned cherries, covered with a raspberry purde.