82 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY eight oz.; fresh, fat bacon, thirty oz.; whole eggs, five; spiced salt, two oz.; brandy, one-fifth pint. Chop up, either together or apart, the chicken-meat, the veal, the pork, and the bacon. Put all these into the mortar, pound them very finely with the seasoning, add the eggs consecutively, and, last of all, pour in the brandy. Remarks 1. The quantity of spiced salt varies, a few grammes either way, according as to whether the atmosphere be dry or damp. 2. According to the purpose of the forcemeat, and with a view to giving it a finer flavour, one may, subject to the resources at one’s disposal, add a little raw trimmings of foie gras to it; but the latter must not, in any case, exceed one-fifth of the forcemeat in weight. 3. As a rule, forcemeat should always be rubbed through a sieve so as to ensure its being fine and even. 4. Whether the foie gras be added or not, chicken forcemeat may always be completed with two or three oz. of chopped truffles per lb. of its volume. 201— GAME FORCEMEAT FOR PIES AND TERRINES This follows the same principles as the chicken forcemeat, i.e., the weight of the game-meat determines the quantities of the other ingredients. The proportions are precisely the same as above as regards the veal, the pork, the bacon, and the season- ing. The procedure is also the same, while the appended re- marks likewise apply. 202— GRATIN FORCEMEAT FOR ORDINARY HOT, RAISED PIES Put into a saut^pan containing one oz. of very hot butter, one- half lb. of fresh, fat bacon, cut into large cubes, brown quickly, and drain on a dish. Quickly brown in the same butter one-half lb. of fillet of veal cut like the bacon and drain in the same way. Now rapidly brown one-half lb. of pale, calf’s liver, also cut into large cubes. Put the veal and the bacon back into the saute- pan with the liver, add the necessary quantity of salt and pepper, two oz. of mushroom parings, one oz. of truffle parings (raw if possible), chopped shallots, a sprig of thyme, and a fragment of bay. Put the whole on the fire for two minutes, drain the bacon, the veal, and the liver, and put the gravy aside. Swill the saut£- pan with one-quarter pint of Madeira.