374 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 1122— TOURNEDOS PERUVIENNE Prepare, after the manner described below, as many oxalis roots as there are tournedos. Peel the oxalis roots; cut a slice from underneath them, in order to make them stand upright, and hollow them out to form little cases. Chop up the pulp extracted from them in the last operation, and add it to a preparation of duxelles, made as for stuffed mushrooms. Fill the oxalis cases with this preparation, shaping it above their edges after the manner of a dome; besprinkle with raspings and oil, and put them in the oven in good time for them to be ready at the same time as the tournedos. Grill the tournedos, dish them in the form of a crown, and surround them with the oxalis cases. 1123— TOURNEDOS P1EMONTAISE Butter as many tartlet-moulds as there are tournedos; fill them with Rizotto h la Pi^montaise, combined with white truffles cut into dice, and keep them hot. Fry the tournedos in clarified butter; dish them, in the form of a crown, on the rizotto tartlets, turned out at the last minute. 1124— TOURNENOS PROVEN^ALE For ten tournedos, prepare (1) ten medium-sized mush- rooms, stuffed with duxelles, slightly flavoured with garlic, and put in the oven in good time; (2) ten half-tomatoes k la Pro- ven^ale (No. 2266). Fry the tournedos in equal quantities of butter and oil; dish them, in the form of a crown, on fried crusts, with a half- tomato upon each, and around them set the stuffed mushrooms. 1125— TOURNEDOS RACHEL Fry the tournedos in butter, and dish them, in the form of a crown, on fried crusts one-third inch thick. On each tournedos set a small artichoke-bottom, garnished with a large slice of poached marrow. Send a Bordelaise sauce separately. 1126— TOURNEDOS ROSSINI Fry the tournedos in butter, and dish them, in the form of a crown, upon fried crusts. On each tournedos set a round slice of foie gras, just a little smaller than the former; the slices should be seasoned, dredged, and fried in butter. On each slice of foie-gras, set a fine slice of truffle.