FISH 315 quenelles of whiting forcemeat with crayfish butter; ten poached oysters (cleared of their beards); ten small mushroom-heads (very white); ten truffles in the shape of olives, and ten poached slices of milt. Drain the chicken-turbot just before dishing it, and slip it on to a dish. Surround it with the garnish detailed above, arranged in alternate heaps, and serve a Normande sauce, fin- ished with two tablespoonfuls of truffle essence per pint, separately. 936—TURBOTIN SOUFFLE A LA REYNIERE Lay the chicken-turbot on its belly, and make twTo gashes in its back, on either side of the spine, from the head to the tail. Completely separate the fillets from the bones; cut the spine at both ends; carefully raise it from the underlying, ventral fillets, and entirely remove it. Season the inside of the fish, and garnish it with enough fish mousseline forcemeat to give it a rounded appearance. Close in the forcemeat by drawing the two separated fillets over it; turn the piece over, and lay it on a well-buttered, deep, oval dish, the size of which should be in proportion to that of the chicken-turbot. Poach it gently, almost dry, with lid on, in fish fumet and the cooking-liquor of mushrooms mixed, i.e., two-thirds pint of the one and one-third pint of the other. This done, dish it carefully, and lay a row of grooved and white mushroom-heads down the centre of it. On either side put some very white, poached milt, alternating the latter with whole anchovy fillets, in such wise as to form an oval enframing the row of mush- rooms. Send to the table, separately, a sauce composed of Soubise cullis and white-wine sauce, in the proportion of one-third and two-thirds respectively, combined with the reduced cooking- liquor of the chicken-turbot. 937—TURBOTIN FEUILLANTINE Stuff the chicken-turbot after the method described in the preceding recipe, but substitute lobster mousseline forcemeat for that mentioned above. Poach as directed above, and dish. Coat the fish with lobster butter, made as red as possible, from the carcass of the lobster whose meat has been used for the forcemeat. From head to tail and down the centre of the fish lay a row of fine slices of truffle, letting them overlap each other slightly.