562 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 1768— AIQUILLETTES DE CANETONS A L’^CARLATE Poele a Rouen duckling until it is just cooked, and let it cool in its liquor. Raise the fillets; skin them, and cut them each into eight thin slices. Coat them with a brown chaud- froid sauce, and decorate with truffles. Prepare an equal number of slices of tongue the size and shape of the slices of duckling, and coat them with aspic. With the remains and the meat of the legs, prepare a mousse, and pour it into a square or oval silver dish; let it cool, and then set the aiguillettes of duckling and the slices of tongue upon it, alternating them in so doing, and cover the mousse with aspic. 1769— MOUSSE ET MOUSSELINES DE CANETON ROUENNAIS These are prepared with the same quantities as the chicken mousses and mousselines, but they allow of no other sauce than the Rouennaise or the Bigarrade, nor of any other garnishes than sections of orange, cherries, vegetable purges, or creams. 1770— MOUSSE DE CANETON ROUENNAIS With the exception of the nature of the principal ingredient, the preparation, quantities, and moulding of this mousse are the same as for chicken mousse. The reader is, therefore, begged to refer to No. 1670, which may be applied perfectly well to Rouen duckling. 1771— SOUFFL6 FROID DE CANETON A L’ORANGE Proceed as for the “ Caneton aux cerises,” but with this difference, that the duckling is used entirely for the mousse. Serve, similarly, in a square dish, and surround with sec- tions of oranges skinned raw. Cover with an aspic jelly flavoured with the juice of Seville oranges, and combined with a liqueur-glassful of Curasao per pint of jelly. 1772— TERRINE DE CANETON ROUENNAIS A LA GELI2E First prepare the following forcemeat:—Heat three oz. of fat bacon, cut into small dice, and three oz. of butter in a frying-pan. Throw six fine ducks’ livers (seasoned with salt and pepper, and sprinkled with a pinch of powdered thyme, bay-leaf, and half an onion chopped) into this fat. Toss them over a fierce fire, just long enough to heat them; leave them to cool, and rub them through a sieve. Bone the breast of a Rouen duckling and its back as far as the region of the legs, and suppress the tail. Stuff it with the preparation given above; truss as for an entree, and put