GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 516 1624— TURBAN DE FILETS DE POULET Take the required number of fillets, which is determined by the size of the mould to be used. Flatten these fillets out somewhat thinly, and trim them neatly on both sides. With these fillets, line a buttered savarin-mould; setting a row of thin slices of truffle between each of the fillets, and allowing the latter to hang over the edge of the mould. Over the fillets spread a layer of mousseline forcemeat, two-thirds in. thick. Three-parts fill the remaining space with a large tongue, truffles and mushrooms salpicon, cohered by means of a reduced Allemande sauce. Cover this salpicon with forcemeat, so as to fill the mould, and then draw the overlapping ends of the fillets across the forcemeat. Set to poach in the bain-marie for about forty minutes; and, upon withdrawing the mould, let it stand for five minutes, that its contents may settle. Turn out upon a round dish; pour a Toulousaine garnish (see Poularde No. 1524) in the middle, and surround the turban with a thread of Allemande sauce. 1625— MIGNONNETTES DE POULET Take the required number of small, minion fillets of pullet; trim them; make six incisions in each, and half-insert into each of these incisions alternate thin roundels of truffle and tongue. Set these minion fillets on a buttered dish, and shape them like rings. Trim and indent the edges of as many artichoke-bottoms as there are minion fillets, and heat them in butter. Garnish these artichoke-bottoms, dome-fashion, with a very white and some- what stiff chicken pur£e. Sprinkle the minion fillets with a little mushroom cooking-liquor, and poach them in the oven for from five to six minutes. Set the artichoke-bottoms in a circle on a round dish, and set a minion fillet upon each. Serve a very delicate Supreme sauce, separately. 1626— NONNETTES DE POULET AGNES SOREL Truss twelve ortolans for entries, and stiffen them in butter for a moment. Raise the fillets of twelve spring chickens; trim them; flatten them slightly and pair them off, putting the edges of one on the other, that a larger surface may be obtained.