147 HORS-D’CEUVRES as the slices themselves, of mustard butter. Cover the butter with thin slices of very red, salted tongue, and let the butter harden. Stamp out the pieces of toast with a star-shaped fancy-cutter, which should be dipped from time to time in boiling water in order to facilitate the operation. Finally, make a rosette of mustard butter in the middle of each piece of toast. 324—LUCILE TOAST Make the pieces of toast oval, cover with mustard butter, and border their edges with a line of finely chopped and very red tongue. Garnish the middle of each with chopped white chicken-meat, and in the centre drop a pinch of chopped truffle. 325— VARIOUS CAROLINES These are very small Eclairs of pdte a choux without sugar. When quite cold, garnish them inside with a pur£e, either of tongue, fowl, game, or foie gras, &c., then coat them thinly with a chaud-froid sauce in keeping with the pur£e form- ing the inside garnish. When the sauce has cooled, glaze it, by means of a brush, with a little cold melted jelly, with a view to making it glossy. N.B.—Carolines are also used as a garnish for certain cold preparations, aspics, &c. 326— CAVIARE AND BLINIS Caviare is undoubtedly the richest and most delicate of hors-d’oeuvres, granted, of course, that it be of good quality and consist of large, light-coloured, and transparent particles. Its price is always high, owing to the difficulty attending its importation. It is served very simply, either in a silver tim- bale or in its original receptacle, surrounded with ice, and accompanied by a dish of Blinis, whereof the preparation is as follows:— Make a thin paste with one oz. of yeast and one lb. of sifted flour diluted with one pint of lukewarm milk. Leave this paste to ferment for two hours in a lukewarm atmosphere, and then add thereto one-half lb. of flour, the yolks of four eggs, a pinch of salt, one-half pint of tepid milk; mix the whole without letting it acquire any body, and finally add the whites of four eggs, whisked. Let the preparation ferment for half an hour, and, when about to serve, cook the Blinis quickly, after the manner of pancakes, in special little omelet- pans. Dish them up very hot on a napkin. L 2