737 ENTREMETS 3510—CHESTNUT SOUFFLED PUDDING Cook two lbs. of peeled chestnuts in a light, vanilla-flavoured syrup. Rub them through a sieve, add five oz. of powdered sugar and three oz. of butter to the pur£e, and dry it over a fierce fire. Thicken it with eight egg-yolks and finish it with the whites of six eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Poach in buttered moulds in a bain-marie. As an accompaniment, serve, either an English custard, or a vanilla-flavoured apricot syrup. 2511—MOUSSELINE PUDDING Work four oz. of butter and four oz. of powdered sugar to a pomade, and add the yolks of ten eggs, one by one; meanwhile stirring the preparation. Set the latter on a moderate fire until it veneers the withdrawn spoon ; then immediately add the whites of seven eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the whole into a deep, buttered border-mould, which only half fill, in view of the subsequent expansion of the preparation while cooking. Poach in a bain-marie for about thirty minutes, and let the pudding stand for ten minutes before turning it out. As an accompaniment serve a light Sabayon or a fruit sauce. 2512—SOUFFLED PUDDING A LA REGENCE Make a souffled-pudding preparation flavoured with vanilla, and poach it in a bain-marie, in a mould clothed with sugar cooked to the caramel stage. Serve an English custard, prepared with caramel, separately. 2513—SOUFFLED PUDDING A LA REINE Take some vanilla-flavoured, soufflM-^ndd'mg preparation. Take a mould with a central tube ; butter it, and besprinkle it with chopped pistachios and crushed macaroons. Set the pre- paration in the mould in layers, alternated by coats of chopped pistachios and crushed macaroons ; and poach in a bain-marie. As an accompaniment serve an English custard combined with pralin. 2514—SOUFFLED PUDDING A LA ROYALE Line the bottom and sides of a buttered Charlotte-mould with thin slices of biscuit spread with jam and rolled up. Garnish the mould with a souffled-pudding preparation, and poach in a bain- marie. Serve an apricot sauce flavoured with Marsala, separately. 3 B