GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 53* supreme neatly upon it, in two rows, and between each row lay a dozen fine crayfish tails shelled and trimmed. Coat the whole with half-melted aspic jelly; set in a deep dish; incrust the latter in a block of ice, and pour enough very good, melting aspic jelly (No. 159) over the pullet to half- immerse it. 1688— POULARDE AU CHAMPAGNE Stuff a pullet two days beforehand with a whole foie gras studded with truffles and stiffened in butter for twenty minutes. Poele it in champagne; put it in a cocotte; cover it with its poeling-Yiquor, containing a sufficient addition of succulent jelly, and leave it to cool. On the morrow remove, by means of a spoon, the grease that has settled on the jelly, and scald the latter twice or thrice with boiling water, in order to remove the last traces of grease. Serve this pullet very cold, in the same cocotte in which it has cooled. 1689— POULARDE EN CHAUD = FROID Poach the pullet; let it cool in its cooking-liquor; cut it up, and clear the pieces of all skin. Dip the pieces in chaud-froid sauce, already prepared from the pullet’s cooking-liquor if possible, and arrange them on a tray. Decorate each piece with a fine slice of truffle; glaze with cold, melted jelly; leave to set, and trim the edges of the pieces, just before dishing them. Old method of dishing : Formerly, chaud-froids were dished on a cushion of bread or rice, placed in the middle of a border of jelly; and, between each piece, cocks’ combs and mushrooms, covered with chaud-froid sauce or jelly, were set. They were also dished on stearine tazzas, made in special moulds; but these methods, however much they may have been honoured by old cookery, are generally scouted at the present day. The method of dishing detailed hereafter is steadily ousting them; it allows of serving much more delicate and more agree- able chaud-froids in the simplest possible way, and was inaugurated at my suggestion at the Savoy Hotel. Modern method of dishing : Set the decorated pieces, coated with chaud-froid sauce, side by side on a layer of excellent aspic jelly, lying on the bottom of a deep square dish. Cover them with the same aspic, which should be half melted, and leave to set. When about to serve, incrust the dish in a block of carved ice, or surround it with the latter fragmented.