GAME 597 1893—CAILLES AUX PETITS POIS A LA ROMAINE Cook the quails in butter. At the same time, fry in butter one small new onion and two-thirds oz. of raw, chopped ham, for each quail. Add some peas, shelled at the last moment, and cook without any moistening whatsoever. The moisture contained in the ham and peas is sufficient for the cooking. The peas should be ready simultaneously with the quails. Serve the quails and the peas separately, in little, closed tim- bales. The diner mixes them. 1894—CAILLES AUX RAISINS Cook the quails in butter. Swill the utensil with a few drops of dry, white wine and a little verjuice; add half a tablespoonful of strong game fumet for each quail; and dish in a very hot cocotte with about one oz. of fresh peeled grapes for each quail. 1895—CAILLES RICHELIEU Select some fresh and plump quails; remove their gizzards; season them inside with a grain of salt and a few drops of brandy; insert a piece of raw truffle into each bird, and truss them as for an entrde. Set them in a sautepan, snugly pressed one against the other, and season them with salt. Cover them with a coarse julienne of carrots, onions and celery, cooked in butter, and prepared as far as possible from new vegetables. Moisten, just enough to cover, with some succulent amber- coloured veal stock, gelatinous and fine; cover, boil, and then poach gently for twelve minutes. This done, add a julienne of truffles (raw if possible) which should equal only half of the vegetable julienne, and poach for a further two minutes, that the truffles may cook and the quails be done. Dish in a timbale, clear of grease, and pour the cooking- liquor and the julienne over the quails. Pilaff rice is often served with quails prepared in this way. 1896—RIZOTTO DE CAILLES Into each quail insert a piece of fresh, pounded pork fat, the size of a hazel nut, combined with an equal quantity of white truffle; and cook them in a saucepan with butter. Add their fat to a previously-prepared Rizotto. Dish this rizotto in a timbale, and hollow it out so as to make a nest for the quails. Sprinkle the latter with the saucepan-swillings, consisting of game fumet; and send the dish to the table at once.