lOO GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY for twenty-five or thirty minutes. It is at this stage that they are purified by means of the careful removal of all the scum that forms on their surface. When dishing up complete them, away from the fire, with three oz. of butter per quart of soup, and pass them once more through a strainer. Puree Garnishes.—These are usually either small fried crusts, small dice of potato fried in butter, a chiffonade, some kind of little brunoise, or, more generally, chervil pinches. 240— CULLISES Cullises have for their base either poultry, game, or fish. The thickening ingredients used are:— For fowl, two or three oz. of rice, or three-quarters pint of poultry velout6 per lb. of fowl. For game, three or four oz. of lentils, or three-quarters pint of game Espagnole per lb. of game. For fish, a clear panada made up of French bread soaked in boiling salted milk. Use five oz. of bread and one good pint of milk per lb. of fish. Having strained and made up the Cullises, boil them while stirring (except in the case of fish cullises, which must not boil, and must be served as soon as they are made), then place them in a bain-marie and butter their surfaces lest a skin should form. At the last moment complete them with two or three oz. of butter per quart. The garnish of poultry or game cullises consists of either small dice of game or fowl-fillets, which should be kept aside for the purpose; a fine julienne of these fillets, or small quen- elles made from the latter, raw. The garnish of fish cullis is generally fish-fillets poached in butter and cut up into small dice or in julienne-fashion. 241— BISQUES The invariable base of Bisques is shell-fish cooked in mire- poix. Their thickening ingredients are, or may be, rice, fish velout6, or crusts of bread fried in butter, the proportion being three oz. of rice, ten oz. of bread-crusts, or three-quarters pint of fish velout6 per lb. of shell-fish cooked in mirepoix (No. 228). When the soup is strained, treat it in precisely the same way as the cullises. The garnish consists of small dice of the meat from the