FRUIT-STEWS AND JAMS 827 This jelly is as fragile as it is delicate, and should be kept in the dry. 2970—ORANGE JELLY In order to make one quart of orange jelly, take twelve oranges, each weighing about five oz.; one-third pint of good apple juice, one lb. of loaf-sugar, and a tablespoonful of grated orange sugar. The latter is obtained by rubbing the rinds of the oranges with loaf-sugar, and then grating the sugar so coloured and flavoured with a hard knife. If the jelly be desired garnished, insert a fair-sized, candied orange-rind cut into small strips. Preparation:—Thoroughly press the oranges and filter the juice ; prepare the apple juice, and set the sugar to dissolve with a few drops of water. Add the orange and apple juice to the sugar, and cook the jelly like the preceding ones. Leave it to cool for ten minutes ; mix with it the orange sugar and the candied rind, and pour it into pots. 2971—APPLE JELLY Proceed exactly as for quince jelly, and strain the apple juice without pressing the fruit. Do not cook the latter over much, lest the juice becomes mixed with pulp. Nevertheless, this should be very carefully poured away ; for, in spite of the greatest care, there is always a certain amount of deposit. Put the juice into the preserving pan, with thirteen oz. of loaf- sugar and one-third of a stick of vanilla per quart. Cook, and strain through muslin, as in the case of quince jelly. 2972— TOMATO JELLY (1st Method) Prepare the tomatoes as directed under No. 2962. Per lb. of drained juice allow one good pint of apple jelly, twenty oz. of sugar, and a large vanilla stick. Put into the preserving-pan the sugar, the apple jelly, and the vanilla-flavoured tomato juice, and put the utensil on the side of the fire for five minutes. This done, set the whole to cook on a fierce fire, until the "nappe" stage is reached. 2973— TOMATO JELLY (2nd Method) Take the same amount of juice as in the preceding case. Use red-currant jelly instead of apple jelly, and prepare the former from red and white currants in the proportion of one-third of the former to two-thirds of the latter. Use the same amount of vanilla as above. Put the latter into the preserving-pan;