ENTREMETS 725 (No. 2352), and then set them on a tray ; sprinkle them with sugar glaze, and dry the pralin in a moderate oven. Stick a fried-bread-crumb cushion, four inches high, on a dish, and surround it with a salpicon of pineapple, raisins, cherries, and sugared orange-rind, cohered with some stiff stewed apples, combined with a little apricot purde. Set the pralm-coated triangles upright alongside of the salpicon, and surround them with a border of half-pears, stewed in syrup, half their quantity being white and the other pink. On the top of the cushion, set a small pear, cooked in pink syrup, which fix with a small hatelet, surround the border of half- pears with a thread of apricot pur<£e, flavoured slightly with vanilla, and serve a sauceboat of the same purde separately. 2458—CROUTE A LA NORMANDE Prepare the crusts as indicated under No. 2454, coat them with very stiffly stewed apples, and dish them in a circle. Garnish their midst with stewed apples, prepared as for u Charlotte, and upon the apples set a pyramid of quartered, white and pink apples, cooked in syrup. Cover with reduced apple syrup, thickened with a little very smooth stewed apples flavoured with Kirsch or old rum. 2459—CROUTE A LA PARISIENNE Coat the crusts with pralin, as explained under No. 2457, and dish them in a circle. In their midst set some thin slices of pine- apple, the ends of which should rest upon the circle of crusts ; in the middle, pour a garnish of various fruits, cohered with an apricot pur£e, flavoured with Madeira, and coat the circle of crusts with apricot syrup flavoured with Madeira. 2460—CROIJTE AUX ABRICOTS AU MARASQUIN Cook some Savarin paste in buttered tartlet moulds. When these tartlets are cooked, hollow them out at the top, taking care to leave a somewhat thick border all round. Coat them inside with pralin (No. 2352), and dry them in a moderate oven. Then garnish the centre of the tartlets with frangipan cream, combined with filbert pralin. Upon this cream set a stoned apricot poached in Maraschino. Surround the apricot with small, candied half-cherries, alter- nated with lozenges of angelica. Serve an apricot sauce, flavoured with Maraschino, separately. 2461—CROUTE VICTORIA Prepare a srsst after No. 2456, and garnish the centre with