199 SOUPS With the same spoon take the same quantity as above of very black truffle; also prepare a dariole-mould of royale made from asparagus heads, and a dozen small chicken-forcemeat quen- elles, which should be moulded to the shape of large pearls. Poach the quenelles, cut the royales up into slices, which must be stamped with an indented fancy-cutter, and put the whole into the soup-tureen with the carrots, turnips, and truffle pearls, and one tablespoonful of very green peas. Pour a quart of chicken consomm£ over the garnish, and send to the table at once. 543—CONSOMME A LA BOH&VIIENNE Prepare three dariole-moulds of foie-gras royale, and twelve profiterolles (No. 218) of the size of hazel-nuts, the latter being made very crisp. When the royale is cold, cut it into little, regular squares, and put these into the soup-tureen. When about to serve, pour over this garnish a quart of chicken consomm^, thickened by means of three tablespoonfuls of tapioca, poached and strained through linen. Send the profiterolles to the table separately, and very hot. 544—CONSOMME BOIELDIEL) Prepare eighteen chicken-forcemeat quenelles, moulded by means of a small teaspoon; some should be stuffed with foie- gras pur£e, moistened with a little velouffl; others with chicken pur^e; and yet others with truffle pur6e—in short, six of each kind. Place these, one by one, on a buttered saut6-pan; poach them, drain them, and put them in the soup-tureen with a tablespoonful of white chicken-meat, cut into dice. When about to serve, pour one quart of chicken consomm6, thickened as above with tapioca, over the garnish. 545—CONSOMME BOUQUETIERE Prepare a garnish of carrots and turnips, cut with the tubular cutter or with the spoon ; French beans cut into lozenges, asparagus-heads, and green peas, all of which vegetables should be fresh and young. Cook each vegetable according to its nature, and put the whole into the soup-tureen. When about to serve, pour over the garnish one quart of chicken consommd thickened with two tablespoonfuls of tapioca, poached and strained through fine linen.