59o GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY Colin (Ortix Virginianus), an excellent bird sometimes seen in English markets. All the recipes given for pheasants may be applied to par- tridge, and below, I shall only give those which are proper to the latter. 1864— PERDREAU A LA BOURGUIGNONNE Truss the partridge as for an entree; three-parts poele it, and place it in a terrine with six small glazed onions and as many small, cooked mushroom heads. Swill the saucepan with a glassful of red wine; reduce it two-thirds, and add a table- spoonful of game half-glaze. Strain; clear of grease; pour this sauce over the partridge, and complete the latter’s cooking for seven or eight minutes. 1865— PERDREAU EN DEMNDEUIL Bone the breast and fill the partridge with truffled partridge forcemeat, prepared with panada or butter. Between the skin and the fillets, slip a few slices of very black truffle; truss as for an entree; wrap the piece in muslin, and poach it for thirty minutes in a game fumet. When about to serve, remove the muslin; take the string off, and dish the partridge. Reduce the fumet in which the partridge has poached; strain it; add thereto a liqueur-glassful of burnt liqueur-brandy, and send this reduced fumet sepa- rately. 1866— PERDREAU EN ESTOUFFADE Brown the partridge in the oven and set in a terrine just large enough to hold it, with a tablespoonful of Matignon (No. 227) and one crushed juniper berry, on top and beneath. Add one-half oz. of butter, a liqueur-glassful of burnt brandy, and twice that amount of game fumet. Close the terrine; seal down the lid with a strip of paste; bake in a hot oven for twenty-five minutes and serve the dish as it stands. 1867— PERDREAU A LA LAUTREC Select a young partridge; open its back; slightly flatten it with a butcher’s beater; pierce it through with a skewer; season it with salt, pepper and melted butter, and gently grill. At the same time grill six small mushroom-heads. Dish the partridge; on either side of it set the mushrooms, each of which should be garnished with a coffeespoonful of Maitre-d’hotel butter; surround the mushrooms with a thread of melted meat glaze and sprinkle the partridge with a few drops of lemon juice.