227 SOUPS milk or white consomm£, according as to whether the pur£e is to be a Lenten one or not; add two medium-sized minced potatoes, and complete the cooking gently. Rub through tammy, test the consistence, and add, if neces- sary, either a little boiled milk or some consomm£; despumate, and add butter. Garnish with two tablespoonfuls of Japanese pearls poached in consomm£ or milk. This soup may also be prepared as a velout£ or a cream. 636—PUREE DE FLAQEOLETS, otherwise MUSARD Cook together with the ordinary aromatic garnish three- quarters pint of dry flageolets, or, if they are in season, use twice that quantity of fresh ones. Drain, pound, and moisten the pur£e with a little of the cooking-liquor of the flageolets, rub through tammy, and rectify the consistence with some white consomm^ and the necessary quantity of boiled milk. Despumate, and butter it when about to dish up. Garnish with two tablespoonfuls of small bread dice fried in butter. This soup may also be prepared as a velout^ or a cream, but for either of the latter it is preferable to use fresh flageolets, the garnish for both consisting of very small flageolets and chervil pluches. 637—PUREE DE HARICOTS BLANCS, otherwise SOISSONNAISE Cook in the usual way, that is to say, with carrots, a faggot, and one onion stuck wdth a clove, a good half-pint of dry haricot beans. Crush all these, moisten with a few tablespoonfuls of their cooking-liquor, and rub through tammy. Rectify the consistence of the pur£e with the necessary quantity of white consomm^ and milk, despumate, add butter when about to dish up, and garnish with small bread dice. This soup may also be prepared as a velout6 or a cream. 638—PUREE DE HARICOTS VERTS, otherwise CORMEILLES Parboil one and one-half lbs. of French beans and keep them very green. After having well drained them, stew them for ten or twelve minutes in one oz. of butter, moisten with one pint of white consomm^, and add two medium-sized minced potatoes for the thickening. Q 2