324 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 957— MOUSSE DE HOMARD MOULEE When the mousse is intended for moulding, it is well to decorate and “ clothe ” the mould with fish jelly some time in advance. I have already explained that to “clothe” a mould with jelly, all that is needed is to pour therein a few table- spoonfuls of melted jelly, and then to rock the utensil on ice. By this means a thin even coating sets on the bottom and sides of the mould, which, when the moulding is turned out, swathes the latter in a transparent film. This “ clothing ” of jelly may be made more or less thick, according to the requirements, by simply using more or less jelly, and by proportionately lengthening or shortening the time for rocking the mould. When the mould is clothed, decorate the sides with large slices of very black truffle dipped in melted jelly, that they may stick. This done, fill the receptacle with the prepared mousse (see the preceding recipe), and leave to set in the cool. For the turning out of the mould and the dishing of the moulding, proceed as for the aspic. 958— PETITES MOUSSES DE HOMARD For these small mousses, use little cassolettes or silver tim- bales. First let a thin layer of jelly (one or two tablespoonfuls, according to their size) set on the bottom of each utensil, and then surround the latter with bands of white paper, the ends of which should be stuck together, and should reach one inch above the brims of the cassolettes. The preparation of mousse may now be placed in the cassolettes in a sufficient quantity to overflow the brims, so that, when the paper is removed, their appearance is that of small souffles. When the cassolettes have been garnished, put them aside on ice or in a refrigerator until they are served. 959— HOMARD A LA GRAMMONT Split the lobster open lengthwise down the middle. With- draw the meat from the tail; trim it, and cut it into regular collops. Coat the latter again and again with aspic jelly, that they may be well covered with it; decorate each with a slice of truffle, and glaze it with the same aspic. Also coat with jelly as many very white poached and dried oysters as there are collops. Now take the creamy parts and the meat of the claws, and pound them finely with one tablespoonful of cold Bechamel