GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 750 2584— POIRES A LA PARISIENNE Bake a GJtioise base in a flawn-ring, and, when it is almost cold, saturate it with Kirsch-flavoured syrup. In the middle of this base set a little dome of vanilla-flavoured rice, and surround it with pears, cooked in syrup and set upright. Border them with a thread of ordinary meringue, squeezed from a piping-bag, fitted with a fair-sized, grooved pipe ; by the same means make a fine rosette of meringue on top of the dome, and bake this meringue in a mild oven. On taking the dish out of the oven, glaze the pears with a brush dipped in rather stiff apricot-syrup, and surround them with a border of half-sugared cherries. 2585— POIRES A LA SULTANE Halve or quarter the pears; trim them well, and cook them in a vanilla-flavoured syrup. For the rest of the operation follow No. 2557. 2586— POIRES A LA REGENCE Turn the pears; cook them whole in a vanilla-flavoured syrup, and let them cool in the syrup. When they are cold cut them in two lengthwise, slightly hollow out the inside of each half; garnish the hollow with rice for entremets, combined with a quarter of its weight of frangipan cream and a fine salpicon of candied fruit, macerated in Kirsch. Join the two halves of each pear, and treat them & Panglaise with very fine bread-crumbs. Fry them at the last moment, and, on taking them out of the fat, stick an angelica stalk into each. Dish them on a napkin, and serve a Kirsch-flavoured apricot sauce separately. 2587— TIMBALE DE POIRES A LA VALENCIENNES Two-thirds garnish a buttered Charlotte-mould with Savarin paste. Let the paste rise by fermentation ; bake it, and let it cool. Remove the top which acts as a cover, and put it aside; then remove all the crumb from the inside, leaving only the outside crust, and smear the latter with apricot syrup. Decorate with alternate bands of sugar grains and chopped, very green pistachios. Treat the cover with apricot syrup and decorate it in the same way. Quarter some “Duchesse,” “Beurr£,” “Doyenn£” or other creamy pears ; peel them ; cut them into somewhat thick slices, and cook them in butter after the manner of Pommes a Charlotte. When the pears are well cooked, mix with them a quarter of their weight of apricot jam, and flavour with vanilla liqueur.