FISH 329 Sprinkle with a pinch of chopped parsley, and serve at once. 968—ECREVISSES A LA NAGE For twelve crayfish, ten minutes beforehand prepare a court- bouillon of one-half pint of white wine, one-quarter pint of fish fumet, a few roundels of carrot and onion, one stalk of parsley cut into dice, a small pinch of powdered thyme and bay, and a very little salt and cayenne pepper. Put the crayfish into the boiling court-bouillon; cover, and leave to cook for ten minutes, taking care to toss the crayfish from time to time. When about to serve, pour the crayfish with the court- bouillon and the aromatics into a timbale. 969— ECREVISSES A LA LIEGEOISE Cook the crayfish in court-bouillon as explained in the pre- ceding recipe. Dish them in a timbale, and keep them hot. Strain the court-bouillon’, reduce it by a quarter; add one oz. of butter, and pour it over the crayfish. Sprinkle with a pinch of concassed parsley. 970— MOUSSELINES D’ECREVISSES What I said with reference to “ Mousseline de Homard ” (No. 951) applies perfectly here, and my remarks relative to the variation of the garnishing ingredients, which are the same as those in No. 951, also hold good. 971—TIMBALE DE QUEUES D’ECREVISSES A LA NANTUA For ten people prepare (1) a shallow timbale crust, and a cover decorated with a design of leaves or some other orna- mental treatment; (2) toss sixty crayfish in butter with two tablespoonfuls of very fine mirepoix cooked in butter before- hand. When the crayfish are of a distinct red, moisten with one glass of white wine and three tablespoonfuls of burned brandy; season with salt and cayenne pepper; cover them, and keep them on the side of the fire for ten minutes, taking care to toss them again from time to time; (3) shell the tails and put them into a small saucepan with twenty small quenelles of whiting forcemeat, finished with crayfish butter; fifteen small, grooved mushrooms, cooked and very white, and three oz. of truffles in slices. Add a few drops of the mushroom cook- ing-liquor to this garnish, and keep it hot; (4) pound the remains and carcasses of the crayfish very finely; add two-thirds pint of cream sauce to the resulting pur£e; rub it through tammy, and add it to the garnish ; (5) when about to serve, pour