GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 508 In the latter case, they are opened in the thickness, by means of the point of a small knife, to form sacks; and, in the resulting interstice the selected stuffing is inserted, with the help of a piping-bag fitted with a little, even pipe, and in a sufficient quantity to fill out the supremes well. Supremes and cutlets are always cooked without liquor, or almost so; for should any moistening liquid even approach the boil, it would immediately harden them. If they be desired poached, it would be best to cook the whole fowl, and cut them from the latter when it is cooked. This is how they are prepared, according as to whether they be required colourless or sauted; though the brown method of preparing them is applied more particularly to cutlets. Cutlets or supremes sauted: Season them with salt; roll them in flour; set them in a vegetable pan containing some very hot clarified butter, and quickly gild them on both sides. These pieces of fowl are so tender that they are cooked and gilded at the same moment of time. Cutlets or supremes prepared without colouration : Season them, and set them in a vegetable-pan, containing some fresh, melted, unclarified butter. Roll the supremes in this butter; add a few drops of lemon juice; thoroughly seal the vegetable- pan, and put it in a very hot oven. A few minutes suffice for the poaching of the supremes, which are known to be ready when they seem resilient to the touch, and are perfectly white. Important Remarks : Chicken Supremes or cutlets should never be allowed to wait, lest they harden. They should be cooked quickly, at the last moment; dished and served imme- diately. The shortest wait is enough to spoil them, and to make an insipid and dry preparation of what should be an exquisite dish. N.B.—The recipes given hereafter for supremes may of course be applied to fillets, cutlets, ailerons, blanc de poulet, &c. 1584—SUPREMES DE VOLAILLE AGNES SOREL Line some oval buttered tartlet-moulds with mousseline forcemeat. Upon the latter, put some raw, sliced mushrooms, tossed in butter; cover with forcemeat so as to fill the mould, and poach in the bain-marie. Turn out in a circle on a round dish; put a poached supreme on each tartlet; coat with Allemande sauce; deck with a truffle girt by a ring of very red tongue, and surround the supreme with a thread of pale, meat glaze.