497 POULTRY minutes. The other pieces, i.e., the wings and breast, are then added, but when the sauce is sufficiently reduced, it must stop boiling. When the pieces are completely cooked, it is obviously unnecessary for the sauce to boil, since the former would only be hardened thereby. A few minutes before serving, put the pieces into a deep entree dish (fitted with a cover) in the following order:—The pieces of carcass, the claws and the pinions on the bottom of the dish, upon these the legs and the breast, and, last of all, the wings. The sauce is then finished according to the directions of the recipe, and is poured over the pieces of fowl. Some chickens are prepared without colouration—that is to say, the pieces are merely stiffened in butter without browning, and their cooking is completed in the oven as above. In this case the swilling-liquor is invariably white, as also the supple- mentary sauces, and the latter are finished with cream. 1533—POULET SAUTE ARCHIDUC Fry the pieces of fowl without colouration, i.e., merely stiffen them. Add four oz. of onions, previously cooked in butter, and complete the cooking of the onions and the fowl together. Withdraw the pieces; dish them; cover the dish, and keep it hot. Moisten the onions with a small glassful of liqueur brandy; reduce the latter; add thereto one-sixth pint of cream and one-sixth pint of velout6, and rub through tammy. Reduce this sauce to a stiff consistence; finish it, away from the fire, with one and one-half oz. of butter, the juice of the quarter of a lemon, and a tablespoonful of Madeira, and pour it over the fowl. Set about ten slices of truffle on the latter, and serve. 1534—POULET SAUTE ARLESIENNE Saute the chicken in oil, and withdraw the pieces. Swill with one-quarter pint of white wine; add a piece of crushed garlic as large as a pea, one-sixth pint of tomated half- glaze sauce, and reduce by a third. Dish the chicken, and surround with alternate heaps of onion and egg-plant roundels, seasoned, dredged, and fried in oil, and concassed tomatoes cooked in butter. 1535—POULET SAUTE ARMAGNAC Cook the pieces of chicken in butter without colouration; add thereto three and one-half oz. of raw slices of truffle, and dish in a shallow cocotte. Swill with a small glassful of old liqueur brandy; add a few K K