66o GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 2210— CROQUETTES DE POMMES DE TERRE Prepare the necessary quantity of “ Croquette ” paste (No. 219), and divide it into two-oz. portions. Roll these to the shape of corks or pears; treat them a Vanglaise, and put them into very hot fat, five or six minutes before serving. 2211— CROQUETTES DE POMMES DE TERRE A LA DAUPHINE Take the required amount of “ Pommes Dauphine ” pre- paration (No. 220); divide it into two-oz. portions; mould these to the shape of corks; treat them a Vanglaise, and fry them like ordinary croquettes. 2212— POMMES DE TERRE A LA DUCHESSE Use the same preparation as for No. 2210. Mould the por- tions to the shape of small cottage-brioches, galettes or small loaves, or shape them by means of the piping-bag. Arrange them on a buttered tray; gild them with beaten egg, and colour them in a fierce oven for seven or eight minutes before serving them. 2213— POMMES DE TERRE DUCHESSE AU CHESTER Use the same preparation as for No. 2210, and combine it with two oz. of grated Chester per lb. Mould it to the shape of very small galettes; set these portions on a buttered tray; gild them with beaten eggs; cover each with a thin slice of Chester, and set them in the oven for seven or eight minutes before serving. 2214— POMMES DE TERRE FONDANTES Cut the potatoes to the shape of large, elongated olives, and let each weigh about three oz. Gently cook them in butter, in a saut^pan, and take care to turn them over. When they are cooked, withdraw them, so as to slightly flatten them with a fork without breaking them. Drain away their butter; return them to the saut£pan with three oz. of fresh butter per every two lbs. of their weight, and cook them with lid on until they have entirely absorbed the butter. 2215— POMMES DE TERRE EN ALLUMETTES Trim the potatoes square, and then cut them into small rods, of one-fifth in. sides. Put them in hot fat, and let them dry well before draining them. 2216— POMMES DE TERRE CHATOUILLARD Trim the potatoes, and cut them into long even ribbons one- eighth in. thick. Treat these ribbons like “ Pommes souffles ” (see No. 2221).