GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 528 cooked in white consomm^, and ten small grooved mushroom- heads. Finish at the last moment with a pinch of chopped parsley and chives. Thicken the sauce at the last moment with the yolks of two eggs, four tablespoonfuls of cream, and one oz. of best butter. Dish in a timbale, and surround the fricassee with little flowerets of puff-paste, baked without colouration. 1668— FRICASSEE DE POULET AUX ECREVISSES Prepare the fricassee as above, and add thereto as garnish ten small, cooked mushrooms, and the shelled tails of twelve crayfish, cooked as for bisque. When about to serve, finish the fricassee with two and one-half oz. of crayfish butter, made from the crayfishes’ carcasses and their cooking-liquor rubbed through linen. Dish in a timbale. 1669— FRITOT OU MARINADE DE VOLAILLE Cut some boiled or roast fowl into slices, and marinade these in a few drops of oil, lemon juice, and some chopped herbs for one-quarter hour. Boiled fowl is preferable, in that the greater porousness of its meat facilitates the percolation of the marinade through it. A few minutes before serving, dip the slices into very light batter, and put them into very hot fat. Drain, the moment the batter is well gilded; dish on a napkin with fried parsley, and serve a tomato sauce separately. N.B.—Nowadays Fritot and Marinade of fowl are identically the same dish, but formerly they differed in this, namely, that the Fritot was prepared from cooked fowl, and the Marinade from pieces of uncooked fowl which were marinaded before- hand. 1670— M0US5ES ET MOUSSELINES DE VOLAILLE Both these preparations have for basic ingredient the mous- seline forcemeat of No. 195. They differ in that the “ Mousses ” are prepared singly for one service, i.e., for several people at once, and that the “ Mousselines,” which are vir- tually special quenelles, are prepared in the proportion of one or two for each person. In different parts of this work, especially under No. 797, the subject has already been exhaustively treated; there is no need now, therefore, to go over the ground again.