DRINKS AND REFRESHMENTS 817 while the coffee cools. Then add one quart of very cold, boiled milk, in which half a stick of vanilla should have infused, and one pint of very fresh cream. Freeze the whole in a freezer, taking care to keep the prepara- tion almost liquid, and serve it in very cold cups. 2937—LEMONADE Dissolve half-lb. of loaf-sugar in one quart of filtered water. Add the juice and the zests of the rinds of two lemons, and let infusion proceed in the cool for three hours. Pass the whole through a fine strainer; add one syphonful of seltzer water, and serve with a thin roundel of lemon in each glass. 2938—PINEAPPLE WATER Finely chop one and a half lbs. of fresh or preserved pineapple ; put it into a basin and pour over it one quart of boiling syrup at 20°. Let it cool, and infuse for two hours. Strain through a woollen bag ; add a piece of ice and sufficient seltzer water to reduce the liquid to 9°. Keep the preparation in the cool for a further twenty minutes, and complete it, when about to serve, with three liqueur-glassfuls of Kirsch. 2939—CHERRY WATER Stone two lbs. of very ripe cherries, and rub them through a sieve. Put the purde into a basin with the stones, crushed in the mortar, and let the whole macerate for one hour. Then moisten with one pint of filtered water, and strain the juice through a woollen bag, or muslin folded in two and stretched. Add a piece of well-washed ice and six oz. of loaf-sugar, and put the whole in the cool for twenty minutes. Flavour, when about to serve, with four liqueur-glassfuls of Kirsch. The saccharometer should register 90 when inserted into this preparation. 2940—RASPBERRY-FLAVOURED, RED-CURRANT WATER Rub through a sieve, over a basin, twelve oz. of red and white currants, and four oz. of very ripe raspberries. Add to the currant- water one pint of filtered water, six oz. of loaf-sugar, and one piece of washed ice. Keep the whole in the cool for twenty minutes, and stir it from time to time with a silver spoon, that the sugar may dissolve. Degree the same as in No. 2939. 2941—MELONADE Rub one lb. of just-ripe melon pulp through a sieve. Put it uito a basin and pour over it one pint of boiling syrup at 20°. 3 G