68 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY and that for big joints such as saddle or leg the time should not exceed four days. 170— MARINADE FOR MUTTON, ROEBUCK-STYLE This is exactly the same as cooked marinade, No. 168. There need only be added one oz. of juniper berries, a few sprigs of rosemary, wild thyme, and basil, two extra garlic cloves, and one quart less of water. 171— MARINADE WITH RED WINE FOR MUTTON By substituting red wine for white in the preceding formula —the quantity of the liquid equalling that of the water—and by slightly increasing the quantity of aromatics, an excellent marinade for mutton is obtained, which in summer enables one to preserve mea^ otherwise perishable, for some days. 172— BRINE Mode of Procedure.—Put the salt and the water in a tinned copper pan, and put it on an open fire. When the water boils, throw in a peeled potato, and, if the latter float, add water until it begins to sink. If, on the contrary, the potato should sink immediately, reduce the liquid until it is able to buoy the tuber up. At this stage the sugar and saltpetre are added; let them dissolve, and the brine is then removed from the fire and is allowed to cool. It is then poured into the re- ceptacle intended for it, which must be either of slate, stone, cement, or well-jointed tiles. It is well to place in the bottom of this reservoir a wooden lattice, whereon the meats to be salted may be laid, for, were the immersed objects to lie directly on the bottom of the receptacle, the under parts would be entirely shielded from the brine. If the meats to be salted are of an appreciable size, they should be inoculated with brine by means of a special syringe. With- out this measure it would be impossible to salt regularly, as the sides would already be over-saturated before the centre had even been properly reached. Eight days should be allowed for salting a piece of beef of what size soever, above eight or ten lb., since the process of inoculation equalises the salting. Ox-tongue intended for salting, besides having to be as Quantities Required for Fifty Quarts. 56 lbs. of gray salt. 50 quarts of water. 6 lbs. of saltpetre. 3J lbs. of brown sugar.