VEGETABLES AND FARINACEOUS PRODUCTS 637 The best way to prepare them is to toss them quickly in butter. 2087—BRIONNE (Chow-chow) This excellent vegetable, which has only become known quite recently, is beginning to be appreciated by connoisseurs. It is in season from the end of October to the end of March—that is to say, at a time when cucumbers and vegetable marrows are over. It greatly resembles these last-named vegetables, and is prepared like them, while the recipes given for cardoons may also be applied to it. 2088—CHICORY, ENDIVE AND BELGIAN CHICORY (Chicoree Frisee, Escarole, Endive) Three kinds of chicory are used for cooking, viz : — 1. Curled chicory, improperly termed “Endive” in England. 2. Flemish chicory, which is genuine endive in its primitive state, i.e., grown in the open air. It greatly resembles Escarole. 3. Brussels chicory, or the Belgian kind; obtained from cultivating the root of Flemish chicory in the dark. This last kind is quite different from the first two, both with regard to its quality and its culinary treatment, and it will be dealt with later under the name of “ Endive.” 2089—CHICOREE A LA CR^ME Parboil the chicory for ten minutes in plenty of boiling water. Cool it; press the water out of it, and chop it up. Cohere it with four and one-half oz. of pale roux per two lbs. of chicory; moisten with one quart of consomm£; season with salt and a pinch of powdered sugar, and braise in the oven, under cover, for one and one-half hours. Upon withdrawing it from the oven, transfer it to another saucepan; add three-fifths pint of cream and two oz. of butter, and dish in a timbale. 2090—PAIN DE CHICOREE Braise the chicory as described above. Upon withdrawing it from the oven, mix with it (per lb.) five stiffly-beaten eggs; put it into an even, buttered mould, and set to poach in a bain-marie. Before unmoulding the “ loaf,” let it rest awhile, that the middle may settle. Turn out just before serving, and cover with a cream sauce. 2091—PUREE DE CHICOREE Braise the chicory, and rub it through a sieve. Mix it with one-third of its bulk of smooth mashed potatoes with cream; heat; add butter away from the fire, and dish in a timbale.