ENTREMETS 7*7 When about to serve them, quickly treat them d tanglaise; set them (opened side uppermost) in a frying-basket, and dip them for a few seconds in smoking fat. Withdraw them as soon as their crusts have acquired a golden colour; sprinkle them with icing sugar ; dish them on a napkin, and serve them immediately. 2424—VIENNESE FRITTERS Quantities for the paste of Viennese fritters: one lb. of flour ; six oz. of butter; half oz. of yeast; five eggs ; half oz. of salt; two-third oz. of sugar; and one-sixth pint of milk. This paste is prepared exactly like Brioche paste (No. 2368). In any case, as it has to be worked with the rolling-pin, always keep it a little firm. 2425—HOT VIENNESE FRITTERS Roll out a piece of the paste given above to a thickness of one-fifth inch. Spread upon it, at regular intervals, small quantities (about the size of a large walnut) either of stewed fruit or jam. Moisten slightly ; cover with a second layer of paste, of the same size and thickness as the former ; press upon it with the back of a round cutter, so as to ensure the joining of the two layers of paste, and then stamp the whole out with an even cutter two and a half inches in diameter. Set the fritters on a tray covered with a flour-dusted piece of linen ; let the paste ferment for thirty minutes, and then fry them in plenty of hot fat. Drain them ; sprinkle them with icing sugar and dish them on a napkin. N.B.—These fritters may be accompanied by frothy sauces, flavoured with vanilla, lemon, orange, coffee, or kirsch, &c., the type of which is the Sabayon with cream. 2426—COLD VIENNESE FRITTERS Roll out a piece of the paste prescribed, which should be kept somewhat soft, and stamp it out with a round cutter two and a half inches in diameter. Set half of these roundels of paste on buttered sheets of paper, lying on trays ; garnish them either with stewed fruit or jam ; slightly moisten their edges ; cover them with the remaining roundels of paste, and let the paste ferment for thirty minutes. A few minutes before serving, grasp the ends of the sheets of paper; plunge the fritters into plenty of hot fat, and withdraw the sheets of paper as soon as the fritters fall from them.