RELEVES AND ENTREES 367 Drain the butter away; swill the saut^pan with white wine, and add to this a quantity of Chasseur sauce, which should be in proportion to the number of tournedos. Set to boil for a moment or two, and pour the sauce over the tournedos. 1090— TOURNEDOS CHORON Season the tournedos, and fry them in butter. Set them on crusts fried in butter; round the top of each lay a thread of Choron sauce (No. 64), and in the middle of each set a medium-sized artichoke-bottom garnished with peas or asparagus-heads cohered with butter. All round, arrange a border of potatoes, lightly browned in butter, or heap them in the middle of the crown of tournedos. N.B.—The sauce may be served separately. 1091— TOURNEDOS COLIGNY 1. With a preparation of sweet potatoes, made after the manner of “ Duchesse potatoes” (No. 221), make as many small galettes as there are tournedos, and of the same size as the latter. Place them on a tray; gild them, and set them to brown in the oven a few minutes before the tournedos are ready. 2. Cut some chow-chows in thick, paysanne fashion; par- boil them; stew them in butter, and add thereto an equal quantity of Proven^ale sauce. Season the tournedos, and fry them in butter; dish them in the form of a crown, on the galettes of potato, and cover them with the paysanne of chow-chow. 1092—TOURNEDOS A L’ESTRAGON Season the tournedos, and fry them in butter. Dish them in the form of a crown, and on each set either a spray of parboiled tarragon leaves or a lattice composed of the latter. Send separately a thickened gravy with tarragon (No. 41). 1093—TOURNEDOS FAVORITE Season the tournedos; fry them in clarified butter, and dish them, in the form of a crown, on crusts stamped out with an indented cutter and fried in butter. On each tournedos place a round collop of foie gras, a little smaller than the piece of meat; the collop should be seasoned, dredged, and tossed in butter. On each collop of foie gras put a fine, glazed slice of indented truffle. Garnish the centre of the dish with a fine heap of asparagus-tops cohered with butter, or merely set these in small heaps round the tournedos.