VEGETABLES AND FARINACEOUS PRODUCTS 665 2240—POMMES DE TERRE ROBERT Prepare a composition of “ Pomme Macaire,” and add thereto, per lb., three eggs and a large pinch of chopped chives. Cook in the frying-pan as for “ Pomme Macaire.” 2241—POMMES DE TERRE A LA ROXELANE Bake six fine Dutch potatoes in the oven. Withdraw the pulp from their insides, and work it, together with one-third lb. of butter and four egg-yolks, and enough fresh cream to thin it. Complete with the whites of two eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Set this preparation in small timbales, made from brioches the knobs of which have been removed, and the under halves of which have been emptied of all crumb. Sprinkle with chopped truffle, and bake in a mild oven as for a souffle. 2242—POMMES DE TERRE A LA SAVOYARDE Proceed as for No. 2222; but replace the milk by some con- somme. 2243—POMMES DE TERRE A LA SAINT-FLORENTIN Prepare some “ Pommes Croquettes ” paste (No. 219). Combine therewith (per lb.) two oz. of chopped, lean ham. Roll the portions into the shape of corks; dip them in beaten eggs, and roll them in vermicelli. This done, flatten so as to give them a rectangular shape, and fry them in very hot fat. 2244—POMMES DE TERRE SCHNEIDER Proceed as directed under No. 2230; but for the milk sub- stitute some consomm6. Reduce in the same way, and finish with butter, melted meat glaze, and chopped parsley. 2245—POMMES DE TERRE SUZETTE Peel some fine, Dutch potatoes, and turn them to the shape of eggs. Cut them flat at one end that they may stand upright, and bake them on a tray in the oven. Open them like a boiled egg; put aside the pieces thus cut off, and withdraw the pulp from their insides. Season this pulp, and work it; adding to it the while, per lb., two oz. of butter, two egg-yolks, a few tablespoonfuls of thick cream, and a little salpicon of the white of a chicken, tongue, truffles, and mush- rooms. Fill the potato-shells with this preparation ; readjust the covers, and set them in the oven for ten minutes. On withdrawing them from the oven, set the potatoes on a dish, and glaze them with melted butter.