534 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY Then cut them into rectangles of equal sizes; and, if neces- sary, bisect them in the thickness. Prepare a slab of mousse (made from the legs and the trimmings), twice as thick as the rectangles. Smoothen this mousse neatly, and put it in the refrigerator that it may get firm. This done, cut it into pieces exactly equal in size to the supremes; to do this, all that is necessary is to stick the latter on the mousse by means of jelly. Now coat each supreme garnished with mousse with white chaud-froid sauce, and decorate with a bar of notes, imitated with truffles. Set in a square, deep silver dish; cover with limpid and melting chicken jelly; leave to set, and serve the dish incrusted in a block of ice. ,693—CHAUD-FROID DE POULARDE A LA ROSSINI Prepare the pieces as for ordinary chaud-froid, and coat them with chaud-froid sauce combined with a quarter of its bulk of very smooth foie-gras pur£e. Decorate each piece with a lyre composed of truffle stamped out with a “lyre ” fancy-cutter, set them on a deep, square dish, and cover with chicken jelly as above. 694—POULARDE A LA DAMPIERRE Completely bone the pullet’s breast, and stuff it with a preparation of chicken forcemeat (No. 200). Sew up the piece, truss it as for an entrde, and poach it in a chicken stock. When it is cold, trim it, and coat it with a white chaud-froid sauce, combined with a little almond milk. Glaze with aspic jelly, and set it, without decorating it, on a low cushion lying on a long dish. Surround it with six small, ham mousses and six small, chicken uiousses, moulded in deep dariolc-moulds, and arranged alternately. Border the dish with croutons of jelly, cut very neatly. 1695—POULETS A L’ECARLATE Bone the breasts of three fair-sized chickens; stuff and poach them as explained above. When they are quite cold, cover them with white chaud-froid sauce; decorate with pieces of truffle; glaze with aspic jelly, and leave to set. This done, set them upright on a dish, letting them lean one against the other. Between each chicken set a salted calf’s tongue, upright, with the tip of the tongue pointing upwards; and, on either side of the tongues, a large glazed truffle.