GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 642 2108— CAULIFLOWER AND BROCCOLI (Chou-fleur et Broccoli) Broccoli differs from cauliflower in the colour of its flower and the arrangement of the parts of the latter. In the broccoli the flower is of a deep violet. English broccoli never reach the size of those grown in the South of France. Many do not even grow to a head, while their flowers—the size of hazel-nuts—are scattered among the interstices of the surrounding leaves. Cauliflowers and large broccoli allow of the same treatment. 2109— CHOU-FLEUR A LA CREME Cut the cauliflowers into bunches; remove the small leaves which are attached, and cook the cauliflower in salted water. Thoroughly drain; set the bunches in a timbale, reconstruct- ing the cauliflower in so doing, or on a dish covered with a folded napkin, and serve a cream sauce separately. 2110— CHOU-FLEUR AU GRATIN Having well drained the cauliflower, dry it in butter for a few minutes; mould it in a bowl, and pour a few tablespoonfuls of Mornay sauce into it. Coat the bottom of a dish with the same sauce, and turn out the cauliflower on the dish; completely cover with Mornay sauce; sprinkle with grated cheese mixed with raspings; bedew with melted butter, and set the gratin to form. 2111— CHOU-FLEUR A LA MILANAISE Set the cauliflower on a buttered dish sprinkled with grated cheese. Also sprinkle the cauliflower with cheese; add a few pieces of butter, and set the gratin to form. On taking the dish out of the oven, sprinkle the cauliflower with nut-brown butter, and serve immediately. 2112— CHOU-FLEUR A LA POLONAISE Thoroughly drain the cauliflower, and set it on a buttered dish. Sprinkle it with chopped, hard-boiled egg-yolks and chopped parsley, mixed. When about to serve, bedew with nut-brown butter, in which one-half oz. of fine bread-crumbs (per three oz. of butter) should have been fried. 21,3—CAULIFLOWER WITH VARIOUS SAUCES Cook the cauliflower in salted water. Drain it thoroughly, and set it in a timbale. Serve at the same time either a sauce- boat of Melted Butter, a Butter, a Hollandaise, or a Mousseline sauce, &c.