POULTRY 507 sauce; simmer for two minutes, and pour over the chicken, which should be dished in a cocotte. 1578— POULET SAUTE VICHY Colour the chicken in butter; add one-half lb. of half-cooked carrots a la Vichy (No. 2061) to it, and complete the cooking of the chicken and the carrots under cover in the oven. Swill with a few tablespoonfuls of veal stock; dish the pullet, and cover it with the garnish of carrots. 1579— POULET SAUTE VERDI Prepare a border of rizotto k la Piemontaise. Saute the chicken in butter; set it in the centre of the border, and on the latter arrange a crown of slices of foie gras, tossed in butter, alternated with slices of truffle, resting against the chicken. Swill with Asti wine; reduce; add three tablespoonfuls of veal stock and one and one-half oz. of butter, and pour this sauce over the pieces of chicken. 1580—FILETS. 1581—SUPREMES. 1582—COTELETTES 1583—AILERONS OF CHICKEN The terms “ Fillet ” and “ Supreme ” are synonymous, and either one or the other may be used for variety to express the same thing on a menu. They are names given to the breast of the fowl, divided into two along the sternum, and cleared of all skin. Each fillet or supreme comprises the large and the minion fillets. When suprernes are taken from a small chicken, the minion fillets are not removed; if the chicken be an ordinary one or a pullet, the minion fillets are removed, cleared of all tendons, and twisted into rings or crescents, after having been contised with slices of truffle that are half-inserted into the little incisions, made at regular intervals in the meat with the point of a knife. Prepared in this way, these fillets are generally included in the garnish of the supremes. Chicken ailerons and cutlets (the latter must not be mistaken for those prepared from cooked meat and which are only a kind of croquette) are supremes to which the humerus-bone of the wing is left adhering. Cutlets are always cut from such fowls as chickens k la Reine, or very fleshy, spring chickens. The same rule applies to supremes : though, sometimes, the latter are cut from pullets. But, in that case, as they would be too large, they are cut into three or four very regular pieces, which are slightly flattened, and trimmed to the shape of hearts or ovals; except when they have to be stuffed.