701 ENTREMETS a few pipped Malaga raisins may be laid on the bottom of the moulds. As in the case of the Savarin, the paste should only fill one-third of the mould. 2373—ORDINARY PATE A CHOUX Quantities.—One pint of water; eight oz. of butter; one-third oz. of salt; one oz. of sugar; one lb. of sifted flour; sixteen fair- sized eggs, and a tablespoonful of orange-flower water. Procedure.—Put the water, butter, salt, and sugar in a sauce- pan and boil. When the liquid boils and rises, take the saucepan off the fire; add the flour, and mix. Return the saucepan to a moderate fire, and stir the paste until it ceases to stick to the spoon, and the butter begins to ooze slightly. Take the saucepan off the fire; add the eggs, two at a time, taking care to mix each couple thoroughly with the paste before inserting the succeeding couple. When all the eggs have been absorbed, finish the paste with orange-flower water. 2374—COMMON PATE A CHOUX (For Souffled Fritters, Gnochi, Potatoes k la Dauphine) Proceed as directed above, but reduce the quantity of butter to three oz., and the number of eggs to twelve; avoid drying this paste overmuch. 2375—RAMEQUINS AND GOUGERE PASTE This is prepared exactly like ordinary “ Pate k Choux,” except that: — 1. Milk takes the place of water. 2. The sugar and orange-flower water are omitted. 3. For the quantities given (No. 2373), eight oz. of fresh Gruy&re, cut into dice, are added to the paste, after all the eggs have been added to it. 2376—PATE A GENOISE FINE Put into a copper basin one lb. of powdered sugar and sixteen eggs. Mix the two; place the basin upon hot cinders or on the hob, and whisk its contents until they reach the “ ribbon ” stage (see remarks below). Then add the selected aroma (vanilla sugar, orange rind, or liqueur, in the proportion of one tablespoonful of vanilla sugar or orange rind, and one liqueur-glass of liqueur, to the quantities given above), twelve oz. of sifted flour, and eight oz. of melted butter, the latter being carefully poured into the paste without allowing it to bubble. Mix these ingredients with the paste, raising the latter by means of a spatula that it may not get heavy. Bake it in buttered and dredged moulds. Remarks.—A preparation of Biscuit or Gtnoise reaches the