GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 270 merated layers of garnish, and join them so as to properly en- close the latter. Now fold the two remaining ends over to the centre in a similar way. Place the coulibiac thus formed on a baking- tray, and take care to turn it over in order that the joining parts of the paste lie underneath. Set the paste to rise for twenty-five minutes, sprinkle some melted butter over the coulibiac, sprinkle with some very fine raspings, make a slit in the top for the escape of vapour, and bake in a moderate oven for forty-five or fifty minutes. Fill the coulibiac with freshly-melted butter when withdrawing it from the oven. Darnes de Saumon The few recipes dealing with “ Darnes de Saumon,” which I give below, may also be adapted to whole salmon after the size of the fish has been taken into account in measuring the time allowed for cooking. 790—DARNE DE SAUAION CHAMBORD As already explained, the term ” darne ” stands for a piece of salmon cut from the middle of that fish, and the size of a darne is in proportion to the number of people it is intended for. Proceed after the manner directed under “ The Braising of Fish ” (No. 780); moisten in the proportion of two-thirds with excellent red wine and one-third with fish stock, calculating the quantity in such wise that it may cover no more than two-thirds of the depth of the darne. Bring to the boil, then set to braise gently, and glaze the darne at the last moment. Garnish and Sauce.—Garnish with quenelles of truffled mousseline forcemeat for fish, moulded by means of a spoon ; two large ornamented quenelles; truffles fashioned like olives; pieces of milt dipped in Villeroy sauce, treated a Vanglaise and fried when about to dish up; small gudgeon or smelts treated similarly to the milt, and trussed crayfish cooked in court- bouillon. The sauce is a Genevoise, made from the reduced cooking- liquor of the darne. Dishing Up.—Surround the darne by the garnishes enu- merated, arranging them tastefully, and pierce it with two hatelets, each garnished with a small truffle, an ornamented quenelle, and a crayfish. Send the sauce to the table separately.