426 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY fricadelles therein; brown them on both sides, and then com- plete their cooking in the oven. This done, set them on a round dish, and serve them, either with a vegetable pur£e, a Piquante or a Robert sauce. Fricadelles with Cooked Meat.—For ten fricadelles, each weighing two and one-half oz., chop one lb. of cooked veal, fat and lean, somewhat finely. Put it into a bowl with a large pinch of salt, another of pepper, and a little nutmeg. Add the pulp of three fair-sized potatoes, baked in the oven ; three oz. of chopped onions, cooked in butter without colouration; one large egg, and one table- spoonful of chopped parsley. Mix well; divide up into portions of the weight already given, and shape and cook them as in the previous case. These fricadelles are served with vegetable purges and the sauces suited to those prepared from raw meat. 1278— PAUPIETTES DE VEAU Paupiettes or scrolls are made from extremely thin slices of veal, four in. long by two in. wide. After having seasoned them, cover them with forcemeat or very fine mincemeat; roll them, with their forcemeat-coat inside, into scrolls, and tie them round, once or twice, with string, that they may keep their shape while cooking. They are sometimes covered with thin rashers of bacon. Paupiettes are always braised, gently and protractedly. They are generally garnished with vegetable purges; but they may be served just as well with all vegetable garnishes. By making them half the usual size, they may, after having been braised, serve as the garnish for a timbale, together with noodles, gniokis, spaghetti, or with Financi&re, Milanaise or Napolitaine garnish, etc. 1279— SAUTES DE VEAU The pieces best suited to veal sautes are : the breast and the shoulder, as also those parts of the haunch other than the cushion and undercushion. 1280— SAUTE DE VEAU A LA MARENGO Heat one pint of oil in a saut^pan, until it smokes. Put therein two lbs. of veal, cut into pieces, each weighing two oz., and fry until the latter are well set. Add a chopped half onion and a crushed half-clove of garlic, and fry again for a few moments. Drain away the oil, tilting the saut^pan with its lid on, for