GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 7* 1. Saline seasonings.—Salt, spiced salt, saltpetre. 2. Acid seasonings.—Plain vinegar, or the same aromatised with tarragon; verjuice, lemon juice, and common- or Seville- orange juices. 3. Hot seasonings.—Peppercorns, ground or concassed pepper, or mignonette; paprika, curry, cayenne, and com- pound spices. 4. Saccharine seasonings.—Sugar and honey. Condiments are likewise subdivided, the three classes being:— (1) The pungents.—Onions, shallots, garlic, chives, and horseradish. 2. Hot condiments.—Mustard, gherkins, capers, English sauces, such as Worcester, Harvey, Ketchup, Escoffier’s sauces, &c.; the wines used in reductions and braisings; the finishing elements of sauces and soups. 3. Fatty substances.—Most animal fats, butter, vegetable greases (edible oils and cocoanut butter). Remarks.—In cookery it should be borne in mind that both excellence and eatableness depend entirely upon a judicious use and a rational blending of the aromatics, seasonings, and con- diments. And, according as the latter have been used and apportioned, their action will be either beneficial or injurious to the health of the consumer. In the matter of seasoning there can be no question of approximation or half measures; the quantities must be exact, allowing only of slight elasticity in respect of the various tastes to be satisfied. 175— CLARIFIED BUTTER A certain quantity of clarified butter should always be kept ready and handy. To prepare this butter, put one lb. to melt in a saucepan large enough to hold twice that amount. Place the saucepan on the side of the fire, over moderate heat; remove all the scum which rises to the surface, and, when the butter looks quite clear and all foreign substances have dropped to the bottom, put the liquid carefully away and strain it through muslin. 176— FAGGOTS (BOUQUETS GARNIS) The name “ faggot ” is given to those little bunches of aromatics which, when the contrary is not stated, are generally composed (in order to weigh one ounce) of eight-tenths oz. of