644 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 2121— CUCUMBER AND VEGETABLE MARROW (Concombres et Courgettes) Though of different shapes, these two vegetables allow of almost the same treatment when they are cooked. They are especially used as garnishes. 2122— CONCOMBRES A LA CREME Peel, and cut the cucumber to shapes resembling olives; parboil and drain these pieces. This done, three-parts cook them in butter; moisten with boiling cream, and finish the cooking in reducing the cream. At the very last moment add a little Bechamel sauce with the view of slightly thickening the preparation, and dish in a timbale. 2123— CONCOMBRES GLACES After having shaped them like large garlic cloves, quickly parboil them. This done, treat them as directed under “ Carottes glac^es,” and roll them sufficiently in their cooking- liquor, reduced to the consistence of a thick syrup, to thoroughly coat them with it. 2124— CONCOMBRES FARCIS.—A Cut the cucumbers into two-inch lengths; peel, parboil, and drain them. Then hollow them out to form small, round cases; set them side by side in a sautepan, and cook them in butter. When they are three-parts cooked, fill them with a raw, chicken forcemeat, effecting this operation by means of a piping-bag. The forcemeat should be slightly moulded in the cucumber cases. Complete the cooking of the cucumber, gently, while poach- ing the forcemeat. 2125— CONCOMBRES FARCIS.—B Peel the cucumbers; split them open lengthwise, and empty them by means of a root-spoon. This done, parboil and drain without cooling them. Garnish each half-cucumber, level with the edges, with a chicken forcemeat, prepared with frangipane, and combined with a third of its weight of Duxelles. Reconstruct the cucumbers by placing the halves one against the other; wrap them each in a slice of bacon, and then in a piece of muslin, and finally string them. This done, braise them in the usual way. When they are cooked, remove their wrappings, and cut them into roundels the thickness of which is determined by the size of the piece of which they are the adjuncts.