2I5 SOUPS from a pur^e of ordinary julienne, a small macedoine of vege- tables, comprising one heaped tablespoonful each of carrots and turnips divided up by means of a small grooved spoon and cooked in the usual way, one tablespoonful of small peas, the same quantity of fine French beans cut into lozenges, and one tablespoonful of asparagus-heads. Cut the royale into regular roundels; put these in the soup- tureen with the macedoine of vegetables, and, when about to serve, pour thereon the boiling chicken consomm6. Add a pinch of fine chervil pinches. 598—LA PETITE MARMITE For Ten People.—Prepare a consomm^ in a special earthen- ware stock-pot in accordance with the procedure indicated in recipe No. 1, but with the following quantities, viz., two lbs. of lean beef and as much breast of beef, one marrow-bone tied in a muslin-bag, and the necks, the pinions, and the giz- zards of six large fowls, these giblets being inserted in the stewpan one hour before dishing up. Moisten with three and one-half quarts of water and add three-quarters of an oz. of salt. Set to boil, skim as indicated, and cook gently with the view of obtaining a very clear broth. One hour before serving add six oz. of carrots and the same quantity of turnips, both cut to the shape of large olives, five oz. of the white of leeks, and a heart of celery. Cook a quarter of a very white, properly blanched cabbage, separately, in a saucepan with a little consomm£ and some stock grease. When about to serve test the seasoning of the consomm^, which latter should be very clear; thoroughly clean the stewpan, which may even be covered with a clean napkin; withdraw the marrow-bone; take it out of its muslin-bag, and send it and the cabbage to the table separately, accompanied by a plate of small pieces of hot toast for the marrow. 599—THE POT-AU-FEU Prepare this exactly like the Petite Marmite. 600—POULE AU POT, or Poule au Pot Henri IV This is a variation of the Petite Marmite, in which a tender and very fleshy hen is substituted for the giblets of fowl. Strictly observe the rule of never using a new earthenware stock-pot before having boiled water in it for at least twelve hours. Also bear in mind that earthenware stock-pots should be washed in hot water only, without any soda or soap.