GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 650 2156— RED BEANS (Haricots Rouges) Red beans are cooked in salted water with one-third lb. of lean bacon, one pint of red wine, one carrot, one onion stuck with a clove, and one faggot per quart of beans. The bacon should be withdrawn as soon as cooked. These beans are cohered by means of manied butter, and they are then mixed with the bacon, which is cut into dice and frizzled in butter. 2157— FRENCH BEANS (Haricots Verts) French beans are among the greatest vegetable delicacies; but they have to be prepared with the utmost care. Their quality is such that they are almost always good, in spite of faulty preparation—so common in their case; but, when they are cooked with care, no other vegetable can surpass them in perfection of flavour. They should be taken quite fresh, and they should not be cooked too long. They are best when they seem a little firm to the teeth, without, of course, being in the least hard. They must not be cooled when cooked; they should only be sauted over the fire with the view of causing the evaporation of their moisture. After having seasoned them with salt and pepper, add to them (per lb.) about three oz. of very fresh butter, cut into small pieces; saute them so as to effect their leason, and straightway serve them. Do not add chopped parsley to French beans, unless it be very tender and gathered and chopped at the last moment. 2158— HARICOTS PANACHES This consists of French beans and flageolets, in equal quan- tities, cohered with butter. 2159— pur£e de haricots verts Cook the French beans in salted water; drain them well, and stew them in butter for eight or ten minutes. Rub them through a fine sieve, and mix the resulting pur£e with half its bulk of very creamy, flageolet pur£e. Lettuces (Laitues) 2160— LAITUES BRAISI§ES AU JUS After having parboiled, cooled, and pressed the water out of them, tie them together in twos or threes, and braise them as directed under No. 275. This done, cut them in two, unfold the end of each half, and set them on a dish, in the form of a crown; alternating them with heart-shaped croutons fried in butter. Or, merely dish them in a timbale.