POULTRY 553 rally just large enough to hold the requisite amount for one service, or in a silver timbale, incrusted in ice. 1740—MOUSSELINES DE FOIE GRAS I have oftentimes explained that the substance is the same from which mousses and mousselines are prepared, and I have pointed out wherein the difference between them lies. Just like the other mousselines, those of foie gras are made in egg- or quenelle-moulds, or others of the same kind. Foie- gras mousselines are, according to circumstances, either simply glazed with aspic, or coated with chaud-froid sauce and dished in a timbale with jelly. They may also be moulded in little paper cases. 1741—PAIN DE FOIE GRAS From a cold foie gras, braised in Madeira, cut a few collops and put them aside. Clear the cooking-liquor of all grease, reduce to half, and add the yolks of four eggs and one-half lb. of butter, proceeding as for a Hollandaise sauce. Complete with a grilled, crushed, hazel-nut, two leaves of dissolved gela- tine, and, when the preparation is only lukewarm, mix there- with (without working the whole overmuch) what remains of the foie gras, rubbed through a sieve. Spread this preparation in layers in an aspic-clothed and decorated mould, separating each layer with other alternate layers consisting of the reserved collops and some slices of truffle. Cover the last layer with aspic, and set the mould in a re- frigerator for a few hours. When about to serve, turn out, and border the dish with fine, aspic jelly croutons. 1742—PARFAIT DE FOIE GRAS Fresh foies gras do not bear transport very well, and, when sent from a distance, often reach their destination tainted. It is, therefore, difficult, whatever care may have been bestowed on their preparation, to obtain the results which are achieved by manufacturers who are renowned for this kind of produce. Con- sequently, it is preferable to buy the Parfait of foie gras ready- made from a good firm rather than to try to make it oneself. 1743—PAVE DE FOIE GRAS LUCULLUS Let a coat of aspic, one-half inch thick, set on the bottom of a square timbale, and lay thereon a few slices of truffle. Upon this jelly spread a layer, two-thirds inch thick, of foie-gras pur£e, thinned by means of a little melted jelly. When this pur£e has set, lay on it a few foie-gras collops and slices of