230 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY These soups derive a particular and agreeable flavour from their cohering element. The chief point to be remembered in their preparation is their consistence, which should be that of a thin cream. When too thick, these soups are pasty and disagreeable; when too thin, they are insipid; hence the desirability of aiming at a happy medium. Their garnish is exceedingly variable, the more preferable forms being small bread dice fried in clarified butter, pressed; peeled tomatoes cut into dice and tossed in butter; small prin- taniers, brunoises, juliennes, paysannes, or well-poached rice. Thus, from the typical recipe of these soups, a whole series may be prepared, which need not be gone into separately here. 647_pur£e de pois aux croutons Wash three-quarters of a pint of split peas in cold water and put them into a stewpan with one quart of cold water, a little salt, and one-half lb. of raw ham. Set to boil, skim, and add two oz. of mirepoix, the minced green leaves of three leeks, a fragment of thyme and bay, salt, and one-half oz. of sugar. Set to cook very gently. Rub through tammy, bring the pur^e to the proper con- sistence by means of white consomm£, despumate it sufficiently, and add butter to it when dishing up. Garnish with two tablespoonfuls of small bread dice fried in butter. 648—PUREE DE POIS FRAIS, otherwise SAINT-GERMAIN The two following methods may be employed, viz.:— (1) Cook quickly one and one-quarter pints of fresh peas, just shelled, in boiling, salted water. Drain them, pound them in a mortar, moisten the pur£e with one pint of white con- somme, and rub it through tammy. Bring it to the proper degree of heat, and add butter when about to serve. Prepared in this way, the pur6e should be of a perfect shade. (2) Stew one and one-quarter pints of fresh peas in one and one-half oz. of butter, a little lettuce chiffonade, one and one-half oz. of the green part of leeks, a pinch of chervil, a little salt and sugar, and one-seventh pint of water. Pound the peas as soon as they are cooked, moisten the pur^e with one pint of white consomm£, and rub through tammy. Bring the preparation to the proper degree of heat and add butter at the last moment.