POULTRY 485 supreme sauce. Dish the bird on a small cushion; coat it with sauce, and surround it with fine black truffles, cooked in cham- pagne, and set each on a small, round, and slightly hollowed crouton of fried bread. Serve the remainder of the sauce separately. 1485—POULARDE A L’lVOIRE Poach the pullet, keeping it very white. Dish it, and serve it plain. Send, separately, an ivory sauce, a sauceboat of the pullet’s cooking-liquor, and some kind of garnish, such as macaroni or noodles with cream cepes, cucumber, &c. i486—POULARDE LADY CURZON Stuff the pullet with rice, prepared after recipe No. 2256, and poach it. Dish it, and coat it with an Indienne sauce. A garnish of cepes or cucumber with cream may be served at the same time. 1487—POULARDE LOUISE D’ORLEANS Insert a whole foie gras into the pullet, the former having been studded with truffles, poached for fifteen minutes in some succulent veal stock, and one glassful of old Madeira, and after wards cooled. Stiffen and colour the pullet for twenty minutes in the oven, sprinkling it with butter the while. Cover it entirely with thick slices of truffles; cover these with slices of bacon, and envelop the whole in a layer of plain dough, which should be well sealed up. Set the pullet, pre- pared in this way, on a baking-tray; make a slit in the top of the paste for the escape of steam during the cooking process, and cook in a moderate oven for one and three-quarter hours. This pullet is served as it stands, cold or hot. 1488— POULARDE A LA LOUISIANE Stuff the pullet with one lb. of maize with cream, combined with one and one-half oz. of capsicums cut into dice, and poele it. Dish it and border it, on either side, with timbales of rice and fried bananas, arranged alternately. At either end of the dish set a croustade of lining paste, garnished with maize “ h I3. cr^mc#5* 1489— POULARDE A LA LUCULLU5 Braise the pullet. Dish it, and surround it with (1) fine truffles, cooked in champagne, alternated with (2) large, round quenelles of mousseline forcemeat. At either end of the dish, which should