GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 236 sufficient quantity of curry, moisten with the strained cooking- liquor of the pieces of rabbit, bring to the boil, and set to simmer for seven or eight minutes. Rub through tammy and then despumate for twenty minutes, adding from time to time one or two tablespoonfuls of consomm^ with the view of promoting the clarification of the cullis. When about to serve finish the latter with three or four tablespoonfuls of cream. Garnish with eighteen very small slices taken from the pieces of rabbit and two oz. of rice h l’lndienne, serving the latter separately. 669— COULIS DE PERDREAU A LA PUREE DE MARRONS, otherwise A LA MANCELLE Split the shells of fifteen fine chestnuts, put them in a stew- pan with water, boil them for five minutes, and shell and peel them quickly while they are still very hot. Then cook them gently in one-half pint of white consomm£ with one-third of a stick of celery, minced, and one piece of loaf-sugar. Poele a partridge, remove the fillets for the purpose of gar- nish, bone the rest, and pound it finely together with the car- cass and the poeling liquor. Add the chestnuts, pound the whole, and add some consomm£ to the resulting pur£e with the object of facilitating the rubbing through tammy. This done, add to the preparation about one-quarter pint of very clear game stock, bring the whole to the boil, pass it through a strainer, and finish the cullis, when dishing up, with a very little cayenne and one and one-half oz. of butter. Garnish with the fillets of partridge cut into a small julienne. 670— COULIS DE VOLAILLE, otherwise A LA REINE Poach in one quart of white consomm£ a cleaned fowl weigh- ing about three lbs. and two oz. of rice previously blanched. Having cooked the fowl, withdraw it, raise its fillets, and put them aside. Bone the remainder and finely pound the meat. When the latter is a smooth paste mix therewith the rice, which should be very well cooked, add the necessary amount of white consomm4 to the pur£e, and rub through tammy. Bring the cullis to the boil and pass it through a fine strainer. Finish the preparation, when dishing up, with a leason com- posed of the yolks of three eggs, one-sixth pint of cream, and three oz. of butter. Garnish with the reserved fillets cut into small, regular dice. This soup may also be prepared as a velout6 or a cream.