GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 402 On each slice spread a little butter seasoned with salt and pepper, combined with finely-chopped chives and anchovy fillets cut into dice. Couple the slices together as for sandwiches; round off their angles and put them under slight pressure. Prepare a Pur4e of tomatoes with jelly; mould it in a dome- or Bombe-mould, and let it set on ice. When this moulding of tomatoes is quite firm, turn it out in the middle of a round, cold dish; arrange the meat slices all round, and border the dish with cubes of very clear veal jelly. 1204— NOIX DE VEAU FROIDE A LA SU^DOISE (1) From the widest part of a cold cushion of veal, cut a lateral slice one and one-third inch thick, and trim it nicely round. (2) Let a coating of aspic jelly set on the bottom of a round dish, and upon this jelly, when it is quite firm, lay the slice of veal. (3) Cut what remains of the piece of veal into slices two inches long, by one and one-half inch broad, by one-eighth inch thick. Prepare the same number of rectangles of salted tongue, of the same size, though slightly thinner than those of veal. (4) Cohere a nice vegetable salad with cleared mayonnaise ; mould it in an oiled, Bombe-shaped or narrow pyramid mould, and put it on ice to set. Coat the rectangles of veal with horse-radish butter; place a rectangle of tongue on each, and finish off these sandwiches by rounding their corners. For Dishing.—By means of a piping-bag fitted with a grooved pipe, garnish the edges of the slice of veal with a thread of previously softened butter. Turn out the vegetable salad in the centre of the piece of meat; set on it the heart of a small lettuce (nicely opened), and arrange the veal and tongue sandwiches all round. Serve a cold sauce, derived from the mayonnaise, separately. 1205— LONQES, CARRES ET NOIX DE VEAU FROIDS What was said in respect of cold saddle of veal likewise applies to the different pieces mentioned in the above title. They may be coated with aspic jelly and dished with Mace- doines of vegetables, cohered with jelly; small salads, cohered with cleared mayonnaise; garnished artichoke-bottoms, &c. The dishes should always be bordered with cubes of very clear jelly.