412 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY Garnish the bottom of the croustade with equal quantities of artichoke-bottoms and mushrooms, minced raw, tossed in butter, and cohered with cream sauce. Set the grilled sweetbread on the garnish, and place the croustade on a folded napkin. Serve, separately, a slightly buttered meat-glaze. 1233— RIS DE VEAU GRILLE JOCELYNE Cut some potatoes into roundels one and one-half inch thick and of the same size as the veal sweetbread. Stamp the roundels, close up to their edges, with a round, even cutter, and cook them in butter. Grill the sweetbread at the same time. When the potatoes are cooked, withdraw all their inside in such wise as to give them the appearance of cases, and fill them with Soubise prepared with curry. Dish them and set the grilled sweetbread upon them. On the sweetbread lay a small half-tomato and a green half- capsicum, both grilled. 1234— RIS DE VEAU GRILLES SAINT-GERMAIN Blanch, prepare, and grill the veal sweetbreads as already explained. Set them on a long dish, and surround them with alternate heaps of small potatoes cooked in butter and of a nice golden colour, and carrots cut to the shape of elongated olives, cooked in consomm^ and glazed. Serve a B^arnaise sauce and a pur£e of fresh peas, separately. 1235— RIS DE VEAU DES GOURMETS Braise the veal sweetbreads, and, as soon as they are ready, set them in a round, flat cocotte, just large enough to hold them. Cover them with raw truffles, cut into thick slices; strain the braising-liquor over the whole; cover the cocotte, and seal the cover to the edges of the utensil by means of a thread of soft paste, made simply from a mixture of flour and water. The object of this last precaution is to prevent any escape whatsoever of steam, and to hold the aroma of the truffles within. Put the cocotte into a very hot oven for ten minutes; set it on a dish, and serve it as it stands. The cover should be re- moved only when the dish reaches the table. 1236— RIS DE VEAU AUX QUEUES D’^CREVISSES Stud the sweetbreads with truffle and braise them without colouration. Dish them, and, on either side, set a heap of cray- fishes’ tails (in the proportion of four to each person), cohered with cream.