703 ENTREMETS 2380—PATE A BISCUIT MANQUE Stir one lb. of sugar with eighteen egg-yolks in a basin until the preparation is white and light. Add three table- spoonfuls of rum, thirteen oz. of sifted flour, and ten oz. of melted butter, carefully poured away. Mix, raising it with the spatula in so doing. Set the preparation in special buttered and dredged moulds, filling the latter only two-thirds full with it. Bake in a moderate oven. 2381—PUNCH BISCUIT PASTE Stir one lb. of sugar, twelve egg-yolks, and three eggs in a basin, until the whole becomes frothy. Aromatise with a bare tablespoonful of orange sugar, the same amount of lemon sugar, and three tablespoonfuls of best rum, and add twelve oz. of sifted flour, ten oz. of melted butter, and the whites of eight eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Mix wffth the usual precautions, that the paste may not be heavy. Bake the preparation in buttered moulds, in cases or in rings, according to the purpose it is intended for. Use a moderate oven. 2382—ORDINARY MERINGUE Whisk the whites of eight eggs until they are as stiff as it is possible to make them. Sprinkle them with one lb. of pow- dered sugar, and mix them with the latter carefully, that they may retain all their lightness. 2383—MERINGUE A L’lTALIENNE Cook one lb. of sugar to the large-ball stage, and meanwhile whisk the whites of eight eggs to a stiff froth, so as to have them ready simultaneously with the sugar. Pour the cooked sugar into the egg-whites, slowly and with- out a pause, and mix up briskly with the whisk. 2384—MERINGUE A L’lTALIENNE (another recipe) Mix one lb. of very best powdered sugar and the whites of eight eggs in an untinned copper basin. Place the utensil on hot cinders or on the side of the stove, that the preparation may be lukewarm while in progress. Whisk the meringue until it is sufficiently consistent to span the members of the whisk. If it is not to be used at once, transfer the paste to a small basin; cover it with a round piece of paper, and set it in the cool. 2385—ALMOND PASTE Instead of the antiquated and difficult method of making almond pastes in the mortar, a crushing machine is now used