336 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY melted butter, fresh cod constitutes a Relev6 which would satisfy the most exacting of gourmets. 991— CABILLAUD GRILLE Cut the fish into slices one inch or two inches thick. Season these slices; dredge them; sprinkle them copiously with melted butter, and set them to grill, remembering to baste them frequently the while with melted butter. Serve them on a hot dish; garnish them with slices of lemon, and surround with bunches of parsley. Send a Maitre-d’Hotel or Anchovy butter, or a grilled-fish sauce to the table with the dish. 992— CABILLAUD FRIT Cut some slices of fresh cod, from one inch to one and one- half inches thick. Season them, treat them a Vanglaise, and fry them sufficiently to allow of their being well cooked all through. Dish them on a napkin with fried parsley and lemon, and send a butter sauce (No. 66), a tartare sauce, or a tomato sauce to the table at the same time as the fish. 993— CABILLAUD CREME GRATIN For ten people take two lbs. of boiled fresh cod divided into small pieces; clear these of all bones and skin, and keep them hot in a little of their cooking-liquor. Now, with the necessary quantity of Duchesse potatoes (No. 221), and by means of a piping-bag fitted with a grooved pipe, lay a border, one and one-half inches high, round a dish, shap- ing it in such wise that it is thickest at its base. The dish may be either round or oval. Carefully gild this border with egg- yolks. This done, pour a few tablespoonfuls of Mornay sauce on the dish; lay thereon the drained pieces of cod, and cover the latter with enough Mornay sauce to reach within one-third of an inch of the brim of the border. If more sauce were used, it would flow over the border during the process of glazing. Sprinkle with grated Parmesan and melted butter; set to glaze, and see that the border gets evenly coloured. Serve the moment the dish is withdrawn from the oven. N.B.-—This mode of preparation is not restricted to fresh cod. It may be applied to all other boiled fish—turbot, chicken- turbot, brill, bass, salmon, &c. 994— CABILLAUD A LA FLAMANDE Cut the fresh cod into slices one inch thick; season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and put them in a sautdpan or a