GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY i6 being liquid), glossy to the eye, and decided in taste. When these conditions are fulfilled it is always easy to digest even for tired stomachs. An essential point in the making of sauces is the seasoning, and it would be impossible for me to lay sufficient stress on the importance of not indulging in any excess in this respect. It too often happens that the insipidness of a badly-made sauce is corrected by excessive seasoning; this is an absolutely deplor- able practice. Seasoning should be so calculated as to be merely a com- plementary factor, which, though it must throw the savour of dishes into relief, may not form a recognisable part of them. If it be excessive, it modifies and even destroys the taste peculiar to every dish—to the great detriment of the latter and of the consumer’s health. It is therefore desirable that each sauce should possess its own special flavour, well defined, the result of the combined flavours of all its ingredients. If, in the making of sauces, one allowed oneself to be guided by those principles which are the very foundation of good Cookery, the general denunciation of sauces by the medical faculty would be averted; and this denunciation no sauce de- serves if it be carefully prepared, conformably with the laws pre- scribed by practice and its resulting experience. The Roux The roux being the cohering element of leading sauces, it is necessary to reveal its preparation and constituents before giving one’s attention to the latter. Three kinds of roux are used—namely, brown roux, for brown sauces; pale roux, for veloutCs, or cream sauces; and white roux, for white sauces and Bechamel. 19—BROWN ROUX Quantities for making about One lb.—Eight oz. of clarified butter, nine oz. of best-quality flour. Preparation.—Mix the flour and butter in a very thick stew- pan, and put it on the side of the fire or in a moderate oven. Stir the mixture repeatedly so that the heat may be evenly distributed throughout the whole of its volume. The time allowed for the cooking of brown roux cannot be precisely determined, as it depends upon the degree of heat