GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 33° this garnish into the timbale crust, which should be very hot, and deck the top with a crown of fine slices of very black truffle. Close the timbale with its cover, and dish it on a napkin. 972— SOUFFLE D’ECREVISSES A LA FLORENTINE Make a preparation of Souffle au Parmesan (No. 2295A) combined with two tablespoonfuls of crayfish cream per pint. The cream is prepared after the manner of lobster cream (No. 295)- Put this preparation in a buttered timbale in alternate layers separated by litters of sliced truffle and crayfish tails. Cook the souffle after the manner of an ordinary one. 973— SOUFFLE D’ECREVISSES LEOPOLD DE ROTHSCHILD Prepare a souffle as above, and add thereto a bare tablespoon- ful of freshly-cooked asparagus and slices of truffle, and cray- fish tails placed between the layers of the souffle preparation. Cook as above. 974— SOUFFLE D’ECREVISSES A LA PIEMONTAISE This is identical with No. 972, except that the ordinary truffles are replaced by shavings of Piedmont truffles. 975— ASPIC DE QUEUES D’ECREVISSES A LA MODERNE Cook twelve fine crayfish in accordance with the directions under No. 966, but substitute champagne for the white wine. Shell the tails; trim them evenly; cut them in two length- wise, and keep them in the cool until they are wanted. Remove the creamy parts from the carapaces of the crayfish; add the trimmings of the tails, the meat from the claws, and the mirepoix in which the crayfish have cooked. Pound the whole very finely in a mortar, and rub it through a sieve. Put the resulting pur6e in a receptacle; add thereto one-quarter pint of very cold, melted aspic, and three table- spoonfuls of barely beaten cream. Leave this preparation to settle. Trim the crayfish carapaces; fill them with a little prepared mousse, and decorate each carapace with a small roundel of truffle. Put the remainder of the mousse in the middle of a little crystal bowl, and mould it to the shape of a cone, narrow to- wards the base, and as high as possible. Arrange the garnished crayfish carapaces on their backs in the bowl around the cone of mousse, and set some crayfish tails in superposed rings up the cone. The crayfish tails should