POULTRY 545 When about to serve, take the piping-bag and make 3 fine rosette of a puree of peas in the centre of each medallion. Set these medallions in a circle on a round dish, around a little bowl of carved, fried bread, garnished with the same pur^e of peas. Serve separately a velout£ prepared from the bones of the dindonneau. 1721—BLANC DE DINDONNEAU A LA T0UL0U5AINE Poele the young turkey. When it is cooked, raise its supremes, skin them, and cut them into somewhat thick collops. Dish these collops in a circle, and set a collop of foie gras, sauted in butter, between each. Pour a Toulousaine garnish in their midst, and surround with a thread of light glaze. 1722—AILERONS DE DINDONNEAU DOR^S A LA PUREE DE MARRONS The pinions referred to in this recipe are pinions properly so called; that is to say, they consist of the two last joints of the wing. When they are properly prepared, they constitute one of the most savoury luncheon entries that can be served. The pinions of large pullets may be treated in this way. Clear and singe the pinions, and set them in a buttered saut^pan, just large enough to hold them. Colour gently on both sides and drain. In the same butter, gently brown a sliced carrot and onion, to which add a few parsley stalks and a little thyme and bay. Set the pinions on these aromatics; season moderately with salt and pepper; cover the saut^pan, and continue cooking gently in a very slow oven, basting often the while. The dish will be all the better for having been cooked slowly and regularly. Do not moisten, if possible, or, at the most, only do so with a few drops of water, in order to keep the butter from clarifying—not an unusual occurrence when the heat is too fierce. When the pinions are cooked, dish them radially, and cover them that they may keep warm. Add a few tablespoonfuls of light stock or some water to the cooking butter, and set to boil gently for fifteen minutes. When this stock is sufficiently reduced to only half-immerse the pinions, pass it through a fine strainer and clear of some of the grease if necessary; remember, however, that this stock should be somewhat fat. Pour it over the pinions, and serve a timbale of a fine pur£e of marrons separately. :N N