396 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY to their respective places in the joint, reconstructing them in such wise as to make them appear untouched; and between the collops pour one-half tablespoonful of Bechamel and lay two slices of truffle. This done, cover the whole surface of the joint with Bechamel sauce with paprika, and set to glaze quickly at the salamander. Now, with a large slice, carefully transfer the saddle to a dish. Serve separately (i) the braising-liquor of the saddle, cleared of all grease and reduced; (2) a timbale of pilaff rice. 1184— SELLE DE VEAU A LA NELSON Braise the saddle. When it is ready, remove the fillets, proceeding exactly as described under “ Selle k la Metternich,” and cut the fillets in a similar manner. In the cavities left by the fillets spread a few tablespoonfuls of Soubise; return the colloped fillets to their place, and, between the collops, place a thin slice of ham, of the same size and shape as the adjacent piece of meat, and a little Soubise sauce. Having reconstructed the joint, cover its surface with a layer, about one inch thick, of “ Souffle au Parmesan,” com- bined with one quart of truffle purge. Bind the joint with a strong band of buttered paper, for the purpose of holding in the souffle, and set it to cook in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. After having taken the saddle out of the oven, remove the paper band, and send it to the table without changing the dish. Send the braising-liquor, cleared of all grease, reduced and strained, to the table separately. 1185— SELLE DE VEAU A L’ORIENTALE Braise the saddle; remove the fillets, and cut them into collops as for “ Selle h la Metternich.” Garnish the cavities with Soubise sauce “ au currie ”; reconstruct the fillets, putting a little of the same sauce between the collops, and coat the surface of the piece with the sauce already referred to. Surround the joint with braised celery, and serve its cooking liquor and a timbale of pilaff rice separately. 1186— SELLE DE VEAU A LA PIEMONTAISE Braise the saddle, and cut the fillets into collops as before. When reconstructing the fillets, between the collops put a little Bgchame! sauce, combined with three and one-half oz. of grated Parmesan and three and one-half oz. of grated white truffles per quart of the sauce.