GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 574 1814— rAble de lievre au geni'evre Roast it, as above, on the vegetables of the marinade. Swill the dish with a small glassful of gin and two or three tablespoonfuls of marinade, and reduce to half. Add one-sixth pint of cream, two tablespoonfuls of poivrade sauce, and four powdered juniper berries. Strain and serve this sauce separately at the same time as the Table. 1815— CUISSES DE LIfeVRE Use the legs of young hares only; those of old animals may be used for the “civet” and forcemeat alone. After having cleared them of tendons and larded them with very thin strips of bacon, treat them like the rable. 1816— FILETS DE LEVRAUT A LA DAMPIERRE Take five leverets’ fillets; contise them with slices of truffle, after the manner directed for “ Supr£mes de Volaille k la Chevali&re ” (No. 1458); shape them like crescents, and set them on a buttered dish. Lard the minion fillets with a rosette consisting of strips of salted tongue, and set them also on a buttered dish. With what remains of the meat of the leverets, prepare a mousseline forcemeat, and add thereto some truffle essence and some chopped truffles. Dish this forcemeat, shaping it like a truncated cone two and one-half inches high, the radius of which should be the length of a leveret’s fillet. Set this forcemeat to poach in the front of the oven. Sprinkle the fillets and the minion fillets with a little brandy and melted butter; cover them, and poach them likewise in the front of the oven. This done, arrange them radially on the cone of forcemeat, alternating the fillets and the minion fillets. Place a fine, glazed truffle in the middle of the rosette, and surround the base with mushrooms, separated by chestnuts cooked in consomm£ and glazed, and small onions cooked in butter. Serve a poivrade sauce at the same time, combined with the fillets’ cooking-liquor. 1817— FILETS DE LEVRAUT A LA MORNAY (Recipe of the Freres Provei^aux) Trim two leverets’ fillets, and cut them into collops, one inch in diameter and one-third inch thick. Prepare (1) the