FONDS DE CUISINE 5 as colourless as possible, and very slightly salted, for, what- ever the use may be for which it is intended, it has to undergo a process of concentration. 2—THE PREPARATION OF CLARIFIED CONSOMME FOR CLEAR SOUPS Quantities for making four quarts.—Five quarts of ordinary consomm6, one and one-half lbs. of very lean beef, the white of an egg, one fowl’s carcase (roasted if possible). First, mince the beef and pound it in a mortar with the fowl’s carcase and the white of egg, adding a little cold white consomm£. Put the whole into a tall, narrow, and thick-bottomed stewpan; then gradually add the cold, white broth, from which all grease has been removed, that the whole may be well mixed. Then the stewpan may be put on the fire, and its contents thoroughly stirred, for fear of their burning at the bottom. When boiling-point is reached, move the stewpan to a corner of the fire, so that the soup may only simmer, for anything approaching the boil would disturb the contents. A good hour should be enough to properly finish the consomm£, and any longer time on the fire would be rather prejudicial than the reverse, as it would probably impair the flavour of the prepara- tion. Now carefully remove what little grease may have col- lected on the surface of the consomm6, and strain the latter through muslin into another clean stewpan. It is now ready for the addition of the garnishes that are to form part of it, which I shall enumerate in due course. Remarks upon Clarifications For clarified consommes, even more than for the ordinary kind, it is eminently advisable that the meat should be that of old animals. Indeed, it is safe to say that one lb. of meat coming from an animal of eight years will yield much better consomm6 than two lbs. would, coming from a fattened animal of about three or four years. The consomm£ will be stronger, mellower, and certainly more tasty, as the flesh of young animals has absolutely no richness of flavour. It will be seen that I do not refer to any vegetable for the clarification. If the white consomm£ has been well carried out, it should be able to dispense with all supplementary flavouring, and, the customary error of cooks being rather to overdo the quantity of vegetables—even to the extent of disguising the natural aroma of the consomm6—I preferred to entirely abandon