GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 730 which all pudding entremets given hereafter are derived. The eight classes are :— (1) Puddings with cream. (2) Fruit puddings. (3) English fruit puddings. (4) Plum puddings. (5) French and German bread puddings. (6) English and French paste puddings. (7) Rice puddings. (8) Souffldd puddings. Puddings allow of various accompanying sauces, which will be given in each recipe. The majority of English puddings may be accompanied by stewed fruit, Melba sauce, or whipped cream “ k la Chantilly." Puddings with Cream. 2480— ALMOND PUDDING Make a preparation for souffl£d pudding (No. 2505), moistened with almond milk. Pour it into copiously-buttered moulds, sprinkled inside with splintered and grilled almonds. Set to poach in the bain-marie. As an accompaniment serve a sabayon prepared with white wine and flavoured with orgeat. 2481— ENGLISH ALMOND PUDDING Mix to the consistence of a pomade four oz. of butter and five oz. of powdered sugar; add eight oz. of finely-chopped almonds, a pinch of table salt, a half table-spoonful of orange- flower water, two eggs, two egg-yolks, and one-sixth pint of cream. Pour this preparation into a buttered pie-dish, and cook in a bain- marie in the oven. N.B.—English puddings of what kind soever are served in the dishes or basins in which they have cooked. 2482— BISCUIT PUDDING Crush eight oz. of lady’s-finger biscuits in a saucepan, and moisten them with one pint of boiling milk containing five oz. of sugar. Stir the whole over the fire, and add five oz. of candied fruit, cut into dice and mixed with currants (both products having been macerated in kirsch), three egg-yolks, four oz. of melted butter, and the white of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Set to poach in a bain-marie, in a low, even Charlotte mould, or in a pie-dish, and serve an apricot sauce at the same time. 2483— CABINET PUDDING Garnish a buttered cylinder-mould with lady’s-finger biscuits or slices of buttered biscuit, saturated with some kind of liqueur;