513 POULTRY 1609—SUPREMES DE VOLA1LLE ORLY Take some supremes of chicken & la Reine, and set them on a dish with parsley stalks and finely sliced onions; sprinkle with a little oil and lemon juice, and set to marinade for an hour. When about to prepare them, dry them by means of a piece of linen; dip them into light batter, and put them in a very hot frying fat that they may cook quickly. Drain; dish on a napkin with bunches or a border of very green fried parsley, and serve a tomato sauce separately. 1610— SUPREMES DE VOLAILLE A L’ORIENTALE Saute the supremes in butter, and dish them each upon a thick slice of chow-chow, cut to the same shape, parboiled, and stewed in butter beforehand. Coat with Supreme sauce, com- bined with a quarter of its bulk of tomato pur£e, and flavoured moderately with saffron. 1611— SUPREMES DE VOLAILLE EN PAPILLOTE Cut out as many heart-shaped pieces of kitchen paper as there are supremes, and either butter or oil them. Quickly stiffen the supremes in butter. In the centre of each paper heart, set a slice of ham cut to the shape of a triangle; cover the ham with a tablespoonful of reduced Italienne sauce; set the supremes on the sauce, and cover it with the same sauce and another triangle of ham. Close the pieces of paper, and pleat their edges in such wise as to entirely enclose their con- tents; set the papillotes, thus prepared, on a tray; and put them in a sufficiently hot oven to allow of completing the cooking of the supremes and blowing out the papillotes. 1612— SUPREMES DE VOLAILLE AU PARMESAN Season the supremes; dip them in beaten egg and roll them in grated Parmesan. Saute them in butter, and dish them on croutons of polenta (No. 2294), shaped somewhat like the supremes and browned in clarified butter. When about to serve, sprinkle the supremes with nut-brown butter. 1613— SUPREMES DE VOLAILLE A LA POLIGNAC Poach the supremes dry, and dish them. Coat them with Supreme sauce, combined with a julienne of truffles and mushrooms. 1614— SUPREMES DE VOLAILLE A LA POJARSKI Mince the supremes, and, in so doing, combine with them, firstt the quarter of their weight of bread-crumbs dipped in milk L L