GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 434 purees of turnips, celery, etc., and these vegetables should cook with the meat. A pur£e of potatoes or of haricot beans may be sent to the table with the meat; but, in this case, of course, the vegetables would be served separately. 1306— BRAISED LEG OF MUTTON Suppress the pelvic bone, shorten the end bone and brown the leg in the oven. Now, put it in an oval utensil, garnished for braising; add just enough white stock to barely cover the joint, and cook gently, allowing forty minutes per lb. of meat. Transfer the leg to a tray; strain the braising-liquor; clear it of all grease, and reduce it to half. Sprinkle the meat with a few tablespoonfuls of this reduced gravy, and set it to glaze in the oven. Serve at the same time: — (1) Either a pur£e of potatoes, of turnips, of haricot-beans, of cauliflower,*etc., or (2) The reduced braising-liquor. 1307— GIGOT A LA BOULANGERE The leg may either be boned, seasoned inside and strung; or the end-bone may simply be shortened and that of the pelvis removed. In either case, put it in an earthenware dish, and brown it well in the oven, on both sides; then complete its cooking, all but a third. This done, set round the joint four large, sliced onions, just tossed in butter, that they may acquire some colour, and eight large, peeled potatoes cut into roundels one half in. thick. Sprinkle this garnish with the grease of the joint, and then com- plete the cooking of the leg and its garnish. Serve in the dish in which the joint has cooked. 1308— GIGOT MARINE EN CHEVREUIL Shorten the end-bone; remove the bone of the pelvis, and skin the top of the leg, leaving the meat in that region quite bare. Lard with very small strips of bacon, and put the meat into a marinade prepared after the manner described under No. 170. The length of its stay in the marinade should be based upon the tenderness of the meat and atmospheric conditions. In winter the time averages about three or four days, and in summer two days. To Roast the Joint.—Withdraw it from the marinade and dry it thoroughly; set it on a stand in the baking-tray; and put