383 RELEVES AND ENTREES All garnishes suited to fillets, however, may be served with it, as also the various butters and sauces generally used with grills. 1153—LANGUE DE BCEUF Ox tongue is served fresh or salted, but, even when it is to be served fresh, it is all the better for having been put in salt a few days previously. In order to salt it, put it into a special brine, as explained under No. 172. When salted, it is cooked in boiling water; when fresh, it is braised exactly after the manner of any other piece of meat. Ox tongue may be served with almost all the garnishes suited to relev^s of fillet of beef, but more particularly with the fol- lowing :—Bourgeoise; Flamande; Milanaise; Noodles or Macaroni with cream, cheese or tomatoes; and all vegetable purges. The most suitable sauces are:—Madeira sauce, Piquante sauce, Tomato sauce, or their derivatives. 1154— LANGUE DE B(EUF CHOUCROUTE Braise the tongue as described under No. 247, and glaze it at the last moment. Dish it, and send to the table separately (1) a timbale of well-braised sauerkraut; (2) a timbale of potato pur£e; (3) a Madeira sauce, combined with the braising-liquor of the tongue, cleared of all grease, and reduced. 1155— LANGUE DE BCEUF BOURGEOISE Braise the tongue in the usual way. When it is two-thirds cooked, surround it with carrots fashioned to the shape of olives and already two-thirds cooked, and small onions browned in butter. Complete the cooking gently, and for the rest of the opera- tion, proceed as for “ Piece de Boeuf & la Mode chaude.” 1156— LANGUE DE BCEUF AUX FEVES Tongue intended for this preparation should be put in salt a few days in advance. Boil it in the usual way and very gently; glaze it when about to serve, and dish it. Send to the table separately (1) a timbale of very fresh, skinned, broad beans, cooked in salted water with a spray of savory, and cohered with butter at the last moment. (2) A Madeira sauce. 1157— LANGUE DE BCEUF FLAMANDE Braise the tongue, and glaze it at the last moment. Sur- round it with the garnish “h la Flamande ” given under the beef