99 LEADING CULINARY OPERATIONS 338—THICK SOUPS These are divided into three leading classes as follows :—(1) The Purges, Cullises, or Bisques. (2) Various Velout^s. (3) Various Creams. Remarks.—Though the three preparations of the first class are practically the same, and, generally speaking, the Cul- lises and the Bisques may be considered as purges of fowl, game, or shell-fish, it is advisable to distinguish one from another by giving each a special name of its own. Thus the word Puree is most suitably applied to any pre- paration with a vegetable base. The term Cullis is best fitted to preparations having either poultry, game, or fish for base, while bisque, in spite of the fact that in former days it was applied indiscriminately to purges of shell-fish, poultry, pigeons, &c., distinctly denotes a pur£e of shell-fish (either lobster, cray- fish, or shrimp, &c.). In short, it is imperative to avoid all ambiguities and to give everything its proper name, or, at least, that name which identi- fies it most correctly. 239—PURGES Farinaceous vegetables, such as haricot-beans and lentils, and the floury ones, such as the potato, need no additional thickening ingredient, since the flour or fecula which they con- tain amply suffices for the leason of their purges. On the other hand, aqueous vegetables like carrots, pump- kins, turnips, celery, and herbs cannot dispense with a thicken- ing ingredient, as their purges of themselves do not cohere in the least. Cohering or Thickening Elements; their Quantities.—In order to effect the coherence of vegetable purges, either rice, potato, or bread-crumb cut into dice and fried in butter may be used. The proportion of these per pound of vegetables should be respectively three oz., ten oz., and ten oz. Bread-crumb dice, prepared as described above, were greatly used in old cookery, and they lend a mellowness to a pur£e which is quite peculiar to them. The Dilution of Purees.—Generally this is done by means of ordinary white consomm£, though in certain cases, as, for in stance, if the soup is a Lenten one, milk is used. The Finishing.—When the purges have been strained and brought to the required consistence they should be boiled and stirred. Then they are placed on the side of the fire to simmer H 2