251 SOUPS 721—POT AGE A LA DIANE Cook one-half lb. of lentils with the usual garnish. Roast two medium-sized partridges, keeping them slightly underdone, and remove their fillets. Complete the cooking of the partridges with the lentils, drained of their cooking-liquor, in one pint of game consomm^. Prepare a royale (No. 209) with the reserved fillets. When the birds are cooked, bone them; pound their meat, and add thereto the lentils and the cooking-liquor; rub through tammy. Finish the pur£e with one and one-half pints of excellent thin game stock, and complete the soup, when dishing up, with two oz. of butter and two tablespoonfuls of reduced Madeira. Garnish with the royale, cut into small regular crescents, and twelve small crescents of very black truffle. 722—POTAGE ELISA Prepare one and one-half pints of poultry velout£, and rub it through tammy. Complete with one-half pint of white con- somme; heat without boiling, and finish, when dishing up, with an ordinary leason, two and one-half oz. of butter, and two tablespoonfuls of a fondue of sorrel. 723—POTAGE FAVGRI Prepare one pint of a velout6 of green asparagus; one-half pint of a veloute of lettuce, and one-half pint of poultry veloute. Put all three into a stewpan; add thereto the neces- sary quantity of white consomm6 to bring the soup to the correct degree of consistence; heat without boiling, and pass through a strainer. Finish the soup, when dishing up, with an ordinary leason and two oz. of butter. Garnish with one tablespoonful of a chiffonade of sorrel, and one tablespoonful of green asparagus- heads. 724—POTAGE GERMINY Cisel and melt in butter three oz. of shredded sorrel, and add thereto one and one-half pints of white consomm6. A few minutes before serving, pour into the consomm6 a leason com- posed of the yolks of six eggs diluted with one-quarter pint of cream; set on the fire and stir, after the manner of an English custard, i.e., until the preparation begins to show signs of boiling. Finish, away from the fire, with two and one-half oz. of butter, and add a pinch of chervil pinches.