GAME 567 laid on a dish by means of a piping-bag, and poached in the front of the oven. Swill the vegetable-pan with Madeira; add four fine slices of truffle for each supreme, and a little pale melted meat glaze, and finish with a moderate amount of butter. Coat the supremes with this sauce, and set the slices of truffle upon it. 1790—MOUSSELINES DE PIQEONNEAUX A L’EPICURIENNE Prepare and poach these mousselines like the chicken ones, but make them a little smaller. Dish them in the form of a crown; set thereon a young pigeon’s fillet roasted, and in their midst arrange a garnish of peas with lettuce. Coat with a fumet prepared from the carcasses and cohered with a few table- spoonfuls of velout6. N.B.—Pigeons and squabs may also be prepared after the recipes given for chicks. Relev6s and Entries GAME VENISON AND GROUND GAME The stag (Fr. Cerf) and the fallow deer (Fr. Daim) supply the only venison that is consumed in England, where the roe- buck (Fr. Chevreuil) is not held in very high esteem. True, the latter’s flesh is very often mediocre in quality, and saddles and legs of roebuck often have to be imported from the Continent when they are to appear on an important menu. On the other hand, venison derived from the stag or red deer and the fallow deer proper is generally of superior quality. The former has perhaps more flavour, but the latter, which is sup- plied by animals bred in herds on large private estates, has no equal as far as delicacy and tenderness are concerned, while it is covered with white and scented fat, which is greatly appre- ciated by English connoisseurs. Although these two kinds of venison are generally served as relev^s, they belong more properly to the roasts, and I shall give their recipes a little later on. In any case, only half of the hind-quarters (that is to say, the leg together with that part of the saddle which reaches from it to the floating ribs) is served at high-class tables. I shall now, therefore, only give the various recipes dealing with roebuck, it being understood that these, if desired, may be applied to corresponding joints of the stag or deer.