556 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY Dish with the garnish of turnips and onions, arranged round the bird. 1749— CANETON AUX OLIVES Prepare the duckling as above, and keep the sauce short and succulent. A few minutes before serving, add one-half lb. of stoned and blanched olives. Glaze the duckling at the last moment, and dish it surrounded with the olives and the sauce. 1750— CANETON BRAISE A L’ORANQE This braised duckling must not be confused with roast duck- ling, which is also served “ a l’orange,” for the two dishes are quite distinct. As in the case of the roast, this duckling may be prepared with Seville oranges; but, in this case, the sections of orange must not appear as garnish, owing to their bitterness, and only the juice is used for the sauce. Braise the duckling in one-third pint of brown stock and two-thirds pint of Espagnole sauce, and cook it sufficiently to allow of its being cut with a spoon. Clear the sauce of grease; reduce it to a stiff consistence; rub it through tammy, and add the juice of two oranges and one half-lemon to it, which should bring the sauce back to its original consistence. Now add a julienne of the blanched yellow part only of the rind of a half-orange and a half-lemon, but remember that the addition of the juice and rind of the orange and the half-lemon only takes place at the last moment, after which the sauce must not boil again. Glaze the duckling, dish it, coat it slightly with sauce, and surround it with sections of orange, skinned raw. Serve what remains of the sauce separately. 1751— CANETON AUX PETITS POIS Brown in butter six oz. of salted breast of pork, cut into large dice and blanched, and fifteen small onions. Drain the pork and the onions, and set the duckling to fry in the same butter. When it is well coloured, remove the butter; swill with a little brown stock, and add one-half pint of thin, half- glaze sauce, one and one-half pints of fresh peas, one faggot, the pork dice and the onions, and complete the cooking of the whole gently. Dish the duckling, and cover it with the garnish and the sauce, after having withdrawn the faggot therefrom and re- duced the sauce so that it only just covers the garnish.