712 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY mixture well ; add to it a half-pint of raw cream and one pint of milk. Finish with a half-pint of whipped cream, and flavour as fancy may suggest. Preparation D.—Dilute one lb. of flour, three and a half oz. of powdered sugar and a pinch of salt, in five eggs and the yolks of three. Add one and three-quarter pints of milk and five egg- whites whisked to a stiff froth. Flavour according to fancy. 2404— RICE PREPARATION FOR ENTREMETS Wash one lb. of Carolina or Patna rice ; cover it with plenty of cold water; boil, and drain it the moment it has boiled. Wash it once more in lukewarm water; drain it, and set it to cook with two pints of boiled milk, two-thirds lb. of sugar, a pinch of salt and three oz. of butter. Flavour with a stick of vanilla or a few strips of orange or lemon rind, strung together with cotton. When the liquor begins to boil, cover the saucepan ; place it in the oven, and let it cook gently for twenty or twenty-five minutes, without once touching the rice the while. On withdrawing it from the oven, thicken it with the yolks of sixteen eggs, which should be mixed with it by means of a fork in such wise as not to break the rice grains, which ought to remain whole. N.B.—In some cases, the milk and the sugar may be re- placed (for the cooking process) by an equal amount of syrup at 120 (Saccharometer). 2405— SOUFFLE PREPARATIONS Souffle preparations are of two kinds :— (1) Those prepared with cream, which if necessary may serve for all souffles; (2) those with a fruit-pur£e base, which allow of a more pronounced flavour for fruit souffles than if these were prepared with cream. Cream-souffle Preparation for Four People.—Boil one-sixth pint of milk with one oz. of sugar; add a tablespoonful of flour diluted in a little cold milk ; cook for two minutes, and finish, away from the fire, with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and two egg-yolks with three whites whisked to a stiff froth. Souffle Preparation for a Big Party.—Thoroughly mix half-lb. of flour, half-lb. of sugar, four eggs and the yolks of three, in a saucepan. Dilute with one quart of boiling milk ; add a stick of vanilla; boil, and cook for two minutes, stirring incessantly the while.