THE VARIOUS GARNISHES FOR SOUPS 89 the same gently and thoroughly in butter, and strain through tammy. Add to the resulting pur^e three tablespoonfuls of Bechamel, one-fifth pint of cream, two eggs, and four yolks. Put into large or small moulds, and poach. Remarks.—In order that these royales may have the re- quired delicacy, I should urge the reader not to exceed the prescribed quantities of eggs and yolks, these being so calcu- lated as to exactly produce the density required. 214—THE DIVIDING-UP OF ROYALES When the poaching is done take the mould or moulds out of water, and leave the royale to cool in them. Do not turn out the moulds whilst the preparation is hot, as it would surely scatter. It only assumes the necessary solidity for being divided up by means of the aggregation and contraction of its various constituents during the cooling process. If the royale has been poached in small moulds, slightly trim the cylinders of royale, divide them up laterally into discs, and stamp them uniformly with a plain or indented fancy cutter. If the royale has been poached in large moulds, withdraw it from these, and place it on a serviette; trim the tops, cut into half-inch slices, and stamp with small, fancy cutters of different shapes. These little divisions of royale must always be stamped very neatly and quite regularly. 215—CHIFFONADE The name “ Chiffonade ” is given to a mince of sorrel or lettuce, intended as a complement for such soups as “ Potage de sant6,” “ le Germiny,” &c., or various clear consommes like “ Julienne.” To prepare Chiffonade, first carefully shred the sorrel or lettuce, and remove therefrom all the leaf-ribs. Carefully wash the leaves, and squeeze the latter tightly between the fingers of the left hand and the table. Now cut them into fine strips with a sharp knife. If the chiffonade be intended for a consomm6, add it to the latter half an hour before dishing up; it is thus actually cooked in the soup itself. If, as is most often the case, it be intended for a thick soup, it is better to let it melt well in butter, to moisten it with a little consomm6, and to let it boil for ten minutes before adding it to the soup. Whatever the purpose be for which it is made, chiffonade should always be prepared with very tender sorrel or lettuce.