770 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY a thickness of biscuits, copiously coated with marmalade, and sprinkle with raisins, almonds and orange-rind dice. Cover with a layer of cream ; lay a second thickness of biscuits, and proceed thus in the same order with a Kirsch-flavoured cold sabayon. 2663— PUDDING A LA NESSELRODE To an English custard, prepared after No. 2397, add eight oz. of a smooth, chestnut purde, and four oz. of currants and sultanas (swelled in tepid water), and candied orange-rind and cherries, cut into dice; these four products should be in almost equal quantities, and ought to have been previously macerated in sweetened Madeira. Add some Maraschino-flavoured, whipped cream to the pre- paration ; apportioning it as for a Bavarois. Garnish the bottom and sides of a Charlotte mould with white paper; pour the preparation into the mould ; completely close the latter, sealing the lid down with a thread of butter, and surround the utensil with plenty of salted ice. When about to serve, turn out on a napkin ; remove the paper, and surround the base of the pudding with a crown of fine, candied chestnuts, or balls of choco- late-iced, candied chestnut purde. N.B.—The English custard may be packed in the freezer, mixed with whipped cream when it is almost congealed, and then placed in a mould. 2664— PUDDING A LA RICHELIEU Rub some stewed prunes through a fine sieve, and add to the pur£e equal quantities of very stiff, Kirsch-flavoured jelly and the reduced juice of the prunes. Let a layer three-quarters of an inch thick, of the preparation set on the bottom of a Charlotte mould. In the latter set a smaller mould (tinned outside), filled with broken ice, and either fitted with handles that can rest on the brim of the first mould, or else sufficiently deep to be easily grasped and removed when necessary. The space between the sides of the two moulds should measure about three-quarters of an inch. Fill up this space with what remains of the prune pur£e, thickened with jelly ; leave the preparation to set; withdraw the ice from the little mould ; pour some tepid water into the latter, that it may be immediately detached from the surrounding, iced preparation. Fill the space left by the withdrawn mould with some vanilla- flavoured Bavarois preparation ; leave to set, and turn out at the last moment on a napkin.