467 RELEVES AND ENTRIES All that remains of the ham, therefore, is a thick piece adhering to the end-bone. Carefully trim this piece, and sur- round it with a strong band of buttered paper, tied on by means of string, the purpose of which is to hold in the souffle. This done, put a sufficient quantity of souffle de Jambon (described hereafter) on the remaining meat of the ham to recon- struct it entirely. Smooth the surface of the preparation with the flat of a knife (dipped in cold water), and so finish off the contour of the ham. Decorate according to fancy; place the dish containing the ham on a saucepanfu) of boiling water, and put the two in the oven with the view of obtaining the maximum amount of steam, which latter helps to poach the souffle. This souffled ham may be poached just as well in a steamer. When the preparation is properly poached, remove the band of paper; dish the ham, and send one of the garnishes or sauces given for braised ham separately. 1422—SOUFFLES AU JAMBON Ham souffles are prepared after two recipes; in the first, cooked ham is used, and in the second the ham is raw. This last procedure is derived from mousseline forcemeat, and, in- asmuch as the preparation resulting from it is less flimsy than that of the first, it is preferred when a large number of people have to be served. 1423— THE PREPARATION OF THE SOUFFLE WITH COOKED HAM Finely pound one lb. of lean, cooked ham, and add thereto, one after the other, three tablespoonfuls of very cold Bechamel sauce. Rub through a fine sieve; put the resulting puffie into a sauffipan, and finish with one-quarter pint of very creamy and boiling Bechamel sauce, flavoured with ham essence; four egg- yolks, and the whites of six eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. This preparation may be combined with three oz. of grated Parmesan, and the two flavours will be found to blend very agreeably. Prepared in this way, it is particularly well suited to the “Jambon Souffle,” the recipe whereof is given above (No. 1421). 1424— THE PREPARATION OF THE SOUFFLE WITH RAW HAM Following the quantities given under “Farce mousseline” (No. 195), make the souffle preparation, and add thereto four H H 2