122 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY be not torn or pierced, lest the object of the preliminary pre- cautions be defeated, and the contained juices escape. Time of Cooking.—This, in the case of red meats, is arrived at by the following test: if, on touching the meat with one’s finger, the formfer resist any pressure, it is sufficiently cooked : if it give, it is clear that in the centre, at least, the reverse is the case. The most certain sign, however, that cooking has been completed is the appearance of little beads of blood upon the rissoled surface of the meat. 259— WHITE-MEAT GRILLS That superficial rissoling which is so necessary in the case of red meats is not at all so in the case of white, for in the latter there can be no question of the concentration of juices, since these are only present in the form of albumen—that is to say, in the form of juices “ in the making,” so to speak, which is peculiar to veal and lamb. For this kind of grills keep a moderate fire, so that the cooking and colouring of the meat may take place simul- taneously. White-meat grills should be fairly often basted by means of a brush, with clarified butter, while cooking, lest their out- sides dry. They are known to be cooked when the juice issuing from them is quite white. 260— FISH GRILLS Use a moderate fire with these, and only grill after having copiously sprinkled them with clarified butter or oil. Sprinkle them similarly while cooking. A grilled fish is cooked when the bones are easily separated from the meat. Except for the fatty kind, such as mackerel, red mullet, or herrings, always roll fish to be grilled in flour before sprinkling them with melted butter. The object of so doing is to give them a golden external crust, which, besides making them more sightly, keeps them from drying. 261— THE GRILLING OF PRODUCTS COATED WITH BUTTER AND BREAD-CRUMBS These grills generally consist of only small objects; they must be effected on a very moderate fire, with the vc2w of enabling them to cook and acquire colour simultaneously. They should also be frequently besDrinkled with clarified butter, and turned with care, so as not to break their coating, the object of which is to withhold their contained juices.