ENTREMETS 719 A little while before serving, detach the roundels from the tray; dip them in somewhat thin batter, and fry them in plenty of hot fat. Drain them ; sprinkle them with icing sugar; glaze them in a fierce oven, and dish them on a napkin. 2430—FRITTERS “A LA BOURGEOISE” Cut a stale brioche crown into slices, one-third inch thick, and dip these into fresh, sugared cream, flavoured according to fancy. Drain them ; dry them slightly ; dip them into thin batter, and fry them in very hot fat. Drain them ; sprinkle them with sugar, and dish them on a napkin. 2431—SYLVANA FRITTERS Hollow out some small round brioches, preserving the crusts for covers, and dip them in some thin, sugared and flavoured fresh cream. Then garnish them with a small fruit salpicon with kirsch ; cover this with the reserved covers; dip them into thin batter, and fry them in plenty of hot fat. Drain them; dish them on a napkin, and sprinkle them with icing sugar. 2432—FRITTERS “A LA GRAND’MERE ” Spread upon a moistened tray a layer half inch thick of very reduced, stewed fruit. Cut it up according to fancy ; dip the pieces in batter (No. 234), and fry them in plenty of hot fat. On withdrawing the fritters from the fat, sprinkle them with icing sugar and set them to glaze in a fierce oven. 2433— REGINA FRITTERS Shape some lady’s-finger biscuits (preparation No. 2378) into large half-balls, one and a half inch in diameter; bake these in a moderate oven and cool them. Then hollow out these half-balls ; garnish them with apricot or some other jam ; join them in couples, and dip them so as to thoroughly soak them in some fresh cream flavoured with maraschino. Drain them; treat them d Fanglaise with very fine bread-crumbs, and fry them in plenty of hot fat. Drain them ; dish them on a napkin, and sprinkle them with icing sugar. 2434— MINION FRITTERS Proceed as above, but substitute for biscuit half-balls soft macaroons, saturated with kirsch syrup. For the rest of the operation, follow the procedure of No. 2433.