GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 55* it like a cushion. Coat it with a chaud-froid sauce of a different colour; deck it with softened butter, applied by means of a piping-bag fitted with a narrow, grooved pipe; set it on the dish, and place the foie-gras egg upon it. Surround the cushion with fine fair-sized truffles, glazed with aspic jelly. '737—FOIE GRAS AU PAPRIKA Trim a fine, fresh foie gras; salt it; sprinkle it with a coffeespoonful of paprika; put it into a saucepan with a large sliced Spanish onion and a bay-leaf, and cook in the oven for thirty minutes. This done, set it instantly in an oval terrine, after having carefully removed every bit of onion; cover it wdth its own grease; fill up the terrine with jelly, and leave to cool. Keep in the cool until ready for serving. N.B.—In Vienna, where this dish is usually served as a hors-d’oeuvre, with baked potatoes, the onion is not removed. The foie gras is left to cool in the terrine in which it has cooked, with all its grease, and it is served thus, very cold. This piece of information was kindly given to me by Madame Katinka. 1738—ESCALOPES DE FOIE GRAS MARECHALE From a terrine of very firm foie gras cut the required number of collops, giving them an oval shape. Make a preparation of “ pain de foie gras ” (No. 1741) with the remains of the terrine, and cover the collops with the preparation, shaping the latter in a dome upon them. Coat these garnished collops with cream chaud-froid sauce; decorate with a slice of truffle, and glaze with aspic. With some foie-gras pur^e prepare some balls (of the shape of bigaroons); in the centre of each place a little ball of truffle in imitation of the stone of the fruit, and coat them with a reddish-brown, chaud-froid sauce. This done, glaze them with jelly. Dish the collops round a circular cushion, set upon a very cold dish; arrange the bigaroons in a pyramid on the cushion, and border the dish with fine, jelly croutons. *739—MOUSSE DE FOIE GRA5 For the preparation of the mousse, see No. 814. The pro- cedure and the quantities are always the same, and only the principal ingredient changes. The moulding is also effected in the same way in a jelly-clothed and decorated mould, gene-