*36 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY under “Tournedos,” except those served with sauces, may be applied to cutlets. The latter also allow of a few special garnishes, and these I give in the following recipes. 1312— C6TELETTES A LA CHAMPVALLON (10 Cutlets) Take some cutlets from the region underlying the shoulder; that is to say, those uncovered by the removal of this joint. And do not clear the bone-ends of their meat, as when frills are to be fixed to them. Season them with salt and pepper, and brown them in butter on both sides. This done, put them in an earthenware dish with half lb. of sliced onions, tossed in butter without colouration; moisten with enough white stock to almost cover the cutlets and the onions; add the quarter of a clove of garlic, crushed, and a faggot; boil, and set in the oven. At the end of twenty minutes, add one and one-half lbs. of potatoes, fashioned to the shape of corks, and cut into thin roundels; season, and complete the cooking, basting often the while. When the cutlets are cooked, the moistening should be almost entirely reduced. 1313— C^TELETTES LAURA Grill the cutlets, and, meanwhile, prepare a garnish (the quantity of which should be such as to allow two and one-half oz. of it per cutlet) of parboiled macaroni, cut into half-inch lengths, cohered with cream, and combined, per lb., with three and one-half oz. of peeled, pressed, and concassed tomatoes, tossed in butter. Or, when white truffles are in season, prepare some macaroni with cream, as above, combined with the peelings of raw, white truffles. Cut some very soft pig’s caul into triangles, proportionate in size to the cutlets; spread a little macaroni on each triangle; on the latter set a cutlet; cover the cutlets with some more macaroni, and enclose the whole in the caul. Lay the cutlets on a dish. Sprinkle with fine raspings and melted butter, and set to grill at the salamander, or in a fierce oven, for seven or eight minutes. Dish the cutlets in the form of a crown, and surround them with a thread of clear half-glaze sauce, combined with tomatoes. 1314— cOtelettes a la maintenon Fry the cutlets in butter, on one side only. This done, put a heaped tablespoonful of a Maintenon preparation (No. 226)