GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 378 six to seven lbs. If it is to be roasted, it is best to keep it whole. When served as a relev£, it is braised or roasted, and is kept underdone if so desired. Unless it be of excellent quality, however, braised sirloin generally turns out to be dry. All garnishes given for “Filet de Boeuf ” may be served with sirloin; but, as a rule, the bulkiest, such as the “ Riche- lieu,” the “ Provengale,” the “ Godard,” &c., are selected. The accompanying sauce is that indicated for the above garnishes. 1142— PORTERHOUSE-STEAK (Grill) Porterhouse-steak is a slice from the sirloin of beef, which may be more or less thick. It is cleared of the flank and of the bones of the chine, and it is always grilled. It may be served with any of the various garnishes and sauces suited to grills; but it is more often served plain. 1143— UPPER FILLET AND RIBS OF BEEF (Relev<*) The upper fillet is that part of beef which lies between the top of the haunch and the floating ribs, alongside of the chine. It may be treated like the fillet, and all the garnishes suited to the latter may also be applied here. If the piece is to be braised, it should be completely boned; if intended for roasting, it is best to retain the bones. In the latter case, the large ligament should be cut at various points with the view of preventing distortion, while the bones con- stituting the spinous process should be broken close to the point where they join the body of the vertebrae, that they may be easily removed when the meat is being carved. The upper fillet, especially when it is of good quality, is best roasted. Ribs of beef may likewise be braised or roasted. In either case, the meat should be properly trimmed and cleared of all the bones of the spinous process. This piece should only be used after having been well hung, in order that it may be as tender as possible. 1144— GRILLED SIRLOIN STEAKS AND RIBS OF BEEF The sirloin steak may be cut either from the upper fillet or the ribs of beef, i.e., between two rib-bones. In order that its cooking may be regular, it should not weigh more than from two to three lbs. Ribs of beef may also be grilled, provided they be sufficiently tender.