448 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY most. Garnish the bottom of the mould with a layer of mince- meat, one in. thick; on this layer place a few fried roundels of egg-plant, and continue thus with alternate layers of mince and egg-plant. Cover the last layer of mince-meat with the remains of the egg-plant skins, and cook in a bain-marie for one hour. When taking the mould out of the oven, let it stand for five minutes in order that the ingredients may settle; turn out on a round dish, and besprinkle the surface of the Moussaka with chopped parsley. 1352—MUTTON PUDDING Follow the directions given under beefsteak pudding (No. 1170) exactly. The preparation is just the same, but for the substitution of mutton for the beef. •353—NAVARIN PRINTANIER Heat four oz. of clarified fat in a saut^pan, and put into it four lbs. of breast, neck and shoulder of mutton; all three cut into pieces weighing two and one-half oz. Fry over a very brisk fire; season with one-third oz. of salt, a pinch of ground pepper, and another of sugar. The sugar settles slowly on the bottom of the saut£pan, where it turns to caramel; it is then dissolved by the moistening, and thus gives the sauce the required colour. When the meat is well fried, remove almost all the fat; sprinkle with one and one-half oz. of flour; cook the latter for a few minutes, and moisten with one and one-half quarts of water or stock. Boil, stirring the while, and add two-thirds lb. of fresh concassed tomatoes or one-fifth pint of tomato pur£e; one crushed clove of garlic, and a large faggot. Cover and cook in the oven for one hour. This done, transfer the pieces of mutton, one by one, to another saucepan with twenty small, new onions; twenty pieces of new trimmed carrots; twenty pieces of new turnips, cut to the shape of long olives and tossed with butter in a frying-pan; twenty small, new potatoes, cut into two, and trimmed, or whole; one-sixth pint of fresh peas, and an equal quantity of raw French beans, cut into lozenges. Strain the sauce over the whole; set to boil, and continue cooking slowly in the oven for one hour; taking care from time to time to baste the overlying vegetables with sauce. Dish in a timbale and serve very hot. N.B.—When put into the sauce, the vegetables cook much less quickly than in boiling water. In the Navarin, moreover,