SOUPS 201 of consomm£, and complete the cooking of the Brunoise gently. Five minutes before serving, finish with one quart of boiling, ordinary consomm^, a moderate tablespoonful of peas, and the same quantity of French beans, cut into dice and kept very green. Pour into the soup-tureen, and add a pinch of fine chervil pinches. 549—CONSOMME CARMEN Prepare one quart of consomm6, to which add, while clarify- ing, one-quarter pint of raw tomato pur£e, in order to give it a faint, pink tinge. Also peel and press a small and rather firm tomato; cut into dice, and poach the latter in some of the consomm£; put them in the soup-tureen with a small tablespoonful of mild capsicum, cut in fine julienne-fashion, and one tablespoonful of plain- boiled rice. When about to serve, pour the boiling consomm6 over the garnish, and add a small pinch of chervil pinches. 550—CONSOMME CASTELLANE Prepare (1) one quart of game consomm£, flavoured with a fumet of woodcock; (2) two baba-moulds of royale, two-thirds of which consists of a pur£e of woodcock and one-third of lentils, with half the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, chopped and thickened with the usual leason. Cut this royale into slices, about the size of a florin, one- half inch thick. Put these into the soup-tureen, together with one tablespoonful of a julienne of roast woodcock fillets, and pour thereon the boiling game consomm6. 551—CONSOMME c^lestine Prepare one quart of chicken consomm^, and add thereto three small tablespoonfuls of poached tapioca, strained through fine linen. For the garnish make three pannequets (No. 2403 and 2476) without sugar, and spread over each a thin coating of chicken forcemeat with cream. Place one on top of the other, sprinkle the layer of forcemeat on the uppermost one with finely- chopped, very black truffles, and place in the front of the oven for a few minutes, in order to poach the forcemeat. Stamp the pannequets out with an even fancy-cutter about one inch in diameter. Put the pieces into a soup-tureen, and, when about to serve, pour in the boiling consomm6.