811 ICES of brandy or rum, in order to finish it ; mould the preparation in Parfait moulds, and pack them in a freezer for from two to three hours. N.B.—The term “ Parfait,” which, formerly, was applied only to “ Parfait au Cafe,” has become the common name for un-clothed ices, made from Bombe-preparations having but one flavour. And this is fairly logical, seeing that Bombe-preparations, but for a few insignificant distinctions, are exactly like Parfait-preparation. It is therefore just as reasonable to make vanilla, chocolate, and pralined Parfaits, etc., as to make them with coffee. 2919—ICED PUDDINGS Preparations of this class follow no hard and fast rules, and, in reality, they are not ices at all. They are nothing else than iced entremets, the bases of which generally consist of thick English custard, the same as that which serves in the preparation of Bavarois. The few following recipes, however, are exceptions to this rule. 2920—PUDDING DE CASTRIES Clothe a Bombe mould with a thin layer of vanilla ice-cream, and fill it with two Bombe-preparations, spread in somewhat thick, alternate layers. One of the preparations should be of vanilla, on each thickness of which a layer of lady’s-finger biscuits, cut into dice and sprinkled with Anisette, should be spread ; and the other preparation should be of tangerine. Between the layers, sprinkle a few pinches of grated chocolate, and fill up the mould with a thickness of vanilla ice-cream. Thoroughly close the utensil; pack it for about two or three hours. Turn it out on a folded napkin ; sprinkle thereon a few red, crushed pralins; and serve an iced tangerine syrup separately. 2921—MARIE-ROSE PUDDING Line a Charlotte mould with rolled gaufrettes\ placing them snugly one against the other. By means of a piping-bag, fill the gaufrettes with very stiff strawberry ice, and then fill the mould with a vanilla pralined Bombe-preparation. Keep the mould in the refrigerator for three hours, and turn out the pudding on a napkin. Decorate it on top with pink and white Chantilly cream. Serve a chocolate ice-cream separately. 2922—PUDDING MIRAMAR Garnish an iced, Madeleine-mould with lady’s-finger biscuits, saturated with Chartreuse, and alternate them with thin slices of fresh pine-apple, saturated in Kirsch, and pipped sections of tangerine, skinned raw.