524 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY Whichever way they are made, however, the boudins are poached like quenelles, and are afterwards drained on a piece of linen. They are then dipped in beaten egg and rolled in bread- crumbs, and, finally, gently coloured in clarified butter, that their inside may get heated at the same time. Dish them in a circle on a folded napkin, and serve a P£ri- gueux sauce separately. 1656—BOUDINS DE VOLAILLE SOUBISE Prepare the boudins with some forcemeat as above, but replace the salpicon inside by a very reduced .and cold truffled Soubise pur£e. Poach, dip in beaten egg, and roll in bread-crumbs, and colour as before in clarified butter. Serve a clear Soubise separately. *657—QUENELLES DE VOLAILLE MORLAND Mould some portions of somewhat firm chicken mousseline forcemeat into the shape of oval quenelles, three oz. in weight. Dip them in beaten egg; roll them in finely minced truffle, and press lightly on the latter with the blade of a knife, in order that it may combine with the egg. Poach gently in clarified butter, tinder cover, that the force- meat may be well cooked. Dish in a circle, and in the middle pour a mushroom pur^e. 1658— QUENELLES DE VOLAILLE D’UZES Line the bottom and sides of some oval buttered quenelle moulds with chicken forcemeat prepared with panada and cream. Garnish the middle with a mince of the white of chicken meat cohered with reduced Allemande sauce, and cover with force- meat. Poach the quenelles in good time; drain them on a piece of linen; set them in a circle on a round dish, and coat with Aurore sauce. Garnish the centre of the circle with a fine Julienne of truffles. 1659— CAPILOTADE DE VOLAILLE Prepare an Italienne sauce, combined with cooked, sliced mushrooms. Add to this sauce some thin slices of cold fowl remains, and heat without allowing to boil at all. Dish in a timbale, and sprinkle a little chopped parsley over the preparation. 1660— CHICKEN PIE Cut a fowl into pieces as for a fricassee; season the pieces, and sprinkle them with three finely-chopped onions, one and