GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 35° 1039—BOUILLABAISSE A LA MARSEILLAISE The fish for Bouillabaisse are rascasse, chapon, dory, whiting, fielas, boudreuil, spiny lobster, red mullet, gurnet, &c. Cut the larger fish into slices; leave the smaller ones whole, and with the exception of the whiting and the red mullet, which cook more speedily than the others, put them all into a saucepan. For two lbs. of fish, add one small onion, the chopped white of one leek, one small, peeled, pressed and chopped tomato, two crushed cloves of garlic, a large pinch of concassed parsley, a pinch of powdered saffron, a bit of bay, a little savory and fennel, and two tablespoonfuls of oil. Moisten the fish with just enough cold water to cover it, and season with one-third oz. of salt and a pinch of pepper per quart of water. Set to boil, and cook over a brisk fire. At the end of eight minutes add the pieces of whiting and red mullet, and leave to cook for a further seven minutes. Pour the liquor of the bouillabaisse over some slices of household bread lying on the bottom of a deep dish; set the fish on another dish with the sections of spiny lobster all round, and serve. ,o4o—QUENELLES DE BROCHET A LA LYONNAISE Pound separately one lb. of the meat of pike, cleared of all skin and bones, and one lb. of the fat of kidney of beef, very dry, cleaned, and cut into small pieces. If desired, half of the weight of the fat of kidney of beef may be replaced by one-half lb. of beef marrow. Put the pounded meat of the pike and the kidney fat on separate plates. Now pound one lb. of frangipane Panada (No. 192) and add thereto, little by little, the white of four little eggs. Put the pike meat and the fat back into the mortar, and finely pound the whole until a fine, smooth paste is obtained. Rub the latter through a sieve; put the resulting pur£e into a basin, and work it well with a wooden spoon in order to smooth it. With this forcemeat mould some quenelles with a spoon, and poach them in salted water. If these quenelles are to be served with an ordinary fish sauce, put them into it as soon as they are poached and drained, and simmer them in it for ten minutes that they may swell. If the sauce intended for them is to be thickened with egg- yolks, and buttered at the last moment, put them into a sauce-