753 ENTREMETS two-thirds of their height, and withdraw the pulp from their insides in suchwise as to make them resemble a kind of cases. Poach these cases in a thin syrup, keeping the pulp somewhat firm ; drain them well, and set them on a dish. Garnish them, one-third full, with a purde made from the with- drawn pulp, and fill them up with a Kiimmel-flavoured, apple- soufflt preparation. Cook in a mild oven for twenty minutes. 2599— POMMES A LA PARISIENNE Proceed exactly as for No. 2584. 2600— POMMES A LA PORTUQA1SE Make cases of the apples as under No. 2598, and poach them in the same way, keeping them somewhat firm. Garnish them with stiff frangipan cream, combined with grated orange rind, crushed macaroons, and currants and sultanas (both washed and swelled in a Cura^oa-flavoured, lukewarm syrup). Dish these garnished apples on a base of semolina-croquette preparation, and set them in the oven for ten minutes. On taking them out of the oven, coat their surface with melted red-currant jelly, combined with a fine julienne of well-parboiled orangc-zest. 2601—RABOTTE DE POMMES OU DOUILLON NORMAN Prepare the apples like those “ k la Bonne-femme,” and enclose each in a layer of fine, short paste. Cover each rabotte with an indented roundel of the same paste; gild; streak, and bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. 2602—POMMES IRfeNE Select some nice apples ; peel them, and cook them In syrup, keeping them somewhat firm. When they are cold, carefully with- draw their pulp, that they may form a sort of cases. Rub the pulp through a sieve, sugar it with vanilla sugar, and spread a layer of it on the bottom of each apple. Fill up the apple-cases with vanilla ice, combined with a pur^e of cooked plums ; the proportions being one-third of the latter to one of the former. Cover this ice with Kirsch-flavoured Italian meringue ; set the latter to colour quickly, and serve instantly. 2603—FLAN DE POMMES CHAUD NINON Prepare a colourlessly-baked flawn crust. Garnish it with apples stewed as for a Charlotte, and shape these in the form of a dome. Upon these stewed apples set pink and white quartered apples, alternating the latter regularly; and, by means of a brush 3 c