274 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY dines, of anchovies, &c.; small aspics of shrimps or of cray- fishes’ tails; small slices of lobster, &c. Almost all the cold sauces may accompany cold salmon. 801— SAUMON FROID, OU DARNE DE SAUMON FROID A LA ROYALE Having drained and dried the salmon or the darne, remove the skin from one of its sides, and coat the bared fillets with a layer of a preparation of mousse de saumon, letting it lie rather more thickly over the middle than the sides. Coat the layer of mousse with mayonnaise sauce thickened by means of fish jelly, and leave to set. Now let some clear fish jelly set on the bottom of the dish to be sent to the table; place the salmon or the darne on this jelly, and surround the piece with a border consisting of Montpellier butter, using for the purpose a piping-bag fitted with a grooved pipe. Decorate the centre of the piece by means of a fine fleur-de- lys made from truffles, and encircle it with two royale crowns made from anchovy fillets. 802— SAUMON FROID OU DARNE DE SAUMON A LA PARISIENNE Remove the skin in suchwise as to leave the bared portion in the shape of a regular rectangle, equidistant from the tail and the head; or, in the case of a darne, occupying two-thirds of its surface. Cover the bared portion with mayonnaise sauce thickened with fish jelly and leave it to set. Now stand the piece on a small cushion of rice or semolina, shaping the latter like the piece itself; trim the sauced rectangle with a border of Montpellier butter, laid on by means of a piping-bag fitted with a small grooved pipe. Garnish the centre of the rectangle with pieces of lobster coral, the chopped, hard- boiled white and yolk of an egg, chervil leaves, &c. Encircle the piece wfith a border of small artichoke-bottoms, garnished, in the form of a dome, with a small macedoine of vegetables cohered with cleared mayonnaise. Send a mayonnaise sauce to the table separately. 803— SAUMON FROID OU DARNE DE SAUMON FROID A LA RIGA Prepare a salmon or a darne as in the preceding recipe, and dish it on a cushion in order that it may be slightly raised.