664 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 2233— POMMES DE TERRE MIREILLE Cut some medium-sized, raw potatoes into roundels. Season them and saute them in butter. When they are ready, add to them, per lb., four oz. of sliced artichoke-bottoms, tossed in butter, and one and one-half oz. of truffle slices. Saute the whole so as to ensure a complete mixture, and dish in a timbale. 2234— POMMES DE TERRE MIRETTE Cut some raw potatoes into a julienne one-eighth inch wide, and cook them in butter, keeping them very creamy. Add to them, per lb., two oz. of a julienne of truffles and three table- spoonfuls of melted meat glaze. Mix; dish in a timbale; sprinkle with grated Parmesan and melted butter, and set to glaze quickly. 2235— POMMES DE TERRE MOUSSELINE Prepare a flawn-crust, baked without colouration. Meanwhile, bake a few Dutch potatoes in the oven ; with- draw their pulp; season it with salt and white pepper, and work it over the fire with four oz. of butter and the yolks of two eggs per lb. of its weight. Add one-sixth pint of whisked cream, and set the preparation in the crust, shaping it like a dome. Deco- rate by means of a piping-bag, fitted with a grooved pipe, with some of the preparation which should have been put aside; sprinkle with melted butter, and set to glaze quickly. 2236— POMMES DE TERRE NOISETTES Cut the potatoes, by means of a round spoon-cutter, into pieces the size of hazel-nuts. Season and cook them in butter, and take care to keep them nicely golden and creamy. 2237— POMMES DE TERRE PARISIENNE Prepare some “ Pommes Noisettes ” as above; but cut them a little smaller. When they are cooked, roll them in melted meat glaze, and sprinkle them with chopped parsley. 2238— POMMES DE TERRE PARMESANE Proceed as directed under “ Pommes au Chester ” (No. 2213), but substitute Parmesan for the latter. 2239— POMMES DE TERRE PERSILLEES Cook the potatoes in the English way, that is to say, boil them plainly; drain them well, and roll them in melted butter and chopped parsley.