247 SOUPS 705—CRfeME D’IGNAMES, otherwise BRESILIENNE Bake the yams in the oven, without peeling them. As soon *s this is done, cut them in two, remove their pulp, and quickly rub the latter through a sieve while it is still hot. Dilute the pur£e with boiling milk or thin Bechamel in the proportion of one pint of the former and one-half pint of the latter per lb. of the purde. (This Bechamel should be made from one and one-half oz. of butter and one oz. of flour per quart of milk.) Rub the whole through tammy, and finish the preparation in the usual way. Garnish with two tablespoonfuls of Brazilian pearls, poached in consomm6. This soup may also be prepared as a velout6. 706—CREME DE LAITUES, otherwise JUDIC Parboil and stew in butter two medium-sized ciseled lettuces, the greenest leaves of which should have been discarded. Add these to one and one-half pints of Bechamel. Rub through tammy; add one pint of white consomm6; heat, and finish as usual with cream. Garnish with roundels of lettuce leaves, lightly coated with chicken forcemeat, a bit of truffle laid in their centre, and the whole poached at the last minute. This soup may also be prepared as a velout6. 707—CRfiME DE MAIS, otherwise WASHINGTON Cook some fresh maize in salted water (or use the preserved kind if the fresh is out of season), and combine therewith an equal quantity of thin Bechamel. Rub through tammy; heat, and finish with cream when dishing up. Garnish with grains of maize cooked in salted water. This soup may also be prepared as a velout£ by substituting for the Bechamel an excellent poultry veloute. 708—CRfeME D’OSEILLE A L’AVOINE Pour one-quarter lb. of oatmeal diluted with one-half pint of cold milk into one quart of slightly salted boiling milk. Stir over the fire until the boil is reached; move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and simmer for two hours. This done, add six tablespoonfuls of a fondue of sorrel and butter; set to simmer again for one-quarter hour, and rub the whole through tammy. Complete the operation after the manner common to all creams.