558 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY bacon, cut into dice, with one oz. of chopped onion, and add one-half lb. of sliced ducks’ livers, a pinch of chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and a little spice. Keep the livers underdone, merely stiffened; let the whole half-cool; pound, and rub through a fine sieve. 1755— A1GUILLETTE5 DE R0UENNAI5 A LA BIGARRADE Poele the duckling and only just cook it, bearing in mind that twenty minutes is the time allowed for cooking a fair-sized bird. Remove the fillets lengthwise, each in ten slices, and set the latter on a lukewarm dish. Add a few tablespoonfuls of veal gravy to the poeling-Uquor; set to boil for a few minutes; strain clear of grease, and finish as directed under sauce Bigarrade claire (No 31). Cover the slices of breast with some of the sauce, and serve the remainder separately. “ Aiguillettes ” (or thin slices of breast cut lengthwise) k l’orange are prepared in the same way, except that they are surrounded with sections of orange, skinned raw. 1756— AIGUILLETTES DE ROUENNAIS AUX CERISES Prepare the duckling as above, but add a little Madeira to the braising-liquor. Clear the latter of grease; thicken with arrowroot; strain through muslin, and add one-half lb. of stoned morello cherries, at the last moment. Set the cherries round the aiguillettes; coat the latter thinly with sauce, and serve what remains of the latter, separately. 1757— AIGUILLETTES DE ROUENNAIS AUX TRUFFES Poele the duckling, and only just cook it. Add one-sixth pint of Chambertin wine to the poeling-Uquor, and cook therein five medium-sized, peeled truffles. This done, reduce the liquor, clear of grease, strain it, and add it to a somewhat light Rouennaise sauce. Raise the duckling’s aiguillettes, slice the truffles, and set on a lukewarm dish, alternating the aiguillettes with the slices of truffle. Coat thinly with sauce, and send what remains of the latter separately. 1758— CANETON ROUENNAIS AU CHAMPAGNE Poele the duckling as above. Add one-half pint of dry Saint Marceaux champagne to the poeling-Uquor; reduce, and complete with one-sixth pint of thickened, veal stock.