RELEVES AND ENTREES 361 Send the cooking-liquor, cleared of all grease, and slightly thickened, separately. 1072—FILET DE BCEUF SAINT-FLORENTIN Lard the fillet and roast it. Set it on a long dish, and surround it with the following garnish :—(1) At either end, a heap of cepes, prepared k la Bordelaise at the last minute; (2) croquettes of potatoes k la Saint-Florentin, on either side. These croquettes are prepared from the same potato-paste as “ Pommes Duchesse,” but in this case the paste receives a copious addition of chopped tongue. Mould them to the shape of lozenges, and treat them a Vanglaise, using for the purpose very fine vermicelli instead of bread-crumbs. Fry the croquettes just before dishing up. Send, separately, a Bordelaise sauce with white wine, kept somewhat light. 1073—FILET DE BCEUF SAINT-GERMAIN Lard the fillet and roast it. Set it on a long dish, and surround it with the following garnish :—(1) At either end of the fillet a nice heap of glazed carrots, cut to the shape of olives; (2) a heap of very small potatoes, cooked in butter, on either side of the carrots; (3) a row of small timbales of very green peas purde (No. 2196) on either side of the fillet. 1074—FILET DE BCEUF TALLEYRAND Cut up the necessary number of raw truffles for the garnish- ing of the fillet. The pieces of truffle should be one inch long and one-quarter inch wide, and so pointed as to enable them to be easily stuck into the meat. To stick them in, make small incisions in the fillet, and in these set the bits of truffle. Marinade the fillet for three hours in Madeira; wrap it in slices of bacon; string it, and set it to braise with its marinade. This done, remove the slices of bacon; glaze it, and set it on a long dish. Send the following garnish separately: — Poached macaroni, cut into pieces one and one-half inches long, and combined per lb. with three oz. of grated Gruy^re and Parmesan, one and one-half oz. of butter, three oz. of a julienne of truffles, and three oz. of cooked foie gras, cut into large dice. As an adjunct, send a P^rigueux sauce with a fine julienne of truffles instead of the latter chopped.