RELEVES AND ENTREES 453 and, in their midst, set a nice heap of asparagus-heads cohered with butter. >373—COTELETTES D’AGNEAU DE LAIT MILANAISE Treat the cutlets & Vanglaise, but add to the bread-crumbs the quarter of their weight of grated Parmesan. Cook the cutlets in clarified butter. Dish them in a circle, and, in their midst, arrange a garnish “k la milanaise ” (see Cote de Vau k la Milanaise,” No. 1258.) 1374—COTELETTES D’AQNEAU DE LAIT MORLAND Slightly flatten the cutlets, dip them in beaten egg, and roll them in finely-chopped truffle, which in this case answers the purpose of bread-crumbs. Press the truffle with the flat of a knife, that it may thoroughly combine with the egg, and cook the cutlets in clarified butter. Dish them in a circle; garnish the centre of the dish with a mushroom pur£e (No. 2059), and surround the cutlets with a thread of buttered meat glaze. *375—COTELETTES D’AQNEAU DE LAIT NAVARRAISE For twelve cutlets, make a preparation consisting of four oz. of ham, four oz. of cooked mushrooms, and one-half oz. of chopped, red capsicums; the whole being cohered by means of a very reduced Bechamel sauce, flavoured with truffle essence. Grill the cutlets on one side only, and garnish them on their grilled side with a tablespoonful of the above preparation, which should be shaped like a dome upon them. Set the cutlets upon a tray as soon as they are garnished; sprinkle the surface of the preparation, covering them with grated cheese and melted butter, and place them in the oven, that their cooking may be completed and the gratin formed. Meanwhile, toss twelve seasoned half-tomatoes in oil. Dish these tomatoes in a circle; set a cutlet upon each, and border with a thread of tomato sauce. 1376 “COTELETTES D’AQNEAU DE LAIT NELSON Grill the cutlets, and, at the same time, prepare as many bread-crumb croutons as there are cutlets, and of exactly the same shape as the latter. Fry the croutons in butter, and coat them with foie-gras pur£e. Place a grilled cutlet on each coated crouton, and a slice of truffle on the kernel of each cutlet. Now, by means of a