RELEVES AND ENTREES 403 1206—FRICANDEAU (Relev6) Fricandeau is a lateral cut from the cushion of veal; that is to say, a piece cut with the grain of the meat. It should not be thicker than one and one-half inches. After beating it with a beater or the flat of a chopper, to break the fibres of the meat, finely lard the piece of meat on the cut side with strips of bacon, somewhat smaller than those used for fillet of beef. Only when the piece is larded may it be called “ Fricandeau for, when not treated thus, it is nothing else than an ordinary piece of veal. Fricandeau is invariably braised; but it differs from other braisings of white meat in this, namely, that it must be so cooked as to be easily cut with a spoon. Connoisseurs maintain that Fricandeau should never be touched with a knife. It is glazed at the last moment, like other braisings, and, in view of its prolonged cooking, should be dished with great care. All the garnishes enumerated for cushion of veal may be adapted to Fricandeau. 1207—FRICANDEAU FROID Cold fricandeau constitutes an excellent luncheon dish. It is dished and surrounded with its braising-liquor, cleared of grease and strained. This braising-liquor sets to a jelly, and is the finest adjunct to fricandeau that could be found. The piece may be glazed with half-melted jelly, smeared over it by means of a brush. 1208—POITRINE DE VEAU FARCIE This is really a family dish, admirably suited for a luncheon relev£. It is accompanied chiefly by vegetable purges, but all the vegetable and other garnishes given under Cushion of Veal may be served with it. Breast of veal is prepared thus:—After having boned the piece, open it where it is thickest, without touching the ends. A kind of pocket is thus obtained, into which put the previously- prepared stuffing, taking care to spread it very evenly. Now, with coarse cotton, sew up the opening, and remember to withdraw the cotton when the piece is cooked. Stuffing for Breast of Veal.—For a piece weighing four lbs., add to one lb. of very fine sausage-meat (No. 196), two oz. of dry duxelles, two oz. of butter, a pinch of chopped parsley, tarragon and chives, a small beaten egg, and a little salt and pepper. Cooking.—Breast of veal is usually braised; the moistening D D 2