GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY *44 311— EEL AU VERT A LA FLAMANDE Remove the skin from, and cut into small pieces, two lbs. of small eels. Stiffen the pieces in butter, moisten with one pint of beer, season, and set to cook for ten minutes. Add the herbs enumerated above, raw and roughly chopped. Once more set to cook for seven or eight minutes, thicken with fecula if the sauce is too thin, and transfer the whole to a bowl to cool. Serve very cold. 312— ARTICHOKES A LA GRECQUE Take some very small and tender artichokes. Pare them, cut the leaves short, and plunge them into a large saucepan of acidulated water. Set to parboil for eight or ten minutes, drain, cool in fresh water, and drain once more in a sieve. For twenty artichokes prepare the following liquor:—one pint of water, one-quarter pint of oil, a little salt, the juice of three lemons, a few fennel and coriander seedsj some pepper- corns, a sprig of thyme, and a bay-leaf. Set to boil, add the parboiled artichokes, and leave to cook for twenty minutes. Transfer tP a bowl. Serve these artichokes very cold upon a hors-d’oeuvre dish, accompanied by a few tablespoonfuls of their cooking- liquor. 313— SMALL ARTICHOKE-BOTTOMS Remove the leaves and the hearts of some little artichokes; trim their remaining bases, and plunge each as soon as trimmed into acidulated water lest they blacken. Cook them “ au blanc ” (No. 167), and leave them to cool in their liquor. Drain them well, dry them, place them in a pan, and marinade them for twenty minutes in oil and lemon-juice. This done, garnish them, either with a salpicon thickened with mayonnaise, a milt or other pur£e, a small macedoine, or a vegetable salad, &c. Place on a hors-d’oeuvre dish with a garnish of parsley sprays. 314— BARQUETTES These are a kind of small Croustades with indented edges, made in very small, boat-shaped moulds, and they may be garnished in any conceivable way. As their preparation is the same as that of Tartlets, see the latter ^No. 387); also refer to “ Frivolities ” (No. 350).