RELEVES AND ENTRIES 449 they are cooked by means of gradual penetration; thus, by slackening the cooking speed of the Navarin, they are cooked to the required extent. *354—PILAW DE MOUTON A LA TURQUE Mutton Pilaff is, in fact, nothing but a Navarin in which the tomatoes dominate the other ingredients; it is flavoured with ginger or saffron, according to circumstances, and the usual vegetables are replaced by rice. Prepared in this way, it does not lend itself very well to the exigencies of a restaurant service. More often, therefore, it is treated like curried mutton; but, instead of serving it with rice & l’lndienne, it is dished in the midst of a pilaff-rice border. Sometimes, too, the rice is served separately, after the manner of a curry dish. HOUSE LAMB. *355—BARON (OR PAIR OF HIND-QUARTERS) OF LAMB *356—DOUBLE (OR PAIR OF LEGS) OF LAMB *357—QUARTER OF LAMB *358—FILLET OF LAMB *359—SADDLE AND NECK OF LAMB Large joints of lamb for Relev6s are cut like those of mutton. One joint, however, should be added, which is “ The Haunch”; and this consists of one leg and half the loin attached. Large joints of house lamb should be poeled or roasted. Their most suitable adjunct is either their own stock, or a thickened, highly seasoned and clear gravy. House Lamb Relev^s are chiefly garnished with early-season or new vegetables; but all the garnishes given under Mutton Relev6s may also be served with them, provided the difference in size be taken into account. In addition to these garnishes, saddle of lamb admits of all the preparations given under saddle of veal (Nos. 1181 to 1191). 1360—SELLE D’AGNEAU DE LAIT EDOUARD VII. Completely bone the saddle from underneath, in suchwise as to leave the skin intact; season it inside, and place in the middle a fine foie gras, studded with truffles and marinaded in Marsala. Reconstruct the saddle, and wrap it tightly in a piece of muslin; put it in a saucepan just large enough to hold it, on a litter of pieces of bacon rind, cleared of all fat and blanched. G G