RELEVES AND ENTREES 447 of salt and a pinch of pepper; boil and stir; add a faggot, and cook in the oven for thirty minutes. This done, transfer the pieces to another saucepan; add the bacon and the onions and a quart of half-cooked haricot beans; strain the sauce over the whole, and complete the cooking in the oven for one hour. Dish in a timbale or in small cocottes. 1350—IRISH STEW Cut two lbs. of boned breast and shoulder of mutton into pieces, as above. Slice two lbs. of potatoes and chop four medium-sized onions. Take a saucepan just large enough to hold these ingredients and the moistening; line the bottom of the utensil with a layer of the pieces of meat, and season the latter with salt and pepper. Upon the meat spread a litter of sliced potatoes and Chopped onions; repeat the operation, again and again, until all the ingredients are used up, and remember to place a faggot in the middle. Moisten with one and one-third pint of water, and cook gently in the oven for one and one-half hours. The potatoes in this preparation answer the double purpose of garnish and leason. Dish in a timbale and serve boiling. 135*— MOUSSAKA (1) Cut six fine egg-plants into halves, lengthwise; cisel the pulp somewhat deeply with the point of a small knife, and fry them until their pulp may be easily removed. Do this with a spoon, and put the pulp aside with the skins of the egg-plants. (2) Peel two fair-sized egg-plants; cut them into roundels one-third in. thick; season them, dredge them; fry them in oil, and put them aside. (3) Chop up the pulp withdrawn from the egg-plants, and put it into a basin with one and one-half lbs. of very lean, cooked mutton, chopped or cut into very small dice; two table- spoonfuls of very finely-chopped onion, fried in butter; a pinch of parsley; a piece of crushed garlic as large as a pea; three oz. of roughly-chopped raw mushrooms, fried in butter; two eggs; two tablespoonfuls of cold Espagnole sauce; one table- spoonful of tomato pur£e; a pinch of salt, and another of pepper. Mix the whole well. (4) Butter a low-bordered quart Charlotte mould; line it all over with the egg-plant skins, and lay these black side upper-