44 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 106a—SUPREME SAUCE The salient characteristics of Supreme Sauce are its perfect whiteness and consummate delicacy. It is generally prepared in small quantities only. Preparation.—Put one and one-half pints of very clear poultry stock and one-quarter pint of mushroom cooking liquor into a sauffipan. Reduce to two-thirds; add one pint of “poultry velouffi ”; reduce on an open fire, stirring with the spatula the while, and combine one-half pint of excellent cream with the sauce, this last ingredient being added little by little. When the sauce has reached the desired consistence, strain it through a sieve, and add another one-quarter pint of cream and two oz. of best butter. Stir with a spoon, from time to time, or keep the pan well covered. 107— VENETIAN SAUCE Put into a stewpan one tablespoonful of chopped shallots, one tablespoonful of chervil, and one-quarter pint of white wine and tarragon vinegar, mixed in equal quantities. Reduce the vinegar by two-thirds; add one pint of white wine sauce (No. 111); boil for a few minutes; rub through a tammy, and finish the sauce with a sufficient quantity of Herb Juice (No. 183) and one teaspoonful of chopped chervil and tarragon. This sauce accompanies various fish. 108— VILLEROY SAUCE Put into a sauffipan one pint of Allemande Sauce to which have been added two tablespoonfuls of truffle essence and as much ham essence. Reduce on an open fire and constantly stir until the sauce is sufficiently stiff to coat immersed solids thickly. 109— VILLEROY SOUBISEE SAUCE Put into a sauffipan two-thirds pint of Allemande Sauce and one-third pint of Soubise pur£e (Formula 105). Reduce as in the preceding case, as the uses to which this is put are the same. Now, according to the circumstances and the nature of the solid it is intended for, a few teaspoonfuls of very black, chopped truffles may be added to this sauce. no—VILLEROY TOMATEE SAUCE Prepare the sauce as explained under No. 108, and add to it the third of its volume of very fine tomato pur6e. Reduce in the same way.