745 ENTREMETS 2555—ABRICOTS MERINGUES Spread a layer of vanilla-flavoured sweet rice on a dish, and set some poached half-apricots thereon. Cover with ordinary meringue; shaping the latter like a dome or a Charlotte ; decorate with the same meringue ; sprinkle with icing sugar, and place the dish in the oven in order to slightly cook the meringue. On withdrawing the dish from the oven, garnish the decorative portions alternately with apricot and red-currant jam. 2556—ABRICOTS MERINGUES (Another Method) Prepare a colourlessly-baked deep flawn-crust. Garnish the bottom either with a layer of frangipan cream or with vanilla- flavoured semolina, or sweet rice. Set on this some poached half-apricots ; cover with meringue, smooth the latter on top and all round with the blade of a knife, and decorate with meringue by means of a piping-bag fitted with a small even pipe. For the rest of the procedure follow the preceding recipe. 2557—APRICOTS A LA SULTANE Prepare a GJnoise, cooked in a somewhat deep border-mould, and stick it by means of some apricot, cooked to the small-thread. stage, to a base of dry paste of the same size. Coat it all round with ordinary meringue ; decorate it with a piping-bag fitted with a small even pipe, and brown it in a moderate oven. Then garnish the inside of the border with a preparation of vanilla-flavoured rice, combined with a little frangipan cream and some splintered pistachios ; taking care to keep the preparation sufficiently stiff to be able to shape it like a dome. Upon the rice set some fine half-apricots, poached in vanilla-flavoured syrup, and sprinkle these with chopped pistachios. As an accompaniment serve a syrup prepared with almond milk, and finished with a piece of butter as big as a hazel-nut. Pine-apple (Ananas). 2558—PINE-APPLE A LA FAVORITE See No. 2429. 2559—PINE-APPLE A LA CONDE Macerate in sugar and Kirsch some half-slices of pine-apple. Dish them in a circle upon a border of rice, prepared as directed under No. 2551 ; decorate with half-sugared cherries and lozenges of angelica, and coat with a Kirsch-flavoured apricot syrup. 2560—PINE-APPLE A LA CREOLE Cook a pine-apple in a Kirsch-flavoured syrup ; cut it vertically in two, and cut each half into vertical, thin and regular slices.