450 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY Moisten, enough to cover, with the braising-liquor of a cushion of veal; add thereto the Marsala used in marinading the foie gras, and poach for about forty-five minutes. Before withdrawing the saddle, make sure that the foie gras is sufficiently cooked. Remove the muslin, and put the saddle in an oval terrine a pate just large enough to hold it. Strain the cooking-liquor over it, without clearing the former of grease, and set it to cool. When the saddle is quite cold, carefully clear away the grease that lies upon it, first by means of a spoon and then by means of boiling water. Serve it very cold, in the terrine as it stands. 1361— CARRE D’AGNEAU BEAUCAIRE Having trimmed the neck of lamb, as explained, brown it in butter; surround it with eight small, Provence half-artichokes, and cook gently in the oven. The artichokes in question have no chokes and are very tender. Meanwhile, peel, press, concass and season four or five toma- toes, and fry them in butter. When they are ready, add a large pinch of chopped tarragon to them. Dish the tomatoes; set the neck upon them, and surround it with the stewed half-artichokes. 1362— CARRE D’AGNEAU EN COCOTTE A LA BONNE FEMME Fry a shortened and well-trimmed neck of lamb, in butter. This done, transfer it to an oval cocotte with ten small onions browned in butter, and two medium-sized potatoes, cut into large dice, shaped like garlic cloves, and blanched. Sprinkle the whole with melted butter and cook gently in the oven. Serve the preparation as it stands, in the cocotte, placing the latter on a folded napkin. 1363— CARRE D’AGNEAU A LA BOULANGERE Fry the neck of lamb with butter, in an earthenware dish, and surround it with sliced onions, tossed in butter, and sliced potatoes; both of which vegetables should be in quantities in proportion to the size of the piece of meat. The “ h la Boul- ang&re ” procedure is always the same, and was explained under No. 1307, but allowances should always be made for the par- ticular size and tenderness of the piece. 1364— CARRE D AGNEAU GRILLE Having shortened and well trimmed the neck, season it; sprinkle it with melted butter, and grill it gently.