GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 344 1021— FILETS DE MERLAN ORLY Raise the fillets and proceed as for “ Filets de Soles Olga,” No. 893. 1022— MERLAN SUR LE PLAT Proceed as for “ Sole sur le Plat,” No. 837. 1023— MERLAN A LA RICHELIEU Prepare six “ Merlans k l’anglaise,” No. 1014. Lay thereon a few slices of truffle. Or dish them simply on their sides; garnish their top surfaces with the butter prescribed above, and put a row of truffle slices on the butter. 1024— MORUE AND SALTED COD (Morue et Cabillaud Sal£) Salted cod bought in England has generally been fished somewhere along the English coast, and is, as a rule, of recent salting. It has not the peculiar flavour of the Icelandic morue, or that of the Newfoundland specimens, and it does not lend itself to such a large variety of preparations as these two. At the end of each of the following recipes, I indicate the kind of cod to which the procedure may be applied. Morue, especially the Newfoundland kind, should be set to soak at least twelve hours before being used, and the water during that time should be frequently changed. When about to cook it, suppress its fins, and cut it up in a way befitting the selected mode of preparation. Allow four oz. gross of the fish for each person. 1024a—SALTED COD AND MORUE A L’ANGLAISE Put the fish into cold water; set to boil, and as soon as this point is reached, leave the fish to poach on the side of the fire for fifteen minutes. Drain, skin, dish on a napkin, and serve, separately, a timbale of parsnips and an egg-sauce k l’Ecossaise. Both kinds of cod may be used for this dish. 1025— MORUE A LA BENEDICTINE Poach one and one-half lbs. of morue as above; drain it and cut into small pieces, cleared of all skin and bone. Pound it quickly while it is still hot, and add to it half its weight of potatoes cooked as for a pur£e, drained, and dried in the oven for a few minutes. When the whole has been reduced to a fine paste, add one-sixth pint of oil, and one-quarter pint of boiled milk. The oil and the milk should be added little by little, and the paste should be more mellow than stiff.