7 FONDS DE CUISINE such aromatics as saffron or curry, both of which considerably add to their quality. 5—GAME CONSOMME The necks, breasts, and shoulders of venison and of hare, old wild rabbits, old pheasants, and old partridges may be used in the production of game consommes. An ordinary consomm£ may likewise be made, in which half the beef can be replaced by veal, and to which may be added, while clarifying, a suc- culent game essence. This last method is even preferable when dealing with feathered game, but in either case it is essential that the meat used should be half-roasted beforehand, in order to strengthen the fumet. The formula that I give below must therefore only be looked upon as a model, necessarily alterable according to the resources at one’s disposal, the circumstances, and the end in view. Quantities for making Four Quarts of Plain Game Consomme. 3 lbs. of neck, shoulder, or breast of venison. i£ lbs. of hare-trimmings, i old pheasant or 2 partridges. 4 oz. of sliced carrots, browned in butter. £ lb. of mushrooms, likewise browned in butter. i medium-sized leek and 2 sticks of celery. i bunch of herbs with extra thyme and bay leaves, i onion, oven-browned, with 2 cloves stuck into it. Liquor.—Five and one-half quarts of water. Seasoning.—One oz. of salt and a few peppercorns, these to be added ten minutes previous to straining the consomm6. Time allowed for cooking.—Three hours. Mode of Procedure.—Proceed in exactly the same way as for ordinary consommes, taking care only to half-roast the meat, as I pointed out above, before putting it in the stewpan. The Clarification of Game Consommes The constituents of the clarification of game consommes vary according to the kind of consommd desired. If it is to have a partridge flavour, one partridge should be allowed for each quart of the consomm^, whereas if its flavour is to be that of the pheasant, half an old pheasant will be required per each quart of the liquid. Lastly, in the case of plain game consommes, one lb. of lean venison, hare, or wild rabbit should be allowed for each quart of the required consomm£. Mode of Procedure.—Whatever be the kind of game used, the latter must be thoroughly boned and the meat well pounded, together with the white of an egg per four quarts of consomm£.