543 POULTRY 1715—DINDONNEAU (Young Turkey) Young turkeys, served as relevds or entries, admit of all the recipes given for pullets; therefore, in order to avoid unnecessary repetition, the reader is begged to refer to those recipes. Those most generally applied to young turkeys are the ones termed “ k l’Anglaise ”—with celery, & la Financffire, k la Godard, and k la Jardiniere. In addition to these preparations, there are others which are better suited and are more proper to young turkeys, and these I give below. 1716—DINDONNEAU FARCI AUX MARRONS Cut open the shells of two and one-quarter lbs. of chest- nuts; immerse them for a few seconds in smoking fat; peel them, and almost completely cook them in consommd. Then mix them with two lbs. of very finely-chopped pork, rubbed through tammy. Fill the bird with this preparation; truss it, and roast it on the spit or in the oven, basting frequently the while. Serve with the gravy separately. The latter should be somewhat fat. 1717—DINDONNEAU A LA CATALANE Cut up the young turkey as for a fricassee, and fry the pieces in three oz. of butter. When the pieces are nicely browned, swill the utensil with one pint of white wine; season with salt and pepper; add a piece, the size of a pea, of crushed garlic, and completely reduce. Then moisten with sufficient tomato pur6e and equal quantities of Espagnole and brown stock to just cover the pieces. Cook in the oven for forty minutes; transfer the pieces to another dish after having trimmed them, and add one-half lb. of raw, quartered mushrooms, sauted in butter; twenty chestnuts cooked in consomnffi; twenty small, glazed onions; five quartered tomatoes, and ten sausages. Strain the sauce over the pieces of turkey; complete the cooking for twenty-five minutes, and dish in a timbale. 1718—DINDONNEAU CHIPOLATA This may be prepared in two ways, according as to whether it be intended for lunch or for dinner. (1) Cut up the young turkey and fry the pieces in butter as above. Swill with one glassful of white wine; add a suffi- cient quantity of tomated half-glaze sauce, just to cover the pieces, and cook in the oven for forty minutes.