ELEMENTARY PREPARATIONS 71 It is made of well-whisked eggs, salt, pepper, and one dessertspoonful of oil per couple of eggs. Its Uses.—The solids to be panes a. Vanglaise are dipped into the preparation described above, taking care that the latter coats them thoroughly; whereupon, according to the require- ments, they are rolled either in bread-crumbs or in fine raspings. From this combination of egg with bread-crumbs or raspings there results a kind of coat which, at the moment of contact with the hot fat, is immediately converted into a resisting crust. In croquettes this crust checks the escape, into the fat, of the sub- stances it encloses, and this is more especially the case when the croquettes contain some reduced sauce, or are composed of raw meats or fish whose juices are thereby entirely retained. A solid prepared a Vanglaise and cooked in fat should always be put into the latter when this is very hot, so as to ensure the instantaneous solidification of the egg and bread- crumbs. N.B.—Objects to be treated a Vanglaise are generally rolled in flour before being immersed in the anglaise, for the flour helps the foregoing to adhere to the object. The crust formed over the solid thus acquires a density which is indispensable. 174a—AROMATICS Aromatics play a very prominent part in cookery, and their combination with the condiments constitutes, as Grinod de la ReynRre said, “ the hidden soul of cooking.” Their real object, in fact, is to throw the savour of dishes into relief, to intensify that savour, and to give each culinary preparation its particular stamp. They are all derived from the vegetable kingdom; but, while some are used dry, others are used fresh. The first-named should belong to the permanent kitchen stock; they are: sage, basil, rosemary, sweet marjoram, thyme, and bay. Also to be included in the permanent stock are: cinnamon, ginger, juniper-berries, nutmeg, cloves, mace, and vanilla. The last-named comprise those aromatic herbs used fresh, such as: parsley, chervil, tarragon, pimpernel, and common savory; while, under this head, there may also be included : bits of common- and Seville-orange rind and zests of lemon rind. 174b — SEASONING AND CONDIMENTS Seasonings are divided into several classes, which com. prise:—