172 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY each stuffed rusk; coat with velout£ mixed with poultry essence; arrange in a circle on a dish, and complete by means of a ring of very black truffle on each egg. 43,—POACHED EGGS VICTORIA Garnish some tartlet-crusts with a salpicon made from three oz. of spiny-lobster meat and one-half oz. of truffles, cohered with three tablespoonfuls of Diplomate sauce. Place an egg, coated with Diplomate sauce, on each tartlet. Dish, and set to glaze in a fierce oven. 432— POACHED EGGS WITH RED WINE These eggs may either be poached with red wine, or in the ordinary way. In the first case, the wine used for poaching may serve to prepare the red wine or Bordelaise sauce (No. 32). In eithei case, the eggs are dished on oval rusks, slightly hollowed and fried in butter; they are coated with the sauce, after having been dished, and they are quickly glazed. 433— HARD-BOILED EGGS Boiling eggs hard may seem an insignificant matter, but, like the other modes of procedure, it is, in reality, of some importance, and should be effected in a given period of time. If, for a special purpose, they have to be just done, it is point- less and even harmful to boil them beyond a certain time-limit, seeing that any excess in the boiling only makes them tough, and the whites particularly so, owing to their albuminous nature. In order to boil eggs uniformly, they should be put into a colander with large holes, whereby they may be plunged at the same moment of time into the boiling water. From the time the water regains the boiling point, eight minutes should be allowed in the case of medium-sized eggs, and ten minutes in the case of larger ones; but these times should never be exceeded. As soon as they are done drain the eggs and dip them in cold water, and then shell them carefully. 434— HARD-BOILED EGGS CAREME Have ready beforehand a timbale crust (No. 2394), some- what shallow. For six hard-boiled eggs, slice four artichoke-bottoms of medium size, and stew them in butter; cut some truffles into slices, allowing four slices to each egg, and cut up the eggs