238 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 673— VELOUTE CARMELITE Prepare one and one-half pints of fish velout£, stew four oz. of fillets of sole and the same quantity of fillets of whiting in one and one-half oz. of butter and lemon juice. Pound the fish, add it to the velout£, and rub through tammy. Add the necessary quantity of consomm£, heat the velout£, and finish it, when about to serve, with a leason and butter. Garnish with one tablespoonful of a julienne of poached fillets of sole and twelve small quenelles of smelt forcemeat. This soup may also be prepared as a cream. 674— VELOUTE AUX CAROTTES, otherwise NIVERNAISE Cut into thin slices one lb. of the red part only of carrots, season with a pinch of table-salt and twice that amount of castor-sugar, and stew in one oz. of butter. Add one pint of ordinary thin velout£ and let the cooking of the carrots be completed therein. Rub through tammy, finish with one-half pint of white consomm^, set to boil, and complete the preparation, when dishing up, with the leason and butter. Garnish with one and one-half tablespoonfuls of a fine brunoise of the red part of carrots. This soup may also be prepared as a cream. 675— VELOUTE COMTESSE Prepare one pint of ordinary velout£, parboil one and one- half lbs. of white asparagus, and put them into the velout^. Complete the cooking gently. Rub through tammy, add one- half pint of white consomm£, heat, and finish the preparation, when dishing up, with the leason and butter. Garnish with one tablespoonful of a lettuce chiffonade and twelve small white asparagus-heads wherefrom all leaves have been removed. This soup may also be prepared as a cream. 676— VELOUT6 AU CONCOMBRES, otherwise DANOISE Peel, remove the seeds from, mince, and stew in butter one lb. of parboil cucumber. Add this to one pint of ordinary veloutd, which should have been prepared at the same time, and complete the cooking quickly. Rub through tammy, add the necessary quantity of white consomm£, heat, and finish the preparation, when dishing up, with a leason and butter in the usual quantities.