369 RELEVES AND ENTREES nedos set a crown of truffle slices, with a cock’s kidney in the centre, and surround with braised, trimmed, and quartered lettuces. 1099—TOURNEDOS LACKME Prepare (1) as many small tartlet-crusts as there are tour- nedos; (2) the same number of grilled, medium-sized mush- rooms; (3) a garnish of one tablespoonful of broad beans with cream per tartlet. Season the tournedos, and fry them in clarified butter. Dish them in the form of a crown, each on a tartlet garnished with broad beans, and set a grilled mushroom on each tour- nedos. 1100—TOURNEDOS LESDIGUlfeRES Select onions sufficiently large to admit of placing the tour- nedos upon them, and let their number equal that of the tour- nedos. Trim their tops, and parboil them almost long enough to cook them. Then, by means of a small knife, cut out their insides so that they may form little cases. Fill the latter, two-thirds full, with spinach prepared with cream, cover the spinach with Mornay sauce, and set them to glaze in a fierce oven a few moments before the tournedos are ready. Grill the tournedos; dish them in the form of a crown, each on an onion. 1101—TOURNEDOS LIL1 Season the tournedos, and fry them in butter. Dish them, in the form of a crown, each on a crust of “ Pommes de terre Anna ” (No. 2203), stamped out with a round, even cutter of the same size as the tournedos. On each tournedos set an artichoke-bottom garnished with a roundel of foie gras tossed in butter, and on the foie gras place a slice of truffle. Send, separately, a reduced and well-buttered P£rigueux sauce. 1102—TOURNEDOS LUCULLUS Season the tournedos; fry them in clarified butter, and dish them, in the form of a crown, on fried crusts. Surround them with a garnish consisting of quenelles of chicken forcemeat, cocks’ combs, truffles, and blanched olives, and coat the whole with half-glaze sauce prepared with truffle essence. 1103—TOURNEDOS MADELEINE For ten tournedos prepare (1) ten timbales of a pur6e of haricot beans. For these timbales the pur£e of haricot beans B B