VEGETABLES AND FARINACEOUS PRODUCTS 633 2067—PUREE DE CELERI-RAVE (Celeriac) Peel the celeriac; cut it into sections, and cook it in salted water. Drain and rub it through tammy, adding plain-boiled, quartered potatoes the while in the proportion of one-third of the weight of the pur£e of celeriac. Put the pur^e in a sautdpan; add to it three oz. of butter per lb.; dry it over a fierce fire, and bring it to its normal con- sistence by means of milk. When about to serve, add butter, away from the fire, and dish in a timbale. CIipes Those cepes which are barely opened or not opened at all are not parboiled. Contrariwise, those which are open should be washed, parboiled, and stewed in butter, after having been well dried. 2068—CEPES A LA BORDELA1SE Collop the cepes; season them with salt and pepper; put them into very hot oil, and toss them until they are thoroughly frizzled. Almost at the last moment add, per one-half lb. of cepes, one oz. of cepe stalks, which should have been put aside and chopped up, one teaspoonful of chopped shallots, and a tablespoonful of bread-crumbs—the object of which is to absorb any excess of oil, once the cepes have been served. Toss the whole together for a few minutes; dish in a tim- bale, and complete with a few drops of lemon juice and some chopped parsley. 2069—C^PES a la creme Collop the cepes, and stew them in butter with a dessert- spoonful of chopped onion per one-half lb. of cepes; the onion should have been cooked in butter, without colouration. When they are stewed, drain them; cover them with boiling cream, and boil gently until the latter is completely reduced. At the last moment finish with a little thin cream, and dish in a timbale. 2070—CEPES A LA PROVEN£ALE Proceed as for No. 2068, but substitute for the shallots some chopped onion and a mite of crushed garlic. Dish in a timbale, and complete with a few drops of lemon juice and some chopped parsley. 2071—CEPES A LA ROSSINI Proceed as for No. 2069, and add to the ctpes one-third of their weight of thickly-sliced, raw truffles, stewed at the same