234 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY Also cook three oz. of rice in one and one-half pints of white consomm^. (2) Shell the crayfishes’ tails and put them aside; also re- serve eight carapaces. Drain the crayfishes of all their cooking- liquor; finely pound them and their remains and the mirepoix. Add the rice, properly cooked, and the cooking-liquor of the crayfish, and rub through a sieve, first, and then through tammy. Add to the resulting pur£e one-half pint of white consomm^, set to boil, wielding a whisk the while, pass through a strainer, and then keep the preparation in a bain-marie, taking care to place a few lumps of butter on its surface lest a skin should form while the bisque is waiting to be served. Finish the preparation when dishing up with two and one- half oz. of butter, three tablespoonfuls of excellent thick cream, and a very little cayenne. Garnish with the crayfish tails cut into dice, and the eight carapaces stuffed with a fish forcemeat with cream and poached seven or eight minutes previously. This soup may also be prepared as a velout6 or a cream. 663— BISQUE DE HOMARD After substituting for the crayfish a raw lobster weighing three lbs., cut into small sections, the procedure is the same as that of No. 662. It is only necessary, therefore, to refer to that recipe for all particulars relating to preparation and quantities. Garnish with the meat taken from the tail; this should have been kept aside and cut into small dice. This soup may also be prepared as a velout£ or a cream. 664— BISQUE DE CREVETTES The mode of procedure for this bisque, the mirepoix, the thickening ingredients, the moistening, and the finishing of the soup are identical with those of No. 662. All that is needed, therefore, is to substitute for the crayfish two lbs. of raw shrimps. Instead of using ordinary butter in finishing this bisque, use three oz. of shrimp butter. Garnish with twenty-five reserved tails, these being shelled and trimmed. This soup may also be prepared as a velout6 or a cream. 665— COULIS DE GIBIER, otherwise AU CHASSEUR Prepare six oz. of the meat of a wild rabbit, six oz. of that of a partridge, and six oz. of that of a pheasant. These meats should be roasted and their roast-cases swilled with a liqueur-