505 POULTRY Dish the chicken; pour the sauce over it, and surround it with grilled capsicums and mushrooms, garnished with con- cassed tomatoes cooked in butter. 1568—POULET SAUT^ M1REILLE Saute the chicken in oil and add to it, when half-cooked, one chopped onion, four concassed tomatoes, and one pimento cut into dice. Ten minutes before serving, flavour with a small piece of crushed garlic. Dish the chicken; pour the juice of the tomatoes into the saut^pan; reduce to half, and strain over the chicken. Serve a timbale of rice, flavoured with saffron, separately. 1569—POULET SAUTE AUX MORILLES Colour the chicken in butter and three-parts cook it; add to it two-thirds lb. of morels, stewed in butter, and complete the cooking of the chicken, under cover, in the oven. Dish the chicken with the morels upon it; swill the saut^pan with a tablespoonful of brandy; add thereto the juice of the morels, two tablespoonfuls of meat glaze, and one and one- half oz. of butter, and pour this sauce over the chicken. 1570—POULET SAUTE NORMANDE Half-sautt the chicken in butter, and set the pieces in a cocotte with one lb. of peeled and sliced russet apples. Swill with a small glassful of liqueur cider; put this liquor in the cocotte; cover, and set in the oven, that the chicken may be completely cooked and the apples as well. Serve the preparation, as it stands, in the cocotte. 1571—POULET SAUTE PARMENTIER Brown the chicken in butter, and add one lb. of potatoes, raised by means of an oval spoon-cutter, or cut into large dice, and already slightly frizzled in butter. Complete the cooking in the oven, and dish the chicken with the potatoes arranged in heaps all round. Swill with a few tablespoonfuls of white wine; add to it a tablespoonful of veal gravy; pour this over the chicken, and sprinkle the latter with a pinch of chopped parsley. 1572—POULET SAUTE PIEMONTAISE Saute the chicken in butter and dish it. Swill with a few tablespoonfuls of white wine; add thereto a tablespoonful of melted pale meat glaze, and pour this over the chicken. Sprinkle it at the last moment with two oz. of