POULTRY 491 Reconstruct the pullet with this preparation; smooth the surface, and surround the base of the pullet with a band of paper, so that it may keep its form. Set some thin slices of Gruy^re cheese upon it; dish it, and cook it in a moderately hot oven. 1513—POULARDE AU RIZ Poach the pullet. Dish it, and coat it with an Allemande sauce, flavoured with chicken essence. Surround it with a garnish of rice, cooked in the pullet’s poaching-liquor, and moulded in small, buttered, timbale moulds. 1514—POULARDE ROSSINI Poele the pullet. Remove the supremes; slice them, and dish them in the form of a crown upon a round dish, alternating them with collops of foie gras, tossed in butter. Pour a very strong chicken stock finished with truffle essence in their midst. Serve, separately, a timbale of noodles with butter covered with raw noodles tossed in butter. 1515—POULARDE SAINTE ALLIANCE Heat in butter ten fine truffles seasoned with salt and pepper; sprinkle them with a glassful of excellent Madeira, and leave them to cool thus in a thoroughly sealed utensil. Now put these truffles into a fine pullet, and poele it just in time for it to be sent to the table. When the pullet is ready, quickly cook as many ortolans, and toss in butter as many collops of foie gras as there are diners, and send them to the table at the same time as the pullet, together with the latter’s poeling-liquor, strained and in a sauce- boat. The waiter in charge should be ready for it with three assist- ants at hand, and he should have a very hot chafer on the side- board. The moment it arrives he quickly removes the supremes, cuts them into slices, and sets each one of these upon a collop of foie gras, which assistant No. 1 has placed ready on a plate, together with one of the truffles inserted into the pullet at the start. Assistant No. 2, to whom the plate is handed forthwith, adds an ortolan and a little juice, and then assistant No. 3 straight- way places the plate before the diner. The pullet is thus served very quickly, and in such wise as to render it a dish of very exceptional gastronomical quality. N.B.—The name “ Sainte Alliance ” which I give to this dish (a name that Brillat-Savarin employs in his “ Physiology