488 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY Bechamel sauce coloured with tomato sauce and flavoured with saffron. Dish; reconstruct the sliced supremes on the rice, and set between each slice another of chow-chow stewed in butter. Cover the pullet with the same sauce as that indicated above, and surround it with quarters of chow-chow cooked in butter, or serve this garnish separately. 1499— POULARDE AUX CEUFS D’OR Poele the pullet without letting it acquire overmuch colour. Strain the poeling-liquor; clear it of all grease; add thereto a little tomato pur^e, and thicken it with arrowroot. Finish with three oz. of butter, the juice of half a lemon, and a little cayenne. Dish the pullet; surround it with a border of egg-shaped croquettes of egg with truffles, and send the sauce separately. 1500— POULARDE A LA PARI5IENNE Poach the pullet. Dish it; cover it with Allemande sauce, and decorate it on top with slices of truffles and salted tongue cut to the shape of cocks’ combs. Surround with spoon-moulded quenelles of chicken force- meat, half of which should have been combined with chopped truffles, and the other half with chopped, salted ox-tongue. Arrange the quenelles round the fowl, alternately, and border the dish with a thread of pale glaze. 1501— POULARDE ADELINA PATTI Stuff the pullet with rice, prepared after recipe No. 2256, and poach it in white, chicken stock. Dish it on a low cushion; cover it with a supreme sauce, flavoured with paprika, and surround it with fair-sized artichoke-bottoms, each garnished with a fine truffle, coated with pale meat glaze. Serve separately a sauceboat of the same sauce as that already used in coating the pullet. 1502— POULARDE A LA PAYSANNE Brown the pullet in butter, and put it into an oval cocotte. Around it set a garnish consisting of four oz. of the red part of a carrot, three oz. of onion, and two oz. of celery, all three minced somewhat finely. Complete the cooking of the pullet with the vegetables, sprinkling it often the while with good veal stock. Serve the preparation as it stands in the cocotte.