764 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY coagulate, as the result of the surrounding water being kept at a constant temperature of 185° F. As soon as it is poached, let the custard cool. When it is poached in the utensils in which it is served, one egg and eight yolks per quart of milk will be found sufficient. The utensils should be carefully wiped and dished on a napkin. If the custard is to be turned out, carefully overturn the mould upon a dish, and pull it off a few minutes later. Moulded and potted custards admit of all the flavourings proper to entremets ; but those which suit them best are vanilla, almond milk, almond and filbert pralin, coffee, chocolate, etc. Unless used in the form of very concentrated essences, fruit flavours are less suited to them. 2640— CREME au caramel Clothe the bottom and sides of a mould with sugar cooked to the golden-caramel stage, and fill it up with a vanilla-flavoured, moulded- custard preparation. Poach and turn it out as directed. 2641— CREME A LA VIENNOISE, MOULEE This is a custard with caramel, but instead of clothing the mould with the latter, it is dissolved in the hot milk. The custard should be treated exactly like the vanilla-flavoured kind. 2642— CREME A LA FLORENTINE Make a preparation of pralin-ft.avoured custard with caramel and poach it. When it is quite cold, turn it out on a dish; decorate it with Kirsch-flavoured Chantilly cream, and sprinkle its surface with chopped pistachios. 2643— CREME A L’OPERA Poach, in an ornamented border-mould, a preparation of pralin- flavoured custard. When it is turned out, garnish its midst with a dome of Chantilly cream, aromatised with pralined violets. Upon the border set a crown of fine strawberries, macerated in a Kirsch- flavoured syrup, and cover with a veil of sugar cooked to the large-crack stage. Cold Creams with a Wiiisked-Cream Base. 2644— CREME A LA CHANTILLY Take some fresh and somewhat thick cream, and whisk it until it is sufficiently stiff to span the members of the whisk. Add to it eight oz. of powdered sugar per quart of cream, and flavour with vanilla or fruit essence