FISH 297 Serve the fillets of sole on an earthenware dish, coat them with the above garnish, and set to glaze quickly in a fierce oven or at the salamander. 881—FILETS DE SOLES MARINETTE Poach a sole in fish fumet and the cooking-liquor of mush- rooms, and drain it on a napkin. When it is still lukewarm, carefully raise its fillets and trim them. Break an egg into a bowl; beat it well, and add enough grated Gruy£re and Parmesan to it (mixed in equal quantities) to produce a dense paste. Mix a dessertspoonful of cold Bechamel sauce with this paste; add salt and cayenne pepper; spread an even thickness of one inch of it over two of the fillets of sole; lay thereon the two remaining fillets, and put aside in the cool. When the egg and cheese paste is very stiff, dip the fillets in a Villeroy sauce, and leave the latter to cool. Then treat the stuffed and sauced fillets a Vanglaise, and fry them, just before serving, in very hot fat. Dish on a napkin with very green parsley all round. 882—FILETS DE SOLES MARIE STUART Fold the fillets, and poach them in fish fumet. Arrange them in an oval on a dish; coat them with the sauce given under “ Filets de soles k la New-burg ” (No. 890), and place on each fillet a quenelle of fish forcemeat in the shape of a quoit and decked with a slice of truffle. These quenelles should, if possible, be poached just before dishing up, and well drained before being laid on the fillets of sole. 883-FILETS DE SOLES MIGNONETTE Cook the fillets in butter, and set them in a hot timbale. Surround them with potato-balls the size of peas, raised by means of the round spoon-cutter, and cooked beforehand in butter. Lay upon the fillets eight or ten slices of fresh truffle heated in one-sixth pint of very light meat-glaze. Finish the glaze in which the slices of truffle have been heated with two-thirds oz. of butter and a few drops of lemon juice, and pour it over the fillets and their garnish. Serve very hot. 884—FILETS DE SOLES MIMI Divide a live lobster into two, lengthwise, and prepare it k l’am^ricaine, taking care to keep the sauce short. When the lobster is cooked, take the meat from the tail; cut