GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 368 Serve separately a timbale of potatoes (of the size of hazel- nuts) cooked in butter, rolled in pale meat-glaze, and slightly sprinkled with chopped parsley. 1094— TOURNEDOS A LA FLORENTINE Prepare (1) as many subrics of shredded spinach as there are tournedos; make them of the same size as the latter, and cook them at the same time as the tournedos; (2) small, round croquettes of semolina the size of walnuts; these should be fried a few minutes before the tournedos are ready. Grill the tournedos, and dish them, in the form of a crown, on the spinach subrics. The croquettes of semolina may be arranged either in the middle or all round. 1095— TOURNEDOS FORESTIERE Season the tournedos, and saute them. Set them on crusts fried in butter. Surround them with alternate heaps of noodles and potatoes cut into large dice and tossed in butter. The potatoes may also be placed in the midst of the tournedos with the noodles all round, or vice versa. 1096— TOURNEDOS QABRIELLE Make a preparation from the white meat of a chicken and truffles—both cut into dice and cohered with the necessary quan- tity of somewhat light “ Duchesse-potatoes ” paste. With this preparation make as many small quoit-shaped croquettes as there are tournedos, and fry them while the latter are being cooked. Season the tournedos, and fry them with oil and butter in equal quantities. Dish them, in the form of a crown, on the prepared croquettes, and on each tournedos set a fine roundel of poached marrow and one slice of truffle. Around the tournedos arrange some very small, braised, and well-trimmed lettuces. 1097— TOURNEDOS HENRI IV Grill the tournedos, and set them on crusts fried in butter. Round the edge of each tournedos lay a thread of B^arnaise sauce, and on top of each an artichoke-bottom garnished with very small potatoes (of the size of hazel-nuts) cooked in butter. N.B.—Instead of putting the sauce on the edge of the tour- nedos, it may be served separately. 1098— TOURNEDOS JUDIC Season the tournedos; fry them in butter, and dish them in the form of a crown on crusts fried in butter. On each tour-