FISH 3H This done, transfer the pieces of lobster to a dish; withdraw the meat from the section of the tail and the claws, and put them in a timbale; set upright thereon the two halves of the carapace, and let them lie against each other. Keep the whole hot. Now reduce the cooking-sauce of the lobster to one-third pint; add thereto the intestines and the chopped coral, together with a piece of butter the size of a walnut; set to cook for a moment, and pass through a strainer. Put this cullis into a vegetable-pan ; heat it without letting it boil, and add, away from the fire, three oz. of butter cut into small pieces. Pour this sauce over the pieces of lobster which have been kept hot, and sprinkle the whole with a pinch of concassed and scalded parsley. 940-HOMARD A LA BORDELAISE Section the live lobster as directed above. Stiffen the meat and colour the carapace in a saut^pan with two oz. of clarified butter. When the meat is quite stiff and the carapace is red, pour away two-thirds of the butter. Then add two tablespoonfuls of chopped shallots, a crushed piece of garlic the size of a pea, one-sixth pint of white wine, three tablespoonfuls of burnt brandy, and reduce the whole to half. Complete with one-half pint of fish fumet, one-third pint of maigre Espagnole, one-quarter pint of tomato sauce, one small faggot, one pinch of salt, and a very little cayenne. Put the lid on, and set to cook for one-quarter hour. Take the meat from the sections of the tail and the claws, as in the case of the preparation & l’am^ricaine; put these into a small saut^pan, and keep them hot. Add the intestines and the chopped coral, reduce the sauce to one-third pint; pass it through a strainer, and pour it over the pieces of lobster. Heat the whole without boiling; add a few drops of lemon juice, two and one-half oz. of butter cut into small pieces, and one-half tablespoonful of chopped chervil and tarragon, and stir over the stove with the view of thoroughly mixing the whole. Dish as directed in the preceding recipe. 941—HOMARD BOUILLI A LA HOLLANDAISE Cook the lobster in a court-bouillon (No. 163), allowing twenty minutes for a specimen weighing twro lbs. As soon as the lobster is cooked, drain it; split it in two lengthwise without completely severing the two halves; lay it