ELEMENTARY PREPARATIONS 73 parsley stalks and roots, one-tenth oz. of bay leaves, and one- tenth oz. of thyme. These various aromatics are put neatly together so that no sprig of the one sticks out beyond the others, and they are properly strung together. 177—CHERVIL Chopped Chervil.—Clean the chervil and remove the stalks; wash, dry it well while tossing it, then chop it finely and put it aside on a plate in the cool, if it is not for immediate use. Concassed Chervil.—Proceed as above, except that, instead of chopping it, compress it between the fingers and slice it after the manner of a chaff-cutter. Concassed and chopped chervil are, if possible, only prepared at the last moment. Chervil Pinches.—The pluches are greatly used in the finishing off of soups. They are, practically, the serrated por- tions only of the leaves, which are torn away in such a manner as to show no trace of the veinings. They are immersed in water, and at the last moment withdrawn, so as to be added, raw, to either soups or boiling consommes. 178—RASPINGS Golden raspings are obtained by pounding and passing through a fine sieve bread-crusts which have been previously well dried in the oven. White raspings are similarly prepared, except that very dry, white crumb is used. I79-PEELED, CHANNELLED, AND ZESTED LEMONS Lemons are greatly used in cookery, as dish and comestible garnish. When a whole lemon is used for marinades of fish, for the “ blancs,” &c., it is well to peel it to the pulp, i.e., to remove the peel and the whole of the underlying white. The lemon is then cut into more or less large slices, according to the use for which it is intended. The rind of a lemon thus peeled may be cut into bits and used in this form as the necessity arises. When cutting it up, flatten the rind inside uppermost on the table, and, with a very, sharp and flexible knife, remove all the white; then slice the remaining peel (which constitutes what is called zest) into strips about one inch wide, and cut these laterally in fine julienne- fashion. Scald the resulting bits for five minutes, cool them, drain them carefully, and put them aside until wanted. Sometimes, instead of cutting julienne-fashion, the zest may be finely chopped, but the rest of the process remains the same.