6oo GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY *905—CAILLES GLACEES CARMEN. Prepare the quails as above, and place them round a rock of Granite made from pomegranates. 1906— CAILLES GLACEES MARYLAND. Set them round a rock of Granite made with pineapple. 1907— CAILLES GLACEES REINE AMELIE. Prepare the quails in the usual way, and lay them round a rock of Granite prepared with tomatoes. 1908— CAILLES GLACEES AU ROMANEE. Poach the quails in stock combined with Romance wine, and set them round a rock of Granite made with verjuice. 1909— FILETS DE CAILLES AUX POMMES D’OR. Raise the quails’ suprimes, after having poached and cooled them. Set these supremes in the rinds of small oranges or tangerines, and fill up the rinds with jelly prepared with Port. When about to serve, deck each orange or tangerine, by means of the piping-bag, with a small ornament of Granite, prepared with the juice of the fruit used. 1910— CAILLES CECILIA Roast the quails, keeping them juicy, and leave them to cool. This done, raise their fillets and skin these; then, with the remains of the meat and an equal quantity of foie gras, prepare a pur£e. Set each fillet of quail on a similarly-shaped slice of liver, causing it to adhere by means of the prepared pur£e, and coat with brown chaud-froid sauce. When the sauce has quite set, place these fillets in an even border-mould, clothed with very limpid aspic, and decorated with truffles. Fill up the mould with the same aspic jelly, and let the latter set. When about to serve, turn out on a napkin, after the manner of an aspic. 1911— CAILLES AU CHATEAU-YQUEM Prepare the quails like those “ k la Richelieu ” (No. 1895). After having added the julienne, sprinkle them with Chateau- Yquem; cover; reduce, and complete their cooking as directed. When they are poached, transfer them to another saucepan; add ten slices of truffle per quail; strain their cooking-liquor, through muslin, over them, and poach them for a further two minutes. This done, place the quails in a timbale; cover them with the cooking-liquor cleared of all grease; leave it to set, and serve on a block of ice.