4i6 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 1243— VOL AU VENT DE RIS DE VEAU Vol au vent, which formerly held the place of honour on bourgeois menus, has now fallen somewhat into the back- ground; nevertheless, I wished it to appear among the recipes in this work. The preparation of the paste : Make the vol au vent crust as explained under No. 2390. Garnish.—Prepare it exactly as explained under “ Timbale de ris de Veau.” This garnish may also be cohered with a brown sauce, and its minor ingredients may be modified; but the slices of veal sweetbread must always stand as the domin- ating element. Whatever be the selected kind of garnish, vol au vent should always be accompanied by medium-sized, trussed crayfish, cooked in court-bouillon. Dishing.—Set the vol au vent crust upon a dish covered with a napkin; pour the garnish into it; decorate with slices of truffle; arrange the crayfish round the edge, and lay the cover upon the crayfish. 1244— RIS DE VEAU A LA RICHELIEU Braise the veal sweetbreads exactly as described under “ Ris de Veau Bonne Maman,” taking care to keep the braising- liquor sufficiently plentiful to well cover the sweetbreads in the cocotte. When the sweetbreads are in the cocotte, together with the julienne of vegetables and a julienne of truffles, strain the braising-liquor over the whole; leave to cool well, and, when the liquid has turned to a jelly, remove the grease that has risen to the surface. Dish the cocotte on a napkin. 1245— RIS DE VEAU A LA SUEDOISE Poach the veal sweetbreads without colouration, and, when they are quite cold, cut them into thin and regular collops. Spread some horse-radish butter over the latter, and cover with a slice of tongue of the same size as the underlying collop. Bake a crust without colouration in a Hawn ring, of a size in proportion to the number of slices, and garnish it with a vegetable salad cohered with mayonnaise. This crust must necessarily be made in advance. Upon the salad now set the collops, either in the form of a crowm or in that of a small turban; in the middle place a fine lettuce heart, the leaves of which should be slightly opened out.