GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 4io Add the braising-liquor of the sweetbreads, and one oz. of minced truffles, and complete the cooking of the former. Clear of all grease and serve in the cocotte. 1225— ESCALOPES DE RIS DE VEAU BERENGERE Braise the veal sweetbreads and cut each piece into four medium-sized slices. Trim each slice with an even, oval fancy- cutter; and, by means of a piping-bag fitted with an even pipe, one-sixth inch in diameter, garnish the edge of each slice with a thick border of mousseline forcemeat, combined with chopped salted tongue. Set the slices on a tray, and put them in a moderate oven to poach the forcemeat. Now, by means of another piping-bag fitted with a grooved pipe, garnish the centre of the slices with a nice rosette of fine and very white Soubise pur£e; and, in the middle of each rosette, place a little ball of very black truffle. Set each slice on a thin, oval crouton of the same size as the former and fried in butter. Serve at the same time, in a sauce- boat, the braising-liquor of the sweetbreads, cleared of all grease, and a timbale of fresh peas. 1226— ESCALOPES DE RIS DE VEAU A LA FAVORITE Blanch the veal sweetbreads; cool them under pressure, and cut them into slices. Season the latter and toss them in clarified butter. At the same time, toss an equal number of slices of foie gras of the same size as those of the sweetbread, after having seasoned and dredged them. Dish in a circle, alternating the foie gras and the sweet- bread slices; put a crown of sliced truffle on the circle already arranged; and, in the centre, pour a garnish of asparagus-heads cohered with butter. Send, separately, a Madeira sauce flavoured with truffle essence. 1227— ESCALOPES DE RIS DE VEAU GRAND DUC Blanch and cool the sweetbreads, and cut them into slices. Season the latter and cook them in butter without colouration. Dish them in the form of a crown, placing a large slice of truffle between each; coat with Mornay sauce, and glaze quickly. When taking the dish out of the oven, arrange a heap of asparagus-heads cohered with butter, in the middle of the dish, and serve instantly.