GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 544 This done, transfer the pieces to another stewpan and add thereto twenty small, glazed onions, twenty chestnuts cooked in consomme, ten chipolata sausages, one-third lb. of frizzled pieces of fresh pork cut into dice, and twenty olive-shaped and glazed carrots. Strain the sauce over the whole, complete the cooking and dish in a timbale. (2) Braise the young turkey; glaze it at the last moment, and set on a long dish. Surround it with the garnish given above, combined with the reduced braising-liquor. 1719— DINDONNEAU EN DAUBE Bone the young turkey’s breast, and stuff it, arranging its meat as for a galantine, with very good sausage-meat com- bined with a glassful of liqueur brandy per two lbs. of the former; bacon, truffles; and a very small and red ox-tongue, covered with slices of bacon and set in the centre of the garnish. Reconstruct the young turkey; sew it; truss it, and put it in a terrine just large enough to hold it and its moistening. With the bones and the trimmings of the young turkey, two slices of veal, two lbs. of frizzled beef, aromatics, one pint of white wine, and two quarts of water, prepare a brown stock after recipe No. 9. Reduce this stock to one and one-half quarts; put it into the terrine; cover and thoroughly close up the latter with a strip of paste, and cook in a hot oven for two and one-half hours. Leave to cool in the terrine, and, when about to serve, slightly heat the latter in order to turn out the daube. 1720— BLANC DE DINDONNEAU A LA DAMPIERRE Remove and bone the young turkey’s legs. With the meat, carefully cleared of all tendons, prepare a mousseline forcemeat; spread the latter on a tray in a layer one-third in. thick, and poach it. Stamp it out with an even, oval fancy-cutter, about three in. by two in. Braise or poele the young turkey’s breast with the greatest care, keeping it underdone. This done, raise the two supremes, skin them, and cut them into collops of a size that will allow of their being trimmed with the fancy-cutter already used. With a little raw forcemeat, stick a collop to each oval of poached forcemeat; then, by means of a piping-bag fitted with an even pipe, garnish the borders of the collops with the same forcemeat combined with twice its bulk of chopped salted tongue. Set the medallions thus prepared on a covered tray, and put them in the steamer that the forcemeat may poach.