586 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY wise. Skin the pieces; trim them neatly, and keep them at a temperate heat in a covered vegetable-pan, with a few drops of burnt brandy and a little clear melted meat glaze. Pound the carcass and the trimmings, and add to them half a bottleful of red wine (almost entirely reduced), three chopped shallots and a few mignonette pepper. Add one-quarter pint of good game Espagnole sauce; cook for ten minutes; rub through a sieve, pressing well the while, and then strain through a strainer. Reduce this sauce to about one-third, and despumate it; strain it once more through a close strainer; add a small quan- tity of butter, and pour it over the pieces of pheasant, to which add a fine, sliced truffle and six grooved mushroom-heads. I advise the discarding of the old method of dishing upon a cushion of bread fried in butter, as also of the triangular croutons fried in butter and coated with gratin forcemeat, which usually accompanied the Salmis. A speedy preparation and a simple method of dishing, which facilitate the service and allow of the Salmis being eaten hot, are the only necessary conditions. Moreover, the goodness of the preparation is such as to be independent of a fantastic method of dishing. 1848— SAUTE DE FAISAN Unless it be prepared with the greatest care, sauted pheasant is always dry. I therefore do not recommend it; but, should it be necessary to make a dish of it, care should be observed in selecting a young, plump bird. It should be cut up like a fowl, cooked in butter on a moderate fire and kept somewhat underdone. Dish it after the manner of a “ poulet sauffl ,v and cover it. Swill the saufflpan and prepare a sauce after the recipe in common use. This sauce must always be short, and it should be poured over the pheasant just before serving it. 1849— PATE CHAUD DE FAISAN The preparation of hot, raised pheasant pies is the same as usual; the ingredients alone changing. The reader will, there- fore, kindly refer to “Pat6 chaud de Canard” (No. 1752), and duly note the following modifications: — (1) Use a gratin forcemeat (No. 202) prepared from game livers and meat. (2) Roast the pheasant, keeping it underdone, and mix the pieces of cooked mushroom with the sliced truffles.