ENTREMETS 70 5 thereon an overturned plate or a saucepan-lid, the size of which should be that intended for the Vol-au-vent, and cut the paste obliquely, following round the edges of the lid or plate with a small knife. Turn the layer of paste over, and set it on a slightly moistened round baking sheet; groove it all round; gild it, and describe a circle on top of it with the point of a knife, one and one-quarter inches awray from the edge, to form the cover of the Vol-au-vent. Streak this cover criss-cross- fashion; also streak the body of the Vol-au-vent with the point of a small knife, and bake it in a rather hot oven. Upon withdrawing the Vol-au-vent from the oven, remove its cover, and clear it of the soft crumb which will be found on its inside. 2391—BOUCHEE OR SMALL-PATTY CRUSTS Bouchdes are really small Vol-au-vents. Roll out the paste, making it a good one-third inch thick. Cut this layer with a grooved round cutter three inches in diameter; set the roundels of stamped-out paste on a moistened tray; gild, and make a circular incision in each of them, one-half inch from their edges, either with the point of a small knife or wdth an even, round cutter dipped in hot water. Bake in a hot oven, and clear the insides of the bouchdes of their crumb on taking them out of the oven. “ Mignonnes Bouchdes,” which are used as a garnish, are stamped out with a round cutter two inches in diameter, and are slightly thicker than ordinary bouchdes. 2392—SMALL HOT PATTIES Roll out the puff-paste to a thickness of one-sixth inch, and stamp it out with an even round cutter three inches in diameter. With the trimmings resulting from this operation, rolled some- what more thinly, make an equal quantity of roundels, and lay them on a tray. Slightly moisten the edges of these roundels with a brush; garnish their centres w7ith some forcemeat, rolled to the size of a hazel-nut; cover the forcemeat wdth the roundels stamped out from the first; press upon these with the back of a round cutter two inches in diameter; gild them, and bake them in a hot oven for twelve or fourteen minutes. 2393—CROfJTES et croustades For tartlet crusts, which are put to various uses, take either even or grooved, large or small moulds, subject Lo the require- ments. Roll out a piece of short paste to a thickness of one-fifth inch; stamp it out with a grooved round cutter of a size in proportion to the moulds used; line the buttered moulds with these roundels z z