ICES 813 dish the cases or silver cassolettes on a napkin or on a carved block of ice. Like the Bombes, and the Iced Biscuits, Iced Souffles may be indefinitely varied, owing to the multitudinous combinations to which they lend themselves. 2926—SORBETS (Sherbets) Sherbets and their derivative preparations consist of very light and barely-congealed ices, served after the Entrees. They serve in freshening the stomach ; preparing it to properly receive the roast. They are at once appetisers and helps to digestion. 2927—PREPARATION FOR SORBETS Sherbets are made from any liqueur ice preparation at 150; or they may be prepared as follows :—For one quart of preparation, take the juice of two lemons and one orange, half-a-pint of port wine, of Samos wine, of Sauterne, or other good wine; and add cold syrup at 22°, until the saccharometer registers 150. For liqueur sherbets, allow about one-fifth pint of liqueur per quart of the preparation ; but remember that this is subject to the kind of liqueur used. For the quantity just prescribed, use syrup at 18° or 190, which the subsequent addition of liqueur reduces to the proper degree. Whatever be the kind of liqueur, the latter should only be added when the Sherbet is completely frozen ; that is to say at the last moment. Fruit Sorbets are generally prepared from the juices and syrups of aqueous fruits. Fruit purees are scarcely suited to this mode of procedure, and they are only resorted to in exceptional cases. The Freezing of Sherbets.—Pour the preparation into the turbine or the freezer, which should have been previously packed, and keep the utensil on the move. Remove portions of the preparation from the sides of the receptacle as fast as they adhere thereto, and mix them with the whole, until the latter is completely congealed ; re- membering not to stir at all during the freezing process. When the preparation is firm enough, mix with it, gently, the quarter of its weight of Italian meringue or very stiffly whipped cream ; and finish by the addition of the liqueur. The Dishing of Sherbets.—Take some of the Sherbet prepara- tion in a spoon, and set it in Sherbet or Sherry glasses, shaping it to a point. When the Sherbet is prepared with wine, sprinkle the pre- paration when it is in the glasses with a tablespoonful of the selected wine.