ENTREMETS 757 2613—CHERRY SAUCE Gently melt one lb. of raspberry-flavoured red-currant jelly. Pour it into a cold basin, and add to it an equal quantity of freshly-prepared cherry juice, the juice of two blood-oranges, a little powdered ginger, and a few drops of carmine ; the latter with the view of giving the preparation a sufficiently strong and distinctive colour. Finally add a quarter of a lb. of half-sugared cherries, softened in a tepid, Kirsch-flavoured syrup. Bavarois. These are of two kinds :— (1) Bavarois with cream, and (2) Bavarois with fruit. 2614—CREAM BAVAROIS Preparation : Work one lb. of castor sugar with fourteen egg- yolks in a saucepan, dilute with a pint and a half of boiled milk, in which a stick of vanilla has previously been infused, and two-thirds of an oz. of gelatine dipped in cold water. Put the preparation on a mild fire until it properly veneers the withdrawn spoon, and do not let it boil. Pass it through the strainer into an enamelled basin; let it cool, stirring it from time to time ; and, when it begins to thicken, add one and a half pints of whipped cream, three oz. of powdered sugar, and two-thirds oz. of vanilla sugar. 2615—BAVAROIS AUX FRUITS Constituents.—One pint of fruit pur£e, diluted with one pint of syrup at 30° (saccharom.). Add the juice of three lemons, one oz. of dissolved gelatine, strained through linen, and one pint of whipped cream. The preparation for fruit Bavarois may be combined with fruit of the same nature as that used for the pur£e; and this fruit may be added raw in the case of strawberries, raspberries, red- currants, etc., and poached in the case of pulpy fruits, such as pears, peaches, apricots, etc. 2616—THE MOULDING AND DISHING OF BAVAROIS Bavarois are generally moulded in fancy moulds fitted with a central tube, slightly greased with sweet almond oil. When they are greased they are incrusted in broken ice after the prepara- tion has been covered with a round sheet of white paper. When about to serve, the mould is quickly plunged into tepid water, wiped, and turned out upon a dish, which mayor may not be covered with a folded napkin. Instead of oiling the moulds they may be covered with a thin coat of sugar cooked to the caramel stage, which besides making