825 FRUIT-STEWS AND JAMS Set the preserving pan upon a fierce fire, stirring incessantly the while, until the “ nappe" stage is reached ; then let the jam cook for a few more minutes. 2963—BLACK-CURRANT JELLY Take some very ripe black-currants: clean them ; put them into the preserving-pan with half a glassful of water per two lbs. of fruit, and let them boil. While this preparatory operation is in progress, the skins of the currants burst, and their juice flows into the pan. At this stage, transfer the fruit to a sieve lying on a bowl—a much simpler method than crushing and pressing them in a twisted towel. Allow as many lbs. of sugar as there are quarts of juice; put this sugar into the preserving-pan ; dissolve it, and cook it to the small-ball stage; thoroughly skimming the while. Add the black-currant juice, combined per quart with half pint of white- currant juice. Move the utensil to the side of the stove for a few minutes, that the sugar may dissolve, and then cook the jelly on a fierce fire, carefully skimming the while, until the “nappe” stage is almost reached. Remarks: The object of adding the white-currant jelly is to modify the blackness of pure black-currant jelly. 2964—QUINCE JELLY Select very ripe fruit; cut it into slices; peel and pip these, and throw them into a basin of fresh water. Then put them into a preserving-pan with three and a half pints of water per lb. of quinces, and cook them without touching them. This done, transfer them to a sieve, and let them drain. Return the juice to the pan, together with twelve oz. of loaf-sugar per lb.; dissolve the sugar ; and set the whole to cook on a fierce fire, meanwhile skimming with care, until the “ nappe ” stage is almost reached. As soon as the jelly is cooked, strain it through a piece of muslin stretched over a basin ; and by this means, a perfectly clear jelly will be obtained. 2965—RED-CURRANT JELLY (Method A) Take some red and white currants, in the proportion of two- thirds of the former to one-third of the latter, and combine with them, per two lbs., three oz. of raspberries. Crush the three products together in a basin, and then press them in small quantities at a time, in a strong towel, in order to extract their juice. Put the juice in the preserving-pan, together with eight oz. of loaf-sugar per pint. Thoroughly dissolve the sugar, and set the