GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 538 and decorate it with large slices of truffles. Fill the mould with a coarse julienne of chicken fillets, salted tongue and truffles, spread in successive layers and besprinkled with cold, melted aspic. When about to serve, turn out the aspic on a very cold dish; set a salad “k l’ltalienne ” in its midst, and serve a R^moulade sauce separately. 1706— ASPIC DE POULET A LA GAULOISE Clothe an ornamented mould with jelly, and decorate its bottom and sides with truffles. Fill it with successive and alternate layers of: aspic jelly, collops of chicken fillets, cocks’ combs coated with brown, chaud-froid sauce, fine cocks’ kidneys, coated with white chaud-froid sauce, and slices of salted tongue cut into oval shapes. When about to serve, turn out, and surround with fine croutons of aspic. 1707— MEDAILLONS DE VOLAILLE RACHEL Prepare some chicken supremes as explained under “ Chaud- froid F61ix Faure ” (No. 1671), and cut them into collops. Trim these collops with a round, even cutter, and coat them with aspic. Prepare a mousse from the meat of the legs. Spread this mousse on a tray in a layer one-third in. thick and leave it to set. When it is quite firm, stamp it out with a round, even cutter, dipped in hot water, and a little larger than the one used in trimming the collops. Set a medallion on each roundel of mousse, fixing it there by means of a little half-set jelly, and arrange the medallion prepared in this way on a square dish. In their midst set a fine faggot of asparagus-heads; fill the gaps betwen the medallions with a garnish consisting of a salad of asparagus-heads with cream. Serve on a block of ice or surround the dish with ice. 1708— GALANTINE DE VOLAILLE For galantines, fowls may be used which are a little too tough to be roasted, but old fowls should be discarded. The latter invariably yield a dry forcemeat, whatever measures one may take in the preparation. The fowl should be cleaned but not emptied, and it should be carefully boned; the process beginning from an incision down the skin of the back, from the head to the tail. This done, carefully remove the meat with the point of a