452 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY over with a second layer of the same potato preparation. Sprinkle with grated Parmesan; cook in the oven as for Anna potatoes, and take care that the bottom be so well set as to prevent any of the juices of the joint from exuding and deposit- ing on it. Serve the dish as it stands. 1369— LEG AND SHOULDER OF LAMB All the recipes given under Haunch and Double (pair of legs), may be applied to the legs and shoulders of house lamb. The shoulders are often grilled, the operation being effected over a moderate fire after the joints have been incised lattice- fashion, and the same applies to the breast. The “ & la Boulang&re ” treatment (No. 1307) admirably suits the legs and shoulders of house lamb. 1370— CUTLETS According to custom, lamb cutlets are usually served like “ Noisettes,” i.e., two are allowed for each person. As a rule, when they are to be grilled, they are previously dipped in melted butter and sprinkled with fine bread-crumbs. When they are to be sauted they are treated a Vanglaise (egg and bread-crumbs) except when, subject to their mode of pre- paration, they have to be served plain or stuffed. 1371— C6TELETTES D’AGNEAU de lait a la buloz Prepare:—(1) a rizotto (No. 2238) with truffles, in propor- tion to the number of cutlets; (2) some very reduced Bechamel sauce, combined with one-half oz. of grated Parmesan per one- fifth pint of the sauce, and allowing one small tablespoonful of it for each cutlet. Half-grill the cutlets; dry them, and cover them, on both sides, with the reduced sauce. As soon as the cutlets have received their coat of sauce, dip them, one by one, into beaten egg (anglaise); roll them in very fine bread-crumbs mixed with grated Parmesan. Thoroughly press this coating of bread- crumbs with the flat of a knife, that it may adhere well to the egg and produce a crust at the close of the operation. This done, set the cutlets in a saut^pan of very hot, clarified butter, and brown them on both sides. Dish the rizotto in a very even layer; set the cutlets in a circle on the rice, and fix a frill to the bone of each. 1372— C6TELETTES D’AGNEAU DE LAIT MARECHALE Treat the cutlets d l’anglaise, and cook them in clarified butter. Dish them in a circle, with a fine slice of truffle upon each;