563 POULTRY it in a terrine just large enough to hold it. Sprinkle it with a glassful of brandy; cover with a slice of bacon, and cook it in the bain-marie, in the oven, and under cover for forty minutes. With the carcass and some strong veal stock, prepare two- thirds pint of excellent aspic, and, when withdrawing the duckling from the oven, cover it with this aspic, and let it cool. When about to serve, remove all grease, first by means of a spoon, and then by means,of boiling water, and set the terrine on a napkin lying on a long dish. 1773—TIMBALE de caneton a la voisin Roast a Rouen duckling, and keep it underdone; let it cool, and raise its fillets. With the carcass prepare a Salmis sauce, and thicken it with aspic as for a chaud-froid sauce. Cut the fillets into slices, coat them with Salmis sauce, and leave this to set. Let a thickness of sauce set on the bottom of a timbale. Upon this sauce lay some of the coated slices, alternating them with slices of truffle, and cover with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Lay another row of slices of fillet and of truffles, followed as before by a layer of aspic, and continue thus in the same order. Complete with a somewhat thick layer of aspic, and keep in the cool until ready for serving. N.B.—This old and excellent cold entree is really only a cold salmis. The procedure may be applied to all game suited to the salmis method of preparation. It is the simplest and certainly the best way of serving them cold. 1774—PINTADES (GUINEA FOWL) The guinea-fowl is not equal to the pheasant from the gas- tronomical standpoint, though it often takes the place of the latter among the roasts after the shooting season. But, though it has neither the fine flavour nor the delicate meat of the pheasant, it does good service notwithstanding. The majority of pheasant recipes may be applied to it, especially k la Boh^mienne, k la creme, en Chartreuse, en salmis, k la chou- crofite, &c. 1775—PIGEONS AND SQUABS (PIGEONS ET PIGEONNEAUX) Young pigeons are not very highly esteemed by English gourmets, and this is more particularly to be regretted, since, when the birds are of excellent quality, they are worthy the best tables. 1776—PIGEONNEAUX A LA BORDELAIS Open the squabs down the back; season them; slightly flatten them, and toss them in butter. They may just as 002