GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 392 In the first place, the gravy of the tripe cannot absorb so much gelatine, and is indifferently thickened in consequence; secondly, since calves’ feet are much more tender than those of the ox, the former get boiled to shreds before the cooking of the tripe has been properly effected. This supposed improve- ment on the old method is thus seen to actually run counter to the end in view; but means there are, nevertheless, whereby those who insist upon the use of calves’ feet may be satisfied. It is only necessary to braise a number of calves’ feet before- hand, the number being in proportion to the quantity of tripe, and to add these to the latter a quarter of an hour before serving. Another mistake which obtains somewhat widely in respect of this dish is the serving of it in a silver utensil—a method quite as unreasonable as that of serving a Chaudfroid in an earthenware dish. By virtue of its simplicity, tripe should be served in either sandstone or special earthenware stewpans, wherein heat is best retained; and the operator should rather direct his attention to the serving of tripe as hot as possible, than to this or that fanciful method of dishing, which really has no raison d’etre in this case. The Preparation of Tripe.—Under the head of “ beef tripe ” are understood: (i) The feet; (2) tripe proper, which comprises the Paunch, the Honey-comb Bag, the Manyplies, and the Reed. First soak the tripe in cold water for some considerable time; then cut it into squares of two inches side. For the seasoning and flavouring of tripe, complete in all its parts, take : (Seasoning) one-quarter oz. of salt and a pinch of pepper per lb.; (flavouring) four lbs. of onions stuck with four cloves; three lbs. of carrots; one faggot, comprising two lbs. of leeks, one-third lb. of parsley stalks, a sprig of thyme, and a bay leaf. Moisten with two quarts of good cider (not likely to turn black while cooking, otherwise use water); one-half pint of brandy or liqueur-cider. The quantity of the moistening-liquor largely depends upon the shape of the utensil; a little less will be needed in the case of a narrow one, and a little more in the case of a wide one. In any case, however, the tripe should be just covered. Treatment and Cooking-process.—Take a stewpan or brais- ing-pan, just large enough to hold the tripe and the garnish. On the bottom of this lay carrots, onions, seasoning, and the four ox feet, bound and cut into fair-sized pieces.