418 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 1248— FOIE DE VEAU A L’ANGLAISE Cut the calf’s liver into fairly thin slices, from two-and-a-half oz. to three oz. in weight. Season them with salt and pepper; dredge them, and toss them in butter. Grill an equal number of rashers of bacon. Dish the slices of liver and the rashers of bacon alternately, and sprinkle them with the butter in which the liver was cooked, or with a brown butter. 1249— BROCHETTES DE FOIE DE VEAU Select a pale piece of calf’s liver and cut it into square pieces two-thirds of an inch thick. Season with salt and pepper, and toss the pieces in butter, just to stiffen them. Put them into a basin with an equal quantity of blanched salted breast of pork, cut into squares, and of slices of cooked mushrooms. Add a few tablespoonfuls of stiff Duxelles sauce, and toss the whole together, that each particle of the various in- gredients may become coated with Duxelles. This done, impale the squares of liver and pork and the slices of mushrooms upon a ringed skewer, alternating them in so doing; sprinkle copiously with fine raspings and melted butter, and set to grill gently. These brochettes are served, either on a maitre-d’hotel butter, or on a Duxelles, Fines Herbes, an Italian or other sauce. ,250—FOIE DE VEAU A L’ESPAGNOLE Cut the calf’s liver into slices weighing three and a half oz.; season these with salt and pepper; dredge them; sprinkle them with oil, and grill them gently. •Meanwhile, prepare:—(1) As many grilled half-tomatoes as there are pieces of liver; (2) onions cut into thin roundels, sea- soned, dredged, and fried in oil; (3) a proportionate quantity of fried parsley. Arrange the grilled slices of liver along the centre of an oval dish; place a half-tomato upon each; and, on one side, set the fried onions, on the other, the fried parsley. 1251- FOIE DE VEAU SAUTE AUX FINES HERBES Cut the calf’s liver into slices, as above; season these with salt and pepper; dredge them, and toss them in butter. Arrange the slices in a circle on a round dish; and either pour the herb sauce over the slices, or serve it separately. 1252— PAIN DE FOIE DE VEAU For a calf’s liver loaf made in a quart mould : Cut one lb. of calf’s liver into dice, and finely pound these together with one-