259 SOCJPS Now add about one-half lb. of peeled gombo, cut in coarse paysanne-fashion, and three or four medium-sized tomatoes, peeled, concassed, and with their seeds withdrawn. When the gombos are well cooked, carefully remove all grease from the preparation; test the seasoning, and, if neces- sary, add a few drops of Worcestershire sauce. Garnish the soup with two or three tablespoonfuls of plainly- cooked rice. N.B.—This soup is excellent if it be finished with one-quarter pint of cream per quart. A cream of gombos may also be pre- pared, which may be garnished with the dice of chicken meat. In the latter case, the garnish of rice is optional. 750—SOUPE A LA PAYSANNE Finely mince one small carrot, one small turnip, one leek, one-third of a stick of celery, one-third of an onion, and some cabbage leaves. Stew the vegetables in one oz. of butter; moisten with one and one-half pints of white consomm£, and set to boil. A few minutes having elapsed, add two small potatoes minced like the other vegetables, and complete the cooking gently. Send separately some roundels of soup-flutes. 751—SOUPE AUX POIREAUX ET POMMES DE TERRE, otherwise A LA BONNE FEMME Finely mince the white of four medium-sized leeks. Put this into a stewpan with one oz. of butter, and stew gently for a quarter of an hour. Then add three medium-sized quartered potatoes, cut into roundels the thickness of pennies. Moisten with one pint of white consomm^; add the necessary quantity of salt, and set to cook gently. When about to serve, finish the soup with one pint of boiled milk and one and one- half oz. of butter; pour it into the soup-tureen, and add twelve roundels of French soup-flutes, cut as thinly as possible. 753—SOUPE AUX ROQNONS Proceed exactly as for “ Soupe aux Foies de Volaille,” but substitute for the garnish of sliced livers one of calf’s or sheep’s kidney cut into large dice, or sliced, and briskly tossed in butter just before dishing up. Finish the soup similarly to the preceding one, i.e., with Madeira.