POULTRY 5 5 5 Meanwhile, braise in the usual way two lbs. of sauerkraut with one-half lb. of salted breast of pork. When it is three-parts done, drain it, and complete its cooking with one-third pint of veal gravy and one-sixth pint of white wine, until this moistening is completely reduced. Set the sauerkraut in a border round a dish, and surround it with the pork cut into small rectangles. Place the carved duck in the centre, and coat it moderately with half-glaze sauce combined with the reduced braising-liquor. Send the remains of this sauce separately. 1746—CANETON D’AYLESBURY POfiL& A LA MENTHE Stuff the duckling with one oz. of butter combined with a pinch of chopped mint, and poele it. Dish it; sw'ill the stew- pan with one-sixth pint of clear, veal gravy and a little lemon juice; strain, add a pinch of chopped mint, and pour this sauce over the duckling. 1747—CANETON MOLIERE Bone the duckling, and stuff it with one lb. of gratin foie- gras forcemeat, combined with two-thirds lb. of good sausage- meat. Set two rows of truffles in the middle of the thickest part of the forcemeat, lengthwise, along the duckling. Reconstruct; sew up the skin, wrap in a serviette, after the manner of a galantine, and poach in a stock made from the carcass. Glaze the duckling with some of this stock, strained, cleared of all grease, and reduced. With what remains prepare a Madeira sauce, and add thereto two oz. of sliced truffles. Dish the duckling, after having removed all stitches from it, and coat it with this sauce. 1748—CANETON BRAISE AUX NAVETS Brown the duckling well in butter, and withdraw it from the saucepan. Drain away the butter; swill with a little white wine; add two-thirds pint of brown stock, as much Espagnole, and a faggot; return the duck to this sauce, and braise gently. With the reserved butter brown one lb. of turnips, shaped like elongated garlic-cloves, and sprinkle them with a large pinch of powdered sugar, that they may be glazed to a nice, light brown colour. Also have ready twenty small onions, which should have been gently cooked in butter. When the duckling is half cooked, transfer it to another saucepan; put the turnips and the onions round it; strain the sauce over the whole, and complete the cooking gently.