303 FISH 905-FILETS DE SOLES WILHELMINE Prepare some potato shells as directed under “ Filets de soles Olga” (No. 894). Garnish them with a tablespoonful of cucumber with cream; put a fillet of sole into each garnished shell, a fine Zeeland oyster on each fillet, and cover with Mornay sauce. Set to glaze quickly, and dish on a napkin. Various Preparations of Soles and Fillets of Sole. 906—MOUSSELINES DE SOLES The directions given under “ Mousselines de Saumon ” (No. 797) apply in all circumstances to Mousselines of Sole. I shall therefore refrain from repeating the recipe, since, the quantities remaining the same, all that is needed is the substitution of the meat of sole for that of salmon. Thus, I shall only state here, by way of reminding the reader, that these excellent pre- parations admit of all the fish sauces and garnishes, and that they may also be accompanied by all purees of fresh vegetables. 907—TURBAN DE FILETS DE SOLES A LA VILLARET Raise the fillets of three soles; flatten them slightly with a moistened beater, and trim them very straight on either side. Liberally butter a medium-sized savarin-mould. Lay the fillets aslant in this mould, with their tail-ends over-reaching its inner edge and their other ends projecting over its outer edge; slip a fine slice of truffle between each, and let them slightly overlap one another. When the mould is completely lined with the fillets of sole, fill it up with lobster mousseline forcemeat. Gently tap the mould on a folded napkin lying on the table, with the object of settling the forcemeat, and then draw the overhanging ends of the fillets across the latter. Set to poach in a bain-marie in a moderate oven. This done, take the mould out of the bain-marie; let it stand for a few minutes, and then turn it upside-down upon the dish. Leave it to drain; soak up the liquid that has leaked out on to the dish; take off the mould, and moisten the surface of the fillets by means of a small brush dipped in melted butter. The object of this last measure is to glaze the fish and to remove therefrom the froth resulting from its poached albumen. Now garnish the centre of the moulding with shrimps’ tails, mushrooms, poached milt, and slices of truffle, the whole cohered by means of Bechamel sauce finished with lobster butter.