720 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 2435—fritters a la suzon Make a preparation of “rice for entremets,” and spread it in a thin layer upon a tray, to cool. Divide it up into discs three and a half inches in diameter ; garnish the centre of these with a very stiff fruit salpicon; roll the discs into balls, so as to enclose the salpicon; dip these balls into thin batter, and fry them in plenty of hot fat. Drain them ; dish them on a napkin, and sprinkle them with icing sugar. Charlottes 2436— APPLE CHARLOTTE Copiously butter a quart Charlotte-mould. Garnish its bottom with heart-shaped croutons of bread-crumb, slightly overlapping one another ; and garnish its sides with rectangles of bread of exactly the same height as the mould, and also slightly overlapping one another. The croutons and the rectangles should be one-eighth inch thick, and ought to have been dipped in melted butter before taking their place in the mould. Meanwhile, quartor twelve fine russet apples ; peel, slice, and cook them in a sautepan with one oz. of butter, two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and half the rind of a lemon and a little cinnamon—both tied into a faggot. When the apples are cooked, and reduced to a thick pur^e, remove the faggot of aromatics and add three tablespoonfuls of stewed apricots. Fill up the mould with this preparation, and remember to shape the latter in a projecting dome above the mould ; for it settles in cooking. Bake in a good, moderate oven for from thirty to thirty-five minutes. 2437— CHARLOTTE DE POMMES, EMILE QIRET Prepare the Charlotte as directed above, but in a shallow mould. When it is moulded on the dish, completely cover it with an even coat, half inch thick, of very firm "pastry cream” (No. 2401), and take care not to spoil the shape of the Charlotte. Sprinkle the cream copiously with icing sugar ; then, with a red-hot iron, criss-cross the Charlotte regularly all round; pressing the iron upon the sugar-sprinkled cream. Surround the base of the Charlotte with a row of beads made