296 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY They may also be served after the old-fashioned way, as follows : — Set the garnish in the middle of the dish, shaping it like a dome; coat it with Joinville SSuce, and surround it with the fillets of sole, which should slightly overlap one another and have their tails uppermost. Fix a carapace of crayfish on the tail of each fillet, and deck each with a slice of very black truffle. With this method of dishing, the garnish alone is coated with sauce, the fillets thus forming a white, encircling border. 878— FILETS DE SOLES JUDIC Fold, and poach the fillets in butter and lemon juice. Arrange them in an oval round a dish, laying each upon a nice little braised and trimmed half lettuce, and place upon each fillet a quenelle of sole mousseline-forcemeat in the shape of a flattened oval, poached at the time of dishing up. Coat with Mornay sauce and glaze quickly. When taking the dish out of the oven, encircle the fillets of sole with a thread of buttered meat-glaze. 879— FILETS DE SOLES A LA HONGROISE Fry in butter, without colouration, one small tablespoonful of chopped onion seasoned with a very little paprika; moisten with three tablespoonfuls of white wine and one-sixth pint of fish fumet; add two small peeled, pressed, and roughly-chopped tomatoes, and set to cook for seven or eight minutes. Fold the fillets of sole; lay them on a buttered dish; pour the above preparation thereon, and poach them. Arrange them in a circle on a dish; reduce their cooking-liquor to a stiff consistence; add a few tablespoonfuls of cream and a few drops of lemon juice, and coat the fillets with this sauce. 880 -FILETS DE SOLES LADY EQMONT Fold the fillets, and poach them in a few tablespoonfuls of excellent fish fumet. Also for every four fillets (i.e., per sole) finely mince one oz. of well-cleaned mushrooms, and cook them quickly in butter, lemon juice, a little salt, and pepper. This done, add the cooking-liquor to the fish fumet, and keep the cooked minced mushrooms hot. Reduce the combined cooking-liquor and fish fumet to half; add thereto one oz. of butter and two tablespoonfuls of cream; and to the resulting sauce add the reserved minced mushrooms and two tablespoonfuls of freshly-cooked and well-drained as- paragus-heads, uncooled.