POULTRY 565 whole through a fine sieve; simmer for ten minutes more, and serve very hot. 1781—PIGEON PIE Line the bottom and sides of a pie-dish with very thin, flattened collops of lean beef, seasoned with salt and pepper, and sprinkled with chopped shallots. Set the quartered pigeons inside the dish, and separate them with a halved hard-boiled egg-yolk for each pigeon. Moisten half-way up with good gravy; cover with a layer of puff paste; gild; streak; make a slit in the top, and bake for about one and one-half hours in a good, moderate oven. 1782—VOL AU VENT DE PIGEONNEAUX Suppress the feet and the pinions; poele the squabs, and only just cook them. Cut each bird into four, and mix them with a garnish “ & la Financi&re ” (No. 1474) combined with the poeling-liquor. Pour the whole into a vol-au-vent crust, and dish on a napkin. 1783—C6TELETTE5 DE PIGEONNEAU A LA NE5LE5 Cut them in two, and reserve the claw, which serves as the bone of the cutlet. Flatten them slightly; season, and fry them in butter on one side only. Cool them under slight pressure; coat their fried side, dome-fashion, with some godiveau with cream, combined with a third of its bulk of gratin forcemeat and chopped truffles. Set them on a tray, and place in a moderate oven to complete the cooking, and poach the force- meat. Dish in a circle, and separate the cutlets with collops of veal sweetbreads, dipped in beaten eggs, rolled in bread- crumbs, and tossed in butter. Garnish their midst with mush- rooms and sliced fowls’ livers, tossed in butter and cohered with a few tablespoonfuls of Madeira sauce. 1784—COTELETTES DE PIGEONNEAUX EN PAPILLOTES Cut the pigeons in two, as above; stiffen them in butter, and enclose them in papillotes as explained under “ Cotelettes de Veau en Papillotes ” (No. 1259). 1785—C6TELETTES DE PIGEONNEAUX A LA SEVIGNE Saute the half-pigeons in butter, and leave them to cool under slight pressure. Garnish their cut sides dome-fashion with a salpicon of white chicken-meat, mushrooms, and truffles, the whole cohered by means of a cold Allemande sauce. Dip them in beaten egg, roll them in bread-crumbs, and cook them gently in clarified butter.