FISH * 289 852—SOLE ARLESIENNE Poach the sole in a little fish fumet. Dish it, reduce the fumet, and add thereto the following garnish :—Cook a little chopped onion in butter, add two medium-sized, peeled, emptied, and concassed tomatoes, a bit of garlic, and some con- cassed parsley. Cook with lid on, add the reduced fumet and twelve pieces of vegetable-marrow, turned to the shape of olives and cooked in butter. Cover the sole with this garnish and set a little heap of fried onion at each end of the dish. 853—SOLE A LA ROYALE Poach the sole in a few tablespoonfuls of fish fumet and two- thirds oz. of butter cut into small lumps. Dish the sole and set upon it four small cooked mushrooms, four small quenelles of fish forcemeat, four crayfishes’ tails, and four slices of truffle. Surround the sole with potato-balls, raised by means of the round spoon-cutter and cooked a Vanglaise, and coat the sole and garnish with Normande sauce. 854—SOLE A LA RUSSE Prepare twelve grooved and very thin roundels of carrots, cut a small onion into fine slices. Put these vegetables into and cut a small onion into fine slices. Put these vegetables into one-seventh pint of white wine, and one-third pint of fish fumet. Cook and, in the process, reduce the moistening by half, and pour this preparation into a deep dish. Partly separate the fillets from the bones on the upper side of the sole, slip a piece of butter, the size of a walnut, under each fillet, and put the fish into a deep dish containing the preparation. Poach and baste frequently the while. As soon as it is poached, dish the sole, also the vegetables used in cooking, and keep the whole hot. Reduce the cooking-liquor to one-eighth pint, add a few drops of lemon juice, and finish it away from the fire with one and one-half oz. of butter. Coat the sole and the garnish with this sauce. 855—SOLE RICHELIEU Prepare the sole exactly as directed under “ Sole k la Col- bert ” (No. 822). When it is fried, remove the bones and dish it. Garnish the inside with butter k la maitre-d’hotel, and lay thereon a row of sliced truffles. u