SOUPS 225 628—GELEE AUX POMMES D’AMOUR Proceed as for the “ Consomm^ Portugaise,” and use that variety of small tomatoes which, in Provence, are called “ Pommes d’amour.” 629—GELEE DE VOLAILLE A LA NAPOLITA1NE Proceed as for the “ Consomme Portugaise,” but finish it with one port wine-glassful of port or old Marsala per quart. THICK SOUPS In Part I., Chapter I., of this work I pointed out what thick soups consist of. I likewise touched upon the general rules which should be observed in the preparation of each class of these soups, and showed how most of them could, if necessary, be converted into and served as cullises, purges, bisques, velout£s, or creams. The principles governing these altera- tions are very simple, and after a moment’s reflection the operator will thoroughly grasp their import. Be this as it may, the reader will find the necessary directions at the end of each recipe that admits of various methods of preparation. With regard to those recipes which are not followed by any directions of the sort referred to, and which I simply class under the name of Potages, these are unalterable preparations which may only be served in accordance with the directions given. This being clear, the reader will understand that I have refrained from repeating the quantities of butter, cream, thickening ingredients, &c., in each recipe. These particulars having been given in Part I., it will be necessary to refer to that part of the book for them. 630—PURGE DE CAROTTES, otherwise CRECY Cut one lb. of the red part only of carrots into fine slices; chop one onion, and put the whole into a stewpan with a sprig of thyme and two oz. of butter. Stew gently for twenty minutes, and season with a pinch of salt and sugar. Add the thickening ingredient, i.e., either two oz. of rice or five and one-half oz. of bread dice fried in butter; also add one and one- half pints of white consomm6, and set to cook very gently. Rub through tammy, test the consistence, despumate, and add butter when dishing up. Ordinary garnish : small bread dice fried in butter. Occasional garnish : poached Japanese pearls in the pro- portion of two tablespoonfuls per quart of the soup. Q