461 RELEVES AND ENTREES Boudins. 1405—BOUDIN BLANC ORDINAIRE Chop and afterwards pound one-half lb. of very lean fresh pork, and three-quarters lb. of fat fresh bacon. Add one and one-half oz. of foie gras, and rub through a fine sieve. Put this forcemeat into a basin, and finish it with two fresh eggs; one and one-half oz. of chopped onion, cooked in butter without colouration ; one-sixth pint of thick cream ; one-half oz. of salt, a pinch of white pepper, and a little nutmeg. Mix the whole well; put it into the gut, without overfilling the latter, and tie round with string at regular intervals. Now set the boudins on a willow lattice, and plunge them into a receptacle full of boiling water. From this moment keep the water at 203° F., and let the boudins poach for twelve minutes. This done, withdraw them, and let them cool. Before serving them, grill them very gently, and, as a pre- cautionary measure, wrap them in buttered paper. Do not cisel them, but prick them with a pin. Serve a pur£e of potatoes with cream at the same time. 1406—BOUDINS BLANCS DE VOLAILLE Pound separately one lb. of raw chicken fillets and three- quarters lb. of fresh fat bacon. Combine the two products in the mortar; pound again with the view of thoroughly mixing them, and add three oz. of chopped onion, cooked in butter without colouration, together with a little thyme and bay; one-half oz. of salt, a pinch of white pepper, and a little nutmeg. Mix the whole well, and add four eggs, one by one, working the forcemeat vigorously the while with the pestle. Rub through a fine sieve; return the forcemeat to the mortar, and add thereto, little by little, one pint of boiled and very cold milk. Put the forcemeat into the gut; poach it in the bain-marie, and set it to grill, observing the same precautions as in the preceding recipe. Serve a pur£e of potatoes with cream at the same time as the boudins. 1407—BOUDINS NOIRS Make the following preparation, putting the various in- gredients into a basin :—One lb. of very fresh pork fat, cut into large dice, and half-melted; one sixth pint of thick cream; two eggs; six oz. of chopped onions, cooked in lard without coloura-