696 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY directed ; knead twice; roll up the paste, and set it in the cool to rest. This paste should be kept somewhat firm. 2360— DRESSING PASTE WITH LARD Take one lb. of sifted flour, four oz. of lard, one-quarter pint of tepid water, one egg, one-third oz. of salt, and proceed exactly as in the case of No. 2359. 2361— DUMPLING AND PUDDING PASTES Break up ten oz. of very dry beef suet, and carefully clear it of all little pieces of skin and connective tissue. Chop it up as finely as possible; sift one lb. of flour on to the mixing- board; hollow it out; and put into the hollow one-half oz. of salt, one and one-half oz. of sugar, one-third pint of water, and the chopped suet. Mix up these various ingredients, and, by degrees, combine the flour with them. Mass the paste together, without kneading it, and put it aside in the cool until it is wanted. 2362— DRY SUGARED PASTE FOR VARIOUS PURPOSES Take one lb. of sifted flour, seven oz. of butter, five oz. of powdered sugar, three eggs, and one-half tablespoonful of orange-flower water. Mix in the usual way, knead it twice; roll it into a ball, and keep it wrapped up, in the cool, until required. 2363— PASTE FOR SMALL GUMMED TEA-CAKES Take one lb. of sifted flour, ten oz. of butter, ten oz. of sugar, one egg, the yolks of four, and a tablespoonful of orange- flower water. Mix up gradually; mass the paste together, and roll it out into a thin layer, twice. Roll it up, and let it rest awhile in the cool before it is used. 2364— GUMMING In the case of certain small cakes, especially those served at tea, it is usual to gum their surfaces in order to make them glossy. For this purpose a thin solution of gum arabic is used, and it is smeared over the cakes as they leave the oven, by means of a small brush. Cakes may also be gummed with a syrup formed from milk and sugar, which mixture may be used instead of gum arabic with advantage. 2365— GALETTE paste Hollow out one lb. of sifted flour and put in its midst one- third oz. of salt, two oz. of powdered sugar, one-quarter pint of water, and one-half lb. of softened butter. Mix, taking care to include the flour only by degrees: