RELEVES AND ENTREES 379 They may be braised, too, and in this case they are served with any of the various garnishes given under Fillet of Beef. 1145—PIECE DE BCEUF BRAISEE (Releve) The piece of beef called rump is the one preferred for boiling and braising. Whatever be the use for which the meat is in- tended, the weight of the pieces should not be more than six or eight lbs. at the most, and they should be cut in the length rather than in the thickness, that the cooking process may be facilitated. All the garnishes of braised sirloin of beef are suited to braised pieces of beef. Boiled beef is generally accompanied by the vegetables used in its cooking-process, by purges, green or dry vegetables, pastes, macaroni, &c., &c. 1146—PIECE DE BCEUF A LA BOURGUIGNONNE Lard the piece of beef, and marinade it for three hours in brandy and red wine. Braise it after the manner described under No. 247 ; moisten first with the wine of the marinade, and, when the latter is reduced, with some veal gravy and one- half pint of Espagnole sauce per quart of liquid, taking care that the whole moistening reaches the top of the piece of meat. Add a faggot and some mushroom parings; set to boil, and cook gently in the oven. When the meat is two-thirds cooked, transfer it to another saucepan, and surround it with mushrooms cut into tv^o or four, according to their size, and tossed in butter; breast of bacon, out into dice, blanched and tossed in butter, and some small onions half-glazed with butter. Strain the sauce through a sieve over the piece of beef and its garnish, and complete the cooking gently. A few minutes before serving, put the meat on a dish and glaze it in the oven. Transfer the meat to the dish intended for the table; quickly reduce the sauce if necessary, and pour it over the piece of beef and the garnish. H47—PlfiCE DE BCEUF A LA CUILLER Select a very square or oval piece of beef, and bear in mind, in selecting it, that it will have to be fashioned to the shape of a case when it has been cooked. String it, and braise it after the manner described under No. 247, almost entirely covering it with moistening liquor. Set it to cook gently; withdraw the piece when the meat is still somewhat firm, and let it cool under slight pressure.