GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 506 nut-brown butter, and finally with chopped parsley, and serve a timbale of rizotto with white truffles separately. •573—POULET SAUTE PORTUGAISE Saute the chicken in butter and oil, and dish it. Drain away a portion of the butter used in the cooking, add to the remainder a mite of crushed garlic and a chopped half-onion; and, when the latter is fried, add four oz. of peeled and concassed tomatoes, two oz. of sliced mushrooms, a few drops of white wine, and a pinch of concassed parsley. Complete the cooking of the whole, taking care to reduce all moisture. Cover the chicken with its garnish, and surround it with half- tomatoes or tomatoes stuffed with rice. 1574— POULET SAUTfi PROVEN^ALE Saute the chicken in oil and dish it. Swill with white wine and add thereto a mite of crushed garlic, three oz. of con- cassed tomatoes, four anchovy fillets cut into dice, twelve black olives stoned and parboiled, and a pinch of chopped sweet basil. Leave the whole to simmer for five minutes, and cover the chicken with it. 1575— POULET SAUTE STANLEY Colour the chicken in butter, and complete its cooking under cover with one-half lb. of minced onions. Dish it in a fiat, earthenware cocotte, setting a heap of mushrooms on either side of it; add one-third pint of cream to the onions; simmer for ten minutes; rub through tammy, and reduce. Finish this sauce with one oz. of butter, a little curry, and pour it over the chicken. Set ten slices of truffle on the latter. 1576— POULET SAUTE AUX TRUFFES Half-saute the chicken in butter; add six oz. of raw truffles, cut into slices, and complete the cooking under cover. Dish; swill with a few tablespoonfuls of Madeira; reduce; add three tablespoonfuls of half-glaze sauce; finish with one and one-half oz. of butter, and pour this sauce over the chicken. •577—POULET SAUT^ VAN DYCK Cook the chicken in butter without letting it brown ; swill with one-sixth pint of cream; add one-sixth pint of supreme sauce, and reduce by a third. Mix one-half lb. of young parboiled hop-sprouts to the