476 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY and surrounded by the sliced supremes, with intercalated slices of foie-gras and truffle. The sauce is also served separately in this case. Cover the dish, so that it may stand and keep hot a few minutes, if necessary, without spoiling. The legs, which are rarely served at a well-ordered dinner, remain in the kitchen together with the carcass. I cannot too strongly recommend the system just described, whenever the circumstances allow of its being put into practice. It is the only one that ensures an efficient service, calculated to give entire satisfaction to all concerned. 1445— POULARDE ALBUFERA Stuff the pullet with the rice prescribed under No. 2256, and poach it. Dish it and coat with Albuffira sauce. Surround with small tartlet crusts, garnished with truffles raised by means of a spoon the size of a pea; quenelles of the same shape; small button mushrooms, and cocks’ kidneys. Cohere this garnish with Albuffira sauce. Between each tartlet, place a slice of salted tongue, cut to the shape of a cock’s comb. 1446— POULARDE ALEXANDRA Having larded the pullet with tongue and truffle, poach it. This done, remove the supremes, and replace them by mous- seline forcemeat; smooth this forcemeat, giving it the shape of the pullet in so doing, and set to poach in the front of the oven. Now, coat the piece with Mornay sauce, and glaze quickly. Dish, and surround with tartlet-crusts garnished with asparagus- heads, cohered with butter; place a collop of the reserved supremes (which should have been kept hot) on each tartlet, and border the dish with a thread of pale glaze. 1447— POULARDE AMBASSADRICE Stud the pullet with truffles, cover it with a Matignon (No. 227), wrap it in muslin, and braise it. Remove the supremes; suppress the bones of the breast; fill the carcass with a garnish of asparagus-heads, cohered with butter, and arrange this garnish as already described under No. 1444. Slice the supremes, and put them back on the garnish, in suchwise as to reconstruct the breast of the fowl. Coat the piece with somewhat stiff and fine supreme sauce; dish it, and surround it with lamb sweet-breads, studded with truffles,