POULTRY 533 This procedure allows of using less gelatinous products in the preparation of the aspic, and the latter is therefore much more delicate, mellow, and melting. i69o_POULARDE EN CHAUD-FROID A L’ECOSSAISE Having poached and cooled the pullets, raise the supremes, and cut each into three or four collops. Garnish these collops, dome-fashion, with a salpicon consisting of the meat cut from the carcass, combined with an equal quantity of salted tongue and truffle, and cohered with reduced chicken jelly. Coat these collops with white chaud-froid sauce; sprinkle them immediately with very red tongue, truffle, gherkins, and hard-boiled white of egg; all chopped, mixed, and glazed with jelly. . Now set the collops in a deep, square silver dish, alternating them with oval slices of salted tongue. Garnish their midst with a salad of French beans, cut lozenge-form and cohered with aspic. 1691—CHAUD-FROID FELIX FAURE Raise the supremes of a fine pullet; cut them in two in the thick part, without separating them, and slightly flatten them. Lay them on a piece of linen; season them; and, on one of their halves, spread a layer of foie-gras purde thickened with a little chicken forcemeat. Upon this layer set some rectangles of raw foie gras, one-third in. thick; cover with purde, set some slices of truffle upon the latter; coat again with purde; moisten with white of egg, and over the whole press the other half of the supreme. Wrap each supreme, prepared in this way, in a piece of muslin; poach them in a moderate oven, after having moistened them to within half their height with chicken stock; and leave them to cool in their cooking-liquor under slight pressure. This done, take off the muslin, and cut each supreme into ten or twelve medallions. Envelop each medallion in a mousse of chicken made with the meat of the poached eggs, and leave to set. Then coat each medallion with white chaud-froid sauce, and deck each with a fine slice of truffle. Clothe a dome-mould with a fine chicken jelly, and decorate it with slices of truffle; put the medallions inside, proceeding as for an aspic, and leave to set. When about to serve, turn out on a serviette. 1692—CHAUD-FROID DE POULARDE A LA GOUNOD Raise the supremes of a poached pullet, and cool them under pressure.