564 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY well be halved as left whole. Dish, and surround with the garnish given under “ Poulet & la Bordelaise ” (No. 1538). 1777— PIGEONNEAUX EN CASSEROLE A LA PAYSANNE Cook the squabs in the oven in an earthenware saucepan. When they are two-thirds done, surround them with one and one-half oz. of salted breast of pork, cut into small dice and blanched, and two oz. of sliced and sauted potatoes for each pigeon. Complete the cooking of the whole gently, and, when about to serve, add a little good gravy. 1778— PIGEONNEAUX EN CHARTREUSE Prepare the Chartreuse in a Charlotte mould, as explained under No. 1182. Line the bottom and sides with a layer of braised, drained, and pressed cabbages; in the centre set the squabs, cooked “ a la casserole ” and cut into two lengthwise, and alternate them with small rectangles of blanched, salted breast of pork, and sausage roundels. Cover with cabbages, and steam in a bain-marie for thirty minutes. Let the Chartreuse stand for five minutes after withdrawing from the bain-marie; turn out on a round dish, and surround with a few tablespoonfuls of half-glaze sauce. 1779— PIGEONNEAUX EN CRAPAUDINE Cut the young pigeons horizontally in two, from the apex of the breast to the wings. Open them; flatten them slightly; season them; dip them in melted butter, roll them in bread- crumbs, and grill them gently. Serve a devilled sauce at the same time. 1780— PIGEONNEAUX EN COMPOTE Fry in butter two oz. of blanched, salted breast of pork and two oz. of raw mushrooms, peeled and quartered. Drain the bacon and the mushrooms, and set the squabs, trussed as for an entree, to fry in the same butter. Withdraw them when they are brown; drain them of butter; swill with half a glassful of white wine; reduce the latter, and add sufficient brown stock and half-glaze sauce (tomated), in equal quantities, to cover the birds. Plunge them into this sauce, with a faggot, and simmer until they are cooked and the sauce is reduced to half. This done, transfer the squabs to another saucepan; add the pieces of bacon, the mushrooms, and six small onions, glazed with butter, for each bird; strain the sauce over the