34« GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY parsley stalks upon and beneath it; and let it marinade for an hour or two, turning it over frequently the while. Twenty minutes before serving, set the red mullet on a double fish grill, and cook it over a rather fierce fire, sprinkling it often the while with its marinade. Dish and serve it as soon as it is ready, and serve a little half-melted maitre- d’h6tel butter separately. ,035b—ROUGET A LA BORDELAISE Grill or saute the red mullet. At the same time serve a sauce Bordelaise Bonnefoy (No. 67). 1035c—ROUGET AU FENOUIL Cisel and marinade the red mullet as directed under No. 1035a, and add a certain quantity of chopped fennel to the aromatics. Twenty minutes before serving, add two oz. of roughly-chopped raw pork fat and a little parsley to the marinade; wrap the red mullets in strong, oiled paper, together with its marinade, grill it gently, and serve it as it stands. • °35d—ROUGET A LA NI^OISE Grill it as directed above, and serve it with the garnish given under “ Sole k la Ni^oise.” 10356—ROUGET EN PAPILLOTE Grill and wrap it in strong, oiled paper between two layers of somewhat thick Duxelle sauce. When about to serve, put the papillote for five minutes in the oven, that it may be souffled. 1036—WHITEBAIT Thames whitebait, which has many points in common with the “ Nonat ” of the Mediterranean, is one of the riddles of ichthyology; for, while it is generally admitted that it is the fry of one of the many species of fish, its real parentage is quite unknown. At dinners in London it usually stands as a second fish- course, and, fried after the customary manner, it constitutes a dish the delicacy of which is incomparable. Whitebait, like the nonat, are extremely fragile, and ought to be cooked as soon as they are caught. They are always served fried, and the frying-medium used in their preparation should be fresh, abundant, and just smoking when the fish are plunged into it. Previous to this operation, however, the whitebait ought to be thoroughly dredged with flour and placed in a special sieve