GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 742 Garnish the centre of each ring with a tablespoonful of red-currant jelly, or very firm quince jelly. Timbales. 2542— TIMBALE A LA D’AREMBERG Line a buttered Charlotte mould with some fairly firm Brioche paste. Garnish the mould with quartered pears, cooked in vanilla- flavoured syrup, kept rather firm and alternated by apricot jam. Close the timbale with a layer of the same paste, well sealed down round the slightly-moistened edges, and cut a slit in the middle for the escape of steam. Cook in a good moderate oven for about forty minutes. On taking the timbale out of the oven, turn it out on a dish, and accompany it with a maraschino-flavoured apricot sauce. 2543— BOURDALOUE TIMBALE Prepare a dry paste, combined with four ounces of finely- chopped almonds per one lb. of flour. With this paste line a buttered timbale mould, and garnish it with various stewed fruits, alternated by layers of frangipan cream. Cover with a layer of the same paste, and bake in a good moderate oven. When the timbale is turned out, coat it with a vanilla-flavoured apricot syrup. 2544— MARIE-LOUISE TIMBALE Take a stale G/noise cooked in a deep Charlotte mould ; press the blade of a knife into it and cut it all round, leaving a base. Remove the inside crumb in one piece which should resemble a large cork in shape. Cut this crumb into slices half-inch thick; coat each slice with Italian meringue, and, upon the latter, distri- bute a salpicon of peaches, cherries and pine-apple. Coat the outside of the timbale with the same meringue, and decorate it; put the slices back inside, and set them one upon the other. Owing to the inserted garnish these slices naturally project above the sides of the timbale; surround them therefore with a border of poached peaches, separated by a bit of meringue. Put the timbale in a mild oven to colour the meringue, and serve a Kirsch-flavoured peach sauce at the same time. 2545— MONTMORENCY TIMBALE Cook a brioche in a mould of the required size. When it is quite cold, remove all the crumb from its inside, leaving a thickness of three-quarters of an inch on the bottom and sides. Coat all round, by means of a brush, with apricot jam cooked to the small-