601 GAME 1912—MANDARINES DE CAILLES Slice the tangerine rinds at their stem-ends with an even round cutter; remove the sections; put them to dry, and skin them raw. Three-parts garnish the tangerine rinds with a quail Mousse, combined with foie gras, cut into dice; set a roasted quail’s fillet on the Mousse; coat with brown chaud-froid sauce, and cover with the sections of tangerine, glazed with aspic jelly. Keep in the cool for some time and dish on a napkin. 1913—CAILLES NILLSON Proceed as for “ Cailles au Chateau-Yquem,” and set each quail in a small, silver cassolette. Cover with the cooking- liquor, cleared of grease and strained, and surround each quail with four small very white cocks’ kidneys. 1914—CAILLES RICHELIEU FROIDES Prepare these like the “Hot Cailles Richelieu”; place them in a square, deep dish; cover with the cooking-liquor and the garnish and let them cool until the cooking-liquor sets. Then clear the dish of all grease and serve on a block of ice. 1915—TIMBALE DE CAILLES TZARINE Line a round pie-dish with ordinary paste, and coat it inside with slices of bacon. In the middle, place a fresh foie gras seasoned with salt, pepper and allspice, and surround it with quails, stuffed with quarters of truffles, set upright with their breasts against the bacon. Fill up the timbale with whole raw and peeled truffles; cover with a round slice of bacon; close the timbale with a layer of paste sealed down round the edges; make a slit in the top, and bake in a hot oven for one and one-quarter hours. When withdrawing the timbale from the oven, pour into it some veal stock flavoured with Madeira, and let it be suffi- ciently gelatinous to set like a jelly. Keep the timbale in the cool for one or two days before serving it. 1916—CAILLES A LA VENDANGEUSE Roast the quails; let them cool, and set them, each in a little dosser of dry paste, resting against a cushion lying on a round dish. On top of the cushion plant a leafy vine-shoot bearing grapes. Surround the quails with white and black grapes (peeled and pipped) and cover with a slightly gelatinous aspic jelly, prepared with liqueur brandy.