VEGETABLES AND FARINACEOUS PRODUCTS 641 2103—SOU-FASSUM PROVENCAL Parboil and cool the cabbage as above; remove the outer large leaves, and set them on a net. Upon this litter of cabbage leaves lay the following pro- ducts, mixed : — The inside leaves of the cabbage, chopped up and seasoned; one-half lb. of ciseled and blanched white of a leek; one and three-quarter lbs. of sausage-meat; six oz. of lean bacon, cut into dice and frizzled; one chopped onion, fried in butter; two chopped tomatoes; a crushed clove of garlic; three oz. of blanched rice and four oz. of fresh, young peas. Gather up the ends of the net, and close it in such a way as to reconstruct the cabbage. Cook it in mutton broth or in ordinary stock for three and one-half or four hours. Serve the sou-fassum plain, on a round dish. 2104—CABBAGES FOR GARNISH.—A Parboil, cool, and thoroughly drain the cabbage. Remove as many large leaves as there are balls of stuffed cabbage re- quired, and, if the leaves be too small, use two for each ball. Chop up the remains of the cabbage; season them with salt and pepper; put a small portion of them on each of the leaves; close the latter in the shape of balls, and set them one by one in a saut^pan. Then proceed, for the cooking, as directed under “ Braised Cabbage.” 210s—CABBAGES FOR GARNISH.—B Prepare the cabbage as above; insert into the centre of each ball a portion of smooth pork forcemeat, the size of a pigeon’s egg, and braise in the same way. 2106—CABBAGES FOR GARNISH.—C Parboil the necessary quantity of cabbage leaves, in accord- ance with the number of balls required. Cool them; spread them out; garnish the middle of each with one tablespoonful of pilaff rice, mixed with foie-gras pur^e, and close up the leaves to form small packets. Braise as in the case of No. 2104. 2107—SCOTCH KALE (Choufrise), SPRING CABBAGE (Choux de Printemps), BROCCOLI LEAVES, TURNIP-TOPS These various kinds of greens are prepared in the English way, as described above, or they may be prepared with butter, like Brussels sprouts. The two above-mentioned modes of preparation are the only ones that suit them. T T