SAVOURIES 685 cepes; one and one-half oz. of raw marrow in dice; one small hard-boiled and chopped egg; one oz. of bread-crumbs, salt, cayenne, a few drops of lemon juice, and three tablespoonfuls of melted meat glaze. Set a large slice of marrow on each tartlet, and cook at the last moment. 2335—WELSH RABBIT This may be prepared in two ways, but always on square or rectangular pieces of buttered toast, one-third inch thick. 1. The simplest way is to cover the pieces of toast with a thick layer of grated Gloucester or Chester cheese, to sprinkle them with cayenne, and then to place them in the oven for the cheese to melt and thereby glaze their surfaces. 2. The original method consists in melting the dice or slices of cheese in a few tablespoonfuls of pale ale and a little English mustard. As soon as the cheese has melted, it is poured over the pieces of buttered toast, quickly smoothed with the flat of a knife, and sprinkled with cayenne. The pieces may be cut up if required. 2336—SANDWICHES Sandwiches are prepared in two ways, according to their purposes. They generally consist of two slices of buttered bread, with mustard spread upon them, covering a slice of ham or tongue, &c. Sandwiches are usually rectangular, and they should measure about three inches by one and one-half inches. The kind served at ball buffets are much smaller, and therefore it is best to cut the sandwiched product (whatever this be) into dice, and to mix it with an equal weight of butter containing mustard. When sandwiches have to be kept, they should be placed under a slight weight to prevent the bread from drying. Sand- wiches may also be made from thick, toasted slices of bread, cut laterally into two, and then garnished according to fancy. Names of common Sandwiches. Ham Sandwich. Tongue Sandwich. Beef Sandwich. Pressed-beef Sandwich. Veal Sandwich. Chicken Sandwich. Foie-Gras Sandwich. Hard-boiled Egg Sandwich. Caviare Sandwich. Tomato Sandwich. Cucumber Sandwich. Watercress Sandwich. Mustard-and-cress Sandwich. 2337—BOOKMAKER sandwiches In his book, “ La Cuisine Anglaise,” Mr. Suzanne gives the following kind of sandwich, which deserves attention : —