666 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 2246— POMMES DE TERRE VOISIN Prepare these exactly like “ Pommes Anna,” but sprinkle each layer of potato-roundels with grated cheese. The cooking is the same. 2247— POMMES NANA (For Garnishing) Cut the potatoes into a julienne; season them, and mould them by heaping them into well-buttered, dariole-moulds. Cook them, like “ Pommes Anna ” (for garnishing), on a tray con- taining some very hot fat. On taking them out of the oven, turn them out and sprinkle them with Chateau sauce. 2248— MASHED POTATOES Peel and quarter some Dutch potatoes, and quickly cook them in salted water. When they feel soft to the touch, drain them ; rub them through a sieve, and work the pur£e vigorously with three oz. of butter per lb. of potatoes. Then add, little by little, about one-half pint of boiling milk, in order to bring the pur£e to the required consistence. Heat without boiling, and serve. Remember that mashed potatoes should be only just cooked, and that if they be allowed to wait they lose all their quality. 2249— QUENELLES DE POMMES DE TERRE Prepare a composition as for “ Pommes Duchesse,” and add thereto (per two lbs.) three whole eggs and one-third lb. of flour. Divide up the preparation into one and one-half oz. portions; mould these to the shape of corks or quoits, or mould them by means of a spoon, and set them in a buttered saut^pan. Poach them in salted water; drain them ; set them on a buttered dish sprinkled with grated cheese; dredge with grated cheese; sprinkle with melted butter, and set the gratin to form. On taking the dish out of the oven, sprinkle the quenelles with nut-brown butter. 2250— SOUFFLE DE POMMES DE TERRE Prepare a pint of mashed potatoes with cream; add thereto the raw yolks of three eggs and their whites beaten to a stiff froth. Set in a buttered souffle saucepan, or in small porcelain cases, and cook like an ordinary souffle. Rice (Riz) 2251— RIZ AU BLANC (For Fowls and Eggs) Wash one-half lb. of Carolina rice; put it into a saucepan; cover it with plenty of cold water; salt it, and parboil it for one-quarter hour.