24B guide to modern cookery 709— CREME D’OSEILLE A L’ORGE Proceed exactly as for No. 708, using the same quantities, but substituting barley-meal for oatmeal. Remarks upon the Two above Creams.—They may also be prepared as velout^s. Their garnish may be greatly varied, and may consist of chiffonade of lettuce and sorrel; pressed peeled tomatoes, cut into dice and cooked in butter; poached rice or pastes (i.e., vermicelli, &c.); fine well-cooked pearl barley; brunoise; small printaniers, &c. They belong, in fact, to the same order of soups as the purges of sorrel with pastes, the recipes of which were given earlier in the chapter. 710— CREME D’OXALIS Peel and slice the oxalis roots, and half-cook them in salted water. Drain, add it to one and one-half pints of Bechamel, and complete its cooking gently in the sauce. Rub through tammy; add one-half pint of white consomm^, and finish after the manner of other creams. Garnish with chervil pinches. This soup may also be prepared as a pur£e or a velout^. 711— CRfeME DE RIZ Wash one-half lb. of rice in cold water; blanch it; cool it, and cook it very gently in one quart of white consomm^. Crush in the mortar; rub through tammy, and dilute the rice pur£e with one pint of white consomm£. Heat and finish the preparation, when dishing up, with the necessary quantity of cream. Or pour four tablespoonfuls of rice cream, diluted with one- half pint of cold milk, into three pints of boiling milk; set to boil, stirring the while, and leave to cook very gently for twenty-five minutes. Rub through tammy, and finish the pre- paration, when dishing up, with the required quantity of cream. This soup may also be prepared as a velout£. 712— CRfBME D’ORGE Wash three-quarters lb. of coarse pearl barley in lukewarm water, and cook it gently for about two and one-half hours in one pint of white consomm£ containing one piece of the white part of a stick of celery. Crush in a mortar; rub through tammy; dilute the pur^e of barley with one pint of white consomm^; heat, and finish the