GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 47° and, in either case, they are decorated with lozenges, crescents, or discs, &c., of ham or truffle. Having carried out the selected method of preparation, cover them with boiling water, salted to the extent of one- third oz. per quart, and poach them for from eighteen to twenty minutes, taking care to keep the water at a constant temperature of 208° F. These mousselines may also be poached dry in a steamer or in a drying stove. •433—MOUSSELINES DE JAMBON ALEXANDRA Decorate the mousselines, prepared according to one of the two methods above described, with one lozenge of ham and another of truffle. Poach them; drain them well, and dish them in the form of a crown. Cover them with an Allemande sauce, flavoured with ham essence, and combined with two oz. of grated Parmesan per pint of the sauce, and glaze quickly. After taking the mousselines out of the oven, set in their midst a heap of asparagus-heads, cohered with butter. 1434—MOUSSELINES DE JAMBON A LA FLORENTINE Spread a layer of shredded spinach, fried in butter, on a dish. Upon it set the poached and well-drained mousselines; cover them with the same sauce as that prescribed for the “ Mousse- lines Alexandra,” and glaze them quickly. •435—MOUSSELINES DE JAMBON A LA HONGROISE Poach the mousselines, the forcemeat of which must be flavoured with paprika. Drain them; dish them in a circle; cover them with Ilongroise sauce, and glaze them quickly. On withdrawing the dish from the oven, set a fine heap of baked cauliflowers with cheese in the middle of it. 1436—MOUSSELINES DE JAMBON AUX PETITS POIS Proceed exactly as described under No. 1433, but substitute for the asparagus-heads a garnish of very small peas cohered with butter. Cold Ham. •437—JAMBON FROID A LA GELEE When ham is to be dished cold, it should, if possible, be allowed to cool in its cooking-liquor, except when it has to be boned. In the latter case, take it out as soon as it is cooked; incise it underneath, following the edge of the cushion; detach and remove the bones.