366 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY ,085—TOURNEDOS BRABANCONNE Prepare as many tartlet-crusts as there are tournedos Garnish them with very small parboiled Brussels sprouts, stewed in butter; cover these with Mornay sauce, and set to glaze a few moments before dishing. Season the tournedos, and fry them in butter; set them on the prepared tartlets of sprouts, and surround with a border of small “ pommes de terre fondantes ” (No. 2214) 1086— TOURNEDOS CASTILLANE Prepare (1) as many tartlet-crusts as there are tournedos; (2) peeled, pressed, and seasoned tomatoes, cooked in butter; these should be in the proportion of one tablespoonful per tart- let; (3) rings of onion, fried in oil as for “ Tournedos k l’Arl6- sienne ”; (4) a garnish of one tablespoonful of small French beans, cohered with butter, per tartlet. Season the tournedos; fry them in butter, and dish them in the form of a crown on fried crusts. Place a tartlet, garnished with a fondue of tomatoes, on each tournedos; all round arrange a border of the fried roundels of onion, and serve the French beans, either in the middle of the dish or separately in a timbale. 1087— TOURNEDOS CENDRILLON Prepare (1) as many fine artichoke-bottoms as there are tournedos; (2) a Soubise pur£e, combined with chopped truffles, and well buttered. A few moments before the tournedos are ready, garnish the artichoke-bottoms with the Soubise, and set them to glaze in a fierce oven. Season the tournedos; fry them in clarified butter, and set them on the artichoke-bottoms, which should be arranged in a circle round the dish. 1088— TOURNEDOS AUX CHAMPIGNONS Season the tournedos, and fry them in butter. Dish them in the form of a crown; drain the butter from the saut^pan; swill the latter with some mushroom cooking- liquor, and add thereto a proportional quantity of mushroom sauce. Set to boil for a few minutes, and pour the sauce, with the mushrooms, in the midst of the circle of tournedos. 1089— TOURNEDOS CHASSEUR Season the tournedos; fry them in butter, and dish them in the form of a crown.