437 RELEVES AND ENTREES on each; shape it like a dome, by means of the blade of a small knife dipped in tepid water, and put the cutlets, one by one, on a tray. The Maintenon preparation should be laid on the cooked side of each cutlet and sprinkled with fine raspings and melted butter. Now put the cutlets in a rather hot oven for seven or eight minutes in order to : — (1) Allow a gratin to form over the surface of the garnish. (2) Finish the cooking of the cutlets. Dish the latter in the form of a crown, and serve, separately, a sauceboat of meat glaze finished with butter. 1315—COTELETTES A LA MURILLO Fry the cutlets in butter, on one side only; and garnish the cooked side, dome-fashion, with a fine hash of mushrooms, cohered with a little very reduced Bechamel sauce. Set them on a tray; sprinkle with grated Parmesan and a few drops of melted butter, and glaze in a fierce oven. Dish the cutlets in the form of a crown; fix a frill to each, and sur- round them with mild capsicums and tomatoes, both of which should be sliced, tossed in butter, and mixed. 1316—C6TELETTES a la provencale For ten cutlets :—(1) Reduce one-half pint of Bechamel sauce to a third, and add thereto the third of a garlic clove, crushed, and the yolks of three eggs; (2) prepare at the same time as the cutlets, ten grilled mushrooms; and ten stoned, stuffed and poached olives, girded by a strip of anchovy fillet. Fry the cutlets in butter, on one side only. Cover the cooked side of each with the preparation described above; set them on a tray; sprinkle them with a few drops of melted butter, and put them in the oven, that their garnish may be glazed and that their cooking may be completed. Dish in the form of a circle; place a grilled mushroom (convex side uppermost) in the middle of each cutlet, and, on each mushroom, a stuffed olive. 1316a—C6TELETTE5 de mouton a la reforme Trim six mutton cutlets; season them; dip them in melted butter, and roll them in bread-crumbs, combined with finely- chopped ham in the proportion of a third of the weight of the bread-crumbs. Now cook them gently in clarified butter. Dish them in a circle on a hot dish, and send the following sauce to the table with them : — Take a small saucepan, and mix therein three tablespoon- fuls of half-glaze sauce, the same quantity of Poivrade sauce,