HORS-D’CEUVRES 143 anchovy fillets marinaded in oil, and garnish their centres either with caviare, chopped hard-boiled egg, or milt purde, &c. 305—ANCHOVY PAUPIETTES Prepare some thick slices of blanched and marinaded cucumber, about the size of half-crowns, and hollow their centres slightly. Place rings composed of the fillets of anchovies in oil upon these slices, and fill up their centres with tunny cream or the cream of any fish or shell-fish. 306—ANCHOVY WITH PIMENTOS Prepare some anchovy fillets in oil, and place them across each other in a lattice, using fillets of pimento alternately with those of the anchovies. Garnish in the same way as for anchovy fillets, i.e., with the chopped white and yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and chopped parsley. 307—NORWEGIAN ANCHOVIES OR KILKIS These are found ready-prepared on the market. Place them on a hors-d’oeuvre dish with some of their liquor, and without any garnish. 308—SMOKED EEL Serve it plain, cut into fillets. 309—EEL WITH WHITE WINE AND PAPRIKA Divide the eel into lengths of three and one-half inches; poach these in exactly the same way as for matelote, but with white wine and paprika seasoning. Let them cool in their cooking-liquor; cut the pieces lengthwise into large fillets, and cover them with the liquor after all grease has been removed therefrom and it has been clarified and cleared. 310—EEL AU VERT Stew in butter two oz. of sorrel, one-quarter oz. of parsley, as much chervil, a few tarragon leaves, a little fresh pimpernel, two oz. of tender nettle, one-quarter oz. of savory, a sprig of green thyme, and a few sage-leaves, all of which must be ciseled. Remove the skins from two lbs. of small eels, sup- press the heads, and cut into pieces two inches long. Put these pieces with the herbs, stiffen them well, and add one pint of white wine and a little salt and pepper. Set to cook for ten minutes, thicken with the yolks of four eggs and a few drops of lemon-juice, and leave to cool in a bowl. This preparation of eel is served very cold.