FISH 301 Complete the cooking of the vegetables while reducing the cooking-liquor. Season the fillets of sole, and lay them on a buttered earthenware dish. Pour thereon the garnish of vege- tables; put the cover on the dish, and gently poach the fillets. When they are cooked, tilt the dish so as to pour all the liquor away into a vegetable-pan ; this done, reduce the liquor to one-fifth pint, and add to it three oz. of butter. Pour this sauce into the dish containing the fillets and the vegetable garnish, and serve immediately. 897—FILETS DE SOLES EN PILAW A LA LEVANTINE Cut the fillets into collops, and toss these in butter. Prepare some pilaff rice after the usual recipe (No. 2255), and add thereto one oz. of capsicum cut into dice. Also toss in butter one and one-half oz. of egg-plant, cut into dice and seasoned, and put these with the fillets of sole. Mould the rice into a border round the dish; put the fillets and the egg-plant in the middle, and coat the two with curry sauce without letting the latter touch the rice. N.B.—In the case of pilaff rice with fillets of sole, the rice should border the dish, and the fillets of sole, tossed in butter, should be laid in the middle and coated with brown butter. 898—FILETS DE SOLES POMPADOUR Treat the fillets with butter and bread-crumbs, and grill them. Garnish them all round with a thread of very firm b^arnaise tomat^e. Dish and surround them with a border of Chateau potatoes (No. 2208). Lay a fine slice of truffle, moistened with melted meat-glaze, on each fillet. 899—FILETS DE SOLES RACHEL Coat the fillets with some delicate fish forcemeat; put four slices of truffle on the forcemeat of each of the fillets; fold the latter, and poach them in one-sixth pint of the cooking-liquor of mushrooms, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut, cut into small pieces. Arrange the fillets in an oval on a dish, and coat them with white-wine sauce combined with one tablespoonful of freshly- cooked and uncooled asparagus-heads, and one tablespoonful of truffle in dice per every one-half pint of the sauce. 900-FILETS DE SOLES VENITIENNE Fold the fillets, and poach them in fish fumet. Arrange them in a circle on a dish, alternating them with thin crusts, in the shape of hearts, fried in butter. Coat with