232 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 655— POTAGE MARIGNY Proceed as for “ potage Fontange,” and add a garnish of one tablespoonful of peas and one tablespoonful of fine French beans cut into lozenges. 656— POTAGE MARCILLY Half of this consists of a pur£e of peas and the other half of a pur^e of chicken. Prepare these purges in the usual way and mix them together when about to serve. Garnish with two tablespoonfuls of Japanese pearls poached in consomm^ and twelve small quenelles of chicken forcemeat, in the shape of pearls, per quart of the soup. 657— POTAGE SAINT-MARCEAU This is an ordinary pur6e of peas with butter, combined with two tablespoonfuls of a julienne consisting of the white of a leek and some chervil pluches per quart of the pur^e. This list could be considerably lengthened, but what there is of it amply suffices to show the great number of soups that may be obtained from the combination of other suitable pro- ducts with the pur£e of peas and the modification of the garnish in each case. 658— PUREE DE POMMES DE TERRE, otherwise PARMENTIER Finely mince the white of two medium-sized leeks, and fry them without colouration in one oz. of butter. Add three medium-sized peeled and quartered potatoes, one pint of white consomm^, and cook quickly. The moment the potatoes seem soft to the touch crush them and rub them through tammy. Finish the pur6e with some boiled milk or thin cream, heat until the boil is reached, and add butter when dishing up. Garnish with two tablesponfuls of small bread dice fried in butter and some chervil pluches. This soup may also be prepared as a velout6 or a cream. 659— PUREE DE TOMATES, otherwise PORTUGAISE Fry in one oz. of butter a somewhat finely-cut mirepoix consisting of one oz. of breast of bacon cut into dice, one-third of a carrot, half an onion, a fragment of thyme and bay. Add to this fried mirepoix eight medium-sized tomatoes, pressed and cut into pieces the size of a clove of garlic, a pinch of sugar, two and one-half oz. of rice, and one pint of white consomm^.