COLD SAUCES AND COMPOUND BUTTERS 53 137—OXFORD SAUCE Make a Cumberland sauce according to No. 134, with this difference : that the Julienne of orange and lemon rinds should be replaced by rasped or finely-chopped rinds, and that the quantities of same should be less, i.e., two-thirds of a tea- spoonful of each. 138—HORSE “RADISH SAUCE Dilute one tablespoonful of mustard with two tablespoonfuls of vinegar in a basin, and add one lb. of finely-rasped horse, radish, two oz. of powdered sugar, a little salt, one pint of cream, and one lb. of bread-crumb steeped in milk and pressed. Serve this sauce very cold. It accompanies boiled and roast joints of beef. Compound Butters for Grills and for the Completion of Sauces With the exception of those of the shell-fish order, the butters, whose formulae I am about to give, are not greatly used in kitchens. Nevertheless, in some cases, as, for instance, in accen- tuating the savour of sauces, they answer a real and useful pur- pose, and I therefore recommend them, since they enable one to give a flavour to the derivatives of the Velout£ and Bechamel sauces which these could not acquire by any other means. With regard to shell-fish butters, and particularly those of the common and spiny lobster and the crayfish, experience has shown that when they are prepared with heat (that is to say, by melting in a bain-marie a quantity of butter which has been previously pounded with shell-fish remains and afterwards strained through muslin into a basin of iced-water where it has solidified) they are of a finer colour than the other kind and quite free from shell particles. But the heat, besides dissipat- ing a large proportion of their delicacy, involves consider- able risk, for the slightest neglect gives the above preparation quite a disagreeable taste. To obviate these difficulties I have adopted a system of two distinct butters, one which is exclusively colorific and prepared with heat, and the other which is prepared with all the creamy parts, the trimmings and the remains of com- mon and spiny lobsters, without the shells, pounded with the re- quired quantity of fresh butter and passed through a sieve. The latter is used to complete sauces, particularly those with r Bechamel base to which it lends a perfect savour. I follow the same procedure with shrimp and crayfish butters,