762 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY The “Panier” (basket) is made in the same way, but with bis- cuits all of the same size, and without the imitation iron-hoops. On the base and by means of sugar cooked to the large-crack stage, fix a handle of pulled sugar, decked with sugar flowers. The baquet and the panier are garnished with the same cream as the Chantilly Charlotte, and are finished in the same way, with a decoration of pink-tinted cream. 2633— CHARLOTTE MONTREUIL Line the bottom and sides of the mould with lady’s-finger biscuits. Garnish with a Bavaroise preparation consisting of one pint of peach pur^e per quart of English custard, and the usual quantity of whisked cream. Add some very ripe, sliced and sugared peaches, on putting the preparation into the mould. 2634— OPERA CHARLOTTE Line a mould with Huntley and Palmer’s sugar wafers and garnish it with a vanilla-flavoured Bavarois preparation, combined with one-quarter of its bulk of a smooth pur^e of candied chestnuts, and a salpicon of candied fruit, macerated in Maraschino. 2635— CHARLOTTE PLOMBlERE Line the Charlotte with lady’s-finger biscuits or with gaufrettes. When about to serve, garnish it with a Plombiere ice (No. 2795) and turn it out upon a napkin. 2636— CHARLOTTE RENAISSANCE Line the bottom of the mould with a round piece of white paper, and the sides with rectangles of GJnoise, glazed white and pink. Set the glazed sides of the rectangles against the mould. Fill the mould, thus lined, with a vanilla-flavoured Bavarois preparation, combined with raw peeled and sliced apricots and peaches, pine-apple cut into dice, and wild strawberries, all these fruits having been previously macerated in Kirsch. Let the preparation set in the cool or on ice. When the Charlotte is turned out, remove the round piece of paper, and in its place lay a slice of pine-apple, cut from the thickest part of the fruit and decorated with candied fruit. 2637— CHARLOTTE RUSSE Make a rosette on the bottom of the mould with some heart- shaped lady’s-finger biscuits, and line the sides with the same biscuits trimmed, set upright and close together. This Charlotte maybe garnished with a vanilla-, pralin-, coffee-, orange- or chocolate-flavoured cream Bavarois preparation ; or a