GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 328 mousse, mousselines, timbales, &c., or as the garnish of some other fish; for in all these cases they are shelled. Be all this as it may, I give below the various recipes re- lating to them, and from among these it ought to be possible to choose one which will meet the requirements of any particular case. 966— ECREVISSES A LA BORDELAISE N.B.—Whatever be their mode of preparation, crayfish should always be thoroughly cleansed and cleared of their in- testines, the extreme end of which is to be found under the middle of the tail. In order to remove the intestines, take the telson or tail-segment between the point of a small knife and the thumb, and pull gently. If this were not done, the in- testines, especially in the breeding season, might render the crayfish disagreeably bitter. As soon as their intestines have been removed, the crayfish should be set to cook, otherwise, i.e., if they be left to w^ait, their juices escape through the anal wound, and they empty. For twelve crayfish, after having cleaned and eviscerated them, put them into a vegetable-pan wdth one tablespoonful of very fine mirepoix, completely cooked beforehand, and two- thirds oz. of butter. Toss them over an open fire until the shells have acquired a fine, red colour. Moisten with three tablespoonfuls of burnt brandy and one-quarter pint of white wine; reduce by a third, and complete with one tablespoonful of Espagnole, two tablespoonfuls of fish fumet, the same quan- tity of tomato pur6e, and one spoonful of special mirepoix (No. 229). Put the lid on, and set to cook for ten minutes. Dish the crayfish in a timbale; reduce the sauce by a quarter, and finish it with a few drops of meat glaze, one oz. of butter, a very little cayenne, chopped chervil, and tarragon. Pour this over the crayfish, and serve instantly. 967— ECREVISSES A LA MARINIERE In the case of twelve crayfish, toss them in twro-thirds oz. of butter over an open fire, until the shells are of a fine red. Season with salt and pepper; add two finely chopped shallots, a bit of thyme and a bit of bay; moisten with one-third pint of white wine; cover; cook for ten minutes, and dish in a timbale. Reduce the cooking-liquor to half; thicken with two table- spoonfuls of fish velout4; finish the sauce with one oz. of butter, and pour it over the crayfish.