445 RELEVES AND ENTREES onions and two crushed cloves of garlic, and fry again until the onions have acquired a slight colour. Now pour in one- sixth pint of good tomato pur^e; moisten the meat, enough to cover, with the cooking-liquor of haricot beans, and cook gently in the oven for one and one-half hours at least. (3) Garnish the bottom and sides of some cocottes or deep dishes with bacon rind; fill these with alternate layers of the pieces of mutton, the beans, the bacon cut into dice, and the sausage cut into roundels. Sprinkle the surface with raspings, and set the gratin to form in a moderate oven for one hour; taking care to baste from time to time with some reserved haricot-beans cooking- liquor. >345—CURRIE A L’INDIENNE Cut two lbs. of lean mutton into cubes of one and one-third in. side, and fry these in three oz. of lard, with one chopped onion, salt, and a pinch of powdered curry. When the meat is frizzled and the onions begin to colour, sprinkle with one and one-third oz. of flour; cook the latter a while; moisten with one and one-third pints of water or stock; boil, stirring the while, so as to dissolve the roux, and then cook gently in the oven for one and one-half hours. When about to serve, clear of all grease and dish in a timbale. Send a timbale of rice & 1’indienne separately. 1346—DAUBE A L’AVIGNONNAISE Bone a medium-sized leg of mutton, and cut the meat into squares, three oz. in weight. Lard each square with a large, seasoned strip of bacon, inserted with the grain of the meat. Put the pieces into a daubiere with a sliced half-carrot and onion, three cloves of garlic, a little thyme, bay, and parsley stalks. Moisten with one and one-third pints of good, red wine and four tablespoonfuls of oil, and marinade in the cool for two hours. Prepare:—(1) Three chopped onions mixed with two crushed garlic cloves; (2) one-half lb. of lean bacon, cut into dice and blanched; (3) one-half lb. of fresh, bacon rind, blanched and cut into squares of one in. side; (4) a large bunch of parsley, containing a small piece of dry, orange peel. Gar- nish the bottom and sides of a daubiere with thin slices of bacon; set the pieces of mutton in layers inside, and alternate them with layers of onion, bacon and bacon rind; sprinkle a pinch of powdered thyme and bay on each layer of meat. Put the faggot in the middle.