POULTRY 5 51 border of P^rigueux sauce, and serve a sauceboat of P^rigueux sauce separately. 1734—TIMBALE DE FOIE GRAS MONTESQUIEU Spread a very even layer, one-third inch thick, of chicken forcemeat upon a sheet of buttered paper. Moisten the surface with some white of egg; sprinkle with chopped truffle, and press on the latter by means of the flat of a knife. Set to poach gently; cool, and then stamp out with a round, even cutter, one inch in diameter. With the resulting roundels, garnish the bottom and sides of a Charlotte mould, placing their truffled sides against the mould. Then, with the view of binding these roundels together, as they are to con- stitute the outside of the timbale, coat the whole of the mould inside with some fairly firm chicken forcemeat, combined with a quarter of its bulk of foie-gras puree. Fill the mould with a foie-gras Parfait with truffles cut into very large dice and cohered by means of mousseline chicken forcemeat. Cover the whole with a layer of the same forcemeat as that used for the purpose of binding the roundels, and set to poach under cover. Turn out, following the same precautions as above; sur- round the timbale with a border of nice, pink, Hungarian sauce with paprika, and send a sauceboat of this sauce to the table at the same time. Foie Gras Froid 1735—ASPIC DE FOIE GRAS Clothe an even or ornamented mould (fitted with a central tube) with aspic, and decorate it with poached white of egg and truffle. Fill it with rows of well-trimmed foie-gras rectangles, or shells raised by means of a spoon dipped in hot water, separating each row with a coat of aspic. Except for its principal ingredient, which may vary, the preparation of aspic is always the same as that described under “ Aspic de Homard ” (No. 954). For the turning out and dishing, proceed in exactly the same way. 1736—FOIE gras gastronome Take a plain foie-gras Parfait, i.e., one without a crust; trim it neatly to the shape of an egg, and completely cover it with a chaud-froid sauce with paprika. Decorate it according to fancy, and glaze it with cold melted jelly. Cut out a crust, proportionate in size to the egg, and shape