GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 646 cool it, press out all its contained water, and, according to cir- cumstances, either chop it up or rub it through a sieve. If it has to be served with the leaves left whole, merely drain it on a sieve, without either pressing or cooling it. 2133— EPINARDS A L’ANGLAISE Cook it after having carefully shredded it; drain it well, and dish in a timbale without cooling. 2134— EPINARDS A LA CREME Having chopped up or rubbed the spinach through a sieve, put it into a saut^pan with two oz. of butter per lb., and dry it over a fierce fire. Now add the quarter of its bulk of cream sauce to it, and simmer gently for ten minutes. Dish in a timbale when about to serve, and sprinkle the surface with fresh cream. 2135— EPINARDS AU GRATIN' Dry the spinach as above in three oz. of butter per lb., and then, in the same proportion, add two and one-half oz. of grated cheese. Set on a buttered gratin-dish; sprinkle copiously with grated cheese and melted butter, and set the gratin to form in a fierce oven. 2136— EPINARDS A LA VIROFLAY Spread some large leaves of blanched spinach on a napkin, and in the middle of each lay a subric, the substance of which should have been combined with very small croutons of bread- crumb fried in butter. Wrap the subrics in the spinach leaves; cover with Mornay sauce; sprinkle with grated cheese and melted butter, and set to glaze in a fierce oven. 2137— SUBRICS D’EPINARDS Dry the spinach in butter as described above, and add to it per lb. of spinach (away from the fire) one-sixth pint of very reduced Bechamel sauce; two tablespoonfuls of thick cream; one egg and the yolks of three, well beaten; salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Make a sufficient quantity of clarified butter very hot in an omelet-pan. Take up some of the preparation of spinach by means of a spoon, and let the contents of the latter drop (propelled by the finger) into the butter. Proceed thus in the making of the subrics, and take care that they do not touch. »When a minute