RELEVES AND ENTREES 357 1056—FILET DE BCEUF JAPONAISE Lard the fillet and poele it. Glaze it just before dishing; set it on a long dish, and sur- round it with a garnish consisting of (1) small croustades cooked in grooved brioche-moulds and garnished with Japanese artichokes cohered by means of velout6; (2) potato croquettes moulded to the shape of eggs and fried just before dishing up. Arrange the croustades and the croquettes alternately. Send the gravy of the fillet, strained and cleared of all grease, to the table separately. 1057—FILET DE BCEUF JARDINIERE Lard the fillet and roast it. Set it on a long dish and surround it with the following garnishes, which should be arranged in distinct heaps in such wise as to alternate their colours:—Carrots and turnips, raised by means of a grooved spoon-cutter and cooked separately in consomm£; peas, French beans in lozenge-form and small flageolets, each of which vegetables should be cooked in a manner in keeping with its nature, and separately cohered with butter; portions of freshly-cooked cauliflower, kept very white and of tight growth. Send some Hollandaise sauce for the cauliflower, and some clear gravy, to the table, separately. 1058—FILET DE BCEUF LORETTE Lard the fillet and poele it. Glaze it at the last moment; set it on a long dish, and sur- round it with a garnish as follows:—(1) A small pyramid of Lorette potatoes (No. 2226) at either end of the fillet; (2) fine heaps of asparagus-heads, cohered with butter, on either side. Send some tomated half-glaze separately. 1059— FILET DE BCEUF MACEDOINE Prepare the fillet as directed under “ Filet de Boeuf Jardiniere.” Set it on a long dish and surround it with a Macedoine garnish. The latter comprises the same ingredients as the “ Jardiniere ”; but, instead of their being heaped separately, they are mixed together and cohered by means of butter. 1060— FILET DE BCEUF AU MADeRE ET AUX CHAMPIGNONS Lard and Poele the fillet. Glaze it; dish it as before, and surround it with fine mush- room-heads, turned and grooved.