228 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY Set to cook gently, rub through tammy, rectify the con- sistence of the pur£e with a little boiled milk, despumate, and add butter when dishing up. Garnish with two tablespoonfuls of cooked French beans cut into narrow lozenges. This soup may also be prepared as a velout6 or a cream. 639— PUREE DE HARICOTS ROUGES, otherwise CONDE Put a heaped pint of red beans into cold water, set to boil slowly, skim, add three oz. of carrots, one small faggot, one onion stuck with a clove, and a bottleful of boiling red wine. Set to cook gently. Drain the beans and crush them in a mortar. Moisten the pur£e with a few tablespoonfuls of the cooking-liquor of the beans, rub through tammy, rectify the consistence of the pur£e with some white consomm6, follow the procedure of all purges, and add butter when about to serve. Garnish with bread dice fried in butter. 640— PUREE DE LENTILLES, otherwise CONTI Soak three-quarters of a pint of lentils in lukewarm water for two hours. Put them in a stewpan with two oz. of very lean breast of bacon, blanched, cooled, and cut into dice, and one quart of white consomm£. Set to boil, skim, add three oz. of carrots, one onion, and one faggot, and cook very gently. Drain the lentils, pound them together with the bacon, moisten the pur£e with a few tablespoonfuls of cooking-liquor, and rub through tammy. Rectify the consistence with some reserved cooking-liquor, then treat the pur£e in the usual way and add butter when about to serve. Garnish with two tablespoonfuls of bread dice fried in butter and a pinch of chervil pinches. N.B.—It should be borne in mind that the aromatic garnish used in cooking dry vegetables of what kind soever should be withdrawn before pounding the latter, that they may be rubbed through tammy. —PUREE DE NAVETS, otherwise FRENEUSE Finely mince one lb. of very firm turnips, parboil, drain, and stew them in one and one-half oz. of butter, the necessary salt, and one-half oz. of sugar, until they are almost completely co<Aed. Moisten with one-half pint of white consommd, and