176 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 448— EGGS EN COCOTTE A LA SOUBISE Garnish the bottom and sides of the cocottes with a coating of thick Soubise pur6e. Break the eggs, season, and poach. When dishing up, surround the yolks with a thread of melted meat-glaze. 449— MOULDED EGGS These form a very ornamental dish, but the time required to prepare them being comparatively long, poached, soft-boiled, and other kinds of eggs are generally preferred in their stead. They are made in variously shaped moulds, ornamented accord- ing to the nature of the preparation, and the eggs are broken into them direct, or they may be inserted in the form of scrambled eggs, together with raw eggs poached in a bain- marie. Whatever be the mode of preparation, the moulds should always be liberally buttered. The usual time allowed for the poaching of the eggs in moulds is from ten to twelve minutes, but when withdrawn from the bain-marie it is well to let the moulds stand awhile with the view of promoting a settling of their contents, which action facilitates the ultimate turning out of the latter. Empty the moulds on small pieces of toast or tartlets, and arrange these in a circle round the dish. 450— MOULDED EGGS A LA CARIGNAN Butter some Madeleine-moulds, shaped like elongated shells, and garnish them with a thin coating of chicken-stuffing or crayfish butter. Break the eggs in the middle of the forcemeat; season, place carefully in a bain-marie, and poach, with cover on, in the oven, leaving a small opening for the escape of the generated vapour. Empty the moulds on toast cut to the same shape as the moulds and fried in butter; arrange them on the dish, and coat with a Chateaubriand sauce. 451— MOULDED EGGS A LA DUCHESSE Butter some baba-moulds; garnish the bottom of each with a large slice of truffle; break an egg into each, and poach in the bain-marie. Turn out the moulds on to little fluted gaieties made from Duchesse potatoes and coloured in the oven after having been gilded. Dish up in the form of a crown, and coat with a thickened veal gravy.