662 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY Gruy6re; add a few pieces of butter, and cook in a moderate oven for from forty to forty-five minutes. 3223—POMMES DE TERRE A LA HONGROISE Fry four oz. of chopped onion in butter, together with a coffeespoonful of paprika. Add two peeled, pressed, and sliced tomatoes; two lbs. of potatoes, cut into somewhat thick roundels, and moisten, just enough to cover, with consomm6. Cook, while almost entirely reducing the moistening, and sprinkle with chopped parsley at the last moment. 2224— POMMES DE TERRE GRATINEES This preparation may be made in two ways as follows : — (1) Make a smooth potato purde ; this done, put it into a deep, buttered gratin-d\sh ; smooth its surface; sprinkle the latter with grated cheese mixed with fine raspings; bedew with melted butter, and set the gratin to form in a fierce oven. (2) Bake some fine, well-washed, Dutch potatoes in the oven. As soon as they are cooked, open them lengthwise; withdraw their pulp; rub the latter through a sieve while it is still quite hot, and finish it after the manner of an ordinary pur£e. Fill the half-shells with pur£e; sprinkle the latter with grated cheese and raspings; lay the half-shells on a tray, and set the gratin to form as above. On taking the potatoes out of the oven, dish them on a napkin, and serve them immediately. 2225— POMMES DE TERRE AU LARD Frizzle in butter one-half lb. of breast of salted pork, cut into dice and blanched, and twelve small onions. Drain the bacon and the onions; mix one oz. of flour with the butter; brown for a few minutes, and moisten with one and one-quarter pints of consomm6. Season with a pinch of pepper, and add two lbs. of medium-sized, quartered and well-trimmed potatoes, the bacon and the onions, and a faggot. Cover and cook gently. Dish in a timbale, and sprinkle moderately with chopped parsley. 2226— POMMES DE TERRE LORETTE Add some grated cheese to the preparation for “ Pommes Dauphine,” in the proportion of one oz. of the former per lb. of the latter. Divide up this mixture into one and one-half oz. portions; mould these to the shape of crescents, and dredge them mode- rately.