768 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 2654— QELEES RUBANNEES These are differently-flavoured and differently-coloured jellies moulded in alternate layers, even and equally thick. They are generally served without garnish. 2655— JELLIES A LA RUSSE These are ordinary jellies which are whisked over ice until they begin to set. They are then speedily moulded. By skilfully mixing two or three of these jellies, of different shades and flavours, at the moment of moulding, very effective “ Marbled Jellies ” are obtained. 2656— JELLIES A LA MOSCOVITE These are ordinary jellies, poured into tightly-closing moulds, the sealing of which is ensured by a thread of butter, laid round the edges of the lids. The moulds are then surrounded with broken ice, mixed with five lb. of freezing salt and eight oz. of saltpetre per twenty-five lb. of ice. The cold produced by the salted ice causes a frosted coat to form round the jelly, the effect of which is exceedingly pretty. But the moulds should be withdrawn from the ice as soon as the frosted coat is formed and the jelly is set; for a longer sojourn in the cold would transform the jelly into an uneatable block of ice. N.B.—Modern methods have greatly simplified the dishing and serving of jellies. They are now dished in special silver bowls or deep dishes, and they are not, as a rule, moulded. The bottom of these utensils is sometimes decked with stewed fruit or macedoines of fruit which are covered with the jelly; and, as the latter is served in the utensil itself, the quantity of gelatine may be reduced, and greater delicacy is the result. 2657— PAINS DE FRUITS These “ pains ” are made in ordinary Charlotte moulds. Clothe the mould with a fairly thick coat of jelly, in keeping with the flavour of the fruit used, which may be apricots, straw- berries, red-currants, cherries, peaches, etc. Fill up the mould with a preparation, made as for a fruit Bavarois, but without cream. The amount of gelatine used should therefore be reduced. 2658— COLD PUDDINGS Cold puddings have a great deal in common with Bavarois and, more often than not, these two kinds of sweets have the same base. Their distinguishing difference lies in the fact that Bavarois are generally served without a garnish or sauce, whereas puddings always have either one or the other, and sometimes both.