GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 652 back so as to represent stalks, and the ears are bared if they be served whole. This done, set the ears on a napkin, and send a hors-d’oeuvre dish of fresh butter to the table with them. If the maize has to be grilled, put the ears on a grill in the oven, and, when they have swollen and are of a golden colour, withdraw the grains and set the latter on a napkin. Sometimes, too, the ears are served whole. When maize is served as an accompaniment, the grains are separated from the stalk and cohered with butter or cream, exactly like peas. Failing fresh maize, excellent preserved kinds are to be found on the market. 2170— SOUFFLE DE MAIS A LA CRFME Cook the maize in water or steam; rub it quickly through tammy; put it into a saucepan with a small piece of butter, and quickly dry it. This done, add sufficient fresh cream to this pur^e to make a somewhat soft paste. Thicken this paste with the yolks of three eggs, per lb. of pur^e, and combine it with the whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Mould and cook after the manner of an ordinary souffle. 2171— SOUFFLE DE MAIS AU PAPRIKA Before rubbing the maize through a sieve, add to it two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion fried in butter, and a large pinch of paprika per lb. of maize. Proceed for the rest of the operation as in the case of No. 2170. N.B.—These two souffles are served as a garnish and may be cooked either in a timbale or in small cassolettes. They constitute excellent adjuncts to large, poached fowls. 2172— CHESTNUTS (Marrons) Slightly split open the shell on the convex sides of the nuts, and put them in the oven for from seven to eight minutes, on a tray containing a little water, that they may be shelled with ease. Or, split them open in the same way; put them in small quantities at a time in a frying-basket, and plunge them into very hot fat. Peel them while they are still quite hot. 2173— STEWED CHESTNUTS As soon as they are peeled, cook them in enough consomm£ to just cover them, and add half a stick of celery per lb. of chestnuts.