475 POULTRY In the first place, it is my practice to remove the fowl’s two supremes, in the kitchen, and to keep them warm in a little cooking-liquor until the last minute. Secondly, I remove all the bones of the breast, and I reconstruct the fowl with a garnish in keeping with the dish, i.e., either a mousseline force- meat, pilaff rice combined with cream, foie gras and truffles, spaghetti, or noodles with cream. Having properly smoothed and arranged the selected gar- nish, the fowl may now be placed, either at one end of any but a round dish, or on a low cushion of fried bread, on which it may be set firmly. It may also be entirely coated with Mornay sauce, sprinkled with grated cheese, and speedily glazed. When the body of the bird is dished, its garnish should be set round it in fine, tartlet crusts; its supremes, quickly sliced, should be distributed among the tartlets, and the dish sent to the table with the sauce separately. By this means, it reaches the table hot, it is served quickly and cleanly; and every person gets a slice of meat, and not garnish only, as was so often the case formerly. Instead of tartlets, one may use thin croutons of bread, of the size of the slices of chicken, and fried in fresh butter. Thus, for a “ Poularde k la Derby,” after having stuffed the pullet with rice, suppressed the bones of the breast, and removed the supremes; all that is necessary is to properly shape the rice, and to dish the fowl on a cushion. This done, prepare as many croutons and slices of foie- gras, sautdd in butter, as there are diners, and arrange them round the pullet—the slices of foie-gras lying on the croutons. Now, quickly cut the supremes into slices; put one of these on each slice of foie-gras, and on each of the latter put a slice of truffle. Put the pullet, thus prepared, in the oven for a few minutes; let it get very hot, and send it to the table with the sauce separately. In the dining-room the Maitre-d’hotel quickly serves the garnished croutons on hot plates, beside each crouton he puts a tablespoonful of the rice with which the pullet has been stuffed, and, finally, a tablespoonful of sauce. In less than two minutes after its entrance into the dining- room, the pullet is thus served w^arm to each person. Of course, the above measures refer to the fowl that has to be dished whole and presented; but, when this is not required, the rice withdrawn from the cooked bird need only be set in the centre of. a deep, square entree dish (fitted with a cover),