219 SOUPS Make twenty small quenelles from chicken forcemeat, finished by means of crayfish butter, and mould them to the shape of small, grooved meringues. Poach these quenelles. Cut twelve roundels, the size of a penny, from a piece of beef- marrow, and poach them in the consomm£. Put the drained quenelles and the poached roundels of marrow into the soup-tureen ; add one tablespoonful of a julienne of very black truffles, and the same quantity of asparagus-heads. Pour the boiling consomm6, with tapioca, over this garnish. 612—CONSOMME SEVIGNE Keep one quart of very clear chicken consomm^ very warm. Prepare ten quenelles of chicken forcemeat, moulded by means of a small coffee-spoon, and poach them; also have ready four braised lettuces. Put the quenelles, the lettuce cut into small sections and properly trimmed, and one tablespoonful of peas into the soup- tureen ; pour therein the boiling consomm^ and a pinch of chervil pluches. 613—consomm£ souveraine Have ready one quart of chicken consomm^. Make ten large quenelles from chicken forcemeat, and stuff them with a very fine brunoise, proceeding as follows:—Line a dessertspoon with a thin coat of forcemeat, and garnish the centre with the brunoise, previously cooked in consomm4, and cold. Cover the brunoise with a layer of forcemeat, shaping it like a dome; insert another dessertspoon dipped into hot water under the quenelle, and transfer the latter to a buttered saut^pan. Repeat the operation until the required number of quenelles have been moulded. Allow eight minutes for the poaching of these quenelles; put them into the soup-tureen with two tablespoonfuls of peas; pour thereon the boiling consomm£, and add a pinch of chervil pluches. 614—TURTLE SOUP With the exception of a few leading London restaurants, where a large quantity of this preparation is constantly in demand, turtle soup is very rarely prepared in the kitchens of catering establishments. It is more generally obtained ready- made, either fresh or preserved, and as a rule of exceptional quality, from firms whose speciality it is to make it, and who deliver it in excellent condition. From among the London firms who have deservedly earned