GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 728 2470— SURPRISE OMELET MILADY: also called MILADY PEACH This is a surprise omelet, garnished with very firm rasp- berry ice, in which are incrusted a circle of fine peaches, poached in vanilla. The whole is then covered with Italian meringue, flavoured with Maraschino, and laid in suchwise that those portions of the peaches which project from the glaze remain bare. Decorate the surface of the omelet with the same meringue; sprinkle it with icing sugar, and set it to a glaze quickly. 2471— SURPRISE OMELET “A LA NAPOLITAINE ” otherwise “ BOMBE VESUVE ” Garnish the cushion of G^noise with coats of vanilla and strawberry ice, alternated with layers of broken candied-chest- nut. Cover the whole with Italian meringue prepared with Kirsch, which keep flat and somewhat thick towards the centre. On top, set a barquette of a size in proportion to the omelet, made by means of the piping-bag with ordinary meringue and baked in the oven without colouration. Decorate with Italian meringue, covering the barquette in so doing, and quickly brown the omelet in the oven. When about to serve, garnish the omelet with Jubilee cherries (No. 2566), which set alight at the last moment. 2472— SURPRISE OMELET ELIZABETH Garnish the cushion of Ginoise with vanilla ice and crystal- lised-violets. Cover it with meringue; decorate its surface with crystallised- violets, and treat the omelet as in No. 2466. When about to serve it, cover the omelet with a veil of spun sugar. 2473— SURPRISE OMELET “ A L’ISLANDAISE ” Make the cushion of Genoise round instead of oval; set it on a round dish, and garnish it with some sort of ice, which should be shaped like a truncated cone. Cover with meringue; set a small case on the top, made from meringue, as explained under No. 2471, but round instead of oval; conceal all but its inside with meringue, decorating the omelet in so doing, and set to browm quickly. When about to serve, pour a glassful of heated rum into the meringue case and set it alight. 2474— SYLPHS’ OMELET Dip a freshly-cooked savarin into a syrup of maraschino, and stick it on a base of dry paste exactly equal in size.