GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 292 863—SOLE PARISIENNE Poach the sole in white wine, the cooking-liquor of mush- rooms, and some butter. Drain it thoroughly, dish it, and coat it with white wine sauce combined with the reduced cook- ing-liquor of the sole. Garnish with a row of six slices of truffle and six fine roundels of cooked mushrooms kept very white, and finish with four medium-sized trussed crayfish. 864—SOLE NANTUA Poach the sole in one-sixth pint of fish fumct and a few tablespoonfuls of the cooking-liquor of mushrooms. Drain and dish the sole, surround it with twelve shelled crayfishes’ tails, and coat it with Nantua sauce. Lay a row of very black truffle slices along the middle of the fish. FILLETS OF SOLE Subject to the kind of dish required, fillets of sole are either kept in their natural state, they are stuffed and folded over, or they are simply folded over without being stuffed, each of which methods of preparation will be specially referred to in the recipes. Whatever be the method adopted, always skin the fillets thoroughly; i.e., remove the thin membrane which lies beneath the skin, the tendency of which, during the cooking process, is to shrink and thereby disfigure the fillet. This done, flatten out the fillets with the broad side of a wet knife, and trim them slightly if necessary. The poaching of fillets of sole must be effected without allowing the cooking- liquor to boil, the object being to prevent the pieces losing their shape. Fillets should also be kept very white. In cases where the exact amount of the poaching-liquor is not given, allow one-quarter pint to every four fillets, i.e., to every sole. 865— FILETS DE SOLES AMERICAINE Arrange the folded fillets in a deep, buttered dish, and poach them in fish fumet. Drain, and dish them in the form of an oval, letting them overlap one another with their tail-ends hidden. Garnish the centre of the dish with slices of lobster prepared & l’am^ricaine (No. 939), and coat the whole with the lobster’s sauce. , 866— FILETS DE SOLES ANGLAISE Treat the fillets a Vanglaise with fresh and fine bread-crumbs. Fat the bread-crumbs over the egg with the flat of a knife, that