FISH 283 823—SOLE A LA DAUMONT Bone the sole; i.e., sever the spine near the tail and the head; remove it, and leave those portions of the fillets which lie on the remaining extremities of it intact. Garnish the inside with whiting forcemeat finished with crayfish butter, and re- arrange the fillets in such wise as to give a natural and un- touched appearance to the fish. Poach it on a buttered dish with one-sixth pint of white wine, the same quantity of the cooking-liquor of mushrooms, and one oz. of butter cut into small lumps. Drain and dish the sole, and cover it with Nantua sauce. Place around it four mushrooms stewed in butter and garnished with crayfish tails in Nantua sauce; four small, round quenelles of whiting forcemeat with cream, decked with truffles; and four slices of milt treated a Vanglaise and fried at the last moment. 824—SOLE DOREE As I explained under “ Fish h la Meuni&re ” (No. 778), “ Sole Dor£e ” is a sole fried in clarified butter, dished dry, and garnished with slices of carefully peeled lemon. 825—SOLE DUGLERE All fish treated after this recipe, with the exception of soles, should be divided up. Put the sole in a buttered dish with one and one-half oz. of chopped onion, one-half lb. of peeled and concassed tomatoes, a little roughly-chopped parsley, a pinch of table salt, a very little pepper, and one-eighth pint of white wine. Set to poach gently, and then dish the sole. Reduce the cooking-liquor; thicken it with two tablespoon- fuls of fish velout£; complete with one oz. of butter and a few drops of lemon juice, and cover the fish with this sauce. 826—SOLE GRILL^E Season the sole; sprinkle oil thereon, and grill the fish very gently. Send it, garnished with slices of lemon, on a very hot dish. 827—SOLE GRILLEE, AUX HU5TRES A L’AMERICAINE This sole may be either grilled or poached, almost dry, in butter and lemon juice. With the procedure remaining the same, it may also be prepared in fillets. Whatever be the mode of procedure, serve it on a very hot dish, and surround