SAVOURIES 679 2301—BEURRECKS A LA TURQUE Reduce the required amount of Bechamel sauce to a thick consistence; mix it with an equal quantity of Gruy£re dice; season with cayenne, and spread the preparation on a dish to cool. Then divide it up into portions the size of fine walnuts; shape these like cigars, wrap each portion in a very thin layer of noodle paste; treat them a I’anglaise, and fry them at the last moment in very hot fat. 2302—CHOUX AU FROM AGE By means of a piping-bag, form some “choux,” a little larger than the Saint-Honor6 ones, from ordinary paste (see No. 2375). Gild them with beaten eggs; bake them in a moderate oven, and keep them dry. When cold, cut them at the top; garnish them with “ Fondue au fromage ” seasoned with cayenne, and complete with some Chantilly cream, com- bined with grated Parmesan; this should be laid on by means of a piping-bag, as in the case of “ choux k la cr&me.” 2303—CAMEMBERT FRIT Clear the cheese of its crust, and cut it into elongated lozenges. Sprinkle the latter with cayenne, treat them twice a I’anglaise, and fry them at the last moment in hot fat. 2304—CANAPES OR TOAST These are nothing more than pieces of toast, i.e., slices of bread, trimmed according to fancy, grilled, buttered, and garnished in some way. As the garnishes for toast are innumerable, I shall quote only a few typical examples. Canapes Garnished with Scrambled Eggs.—Set the scrambled eggs in domes upon the Canapes; sprinkle with grated Parmesan, and set to glaze quickly. Or arrange the scrambled eggs as above, and cover them with a lattice of anchovy fillets. Canapes de Haddock.—Cook the haddock; rub it through a sieve; add a little butter and Bechamel sauce to the resulting pur6e, and set the latter in domes on the toast. For Variety.—Sprinkle the pur£e with grated Parmesan, and set to glaze. Or garnish the pur£e with oysters poached in a little Worcestershire sauce. Or again: cover the pur^e with a lattice of anchovy fillets. Canapes with Kippers or Bloaters.—Grill them and make a pur£e from them like the haddock.