RELEVES AND ENTREES 443 Swill the saucepan with white wine and almost entirely reduce; add one-third of a pint of Chausseur sauce for each six kidneys; put the kidneys in this sauce, toss them for an instant; dish them in a timbale, and sprinkle with a pinch of chopped parsley. •336—ROGNONS SAUTES A L’INDIENNE For six mutton kidneys : fry a chopped onion in butter and add a large pinch of curry thereto. Moisten with one-sixth pint of velout6; cook for a few minutes, and rub through tammy. Clear the kidneys of their outer skin; slice and season them, and fry them quickly in butter. Put them into the sauce; dish them in a timbalej and serve some rice “ k l’lndienne ” sepa- rately. •337—R0QN0N5 SAUTES TURBIGO Clear the mutton kidneys of their outer skin and cut them in halves; season them; fry them quickly in butter, and dish them in a circle in a timbale. In their midst set a garnish of small, cooked mushrooms, and grilled chipolata sausages; and pour thereon a highly-seasoned, tomat^d half-glaze sauce. 1338—CROUTE AUX ROGNONS Cut some crusts two and one-half in. in diameter and one and one-third in. thick, from a tin-loaf, and allow one for each person. Remove the crumb from their inside, leaving only a slight thickness at the bottom; butter them, and dry them in the oven. Garnish these crusts with mutton kidneys sauted with mush- rooms, and combined with small, ordinary forcemeat quenelles, and slices of truffle. Dish on a napkin, and serve very hot. •339—TURBAN DE ROGNONS A LA PIEMONTAISE Garnish a border or a Savarin-mould with “ rizotto k la Pi£montaise,” press the latter lightly into the utensil, and keep the mould hot. Clear the mutton kidneys of their outer skin; cut them into halves; season them, and fry them quickly in butter. Turn out on a round dish, set the half-kidneys in a circle on the “ Turban,” alternating them with fine slices of truffle, and pour a tomat^d half-glaze sauce, flavoured with truffle essence, in the middle. 1340—ROGNONS A LA BROCHETTE Cut the mutton kidneys into halves, as explained, without dividing them; impale them two or four at' a time, on a skewer;