GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 478 Dish the pullet; surround it with the braised celery, and cover the latter with the poeling-Uquor. 1454— POULARDE AUX CHAMPIGNONS A BRUN Poele the pullet, and swill the saucepan with mushroom essence. Add this swilling-liquor (reduced) to one-quarter pint of half-glaze with Madeira. Dish the pullet, and surround it with twenty grooved and cooked mushroom-heads. Serve separately the reduced half- glaze, to which add two oz. of fresh butter. 1455— POULARDE AUX CHAMPIGNONS A BLANC Poach the pullet. Dish it, and coat it with an Allemande sauce flavoured with mushroom essence. Surround it with twenty grooved, cooked and very white mushroom-heads. 1456— POULARDE CHANOINESSE Prepare a “ Poularde Souffle ” after recipe No. 1518. Dish it, and surround it with small heaps of crayfishes’ tails, alter- nated with small croutons of fried bread, on each of which place a collop of the supremes. Finish off with a slice of truffle on each collop of the supremes. Serve a Mornay sauce, finished with crayfish butter, separ- ately. 1457— POULARDE CHATELAINE Poele the pullet without letting it acquire too much colour. Dish it, and surround it with small artichoke-bottoms, stewed in butter and garnished with Soubise. Alternate the artichoke-bottoms with small heaps of chestnuts cooked in consommd and glazed. Pour a little thickened poeling-liquor on the bottom of the dish, and serve what remains of it, separately, in a sauceboat. 1458— POULARDE CHEVALIERE Remove the supremes, and the minion fillets. Lard the former with two rows of truffles and two rows of tongue; trim the minion fillets; make five or six slits in each; insert a thin slice of truffle half-way into each slit, and draw the respective ends of the two fillets together in suchwise as to form two rings. Put the supremes and the minion fillets each into a buttered saut6pan, and cover the latter. Remove the pullet’s legs, keeping the skin as long as pos- sible; bone them to within one and one-third inches of the