2l6 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 601— CONSOMME PRINTANIER Have ready one quart of chicken consomm£, also cut one carrot and one turnip into roundels one-half inch thick. With a tubular cutter one-eighth inch in diameter, cut these roundels into little rods, making a sufficient number to fill one table- spoonful with each vegetable. Cook these little rods in con- somme, and reduce the latter to a glaze. Put the carrot and turnip rods into the soup-tureen with one tablespoonful of small peas, the same quantity of small French beans and asparagus-heads, the former cut into lozenges, ten roundels of sorrel leaves, and as many of lettuce leaves, the latter being poached in some consomm6. When about to serve pour the boiling consomm6 over these garnishes and add a large pinch of small chervil pinches. 602— CONSOMME PRINTANIER AUX QUENELLES Prepare the printanier exactly as directed above, but slightly lessen the quantities of the vegetables constituting the garnish. Make eighteen small quenelles of chicken forcemeat in the shape of little grooved meringues, and poach them ten minutes before dishing up. Drain them, put them into the soup-tureen with the other garnishes, and pour thereon the boiling consomm^. 603— CONSOMME AUX PROFITEROLLES Prepare forty very dry profiterolles (No. 218), and add an excellent chicken consomm£ to them at the last moment. The profiterolles may also be made to the size of walnuts, in which case they may be stuffed with a pur£e of chicken, foie gras, &c. 604— CONSOMME RACHEL Prepare one quart of chicken consomm£, and thicken it with three tablespoonfuls of poached tapioca strained through linen. With a round, even cutter stamp out twelve roundels of crumb of bread the size of pennies and one-half inch thick. Poach in consomm£ as many slices of very fresh beef-marrow as there are roundels of bread. Six minutes before serving fry the roundels of bread in clari- fied butter, hollow out their centres, and place on each a slice of poached beef-marrow suitably trimmed. Put three tablespoonfuls of a julienne of cooked artichoke bottoms into the soup-tureen, pour thereon the thickened con- somme, and add the roundels of bread garnished with marrow.