FISH 3*3 Allow thirty minutes for the cooking. By reducing the moistening-liquor, which has perforce absorbed some of the gelatinous properties of the fish, the leason forms of itself. 928—TURBOTIN BONNE FEMME For a chicken-turbot weighing from two to two and one-half lbs. sprinkle on the bottom of a buttered tray one dessertspoon- ful of chopped shallots, one pinch of concassed parsley, and three oz. of minced mushrooms. Cut the chicken-turbot in the back, and partly separate the fillets from the bone; lay it on the tray, and moisten with one- third pint of white wine and one-third pint of fish fumet. Cook gently in the oven, and baste frequently the while. When the chicken-turbot is cooked, dish it and keep it hot. Pour the cooking-liquor into a saut^pan; reduce it to half, and add three tablespoonfuls of fish velout6 and three oz. of butter. Cover the fish with this sauce and the garnish, and glaze quickly. 929—TURBOTIN COMMODORE Poach the chicken-turbot in salted water. Prepare the following garnish per one person :—Three pota- toe balls cut to the size of hazel-nuts and cooked a I’anglaise; one medium-sized, trussed crayfish; one quenelle of fish; one small lobster croquette; and one oyster prepared k la Villeroy. All these products should be treated according to their nature, and just in time to be ready for the dishing up. A few moments before serving, drain the turbot; dish it, and sur- round it with the garnish detailed above, arranged in alternate heaps. Serve a Normande sauce, finished with anchovy butter, separately. 930— TURBOTIN DAUMONT Proceed exactly as directed under “ Sole Daumont ” (No. 823), taking into account the size of the fish, and increasing the sauce and the garnishing ingredients accordingly. 931— TURBOTIN FERMIERE Sprinkle on the bottom of a buttered tray two minced shallots, a few roundels of carrot and onion, some parsley stalks, thyme, and bay. Lay the chicken-turbot on these aromatics, and season moderately. For a fish weighing two lbs. moisten with two- thirds pint of excellent red wine; add one-half oz. of butter, cut into small pieces, and poach gently, taking care to baste fre- quently.