74 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 2728— MELON A L’ORIENTALE Take a melon that is just ripe; make a circular incision round its stalk, and remove the resulting bung, Get rid of the seeds and withdraw the pulp by means of a silver spoon. Cut the pulp into dice. Copiously sprinkle the inside of the melon with icing-sugar and fill it up with wild strawberries and the pulp dice, spread in alternate layers, sprinkled with sugar. Complete with one-sixth pint of Kirsch ; close the melon with the excised bung, seal the joint with a thread of butter, and keep the melon in the cool for two hours. Dish it on a napkin, and serve gaufrettes at the same time. 2729— MELON FRAPPE Select two very ripe, medium-sized melons, and, with the entire pulp of one of them, cleared of all the rind and seeds and rubbed through tammy, prepare a Granite after No. 2930. Cut the other melon round the stalk and open it. Completely remove the seeds ; and, by means of a silver spoon, withdraw the pulp piecemeal, and set it to macerate on ice with a little sugar and one of the following wines or liqueurs : Port, Curagoa, Rum, Kirsch or Maraschino. Keep the emptied rind for thirty minutes in a refrigerator. When about to serve, set the emptied melon on a small block of fancifully carved ice, and fill it up with the Granitd and the macerated pulp spread in alternate layers. When the melon is full, return the excised bung to its place. N.B.—This melon is served, by means of a spoon, upon iced plates, and it often takes the place of ices at the end of a dinner. 2730— MELON EN SURPRISE Empty the melon as above, and fill it with a macedoine of fresh fruits, combined with the withdrawn pulp of the melon, cut into dice and cohered with a sugared and Kirsch-flavoured purde of wild strawberries. Close the melon and keep it in the refrigerator for two hours. 2731— GARNISHED MERINGUES Join the meringue shells together in couples, by means of some stiff sugared and flavoured Chantilly cream or with some sort of ice, and dish them on a napkin. 2732— MONT-BLANC AUX FRAISES Add some small wild strawberries macerated in cold, vanilla- flavoured syrup and drained, to some very stiff Chantilly cream ; the proportions being *four oz. of the former per quart of the latter.