GAME 599 Cold Quails 1901—CHAUD-FROID DE CAILLES EN BELLE-VUE The quails should be boned for a chaud-froid, and stuffed with gratin forcemeat of game with a rod of foie gras and another of truffle set in the middle. This done, reshape them; wrap them each in a square of muslin; poach them for twenty minutes in an excellent veal stock, and let them cool therein. When they are quite cold, dry them; and dip them, so as to veneer them all over, in a good brown chaud-froid sauce (No. 34), prepared with quail fumet. Decorate the breast of each quail elegantly with bits of truffle and poached white of egg; sprinkle with cold melted savoury jelly, so as to fix the decora- tion ; and leave to set. Remove the excess of sauce from around the quails; set them in a square, deep dish; cover them with very good limpid savoury jelly, and place them in a refrigerator until they are required. 1902—CAILLES EN CAISSES Prepare the quails as for a chaud-froid, as above; but set each in an oval, pleated case of delicate porcelain or paper. Border with a thin thread of chopped jelly, and on each quail set a head, the eyes of which may be imitated by means of a ring of white of egg and a central spot of truffle. 1903—CAILLES GLACEES AU GRANITE I shall only give a few recipes of this class; for the series is a long one, and I recommend them more particularly on account of their quaintness. These dishes, wherein a sugary and glazed preparation is introduced, are highly esteemed in summer; but they really belong to the culinary repertory of hot countries. 1904—CAILLES GLACfiES CERISETTE. Prepare the quails as for an entree and poach them for 12 minutes in a strong veal stock, with Champagne. This done, put them each into a small, oval mould ; fill up these moulds with cooking-liquor, cleared of all grease and strained, and leave them to set on ice. This preliminary procedure applies to all quail dishes in this series. Now prepare a Granitd with cherry juice (see No. 2930). Set this Granit6 in a pyramid on a dish incrusted in ice. Turn out the quails and place them round the Granite; fill up the gaps between them with small heaps of stoned cherries, poached in syrup for a few minutes and quite cold.