FISH 309 When about to serve, turn out the mould upon a little, low cushion of rice, lying on a dish, and set an Italian salad in the centre. Serve a Mayonnaise sauce with this dish. 918—FILETS DE SOLES CALYPSO Flatten the fillets, and roll them into paupiettes around little rods of wood two-thirds inch thick. Lay the paupiettes in a buttered saut^pan, with their joined sides undermost, and poach them in very clear fish jumet and lemon juice, taking care to keep them very white. Let them cool, and remove the pieces of wood, whereupon they will have the appearance of rings. Take as many small tomatoes as there are paupiettes; cut them in two at a point two-thirds of their height below their stem-end; empty, and peel them. Set a paupiette, upright, in each tomato; fill the centre with crayfish mousse combined with crayfishes’ tails in dice; lay a round piece of milt (stamped out with a cutter, poached, and cold) on each, and, finally, the shelled tail of a crayfish on each roundel of milt. Arrange the tomatoes in a circle round a dish; surround them with little triangles of white fish jelly, and garnish the centre of the dish with the same fish jelly, chopped. 919—FILETS DE SOLES CHARLOTTE Fold the fillets; poach them in fish fumet, and let them cool. Trim them; coat them with pink chaud-froid sauce; de- corate each fillet by means of a rosette of chervil leaves, in the centre of which rests a bit of lobster coral, and glaze them with fish jelly. Set them, tail end uppermost, against a mousse of milt with horse-radish, moulded in a narrow dome-mould, which should have been coated with fish jelly and besprinkled with chopped coral. Surround with a border of regularly-cut jelly dice. 920—FILETS DE SOLES A LA MOSCOVITE Prepare (1) some paupiettes of filleted sole, in rings, as ex- plained under “ Filets de Soles k la Calypso ” (No. 918); (2) as many round, fluted cases made from hollowed cucumber as there are paupiettes. The cucumber cases should be well blanched and marinaded inside. Set each paupiette in a cucumber case; garnish their centre with caviare, and arrange them in a circle on a dish. Send a sauce Russe to the table, separately, at the same time as the dish.