494 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 1522— POULARDE TALLEYRAND Poele the pullet; raise the supremes, and cut these into large dice. Mix them with an equal quantity of macaroni, cut short, and thickened with cream sauce combined with Parmesan, and add enough foie gras and truffles, cut into large dice, to equal half the weight of the supremes. Suppress the breast-bones; fill the fowl with the above pre- paration, and cover the latter with a layer of mousseline force- meat, reconstructing the bird naturally in so doing. Deck the surface with a crown of truffle slices; cover with buttered paper, and set in the oven (1) to poach the forcemeat, (2) to thoroughly heat the preparation beneath. Dish the pullet; pour a little half-glaze sauce, flavoured with truffle essence and combined with slices of truffle, over the dish, and serve what remains of the sauce separately. 1523— POULARDE T05CA Stuff the pullet with rice, prepared after No. 2256, and poele it in short moistening. Dish it on a low cushion of fried bread, and surround it with a garnish of braised, tuberous fennel-roots. Send the pullet’s poeling liquor separately, after having reduced and finished it with butter. 1524— POULARDE TOULOUSAINE Poach the pullet. Dish it; coat it with Allemande sauce, flavoured with mush- room essence, and surround it with the following garnish, ar- ranged in heaps:—Quenelles of mousseline chicken forcemeat; slices of poached, veal sweetbreads; cocks’ combs and kidneys; cooked and very white button-mushroom heads, and slices of truffle. Serve an Allemande sauce, flavoured with mushroom essence, separately. 1525— POULARDE TRIANON Poach the pullet. Dish it, and surround it with quenelles of chicken force- meat, stuffed with foie-gras pur£e. Arrange these quenelles in heaps, and set a nice, whole truffle between each heap. Pierce the pullet wdth a hatelet, garnished with one grooved mushroom, one fair-sized glazed truffle, and a quenelle decorated with salted tongue. Serve a supreme sauce at the same time.