736 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY With this almond milk, dilute three oz. of flour and three oz. of rice cream, mixed in a saucepan, and take care that no lumps form. Strain the whole through a strainer, and add five oz. of sugar, three oz. of butter and a little salt. Set the saucepan on the fire ; boil, stirring the while, and then stir briskly with a spatula until the preparation acquires'The con- sistence of a thick paste and falls from the spatula without leaving any adhering portions. Pour this paste into a basin and combine therewith : first, little by little, two oz. of fresh butter; then, eight egg-yolks, two ounces of finely-pounded almonds moistened with a tablespoon ful of kirsch and as much maraschino, and the whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth. This pudding is cooked in a bain-marie in one of the following ways : (1) In a buttered pie dish. In this case,on taking the pudding out of the bain-marie, sprinkle its surface with icing sugar, and criss-cross it with a red-hot iron. (2) In a shallow, buttered and dredged, Charlotte-mould. (3) In fairly shallow, buttered dome-moulds, lined inside with roundels one inch in diameter, stamped (by means of a fancy-cutter) out of a layer of Genoise or a layer of “ lady’s-finger-biscuit ” preparation, about one-third of an inch thick. In the two last cases, the pudding is coated with an apricot sauce, mixed with almond milk, and a sauceboat of the same sauce is served separately. 2507— LEMON SOUFFLED PUDDING Make the preparation for No. 2504, and flavour it with a piece of lemon rind. The treatment is the same. Serve an English custard, flavoured with lemon separately. 2508— ORANGE, CURA^OA, ANISETTE, AND BENEDICTINE PUDDINGS, ETC. For all these puddings the procedure is the same as for No. 2504, and only the flavour changes. Accompany each with an English custard, flavoured like the particular pudding. 2509— INDIAN SOUFFLED PUDDING Take some souffled-pudding preparation and add to it two oz. of powdered ginger, and five oz. of candied ginger, cut into dice. Proceed in the same way as for No. 2504. As an accompaniment, serve an English custard flavoured with ginger.