683 SAVOURIES 2321—GRILLED BONES Take the trimmed bones of a roast sirloin, and let there be still some meat upon them. Sprinkle them with cayenne; coat them with mustard, and grill them. 2322—PAILLETTES AU PARMESAN Prepare some puff-paste with two-thirds lb. of butter; roll it out ten times, dusting it and the table well the while with grated Parmesan and a little cayenne, that the paste may absorb as much as possible of these. Then roll it into square layers of four-inch sides and one-eighth inch thick; cut these up into ribbons one-eighth inch wide; set them on buttered trays; bake them in a very hot oven, and serve them on a napkin. 2323—PANNEQUETS A LA MOSCOVITE Take some ordinary, unsugared Pannequets; cut them into rectangles three inches long by one and one-half inches wide.) Coat them with caviare, flavoured with cayenne; roll them into cigarettes, and serve them on crystal hors-d’oeuvre dishes. 2324—PUDDING DE FROMAGE AU PAIN Set some thin slices of stale, buttered and cheese-sprinkled bread in a pie-dish. Having three-parts filled the dish with it, cover the slices with a preparation consisting of the yolks of four eggs mixed with one-quarter pint of broth—which quantities are suited to a pint dish. Sprinkle copiously with grated cheese; bake in the oven, and glaze at the last moment. 2325—SARDINES A LA DIABLE Take fresh sardines, if possible. Skin and bone them; coat them with mustard and cayenne; treat them a Vanglaise; fry them at the last moment, and dish them on small fried croutons, the shape of sardines. N.B.—Fresh anchovies and smelts may be prepared in the same way. 2326—SCOTCH WOODCOCK Toast some large slices of bread, one-third inch thick, and cover them with a very thick English butter sauce, combined with plenty of capers and anchovy pur£e. Sprinkle with grated Parmesan; glaze quickly at the sala- mander; speedily cut up into small rectangles, and serve very hot. 2327—TARTELETTES AGNES Line some grooved tartlet moulds with good paste, and garnish them with a preparation of Quiche with cheese,