68o GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY Canapes with Halved or Filleted Anchovies.—In the case of fillets, set them to form a grill upon the toast; if the anchovies be halved, lay them lengthwise on the toast. Canapes with Sardines in Oil.—Clear the fish of their skins and bones, and set the fillets on the canapes. Canapes with Grilled Sprats.—Proceed as for sardines. Canapes of Salmon.—Toast may be garnished with thin slices of smoked or fresh salmon, or with the latter prepared in a pur^e like the haddock. Various Canapes.—Once the pieces of toast or canapes are grilled and buttered, they may be garnished wdth chopped smoked tongue or ham, cohered with a little butter and mustard, with grilled slices of mushrooms or tomatoes, &c. A few of the preparations have names, while others are only distinguished by the nature of their garnish. 2305— CANAPES A LA CADOGAN Take oval and slightly hollowed pieces of toast, fried in butter and garnished with spinach prepared with butter. Lay two oysters on the spinach of each piece of toast; cover with Mornay sauce, and glaze qqickly. 2306— CANAPES DES GOURMETS Prepare some very thin pieces of toast; fry them in butter, and garnish them with a cheese fondue. Pair them off, and sandwich a piece of grilled bacon between each pair. 2307— CANAPES IVANHOE Take some round, buttered pieces of toast, garnished with haddock pur£e, and set a very small, grilled mushroom on the pur6e of each piece of toast. 2308— CANAPES A L’ECOSSAISE Take some round, buttered pieces of toast, garnished with haddock pur^e, and glazed. N.B.—I see no use in extending this list any further; the above directions should suffice to show the variety to which these preparations lend themselves. 2309— CARCASSE DE VOLA1LLE (Chicken Carcasses) Take in preference the carcasses of fowls cooked without colouration. After having trimmed them, coat them with mustard and cayenne, and grill them. 2310— CHAMPIGNONS SOUS CLOCHE Trim the mushrooms; season them with salt and pepper, and garnish the hollow of each with a piece of Maitre-d’hotel