54 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY sometimes substituting for the butter good cream, which, I find, absorbs the aromatic principles perhaps better than the former. With the above method it is advisable to pass the butter or the cream through a very fine sieve first and afterwards through tammy, so as to avoid small particles of the pounded shell being present in the sauce. 139— BERCY BUTTER Put into a small stewpan one-quarter pint of white wine and one oz. of finely-chopped shallots, scalded a moment. Reduce the wine by one-half, and add one-half lb. of butter softened into a cream; one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, two oz. of beef marrow cut into cubes, poached in slightly salted water and well drained, the necessary table-salt, and, when dishing up, a little ground pepper and a few drops of lemon-juice. This butter must not be completely melted, and it is prin- cipally served with grilled beef. 140— CiilVRY OR RAVIGOTE BUTTER Put into a small saucepan of salted, boiling water six oz. of chervil, parsley, tarragon, fresh pimpernel, and chives, in equal quantities, and two oz. of chopped shallots. Boil quickly for two minutes, drain, cool in cold water, press in a towel to com- pletely remove the water, and pound in a mortar. Now add one-half lb. of half-melted butter, mix well with the pur6e of herbs, and pass through tammy. This butter is used to complete Chivry sauce and other sauces that contain herb juices, such as the Venetian, &c> 140a -CHATEAUBRIAND BUTTER Reduce by two-thirds four-fifths pint of white wine contain- ing four chopped shallots, fragments of thyme and bay, and four oz. of mushroom parings. Add four-fifths pint of veal gravy, reduce the whole to half, rub it through tammy, and finish it away from the fire with eight oz. of Maitre d’Hotel butter (No. 150) and half a tablespoonful of chopped tarragon. 141— COLBERT BUTTER Take one lb. of Maitre d’Hotel butter (No. 150) and add six tablespoonfuls of dissolved, pale meat glaze and one teaspoonful of chopped tarragon. Serve this sauce with fish prepared ci la Colbert.