COURT-BOUILLONS AND MARINADES 65 2. To add four oz. of minced carrots. 3. To apportion the wine and water in the ratio of two- thirds to one-third. Preparation.—The same as that of the former, with the same time for boiling. Remarks.—If the court-bouillon is to be reduced, the salt should be less accordingly. When the court-bouillon with red wine is to constitute an aspic stock, fish fumet with enough gelatine takes the place of the water. The uses of court-bouillon with red wine are similar to those of the white-wine kind. 166—PLAIN COURT-BOUILLON The quantify of court-bouillon is determined by the size of the piece which it is to cover. It is composed of cold, salt water (the salt amounting to a little less than one-half oz. per quart of water), one-quarter pint of milk per quart of water, and one thin slice of peeled lemon in the same proportion. The fish is immersed while the liquor is cold; the latter is very slowly brought to the boil, and as soon as this is reached, the receptacle is moved to the side of the fire, where the cooking of the fish is completed. This court-bouillon, which is used with large pieces of turbot and brill, is never prepared beforehand. 167—SPECIAL COURT-BOUILLON, OR BLANC This preparation is a genuine court-bouillon, though it is not used in cooking fish. The Quantities Required for Five Quarts of this Court-bouillon are:— A little less than 2 oz. of flour. The juice of 3 lemons or | pint of oz. of grey salt. good vinegar. 5 quarts of cold water. Gradually mix the flour and the water; add the salt and the lemon juice, and pass through a strainer. Set to boil, and stir the mixture the while, in order to prevent the flour from precipitating; as soon as the boil is reached, immerse the objects to be treated. These are usually calf’s head or foot, previously blanched; sheep’s trotters, cocks’ kidneys or combs, or. such vegetables as salsify, cardoon, &c. Remarks upon the Use of Court-bouillon. 1. Court-bouillon must always be prepared in advance for all fish, the time for poaching which is less than half an hour, except turbots and brills. F