GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 716 N.B.—The procedure is the same for Raspberry, Red-currant, Cherry, Orange, and Tangerine fritters. For the last-named, it is better to quarter them and peel, them raw, than to slice them. 2422— FLOWER FRITTERS. Ex. ACACIA-FLOWER FRITTERS Select some blown acacia flowers; besprinkle them with sugar and liqueur brandy, and leave them to macerate for thirty minutes. Dip them in batter (No. 234); plunge them into plenty of hot fat; drain them ; sprinkle them with best sugar and dish them on a napkin. N.B.—Proceed as above for Elder-flower, Lily, and Vegetable- marrow-flower fritters; but in the case of the last two, the quartered corollae, alone, are used. 2423— CUSTARD FRITTERS OR FRIED CREAM Custard fritters may be prepared in the three following totally different ways. 1st Method.—Cut up preparation No. 2400 with a round, square, or lozenge-shaped fancy cutter, as taste may dictate. Treat the resulting pieces of custard twice d langlaise, using very fine and fresh bread- crumbs for the purpose. Press upon the bread-crumbs with the blade of a knife that they may adhere properly, and fry the pieces of cream in very hot fat. On taking the fritters out of the fat sprinkle them with icing sugar, and dish them on a napkin. N.B.—Instead of treating these fritters d Panglaise, they maybe dipped into batter and treated as directed in the case of Apricot fritters. 2nd Method.—Prepare a custard as for a “ cr&me renvers^e ” (No. 2639), using only whole eggs, that it may be firm ; and poach it in a utensil of a shape which will facilitate the cutting-up of the preparation. When the latter is quite cool, cut it up as fancy may suggest; dip the pieces in batter (No. 234) and plunge them in plenty of hot fat. Drain them on a piece of linen ; sprinkle them with icing sugar; glaze them in a fierce oven, and dish them on a napkin. 3rd Method.—Prepare some common-shaped meringues, and keep them very dry. When they have cooled, open them slightly on top, and, through the hole in each, fill them either with a Bavarois preparation, with some kind of ice-cream, or with a fruit salpicon thickened with stewed apricots or plums. Close the holes with the pieces that were cut out, and place the meringues in the refrigerator for an hour.