ENTREMETS 765 Whatever be the purpose of this cream, it should, if possible, be prepared only at the last moment. 2645—CREME AUX FRUITS A LA CHANTILLY The constituents for this preparation are a purde of the selected fruit and Chantilly cream, in the proportion of one-third of the former to two-thirds of the latter. The quantities of sugar and kind of flavour vary according to the nature of the fruit. It is served either as an entremet garnish, or alone in a bowl, with a decoration of the same cream, laid by means of a piping- bag fitted with a small even or grooved pipe. Send some lady’s- finger biscuits separately. 2646—CREME CAPRICE Take some Chantilly cream, and add to it one-quarter of its bulk of roughly broken-up meringues. Put the preparation in an iced Madeleine-mould, lined with white paper; seal up thoroughly; string tightly, and keep the utensil in ice for two hours. Turn out when about to serve; remove the paper; and decorate, by means of a piping-bag fitted with a grooved pipe, with Chantilly cream, tinted pink with strawberry and raspberry juice. 2647—BRISE DU PRINTEMPS Take some violet-flavoured, slightly-iced Chantilly cream, and set in small dessert-dishes, by means of a spoon. ' 2648—NUEES ROSES Take some Chantilly cream, aromatised with vanilla-flavoured strawberry pur£e, and dish it in small dessert-dishes, by means of a spoon. 2649— FLAMRI Boil one pint of white wine and as much water, and sprinkle in it eight oz. of small semolina. Cook gently for twenty-five minutes. Then add to the preparation two-thirds lb. of powdered sugar, a pinch of table-salt, two eggs, and the whites of six, beaten to a stiff froth. Pour it into moulds with buttered sides ; set these to poach in the bain-marie, and leave them to cool. Turn out, and coat with a pur£e of raw fruit, such as strawberries, red-currants, cherries, etc., reasonably sugared. 2650— JELLIES From the standpoint of their preparation, jellies are of two kinds: (1) wine-or liqueur-flavoured jellies; (2) fruit jellies. But their base is the same in all cases, i.e., gelatine dissolved in a certain quantity of water.