GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 626 prepared according to No. 224. Arrange them on a buttered dish; sprinkle the Duxelles with fine raspings and a little melted butter, and set in a hot oven for a gratin to form. Serve a Madeira sauce at the same time. 2034— FONDS D’ARTICHAUTS A LA FLORENTINE Prepare the artichoke-bottoms as above. Meanwhile fry a large, chopped onion in butter; add thereto two-thirds lb. of parboiled and chopped spinach per twelve artichokes. Stir over an open fire, that all moisture may evaporate, and add salt and pepper, a piece of crushed garlic the size of a pea, a tablespoonful of anchovy pur£e, and two tablespoonfuls of Velout^. Cook gently for ten minutes. Stuff the articHoke-bottoms with this preparation; arrange them on a buttered dish; coat with Mornay sauce; sprinkle with Gruy&re, cut brunoise-fashion, and set to glaze in a fierce oven. Upon withdrawing the dish from the oven, sprinkle the artichoke-bo*toms with a few drops of melted anchovy butter. 2035— FONDS D’ARTICHAUTS AUX POINTES D’ASPERQES Prepare the artichoke-bottoms as above; stew them in butter, and garnish them with asparagus-heads, cohered with cream, and heaped in pyramid-form. Lay them on a buttered dish; coat with Mornay sauce, and set to glaze quickly. 2036— FONDS D’ARTICHAUTS SAUTES Remove the leaves and the chokes from the artichokes, trim the bottoms, and slice them up raw. Season them with salt and pepper; toss them in butter; set them in a vegetable-dish, and sprinkle them with herbs. 2037— PUREE OU CRBME D’ARTICHAUTS Take some very tender artichokes; trim and turn the bottoms, and half-cook them, keeping them very white. Com- plete their cooking in butter, and rub them through a fine sieve, together with the butter used in cooking. Put the pur^e thus obtained in a saucepan, and add to it the half of its bulk of mashed, very smooth, and creamy potatoes. Finish the pur£e with a little fresh and a little hazel-nut butter, the latter being used to increase the flavour of the arti- chokes.