253 SOUPS two-thirds pint of “ Cr&me de C^leri,” similarly finished, and combine the two creams. Garnish with twelve small profiteroUes, stuffed with chicken forcemeat, and a royale of celery in dice. 729— POTAQE MADELEINE Prepare and combine the following purges :—One-third pint of artichoke pur^e, one-fifth pint of haricot-bean pur£e, one- seventh pint of Soubise pur4e. Add one pint of white con- somme ; set to boil; pass through a strainer, and finish, when dishing up, with two oz. of butter. Garnish with two tablespoonfuls of sago poached in one- half pint of white consomme. 730— POTAGE MISS BETSY Proceed exactly as for “ Potage & l’Aurore ” (No. 715), but (1) flavour potage Miss Betsy with curry; (2) substitute for the celery peeled, cored apples cut into dice and cooked in butter. N.B.—Both these soups (Aurore and Miss Betsy) are subject to much variation. All that is needed is to alter the flavouring element and the garnish. Thus the quantity of tomato may be reduced by half, and combined with one-quarter lb. of peas and their cooking-liquor (the peas in this case being cooked in one pint of water with a little salt and sugar); or with the same quantity of French beans, asparagus-heads, or sorrel cooked in butter, &c. 731— POTAGE MONTESPAN Add one-half pint of somewhat thick tapioca to one and one- half pints of “ Cr6me d’Asperges ” (No. 697), prepared as directed. Garnish with very fine peas cooked in the English fashion. 732—POTAGE N^LUSKO Mix one and one-half pints of rather liquid poultry velout6 with one-half pint of chicken pur£e. When serving, add an ordinary leason, and finish with two and one-half oz. of hazel- nut butter. Garnish with very small quenelles of chicken forcemeat com- bined with one tablespoonful of hazel-nut powder per three oz. of the forcemeat. 733—POTAGE PETIT DUC Take a fine woodcock; raise and reserve one of its fillets, and roast it, taking care to keep it very underdone. Then remove the other fillet, and with it prepare twc dariole-moulds