VEGETABLES AND FARINACEOUS PRODUCTS 645 2126—STACHYS (Crosnes du Japon) Whatever be their mode of preparation, stachys must be cleaned, parboiled, and kept firm, and cooked in butter without colouration. 2127—CROSNES A LACRSME After having parboiled the stachys and three-parts cooked them in butter, moisten with boiling cream, and complete their cooking while reducing the cream. Add a little thin, fresh cream at the last moment, and dish in a timbale. 2128—CROSNES SAUTES AU BEURRE After having parboiled, drained, and dried the stachys, put them in an omelet-pan containing some very hot butter, and toss them over a fierce fire, until they are well frizzled. Dish in a timbale, and sprinkle moderately with chopped parsley. 2129—CROSNES AU VELOUTE Completely cook the stachys in salted water. Drain them, and cohere them with the required quantity of Velout6 flavoured with mushroom essence. 2130—CROQUETTES DE CROSNES Having cooked the stachys in salted water, and kept them somewhat firm, thoroughly drain them and mix them with a very reduced Allemande sauce, in the proportion of one-fifth pint per lb. of stachys. Spread this preparation on a buttered dish, and cool. Now cut this preparation into portions weigh- ing about two oz.; shape these portions like balls, pears, quoits, or otherwise, dip them in beaten eggs, and roll them in very fine bread-crumbs. Plunge these croquettes into very hot fat five or six minutes before serving; drain them on a piece of linen; salt moderately, and dish on a napkin with very green, fried parsley. 2131—PUREE DE CROSNES Cook the stachys in salted water, keeping them somewhat firm, and add thereto four oz. of quartered potatoes per lb. of stachys. As soon as they are cooked, drain the stachys and the potatoes; rub them through a sieve, and dry the purde over a very fierce fire. Add the necessary quantity of milk to bring the pur£e to its proper consistence; heat; add butter away from the fire, and dish in a timbale. 2132—SPINACH (Epinards) Spinach should only be prepared at the last moment, if pos- sible. After having parboiled it in plenty of boiling salted water,