758 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY the Bavarois sightly, also gives it an excellent taste. Another very advisable method is that of serving the Bavarois in a deep silver timbale or dish, surrounded with ice. In this case, the entremet not having -to be turned out, the preparation does not need to be so cohesive, and is therefore much more delicate. When the Bavarois is served after this last method it is some- times accompanied by stewed fruit or a Macedoine of fresh fruit; though, in reality, these fruit adjuncts are better suited to cold puddings, which, in some points, are not unlike Bavarois. Finally, when the Bavarois is moulded, it may be decorated, just before being served, with Chantilly cream laid on by means of a piping-bag fitted with a grooved pipe. 2617— BAVAROIS CLERMONT Take some vanilla-flavoured Bavarois preparation combined with three oz. of candied chestnut pur^e and three oz. of candied chestnuts, broken into small pieces, per pint of the preparation. Having turned out the Bavarois, surround it with a crown of fine candied chestnuts. 2618— BAVAROIS DIPLOMATE Clothe a timbale mould with a layer of vanilla-flavoured Bavarois preparation. Fill it with chocolate and strawberry Bavarois pre- parations, spread in alternate and regular layers. 2619— BAVAROIS MY QUEEN Clothe a Bavarois mould with a preparation of slightly-sugared raw cream, combined with dissolved gelatine. Then fill up the mould with a Bavarois preparation, made from strawberry purde and combined with large strawberries, macerated in Kirsch. When the entremet is turned out surround it with a border of large straw- berries, also macerated in sugar and Kirsch. 2620— BAVAROIS A LA RELIGIEUSE Clothe a mould with some chocolate dissolved in a syrup con- taining a somewhat large proportion of gelatine. Garnish the inside of the mould with a vanilla-flavoured Bavarois preparation, made from plain instead of whipped cream. 2621— BAVAROIS RUBANNE This kind of Bavarois is made from differently-coloured and differently-flavoured preparations, spread in alternate layers in the mould. It is therefore governed by no hard and fast rules, and every kind of Bavarois preparation may be used.