435 RELEVES AND ENTREES it into a very fierce oven, that the meat may set immediately. The object of the very fierce oven is to prevent the juices absorbed from the marinade escaping in steam and thereby hardening the meat. Towards the close of the operation, rissole the larding bacon well. Set on a long dish; fix a frill to the bone, and serve a Chev- reuil sauce separately. Chevreuil Sauce a la Frangaise.—With the marinade of the joint and a Mirepoix with ham, prepare a sufficient quantity of Poivrade sauce (No. 49) to obtain two-thirds of a pint of it after it has been strained through a colander—an operation which should be effected with the application of great pressure to the aromatics. Despumate this sauce for thirty minutes, and add, little by little, half a wine-glassful of excellent red wine. Finish the sea- soning with a little cayenne and a pinch of powdered sugar, and once more rub the whole through tammy or a fine strainer. 1309—QIQOT A LA SOUBISE Braise the leg of mutton as shown under No. 247. When it is two-thirds done, transfer it to another utensil; strain the braising-liquor over it, and add thereto three lbs. of sliced onions and two-third lb. of rice. Gently complete the cooking of the joint, together with the onions and the rice. This done:—(1) put it on a baking-tray and glaze it in the oven; (2) quickly rub the onions and the rice through a fine sieve or tammy. Set the leg of mutton on a long dish; put a frill on the bone, and serve, separately, the well-heated Soubise, finished with one oz. of butter. N.B.—This Soubise may be prepared separately; but in this case it has much less flavour than when it is made from the onions and the rice which have cooked in the braising-liquor. I therefore urge the adoption of the recipe as it stands. 1310—COLD LEG OF MUTTON Dish it very simply, like other cold large joints of mutton. 1311— CUTLETS Mutton and lamb cutlets are sometimes sauted; but grilling is the most suitable method of cooking them. When the nature of their preparation requires that they should be treated d Vanglaise, fry them in clarified butter. All the garnishes, given f r 2