74i ENTREMETS 2535—SOUFFLg PALMYRE Take some vanilla-flavoured souffle preparation. Set it in a timbale, in layers alternated by lady’s-finger biscuits saturated with anisette and Kirsch. Cook in the usual way. 2536—SOUFFLE PRALINE Take some vanilla-flavoured souffle preparation ; add to it two ounces of almond pralin which should have previously infused in milk. When the souffle is dished, sprinkle its surface with grilled chopped almonds, or crushed, burnt almonds. 2537—ROTHSCHILD SOUFFLE Take some cream ^^/-preparation, combined with three ounces of candied fruit, cut into dice and macerated in Dantzig brandy, containing plenty of gold spangles. When the souffle is almost cooked, set on it a border of fine strawberries (in season), or half-sugared, preserved cherries. It should be remembered, however, that the correct procedure demands the use of strawberries in full season. 2538—SOUFFLE A LA ROYALE Take some vanilla-flavoured j<?w$?/-preparation. Dish it in a timbale in alternate layers with lady’s-finger biscuits, saturated with Kirsch; and distribute thereon such fruits as pine-apple, cherries, angelica and grapes—all cut into dice, and previously macerated in Kirsch. 2539—VANILLA SOUFFLE Take some cream .^^/-preparation, made from milk in which a stick of vanilla has been previously infused. 2540—VIOLET SOUFFLE Take some vanilla-flavoured souffle preparation, combined with crushed crystallised violets. When the souffle is dished, set on it a crown of large crystallised violets, and cook in the usual way. 2541—SUBRICS Into one pint of vanilla-flavoured boiled milk, containing three and a half oz. of sugar, drop four oz. of semolina. Add one and a half oz. of butter and a grain of salt; mix thoroughly, and gently cook in the oven under cover for twenty-five minutes. Thicken with six egg-yolks, and spread the preparation in layers two-thirds of an inch thick over a buttered tray. Pass a piece of butter over the surface to prevent its drying, and leave to cool. Then cut up this preparation into rings three inches in diameter. Heat some clarified butter in a frying-pan; set the rings in it; brown them on both sides, and dish them in a circle.