826 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY whole to cook over a very fierce fire; meanwhile skimming care- fully—more particularly at first, until the “ nappe ” stage is reached. N.B.—The yield of juice from red-currants equals about two- thirds or three-fourths the weight of the raw fruit. 2966— RED-CURRANT JELLY (Method B) Take the same quantities of white and red currants and of raspberries, as above. Carefully clean the fruit ; wash it in cold water, and put it into the preserving-pan, with one wineglassful of water per lb. Cook the whole gently on the side of the stove for ten or twelve minutes ; transfer the fruit to a sieve, lying on a basin, and let it drain. Put the juice into the preserving-pan, with twelve oz. of loaf- sugar per lb., and proceed with the cooking as before. 2967— RED-CURRANT JELLY (Method C) Take the same quantities as above of white-currants, red- currants, and raspberries. Remove the currants from their stalks by means of a fork, and collect them in a basin ; clean the raspberries, and allow twelve oz. of loaf-sugar per lb. of the fruit. Dissolve the sugar in the preserving-pan with a little water and cook it to the small-ball stage; meanwhile skimming care- fully. Throw the currants and the raspberries into it; put the pan on the side of the fire for seven or eight minutes, that the juice may exude from the fruit; and then cook on a fierce fire, skimming very carefully the while, until the “ nappe ” stage is reached. 2968— WHITE-CURRANT JELLY This is made from fresh, very ripe white-currants and two oz of raspberries per lb. of the latter. Any one of the three methods given above may be followed in its preparation, although Method C will be found to yield the clearest jelly. 2969— RED-CURRANT JELLY, PREPARED COLD Prepare the juice as directed under No. 2965. Add to it one lb. of icing-sugar per quart, and keep the whole in the cool for two or three hours, taking care to stir it frequently with a silver spoon in order to dissolve the sugar. Fill the pots and keep them uncovered for two or three days. This done, cover them in the usual way, and set them in the sun for two or three hours per day for two days.