GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY i78 456—POLIQNAC MOULDED EGGS Butter some baba-moulds, and garnish the bottoms with a slice of truffle. Break an egg into each; season, and poach in a bain-marie. Turn out the moulds upon little round pieces of toast; arrange them in a circle on a dish, and coat the eggs with Maitre-d’Hotel butter, the latter being dissolved and mixed with three tablespoonfuls of melted meat-glaze per every one-quarter lb. of its weight. 457—PRINCESS MOULDED EGGS Butter some narrow and deep dariole-moulds; garnish their bottoms with a slice of very black truffle, and their sides with a very thin coating of chicken forcemeat. Make a preparation of scrambled eggs, asparagus-heads, and truffles cut into dice, keeping them very soft, and add there- to raw, beaten eggs in the proportion of one raw egg to every four scrambled. Fill the moulds, two-thirds full, with this preparation; cover the eggs with a coating of forcemeat, and poach in a bain-marie for twelve minutes. Turn out the moulds upon little, round pieces of toast; set these in a circle on a dish, and surround them with a thread of clear poultry velout£. Or the velout£ may be sent to the table separately, in a sauceboat. 458— PRINTANIER MOULDED EGGS Butter some hexagonal moulds, and garnish them, Chart- reuse-fashion, with cut-up, cooked vegetables, varying the shades. Break an egg into each mould; season, and poach in a bain-marie. Turn out the moulds upon little, round pieces of toast; arrange these in a circle on a dish, and pour in their midst a cream sauce finished by means of a Printanier butter with herbs, in the proportion of one oz. of butter to one-quarter pint of sauce. 459— SCRAMBLED EGGS This dish is undoubtedly the finest of all egg-preparations, provided the eggs be not over-cooked, and they be kept soft and creamy. Scrambled eggs are mostly served in silver timbales, but, in certain cases, they may also be dished in special little croustades, in little receptacles made from hollowed brioches, or in tartlet-