ENTREMETS 111 2691-GRANGES RUBANNEES Garnish the empty orange-rinds with regular layers of vari- ously coloured and flavoured blanc-manges, or with alternated fruit jellies. When about to serve, quarter the oranges. N.B.—These quartered oranges are sometimes used for the garnishing of cold entremets. 2692—ORANGES EN SURPRISE Cut a lateral slice from each orange, representing about one-fourth of their height, and empty them. Garnish the peels with orange ice ; cover the latter with Italian meringue; set the garnished peels on broken ice, lying on a tray, and set them in a sufficiently hot oven, to quickly colour the meringue. On taking the oranges out of the oven, close each with the slices cut from them at the start, in which are stuck imitation leaves and stalks, made from pulled sugar. Dish them on a napkin. 2693—ORANGES SOUFFLEES EN SURPRISE Empty the oranges as above; garnish the rinds with an orange soujffU preparation, and cook the latter. On taking the oranges out of the oven, cover the soufftt with the slices cut off at the start; dish the oranges on a napkin, and serve them instantly. Peaches and Nectarines (Peches et Nectarines). As nectarines may be prepared after the same recipes as peaches, there is no need to give special recipes for the former. 2694—PECHES AIGLON After having peeled the peaches, poach them in a vanilla- flavoured syrup, and leave them to cool therein. Drain them, dish them upon a layer of vanilla ice-cream, spread in a false- bottomed silver timbale, the inner compartment of which contains broken ice. Sprinkle crystallised violets over the peaches ; set the timbale on a block of ice, carved to represent an eagle, and cover the whole with a veil of spun sugar. 2695— PECHES A L’AURORE Poach the peeled peaches in a Kirsch-flavoured syrup, and let them cool there. Drain them ; dish them in a silver timbale, upon a layer of “ iced mousse with strawberries,” and coat the whole with a Curagoa-flavoured sab ay on. 2696— PECHES ALEXANDRA Poach the peaches in a vanilla-flavoured syrup and let them completely cool. Dish them in a timbale surrounded by ice