VEGETABLES AND FARINACEOUS PRODUCTS 629 chopped onion cooked in oil, and the same quantity of very lean, chopped, and cooked mutton as there is egg-plant pulp. Fill the egg-plant shells with this preparation; sprinkle with a few drops of oil, and set in the oven for fifteen minutes. On withdrawing the dish from the oven, set on each egg-plant a few roundels of tomato, tossed in oil; sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. 2047—AUBERGINES AU GRATIN Fry the egg-plants as above; empty them, chop up their pulps, and add to it an equal weight of dry Duxelles (No. 223). Garnish the shells with this preparation, set them on a gratin dish, sprinkle them with raspings and a few drops of oil, and cause the gratin to form. Surround the egg-plants with a border of light half-glaze sauce when serving. 2048—AUBERGINES FRITES Cut the egg-plants into thin roundels; season and dredge them, and fry them in smoking oil. Dish them on a napkin, and serve immediately, that they may be eaten crisp. If they wait at all, they soften, and thereby lose quality. 2049—AUBERGINES A LA PROVENCALE Proceed as for No. 2047, but replace the Duxelles by tomatoes tossed in oil and flavoured with a little garlic. Set the gratin to form in the same way, and surround the egg-plants with a border of tomato sauce when taking them out of the oven. 2050—AUBERGINES SOUFFLEES Cut some fine egg-plants into two; cisel them, and fry them in the usual way; remove the pulp from their insides, and set the shells on a buttered gratin dish. Finely chop the with- drawn pulp, and mix therewith an equal quantity of reduced Bechamel sauce, combined with grated Parmesan. Add some white of egg beaten to a stiff froth, allowing as much of it as for an ordinary souffle. Garnish the egg-plant shells with this preparation, and cook in a moderate oven, as for ordinary souffle. On withdrawing the dish from the oven, serve instantly. 2051—AUBERGINES A LA TURQUE Peel the egg-plants and cut them, each lengthwise, into six slices. Season, dredge, and fry these slices in oil; pair them off, and join them together by means of a very firm preparation of raw