294 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 870— FILETS DE SOLES CLARENCE Fold the fillets, and poach them in fish fumet. They may be dished after the two following methods :— 1. Put a preparation of Duchesse potatoes in a piping-bag fitted with a large, grooved pipe, and describe therewith an ornamental design containing as many divisions as there are fillets of sole. Lightly gild and brown in the oven. This design, consisting of scroll-work, should be prepared before poaching the fillets. Lay a fillet in each division of the design, and coat with American sauce, prepared with curry and com- bined with the meat of the lobster (cut into small dice) which has served in the preparation of the sauce. Take care that no sauce touches the scroll-work, which should remain well-defined. 2. Bake some large potatoes in the oven. Open them; re- move their pulp, and put into each baked shell a tablespoonful of American sauce au currie referred to above. Add a poached fillet of sole; coat with American sauce; dish these garnished potatoes on a napkin, and serve very hot. 871— FILETS DE SOLES AUX CHAMPIGNONS Stew two oz. of small mushrooms in butter. Fold the fillets, and poach them in one-sixth pint of the cooking-liquor of mush- rooms, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Arrange the fillets in an oval, and garnish the centre of the dish with the stewed mushrooms. Reduce the cooking-liquor of the fillets to one-third; add thereto two tablespoonfuls of veloute; finish the sauce with one oz. of butter, and coat the fillets and the garnish. 872— FILETS DE SOLES AUX CREVETTES Fold the fillets, and poach them in fish fumet. Dish them in an oval; garnish the middle with one oz. of shelled shrimps’ tails, kept very hot, and coat the fillets and the garnish with shrimp sauce. 873— FILETS DE SOLES CHAUCHAT Poach the fillets of sole, folded, in butter and lemon juice. Coat the bottom of a dish with Mornay sauce, and set the fillets of sole thereon in the form of an oval. Surround the fish with roundels of cooked potatoes turned to the shape of corks. Cover the fillets and the garnish with Mornay sauce, and glaze quickly in a fierce oven or at the salamander. 874— FILETS DE SOLES BERCY Butter the bottom of the dish intended for the soles, and sprinkle it with two finely-chopped shallots. Lay the fillets