SOUPS 21 1 quarter pint of Bechamel, thickened with the yolk of one egg combined with one oz. of grated cheese, and keep it very dense. Mix the rings of macaroni with this sauce; spread the whole on a dish, and leave to cool. Now divide up the preparation into portions the size of walnuts; roll these into balls, and then flatten them out to form quoits about the size of shillings. Treat these quoits with an anglaise, and very fine bread-crumbs, and plunge into hot fat four minutes before serving. Drain them when they have acquired a fine golden colour. Pour one quart of boiling chicken consomm^ into the soup- tureen, and send to the table, separately, (i) the fried macaroni quoits; (2) one and one-half oz. of Gruy^re and Parmesan cheese, in equal quantities, grated and mixed. 585—CONSOMME MIRE1LLE Add one tablespoonful of very concentrated tomato purde to three oz. of chicken forcemeat; roll this preparation into the form of a somewhat large sausage, and poach it. When cold, cut it into roundels, one-quarter inch thick, and stamp each roundel with an oval fancy-cutter in the shape of a medallion. Put these medallions in the soup-tureen with two tablespoonfuls of saffroned pilaff rice (No. 2255), and, when about to serve, pour thereon one quart of very clear, boiling chicken consomm6. 586—CONSOMME MIRETTE Make eighteen quenelles of chicken forcemeat in the shape of large pearls, and poach them. Prepare two tablespoonfuls of lettuce chiffonade (the heart of one lettuce cut julienne-fashion and stewed in butter); make eighteen paillettes with Parmesan (No. 2322), and put them in a very hot oven eight or ten minutes before serving. Put the poached quenelles and the lettuce chiffonade into the soup-tureen; pour thereon one quart of boiling consomm£ of the Petite Marmite, and one pinch of chervil pluclies. Send the paillettes au Parmesan to the table separately, and have them very hot. 587—CONSOMME MONTE CARLO Make and poach thirty small quenelles of chicken force- meat; cisel and stew in butter the heart of one lettuce; prepare twelve little profiterolles of pate a choux, the size of hazel-nuts, and cook them, taking care to keep them crisp. Put the quenelles and the lettuce chiffonade into the soup- tureen; pour thereon one quart of very clear, boiling, chicken consomm£, and add a pinch of chervil pinches. Serve the profiterolles separately and very hot.