relev£s and entries 417 1246—PALETS DE RIS DE VEAU A L’ECARLATE Poach the sweetbreads; when they are cold, cut them into collops half-an-inch thick, and trim them with a round, even cutter. Stamp out some roundels of salted tongue with the same cutter, but let them be only one-eighth inch thick, and twice as many as the collops of veal sweetbread. Coat the latter, on either side, with butter prepared with mustard; and cover with a roundel of tongue. Set the prepared collops on a tray; let the butter harden, coat with jelly, and deck the middle of each quoit with a fine slice of truffle. Arrange the quoits in a circle on a round dish; put some chopped jelly in the centre, and border the dish with very regularly-cut jelly dice. Serve a horse-radish sauce and an Italian salad separately. Calf’s Liver. Calf’s liver is served chiefly as a breakfast or luncheon entree. Nevertheless, in ordinary menus, it is sometimes served as a relev6, braised and whole. 1247—FOIE DE VEAU BRAISE A LA BOURGEOISE Lard the piece with large, seasoned strips of bacon, as for “ Boeuf k la Mode.” Brown it slightly in the oven, and then put it into a saucepan garnished for braising. (No. 247.) Moisten with one pint of white wine, and reduce it com- pletely. This done, moisten again with brown stock, adding one pint of Espagnole sauce per quart of the moistening. It is sufficient if the moistening and the sauce reach a little above the middle of the piece of liver. When the cooking is two-thirds completed, transfer the liver to another saucepan; surround it with carrots, shaped like elon- gated olives and half-cooked in consomm^; and some small onions, half-cooked in butter. The amount of this garnish of carrots and onions should naturally be in proportion to the size of the piece of liver. Strain the sauce over the whole, and complete the cooking gently in the oven. Dish the liver with the carrots and onions all round; reduce the sauce if necessary, and pour it over the garnish. N.B. The latter need not be arranged symmetrically. On the contrary simplicity should be made a feature of these bourgeois dishes. E E