SOUPS 24] Heat the velout^, and finish it, when dishing up, with the ordinary leason and three and one-half oz. of best butter. Do not garnish this velout6. This soup may also be prepared as a cream. 684-VELOUTE DE HOMARD, otherwise CARDINAL. Prepare one and three-quarter pints of bisque de homard (No. 663), but substitute velout£ for the thickening with rice. Rub through tammy; heat, and complete, when dishing up, with two and one-half oz. of lobster butter and three-quarters oz. of red butter. Garnish with two baba-moulds of a royale of lobster, cut by means of a fancy-cutter in the shape of a cross. Shell-fish velout^s do not admit of an egg-yolk leason. 685— VELOUTE DE HOMARD A CLEVELAND Break up two small live lobsters or one medium-sized one, and prepare it k l’Am^ricaine (see “ Lobster k l’Am^ricaine ”). Reserve a few slices of the meat for garnishing purposes. Finely pound the rest with the shell; combine the pur£e with one quart of ordinary velout6 prepared beforehand, and add the lobster sauce. Rub through a sieve, first, then through tammy; heat without allowing to boil; add the required quantity of consomm£, and once more pass the whole through a strainer. Complete, when dishing up, with three oz. of best butter. Garnish with one-half tablespoonful of peeled tomato pulp, cut into dice and half-melted in butter, and the reserved slices of lobster cut into dice. 686— VELOUTE DE HOMARD A L’INDIENNE Prepare the lobster k l’Am^ricaine as above, and flavour it with curry. Preserve a sufficient quantity of meat from the tail to afford an abundant garnish. For the rest of the process proceed exactly as the preceding recipe directs. Garnish with the reserved meat cut into dice, and four table- spoonfuls of rice k l’lndienne; send the latter to the table separately. 687—VELOUT^ DE HOMARD A L’ORIENTALE Prepare a medium-sized lobster after the manner directed in “ Homard k la Newburg with raw lobster ” (see No. 948), and season with curry. Reserve a few slices of the meat of the tail for the garnish; R