GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 284 it at the last moment with six oysters poached in a little boiling Worcestershire sauce. Cover the sole immediately with very hot fried bread-crumbs, and add thereto a pinch of chopped parsley. 828— SOLE A LA FERMlERE Put the sole, seasoned, on a buttered dish with a few aro- matics. Add one-third pint of excellent red wine, and poach gently with lid on. Dish up; strain the cooking-liquor, and reduce it to half; thicken it with a lump of manied butter the size of a hazel-nut, and finish the sauce with one oz. of butter. Encircle the sole with a border of mushrooms sliced raw and tossed in butter. Pour the prepared sauce over the sole, and set to glaze quickly. 829— SOLE A LA HOLLANDAISE Break the spine of the sole by folding it over in several places. Put the fish in a deep dish; cover it with slightly salted water; set to boil, and then poach gently for ten minutes with lid on. Drain and dish on a napkin with very green parsley all round. Serve at the same time some plainly boiled potatoes, freshly done^ and two oz. of melted butter. 830— SOLE SAINT-GERMAIN Season the sole; dip it in melted butter, and cover it with fresh bread-crumbs, taking care to pat the latter with the flat of a knife, in order that they may combine with the butter to form a kind of crust. Sprinkle with some more melted butter, and grill the fish gently so that its coating of bread-crumbs may acquire a nice golden colour. Dish the sole, and surround it with potatoes turned to the shape of olives, and cooked in butter. Send a B^arnaise sauce to the table separately. 831— SOLE FLORENTINE Poach the sole in a fish fumet and butter. Spread a layer of shredded spinach, stewed in butter, on the bottom of a dish; place the sole thereon ; cover it with Mornay sauce; sprinkle with a little grated cheese, and set to glaze quickly in the oven or at a salamander. 832— SOLE MONTREUIL Poach the sole in one-sixth pint of fish fumet, one-sixth pint of white wine, and one-half oz. of butter.