GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 240 Add the fish, stewed in butter and pounded, to the panada, together with one-half pint of ordinary thin velout£. Rub through tammy; heat; season with a very little cayenne, and finish the whole, when dishing up, with an ordinary leason and one and one-half oz. of butter. N.B.—1. In view of the decided flavour of the smelt, and the really disagreeable taste it imparts to a preparation which contains overmuch of it, its flesh should never exceed the pro- portion of one-third of the required quantity of fish. The re- maining two-thirds should be supplied by a fish of neutral flavour, such as the sole or dory, both of which are admirably suited to this purpose. 2. The velout6 d’^perlans should, like almost all fish velout^s, be prepared as quickly as possible, and at the last moment. The process should not last longer than thirty minutes, for, if there be any delay, the preparation will turn and lose its flavour. 3. For this soup I elected to use a panada as the thickening element, instead of a fish velout£, the reason being that, were the latter used, the taste of fish would in the end be too pro- nounced. 681— VELOUTE D’EPERLANS JOINVILLE Proceed in the matter of the base of the soup as in No. 680. Finish the velout£ with an ordinary leason and one and one- half oz. of shrimp butter. Garnish with six crayfish tails, cut into four pieces, and one tablespoonful of a short julienne of truffles and mushrooms. 682— VELOUTE D’EPERLANS PRINCESSE The same as above, with twelve small quenelles of smelt forcemeat with crayfish butter, and one tablespoonful of very green asparagus-heads per quart of velout£. 683— VELOUTE AUX GRENOUILLES, otherwise SIC1LIENNE Prepare one and one-half pints of delicate and rather thin fish velout£. Trim fifteen or twenty frogs’ legs; toss them in butter with- out letting them acquire any colour, and set them to poach for ten minutes in two tablespoonfuls of white wine and the juice of a lemon. Pound them in a mortar; add the resulting pur£e to the velout6; set to simmer for seven or eight minutes, and rub through tammy.