GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 242 finely pound the remaining portions and the shell; add the lobster sauce, and combine the whole with one quart of ordinary velout^, kept somewhat light. Rub through a sieve, first, then through tammy; heat the velout£ without letting it boil; add the necessary quantity of consomm£, and finish the preparation, when about to serve, with three oz. of butter. Garnish with the reserved meat cut into dice, and two table- spoonfuls of rice k l’lndienne, each grain of which should be kept distinct and separate. 688— VELOUTE DE HOMARD AU PAPRIKA Prepare a medium-sized lobster & l’Am^ricaine, and, in addition to the usual ingredients of the preparation, include two concasscd tomatoes and two roughly chopped onions. Season with paprika. For the rest of the operation, proceed exactly as directed under “ Velout6 k la Cleveland.” Garnish with lobster meat cut into dice, two tablespoonfuls of rice, and one tablespoonful of pimentos cut into dice. 689— VELOUT6 DE HOMARD A LA PERSANE Proceed exactly as for “ Velout^ de Homard k l’Orientale.” Garnish with lobster meat in dice, one tablespoonful of pimentos in dice, and two tablespoonfuls of pilaff rice, to which add a very little saffron. Remarks relating to the Variation of these Veloutts.—By merely substituting an equivalent quantity of crayfish, shrimps, or crabs, for the lobster, the recipes dealing with velout^s of lobster, given above, may be applied to Veloutes of Crayfish, Shrimps, or Crabs. It would therefore be pointless to repeat them, since all that is needed is to read crayfish, shrimps, or crabs wherever the word lobster appears. Thus I shall only point out that the number of these veloutes may be increased at will, the only requisites being the change of the basic ingredient and the modification of the garnish. 690— VELOUTE AUX HUiTRES Prepare one quart of very delicate fish velout£, and bear in mind that the preparation must be made as speedily as pos- sible. (See the remarks dealing with this question which follow upon the model recipe of the velout4 d’^perlans.)