RELEVES AND ENTREES 457 Sprinkle the garnish of vegetables with the gravy of the joint, three-parts cleared of grease. 1389— FRESH NECK OF PORK WITH STEWED APPLES Roast the neck of pork and see that it is well done. Meanwhile, peel and mince one lb. of apples; put them in a saucepan with one oz. of sugar and a few tablespoonfuls of water; seal the lid of the saucepan well down, so as to con- centrate the steam inside, and cook quickly. When about to serve, thoroughly work the apple pur£e with a wire whisk, in order to smooth it. Dish the neck with its gravy, three-parts cleared of grease, and serve the apple pur^e separately in a timbale. 1390—FRESH NECK OF PORK A LA SOISSONNAISE Roast the neck on a dish that may be sent to the table. When it is three-parts done, set one quart of cooked and well-drained haricot beans round it, and complete the cooking gently. Serve the dish as it stands. 1391—BOILED SALTED PORK A L’ANGLAISE Cook plainly in water three lbs. of shoulder, breast, or gammon of bacon, and add thereto a garnish of vegetables as for boiled beef, and six parsnips. Serve the vegetables round the piece of meat, and send a pease-pudding (prepared as directed below) separately. Pease-pudding: put one lb. of a purde of yellow or green, split peas into a basin, and mix therewith three oz. of melted or softened butter, three eggs, a pinch of salt, another of pepper, and a little nutmeg. Pour this pur£e into a pudding basin, and poach it in steam or in a bain-marie. This preparation may also be put into a buttered and flour- dusted napkin; in which case, close the napkin up purse-fashion, tying it up securely with string, and cook the pudding in the same stewpan with the pork. This procedure is simpler than the first and quite as good. Very often a pur^e prepared from split, yellow or green peas, is used instead of the pudding given above. 1392—PORK PIE Completely line the bottom and sides of a pie-dish with thin slices of raw ham, and prepare, for a medium-sized dish :—(1) one and one-half lbs. of fresh pork in collops, seasoned with salt and pepper, and sprinkle with two tablespoonfuls of dry Duxelles (No. 223), a pinch of parsley and another of chopped