SOUPS 205 When about to serve, pour over the garnish one quart of boiling chicken consomm£; complete with a pinch of chervil pinches, and serve the little, fried pellets separately. 564—CONSOMME DOUGLAS With an even cutter, the size of a penny, cut up some braised and cooled sweetbread into twelve roundels one-third inch thick ; with the same cutter cut out twelve more roundels from some cooked artichoke-bottoms, and put the whole into the soup- tureen with two tablespoonfuls of very green asparagus-heads. When about to serve, pour one quart of boiling, highly seasoned, ordinary consomm^ upon the garnish. 565—CONSOMME A L’ECOSSAISE Prepare a special mutton broth, and, at the same time, cook a fine piece of breast of mutton for the garnish. Per two quarts of broth, put into the soup-tureen four tablespoonfuls of pearl-barley, cooked very gently beforehand; two tablespoonfuls of French beans, cut into lozenges, and the breast of mutton cut into regular dice of one-half inch side, in the proportion of one tablespoonful for each person. Pour the boiling mutton broth over this garnish, after having removed all the grease and strained it through linen. 566—CONSOMME FAVORITE With a spoon-cutter, pick from out some violet potatoes eighteen pellets the size of small hazel-nuts, and cook them in salted water in good time for them to be ready for the dishing up of the soup. Put them in the soup-tureen with two table- spoonfuls of a julienne of artichoke-bottoms and the same quantity of cooked mushrooms, also cut in julienne-fashion. Pour over the garnish one quart of chicken consomm£, thickened with three tablespoonfuls of poached tapioca strained through linen. Add a pinch of chervil pinches. 566a—CONSOMME A LA FERMIERE Mince, somewhat finely, one small carrot, one small turnip, the heads of two leeks, and the half of an onion. Slightly stew these vegetables in one and one-half oz. of butter; moisten with one and one-half pints of white consomm6; add two oz. of parboiled cabbage, cut roughly into a julienne, and complete