GAME 579 also by means of a little lentil-shaped bone, which is to be found in the region of the patella. As the wild rabbit ages, this bone shrinks and finally com- bines with the other bones of the articulation. When the wild rabbit is old, it is tough, and can only be used for stock or forcemeats. All the recipes given for “ Poulet Saut6,” and those given for hare, may be applied to wild rabbit; the reader is, therefore, begged to refer to these. 1827—FEATHERED GAME Feathered game comprises all esculent birds that live in freedom. The number of species involved, therefore, is considerable, but from the culinary standpoint they may be grouped into ten principal classes, which are :— 1. The various pheasants, grey and red partridges, the Te- tras Californias. 2. The hazel-hen, grouse, prairie fowls, ganga, sand-grouse, 3. The various wild ducks and teals. 4. The woodcocks and snipes. 5. The various plovers, lapwings, sandpipers, water-rails, water-hens. 6. The quails, land-rails, Virginia quails. 7. The various thrushes, Corsican blackbirds. 8. The various larks. 9. The warblers. 10. The ortolans. The birds of Classes 1 and 4 are better high—that is to say, they should be hung for a few days, before being plucked, in a moderate draught, that they may begin to decompose, and that the particular flavour of their flesh may be accentuated, a process which increases their culinary value. Whatever opinion may be held in regard to the gaminess of these birds, one thing is quite certain—namely, that the meat of a fresh pheasant and that of a high one are two totally different things. When fresh, the meat is flavourless, whereas when it is reason- ably high it is tender, full of taste, and of an incomparable flavour. Formerly, it was the custom to lard the birds of Class t, especially when they were to be roasted. But this practice should be resolutely discarded, for, if the bird be young, it can only impair the latter’s flavour, and, if it be old, it cannot possibly restore those qualities to it which it has already lost. p p 2