298 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY it into as many slices as there are fillets of sole, and keep them hot. Remove all the meat from the claws, and that remaining in the carcass; pound all of it smoothly, add two tablespoonfuls of cream, and rub through a fine sieve. Prepare a garnish of spaghetti with cream, and add thereto the pur£e of lobster. Fold the fillets of sole, and poach them in Chablis wine and butter. All this being done, lay the two emptied halves of the lobster on a napkin lying on a dish, setting them back to back. Fill these lobster shells to the brim with the prepared garnish of spaghetti. Upon this garnish lay the poached fillets of sole, sandwiching a slice of lobster between every two; besprinkle the whole with a short and fine julienne of very black truffle. Send the lobster sauce, finished with a few tablespoonfuls of cream, to the table separately. Proceed as quickly as possible with the dishing up, in order that the dish may reach the table very hot. 885— FILETS DE SOLES MEXICAINE Coat the fillets with fish forcemeat, and roll them to resemble scrolls (see No. 914). Poach them in fish fumet as directed for the paupiettes. Lay each rolled fillet in a grilled mushroom garnished with one-half tablespoonful of peeled, pressed, and concassed tomato cooked in butter, and arrange them in an oval on a dish. Coat them with Bechamel sauce combined with a pur£e of tomatoes and capsicums cut into small dice, in the proportion of two tablespoonfuls of the puree and two-thirds oz. of the capsicums per pint of the sauce. 886— FILETS DE SOLES MIRABEAU Poach the fillets, left in their natural state, in fish fumet. Dish them and coat with white wine and Gen£voise sauces, alternating the two, white and brown. Lay a thin strip of anchovy fillet between each of the fillets of sole; deck those of the latter coated with white sauce with a slice of truffle, and those coated with brown sauce with a star of blanched tarragon leaves. 887— FILETS DE SOLES MIRAMAR Divide each of the fillets into slices; season them and cook them in butter. Cut fifteen roundels (one-third inch thick) of egg-plant; season, dredge, and toss them in butter, taking care to keep them very crisp. Take a timbale of suitable size, and line its sides with a layer (three-quarters inch thick) of pilaff race.