79° GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY from the mould. Overturn the mould ; and turn out the ice upon a folded napkin lying on a dish. 2746— PREPARATIONS FOR SIMPLE ICES Preparations for simple ices are of two kinds: those made from cream, and those made from syrup ; the latter being principally used for fruit ices. As the quantities of sugar and eggs used for these preparations vary exceedingly, the following recipes have been based upon a working average. If creamier ices be required, all that is needed is an increase in the sugar and egg-yolks per quart of milk ; while, if the ices be required harder but less creamy, the two ingredients above mentioned should be proportionately reduced. As an example of the difference that may exist between cream preparations, I might instance the case of ice-cream, which may be made from seven to sixteen egg-yolks, and six oz. to one lb. of sugar per quart of milk. In regard to ices made from syrups and fruit, their preparations may measure from 15° to 30° or 320. (saccharometer) respectively. 2747— ICE-CREAM PREPARATION (Generic Recipe) Work two-thirds lb. of sugar and ten egg-yolks in a saucepan until the mixture reaches the ribbon-stage. Dilute it, little by little, with one quart of boiling milk, and stir over a moderate fire until the preparation veneers the withdrawn spoon. Avoid boiling, as it might decompose the custard. Strain the whole into a basin and stir it from time to time until it is quite cold. N.B.—For the various ice-cream preparations, the amount of sugar and number of egg-yolks, as also the procedure, do not change. They are only distinguishable by the particular flavour or infusion which may happen to characterise them. Various Ice-Cream Preparations. 2748—ALMOND ICE-CREAM Finely pound three and a half oz. of freshly-skinned sweet almonds and five bitter almonds ; adding to them, little by little, in order to facilitate the pounding, a few tablespoonfuls of water. Set this almond paste to infuse, twenty minutes beforehand, in the boiling milk, and prepare the cream as directed above, with the same quantities of sugar and egg-yolks.