GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 702 “ ribbon ” stage when it becomes thick, draws out in ribbon- form, and takes some time to level itself again when a spoon is pulled out of it. This state of the paste is also indicative of its lightness. 2377— ORDINARY GENOISE PASTE FOR CUTTING UP Quantities.—One lb. of sugar, twelve eggs, thirteen oz. of flour, eight oz. of butter, and the quantity of flavouring thought sufficient. Proceed exactly as in the preceding recipe, in everything pertaining to the working of the paste. This paste is baked in buttered and dredged cases, in which it is spread in layers one and one-quarter inches thick, that it may rise to about one and three-quarter inches thick, while baking. 2378— LADY’S-FINGER BISCUIT PASTE Stir one lb. of sugar and sixteen egg-yolks in a basin until the preparation has whitened slightly and has reached the ribbon stage. Now add a tablespoonful of orange-flower water; mix therewith twelve oz. of sifted flour, followed by sixteen egg-whites, whisked to a stiff froth. Take care to effect the mixture by raising and cutting the preparation with the spatula, that the former may be quite light. To Shape the Biscuits.—Put the paste, little by little, into a canvas piping-bag, fitted with a pipe of one-half inch bore. Close the bag; lay the biscuits on sheets of strong paper; sprinkle them with powdered sugar, and rid them of any super- fluous sugar by holding the sheets end upwards. Jerk a few drops of water upon the biscuits by means of a moistened brush in order to assist the beading of the sugar, and remember that a very moderate oven is the best for the effecting of this beading. 2379— SAVOY-BISCUIT PASTE Stir one lb. of sugar and fourteen egg-yolks in a basin until the preparation reaches the ribbon stage. Flavour with vanilla sugar; add six oz. of very dry, sifted flour mixed with six oz. of fecula, and finally mix therewith the fourteen egg-whites, which should be in a very stiff froth. Carefully set the preparation in buttered and fecula-dredged moulds, filling the latter only two-thirds full, and leaving the remaining third to be covered by the rising of the paste while baking. Bake in a regular, moderate oven.