FISH 293 the two may be well combined; and, with the back of a knife, criss-cross the coating of the fillets. Cook them gently in clarified butter. Serve on a hot dish, and sprinkle the fillets with half-melted butter k la maitre- d’hotel. 867—FILETS DE SOLES ANDALOUSE Coat the upper sides of the fillets with fish forcemeat com- bined, per pound, with three oz. of chopped capsicum. Roll them up, after the manner of a scroll (see No. 914), and smooth the forcemeat on the top. Poach the fillets in butter and fish fumet. The following should have been prepared beforehand :■— (1) As many small half-tomatoes, stewed in butter and gar- nished by means of rizotto with capsicums, as there are fillets of sole; (2) the same number of roundels of egg-plant, seasoned, dredged, and fried in oil. When dishing, arrange the roundels of egg-plant round the dish; place a stuffed tomato on each roundel of egg-plant, and a poached fillet of sole upon each tomato. Sprinkle with lightly-browned butter, and serve at once. 868—FILETS DE SOLES CAPRICE Dip the fillets in melted, seasoned butter, and then roll them in fresh and fine bread-crumbs. Pat the bread-crumbs with the flat of the knife, and with the back of the same instrument criss-cross the surface of the fillets. Sprinkle with melted butter, and set to grill gently, taking care that the coating of bread-crumbs acquires a nice, light-brown colour. Lay on each grilled fillet the half of a peeled banana, cooked in butter, and send to the table, separately, a Roberta sauce Escoffier, finished with butter. 869—FILETS DE SOLES CATALANE Poach, in the oven, as many emptied and seasoned half- tomatoes as there are fillets of sole. Cook some very finely- minced onion in oil, without letting it acquire any colour, and allow one tablespoonful of the onion to each half-tomato. Fold the fillets of sole, and poach them in fish fumet just a few minutes before dishing them. Garnish the half-tomatoes with onion; arrange them in a circle on a dish, and place a fillet of sole upon each. Quickly reduce the cooking-liquor of the fillets, and finish it with butter in the proportion of one oz per one-eighth pint of reduced fumet. Coat the fillets and set to glaze quickly.