GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 440 the hoof is next removed, the hoof itself is suppressed, and the trotters are split open lengthwise and boned. Sheep’s trotters are cooked like calf’s feet, in the special court-bouillon or blanc, given under No. 167. *325—FRITOT OF SHEEP’S TROTTERS Fifteen minutes before frying them, put the sheep’s trotters into a receptacle with lemon juice, a few drops of oil and some chopped parsley; keeping the quantity of these ingredients in proportion to the number of trotters. Be careful to toss the latter from time to time in the marinade. A few moments before serving, dip the half-trotters into batter (No. 232) and plunge them into an abundant and hot frying-medium. Drain them when the batter is nicely dry and golden; and dish on a napkin with a border of very green fried parsley. Serve a tomato sauce separately. 1326— PIEDS DE MOUTON POULETTE For this dish the trotters should, as far as possible, be freshly cooked. For twenty trotters prepare two-thirds of a pint of poulette sauce; add the trotters thereto, well drained; toss them in the sauce, and dish them in a timbale with a sprinkling of chopped parsley. 1327— PIEDS DE MOUTON ROUENNAISE Instead of cooking the sheep’s trotters in a blanc, braise them; add a little Madeira to their braising-liquor, and cook them thoroughly. Prepare a forcemeat, consisting of one and one-half lbs. of very fine sausage-meat; three oz. of chopped onions, cooked in butter without colouration, and a large pinch of parsley. When the trotters are cooked, transfer them to a dish; almost entirely reduce their braising-liquor; add to this two liqueur-glassfuls of burnt brandy, for each ten trotters, and add this reduced braising-liquor to the forcemeat. Cut ten rect- angles six inches long by four inches wide out of pig’s caul. Spread a tablespoonful of forcemeat over each; set two trotters on the forcemeat of each rectangle; cover up with force- meat, and draw the ends of the caul together in suchwise as to enclose the whole. Sprinkle with bread-crumbs and melted butter; grill gently, and serve.