GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 428 to them three small peeled and pressed tomatoes, quartered and tossed in butter; ten small onions cooked in butter; six oz. of raw, quartered mushrooms; ten chestnuts, three-parts cooked in consomm£, and eight Chipolata sausages. Reduce the sauce to one-third of a pint; strain it over the veal and its garnish; cook for a further quarter of an hour, and dish in a timbale. 1284— SAUTES DE VEAU DIVERS Veal saute may also be prepared with mushrooms, fines herbes, egg-plant, tomatoes, or “ Currie h l’lndienne,” etc. 1285— PAIN DE VEAU Prepare “ Pain de Veau ” exactly as directed under No. 1252 ; but substitute for the liver some very white veal. Pain de veau is generally accompanied by a white sauce, such as velout£ prepared with mushroom essence, Allemande sauce prepared with mushrooms, Supreme sauce, etc. 1286— CALF’S FEET Calf’s feet serve chiefly in supplying the gelatinous element of aspics, and the body of braising stock. They are rarely used in the preparation of a special dish; but, should they be so used, they may be cooked and served after the manner directed in the recipes treating of calf’s head. 1287— CALVES’ TONGUES Provided the difference of size be allowed for, calf’s tongue may be prepared like ox tongue, and served with the same garnishes. (See Ox Tongue, Nos. 1153 to 1158 inclusive.) 1288— CALF’S BRAINS AND AMOURETTES Calf’s brains form the most wholesome and reparative diet for all those who are debilitated by excessive head-work; and the same remark applies to the brains of the ox and the sheep. The amourettes mentioned here, which almost always accompany ox brains, are only the spinal marrow of the ox or the calf. This may be used in the preparation of a few special dishes; but all the recipes dealing with brains may be applied to it. 1289— THE COOKING OF BRAINS Carefully remove the membrane enveloping the brains or the amourettes, and put them to soak in fresh water, until they are quite white. Put the brains in a saucepan with enough boiling