518 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY SPRING CHICKENS (POULETS DE GRAINS) Spring chickens are usually either grilled or prepared “ en casserole ” in accordance with one or another of the many recipes applicable to them. 1630— POULET DE GRAINS A LA BELLE-MEUNlERE Stuff the chicken with four sliced chickens’ livers and three oz. of raw, quartered mushrooms, slightly tossed in butter. Slip five or six fine slices of truffle under the skin of the breast; truss the chicken as for an entree, and brown it in butter. This done, put it into an oval cocotte, with two oz. of butter, four rectangles of blanched breast of pork, and three oz. of raw quartered mushrooms, quickly tossed in butter beforehand. Cook in the oven, under cover, and add two tablespoonfuls of veal gravy, just before serving. 1631— POULET DE GRAINS A LA BERGERE Fry in butter four oz. of blanched breast of pork, cut into dice, and one-half lb. of small, whole mushrooms. Drain, and set to brown in the same butter, the chicken stuffed with a half-onion and three oz. of mushrooms, chopped and fried in butter, and mixed with three oz. of butter and a coffee- spoonful of chopped parsley. When the chicken is well coloured or gilded, put the bacon and the mushrooms round it; swill with one-sixth pint of white wine; reduce by two-thirds; add four tablespoonfuls of veal gravy, and complete the cooking of the chicken in the oven. Set it on a round dish; thicken the cooking-liquor with a piece of manied butter, the size of a hazel-nut, or a little arrow- root; pour the sauce and the garnish round the chicken, and surround it with a border of freshly-fried straw potatoes. 1632— POULET DE GRAINS BONNE FEMME Fry in butter four oz. of breast of fresh or salted pork, cut into slices and blanched. Drain ; colour the chicken in the same tat, and put it in an oval cocotte with the slices of bacon. With the same fat, fry in a frying-pan two-thirds lb. of potatoes cut to the shape of corks and divided into roundels; put these round the chicken, and set to cook in the oven, under cover. When about to serve, sprinkle the fowl with a few table- spoonfuls of veal gravy. Serve the preparation in the cocotte.