SOUPS 217 60s—CONSOMME REJANE Prepare one quart of excellent white consomm£, set it to boil, and add a julienne of the white of half a fowl and the heads of two leeks cut similarly to the fowl. Set to cook gently for ten minutes, taking care to disturb the consomm^ as little as pos- sible, add three oz. of potatoes cut into a julienne, complete the cooking, and serve immediately. 606—CONSOMME RENAISSANCE Prepare one quart of clear chicken consomm£. For the garnish make two dariole-moulds of royale with a pur^e of early-season herbs thickened with velout6 and whole eggs; with a small grooved spoon-cutter pick out one tablespoon- ful of pellets from a turnip and the red part only of a carrot. Cook these vegetables in the usual way. Cut the royale with a grooved fancy-cutter into pieces of the shape of small leaves. Put the leaves of royale into the soup-tureen with the carrot and turnip pellets, one tablespoonful of very green peas, the same quantity of French beans cut into lozenges, one tablespoonful of asparagus-heads, and twelve very small particles of very white cauliflower. Pour the boiling consomm^ over these gar- nishes, and add a pinch of chervil pinches. 607—CONSOMME RICHELIEU Have ready one quart of highly-seasoned beef consomm^. Also (1) prepare twelve quenelles of chicken forcemeat moulded by means of a small coffee-spoon, proceeding as follows :—Line the spoon with a thin coating of the forcemeat, and in the middle lay some chopped, reduced, cold chicken aspic. Cover the jelly with a layer of forcemeat, shaping it like a dome; insert another spoon (first dipped in hot water) under the quenelle, and place the latter upon a buttered sautdpan. Repeat the operation until the required number of quenelles have been moulded. Treated in this way, the quenelles, when poached, contain, so to speak, a liquid core. Five minutes before dishing up, poach the quenelles. 2. Cut six rectangles out of lettuce leaves; spread a thin layer of forcemeat over each; roll into paupiettes, and poach in some of the consomm^. 3. Prepare two tablespoonfuls of a coarse julienne of carrots and turnips, stew them in butter, and complete their cooking in the consomm6, which should be thoroughly cleared of grease. Put the julienne, the paupiettes, and the stuffed quenelles