POULTRY 483 slices of truffle, and blanched olives. Add a small quantity of half-glaze sauce prepared with truffle essence. Send a sauceboat of the same sauce separately. M75—POULARDE A LA GASTRONOMF Stuff the pullet with one-half lb. of noodles, slightly tossed in butter, and poele it. Swill the saucepan with one-quarter pint of champagne. Dish the pullet and surround it with medium-sized truffles, cooked in champagne, alternated with small heaps of cooked and glazed chestnuts, and place a cock’s kidney between each heap. Serve, separately, a half-glaze sauce, flavoured with truffle essence and combined with the reduced swilling-liquor. 1476—POULARDE A LA GODARD Braise the pullet brown. Dish it and surround it with spoon-moulded quenelles of forcemeat, combined with chopped mushrooms and truffles; large oval quenelles, decorated with tongue and truffle; grooved button-mushroom heads; cocks’ combs and kidneys; glazed small lambs’ sweetbreads; and olive-shaped truffles. Slightly coat this garnish with Godard sauce, combined with some reduced braising-liquor, and send what remains of the latter in a sauceboat. 1477—POULARDE A LA GRAMMONT Poach the pullet, and let it half-cool. Now remove the supremes and the bones of the breast; fill up the cavity in the carcass with a garnish consisting of larks’ fillets, sauted just before dishing; grooved button-mushroom heads; cocks’ combs and kidneys; and cohere the whole by means of Bechamel sauce, finished with truffle essence. Slice the supremes, and return them to their place, setting a slice of truffle between each. Coat the pullet with a stiff Alle- mande sauce; sprinkle with grated Parmesan and melted butter; glaze quickly, and serve at once. 1478—POULARDE GRAND HOTEL Cut up the fowl as for a saute dish, and cook it in butter, under cover. Then set the pieces in a very hot cocotte, and distribute thereupon five ox. of raw truffles cut into thick slices and slightly salted and peppered. Swill the sautepan with a few tablespoonfuls of white wine; add a little chicken stock; pour this liquor into the cocottc; l I 2