168 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY (2) In order that the eggs may poach freely, do not put more than eight or ten at a time into the same saut^-pan; better even poach them six at a time, for then the poaching will be effected more equally. (3) As soon as the eggs are in the water, let the latter simmer. The egg is poached when the white has enveloped the yolk, reassuming, as it were, the form of a raw egg, and when it may be touched without breaking. The usual time allowed for poaching is three minutes. (4) Withdraw the eggs by means of a slice; dip them into cold water, trim their whites, and put them back into moderately warm water until ready to serve. 412— THE COOKING OF SOFT-BOILED EGGS These ought to be very fresh, as in the case of poached eggs. With a view to equalising their cooking, it is a good plan to put them in a colander perforated with large holes, whereby they may be plunged into and withdrawn from the water together. Keep the water boiling; plunge the eggs therein as directed; leave them to cook for six minutes from the time the water has regained the boiling-point; drain, steep for a moment in a bowl of cold water, and shell the eggs care- fully. Keep them in moderately-salted hot water until ready to serve. 413— THE DISHING OF POACHED AND SOFT-BOILED EGGS There are many ways of doing this, viz. :— (1) On rusks of bread-crumb, slightly hollowed, ornamented according to taste (i.e., indented by means of the point of a small knife) and fried in clarified butter. Their shape is oval for poached eggs, and round for soft-boiled eggs, the latter being generally dished upright. (2) On little, oval feuilletes for poached eggs, on feuilletes in the shape of indented crowns, or in small patties for soft- boiled eggs. (3) In borders of forcemeat or other preparations, the kind of which is indicated by the name of the particular egg-prepara- tion. These borders are laid on the dish by means of a piping- bag or by hand; they are either oval or round, plain or in- dented, poached or oven-browned, according to the nature of the preparation used. (4) On tartlet-crusts which are garnished so as to be in keep- ing with the method of dressing the eggs.