6 2 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY and fish-bones. If the aspic is not required to be quite white, a little saffron may be added to it, as the aroma of this condiment blends so perfectly with that of fish. When the stock is prepared its consistence should be tested, and rectified, if necessary, by means of gelatine. The quantity of this substance should on no account exceed eight leaves per quart of aspic, and, at the risk of repeating myself, I remind the reader that the less gelatine is used the better the aspic will be. The clarification should be made with fresh caviare if pos- sible, but pressed caviare is also admirably suited to this purpose. The quantities are the same as for the clarification of fish con- somme, No. 4. In flavouring white fish aspics either dry champagne or a good Bordeaux or Burgundy may be used. Take care, how- ever— 1. That the wine used be of an unquestionably good quality. 2. That it be only added to the aspic when the latter is already cold and on the point of coagulating, as this is the only means of preserving all the aroma of the wine. Finally, in certain cases, a special flavour may be obtained by the use of crayfish, which are cooked, as for bisque, then pounded, and added to the fish stock No. 11 ten minutes before straining it. A proportion of four little crayfish k bisque per quart of aspic is sufficient to secure an excellent aroma. 162—FISH ASPIC WITH RED WINE This aspic stock is the Court-bouillon with red wine No. 165, which has served in cooking the fish for which the aspic is intended; this fish is generally either trout or salmon; some- times also, but less commonly, a carp or a pike. This stock must first of all have its grease thoroughly re- moved; it should then be poured carefully away, reduced if necessary, and the required quantity of gelatine added. This cannot be easily determined, as all gelatines are not alike, and the stock may have contracted a certain consistence from its contact with the fish. One can, therefore, only be guided by testing small quantities cooled in ice, but care should be taken that the aspic be not too firm. The clarification of this aspic is generally made with white of egg in the proportion of one white per quart. The white, half-whisked, is added to the cold stock, and the latter is put over an open fire and stirred with a spatula. As soon as it boils, the aspic is poured through a serviette fixed on to