FISH 321 fish fumet, and three tablespoonfuls of burnt brandy. Cover and cook for fifteen minutes. Now detach the sections of the tail and the claws; withdraw the meat from them, and keep them hot in a small covered saucepan with a little butter. Pound the carapace and remains of the lobster in a mortar; fry them in four tablespoonfuls of very hot oil, and add thereto an ordinary mirepoix, cut very fine. Moisten with the cooking-liquor of the lobster, and set to cook for one-quarter hour. Strain through muslin; leave to stand for five minutes, that the oil may rise to the surface, and then completely remove it. Reduce this liquid to one- quarter pint; thicken it with the reserved creamy parts of the lobster, rubbed through tammy, and two tablespoonfuls of fish velout£, and finish this sauce with two and one-half oz. of curry butter. Arrange a border of pilaff rice (No. 2255) on the dish intended for the lobster; set the pieces of lobster, kept hot, in the centre, and coat these with a few tablespoonfuls of curry sauce. Serve the remainder of the sauce separately. 951—MOUSSELINES DE HOMARD In the matter of crustaceans, the term mousse stands, as a rule, for a cold preparation, whereas the term mousseline is only applied to warm dishes. The special moussclines or quenelles of lobster are made with a mousseline forcemeat, the recipe for which I gave under No. 195. This forcemeat is pre- pared with the raw meat of the lobster. As with the other crustaceans, their meat produces forcemeat which is somewhat too flimsy to be spoon-moulded, and it is preferable to poach it in special well-buttered quenelle- or dariole-moulds. Mousselines are poached under cover in a moderate oven. All the garnishes and sauces given in respect of salmon mousselines may be applied here. The reader will therefore refer to:— Mousselines de Saumon Alexandra (No. 798). Mousselines de Saumon k la Tosca (No. 799). 952—SOUFFLES DE HOMARD For lobster souffles the same forcemeat is used as for the mousselines; but, unlike the latter, it is poached in the half- carapaces of the lobster, the meat of which has served in its preparation. The procedure is as follows:—First cook the two half-carapaces carefully, that they may not lose their shape in the process. Y