409 RELEVES AND ENTREES Send to the table, separately, a sauceboat of Velout£ flavoured with mushroom essence. 1221—RIS DE VEAU BONNE MAMAN Cut the vegetables intended for the braising stock into a short and coarse julienne, and add thereto an equal quantity of similarly-cut celery. Braise the veal sweetbreads with this julienne, after the manner described under No. 248, and moisten with excellent veal stock. Take particular care of the vegetables, that they do not burn. When the sweetbreads are ready, glaze them and dish them in a shallow, round cocotte with the julienne of vegetables and the braising-liquor all round. Cover the cocotte, and serve it on a folded napkin, 1222— CREP1NETTE DE RIS DE VEAU For this dish take either some white throat sweetbreads, or some remains of the latter, from which slices have already been cut. Chop up the throat sweetbreads or the remains, together with their weight of raw calf’s udder. Season with one-half oz. of salt and a pinch of pepper; add five oz. of chopped truffles and two whole eggs per lb. of the mince-meat. Mix the whole well; divide it up into portions weighing three oz., and wrap each portion in a piece of very soft pig’s caul. Sprinkle with melted butter and bread-crumbs, and grill gently. Dish in the form of a crown, and serve a P^rigueux sauce at the same time. 1223— RIS DE VEAU A LA CEVENOLE Braise the veal sweetbreads and glaze them at the last moment. Dish them with a heap of small glazed onions at either end, and serve, at the same time, a pur£e of chestnuts and a sauce- boat of thickened gravy. 1224—RIS DE VEAU DEMIDOFP Lard the sweetbreads with bacon and truffles; braise them brown, and only half-cook them. Then place them in a shallow cocotte, and surround them with the following garnish :—Two oz. of carrots and the same weight of turnips, both cut into grooved crescents; an equal quantity of small onions, cut into large roundels, and some celery cut paysann e-fash ion. All these vegetables should be first stewed in butter.