ENTREMETS 769 The sauces for puddings are those given at the beginning of this chapter. Their garnishes always consist of fruit, and the latter is either stewed and served separately, or it is candied and combined with the pudding paste. 2659—PUDDING A LA BOHEMIENNE Make some very small pancakes, and garnish them with a salpicon of candied fruits and currants swelled in tepid water, cohered with some fairly stiff, apple pur£e. Close up the pancakes to the shape of balls or rectangles, and set them in a buttered border-mould. Fill up the mould with a moulded-custard pre- paration (No. 2639), containing a good proportion of whole eggs, and poach in a bain-marie. Leave the whole to cool in the mould ; turn out at the last moment, and coat the pudding with a sabayon, flavoured according to fancy. 2660—PUDDING DIPLOMATE Decorate the bottom of an oiled deep Bavarois-mould with pieces of candied fruit. Fill up the mould with alternate layers of vanilla-flavoured Bavarois preparation and “ lady’s-finger- biscuits,” saturated with Kirsch. On each layer of biscuit sprinkle some currants and raisins swelled in tepid water, and here and there set a tablespoonful of apricot jam. Let the contents of the mould set in the cool or on ice, and turn out just before serving. 2661—PUDDING DIPLOMATE AUX FRUITS Prepare the pudding as above, but spread a few extra layers of fresh fruit in the mould, such as very ripe pears, peaches, apricots, etc., all peeled, cut into thin slices, and previously macerated with powdered sugar and half a port wine-glassful of either Kirsch, Maraschino, or Anisette, etc. When the pudding is turned out, surround its base with some very cold stewed fruit the same as one of the kinds used inside the pudding, or some stewed, mixed fruit. 2662—PUDDING MALAKOFF Prepare (1) a gelatinous English custard, combined with one pint of very fresh, raw cream per quart; (2) a stew of apples and pears, prepared as for an apple Charlotte ; currants and sultanas, swelled in tepid syrup ; fresh splintered almonds ; candied orange rind, cut into dice; slices of stale biscuit, or lady’s-finger biscuits, saturated with liqueur. Oil a Charlotte mould, and pour into it a layer of cream half an inch thick. Upon this cream lay 3 D