VEGETABLES AND FARINACEOUS PRODUCTS 667 This done, drain it and put it into a saut^pan with two and one-half oz. of butter cut into small pieces. Mix with a fork; cover, and place in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. 2252—RIZ AU GRAS Parboil one-half lb. of Carolina rice; drain it; fry it in butter, and moisten it with twice as much white and rather fat con- somme as would be needed just to cover it. Set to boil, and then cook it gently in the oven for fifteen minutes. 2253—RIZ A LA GRECQUE Prepare some “ Pilaff ” rice. Add to it, per lb. of its weight one half-onion, chopped and fried in butter, together with two oz. of fat sausage-meat, divided into small portions, and two oz. of ciseled lettuce; cook the whole, and complete with one-quarter pint of peas, cooked “k la Frangaise,” and one and one-half oz. of red capsicums cut into dice. This garnish is mixed with the rice seven or eight minutes before serving. 2254—RIZ A L’INDIENNE Parboil one-half lb. of Patna rice in salted water, for fifteen minutes; stirring it from time to time the while. Drain it; wash it in several cold waters; lay it on a napkin, and set the latter on a tray or on a sieve. Dry for fifteen minutes in a steamer or in a very moderate oven. 2255—RIZ PILAFF Fry one chopped half-onion and one-half lb. of Carolina rice in two oz. of butter. Stir over the fire, until the rice is well affected all over; moisten with one quart of white consomm£; cover, and cook in a moderate oven for eighteen minutes. Transfer it to another saucepan as soon as it is cooked. 2256—PILAFF RICE (For the Stuffing of Fowls) Pilaff rice is frequently used in stuffing fowls. For this purpose, when it is cooked, it is combined (per quart) with a little cream, four oz. of foie-gras dice, and as much truffle, also in dice. The rice should only be three-parts cooked for stuffings; for it completes its cooking inside the bird. For this reason the cream is added, that the rice may absorb it while its cooking is being completed. 2257—RIZ PILAFF A LA TURQUE Prepare some pilaff rice as directed under No. 2255, and, while it is cooking, add to it enough saffron to make it of a nice, golden colour. When cooked, add four oz. of peeled and concassed tomatoes to it.