ENTREMETS 759 2622— VARIOUS CREAM BAVAROIS Almond, anisette, filbert, coffee, chocolate, Kirsch, fresh walnut, orange, and violet Bavarois, &c., may be prepared after No. 2614; the flavour alone undergoing any change. 2623— VARIOUS FRUIT BAVAROIS After the generic recipe, Bavarois may be prepared from pine- apple, apricots, strawberries, raspberries, melon, etc. 2624—BLANC-MANGE Blanc-mange is scarcely ever served nowadays, and this is a pity ; seeing that, when it is well prepared, it is one of the best entremets that can be set before a diner. Blanc-mange, as it is prepared in England, is quite different from that generally served ; but it is nevertheless an excellent and very wholesome entremet, and that is why I have given its recipe below. As a matter of fact, in order to justify its name, blanc- mange ought always to be beautifully white; but, for a long time since, the compound word has lost its original meaning. The adjective and noun composing it have fused one with the other to form a single generic title, which may now be applied with equal propriety to both coloured and white preparations ; and the verbal error is so old, dating as it does from pre-Careme times, that it would be futile to try and correct it. 2625—FRENCH BLANC-MANGE Preparation.—Skin one lb. of sweet almonds and four or five bitter almonds, and soak them well in fresh water that they may be quite white. Pound them as finely as possible; adding to them the while (in spoonfuls at a time) one pint of water. Strain the whole through a strong towel, twisting the latter tightly ; melt one lb. of loaf-sugar in the resulting milk (about one and half pints); add a bare oz. of gelatine dissolved in tepid syrup ; strain the whole through muslin, and flavour according to taste. Moulding-.—Mould the blanc-mange in oiled moulds fitted with centre-tubes as for Bavarois. Incrust them in ice that their contents may set, and proceed for the turning-out as already directed. N.B.—For the preparation of almond milk, modern Cookery has substituted for the procedure given above, which is antiquated, another which consists in pounding the almonds with only a few table-spoonfuls of water and some very thin cream.