GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 420 *255—COTE DE VEAU EN CASSEROLE Heat one oz. of butter in an earthenware saucepan; insert the veal cutlet, seasoned, and cook it gently, taking care to turn it over from time to time. At the last moment, add a tablespoonful of excellent veal gravy, and serve in the saucepan. 1256—COTE DE VEAU EN COCOTTE A LA PAYSANNE Toss the veal cutlet in butter, in the cocotte, with two small slices of blanched salted breast of pork. Add four small onions, and two small, long potatoes, cut paysanne-fashion; and com- plete the cooking of the cutlets and the garnish very gently in the oven. Send the preparation to the table in the cocotte. *257—C6TE DE VEAU A LA DREUX Stud the kernel of the veal cutlet with tongue, ham and truffle, and cook it gently in butter. This done, trim it to the quick on both sides, that the studding may be clean and neat; dish it with a frill on the bare bone, and, beside it, arrange a small garnish of quenelles, mushrooms, cocks’ combs and kidneys, and turned and blanched olives. Pour a little half-glaze sauce, flavoured with truffle essence, over the garnish. 1258—C6TE DE VEAU MILANAI5E With a moistened butcher’s beater, flatten the meat in such- wise as to reduce it to half its normal thickness. Dip the veal cutlet into beaten egg; roll it in bread-crumbs, mixed with half as much grated Parmesan, and cook it in clarified butter, 01 butter and oil in equal quantities. Dish it with a frill on the bare bone, and the garnish beside it. Milanaise garnish consists of cooked macaroni, seasoned with salt, pepper and nutmeg, and cohered with butter, grated Gruy£re and Parmesan cheeses, and very red tomato pur£e; and combined with a julienne of very lean cooked ham, salted tongue, mushrooms and truffles, heated in Madeira. ,259—COTE DE VEAU PAPILLOTE Toss the veal cutlet in butter, and prepare, meanwhile :— (1) Two tablespoonfuls of Duxelles sauce, combined with a cooked and sliced mushroom. (2) Two heart-shaped slices of ham, of about the same size as the cutlet. (3) A doubled sheet of strong paper, cut to the shape of a heart and well-oiled.