GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 630 egg-y°ll<s and grated, fresh cheese. When about to serve, dip them into batter, and fry them in smoking oil. Dish on a napkin with very green fried parsley. These stuffed slices of egg-plant may be treated & Vanglaise instead of with batter. 2052— CARDOONS (Cardons) Treatment and Cooking Process.—After having suppressed the green outside leaf-stalks, detach the white ones all round, and cut these into three-inch lengths. Peel these lengths, rub them with lemon, that they may not blacken, and throw them, one by one, into fresh acidulated water. Prepare the heart of the cardoon in the same way, after having withdrawn the fibrous parts, and cook the whole in a Blanc (No. 167), with one lb. of chopped veal fat, sprinkled over its surface, that the cardoon may be kept from blackening by exposure to the air. Cook gently for about one and one-half hours. 2053— CARD0N5 AU PARMESAN After having well drained the sections, build them into a pyramid in successive layers. Sprinkle each row with a few drops of good half-glaze sauce, and with grated Parmesan. Cover the whole with the same sauce; sprinkle with grated Parmesan, and set to glaze quickly. 2054— CARDONS A LA MORNAY Proceed exactly as above, but replace half-glaze sauce by Mornay sauce. Glaze quickly, and serve immediately. 2055— CARDONS A LA MILANAISE Proceed as for “ Asperges k la Milanaise ” (No. 2041). 2056— CARDONS WITH VARIOUS SAUCES They may be served either with gravy, or Half-glaze, Cream, Hollandaise, Mousseline, Italienne, or Bordelaise sauces. The sauce is either poured over them or served separately. If the sauce be poured over the cardoons, they are dished in a timbale; if the sauce be sent separately, they may be served on a silver drainer, like asparagus. 2057— CARDONS A LA MOELLE Dish the cardoons in a pyramid on a round dish; cover them with a marrow sauce (No. 45), and surround them with very small puff-paste patties garnished with poached marrow dice. Or dish the cardoons in a timbale, and set thereon the heart