GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 272 794— DARNE DE SAUMON REGENCE Braise the darne in white wine in accordance with the directions given in No. 780. Garnish.—Surround the darne by spoon-moulded quenelles of whiting forcemeat prepared with crayfish butter, oysters cleared of their beards and poached, small, very white mush- rooms, and poached slices of milt. Normande sauce finished with truffle essence. 795— DARNE DE SAUMON ROYALE Braise the darne in Sauterne wine. * Garnish.—Bunches of crayfishes’ tails, small quenelles of mousseline forcemeat for fish, small mushrooms, slices of truffle, and little balls of potato raised by means of the large, round spoon-cutter, and cooked a I’anglaise. Send a Normande sauce separately. 796— DARNE DE SAUMON VALOIS Poach the darne in a white wine court-bouillon. Garnish.—Potato balls raised with the spoon-cutter or turned to the shape of olives, and cooked in salted water, poached slices of milt, and trussed crayfish cooked in court-bouillon. Send a Valois sauce separately. 797— MOUSSELINE DE SAUMON In Part I. I dealt with the preparation of mousseline force- meat (No. 195), and also the method of poaching spoon-moulded quenelles (No. 205). Now mousselines are only large quenelles which derive their name from the very light forcemeat of which they are composed. These mousseline quenelles are always moulded with the ordinary tablespoon, they are garnished on top with a fine, raw slice of the fish under treatment, and poached after the manner already described. 798— MOUSSELINE ALEXANDRA Having made the salmon mousscline forcemeat, mould the quenelles and place them, one by one, in a buttered saut^pan. Place a small, round and very thin slice of salmon on each, and poach them in a very moderate oven with lid on the utensil con- taining them. Drain on a piece of linen, arrange them in a circle on a dish, place a slice of truffle upon each slice of salmon, coat with Mornay sauce, and glaze. Garnish the centre of the dish with very small peas or asparagus-heads cohered with butter just before dishing up.