582 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY potatoes, which are one of the garnishing ingredients of fowls “ en cocotte.” 1834— FAISAN EN CHARTREUSE Parboil a fine, round-headed, quartered cabbage, and braise it as directed under No. 2100, adding thereto an old, oven- browned pheasant. The chartreuse may be made with the pheasant kept whole or cut into pieces, but in any case, roasted or poeled, it should be very tender and only just cooked. The old pheasant put in with the cabbage only serves in imparting its flavour to the latter, but it must not and cannot be used for the chartreuse. If the chartreuse be made with a cut-up pheasant, proceed as in the case of No. 1778. If whole, line an oval mould chartreuse-fashion; coat the inside with a portion of the braised cabbage, which should be slightly pressed; set the pheasant, breast undermost, in the mould; cover it with what remains of the cabbage, and then turn it out on a dish. Send a sauceboat of excellent half-glaze, flavoured with pheasant fumet, separately. 1835— FAISAN A LA CHOCCROUTE Prepare the sauerkraut after No. 2097, and bear in mind that when it is specially prepared to accompany a pheasant, it is considerably improved by being braised with foie-gras fat. Poele a very tender pheasant, and only just cook it. Lay the well-drained sauerkraut on a long dish; set the pheasant upon it, and surround it with a border consisting of rectangles of bacon, cooked in the sauerkraut. Serve separately the poeling-liquor combined with a little game fumet, strained, and kept somewhat greasy. 1836— FAISAN A LA CREME Cook the pheasant in butter, in a saucepan, with a medium- sized, quartered onion. When the cooking is three-parts done, sprinkle the bird with one-quarter pint of cream (sour if pos- sible), or with ordinary cream, acidulated by means of a few drops of lemon juice. Finish the cooking, basting the piece the while with cream and serve in the saucepan. 1837— FAISAN DEMIDOFF Proceed exactly as directed under “ Poulet h la Demidoff ” (No. 1464).