640 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY Take note that the cooking must be gentle from start to finish, and that the only moistening should be the vinegar. 2099— MARINADED RED CABBAGES FOR HORS = D’(EUVRE Cut the cabbages into a small julienne as above, and put them into a bowl or deep dish. Sprinkle with table salt, and leave to macerate for two days, stirring frequently the while. Then drain, and put them into a pot with garlic cloves, peppercorns, and one bay leaf. Cover with raw vinegar, or the latter boiled and cooled, and leave to marinade for a day or two. This marinaded cabbage forms an excellent adjunct to boiled beef. Choux Verts Pommes (Savoy Cabbages) 2100— BRAISED CABBAGE Quarter the cabbage; parboil and cool it. Defoliate the quarters; suppress the outside leaves and the midribs of the remaining leaves; season with salt and pepper, and put the cabbage in a saucepan garnished with slices of bacon, and containing one quartered carrot, one onion stuck with a garlic clove, one faggot, two-thirds pint of consomm^, and three tablespoonfuls of stock fat per two lbs. of cabbage. Cover with slices of bacon; boil, and then braise gently for two hours. 2101— CHOU A L’ANGLAISE Plainly boil or steam the cabbqge. Press all the water out of it, between two plates, and cut it into lozenges or squares. 2102— CHOU FARCI Take a medium-sized round-headed or Savoy cabbage; parboil it; cool it, and suppress its stump. Slightly open out its leaves, and insert between them raw or cooked mince- meat, combined with chopped onion and parsley, and highly seasoned. Reconstruct the cabbage, pressing it closely to- gether; wrap it in slices of bacon; string it, and braise it gently for three hours with stock and stock fat. When about to serve, drain the cabbage; remove the string and the slices of bacon; set it on a dish, and cover it with a few tablespoonfuls of the braising-liquor, cleared of all grease, reduced, and thickened with some half-glaze sauce. Send what remains of the braising-liquor separately. N.B.—The preparation is improved if the mince-meat with which the cabbage is stuffed be combined with a quarter of its bulk of pilaff rice and the same quantity of foie-gras fat.