429 RELEVES AND ENTREES court-bouillon (No. 163) to cover them well; skim and then set to cook gently. Brains have this peculiarity, namely, that prolonged cooking only stiffens them; thus, calf’s brains only take half an hour to cook; but they may cook for two hours more without harm, seeing that the process only tends to make them firmer. 1290—CERVELLE A LA BEAUMONT Cut the brains into slices; on each slice put a layer of gratin force-meat (No. 202) prepared from foie gras and softened by means of a little cold, brown sauce, and a slice of truffle. Re- construct the brains by putting the coated slices together again. Roll some puff-paste remains into a galette one-fifth of an inch thick, the diameter of which should be in proportion to the size of the brains under treatment. Put the brains in the middle of the galette, and cover them with the same forcemeat as that laid on the slices; sprinkle with chopped truffles; moisten the edges of the paste, and draw these over the brains so as to enclose the latter completely. Gild; make a slit in the top for the escape of steam, and bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. After taking the pie out of the oven, pour a few tablespoonfuls of P^rigueux sauce into the former, and dish on a napkin. 1291—CERVELLE AU BEURRE NOIR Slice the brains; set the slices on a dish, and season them with salt and pepper. Cook two oz. of butter in the frying-pan until it is slightly blackened; throw therein a pinch of parsley pluches, and sprinkle the brains with this butter. Pour a few drops of vinegar into the burning frying-pan, and add it to the brains. 1292—CERVELLE AU BEURRE NOISETTE Slice and season the brains as above. Cook the butter until it has acquired a golden colour and exhales a nutty smell; pour it over the brains, and finish with a few drops of lemon juice and a pinch of chopped parsley. 1293—CERVELLE A LA MARECHALE Cut the brains into regular slices, one-third of an inch thick treat them a Vanglaise with very fine bread-crumbs, and brown them in clarified butter. Dish them in the form of a circle, with a slice of truffle on each, and garnish the centre of the dish with a fine heap of asparagus-heads cohered with butter.