334 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 981— HUiTRES AU QRATIN Open the oysters; cut them free, and lay them in the hollow halves of their shells, which should be incrusted in a layer of salt covering a tray. On each oyster put a drop of lemon juice, a pinch of fried bread-crumbs, a little melted butter, and a piece of fresh butter the size of a pea. Set the gratin to form in a fierce oven or at the salamander, and serve immediately. 982— HUITRES A LA MORNAY Poach the oysters, and allow two per shell. Set the hollow shells, thoroughly cleansed, on a tray covered with salt. Cover the bottom of the shells with Mornay sauce; put two poached oysters into each; cover with the same sauce; sprinkle with grated cheese and melted butter, and set to glaze quickly. Serve instantly. 983— HUITRES SOUFFLEES Make a preparation of Souffle au Parmesan (No. 2295A). Slightly poach the oysters, clean their hollow shells, and set these on a tray covered with kitchen salt. Spread a layer of the preparation on each shell; put an oyster thereon, and cover the latter with the souffle au Parmesan. Heat the base of the tray on the stove, and, when the souffld begins to rise, put the tray in the oven, that the souffle may cook and colour at the same time. Serve at once. 984— HUiTRES A LA FLORENTINE Poach the oysters. Set their hollow shells on a tray as above; garnish the bottom of each of these with shredded spinach stewed in butter; lay an oyster on the spinach in each shell; cover with Mornay sauce, and set to glaze quickly. Serve immediately. 985— HUITRES GRILLEES Open the oysters, and leave them in their hollow shells; lay them (very straight) on a tray covered with salt, incrusting them in the latter; besprinkle with a drop of lemon juice and a little mignonette pepper and put them in a fierce oven, that their top surfaces may be speedily poached. Dish them on a napkin; pour a coffeespoonful of “Sauce Diable Escoffier ” over each1 and serve directly. 986— QUENELLES D’HUiTRES A LA REINE With four oz. of chicken fillets and six raw oysters, prepare a mousseline forcemeat in accordance with the directions given