GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY on a long dish covered with a napkin, and surround it with very green, curled-leaf parsley. Serve with it, at the same time, a timbale of floury potatoes freshly cooked a I’anglaise, and a sauceboat of melted butter. 942— HOMARD A LA BROCHE Select a lobster that seems full of life, and, after killing it, fix it on the spit. Put into the dripping-pan six oz. of butter, one-half bottle of champagne, salt, and peppercorns. In order to cook it to perfection, frequently baste it with this mixture, and allow one hour before a red fire for a specimen weighing three lbs. It may be dished with two accompaniments : — 1. A hot ravigote sauce combined with the gravy of the lobster, from which all grease has been removed. 2. Strain the contents of the dripping-pan (cleared of all grease) through a fine sieve; reduce it by a quarter over a brisk fire; add three tablespoonfuls of meat-glaze, two tablespoonfuls of Worcestershire sauce, and a little chopped parsley, and finish this sauce with three oz. of butter and a few drops of lemon juice. 943— HOMARD CARDINAL Plunge the live lobster into boiling court-bouillon, and cook it after the manner directed under “ Homard h la Hollandaise ” (No. 941). The moment it is cooked, cut it in two lengthwise; withdraw the meat from the tail, slice it, and keep it hot in a little Cardinal sauce. Disconnect the claws; open them sideways, and with- draw all their meat without breaking them. Cut the withdrawn meat into dice, as also the creamy parts from the carapace, and add thereto their weight of cooked mushrooms and half that quantity of truffles—both of which products should also be in dice. Thicken this salpicon with a few tablespoonfuls of lobster sauce, and spread it in even layers on the bottom of each half- carapace. Reserve, however, two tablespoonfuls of it for garnishing the emptied claws. Upon the salpicon lay the slices of lobster, kept hot, alter- nating these with fine slices of truffles. Set the two half- carapaces, thus garnished, on a dish, and wedge them upright by means of the two claws. Coat the slices and the claws with Cardinal sauce; sprinkle with grated cheese and melted butter; set to glaze quickly in a fierce oven or at the salamander, and serve instantly.