GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 554 truffle; cover with aspic, and continue thus with alternate layers of pur£e, collops, and aspic. Fill up the mould with a layer of aspic jelly; put it in the refrigerator for a few hours, and dish on a block of ice, cut to the shape of a flagstone. 1744—TIMBALE DE FOIE GRAS TZARINE Line a timbale-mould with ordinary patty paste, and cover the inside all over with slices of larding bacon. Just in the middle set a fresh foie gras, seasoned with salt, pepper, and allspice; surround it with quails stuffed with a piece of truffle, and set upright with their breasts against the slices of bacon. Fill up the mould with whole, raw, and peeled truffles; cover the whole with a round slice of the same bacon; cover the timbale with a layer of paste, well sealed down round the edges; make a slit in the top for the escape of steam, and bake in a good, moderate oven for one and one-quarter hours. On withdrawing the timbale from the oven, pour into it some succulent veal stock, flavoured with Madeira, and suffi- ciently gelatinous to form a nice jelly. Keep the timbale in the cool for one or two days before serving it. Ducks and Ducklings (Canards et Canetons) Three varieties of the duck family are recognised in cookery, viz., the Nantes duck, the Rouen duck, and the different kinds of wild duck. The latter are generally used for roasts and in salmis. The Rouen duck is also served more often as a roast than as an entrde. The characteristic trait of its preparation lies in its being kept very underdone, and it is very rarely braised. It is killed by suffocation, and not by bleeding, which is the usual mode of killing other birds. The Nantes duck, which is similar to the Aylesbury one, is not so fleshy as the Rouen duck, and may be roasted, poeled, or braised. '745—CANETON NANTAIS A LA CHOUCROOTE Take a piece of manicd butter the size of an egg, and insert it into the duckling with chopped parsley and shallots. Truss the bird as for an entree; brown it in the oven, and put it in a stewpan already lined for braising. Moisten, just enough to cover, with white veal stock and Rhine wine (in the proportion of two-thirds of the former to one-third of the latter), or ordinary good white wine, and braise slowly until cooking is completed.