GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 250 colour. Add one and one-quarter pints of thin velout£ with a veal base, and set to cook very gently. Finely pound the veal; dilute the pur£e with velout6, and rub through tammy. Add one pint of white consomm^; heat without boiling, and complete the preparation, when dishing up, with a leason of the yolks of three eggs diluted with four tablespoonfuls of cream and two oz. of butter. Garnish with thin macaroni cut into short lengths, and send some grated cheese to the table separately. 717— POTAGE BAGRATION MAIGRE Prepare one and one-half pints of fresh velout£, and mix therewith one-quarter pint of mushroom velout^. (For making this, see “ Velout£ Agn&s Sorel,” No. 671.) Heat without boiling; pass through a strainer, and finish, when about to serve, with the same leason as for ordinary velout6, and two and one-half oz. of butter. Garnish with one fillet of sole, poached very white, and cut into a julienne; twelve small quenelles of sole or whiting forcemeat finished with crayfish butter, and six crayfishes’ tails cut into small pieces. 718— POTAGE CHOISEUL Prepare a “ pur£e Conti ” (No. 640) with an excellent fumct of game. Garnish with two tablespoonfuls of sorrel, ciseled and cooked in butter, and two tablespoonfuls of poached rice. 7ip—POTAGE COMPieGNE Prepare a light “ Pur£e Soissonaise ”; butter it well, and add thereto as garnish three tablespoonfuls of ciseled sorrel cooked in butter, and chervil pinches. 720—POTAGE DERBY Add one-half pint of Soubise pur^e (No. 104) to one pint of “ Cr&me de Riz ” (No. 711) flavoured with a very little curry. Rub the whole through tammy. Add one-half pint of white consomm£, and heat without boiling. Complete, when about to serve, with an ordinary leason and three oz. of butter. Garnish with twelve small quenelles of chicken forcemeat combined with one-third of its volume of foie-gras pur£e, one tablespoonful of little truffle pearls, and an equal quantity of poached rice, each grain of which must be kept distinct and separate.