212 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 588— CONSOMME MONTMORENCY Have ready one quart of chicken consomm6 thickened with three tablespoonfuls of poached tapioca, strained through linen. Prepare eighteen small grooved quenelles of chicken force- meat. Poach, drain, and put them into the soup-tureen with two tablespoonfuls of very green asparagus-heads and two tablespoonfuls of poached rice, every grain of which should be distinct and separate. 589— CONSOMME A LA MOSCOVITE Prepare one quart of sterlet or sturgeon consomm^, and add thereto some cucumber essence, obtained by pounding a cored and peeled cucumber, and straining the resulting pur£e through linen. Put into the soup-tureen two tablespoonfuls of a julienne of salted mushrooms, one oz. of soaked vesiga cut into dice and cooked in broth, and pour thereon the boiling consomm^. N.B.— Vesiga or the spine-marrow of the sturgeon ought to be soaked in cold water for a few hours in order to soften and swell it, after which it should be cut into dice and cooked in broth. For every four tablespoonfuls of cooked vesiga, one oz. of dry vesiga should be allowed. 590— CONSOMME NESSELRODE Have ready one quart of game consomm6, prepared with hazel-hen fumet. Poach two baba-moulds of royale made from chestnut pur£e with two small tablespoonfuls of game salmis sauce added thereto; cut it into roundels half-inch thick, and trim these with a grooved fancy-cutter. Put them into the soup-tureen with two tablespoonfuls of a julienne of hazel-hen fillets, the same quantity of a julienne of mushrooms, and pour thereon the boiling game consomm£. 591— CONSOMME AUX NIDS D’HIRONDELLES The nests used for this soup are those of the esculent swal- low, and their shape somewhat resembles that of the rind of a quartered, dry orange. In the first place, prepare a chicken consomm£ containing a large proportion of nutritious principles. Set three nests to soak in cold water for twenty-four hours, the object being to swell the mucilaginous elements of which they are composed and to make them transparent. When they have soaked sufficiently remove any pieces of feather which may have remained in them, using for this pur-