656 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY pared with pains, the delicacy of their flavour is incomparable; but the slightest neglect on the part of the operator renders them savourless and commonplace. 2189— PETITS POIS A L’ANGLAISE Cook them quickly in salted boiling water; drain them, and dry them by tossing them over a fierce fire. Dish them in a timbale, and serve some pats of very fresh butter separately. 2190— PETITS POIS AU BEURRE As soon as the peas are cooked, drain them and toss them over a fierce fire, to dry. Then season them with a pinch of powdered sugar, and cohere them, away from the fire, with butter, in the proportion of three oz. per pint of peas. 2191— PETITS POIS A LA BONNE-FEMME Fry twelve oz. of small onions and four oz. of breast of bacon, cut into dice and blanched in butter; add one-half oz. of flour to the latter; cook the roux for a moment; moisten with one-half pint of consomm£ and boil. Put one quart of freshly-shelled peas into this sauce; add the onions and the bacon, together w'ith a bunch of parsley; and cook, reducing the sauce to half in so doing. 2192— PETITS POIS A LA FLAMANDE Prepare one-half lb. of new carrots as though they were to be glazed. When half-cooked, add two-thirds pint of freshly-shelled peas to them. Complete the cooking of the two vegetables together, and, at the last moment, add butter away from the fire. 2193— PETITS POIS A LA FRANCAISE Take a saucepan, of a size a little larger than would be neces- sary to just hold the following products, and put into it one quart of freshly-shelled peas; a faggot containing the heart of a lettuce, two sprays of parsley, and two of chervil; twelve small onions, four oz. of butter, one-third oz. of salt, and two- thirds oz. of loaf-sugar. Mix the whole together until it forms a compact mass, and place in the cool until ready for cooking. Add three tablespoonfuls of water, w'hen about to cook the peas, and cook gently with lid on. When about to serve, withdraw the faggot; cisel the lettuce; add it to the peas, and cohere the whole with butter, away from the fire. N.B.—Raw, ciseled lettuce may be added to the peas; but, as various tastes must be allowed for, it is better to insert the