VEGETABLES AND FARINACEOUS PRODUCTS 675 Russian dishes which occur in this work, I am obliged to refer to it. 2292— KACHE DE SEMOULE POUR COULIBIAC Take some coarse, yellow semolina, and scatter it over three times its bulk of boiling consomm£. Cook it gently for twenty- five minutes; drain it on a sieve; spread it on a tray, and place it in a moderate oven to dry. This done, rub it lightly through a coarse sieve with the view of separating the grains, and put it aside in the dry until wanted. 2293— KACHE DE SARRASIN POUR POT AGES Moisten one lb. of concassed, buckwheat with enough tepid water to make a stiff paste; add the necessary salt, and put this paste in a large Charlotte-mould. Bake in a hot oven for two hours. Then remove the thick crust which has formed upon the preparation, and transfer what remains, by means of a spoon, to a basin. Mix therewith two oz. of butter while it is still hot. Kache prepared in this way may be served in a special tim- bale. But it is more often spread in a thin layer on a buttered tray, and left to cool. It is then cut into roundels one in. in diameter, and these are rolled in flour and coloured on both sides in very hot, clarified butter. 2294—POLENTA In a quart of boiling water containing one-half oz. of salt, immerse two-thirds lb. of maize flour, stirring the while with a spoon, that the two may mix. Cook for twenty-five minutes; add two oz. of butter and two and one-half oz. of grated Par- mesan. If the Polenta be prepared for a vegetable or a gar- nish, it is spread in a thin layer on a moistened tray. When cold, it is cut into roundels or lozenges, which are first browned in butter, dished, and then sprinkled with grated cheese and nut-brown butter. 2295—SOUFFLE PIEMONTAIS Boil one pint of milk with one-fifth oz. of salt; sprinkle on it two oz. of maize flour; mix well; cover, and cook in a mild oven for twenty-five minutes. Then transfer the paste to another saucepan; work it with one and one-half oz. of butter and as much grated Parmesan; mix therewith one egg, two egg-yolks, and the whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Dish in a buttered timbale; sprinkle with grated cheese, and cook like an ordinary souffle. X X 2