VEGETABLES AND FARINACEOUS PRODUCTS 647 has elapsed, turn them over with a spatula or a fork, that their other sides may colour. Set on a dish or in a timbale, and serve a cream sauce separately. 2138—CREPES AUX EPINARDS Parboil some well-shredded spinach; dry it in butter; season it, and add to it an equal quantity of Yorkshire-pudding paste (No. 1943). Cook this preparation in a small, well-buttered omelet-pan or in deep tartlet-moulds. N.B.—These spinach pancakes constitute an excellent gar- nish for Relev^s of Beef, Veal, and Ham. 2139—SOUFFLE AUX EPINARDS Make a composition after the directions given under No. 2092. Spread this composition in two or three layers, and set on each of the latter a litter of well-cleaned and soaked anchovy fillets, arranged to form a lattice. Finish with a layer of spinach shaped like a dome, and set thereon two crossed rows of anchovy fillets. Cook after the manner of an ordinary souffle. 2140—SOUFFL& AUX EPINARDS AUX TRUFFES Proceed as directed in the preceding recipe, but substitute anchovy fillets for some fine slices of truffle. N.B.—Both these spinach souffles may be served either as vegetables, in which case they are moulded in large timbales, or as garnishes, when they are dished in small cassolettes of appropriate size. They are very delicate preparations, which may be varied by watercress souffle—prepared in the same way. 2141—FEUILLES DE VIGNE FARCIES OU DOLMAS (Stuffed Vine Leaves) Provided the vine-leaves be very tender, they may serve in the preparation of the following garnish:—Suppress their stalks; parboil the leaves; drain them well, and arrange three or four at a time in the form of a circular tray, in the centre of which lay a tablespoonful of pilaff rice to which some foie- gras pur£e has been added. This done, draw the ends of the leaves over the rice, so as to enclose it and to form regular balls of equal size. Put these balls, well-pressed, one against the other in a saufflpan, the bottom of which should be garnished with slices of bacon; cover with thin slices of bacon; moisten just enough to cover, with good consomm^; boil, and then braise gently.