RELEVES AND ENTRIES 387 about the same consistence as brioche-paste. Cut this paste into portions weighing about one oz., and roll them into small balls. Put the latter in a saut^pan containing some boiling beef cooking-liquor, which need not have been cleared of grease, and let them poach for one and one-half hours. Now drain the dumplings, and arrange them around the meat with the garnish of carrots and turnips, as explained above. 1167—COLD SALT BEEP Salt beef, served cold, constitutes an excellent sideboard dish for luncheons. It need only be neatly trimmed all round, care being taken to preserve all the fat so highly esteemed by some. Indeed, a piece of cold salt fat is sometimes added to that already existing around and in the meat, in which case the extra quantity is fixed to the beef by means of a hatelet. 1168—PRESSED BEEF Salt beef also serves in the preparation of “ Pressed Beef,” but, for this purpose, the breast is generally used. After having thoroughly cooked the salted breast of beef in accordance with the procedure indicated for salt beef, cut it into large pieces of the same size as the moulds into which the meat is going to be pressed. Lay the pieces of beef one on top of another in a square or rectangular mould, and cover with a thick board, cut flush with the inside edge of the mopld. Now apply pressure, either by means of a strong press or heavy weight, and leave the beef to cool under the applied pressure. When the meat is quite cold, turn it out; trim it carefully on all sides, and glaze it, i.e., cover it entirely with a coating of rather firm, clarified gelatine, brought by means of carmine end caramel to a nice red-brown colour. 1169—STEAK AND KIDNEY PUDDING Cut three lbs. of very lean beef into slices one-third inch thick. Season these slices with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and add a little chopped onion and parsley. Take a pudding-basin; line it with a firm layer of suet-dough (No. 1166), and garnish the bottom and sides of the basin with the slices of beef. In the middle put one lb. of kidney of beef, of veal, or of mutton, cut up as for tossing, and seasoned like the steaks. Moisten with just sufficient water to cover. Now close up the basin with a layer of the same paste as that used in lining, pinching it with the latter, all round, that it may adhere thoroughly. In order to effect this with greater C C 2