209 SOUPS and complete with one small tablespoonful of very green, cooked peas, one tablespoonful of sorrel and lettuce chiffonade, and one pinch of chervil pluclies. 577—CONSOMME LORETTE Have ready one quart of chicken consomm^. Also prepare two tablespoonfuls of a fine julienne of celery stewed in butter and cooked in the consomm^; twelve small “ pommes h la lorette ” (No. 2226), the size of hazel-nuts, and shaped like small crescents. These potatoes should be fried in hot fat four minutes before serving. Put into the soup-tureen the julienne of celery, twelve small, freshly-poached cocks’ kidneys, and one tablespoonful of a julienne of pimentos; pour the boiling consomm£ over this garnish ; add a pinch of chervil pinches, and send the lorette potatoes to the table separately. 578—CONSOMME MACDONALD Prepare (1) one quart of highly seasoned beef consomm6, (2) two dariole-moulds of brain-pur£e royale; (3) two table- spoonfuls of cucumbers cut into small dice and cooked in con- somme until the latter is reduced to a glaze; (4) five little ravioles garnished with chicken forcemeat combined with a third of its volume of spinach. Put these ravioles to poach in salted boiling water twelve minutes before serving. Put into the soup-tureen the royale of brains cut into roundels one-third inch thick, the dice of cucumber, and the ravioles poached and well drained. Pour the boiling beef consomm£ over this garnish just before serving. 579—consomm£ marguerite Take two tablespoonfuls of chicken forcemeat with cream, and roll it into sausage-form on the floured mixing-board. Put the sausage to poach. Rub the yolk of an egg through a fine sieve, and cohere it with half a teaspoonful of raw forcemeat. Having poached and cooled the chicken sausage, cut it into thin roundels, and stamp each roundel with a fancy-cutter to the shape of a marguerite. Arrange the marguerites on a dish, and lay in the middle of each a bit of the egg and forcemeat, in imitation of the flower-centre. Put these marguerites into the soup-tureen with one table- spoonful of small, green asparagus cut into lengths of one inch. When about to serve, pour one quart of very clear, boiling chicken consomm£ over this garnish. P