549 POULTRY make a slit in the top; surround the top of the mould with a band of strong, buttered paper, that the paste may be prevented from running over, and let it rest for about thirty minutes in a temperature of 86° F. to allow the paste to work. Bake in a rather hot oven, until a needle inserted through the centre withdraws quite clean. Serve the dish as it stands with one of the ordinary foie- gras garnishes. 1738—E5CAL0PES DE FOIE GRAS A LA PERIGUEUX Cut some slices two and one-half oz. in weight from a raw foie gras. Season them with salt and pepper; dip in beaten egg; roll in finely-chopped truffle, and saute in clarified butter. Dish in a circle, and, in the middle, pour a Madeira sauce flavoured with truffle essence. 1729—ESCALOPES DE FOIE GRAS A LA RAVIGNAN From a layer of unsugared brioche paste, one-third in. thick, cut twenty roundels two and one-half in. in diameter. On ten of these roundels, spread a coating of chicken forcemeat, leaving a margin one-third in. wide of bare paste on each roundel. Set a slice of truffle in the middle, a thick roundel of raw foie gras on the truffle, another slice of truffle upon that, a coat of forcemeat over the whole; and cover with the ten remaining roundels, after having slightly moistened the latter, that the two edges of paste may be sealed. Press with the back of a round cutter; gild, and cook in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. Dish in a circle, and serve a P^rigueux sauce at the same time. 1730—ESCALOPES DE FOIE GRAS A LA TALLEYRAND Prepare: (1) a crust made in a flawn-mould, six in. in dia- meter; (2) a garnish of blanched macaroni, cut into lengths of one in., cohered with four oz. of grated Gruy&re and Parmesan cheese per lb. of macaroni, and combined with two oz. of butter, four oz. of a julienne of truffles and four oz. of foie gras cut into large dice. Dish in a circle in the crust ten collops of foie gras sauted in butter, alternating them with fine slices of truffle. Put the macaroni in the middle, shaping it like a dome, sprinkle with grated cheese and glaze quickly. Dish on a napkin, and serve separately a clear chicken glaze, flavoured with truffles and well buttered.