21 LEADING SAUCES 27—ALLEMANDE SAUCE OR THICKENED VELOUTE' Allemande Sauce is not, strictly speaking, a basic sauce. However, it is so often resorted to in the preparation of other sauces that I think it necessary to give it after the Velout^s, from which it is derived. Quantities Required jor One Quart. The yolks of 5 eggs. | the juice of a lemon. 1 pint of cold white stock. J pint of mushroom liquor. 1 quart of VeIout6, well despu- mated. Mode of Procedure.—Put the various ingredients in a thick- bottomed saut^-pan and mix them carefully. Then put the pan on an open fire, and stir the sauce with a metal spatula, lest it burn at the bottom. When the sauce has been reduced to about one quart, add one-third pint of fresh cream to it, and reduce further for a few minutes. It should then be passed through a fine strainer into a tureen and kept moving until quite cold. Prepared thus, the Allemande Sauce is ready for the prepara- tion of the smaller sauces. Butter must only be added at the very last moment, for if it were buttered any earlier it would most surely turn. The same injunction holds good with this sauce when it is to be served in its original state; it should then receive a small addition of cream, and be buttered so that it may attain its required delicacy; but this addition of butter and cream ought only to be made at the last moment, and away from the fire. When a sauce thickened with egg yolks has any fat substance added to it, it cannot be exposed to a higher tempera- ture than 140 degrees Fahrenheit without risking decomposition. 28—BECHAMEL SAUCE Quantities Required for Four Quarts. 1 lb. of white roux. § oz. of salt, 1 pinch of mignon- 4! quarts of boiling milk. ette, and grated nutmeg, and 1 lb. of lean veal. 1 small sprig of thyme. 1 minced onion. Preparation.—Pour the boiling milk on the roux, which should be almost cold, and whisk it well so as to avoid lumps. Let it boil, then cook on the side of the fire. Meanwhile the lean veal should have been cut into small cubes, and fried with butter in a saucepan, together with the minced onion. When the veal has stiffened without becoming coloured, it is added to the Bechamel, together with salt and the other aro- matics. Let the sauce boil slowly for about one hour in all,