GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 432 1298— SADDLE OF MUTTON 1299— BARON OR PAIR OF HIND-QUARTERS OF MUTTON 1300— DOUBLE OR PAIR OF LEGS OF MUTTON 1301— FILLETS OF MUTTON 1302— NECK OF MUTTON (Relev^s) Saddle of mutton is that part of the sheep which reaches from the bone of the haunch to the floating ribs. Baron of mutton comprises the saddle and the two legs, i.e., a pair of hind-quarters. Double consists of the two unseparated legs, minus the saddle. The Baron and the Double are almost always cuts of lamb. The fillet is one half of the saddle, when the latter is cut into two, lengthwise; that is to say, divided down the middle in suchwise as to bisect the spinal column. These fillets are some- times boned, rolled over with the kernel of meat in the centre, and strung, in which case the skin should be removed before rolling. Saddle of mutton, before being roasted, should be cleared of all its superfluous underlying fat; and the flanks should be so shortened as to just meet when drawn over the fillets. The overlying skin should be removed, and the saddle should be strung in five or six places to keep it in shape. In the case of a saddle of lamb, the skin need not be com- pletely removed, but slit in various places. As to neck of mutton, this should be shortened as for the cutting of ordinary cutlets; the skin and the bones of the chine should be removed, as also the meat at the end of the rib-bones, down to two-thirds in. from the extremity of each. The cushion is then covered with slices of bacon, tied on with string. When the piece is roasted and dished, a frill should be placed on the end of each bared bone. Neck of mutton ought never to comprise more than nine to ten ribs, counting from the floating ones; it should consist of rather less if anything. Mutton Relev^s allow more particularly of vegetable and rice garnishes. Garnishes with sauces do not suit them so well, even when the pieces are braised. As for paste garnishes, such as macaroni, noodles, gniokis; they are seldom used. Garnishes for mutton relev^s should therefore be chosen, in preference, from among the following, the details of which I gave under “ Filet de Boeuf ” (Nos. 1044 to I074) and which I recall hereafter : — Andalouse, Bouquetiere, Chatelaine, Clamart, Dauphine,