GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 724 2453— VARIOUS CROQUETTES Croquettes may also be made from tapioca, semolina, vermi- celli or fresh noodles, etc., in which case the procedure is that of the Rice Croquettes. The preparation may be combined with currants and sultanas, and the croquettes are served with any suitable sauce. Crusts. 2454— CROUTE AUX FRUITS Cut some slices one-fifth inch thick from a stale Savarin which has not been moistened with syrup, and allow two for each person. Set these slices on a tray ; sprinkle them with icing sugar, and put them in the oven so as to dry and glaze them at the same time. Arrange them in a circle round a cushion of fried bread-crumbs, and between each lay a slice of pine-apple of exactly the same size as the slices. Upon this crown of crusts, set some quartered apples and some stewed pears. The pears may be stewed in a pinkish syrup, which, by varying the colours, makes the croute more sightly. Decorate with preserved cherries, lozenges of angelica, quartered yellow and green chinois, etc. Fix a small, turned and white or pink pear on the top of the cushion, by means of a hatelet, and coat with an apricot sauce, flavoured with Kirsch. 2455— croCjte a la lyonnaise Prepare the crusts as described above, and coat them with a smooth chestnut puree, flavoured with vanilla; then, cover them with an apricot pur£e, cooked to the small-thread stage ; sprinkle with finely-splintered and slightly-browned almonds, and dish in a circle. Garnish the middle of the circle with chestnuts cooked in syrup, and pipped Malaga raisins, currants, and sultanas (washed and swelled in tepid water) ; the whole cohered with an apricot purde thinned with a few tablespoonsful of Malaga wine. 2456— CROUTE AU MADERE Dish the glazed crusts in a circle as already described. Pour into their midst a garnish consisting of equal parts of pipped, Malaga raisins, currants, and sultanas, swelled in tepid water and moistened with a Madeira-flavoured, apricot syrup. 2457— croCjte a la marechale Cut from a stale mousseline brioche, some triangles of the same thickness as the ordinary crusts. Coat them with trali»