184 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 484— FRIED EQQS A LA BORDELAISE Prepare as many halved tomatoes k la Proven^ale (see tomatoes) as there are eggs, adding a pinch of chopped shallots to each halved tomato. When cooked, garnish them with cepes, finely minced and sauted & la Bordelaise; place a fried egg on each garnished half-tomato, and arrange them in a circle on a dish, with fried parsley in the middle. 485— HARVESTERS’ FRIED EQQS Fry as many blanched rashers of breast of bacon as there are eggs. Arrange in a circle on a dish, alternating the rasher with the eggs. Garnish the centre with large peas, cooked with ciseled lettuce and finely-sliced potatoes. 486— FRIED POACHED EQQS This kind is recommended, because it may be served with various garnishes—either vegetables of the same nature, a macedoine, vegetable purges, or divers cullises, sauces in keep- ing with the eggs, artichoke-bottoms, mushrooms, morels, &c. (sliced and sauted in butter), or tomato-fondue, &c. After having properly drained and dried the poached eggs, which should have been prepared beforehand, dip them care- fully in a Villeroy sauce (No. 108), and arrange them, one by one, on a dish. When the sauce has set, pass the point of a small knife round the eggs to remove any excess of sauce; take them off the dish to treat them with an anglaise (No. 174), and then roll them in very fine, fresh bread-crumbs. Plunge them into very hot fat three or four minutes before serving; drain them on a piece of linen; salt slightly, arrange in a circle on a dish, and set the selected garnish in the middle. 487— FRIED EQQS A LA PORTUQAISE Place each of the fried eggs upon a half-tomato k la Por- tugaise, i.e., stuffed with rice after having been previously half-baked in the oven. Arrange in a circle on a dish, and garnish the centre with concassed tomatoes sauted in butter. 488— FRIED EQQS A LA PROVENCALE Put each fried egg on a half-tomato on a large, thick slice of egg-plant, seasoned, rolled in flour, and fried in oil. Set in a circle on a dish, with fried parsley in the centre.