DRINKS AND REFRESHMENTS 819 covered by thin white froth, and pour it into a punch-bowl after having v/ithdrawn the zest and the clove. Add half a pint of burnt brandy; set it alight and let it burn itself out. Serve with a thin slice of lemon in each glass. 2947—ICED PUNCH Prepare a Marquise Punch as above ; when the wine is hot, take it off the fire; throw in a good half oz. of tea, and let the whole infuse under cover for ten minutes. Pass the whole through a fine strainer; add one orange and one lemon, peeled raw and cut into slices, and some heated rum. Set alight; leave to cool, and reduce to 15°. Then freeze like a Granite, and serve in glasses. 2948—HOT WINE Pour one bottleful of red wine over ten oz. of loaf-sugar, set in a small, copper basin. Dissolve the sugar. Add one orange zest, a bit of cinnamon and mace, and one clove. Heat the wine until it is covered by thin froth, and then pass it through a fine strainer. Serve with a thin slice of lemon in each glass. 2949—HOT WINE WITH ORANGE Pour half a pint of boiling water over ten oz. of loaf sugar. Add the zest of one orange and let infusion proceed for fifteen minutes. Withdraw the zest, and mix one bottleful of heated Burgundy wine with the infusion. Serve with a roundel of orange in each glass. 2950—WINE A LA FRANCAISE Put eight oz. of sugar into a salad-bowl, and sprinkle thereon a few tablespoonfuls of water, that it may dissolve. Add one bottle- ful of excellent Bordeaux wine or red Burgundy, and the half of a lemon cut into thin slices. Stir the whole well with a silver spoon and serve with a slice of lemon in each glass. N.B.—Always remember to free the lemons and oranges used of all pips, which would lend a bitterness to the drink. 2951—CLARET CUP Put into a crystal bowl one oz. of loaf-sugar, the rind of one lemon and three slices of the latter, an equal quantity of orange, one strip of cucumber peel, one tablespoonful of Angostura Bitter, and a liqueur-glassful of each of the following liqueurs :—Brandy, Maraschino and white Curasao. Complete with one and a half bottles of red wine and a bottle of Soda. Cover and let the whole infuse. Strain, add a few pieces of very clean ice and a few leaves of fresh mint. 3 C 2