SOUPS 255 Garnish with very thin roundels of French soup-flute and chervil pluches. 737—POTAGE SIGURD Prepare one pint of “ Velout£ Parmentier ” and one pint of tomato velout6. Combine the two; heat, and finish, when dish- ing up, with two and one-half oz. of butter. Garnish with twenty small quenelles of chicken forcemeat, combined with one coffeespoonful of chopped capsicum, or capsicum in dice, per three oz. of the forcemeat. 738—POTAGE SOLFERINO Mince the white of two leeks, the third of a medium-sized carrot, and half an onion, and stew the whole in one and one- half oz. of butter. Add one-half lb. of pressed tomatoes cut into pieces, two medium-sized, peeled potatoes, minced; moisten with two-thirds pint of white consomm£, and cook gently. Crush the vegetables; rub them through tammy; complete the pur£e with the necessary quantity of white consomm6; set to boil, and finish, when dishing up, with two and one-half oz. of butter. Garnish with twelve little balls of potato, raised by means of the spoon-cutter, and cooked in salted water; two tablespoon- fuls of French beans cut into lozenges; and some chervil pluches. 739—POTAGE VIVIANE Prepare one quart of “ Cr6me dc Volaille ” (No. 713), and finish it with the usual leason. Garnish with one tablespoonful of artichoke-bottom, cut into dice, the same quantity of carrot dice, both gently cooked in butter, and one tablespoonful of truffle dice. 740—POTAGE WINDSOR Blanch and cool one small, boned calf’s foot, and cook it gently in a good white-wine mirepoix. Prepare one and one- half pints of “ Cr£me de Riz ” (No. 711), and add thereto the cooking-liquor of the calf’s foot, strained through muslin. Finish this cream, when about to serve, with an ordinary leason, one and one-half tablespoonfuls of a slight infusion of turtle-soup herbs, and one and one-half oz. of butter. Garnish with a julienne of half of the calf’s foot and twenty small quenelles consisting of a pur£e of hard-boiled egg-yolks and chicken forcemeat, these two preparations being in the pro- portion of two-thirds and one-third respectively