459 RELEVES AND ENTREES crumbs and grilled or sautid; but, in this case, the sauce should be served separately. (2) For cutlets with Piquante sauce, border the dish on which they are served with gherkins, and send the sauce either separ- ately or on the dish. (3) All the garnishes given under fresh neck of pork may accompany grilled or sauted pork cutlets. 1397—SUCKING PIG Stuffed or not stuffed, sucking pigs are always roasted whole, and the essential point of the procedure is that they should be just done when their skin is crisp and golden. While cooking, they should be frequently basted with oil; the latter being used in preference to any other fatty substance owing to the greater crispness it gives to the skin of the sucking Pig- Serve a sauceboat of good gravy at the same time. 1398—ROAST STUFFED SUCKING PIG A L’ANGLAISE For a sucking pig of medium weight, prepare the following forcemeat:—Cook three lbs. of large onions with their skins, and let them cool. This done, peel and finely chop them, and put them in a basin with one lb. of the chopped fat of kidney of beef, one lb. of soaked and well-pressed bread-crumb, four oz. of parboiled and chopped sage, two eggs, one oz. of salt, a pinch of pepper and a little nutmeg. Mix the whole well, and put this stuffing inside the sucking pig. Sew up the latter’s belly; put it on the spit, and roast as directed above. Serve separately, either a timbale of apple sauce or of mashed potatoes. Four oz. per lb. of selected raisins, washed and swelled in tepid water, are sometimes combined with the apple sauce. 1399—ZAMPINO DE MODfeNE Zampino, or stuffed leg of pork, is a product of Italian pork-butchery. It is cooked like a ham, after having been tied in a napkin lest its skin burst. Served hot, it is accompanied by a Madeira or tomato sauce, a garnish of boiled, braised, or gratined cabbages; of French beans, or of potato pur£e. 1400—ZAMPINO FROID Zampino is served cold, alone or mixed with other meats; but it is used more particularly as a hors-d’oeuvre. For this purpose, cut it into the thinnest possible slices.