VEGETABLES AND FARINACEOUS PRODUCTS 649 After having washed them in several waters, cook them in salted water containing, per every quart, the juice of one half-lemon. Hop sprouts may be prepared with butter, cream, velout6, &c. When served as a vegetable, they are invariably accom- panied by poached eggs, which are laid in a crown round them and alternated by comb-shaped croutons fried in butter. Haricot-Beans (Haricots Blancs) 2151—HARICOTS BLANCS A L’AMERICAINE (Lima Beans) Cook the beans as described under No. 274. But add to the prescribed ingredients one-half lb. of lean bacon per pint of dry beans. When they are cooked and well drained, mix them with the bacon cut into dice, and cohere them with some good tomato sauce. 2152—HARICOTS BLANCS AU BEURRE Having well drained the haricot-beans, season them with salt and pepper and cohere them with two oz. of butter per lb. of cooked beans. Dish in a timbale and sprinkle with chopped parsley. 2153—HARICOTS BLANCS A LA BRETONNE Drain them well and cohere them with a Bretonne sauce, in the proportion of one-third pint of sauce per lb. of cooked haricot-beans. Dish in a timbale with chopped parsley. 2154—PUREE DE HARICOTS BLANCS dite SOISSONNAISE Rub the haricot-beans through a sieve while they are burn- ing-hot. Add to the pur£e (per lb. thereof) three oz. of butter; dry it over a very fierce fire, and then add some milk to it, to bring it to its proper consistence. 2155—FLAGEOLETS (Haricots Flageolets) These beans are used more especially fresh; but, when they are out of season, recourse is often had to preserved or dried flageolets. They are prepared in the same way as haricot-beans. Their pur^e, which is very delicate, is known under the name of “ Pur£e Musard,” and it is particularly suitable for the gar- nishing of mutton. It is also used as a thickening ingredient in the pur6e of French beans, and nothing can equal it for the purpose; for, not only is it an unctuous thickening medium, but its flavour is peculiarly adapted to the throwing into relief of that of the French beans.