559 POULTRY Strain this sauce through muslin; clear it of grease, and send it in a sauceboat at the same time as the duckling. 1759—CANETON ROUENNAIS EN CHEMISE Stuff the duckling with the preparation given under No. 1754; truss it as for an entree; insert it into a well-soaked bladder, and string the end of the latter close to the bird’s tail. Wrap the bladder in a napkin, also strung, and poach gently for about forty-five minutes in a very strong brown stock. When about to serve, remove the napkin, and leave the duck- ling in the bladder. Serve a Rouennaise sauce as an accompaniment. 1760—CANETON ROUENNAIS AU PORTO Roast the duckling “ en casserole,” keeping it only just done. Swill with one-fifth pint of port wine; reduce to half, and add this reduced swilling-liquor to one-half pint of duckling gravy, thickened with arrowroot. 1761— CANETON ROUENNAIS A LA PRESSE Roast the duckling for twenty minutes, and send it instantly to the table, where it should be treated as follows :—Remove the legs, which are not served; carve the fillets into fine slices, laid one against the other on a lukewarm dish. Chop up the carcass and press it, sprinkling it the while with a glassful of good red wine. Collect the gravy; add thereto a few drops of brandy, and with this liquor sprinkle the slices of breast, which should have been well seasoned. Put the dish on a chafer, and thoroughly heat without allow- ing to boil. Serve instantly. 1762— CANETON FARCI A LA ROUENNAISE Stuff the duckling with the forcemeat given under No. 1754, and roast it before a fierce fire for from twenty-five to thirty minutes, according to its size. Send a Rouennaise sauce to the table with it. If it be served carved, remove the legs, cisel them inside, season them well with salt and pepper, and grill them. Cut the fillets into thin slices, set these on either side of a long dish, and, in the middle, place the forcemeat withdrawn from the inside. Set the grilled legs at either end of the dish. Roughly chop up the carcass and press it, sprinkling it