FISH 327 As these preparations, however, are based neither on fixed principles nor on classical rules, I shall refrain from giving them. 962—MAYONNAISE DE HOMARD Proceed as for Mayonnaise de Saumon—that is to say, gar- nish the bottom of a salad-bowl with ciseled lettuce leaves, and season them moderately. Upon this salad lay the remains of the lobster, and upon the latter place the thin slices of the tail. Cover with mayon- naise sauce, and decorate with strips of anchovy fillets, capers, olives, hard-boiled eggs, roundels of pink radishes, the hearts of lettuce, &c. N.B.—I have already pointed out the futility of prescribing a decorative design. As a rule, the matter is so intimately con- nected with the taste and fancy of the individual, and the products used for the purpose lend themselves to such inde- finite variation, that I prefer merely to enumerate these products, and to leave the question of their arrangement to the artistic ingenuity of the operator. 963—SALADE DE HOMARD See “ Salade de Saumon ” (No. 810). As the preparation and seasoning of the latter are identical with those of the dish under consideration, all that is needed is to replace the salmon of recipe No. 810 by the collops of lobster. Spiny Lobsters. (Langouste.) All culinary preparations dealing with lobsters may be adapted to spiny lobsters. There is, therefore, no need to repeat them here. Of the cold recipes, two are much better suited to the spiny than to the ordinary kind, though, as they are used for both specimens, I gave them earlier in the book. The two recipes referred to are: — 964—LANGOUSTE A LA PARISIENNE; see LOBSTER, recipe 960. 965—LANGOUSTE A LA RUSSE ; see LOBSTER, recipe 961 Crayfish. (Ecrevisses.) When crayfish are prepared after one of the recipes most commonly used on the Continent, i.e., whole, they are not much relished in England. This is doubtless accounted for by the fact that ladies, dining in evening dress^ find them somewhat difficult to manage. They are therefore only served in the form of an aspic, *