ENTREMETS 763 Bavarois preparation made from a pur£e of such fruits as apricots, pine-apple, bananas, peaches, strawberries, etc. The flavour or product which determines the character of the Charlotte should always be referred to on the menu, thus: Charlotte Russe d F Orange or Charlotte Russe aux Praises, etc. 2638—CREAMS Cold creams, served as entremets, belong to two very distinct classes: (1) Cooked Creams, which are, in short, but a variety of custard. (2) The Creams derived from natural, fresh cream, whipped and sugared, the generic type of which is Chantilly cream. Cooked Creams are prepared either in special little pots, in small silver or porcelain bowls, or in moulds. Those prepared in moulds are turned out when they are quite cold, and are called “ Cremes renvers^es ” to distinguish them from the first two kinds which are always served in the utensil in which they have cooked. For all that, the term “ Creme renvers^e ” has grown somewhat obsolete, and the modern expression for this kind of custards is “ Cr&me moul6e.” Crime au Caramel represents a perfect type of this class. The custards served in their cooking-receptacles are more delicate than the others, because their preparation does not demand such a large quantity of eggs; but they are only served in the home, like English custard. For a stylish luncheon or dinner, moulded custards-(Fr. crimes mouses) are best. 2639—CREME A LA VAN1LLE, MOULEE Boil one quart of milk containing one-half lb. of sugar ; add a stick of vanilla, and let the latter infuse for twenty minutes. Pour this milk, little by little, over three eggs and eight yolks, previously whisked in a basin, and whisk briskly the while. Pass the whole through a fine sieve ; let it rest for a moment or two; then completely remove all the froth lying on its surface, and pour the preparation into buttered moulds or into vases specially made for this purpose. Set to poach in a bain-marie, in a moderate oven, keeping lids on the utensils. Not for one moment must the water in the bain-marie boil while the poaching is in progress ; for the air contained by the preparation would then become over-heated, and the result would be an infinity of small holes throughout the depth of the custard, which would greatly mar its appearance. As a matter of fact, the custard should poach, that is to say,