POULTRY 5J9 1633—POULET DE GRAINS EN CASSEROLE Poele the chicken with butter in an earthenware saucepan, and baste it often the while. When about to serve, clear of all grease, and add a tablespoonful of veal gravy. This chicken is served plain, without any garnish. 1634—POULET DE GRAINS EN COCOTTE Brown the chicken in butter, in a cocotte, and under cover. When it is half-done, surround it with two oz. of frizzled pieces of fresh or salted pork cut in dice, twelve small onions partly cooked in butter, and twenty small potatoes, the size and shape of olives. Complete the cooking of the whole together, and, when about to serve, sprinkle with a little veal gravy. 1635—POULET DE GRAINS CLAMART Brown the chicken in butter; half-cook it, and put it in a cocotte with one-half pint of half-cooked peas h la Fran^aise (No. 2193), the cooking-liquor of which should be very short. Complete the cooking of the whole, together, and serve the pre- paration as it stands, without cohering the peas. 1636—POULET DE GRAINS GRILLE DIABLE Truss the chicken as for an entree; split it open lengthwise along the middle of the back; flatten it with a butcher’s beater, and remove as many bones as possible. Season it; sprinkle it with melted butter, and half-cook it in the oven. This done, coat it thoroughly with mustard strengthened by means of cayenne; sprinkle copiously with bread-crumbs; press upon the latter with the flat of a knife, that they may adhere to the mustard ; sprinkle a little melted butter over the bird, and complete the latter’s cooking gently on the grill. Set on a round dish, bordered with thin slices of lemon, and serve a Devilled Sauce EscofRer separately. 1637—POULET DE GRAINS, GRILLE A L’ANGLAISE (Spatchcock) Split the chicken open, laterally, proceeding from the ex- tremity of the belly to the wing-joints. Open it without separat- ing the two halves, flatten it so as to break the joints and the bones, and remove the fragments of the latter with great care. Fix the wings by means of a skewer; sprinkle the chicken with melted butter, season it, and half-cook it in the oven. This done, sprinkle it with bread-crumbs and melted butter, and complete its cooking on the grill. Set it on a round dish, bordered with gherkins, and serve it as it stands.