498 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY drops of lemon juice and one-sixth pint of cream; heat; finish this sauce, away from the fire, with two oz. of crayfish butter, and pour it over the fowl. Serve in the cocotte. 1536— POULET SAUTE D’ARTOIS Saute the chicken in butter, and dish the pieces. Swill with three tablespoonfuls of Madeira, and add one- seventh pint of light, pale meat glaze, four small quartered artichoke-bottoms, tossed in butter, ten carrots shaped like olives, cooked in consommd and glazed, and eight small onions cooked in butter. Finish with one and one-half oz. of butter and a pinch of chopped chives, and pour this sauce over the pieces of fowl. 1537— POULET SAUTE BEAULIEU Saute the chicken in butter, and add to it five oz. of new potatoes (the size of hazel-nuts) and the same quantity of small quartered artichoke-bottoms, cooked in butter beforehand with the potatoes. Keep the whole in the oven, under cover, for ten minutes. Set the pieces of fowl, the potatoes and the artichoke- bottoms in an earthenware saucepan, and add twelve black olives. Swill the saucepan with a few tablespoonfuls of white wine and a little lemon juice; complete with a tablespoonful of veal stock, and pour into the cocotte. Simmer for five minutes, in the utensil, and serve the pre- paration as it stands. 1538— POULET SAUTE BORDELAISE Saute the chicken in butter, and dish it. Surround it with small quartered artichoke-bottoms stewed in butter; sliced potatoes cooked in butter, and roundels of fried onions, arranged in small heaps, with a small tuft of fried parsley between each heap. Swill the saucepan with a few tablespoonfuls of chicken gravy, and sprinkle the fowl with the latter. 1539— POULET SAUTE BOIVIN Fry the chicken in butter and add twelve small onions ; three quartered artichokes, small and very tender; twenty-four small potatoes of the size of hazel-nuts. Cover and cook the whole together, in the oven. Dish the chicken with the onions and potatoes over it, and surround it with the artichokes.