ELEMENTARY PREPARATIONS 75 Nowadays several market varieties of this preparation exist, and vie with each other for custom, though in most cases they deserve it equally well. Formerly this was not so, and every chef had his own formula. The following is a recipe for the spice in question, which would be found useful if it had to be prepared at a moment’s notice :— Obtain the following, very dry. 5 oz. of bay leaves. 4 oz. of cloves. 3 oz. of thyme (half of it wild, if 3 oz. of ginger-root, possible). 3 oz. of mace. 3 oz. of coriander. 10 oz. of mixed pepper (half black 4 oz. of cinnamon. and half white). 6 oz. of nutmeg. 1 oz. of cayenne. Put all these ingredients into a mortar and pound them until they are all able to pass through a very fine sieve. Put the resulting powder into an air-tight box, which must be kept dry. Before being used, this spice is generally mixed with salt (No. 188). 182—FLOUR For whatever use the flour is intended, it is always best to sift it. This is more particularly necessary in the case of flour used for coating objects to be fried; for the latter, being first dipped into milk, must of necessity let a few drops of that liquid fall into the flour they are rolled in. Lumps would therefore form, which might adhere to the objects to be fried if the flour were not sifted. 183—HERB JUICE This is to finish or intensify certain preparations. To prepare it, throw into a small saucepan of boiling water some parsley, chervil, and tarragon and chive leaves, in equal quantities, according to the amount of juice required. Set to boil for two minutes, drain, cool, press the herbs in a towel, twisting the latter; pound very finely, and extract the juice from the resulting paste by twisting a strong towel round it. Keep this juice in the cool. 84—BREAD-CRUMBS Thoroughly rub, in a closed towel, some stale bread-crumb previously well broken up. Pass it through a fine sieve or colander, according as to whether it is required very fine or not, and put it aside in a convenient receptacle.