584 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 1842— FAISAN A LA PERIGUEUX Stuff the pheasant with truffles, proceeding as for ordinary truffling (No. 1956). Poele it in Madeira; dish, and surround it with a border of quenelles consisting of truffled game force- meat, moulded by means of a coffeespoon, and poached at the last moment. Serve separately a P^rigueux sauce combined with the reduced poeling-liquor, cleared of all grease. 1843— FAISAN A LA REGENCE Poele the pheasant, and dish it on a low crodton, carved from a sandwich-loaf and fried in butter. Surround it with small, decorated, round game quenelles; large, grooved, cooked mushrooms; and cocks’ kidneys; all three arranged alternately. Serve separately a Salmis sauce, flavoured with truffle essence, and combined with the strained and reduced poeling- liquor, cleared of all grease. 1844— FAISAN A LA SAINTE-ALLIANCE Bone two woodcocks, and put their livers and intestines aside. Chop up their meat, together with a quarter of its weight of poached and cooled beef-marrow, and as much fresh, fat bacon; salt, pepper, and herbs. Add to this hash six oz. of raw, peeled, and quartered truffles, slightly cooked in butter. Stuff the pheasant with this preparation; truss it; wrap it in slices of bacon, and keep it in the cool for twenty-four hours, that the aroma of the truffles may be concentrated. Roast the pheasant on the spit, or, if in the oven, set it on a somewhat high stand in a baking-pan. Cut a large crouton from a sandwich-loaf, and fry it in clarified butter. Pound the woodcocks’ livers and intestines with an equal weight of grated fresh fat bacon, the well-washed fillets of an anchovy, one oz. of butter, and one-half oz. of raw truffle. When this forcemeat is very smooth and all its ingredients thoroughly mixed, spread it over the fried croutons. When the pheasant is two-thirds cooked, set this coated crodton under the bird in such wise as to allow the juices escap- ing from the latter to drop upon the crouton. Complete the cooking, and dish the pheasant on the crodton. Surround with slices of bitter orange, and send the gravy separately. When serving, accompany each piece of pheasant with a slice of orange and a small slice of the coated crouton.