VEGETABLES AND FARINACEOUS PRODUCTS 669 Tomatoes 2263—GRILLED TOMATOES Take some whole tomatoes, if possible; oil them copiously, and grill them gently. 2264—TOMATES FARCIES If the tomatoes to be stuffed be large, cut them in two laterally; if they be medium-sized or small, a lateral slice cut from their stem-ends is sufficient. In any case, press them slightly in order to exude their juice and seeds; season them inside with salt and pepper; set them on an oiled tray, and half- cook them in the oven. Finally, stuff them as their designation on the menu re- quires. 2265—TOMATES FARCIES AU GRATIN Having prepared the tomatoes as above, stuff them with somewhat stiff Duxelles; sprinkle with raspings and a few drops of oil, and set the gratin to form in a hot oven. On taking the dish out of the oven, surround the tomatoes with a thread of clear tomated half-glaze sauce. 2266— TOMATES FARCIES A LA PROVENCALE Prepare the tomatoes as follows :—Cut them in two; remove their seeds; season them, and place them, cut side undermost, in an omelet-pan containing very hot oil. Turn them over when they are half-cooked; cook them for a little while longer; lay them on a gratin-dish, and stuff them with the following preparation :—For six tomatoes, fry two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion in oil; add four peeled, pressed, and concassed tomatoes, a pinch of chopped parsley, and a crushed clove of garlic, and cook under cover for twelve minutes. Complete with four tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, soaked in consomm£ and rubbed through a sieve; two anchovies also rubbed through a sieve, and finish with some somewhat fat, braised-beef gravy. When the tomatoes are stuffed, sprinkle them with bread-crumbs combined with grated cheese; sprinkle with oil, and set the gratin to form. These tomatoes may be served either hot or cold. 2267— TOMATES FARCIES A LA PORTUGAISE Stuff the tomatoes with pilaff rice combined with a quarter of its volume of concassed tomatoes. Dish this rice in the shape of a regular dome, and sprinkle it with chopped parsley. N.B.—In addition to the above recipes, tomatoes prepared as already directed may also be garnished with minced chicken