GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 398 heads cohered with butter; and some small potatoes cooked in butter. Send the braising-liquor of the joint, cleared of grease and strained, separately. 1191— SELLE DE VEAU A LA TALLEYRAND Prepare twenty studs of truffle, about one inch long and one-third oz. in weight. Stick them upright and symmetrically into the meat of the joint, making way for them by means of little incisions cut with a small knife. Now envelop the joint in slices of larding bacon, string it, braise it, and glaze it at the last moment. Dish it with some of its braising-liquor, cleared of all grease and reduced. Serve separately (1) what remains of the braising-liquor; (2) a garnish of macaroni, cut into half-inch lengths, cohered with one and one-half oz. of butter, three oz. of grated Gruy&re and Parmesan, combined with three oz. of foie gras, cut into large dice, and three oz. of a julienne of truffles, per lb. of macaroni. 1192— SELLE DE VEAU FROIDE Cold saddle of veal makes an excellent sideboard dish which admits of all cold-dish garnishes, such as Macedoines of vege- tables cohered with jelly or mayonnaise sauce; artichoke- bottoms and tomatoes, variously garnished; small, moulded vegetable salads, &c. Decorate it with fine, regular, jelly dice; but its usual and essential adjunct is its own braising-liquor, cooked, cleared of grease poured carefully away, and served in a sauceboat without having been either clarified or cleared. All the pieces of veal given as relev^s, the cushion, the loin, the fillet, and the fricandeau, may be served cold like the saddle, and are generally much appreciated, more particularly in summer. 1193— LOIN OF VEAL 1194— NECK OF VEAL 1195— SHORT LOIN OF VEAL 1196— CHUMP OF VEAL OR QUASI 1197— CUSHION OF VEAL (Releves) I have grouped these various Releves together owing to the identicalness of their garnishes. The directions I give below for cushion of veal are, with a very few exceptions which I shall point out, applicable to all other large veal joints. In the circumstances, therefore, it would be quite unnecessary to repeat the recipe in each case.