427 RELEVES AND ENTRIES the purpose; moisten with a quarter of a pint of white wine; reduce, and add two-thirds of a quart of thin Espagnole sauce, one and one-half lbs. of tomatoes, pressed and cut into pieces (or one pint of tomato sauce), and a faggot. Set to boil, and cook in the oven gently for one and one-half hours. At the end of that time, transfer the pieces of veal, one by one, to another saucepan with fifteen small glazed onions, and five oz. of mushrooms. Reduce the sauce; strain it over the veal and its garnish, add two large pinches of concassed parsley, and cook for a further quarter of an hour. When about to serve, clear of all grease, dish in a timbale, and surround with small heart-shaped croutons of bread-crumb, fried in oil. 1281— SAUT6 de veau chasseur Cut the veal into pieces as above, and fry these well in butter or oil. Drain away the grease; moisten with one quart of brown stock, add two tablespoonfuls of tomato pur£e, and a faggot; set to boil, and cook in the oven gently for one and one-half hours. Transfer the pieces to another saucepan ; strain ; reduce their cooking-liquor by a quarter, and add it to one-quarter of a pint of Chasseur sauce (No. 33). Pour this sauce over the pieces of veal, and cook again for a quarter of an hour. Dish in a timbale, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. 1282—SAUTE DE VEAU PRINTANIER Fry the pieces of veal in butter. Moisten with two-thirds of a quart of brown stock and one-fifth of a pint of half-glaze; add a faggot; boil, and cook in the oven gently for one hour. This done, transfer the pieces to another saucepan; add thereto a garnish of carrots, new turnips, and small, new pota- toes; strain the sauce over the veal and the garnish, and cook for a further three-quarters of an hour. Dish in a timbale and distribute over the saute a few table- spoonfuls of peas and French beans in lozenge-form, both cooked a Vanglaise. 1283—SAUTE DE VEAU A LA CATALANS Cut up, saute, and cook the veal gently for one and one-half hours, as for No. 1280. Transfer the pieces of veal to another saucepan, and add