GAME 59i 1868—PERDREAU LADY CLIFFORD Cook the partridge in butter in a saucepan. When it is three-parts done, surround it with two oz. of fine slices of raw truffle; add a liqueur-glassful of burnt brandy and one tablespoonful of clear melted meat glaze. Serve a Soubise sauce at the same time and separately. 1869—PERDREAU AUX CHOUX Prepare a garnish of braised cabbages as explained under No. 2100, and add thereto an old partridge, browned in the oven or on the spit. Meanwhile, roast or poele a very tender young partridge and keep it underdone. Dish the cabbages, which should be well drained; set the young partridge upon them, and surround with small rectangles of very lean bacon, cooked with the cabbages, and a thread of half-glaze sauce, flavoured with game jumet. N.B.—This dish may be given a more decorative appearance by means of a sort of Chartreuse, which is prepared as fol- lows:—Line a large bowl or a buttered, round-bottomed tim- bale with roundels of sausages; roundels of carrots arranged in superposed rows, separated by a line of French beans or peas; and small rectangles of bacon, laid side by side. Line the inside of the timbale with a thick layer of cab- bages, and put the young partridge, breast undermost, in the middle (the partridge may also be carved up). Cover the cab- bages and press the latter with a fork; turn the timbale out on a dish and tilt the latter that all the grease may fall before with- drawing the timbale, which answers the purpose of a mould. Surround w’ith a thread of half-glaze sauce, flavoured with game fumet. 1870—CREPINETTES DE PERDREAUX After substituting the meat of a young partridge, cleared of all tendons, for the veal sweetbreads, and fresh bacon for calf’s udder, proceed exactly as directed (as regards quantities and other particulars) under “ Cr^pinettes de ris de Veau ” (No. 1222), taking care to add three oz. of chopped truffles per lb. of the forcemeat. Divide up the forcemeat into portions one and one-half oz. to two oz. in weight; wrap them in pig’s caul; roll them first in melted butter and then in bread-crumbs, and grill them gently. The usual accompaniment to these cr^pinettes is a light chestnut or lentil puree.