LEADING CULINARY OPERATIONS H9 and it therefore cannot impair the particular flavour of the reduced game gravy lying on the bottom of the utensil. The use of stock prepared from the bones and trimmings of game similar to that constituting the dish is also common. 256—THE DRESSING AND ACCOMPANIMENTS OF ROASTS As a rule, a roast ought not to wait. It ought only to leave the spit or oven in order to be served. All roasts should be placed on very hot dishes, slightly besprinkled with fresh butter, and surrounded by bunches of watercress (this is op- tional). The gravy is invariably served separately. Roasts of butcher’s meat and poultry are dished up as simply as possible. Small roasted game may be dished up on fried slices of bread crumb masked with gratin stuffing (No. 202). When lemons accompany a roast, they should be served separately. Pieces of lemon that have once served to garnish a dish must not be used, for they have mostly been tainted by grease. The mediaeval custom of dishing game with the plumage has been abandoned. Roast feathered game k l’anglaise is dished up with or without potato chips, and the three adjuncts are gravy, bread- crumbs, and bread-sauce. In northern countries game roasts are always accompanied either by slightly sugared stewed apples, or by cherry or apricot jam. 257—GRILLS Those culinary preparations effected by means of grilling belong to the order called cooking by concentration. And, indeed, in almost all cases, the great object of these operations, I might even say the greatest object, is the concentration, in the centre, of the juices and essences which represent, most essentially, the nutritive principles of the products cooked. A grill, which is, in short, but a roast on an open fire, stands, in my opinion, as the remote starting-point, the very genesis of our art. It was the primaeval notion of our forefathers’ infantile brains; it was progress born of an instinctive desire to eat with greater pleasure; and it was the first culinary method ever employed. A little later, and following naturally, as it were, upon this first attempt, the spit was born of the grill; gradually, intelli- gence supplanted rude instinct; reason began to deduce effects from supposed causes; and thus cooking was launched forth