GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 286 with a white wine sauce combined with the reduced cooking- liquor of the sole and one tablespoonful of a fine julienne of spiny lobster’s tail, mushrooms, and very black truffles. Sur- round the sole with a border of little palmettes made from puff- paste and cooked without colouration. 837— SOLE SUR LE PLAT Partly separate the fillets from the bones on the upper side of the fish, and slip a piece of butter the size of a walnut under each. Lay the sole on a liberally buttered dish, moisten with one- fifth pint of the cooking-liquor of fish, and add a few drops of lemon-juice. Cook in the oven, basting often the while, until the cooking- liquor has by reduction acquired the consistence of a syrup and covers the sole with a translucent and glossy coat. N.B.—By substituting for the mushroom cooking-liquor a good white or red wine, to which a little melted pale meat-glaze has been added, the following series of dishes may be prepared, viz. :—Sole sur le plat au Chambertin. Sole sur le plat au vin rouge, Sole sur le plat au Champagne. Sole sur le plat au Chablis, &c., &c. 838— SOLE REGENCE Poach the sole in a little white wine and two-thirds oz. of butter cut into small pieces. Drain the sole, dish it, and surround it with six quenelles of whiting forcemeat finished with crayfish butter, moulded by means of a small spoon; four poached oysters (cleared of their beards); four small cooked and very white mushrooms; four small truffles, turned to the shape of olives; and four small poached slices of milt. Cover the sole and the garnish with a Normande sauce finished with a little truffle essence. 839— SOLE PORTUGAISE Poach the sole in white wine and the cooking-liquor of fish. Drain, dish, and surround with a garnish consisting of two medium-sized tomatoes, peeled, pressed, minced, cooked in butter, and combined with minced and cooked mushrooms, and a large pinch of chopped chives. Coat the sole with white wine sauce, plentifully buttered, and take care that none of the sauce touches the garnish. Set to glaze quickly, sprinkle the garnish with a pinch of chopped parsley when taking the sole from the oven, and serve immediately.