POULTRY 5°3 complete the cooking of the whole. Mould the rice to form a border, and set the chicken in the middle. Add one-sixth pint of cream to the tomatoes; reduce to half; rub through tammy; heat this sauce, and pour it over the chicken. 1559—POULET SAUT6 A L’INDIENNE OU CURRIE DE POULET Cut the chicken into small pieces, and fry them in oil with a sliced onion and a large pinch of curry. Swill with one-sixth pint of cocoanut milk or, failing this, almond milk; add one- third pint of velout6, and complete the cooking of the chicken while reducing the sauce to half. Set in a deep dish, and serve a timbale of rice k l’lndienne separately. 1560—POULET SAUTE JAPONAISE Fry the chicken in butter; add one lb. of cleaned and par- boiled stachys and complete the cooking of the whole, chicken and stachys, in the oven. Dish the chicken with the stachys upon it. Swill with one- sixth pint of slightly thickened veal stock; complete, away from the fire, with one and one-half oz. of butter, and pour this over the chicken. 1561—POULET SAUTE JURASSIENNE Saute the chicken in butter and, when it is ready, add to it one-half lb. of blanched breast of fresh pork, cut into strips and well fried in butter. Drain away three-quarters of the chicken’s grease; swill with one-sixth pint of light half-glaze sauce, and dish the chicken. Complete the sauce with a pinch of chopped chives, and pour it over the chicken with the strips of bacon. 1562—POULET SAUTE LATHUILE Heat three oz. of butter in a saut^pan, just large enough to hold the chicken and its garnish. Set the pieces of chicken in this butter, together with one-half lb. of potatoes and five oz. of raw artichoke-bottoms, both cut into fair-sized dice. When the chicken and the vegetables are coloured under- neath, turn the whole over at one stroke and complete the cooking on the other side; sprinkle the chicken with three tablespoonfuls of meat glaze and a pinch of chopped parsley containing a mite of crushed garlic, and set the chicken and the garnish on a dish, after the manner of “ Pommes Anna.” Pour two and one-half oz. of nut-brown butter over the whole, and surround with roundels of seasoned onions, dredged