GAME 569 of it, set a garnish of stewed pears, unsugared, but flavoured with cinnamon and lemon-rind. Pour one-third pint of game stock into the tray in which the joint was cooked; cook for ten minutes; strain; clear of grease, and thicken with arrowroot. Serve this thickened stock separately, and send some red- currant jelly to the table at the same time. 1794—SELLE DE CHEVREUIL AUX CERISES Keep the saddle for twelve hours in marinade (No. 169) made from verjuice instead of vinegar. Roast it on the spit, basting it with the marinade, and keep it slightly underdone. At the same time, serve a cherry sauce consisting of equal quantities of poivrade sauce and red-currant jelly, to each pint of which add three oz. of semi-candied cherries, set to soak in hot water thirty minutes beforehand. N.B.—This saddle need not be marinaded if it be desired plain. 1795—SELLE DE CHEVREUIL A LA CUMBERLAND Roast it like a haunch of venison, without marinading it. Send it to the table with a timbale of French beans, cohered with butter, and serve a Cumberland sauce (No. 134) separately. 1796—SELLE DE CHEVREUIL A LA CREOLE Marinade it for a few hours only, and roast it on the spit, basting it the while with the marinade. Set it on a long dish, and surround it with bananas tossed in butter. At the same time serve a Roberts sauce, combined with a third of its bulk of Poivrade sauce, and one oz. of fresh butter per pint. 1797—SELLE DE CHEVREUIL A LA BEAUJEU Lard and roast it. Set it on a long dish, and surround it with artichoke-bottoms, garnished with lentil pur^e, and alter- nated with chestnuts cooked in a small quantity of consomm^ and glazed. Serve a venison sauce separately. 1798—SELLE DE CHEVREUIL AU GENIEVRE Lard the saddle, and roast it. Swill the baking-tray with a small glassful of burned gin; add one powdered juniper berry and one-sixth pint of double cream. Reduce the cream to half; complete with a few tablespoonfuls of poivrade sauce and a few drops of lemon juice. Serve this sauce with the saddle, and send separately some. hot stewed apples, very slightly sugared.