GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY 492 of Taste ” in order to identify a certain famous toast) struck me as an admirable title for a preparation in which four such veritable gems of cookery are found united—the supremcs of a fine pullet, foie gras, truffles, and ortolans. This dish was originally served at the Carlton Hotel in 1905. 1516—POULARDE 5ANTA-LUCIA Stuff the pullet with truffles, prepared as for No. 1515, and braise it in Marsala. Dish it on a low cushion, and surround it with small tartlets of Gnochi “ h la Romaine,” alternated with collops of foie gras, tossed in butter. *5*7—POULARDE SICILIENNE Poach the pullet. Raise the fillets, leaving the wing-bones on the carcass; suppress the breast bones, and fill the resulting cavity with macaroni, cohered with the strong liquor of braised beef “ k la Napolitaine,” and combined with dice of truffles and foie gras, cocks’ combs and kidneys. Envelop the piece in pig’s caul, giving the former its natural shape; sprinkle with raspings and melted butter, and set in the oven that the pig’s caul may cook and colour. Dish on a low cushion, and coat with chicken glaze with butter. Surround with tartlet crusts, each garnished with a slice of the supremcs, covered with a slice of foie gras tossed in butter, and surmounted by a slice of truffle. Send a chicken glaze with butter separately. 1518—POULARDE SOUFFLEE Poach the pullet. Raise the supremes, and cut them into thin slices; suppress the breast-bones by means of scissors, and stuff the bird with one lb. two oz. of monsseline forcemeat of chicken, combined with one-third lb. of foie-gras purde. Spread this preparation in layers, and between each of the latter set alternate slices of supreme and truffle. Reconstruct the bird exactly; smooth its surface; deck it with bits of truffle, salted tongue, and boiled white of egg; place the dish on a deep tray containing a little boiling water, the steam of which assists the poaching of the preparation, and poach in a moderate oven. When about to serve, coat the pullet with Allemande sauce flavoured with truffle essence. N.B.—The use of a bain-marie consisting of a deep pan