FISH 3i9 944— HOMARD CLARENCE Cook the lobster in court-bouillon, and drain it as soon as it is done. When it is only lukewarm, split it open lengthwise; take the meat from the tail; slice it, and keep it hot in a vegetable- pan with a few drops of fish fumet or the cooking-liquor of mushrooms. Remove the remains of meat and the creamy parts from the carapace; pound the two former together with two tablespoon- fuls of cream; strain through a fine sieve, and add to the re- sulting cullis one-half pint of Bechamel sauce with curry. Garnish the two half-carapaces, two-thirds full, with rice k l’lndienne; set the slices of lobster on this rice, intercalating them with slices of truffle; coat thinly with the prepared Bechamel sauce, and set the two garnished and sauced half- carapaces on a long, hot dish. Send to the table, at the same time, a sauceboat containing Bechamel with curry. 945—HOMARD A LA CREME Proceed as for “ Homard k la New-burg k cru ” (No. 948), but swill with brandy only, and add, immediately, four oz. of fresh, peeled truffles cut into slices. Moisten, almost sufficiently to cover, with very fresh, thin cream; season with salt and cayenne, and cook the lobster. Then take the meat from the carapaces, and put it into a timbale; reduce the cream to one-third pint, and mix therewith three tablespoonfuls of melted, white meat-glaze and a few drops of lemon juice. Strain this sauce through muslin, and pour it over the pieces of lobster. 946—HOMARD GRILLE For this purpose, the lobster may be taken raw, but it is better, first, to have it three-parts cooked in court-bouillon. Now split it into two lengthwise; sprinkle it with melted butter, and set it on the grill for its cooking to be completed. Treated thus, the meat of the lobster does not harden as when it is grilled raw. Dish the grilled lobster on a napkin or on a drainer, after having broken the shell of the claws in order to facilitate the withdrawal of the meat, and surround with curled-leaf parsley. Serve a “ Devilled sauce Escoffier,” or any other sauce suited to grilled fish, with the lobster, but remember that the first-named sauce is the fittest that could be found for this particular dish.