■ 754 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY delicately coat these quarters of apple with some reduced white syrup. 2604—FLAN DE POMMES A LA BATELIERE Line a flawn-ring with some short paste, and garnish it with apples, stewed as for a Charlotte. Cover the apples with a dome of somewhat creamy rice for entremets, combined with the whites of four eggs (beaten to a stiff froth) per lb. of cooked rice. Bake the flawn in the usual way, and, on taking it out of the oven, sprinkle it copiously with icing sugar, and glaze with a red-hot iron. Various Hot Entremets. 3605— MINCE PIES Constituents.—One lb. of chopped suet; one and one-third lbs. of cold, cooked fillet of beef, cut into very small dice ; one lb. of pipped raisins; one lb. of currants and an equal quantity of sultanas; one lb. of candied rinds; half lb. of peeled and chopped raw apples; the chopped zest and the juice of an orange ; two- thirds oz. of allspice; one-sixth pint of brandy ; and the same measure of Madeira and rum. Thoroughly mix the whole ; pour it into an earthenware jar; cover the latter, and let the preparation macerate for a month. Preparation.—Line some deep, buttered tartlet moulds with ordinary short paste ; garnish them with the above preparation ; cover with a thin layer of puff-paste, having a hole in its centre; seal down this layer, gild, and bake in a hot oven. 3606— CELESTINE OMELET Make an omelet from two eggs, and garnish it either with cream, stewed fruit or jam. Make a somewhat larger omelet, and stuff it with a different garnish from the one already used ; enclose the first omelet in the second, and roll the latter up in the usual way. Sprinkle with icing sugar, and glaze in the oven or with a red-hot iron. 2607—EGOS A LA RELIGIEUSE Bake a somewhat deep flawn-crust without colouration, and have it of a size in proportion to the number of eggs it has to contain. Coat it inside with a layer of pralin, and dry the latter well in a mild oven. Meanwhile poach the required number of fresh eggs in boiling milk, sugared to the extent of a quarter lb. per quart, and keep them somewhat soft Drain them, and set them in the crust.