\ I \ /■Cbe rnenu Book (£e £ii)re de$ menus) FIFTH EDITION OF PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY A MENU COMPILER AND REGISTER OF DISHES (Copyrighted 1892) BY C. HERMAN SENN, G.C.A. Inapeotor and Consulting Chef, National Training School of Cookery, 1892-1909, AUTHOR OF ‘recherche cookery,” “the 20TH CENTURY COOKERY BOOK,” ‘how to cook VEGETABLES,” “RECHERCHE SIDE DISHES," ‘the art of THE TABLE,” “THE PRACTICAL COOKERY MANUAL,” ETC., ETC. LONDON, S.W.: THE FOOD COOKERY PUBLISHING CO., WESTMINSTER. mcmxiu,rYVCLLUunF;:: ! UBKARY w©{MOmec Q”r Lemco Toast-Sandwiches SANDWICHES WHICH SATISFY AND SUSTAIN [EMCO spread thinly on hot buttered toast is most delicious. So different from ordinary sandwiches, which often are far from being palatable or appetising. Lemco toast-sandwiches are nutritious, wholesome, and digestible, and always a welcome change. For ladies desiring a hasty mid-day meal, for sportsmen, travellers, and for business men who need a hurried snack in the office, Lemco sandwiches are just the thing. Mothers should let their children have Lemco toast-sandwiches for breakfast, for the evening meal, for school-luncheon. Lemco is a digestive as well as a food, and enhances enormously the nutritive value of other foods eaten with it. LEMCO, Thames House, London, E.C.PREFACE. Scientific researcli and constant observation in culinary routine have proved that both cooking and gastronomy are progressive arts ; indeed, scarcely a week passes which does not bring to the notice of a shrewd observer some new combination or some improvement in standard dishes. The ever-growing desire and consequent necessity for variety in our menus impels us to glean new ideas and fresh help from every possible source. Unfortunately there exists a foolish practice among some cooks, who, without discrimination or reason, apply certain new names to old dishes, or they apply names to dishes which have absolutely no bearing upon its preparation. Such practice is to be deplored, because they cause confusion and disappoint- ment to the cultured cook and epicure alike. The object, therefore, of this culinary handbook is in the first place to assist caterers, restaurateurs, managers, maitres d’hotel, chefs, stewards, head waiters, and house- keepers to plan and compile menus of every kind of meal with greater ease, and to enable them to have at their disposal a large and constant variety of seasonable and suitable dishes. Every course, from hors-d’oeuvre to dessert, has been exhaustively treated ; and the work is compiled so as to give at a glance an almost infinite variety of every possible kind of dish that can be introduced into a menu. In most cases the requisite mode of cooking, the garniture and style of dressing or dishing up, is briefly described. The book should not, however, be confused with a book of recipes, for its raison d'etre is to enablePREFACE. 4 those who can cook or superintend cooking to draft menus with greater ease, and to give each dish its proper French name. The adoption of French names in menus has become fashionable because most of the typical French dishes have become fully naturaUsed in the kitchens and on the tables of this country. It therefore becomes the duty of all persons interested in culinary matters to know how to describe them in correct French. The author can hardly expect that this book will bring about a revolution in the customs of gastronomy, but he does hope that its use will be the means of intro- ducing greater variety into the daily menus, and, if possible, economy in the preparation of dishes. Hence its mission should, if for no other purpose, prove practical and useful to such who avoid ordinary cookery books and fight shy of scientific culinary treatises. If such an aim is achieved the author’s efforts will be amply rewarded. The present, enlarged, edition contains a special chapter on the Art of Menu Compilation, as well as over 2,500 additional dishes. C. HERMAN SENN.PRINCIPAL CONTENTS Part I. THE MENU. The Origin of Menus .. Modern Menus .. The Art of Compiling Menus .. Selection of, and Naming, the Dishes When Food is in Season Names of Food in English and French Spelling and Pronunciation of Principal Words used in French Menus Luncheon and Dejeuner Menus Dinner—Le Diner Specimen Dinner Menus for various Seasons Lenten Menus .. Royal Menus Table d’Hote Menus Private Dinner Menus .. Supper, and Supper Menus Bail Supper Menus Formal Menus for Informal Functions Menu with Quotations Part II. HORS-D’(EUVRE. Plain Hors d’CEuvre (Side Dishes) .. Hors d’CEuvre Garni .. Part III. SOUPS—POTAQES. Broths—Bouillons Clear Soups—Consommes Creams—Crimes Purees and other Thick Soups PAGE 9 10 11 13 15 18 20 26 31 32 37 43 49 50 58 59 64 65 66 68 76 77 89 926 PRINCIPAL CONTENTS. Part IV. THE FISH COURSE—LES POISSONS. Fish Dishes—Plats de Poissons Eel—Anguille .. Brill—Barbue .. Pike—Brochet .. Cod—Cabillaud .. Carp—Carpe Crayfish—Ecrevisses Smelts—Eperlans Herring—Hareng Lobster—Homard Oysters—Huitres Mackerel—Maquereau Whiting—Marian Mussels—Monies Red Mullet—Rougets .. Skate—Raie Salmon—Saumon Soles—Soles Trout—Truite .. Turbot—Turbot Part V. SAUCES. Alphabetical Order of Sauces Part VI. GARNITURES. Garnishings for Fish, Meat, and Poultr)’- Part VII. THE ENTREE COURSE. Light Entrees, Farinage and Vegetable Entrees, and Hot Side Dishes Beignets . . Bouchees .. Mousses and Souffl6s .. Timbales and Darioles Meat Entrees Entrees of Beef Entrees of Veal (du Veau) Entr6es of Lamb (d’Agneau) Entrees of Mutton (de Mouton) Entrees of Pork (de Pore) Entrees of Poultry (de Volaille) Entries of Game (de Gibier) .. Cold Entrees (Entrees froides) PAGE 100 101 102 103 104 105 106 106 108 108 no 111 112 113 114 114 115 119 129 131 134 151 158 158 159 166 167 168 169 180 192 194 203 206 228 2407 PRINCIPAL CONTENTS. Part VIII. REMOVES—RELEVES. Beef—Boeuf PAGE 248 Mutton—Mouton .. 251 Pork and Ham—Pore et Jambon" .. .. 252 Veal—Veau • • 253 Turkey—Dinde, Poularde, etc. •• 255 Part IX. THE VEGETABLE COURSE. Artichokes—Artichauts Asparagus—Asperges Egg Plants—Aubergines Carrots—Garottes Cardoons—Cardons Celery—Celeri .. Mushrooms—Champignons Cabbages—Choux Cauhflower—Chou-fleur Cucumber—Concombre Endive, and Spinach—Epinards Broad, Haricot, and French Beans .. Lettuces and Lentils .. Turnips, Green Peas and Onions .. .. Potatoes—Pommes de Terre .. Salsify and Tomatoes . . Jerusalem Artichokes and Truffles .. Macaroni and Spaghetti Savoury Rice Dishes .. Part X. EGGS AND OMELETS. Egg Dishes Omelets .. .. 256 .. 258 .. 260 261 .. 261 262 .. 263 .. 264 .. 265 266 267 .. 268 269 270 271 278 .. 279 280 .. 281 282 .. 289 Part XI. ROAST—ROTI. Poultry—Volaille .. .. .. .. .. 293 Game—Gibier (Wild Poultry) .. .. .. 294 Four-Footed Game .. .. .. .. .. 294 Part XII. SALADS—SALADES. Salads—Salades .. ., .. .. ,, 29b Entremets, Notes on • • •• 3038 PRINCIPAL CONTENTS. Part XIII. THE SWEET COURSE. PAGE Apricots—Abricots .. .. .. .. .. 303 Pineapples—Ananas .. .. .. .. .. 304 Bananas—Bananes .. .. .. .. .. 306 Creams and Bavaroises .. .. .. .. 307 Fritters—Beignets, etc. .. .. .. .. 309 Borders—Bordures .. .. .. .. ..310 Cherries—Cerises .. .. .. .. .. 311 Charlottes .. .. .. .. .. 311 Fruit Compotes .. .. .. .. .. 313 Strawberries—Fraises .. .. .. .. ..314 Croutes of Fruit, etc. .. .. .. .. .. 314 Jellies—Gelees .. .. .. .. .. .. 316 Melons and Oranges .. .. .. .. ..317 Peaches—Peches .. .. .. .. .. 318 Pears—Poires .. .. .. .. .. .. 320 Apples—Pommes .. .. .. .. .. 321 Puddings—Poudings .. .. .. .. .. 323 Savarins .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 327 Special Sweet Entremets .. .. .. .. 328 Souffles and Omelettes .. .. .. . . 330 Pancakes .. .. .. .. .. •• 331 Fancy Cakes and Pastry—Gateaux .. .. .. 332 Ices—Glaces .. .. .. .. .. .. 335 Bombes and Mousses .. .. .. .. .. 336 Punches and Sorbets .. .. .. .. .. 338 Granites and Coupes .. .. .. .. .. 338 Ice Puddings .. . . .. . . .. .. 340 Part XIV. THE SAVOURY COURSE. After-Dinner Savouries. Fish Savouries . . .. .. .. . . . . 344 Meat Savouries .. .. .. .. .. 347 Vegetable Savouries .. .. .. .. .. 348 Farinaceous Savouries and Cheese Dishes .. .. 349 •• 350 Dessert and Coffee9 PART I. THE MENU. o THE ORIGIN OF MENUS. Menu is a French word, denoting minute details as applied to kitchen bill, bill of fare, table card, or programme of a meal, its object being to present a Ust of dishes and courses, eatables and beverages. Although the kitchen bill of fare is probably as old as the art of cooking, our forefathers in past ages had no use or need for menus ; they contented themselves with merely looking at the dishes to judge the nature of the viands as they were brought to table. Ancient Rome, and all her glories, according to history, had enormous feasts and expensive banquets. Untold wealth was lavished on foods and drinks, and its culinary triumphs were incomparable to our modern gastronomic feasts, yet no mention is made of a menu or bill of fare being in use in those days. The use of menus was first heard of as being adopted for table use in 1541, when, at a banquet given by the Duke Henry of Brunswick, his Grace was seen to have a sheet of paper by the side of his plate, to which he occasionally referred. One of the duke’s guests asked what the paper was for, and on its being explained that it was a sort of programme of what they were going to eat, and by looking through it he could reserve his appe- tite for those dishes he liked best, the idea was so much admired that it soon became generally known and adopted. The old-fashioned bills of fare were usually written on large cards, gaudily ornamented with gastronomic sym- bols, etc. ; they were, however, of such a size thatlO THE MENU BOOK. only one copy could be conveniently placed at each end of the table. Another version is that Count Hugo de Montfort, at a dinner given in the year 1498, was noticed to have a piece of written parchment near his plate, which he frequently consulted, and when asked what it was he explained that he had ordered the head cook to write on it the various dishes that were being sent from the kitchen. The size of these parchments and paper lists gradually diminished, and, as they became smaller, larger numbers were placed at the table, until the present form of menu was generally introduced, when each guest is provided with a written or printed menu card. Modern Menus. Modem menus, as a rule, are much more prettily got up than those of olden times. In the matter of material for menus, white paper is mostly used, but more expensive material is also employed. I have seen some made of silk, papier-mach6 ; some in the form of shells, books, almanacks, cigars, cigarettes, matchboxes, newspapers, maps, post-cards, bank-notes, blank covers, envelopes, etc. Menus in the shape of envelopes are particularly pretty, and now very much in favour. One takes the form of a small, delicately-coloured envelope of thin cardboard, decorated with gold ; the flap is engraved with a motto, crest, name of host or hostess, some flowers, or a knife and fork crossed, and a sprig of herbs ; the post-mark is “ Bon App^tit.” On the address side is a stamp in gold, with some gastronomic design, and a post-mark bearing the name of the place where the meal is given, with the respective date and name of the diner. The enclosure is, of course, the menu itself. Hand-painted menus on paper, parchment, and satin are in great favour in all society circles. Some of the newest have a miniature of the host or hostess painted in the centre, and are occasionally the work of noted artists. In England, America, and France much art and luxury have been lavished on menu cards. Parchment of the Middle Ages competes with Japanese rice-paper. Some menus, with their seals and ribbons, are like a charterII MODERN MENUS. of nobility, whilst others are in the form of beautiful miniature fans. For some time there has been a reaction against extra- vagant luxury, which is being replaced by a simphcity not less excessive. Sometimes the names of the dishes are written by hand on thick paper, without any orna- mentation. As usual, the best kind are between these excesses of ostentation and severity. Menus of out-of- the-way and awkward shapes are at all times to be avoided, because they encumber the table, and are difficult to consult. Without microscopical print, they should be suffi- ciently small to be readable without much difficulty, and not add to the embarrassment caused by a succession of glasses and other articles on the table. The menu card is a simple accessory, and should be treated as such. This rule ought to be taken into consideration when ordering the menu cards. The Art of Compiling Menus. To be able to compose or construct a menu is an art learnt only by experience ; it is by no means as easy as some people imagine. But few of the guests partaking of an elaborately prepared banquet have any idea of the amount of skill that is devoted to the composition of the menu, selecting choice provisions, and planning the dishes so that all have the desired harmonising effect which bring about the gastronomic success of the banquet. It is, of course, comparatively easy to make out a menu for a luncheon or a small dinner, consisting merely of soup, fish, joint, vegetable, and a sweet—for such presents no difficulty to the average cook or housekeeper. But when it comes to arranging a first-class and well- planned dinner of recherch6 character, it is quite a different matter, for then every course, from the hors d’csuvre to the entremets, present more or less difficulties, especially to those inexperienced in the art of menu composition. There are many hard-and-fast rules in the gastronomic laws which must be observed if one is to attain success, for a badly-composed menu is likely to spoil the best dinner. That great gastronomic and12 THE MENU BOOK. culinary artist, Brillat-Savarin, truly said : “ Menu mol fait, diner perdu.” To be able to plan or compile a recherche luncheon, dinner or supper, is regarded as a high accomplishment, for, as already stated, much of the success of a repast depends upon its menu. The arrangement of an elaborate dinner is an art in itself, and consists in selecting the various courses, so that the dishes harmonise with each other ; the chief requirements being that:— 1. Each dish shall be different in composition and mode of cooking. 2. The composition of the individual dishes must be excellent; while they should be well cooked, tastefully dressed, and yet distinct in character. 3. The harmonising effect is obtained by so arranging the dishes that each one is distinct from the other, bearing no relation in appearance to the preceding or following dishes. 4. A judicious selection of the raw materials, having regard to the season of the year, must be made in all cases, else the menu of a meal may easily be marred. 5. The various meats and other more important materials forming one course must not be repeated in the' same menu from one course to another. 6. The various kinds of sauces employed in the pre- parations, and serving as accompaniments to the dishes, must each be distinctly different in colour, taste, and flavour. It is well to remember that the true estimate of the value of a menu as a literary composition is not always obtained by observing the attention given to it by the guest at a dinner table, for at such a time the average diner is engaged in concentrating his whole mind on a rapid analysis of the good things present and to come. It is often later, in some leisured moment, that the menu is read with a critical eye, and if found the least worthy from a literary point of view, is treasured as an interesting souvenir of a memorable occasion. Menus are planned for every meal—breakfast, luneheon, dinner, and supper—but of all these the dinner menu is of the greatest importance, and the most difficult. For special occasions, such as ball suppers, dinner or luncheon parties, etc., the menu is usually prepared a13 SELECTION OF DISHES. day or more in advance, so ihat the needful provisions may be purchased and other necessary arrangements made, thus allowing ample leisure to get everything ready in good time, and avoiding much confusion when the moment for cooking and serving arrives. The menu, it is hardly necessary to say, must in all cases be strictly followed. Selection of Dishes. In compiling a menu it is necessary to study the variety of dishes, and their selection, for each dish should vary both in colour and taste from those served before or after. The character of dishes must be retained throughout; sauces (except sauces served with fish) should correspond in taste and colour with the viands with which they are intended to be served. If two soups appear on a menu, one ought to be clear and the other thick ; should the thick soup be a puree of vegetables, the clear soup must contain no vegetable roots as garnishing. When two or more fish are to be served, the*first, as a rule, is boiled, and generally a large fish, such as turbot, salmon, cod, etc. ; the next one would be a small fish, either fried or broiled. Whitebait are often served as a third dish. The entrees should always be so classified that light dishes, such as rissoles, bouch^es, croquettes, quenelles, kromeskis, etc., are served first. If there are two removes, poultry is served before the butcher’s meat. The cardinal point is to have all dressed removes served before the plain roasted ones. What is called the second service on a menu includes the roast, the savoury, and the sweet entremets, the dessert, and cheese. When two or more sweets are served, the first one should be hot and the other cold. If fancy savouries are given, they come in after the sweets, for they are intended to prepare the palate for the choice wines which usually follow a good dinner. Naming the Dishes. In preparing a bill of fare for a large dinner, it is advis- able to avoid such dishes as are difficult to dress when done in a great number, for they will cause complication14 THE MENU BOOK. and needless confusion in the kitchen, and often lead to disorganised service. It is also most unwise to use new names of dishes which are not known, or which may be known under a different title, for they will only puzzle the diner, who might not know the standard names of old dishes. Avoid also the use of pompous names of dishes, especially when inexpensive in character, for they often lead to confusion and disappointment. The names of high-standing personalities, towns, coun- tries, etc., are apphed in connection with many dishes ; the French cuisine especially has the names given to dishes in honour of men who gained their celebrity either by their talent as diplomats, statesmen, soldiers, artists, or such as have distinguished themselves by their gastro- nomic or epicurean merits. Hence we have such names in connection with certain dishes as Lucullus, Savarin, Louis XV., Soubise, Richeheu, Careme, Maintenon, Cond6, Colbert, Villeroy, Talleyrand, Nesselrode, Demi- doff, Marie-Louise, Montglas, Victoria, etc. These names, as well as very many others registered in this book, are associated with various culinary preparations and are recognised by cooks of all nations. There are, unfortunately, some cooks in the habit of altering the genuine names of dishes, to which they apply some other high-sounding names in order to make themselves famous, but they only succeed in making themselves look ridiculous in the eyes of a real gourmet, who is not likely to be thus deceived. If, however, the composition of a certain dish is due to the talent and initiative of a cook, then the case is different, and he or she will have a perfect right to name such a dish according to his fancy. The foregoing remarks show that the composition of a menu may mar or make the success of a dinner. Defectively composed menus can often compromise the reputation of a good chef. Although the menu may be of little use to some people, it is indispensable to con- noisseurs who understand the language of the kitchen, for they will be able to judge the kind of dinner on analysing the menu, and by so doing be able to give their verdict as to the capacity of the chef, according to the arrangement of the dishes and the combination of the viands.FRENCH DINNER MENU. 15 Facsimile of a French Dinner Menu. jp!HO , S,(eC J).& A /6^-niiC<a/m£U^. S.di^ /O.C' aX j:>AiO>vuxM/x^ /ihX^. XiiAlcu)^' . (Sjw4<?/VU? ^ /doAUX JIaU/U> a iiXhpi‘ ti\Ax0jaA4>Ay. (S^jQ/iieXXA^ A^^Jiih^'imxcojoiL. ^LojCJZO ,j£^aAA^/lMiO. WHEN FOOD IS IN SEASON. Arranged in Alphabetical Order. The following is a table showing the period when the principal foods are in prime condition and best obtainable in the markets. When marketing it is well to remember that the food most seasonable is usually that which is most plentiful, most wholesome, and as a rule the most reasonable in price. It is well to remember that a number of the articles named can be had at almost any time of the year, though not, strictly speaking, in season. Apples .. .. .. September to May. Apricots .. .. .. August to September. Artichokes (Globe) .. January to April. Artichokes (Jerusalem) ,. October to February.i6 THE MENU BOOK. Asparagus (Giant) Asparagus (Sprue) Barberries Barbel Bass Blackberries Black Cock Broad Beans Broccoli Sprouts Brussels Sprouts Bullaces .. Capsicums .. Cardoons .. Carp Carrots (New) Cauliflowers Celeriac .. Celery Cherries .. Cherries (Montreal) Chestnuts Chickens, Spring Cygnets (Norfolk) Cobnuts Codfish Cranberries Crawfish .. Crayfish .. Cucumbers Currants, English (red, white, and black) Currants, French Damsons .. Ducks Ducks, Wild Ducklings Eels Endive Fieldfare Figs, Green .. Filberts .. Flageolets Flounders Foie-Gras .. Fowl, Wild .. French Beans Geese .• • • ■ • Geese, Wild Gooseberries, Green .. Gooseberries, Ripe Goslings .. Grapes, Almeira.. February to July. January to July. September to November. August to February. May to September. September to October. October to December, July to August. October to March. September to February. September to November. September to October. April to May. July to February. May to June, March to November. October to March. September to February. June to September. May to August, November to January. April to June. May to July. September to February. September to February. November to January. May to July. July to February. May to September. June to September. May to July. September to October. All the year. August to March. March to September. September to May. November to March. November to February. August to September. August to October. May to August. August to April. October to April. August to March. J uly to October. September to February. September to March. April to May. June to July. March to September. October to April,17 WHEN FOOD IS IN SEASON. Grapes, French Greengages Grouse Halibut Hares Hares, Grey Herrings, Fresh Indian Corn John Dories Kale Lamb Landrails Larks Lettuces, English Lettuces, French Leverets Lobsters Mackerel Maize Medlars Melons (Hothouse) Melons, Rock Melons, Spanish Water Mulberries Mullet, Grey and Red Mushrooms Mussels Nectarines Oranges Oranges, Seville Ortolans .. Oysters Parsnips .. Partridges Partridges, Foreign Peaches Pears Pears, Californian Peas, English, Green Perch Pheasants Pigeons, Bordeaux Pike Pines, St. Michael’s Pintail Plaice Plovers’ Eggs Plovers, Golden and Grey Plums, English Plums, French Pomegranates Pork September to October. July to September August to December. May to January. August to March. October to December. July to February. August to December. July to April. December to March. January to July. October to February. August to February. April to September. December to March. August to March. July to September. April to December. August to December. September to October. August to September. August to September. October to March. August to September. July to October. March to October. August to March. August to October. November to June. February to March. June to August. September to April. September to April. September to February. February to June. August to October. August to December. November to April. August to September. July to February. October to February. August to April. July to February. October to April. September to March. May to January. April to May. August to March. August to September. July to August. October to November. September to April. BTHE MENU BOOK. i8 Potatoes, New Kidney Ptarmigans Prairie Hens Prawns Pumpkins .. Quails Quinces Raspberries Red Cabbage Reeves Rhubarb, Forced Rhubarb, Natural Ruffs Shrimps Salmon Salsify Savoys Scarlet Runners Scallops .. Seakale Skate Snipe Sorrel Spinach Sprats Strawberries Sturgeon, Royal Tangerine Oranges Teal Tench Tomatoes .. Trout Turkeys .. Vegetable Marrow Venison Walnuts .. Whitebait Whiting Widgeons .. Woodcocks March to May. December to May. February to April. April to August. September to October. June to August. October to November. June to September. September to January. August to September. December to May. April to July. August to September. April to September. February to October. December to March. October to March. July to October. October to April. February to April. October to May. August to March. April to July. March to December. November to April. June to September September to March. November to February. September to March. July to February. March to December. February to September. September to February. August to October. May to October. September to December. February to August, May to January. August to March. August to March. NAME5 OF FOOD IN ENGLISH AND FRENCH. English. Anchovy Artichoke Asparagus Bacon Beans Beef Beetroot Brains French. Anchois. A rtichaut, A sperges. Lard. Fcves, haricots. Bceuf. Betterave. Cervelles. English. BroccoU Brussels sprouts Butter Cabbage Calf’s head Caper Capon French. Brocoli. Chou de Brux- elles. Beurre. Chou. THe de Veau. Cdpre. Chapon.NAMES OF FOOD IN ENGLISH & FRENCH. 19 English. Cardoon Carrot Cauliflower Caviare Celery Cheese Chicken Chic-chicken Cod Cod (salt) Cos lettuce Coffee Cress Cucumber Cutlet Duck Duckling Eel Egg Egg-plant Endive Fillet Fish Game Garlic Gherkin Goose Goose-liver Gosling Grey mullet Gudgeon Guinea-fowl Haddock Halibut Ham Hare Herring Horseradish Kale Kidney Lamb Lark Leek Lettuce Liver Lobster Mackerel Meat Milk Mushroom Mussels French. Car don. Caroite. Choufleur. Caviar. CiUri. Frontage. Poulet. Poussin. Cahillaud. Morue, Romaine. Cafe. Cresson. Concomhre. Cdtelette. Canard,. Caneton. Anguille. (Euf. Aubergine. Chicoree. Filet. Poisson. Gibier. Ail. Cornichon. Oie. Foie-gras. Oison. Mulet. Goujon. Pintade. Merluche. FUtan. Jambon. LUvre. Hareng. Raifort. Chou-frisS. Rdgnon. Agneau. Mauviette. Poireau. Laitue. Foie. Homard. Maquereau. Viande. Lait. Champignon. Monies, English. Mustard Mutton Onion Ox-tail Oyster Parsley Parsnip Partridge Peas Pheasant Pigeon Plaice Plover Plum Pork-chop Potato Poultry Pullet Pumpkin Rabbit Radish Red mullet Rib Roe Saddle Sago Salmon Salt Sausage Seakale Semolina Sirloin Skate Smelt Snail Snipe Soft roes Sorrel Spinach Sturgeon Sucking pig Sugar Sweetbread Teal Tongue Trout Truffles Turkey Turnip French. Moutarde. Monion. Oignon Queue de bceuf. Huitre. Persil. Panais. Perdrix. Pots. Faisan. Pigeon. Plie. Pluvier. Prune. Cdtelette de pore Pomme de terre Volaille. Poularde. Potiron. Lapin. Radis. Rouget. Cote. Laitance. Selle. Sagou. Saumon. Sel. Saucisse. Chou de mer Semoule. A loyeau. Raie. Eperlan. Escargot. Becassine. Laitances. Oseille. Epinard. E sturgeon. Cochon de lait. Sucre. Ris de veatt. Sarcelle. Langue. Truite. T ruffes, Dinde. Navel,20 THE MENU BOOK. English. French. English. French. Turtle T ortue. Venison Venaison. Veal Veau. Whitebait Blanchaille. Vegetable Courge d la Whiting Merlans. marrow mdelle Widgeon Sarcelle. Vegetables Legumes, Woodcock Becasse. Fruit. Almond Amande. Medlar Nefle. Angelica Angelique. Melon Melon. Apple Pomme. Mulberry Mtlre. Apricot A hricot. Nut Noix. Banana Banane. Orange Orange. Cherry Cirise. Peach Peche. Chestnut Marron. Pear Poir. Cranberry A irelle. Pineapple Ananas. Currant Raison de Plum Prune. Corinthe. Prune Pruneau. Damson Prune de Quince Coing. damas. Raisin Raisin sec. Date Datte. Raspberries Framboises. Fig Figue. Rhubarb Rhuharhe. Gooseberry Groseille. Strawberry Fraise. Grape Raisin. Tomato Tomai, Greengage Reine-Claude. Walnuts Noix. Lemon Citron. SPELLING AND PRONUNCIATION OF PRINCIPAL WORDS USED IN FRENCH MENUS. The custom of writing menus for luncheons, dinners or suppers is one of long standing, not only in this countr5^ but in all parts of the civilised world, although there are many people who regard it with a certain amount of prejudice. Those who go abroad, or frequent first-class hotels, clubs, and restaurants, are familiarised with the langue de cuisine ; but the occasional diner is frequently at a loss to understand not only the terms and phrases used in the compilation of the menu, but also their correct pronunciation. It is a recognised fact that we owe much of the advancem.ent and development of cookery to the French, who excel in the culinary art; and with the introduction of special dishes and processes of food preparation, we have also to a certain extent become acquainted with many of the ordinary culinary terms used in the French language, which, as far as menus are concerned, has become the fashion, notwithstanding the inconvenience which the average Englishman feels in consequence. It is, however, a matter of difficulty to give the correct rendering of the phonetic pronunciation ofSPELLING AND PRONUNCIATION. 21 French words, on account of there being in English no equivalents in many instances for the sounds in French. The accents must receive especial attention in writing or reading menus, as the meaning of a word may be completely changed by its use or omission. At the same time, it must be observed that there is, in general, no especial stress of voice on any one syllable in French, even when an accent is placed over a letter in that syllable. The accent determines the sound or pronunciation of the letter alone. The following suggestions and explanations having reference to the various courses comprising a luncheon or dinner menu may prove helpful, not only in the com- pilation of the latter, but also as an aid to the correct interpretation and pronunciation* of the phraseology generally in vogue. The following are a few examples of the names of dishes and words used in French menus, with their approximate pronunciations :— Aigre (ehgr), sour, acid or piquant. Aigrefin (eh-gre-fan), haddock. a la diable (ah lah dee-abl), devilled. a la (ah lah) , in the style of ; after the manner of. Alose (ah-lose), shad. Aloyau (al-oy-yo), sirloin of beef. Alouette (al-ou-et), lark. Ananas (an-an-ah), pineapple. Anguille (an-geeye), eel. Aspic (ahs-peek), savoury jelly. au bleu (o bluh), stewed in wine or in vinegar and water, with herbs. au gratin (o grah-tan), scalloped, au kari (o karee), curried. au maigre (o mehgr), dish in which no meat is used. au naturel (o nah-tu-rehl) , uncooked or boiled in water. Baba (bahbah), spongy yeast cake like savarin, but con- taining currants, or soaked in rum syrup. Bdarnaise (ber-nehz), rich white herb sauce with egg-yolk liaison. Becasse (beh-kas), woodcock. Bechamel (beh-shah-mel), French rich white sauce—the premier foundation sauce. Beignets {ba.Y'^-Y'eh), fritters. Beurre-noir (berr-nooahr), butter cooked to a brown colour. Bisque (beesq), thick soup, made from shellfish. Blanchailles (blan-shy), whitebait. * It is, however, impossible to give exact equivalents to the French u, the e in many instances, the oi, and the ou. Our phonetic rendering is approximate only.22 THE MENU BOOK. Bouchees (boo-shay), small pu§-paste patties filled with minced meat, fish, etc. Bouilli (boo-ee) , fresh boiled beef. Braise (breh-zeh), a combination of roasting and stewing. Broche (broh-sh), roasted before a fire on the spit. Brunoise (bruh-nuwahs), a class of French thick soups. Cabillaud (cab-ee-yo), codfish. Cafe (kah-feh), cofiee. Caille (kiey), quail. Canard (can-ar), duck. Caneton (can-ehton), duckling. Celeri (seh-le-ree), celery. Cerises (ser-ease), cherries. Canape (kah-nah-peh), fried or toasted pieces of bread. C6pes (SEHP), a species of large mushroom. Cervelle de veau (serve-el-de-vo), calf's brains. Champignons (cham-peen-yon), mushrooms. Chartreuse (shar-trerrz), a liqueur, also a mould of savoury meat and vegetable or sweet. Chaudfroid (shoh-frwa), a name for dishes which are prepared hot, coated with sauce, dressed, and served cold, usually garnished with aspic and truffles, etc. Chevreuil (shev-reuye), roebuck, roe-deer. Chicor6e au jus (she-co-reh-oh-ju), endive stewed in stock. Choux (shoo), cabbages. Civet de lievre (see-vay de lee-ehvre), jugged hare. Colbert (kholbehr), a French clear soup and certain other dishes, named after Jean Baptiste Colbert, a clever states- man in the reign of Louis XIV. of France, 1619-1683. Compote (kom-poht), stewed fruit or game. Consomme (kon-some-meh), clear gravy soup, clarified double stock. Coquilles (coquee), light fish or meat entrees served in shells. Creme Crevette (crayme crev-et) , shrimp soup. Cr6pes, (crehpe), pancakes. Croquette (kroh-ket), Savoury minced shapes rolled in breadcrumbs and fried. Croutons (kroo-ton), sippets of fried bread. D6jeuner (deh-jerr-neh), lunch or luncheon. Dinde (dand), hen turkey. Dindon (dandon), young turkey or turkey poult. Ecrevisse (eh-crev-esse), crayfish. Entree (on-treh), a course of dressed dishes, or side dish for the first course. Entremets (entreumeh), name of a course of dishes com- prising sweets and savouries. Epaule d’agneau (eh-pole dan-yo), shoulder of lamb. Eperlan (ehper-lan), smelt. Epinard (ehpin-ar), spinach.SPELLING AND PRONUNCIATION. 23 Faisan (fay-san), pheasant. Farce (farce) , stuffing ov forcemeat. Feves (fayve), broad beans. Filet de boeuf (fee-leh de-beuf), fillet of beef. Foie de veau (fwa de-vo), calf's liver. Fondue (fon-du), cheese melted with butter and served hot. Fraises (frayze), strawberries. Fricassee (free-kah-seh), a white stew of fish or poultry. Frites fried. Gateaux (gahto), cakes. Gelee (jeh-leh), jelly. Gigot de Mouton (gee-go de mooton), leg of mutton. Glace (glahs), ice. Glac6 (glah-seh), iced or glazed. Goujon (goojon), gudgeon. Grive (greeve), thrush. ■■U Gras Double (graa doobl), tripe. Hachis (hah-shee), hash or mince. Haricot (hah-ree-koh), haricot beans or meat stewed with vegetables. Haricots (arry-co), beans. Homard (ome-ar), lobster. Hors-d’oeuvre (or-derrvr), small relishes with which luncheon or dinner begins—appetisers. Huitre (weetre), oyster. Jambon aux epinards (jambon oes ay-peen-ar), ham with spinach. Julienne (juh-lee-en), finely shredded vegetables used for clear soup, etc. Jus (juh), gravy; liquid unthickened seasoning for roast meat, etc. Kromeskies (kroh-mes-kees), chopped meat fried in batter. Langouste (lan-gooste), crawfish or rock lobster, Lapereaux (lap-er-roh), rabbits. Laitue (leh-tu), lettuce, served plain or braised. Lapin saut6 (la-pan-so-teh), stewed rabbit. Maquereau (mac-er-ro), mackerel. Mauviettes (mauvi-yet), larks. Mayonnaise (my-yo-nehz), the principal salad sauce, com- posed of yolk of egg, oil, and vinegar. Menu (meh-neu), bill of fare or list of dishes. Meringue (meh-rang-g), light-baked egg crust made with frosted white of egg and sugar. Merlan (mare-lan), whiting.THE MENU BOOK. 24 Merluche (mare-luche), smoked haddock. Morue (more-u), salt cod. Navet (nav-ay), turnips. Noix (nwa), walnuts. Noisettes (nwa-set), nuts. Nougat (noo-gah), edible paste of sugar and almonds.' Oie (wa), goose. Oseille (o-zay), sorrel. Pate (pah-t) , paste of meat, fish or fruit. Pate (pah-teh), pie, patty. Peche (peysh), peach. Petits four (puh-tee poor), small pastry of the sponge cake variety, decorated with sugar, etc. Petits Pois (pun-TEE pwa), peas. Perdreaux (pear-drow), partridges.. Piece de resistance (pee-es de reh-zees-tons), the principal dish of the meal. Pintade (pan-tahd), guinea-fowl. Poire (pwar), pear. Pommes (pohm), apples. Pommes Pailles (pohm pie), potato straws. Pommes de Terre (pohm de tare), potatoes. Pommes Nouvelles (pohm noovel), new potatoes. Pommes Rissolees (pohm ree-sole-ay), olive-shaped potatoes browned in butter. Potage a I’oseille (potaaj ah lo-say), a cream soup with sorrel as garnish. Potage Parmentier (potaaj par-mon-tyay) , potato cream soup, so-called because Parmentier introduced potatoes into France. Potage petite marmite (potaaj pee-tee mar-meat), beef broth vegetables, served ui small earthen pots with garnish. Potage a la Reine (potaaj ah la ren), chicken purte with cream, garnished with small fried-bread croutons. Potage St. Germain (san-jer-man), green pea soup with cream. Potage a la Soubise (soo-beese), puree of onions. Potage au tomates (oh-to-mat), tomato piiree {filtered soup). Poularde au riz (poo-lard o ree) , boiled chicken with rice. Poule au pot (pool o po), a fowl boiled and served with bourgeois sauce. Poulet saute (pool-ay so-teh), joints of chicken sav.tt, with mushrooms, etc. Pruneaux au riz (prune-o ree), prunes with rice. Prunes (preun), prunes. Puree (puh-reh) , pulp of vegetables or fruit.SPELLING AND PRONUNCIATION. 25 Quartier de pre sal6 (pray-sal-eh), fore-quarter of South- down mutton. Quenelles (quh-nel) , pounded meat, poultry or fish mixed with panade and poached in stock. Ragout (rah-goo), brown stew of meat or poultry. Raie (reh), skate. Raisin (ra-san), grapes. Rechauffe (reh-shoh-feh), cold meat warmed up. Ris-de-veau k la jardiniere (ree-de-vo), sweetbreads garnished with vegetables. Rissoles (ree-sohl), half-moon shapes of fried minced pastry, containing meat, fish, poultry or game. Rognons (rohn-yon), kidneys. Rouget (roo-jeh), red mullet. Salmis (sahl-mee), a rich brown stew of game. Saute (soh-teh), tossed in butter ; cooked rapidly. Souffle (sou-fleh) , pufied ; applied to very light culinary preparations. Soupe au choux (soop o shoo), cabbage soup with cream liaison {thickened with cream). Soupe au lait (soop o leh), milk soup thickened with potato puree. Soupe a I’oignon (soop ah lun-yon), onion soup. Terrine (teh-reen), earthen dish; term applied to dishes served in such a vessel. Tete de veau (teht de vo), calfs head. Timbale (tam-bal), thimble-shaped moulds applied to crusted hash, purees, etc., baked or steamed. Thon (ton), tunny-fish. Tomates (to-mat), tomatoes. Truite (trweete), trout. Vol-au-vent (vohl-o-vohn), case of pastry in which stewed meat or fruit'ffis [served.THE MENU BOOK. 26 Dessert. Dessert. LUNCHEON MENUS. Menus des Dejeuners h la Fourchette. The French have two kinds of dejeuners : one is called "cl la Tasse,” being a plain breakfast, and the other " d la fourchette," which is equivalent to an English luncheon. The word “ lunch,” or luncheon,” is said to be derived from the Welsh llwne, which is a derivation of lump. In bygone days lunch or luncheon meant simply a lump of bread and cheese taken between meals, “ a frugal bit ” ; but now the lunch, more especially among the upper classes, has become a fashionable meal, and one quite as important as the dinner of former times. Few meals offer better opportunities for combining smart little dishes at comparatively small expense than the lunch or luncheon. There are plenty of dainty dishes which can be prepared with httle trouble, suitable as luncheon dishes, that can with advantage be brought within the scope of high-class cookery. The menus given below show what kinds of dishes are suitable for such repasts. SPECIMEN MENUS FOR SET LUNCHEONS. English. Oyster Souffle Venison Cutlets with Chestnut Pur&e Pw§ Potatoes Chocolate Cake Stewed Figs Cheese. II. I. French. Souffle aux Huitres Cotelettes de Venaison aux Marrons Pommes Soufilees Gateau au Chocolat Compote de Figues Fromage. Bouillon en tasse Artichauts a la Chanzy Entrecote a la Bearnaise Okras aux Tomates Bordure Japonaise ^ la Gelee Failles au Parmesan Beef Broth in cups Artichokes with Poached Sirloin Steak with BSarnaise Sauce Okras with Tomatoes Japanese Border in Jelly Cheese StrawsLUNCHEON AND LUNCH MENUS. 27 Dessert. Dessert. III. French. Truites k la Meunidre CEufs mollets aux epinards Langouste Sauce Tartare Lasagnes au Parmesan Beignets de Pommes. English. Trout, Meunicre style Scrambled Eggs with Spinach Lobster with Tartare Sauce Cheese Pastry Apple Fritters. IV. Jambon d’York k la Gelee Veau saut6 aux Champignons Cotelettes de pr6-sal6, vert-pre Puree de pommes au gratin Omelette aux Confitures. York Ham with Savoury Jelly Stewed Veal with Mushrooms Mutton Cutlets with Green Pea Sauce Scalloped Potatoes Jam Omelet. V. (Eufs ^ la Meyerbeer Poulet en Casserole Parmentier Carre d’Agneau roti Salade de Laitue Tartelettes de Reine- Claude. Dejeuner de Chasse. Filets de Soles a la Mayonnaise Mousse de Homard frappe Boeuf braise a la Gelee Langue a I’Ecarlate Filets de Caneton k la Loraine Cailles Poelees k la Parisienne Faisan en Robe de Chambre Salade a la Japonaise Bordure de Riz aux Prunes Gateaux k I’Africaine Batons Goug^re Fromage Eggs Meyerbeer style Chicken in pot with Potatoes Roast Neck of Lamb Lettuce Salad Greengage Tartlets. Hunt Luncheon. Fillets of Soles in Mayonnaise Iced Lobster SoufflS Braised Beef with Savoury Jelly Dressed Ox-tongue Fillets of Duckling with Goose-liver Farce Braised Stuffed Quails Roast Pheasant in Paste Crust Japanese Salad Border oj Rice with Stewed Prunes African Cakes Savoury Cheese Fingers CheeseTHE MENU BOOK. 7.8 TYPICAL LUNCHEON MENUS IN FRENCH AND ENGLISH. French. Omelette aux Rognons Cotelettes d’agneau grillees Tomates sautees Pommes risolees Mousse de Canard et Jambon Savarin aux Fruits Sardines sur Canapes Entrecote de Boeuf aux Olives farcies Salade de Laitues Charlotte de Groseilles vertes English. Kidney Omelet Grilled Lamb Cutlets Tomatoes tossed in Butter RisoUe Potatoes Duck and Ham Mousse Fruit Savarin. Soles, Meuniere style Sirloin Steak with stwffed Olives French Lettuce Salad Gooseberry Charlotte CEufs brouilles a la Tomate Scrambled Eggs with Tomatoes Tranches de Saumon grilles Salmon Steaks with Parsley k la Maitre d’hotel Butter Pommes de terre Hollandaise Potatoes, Dutch fashion. Poulet en Casserole Chicken en Casserole Haricot verts sautes au beurre French Beans tossed in Butter Flan aux Cerises French Cherry Tart Caviar aux Blinis Caviarewith Russian Pancakes Consomme en Tasse Clear Soup in Cups Filets deVolailleenPapillotte Fillets of Fowl in Cases Asperges en branches Asparagus Sauce Mousseuse Frothy Sauce Bananes glacees aux fraises Bananas with Strawberry Ice Biscuits sublets Sandy Biscuits Hors-d’oeuvre (Eufs en Matelotte Turbot k I’Americaine Timbale de Foie-gras en aspic Cotes de Veau k la Soubise Petits Pois a I’Anglaise Macedoine de Fruits en gelee Dames d’honneur Appetisers Eggs, Matelotte style Turbot with Lobster and Tomatoes Goose-liver Timbales in Savoury Jelly Veal Cutlets with Onion Purie Green Peas Mixed Fruit in Jelly Maids of HonourLUNCHEON AND LUNCH MENUS. 29 Dejeuner du 30 Mars» Consomme en tasses Cotelettes de ris de veau a la Villeroy Tournedos, pommes frites Poulardes k la gel^e salade parisienne Haricots verts a I’anglaise Ananas glace Failles an Fromage Dessert. Dejeuner du 15 Mai. Consomme double aux QEufs poches Tournedos a la Rossini Poussins de Paris grilles Sauce Diable Pommes pailles Salade verte Omelette en Surprise Ddjeuner du 16 Juillet. Consomme frappe en Tasses OEufs brouill^s aux Truffes Darne de Saumon k la Tartare Escalopes de Volaille a la Reine Petits Pois au beurre Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Russe Souvenirs de Praises Salamis, Sardines Cotes de Veau Sauce piquante Puree de pommes de terre Pigeons a la Crapaudine Choux marins Gateaux Suedois DEJEUNER OR LUNCHEON MENUS. Hors-d’CEuvre CEufs brouilles, au Jambon Boeuf braise aux Nouilles Sauce piquante Pate de lievre Ponding aux figues Fromage Cafe noir. {December). £)crevisses au Naturel Filets de Soles aux Aubergines Cotelettes de Pore, Sauce Robert Pommes Mirettes Terrine de Becasse k la Perigourdine Salade de Chicoree Souffle k la Creole Saucisson de Foie-gras Omelette aux Crevettes Chateaubriand k la Moelle Pommes de terre k la maitre d'hotel Chaudfroid de Faisan Souffle k I’Ananas Crevettes, beurre frais QEufs poches, aux epinards Escalopes de veau, milanaise Pommes pailles Timbale de poires30 THE MENU BOOK. ROYAL DEJEUNERS. One of the King’s Luncheon Menus at Epsom Races. Truites au Rubis. Homards, sauce Ravigote. Cailles Napees White Ladye. Chaufroix de Volaille Piintanier. Derby Beef. Jambon. Langue. Agneau, Sauce Menthe. Gelatine Truffee. Chicken Pie. Poulets Rotis. Asperges froides, Sauce Creme. Kalteschaal Von Frtichten. Praises Tosca. Cremes Renversees au Caramel. Gateaux de Chocolat. Petits Gateaux. Dessert. June yth, T912. A D6jeuner Menu Of H.I.M. the Czar of Russia. Potage Saint-Germain. Consomme Roj^ale. Petits pates. Sterlet paravoie au champagne. Selle d'agneau Richelieu. Pat6 de foie-gras, sauce Cumberland. Salade demi-deuil. Pommes Calvill a la Reine. Timbale de fruits 5, la Parisienne. Dessert. Petershof Palace, Jan. 1910. England and Norway. Menu of a Dejeuner composed in honour of the King and Queen of Norway’s visit to this country. Menu. E Escalopes de Turbot a la Nansen N N Navarin de Poulet k la Marengo O G Guolash Viennoise ^ la Xavier R L Langouste en Salade, Stroganov V A Alumettes de Celeri k la Grecque E N Neige au Champagne a la Dantzig G D Darioles de Peches k la Royale E C. H. S.DINNER. 31 DINNER—LE DINER. The word “ dinner ” {diner, /.) is supposed to be a corruption of dix heures, indicating the hour at which in the days of Norman rule this meal was taken. In a book published in 1512, entitled the Household Book, it is stated that the family rose at six, breakfasted at seven, dined at ten, supped at four, and closed the gates at nine p.m. • Dinner with all classes forms the principal meal of the day. The middle and working classes take it at mid-day, whilst the better classes and fashionable society partake of it between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. The aristocracy have always dined later in the day than the other classes. The number of courses of a dinner depends on the circumstances of the host and hostess, but the courses have increased with time and fashion, whilst the number of dishes served have decreased ; that is to say, instead of serving two soups, two or three fish, and as many entrees, not more than one, or at the most two, are now placed on modern menus. One must not overlook the fact that the greater the variety of dishes introduced in a menu, the greater must be the waste. The present tendency is for shorter meals—that is, fewer dishes than formerly ; but the maxim is, " Let there be choice of excellent quality, well-cooked, and daintily served.” The gastronomic world of this country owes a debt of gratitude to H.M. the late King Edward as regards dinners, for he has expressed a wish that at the houses where he dines dinners should be quickly served, and never last more than an hour. Hence short dinners have now become the rule as v/ell as the fashion. This has a great significance, for the all-important fact that the dishes selected for a recherchS dinner shall gain in quality what they lose in quantity. A short resum& of the various courses that constitute a ” full-course dinner ” is given, under the respective headings, in order to explain the correct service, suit- ability, and character of the various di.shes belonging to each course.THE MENU BOOK. Caf^ turque. Dessert. 3'^ SPECIMEN DINNER MENUS. A SIMPLE MENU. French. Potage : Queue de Boeuf Poisson : Filets de Cabillaud a la Normande Entree : Cotelettes de Mouton ^ la Milanaise Roti : Dinde rotie aux Marions Salade : Entremet: Pouding k la Viennoise. English. Soup : Ox-tail Fish : Fillets of Cod {Normandy style) Entree ; Mutton Cutlets {Milanese style) Roast ; Roast Turkey stuffed with Chestnuts Salad Sweet : Viennese Pudding. Season—January or February. Note.—It will be observed that no vegetables are given in the above bill of fare. One or two vegetables should always be served ; these are selected according to taste and season. The following, in addition to potatoes, is a list of vegetables procurable in January ; artichokes (Globe and Jerusalem), brussels sprouts, celery, savoy, greens, salsify, parsnips, turnips, and Spanish onions. TWELVE MONTHLY MENUS IN FRENCH. I. A January Menu. Consomme Chiffonade Puree a la Reine Filets de Raie au gratin Salmi de Perdreaux Artichauts k la Barigoule Filet de Boeuf braise Pommes de terre Duchcsse Sarcelle rotie Salade d’Oranges Charlotte k la St. Jos6 Huitres en caisses a la Diable Dessert II. A February Menu. Hors-d’CEuvre Russe Petites Marmites Filet de Saumon bouilli. Sauce Verte Poulardes a la Supreme Selle d’Agneau rotie aux Epinards Jambon de Prague Sauce Cumberland Canard Roti Salade de Saison Pommes Julienne Peches k la Melba Friandises Sardines DiablesDINNER MENUS. 33 III. A March Menu. Potage de Tomates a rAmericaine Darne de Cabillaud grille, Sauce Tartare Filets de Boeuf pique a la Brillat-Savarin Pat6 de Cailles Mac6doine de Legumes a la Poulette Caneton Roti Pommes de terre Anna Salade de laitues Bombe Glacee Richelieu Compote de Mirabelles Patisseries assorties Dessert IV. An April Menu. Potage Julienne (maigre) Eperlans frits a la Brochette Vol-au-vent de Gnochis Darne de Saumon braise Croutes aux Champignons Salade de Cardons Abricots a la Conde Ponding Diplomate au Marasquin Tomates k I’Americaine Huitres k la Diable Dessert Cafe noir V. A May Menu. GEufs de pluvier Consomme k la Victoria Truites a la Chambord Quenelles de Volaille a la Nantaise Filets de Mouton aux Concombres farcies Canetons d’Aylesbury Salade melangee Artichauts au buerre fondu Ponding aux Cerises Parfait au Moka praline Dames d’honneur Cafe Liqueurs VII. VI. A June Menu, Hors-d’OEuvres varies Bisque d’Ecrevisses Petites Timbales de Filets de Sole Ris d’Agneau braises en caisses Jambon braise au Champagne Haricots verts saut^es Poularde k I’Ecossaise Pommes Souffl^es Ponding a la Prussienne Corbeilles de Glace fantaisie Petites croutes a la Norfolk Dessert Cafe Liqueurs VIII. A July Menu. Consomme k la Colbert St. Pidrre k la Talleyrand Blanchailles k ITndienne Chaudfroid de Quenelles de Veau Poulet k la Milanaise Cailles bardees k la Broche Salade d’ete Bananes farcies aux fraises Creme renversee Fruits et Dessert Cafe a la Turque An August Menu. Croute au pot Filets de Merlans a la Mornay Quenelles de Volaille a la Turque Filets de Boeuf k la Bordelaise Pommes de terre k la Bignon Aubergines au gratin Reine-Claudes ^ ITmperatrice Canapes de Bananes Fruits et Dessert C34 THE MENU BOOK. H4^ A (^^^na^rc/a O. T. '^O^uAc9*f7'l/^7 yT/ZcCCCi;} 'f\ Qledd^^. •ilk. ■Kiri FACSIMILE OF THE DINNER MENU ON THE OCCASION OF THE CHRISTENING OF THE YOUNGEST PRINCESS OF HOHENZOLLERN.35 DINNER MENUS IX. X. A September Menu. Olives d’Espagne sur Canapes Radis, Salami Puree de Gibier Saumon k la Hollandaise Rouelles de Veau Choux de Bruxelles au lard Gigot de Mouton braise k la Bretonne Cailles k la Broche Salade Pommes Failles Souffle au Riz -Glace a 1’Ananas Gaufrettes Suisses Laitance de Cabillaud fume. An October Menu. Consomm6 ^ la Chasseur Barbue bouillie, sauce hultres Filets de Sole k la Tyrolienne Carre de Mouton brais6 aux Navets Souffles de Perdreaux k la Reine Sorbet k I’lmperiale Dindon roti au cresson Salade de Celeri Savarin au Rhum Compote de Poires Fromage de Brie Fruits et Dessert. XL A November Menu. Hors-d’CEuvre Russe Consomme Demi-Tortue Filets de Barbue a la Salamandre Ris de Veau a la Regence Filets de Boeuf a la Rossini Poularde de Bresse rotie Salade Japonaise Parfait de Celeri Ponding k la Saxon Glace Montreuil Canapes de filets de Harengs Fruits et Dessert. XII. A December Menu. Consomme k la Moelle Potage creme de riz Turbot, sauce Hollandaise Boeuf garni a la Vichy Chou-fleurs Sauce Mousseuse Timbale de Foie-gras Faisan de Boheme Salade Imperiale Bombe Nesselrode Patisseries Paillettes au Parmesan Fruits et Dessert.36 THE MENU BOOK. A French Dinner Menu. Hors-d’CEuvre varies Potage : Consomme Brunoise Poissons : Saumon k la Cardinal Blanchailles a I’lndienne Entries : Poussins k la Souvaroff Tournedos k la Choron Relev^ : Gigot d’Agneau roti Asperges, Sauce Mousseliue Granite au Kirsch Roti : Cailles a la Broche Salade Polonaise Entremets : Charlotte Foug^res Glace Carmen Canapes St. Jaques Dessert. SPECIMEN MENUS FOR Menu du Diner. Le 15 Mars. Hors-d’CEuvre : Anchois sur Canapes Potage : Consommi Fleury Poisson : Fillets d’Anguille a la Juive, Sauce Tartare Entree : Tournedos a la Bearnaise Pommes Parisienne Roti : Canard roti Salade k la Fran9aise Entremets : Concombres farcies etouffee Riz ^ lTmp6ratrice Tourte a la Rhubarbe Bonne Bouche : Hultres a la Diable en caisses. An Eng;lish Dinner Menu. Soup : Turtle Soup Fish : Mousse of Soles Prawns in Aspic Entree : Timbale of Hare. Remove ; Baron of Beef Casseroles of Pheasants Roast: Casseroles of Partridges. Game Pies Chickens d la Reine Ox Tongues. Sweets : Creams Charlotte Russe Orange Jellies Pastry Ices. VARIOUS SEASONS. Bill of Fare. March i^th. Side Dish : Anchovy fillets on toast Soup : Clear Soup {Rice and Vegetable garnish) Fish : Fried Fillets of Eel {Jewish fashion), Tartare Sauce Entree : Tournedos {Bearnaise style) Parisian Potatoes Roast: Roast Duck French Salad Vegetable : Stuffed Cucumber {baked) Sweets ; Rice Mould {Empress style) Rhubarb Tart Savoury : Devilled Oysters in Cases.37 DINNER MENUS. MENUS MAIGRES—LENTEN MENUS. D^jeuners-Luncheons. Anchois sur canap6s CEufs k la Reine Margot Homard—Sauce Gribiche Haricots beurre nouveaux Poires k la Jeanne Granier Dessert. Escargots a la Bourguig- nonne CEufs a la Vaucourt Raie au beurre noire Spagheti ^ la Milanaise Croutes aux fruits Dessert. Hors-d’OEuvre Cabillaud grill6 Sauce b^arnaise CEufs mollets aux 6pinards Sarcelles k I’oranges amdres Riz ^ la Cond6 Dessert. Favorits de Caviar CEufs frits aux 6pinards Sole a la Portugaise Champignons sous la cloche GA-teau mousseline k I’orange Dessert. A Lenten Dinner. Escargots au Chablis Consomme Fermiere Saumon, Sauce Genoise Blanchailles au Paprika Petites Bouchees aux C6pes Bordure de Homard ^ la Norvegienne Cotelettes de Semoule k la Jardiniere Salade de C616ri Ponding k I’Ambassadrice Bombe de Peche en Surprise Nouilles au Gratin Diner CarSme—A French. Puree de Choufleur, maigre Blanchailles au Naturel Souchet de Carrelets Mousses d’Homard a la Cardinal Cotelettes de Turbot a ITndienne Darne de Saumon k la Su6doise Chou de Mer k la Hollandaise Chartreuse aux Oranges Caf6 frapp6 k la Neige Eclairs de Sardines. Lenten Dinner. English. Cauliflower Soup Whitebait Flounders in Souchet Lobster Mousses, Cardinal Sauce Turbot Cutlets {Indian style) Cold Salmon {Swedish style) Seakale with Dutch Sauce Orange Jelly {Chartreuse style) Iced Co flee with Whipped Cream Sardine Eclairs.38 THE MENU BOOK. MENUS IN FRENCH AND ENGLISH. Season—May-June. Menu. Consomme Brunoise Filets de Soles k la Regence Cotelettes d’Agneau ^ la Clamart Petits Pois k la Mayonnaise Cote de Boeuf roti k I’Anglaise. Crdme d’Asperges a I’Argenteuil Canard farcies, 6touff6e Salade d’Orange Pommes Nouvelles Mousse frappee, Prince Piickler Gateaux Pithiviers Fromage Fruits et Dessert. Bill of Fare. Clear Vegetable Soup {Brunoise style) Fillets of Sole {Regent style) Lamb Cutlets {Clamart style) Green Peas with Salad Dressing Roast Beef with Yorkshire Pudding and Horseradish Sauce A sparagus in Savoury Jelly Braised Duck, Stu§ed Orange Salad New Potatoes Iced Chocolate Mousse with Chestnut PurSe Pithiviers Cakes Cheese Fruit and Dessert. Season—June-July. Potage : Cr^me a I'Oseille Poissons : Sole au Gratin Petites Bouch6es de Crevettes Entrie : Cotelettes de Veau aux pur6e de Pois vert Rdti : Poulet roti Salade de Laitue Pommes Souffles Soup : Cream of Sorrel Fish : Sole au Gratin {baked) Small Puff Paste Patties of Prawns Entree : Veal Cutlets with Pur&e of Green Peas Roast: Roast Chicken Lettuce Salad Puff Potatoes Entremets : Omelettes sucree Bavaroise aux Peches Sweets : Sweet Omelet Peach Cream39 SPECIMEN MENUS. Season—November and December. French. Hors-d'o&uvre : V ari6s. Potages : Consomm6 k la Royale Potage a la Mulligatawny Poissons : Sole au vin blanc Eperlans frite, Sauce Remoulade Entries : Petites Bouch^es de Faisan k la Moderne Terrine de Lapereaux Relevi : Gigot de Mouton, Galois, Legumes Rdti : Sarcelles roti Pommes Julienne, Salade Entremets : Ponding Souffle aux Pommes Cr^me glac6e de Prunes de Damas Savoureux : Petites Croustades au Parmesan English. Assorted Appetisers : Selection of Side Dishes Soups: Clear Soup with Royal Custard Thick Mulligatawny Fish : Soles with White Wine Sa,uce Fried Smelts, Rimoulade Sauce, Tomato Flavour Made Dishes : Small Pheasant Patties Terrine of Rabbit or Hare Remove : Roast Leg of Welsh M utton Vegetables Roast: Roast Teal Straw Potatoes and Salad Sweets : Apple Souffli Piidding Damson Cream Ice Savoury : Parmesan Cheese, Cream in Crusts. FRENCH FAMILY DINNER MENUS. French. I. Potage Sevigne Filets de Turbot a la Vatel Poulets de Grains en Cocotte Flageolets au Beurre Cailles de Vigne sur Canapes Salade de Chicoree Glace, Vanille et Fraise Tartelettes aux Amandes English. SSvignS Soup Fillets of Turbot {Vatel style) Spring Chicken {Cocotte style) Flageolets tossed in Butter Quails on Toast Chicorie Salad Vanilla and Strawberry Ice Almond Tartleh40 THE MENU BOOK. FRENCH FAMILY DINNER MENUS. II. French. Potage a la Reine Truite Saumon^e, sauce G^noise Ris de Veau aux Petits Pois Perdreau roti Salade de C61eri en branches Fonds d’Artichauts a ritalienne Compote de Fruits au Kirsch Biscuit Manque. English. White Chicken PurSe Boiled Salmon Trout, Gtnoise Sauce Sweetbread with Green Peas Roast Partridge Celery Salad Artichoke Bottoms in Brown Sauce Stewed Fruit with Kirsch Syrup French Biscuits III. Hors-d’CEuvre Consomme Grisonne Filet de Sole a I’Horly Cotes d’Agneau aux Points d’Asperges Caneton de Rouen poele Petits Pois Paysanne Pommes Noisettes Salade Fran9aise Tartelettes de Fraises Souffle au Parmesan. Appetisers Clear Beef Broth with Batter Garnish Fillets of Soles, Fried, with Tomato Sauce Lamb Cutlets with Asparagus Points Rouen Duckling braised in the pot Green Peas {Farmer’s style) Potatoes Browned in Butter French Salad Strawberry Tartlets Parmesan Souffle. IV. Consomme au Tapioca Cabillaud, Sauce aux Capres Poulet saute aux Champignons Gigot d’Agneau a I’Anglaise Salade de Laitue Haricots Verts ^ la Poulette Tartc aux Cerises Tapioca Clear Soup Boiled Cod, Caper Sauce Stewed Chicken with Mushrooms Roast Leg of Lamb Lettuce Salad French Beans {Poulette style) Cherry TartSPECIMEN MENUS. 41 PETIT5 DINERS—SMALL DINNERS Petite Marmite k la Fraii9aise Vol-au-vent a la Toulouse Perdreau sur Canap6 Cel6ri au Jus Croutes aux Peches Consomme au Riz Paupiettes de Merlans Entrecote grilles Haricots verts saut6s Faisan roti Pommes frites, Salade Ponding Nesselrode. Potage Argenteuil Truite au bleu Gigot d’agneau k la Dartois Tomates farcies Poularde rotie Salade de Laitue Omelette surprise Fruits—Dessert. Potage fausse Tortue Filets de Turbot k la Normande Cuissot de veau a I’Allemande Truffes au Champagne Souvenirs de Foie-gras Dinde rotie Salade ^ la Fran9aise Artichauts, Sauce Chasseur Glace Plombiere Consomme a la Royale Paupiettes de Soles Cuissot de Chevreuil k la Poivrade Asperges, Sauce Mousseline Sorbet au Rhum Chapon Truffee Salade de Laitue k la Mayonnaise Pat6 de Grouse Pommes au riz Meringu6es. Glace k I’Ananas. Two RecherchtS Diners. Hors-d’CEuvre Consomme Celestine Bisque de Homard Turbotin braise k la Russe Vol au Vent de Ris de Veau Tournedos Catalane Pommes Rissolees Caneton d’Aylesbury Roti Salade Flageolets au Beurre Biscuit Glac6 Friandises Dessert. Creme a la Marquise Croustades aux Hultres Turban de filets de Soles k I’Ambassadrice Filet de Boeuf Brais6 Ris de veau k la Cardinal Petits pois a la Fran9aise Sorbet au Kirsch Faisan barde au Cresson Pommes Julienne Souffles d’fipinards Glace D^me blanche Gateaux Madelaines2 THE MENU BOOK, Hors-d’CEuvre riches [Appetisers) Bortsch polonaise [A Russian Soup)^ Filets de Sole Frits an Citron {Fried Fillets of Sole) Noisettes d’Ag'neau aux Navets {Lamb Fillets with Turnips) Laitues brais6es {Braised Lettuce) Caneton roti {Roast Duckling) Pommes rissol6es {RissoUe Potatoes) Salade de Saison {Spring Salad) Asperges en branches {A sparagus) Souffl6 k rOrange {Orange Souffli) Charlotte Russe Dessert. Caf6 et liqueurs. Dinner in April or May.ROYAL MENUS. 43 ROYAL DINNER MENUS. Menu du Diner given by H.M. King George V. Melon frappe an Grand Marnier. Tortue Verte a I’Anglaise. Truite Saumon6e braisee an Champagne. Cassolette de Queues d’ficrevisses Americaine. Chapon du Mans Wladimir. Selle d’Agneau en Chevreuil, Sauce poivrade. Petits Pois au beurre. Pommes Louisette. Sorbets Dame Blanche. Caille Royale aux feuilles de Vigne. Salade Vigneronne. Fonds d’Artichauts Mornay. Bombe Pralinee. Peches Cardinal. Friandises. Canape Montgomery. Maitre Chef— M. H. Cedard, G.C.A. The King’s Derby Day Dinner. Given by His Majesty at Buckingham Palace. Tortue Claire. Filets de Soles k la Cherbourg Crimped Salmon, Sauce Hollandaise. Chapons froids k r^;picurienne. Hanche de Venaison de Sandringham, Sauce Aigre-doux. Selles d'Agneau k la Printaniere. Cailles et Ortolans sur Canapes. Coeurs de Romaines k la Vinaigrette. Dinner of H.M. the King of Italy. Consomme Juhenne. Truites au Beurre. Asperges d’Argenteuil, Sauce Mousseline. Brugnons k la Princesse. Patisserie Parisienne. Tournedos k la Semmering. Chaud-froid de Poulardes. Selle de Chevreuil. Compote, Salade. Asperges, Sauce Mousseline. Souffle ^ la Desio. Glace Melee. Fromage. Fruits. Dessert. Caf6 Noir. {A ugust). Cassolettes a la Jockey Club. Souffles Glacis Caprice. Paniers de Friandises Gaufrettes. Maitre Chef— M. H. Cedard, G.C.A. (Derby Day, June sth, 1912.)THE MENU BOOK. 44 Gala Banquet Menu Given by H.M. the King of Spain, at the Royal Palace, Madrid, Consomme de tortuga Sopa a la Maintenon Pastelitos de arrox a la piamontesa Quenefas de pato a la Senn Costillas de cordero fiambre, a la Princesa Vaca a la Espanola Guisantes Judias verdes Polios del Mans asados Ensalada a la embajadora Espdrragos salsa holandesa Bixcocho muselina a la Cedard Helado de crema y frutas Tartaletas a la Gisors. (i6/A March, 1908.) Translation of Menu— H.M. King of 5paln. Consomme de Tortue Potage a la Maintenon Petits pat6s de riz a la Piemontaise Quenelles de Canetons piquees k la Senn Cotelettes d’Agneau froides cl la Princesse Piece de Boeuf braisee a I’Espagnole Petits pois au beurre Haricots verts sautes Poulardes du Mans roties Salade k I’Ambassadrice Asperges, Sauce Hollandaise Gateaux Moussehne a la C6dard Glace k la Pedro Tartelettes k la Gisors. {i6th March, 1908.) Dinner of H.M. the King of Spain. Consomme de Volaille glac6, Creme d’Epinards Saumon d’Ecosse, Sauce Laguipiere Aiguillette de Boeuf Fondante Pommes Casa Campo Poularde Bagatelle Bouch6e des Rois Aubergines a I’Orientale Biscuit Glac6 k la Napolitaine Patisserie Feuillet6e Cheese Wafers. {June.)ROYAL MENUS. 45 Imperial Austrian Court. Menu Of a Dinner given by H.I.M. the Emperor of Austria- Hungary to H.M. the King of Montenegro. Potage Chantilly Petits souffles Lucullus Filets de saumon a la Russe Pidce de Boeuf et d’Agneau Zephyr de gibier a la Vatel Cotelettes a la craconnaise Sorbet Poulardes de Styrie, salade, compote Asperges en branches Cr^me Richmond Fromage Glaces variees Dessert. (Vienna, June 8th, 1912.) Royal Court of Belgium. Consomme Sevigne Potage Chatelaine D6hcieuses Lucullus Saumon, Sauce mousseline Filet de Boeuf Renaissance Chaufroid de volailles. Sauce Vincent Sorbets neige au champagne Cardons k I’Espagnole Perdreaux rotis cresson Pates de Strasbourg en croutes Napoli tains aux fruits Glace Aiglon Fruits Desserts (Royal Palace, Bruxelles, Sept. 2gth, 1910.)46 THE MENU BOOK. An Italian Court Menu. H.M. King Victor Emanuel’s Dinner to H.I.M. the Kaiser William II. Spuma di tagliatelU alia torinese Fritto alia Lucullo e sfogliatini Filetti di manzo : salsa veneziana Fagiani arrosto con crescione Insalata alia scozzeso Timballo di marroni col kirsch Biscotto col Chester (Royal Palace, Venice, March 2$th, 1912.) Royal Dinner Party. First Parliamentary Dinner given by H.M. the King, at Buckingham Palace. Tortue Claire Blanchaille Saumon de Balmoral, Sauce Mousseline Zephyrs de Cailles h I’Epicurienne Selle d’Agneau a la Printaniere Jambon de Prague an vin de Champagne Chapons rotis flanques de Poussins Salade de Coeurs de Romaine Asperges de Windsor, Sauce Chantilly Peches Renaissance Patisserie Parisienne Barquettes de Chester (Eufs de Pluvier Souffle glac6 Caprice {April 26th, 1912.)47 ROYAL MENUS. Menu of a Private Dinner. Hors-d’oeuvre. Consomm6 Turenne. Creme de Tomates. Filets de Sole Mornay. Pigeon braise aux Petits Pois, Carre de Mouton aux Racines. Pommes Rissolees. Poulet Roti au Cresson. Salade. Glace Chatelaine. Dessert. {^th Sept., 1910.) Dinner to H.M. the Emperor of Germany. Consomme Re jane. Escalopes de Turbot au vin du Rhin. Culotte de Boeuf. Sauce Renaissance. Mousse de lievre. Poularde rotie. Salade Escarole. Pointes d’Asperges k la Creme. Gateau Mille-Feuilles. Gorgonzola. Fruits. Dessert. (Schloss Trachenberg, November 12th, 1912.) A Military Dinner. Hors-d’oeuvres. Royale Tortue. Consomme Glace Okra. Darne de Saumon Froid Livonienne. Blanchailles Diablees. Filets de Poulet Favorite. Velout6 de Haricots Verts. Selle d’Agneau Poel6e k la Printani^re. Pommes Nouvelles Persillees. Asperges d’Argenteuil, Sauce Hollandaise. Jambon d’York Froid. Fraises Sarah Bernhardt, Carolines au Chester. Corbeilles de Fruits. (Ritz Hotel, London, June ^th, igi2.)48 THE MENU BOOK. Russian Imperial Court. Diner. Potages, Fontange, Hochepot Petits pates Soudac Bordelaise Selle de Veau de Moscou Richelieu. Chaud-froid d’Ortolans See. Cumberland Punch a la Romaine Roti: Poulardes du Mans-Gelinottes—Salade Asperges See. Mousseline Timbale de Poires duchesse Corbeille de Glace Parisienne Dessert. Petersbourg, 20 AoiH, 1911. An American Thanksgiving Menu. Dinner. Oyster Soup Celery. Olives. Salted Filberts Turkey, Roasted, Bread Dressing Giblet Sauce Garnish : Pork Sausage Cakes Cranberry Sauce. Sweet Pickled Peaches Squash au Gratin Mashed Turnips. Mashed Potatoes Onions stuffed with Mushrooms Cauliflower a la Huntington Pumpkin Pie. Cheese Vanilla Ice Cream with Maple Syrup and Chopped Nuts Raisins. Nuts Coffee. Then he said unto them, “ Go your way, eat the fat and drink the sweet, and send portions unto them for whom nothing is prepared.’'—Nehemiak viii, 10.49 TABLE D'HOTE DINNER MENUS. TABLE D’HOTE MENUS, Hors-d’CEuvre Hors-d’CEuvre Crdme Jerusalem Velout6 de Tomates Filets de Sole Meuniere Ox Tail Soup CEufs poches Portugaise Supreme de Turbotin Boitel Noisette d’Agneau Bergere Pommes Nouvelles k Poulet grille, Sauce Tartare I’Anglaise Pommes Grenobloise Selle d’Agneau a la Richelieu Petits pois au Sucre Ris de Veau brais6 Crdme St. Claire glacee aux epinards Fromage Poularde de Mans rotie 3s, 6d. per head. (March) Cresson Salade de Saison Asperges d’Argenteuil, Sauce Mousseline Parfait Pralin6 Friandises Compotier de Fruits. 7s. 6d. per head. 55 Hors-d’CEuvre Consomme Viveur Filets de Barbue a I’Anglaise Caille Froide Richelieu Contrefilet de Boeuf k la Broche Pommes Nouvelles Petits Pois aux Laitues Poussin Grand Mdre Salade de Saison Glace Plombiere Dessert. per head. [April) Hors-d’CEuvre a la Russe Consomme Princesse Fausse Bisque Timbales de Filets de Sole Grimaldi Poussin aux petits pois k la Fran9aise Selle de Mouton k la Broche Tomates Champignons Pommes persillees Cailles de Vigne roties au Cresson Salade de coeurs de Romaine Asperges, Sauce Mousseline Caviar d’Astrakan Tortue Claire Supreme de Turbot, Duglere Poussin a la Paysanne Langue de Renne fumee Cailles de Vigne bardees Salade Chips Asperges vertes Roses Glacees Friandises Fondu au Chester Dessert Cafe Noir. I os. 6d. per head. [June) Consomm6 Mousseline Filets de Sole Americaine Cotes d’Agneau Marechale Points d’Asperges a la Cr^me Cailles Cocottes aux Truffes Coeurs de Laitues Parfait de Foie-gras Supremes de Volaille Jeannette Terrine de Canard Rouennaise Fraises au Royal Port Macedoine de Fruits glac6 Ananas glace dans son Mille Feuilles fruit Corbeilles de Fruits Dessert. Caf6 Turque. 6s. per head. [May) 12s. 6d. per head. [Feb.) DTHE MENU BOOK. 50 PRIVATE DINNER MENUS. Hors-d'CEuvre : Salade d’Anchois C61eri Rave k la Tartare Olives de Lucca Potages : Consomme Riche Fausse Tortue Liee Poisson : Turbot k ITmperiale Merlans a la Colbert Entrees : Mousse au Jambon Poularde de la Bresse Chevalidre Releve : Selle de Mouton a la Paysanne Roti : Faisan de Boheme sur Croustade Pommes Pailles Salade de Saison Ligume : Choufleur a la Polonaise Entremets : Charlotte de Pommes Gateau St. Honore Bombe Petit Due Dessert Petits Fours Cafe. I2S. 6d. per head. {Feb.) Huitres Royales Sole ^ la Palace Poulet k la Stanley Caille de Vigne Rotie Salade Coeur de Laitue Asperges Nouvelles Sauce Hollandaise Dessert. Crevettes Roses glacees Crdme k la Dubarry Paupiettes de Soles Demi-deuil Ris de Veau Trianon Rouennais a ITmperiale Quartier d'Agneau roti Salade Quatre Saisons Panache a la Maitre d’Hotel Bombe Fran9illon. Mignardises Hors-d’OEuvre Potage Creme de Volaille Valenciennes Barbue a la Parisienne Selle de pre-sale Bouquetiere Salmis de becasses Poulardes truhees Terrine Voisin Salade gauloise Cardons a la moelle Nelusko glace Gaufrettes—Petits fours Desserts Cafe Liqueur. 105. 6d. per head. {Jd^-) Consomme Montmorency Saumon de Sauce Genevoise Pommes Nouvelles Mignonnettes d’Agneau aux Petits Pois Risotto Milanaise Poularde k la Vendomc Salade Ni9oise Asperges en Branches Sauce Mousseline Mousseline aux Fraises Fruits et Dessert. {April) {March)PRIVATE DINNER MENUS. 51 Menu : Menu : Consomme Princesse Darne de Saumon Sauce G6nevoise Cr6pinettes de pigeons aux Pointes d’Asperges Jambon de Prague Sauce Espagnole Gigot de Pre-Sale a la Godard Poulardes du Mans a la Perigord Salade Lyonaise Petits Pois Nouveaux Creme Glac6e aux Praises Gateau Moderne Paillettes Dessert. {Spring) Crdme Veloute Duchesse Truites du Rhin Sauce Chambord Filet de Boeuf k la Richelieu Supreme de Volaille ^ la Lucullus Aspic de Foie-gras en Belle-vue Faisans Flanqu6s de Cailles Salade de Saison Asperges de Paris Sauce Mousseline Bombe Prince Piickler Gateau Trois Fr^res Dessert Caf6 A TYPICAL ENGLISH DINNER. Soup: Clear Gravy and Tomato Fish : Boiled Turbot, Dutch Sauce Whitebait (plain and devilled) EnirSes : Chicken Cutlets Stewed Cucumbers Braised Sweetbread, larded Mashed Potatoes Remove : Sirloin of Beef Horseradish Sauce Yorkshire Pudding Seakale and Potatoes Roast: Larded Guinea Fowl Lettuce Salad Sweets : Brown Bread Pudding Apricot Creams Savoury : Oysters on Horseback. {September.)52 THE MENU BOOK. A FRENCH CHRISTMAS DINNER. Diner de Noel. Consomme Chambellan Supreme de Soles Mornay Filet de Boeuf k la Rossini Poularde Soufflee k la Princesse Pave a la Lucullus Sorbet a la Cyrano Asperges en Branches Sauce Mascotte Faisans rotis en Volliere sur Croustade Salade a la Marianne Glace Dame blanche Gateau Trois Fr^res Temple Historique Fruits Desserts. SPECIAL MENUS FOR CHRISTMAS DINNERS. I. Chicken Soup Fried Soles. Anchovy Sauce Jugged Hare. Red Currant Jelly Roast Sirloin of Beef. Horseradish Sauce Yorkshire Pudding. Vegetables Plum Pudding. Brandy Sauce Vanilla Custard. Mince Pies. II. Oxtail Soup Boiled Turbot. Shrimp Sauce Mutton Cutlets with Braised Celery Roast Turkey stuffed with Chestnuts Cauhflower and Potatoes Plum Pudding Apple Tart and Custard Chocolate Cream Ice HI. Mock Turtle Soup Fried Whiting. Lemon Sauce Fillets of Beef with Tomatoes Veal and Ham Pie Roast Goose, stuhed. Apple Sauce Chipped Potatoes. Braised Celery Plum Pudding. Mince Pies Vanilla Cream Ice.THE KAISER’S DINNER TO KING EDWARD.54 THE MENU BOOK, The above is a reduced facsimile of a dinner menu of H.R.H. Prince Regent of Bavaria. Royal Dinner. Menu of a special Dinner given by H.M. the King of Saxony, at the Royal Castle, Dresden, June i8, 1911. Consomm6 k la souverain. Truite du lac, sauce Polignac. Selle de chevreuil k la Dennenlohe. Timbale d’ficrevisses k la Metternich. Bombe de Foie-Gras k la Bernhard. Sorbet aux groseilles noires. Chapons du Mans rotis, Salade. Asperges en branches. Ponding aux noisettes. Glace ^ lTmp6riale. Fromage et craquelins. Compdte d’abricots.55 DINNER MENUS. A Dinner of the XIII°Club, New York. Menu. I.—Chicken Gumbo, New Orleans. II. —Olives. Indian Relish. Radishes. III. —Filet de Sole Ni9oise. IV. —Browned New Potatoes. V.—Crab Flake au Gratin Mornay. VI.—Tomato Farci Florentine. VII.—Punch au Kiimmel. VIII.—Roast Tenderloin, Larded, Mushroom Sauce. IX.—Mashed Potatoes. Green Peas. X.—Salad XIII. Club. XI.—Strawberry Short Cake. XII.—Roquefort Cheese. Crackers. XIII.—Coffee Note.—This Club gives a Dinner once a year on the 13th day of the 3rd month. It has thirteen courses, and only thirteen guests are allowed to sit down, none of whom are superstitious. Christmas Dinner at the Carlton. Caviar Frais. Tortue Claire. Veloute Royale. Supremes de Sole au Coulis d’^lcrevisses. Cailles k I’Orientale. Laitues Farcies. Cotelettes d’Agneau de lait au Beurre Noisette. Pointes d’Asperges a la Creme. Foie-Gras a la Gel6e au vin de Moselle. Mandarines Givr^es. Dindonneaux Truff^s. Salade de blanc de Celeris. Plum-Pudding aux Feux-Follets. Peches Bergerettes, Friandises. London, December 25th, 1912.THE MENU BOOK. 56 State Banquet, given by H.M. King George V. in honour of the French President. Tortue Claire. Consomme Gaulois. Filets de Sole Britannia. Supremes de Poulets Epicuriennes. Selle d’Agneau au Petit Pois a la Fran9aise. Cailles et Ortolans sur Canapes. Asperges, Sauce Mousseline. Brugnons ^ la Champenoise, Timbales de Fraises Fontainebleau. Bonbonnidres de Friandises. Christines Victoria. Buckingham Palace^ June 2$tk^ 1913- Royal Gala Banquet Given in honour of the Emperor Wilham’s visit on the occasion of the unveiling of the memorial erected in memory of Queen Victoria. Tortue Claire. Saumon de Balmoral, Sauces Genevoise et Hollandaise. Filets de Sole frits. Sauce Ravigote. Chapons a la Moderne. Selle d’Agneau aux Primeurs. Jambons braises au Vin de Champagne. Cailles et Ortolans rotis. Asperges, Sauce Chantilly. Fraises a la Miramare. Cassolettes a I’Alsacienne. Petits Soufifles a I’lmperiale. Gaufrettes. Buckingham Palace, May i6th, igii. A Special Dinner Menu. Compose en I’Honneur de Mr. C. Herman Senn. C. Consomme aux Nids d’Hirondelles. H Homard a I’Epicure. E Eperlans Grilles k I’Anglaise. R Ris de Veau Toulousaine. M Medallions de Volaille Alexandra. A Agneau de Lait aux Primeurs. N Neige des Alpes aux Violettes. S Sarcelle au Porto. E Escarole a I’Huile CEillette. N Nectarine en Surprise. N. Neuchatel Fondue. Compiled by M. Eugene Bossu, M.C.A., chef de cuisine. London, February ^th, 1912.57 PRIVATE DINNER MENUS DINER A LA RU55E. 14-20 guest i at 15s, per head. Hors d'CEuvre : Caviare glace Salade d’Anchois Potages : Tortue Claire Puree Poissons : Saumon Bouilli Sauce de Homard Filets de Soles k I’Orly Sauce Tartare Entries : Supremes de Volaille aux TrufEes Tournedos de Boeuf a la Bearnaise Sorbet au Champagne. Relev e : Quartier d’Agneau roti Asperges, Sauce Hollandaise R6ts : Canetons de Rouen Cailles bardees Petits Pois Nouveaux Entremets : CEufs de Pluviers en Croustade Creme aux Framboises Suedoise d’Abricots Gateau a la Mascotte Bonne Bouche Glaces Petites Coquilles d’Ecrevisse. A DINNER MENU IN 3 LANGUAGES. English. Clear Soup, Italian Style Pumpkin Soup Grilled Soles, St. Germain style Chicken Fillets. Ambassador style Braised Leg of Mutton Champagne Sherbet Rouen Ducklings Orange Sauce Mixed Salad Green Peas, Farmer’s style Peaches, Cardinal style Cheese Cakes. French. Consomme k I’ltalienne Potage au Potiron Filets de Soles grilles a la Saint Germain Supreme de Volaille Ambassadrice Gigot de pre-sale Sorbet au Champagne Caneton de Rouen Salade Melee Petits Pois Paysanne Peches a la Cardinal Ramequins de Fromage German. Italienische Kraftbriihe Kurbis-Suppe Gerost. Seezungenschnitten nach St. Germaner-Art Geflugelbriistchen nach Botschafterin-Art Hammelschlegel nach Sankt Hubertus Scherbet mit Schaumwein Rouenaiser Ente mit Pommeranzen Gemischter Salat Erbsen auf Bauern-Art Pfirsiche auf Kardinals-Art Kase-Tdrtchen,58 THE MENU BOOK. SUPPER AND SUPPER MENUS. Souper et Menus de Soupers. This is the term for the last meal of the day, and one which has a wide and varied meaning. During the Middle Ages supper used to be served as early as 5 p.m., when it was customary to serve soup ; from this the name supper is supposed to have originated. History tells us that soups, or supper dishes, originally consisted of liquid food both savoury and sweet, such as frumenty, porridge, and various kinds of spoon meat, which were eaten with pieces of bread, called sops, soppets or sippets. Where late dinner is served, as is usually the case at the present time, supper is rarely eaten. So-called ball suppers and theatre suppers are fashion- able both here and abroad. There is no set rule as to the kind of dishes served for supper, but when partaken of as an every-day meal supper may consist of dishes hot or cold, with or without soups, vegetables or even sweets. Cheese and salad when in season are usually included, but this is not to be regarded as a hard-and-fast rule. Light cakes and fancy gSteaux, tea or coffee, are some- times included in a supper menu, which shows that many regard this meal as but a light repast. The following menus are selected as specimens for so-termed set suppers : SPECIMEN MENUS FOR SUPPERS. Menus de Soupers. French. I. English. Darne de Saumon a la R6moulade Roulade de Veau en Chaudfroid Jambon cl la Gelee Salade Risotto k ITtahenne Souffi6 k la Mexienne Denises aux Amandes Fruits et Dessert. f Ecrevisses en Aspic Darioles de Cr^me de Volaille Boeuf k la Presse Pates de Veau et Jambon Salade de Haricots Panaches Crdme k la Romaine Compote de Poires Fromage de Camembert Cel^ri. Salmon Steak, Rhmoulade style Veal Roll, coated with Chaudproid Sauce York Ham with Aspic Jelly Salad Italian Risotto Cold Chocolate Souffle Frosted A Imond Sandwiches Fruit and Dessert. Prawns in Savoury Jelly Chicken Creams Pressed Beef Veal and Ham Patties Haricot Bean Salad Roman Cream Stewed Pears Camembert Cheese Celery. II.SUPPER MENUS. 59 III Menu de Souper. Denises Su^doise Filets de Boeuf a la Madrid Salade de C61eri a la Rachel Foie-gras k la Dumas Pat6 de Volaille et Jambon Bordure de Cr^me de Homard Petites Crimes k la Princesse Fromage de Roquefort Biscuits de Fromage. Souper de Bal. Huitres au Naturel Plats Chauds : Homard a la Gauloise Mauviettes en Casserole Ris de Veau en Caisses a la Chasseur Plats Froids : Filets de Soles en Aspic Zephires de Foie-Gras a la St. Martin Carr6 de Mouton k la Boh6mienne Dindonneau farci k la Moderne Jambon de York a la Gelee Faisan roti Pate de Pigeon k la Fran9aise Salade de Saison Denises a la Princesse Entremets : Gelee au Champagne Crdme aux Amandes Charlottes Mignonnes Corbeilles de Nougat a la Chantilly Patisserie Dessert. Supper Menu. Swedish Sandwiches Fillets of Beef {Madrid style) Celery and Truffle Salad Foie-gras Cro'Ates Chicken and Ham Pie Border of Lobster Cream Fruit Creams {Princess style) Roquefort ^ Cheese Cheese Biscuits. Ball Supper. Natives Hot Dishes ; Lobster served in Shells Larks stewed in Casserole Sweetbread in cases with Mushroom Pur&e Cold Dishes : Fillets of Soles in Savoury Jelly Zephyrs of Foie-gras {Goose Liver) Neck of Mutton {Bohemian style) Young Turkey, stuffed York Ham with Aspic Jelly Roast Pheasant Pigeon Pie, French fashion S alad Princess Sandwiches. Sweets : Champagne Jelly Almond Cream Little Russian Charlottes Nougat Baskets with Whipped Cream French Pastry Dessert.THE MENU BOOK. 6o Royal Court Supper. Menu of one of the Suppers of their Majesties’ Court. Consomme Riche. Escalopes de Saumon k I’fipicurienne. Filets de Soles a la Nemours. Mousselines de Volaille ^ la Delhi. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Vicomtesse. Cailles napees ^ la White Ladye. Poulets decoupes garnis de Langue. Galantine de Dinde garnie de Jambon. Sandwiches varies. Petits Pains fourres assortis. Gelees d’Oranges de Malte garnies. Cremes k la Bohemienne. Patisserie sur Socles. Corbeilles de Friandises. Orangeade et Limonade. Buckingham Palace, March B>th, 1912. Ball Supper Menu. Melon cantaloup glac6 au Kummel. Consomm6 en tasse aux Pommes d’amour. Moussehne d’fiperlans Dame Blanche. Supreme d’ficrevisses Am6ricaine. Mignonette de volaille Petit Due. Velout6 Favorite. Delice de Strasbourg au vin Dore. Caille Royale Singapour. Asperges vertes a I’huile vierge. Reine des Jardins Pomponnette. fitoiles Filantes. Palais Marquise. Savoy Hotel, London. June 12th, T911.SUPPER MENUS. 6x (14 Juillet) Consomm6 au depart Special Supper Party Menu. French. Consomme de Volaille Mayonnaise de Homard Chaudfroid Mauviettes Lucullus Mousse de Jambon Parisienne Filet Boeuf pique Bouquetidre Galantine Volaille truffle Poulet Surrey a la Gelee Jambon de York Salade Henriette Creme de Fraise Gateaux Duchesse Petits Fours Dessert. Souper du Bal. Salade de Homard Filets de Sole k la New York Medallions de Pigeon k la Monaco Chartreuse de Faisan Souffle de Volaille Macedoine Cailles en Aspic Root's : De Dindon, Grouse Pate de Gibier Galantine a la Reine Jambon d’York Langue de Boeuf glacee Gelees aux Vins et Liqueurs Meringues k la Suisse Crimes variees Salade de Fruits au Marasquin Trffle k I’Anglaise Dessert Bon-bons English. C/ear Chicken Broth Lobster Mayonnaise Chaudfroid of Larks with Truffles Ham Mousse {Parisian style) Fillet of Beef, larded and braised, with Vegetables Chicken Galantine, truffled Surrey Fowls with Aspic York Ham Cauliflower, Bean, and Truffle Salad Strawberry Cream Duchess Cake Fancy Pastry Dessert. Menu du Souper. Petite.s Tables : Tortue Claire—Citrons Cotelettes d’Agneau aux Petits Pois Poulets rotis au Cresson Cailles sur Canapes Froid: Consomme de Volaille Paupiettes de Truites Venitienne Salade de Homards Petites Cotelettes a I’Ecarlate Poulardes Poelees Macedoines de Fruits rafraichis Petits Gateaux assortis Consomme au depart.THE MENU BOOK. 62 Facsimile of a Menu of the Court of H.M. King George V. la cie'(So/es a. /<z^ 3e- cL'/^cctyr/a^- (Si,rve^afts^ cl ■let' .^^e^ctuA^tHcee^ ■ t j (SeUr^ d Cl^rtecLde' ex ■lea (3^0^.^ ■rx>£i^ ds^>^^-e.s C0 ^<L^A^C7tts^-e/tri^ Q^^^rrx-c&e^ ^^rlfveie-s:s^ . h. ^^cercpece^^id^ /3^^U>ri4'‘‘'rveie3 lla>ri,^;a'lotx^ ^^^c^LdeceLCts^ June -^rd, 1911. -•^|••|^-^ Dance Supper Menu. Consomme Chaud ^ la Royale Sandwiches varies Cotelettes d’Agneau Salade Indienne Macedoine de Fruits Petits Pois Clamart rhamnafrne Poulets rotis t^nampagne Fvoid * GIecc a 13, V Eiiillc Medaillons Alexandra Glace aux Praises Eclairs de Homard Corbeilles de Friandises Galantine de Volaille truff6e Dessert.SUPPER MENUS. 63 Coronation of K.M. King George V. Menu of the Supper served in connection with their Majesties’ Ball at Buckingham Palace, June 19th, 1911. Consomme froid. Medallions de Truites a la Norvegienne. Chaud-froid de Cailles k la Bohemienne. Poulets decoup^s garnis de Langue. Petits Pains k la Strasbourgeoise. Sandwiches varies. Macedoine de Fruits au Champagne, Gelees aux Praises. PMisserie sur Socles. Paniers de Friandises. Orangeade. Limonade. Dessert. Royal Ball Supper Menu. Consomme Riche. Cotelettes d’Agneau aux Petits Pois. Cailles a I’fipicurienne. Poulets de Grain rotis. Mayonnaise de Homards. Chaufroix de Volaille Hongroise. Aspics de Foie-Gras truffes. Mignonettes de Canton a la Cumberland. Asperges d’Argenteuil, sauce Chantilly. Gelees d’Oranges de Malte. Charlottes Marie-Louise. Patisserie sur Socles, Glaces Napohtaines. Bonbonnieres, Orangeade et Limonade. Dessert. Buckingham Palace, March ^rd, 1913. Ball Supper. Menu du Souper. Consomme Tosca enTasse. Langue de Boeuf k I’llcarlate. Suprdmes de Saumon Galantine dePintadeTrufJee. a la Bercy, Poulardine Helder. Le Buffet Froid. Jambon d’York k la Gelee. Noisettes d’Agneau Aurore. March iSth, 1912. Salade de Romaine. Poires a la Tetrazzini. Gelees aux Fruits. Friandises.64 THE MENU BOOK. FORMAL MENUS FOR INFORMAL FUNCTIONS. Reception or Garden Party. Sandwiches : Saumon a I’Anchois. Eclairs de Sardines. Denises de Foie-gras. Jambon. Langue de Boeuf. Gateaux, etc : Savarins au Fruits. Palmiers. Genoise au Moka. Trois Freres. Dames d’honneur. Cremes et Gelees : Charlotte Russe. River Picnic or Race Hamper. Salmon or Lobster Mayonnaise. Boned and Stuffed Fowl k la Gelee JelUed Lamb Cutlets. Green Pea and Lettuce Salad. Fresh Fruit. Clotted Cream. French Pastries. Limonade. Moselle Cup. Coffee. Lawn Tennis Party. Lobster Sandwiches. Sardine Eclairs. Chicken and Ham Rolls. Orange Jellies. French Pastries. Tennis Cup. Lemonade. Ices. Buffet for Evening: Reception. Consomme in Cups. Small Lobster Bouchees. Foie-gras and Tongue Timbales. Chicken Salad in Croustades. Ham and Tongue Sandwiches. Sardine Canapes. Banana and Cherry Creams. Peach Dartoise. Maids of Honour. Mixed Fruit and Maraschino Jellies. Neapolitan Ices. Coffee. Crdme d’Abricot. Mousse au Chocolat. Gelee Panachees. Chartreuse de Bananes. Glaces : Marasquin. Fraise. Citron. Petits-fours. Gaufrettes. Bon-bons. Cafe. The Limonade et Orangeade. Claret Cup. Eau Minerals. Afternoon Bridge Party. Croustades of Chicken. Foie-gras Sandwiches. Small Timbales of Ham. Egg and Lettuce Croutes. Strawberry Meringues. Banana Trifle. Iced Coffee Chocolate and Tea. Afternoon Reception. Sandwiches assorted. Orange Cream. French Pastry. Tartlets. Viennese Chocolate Cake. Strawberry Mousse. Ices, Lemonade and Claret Cup. Coffee and Tea. Buffet for Evening Reception. Consomme in Cups. Lobster Mayonnaise. Chicken Bouchees a la Reine. Chicken Salad. Cheese and Olive Sandwiches. Watercress and Egg Sandwiches. Ham and Tongue Sandwiches Vanilla Cream. Pineapple Jellies. Fruit. French Pastry. Neapohtan Ices. Champagne or Claret Cup Coffee.65 A SPECIMEN MENU. A SPECIMEN MENU WITH QUOTATIONS. Hors-d'CEuvre varies. “ Dishes alike delightful aad appetising.”—Leigh Hunt. POTAGE. Tortue Claire. Bisque d’icrevisses. Consomme de Volaille Royale d la Printani'ere. “Soup of the evening, beautiful soup.”—Alice in Wonderland. Poisson. Darnes de Saumon Bouilli, Sauce Mousseline. Pommes de terre nouvelles. Concomhres. Filets de Sole I’Orly. “ There’s no meat like them; I could wish my best friend at such a feast.”—Timon of Athens, i. 2. Releve. Filet de BceuJ pique d la Renaissance. “ What say you to a piece of beef and mustard.”—Taming of the Shrew, iv. 5 Entrees Chauds. Supreme de Volaille d la Victoria. Ris de veau d la Perigueux. “ The daintiest that they taste."—2 Henry IV Entries Froides. Foie-gras en belle vue. Aspic de Homard. “ To please all kinds of appetites.”—Massinger. Ponche d la Romaine, cigarettes Turques. “ You cannot judge the liquor from the lees.”—Tennyson Rotis. Aloyau de Bceuf d VAnglaise. Quartier d'Agneau, Sauce Menthe. “ Look to the baked meats, good Angelica ; Spare not for cost.”—Romeo and Juliet. Volaille. Cailles de Vigne sur Canapes. Canetons d la Roviennaise. Pommes pailles. Petits pois nouveaux. Asperges en branches, Sauce Hollandaise. “ A table richly spread in regal modes. With dishes piled, and meats of noblest sort and savour.”—Milton. Entremets. Pouding soufflS d la Vanille. Gelee aux fruits. Vacherin d la Chantilly. Gdteaux d la Napolitaine. “A surfeit of the sweetest things.”—Midsummer Night's Dream. Glace en surprise. “ A piece of ice.”—Taming of the Shrew. Savoureux. Petits souffles au fromage. Pailles d la Yarmouth. “To make the matter savoury.”—Hamlet. Dessert. “ Partook a choice repast.”—Massinger. CafS noir et cognac. “ Coffee, which makes the politician wise. And see through all things with his half-shut eyes.”—Pope ETHE MENU BOOK. 66 PART II. HORS-D’CEUVRE—APPETISERS. The hors-d’oeuvre course, which forms the so-called prelude to a complete dinner, has of late become very popular. A very large variety of little dishes, both plain and dressed, can be served under this heading. These dishes to the thoughtful cook present one of the best opportunities for showing his or her skill and originality in combination and garnish. Such dishes must, however, be strictly con- fined to such colour and such material as will harmonise with the other dishes on the menu. Usually one or two plain and one dressed hors-d’oeuvre are served at a dinner, this being a matter of taste left to the maitre d’hotel or to the chef. Whatever the hors-d’oeuvre may consist of, let it be remembered that these httle side dishes are intended to stimulate and not satisfy the appetite, i.e., they must be tempting and smart in appearance, and the portions must be very small, so as not to impair the enjoyment of the remainder of the meal. These dishes are frequently placed on the table before the guests enter the dining-room ; and, when dressed in a pretty and dainty manner, they add greatly to the effective decoration of a table. CLASSIFICATION OF H0R5-D’(EUVRE. Plain Side Dishes. Note.—These, as well as certain of the dressed hors- d’oeuvres, are generally served under the name of hors-d’oeuvre varies. French. Anchois a I’huile Anchois aux capres Anguilles fum6es Anguilles marin6es Betterave marin4e Boeuf fum6 Carrelets fumes English. Anchovies in oil Anchovies with capers Smoked eel Pickled or soused eel Pickled beetroot Smoked bee} Smoked floundersHORS-D’CE U VRE—A PPETISERS. 67 French. Caviar glac6 Caviar nisse C616ri en salade Clames Americains Cornichons Cornichons k la moutarde Cresson alenois Crevettes Crevettes dressees Ecrevisse garnie Ecrevisses Escargots farcis Filets de harengs Grenouilles marinees Harengs marines Harengs k la r^moulade Huitres an naturel Jambon d’Espagne Jambon fume Jambon de Strasbourg Jambon Westphalie Lamproies ^ Thuile Langouste Langue de Boeuf fumee Langue de Renne fumee Lax fume k I'huile Maquereau marin6 Maquereaux a I’huile Melesses fumees Melon brode Melon cantaloup Melon glac6 (Eufs de mouettes CEufs de pluviers CEufs de vanneaux Olives d’Espagne Olives farcies Olives Lucullus Pate de foie-gras Petite artichauts crus Poitrine d’oie fumee Radis au beurre Radis rose et blanc Royans k I’huile Salami Sandwich aux anchois Sandwich au caviar Sandwich de foie-gras Sandwich au fromage Sandwich de homard Sandwich au jambon English. Iced caviare Russian caviare Celery salad American clams French gherkins Gherkins in mustard sauce Garden cress Prawns Dressed prawns Dressed crawfish Crayfish Stuffed snails Fillets of herrings Pickled frogs’ legs Pickled herrings \_sauce Pickled herrings in mustard Oysters on shells Spanish ham Smoked ham [ham Strashurg cured and smoked Westphalian ham Lampreys in oil Spiny lobster Smoked ox-tongue Smoked reindeer tongue Smoked salmon preserved in Soused mackerel fillets [oil Mackerel in oil Smoked sprats Pickled melon French rock melon {iced) Iced melon Mew eggs {gull eggs) Plovers’ eggs Lapwing eggs {puvet eggs) Spanish olives Stuffed olives French olives Goose-liver pie in terrines Small young green artichokes Smoked breast of goose Small radishes with butter Radishes, pink and white Royans in oil Smoked Milan sausage Anchovy sandwich Caviare sandwich Goose-liver sandwich Cheese sandwich Lobster sandwich Ham sandwich68 THE MENU BOOK. French. Sandwich aux sardines Sardines sans aretes Sardines au citron Sardines fumees Sardines k I'huile Sardines russe Sardines a la tomate Saucisson blanc Saucisson de Bologne Saucisson de Brunswick Saucisson de foie-gras Saucisson de foie de Stras- bourg Saucisson de jambon Saucisson de Lyon Saucisson de Milan Saucisson de Mordadelle Saucisson noir Saucisson de perigueux Saumon fume Thon k I’huile Thon marine Thon en salade Tomates crues Tomates farcie Tomate en salade Tomate a la tartare English. Sardine sandwich Boneless sardines {sauce Sardines preserved in lemon Smoked sardines Sardines in oil Russian sardines {pickled) Sardines in tomato sauce White sausage {smoked) Bologna sausage Brunswick sausage Goose-liver sausage Strasburg liver sausage Ham sausage Lyons sausage Salami sausage Mordadella or Italian sausage Black sausage {smoked) Liver and truffle sausage Smoked salmon {thinly sliced) Tunny fish in oil Pickled tunny fish Tunny fish salad Small fresh tomatoes, sliced Stufied tomatoes Tomato salad {sauce Tomatoes filled with tartare Note.—All side dishes of this description should be served on small glass or china dishes, and small pats of butter ought to be handed round at the same time. Smoked provisions^ such as salmon, ham, and sausage, suitable for hors-d’oeuvre, cut into very thin slices, are usually served in hors-d’oeuvre dishes. HORS=D’(EUVRE GARNI —DRESSED HORS-D’GSUVRE. App^tissants Maconnais.—Small bread croutons hollowed out and filled with puree of mussels, anchovies, egg- yolks, etc. : decorated with savoury butter. — a la Su^doise.—Half-moon shaped slice of brown bread spread over with anchovy and sardine paste, lined with slice of lax or smoked salmon, garnished with hard-boiled white of egg, gherkins, and stuffed olives. Anchois sur Canapes.—Anchovy canapees. Anchois et queues d’Ecrevisses au Capisaiitis.—Anchovies and crayfish tails dressed in shells. — en Salade.—Anchovy salad dressed with oil and vinegar ; garnished with capers and hard-boiled eggs.69 HORS-D’CE U VRES—A PPETISERS. Anchois en Surprise.—Small choux paste rolls, filled with a puree of hard-boiled yolk of egg, anchovy paste, capers, and herbs ; glazed and garnished with curled anchovy fillets. Artichauts ^ la Gr6que.—Very small, blanched artichokes, marinaded in oil, vinegar, coriander seed, fennel, and other herbs ; served with its liquor. Barquettes de concombre, Danoise.—Small boat-shapes of cucumber filled with a puree of smoked salmon, herring fillets, and hard-boiled eggs ; garnished with grated horseradish and pimiento strips. — ^ la Su^doise.—Small boat-shapes of savoury choux paste, baked and filled with caviare, masked with pink chaudfroid sauce, and garnished with gherkins, fillets, and lobster spawn or coral. — au pois verts, Clanet.—Boat-shaped thin tartlet paste crust, baked and filled with green pea puree, mixed with mayonnaise aspic, a little chutney in centre of each ; surface garnished with sliced radishes, and masked with aspic. Batons de Caviar, Russe.—Thin water biscuits, oblong, or triscuits cut to finger shape, spread with caviare, iced, and coated with whipped cream, and decorated with green herb butter. Boeuf fum6 a la Hambourgeoise.—Smoked Hamburg beef. — hachie a 1* Aspic.—Finely .shredded smoked beef, garnished with savoury aspic jelly Bonnes-Bouches a la Cardinal.—Small puff-pastry bouchees filled with lobster and anchovy. — de Caviar Russe.—Small artichoke bottoms, sur- mounted by a ring of cooked sole fillet, and filled with artichoke caviare ; served iced. — de Crevettes a 1’Avondale.—Bouche-shaped cups of pastry, filled with shrimps or prawn tails ; garnished with tomato aspic. — de Foie-gras.—Goose-liver ragout filled in puff-pastry patties. — de Sardines.—Fancifully cut shapes of brown bread filled with sardine paste ; decorated with hard-boiled egg and savoury butter. — de Sardines a la Royale.—Sardine patties, royal style. Brisolettes de Caviar.—Very small stuffing rolls, cut in halves and filled with caviare, surface masked with aspic, and garnished with anchovy fillets, parsley, etc. — ^ la Moscovite.—Caviare dressed in paste crusts, Moscow style.70 THE MENU BOOK. '*Canap6s Alberta.—Oval or finger-shaped croutes spread with anchovy paste, lined with lax, decorated with chopped beetroot, green herb butter, anchovy butter, and aspic. — a rArlequin.—Oblong or crescent shapes of toasted and buttered bread, with strips of tongue, smoked sal- mon, gherkins, and truffles, arranged in harlequin style. — a la Coquelin.—Croutons of fried bread, spread over with a paste composed of cooked ham, chicken, butter, and grated cheese ; garnished with gherkins, beetroot, and capers. — a la Diana.—Layers of chopped ham, truffles, and hard- boiled egg-yolks placed alternately on croutons of bread ; decorated with chopped aspic. — a la Darvelle.—Oval-shaped pieces of toasted or fried bread, spread with anchovy paste, and finished with layers of ham and caviare ; decorated with hard- boiled eggs and aspic. — de Foie-gras ^ la Russe.—Rounds of toasted bread spread with foie-gras puree, a dice of hard-boiled egg placed on top ; garnished with anchovy fillets and caviare. — Frivolit^s Bohemienne.—This name is applied to any variety of light and daintily dressed hors-d’oeuvres, mostly of fancy character. — a la Geneve.—Oblong croutons of fried bread, spread with a paste composed of anchovy, sardine, and ham ; garnished with hard-boiled egg-yolk and white, and parsley. — de Harengs a la Russe.—Fingers of fried bread spread with anchovy butter mixed with herring roes ; fillets of kippered herrings are placed on each ; garnished with gherkins. — de Homard a la Reine.—Lobster canapees, queen style. — de Sardines d la Frangaise.—Small fried-bread croutons masked with sardine paste or butter, layers of sardines, chopped parsley, and coated with remoulade sauce. — de Saumon fum6.—Smoked salmon on toast. — a la Selon.—Buttered water biscuits covered with slices of hard-boiled egg dipped in lemon juice and chopped parsley, caviare in centre, and garnished with prawns. — d la Turque.—Finger-shaped pieces of fried bread, spread with savoury ham mixture, decorated with three distinct coloured butters, anchovy, herb, and yolk of egg. "■ Canapes.—This word is applied to Hors-d’oeuvre and Savouries, which are made of toasted or fried bread, previously cut into suitable sizes and shape slices.71 HORS-D’CEU VRES—A PPETISERS. Canap6s la Turbigo.—Halves of very small bread rolls (stuffing rolls), filled with crayfish tails, celery, truffle, and egg white ; dressed with tomato and remoulade sauce. — a la Windsor.—Pur6e of cooked chicken fillets, ham, tongue, butter, Cheshire cheese, mustard, and cayenne, spread on canapees of fried bread ; garnished with gherkins and hard-boiled egg whites. Carolines.—Name applied to small finger shapes or ball shapes of unsweetened choux paste baked, centre scooped out and filled with cold savoury fish, foie- gras or other dainty puree ; usually masked with chaudfroid sauce. Cassolettes de Betterave.—Small cases made of cooked beetroot, pickled, and filled with a salpicon of egg, anchovies, capers, gherkins, etc. — h I’Epicurienne.—Little pasty cases filled with seasoned lax, tongue, olives, and gherkins, all cut into fine shreds. Caviar ^ TAllemande.—Small cooked kidney potatoes, filled with caviare, with curled anchovy fillet on top, and covered with chopped hard-boiled egg. — en Belle-vue.—Halves of lemon prettily edged, centre filled with caviare; dressed on bread socle in pyramidal form ; garnished with parsley. — de Biluga, glac6.—Shallow ice cup shape of plain water ice and watercresses to form dish, which is filled with fresh iced Biluga or best Russian caviare ; served with lemons, and thinly cut toast or wafer biscuits. — aux Blinis.—This is a special Russian dish, the caviare being served on a glass dish set in a block of ice ; garnished with quarters of lemon and parsley. Blinis is served at the same time. It is a kind of light yeast batter, without sugar, made into small thin pancakes, and sent to table hot with a boat of sour cream. — sur Canap6 a la Remoulade.—Caviare canapees, remoulade style. — ^ la Capucine.—Small oval or boat-shaped bread crusts, filled with caviare and chopped prawns, seasoned with mayonnaise; garnished with hard- boiled egg and cress. — a la Duchesse.—Small unsweetened choux paste shapes baked, and filled with caviare, seasoned with mayonnaise, or plain and iced ; coated with aspic jelly, — aux Ecrevisses.—Small fried-bread cups, filled with caviare and prawns; garnished with olives and gherkins.THE MENU BOOK. 72 Caviar en Mayonnaise.—Fresh Russian caviare, pounded, with breadcrumbs, soaked in cream, and seasoned with mayonnaise. — en Salade.—A neatly-dressed salad of caviare, and small dice of tomato and hard-boiled egg. C616ri d, la Roquefort.—Short pieces of white celery filled with puree of Roquefort cheese. Chantrelles en Salade.—^^Chantrelles are a species of mush- room grown in Switzerland. When cooked they are dressed with plain salad dressing, seasoning, and served as hors-d’oeuvre. Concombres ^ la Danoise.—Cassolette shapes of cucumber pickled, and filled with a salpicon of smoked salmon, hard-boiled egg, with salad anchovy, seasoned with mayonnaise. Crabe-garnie.—Dressed Crab. The meat of crab, seasoned with salad or cream dressing, refilled into the shell, and garnished neatly. Crofites d’Ecrevisses h la Tartare.—Croutes of crayfish or prawn tails, dressed with tartare sauce. Croutons h TEspagnole.—Large Spanish olives, stuffed with tartare sauce, placed on round croutons, with anchovy fillets twisted round olives ; decorated with lobster coral, egg-yolk, and parsley. Darioles de Caviar.—Caviare darioles, dressed in small tartlet pastry crust, seasoned. — de Foie-gras.—Goose liver darioles. — de Homard a la Tomate.—Lobster darioles with tomatoes. — d’Huitres a la Carlton.—Oyster darioles, Carlton style. — de Tomate a la Creme.—Tomato darioles with cream. Delicatesse Russe.—Name given to a collection of selected small hors-d’oeuvre dishes of the Russian type. Denises a la Turque.—Dainty little sandwiches filled with prawns, tomato puree, hard-boiled egg, and anchovy, and decorated with paprika butter. — ^ la Princesse.—Dainty little sandwiches filled with chicken puree, walnuts, and cream mixture; garnished with small cress. Dominos Rochelais.—Small domino shapes of savoury fish cream, decorated with truffle and lined with ox- tongue slices. Duchesse ^ la Russe.—Small ball shapes of baked un- sweetened choux paste, filled with a delicate chicken puree, sauced, with mayonnaise, and coated with chaudfroid sauce. Eclairs Karoly.—Baked choux paste eclairs (unsweetened), filled with savoury game puree, and coated with brown chaudfroid sauce.73 HORS D’CEUVRE—APPETISERS. Escargots aux fines herbes.—Snails, with fine herb butter. Frivolit6s Boh6mienne.—This name is applied to any five or more varieties of cold hors-d’oeuvre dishes, without any specific rule. Homard a la Careme.—Lobster dressed Careme style. Hors-d*CEuvre Su6doise.—Cold roast veal or chicken, herring fillets (smoked), cold potatoes, and beetroot, ' all cut up into small fillets or dice, seasoned with French dressing and decorated with chopped hard- boiled egg, etc. Jambon sur Canapes.—Ham on fried-bread croutons. Laitance de Cabillaud fum6 sur Canapes.—Smoked or pickled tunny fish on toast. Langue de Bceuf sur Canapes.—Ox-tongue, finely shredded or in puree form, on toasted or fried-bread slices. Lax fum6 aux Concombres.—Salad made of thin slices of smoked salmon and thin slices of cucumber, neatly dressed on small glass dishes. Nids a la Chartres.—Little nest shaped bread croutes filled with foie-gras puree, decorated with truffle and hard-boiled white and yolk of egg. CEufs farcis a la Russe.—Stuffed eggs, Russian style. — a la Suedoise.—Small hard-boiled eggs cut in halves, filled with green herb butter and egg-yolk ; prettily decorated and served on glass dishes. Olives.—Both French and Spanish olives are used as hors-d’oeuvre, but for dressed hors-d’oeuvre the latter are best suited on account of their size. — a I’Alsacienne.—Large Spanish olives stuffed with foie-gras and ham puree ; dressed on croutons. — d, FAnchois.—Spanish olives stuffed with anchovy cream, and curled round with anchovy fillets, dished on bed of small salad. — a la Madras.—Spanish olives stuffed with anchovy and chutney puree, dressed on croutons. — a la Reine.—Large Spanish olives, farced with a puree of anchovy, gherkins, and hard-boiled egg ; dressed on croutons. — ^ la Tartare.—Stoned Spanish olives filled with tartare sauce, stiffened with aspic, and glazed with savoury jelly. Palmiers d’Ecrevisses.—Small oval-shaped paste crusts filled with picked shrimps and mayonnaise dressing (cream), finished with chopped parsley and lobster coral. pate d’Ecrevisses sur Canapes.—Potted crayfish spread on small fingers of toasted bread.THE MENU BOOK. 74 Petites Bouch^es h la Caroline.—Very small rice cassolettes, filled with chopped hard-boiled white of egg and truffles, seasoned with mayonnaise. — do Jambon ^ la Creme.—Small puff-paste patties filled with minced ham and cream. Petites Caisses a la Casanova.—Small china or paper ramakin cases, filled with celery and truffle shreds, seasoned with tartare sauce, an oyster, slice of egg on top, and decorated with green herb butter. Poireaux a la Russe.—The inner part (heart) of leek cut into cube shapes, blanched, and marinaded, farced with caviare, seasoned with mayonnaise and grated horseradish. Rosettes aux Anchois.—Small heart-shaped slices of fried bread spread with anchovy butter and garnished with anchovy fillets, with small mushroom head im centre, arranged in rosette form, and decorated with green herb butter and chopped hard-boiled egg. — de Caviar.—Small heart-shaped slices of brown bread toasted, spread with caviare, decorated with lobster butter, and dished up in rosette form. Roulettes d, la Crdole.—Thinly cut slices of brown bread, spread with game or chicken puree, mixed with pounded capers and anchovy paste rolled up, buttered, and sprinkled alternately with chopped parsley and lobster coral. Sakuska.—A selection of Russian hors-d’oeuvre dishes, comprised chiefly of caviare and smoked fish. Salades as Hors-d’oeuvre.—Cucumber, celery, celeriac, melon, beetroot, tomatoes, hard-boiled eggs, cauli- flower (cooked), artichokes (raw and cooked), cold potatoes, French beans, etc., cut up small in shreds or dice, dressed with mayonnaise or oil and vinegar, are served as hors-d’oeuvre. These salads, however, must not be confused with salads served with roasts. Salade Bagration.—Finely-shredded lettuce hearts, tunny fish, and lobster cut in dice, also pickled beetroot, seasoned with mayonnaise and garnished with stoned olives and anchovy fillets. — Russe.—Russian vegetable salad made of cooked vegetables, set in aspic, with caviare in centre. — Su6doise.—Cooked lean veal, fillets of salt herrings or kippers ; cooked potatoes and beetroot, all cut in dice : seasoned with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper ; garnished with hard-boiled egg-yolks. Sardines sur Canap6s.—Sardine canapes (boned and skinned, and dressed on fried or toasted bread). Souvenirs, Viennoise.—Small chicken quenelles, poached and set in aspic, with vegetable macedoine garnish.75 HORS-D’(E U VRE—A PPETISERS. Tartelettes de Saumon, Ecossaise.—Little tartlet crusts of pastry filled with shreds of cooked salmon and mayonnaise aspic ; garnished with slices of hard- boiled egg and truffle. Tartines k la Baroda.—Very small sandwiches, lined with chicken and rice pur6e, flavoured with curry ; masked with white chaudfroid sauce, and decorated with set aspic. — a la Cardinal.—Fancifully cut sandwiches made of brown bread and savoury lobster puree ; decorated with truffle, hard-boiled egg, gherkin, and parsley. — de Caviar en chaudfroid.—Round fried bread croutons, slit open and filled with caviare, coated alternately with brown and white chaudfroid sauces, dressed round a small salad. — Lucullus.—Finger-shaped puff pastry, seasoned with cheese, and layer of anchovy paste in centre ; gar- nished with olives and anchovy butter. Thon marine sur Canapes.—Pickled tunny fish on toast. Tomates Monegasque.—Small ripe tomatoes marinaded and filled with chopped tunny fish, hard-boiled egg, and fine herbs, seasoned with mayonnaise or French dressing. — en quartiers.—Peeled tomatoes, hollowed out in centre and filled with fish farce or vegetable macedoine, seasoned with mayonnaise, aspic, iced and cut in quarters before dishing up. — en Salade.—Small peeled ripe tomatoes cut into fine shreds and dressed with vinaigrette or mayonnaise, served in small hors-d’oeuvre dishes. Tranches de Caviar, Remoulade.—Layers of bread covered with caviare, decorated with savoury butter, and cut into neat slices. Zakousky.—This is the name given for hors-d’oeuvre dishes in Russia. They consist of various kinds of daintily dressed caviare, pickled or smoked fish, etc. Certain Russian liqueurs are usually served with Zakousky, which form a great feature in the Russian cuisine. Note.—A large number of these dishes are suited alike as after-dinner savouries as well for hors-d’oeuvre, especi- ally those made from shell fish, smoked fish, eggs, meat, and certain savoury vegetable mixtures. For typical after-dinner savouries please refer to Part XIV. at end of book.76 THE MENU BOOK. PART III. POTAQES—SOUPS. Next to hors-d'oeuvre, Soup forms the best introduction to a meal; it is, as far as the dinner is concerned, an indispensable course, and therefore important. Soups are divided into four groups : Broths, Consommes, clear soups with garnish ; purees of meat, poultry or game ; bisques and fish soups ; and creams, or filtered soups made from vegetables and farinaceous products. Sometimes the choice of two or three varieties of soups is given at one meal, in which case the clear soup, or consomme, must be placed on the menu before the thick soups. The present fashion is in favour of one soup only, either clear or thick. For a full-course dinner, or one of many courses, a clear or light thick soup, cream or bisque, gives more satisfaction than a heavy soup, because it conduces better to the appreciation of the succeeding dishes. Heavy or thick soups are generally considered more seasonable in winter than in summer. There are certain more or less flexible rules observed in serving consomme : cheese straws, or grisini, fingers, toasted bread and grated parmesan cheese are generally handed round with it. Sherry is served with turtle soup ; fried-bread croutons with purees ; and celery salt with vegetable and cream soups. With mulligatawny, both thick and clear, a small dish of plain boiled rice is handed round, unless included in the soup as garnish. BOUILLONS—BR0TH5. (Unclarified Soups.) Bouillon Alsacienne.—Beef and ham broth, garnished with dice shapes of potatoes, julienne of leeks and cabbage, and sippets of bread. — Ancienne.—Beef broth with small pieces of beef and vegetables as garnish, small croutons of bread served with cheese (gratine). — d’Asperges.—Veal and beef broth with green asparagus tips as garniture. — de Bceuf.—Beef broth (not clarified). — Bonne Femme.—Beef broth with usual garnish and dice shapes of cooked potatoes.77 POTAGES—SOUPS. Bouillon Bouillabaisse.—Fish broths with slight saffron flavour, garnished with mussels, crayfish, or lobster, and other fish. — Ecossaise.—Mutton broth with small pieces of lean mutton and vegetables, and pearl barley as garnish. — Henri IV.—Beef and chicken broth, garnished with pieces of fowl, cooked rice and soup vegetables. — Hotchepot.—Beef broth, garnished with small pieces of ox-tail and ox-palate cooked in the broth, and the usual garnish of vegetables. — Marmite or Petite Marmite is a simply-made, but rich, broth of beef and fowl or mutton cooked in an earthenware pot (marmite), and as a rule served in large or small (portion size) fire-proof earthenware soup pots. — de Mouton.—Mutton broth. — aux (Eufs.—Beef broth with beaten egg, usually served in cups. — Parisienne.—Beef broth, enriched with chicken boiled in it, garnished with usual soup vegetables—cabbage, etc., and pieces of beef; baked bread crusts handed separately. — en tasses.—Beef broth, served in cups. — de Veau.—Veal broth. — de Volaille.—Chicken broth. — de Volaille a I’Orge .—Chicken broth thickened with pearl barley. CONSOMMES—CLEAR SOUPS. Gonsomm6 a PAfricaine.—A rich, clear chicken soup, flavoured with curry and garnished with rice and small shreds of artichoke bottom. — Agnelotti.—Clear soup with small Italian raviolis filled with lamb farce, and poached. — Ajoblanco.—Clear soup, slightly flavoured with garlic, garnished with finely shredded sweet almonds. — Albion (Maigre).—Fish consomme, a clarified fish stock, thickened with tapioca, garnished with shreds of lobster and truffle. — Allemande.—Clear soup, flavoured with juniper berriesj thickened with tapioca, and garnished with fresh shredded red cabbage and slices of smoked sausage. — Ali Pache.—Clear soup garnished with shreds of tomato and plain boiled rice. — Alexandra.—Chicken consomme, thickened with tapioca, garnished with small chicken quenelles, finely shredded lettuce, and chicken fillets.;8 THE MENU BOOK. Consomm6 Ambassadrice.—Chicken consomme, garnished with three different kinds of royal custard cut into round cubes—i.e., tomato, truffle, and green pea purges, also shreds of mushrooms and chicken fillets. — ^ rAnclenne.—Chicken consomme, garnished with small chicken quenelles and fried-bread croutons coated with cheese. — Andalouse.—Clarified chicken stock with tapioca (i quart to J oz. tapioca). Garnitures; small rounds of tomato, cucumber cubes, and small chicken forcemeat quenelles. — Aurore.—Clear soup, flavoured and coloured with tomato, thickened with tapioca, and garnished with finely cut chicken fillets. — Baigneuse.—Clear soup with small forced lettuce balls. — Bagration (Maigre).—A richly flavoured clear soup, gar- nished with small fish quenelles, vegetable, and prawns. — Batavia.—Clear soup garnished with finely shredded Belgian endive and lettuce, also plain boiled rice. — Bavi^re (Bavarian).—A clear soup with very small semolina dumplings. — Belle-Fermi^re.—Rich clarified chicken stock, garnished with lozenge shapes of cabbage, French beans, and nouille paste (poached). — Benjamin Le^ois.—Rich chicken consomme, garnished with green peas, small cubes of truffle, and royal custard containing chicken puree. — Boh^mienne.—Clear soup with cubes of royal custard and foie-gras, also small profiteroUes. — Bouquetiere.—Clear soup, garnished with spring vege- tables daintily cut. — Bourbon.—Chicken consomm6, garnished with chicken farce quenelles, fleur-de-lys shaped slices of truffle, and pearl barley — Bourdalouse.—Clear soup garnished with small cube shapes of royal custard, cock’s combs and kernels. — Bretonne.—Clear soup with finely shredded leek, celery, and mushrooms, also chopped chervil. — Brisse.—Clear soup, with a garnish of three varieties of vegetable puree, custard, or plain boiled rice. — Brunoise (Brunoise Soup).—A clear gravy soup with finely minced carrots, turnips, leeks, and onions. — Brunoise au Riz.—The same as above, with the addition of some plainly boiled rice. — Cabure.—Clear soup with small round slices of cabbage and lettuce, also rounds of toasted bread coated with cheese. — Capucine.—Clear soup with finely shredded spinach and small profiteroUes filled with chicken puree.79 POT AGES—SOUPS. Consommd Cardinal.—Consomme, flavoured with tomato garnished with small lobster quenelles. — Careme.—Chicken and veal stock, clarified, and garnished with slices of cooked carrot, lettuce, turnip, leek, asparagus points, and thin rounds of bread crusts. — d la Carmen.—Clear soup, flavoured and coloured with tomatoes, garnished with fine strips of pimiento, chervil, and plain rice. — Caroline.—Straw-coloured rich consomme, garnished with Carolina rice, royal custard, and chicken fillets, both cut very small. — Castille.—Chicken consomme, garnished with royal custard mixed with tapioca. — C616stine (Celestine Soup).—A clear gravy soup with thin pancakes cut into julienne strips. — Chancelliere.—Chicken consomme, garnished with rings of royal custard, flageolets, and fine strips of truffles, champignons, and beetroot. — Chantilly .—Rich consomme, garnished with strips of hard white of egg, chicken fillets, and rice. — Chartreuse—Clear soup, garnished with small raviolis, filled with foie-gras, tomato, and spinach. — Chasseur—A clear, game-flavoured soup, garnished with small game quenelles. — Chateleine.—Clear soup with slight tarragon flavour, garnished with royal custard, mixed with artichoke puree, green peas, and French beans, — Chiflonnade (Chiffonade Gravy Soup).—A clear soup, garnished with finely shredded spring onion heads, green peas, and lettuce leaves stamped out round, seasoned with green mint and tarragon leaves. — Choron ^ la Richelieu.—Clarified game stock, garnished with juhenne strips of cooked game, pea shapes of young carrots, and Brazil tapioca. — Choux farcis, aux.—Clear soup garnished with stuffed Brussels sprouts. — Christiania.—Chicken consomme, garnished with pro- fiterolles, filled with chestnut puree. — Christophe Colombe.—Clear chicken broth with two coloured diamond or ring shapes of poached royal custard. — Clair.—Clear soup (plain, without any kind of garniture). — - Claremont.—Clear soup with royal custard and fried onion rings as garnish. — Clementine.—Clear soup, garnished with carrot, turnip, celery, and cabbage, all cut in lozenge shape. — Clotilde.—Clear soup with very small button onions fried in butter and cooked in stockTHE MENU BOOK. 8o Consomme Cock-a-Leekie (Cock-a-Leekie Soup).—Clear chicken broth, with leeks cut into julienne strips, pearl barley, and small dice of cooked chicken. Prunes are sometimes added as a garnish. — Colbert.—A clear soup, garnished with small poached eggs and green peas. — Colombine.—Chicken consomme, garnished with jar- diniere of carrots, turnips, and green peas, also fine strips of pigeon fillets, and poached pigeon eggs. — Comtesse.—Clear soup with finely shredded lettuce, chicken quenelles, chervil leaves, and royal custard shapes. — Conde.—A clear game soup, garnished with quenelles of haricot bean puree and julienne strips of partridge fillets. — Cr6cy.—Clear soup with very fine strips of red carrot and pink royal custard. — Croute au Pot.—A clear beef soup, garnished with stock-pot vegetables and very thinly cut pieces of toasted bread. — Cussy.—Clarified game, thickened with small game farce quenelles, chestnut, and strips of truffles. — Cyrano.—Clear soup, flavoured with duck (fumet), garnished with small duck farce quenelles. — Dame-blanche.—Rich consomme, garnished with fine shreds of chicken fillets, white of egg, and chervil leaves, — Dante.—Clarified beef stock in which two or three roast pigeons have been cooked. Garniture : small darioles of chicken farce in two colours, i.e., white and yellow, the latter coloured with saffron, also truffles and ox-tongue. — Daumont.—Clarified beef stock with fine tapioca, and a garnish of champignons and cooked ox-palate cut into julienne strips. — Dauphine.—Clear soup with vegetable macedoine, small cubes of royal custard, and profiterolles. — Demidoff.—Clear soup, thickened with tapioca, gar- nished with small chicken quenelles, strips of truffles and carrots. — D6slignac.—A clear soup with dice of royal custard. The eggs for this are mixed with milk and stock, finely chopped parsley, celery, and truffles, before poaching. — Diablotin.—Clarified beef stock with tiny baked bread crusts, seasoned with cheese and cayenne. — Diane.—Game-flavoured consomme, enriched with Xerds wine or sherry, with small game quenelles.POTAGES—SOUPS. 8i Consomm6 Dietrich.—Clarified veal stock with garniture of nouilles, carrots, turnips, and French beans, cut in fine shreds. — Diplomate.—A rich clear soup with poached egg-yolks and small olive shapes of cucumber and turnip, also very small button onions. — Doria.—Clear soup, garnished with pea-shaped cucum- ber and profiterolles. — Douglas.—Clear soup garnished with small dice of cooked sweetbread and artichokes. — du Barry.—Clear chicken and veal stock, with cubes of royal custard and finely shredded Jordan almonds. — Dubelloy.—Clear chicken broth with royal custard, green peas, and rice as garnish. — Dubourg.—Clear soup, garnished with royal custard, cooked rice, and green peas, used in equal proportions. — Duchesse.—Clear chicken soup with a light sage liaison and shredded chicken breast as garnish. — Duclair.—Clear soup with pancakes spread with savoury forcemeat and cut in lozenge shapes. — Dumont.—Clear soup with cabbage or lettuce julienne, also finely cut strips of tongue and champignons. — Ecossaise (Scotch Broth).—Mutton broth with pearl barley, and the usual soup vegetables cut into dice. — Elisabeth.—Clear soup with julienne strips of artichoke bottoms and leek, also vermicelli. — Epicurien.—Clear soup with shredded sweet almonds and chervil leaves. — Estragon.—Clear soup, flavoured and garnished with tarragon leaves. — Fermiere.—Clear soup, with carrots, cabbage, leeks, potatoes, and turnips, cut into thin triangular shaped slices. — Flamande.—Clear soup with a garnish of vegetables cut in dice shapes—i.e., carrot, turnip, and cabbage, and shreds of sorrel and chervil leaves, also crusts of bread. — Fleury.—Clear soup, garnished with rice and a few vegetables cut into fancy dice (macedoine). — Florador.—Clear soup, garnished with small quenelles made with Florador or Indian maize and milk, and poached in stock. — Florentine.—Clear soup with three kinds of royal custard cut in cubes—red, green, and yellow. — Florida.—Clear soup with parmesan cheese quenelles. — Fran$illon.—Clear soup with small chicken quenelles, small poached egg-yolks, and chervil. — frapp6.—Clear soup, iced. F82 THE MENU BOOK. Consomm6 Garibaldi.—Clear soup with small rounds of royal custard, green and red (spinach and tomato). — Gaulois.—Chicken consomme with cock’s combs and cock’s kernels cut into fine strips. — Gibier.—Clear game soup, garnished with dice of cooked game. — Gibier a la St, Hubert.—Clarified game stock, garnished with green peas and pea shapes of carrot, turnip, and celery. — d’Abatis de Gibier.—Clear game giblet soup. — Grammont.—Clear soup with small game quenelles and royal custard, flavoured with almond milk, cut into small dice. — Grimaldi.—Clear soup with pronounced tomato flavour and celeriac julienne strips. — Grisonne.—Clear soup, garnished with batter passed through a coarse colander into the soup when boiling. — Henry IV. —Chicken consomme or broth with suitably cut soup vegetable and small chicken fillets, rice, and chervil leaves. — Hombourg.—Clear soup with small calf’s liver quenelles, round slices of beef marrow with pronounced paprika flavour. — Hongroise.—Clear chicken soup with tomato flavour, strips of tomatoes tossed in butter, and paprika seasoning. — Hoteli^re.—Clear soup flavoured with celery and gar- nished with hard-boiled white of egg cut into fine strips, and small chicken quenelles. — Imp6ratrice.—Clear soup garnished with small chicken quenelles, pea-shaped carrots, green peas, and rice. — Imperiale.—Clear chicken soup, garnished with whole poached yolks of eggs and shreds of ham and truffles. — Indienne.—Clear mulligatawny soup, served with cooked rice. — Infante.—Chicken consomme, garnished with small bread croutons coated with liver puree or farce. — Irma.—Rich clear soup with small chicken quenelles, each filled with green peas prior to poaching. — Italienne (Italian).—Clear soup with small pieces of macaroni, cubes of spinach, and tomato custard. — Jardiniere.—Clear soup, garnished with carrots, turnips, and celery scooped out in olive shapes. — Joinville.—Chicken consomme with pea shapes of carrot, royal custard, two kinds, one mixed with chicken puree, and one with green pea puree. — Jubiie.—Chicken consomme with julienne strips of celery, truffle, and tomato.POT AGES—SOUPS. 83 Consomm6 Judic.—Clear soup, garnished with finely shredded lettuce, chive, and chervil. — Julienne.—Clear soup with carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, cabbage, and lettuces, cut into very thin strips, called julienne, about an inch long. — Juliette.—Clarified chicken stock, with a garnish con- sisting of very small cream quenelles, green pea puree 4 la Royal cut in cubes, tiny rounds of truffle, and lozenge shapes of hard-boiled white of egg. — Kapriva (Russian).—Consomme with small fried eggs, sorrel, and slices of smoked sausage, served with sour cream. — Kiselefl (Russian).—Chicken consomme with julienne strips of celeriac and leek, strips of ham, and chicken fiUet. — Kolodnik (Polish).—Iced chicken consomme, garnished with hard white of egg and cucumber cut in fine strips, also crayfish tails. — ^ la Lafitte.—Chicken consomme flavoured with sherry or marsala, garnished with financidre. — Laitues.—Clear soup with finely shredded lettuce (tossed in butter). — Leopold.—Clear soup with semolina, shredded lettuce, and sorrel. — Lilienne.—Clear soup, flavoured with tarragon and chervil, and garnished with a julienne of slightly baked almonds, truffles, and mushrooms. — Longchamps.—Clear soup garnished with chiffonade of sorrel and vermicelli. — Lorette.—Clear soup with finely cut strips of celeriac, potato, pimiento, and truffle. — Macaroni.—Clear soup, garnished with cooked macaroni cut into short pieces. — Madrid.—Tomato-flavoured clear soup, garnished with thin shces of skinned and cooked tomatoes. — Magenta.—Rich clear soup, flavoured and coloured with ripe tomatoes, and macedoine of vegetables as garnish. — Maigre.—Clear fish soup (Lenten soup) made with fish stock and vegetables. — Maintenon.—Clear soup with strips of tomato and leeks, served with small toasted cheese croutons. — Mancelle.—Clarified beef and veal stock, garnished with dice shapes of roasted chestnuts and julienne strips of cooked game or poultry. — Mddicis.—Clear soup with julienne of sorrel, and small cube shapes of two kinds of royal custard, one flavoured with carrot (Crecy). and the other with green peas.84 THE MENU BOOK. Consomme Merc6d^s.—Rich clear soup with star shapes of cocks’ combs and cucumber, flavoured with Xeres wine, — Messaline.—Clarified chicken broth with tomato essence, garnished with cocks’ kernels, Carolina rice, and Spanish pimientos cut in julienne. — Metternich.—Clarified beef stock, flavoured with chicken, garnished with cooked tomatoes cut into dice, and chicken fillets. — Mignon (Maigre).—Fish consomme with crayfish tails, strips of truffle and fish quenelles. — Mikado.—A curry-flavoured clear chicken soup, gar- nished with finely-shredded chicken fillets and cooked rice. — Milanaise.—Clear soup, garnished with cooked rice, dice of ox-tongue, and shreds of ripe tomatoes. — Mirianne.—Clarified chicken stock with the following garnish : plainly cooked rice tossed in lobster butter, to which is added oysters cut in dice, chopped truffles and pistachios, the whole moistened with white sauce and cheese as for salpicon ; filled in very small shell-shaped thin paste crusts, which are handed round with the consomme. — Mock Turtle.—Clear soup with strips of calf’s head (turtle flavour). — a la Moelle de Boeuf (Beef Marrow).—Clear,soup with small marrow-fat quenelles, — Monaco.—Clear soup with stuffed fried-bread quenelles. — Monte Carlo.—Clear soup with small chicken quenelles and profiterolles, shredded lettuce, and chervil, — Monte Christo.—Chicken consomme with brunoise of vegetables and profiterolles, — Montesquin.—Clear soup, garnished with stuffed braised cucumber cut into small rounds. — Nansen.—Iced consomme, served with small cavaire croutons. — Nantaise.—Clear soup with pearl barley, garnished with chicken fillets and green peas. — Napoleon.—Clarified chicken stock, garnished with small foie-gras Talmouse (triangle-shaped nouille paste stuffed with foie-gras puree), and poached in stock. — Napolitaine.—A game-flavoured clear soup with maca- roni, shreds of celery and ham as garnish. — Nationale.—Beef consomme with croute au pot garnish. — Nelson.—Turtle-flavoured clear soup with three varieties of chicken quenelles (red, white, and green). — Nemours.—Clear soup, garnished with diamond shapes of custard made with carrot puree, bechamel sauce, and egg-yolks,POT AGES—SOUPS. 85 Consomm6 Nesselrode.—Clear soup with small chestnut quenelles. — Ni(oise.—Chicken consomme, garnished with tomato strips, dice of potatoes, and flageolets. — Nids d’Hirondelles.—Clear soup, garnished with Chinese bird’s nest (salenganes), previously poached. — Noailles.—Clear soup, with small game quenelles, also royal custard cut into dice, and strips of artichoke bottoms. — Normande.—Clarified chicken stock, garnished with green peas and soup vegetables. — Nouilles.—A clear soup with nouilles (a kind of macaroni paste, only flat instead of round). — Nouveau R6gne.—Rich chicken consomme, with a special kind of chicken quenelle, made by having cubes of richly flavoured aspic and gold leaf intro- duced prior to being cooked, these quenelles being put into the soup just at the moment of serving. — CEufs files.—Clear soup with beaten egg run through a colander whilst the soup is boiling. — Olga.—Clarified chicken broth with julienne strips of chicken breast, ox-tongue, and truffles, also green peas. — Olla-Podrida (Spanish).—Clear soup or broth made from various kinds of meat—ox-tail, pig’s-tail, and mutton breasts, garnished v.dth sausage, ham, and vegetable, all cut in slices. — Orge perlee.—Consomme with pearl barley or Nizam barley. — Orientale.—Tomato-flavoured clear soup, garnished with curry flavoured chicken quenelles and rice. — Orleans (Maigre).—A rich clarified fish stock, garnished with small fish quenelles and green peas. — Orsey.—Chicken consomme, garnished with asparagus points and slices of pigeon fillet. — Ostende.—Consomme, flavoured with oyster liquor and garnished with bearded oysters. — Oukha (Russian).—Fish consomme, garnished with vegetable julienne, sorrel, and cepes, — Pain de Foie.—Clear soup with small liver quenelles. — Parisienne.—Clear soup with julienne vegetables and royal custard. — Pates d’ltalie.—Clear soup with Italian paste. — Paysanne (Peasant).—A clear gravy soup with carrots, cabbages, leeks, turnips, and lettuces cut into dice. — Petit-Due.—Clear soup with tapioca, and garnished with fine shreds of truffle and chicken fillets.86 THE MENU BOOK. Consomm6 Petites Marmites h la Parisienne.—A rich clear beef broth, garnished with boiled beef and soup vegetables, served in separate earthenware soup pots (marmites) ; served with crusts of toasted bread. — Petits Ghoux farcis.—Clear soup, garnished with small choux paste fritters, stuffed with forcemeat. — Petits Navets.—Clear soup, with olive-shaped young turnips, braised. — Picard6.—Clear soup with fried rounds of leek and cheese-coated croutes. — Pierre le Grand.—A clear soup with lettuce, turnips, celery, and champignons (preserved mushrooms) cut into julienne-shaped strips. — Pointes d’Asperges.—A clear soup, garnished with asparagus points. — Portugaise.—A rich clear soup, garnished with stoned French plums, strips of leeks, and ripe tomatoes. — Pot au Feu (the National French Soup).—A clear beef and veal soup with onions, carrots, turnips, and celery, and small rounds of toasted bread. — Prince de Galle (Prince of Wales).—Clear soup, gar- nished with royal custard, chicken quenelles, and asparagus points. — Prineesse.—Clarified chicken broth, garnished with small cube-shaped chicken quenelles (stamped-out) and asparagus points. — Prineesse Royale.—Clear soup with fine shreds of chicken fillet and green peas, artichoke bottoms. — Printani^re (Spring Soup).—A clear gravy soup, gar- nished with finely-cut spring vegetables. — Printani^re aux Quenelles.—Clear soup with poached chicken forcemeat quenelles and macedoine of spring vegetables. — Profiterolles.—Clear soup with very small cheese paste fritter. — Pyr6naise.—Clarified mutton stock with brunoise vegetables, tomato strips, and nouilles or Italian paste as garnish. — Quenelles frites.—Clear soup, garnished with very small fried choux paste quenelles. — Quenelles de Volaille (Chicken Quenelle Gravy Soup).— A clear soup with small, chicken forcemeat dumplings. — Queues de Boeuf.—Clear ox-tail soup. — Rabelais.—Game-flavoured consomme, garnished with small game quenelles and julienne strips of truffle and celery, — Rachbl.—A rickly flavoured clear soup with small chicken quenelles, dice of tongue, and truffles.POTAGES—SOUPS. 87 Consomm6 Ramboule.—Clear chicken soup, garnished with stamped-out rounds of poached chicken quenelle meat and young green peas. — Raphael.—Chicken consomme with very small dice shapes of celeriac (tossed in butter), — Ravioli.—A clear soup made with chicken and veal stock, with little round nouille paste shapes stuffed with forcemeat (poached). — R^jane.—Chicken consomme, flavoured with chervil, garnished with dice of carrot and egg strips (oeufs fil6s). — Renaissance.—Clear soup with white sliced mushrooms, green peas, rice, and small cheese croutons (separate). — Riche.—Chicken consomme with small chicken quen- elles forced with truffle. — Richelieu (Careme maigre).—Fish consomme (tomato- flavoured), garnished with small lobster quenelles. — Riz.—Clear soup, garnished with plain boiled rice. — des Rois.—A rich chicken stock, clarified, garnished with julienne strips of quail fillets, truffles, and asparagus points. Parmesan croutons handed separatel3^ — Rossini.—Consomme double, garnished with very large macaroni, boiled, drained, and forced with foie-gras cream, poached and cut into small, short pieces. — Rothschild.—Game consomme, garnished with finely- cut pheasant fillets, chestnuts, and strips of truffles. — a la Roy ale.—Clear soup with poached egg custard, called royal, cut into cube, dice, round, diamond, or other fancy shapes. — Russe (Russian).—Clear soup with finely-cut slices of carrots, beetroot, celery, and leeks, flavoured with beetroot juice. — Sagou (Sago Soup).—Clear soup with sago. — Salvator.—Clear soup with dice-shaped ripe tomatoes, and chervil leaves. — Santos-Dumont.—Consomme of chicken lie with Brazilian tapioca, garnished with carrots cut in small olive shapes, French beans cut in julienne shapes, and turnips scooped out in pea shapes. — Sarah Bernhardt.—Rich chicken consomme, garnished with small chicken quenelles, crayfish tails, fine tapioca, and tiny bits of blanched beef-marrow. — Saxonne.—Clear soup with tapioca, small pink chicken quenelles, dice of beef-marrow, and green peas. — Semoule.—Clear soup with finely-grained semolina, cooked in the consomme.THE MENU BOOK. 88 Consomme S6vign6.—A clear soup with small chicken quenelles. — Solferino.—Clear soup with carrots^ turnips, and potatoes, cut out with a small round vegetable scoop, termed in French d, la cuilUre. — Souveraine.—Chicken consomme, garnished with dice- shaped vegetables and small chicken quenelles. — St. Georges.—Clear soup made from hare stock, flavoured with claret, garnished with hare quenelles, champignons, and truffles. — St. Saens.—Chicken consomme, garnished with fine pearl barley and small dice of black-skinned potatoes, known as pommes de terra negresse. — Stschy (Russian).—Clear soup made from duck and beef, flavoured with beetroot juice, and garnished with small fried button onions. — Talma.—A rich clear soup, garnished with almond- flavoured custard cut into cubes or diamonds, and rice. — Tapioca (Tapioca Soup).—A clear soup with tapioca. — Tchy de Soldat (Russian).—A clear soup made with duck and veal stock, garnished with vegetables cut into small strips, and dice shapes of duck fillets. — Tivoli.—Clear soup with coarse-grained semolina and small ravioles. — Tortue.—Clear real turtle soup. — Tortue Fausse.—Clear mock turtle soup. — Tosca.—Clear soup, garnished with fried profiterolles, pea-shaped carrots, and truffle. — Toscane.—Clear soup, garnished with sliced tomato, fried aubergine, and macaroni. — Trianon.—Clear soup with dice shape of cucumber and chicken fillets, and strips of tomato and chervil. — Vatel.—Clear soup with small chicken quenelles (red), truffle filling, also finely cut tarragon and chervil. — Veneur.—A rich, clear soup, garnished with finely- shredded lettuce hearts, celery, and truffles. — Vermicelles.—Clear soup with vermicelli. — Vert-Pr6.—Clear soup, thickened with tapioca, and garnished with asparagus points and green peas. — Victor Emanuel.—Clear soup with short pieces of spaghetti (macaroni), strips of tomatoes, and royal custard ; served with grated cheese. — Victoria.—Chicken consomme, garnished with julienne, strips of truffle, chicken fillets, and royal custard. — Viennoise.—Clear soup with profiterolles stuffed with cheese, cream, and paprika.POTAGES—SOUPS. 89 Consomm6 Vitellus. — Clear chicken - flavoured soup, thickened with pearl barley, and garnished with lozenge strips of nouille paste. — Vivian.—Cold chicken consomme, garnished with small dice-shaped cooked cucumber, tomato, and lettuce leaves, also cubes of royal custard made with aspic and cream, and cut out when set. — Voiaille.—Clear chicken soup. — Voiaille frapp6.—Iced clear chicken soup. — Windsor.—Turtle-flavoured clear soup, with finely-cut strips of calf’s foot and veal quenelles. — Xavier.—A vegetable-flavoured clear soup, with a kind of cheese-flavoured batter quenelles run through a colander into the soup. CREMES, PUREES—POTAGES LIES. (Creams, Purees, and other Thick 5oups). Bortsch Polonaise.—A rich beef soup of broth-like con- sistency, flavoured with duck essence, beetroot juice, and sour cream, dice of duck fillet as garnish. Bisque de Crevettes (Shrimp Soup, pink).—A cream-like puree of fish stock and shrimps or prawns. — Ecrevisses (d’) (pink).—Crayfish puree or cream soup. — Homard (de) a la Marini^re (Lobster Bisque).—Lobster cream soup with small fish quenelles as garnish. — Homard (de) a la Parisienne.—Lobster cream soup. — aux Huitres (Oyster Puree).—A light, cream-like oyster soup, served with croutons, — Langoustes (de) (Crawfish, pink).—A cream-like puree of sea crawfish or large lobsters. — Potencies (de).—Scallop cream or puree soup (white). Cr^me ^ PAfricaine.—Cream of rice soup, flavoured with curry, with small dice shapes of artichoke bottoms and aubergine, — Alg^rienne.—A rich cream soup made with sweet potatoes. — Ambassadrice.—Green pea cream, blended with sorrel and lettuce puree, chervil and green peas as garnish. — Andalouse (Maigre).—Cream of rice soup (fish or vegetable stock), with addition of very little tomato puree, — Artichauts (d’).—Green artichoke soup (cream or puree). — Asperges (d’) a la Printani^re.—Asparagus cream, with jardiniere vegetables as garnish. — Avoine (d’).—Oatmeal soup with cream (white).go THE MENU BOOK. Creme Bontoux.—A chicken cream soup garnished with strips of truffle and ox-tongue, — Cambacdres (Spanish).—A blend of lobster bisque, chicken puree, and pigeon puree—one third of each— finished with cream and garnished with crayfish tails. — C616ri (de).—C61ery puree or cream soup. — Chambertln.—A cream soup composed of equal parts of onion puree (soubise) and potato puree (parmentier), served with fried-bread croutons, — Champ6noise.—Cream of potato soup, blended with puree of celery and leek, chopped chervil, and croutons. — Chi.telaine.—Green pea and onion puree, blended together with cream and herbs, — Chicago.—Lobster bisque, blended with tomato puree, garnished with dice shapes of lobster. — Chicor^e (de) au Veloute.—Puree of chicoree or endive, enriched with cream and egg-yolks. •— Clementine.—Light chicken cream, with three-coloured royal custard stamped out in small cubes, •— Concombre (de) a la Reine.—Cucumber cream with dice of royal custard; — Corneille.—Cream of lettuce soup with tapioca liaison. — Dame-Blanche.—White chicken puree with cream, flavoured with sweet almonds, garnished with barley and royal custard.. — Orge (d*).—Pearl barley soup with cream (white). — Dame d'honneur.—Cream of shrimps (like lobster bisque), with small pink-coloured fish quenelles. — Durhem.—A lobster bisque, garnished with small bearded oysters. — Galiciennes.—Chicken cream soup, garnished with julienne of tomato and celery. — Lucullus.—Chicken cream soup enriched with foie-gras puree, garnished with finely-cut truffle strips. — Macdonald.—Soubise or onion puree, enriched with cream, garnished with pea-shaped cucumber. — Mariano.—Pumpkin cream soup, garnished with sorrel. — Riz (de) —Filtered rice cream (white). — Sigur.—Potato cream soup, blended with tomato puree, garnished with finely-cut pimiento strips. — Soissonnaire.—Puree of white haricot beans, enriched with cream, served with small fried-bread croutons. — Tomato (de)—A veloute cream enriched with tomato puree, garnished with peeled tomatoes cut in strips and tossed in butter. — Valencienne.—White cream of rice soup, with a liaison of sago cooked in consomme.POT AGES—SOUPS. 91 Creme Volaille (de) Chevaliere.—Light white chicken cream, with truffles and tongue julienne as garnish. — Volaille (de) aux Ecrevisses (white).—Light chicken cream with crayfish tails as garnish. — Volaille (de) k la Frangaise (fawn).—A light brown chicken puree enriched with cream. Potage Albion.—Brown giblet soup with pea-shaped cucumber and carrots as garnish. — des Ambassadeurs.—A light cream soup, made with chicken stock, rice, and peas puree, and finely shredded sorrel. — Am6ricaine (American).—Tomato soup, blended with a little lobster puree (bisque), and thickened with rice or tapioca, garnished with crayfish tails. — Andalouse.—Light white soup (veal stock foundation), mixed with tomato puree, and nouilles as garniture. — Anguilles a I’Allemande.—German eel soup (white). — Ardenais.—Game (pheasant) puree, blended with red lentil puree and cream. — Argenteuil (Asparagus).—Filtered rice and cream soup with asparagus points. — d’Asperges a la Princesse (Asparagus Soup, Princesse Style, white).—Asparagus puree, garnished with asparagus points and rice. — d*Asperges aux Quenelles.—Asparagus puree with small chicken quenelles. — Aubergine.—Egg plant or vegetable marrow soup (white). — Bagration.—A light cream made of veal stock, gar- nished with small chicken quenelles. — Balmoral.—Puree of mutton, flavoured with turtle seasoning and finely cut calf’s foot. — Bavi^re (Bavarian).—Lentil puree with slices of smoked sausage. — Bdcasses.—Woodcock or snipe puree soup (brown). — Bercy.—Pur^e of young turnips with cream liaison. — Ble vert aux oeufs.—Green corn soup with eggs and cream liaison. — Bceuf (de).—A thick brown soup, made of beef. — Bonne Femme (Good Woman).—Sorrel cream soup, with small chicken forcemeat quenelles. — Bouille-a-Baisse.—A rich fish soup, with small fillets of fish, onions, and tomato strips as garnish. — Bourgeoise.—Chicken cream, with addition of finely- shredded turnips and celery. — Bretonne.—A puree of white haricot beans, blended with tomato pulp (fried-bread croutons). — Callles.—Quail soup (brown), puree or cream.92 THE MENU BOOK, Potage Canard a PAnglaise (de).—A thick soup made from duck giblets (brown). — Capri.—A thick game soup, garnished with minced quail fillets and cocks’ combs. — Carmen.—Light cream of rice soup, blended with tomato puree, with fine strips of pimiento, tomato, and rice. — Carottes.—Puree of carrots (pink). — Castelaine.—A thick brown soup made with beef. — C616ri ^ la Cr^me.—Puree of celery with cream. — Champignons (de).—Mushroom soup (light brown). — Chantilly .—Lentil puree with cream liaison, served with small croutons. — Chartreuse.—A white cauliflower puree with tapioca and cream. — Chasseur (Hunter’s Soup, brown).—A game puree with minced mushrooms and small dice of cooked game. — Choux de Bruxelles (pale green).—Brussels sprouts soup. — Choux-Fleurs.—Puree of cauliflowers with croutons. — Choux-Fleurs a la Creme.—Cauliflower soup enriched with cream. — Clatart.—Green pea puree with cream liaison, and fresh whole peas as garniture. — Cleveland.—Similar to ^^Americaine,” but thinned with consomme and garnished with dice shapes of lobster and strips of tomato. — Compiegne.—White haricot bean puree with sorrel and chervil. — Comtesse.—Asparagus and pea puree and cream liaison, with green asparagus tops. — Pur6e de Concombre.—Cucumber soup. — Cond6 (red).—A thick soup made with fried croutons, haricot beans, and cream liaison. — Cr6cy.—Puree of young carrots (red part only),thickened with rice or barley. — Cressoniere.—Potato puree and watercress puree, blended with cream and egg-yolks. — Cussy.—Game puree, with small partridge quenelles, round of truffle, and game shreds. — Czarine.—Game puree, blended with chestnut cream. — Danoise.—Chicken puree with pea shapes of spring vegetables. — Dartoise.—Puree of white haricot beans with finely cut vegetables (brunoise). — Dauphine.—Pea puree, blended with tomato pulp and fine strips of lean ham.POTAGES—SOUPS. 93 Potage Demidof!.—A light brown chicken puree, garnished with julienne strips of mushrooms, truffles, and carrots, also small braised button onions. — Diane.—Game (partridge) puree with small game quenelles and strips of truffles. — Dieppoise.—White fish soup with mussels and cream liaison (fried croutons). — Doyen.—A blend of green pea puree and chicken cream soup, with small chicken quenelles and green peas as garnish. — Dubarry.—Cream of cauliflower soup, with small cauliflower-buds as garnish. — Duchesse.—A light chicken cream, garnished with rice and savoury custard (royal). — Duchesne.—A light puree of fowl with minced chicken or game fillets, and truffles as garnish. — Dumonteuil.—A bisque of crawfish, blended with tomato puree, egg-yolk liaison and cream, garnished with small fish quenelles. — Ecossaise (Hotch-Potch).—National Scotch soup, con- sisting of mutton broth, finely-cut carrots, turnips, leeks, parsley, cauliflowers, and peas. — Egyptienne.—Puree of lentils, with finely shredded ham and fried croutons. — Ena.—Chicken cream soup with cucumber strips, also sorrel and chervil (pluche), and croutons. — Epinards.—Spinach puree, soup (green). — Espagnole (Spanish Soup).—A brown beef or mutton- blended soup with onion puree. — Esturgeon.—Sturgeon soup (white). — Excelsior.—Asparagus puree with barley cream liaison, and whole Nizam pearl barley as garnish. — Faisan.—Pheasant soup (light brown). — Faisan a la Diana.—A light puree of pheasant, flavoured with claret and cream, garnished with small game quenelles. — Faisan.—Puree of pheasant, with sherry flavour and cream liaison. — Faubonne.—Puree of French lentils and haricot beans, enriched with cream, garnished with green peas and fried-bread croutons. — Fausse Tortue (Mock Turtle Soup, thick).—A brown thick soup made from calf’s head, flavoured with .sherry or Marsala wine, garnished with small pieces of calf’s head. — Favorite.—White chicken puree diluted with consomme with Brunoise—i.e., finely-minced carrots, turnips, and leeks, as garnish.94 THE MENU BOOK. Potage Fermi^re (Farmhouse Soup).—Potato soup with minced carrots and turnips. — Flamande (Flemish).—Puree of Brussels sprouts > celery, and potato, with cream liaison (croutons). — Florentine.—Spinach puree with cream liaison and croutons. — Fonds d*Artichauts (de).—Artichoke bottom soup (white). — Freneuse.—Puree of young turnips with cream liaison, pea-shaped turnip and carrot as garnish. — Garbure.—White vegetable pur6e with small cheese- coated croutons. — Gascogne.—Potato puree with grated parmesan cheese, cream and egg liaisons, and small ravioles or profite- rolles. — Gelinotte.—Grouse soup (brown). — Gentilhomme (Gentleman’s Soup, brown).—Puree of rabbit, pork, and ham, garnished with minced sausages and mushrooms. — Gentilhomme.—Puree of game with sherry or marsala flavour, and croutons. — Georges Sand.—White fish cream soup with shredded lettuce and crayfish tails. — Georgette.—Tomato and carrot puree, blended together with pearl barley as garnish. — Gibier (de) —Filtered game soup (brown). — Gibier ^ I’Anglaise.—English game giblet soup. — Gibier a la Gond6.—Venison soup with lentils. — Gounod.—A light green peas puree made with rich chicken stock, garnished with julienne of chicken fillets. — Grenouilles (de).—Filtered frog soup (white). — Gr6que (Greek).—Puree of peas and mutton broth (blended), garnished with julienne strips of vegetables. — Gulyas (Hungarian).—Puree of beef and green peas (onion flavour), potato dice, and paprika seasoning. — Haricot Blanc.—White haricot bean puree. — Huitres (aux).—Oyster soup (white). — Imperiale.—A white soup composed of cream of rice and tapioca, garnished with shreds of truffle. — Indienne.—Mulligatawny soup, with addition of cocoa- nut milk and rice. — Irlandaise.—A kind of thick mutton broth. — Istrienne.—Puree of chestnuts and tomatoes, flavoured with juice of pomegranates, and finished with a liaison of egg-yolks and cream (Austrian origin). — Italienne.—A light mutton or lamb puree, garnished with macaroni, slices of fowl, and macedoine.POTAGESSOUPS. 95 Potage Jackson.—Potato soup enriched with cream and egg liaison. ^— Japonnaise.—Puree of crosneSj with cream liaison and Japanese pearl barley. — Jeanette.—Puree of salsifits, enriched with cream and egg-yolk haison, garnished with rice and small chicken quenelles. — Judic.—Tomato puree with cream and mushroom essence, finely shredded mushrooms and ham as garnish. — Krupnick (Polish).—Cream of pearl barley with chicken puree, garnished with small dice vegetables and chicken fillets. — Laitues (de).—Lettuce soup (green), cream or puree. — Lapin a I’Oseille.—Rabbit puree, soup with sorrel. — Lavalliere.—White chicken cream soup with celery and profiterolles. — Lentilles.—Lentil soup (cream or puree). — Lentilles a la Brunoise (Lentil Soup, Brunoise style).— Filtered lentil soup with finely cut vegetables. — Lievre a I’Anglalse.—English hare soup (brown). — Macaroni au Lait.—Macaroni soup with milk (white). — MacMahon.—A curry-flavoured cream-like soup, gar- nished with pieces of calf’s brain and cubes or slices of cooked cucumber. — Madeleine.—Rich consomme stock blended with haricot bean and tomato puree, with leek and carrot strips as garnish. — Malakoff (Russian).—Puree of potatoes, blended with spinach and tomato pulp. — Mar6chale.—Bread soup with cream and small lobster quenelles. — Mariane.—A pur6e of pumpkins, with julienne of sorrel. — Marle-Loulse.—Pearl barley soup with cream and small chicken quenelles. — Marle-Stuart.—White chicken cream with foie-gras cubes, carrot, and green peas as garnish. — Marlgny.—Puree of green peas, blended with sorrel and lettuce (chiffonade) and chervil. — Marquise.—Chicken cream soup, with braised lettuce and peas as garnish. — Marrons.—Puree of chestnuts. — Marrons a la Chasseur (fawn).—Chestnut puree, enriched with cream and garnished with dice of cooked game. — Martha.—Chicken cream soup, blended with onion puree (soubise) and rice.96 THE MENU BOOK. Potage Mathilde.—Cucumber puree, enriched with cream, and peas or olive shapes of cucumber as garnish. — Mauviettes St. Hubert.—This is a pale brown cream soup, made with veal stock, roux, and braised larks, garnished with fillets of larks cut into strips. — M^dicis.—Sorrel puree, blended with green pea and carrot purees. — Merc6d6s.—Jerusalem artichoke puree, enriched wdth cream and egg-yolks, garnished with dice of artichoke bottoms and chicken fillets. — Monaco.—Bechamel cream soup with egg-yolk liaison, and sippets of toasted bread. — Montglas.—A thick soup made of capon, with minced truffles and mushrooms. — Montmorency.—Chicken cream soup with grated parmesan, braised lettuce, and vermicelli as garnish. — Montpensier.—Cream of rice soup, blended with cauli- flower puree (fried croutons). — Morilles.—Puree of morilles (a species of mushroom), with cream and morilles cut in fine strips. — Mozart.—Puree of French beans blended with game puree and cream (croutons). — Miifle de Boeuf.—Ox-cheek puree soup (brown). — Mulligatawny.—Thick mulligatawny soup, curry flavour and rice. — Murillo (Maigre).—Tomato puree, enriched with fish essence and cream, garnished with small fish quenelles. — Nelousko.—A white chicken cream soup with small veal or chicken quenelles. — Nemours.—Potato puree, blended with rich consomme and liaison of cream and egg-yolks (croutons). — Nemrod.—Puree of game with profiterolles forced with game puree. — Nimoise (Maigre).—White fish cream soup, blended with tomato puree. — Nissarde (Maigre).—Vegetable marrow or pumpkin soup, thickened with tapioca and cream liaison. — Nivernaise.—A puree of vegetables, potatoes, turnips, leeks, and sprouts, enriched with cream and garnished with jardiniere. — Normande (Maigre).—Puree of leeks, celery, and potatoes, garnished with celery shreds and chervil. — Oignons (aux).—Onion soup, white or brown. — Okra.—Puree of tomato and gumbos, cream liaison. — Orleans.—A chicken puree with tapioca as liaison. — Orleans (Maigre).—A soup made with white bread and milk, finished with cream.PO TA GES—SO UPS. 97 Potage Oseille.—Puree of sorrel (light green). — Ostendaise.—White fish soup with oysters, cream liaison, and quarters of oysters as garnish. — Pain-bis d, la Russe.—Russian brown bread soup with poached eggs. — Palestine.—Puree of Jerusalem artichokes with small bread croutons. — Parmentier (Parmentier Soup, cream).—A cream-like potato soup with croutons of fried bread. — Patti.—Artichoke puree with cream liaison, and rice as garnish. — Pauvre Homme (Poor Man).—A kind of brown meal soup, the flour being roasted with butter or dripping to a chestnut brown colour. — Pavilion.—Purees of peas and stachys, blended with mixed vegetable (brunoise) as garnish. — Perdreaux.—Partridge soup with croutons. — Perdreaux a la Grand Due (brown).—Partridge puree, thickened with oatmeal, garnished with small mush- room quenelles. — Pieds de Veau.—Calf’s feet soup (white). — Pierre le Grand.—White barley cream (veal stock foundation), with puree of pigeon and dice of pigeon fillets as garnish. — Pigeons Sauvages (brown).—Wild pigeon soup. — Pluche (pink).—Potato soup with finely minced carrots and herbs. — de Pluviers (brown).—Plover soup. — Poireaux.—Puree of leeks with croutons. — Poireaux a la Gr^me.—Leek soup enriched with cream. — Puree de Pois.—Filtered pea soup (made from dried peas), served with croutons. — Pois Vert.—Green pea soup. — Polonaise (Polish Soup, light brown).—A puree of beef and pork, with sauerkraut as garnish. — Pommes de Terre.—Potato soup (white) with croutons. — Pompadour.—Puree of lentils, thickened with tapioca and cream liaison. — Portugaise.—Purees of tomato and onion, flavoured with garhc, garnished with rice. — Potiron.—French pumpkin soup. — Prince de Galles (Prince of Wales Soup, brown).—A thick mock turtle with small veal quenelles. — Princesse.—Chicken cream soup, with pearl barley and asparagus tops as garnish. — Quebec (Maigre).—White haricot bean puree, enriched with cream, garnished with finely cut vegetables. G98 THE MENU BOOK. Potage Queues de Boeuf (Ox-tail).—Thick ox-tail soup with jardiniere or macedoine vegetable garnish (brown). — Queues de Veau a ITndienne (Indian Calf’s Tail Soup). —A thick calf’s tail soup, flavoured with curry and garnished with rice. — Rachel.—White veal puree, enriched with cream, garnished with strips of fried bacon, calf’s head, and slices of truffle. — Raphael.—Chicken puree, garnished with dice shapes of celeriac and rice. — Regence (Regent).—A light puree of fowls, garnished with macedoine of vegetables. — Reine (Queen).—A cream-like chicken soup, garnished with small chicken quenelles and rice. — Reine Margot.—Chicken cream soup with rice. — Reine Wilhelmine.—Chicken puree, thickened with rice, cream and egg-yolk liaison, v/ith asparagus points and julienne strips of cooked carrots and truffles as garnish. — Ris de Veau a la Reine.—A soup composed of sweetbread and chicken. — Risotto.—Rice puree, mixed with tomato pulp diluted with rich consomme. — Riz aux Choux.—Light cream of rice soup with julienne cut white cabbage, blanched and cooked in stock. — Romaine (Roman).—A v/hite thick soup with small rice quenelles. — Romeo.—A rich Parmentier puree (potato) mixed with half its volume of onion puree (Soubise), finished with a liaison of cream and egg-yolks ; garniture : chervil leaves, poached white of egg, and dice of ham. — Rouennaise.—Puree of duck with lentil puree and cream (croutons). — Russe (Russian).—Lobster bisque, blended with tomato puree, with small lobster quenelles as garnish. — Sagou au Lait.—Sago soup with milk (white). — Sante (Health).—Sorrel soup, with cabbage, lettuce, and herbs. — Savoyarde.—Celery and potato purees, blended with cream, and cheese-coated croutons as garnish. — Semoule.—Semolina soup with cream (white). — S6vign6.—Light chicken puree with cream, and royal made with egg and chicken cream as garnish. — S6vign6 (Royale).—A light chicken cream, with aspar- agus points, royal custard, dice of chicken fillets, and truffles as garnish. — Sigur.—A potato puree blended with tomato pulp, and garnished with strips of pimiento.99 POTAGES—SOUPS. Potage Soissonaire.—A puree of white haricot beans with small fried-bread croutons. — Souveraine.—Chicken cream soup, enriched with pistachio pounded kernels and butter liaison. — St. Cloud.—Puree of French beans and broad beans, with finely chopped lettuce. — St. Germain.—Pea puree enriched with cream (croutons). — St. Hubert.—Puree of game (hare or other game), with small game quenelles or dice-cut fillets of game. — St. Martha.—A blend of green pea, leek, and lettuce purees, with cream liaison. — St. Martin.—Potato puree with sorrel and watercress purees added, cream liaison (croutons). — Sultane.—White chicken puree with pistachios and truffles as garniture. — Suzette.—Puree of cucumber and peas, blended, garnished with poached yolks of eggs. — Sylvestra.—Chicken consomme, blended with veloute cream and egg-yolks, garnished with asparagus points and small chicken quenelles stuffed with spinach. — Tapioca au Lait.—Tapioca soup with milk. — Terapene (River Turtle Soup).—A kind of thick turtle soup made with terrapin turtle. — Tomates (aux).—Thick tomato soup. — Tomate Maigre (red).—Tomato soup made from vege- table or fish stock. — Tomate a la St. Louis.—Tomato puree thickened with tapioca, garnished with small chicken quenelles. — Topinambours.—Palestine or artichoke soup (white). — Tortue liee.—Thick real turtle soup (brown). — Tortue Fausse.—Mock turtle soup (brown). — Trazon^re.—Salsify puree, enriched with cream (croutons). — Truffes (aux).—A light puree of fresh truffles, made with veal stock, egg, and cream liaison, and consomme. — Tschi de Soldat (a Russian Soup).—A rich beef broth, slightly thickened with brown roux, and flavoured with sour cream ; served with small fried choux paste balls and shredded ham. — Turque (Turkish).—Tomato puree with rice. — Tyrolienne (Tyrolian Soup).—Barley cream soup with onions and carrots. — Tzarina.—Puree of grouse and celery cream, with celery strips as garnish. — Valery.—Puree of partridge with small quenelles. — Veau (Veal Soup, white).—A thick soup made of veal. — Valour (au) (Velvet).—Chicken cream soup thickened with rice and tapioca.lOO THE MENU BOOK. Potage Velout6 au Riz.—Rice soup made with rich veal or chicken stock, enriched with cream. — V^nitienne.—Bechamel cream soup with spinach puree (croutons). — Vermicelle au Lait.—Vermicelli soup with milk (white). — Vichy .—Puree of red carrots with cream liaison. — Victor Hugo.—Puree of Jerusalem artichokes with tapioca and cream liaison. — Victoria.—A puree of potatoes, with sprigs of cauli- flowers as garnish. — Vin de Bourgogne (au).—A brown beef soup, flavoured with Burgundy wine. — Virginia.—Puree of broad beans with cream liaison (croutons). — Voisin.—Chicken and veal puree with cream liaison, and spring vegetables as garnish. — Waldstein.—A rich puree of pheasant, mixed with an equal quantity of consomme, flavoured with white Burgundy, seasoned with paprika, etc., garnished with chopped truffles and Pignoli kernels. — V/ellington.—Chicken cream soup, blended with celery puree and rice as garnish. — Windsor (brown).—A thick soup made with calf’s feet, mutton or beef, and rice. — Xavier.—Cream of rice soup, blended with chicken puree, garnished with royal custard and chicken fillets cut in dice. Soupe k la Biere.—French beer soup (brown). — aux Chrises.—Cherry soup, made with sour cooking cherries, and a liaison of potato flour flavoured with cinnamon. Bread croutes as garnish. — au Lait.—Milk soup (Lenten soup). — h rOignon.—French onion soup (brown). PART IV. THE FISH COURSE. PLATS DE POISSONS—FISH DISHES. Fish is served in two ways, viz., plainly cooked, and dressed as an entrie. Many people prefer fish cooked in the simplest way, accompanied by a good sauce ; and the English epicure finds far greater enjoyment in fish cooked in the simplest manner than the French epicure in the elaborately cooked and dressed fish entree. FishlOI THE FISH COURSE. is cooked in various ways—boiled, steamed, baked, fried, stewed, and grilled. Almost every kind of fish gains in importance if served with a well-made sauce. When two fish are served at a dinner, the boiled or whole—i.e., solid—fish should be served before the fried, stewed or braised. Plain boiled potatoes or so-called fish potatoes, which are of marble shapes, sprinkled with chopped parsley, should be handed round with all solid fish cooked au natural, whilst boiled or grilled salmon should in all cases be accompanied by a dish of sliced cucumber, plainly dressed. Aigrefin—Haddock, Aigrefin etoufl^.—Fresh haddock steamed in the oven. — grille.—Grilled or broiled fresh haddock. — ^ la Maitre d’Hotel.—Boiled or steamed haddock with parsley sauce, or grilled with parsley butter. Filets d’Aigrefins frits. Sauce Tartare.—Fried fillets of fresh haddock, tartare sauce. Able saut6 a la Diable.—Devilled bleak tossed in butter. Alose au gratin.—Baked shad, gratin style. Anguille—Eel, Anguille a I’Anglaise.—Stewed eel, English style. — en Aspic (Eel in Savoury Jelly).—Cooked and boned eel and slices of hard-boiled egg set in aspic jelly. — a la Beaucaire.—Boned eels stuffed with whiting farce, mixed with chopped mushrooms, dressed in spiral form in baking dish or casserole, and braised with white sauce, small onions, and mushrooms. — a la broche.—Grilled eel with parsley butter, — en caisses.—Braised eel in paper cases. — a la Durand.—Boned eels, stufied with whiting farce, curled up and trussed, braised with butter and vegetable mirepoix. — a I’Espagnole.—Eel fried in oil, then stewed in fish stock and wine, flavoured with garlic, saffron, and peppercorns; garnished with blanched coarsely shredded baked almonds. — a la Florimond.—Marinaded eels, wrapped in oiled paper and baked in oven, served with parsley butter, and echalote sauce. — glac6e.—Rolled fillets of eel, broiled, and glazed with a rich brown sauce and meat glaze,102 THE MENU BOOK. Anguille a ritalienne (Eel Stewed, Italian style).—Stewed eel with small rice timbales. — a la Maconnaise.—Eel stewed in Burgundy wine sauce, with crayfish tails and oysters. — en Matelote.—Brown eel stew, flavoured with claret, button onions, and mushrooms. — ^ la Menagere.—Split eel, grilled, spread over with maitre d’hotel butter and mustard. — a la Meuni^re.—Boned eel, cut in portion pieces, dipped in flour and cooked in butter, served with Noisette butter, lemon juice, and chopped parsley. — a rOrly.—Fillets of eel, egged and crumbed or dipped in frying batter, and fried in deep fat, served with tomato sauce. — a la Pompadour.—Boiled eel, coated with white sauce, egged and crumbed, and fried ; egg sauce or choron sauce, and small potato balls. — a la Poulette.—Fricasseed eel in parsley sauce. — a la Proven^ale.—Fried eel, onion sauce. — a la Romaine.—Small piece of eel stewed with butter sauce, green peas, and finely cut lettuces, served in casserole. — a la Rouennaise.—Boned eel, cut in portions, stewed in matelotte sauce, garnished with oysters, soft roes, champignons, and fried smelts. — a la Tartare (Eel, Tartare style).—Parboiled eel, cut in pieces, drained, dipped in batter and fried, dished up in circles, with tartare sauce in centre. — a la Venitienne.—Rolled eel fillets, cooked (i.e., poached) in court-bouillon and glazed in oven, garnished with dice-cut champignons, and fish roe ; sauce Venitienne. Blanquette d*Anguille.—Stewed eel in white sauce. Friture d’Anguille.—Skinned and boned pieces of eel, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat, served with piquant, tomato, or tartare sauce. Barhue—Brill, Barbue brais6e d TAmiral.—Brill braised with chablis and white stock, garnished with fried oysters and mussels, pommes Parisienne, and thin slices of truffle and lemon ; served with cardinal sauce. — bouillie.—Boiled brill. — au gratin.—Baked brill, gratin style. Barbillon.—Young brill. Filets de Barbue frite.—Fried fillets of brill. — d la Boulonnaise.—Fillets of brill, poached in oven, with white wine sauce, mixed with chopped parsley, garnished with oysters, mussels, and soft roes.103 THE FISH COURSE. Filets de Barbue a la Donier.—Fillets of brill, poached in oven, drained on rice foundation, and sauced over with shrimp sauce ; breaded and browned in oven, — a la Duglerd.—Fillets of brill dipped in flour, cooked in butter, and served with crushed tomatoes tossed in butter, and noisette sauce. — a la Grand Due.—Fillets of brill, in veloute sauce, eggs and breadcrumbs, served with veloute sauce, to which is added horseradish, tomato pulp, and cream ; garnished with mussels and oysters. — a la Madeleine.—Fillets of brill covered on one side with whiting forcemeat mixed with herbs, placed in paupiette rings and sauteed, with white stock and mirepoix ; then dipped in egg and breadcrumbs and fried ; served with marseillaise sauce. — d la Russe.—Fillets of brill poached in richly flavoured fish essence (reduced fish stock), sauced over with a mushroom sauce, and glazed under the salamander. — St. Germain.—Fillets of brill egged and crumbed and fried or sauteed in butter, served with Bearnaise sauce. — Tyrolienne.*—Fillets of brill, marinaded, breaded, and fried in butter, served with tomato sauce mixed with fine herbs. Blanchailles— Whitebait, Blanchailles a la Diable.—Whitebait devilled, .seasoned with salt and cayenne. — a rindienne.—Fried whitebait, seasoned with salt and curry powder. — a la Madras.—Same as “ Indienne.” — au naturel.—Whitebait fried crisp in deep fat. Bouille-a-Baisse (French Fish Stew).—Fish stew, made from various kinds of fish and lobster, flavoured with garlic, savoury herbs, and white wine. Court-Bouillon (au).—A French savoury fish stew, pre- pared from various kinds of fish, tomatoes, etc. Brochet—Pike, Brochet a I’Ancienne.—Stewed pike, served with white sauce, garnished with truffles, gherkins, mushrooms, and capers. — ^ la Gastelaine (Pike, Castelaine style).—Braised pike stuffed with sliced truffles, tongue, and bacon; served with white sauce, and garnished with lobster croquettes, truffles, and oysters. — ^ la Cavour (Pike, Cavour style).—Broiled pike, garnished with nouilles, grated horseradish, and carrots ; served with rich veloute sauce.THE MENU BOOK. 104 Brochet frit.—Fried pike garnished with lemon and parsley, —farci et gratine.—Stuffed pike, baked, gratin style. — grille.—Grilled or broiled pike. — ^ la Remoulade (Pike, Remoulade style).—Grilled pike served with a remoulade sauce. Filets de Brochet pique a la Colbert.—Fillets of pike, larded, cooked in the oven, with brown wine sauce. — piqu§ d> la Lyonnaise.—Fillets of pike stewed in white wine sauce, and garnished with small marble-shaped potatoes cooked in fish stock. Grenadines de Brochet.—Round or oval-shaped fillets, larded, with truffles, and poached in court-bouillon and butter, then glazed, and served with brown fish sauce. — a la Regence.—Small oval fillets spread with butter and slices of truffles, wrapped in oiled paper, and cooked in oven with white wine and butter ; garniture Regence and sauce. Cahillaud—Cod, Cabillaud a TAndalouse.—Slices of cod cooked in white wine sauce and tomato puree; garnished with noisette potatoes. — k I’Anglaise.—Boiled cod with melted butter sauce. — bouilli.—Boiled cod. — bouilli aux Capres.—Boiled cod with caper sauce. — en coquilles.—Codfish baked and served in shells. — aux Crevettes.—Boiled cod and shrimp sauce. — a la Di6ppoise.—Shces of cod dipped in milk and flour, fried, drained, and served with white matelotte sauce. — ^ la Flamande.—Cod slices, baked in white sauce, flavoured with white Bordeaux wine and chopped herbs. — frit, sauce Anchois.—Fried cod and anchovy sauce. — au gratin.—Baked cod, gratin style. — grill6 ^ la Colbert (Grilled Cod, Colbert style).—Slices of cod dipped in dissolved butter and flour, grilled, and served with maitre d’hotel butter. — sauce aux Huitres.—Boiled cod, oyster sauce. — d I’Indienne.—Fried or grilled cod with curry sauce. — d, la Maltaise.—Cod stewed in veloute sauce, white wine, stock, shallots, and bouquet garni; sauce flavoured with anchovy paste, chopped parsley, and capers. — a la Nantaise.—Slices of cod, spread over with lobster puree or farced, baked, and served with fish supreme sauce.THE FISH COURSE. 105 Cabilaud a la Portugaise (Cod, Portuguese style).—Slices of cod fried ; served with a sauce composed of tomato sauce, essence of anchovy and mussels. — recr6pi, bouilli.—Crimped cod, boiled. — d, la Reine.—Poached cod slices with fish supreme sauce and fish quenelles. Darne de Cabillaud k la Sefton.—Boiled cod coated with cream chaudfroid sauce, coloured with spinach puree. Garnish: salad, chopped cucumber, and diamond shapes of aspic. Kedgeree de Cabillaud.—Finely flaked cooked cod, reheated with butter, rice, and hard-boiled egg (shredded), moistened with bechamel sauce; served hot as breakfast dish. Mousseline de Cabillaud.—Steamed codfish souffle served with cardinal or lobster sauce. Carpe—Carp, Carpe a TAlsaeienne.—Boned carp stuffed with white fish farce, and cooked in wine-flavoured fish stock; served with choucrout and potato cubes (boiled), light white butter sauce. — a la Juive.—Filleted carp, fried in oil, served on fish farce basis, with chopped parsley and suitable sauce. — d, la Roy ale.—Skinned and boned carp, poached in fish stock with Chablis and aromatic herbs, dressed crown shape, with slices of truffles; garnished in centre with mushroom heads, and fish roe, sauced over with Sauce Normande. ' — au bleu.—Boiled carp. — farcie.—Stuffed carp, baked. — frite.—Fried carp. — gratin^e.—Baked carp, gratin style. Carrelet—Flounder, Carrelet frit, Sauce Persil.—Fried flounder, parsley sauce. Souchet de Carrelet (Souchet of Flounder).—Boiled flounder with finely-cut strips of carrots and turnips, and chopped parsley. Beignets de Clames.—Clam fritters. Coquilles de Crevettes.—Coquilles of shrimps. — aux Huitres.—Coquilles of oysters. — de Moules.—Scalloped mussels. — de Poissons (Coquilles of Fish).—Stewed fish served in shells. Scalloped fish. — aux Queues d’Ecrevisses.—Coquilles of crayfish tails. Crabe farcie.—Dressed and stuffed crab.THE MENU BOOK. io6 Ecrevisses—Crayfish, (May also be prepared as Lobster.) Ecrevisses a la Bordelaise.—Crayfish tails or prawns cooked in rich mirepoix, served with fish veloute sauce and lobster butter. With chopped parsley—in casserole. — a la Cardinal.—Crayfish tails dressed with Normande sauce and truffle slices in buttered gratin dish, with potato border, and browned in oven. — a la Magenta.—Prepared the same as “ Bordelaise,” with addition of sliced tomatoes, savoury herbs, and white wine sauce, served in casserole. Beignets d*Ecrevisses.—Crayfish fritters. Eperlans—Smelts. Eperlans ^ PAnglaise.—Split smelts, boned, egged, and crumbed, and fried in butter ; served with lemon. — a la Baron Brisse.—Split and boned smelts, grilled, spread with parsley butter, garnished with Noisette potatoes. — en Brochettes.—Fried smelts on skewers. — ^ la C61estine.—Boned smelts stuffed with forcemeat, placed on pancake and forcemeat sandwiches cut in triangles or other shapes, sauteed ; garnished with prawns, and served with remoulade sauce. — au Citron.—Smelts dipped in panurette, and fried ; garnished with fried parsley and lemon; served with plate of brown bread and butter. — a la Diable.—Fried smelts devilled. — frits.—Fried smelts. — gratings.—Baked smelts. — a la Juive.—Boned smelts, dipped in frying batter and fried ; served with tartare sauce. — farcis a la Pouraine.—Smelts stuffed with forcemeat, mushrooms, and parsley, covered with melted butter, and baked ; dished up, covered with bechamel sauce, and browned under salamander. Souffle d*Eperlans.—Souffle consisting of fillets of smelts, whiting, bechamel sauce, cream, and white of egg. Timbale d’Eperlans a la St. Mand6.—Mould lined with smelt fillets and filled with smelt-flavoured fish mousse ; steamed and served with caviare sauce. Esturg eon—Sturgeon. Esturgeon a I’Anchois.—Boiled sturgeon with anchovy sauce. — brais6.—Braised sturgeon.107 THE FISH COURSE. Esturgeon a la Cardinal (Sturgeon, Cardinal style).—Boiled sturgeon, garnished with quenelles of whiting and crayfish, and served with cardinal sauce. Darne d’Esturgeon a la Milanaise (Sturgeon Steak, Milanese style.)—Middle piece or steak of sturgeon stewed ; garnished with eel-pout livers and crayfish tails. Papillotes d’Esturgeon.—Stewed sturgeon in paper cases. Fie tan—Halibut, (May also be prepared as Flounder, Brill or Turbot.) F16tan au gratin.—Baked halibut. —grillee, sauce crevettes.—Grilled halibut, shrimp sauce. Fogas or Fogosch, Fogas au Bleu.—Boiled in wine-flavoured fish stock, and served with melted butter. Supremes de Fogas, Edward VII.—Fillets of fogas, poached in fish fumet, ranged on dish and sauced over with Hollandaise mixed with one-third of paprika sauce; garnished with groups of green asparagus points and “ fondantes ” potatoes. Goujon (Gudgeons).—A kind of small fish like whitebait, dipped in flour, and fried in deep fat. Grondins fare! 6touff6.—Baked gurnet, stuffed ; dished on fried-bread croutons; served with sauce matelote, mixed with anchovy essence and fish liquor, — a la Talleyrand.—Baked fillets of gurnet, served with a sauce consisting of butter, flour, fish liquor, fish stock, cream, and yolks of two eggs beaten up with lemon juice. Grenouilles—Frogs* Legs, Grenouilles a I’Am^ricaine.—Frogs’ legs steeped in lemon juice and seasoning, dipped in flour, egged and crumbed, and fried in deep fat; served with tomato sauce. — a la Maltre d’Hotel.—Stewed in white sauce, with chopped parsley and lemon-juice. — dr rOrly.—Same as “ Americaine,” but coated with frying batter and fried in fat. — d la Poulette.—Poached in white wine and chopped savoury herbs, and finished in white sauce. Grenouilles frites.—Fried frogs. Beignets de Grenouilles.—Frogs’ legs fritters.THE MENU BOOK. io8 H areng—H erring, Hareng frais grille.—Grilled fresh herring. — ail beurre.—Broiled herring in butter. — ^ la Diable.—Grilled herrings, coated with mustard and fried breadcrumbs, and served with ravigote sauce. ■— Farcis.—Boned herrings, stuffed with herb farce, wrapped in oiled paper and baked in oven; served with white wine sauce. — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Grilled herring with parsley butter. — a la Moutarde.—Grilled herring with mustard sauce. — a la Nantaise.—Herrings with soft roes, rolled in flour and crumbed, then fried in butter, served with mayonnaise flavoured with cooked roes and mustard. — a la Portiere.—Herrings with incisions filled with mustard and parsley, then fried in butter; served with brown butter, flavoured with vinegar. — a la Russe.—Boned and grilled ; served with white wine sauce mixed with chopped fennel and mustard. — Sour.—Smoked herring fillets. Homard—Lobster, (See also Chapter on Fish Savouries and Cold Entrees.) Homard a TAm^ricaine (Lobster, American style).— Lobster stewed in the shell with tomato sauce, red wine, and savoury herb seasoning. — en Aspic.—Lobster and hard-boiled egg set in moulds with savoury or aspic jelly. — dr la Bechamel (Baked Lobster, Bechamel style).— Shells of lobster filled with minced lobster meat, bechamel sauce, and seasoning, and baked. — d la Bordelaise.—Lobster stewed in tomato sauce, blended with white wine and chopped herbs ; served in timbales. — d la Cardinal.—Minced lobster, mixed with Nantua sauce, and filled in shells, breaded, and browned in oven. — saute d la Dumas.—Lobster meat tossed in butter and finished in brown sauce, flavoured with white wine, paprika, and lemon juice. — farci.—Stuffed lobster baked. — d la Gloucester (Lobster, Gloucester style).—Stewed lobster, with a sauce composed of pulverised lobster shell, butter, egg-yolks, and meat extract. — au gratin.—Baked lobster, gratin style. — d la Hongroise (Hungarian).—Scalloped lobster in shells, moistened with white sauce, paprika seasoning, and cream, browned in ovenTHE FISH COURSE. log Homard d rindienne.—Curried lobster in border of rice. — ^ la Newbury.—Lobster, sliced, poached in Madeira, with sherry, chopped parsley, etc., and finished in cream and egg-yolk liaison. — a la Suedoise (Lobster, Swedish fashion).—Border of lobster meat and forcemeat, poached in a fancy border mould, and sauced over with anchovy sauce. — a la Tourville.—Shces of lobster meat tossed in butter, and cooked with “ risotto,” dressed in shells and sauced with fish veloute. — d la Turque (Turkish).—Sliced lobster meat, cooked in mirepoix, flavoured with brandy and saffron ; dish garnished with small curried rice timbales. — d, la Vanderbilt.—Minced lobster meat with chopped truffles and mushrooms, blended with Nantua sauce, filled into shells, and browned in oven. Bordure de Homard d ITndienne.—Border of savoury lobster mixture, centre filled with rice, decorated with hard-boiled egg and truffle. Buissons de Homard (Bush of Lobsters).—Lobster dressed in a pyramidal form. Coquilles de Homard d la Gauloise.—Poached coquille shapes of lobster forcemeat, with lobster scallop in centre of each, served with cardinal sauce. — de Homard (Scalloped Lobster).—Stewed lobster served in shells. Cotelettes de Homard (Lobster Cutlets).—Mixture of lobster, shallots, bechamel sauce, mushrooms, and egg made into cutlet shapes, egged, crumbed, fried, and served with tomato or other sauce. — de Homard a 1*Aspic.—Shces of lobster meat set in aspic, cutlet shapes. — d la Tomate.—Lobster cutlets with tomato sauce. Mayonnaise de Homard.—Pieces of lobster and salad masked with mayonnaise sauce, decorated with pieces of claws, hard-boiled egg, strips of fillet of anchovy, capers, beetroot, coral, stoned olives, and gherkins. Mousse de Homard frappee.—Iced lobster souffle, top decorated with lobster coral and paprika. Petites Dormes de Homard d la Crdme.—Lobster and tomato aspic set in square fluted moulds, dressed on squares of pastry. SoufH6 de Homard, sauce Aurora.—Steamed souffle, consisting of lobster, eggs, and bechamel sauce; served with Aurora sauce.no THE MENU BOOK. sauce. Huttres—Oysters, (See also Chapter on Oyster Savouries.) Huitres a PAmericaine.—Oysters, poached in fish liquor, served in own shells or coquilles, sauced over with tomato sauce, flavoured with lobster puree. — en coquilles.—Scalloped oysters. — a la Duxelles.—Oyster stew baked in shells. — a la Du Barry.—Small baked potatoes stuffed with oysters ; supreme sauce. — a la Favorite.—Scalloped oysters, served in shells, with dice of truffle on each, sauced with bechamel and grated parmesan cheese, then browned in oven. — frites.—Fried oysters. — grillees.—Grilled or broiled oysters. — a la Poulette.—Fricasseed oysters, rich white sauce, and chopped parsley. — a la Salamandre.—Oysters on shells with supreme sauce and cayenne; sprinkled with breadcrumbs, grated parmesan, and butter; browned under salamander. Beignets d’huitres.—Oyster fritters. Chaudfroid d’huitres a la Montpelier.—Oysters set in aspic in border of rice, masked with white or red chaudfroid sauce, centre filled with seasoned green salad. Cromeskies aux huitres.—Small cork shapes or rolls, composed of minced oysters, oyster liquor, cream, lemon juice, egg-yolks, etc., then wrapped in bacon, dipped in batter, and fried in deep fat; garnished with fried parsley. Fricassee d’huitres.—Oysters stewed in white sauce, also sliced mushrooms, if liked. Quenelles aux huitres.—Small chicken or veal quenelles, with one or two oysters in centre of each, poached in fish stock, served coated with white sauce. — frites aux huitres.—Fried oyster quenelles, served with piquant or white wine sauce. Petits Pat6s aux huitres.—Puff-pastry patties filled with a delicately-prepared oyster stew or ragout. Lamproie saut6e ^ la Francaise.—Stewed lamprey, French style. — en fricassee.—Fricasseed lamprey, cooked in whiteIll THE FISH COURSE. Liang ouste—Crawfish^ (May also be prepared as Lobster, which see.) Escalopes de Langouste a la Cardinale.—Oval croquet shapes of crawfish or lobster, dished up in row, with a small poached egg coated with cardinal sauce in centre of each, decorated with a prawn at each end of croquet, and stars of truffle. Limande aux Eperlans.—Boiled dab or flounder garnished with fried smelts. — a la Janin.—Braised fillets of flounders rolled and stufled with fish forcemeat, garnished with truffles, oysters cut in halves, and crayfish or prawn tails in centre of dish, sauced over with espagnole, enriched with fish essence and white wine. — en souchet.—Boiled flounders with julienne vegetables cooked in fish stock, served with some of the liquor. Maquereau—Mackerel. Maquereau a I’Anglaise.—Mackerel boiled in salted water and served with fennel or parsley sauce. — a la Boulognoise.—Boned and stuffed mackerel, baked ; served with Genoise sauce. — a la Boulonnaise.—Boiled mackerel, garnished with mussels and oysters, served with white fish sauce. — bouilli, sauce capres.—Boiled mackerel and caper sauce. — a Teau de sel.—Mackerel cooked in salted water and garnished with olive-shaped boiled potatoes. — a la Flamande.—Broiled mackerel with Flemish sauce. — ^ la Maitre d’Hotel.—Broiled mackerel with parsley butter. — au persil.—Boiled mackerel and parsley sauce. Fillets de Maquereau a la Bonnefoy.—Dipped in flour and fried in butter, served with Bordelaise sauce, and garnished with small kidney potatoes. — a la Dieppoise.—Same as “ Bonnefoy,’' but served with Dieppoise sauce and garniture. — au gratin.—Baked fillets of mackerel, gratin style. — grill6s.—Grilled mackerel fillets, served with parsley or anchovy butter. — it I’Indienne (Fillets of Mackerel, Indian style).— Braised fillets of mackerel, served with curry sauce, reduced with white wine. — a I’Orientale.—Fillets of mackerel, baked in butter and herbs, tomato and saffron-flavoured sauce. — a la Printani^re.—Herring fillets poached in salt water, and skinned, sauced with cream or butter sauce, and garnished with potatoes and green peas.THE MENU BOOK. II2 Fillets de Maquereau a la St. Jean.—Same as “ k TOrien- tale,” but served with ravigotte sauce. — au vin blanc.—Broiled mackerel fillets with white wine sauce. Marian— Whiting, (This fish can also be prepared the same as Sole, which see.) Marian ^irAmbassadriee.—Rolled fillets of whiting poached in white wine and butter, with oyster on each, and served with rich white sauce. — bouilli ^ I’Anglaise.—Boiled whiting with parsley sauce. — a la Boulangere.—Split open, dipped in flour and oil, and grilled, breaded, and browned ; served with parsley butter, and Noisette potatoes. — a la bonne femme.—Stewed whiting with bordelaise sauce. — frit.—Fried whiting. — frits a la Fran§aise (Fried Whiting, French style).— The fish is wiped and scored along the sides, but not skinned, dipped in milk, well floured, and fried in fat until crisp ; served with anchovy or shrimp sauce. — grilles.—Grilled whiting (split open, and spread with parsley or anchovy butter). — au gratin.—Baked whiting, gratin style. — a la Hoteliere.—Same as “ k la Boulangere,” but not breaded, and spread over with duxelle puree and sauce. — a ritalienne (Whiting, Italian style).—Baked or steamed whiting with brown mushroom sauce. — a la Verdi.—Fillets of whiting, poached in white wine, dressed, and coated with bearnaise sauce sprinkled over with julienne of truffles ; tomato sauce round base of dish. Filets de M6rlan a I’Andalouse.—Fillets of whiting, spread with fish farce, and rolled; baked on halves of tomatoes, and served with rissole as basis, and sliced tossed aubergines as garnish. — a la Comtesse (Fillets of Whiting, Countess style).— Baked fillets of whiting, dressed in paper cases, garnished with crayfish tails and small liver force- meat balls. — d, la Maitre d’Hotel (Hotel-keeper’s style).—Broiled fillets of whiting with parsley butter. — a la Judic.—Whiting fillets, dipped in frying batter, and fried in oil; served with tartare sauce. — la Juive.—Fillets of whiting soaked in oil and vinegar, coated with batter, and fried in deep fat, served with Joinville sauce.113 THE FISH COURSE. Filets de Merlan ^ I’Orly.—Filleted whiting, seasoned, dipped in white of egg and flour, fried crisp, and served with tomato sauce. — frits a la tomate.—Fried fillets of whiting with tomato sauce. — frits a la Tyrolienne.—Fillets of whiting dipped in oil and breadcrumbs, fried with ends skewered to form a ring; served with rich tomato sauce handed separately. Blanquette de m^rlans.—Filleted whiting fricasseed—i.e., cooked in white sauce. Quenelles de m6rlans, Joinville.—Quenelles made of whiting forcemeat, with shrimp salpicon in centre, poached in fish stock ; served with Joinville sauce ; fleuron garnish. Souffle de merlan.—Whiting souffle. Merluche 6touCe.—Steamed haddock cooked in the oven. — fare! cuite au four.—Haddock stuffed and baked in the oven. Morue—Salt Cod, Morue a la Capucine.—Boiled salt cod with egg sauce. — aux fines herbes.—Broiled salt cod with fine herb or parsley butter. Brandade.—Salt cod, cooked and flaked in the form of puree or souffle pudding, usually flavoured with suspicion of garlic; served with white fish sauce and croutons. Brandade de morue aux olives.—A rich salt cod souffle mixture, mixed with potato puree, cream, and olives, baked or steamed in dome-shaped moulds ; garnished with pastry rings, pimiento, and stuffed olives. Tete de morue aux huitres.—Boiled cod’s head with oyster sauce. M oules—Mussels, Moules a la Bourguignonne.—Stewed mussels in red wine sauce. — a la Galifornie (Mussels, California style).—Stewed mussels with slightly fried sliced tomatoes, chopped onions, parsley, and veloute sauce. — en coquilles.—Scalloped mussels, served in shells. — a la mariniere.—Stewed mussels with onion and parsley sauce. — a la poulette.—Stewed mussels in white sauce. Ombre au bleu.—Boiled grayling. — a la maitre d’hdtel.—Broiled grayling with parsley butter. H114 THE MENU BOOK. I*4toncles—Scallops, P6toncles gratings.—Scallop stew browned under grill. — frits.—Fried scallops. — au gratin.—Baked scallops, gratin style. — a la poulette.—Stewed in white sauce with finely chopped herbs. — ^ la Provengale.—Scallops stewed in white fish sauce, garnished with fleurons of puff pastry. Flie—Plaice, (See also Brill and Turbot.) Plie frite.—Fried plaice. Filets de plie au vin blanc.—Poached fillets of plaice with white wine sauce. — frites a la tartare.—Fried fillets of plaice, tartare sauce. — frites, sauce anchois.—Fried fillets of plaice, anchovy sauce. — sauce persil.—Broiled fillets of plaice, parsley sauce. Male—Shale, Raie au beurre noir.—Boiled skate with nut-brown butter. — au beurre noisette.—Boiled skate sauced over with nut-brovm butter and lemon juice. — d. la bourgeoise.—Boiled skate with brown sauce, garnished v/ith croutons of bread, glazed over with meat extract. — a la broche.—Grilled skate. — en fritot.—Marinaded, cut up in pieces, and dipped in frying batter, fried in deep fat. — au gratin.—Baked, breaded skate (gratin style). — ^ la Parisienne.—Skate stewed in well-seasoned stock, dressed with capers and claret sauce. — a la poulette.—Skate stewed in parsley sauce. Rougets—Red Mullet, Rougets ^ la Baron Brisse.—Grilled red mullet, with maitre d’hotel butter, garnished with Noisette potatoes. — a la Bordelaise.—Red mullet grilled or broiled in butter, with brown breadcrumbs and fine herbs, served with claret in Bordelaise sauce. — Fenouil (au).—Marinaded in oil, lemon juice, chopped fennel, etc. ; wrapped in oiled paper and grilled. — a la Fran^illon.—Grilled red mullets, dressed on bread croutes spread with anchovy butter; served with tomato sauce flavoured with anchovy ; garnished with fried straw potatoes and fried parsley115 THE FISH COURSE. Rougets au beurre fondu.—Broiled mullets, served with melted butter. — aux fines herbes.—Stewed red mullets with fine herb sauce. — au gratin.—Baked red mullets, gratin style. — grilles, sauce ravigote.—Grilled mullets and ravigote sauce. — a ritalionne.—Broiled red mullets, served with Italian sauce. — ^ la Janin.—Red mullets, boned and stuffed, cooked in oven, same as in Papilottes; served with Genevoise sauce. — a la Juive.—Fillets of red mullets soaked in oil marinade, and fried garnished with parsley ; served with tartare or tomato sauce. — a la Marseillaise.—Red mullet broiled in butter, then finished in tomato and onion stew ; suitably flavoured and served like “ Bouillabaise.” — a la Nantaise.—Grilled red mullet, served with demi- glace sauce, flavoured with shallots, wine, and puree of fish roes ; garnished with slices of lemon. — a la Ni^oise.—Grilled red mullet, garnished with toma- toes tossed in butter, anchovy fillets, olives and capers. — en papillotes (Red Mullets in Paper Cases).—Fish wrapped separately in oiled paper, with the ends twisted, and thus baked or broiled, dished up, and served with brown fine herb sauce. — a la Polonaise.—Baked mullets with rich butter and cream sauce, breaded, and browned. — a la Portugaise.—Baked mullet, with chopped savoury herbs, sliced tomatoes, and claret sauce. — a la Proven^ale.—Baked mullets with chopped parsley and onion; served with tomato sauce (garlic- flavoured) and cucumber puree. — a la Trouville.—Boned mullet, poached in white wine and fish stock, then dished and sauced with Colbert sauce, and baked. — ^ la V6nitienne.—Baked red mullets with brown sauce garnished with Spanish olives, stuffed with fish forcemeat and mushroom heads. — a la Villeroi.—Marinaded red mullet, dipped in Villeroi sauce, egged and crumbed, and fried in deep fat. Saint Pierre—John I)ory, (Cooked and served like Brill, Flounder or Plaice.) Saunt on—Saim on. Saumon a I’Amiral.—Boiled salmon, garnished with lobster or crayfish and fried oysters, and served with Genevoise sauce.ii6 THE MENU BOOK. Saumon a la Balmoral.—Thick slices of salmon, poached in fish stock, garnished with fish quenelles, crayfish, truffles, and small potato balls ; served with chambord sauce. — ^ la champ6ry.—Thick slices of salmon, baked in butter and white wine, served with brown caper sauce and olive-shaped potatoes. — a la Danoise (Danish).—Boiled salmon, served with hollandaise sauce, blended with anchovy essence. — a la Dieppoise.—Boiled or baked slices of salmon with mussel sauce, garnished with potato balls. — ^ la Godard.—Braised salmon with a collection of cooked vegetable macedoine dressed round the dish. — ^ la Hollandaise.—Boiled salmon with Dutch sauce, garnished with olive-shaped boiled potatoes. — ^ la Marianne.—Baked slices of salmon, dressed on spinach puree or with spinach timbales, mariniere sauce, with addition of mussels. — a la Matelote.—Sauteed slices of salmon with espagnole sauce, poached fish quenelles, slices of mushrooms, and truffles ; garnished with braised button onions, truffles, etc. — en tranches a la Meurice.—Slices of salmon braised and served with a rich brown sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs. — a la Monte-Carlo.—Centre piece of salmon, boiled, sauced with Nantua sauce, and garnished with asparagus tips, French beans, and carrots; also small carrolette of potato or rice. — a la Montmorency.—Head piece or middle cut of salmon baked, dished up, upper skin removed ; sauced over with matelote sauce ; garnished with stoned and stuffed Spanish olives. — a la Michat Pacha.—Boiled salmon with date sauce. — en papillotes.—Heart-shaped slices of salmon wrapped in grease-proof paper, and thus boiled or baked ; served with a rich brown herb sauce. — a la Parisienne.—Slices of salmon, cut rather thick, braised in mirepoix and claret; dished up and garnished with groups of champignons, little fish croquettes, crayfish tails, and poached oysters; sauce Genoise is served with it. — a la P6rigueux.—Broiled salmon or salmon trout stuffed with truffles and served with truffle sauce. — a la Pi6montaise.—Fried fillets of salmon ; garnished with small timbales of savoury rice ; tomato sauce. — ^ la Richelieu.—Centre piece of salmon, boiled or baked, coated with lobster mousse sauce, and gar- nished with fried soft roes, oysters, and crayfish or prawns.THE FISH COURSE. 117 Saumon k la Richemont.—Grilled pickled salmon with tomato sauce. — a la Rothschild.—Centre piece of salmon, farced with truffle stufflng, and baked ; garnished with champignons, oysters, and truffles; served with Nantua sauce. — a la Valoise.—Grilled salmon steak, with lobster butter, served with valois sauce, and garnished with small rounds of baked potatoes and fried oysters. — a la Victoria.—Broiled salmon with stewed oysters, crayfish quenelles, Madeira sauce. — bouilli, sauce Hollandaise.—Boiled salmon with Hol- landaise or Dutch sauce. — grind au beurre d’anchois.—Grilled salmon with anchovy butter. — grille au persil.—Grilled salmon with parsley butter. — grille aux fines herbes.—Grilled salmon with fine herb butter. Cotelettes de Saumon k la Danoise.—Salmon cutlets spread on each side with anchovy paste and fried ; served with Danish sauce. — a la Richelieu.—Salmon cutlets, poached in marinade, masked with cold fish farce (flavoured with tomatoes and anchovy), and with tomato aspic, dressed crown shape with cucumber and pimiento salad in centre. Darioles de Saumon k la Moscovienne (cold).—Darioles, shapes of salmon, ornamented with truffles, oysters, chopped aspic, and cucumber. Darne de Saumon a la Chambord.—Boiled middle cut of salmon, skinned, dished up, garnished with fish quenelles, heads of mushrooms, cooked oysters, slices of truffles and crayfish tails, sauced with a rich brown fish sauce. — a TArchidUC.—Boiled middle cut of salmon, skinned, dished up, sauced over with a rich brown fish sauce, and garnished with fried oysters and small puff- pastry lobster patties. — aux fines herbes.—Grilled salmon steak with parsley butter. — a la National.—Broiled piece of salmon and white sauce ; garnished with groups of stewed potato and cucumber balls. — a la Ravigote (cold).—Boiled centre piece of salmon, masked and decorated with cold ravigote sauce and fresh butter, centre of salmon filled with salad or vegetable macedoine, and sides garnished with hard- boiled eggs, green peas, and chopped aspic; served with tartare sauce.Ii8 THE MENU BOOK. Dame de Saiimon h la Vert-Pr6 (cold).—Cold salmon, coated with green chaudfroid sauce, garnished with dressed salad, sliced cucumber, and diamond shapes of aspic. Escalopes de Saumon a I’lndienne.—Fried salmon cutlets, served with curry sauce, mixed with chopped piccalilli,' also plain rice as accompaniment. — a la Nantaise.—Collopsof salmon, seasoned and broiled in butter; dished up alternately with slices of lobster ; dressed with stewed oysters and lobster sauce. Filets de Saumon a la Duchesse.—Braised fillets of salmon arranged in the centre of a mashed potato border, masked with rich brown sauce, and garnished with mushroom heads and slices of tomatoes. — aux huitres.—Rolled fillets of salmon with stewed oysters braised and served with a rich brown sauce. — sautes a la Perigueux.—Braised fillets of salmon, with truffle sauce. — a la Regence.—Rolled fillet of salmon, stuffed, and served with regent sauce. Grenadins de Saumon d, la Venitienne.—Fillets of salmon, larded, seasoned, and braised, dressed in a circle alternately with heart-shaped bread croutons, sauced with a well-buttered parsley sauce blended with tomato. Hure de Saumon aux truffes.—Braised headpiece of salmon, with truffle sauce. — a la Cambac^res.—Braised head-piece of salmon, garnished with truffles, mushrooms, and stoned olives, sauced with a rich brown fish sauce seasoned with cayenne and lemon juice. — d. la Moderne.—Boiled and baked head-piece of salmon, sauced over with brown fish sauce ; garnished with small groups of cork-shaped pieces of fish sausage, sliced truffles, mushroom heads, and stoned and blanched olives ; top of fish garnished with slices of lemon, truffles, and parsley. Mousseline de Saumon a la Cardinal.—Timbale or dariole of light salmon forcemeat (souffle), served with cardinal sauce. Patd de Saumon h I’Homard.—Raised salmon pic with layers of lobster meat. Paupiettes de Saumon la Reine.—Quenelles of fish, rolled in salmon fillets, and poached in chablis and fish stock ; dressed in fish farce border, and garnished with braised olive shapes of cucumber ; hot ravigote sauce. SoufQ6s de Saumon a I’lndienne.—Cold souffle of curried salmon, decorated with anchovy butter or anchovy cream.119 THE FISH COURSE. Queue de Saumon aux huitres.—Braised tail-piece of salmon with stewed oysters. Tranchettes de Saumon en Belle Vue (cold).—Small sandwich-shaped moulds of salmon set in aspic and mayonnaise cream. Soles—Soles, Sole frite a TAnglaise.—Fried sole with anchovy sauce or melted butter. Soles d’Aumale.—Soles poached in white wine, garnished with oysters and truffles, sauced over and browned under salamander. — a rAfrieaine.—Grilled sole, garnished with fried bananas and slices of lemon, served with sauce Diable, mixed with chutney and tomato pulp. — a la Alaska.—Poached whole; half sauced with white wine sauce, and the other half with pink shrimp sauce ; garnished with oysters and Noisette potatoes. — a la Argenteuil.—Sole, whole or fillets, poached in white wine, sauced with white sauce, then glazed and garnished with asparagus points. — a la Bedford.—Grilled soles garnished with croustades half filled with mushroom and truffle, and other half with spinach ; sauce mornay — a la Bercy.—Skinned soles, cooked in oven, with butter, shallots, white wine, mushroom liquor, and chopped parsley ; coated with bercy sauce. — a la Bignon.—Steamed sole, with white wine sauce, blended with tomato puree a la Portugaise. — a la Bonne Femme.—Poached on mirepoix of fresh mushrooms, shallots, parsley, white wine, and fish stock ; fish veloute sauce. — a la Bosaniaque.—Steamed sole, seasoned with paprika and white wine ; garnished with julienne of carrots, celery, and mushrooms cooked in fish stock ; sauce au vin blanc. — a la Breteuil.—Poached in white wine with carrot slices, small button onions, and finished with white wine sauce ; garnished with fried or grilled oysters and fried-bread croutons. — a la Bretonne.—The same as “ Vin Blanc,” but coated with Bretonne sauce. — bouillie.—Boiled sole. — la Castillene.—Baked sole, with normande sauce, garnished with champignons, lobster dice, and glazed potato balls. — ^ la Colbert.—Fried sole with centre bone removed, stuffed with fine herb or parsley butter.120 THE MENU BOOK. Sole ^ la Gond6.—Baked sole, with sliced tomato and white wine sauce. — a la Danicheff.—Similar to "Sole Breteuil," but gar- nished with poached oysters and slices of truffle. — ^ la Daumont.—Soles with centre bone removed, and filled with whiting farce, cooked in white wine and fish stock ; sauce nantua. — d, I’Espagnole.—Fried soles, garnished with sliced tomatoes sauteed in oil, and fried onion rings. — frite.—Fried sole, garnished with fried parsley and cut lemon. — dr la Gastronome. — Stuffed fried sole with shrimp sauce. — au gratin.—Baked sole, with brown sauce and mush- rooms, breaded and browned in oven. — gratinee.—Baked sole, gratin style. — grillee a la Maitre d’Hotel .—Grilled sole with parsley butter. — a la Hambourgeoise.—Steamed sole, garnished with julienne strips of carrot and celery root cooked in stock, sauced over with sauce vin blanc. — a la Normande.—Poached soles in white wine, etc., garnished with oysters, mussels, and button mush- rooms, sauced over with normande sauce, served with buttered and browned slices of French rolls. — au Parmesan.—Soles cooked in mushroom liquor, etc., sauced over with bechamel, flavoured with parmesan cheese ; browned under salamander, and served in same dish. — en souchet (Souchet of Soles). — Boiled soles with finely-cut strips of carrot and turnips and chopped parsley. — a la Vatel.—Baked soles, boned and stuffed, with whiting forcemeat, cooked in white wine and mush- room liquor ; masked over with white wine sauce; garnished with truffles, gherkins, cocks’ combs, and mushrooms. — au vin blanc.—Soles poached in white wine and served with white wine sauce. Filets de Sole k PAfricaine.—Fillets of sole poached in the oven, with butter, mushroom liquor, and wine ; garnished with fried bananas, hot horseradish sauce. — ^ I’Am^ricaine.—Fillets of soles cooked with white wine in gratin dish; sauced over with rich tomato sauce and lobster butter; breaded and browned in oven. — ^ I’Ariane.—Poached fillets of sole dressed with sauce Mornay, to which sliced fresh mushrooms sauteed in butter and sorrel have been incorporated.I2I THE FISH COURSE. Filets de Sole k la Ambassade.—Filleted sole, cooked in fish stock and white wine in oven, coated with Mornay sauce, with tomato puree added. — d la Andalouse.—Rolled fillets of sole, farced with lobster puree, poached, and finished with brown butter ; served with tomato sauce, with addition of cream or bechamel. — en Aspic (cold).—Folded fillets of sole poached; when cold dressed in aspic-border shape, centre filled with seasoned salad. — aux aubergines.—Baked fillets of soles dressed with nut brown butter ; garnished with fried olive shapes of aubergine (egg-plant). — Bagatelle.—Poached fillets rolled, dressed alternately on heaps of shredded tomatoes and fresh mushrooms, sauced over with Mornay, grated cheese, and browned under salamander. — a la Belle H61ene.—Rolled fillets of sole, poached in white wine and mushroom liquor, dressed on nouille paste foundation, coated with bechamel sauce, breaded, and browned in oven. — Belles de Nuit.—Fillets of soles forced with fish farce and prawns; poached in white wine; garnished with mushroom heads, potato cubes, and tomatoes ; sauce normande. — a la Blanchaille.—Sole fillets cut into fine strips, to resemble whitebait, dipped in milk and flour, and fried in deep fat. — a la Boitel.—Fillets of soles folded and poached in white wine and mushroom liquor; dressed on dish and sauced over with white mushroom sauce ; baked. — a la Bovin.—Poached fillets of soles with rich cream sauce flavoured with fish essence ; garnished with potato balls and chopped parsley. — a la Cam61ia.—Fillets spread with fish farce and rolled up and poached ; dressed in small green artichokes (cooked) and hollowed out in centre and filled with hot tomato chutney ; sauce Vin-blanc. — a la Cancale.—Fillets of soles poached in fish liquor and oyster liquor ; dressed and garnished with poached oysters and mushrooms ; sauced over with maitre d’hotel sauce. — a la Cardinal.—Curled up or folded fillets of soles, poached in fish stock, coated with red sauce com- posed of tomato, lobster sauces, and anchovy essence ; garnished with prawns or crayfish. — a la Careme.—Braised fillets of soles, coated with rich white fish sauce, and garnished with lobster slices, soft roes, and fried oysters.THE MENU BOOK. 122 Filets de Soles d la Catalainc.—Poached fillets of soles dressed on border of Jerusalem artichokes, centre filled with cepes tossed in butter; sauced over with well-reduced rich bechamel sauce. — a la Chasseur Royal.—Steamed fillets of soles dressed on a white fish border, decorated with truffles and garnished with oysters, mushrooms, and truffles ; royal chasseur sauce. — ^ la Cherbourg.—Rolled fillets of soles braised in white wine, dished up and garnished with oysters, crayfish, and mussels ; sauced over with cardinal sauce. — en fers a Cheval (cold).—Stuffed rolled fillets of soles set in horseshoe-shaped moulds, with mayonnaise or aspic cream, decorated with truffles. — a la Chevaliere.—Rolled fillets of soles stuffed with fish farce mixed with chopped truffles ; poached in white wine ; sauced over with crayfish or bisque sauce, with finely chopped truffles on top. — ^ la Cumberland.—Fillets of sole poached in oven, served with anchovy-flavoured shrimp sauce, and garnished with oyster and crayfish tails. — ^ la Czarina.—Baked fillets of soles dressed on potato puree, scraped horseradish on each fillet ; served with a rich brown fish sauce, flavoured with tomato and meat glaze. — ^ la Dauphine.—Sole fillets spread over with a mixture of forcemeat, chopped shallots, parsley, and mush- rooms, folded and braised; egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with lobster sauce. — ^ la Diable.—Rolled fillets of soles, crumbed and fried, served in paper cases, with devilled sauce poured over. — a la Diocletien.—Fillets of soles spread with fish farce, folded or rolled, and cooked in butter and Marsala wine; garnished with small braised lettuces and small fish quenelles ; rich espagnole sauce, flavoured with fish liquor and chopped truffles. — a la Dor6e.—Fillets of sole, dipped in flour and cream or milk, and fried in deep fat; served with tomato- flavoured bearnaise sauce. — a la Dugl6r6.—Fillets of sole, marinaded in gratin dish with crushed tomatoes, onions, and parsley, savoury herbs, white wine, and lemon juice ; seasoned and cooked in dish. Pour off liquid, mix with flour and butter liaison, work up with fresh butter, and serve over the fish. — ^ la Dumas.—Fillets of soles braised with butter, sauced over with white wine sauce mixed with tomato pur6e and chopped savoury herbs.123 THE FISH COURSE. Filets de Sole a I’Elizabeth.—Rolled fillets of sole, farced with lobster puree, baked, and placed on small arti- choke bottoms, sauced with bechamel, coated with cheese, and browned before serving. — a la Elva.—Fillets of sole folded, poached in white wine, sauced over with shrimp sauce flavoured with vegetable julienne. — a la Fecampoise.—Poached fillets of sole, garnished with mussels, and served with shrimp sauce. — a la Florentine.—Fillets of soles dressed on and coated with a light spinach puree, enriched with cream, and flavoured with grated cheese ; baked in oven. — a la Grand Due.—Fillets of soles poached in mushroom liquor, etc. ; dressed with alternate slices of truffles and prawn tails, masked with mornay sauce, sprinkled with cheese, etc., and browned ; garnished with asparagus points. — a la St. Georges.—Cornet shapes of rolled fillets of sole, poached, and filled with salpicon of shrimps, lobster, and cream sauce ; placed in halves of baked potatoes, coated with bercy sauce, and browned in oven. — a la St. Germain.—Rolled and crumbed fillets of soles fried in butter, dressed on slices of lemon, with stiff bearnaise sauce forced on top of each ; garnished with olive-shaped fried potatoes. — a la Gourmet.—Rolled fillets with shredded truffles in centre of each, poached in fish stock, dressed on square fried-bread croutons filled with fresh mush- room ragout; sauce au Vin-blanc ; garnished with chopped tomatoes, parsley, and truffle. — a rindienne.—Fried fillets of soles stuffed with lobster puree ; garnished with shreds of piccalilli, gherkins, and mushrooms, curry or madeira sauce; served with boiled rice. — a la Jackson.—Fillets of sole, poached in white wine, sauced over with soubise, and garnished with fleurons. — ^ la Joinville.—Rolled fillets of soles, dressed with truffles, prawns, crawfish, smelts, and small fish quenelles. — la Leopold.—Baked fillets of sole, sauced over v/ith truffle sauce, blended with shrimp puree. — a la Lilloix.—Fillets of sole, folded and poached in white wine and white sauce, garnished with fried mussels. — a la Louis XV.—Lobster shells filled with fillets of sole, covered with lobster puree and white sauce, garnished with truffle slices.THE MENU BOOK. 124 Filets de Soles a la Louisa-Anna.—Fillets of soles, folded, and poached in white wine, dressed on bread croutons, sauced over with rich tomato puree, with slice of truffle in centre. — ^ la Marcelle.—Fillets of soles spread over with champignon puree, folded and poached ; dressed on dish in border form, sauced over with perigueux sauce, pommes de terre Anna (potatoes) in centre. — ^ la Marie-Louise.—Fillets of soles, folded, poached in white wine and mushroom liquor; dressed in centre of oblong dish, with a fancy border of potato puree ; baked in oven ; sauced over with supreme sauce, with border of green mousseline sauce, julienne strips of truffles sprinkled over the fillets ; served hot. — a la Mar6cliale.—Stewed fillets of soles in reduced white sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter ; bechamel sauce served separate. — a la Marianne.—Fillets poached in fish stock with chopped onion and parsley dressed on a bed of spinach, garnished with cooked mussels ; sauce Vin-blanc. — a la Mayonnaise.—Fillets of soles set in border mould with mayonnaise aspic, centre filled with dressed salad. — a la Menag^re.—Poached in red-wine flavoured stock, and served with bordelaise sauce. — a la Meuniere.—Sole fillets dipped in flour and cooked in butter, flavoured with lemon juice, and brown butter (beurre noisette) and herbs poured over. — a la Messaline.—Fillets of soles poached in champagne, dressed, and sauced over with tomato sauce, flavoured with Italian pimientos; garnished with artichoke bottoms. — a la Minute.—Similar to “ Sole a la Meuniere.” — a la Mirabeau.—Poached sole fillets, sauced over with tarragon-flavoured anchovy sauce, and garnished with anchovy fillets. — ^ la Montgolfier.—Cooked in white wine sauce, and garnished with slices of lobster and mushroom heads, truffles, and fleurons. — a la Montpensier.—Fillets of sole rolled round crayfish, and poached ; dressed on a fish farce border, centre filled with ragout of lobster, truffles, and mushrooms ; sauce cardinal, and fleurons as garnish. — ^ la Montreuil.—Fillets of soles cooked in white wine, dressed in a circle, with fried potato balls in centre ; fillets sauced over with veloute sauce, enriched with fish essence. — ^ la Mornay.—Baked fillets of soles, dressed on dish with rich white sauce and grated cheese; browned under 'salamander.125 THE FISH COURSE. Filets de Soles a la Nantua.—Fillets of soles poached in white wine, dressed on rice or semolina border, and sauced over with allemande sauce flavoured with crayfish butter, centre filled with prawn or crayfish tails, heated up in allemande sauce. — a la Napolitaine.—Poached fillets dressed on bed of cooked spaghetti, sauced over with cheese-flavoured tomato and Mornay sauce (blended), then glazed. — a la Ni^oise.—Dipped in oil and grilled ; garnished with sliced tomatoes, olives, and capers. — ^ la Normande.—Sole fillets poached, with normande sauce, garnished with mussels and oysters, truffles, and small fried smelts. — a la Norvegienne (cold).—Rolls or rings of fillets of sole, poached ; when cold, jellied, and filled with lobster puree, placed in halves of tomatoes and suitably garnished ; served with salade norge. — a I’Orientale.—Dome-shape mould, lined with fillets of sole, decorated with truffle slices, etc. ; interior filled with white fish farce, steamed, garnished with fleurons, prawns, and truffles ; white wine sauce. — ^ I’Orl^ans.—Poached sole fillets or whole sole, sauced over with three sauces—bechamel, green herb, and pink shrimp or lobster. — a I’Orly .—Fried fillets of soles with tomato sauce and fried parsley. — Otero.—Fillets rolled and poached, dressed with Mornay sauce, and garnished with poached oysters on croutons, mussels, fish quenelles, and crayfish tails. — a la Paiva.—Fillets poached in fish stock (wine flavour)» dressed on mushroom puree, then sauced over with Mornay sauce, grated cheese, and glazed under salamander. — a la Pagani.—A dish similar to " Sole au vin blanc,” finished with a rich veloute ; garnished with mussels, champignons, and grated cheese, browned. — a la Piemontaise. — Fillets of soles with tomato sauce; garnished with polenta croutons and slices of truffles. — a la Polignac.—Sole fillets, with white wine sauce^ finely shredded champignons, and tarragon leaves. — Pomeranienne.—Poached fillets, dressed with white wine sauce (Vin-blanc), garnished with little casserole- shaped croustades filled with apple puree, mixed with currants and flavoured with curry. — ^ la Pompadour.—Sole fillets with white wine sauce, dice shapes of tomatoes and truffles. — ^ la Rachel.—Sole fillets with shrimp or prawn sauce, garnished with truffle slices.THE MENU BOOK. 126 Filets de Soles en Ramequin.—Rings of pastry filled with layer of white sauce^ fillets of soles, soubise puree and grated cheese, etc., baked in sharp oven. — a la Regence (cold).—Stuffed rolled fillets of sole, masked in aspic, dished up in form of border, each fillet being decorated with truffles and cream, salad in centre. — a la Rouennaise.—Farced fillets of soles, folded, and poached ; served with mornay sauce, and garnished with mussels. — a la Royale.—Rolled fillets of soles, stuffed with minced truffles and champignons and bechamel sauce ; steamed in oven ; served with hot mousseline or hollandaise sauce. — a la Salisbury.—Lobster shells filled with sole and lobster forcemeat and veloute sauce, with folded fillets of soles on top of each ; steamed in oven ; dressed on rice border ; garnished with button mushrooms. — a la Suisse.—Fillets poached in fish stock, and ranged on a bed of finely cut nouilles, cooked in stock sauced over with Mornay sauce, grated cheese, and glazed under salamander. — a la Sezet.—Fillets of soles stewed in bechamel and tomato sauce, flavoured with anchovy butter; garnished with small lobster croquettes, truffles, anchovy fillets, and mushroom heads. — en Soufhe.—Fillets of soles set in dish, covered with mornay sauce and beaten egg-whites, and baked. — ^ la Suetone.—Fillets of soles, folded, and poached in the oven with butter and white wine ; sauced over with normande sauce, flavoured with pounded pis- tachio kernels ; garnished with small shells of prawns or shrimps, and pistachios. — a la Sulidan.—Fillets poached and dressed in star-shaped pattern; sauced over with Mornay and glazed; bouquets of green asparagus points in centre, also dice of truffle on each fillet. — ^ la Sully.—Fillets of soles egged and crumbed, slightly fried in butter, dressed with mushroom head on each fillet, sauced over with bearnaise, and around with anchovy sauce. — a la Tout Paris.—Folded fillets of sole, poached in fish fumet and lemon juice, arranged in fan-shape style, and garnished with fried marble potatoes (Parisienne) and fried oysters, eschallot butter sauce, flavoured with chervil, and meat glaze. — la Trouville.—Folded fillets, seasoned, broiled in saute-pan with white wine and mushroom liquor, dressed with mushrooms, oysters, fresh breadcrumbs, and white sauce ; surface browned in oven.127 THE FISH COURSE. Filets de Sole a la Tyrolienne.—Rolled fillets of sole, poached, sauced over with sauce bercy blended with tomato puree, and garnished with fried onion and fried parsley. — a la Val6ry.—Rolled fillets of sole with white wine sauce, and champignons as garnish, breaded, and browned in oven. — a la Vendome.—Poached rolled fillets of sole, dressed on spaghetti border, and sauced over with nantua sauce. — ^ la V^nitienne.—Folded fillets of soles poached in white wine, butter, and parsley ; dressed in circle, centre garnished with mushroom heads, sauced with hollandaise sauce. — Veronique.—Fillets rolled and poached, dressed with three muscat grapes on each fillet ; sauced over with Hollandaise blended with Vin blanc sauce, and glazed under salamander. — a la Victoria.—Folded fillets of soles cooked with a little white wine, dressed on border of mashed potatoes, previously browned in oven ; sauced over with white wine sauce; garnished with chopped truffle and tongue and small fleurons of puff- paste. — Waleska.—Poached fillets dressed on a ragout of dice- cut lobster truffles and fresh mushrooms moistened with lobster sauce, sauced over with white wine sauce, grated cheese and glazed. — a la Xavier.—Baked fillets of soles tied in knots, dressed on a border of whiting forcemeat, covered with hot Xavier sauce ; liquid meat glaze sprinkled over surface. — en Zephires (cold).—Cold fillets of sole set in aspic cream in small zephyr moulds. Chaudfroid de Filets de Soles a la Capacine (cold).—Stuffed and rolled fillets of sole dressed on pink rice border, decorated with prawns, truffles, etc. ; seasoned salad in centre. Coquilles de Filets de Soles a la Favorite.—Cockle-shell moulds filled with cooked fillets of sole and lobster meat, coated with mayonnaise, decorated with truffle and hard-boiled white of egg. Escalopes de Soles a la Vernon (Scallops of Soles, Vernon style).—Braised fillets of soles dressed on rice; garnished with stewed oysters and mussels ; rich white sauce. Hatelets de Sole a la Villeroi.—Rolled sole fillets stuffed with forcemeat, placed on silver skewers, seasoned, crumbed, and baked in the saute-pan ; served with a richly buttered tomato sauce.128 THE MENU BOOK. Paupiettes de Soles Heine Alexandra.—Fillets of soles spread with lobster farce and rolled into paupiettes ; poached in sauterne and fish stock ; garnished with truffles^ anchovy butter, and new potatoes tossed in butter ; sauce cardinal. — a la Bismarck.—Fillets of soles soaked in marinade, spread with fish farce and chopped truffles, and rolled up ; poached in white wine ; dressed on a border of potato puree, sauced over with sauce marguery, sprinkled with grated parmesan, and browned in sharp oven. — a la Caruso.—Rolled fillets of sole, poached and dressed on halves of grilled tomatoes ; surmount each with a mushroom head and a slice of truffle ; gar- nished with artichoke croquettes ; sauce au vin blanc. — a I’Empereur.—Braised fillets of soles, rolled and stuffed with turbot farce, dressed in cassolettes, sauced over with b6chamel cream sauce, flavoured with paprika, anchovy essence; tops sprinkled with finely chopped truffle and horseradish. — a la St. Michel*.—Rolled fillets of soles stuffed with foie-gras farce and poached, dressed on a border of green peas, with ragout of prawns in centre ; sauce supreme. — a la Ni^oise.—Baked rolled fillets of soles, stuffed with fish farce, herbs, and anchovy paste ; sauced over with a rich tomato puree containing parmesan cheese; garnished with small gherkins, sprinkled with grated cheese, and browned in oven. — de Filets de Soles a la Richelieu.—Baked rolled fillets of soles stuffed with whiting forcemeat, dressed on croutes spread with fish farce, with mushroom head on each ; sauced over with cardinal sauce, enriched with egg-yolk ; a star of truffle placed on centre of each fillet. — a la Villeroise.—Soles cooked in cyder and mushroom liquor, garnished with cubes of plain boiled potatoes. Stoudin de Poissons a la Russe (cold).—Fillets of soles and small fillets of salmon poached and dressed alternately in crown shape, masked with aspic, and served with iced horseradish sauce. Turban de Filets de Soles ^ la Montpelier (cold).—Cold fillets of soles set in turban or border mould, with green herb chaudfroid sauce, aspic, etc. ; garnished with white of egg and truffle ; centre filled with dressed salad, etc. Timbale de Filets de Soles ^ la Savoy.—Poached fillets of soles, finished in rich white wine sauce, mixed with truffle, macaroni, and crayfish, served in pastry crust made of pate d joncer.129 THE FISH COURSE. Tonnolettes de Sole, Victoria Louise.—Fillets of sole marinaded in lemon juice, chopped shallot, and parsley, then shaped like cornets, poached, filled with fish farce and again poached; dressed on croutons with green pea puree border, slice of truffle on top of each ; sauce Cardinal. Sterlet a la Russe.—Broiled sterlet with braised button onions, small ball-shaped fried potatoes, and anchovy sauce. — au bleu.—Boiled sterlet. Tanche au bleu.—Boiled tench. — grillde au beurre d’Anchois.—Grilled tench with anchovy butter. — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Broiled tench with parsley butter. Truite—Trout, Truite saumonee—Salmon Trout, Truite. de Riviere—River Trout. Truite au bleu.—Trout boiled in water and white wine, flavoured with herbs. — au beurre d’Anchois.—Broiled trout with anchovy butter. — a la Cambac^res.—Baked trout, garnished with slices of truffles, heads of mushrooms, stuffed olives and fleurons ; brown genoise fish sauce. — au Chablis.—Braised river trout (mirepoix and chablis), garnished with olive-shaped potatoes, plain boiled, and parsley ; sauce noisette. {See Sauces.) —■ a la Chambord.—Baked trout with claret sauce, and chambord garnishing {which see). — a la Christiania.—Boned trout stuffed with fish farce and hard-boiled egg slices, rolled up, cooked in stock and milk; skinned when cold, and masked with aspic jelly and mayonnaise; garnished with small caviare canapees, etc. — a la Divonnaise.—Braised river trout, breaded, sauced over with sauce genoise; garnished with braised button onions and mushroom heads. — farcie.—Stuffed trout, baked or au gratin, served with marinidre sauce. — frite.—Fried trout. — a la Gavarnie.—Small river trout, spread over with parsley butter (maitre d’hotel), then wrapped in oiled paper and baked in oven. Garnished with potatoes. 1THE MENU BOOK. 130 Trulte k la Helvetia.—Fillets of trout rolled round farce cubes or quenelles and poached, sauced with bechamel enriched with lobster butter. Star of truffle on top of each fillet. — ^ la Hoteli^re.—Baked trout in butter, with duxelle puree, and maitre d’hotel butter, and lemon garnish. — ^ la Juive.—Breaded whole or fillets of trout fried in oil and served with tomato sauce. — ^ la Maitre d’Hotel.—Broiled trout with parsley butter. — d la Malvoisie (cold).—Boiled trout masked with aspic mayonnaise ; garnished with cucumber balls ; served with mayonnaise flavoured with cucumber puree. — ^ la Mantone.—Boned trout stuffed with truffle farce, braised on herb and mushroom mirepoix, and served with sauce Italienne. — Marin§e (cold).—Soused or pickled trout, masked with half-set savoury jelly (aspic). — a la Meuni^re.—Braised trout served with brown butter (beurre noisette), breadcrumbs, and chopped parsley. — ^ la Montgolfier.—River trout, boned and stuffed with whiting farce mixed with chopped truffles, poached in oven {fumet de poisson), dressed with garnish of lobster cut in dice, and mushroom heads ; sauce au vin blanc (white wine sauce). — i la Nansen (cold).—Cold trout masked with finely- cut vegetable, brunoise, and aspic, dressed on a shape of aspic; garnished with small tomato-flavoured timbales and cucumber ; served* with frozen horse- radish sauce and semi-set aspic mixed with brunoise. — aux petits pels.—Broiled trout with green peas. — ^ la Royale.—Braised trout, with white wine sauce, garnished with small fish quenelles, champignons, truffles, and glazed croutons. — saumon^e bouillie.—Boiled salmon trout. — saumonde ^ la Norv6gienne (cold).—Boiled salmon- trout dressed on rice socle, masked with mayonnaise and aspic ; garnished with tarragon and chervil leaves, cucumber rind and slices, and chilli ; served with cold horseradish sauce. — saumon6e h la Rothschild (cold).—Baked stuffed salmon trout masked cold with mad^re sauce (chaud- froid), decorated with truffles, blocks of set aspic, cucumber, lemon, and parsley. — d la Vaucluse.—Same as " Meuniere,” using Provence oil in place of butter. — ^ la Vinaigrette (cold).—Cold boiled trout, served with vinegar and oil dressing, chopped gherkins, capers, and parsley.THE FISH COURSE. 131 Filets de Truite au vin blanc.—Broiled fillets of trout, with white wine sauce. — ^ la Mayonnaise (cold).—Cold fillets of trout, in border of aspic and mayonnaise, centre filled with dressed salad. — frites ^ la Milanaise.—Fillets of trout marinaded in oil, etc., then rolled in breadcrumbs and grated cheese, then in egg and chopped parsley, and fried in oil; served with Italian sauce. — ^ la Mirabeau.—Braised fillets of trout with mirabeau sauce. — au vin rouge.—Fillets of trout poached in court- bouillon, and sauced with bordelaise (red wine sauce). — a la Tomate.—Fried fillets of trout with tomato sauce. Mousseline de Truite a la Tosca.—Quenelles of trout (mousseline farce) poached, garnished with slice of lobster and truffle ; sauce mornay. TronQons de truite ^ la Gr6que.—Slices of large trout, or salmon-trout, cooked in “ court-bouillon," skimmed and masked with fish aspic, centre of each filled with cold fish farce (cooked) ; garnished with hard-boiled egg slices, truffles, and small salad. Turbot—Turbot, Turbotln—Young Turbot. Turbot & FAmiral.—Slices of turbot poached in fish stock with sauterne, garnished with groups of oysters, mussels, mushrooms, and truffles, also crayfish bouchees ; sauce normande. — bouilli.—Boiled turbot. — ^ la Cambac6r6s.—Braised turbot with veloute sauce, garnished with celery strips, crayfish croquettes, and mussels. — a la Daumont.—Same as " a I’Amiral," but garnished with fish quenelles, fried fish roes, prawns, and mushrooms, also fish potatoes; sauce nantua. — sauce aux Crevettes.—Boiled turbot with shrimp sauce. — sauce Homard.—Boiled turbot with lobster sauce. — a la Hongroise.—Boiled slices of turbot, dished, and sauced over with paprika or Hongroise sauce, and browned in oven, garnished with Parisian potatoes. — sauce aux Huitres.—Boiled turbot with oyster sauce. — ^ la Proven§ale.—Small whole turbot (or thick slices) cooked in veloute sauce, white wine, white stock, chopped shallots, and bouquet garni ; dished up with a rich white herb sauce, flavoured with anchovy essence, chopped parsley, and capers. — sauce aux ceufs.—Boiled turbot with egg sauce.J^^THE MENU BOOK. 132 Turbot, sauce aux Anchois.—Boiled turbot and anchovy sauce. — ^ la Reyniere.—Stewed turbot, flaked, and served in shells, coated with shrimp sauce. — bouilll ^ la Victoria.—Boiled turbot, garnished with ball-shaped lobster croquettes, prawns, and parsley ; served with Victoria sauce. — ^ la Vatel.—Boned turbot, stuffed with lobster farce, grilled or braised, and served with white wine sauce and crayfish garnish. Escalopes de Turbot d la Dauphlne.—Fillets or escallops of turbot, poached, and covered with fish farce, baked, and dressed in centre of decorated border of potato puree, sauced over with prawn or crayfish sauce, and garnished with small fish quenelles. Filets de Turbot frits.—Fried fillets of turbot. — a la Boitel.—Turbot fillet with white wine sauce, and champignons, browned in oven. — a la Careme.—Slices of turbot, garnished with slices of truffles, mushrooms, halves of oysters, dressed on border of whiting forcemeat, with garniture and picked prawns in centre; sauced over with rich cardinal sauce. — a la Cussy.—Fillets of turbot, poached in white wine, mushroom hquor, etc. ; garnished with mushrooms, cocks’ kernels, and quenelles, covered with allemande and tomato sauces (blended) ; decorated with slices of lemon and fleurons. — ^ la Duchesse.—Fillets of turbot, poached, and ranged on potato border (Duchesse), sauced over with cream sauce, and garnished with truffles. — la Florentine.—Saut6ed fillets of turbot, covered with layer of spinach puree and bechamel sauce, mixed with grated cheese, and sprinkled with breadcrumbs, grated cheese, and oiled butter, and baked. — la Maltre d’Hotel.—Broiled fillets of turbot with parsley butter. — ^ la Salamandre.—Poached fillets of turbot, dished up in row on buttered dish, covered with veloute or rich bechamel sauce, sprinkled with grated cheese, etc., and browned under salamander. — au vin blanc.—Poached or broiled fillets of turbot, with white wine sauce. Fleiirettes de Turbot ^ la Hollandaise (cold).—Small flat dariole shapes of cooked turbot set with mayonnaise cream, dressed on bed of salad or little blocks of aspic.THE FISH COURSE. 133 Supreme de Turbot Florida.—Fillets of turbot poached in fish fumet and butter, served with a sauce composed of Genoise and tomato (blended), flavoured with anchovy, and mixed with a little cooked rice and finely-shredded lean ham ; when sauced besprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese and brown under salamander. — dr la Royale.—Fillets of turbot, poached in white wine, etc., dressed on gratin dish, covered with rich white fish sauce, sprinkled with grated Swiss cheese and butter, and browned in the oven. Timbales de Turbot h la Russe.—Small timbale shapes of cooked flakes of turbot, garnished with prawns, parsley, etc., dressed round a rice shape. Turbotin d la Lussinoise.—Small young turbot filleted and steeped in marinade, then cooked in an Onion mirepoix ; upon this a light layer of fish farce is placed, and then finished in the oven ; sauce aux champignons is poured over the top before serving ; served in casserole. Croquettes de Poisson.—Cork or cutlet shapes composed of chopped or shredded cold fish, bechamel sauce, anchovy essence, and egg-yolk, dipped in egg and breadcrumbs, and fried in deep fat. Entries de Poisson froid.—Cold dressed fish entrees; suitable also as luncheon, buffet, cold collation, and ball supper dishes. Pat6 de Poisson a l’Am6ricaine (American Fish Pie).— Pie crust filled with layers of mashed potatoes, cooked turbot, cod or haddock, flaked ; white sauce and grated cheese ; surface egged and sprinkled over with grated cheese, and baked in oven. — a la Marinidre.—French raised pie filled with twisted fillets of sole, pieces of eel, mushroom heads, prawn tails, button onions, anchovy sauce flavoured with claret, and baked. Timbales de Poisson a la Marigny.—Small dariole moulds lined with fish farce, centre filled with prawn tails, herring roes, and truffle, made up as salpicon ; sauce hollandaise with crayfish butter; served hot. Vol-au-Vent a la Chambord.—Round or oval puff-paste crust (vol-au-vent) filled with crayfish tails, truffles, mushrooms, small fish quenelles, bearded oysters, and genoise sauce.134 THE MENU BOOK. ' Kscargots—Snails, Escargots h TAnglaise.—Stewed snails. — Farcies.—Shells stuffed with parsley butter and snails. — a la Polonaise.—Poached in white wine, with fine herbs, served with grated horseradish mixed with vinegar. — 5, la Vigneron.—Snails sauteed in butter, finely chopped shallots and garlic, then refilled in shells, with fine herbs, etc. — au Vin Blanc.—Snails poached in white wine, then filled in shells with white sauce and chopped herbs, and fried breadcrumbs on top. — a la Viennoise.—Same as “ Polonaise.” Beignets d’Escargots.—Snail fritters. PART V. S A U C E 5. The importance of sauce in cookery is so w^ell known that I need not offer any excuse for including the definitions of all the standard sauces and the most popular of other liquid seasonings in this book. In almost every instance some kind of sauce is named along with, or as an ingredient in, the preparation of dishes. Again, the blending of two or more sauces is frequently recommended, so that we have given the names of these, together with a condensed description of the kinds most frequently required. It is needless to add that the blending of a sauce, its flavour and colour, has much to do with the success of any dish with which it is served, whilst the harmonising effect, or the want of it, may make or spoil a dish listed on a menu. Sauce Albert.—Allemande sauce with finely chopped shallots reduced in tarragon vinegar, grated horse- radish, cream, yolks of eggs, and chopped parsley. — Albuf6ra.—Rich white sauce (supreme) enriched with meat extract or glaze. — Allemande (German).—A white sauce made from veal stock, thickened with white roux, cream, and yolks of eggs, flavoured with nutmeg and lemon juice. — Am^ricaine (American).—Tomato sauce blended with lobster butter (whisked in). — Amiral (Admiral).—A white sauce, with chopped capers, parsley, lemon rind and juice, and anchovy paste to flavour.135 SA UCES. Sauce Ancliois (Anchovy).—A fish sauce made with flour, butter, fish stock, milk, and anchovy essence. — Andalouse (cold).—Mayonnaise, blended with tomato pulp and mixed with finely cut red sweet peppers. — Aromate (Aromatic).—White sauce, blended richly with aromatic herb puree. — Aurore (Aurora).—Bechamel sauce, cream, red pepper, tarragon, and shallot, flavoured with lobster butter to give it a reddish tint. — Avignonnaise.—Bechamel sauce, yolks of eggs, grated parmesan cheese, and chopped parsley, flavoured with shallots and garlic. — Ayola.—A mayonnaise flavoured with crushed garlic and lemon juice. — Ayoli, Aloli (cold).—Mayonnaise made with hard- boiled egg-yolks, flavoured with garlic, lemon juice, and cayenne. — B^rtarde Anglaise.—English melted butter sauce flavoured with lemon juice. — Bdrtarde (cold).—Bearnaise, flavoured with fish essence (stock), enriched with tomato puree and anchovy butter. — Bavaroise.—Hollandaise (Dutch) sauce, enriched with whipped cream and crayfish butter. — B6arnaise.—Consists of fresh butter, yolks of eggs, chopped shallots or onion, tarragon, parsley, a pinch of cayenne, and lemon juice. — Bearnaise Brune.—Same as “ Bearnaise,” with the addition of meat glaze to give it a brown colour. — B6arnaise-Tomate.—Same as ” Bearnaise,” adding tomato puree in place of meat glaze. — Beauharnais.—Bearnaise sauce, enriched with tarragon puree. — Bechamel (Foundation Sauce).—Made with milk or milk and stock, flour, and butter (white roux), flavoured with pepper, nutmeg, and bay-leaf. — Beefsteak.—A light brown sauce made of chopped onion, parsley, meat glaze, and butter, flavoured with sherry and lemon juice. — B6rcy.—Thin demi-glace with chopped shallots reduced in white wine, enriched with fresh butter, chopped parsley, and lemon juice. — Beurre (au).—Melted butter sauce. — Beurre Cr^meuse.—Creamed butter sauce ; beaten egg- yolks and butter stirred into boiling stock. — Beurre Noir (Black Butter).—A thin brown sauce made with nut-brown butter, flavoured with tarragon vinegar and anchovy essence.136 THE MENU BOOK. Sauce Beurre Noisette (au).—Same as “ Beurre Noir,” with butter only slightly browned nut-brown, and not black. — Bigarade.—Demi-glace sauce with fine shreds of orange rindj fiavoured with orange juice and red-currant jelly. — Blanche.—White sauce made with white roux, half stock and milk, finished with butter and lemon juice. — Blanquette.—Allemande (white) sauce, enriched with an extra quantity of cream. — Boh6mienne (Bohemian).—A white sauce made with fresh breadcrumbs, white stock, butter, and grated horseradish, seasoned with pepper and salt. — Bonne Femme.—A white sauce made with finely chopped onion and shallots, blended in butter and cooked in fish stock, thickened with egg-yolks and whipped cream, seasoned and flavoured with lemon juice. — Bonnefoy.—A light bordelaise sauce, into which fresh butter, chopped parsley, and beef marrow are incorporated. — Bordelaise.—A brown sauce, with reductions of red wine, chopped parsley, tarragon, and shallots. — Bouillabaisse.—Tomato sauce, enriched with fish essence, flavoured with garlic, and finished with fresh butter. — Bourgulgnonne (Burgundy).—Espagnole sauce, finely minced onions reduced in Burgundy wine, flavoured with thyme, bay-leaf, cloves, and mace. Bread Sauce.—Milk, flavoured with onion and clove, and thickened with fresh breadcrumbs. Sauce Bressoise.—Reduced espagnole, flavoured with shallots and orange juice, enriched with puree of chicken liver. — Bretonne (Brittany).—Veloute sauce with finely-cut wisps of celery, leek, and truffles. — Broglie.—Espagnole, blended with ham, reduced with sherry and mushroom liquor, enriched with fresh butter. — Bulgare.—Cold tomato sauce, blended with finely shredded cooked celery. — Byron.—Demi-glace sauce, with a reduction of claret and chopped truffles. — Cambridge (cold).—Mayonnaise, mixed with parsley pur6e, capers, and anchovy paste, flavoured with mustard. — Canop^re.—A hot fish sauce made with fish, court- bouillon, and blond roux, enriched with crayfish butter. — Canotiere.—White fish sauce with white wine flavour, enriched with fresh butter, seasoned with cayenne.SA UCES. 137 Sauce C&pres (Caper).—A white sauce with capers. — CEpres Brune (Brown Caper Sauce).—A brown sauce with capers, seasoned with black pepper and nutmeg. — Cap6tienne.—White wine sauce with tomato puree, made Bearnaise style. — Cardinal.—White fish sauce mixed with lobster coral or spawn, flavoured with essence of anchovies and tarragon vinegar. — Carlet.—A white cream-like sauce made with fish stock, white wine, butter, flour, and egg-yolks, seasoned with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and sugar. — Castelaine (Castillane).—Demi-glace, with pimiento (Spanish pepper) and finely chopped ham, flavoured with lemon juice. — Cavalier.—Thin brown sauce, blended with tomato puree, flavoured with tarragon vinegar and French mustard, mixed with finel}^ chopped chutney, gherkins, and capers. — Cazanova.—A cold fish or salad sauce, composed of mayonnaise, finely shredded truffles, and whites of hard-boiled eggs, flavoured with garlic. — C^l^rie (Celery).—A white sauce, with cooked chopped celery ; served with boiled poultry. — Champagne.—Thin brown sauce, reduced with cham- pagne and ham essence. — Champignons (Mushrooms)—Veloute and mushroom liquor, or demi-glace and sliced mushrooms. — Chantilly. — Well reduced bechamel blended with whipped cream. — Chantilly (cold).—Mayonnaise sauce with whipped cream, flavoured with grated horseradish. — Chasseur (Huntsman).—Espagnole sauce, with chopped shallots, mushrooms, and parsley, flavoured with pepper, lemon juice, and game essence. — Chateaubriand.—Rich brown sauce made with meat glaze, espagnole sauce, fresh butter, white wine, lemon juice, and chopped parsley, flavoured with cayenne pepper and red currant jelly. — Chaudfroid.—Masking or coating sauce, made of well- reduced white, fawn, cream, green, red, or brown sauce, blended with sufficient dissolved gelatine or aspic to set when cold. — Chevreuil (Venison).—A brown sauce, reduced with claret, port wine, and thinly sliced ghei'kins, seasoned with red pepper. — Chicory.—Veloute sauce, blended with green herb butter (fines herbes).138 THE MENU BOOK. Sauce Chivry. — Veloute sauce with infusion of chablis, tarragon, chervil, parsley, and chives, finished with green herb butter. — Choron.—Bearnaise sauce, blended with tomato puree. — Citron au (Lemon).—Hollandaise sauce with finely- grated lemon rind added. — Colbert.—Thin brown fish sauce, enriched with butter and glaze, finely chopped herbs, and lemon juice. — Comtesse.—White wine sauce, enriched with fish essence and truffle puree. — Concombre (Cucumber).—Bechamel or white cream sauce, blended with cucumber puree. — Cordolier.—Madere sauce, enriched with truffle and foie-gras puree. — Cornichon (Gherkin).—A brown sharp sauce, like poivrade, with finely chopped gherkins. — Crapaudine.—Espagnole, reduced with veal stock, vinegar, shallots, and bouquet garni, enriched with fresh butter. — Creme (Cream).—Bechamel sauce enriched with fresh cream. — Crdole.—Tomato sauce, blended with finely chopped shallots reduced in white wine, mixed with thin strips of pimiento. — Crevettes (Shrimp).—Pink fish sauce with picked shrimps. — Cumberland.—Thin brown sauce, with meat glaze, orange juice, red-currant jelly, lemon juice, and port wine, fine shreds of orange rind, seasoned with mustard, paprika, and ginger. — Curry (Currie).—A pale brown or fawn coloured sauce made with velout6 gravy, finely chopped onion fried in butter, and curry powder, well reduced and tamined. — Cussy.—Espagnole sauce, blended with fumet of pigeon, reduced with sherry. — Czarine.—Demi-glace sauce with chopped gherkins, capers, and bleached raisins. — Danoise (Danish).—White wine sauce flavoured with grated cheese, anchovy cream, and lobster butter. — Daumont.—Fish sauce made like “ Hollandaise,” using oyster liquor, egg-yolks, lemon juice, with sliced oysters, mushrooms, and truffles. — Demi-Deuil.—Veloute sauce, mixed with finely chopped truffles. — Demidoff.—Madere sauce with sliced truffles. — Demi-glace (Half-glaze).—Espagnole reduced with veal stock or gravy of light consistency.SA UCES. 139 Sauce Diable (Devilled). — Chopped shallots blended in butter and reduced in vinegar, diluted with demi-glace and red wine, reduced and highly seasoned with Worcester sauce, cayenne, etc. — Diane.—Poivrade sauce, enriched with cream. — Digestive.—Soubise sauce, blended with apple and tomato puree, and flavoured with curry paste and French mustard. — Diplomate.—Bechamel sauce blended with lobster butter and anchovy essence. — Duchesse.—Bechamel, enriched with fresh butter, with finely chopped ox-tongue and mushrooms. — Duclere or Dugl6r§.—Tomato sauce blended with bechamel and fish essence, finished with fresh butter and chopped parsley. — Duxelle.—Brown sauce enriched with tomato puree and meat glaze, chopped mushrooms, truffles, ham, blended shallots and parsley, flavoured with lemon juice. — Echalote (Shallot).—Thin brown gravy sauce, with finley chopped shallots and parsley blended in butter, flavoured with shallot vinegar or finely chopped shallots mixed with vinegar, and lemon juice and seasoning ; served with oysters. — Ecossaise (Scotch).—Bechamel sauce mixed with finely chopped hard-boiled white and yolk of egg. — Ecrevisses (Crayfish).—White cream sauce mixed with crayfish butter. — Epicurienne (cold).—Mayonnaise cream mixed with cucumber puree, aspic, chopped gherkins and chutney, served cold. — Epicurienne (hot).—White sauce acidulated with vinegar, reduced with cayenne pods and catchup. — Espagnole (Foundation Sauce).—A brown sauce made with brown roux, mirepoix of vegetables, and ham or bacon, tomatoes, mushrooms, meat stock, wine, and seasoning. — Estragon (Tarragon).—Demi-glace reduced with white wine and tarragon vinegar, with finely chopped blanched tarragon leaves. — Etretat.—Allemande sauce or veloute flavoured with white fish essence and very little tomato puree. — F61ix.—Brown sauce, flavoured with lemon juice and crayfish essence, finished with butter. — Fenouil (Fennel).—A white sauce, with finely chopped fennel, flavoured with lemon juice ; served with boiled fish. — Fermi^re (Farmhouse).—Brown sauce, with finely chopped ham, and onion puree, served with game.140 THE MENU BOOK. Sauce Financi^re.—Brown mad^re sauce reduced with chicken essence, truffle, and mushroom liquor, — Fines Herbes.—A white or brown sauce, with finely chopped herbs (parsley, tarragon, and chervil) ; chopped shallots blended in butter are sometimes added. — Flamande (Flemish).—A white sauce, with egg-yolks, flavoured with mustard, — Fleurette.—Rich white cream sauce enriched with chicken essence. — Foyot.—Bearnaise sauce, enriched with meat glaze. — Fran^alse (French).—Bearnaise sauce with tomato puree and fish essence flavour. — Francois.—Tomato sauce reduced with white wine, with chopped mushrooms finished with butter. — Garibaldi.—A brown sauce flavoured with crushed garlic, capers, curry, anchov}'’ paste, and mustard ; served with fish or meat. — Gastronome.—Brown sauce, espagnole or demi-glace, reduced with champagne, seasoned with cayenne. — Generate.—A brown savoury sauce flavoured with lemon juice, tarragon vinegar, orange peel finely chopped, garlic, and sherry. — Gen^voise (Geneva).—Madere sauce reduced with fish essence, flavoured with garlic and anchovy essence. — G^noise (Genoese).—Demi-glace or espagnole reduced with fish stock and red wine, flavoured with anchovy essence, parsley, and mushrooms. — G6noise (cold).—Mayonnaise sauce, blended with bechamel, flavoured with pounded pignolis or almonds, also green herb puree. — Gibier (Game).—A brown sauce flavoured with essence of game. — Gloucester (cold).—Mayonnaise cream mixed with chopped tarragon, flavoured with mustard and chili vinegar ; served with fish or meat salads. — Godard.—Espagnole or demi-glace, reduced with chablis, mixed with chopped ham and champignons. — Gooseberry (groseille verte).—Gooseberry puree, blended with syrup, with or without cream, served with grilled mackerel or roast goose. — Gourmet.—A brown fish sauce mixed with lobster butter, chopped prawns, and truffles. — Grand Veneur.—Espagnole reduced with blood of game, hare, etc., highly spiced with pepper. — Granville.—White wine sauce mixed with chopped mushrooms, shrimps, and truffles. — Gratin.—White wine sauce, blended with demi-glace, mixed with dropped champignons (Duxelle).141 SA UCES. Sauce Gribiche.—Mayonnaise mixed with mustard and finely chopped herbs, and hard white of egg. — Hach6e.—Espagnole and tomato sauce with shallot and vinegar reduction. — Hachis.—Brown sauce, with chopped mushrooms, capers, and gherkins. — Havroise.—White wine sauce reduced with liquor of mussels. — Hessoise.—Cold horseradish sauce made with sour cream, grated horseradish, and fresh breadcrumbs, seasoned with sugar and salt ; served with roast beef or steaks. — Hollandaise (Dutch).—A rich fish sauce prepared with butter, yolks of eggs, tarragon vinegar, lemon juice, and mignonette pepper. — Hollandaise verte.—Hollandaise sauce mixed with parsley leaves, blanched and pounded. — Holstein.—Bechamel sauce reduced with fish stock and white wine, thickened with egg-yolks, and flavoured with nutmeg. — Homard (Lobster).—Bechamel, with chopped lobster meat, finished with lobster butter. — Hongroise (Hungarian).—Veloute or allemande sauce mixed with sour cream ; highly seasoned with paprika. — Horly .—A supreme (rich white) sauce blended with tomato puree, meat extract or glaze, and butter. — Horseradish (Raifort).—Cold cream sauce with grated horseradish, mustard, and vinegar, or hot white sauce blended with grated horseradish and mustard. — Huitres (Oyster).—Bechamel, ^yith oysters, bearded and cut in four, egg-yolks and lemon juice. — Hure de Sanglier (Boar’s Head).—A cold sauce pre- pared with bitter orange juice and finely-chopped rind, sugar, red-currant jelly, port wine, and prepared mustard, seasoned with black pepper. A useful stock sauce. — Hussarde.—Espagnole sauce and veal stock reduced, mixed with onion and tomato purees, flavoured with grated horseradish. — Imp^ratrice.—Allemande or veloute sauce enriched with chicken and truffle essence, finished with cream. — Indienne (Indian).—A brown sauce flavoured with curry powder or paste. — Italienne (Italian).—Espagnole sauce blended with tomato puree, chopped mushrooms, white wine, and chopped shallots fried in oil; seasoned with pepper, lemon juice, and nutmeg. — Ivoire.—Rich white sauce with chicken essence and cream finish.THE MENU BOOK. 142 Sauce Jambon (Ham).—A brown sauce, with finely shredded ham, chopped chives, shallots, and parsley, flavoured with lemon juice and paprika or krone pepper. — Joinville.—A white fish sauce enriched with yolks of eggs, fresh butter, and lobster coral; flavoured with lemon juice and cayenne pepper. — Juliette.—Supreme sauce with tarragon and chervil flavour. Jus ^ l*Estragon.—Gravy sauce with tarragon flavour. Jus Tomato.—Gravy sauce with tomato flavour. Sauce Kari.—Indian curry sauce. White or brown sauce with curry flavour. — Laguipiere.—Melted butter sauce with fish, essence and lemon juice. — Lavalli^re.—Demi-glace sauce with game fumet (essence), blended with sour cream, mixed with finely shredded truffles and mushrooms. — Livonienne.—Dissolved meat glaze, blended with sour cream and fennel puree, finished with butter. — Livournaise.—A cold sauce prepared with anchovy fillets, yolks of eggs, sweet oil, vinegar, chopped parsley, pepper, and nutmeg. — Lyonnaise (Lyons sauce).—A kind of tomato sauce, with minced Spanish onions (previously fried in butter), flavoured with meat glaze and lemon juice ; also made with bechamel foundation. — Madere (Madeira).—A brown sauce composed of demi- glace sauce, and tomato puree, Madeira wine. — Maillet.—Madere sauce mixed with hard egg-yolks, sieved and blended shallots, cayenne seasoning. — Maintenon.—White onion puree thickened with egg- yolks and veloute sauce. — Maitre d’Hotel (Hotel-keeper).—A white sauce with butter, cream, and chopped parsley. — Malaga (Port Wine).—A brown sauce prepared with meat glaze, port wine, and lemon juice, flavoured with shallots and cayenne. — Maltaise.—Veloute sauce with chopped parsley, shallots, and mushrooms, diluted with sherry wine, flavoured with lemon juice and finely shredded orange peel. — Marchand de Vin (Wine Merchant).—Demi-glace, reduced with fried shallots, claret, and meat glaze. — Mar6chale.—Allemande or veloute sauce mixed with champignon pur6e. — Margu6ry.—White fish sauce, blended with oyster puree, and finished with cream. — Marigny.—Demi-glace sauce with tomato pur6e and mushroom liquor, white wine reduction.SA UCES. 143 Sauce Marini6re.—White wine sauce, with finely-chopped herbs, shallots, and fish essence. — Marseillaise.—Hollandaise sauce blended with tomato puree. — Matelote (blanche).—A white fish sauce, with mush- room juice, white wine, and button mushrooms, flavoured with savoury herbs. — Matelote (brune).—A red wine sauce reduced with fish essence, mushroom liquor, and anchovy essence. — Matignon.—Ham essence reduced with Madere sauce blended with port wine, and mixed with peeled muscate grapes, paprika seasoning. — Maximilian.—Tartare sauce, with tomato pulp and finely-chopped tarragon leaves to flavour. — Mayonnaise.—A cold sauce composed of yolks of eggs, salt, pepper, salad oil, and vinegar ; a little cold bechamel sauce or cream is sometimes added as foundation. — Mayonnaise collie.—Mayonnaise sauce, fortified with liquified gelatine or aspic, used for coating or masking. — Mayonnaise Bulgarienne.—Mayonnaise mixed with tomato pulp ; liquified meat extract or marmite and chopped cooked celery. — Mayonnaise Caboul.—Mayonnaise flavoured with curry * powder. — Mayonnaise Cardinal.—Mayonnaise mixed with finely- chopped lobster and coloured with the pulp of red carrots. —Mayonnaise Chantilly.—Mayonnaise blended with semi- hquid aspic and whipped cream. — Mayonnaise Espagnole (Spanish).—Mayonnaise sauce mixed with finely-chopped and sieved lean ham and a suspicion of garlic as flavour. — Mayonnaise Rouge.—Mayonnaise sauce mixed with sufficient lobster or cra;^sh butter to impart a red colour. — Mayonnaise Russe (Russian).—Mayonnaise blended with finely-chopped parsley, chives, tarragon, shallots, capers, and gherkins; also a little finely grated horse- radish and castor sugar. — Mayonnaise au Vin blanc.—Mayonnaise flavoured with chablis or sauterne wine. — M6dicis.—Bearnaise, flavoured with tomato puree and very httle red wine. — Melba.—Chopped shallots cooked in chablis, reduced in tomato sauce, and thickened with egg-yolks, finished like hollandaise. — Menthe (Mint).—Consists of vinegar, chopped green mint leaves, and moist sugar to flavour.144 THE MENU BOOK. Sauce Mirabeau.—Veloute sauce with pounded garlic, chopped parsley, lemon juice, and a liaison of butter and meat extract. — Miroton.—Demi-glace, blended with finely minced, blanched, and fried onions, tomato sauce, vinegar and mustard to flavour. — Moelle (Beef Marrow).—Espagnole sauce flavoured with fried shallot, mixed with blanched beef marrow cut in thin slices, chopped parsley, vinegar and cayenne to taste. — Morley.—Velout6 sauce, enriched with mushroom essence and cream. — Mornay.—Bechamel, enriched with egg-yolks and grated cheese. — Moscovite.—Poivrade or pepper sauce mixed with sour cream, flavoured with juniper berries. —• Monies (Mussels).—Hollandaise sauce, with cooked mussels. — Mousseline.—A very light, froth-like sauce, hollandaise whisked with double cream. Other mousseline sauces are made with tomato or spinach foundations. — Mousseuse.—Hollandaise sauce, enriched with whipped cream. — Moutarde (Mustard).—Melted butter or bechamel sauce, mixed with prepared mustard. — Nantua.—Bechamel, reduced with fish essence, finished with crayfish butter and cream. — Napolitaine.—A brown sauce, with finely-minced ham, claret, currant jelly, and grated horseradish, flavoured with shallots, bay-leaf, thyme, and cloves. — Nigoise.—Demi-glace, blended with concentrated Italian tomato puree. — Nivernaise.—Allemande or veloute with finely-shredded carrots. — Noisette.—Hollandaise sauce, mixed with baked, pounded, and sieved hazel-nuts, finished with double cream. — Nonpareille.—Hollandaise sauce enriched with cray- fish or lobster butter, mixed with chopped lobster meat, mushrooms, hard-boiled whites of eggs, and truffles. — Norah.—Poivrade or pepper sauce with red-currant jelly, Worcester sauce, meat glaze, and lemon juice. — Normande.—A white fish sauce, thickened with egg- yolks, fresh butter and cream, flavoured with lemon juice and essence of fish. — Norv^gienne (Norwegian).— A cold sauce prepared with hard-boiled egg-yolks (passed through a sieve), yolks of fresh eggs, salt, pepper, prepared mustard, oil, and vinegar, mixed with finely-chopped herbs.SA UCES. 145 Sauce CEuis (Egg).—A white sauce or hollandaise sauce with hard-boiled eggs finely chopped. — Oignon (Onion).—A white sauce, with minced and blanched onions, seasoned -with nutmeg, salt, and pepper; served with rabbit or mutton. Brown onion sauce is made by frying the onions first, mixed with espagnole. — Olives.—A brown sauce, with stoned or turned olives, flavoured with lemon juice; served with ducks, fowls, and beef. — Orange.—Reduced gravy sauce, mixed with orange juice and finely-shredded orange rind ; served with roast duck or game. — Orleans.—Fish veloute sauce, reduced with white wine, finished with crayfish butter. — Orly.—Espagnole sauce, reduced with mushroom liquor and tomato puree. — Oseille (Sorrel).—Gravy or demi-glace sauce, with finely-chopped blanched sorrel leaves ; served with fish, veal, or fowls, etc. — Ours (Bear).—Poivrade sauce reduced with braise liquor, finished with butter. — Oxford.—A cold game sauce, same as Cumberland, with addition of finely-grated orange-rind. — Oyster.—White sauce with quartered oysters. — Pain (Bread).—Milk thickened with fresh bread- crumbs, cooked with a small onion stuck with a clove ; finished with a little butter, and seasoned with salt and pepper ; served with roast poultry and some game. — Paloise.—Bearnaise or Hollandaise sauce with an infusion of green mint. — Paprika.—Veloute or allemande sauce highly seasoned with paprika and red Hungarian pepper. — Parisienne.—A rich brown sauce, with chopped shallots, parsley, lemon juice, and meat glaze, worked up a little with fresh butter; served with entrecotes, steaks or fillets of beef. — Paul Bort.—White wine sauce, blended with tomato puree and Bearnaise sauce. — Pauvre Homme (Poor Man).—A brown sauce, blended with tomato ketchup, vinegar, and anchovy sauce ; suitable as a fish sauce. — Perigueux (Perigord).—Madere sauce with finely chopped truffles, enriched with meat glaze. — Persil (Parsley).—Melted butter or bechamel sauce, with finely-chopped parsley. — Persillade.—A kind of vinaigrette sauce, prepared with mustard, sweet oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, lemon juice, and chopped savoury herbs ; served cold with fish, vegetables, or salad. K146 THE MENU BOOK. Sauce Piccadilly.—Demi-glace sauce, blended with anchovy butter, shallot flavour, and English mustard. — Pidmontaise.—Veloute sauce, enriched with veal essence, anchovy butter, and chopped truffles. — Pignol.—Poivrade sauce, enriched with cream and chopped pignolis (pine kernels). — Piment.—Demi-glace sauce blended with tomato puree, highly seasoned with chopped pimentos and cayenne. — Piquante (Sharp).—A sharp brown sauce with chopped gherkins, capers, and shallots, seasoned with plenty of pepper and essence of anchovy. — Poivrade (Pepper).—A brown pepper sauce, flavoured with lean bacon or ham, celery, onions, thyme, and bay-leaf, reduced with vinegar, anchovy essence, and black pepper. — Polignac.—White wine sauce, enriched with cream and fresh mushrooms cut into fine shreds. — Polonaise (Polish).—Veloute sauce, with sour cream, grated horseradish, chopped fennel, and lemon juice ; served with cutlets or steaks. — Pomme (Apple).—Apple pulp, slightly sweetened, enriched with whipped cream ; served hot with roast pork, goose or duck. — Pompadour.—Allemande or veloute sauce with shallots (fried), cream, egg-yolks, chopped mushrooms, and parsley. — Porto.—Demi-glace sauce reduced with port-wine, and fried onion flavour. — Portugaise.—Tomato sauce diluted with well-reduced veal gravy, flavoured with onion and garlic, blanched and fried. — Poulette (Veloute).—A white sauce, flavoured with aromatic herbs, thickened with egg-yolks and fresh butter, finished with chopped parsley and lemon juice. — Prince de Galles (Prince of Wales).—A cold sauce prepared with hard-boiled and raw egg-yolks, salad oil, tarragon vinegar, mixed with finely-chopped herbs and French mustard ; served with grilled or fried fish or meat. — Princesse.—Well-reduced allemande or bechamel with chicken essence and mushroom liquor, sliced mushrooms and double cream. — Princi^re.—White fish sauce, enriched with cray- fish butter, finely shredded crayfish tails, and truffles. — Printani^re.—Veloute sauce, enriched with fresh butter, and green vegetable pur6e or cubes.147 SA UCES. Sauce Provenfale.—Demi-glace with tomato pulp, finely chopped and fried onions, sliced mushrooms, and chopped parsley and olives, flavoured with lemon juice and garlic. — Raifort (chaude) (Horseradish, hot).—Bechamel sauce# mixed with grated horseradish and a little cream. — Raifort (froide) (Horseradish, cold).—Sour cream, mixed with freshly grated horseradish and a little vinegar, seasoned with sugar and salt. — Ravigote (chaude).—A white sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs, reduced with wine vinegar, finished with fine herbs, butter, and cream (hot). — Ravigote (froide).—Mayonnaise sauce, mixed with chopped parsley, chives, chervil, tarragon, and shallots, tinted with a little spinach greening (cold). — R^forme.—Poivrade sauce, diluted with port wine, red-currant jelly, and Worcester sauce. — Regence.—Demi-glace or gravy sauce, reduced with white wine and truffle essence, flavoured with finely minced and blended onions. — R^gente.—Rich white sauce with truffle and mushroom essence incorporated. — Reine-Marie (Queen Mary).—A brown sauce, made with rich meat gravy, port wine, chopped shallots, parsley, and pounded anchovies; served with all kinds of roast meats or boiled fish. — R^moulade.—A mayonnaise sauce with chopped parsley, fennel, tarragon leaves, shallots, and pre- pared mustard. — Ricardo.—A brown sauce, prepared with the carcase of game, with finely minced fried onions, toasted bread, sherry, thickened with a little meat glaze ; served with dishes of game, etc. — Riche.—Hollandaise, enriched with lobster butter or spawn, with dice shapes of truffles and crayfish tails. — Richelieu.—A brown game sauce, reduced with Madeira wine and meat extract. — Robert (Robert).—A brown sauce with finely chopped onions fried in butter, chili vinegar, prepared mustard, and a little anchovy essence. — Romaine (Roman).—Demi-glace or espagnole sauce, mixed with currants, sultanas, Italian pine-seeds {pignoli), diluted and reduced with white wine vinegar, and strained. — Roosevelt.—Tomato sauce blended with apple puree, flavoured with lemon rind grated. — Rouennaise.—Mad^re sauce, blended with raw duck- liver puree.148 THE MENU BOOK. Sauce Rubens.—Fish velout6 sauce, blended with mush- room liquor, enriched with anchovy butter and hard egg-yolks. — Russe (Russian).—Allemande or bechamel with grated horseradish, finely chopped ham, shallots, reduced with vinegar and white wine, seasoned with sour cream, sugar, pepper, and salt; served hot. — Russe (froide).—Cold remoulade sauce blended with grated horseradish and caviare. — Salmis.—A brown game sauce, reduced with white wine, meat glaze, and tomato pulp, flavoured with savoury herbs. — Saxonne.—Melted butter sauce with fish essence, shallot flavour, blended with grated lemon rind and mustard. — Sicilienne (Sicilian).—Espagnole sauce, reduced with Marsala wine; sliced onions fried in butter are mixed with the sauce just before serving ; served with beefsteaks, roast fillets of beef, etc. — Smitane.—Onion puree, reduced with white wine and bechamel, enriched with sour cream. — Solf^rino.—Demi-glace sauce with shallot reduced in Madeira wine, blended with tomato puree. — Soubise.—A white sauce with onion puree, seasoned with nutmeg, pepper, sugar, and salt, enriched with cream and butter. — Souchet.—Fish liquor, reduced with finely-shredded carrots, onion, and celery, also chopped parsley. — Soyer.—A white fish sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs, shallots, and lemon juice, thickened with egg-yolks and cream. — St. Malo.—White wine sauce with shallot flavour, enriched with anchovy butter and mustard. — St. Menehould.—Bechamel sauce, enriched with veal essence, mixed with chopped parsley and cham- pignons. — St. Vincent (cold).—Remoulade sauce, flavoured with well-reduced white wine (chablis). — Stragotte.—A rich game sauce, reduced with tomato pulp and Madeira wine, flavoured with vegetable mirepoix, shallots, cloves, and mace, and strained ; generally served with Italian dishes. — Su6doise (Swedish).—A white sauce, highly flavoured, with grated horseradish and chili vinegar ; served hot. — Su^doise (cold).—Mayonnaise sauce, blended with French mustard and grated horseradish. — Sultan6.—Demi-glace sauce, enriched with game essence •f(fumet) and port wine, mixed with small sultanas.SA UCES. 149 Sauce Supreme.—A rich white sauce, made with chicken stock and white roux, enriched with egg-yolks, cream, and fresh butter ; a garniture of sliced truffles and mushrooms is sometimes added. — Tartare.—Mayonnaise mixed with French mustard,finely- chopped chives, spring onions, tarragon and chervil leaves, gherkins, capers, and parsley ; served cold. — Texienne (Texas),—A mild curry sauce with a little saffron, chopped parsley, lemon juice, finished with fresh butter. — Tomate (Tomato).—Fresh tomatoes, cooked with mirepoix, white wine, and veal stock, thickened with white roux, seasoned and strained ; or puree of tomatoes, mixed with a little brown sauce and meat glaze, flavoured with aromatic herbs and shallots, seasoned with salt and sugar. — Tortue (Turtle).—A brown sauce, made from turtle stock, with finely-chopped shallots, flavoured with anchovy essence, lemon juice, sherry, and finely- chopped lemon rind ; seasoned with salt and cayenne pepper; strained. — Toulouse.—Allemande or veloute sauce, flavoured with truffle and mushroom essence. — Tournedos.—Rich beef stock, reduced with white wine and tomato puree, mixed with blended shallots, capers, and chopped champignons. — Trianon (cold).—Mayonnaise sauce, blended with tomato pulp and soubise puree, tarragon flavour, mixed with finely-cut gherkin and pimiento strips. — Tyrolienne (cold).—Mayonnaise sauce, blended with tomato puree. — Tyrolienne (hot).—Hollandaise sauce, blended with tomato puree. — Universelle (Universal).—A highly-spiced cold sauce, for cold meats, etc., prepared with mushroom ketchup, port wine, shallot vinegar, ground spice, mace, cayenne pepper, and anchovy essence. — Valoise.—Finely-chopped shallots, reduced in white wine, mixed with meat extract, egg-yolks, chopped parsley, cream, and butter ; whisked in bain-marie ; treated as Bdarnaise. — Velout§ (Foundation Sauce).—A rich white sauce prepared with chicken or veal stock, flavoured with savoury herbs, vegetable mirepoix, and white roux; when finished it should be as smooth as velvet ; hence its name veloute (velvet-like). — V6nitienne (Venetian).—A white fish sauce, thickened with egg-yolks and butter or cream, mixed with chopped parsley, flavoured with lemon juice, and garnished with small button mushrooms.THE MENU BOOK. 150 Sauce Verjus.—Espagnole sauce with mashed, unripe green grapes, cooked in stock, reduced with sherry and finished with fresh butter ; served with roast duck or pork. — Vernet.—Bechamel sauce with finely-chopped herbs, tarragon, and chervil, also shredded gherkin, truffle, and champignons. — Veron.—Bearnaise sauce, blended with veloute and anchovy essence. — Verte.—Green herb sauce (same as “ Verte-pre ”). — Verte-pr6 (Green Herb).—Composed of puree of cooked spinach, blanched parsley, chives, and tarragon, worked up with whipped cream or butter, and mixed with ravigote sauce. — Victoria.—Supreme sauce, enriched with lobster butter and champignon essence. — Viennoise.—Poivrade (pepper sauce), blended with lemon and orange juice, reduced and finished with cream. — Villageoise.—Allemande or veloute sauce, enriched with meat glaze or chicken essence. — Villeroi.—Veloute or bechamel, with finely chopped cooked ham and tongue, enriched with egg-yolks and fresh butter. — Vinaigrette.—Composed of salad oil, vinegar, chopped shallots, parsley, chervil, and gherkins, seasoned with pepper and salt; served cold with calf’s head, seakale, asparagus, etc. — Vin-blanc.—Bechamel or veloute, flavoured with white wine, lemon juice, and fish essence. — Vincent.—Mayonnaise mixed with green herb puree (tarragon, chervil, chives, and parsley). — Vin-rouge (claret sauce).—Red wine, reduced in mireopix, thickened with espagnole sauce, flavoured with anchovy essence. — York, d* (Yorkshire).—Demi-glace sauce, fine shreds of orange rind, red currant jelly, port wine, orange juice, and a little ground cinnamon ; served with boiled ham, roast or pickled pork. — Yorkshire.—Orange shreds, reduced in port wine and orange juice, thickened with espagnole, seasoned with cinnamon and cayenne. — Zingara.—Espagnole or demi-glace or game sauce, blended with tomato puree, mixed with finely-shredded truffle and smoked ox-tongue. — Zouave.—Demi-glace with tomato sauce, blended, reduced with chili vinegar, flavoured with garlic, tarragon, and mustard.151 GARNITURES. PART VI. GARNITURES. Principal Garnitures chiefly suitable for Removes (Releves), certain Fish Entrees, as well as Joints of Meat and Poultry. Garnitures—Garnishings, Garniture a 1* Alexandra (for Poultry).—Artichoke bottoms cut into quarters and sliced truffles ; supreme sauce. — h I’Alsaeienne (for Meat).—Braised spring cabbage, fondante potatoes ; demi-glace sauce. — a I’Amiral (for Fish).—Mussels, shrimps, and crayfish ; matelotte sauce. — a I’Andalouse (for Meat or Poultry).—Braised button onions, stuffed tomatoes, and risolee potatoes ; rich gravy. — a rArl6sienne (for Meat or Poultry).—Aubergines, tomatoes, and onion rings ; tomato and demi-glace sauce, blended. — a I’Athenienne (for Meat or Poultry).—Stuffed auber- gines ; Madeira sauce. — a la Banqui^re (for Entrees).—Larks, stuffed with truffle, and small quenelles; perigueux or truffle sauce. — a la Bayard (for Poultry).—Truffles, mushroom heads, slices of foie-gras, and artichoke bottoms; Madeira sauce. — a la Beatrice (for Meat or Poultry).—Morrels, or cepes, young carrots, quarters of artichoke bottoms, new kidney potatoes. — a la Belle-Hel6ne (for Fillets of Beef, etc.).—Small croquettes of asparagus points and sliced truffles ; rich gravy or demi-glace. — a la Bohemienne (for Meat).—Stoned olives, mush- rooms, button onions, and small kidney potatoes, poivrade sauce. — a la Bontoux (for Meat or Poultry).—Macaroni croquettes ; Madeira sauce. — a la Boulang^re (for Meat).—Kidney potatoes baked with fried onions ; demi-glace sauce. — d la Bouqueti^re (for Meat or Poultry).—Artichoke bottoms grilled, asparagus tips, with groups of green peas, French beans, young carrots, turnips and cauliflower buds ; demi-glace sauce.THE MENU BOOK. 152 Garniture ^ la Bourgeoise (for Meat).—Young carrots, turnips, button onions, kidney potatoes ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Bourguignonne (for Meat or Poultry).—Braised and glazed button onions, mushroom heads, and rolled lean bacon, grilled brown ; Burgundy wine sauce. — ^ la Bretonne (for Meat).—Haricot beans, whole or as puree, with fine herbs ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Brillat Savarin (for Meat or Poultry).—Duchesse potato croustades, filled with tomato puree, sliced truffles, and sliced artichoke bottoms. — a la Bristol (for Meat).—Savoury rice croquettes, or risotto timbales, flageolets, and Parisian potatoes ; demi-glace sauce. — ^ la Bruxelloise (for boiled or braised Meat).—Brussels sprouts, and braised chicory or endive, olive-shaped boiled potatoes ; gravy. — ^ la Cambac^r^s (for Meat or Poultry).—Truffles, mushrooms, and turned olives; Madeira sauce. — ^ la Camerani (for Meat).—Braised sauerkraut (chou- croute) and rolled bacon, grilled ; Madeira sauce, with chopped truffles. — ^ la Cancale or Cancalaise (for Fish).—Oysters and shrimps, or prawns ; Normande sauce. — a la Canova (for Meat or Poultry).—Slices of foie-gras (escalopes), cocks’ kernels, and truffles ; demi-glace. — ^ la Cardinal (for Fish).—Shrimps, prawns, or lobster dice ; Cardinal sauce. — ^ la Chambord (for Fish).—Mushroom or champignon heads, quenelles, slices of truffle, crayfish tails, soft roe, and glazed croutons ; sauce Genevoise. — a la Chatelaine (for Meat or Poultry).—Braised lettuce, artichoke bottoms filled with chestnut puree and soubise puree, chateau potatoes ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Chipolata (for Meat or Poultry.)—Braised chest- nuts, mushroom heads, small button onions, small smoked sausages, and sliced truffles ; demi-glace sauce. — ^ la Chivry (for Fish).—Small oyster bouchees or patties, mussels tossed in white sauce, and small potato croquettes ; chivry sauce. — ^ la Choisy (for Beef Fillets).—Braised cabbage lettuce and chateau potatoes ; demi-glace sauce. — ^ la Clamart (for Meat or Poultry).—Artichoke bottoms filled with puree of green peas ; rich gravy. — ^ la Clermont (for Meat).—Small stuffed onions, and slices of fried artichokes ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Cumberland (for Pork or Game).—Small tartlet crusts filled with ajjple puree ; venison sauce, with port wine flavour.153 GARNITURES. Garniture ^ la Dartols (for Meat or Poultry).—Duchesse potato croustades filled with green peas ; madere sauce. — ^ la Dauphine (for Poultry or Meat).—Dauphine potatoes, placed in nests made of straw potatoes ; demi-glace or gravy. — a la Dieppoise (for Fish).—Mussels, mushrooms, cray- fish or shrimps ; fish-flavoured, veloute sauce. — ^ la Don Juan (for Poultry).—Puff paste cases or bouchees, filled with salpicon of chicken fillets, truffles, and mushrooms ; demi-glace sauce or gravy. — a la Dorla (for Fish).—Olive shapes of cucumber, braised, and tossed in sour cream, also thin rounds of lemon ; cream sauce. — a la Doria (for Meat or Poultry).—Braised cubes of cucumber and noisette potatoes ; rich gravy or demi-glace sauce. — a la Dubarry (for Meat).—Breaded and baked cauli- flower (au gratin) ; white or brown sauce. — a la Duchesse (for Meat).—With Duchesse potatoes ; madere or demi-glace sauce. — a la Favorite (for Meat or Poultry).—Braised lettuce, artichoke bottoms, small potato timbales, and mushroom heads; rich gravy. — a la Fermi^re (for Meat).—Young carrots braised, braised lettuce, and olive-shaped potatoes ; rich gravy. — a la Flamande (for Meat).—Braised cabbage, young carrots, turnips, marble or egg-shaped potatoes, and small pork sausages ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Florentine (for Fish or Meat).—Spinach timbales or savoury semolina ; pastry cassolettes or croquettes ; veloute or demi-glace sauce. — ^ la Florian (for Lamb).—Braised cabbage lettuce, olive-shaped baked and glazed potatoes, glazed button onions and fondante potatoes; demi-glace sauce. — ^ la Fran^aise (for Meat).—Croustades of rice or potato filled with vegetable macedoine, with groups of asparagus points, cauliflower, lettuce ; rich gravy or madere sauce. — a la Gastronome (for Meat or Poultry).—Cepes tossed in butter, slices of truffles and fleurons ; rich gravy or madere sauce. — ^ la Gauloise (for Poultry).—Truffles, mushrooms, cocks' kernels, and slices of ham ; demi-glace with tomato sauce. — la Gr^que (for Poultry).—Savoury rice as basis or as timbales ; tomato sauce. — 4 la Godard (for Meat or Poultry).—Slices of sweetbread, small chicken quenelles, cocks’ combs, mushroom heads, and sliced truffle ; madere sauce ro demi-glace.154 THE MENU BOOK. Garniture a la Henri IV.—Artichoke bottoms and noisette potatoes ; bearnaise sauce. — a la Hongroise (for Meat).—Small cooked cauliflowers, breaded and baked (au gratin), and fondante potatoes ; veal gravy or cream sauce with paprika flavour. — a rimperiale (for Meat or Poultry).—Mushroom heads, cocks’ combs and kidneys, truffles, quenelles ; veloute sauce. — a rindienne (for Fish or Poultry).—Savoury rice, with curry flavour; curry sauce. — ^ ritalienne • (for Meat).—Artichoke bottoms and macaroni croquettes ; brown mushroom or tomato sauce. — a I’lvoire (for Poultry).—Chicken breasts cut in slices or scallops, and cocks’ combs ; supreme sauce. — a la Japonaise (for Meat or Poultry).—Plain tartlet crusts filled with Japanese crosnes (stachys) blended with veloute sauce, also potato croquettes; rich gravy. — a la Jardiniere (for Meat).—Groups of young spring vegetables or vegetable macedoine ; gravy or demi- glace. — a la Joinville (for Fish).—Shces of trufifles, and mush- rooms ; shrimp or lobster sauce. — a la Judic (for Meat).—Braised lettuces stuffed with savoury ham farce, also sliced truffles ; demi-glace. — a la Jules Verne (for Meat).—Stuffed kidney potatoes, baked, and braised turnips ; rich gravy. — a la Jussien (for Meat).—Braised cabbage lettuces and glazed button onions ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Landron (for Meat or Poultry).—Cepes or morilles, aubergines, and Parisian potatoes ; gravy. — a la Lavaliere (for Meat).—Artichoke bottoms filled with asparagus puree; bordelaise sauce. — a la Lorraine (for Ham or Pork).—Braised red cabbage or choucroute and potato quenelles ; Albert sauce. — a la Lucullus (for Poultry).—Financiere, truffles, sweetbread slices, cocks’ combs, and cocks’ kernels ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Lyonnaise (for Meat).—Braised stuffed onions and potato pur6e ; gravy. — a la Mar6chale (for Poultry).—Chicken quenelles, truffles, and champignons; supreme sauce. — la Marie Louise (for Meat or Poultry).—Paste crou- stades filled with pea-shaped carrots, turnips, and green peas ; rich gravy.155 GARNITURES. Garniture a la Marigny (for Meat or Poultry).—Croutons or croustades filled with flageolets beans, also fondante potatoes ; gravy. — ^ la Mariniere (for Fish).—Mussels, bearded oysters, and crayfish ; white fish sauce. — a la Marseillaise (for Fish).—Halves of tomatoes tossed in butter, flavoured with garlic, and ribbon potatoes ; brown fish sauce. — a la Mascotte (for Meat).—Artichoke bottoms, braised button onions, and noisette potatoes ; rich gravy. — a la M6dicis (for Meat).—Paste or bread croustades, with olive-shaped braised turnips ; tomato sauce. — a la Mentonnaise (for Meat).—Small vegetable marrows, stuffed with savoury farce meat, and braised ; also new kidney potatoes and artichoke bottoms ; gravy. — a la Mignon (for Poultry or Meat).—Artichoke bottoms filled with small green peas, chicken quenelles, and sliced truffles ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Milanaise (for Meat).—Macaroni, julienne strips of tongue, and mushrooms ; tomato sauce. — a la Mirelle (for Meat).—Plain tartlet crusts filled with saffron-flavoured rice, potato croquettes, and tomatoes; tomato sauce. — a la Mirabeau (for Meat).—Stoned olives, anchovy fillets, and artichoke bottoms; demi-glace sauce, with tarragon or chervil flavour. — a la Moderne (for Meat).—Braised cabbage lettuces, potato croquettes, and chicken quenelles mixed with chopped tongue ; demi-glace sauce or gravy. — a la Montebello (for Poultry or Meat).—Tartlet crusts filled with shredded truffles and tongue ; bearnaise sauce, blended with tomato pulp. — a la Montpensier (for Meat).—Asparagus tips, sliced truffles, and artichoke bottoms ; demi-glace. — a la Nantua (for Fish).—Small puff-paste bouchees filled with salpicon of truffle and crayfish ; Nantua sauce. — a la Napolitaine (for Meat).—Spaghetti mixed with tomato sauce and Parmesan cheese. — a la Nemours (for Meat).—Grilled cup mushrooms and Duchesse potatoes ; gravy. — a la Nigoise (for Meat).—Grilled or sauteed tomatoes, French beans, stoned olives, and Parisienne potatoes ; gravy. — a la Nivernaise (for Poultry or Meat).—Small braised carrots and button onions ; demi-glace. — a la Normande (for Fish).—Oysters, shrimps, mussels mushrooms, fried smelts, and fried and glazed croutons ; Normande sauce.156 THE MENU BOOK. Garniture h. la Orientate (for Poultry or Meat).—Savoury rice timbales and potato croquettes ; tomato sauce. — a la Portugaise (for Meat).—Small tomatoes stuffed with duxelle puree, and chateau potatoes ; tomato sauce. — a la Proven^ale (for Meat).—Stuffed tomatoes and fried aubergines, French beans, and new potatoes ranged in groups; gravy. — a la Providence (for Poultry or Meat).—Sliced mush- rooms and truffles, olives and slices of foie-gras; Madeira or demi-glace sauce. — a la Rachel (for Meat).—Artichoke bottoms filled with braised beef marrow, mixed with chopped parsley ; bordelaise sauce. — a la Radziwyl (for Fish).—Soft roe, truffles, mush- rooms, French gherkins, and crayfish quenelles; Genevoise sauce. — a la Reforme (for Meat).—Julienne strips of truffles, carrots, hard-boiled white of egg and tongue ; gravy or demi-glace. — a la Regence (for Fish).—Fish quenelles, oysters, truffles, mushrooms, and soft roe ; Normande sauce. — a la Regence (for Meat or Poultry).—Chicken quenelles, truffles, foie-gras, mushrooms, and cocks’ kernels ; allemande sauce. — a la Renaissance (for Fish or Meat).—Artichoke bottoms filled with macedoine of vegetables, also small cauliflower buds coated with Hollandaise sauce. — a la Riche (for Meat).—Artichoke bottoms filled with green peas, and coated with choron sauce, and decorated'with truffles. — a la Richelieu (*for Poultry or Meat).—Braised stuffed mushrooms, braised cabbage-lettuces, and artichoke bottoms filled with chicken puree, also chateau potatoes ; demi-glace. — a la Romanoff (for Meat).—Stuffed and braised cubes of cucumbers, and potato croustades filled with salpicon of celeriac and mushrooms; demi-glace. — a la St. Mande (for Meat).—Baked potatoes filled with green peas and asparagus points. — a la Sarde (for Meat).—Rice croquettes flavoured with saffron and Parmesan cheese, also stufied tomatoes or cucumbers ; tomato sauce. — a la Savoisienne (for Meat).—Braised cucumbers, noisette potatoes, and artichoke bottoms; demi- glace sauce. — a la Saxonne (for Poultry or Meat).—Stuffed tomatoes and braised cucumbers ; demi-glace sauce.157 THE ENTRJ^E COURSE. Garniture ^ la Semillante (for Fish).—Quenelles, carp’s roe, crayfish and mushrooms ; matelotte sauce. — ^ la Sorel (for Meat).—Slices of foie-gras and croutes filled with puree of mushrooms ; madere sauce. — ^ la Strasbourgeoise (for Pork or Ham).—Frankfort sausages, choucroute or pickled cabbage, and slices of foie-gras ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Talleyrand (for Meat).—Spaghetti or macaroni, with julienne strips of truffles and slices of foie-gras ; perigueux sauce. — a la Trianon (for Poultry or Meat).—Puree of carrots, green peas, and potatoes ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Trouvillaise (for Fish).—Shrimps or prawns, and mussels; lobster or shrimp sauce. — d la Windsor (for Meat).—Green peas, braised turnips, and sauteed potatoes ; demi-glace or gravy. PART VII. THE ENTREE COURSE. Dishes following the fish course or preceding the Remove, when such is served, are called entrees ; which, being translated into English, means “ entrance.” Hence the dishes served under this heading are considered by the epicure as the first of the essential dishes of a correct dinner, and rightly so, because there may be dinners without hors-d’oeuvre, and even without soup, or without a remove or releve, but there can be no proper dinner without an entree course. Entrees are generally defined as “ dressed dishes,” or ” made dishes.” A dish bearing the name ” entree ” is, as a general rule, composed of more than one ingredient, and there should always be a distinction from roast or boiled meat served with a vegetable or other garnish and an entree. When two entrees are chosen in a dinner, the first should be the lighter of the two. All entrees should be made in fancy style, so as to avoid carving ; for entrees should not be carved or served from the sideboard. During Lent (mi-careme) dishes known as fish entrees, excepting in the case of cold dishes, are usually allowable as entrees.THE MENU BOOK. 158 The great secret in entrees in general lies undoubtedly in the sauces used for their preparation or their accom paniment. All sauces should serve the purpose of liquid seasonings, and as such they must be rich and carefully prepared. Compound or long process sauces, foundation sauces and their offsprings, play a most important part in the entrees themselves, as well as in their relation to the dishes which precede and follow them ; their character, flavour, and colour must, of course, be studied so as to harmonise with the rest of the dishes selected for the same meal, more particularly so in the case of Dinner Entrees. Light Entries, including Farinage and Vegetahle Entries, A number of these dishes are also suitable as buffet or supper dishes for balls and receptions, and can be served cold. Beignets—Fritters, Beignets de Cervelle de Veau (Calf’s brain fritters).— Boiled brain pieces dipped in batter and fried in deep fat. — de Pied de Veau (Calf’s foot fritters).—Cooked calf’s foot cut in strips, marinaded, coated with batter, and fried in deep fat. — de Ris de Veau (Sweetbread fritters).—Slices of cooked or blanched sweetbread, egged and crumbed or dipped in batter, and fried in fat. — de Volaille (Chicken fritters).—Small joints of chicken, boned, marinaded, coated with batter, and fried in deep fat. Boudins or Boudinades,—These are, as a rule, small oblong, cylindrical, spherical or border shapes of souffle-like mixtures (farce) of fish, meat, poultry or game, steamed or poached, and served with a suitable sauce. Boudins de Volaille h la Reine.—Small cylindrical shapes of chicken farce, poached, and served with supreme sauce. — de Volaille blanc.—White chicken boudins, centre filled with chicken salpicon, and served with white sauce. — de Gibier k la P6rigueux.—Small oblong or oval shapes of game farce mixed with chopped truffle, steamed, and served with a rich truffle sauce.159 LIGHT ENTRJ^ES. Boudins de Lievre a la Richelieu.—Boudins of hare farce with truffle salpicon in centre, steamed in oven, and served with rich truffle sauce. — de Sanglier.—Wild boar boudins, poached, and served with bigarade sauce. — de Veau.—Boudins of veal, poached or steamed in oven, served with cream or veloute sauce. Bouchees or Belites Bouchees.—These are, unless otherwise stated, small puff-paste cases, filled with certain savoury preparations of either fish, meat, poultry or game. Bouohdes a TAstrachan.—Very small puff-paste cases or patties filled with coarse-grain seasoned best Russian caviare. — k TAndalouse.—Stoned olives, pimientos and ox- tongue, all cut into small dice, mixed with veloute or supreme sauce, and filled into puff - pastry bouchees. — a TArlequine.—Stoned olives, gherkins, chicken breast and ham, hard-boiled white of egg, pimiento, and truffle, all cut into small squares, mixed with mayon- naise cream and filled into small puff-paste bouchee cases. — a la Boh^me.—Small puff-paste bouchees filled with salpicon of chicken, ham, truffle, and foie-gras, or cooked chicken liver, moistened with veloute or supreme sauce. — de Gibier.—Game patties. — de Homard.—Lobster patties. — aux Huitres.—Oyster patties. — de Jambon.—Ham patties. — ^ la Mod6rne.—Small bouche cups lined thinly with potato pur6e, and filled with chicken salpicon. — d. la Montglas.—Puff-paste patty cases filled with chicken fillets, sweetbread, mushrooms and truffles cut in dice, and moistened with white sauce. — a la Princesse.—Puff-paste cases filled with minced ortolan fillets and truffles (brown sauce). — a la Reine.—Puff-paste cases filled with minced chicken fillets, ham or tongue, mushrooms and truffles (white sauce). — a la Toulouse.—Puff-paste cases filled with veal fillets, chicken, cocks’ combs, mushrooms and truffles cut in dice (white sauce). — de Volallle.—Chicken patties, being puff-paste cases filled with chicken pur6e or ragofit.i6o THE MENU BOOK. Petites Bouch^es a la Su^doise.—Pastry crusts, or patties of puff-paste, filled with ragout of sweetbread, lobster, crayfish tails, and broiled bacon; top of bouchees sprinkled with grated cheese, breadcrumbs, and lobster butter, and browned in oven. Petites Bouchees froide a la Reine.—Small puff-paste bouchees filled with a salpicon of cooked chicken breasts, champignons, tongue, and truffle, all cut into small squares ; served cold. Biscuits glacis a la tomate (cold).—A delicately prepared tomato puree, enriched with cream and paprika seasoning, frozen in brick shape, then sliced and placed on thin oblong wafer biscuits ; decorated with whipped cream and parsley sprigs. Bfiches de tomates ^ la Rossini (cold).—Leaf or heart- shaped tartlet crusts, filled with halves of tomatoes containing foie-gras puree, flavoured with tomato pulp and aspic ; garnished with truffles and pimientos, also small salad. Cannelous are small rolls of puff-paste filled with a savoury mince of game, poultry, meats, etc. They are either egged and baked in the oven, or egged and rolled in crushed vermicelli or breadcrumbs, and fried in clarified butter or dripping. Cannelons k la puree de champignons.—Cannelons filled with mushroom puree. — a la pur6e de gibier.—Cannelons filled with game puree. — aux saucisses.—Sausage-meat cannelons. — d la pur6e de truffes.—Cannelons filled with truffle puree. — a la purde de Volaille.—Cannelons filled with chicken farce. Cassolettes,—These, like croustades, are small, thin- crusted, oval, round or other suitable shapes, hollowed out to receive any desired mixture, savoury, fish, meat, poultry or game, vegetable puree, salpicons, etc. Cassolettes are made from potato puree, semolina^ cornflour, rice or riceflour, etc., all of which are previously cooked in thick puree or pulp form, shaped to the desired sizes when cold, and subsequently egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat. The fat must be very hot to ensure the crust being crisp. Silver-plated and earthenware porcelain fireproof cassolettes have also lately been introduced, and are most useful for this purpose.LIGHT ENTRl^ES. i6i Cassolettes d’Issiny.—Small cake or cork shapes of fresh butter, twice egged and crumbed, fried in deep fat, carefully drained and cut open to allow the liquid butter to run out, when they are filled with the desired mixtures. — ^ la Montglas.—Cornucopian shapes of puff-paste, baked and filled with braised lambs’ breads, cut in dice, mushrooms, and truffles, with allemande sauce. — a la Picquart.—Semolina or rice cassolettes filled with salpicon of tongue, ham, calf’s brain, bechamel, and truffle. — a la Suzanne.—Potato or duchesse cassolette shapes, filled with minced chicken fillets, asparagus points, supreme sauce, and round of truffle on top of each. (For other varieties see “ Croi3stades ” and “ Bouchees,” which can be adopted.) — de Jambon.—Small ham souffles (dariole-shaped). Vol-au-Vent»—The name “ Vol-au-vent ” is given to a large, light puff-paste crust made oval or round in shape, the interior of which is filled with delicately- flavoured ragouts of fish, lobster, oyster, etc., meat, veal, rabbit, and sweetbread or chicken. This dish is always served hot. For other fillings see Bouchees. Vol-au-Vent 4 la Chambord.—Small fish quenelles, mush- rooms, and truffles heated up in veloute sauce, and filled into vol-au-vent cases. — a la Duchesse.—Boned boiled fowl, cut up small, with mushrooms and truffles, heated in supreme sauce, and filled into vol-au-vent cases. — ^ la Financi^re.—A brown stew of sweetbread, truffles, cocks’ combs, kernels, small chicken quenelles, mushrooms, and stoned olives, dressed in vol-au-vent, — ^ la Toulouse.—A white stew of small chicken quenelles, truffles, mushrooms, and veal fillets, dressed in vol- au-vent. Coquilles are scallop shells, filled with coarsely- minced meats, etc., baked in the oven to brown the surface. Coquilles de Volaille truffle.—Chicken fillets minced and mixed with truffle and white sauce, baked in shells. — de Champignons.—Mushroom and white sauce baked in shells. — de Cervelle de Veau.—Calf’s brain and white sauce baked in shells. — de Perdreau.—Partridge fillets baked in shells. LTHE MENU BOOK. i62 Coquilles de Poulet a la Cardinal.—Minced chicken and crayfish tails baked in shells. ■— de ris de Veau.—Sweetbread salpicon, breaded, and baked in shells. — de Truffes.—Sliced truffles, with brown sauce, baked in shells. Croustades are oval or spherical shapes of baked or fried paste, bread, rice or potato crusts, which are filled with minced or delicate ragouts of meat or game. Croustades aux huitres.—Oyster croustade made of rice, bread or paste, filled with poached oysters, mush- room heads, sliced truffles, and veloute sauce. — de gibier k la Vatel (Game Croustade, Vatel style).— Stewed fillets of game, richly flavoured with chopped truffles and mushrooms, served in fried-bread croustades. — a la Imp^riale.—Baked rice croustade filled with a ragout of chicken fillets, foie-gras, mushrooms, and truffles (supreme sauce). — de Macaroni.—Macaroni croustade filled with cooked macaroni, ham cut in dice, cheese, and tomato sauce. — de volailles a la P6rigueux (Chicken Croustade, Perigord style).—Stewed fillets of chicken with truffles and brown sauce, baked in paste crust cases. — a la P6rigourdine.—Fried rice croustade filled with small game quenelles, slices of sweetbread, cocks’ combs, kernels, and truffles ; sauce madere. — ^ la Richelieu.—Baked paste croustade filled with small chicken quenelles, poached and fried, mush- rooms, and truffle sauce. — de Venaison (Venison Croustade).—Finely cut or minced fillet of venison, moistened with brown sauce and baked in paste crust cases. Crepinettes and Andoxiillettes are small, square- shaped meat mixtures, wrapped in pig’s caul, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter or dripping. Andouillettes are made similarly to crepinettes, but, in place of being crumbed and fried, are braised in butter and served in paper cases. Crepinettes de foie-gras k la Princesse.—Salpicon of braised foie-gras, truffle, ham, etc., made up in oblong shapes, wrapped in pig’s caul, and fried in butter ; garnished with small green asparagus (sprue) ; demi- glace sauce. — de Volaille truiI6s.—Chicken and truffle crepinettes.163 LIGHT ENTRIES. Crepinettes de Faisan.—Pheasant crepinettes. — de Li^vre.—Hare crepinettes. — de Levraut.—Wild rabbit crepinettes. — de Perdreau truffle.—Partridge and truffle crepinettes. — de Pluvier.—Plover crepinettes. Andouillettes de Gibier.—Game andouillettes. — a la Romaine.—Minced chickenj mushroom, truffle, cheese, and meat glaze, made into salpicon, shaped oval, wrapped in caul, and braised; served with truffle sauce. Cromesquis or Krofneslcis are small rolls of savoury preparations called salpicon, which are rolled in thin slices of bacon, dipped in frying batter, and fried in hot lard or other fat ; garnished with fried parsley. Cromesquis au Jambon.—Little rolls or cork shapes of minced ham, mushroom, and truffle, made up in salpicon with madere sauce, rolled up in bacon, dipped in batter, and fried in deep fat. — d’^crevisses.—Crayfish kromeskis. — de gibier.—Game kromeskis. — de homard.—Lobster kromeskis. — aux huitres.—Oyster kromeskis. — de pied de pore.—Pig’s feet kromeskis. — de pluvier.—Plover kromeskis. — a la Russe (Russian Kromeskis).—These consist of minced chicken, ham or tongue, truffles, and mush- rooms. — de volaille.—Chicken kromeskis. Croquettes is the name given to oval, round, ball, cutlet or cork shapes of minced meats, fish, poultry or game. These shapes are egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter or dripping. Croquettes de volaille.—Chicken croquettes. — de foie-gras.—Goose-liver croquettes. — de gibier aux truffes.—Game croquettes with truffles. — de perdreau.—Partridge croquettes. — de riz au salpicon.—Cooked rice and minced chicken ham, etc., made into croquettes and fried. — de Rognons de Veau.—Calf's kidney croquettes. — de Veau.—Veal croquettes.164 THE MENU BOOK. Feuilles de laitues aux Crevettes (Cold).—Salpicon, composed of picked shrimps, vegetable macedoine, mayonnaise and aspic, shaped in balls, and placed on round lettuce leaves, coated with mayonnaise aspic, and garnished with beetroot and cucumber. Ddvioles*—See also Timbales. Darioles de ris d*Agneau a la St. Germain (Cold).—Dariole or timbale shapes, lined with green pea puree, and filled with salpicon of lamb’s bread, truffles, mush- rooms, and veloute sauce, covered with pea puree, and poached or steamed, then set in aspic-coated moulds, — de jambon ^ la Bayonne (Cold).—The same as “ Chartreuse de Jambon a la Clamart,” but prepared cold and set in aspic jelly. — d’oeufs a la Crdcy.—Bouche cups or dariole moulds, lined with thin slices of carrot, filled with carrot puree and savoury custard, and poached or steamed ; tomato sauce. Friandines,—These are made of puff-paste, rolled out thinly with a 2-inch fluted round cutter ; a portion of prepared mince or salpicon of meat or game, etc., is placed in the centre of each round ; this is covered with a round of paste, egged, dipped in crushed vermicelli, and fried in clarified butter, lard or dripping, Friandines de ris d’Agneau.—Round puff-paste pasties, filled with a rich salpicon of lamb’s bread, tongue, and truffle, served with tomato sauce mixed with chopped gherkins. — de volaille.—Chicken friandines. — de foie-gras.—Goose-liver friandines. — de gibier.—Game friandines. — de homard.—Lobster friandines. — aux huitres.—Oyster friandines. — de poisson.—Fish friandines. — de ris de veau.—Sweetbread friandines. Friture d’huitres (Fried Oysters).—Poached oysters, bearded and drained, dipped in batter, fried in boiling lard, and served with fried parsley. Fetites Caisses,—These are small round or oval- shaped pastr}/ crust, paper, china or silver cases. These are filled with certain savoury mixtures. Petites caisses de Ris de Veau,—Braised sweetbread in cases.LIGHT ENTRIES. 165 Petites caisses de Champignons farcis.—Stuffed mushrooms in cases. — de Foie-gras aux truffes.—Goose liver truffled in cases. — ^ la Henri IV.—Chicken souffle mixture baked in cases, with mushroom head on top of each, — de Moelle.—Braised marrow fat in cases. — Pates aux Huitres.—Small oyster patties. — aux Alouettes.—Small lark patties. — aux Cailles.—Small quail patties. — a la Joinville.—Small patties filled with lobster, chicken and truffle. Petits Pains or Petits Souffles are made with certain kinds of preparation forcemeat, which are placed in suitable small buttered moulds, and poached in the oven ; usually served with rich white or brown sauces. Pains are made in plain and darioles in fluted moulds. Petits Pains de Cailles.—Small souffle darioles with quail farced with forcemeat; served with truffle sauce. — de Foie-gras.—Small goose liver and truffle timbales ; served with madere sauce. — de Jambon.—Small ham souffles (dariole shaped). — Souffles de Poisson en caisses.—Small fish souffles in china or paper cases. — de Volaille a la Creme.—Chicken cream souffles baked in china or paper cases. Pilau or Pillaw a I’lndienne.—Braised, boned, and stuffed fowl, cut into small slices, dressed with minced fried onions, mangoes, on small rice shapes ; curry sauce. Pilau a la Turque.—Minced chicken and ham with savoury rice, seasoned with savoury herbs and sherry wine. JRissoles are small half-moon shapes of short crust or puff-paste, filled with prepared minced fish, meat or game, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter, dripping or lard ; they are usually garnished with fresh or fried parsley. Rissoles a la Russe (Russian Rissoles).—Filling ; salpicon of minced chicken, tongue, ham, and mushrooms. — a la Moelle de Boeuf.—Rissoles of beef-marrow. — de B^casse aux trulles.—Snipe rissoles with truffles. — ^ la Chasseur.—Venison or other game meat rissoles. — de Foie-gras.—Goose-liver rissoles. — de Gibier.—Game rissoles. — a la Hollandaise.—Oyster and truffle rissoles.THE MENU BOOK. 166 Rissoles de Homard.—Lobster rissoles. — aux Huitres.—Oyster rissoles. — de Ris de Veau.—Sweetbread rissoles. — de Volaille d I’Indienne.—Curried fowl rissoles. Ravioles a la Napolitaine (Neapolitan Ravioles).—These are very small round flat patties made of nouille paste and filled with a mixture of grated parmesan cheese, yolks of eggs, and cayenne, poached in stock or baked in the oven, and served with tomato sauce. 3Iousses and SonfflSs.—A souffle or mousse usually consists of a very light souffle mixture, and is prepared to be served either hot or cold. Ham mousse, as a rule, is made with pounded cooked or raw ham, with panada, cream, eggs, and seasoning. Aspic or aspic cream is incorporated in the case of cold mousses. There are also other and more modern styles of preparing mousse, as indicated by the new formulas. “ Mousselines ” is applied to smaller shapes or single portion shapes of mousse. Souffle or souffles are also adapted for dishes of this character. Mousse a la Brandimbourg (Cold).—York ham, boiled and braised, top half cut off and cut partly in slices, glazed with aspic ; other part pounded with foie-gras and made into mousse; then refilled with shced ham and mousse mixture (cold), surface coated with chaudfroid sauce and decorated with truffle and white of egg squares to resemble a chessboard. — la Carmen.—A light ham souffle, centre filled with a salpicon of artichoke bottom, champignon, and supreme sauce. Pimiento or paprika sauce. — a la Clamart.—Souffle of ham, made from raw ham, pounded with bechamel, cream, and egg whites and seasoning ; moulded with centre filled with green pea puree, and poached or steamed ; sauce supreme. — de Jambon en surprise.—Boiled or braised York ham (whole), centre part cut out when cold, and refilled with hot or cold ham mousse ; served with reform sauce when hot, or with Cumberland sauce when served cold. — a la Perigourdin.—Mousse of ham, mixed with sliced truffles ; served hot with perigord sauce. Mousselines de Jambon a 1’Alexandra.—Quenelles of ham, decorated with slices of truffles, poached ; garnished with asparagus tips tossed in butter ; served with cheese-flavoured allemande sauce.167 LIGHT ENTRJ^ES. Mousselines a la Florentine.—Dariole or timbale shapes of ham mousse, ranged on a border or bed of spinach ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Hongroise.—Ham quenelles, seasoned with paprika, sauced over with hongroise sauce ; garniture of cauliflower cassolettes. SouiH§ de Jambon a la Gastronome.—Souffle of ham, mixed with cepes, morelles or sliced large mushrooms ; steamed, covered with chopped truffles, with a whole truffle on top ; sauce madere. — ^ la Milanaise.—Ham souffle, centre filled with salpicon of cooked macaroni, cubes of ham, tongue, truffles, and champignons ; garnished with cheese-flavoured macaroni cut short ; sauce tomate. Souffles de langue en coeotte.—Baked ox-tongue souffles, filled in cocotte pans, with salpicon of cooked sweet- bread, asparagus tips, and peas in centre. Tartelettes ^ la Romaine.—Small tartlet crusts filled with a dehcately seasoned ragout of cooked spaghetti, shredded ham, and mushrooms, finished with grated cheese and tomato sauce. — de Homard a la Roscofl.—Salpicon of lobster meat (cut into small squares) moistened with supreme sauce and tomato puree, and filled in small tartlet crusts. Timbales and Darioles,—The word “timbale” means a cup, bowl or beaker, but in cookery it is applied to certain kinds of light fish, meat or game souffles, cooked in cup or timbale-shaped moulds, either baked or poached. The moulds are frequently lined with a thin paste, nouille, or short crust, or with cooked macaroni. Timbale a la Badoise.—Paste-lined timbale shape filled with ragout of sweetbread, truffles, champignons, and nouille paste. — de Cailles.—Quail timbale. — a la Conde.—Similar to “ Badoise timbale,” but omitting the nouille paste ; served hot with maddre sauce. — a la Cussy.—Chicken farce-lined timbale, with layers of foie-gras, tongue, mushrooms, and truffles, moist- ened with madere sauce ; may also be made with paste crust lining and filled as above. — a la Diane.—Timbale mould lined with game farce, and filled with small game quenelles, truffles, cham- pignons and game fillets ; garnished also with latter, and served with sauce Diane.THE MENU BOOK. i68 Timbale de Gibier.—Game timbale. — ^ Plmp^ratrice (Cold).—Aspic-lined mould, decorated with truffle, etc., filled with foie-gras and chicken mousse, fortified with aspic jelly ; served with cold cucumber sauce. — a la Mirabeau.—Dome-shaped timbale mould, lined with halves of stuffed olives, coated with a layer of duck farce, filled with fillets of duck, champignons, and truffles ; served with mirabeau sauce. — ^ la d’Orsay.—Timbale mould fined with nouille paste, and filled with white chicken ragout, sliced artichoke bottoms, truffles, and champignons; served with supreme sauce richly seasoned with paprika. — de Perdreau.—Partridge timbale. — a la Reine (Cold).—Chicken mousse timbale, hot or cold ; in latter case mould is fined with aspic, and decorated with truffles and pimiento, etc., then masked with white chaudfroid sauce and filled with fight chicken mousse. — a la St. Estephe.—Chicken forcemeat and ox-tongue timbales with claret sauce. — a la Talleyrand.—Dome-shaped timbale mould closely fined with cooked macaroni, and filled with tomato and macaroni stew ; served with supreme sauce. — a la Toulouse (Cold).—Timbale mould fined with aspic and decorated, filled with evenly-cut salpicon of chicken and sweetbread, mixed with aspic cream, etc. Timbales or Darioles a la Gauloise (Cold).—Small aspic- lined timbales or other shapes of green pea puree, mixed with chopped ham, mayonnaise, cream, and aspic. — de tomates aux noix (Cold).—Tomato-flavoured and coloured aspic coated timbales, filled alternately with walnut puree and sliced tomatoes ; garnished with julienne of salad plant. MEAT ENTREES. Bceuf—Beef, Cervelle de Bceuf (Ox-brains) en Matelote.—Stewed ox- brain in red wine sauce with braised button onions. — frite (fried).—Blanched, cut into pieces, egged and crumbed, or dipped in frying batter and fried. — au gratin (baked).—Blanched, placed in a buttered dish, sauced over, breaded, and baked in the oven. Chateaubriand.—Double fillet of beef, cut very thick, and generally broiled or grilled ; usually served with chateau potatoes.MEAT ENTR^:ES {BEEF). 169 Chateaubriand h la Bdarnaise.—Double fillet, basted with sweet oil and broiled ; served with bearnaise sauce. — a la Chlpolata.—Grilled double fillet; garnished with braised chestnuts, fried pieces of sausages, and mush- room heads ; tomato sauce. — a la Clerln.—Grilled double fillet k point, sliced truffles fried in butter, and cooked in madere sauce ; garnish : pommes allemande, and rondelles of foie-gras dipped in flour and fried in butter (grouped). — a la Cordon Rouge.—Double fillet, basted with oiled butter, seasoned, sprinkled with finely-chopped ham and fresh breadcrumbs, and grilled or broiled ; garnished with sliced truffles, brussels sprouts, and small stuffed tomatoes ; demi-glace sauce. — ^ la Grecque.—Grilled ; garnished with fried egg-plants (aubergines); madere sauce with chopped parsley. — ^ la Hotellere.—Grilled ; sauced over with supreme sauce and a few drops of dissolved meat glaze. — a la Lombardle.—Grilled double fillet; garnished with stuffed, baked tomatoes ; madere sauce. — a la Marquise.—Double fillet broiled or grilled in butter, garnished - with artichoke bottoms, filled with small stuffed lettuce. — a la Marseillaise.—Broiled or grilled ; surrounded with groups of glazed carrots, button onions, and small pieces of fried calf’s feet; bordelaise sauce. — a la Rosny.—Grilled or broiled in butter ; served with fried slices of cucumber and poivrade sauce. — ^ la V6ron.—Stuffed from the side with chopped blanched beef-marrow and savoury herbs, basted with sweet oil, and grilled ; served with eschalot sauce. — Vert-Pr6.—Grilled double fillets, glazed, and round of green herb butter on top of each; garnished with straw potatoes and watercress ; sauce demi-glace. Beef Steak a la Bardoux.—Rump steaks cut rather thin, dipped in oiled butter, rolled in a mixture of fresh breadcrumbs, chopped beef-marrow and parsley, salt and pepper, fried briskly, and served with brown herb sauce. — a la Brisse.—Steak shghtly marinaded and broiled ; served with richly spiced tomato sauce, surrounded with small turnip timbales. — a la Godard.—Grilled steak ; garnished with sliced sweetbreads, mushroom heads, quarters of artichoke bottom, and truffles ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Soyer.—Thickly cut rump steaks, dipped in oiled butter, sprinkled with breadcrumbs, finely chopped chives, parsley, and seasoning, and broiled ; sauce fines herbes.170 THE MENU BOOK. Beef Steak a la Su6doise.—Small beef steaks cut from rump, seasoned, and cooked in butter; dressed with onion finely cut and fried, and garnished with saute potatoes. — a la Turinoise.—Grilled steak ; garnished with small nouilles timbales ; tomato sauce. Entrecotes—Sirloin Steaks. Entrecote (Sirloin Steak) a la Bearnaise.—Grilled sirloin steak ; served with bearnaise sauce. — au beurre d’Anchois.—Grilled ; with anchovy butter. — a la Bordelaise (Sauteed).—Broiled or grilled, with beef-marrow and bordelaise sauce. — d. la Hambourg.—Finely chopped beefsteak, seasoned and shaped into fillets, floured and fried in butter, garnished with fried eggs ; onion sauce. — a la Maitre d*H6tel.—Broiled or sauteed sirloin steak, with maitre d’hotel butter. — a la Moelle.—Broiled sirloin steak, with blanched and grilled slices of beef-marrow. — a la Montagne.—Grilled sirloin steak, garnished with small stuffed tomatoes, and artichoke bottoms filled with tossed mushrooms. — a la Nicolas.—Sirloin steak, broiled in butter ; dressed in casserole, with whole truffles and slices of foie-gras. — a la Parisienne.—Sirloin steak, broiled or grilled ; spread over with crushed shallot and chopped parsley, lemon-juice and meat glaze, and garnished with marble shaped fried potatoes. — aux Pommes souffl6es.—Grilled sirloin steak, with parsley butter, garnished with puff or souffle potatoes. — a la Rockaway.—Grilled sirloin steak, served with fried onion rings and grated horseradish. — a la Russe.—Chopped lean beef, rump or fillet round, mixed with beef-marrow, seasoned with onion or shallots, etc., and shaped into fillets, fried in butter, and served with hot horseradish sauce. Note.—For other kinds of dressing and garnish, see Fillet and Tournedo. Filets de Bceuf—Fillets of Beef. {See also Chateaubriand and Tournedos.) Note.—Filets mignons, or cocurs de filets de bceuf, are rather smaller than ordinary fillets, and more closely trimmed than the former. Faux-filet is the name given to fillets cut from other parts, such as rump, suloin or the rib of beef. All these names are intended to be included171 MEAT ENTRIES {BEEF). under the above heading, the mode of cooking being exactly the same as for ordinary fillets. When no special sauce is quoted, demi-glace or plain gravy should be poured round the base of the dish. Filets de Bceuf h rAmbassadrice.—Grilled or broiled fillets of beef with chicken liver farce, and garnished with financiere ; sauce madere. — a rAmericain6.—Grilled fillets of beef with fried egg- yolk on top of each, garnished with fried egg-plant; sauce tomate. — a I’Andalouse.—Larded and braised fillets of beef; garnished with glazed chestnuts, braised cabbage- lettuces, and tomatoes. — h TAthenienne.—Larded and braised fillets ; served with fried, sliced egg-plants ; madere sauce. — au beurre d’Anchois.—Broiled or grilled fillets of beef, with anchovy butter. — a la Bearnaise.—Broiled or grilled fillets ; with bear- naise sauce on fillets, and demi-glace round them. — a la Bon Marche.—Braised fillet steak, dressed on cheese- flavoured macaroni, and garnished with grilled ham and fleurons ; sauce demi-glace. — a la Bordelaise.—Grilled or broiled fillets of beef, with beef-marrow and bordelaise sauce. — aux Champignons.—Broiled fillets of beef, with sliced mushrooms (champignons) and brown sauce. — a la Choron.—Broiled or sauteed fillets, with slices of beef-marrow, small artichoke bottoms filled with asparagus points as garnish ; sauce choron. — a la Clamart.—Sauteed or grilled fillets of beef, garnished with artichoke bottoms filled with green pea puree ; sauce demi-glace. — ^ la Claremont.—Larded and braised ; served with braised cucumber and tomatoes, and small stuffed onions glazed ; bearnaise and demi-glace sauces. — a la Condroise.—Larded and braised fillet steak, garnished with braised cabbage, young carrots and turnips, and chipolata sausages. — a la Dauphine.—Larded and grilled ; garnished with fried cocks’ combs, sliced truffles ; perigueux sauce. — a la Duchesse.—Grilled or broiled fillets, dressed in duchesse potato border, with Chateaubriand sauce. — aux fines herbes.—Grilled or broiled fillets of beef ; with brown savoury herb sauce. — a la Garfield.—Larded and grilled ; served with finely- cut julienne strips of ham, tongue, truffles, and mush- rooms ; poivrade sauce.172 THE MENU BOOK. Filets de Bceuf ^ la Goufl6.—Larded and fried ; garnished with small beef-marrow toasts ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Grand Veneur.—Marinaded fillets, braised, gar- nished with French beans ; sauce Moscovite. — ^ la Helder.—Broiled or sauteed fillets with sliced tomatoes tossed in butter, Parisienne potato balls, and bearnaise sauce. — a la Jardiniere.—Grilled ; garnished with groups of spring vegetables. — a la Judie.—Sauteed or grilled fillets with braised lettuce and gravy. — a la Livingstone.—Grilled, dressed on fried or toasted bread croutons, with bearnaise sauce and slice of truffle ; garnished with julienne or straw potatoes. — d. la Maitre d’Hotel.—Grilled ; with parsley butter. — au Malaga.—Larded and braised ; dressed with madere or marsala wine sauce; garnished with potato croquets done up in the shape of grapes, with nouille paste stalks inserted, and fried. — a la Marinade.—Larded and marinaded in vinegar wine and herbs ; grilled or braised ; poivrade sauce. — a la Mirabeau.—Broiled ; garnished with fried eggs, tarragon leaves, and anchovy fillets on fillets of beef ; group of truffles and champignons around dish; madere sauce. — a la Moscovite.—Larded ; placed in Rhine wine mari- nade, and braised or sauteed ; served with madere sauce, and garnished with chopped and rolled almonds. — a la Nikolas.—Sauteed or grilled fillets, with a shce of foie-gras and truffles on top ; sauce madere. — aux Olives farcies.—Grilled ; with stuffed olives. — ^ la Palmeritaine.—Larded and broiled, and garnished with stuffed aubergines and mashed potatoes. — ^ la Parisienne.—Grilled fillets, garnished with aspara- gus tips and potato balls; bearnaise sauce and gravy (jus lie). — ^ la Polonaise.—Finely chopped lean beef and chopped suet, seasoned, and shaped hke fillets ; egged, crumbed, and fried in butter ; garnished with small rounds of fried potatoes ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Pompadour.—Sauteed or broiled fillets with slices of tomatoes tossed in butter ; noisette potatoes and choron sauce. — a la Provenpale.—Grilled ; garnished with stuffed mushrooms and tomatoes; demi-glace or madere sauce. — d la Rossini.—Sauteed or grilled fillets, with slice of foie-gras and truffle on top of each ; sauce perigueux.173 MEAT ENTRJ^ES {BEEF). Filets de Boeuf d la Russe.—Sauteed in butter, served with hot horseradish sauce, and garnished with small croutons filled with caviare. — a la Sicilienne.—Grilled ; served with rings of fried onion ; sauce madere. — a la Sigurd.—Larded fillet of beef, marinaded in madere, and braised ; garnished with small potato cassolettes filled with asparagus-point puree, sauteed artichoke bottoms cut in dice, chestnut croquettes, and mush- room heads. — d la Stanley.—Grilled or broiled, dressed on reduced horseradish sauce, and garnished with fried bananas and fleurons. — a la St. Jean.—Broiled or sauteed ; garnished with artichoke bottoms filled with tossed tomato dice and covered with bearnaise, with farced olive on top ; demi-glace sauce. — aux trufles.—Broiled or grilled ; served with brown sauce containing sliced truffles. — a la Theodora.—Broiled ; dressed on a bed of mush- room puree, sprinkled with finely chopped herbs, garnished with olive-shaped fried potatoes and truffles, sauced over with nut brown butter and Worcester sauce. — a la Toreador.—Grilled, rather underdone ; garnished with sauteed fresh muslirooms and Spanish pimientos ; tomato sauce. — ^ la Trianon.—Grilled or broiled, dressed on reduced bearnaise sauce, surmounted with slices of truffle ; garnished with straw potatoes. — a la Vlennolse.—Fillet or other tender leaii beef chopped finely and shaped into small fillets, fried in butter, garnished with onion puree and fried onion rings ; brown sauce. — ^ la Wellington.—Tossed in butter over a brisk fire, cooled and wrapped carefully in thinly rolled-out puff-paste, with a layer of fine herbs spread over the fillets ; brush over the paste with egg-yolk, and bake in moderate oven lo to 15 minutes; dress on potato puree (socle), garnish with green peas, French beans, truffles, and potatoes cut in cubes and tossed in butter. — a la Zlmmermann.—Grilled, dressed on bearnaise sauce with fried egg on top of each, slices of truffle and fleuron garnish.174 THE MENU BOOK. Tournedos de Bceiif, {See also Fillets of Beef.) Unless otherwise stated all tournedos are to he grilled, broiled or tossed in butter over a fairly quick fire, Tournedos de Boeuf.—Small fillets of beef, trimmed into oval shapes, weighing about two ounces. They are usually dressed on croutons of fried bread. — a TArlesienne.—Tournedos dressed on croutons, sauced over with demi-glace containing julienne strips of celery, — a rAlexandra.—Larded, braised, and glazed ; dressed on croutons with slice of truffle on each; garnished with quarters of artichokes ; sauce perigueux. — a I’Africaine.—Grilled or broiled in butter, garnished with fried bananas, and served with hot horseradish sauce. — a TArmand.—Grilled oval-shaped fillets of beef; dressed on fried-bread crouton, covered with foie-gras puree ; garnished with souffle potatoes and slices of truffles ; sauce bordelaise, — a la Baronne.—Grilled fillets, dressed on fried-bread croutons, in crown shape, surmounted with mush- room heads, sauced over with bearnaise, piped with tomato puree. Shces of truffle on top. — a la Bismarck.—Sauteed in butter, garnished with small baked potato cassolette shapes, filled with shredded morilles or mushrooms a la creme, each surmounted with a plover’s egg, sauced over with Hollandaise. Madere sauce round base of dish. — braises au C616ri.—Larded fillets of beef braised with celery, and finished in rich brown sauce ; dressed on croutons in a circle, with braised celery in centre. — ^ la Calcutta.—Sauteed ‘‘ k la Minute,” dressed on savoury rice timbale, flavoured with curry. Demi- glace sauce with chutney flavour added. — ^ la Carlton.—Grilled fillets with neatly poached egg on top of each, sauced over with bearnaise, and gar- nished with julienne of tongue, mushroom, and truffle. — ^ la Caroza.—Grilled, dressed on croutons with artichoke bottoms, shces of beef-marrow on top of each ; borde- laise sauce. — ^ la Chasseur.—Shghtly marinaded, fried in butter, and served with chasseur sauce. — 4 la Ch6ron.—Grilled, with artichoke bottoms filled with vegetable macedoine finished a la cr^me on top of each; sauce bearnaise.175 MEAT ENTREES {BEEF). Tournedos de Boeuf h la Colbert.—Fried in equal parts of sweet oil and butter, dished up in circle, centre of dish filled with small rounds of fried potatoes ; eschalot sauce, reduced with sherry wine. — a la Drexel.—Grilled fillets dressed on fried-bread croutons coated with bearnaise sauce, border of each fillet garnished with tomato puree, slice of truffle in centre, and dish surrounded with straw potatoes (pommes pailles). — a la Dumas.—Grilled, coated with soubise sauce, and glazed with cheese; garnished with heart-shaped shces of tongue, and potato croquettes. — h I’Elys^e.—Shce of braised sweetbread and mushroom head on each grilled tournedo, with a border of bearnaise sauce. — a I’Empereur.—Broiled in butter, dressed on fried- bread croutons, with half a grilled tomato and a small piece of grilled marrow on each ; garnished with asparagus points and noisette potatoes ; sauce perigueux. — ^ la Favorite.—Grilled, dressed on croutons, with slice of foie-gras ; garnished with truffles and asparagus points ; sauce madere. — a la Gabrielle.—Sauteed, dressed on rounds of puff- pastry of similar size, covered with light chicken puree ; garnished with truffles, green peas, and straw potatoes ; sauces bearnaise and demi-glace. — a la Grand Hotel.—Grilled, dressed on croutons of rice of same size, slices of foie-gras and asparagus points; sauce madere — a la Helder.—Broiled or sauteed in butter, dressed on fried-bread croutons ; with bearnaise sauce as border of each tournedo, and tomato puree in centre; surrounded with noisette potatoes. — ^ la Khedive.—Sauteed tournedos, dressed on slices of foie-gras of same shape ; garniture, tossed tomatoes in butter, asparagus points, champignon heads; sauces, madere and horseradish cream. — a la MacMahon.—Grilled tournedos, garnished with slices of truffles, flageolets, and chateau potatoes ; sauce madere. — ^ la Magenta.—Sauteed in butter, with slices of truffle on top, garnished with small potato croquettes, tomato flavoured ; bearnaise sauce. — ^ la Majestic.—Grilled fillets, dressed on a puree of fresh mushrooms," in a baked potato border ; sauce bearnaise. — a la Menagere.—Tournedos,fgrilled and dressed on a border of duchesse potato (puree), centre filled with braised carrots and turnips (olive shape), button onions and noisette potatoes ; sauce demi-glace.176 THE MENU BOOK. Tournedos de Boeuf h la Mercedes.—Broiled or sauteed tournedos coated with artichoke puree and mushroom heads ; demi-glace or madere sauce. — a la Meridionale.—Grilled, garnished with sorrel, stuffed tomatoes, green peas, and cepes ; plain gravy. — a la Mikado.—Grilled and garnished with half a stuffed and baked tomato on each tournedo ; sauce madere. — a la Mireille.—Grilled tournedos dressed on croutons of brioche paste ; garnished with asparagus points ; sauce tomate. — a la Monaco.—Grilled tournedos dressed on bread croutons spread with foie-gras farce; garnished with mushroom heads and slices of tongue ; demi- glace sauce. — a la Montmorency.—Grilled tournedos placed on rice croutons ; garnished with artichoke bottoms filled with asparagus points ; plain gravy. — a la Monte Carlo.—Garnished with shce of foie-gras and truffle on top of each, and dish surrounded with fried shces of sweetbread and fried calf’s brain ; sauce madere. — ^ la Mozart.—Sauteed in butter, with a slice of tongue and small poached egg on top of each, surmounted with a thin slice of truffle ; sauce Colbert. — a la Nelson.—Par-fried tournedos, finished in casserole, with braised button onions, demi-glace or madere sauce, and dice of fried potatoes. — ^ la Nesselrode.—Garnished with chestnut puree, potato chips, sauced round with demi-glace. — a la Nigoise.—Sauteed beef fillets dressed on croutons; garnished with small French beans and small tossed tomatoes ; sauce demi-glace. — a la d’Orsay.—Tournedos dressed on croutons, garnished with stoned olives, mushrooms, and chateau potatoes ; sauce madere. — a la Othello.—Poached or fried egg on each grilled or broiled tournedo, with perigueux sauce. — a la Parisienne.—Broiled, with a garnish of asparagus points, noisette potatoes, and bearnaise sauce. — a la Pi6montaise.—Grilled tournedos dressed on croutons, garnished with small timbales of rice mixed with chopped truffles, with mushroom head on each ; sauce demi-glace. — Polonaise.—Sauteed in butter, with little chopped onion, coated with reduced demi-glace flavoured with grated horseradish, and glazed under salamander. — ^ la Pompadour.—Grilled tournedos spread with tomato puree, with a slice of fried ham and a slice of truffle on top of each ; clear gravy.MEAT ENTRIES {BEEF). 177 Tournedos de Boeuf ^ la Portugaise.—Sauteed in butter, garnished with small stuffed tomatoes ; tomato sauce. — la Prince Murat.—Small fillets of beef and slices of raw foie-gras, of similar size, broiled separately, dressed together on bread croutons ; garnished with turned Spanish olives, stuffed with farce de cham- pignons and olive-shaped potatoes baked in butter ; sauced over with tomato and madere blended sauce. — ^ la Quirinal.—Grilled tournedos dressed on croutons, spread with duxelle or champignon puree ; garnished with straw potatoes ; sauce madere. — a la RachM.—Tournedos dressed on artichoke bottoms, sauced over with beef-marrow sauce (moHle). — a la Riche.—Artichoke bottoms, filled with green peas, placed on each tournedo, with a slice of truffle on top ; sauce choron. — a la Savoisienne.—Braised tournedos done in casserole, with demi-glace sauce, small button onions, cham- pignons, green peas, and chateau potatoes. — a la Scribe.—Tournedos dressed on croutons of rice, spread over with foie-gras puree ; sauce madere. — a la Strasbourgeoise.—Slice of braised foie-gras and a slice of smoked sausage on each tournedo ; sauce madere. — a la Thiers.—Par-fried tournedos finished in casserole, with braised button onions, slices of truffles, stoned olives, and brown sauce flavoured with sauterne. — a la Troja.—Grilled tournedos with anchovy fillet and slice of truffle on top of each ; when cold enclosed in brioche paste and baked in a quick oven; served with madere sauce, containing finely cut strips of truffle. — ^ la Valliere.—Sauteed and dressed on croutons, coated with demi-glace sauce, containing julienne strips of truffle, mushrooms, and tongue. — ^ la Victoria.—Grilled tournedos of beef, garnished with broiled small cup mushrooms, filled with bearnaise sauce ; served with truffle sauce. Beignets de Boeuf k la Minute.—Cold roast beef cut in strips, seasoned, dipped in frying batter, and fried in deep fat. Boeuf saut6 ^ la Bourgeoise.—Coarsely minced broiled beef with braised button onions ; brown sauce. — a la Flamande.—Braised pieces of rump of beef; garnished with stuffed spring cabbages ; brown sauce. Carbonade de Boeuf k la Flamande.—Thin slices of lean beef stewed in casserole, in rich brown sauce, with minced onions, neatly shaped, plain boiled potatoes placed on top of stew ; served in casserole. M178 THE MENU BOOK. Croquettes de Bcouf a TAnglaise (Beef Croquettes),— Finely minced cooked beef, made into square, cork, cutlet or ball shapes, egged, crumbed, and fried. — ^ I’ltalienne.—Fried beef croquettes with Italian sauce. Culottes de Bceuf, Maintenon.—Braised beef cut in slices and dressed in pyramids; garnished with small timbales of nouilles; seasoned with soubise and duchesse potatoes ; sauce demi-glace. Fricot de Boeuf a la Charles X.—Braised rump steak, when cold cut into strips ; egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with brown eschalot sauce. — a I’Indienne.—Curried beef stew, served with boiled rice. — h I’lrlandaise.—Stewed beef with potatoes cut in cubes, and onions ; brown sauce, Goulasch de Bceuf.—Lean beef cut in dice shapes, and tossed in butter ; mixed with dice-shaped potatoes ; seasoned with paprika, and finished in brown sauce. — a la Herz6govine.—Saute of beef, sliced finely, and fried onions ; tomato sauce and claret flavour ; seasoned with salt and paprika ; garnished with small rounds of fried potatoes. — ^ la Polonaise.—SHced beef, stewed, with fried bacon and potato cut in dice ; seasoned with Hungarian red pepper. Hachis de Boeuf a la Fran^aise.—SHced cold beef braised in butter and finely chopped onions, finished in brown sauce and chopped parsley. — a TAnglaise.—Minced or hashed beef with poached eggs ; garnished with fried-bread sippets. Langue de Bceuf (Ox-tongue) a la Flamande.—Braised ox- tongue, garnished with groups of cooked carrots, turnips, green peas, French beans, and braised spring cabbage ; sauced over with brown sauce. — fumee aux petits pois.—Smoked, braised ox-tongue, with green peas. — au gratin (Baked Ox-tongue).—SHced boiled ox-tongue dressed on a buttered baking-dish, with a mixture of brown sauce, breadcrumbs, chopped shallots, parsley, and mushrooms, yolks of eggs, and fresh butter, baked in a quick oven, and served on the dish it is baked in. — a rindienne.—Curried ox-tongue with boiled rice. — a la Napolitaine.—Braised ox-tongue with stewed macaroni, tomato puree, and parmesan cheese. — au Parmesan.—Boiled ox-tongue sliced, arranged on a gratin dish, with a mixture of white sauce, grated parmesan cheese, breadcrumbs, chopped shallots, and fresh butter, baked in a quick oven.179 MEAT ENTRIES {BEEF). Langue de Boeuf a la Robert.—Braised ox-tongue with brown onion sauce. — d la Romaine.—Braised pickled ox-tongue, served with a sauce composed of espagnole sauce, white wine, blanched currants, sultanas, Italian pine-seeds (pignolis), flavoured with chilli vinegar and castor sugar. Miroton de Boeuf.—Shced cooked beef broiled in butter and chopped onions, and stewed in brown sauce. Noix de Boeuf h la Bourgeoise.—Braised piece of kernel or cushion of beef larded, finished in a richly flavoured brown sauce with a little tomato puree, garnished with braised carrots and button onions. — a l’6touffade.—Kernel of beef with brown sauce, stewed in the oven. Olives de Boeuf a I’Anglaise.—Thin slices of rump steak spread over with suet stuffing, rolled and braised, served with richly flavoured brown sauce, chopped parsley, and thin slices of fried bacon. Oreilles de Boeuf a la Sainte-Menehould.—Boiled pickled ox-ears; when cold dipped in batter and fried in deep fat. Paupiettes de Boeuf a la Richelieu.—Sliced fillets of beef spread with forcemeat, rolled and braised ; garnished with forcemeat quenelles, truffles, mushrooms ; served with Richelieu sauce. Palais de Boeuf (Ox-palate) au gratin.—Braised ox-palates prepared and baked in gratin style. — grilles.—Pickled ox-palates egged and crumbed, dipped in oiled butter and grilled, served with a piquant tomato sauce. — a ITndienne.—Curried ox-palate with boiled rice. — a ritalienne.—Stewed ox-palates dished up in a circle with fried-bread croutons ; Italian sauce. — aux Macaroni.—Braised ox-palates with macaroni. — a I’Orly.—Stewed ox-palates ; when cold spread with forcemeat mixed with savoury herbs, rolled, coated with white sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with tomato sauce. — ^ la Ravigote.—Stewed ox-palates dressed in a border of fried bread, sauced over with ravigote sauce. Poitrine de Boeuf frite h la Sainte-Men6hould.—Boned and braised breast of beef cut into slices, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat.THE MENU BOOK. i8o Queue de JBceuf—Ox-tail, Queue de Boeuf, brais6e aux Olives.—Braised ox-tail with turned olives and brown sauce. — aux Haricots Verts.—Stewed ox-tail, garnished with French beans. — a la Hotch-potch.—Hotch-potch ox-tail stew, garnished with glazed carrots and small onions (a national Scotch dish). — aux Petits Pois.—Stewed ox-tail, with green peas in centre of dish. — a la Polonaise.—Braised ox-tail, with rich brown sauce; garnished with cauliflower buds, tossed in brown butter, and besprinkled with brown bread- crumbs. Haricots de Queue de Boeul.—Stewed ox-tail, with braised carrots and turnips neatly shaped, small onions, and white haricot beans. Veau—Veal, Ballotine de Veau farcie.—Stuffed rolled breast of veal, braised ; served with demi-glace sauce. Blanquette de Veau ^ I’Allemande.—Fillet or breast of veal with sliced mushrooms stewed in white sauce. — aux concombres.—Stewed veal in white sauce with cubes of braised cucumber. — h I’Indienne.—Stewed veal in white sauce flavoured with curry ; served in border of rice. — a la Poulette.—Stewed veal with sliced mushrooms in white sauce with finely chopped parsley. — aux trulles.—Stewed veal in white sauce with sliced truffles. Carre de Veau piqu6 aux petits pois.—Neck of veal larded and braised, with green peas. — piqu6 h la Cr^me Aigre.—Braised larded neck of veal with sour cream sauce (sauce creme aigre). — la Pur6e de Tomate.—Braised neck of veal with tomato sauce. Cotelettes de Veau—Veal Cutlets, Cotelettes de Veau or Cotes de (Veal Cutlets).—Cotes or cutlets of veal should be cut from the neck or loin ; cutlets, however, should be trimmed with the bone left on, and in consequence can only be obtained from the neck. {See also Filets de Veau.) — h rAllemande.—Breaded veal cutlets fried in butter, dressed round potato puree ; sauce demi-glace. — ^ PAnglaise.—Breaded veal cutlets grilled ; garnished with potatoes fried or tossed in butter.i8i MEAT ENTRJSES {VEAL). Cotelettes de Veau en Belle-Vue (Cold).—Fillets or cutlets of veal cooked set in aspic, coated with chaudfroid sauce ; garnished with truffles and jardiniere. — a la Bordelaise.—Broiled veal cutlets, dished up on fried-bread croutons, with stewed cepes in centre ; sauce bordelaise. — au Chicor^e.—Broiled veal cutlets with mashed or braised chicory. — a la Cracovie.—Broiled veal cutlets, larded with strips of anchovy fillets ; sauce madere. — en Crepinettes.—Veal cutlets wrapped in pig’s caul, egged, crumbed, and fried; demi-glace or plain gravy. — a la Dauphine.—Veal cutlets stuffed with chopped tongue and truffles; garnished with potato cro- quettes ; perigueux sauce. — ^ la Demi-glace.—Veal cutlets fried or grilled ; served with brown, i.e., demi-glace sauce. — a la Dreux.—Broiled veal cutlets larded with tongue, streaky bacon, and pickled gherkins; served with a garniture of sliced mushrooms and sweetbread ; sauce tomate. — aux Epinards.—Broiled veal cutlets with mashed spinach. — a I’Ecarlate.—Plain broiled veal cutlets, dressed alternately with heart-shaped slices of ox-tongue ; sauce tomate. — grill6es.—Plain grilled veal cutlets. — a ritalienne.—Plain broiled veal cutlets with Italian sauce. — a la Lorgnette.—Egged, crumbed, and fried veal cutlets ; garnished with rings of onions dipped in milk and flour, and fried in clarified butter. — ^ la Maitre d’Hotel.—Plain broiled veal cutlets served with maatre d’hotel butter. — a la Mar6chal.—Egged and cheese-crumbed veal cutlets fried ; served with bigarade sauce. — ^ la Milanaise.—Veal cutlets, garnished with macaroni, stewed in tomato sauce and parmesan cheese. — au naturel.—Plain broiled or grilled veal cutlets. — pan6es.—Breaded and fried veal cutlets. — en papillotes.—Stuffed veal cutlets braised, served in paper cases. — ^ la Parjarski.—Cutlet shapes of minced veal, egged, crumbed, and fried ; sauces demi-glace and tomate. — a la Parma.—Veal cutlets egged and crumbed in grated parmesan cheese, and fried ; tomato or demi- glace sauce.i82 THE MENU BOOK. Cotelettes de Veau a la Prusse.—Veal cutlets spread with a mixture of truffles and finely chopped shallots braised. — a la Reine.—Veal cutlets egged and crumbed, broiled in butter ; served with demi-glace sauce, truffles, and preserved mushrooms. — saut6es au beurre.—Veal cutlets broiled in butter ; served with plain gravy. — ^ la Singarat.—Veal cutlets, larded, with small strips of smoked ox-tongue, and braised. — a la Soubise.—Egged, crumbed, and fried veal cutlets ; served with white onion puree. — a la Saint-Cloud.—Veal cutlets, larded with strips of truffles, broiled in fresh butter, and garnished with forcemeat quenelles ; sauce allemande. — a la Zingara.—Fried veal cutlets dished up alternately with cutlet-shaped slices of broiled ham ; sauce madere. Csrvelle de Veau.—Calf’s brain. — au beignets.—Calf’s brain fritters. — au beurre noir.—Poached calf’s brain; served with nut-brown butter (beurre noisette). — d la Demi-glace.—Calf’s brain blanched and cooked in brown sauce. — h la Financiere.—Boiled calf’s brain with a rich financiere sauce and garniture. — friture or frites.—Fried calf’s brain. — au gratin.—Calf’s brain prepared with white sauce, dressed on dish, and browned in oven. — aux huitres.—Calf’s brain stewed with oysters and chopped parsley. — a la Milanaise.—Fried calf’s brain served with macaroni and tomato sauce; garnished with ham, tongue, finely shredded mushrooms, and truffles. — d, la Ravigote.—Fried calf’s brain with savoury herb sauce. — ^ la Tartare.—Fried calf’s brain served with tartare sauce. Matelotte de Cervelles de Veau.—Brown fricassee of calf’s brains, dressed in rice cassolettes or croutes of rice. SoufQ6 de Cervelle de Veau.—Calf’s brain souffle, baked in paper cases or shells. Escalopes de Veau are fillets of veal cut into cutlet, round, oval or heart shapes, flattened and trimmed, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter. — aux asperges.—With stewed asparagus points. — aux 6pinards.—With spinach as garnish. — ^ la Holstein.—Garnished with slices of hard-boiled egg, anchovy fillets, gherkins, and capers.MEAT ENTRIES [VEAL). 183 Escalopes de Veau au jambon. —With fried or broiled slices of ham, — a la P6rigord.—Larded with truffles and bacon, and fried ; served with maddre sauce. — aux petits pois.—With green peas. — ^ la Savoisienne.—Dressed in the centre of a border of small savoury rice timbales; sauces, demi-glace and tomato. — a la Tomate.—Served with tomato puree. — a la Viennoise.—Served with brown sauce ; garnished with gherkins, ohves, capers, fillets of anchovies, and hard-boiled egg. Foie de Veau (Calf’s Liver) Saute ^ I’AHemande.—Sliced calf’s liver tossed in butter, with brown savoury sauce. — a I’Anglaise.—Fried calf’s liver with slices of bacon and brown sauce. — a la Bourgeoise.—Slices of calf’s liver larded and braised ; garnished with braised carrots and button onions; sauce demi-glace. — braise a I’ltalienne.—Braised calf’s liver with brown sauce containing tomato puree, chopped shallots, and mushrooms. — pand.—Breaded, i.e., egged or crumbed, calf’s liver fried. — pique.—Larded calf’s liver braised. — roti.—Roast calf’s liver. — saute, sauce piquante.—Stewed or tossed calf’s liver with piquante sauce. — frit a la Tomate.—Fried calf’s liver with tomato sauce. Quenelles de Foie de Veau.—Calf’s liver quenelles poached and served with brown sauce. Fricandeau de Veau.—Cushion or kernel of veal, braised. — aux Champignons.—Served with stewed mushrooms. — d la Macedoine.—Larded and braised cushion piece of veal; garnished with fancifully cut vegetables called macedoines de Ugumes. — au naturel.—Braised and served with plain gravy. — ^ la R^gence.—Larded, braised, and glazed with its own gravy reduced ; garnished with veal quenelles, slices of sweetbread, mushrooms, and truffles ; sauce mad^re. — a la Tomate.—Braised cushion of veal served with stewed tomatoes and tomato sauce.184 the menu book. Fricandelles de Veau, sauce tomate.—Small veal force- meat dumplings, boiled, drained, and when cold egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with tomato sauce. — au gratin.—Veal forcemeat dumplings, boiled, placed in a buttered dish, covered with white sauce and breadcrumbs ; browned in the oven. Filets de Veau (Veal Fillets) a la Bechamel.—Fillets of veal, par-boiled and stewed in bechamel sauce. — a la Frangaise.—Braised fillets of veal, served with a brown sauce, blended with tomato puree. — fare! a la Fran^aise.—Larded fillets of veal stuffed, rolled, and braised ; served with brown sauce and marble-shaped fried potatoes. — aux Haricot Verts.—Broiled fillets of veal with French beans. — d, la Milanaise.—Fried fillets of veal, garnished with stewed macaroni mixed with white sauce, parmesan cheese, and finely shredded ox-tongue; tomato sauce. — a I’Oseille.—Small veal fillets broiled, and served with sorrel puree ; gravy or demi-glace sauce. — a la Pur6e de Concombres.—Broiled fillets of veal with mashed cucumber. — roti aux Pommes Pailles.—Roast fillet of veal, larded ; garnished with very finely-cut strips of fried potatoes. — a la Talleyrand.—Small circular or oval slices of veal fillets fried in butter, and finished by cooking in a cream sauce flavoured with lemon-juice and shallots, and enriched with egg-yolks. Fricass6e de Veau h PAnglaise.—Stewed veal in white sauce with shced preserved mushrooms ; served with thin slices of fried bacon. — a I’Allemande.—Stewed pieces of breast of veal in white sauce, garnished with small quenelles, crayfish tails, asparagus, and sprigs of cauliflower. Gateau de Veau aux trulles.—Savoury veal cake, baked and served with truffle sauce. — au bain-marie.—Veal cake, poached or steamed ; served with white sauce. Goulache de Veau k la Hongroise. — Finely-cut broiled veal with pepper sauce. Grenadins de Veau.—Larded veal fillets (collops), broiled or braised. — aux ^pinards.—Braised veal fillets with spinach puree. — a la Fermiere.—Garnished with groups of cooked carrots, lettuce, cauliflower, and small round fried potatoes ; sauce demi-glace.185 MEAT ENTRJ^ES [VEAL). sauce. Grenadins de Veau aux petits pois.—With green peas. — a la Tomate.—With tomato sauce or garnished with fried tomatoes. Timbales de Godiveau.—A kind of small pudding made of veal forcemeat, steamed ; served with white sauce. Haricot de Veau a I’Anglaise.—Stewed pieces of neck of veal, with braised button onions, green peas, carrots, and turnips; brown sauce. Hachis de Veau.—Minced veal, cooked in white sauce. Langiie de Veau—Calf^s Tongue, Langue de Veau aux 6pinards.—Braised or stewed calf’s tongue, with spinach. — au gratin.—Cooked calf’s tongue sliced, dressed on dish, and baked with brown sauce. — a ritalienne.—Boiled pickled calf’s tongue with Itahan sauce. — en papillotes.—Braised calf’s tongue in paper cases. — aux petits pois.—Braised calf’s tongue with green peas. — a la Poivrade.—Braised calf’s tongue with brown pepper sauce. — aux pointes d’asperges.—With asparagus points. — ^ la Tartare.—Cooked veal tongues, cut in halves, egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with tartare sauce. Longe de Veau—Toin of Veal, Longe de Veau k TAnglaise.—Loin of veal stuffed with forcemeat and savoury herbs; served with fried or grilled slices of bacon. — a PAllemande.—Braised loin of veal, boned, and stuffed with veal forcemeat and bacon. — a la Fran^aise.—Braised loin of veal, boned, and stuffed; served with stuffed tomatoes and potato croquettes. — a la Montglas.—Braised loin of veal, larded, garnished with tongue, truffles, chicken fillet, and mushrooms cut in dice or shreds ; sauce demi-glace. — a la Provencale.—Roast loin of veal, stuffed with minced onions and pork forcemeat; served with stuffed tomatoes ; sauce proven^ale. Mous de Veau ^ I’Indienne.—Calf’s lungs, stewed in curry sauce, and served with boiled rice. Noix de Veau—Kernel or Cushion of Veal, Noix de Veau piqu6e k la B6chamel.—Larded kernel or cushion of veal, braised white ; served with bechameli86 THE MENU BOOK. Noix de Veau a la Finan^iere.—Stewed whole with cocks’ combs, cocks’ kernels, sliced mushrooms, and truffles ; sauce demi-glace or financidre. — a la Gendarme.—Larded and roasted ; served with a highly-spiced brown sauce reduced with chili vinegar and tomato pur6e. — a la Jardiniere.—Larded and braised ; garnished with groups of small spring vegetables. — a la Lyonnaise.—Braised ; garnished with stuffed braised onions, glazed chestnuts, and small pieces of fried sausages. — a la Montpensier.—Braised cushion or kernel of veal, larded with truffles and bacon. — a la Napolitaine.—Stewed or braised, garnished with small macaroni timbales ; tomato sauce. — dr la Nivernaise.—Braised, garnished with braised turnips ; sauce espagnole reduced with white wine. — a la Sarde.—Larded and braised ; garnished with baked, parboiled ravioh, previously filled with spinach and parmesan cheese. — a la Trianon.—Larded and braised ; served with a puree of chestnuts and demi-glace sauce. — a la Westphalie.—Braised with slices of Westphalian ham. Paupiettes de Veau aux Champignons.—Rolled fillets of veal, larded and braised; served with sliced mushrooms and brown sauce. — aux tomates farcies.—Served with braised stuffed tomatoes. Pied de Veau—Calf’s Foot, Pieds de Veau en fricassee.—Calf’s feet stewed in white sauce with shced mushrooms. — d la Poulette.—Boiled and stewed in white sauce, sliced mushrooms, and chopped parsley. — frits a la Tyrolienne.—Fried calf’s feet with tomato sauce. — a la Vinaigrette.—Boiled in stock, dressed and served with vinaigrette sauce. Olives de Veau (Veal Olives).—Slices of lean veal, sppad over with savoury forcemeat, rolled up like ohves, and stewed in white or brown sauce. — d I’Anglaise.—Small olive-shaped rolls of thin slices of fillet of veal, stuffed with veal forcemeat and bacon, egged, crumbed, and fried; served with brown sauce and fried shces of bacon.187 MEAT ENTRl^ES {VEAL). Oreilles de Veau—Calfs Ears. Oreilles de Veau farcies, sauce tomate.—Calf’s ears stuffed with forcemeat and baked, and tomato sauce. — a la Lyonnaise.—Boiled, cut into strips, stewed in brown sauce, and served with fried onion rings and bread croutons. — a la Tomate.—Calf’s ears fried with tomato sauce. Queue de Veau.—Calf’s tail. — k I’Allemande.—Calf’s tail stewed in white sauce. — a rindienne.—Curried calf’s tail with rice. Ragout de Veau.—Pieces of breast or other parts of veal fried and stewed in brown sauce, with sliced mush- rooms, carrots, turnips, and button onions. Ris de Veau—Siveethread, Ris de Veau a la Bristol.—Sauteed in butter, garnished with straw potatoes, tomato shreds, small poached eggs, and truffle ; sauce bearnaise. — a la Careme.—Braised sweetbread, stuffed with mush- room and truffle puree, coated with supreme or veloute sauce, dished and breaded with cheesecrumbs, and browned in oven. — d la Chanceliere.—Slices of cooked sweetbread, spread with Duxelle puree, then egged and crumbed, and fried in butter ; garnished with small young carrots, celery timbales, souffles, potatoes, and truffle slices ; sauce perigord (truffles). — a la Chasseur.—Stewed in brown sauce; served in a border of puree of game. — a la Chicoree.—With chicory or endive puree. — a la Colbert.—Shoes of cooked sweetbread, dipped in melted butter, sprinkled with fresh breadcrumbs, and broiled ; served with Colbert sauce. — a la Comtesse.—Braised, garnished with small puff- paste bouchees filled with vegetable macedoine tossed in butter. — a la Creme sur Bordure de Riz.—White sweetbread stew; served on a border of rice. — a la Dauphine.—Larded and braised ; served with potato croquettes and sorrel puree. — en Demi-Deuil.—Braised sweetbreads, larded with black truffles only. — ^ la Duxelles.—Slices of sweetbread, coated with veloute sauce, mixed with chopped parsley, ox- tongue, and mushrooms, breaded and fried ; sauce supreme. — aux 6pinards.—Braised sweetbread with spinach.THE MENU BOOK. i88 Ris de Veau frit ^ la tomate.—Fried sweetbread with tomato sauce. — a la Financiere.—Same as “ Toulouse,” but garniture is prepared in brown Madeira sauce. — la Gentilhomme.—Larded with bacon and truffle, and braised ; served with perigord sauce. — a la Godard.—The same as ” Financiere,” with addition of stuffed olives. — a ITndienne.—Braised and cut in slices, sauteed in butter with finely chopped onion finished in cream and curry sauce, dressed in border of saffron rice ; garnished with large olives filled with onion puree. — ^ I’ltalienne.—Fried sweetbread, masked with white sauce and breaded ; Italian sauce. — a la Jardiniere.—Larded and braised, with neatly-cut groups of spring vegetables ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Matignon.—Parboiled, slightly marinaded in white wine and savoury herbs seasoning, and braised ; served with demi-glace sauce. — a la Milanaise.—Larded, braised and glazed ; served with stewed macaroni, flavoured with parmesan cheese, and mingled with shreds of ox-tongue, mush- rooms, and truffles ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Montpensier.—Larded and braised ; served in a border of rice with truffles. — a la Napolitaine.—Braised brown, garnished with small tartlet crusts filled with spaghetti a la Napolitaine, with slices of truffle on top of each ; tomate sauce. — ^ rOseille.—Braised sweetbread with sorrel puree. — en papillotes.—Braised sweetbread, served in paper cases. — a la Parisienne.—Braised, cut into shces and sauteed in butter ; garnished with artichoke bottoms, filled with green peas and asparagus tips, coated with Hollandaise sauce ; fondantes potatoes, and gravy (jus lie). — aux petits pois.—Braised sweetbread with green peas. — piqu6 aux champignons.—Larded and braised, with mushrooms ; demi-glace sauce. — aux pointes d’asperges.—With asparagus points. — a la Rachel.—Larded and braised ; garnished with artichoke bottoms filled with finely shredded truffles. — a la Russe.—Braised, cut in slices, sauteed in butter with shallots and fresh mushrooms ; finished in sour cream sauce and gravy, served in casserole with bouquet of small glazed gherkins in centre. — d. la St. Cloud.—Braised sweetbread, larded, served with tomato sauce and sliced truffles.189 MEAT ENTRJ^ES {VEAL). Ris de Veau a la Senn (invented by M. A. Meyer, New York).—Par-boiled, slit in two, dipped in butter and crumbed, and broiled in butter ; garnished with straw potatoes and watercress ; served with tarragon- flavoured butter sauce enriched with beef extract. — a la Talleyrand.—Larded and braised ; dressed on spinach or chicory puree ; truffle sauce. — a la Tomate.—Braised sweetbread with stewed tomatoes, and tomato sauce. — a la Toulouse.—Larded and braised white; served with trufiles, chicken quenelles, and cocks’ combs ; prepared in allemande sauce ; garnished with fried- bread croutons or fleurons. — a la Turque.—Blanched and braised, cut into slices, then egged, crumbed, and fried ; sauce tomate. — au Vol-au-Vent.—White sweetbread stew in a light puff-paste crust. — ^ la Villeroi.—Braised sweetbread, sliced, coated with veloute sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter ; garnished with fried parsley ; tomato sauce. — a la Viennoise.—Braised white, cooked in rich supreme sauce, tinted with paprika ; drained on rice border, and garnished with truffle slices, cocks’ combs and fleurons. Beignets de Ris de Veau.—Sweetbread fritters. Coquilles de Ris de Veau.—Sweetbread stew, baked in shells. Escalopes de Ris de Veau aux Huitres.—Slices of fried sweetbread, with stewed oysters as garnish. — a la Doria.—Slices of braised sweetbread, finished in veloute sauce; garnished with cooked cucumber slices. Hatelettes de Ris de Veau.—Larded sweetbread fried, grilled or broiled on silver skewers. Papilottes de Veau a la Maintenon.—Boned veal cutlets, fried in butter, stuffed with forcemeat and savoury herbs, wrapped in paper, and baked ; served with fried parsley. JRttgnon de Veau—Calf’s Kidney, Rognons de Veau d. la Bordelaise.—Fried and stewed ; red wine sauce with chopped shallots and parsley, and dice shapes of fried potatoes. — d, la Demidofl.—Shced, fried in butter, with sliced mushrooms, chopped parsley, and stewed in sauce madere; dressed in border of stewed rice mixed with truffles. — en Demi-glace.—Veal kidneys, larded and braised whole ; served with demi-glace sauce.190 THE MENU BOOK. sauce. Rdgnons de Veau grilles.—Grilled veal kidneys, cut in halves and served with fried bacon. — a la Madras.—Sliced veal kidney, tossed in butter with sliced onion and curry powder; then finished cooking with cream and veal gravy, flavoured with lemon ; served in border of rice, with little Madras chutney on top of kidney. — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Stewed veal kidneys with sliced mushrooms and chopped parsley. — a la Russe.—Sliced and tossed in butter, with fried shallot and champignons ; then stirred in sour cream sauce; served in terrine with bouquet of small glazed gherkins on top. — sautes.—Thinly sliced veal kidney, tossed in butter^ and stewed with onion sauce. — sautes au Vin blanc.—Sliced, sauteed, and stewed in white wine sauce. — saut6s au Vin rouge.—Sliced, sauteed, and stewed in red wine sauce. — a la Zeppelin.—Larded, with truffles, and braised in rich stock, white, served in mushroom border, made of fresh mushrooms, cream, and egg liaison, and poached ; sauce supreme. Roulade de Veau au Mad^re.—Rolled fillet or boned loin of veal, stuffed, and braised ; served with madere sauce. Saut6 de Veau ^ la Marengo.—Slices of cushion, neck, or loin of veal, fried and stewed, with sliced mushrooms, chopped Shallots, tomato and espagnole sauce; flavoured with sherry wine ; dished up in pyramid form : garnished with eggs fried whole in very hot sweet oil, and bread croutons. Tendrons de Veau.—Veal gristles, or veal tendrons, cut off the thick end of the breast of veal and fried, and stewed in brown sauce. — aux Concombres.—Braised and garnished with stewed cucumbers. — a rindienne.—Stewed in curry sauce with slices of fried bacon and boiled rice. — a la Provencale.—Fried in salad oil with finely chopped onions and herbs, drained, and stewed in a brown onion sauce. — frits k la Suisse.—Braised ; when cold cut into one- inch thick slices, egged, crumbed, and fried ; tomato sauce. — au Velout6.—Braised white and stewed in velouteMEAT ENTRJ^ES {VEAL). igi Tendrons de Veau a la Villeroi.—Braised; when cold, cut into slices, soaked in marinade, drained, dipped in frying batter, and fried ; tomato sauce. THe de Veau—Caips Head. Tete de Veau (Calf’s Head) ^ rAm§ricaine.—Stewed in tomato sauce, with peeled tomatoes, chopped parsley, * and fennel. — a TAnglaise.—Stewed in brown sauce, garnished with calf’s brain fritters and sippets of bread. — a la Destilli^re.—Stewed in brown sauce with sliced ox-tongue, gherkins, and mushrooms ; garnished with pieces of calf’s brain and slices of pickled beetroot. — Escalopes (de).—Boiled, cut in slices, steeped in oil and vinegar, sprinkled with chopped parsley, dipped in batter and fried. — frite a la Tartare.—Boiled, cut in pieces, pickled, egged, crumbed, and fried; served with tartare sauce. — en fricassee.—Stewed in white sauce with sliced mushrooms. — aux huitres.—Stewed in white sauce with oysters. — a ritalienne.—Stewed in brown sauce, chopped mush- rooms, shallots, white wine, and tomato puree. — i la Maitre d’Hotel.—Stewed in white sauce with chopped parsley ; maitre d’hotel sauce. — a la Poulette.—Calf’s head stewed in white sauce with sliced mushrooms and chopped parsley. — a la Robert,—Stewed in brown onion sauce. — a la Sainte-Menehould.—Boiled, dished in a well- buttered dish, covered with a mixture of veloute sauce, yolks of eggs and breadcrumbs, baked in the oven. — en Tortue.—Stewed in rich brown sauce with veal quenelles, button mushrooms, sliced truffles, cocks’ combs, ^cocks’ kernels, crayfish tails, and pickled gherkins ; garnished with fried whole eggs and fleurons (little half-moon shapes of baked puff- paste). — a la Tyrolienne.—Cooked in stock, cut in slices, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter ; garnished with fried parsley and lemon quarters ; sauce Tyrolienne. — a la Vinaigrette.—Boiled in stock and served with vinaigrette sauce ; garnished with hard-boiled eggs, anchovy fillets, and olives.192 THE MENU BOOK. Agneau et Mouton—Lamb and Mutton, Note.—Pr6-sale or Behague denotes Southdown mutton, and is frequently quoted on menus for mutton. Blanquette d’Agneau d la Romaine.—A white stew of lamb (shoulder and breast pieces), enriched with egg- yolks, lemon-juice and meat glaze ; garnished with small baked timbales of puree of artichoke bottoms. Cervelles d’Agneau (Lamb’s Brains) au beurre noir.— Blanched lamb’s brains, boiled and drained, with nut-brown butter poured over. — en coquilles.—Stewed sheep’s brains, baked and served in shells. — frites.—Parboiled sheep’s brains, egged, crumbed, and fried. — d la Maitre d’Hotel.—Blanched sheep’s brains cooked in white sauce with chopped parsley. — en Matelote.—Braised sheep’s or lamb’s brains with a red wine sauce ; served with small dice of broiled bacon and glazed button onions. — d la Rosita.—Croustades of fried bread with half a poached lamb’s brain, sauced over with mornay sauce, sprinkled with parmesan, and baked ; dished in circle with fine macaroni, and shredded truffles in centre of dish. Beignets de Cervelles h la Turque.—Parboiled, seasoned, dipped in frying batter, fried, and served with tomato sauce. Blanquette d’Agneau.—A delicate white stew of lamb. Chartreuse d’Agneau a la Gastronome.—Boned breasts of lamb, stewed in white stock, cut into strips, ranged in a chartreuse mould, alternately with braised lettuce steamed “ au bain-marie,” and served with demi-glace sauce. Carbonades d’Agneau a la Bechamel.—Larded fillets of lamb or mutton braised, and served with bechamel sauce. — a la Bretonne.—Cooked as above ; served with puree of white haricot beans. — a la Chartreuse.—Cooked as above, cut in slices, and dressed in a plain mould, with green peas, sprigs of cauliflower, and French beans ; demi-glace sauce. — I’Oseille.—Cooked as above ; served with puree of sorrel. — sauce Poivrade.—Braised boned loin of lamb or mutton larded, served with poivrade sauce. Casserole a PAnglaise.—Slices of lean lamb or mutton with suet crust, stock, and seasoning, stewed in earthenware pot.193 MEAT ENTRJ^ES [LAMB). cStelettes d^Agneau—Lamb Cutlets, {See also Mutton Cutlets.) Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Constance.—Breaded and fried with financiere ragout as garnish. — aux Concombres.—Broiled or grilled with slightly fried cucumbers. — a la Gussy.—Breaded and fried ; served v/ith veloute sauce, mixed with chopped cooked ox-tongue and mushrooms. — ^ la Duchesse.—Braised, masked with duxelle puree, egged, crumbed, and fried ; dished up on a border of green peas puree ; served with sauce supreme. — aux epinards.—Grilled or fried; garnished with spinach. — a la Jardiniere.—Breaded and fried ; served with stewed spring vegetables. — a la Longuet.—Partially cooked, pressed, and coated with villeroi sauce mixed with mushroom and soubise puree, then egged and crumbed, and fried in butter ; garnished with mushroom heads ; sauce demi-glace. — ^ la Maltaise.—Breaded and fried ; served with well- reduced sauce, composed of veloute sauce, sherry, lemon and orange juice, and finely shredded orange peel. — ^ la Mar^chal.—Egged and cheese crumbed, fried, with bigarade sauce. — ^ la Minute.—Plain grilled or fried ; served with gravy or demi-glace sauce. — en papillotes.—Par-broiled, wrapped in oiled paper with ends twisted, baked in the oven, and served with demi-glace sauce. — aux petits pois.—Broiled ; garnished with green peas. — a la Princesse.—Par-fried, pressed, coated with chicken farce, mixed with finely chopped parsley, shallots, mushrooms, ham, lemon juice, and grated nutmeg ; when set, egged, crumbed, and fried ; dressed round a puree of green peas or asparagus. — a la Robert.—Breaded and fried ; served with brown onion sauce. — ^ la Royale.—Grilled, dressed en couronne, with foie-gras puree and tomato pulp (mousse) in centre ; garnished with pommes soufflees ; sauce madere. — a la Sainte-Men6hould.—Stuffed from the sides with a mixture of bechamel sauce, grated cheese, chopped shallots, mushrooms, and parsley ; braised in the oven and served with Italian sauce. — a la Singarat.—Grilled or broiled ; served with finely shredded ox-tongue and onion puree. NTHE MENU BOOK. 194 Cdtelettes d’Agneau aux truffes.— Grilled or broiled; served with truffle sauce. — a la Villeroi.—Broiled or grilled and pressed, dipped in veloute sauce, rolled in crushed vermicelli, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat. Ris d’Agneau (Lamb’s breads).—These can be treated in the same way as calf’s sweetbreads {see Ris de Veau). Lamb’s breads are also largely used as garnish for all kinds of entrees. Cotelettes de Moiiton—Mutton Cutlets, {See also Lamb Cutlets). Cotelettes de Mouton k TAvignonnaise.—Boiled or grilled, dressed in a circle on a baking dish, masked with veloute sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and parmesan cheese, and baked in the oven. — a la Baden-Baden.—Broiled in butter, garnished with small turned young turnips, glazed button onions and fondante potatoes ; sauce soubise, with chopped truffle. — ^ la Bardoux.—Breaded, and broiled in butter ; served with green peas mixed with chopped fried ham. — a la BouchSre.—Breaded and fried mutton cutlets ; served plain or with gravy. — a la Byron.—Par-broiled, pressed, immersed in brown sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried ; dished up in a circle, with stewed kidneys in centre. — a la Chasseur.—Broiled, served with brown sauce containing finely chopped mushrooms. — a la Chatelaine.—Grilled mutton cutlets served round a bed of soubise puree, surrounded by artichoke bottoms filled with petits pois (green peas) au beurre, and a slice of truffle on top ; demi-glace sauce. — ^ la Choiseuil.—Spread over with veal forcemeat, mixed with chopped herbs and mushrooms, wrapped in pig’s or lamb’s caul, dipped in oiled butter, rolled in fresh breadcrumbs, and fried ; tomato sauce. — a la Clamart.—Breaded, fried, dished up in a circle with puree of green peas in centre; demi-glace sauce. — ^ la Dreux.—Breaded and fried ; garnished v/ith minced fried bacon, tongue, and gherkins ; dished up in a circle with mashed potatoes in centre. — ^ la Finan?iere.—Larded, cooked in butter, sliced onion, carrot, and bay-leaf; dressed in crown shapes, with financiere ragout in centre. — a la Fran^aise.—Breaded and fried in butter ; gar- nished with macedoine of vegetables ; sauce madere.195 MEAT ENTRIES (MUTTON). Cdtelettes de Mouton aux Haricots Verts.—Fried or broiled mutton cutlets, garnished with French beans. — en Casserole a la Hongroise.—Cutlets sauteed in butter till three parts done; placed in casserole with onion and bacon mirepoix, finished cooking in rich cream sauce and paprika seasoning ; served with straw potatoes. — a rindienne.—Breaded and fried cutlets, served with curry sauce and boiled rice. — a ritalienne.—Marinaded in a mixture of salad oil and chopped savoury herbs, egged and crumbed in finely chopped mushrooms, parsley, shallots, lemon peel, a pinch of mace, and breadcrumbs, fried in butter ; Italian sauce. — a la Maintenon.—Split open from side, filled with a stuffing of chopped mushrooms, parsley, shallots, and chicken forcemeat, broiled or baked in the oven, dressed alternately with heart shapes of tongue and ham ; Italian sauce. — a la Madras.—Breaded and fried (crumbs mixed with finely chopped ham) ; garnished with piccalilli cut in julienne shreds, and served with curry sauce. — a la Mancelle.—Plain broiled or grilled, dressed round a puree of chestnuts ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Milanaise.—Grilled, dressed in the centre of a rice border, the rice being stewed with tomato puree and parmesan cheese ; demi-glace or tomato sauce. — a la Minute.—Plain grilled or broiled, with gravy or brown sauce, chopped mushrooms and shallots. — au naturel.—Plain broiled or grilled mutton cutlets. — a la Nelson.—Par-broiled and pressed, covered with chicken forcemeat, onion puree, and grated cheese, baked in the oven ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Nivernaise.—Plain broiled ; served with glazed turnips in centre ; gravy or demi-glace sauce. — a la Pompadour.—Stufied with onion puree, fried, and garnished with stuffed tomatoes. — a la Provenjjale.—Par-broiled, one side coated with onion puree, egged, and breaded (crumbs mixed with grated cheese), fried, and served v/ith olive-shaped fried potatoes. — a la Pur6e de Pommes de Terre.—Breaded and fried, dressed round mashed potatoes. — a la R6forme.—Breaded with white breadcrumbs, mixed with finely chopped ham, and fried in butter ; garnished with mushrooms, truffles, gherkins, ham, and hard-boiled white of eggs, all cut into fine julienne strips, and served with poivrade sauce, mixed with red-currant jelly.196 THE MENU BOOK. sauce. Cotelettes de Mouton ^ la Salvanty. — Braised neck of mutton, divided into cutlets, dished up with puree of green peas in centre ; sauce demi-glace, — a la St. Cloud.—Larded with truffles and broiled ; served with gravy or demi-glace sauce. — a la St. Germain.—Grilled or broiled with greenpea puree. — a la Soubise.—Broiled or braised with white onion soubise sauce. — a la Soyer.—Par-broiled and pressed, seasoned, sprinkled with finely chopped parsley, shallots, and savoury herbs, crumbed, and fried in butter; served with demi-glace sauce, and flavoured with garlic and red-currant jelly. — aux Tomates.—Crumbed and fried, with stewed tomatoes or tomato puree. — a la Vatel.—Stuffed from the sides with chicken farce, mixed with chopped truffles, egged, crumbed, and fried ; garnished with financidre ragout. — a la Vicomtesse.—Grilled and pressed, coated with reduced madere sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried ; garnished with macedoine of spring vegetables; demi-glace sauce. Carbonades de Mouton en Ragout.—Stewed mutton, neck or loin chops, with carrots, turnips, onions, and mushrooms, and brown sauce. — a la Jardiniere.—A brown stew of mutton, garnished with a mixture of carrots, turnips, peas, and French beans. Epaiile—Shoulder (Lamb or Mutton), {See also Rel^;v^:s—Removes.) Epaule d’Agneau (de Mouton) roulee aux petits pois.— Boned, rolled shoulder of lamb, braised, served with green peas. — a la Bretonne.—Braised ; served with a puree of white haricot beans and demi-glace sauce. — braisee aux truffes.—Boned, stuffed, and rolled, braised ; served with sliced truffles and demi-glace sauce. — a la Che vet.—Boned, rolled, roasted, and glazed ; served with a brown sauce reduced with white wine, flavoured with chopped shallots and parsley. — glac6e.—Boned, rolled, braised, and glazed ; served with demi-glace sauce. — a la Montmorency.—Boned, stuffed with forcemeat, larded and braised ; served with a garniture of cocks’ combs, mushroom heads, truffles, chicken quenelles, and slices of sweetbread, done in veloute or allemandeMEAT ENTRIES {MUTTON). 197 Epaule d’Agneaii (de Mouton) d la Paysanne.—Boned and braised ; garnished with small stewed carrots, turnips, and peeled tomatoes ; demi-glace sauce. — ^ la Polonaise.—Boned, braised, and sliced ; dressed in the centre of a border of mashed potatoes ; sauced over with gravy, sprinkled over with fried breadcrumbs, and baked. — a la Sainte-Mendhould.—Boned and braised, with carrots, turnips, bacon, and savoury herbs ; when done cut into slices, dished up, covered with brown sauce, breadcrumbs, and small pieces of butter, browned in a hot oven or under the salamander. — aux tomates farcies.—Braised with baked stuffed tomatoes and demi-glace sauce. — a la Windsor.—Boned, rolled, and braised ; garnished with cauliflower, carrots, turnips, capers, and fried potato croquettes ; espagnole sauce. Epigrammes.—Boned breast of lamb or mutton, braised or boiled, pressed, and cut into small portions (collops) ; denotes also a dish of alternate cutlets, cut from the neck and the breast, according to the style adopted. Epigrammes d’Agneau (de Mouton) ^ la Pdrigord.— Fried slices of lamb stewed in truffle sauce. — ^ la B^arnaise.—Prepared as above; when cold, coated with veloute sauce, dipped in eggs and bread- crumbs, and fried in clarified butter ; served with bearnaise sauce in the centre of dish. — d’Agneau a la Dauphine.—Cooked, pressed, cut up, dipped in a mixture of butter and yolks of eggs, and crumbed, fried, and served with a puree of green peas and potato croquettes. — a la Macedoine.—As above, with a mixture of vegetables in centre of dish ; gravy or demi-glace sauce. — a la Napolitaine.—Fried, served with stewed macaroni and tomato puree. — a la Parme.—Braised, pressed, cut up, egged, and crumbed in bread and grated parmesan cheese, and fried in butter. — au Pur6e de Marrons.—As above, with chestnut puree in centre of dish ; gravy or demi-glace sauce. — Si la Soubise.—Prepared as above and fried in butter ; served with white onion puree in centre of dish ; demi-glace sauce. Escalopes.—Fillets or cutlets cut from the neck or loin (chump end) of lamb or mutton, freed from bone or fat : egged, crumbed, and fried in butter. — S la Chipolata.—Crumbed and fried ; garnished with braised chestnuts, carrots, turnips, and button onions, pieces of fried sausages, and potato croquettes.198 THE MENU BOOK. Escalopes aux fines herbes.—Broiled, served with a rich brown sauce, mixed with chopped shallots and parsley. — a la Puree de Champignons.—Grilled or broiled, with pur6e of fresh mushrooms. Fillets of Lamb or Mutton, These are obtained from the loin or neck of lamb or mutton, cut of usual thickness, and must be free from bone and fat. Filet de Mouton braise a I’Anglaise.—Boned loin of mutton stuffed with forcemeat, braised, cut up and dressed ; garnished with French beans. — a la Byron.—Grilled or broiled, coated with onion puree, and stewed sheep’s kidneys in centre of dish. — ^ la Gascogne.—Larded with anchovy fillets, and braised ; served with brown sauce, flavoured with garlic. — a la Minute.—Grilled or broiled ; served with plain gravy. — a la Polonaise.—Larded, pickled, and braised; garnished with stufled mushrooms ; brown sauce. — a la Venaison.—Larded and marinaded whole in vine- gar brine; flavoured with cloves, juniper berries, peppercorns, and savoury herbs ; braised, and served with brown sauce enriched with sour cream. — ^ la Villeroi.—Braised whole, cooled, cut up, and masked with allemande sauce, then egged and crumbed in bread and grated cheese, fried in deep fat, and served with tomato sauce. Fricass6e d’Agneau.—Stewed breast of lamb in white sauce with mushrooms and chopped parsley. — aux Champignons.—Stewed breast of lamb in white sauce with sliced mushrooms. — aux Houblons.—Stewed breast of lamb with hop sprigs. — aux pointes d’Asperges.—Stewed breast of lamb with asparagus points. Hdchis de Viande.—A superior kind of hashed or minced meat, lamb or mutton. — a I’Ecossaise.—Hashed or minced meat laid in a pie-dish; seasoned, covered with brown or white sauce and breadcrumbs, and baked in the oven. — aux oeufs poch^s.—Hashed or minced cold meat fried in butter and heated up in brown sauce, with poached eggs placed on top. — d la Pompadour.—Hashed meat, with stewed mush- rooms truffles, and artichoke bottoms as garnish.199 MEAT ENTRIES {MUTTON). sauce. Hachis a la Portugaise.—Sliced cold lamb or mutton slightly browned in butter, with ham, carrots, and shallots, a little garlic, and parsley ; heated up in brown sauce. Haricot or Ragout.—Pieces of loin or neck of mutton or lamb, fried in butter, with a few small turned carrots, turnips, and onions, drained, and stewed in brown sauce. — a la Bourgeoise.—Braised, with vegetables ; garnished with same, and small braised button onions and boiled potato dumplings. — ^ I’Ecossaise.—Stewed lamb in brown sauce, sur- rounded with small forcemeat timbales lined with thin pancakes. — ^ la Flamande.—Stewed in brown sauce, with spring vegetables cut into neat shapes. — a la Hessoise.—Par-fried, stewed in brown sauce; served with sour-crout (chou-croute), and pieces of small ham sausages. — a rindienne.—Par-fried, and stewed in curry sauce ; served in a border of boiled rice. — a la Parisienne.—Par-fried, stewed in brown sauce, with cubes of carrots and turnips and fried button onions ; garnished with small round fried potatoes. — aux Petits Pois.—Par-fried, stewed in brown sauce, with green peas. — a la Provengale.—Hashed, re-heated in brown onion sauce, and garnished with small stuffed tomatoes. hangue de A gneau or Mouton—Lamb’s or Sheep’s Tongues, Langues a la Buxelles.—Braised lamb’s tongues spread over with a mixture of breadcrumbs, chopped shallots, parsley, and mushrooms, butter, and egg-yolks, dressed on a dish, coated with duxelles sauce, and browned in a sharp oven. — marinees.—Pickled and broiled ; served with brown sauce. — au Madere.—Braised, in Madeira wine sauce. — a la Soubise.—Braised, served with white onion puree and demi-glace sauce. Langues de Mouton brais^es d, la Fran^aise.—Blanched and braised sheep’s tongues ; split in half, and garnished with puree of turnips, braised button onions, and turned carrots; brown sauce. — aux Olives.—Braised, with French olives; brownTHE MENU BOOK. 200 Langues de Mouton brais6es en papillotes.—Braised, dressed in paper cases, and glazed. — grill6es a la Suisse.—Cooked, split in halves, seasoned, dipped in butter and breadcrumbs, and grilled ; served with piquant sauce. Longe de Mouton—Loin of Mutton. Longe de Mouton en Chevreuil.—Boned loin of mutton stewed in a rich game stock, flavoured with savoury herbs, carrots, onions, peppercorns, and juniper berries ; served with port wine sauce. — a la C61estine.—Braised, garnished with pancakes spread over with chicken farce, rolled, dipped in frying batter, and fried. — ^ la Demi-glace.—Braised, and served with demi- glace sauce. Noisettes de pre-sal§, Ch§.telaine.—Braised noisettes (fillets of mutton) dressed on halves of braised lettuce; garnished with noisette potatoes and artichoke bottoms filled with chestnut puree ; sauce madere. — Maintenon.—Small slices from neck or loin of mutton, free from bone and skin, breaded, and fried, dressed on croutons; garnished with artichoke bottoms filled with green peas ; sauce demi-glace. — Quirinal.—Grilled boned lamb or small mutton chops, coated with foie-gras puree, with slice of truffle, dressed on croutons ; financiere garniture ; sauce maddre. Noisettes d’Agneau au Chou.—Boned lamp chops, freed from skin, fat, and bone, tossed in butter and braised with small spring cabbages. — a la Villeroi.—Boned lamb or mutton chops, broiled in butter, half coated with white bearnaise and the other with brown bearnaise ; garnished with small artichoke bottoms filled with spinach puree. Oreilles d’Agneau.—Lamb’s ears. — de Mouton.—Sheep’s ears. — d’Agneau farcies.—Stuffed lamb’s ears, fried or braised. — frites, sauce Tomate.—Fried lamb’s ears, with tomato sauce. — gratin6es.—Stewed lamb’s ears, sauced over, breaded and baked. — a rindienne.—Curried lamb’s ears with boiled rice. — d I’ltalienne.—Braised lamb’s ears with Italian sauce.201 MEAT ENTRJ^ES {LAMB). Pieds d’Agneau.—Lamb’s feet. — de Mouton.—Sheep’s trotters. — farcis et braises.—Lamb’s or sheep’s feet boiled, boned, stuffed, and braised ; sauce demi-glace. — frits a I’Horley.—Cooked in stock, boned, and cut in slices, marinaded in oil, vinegar, and herbs, dipped in frying batter, and fried in deep fat ; tomato sauce. — a rindienne.—Boiled, boned, egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with curry sauce and boiled rice. — ^ la Poulette.—Cooked in stock, boned, and stewed in white sauce, with sliced mushrooms, chopped parsley, and lemon juice. — h la Rouennaise.—Boiled, boned, and stuffed with sausage meat, dipped in frying batter, and fried in hot fat; served with piquant sauce. — frits a la Tartare.—Sheep’s trotters fried as above ; served with tartare sauce. — a la Villeroi.—Boiled, boned, stuffed, rolled, coated with supreme sauce, then egged and crumbed, and fried in deep fat. Poitrine d’Agneau.—Breast of lamb. — aux Asperges.—Braised ; served with asparagus points. — a I’Espagnole.—Boned, stuffed, rolled, and braised ; garnished with olives, and served with Spanish sauce. — a la Milanaise.—Braised ; dressed on a bed of rice, stewed in tomato sauce, etc. — farcie ^ la V6ry.—Boned, stuffed with veal forcemeat, and braised ; served with saute of French beans and demi-glace sauce. — d’Agneau ^ la Turque.—Boned, stuffed, with sausage meat, braised, dressed in a border of stewed rice, flavoured with saffron, sauced over with demi-glace. Poitrine de Mouton.—Breast of mutton. — aux Haricots Verts.—Braised; served with French beans. — aux Macaroni.—Cut into pieces, stewed, and served with macaroni stewed in tomato sauce. — a la Nivernaise.—Stuffed and braised ; garnished with braised turnips and button onions. — aux Petits Pols.—Stewed the same way as ragout or haricot ; served with green peas. — ^ la Robert.—Braised ; served with brown onion sauce. Queue d’Agneau.—Lamb’s tail. — sautees.—Sheep’s or lamb’s tails fried in butter and stewed in brown sauce.202 THE MENU BOOK. Queue d*Agneau d. la purde de pels.—Stewed in brown sauce, dressed in a border of puree of green peas. — au riz.—Stewed in brown sauce with rice. Queue de Mouton.—Sheep’s tail. — aux epinards.—Braised, served with spinach. — braisees h la Fran^aise.—Braised, with carrots, turnips, and small onions ; garnished with these vegetables and with fried potato balls. — d la Jardiniere.—Braised, served with neatly cut mixed spring vegetables. Mis d’Agneau—Lambs’ Breads, Coquilles de Ris d’Agneau.—Lambs’ breads-stew baked in shells or pastry cases. Ris d’Agneau a la Mirabeau.—Lambs’ breads braised white and cut in rounds (medallions), masked with white chaudfroid sauce, and placed on tartlet crusts filled with lamb’s bread puree mixed with tongue ; garnished with truffle and pimiento slices. — aux Petits Pois.—Braised lambs’ breads, larded ; served with green peas. — en caisses.—Braised lambs’ breads, served in paper cases. — frit.—Fried lambs’ breads. — h la Jardiniere.—Braised lambs’ breads, larded; served with finely cut spring vegetables. — au riz.—Stewed lambs’ breads with sliced mushrooms and white sauce ; served in a rice border. Rognons de Mouton.—Sheep’s kidney. — au beurre d’Anchois.—Broiled or grilled, with anchovy butter in centre ; demi-glace sauce. — dr la broche.—Grilled or broiled on skewers. — au Champagne.—SHced, par-fried, and stewed with Champagne and brov/n sauce. — d la Chinoise.—Split, grilled, centres filled with stewed asparagus points, and garnished with whole fried eggs ; tomato sauce. — d I’Epicurienne.—Split open and broiled, the centres filled with tartare sauce; garnished with small round fried potatoes ; poivrade sauce round dish. — d la Maitre d*H6tel.—Skinned, split open, and broiled ; served with maitre d’hotel butter. — aux fines herbes.—Grilled or broiled, centre filled with parsley butter ; demi-glace sauce.MEAT ENTRJ^ES {PORK). 203 Rognons de Mouton sautees a la Franpaise.—Sliced and seasoned, tossed with butter over a quick fire ; when partly done dredged with flour, and finished with demi- glace sauce ; garnished with fried-bread croutons, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. — sautes au Mad^re.—Sliced, tossed in butter, and served with madere sauce. — a la Majestic.—Grilled sheep’s kidneys, served in a baked potato border on a puree of fresh mushrooms ; sauced over with bearnaise. — panes.—Par-broiled split sheep’s kidneys put on skewers, buttered, breadcrumbed, and baked in the oven or fried in deep fat. — a la Turbigo.—Sliced and stewed, with finely chopped shallots and white wine, mixed with thin slices of sausages and dice of fried lean bacon. Pore—Pork. {See also Light Entree and Cold Entree Sections.) Carbonade de Pore a la Frangaise (Breast or Belly part).— Slices of fresh pork with vegetable garnish stewed in brown sauce. Carre de Pore a la Nivernaise.—Braised neck of pork with glazed button onions and cubes of turnips. — braisee, sauce Piquante.—Braised neck of pork with piquant sauce. — a PIndienne.—Curried neck of pork, with boiled rice. Cervelles de Pore d, la Demi-Glace.—Blanched pigs’ brains stewed in demi-glace sauce. — a I’ltalienne.—Stewed in Italian sauce, with macaroni garnish. Cotes de Pore a la Diplomate.—Braised spare ribs of pork, garnished with stewed red cabbage, fried pork sausages, and stuffed potatoes. Cotelettes de Pore Berlinoise.—Small pork cutlets partially fried ; pressed and spread with liver-sausage farce ; wrapped in pig’s caul and finished cooking ; served with celery and potato puree (gratine); truffle sauce. — grillees.—Broiled pork cutlets. — aux fines herbes.—Broiled, and stewed in brown sauce containing chopped parsley and white wine. — aux Haricots blancs.—Fried, served with puree of white haricot beans. — de Pore d, I’lndienne.—Par-fried, stewed in curry sauce, and served with boiled rice with saffron flavour. — aux Lentilles.—Braised or stewed, with a puree of lentils.204 THE MENU BOOK. Cotelettes de Pore marin6es.—Pickled pork cutlets, fried in oil, stewed and served in tomato sauce. — a la Navarraise.—Pickled, fried, and stewed in brown sauce with sliced tomatoes; dressed on a bed of stewed rice. — aux Pommes.—Fried pork cutlets or chops with apple sauce. — ^ la Robert.—Par-fried, and stewed in brown onion sauce. — a la Soubise.—Grilled or fried ; served with onion puree ; demi-glace sauce. Jamhon—Ham, {See also Rel6v^:s—Removes.) Jambon grill6 aux petits pois.—Grilled ham with green peas. — S, I’Alsacienne.—Braised ham, with sour-crout, mashed potatoes, and Strasbourg sausages. — a I’Anglaise.—Par-boiled ham, wrapped in a paste crust made of flour and water, and baked ; served with the crust and skin removed ; reduced wine sauce. — bouiili, sauce Mad^re.—Boiled ham with Madeira wine sauce. — braise aux Nouilles,—Braised ham with nouilles as garnish. — brais6 au Champagne.—Braised ham with Champagne sauce. — brais6 h la Frangaise.—Par-boiled ham, braised in espagnole sauce, flavoured with sherry or Madeira wine. Jambon brais6 a la Choucroute.—Braised ham with stewed choucroute (Sauerkraut). — dr la Bayonnaise.—Braised ham with fried onions, dressed on stewed rice; garnished with pieces of fried sausages ; demi-glace sauce. — d la Clamart.—Braised ham, glazed with reduced demi-glace ; garnished with puree of green peas. — aux Epinards.—Braised ham with spinach. — d la Milanaise.—Boiled and braised in white wine flavoured brown sauce, served with Macaroni d la Milanaise. — a la Polonaise.—Braised ham, garnished, with small timbales of peas, choucroute (sauerkraut), and small smoked pork sausages. — a la Russe.—Braised ham, with small stuffed spring cabbages and stewed rice.205 MEAT ENTR^:ES {PORK). sauce. Jambon de Bayonne a la Chantilly.—Bayonne ham, braised with rich mirepoix and claret, then glazed ; garnished with mushroom risotto, artichoke bottoms filled with chestnut puree ; served with demi-glace sauce and frozen horseradish cream sauce. Beignets de Jambon (Ham Fritters).—Minced ham, mixed with yolk of eggs and bechamel sauce, shaped into small rolls or balls, dipped in frying batter, and fried in fat. Mousse de Jambon (Mousse of Ham).—A delicately- flavoured, light, ham puree, enriched with cream, and decorated with truffle, etc.; served hot or cold. Souffl6 de Jambon.—Souffle of ham, served hot or cold. (For other ham souffl6s, etc., see also Light Entries and Cold Entries.) Janets de Pore marine a I’Allemande.—Boiled pickled knuckles of pork with stewed sauerkraut, forcemeat dumplings, and white sauce. Langues de Pore a I’ltalienne.—Braised pigs’ tongues with brown sauce and chopped preserved mushrooms. — a la Lyonnaise.—Boiled, with fried sliced onions and brown sauce. Oreilles de Pore en Vinaigrette.—Boiled pickled pig’s ears with vinaigrette sauce ; garnished with hard-boiled eggs, capers, gherkins, and olives. — frites, sauce Tartare.—Boiled, soaked in oil and chopped herbs, dipped in frying batter and fried; served with tartare sauce. — en Menus Droits.—Pickled, braised, and served with finely sliced fried onions. Palais de Pore gratin6.—Boiled pig’s palate, seasoned, dressed in a gratin dish with bechamel sauce, sliced mushrooms, breadcrumbs, and small pieces of butter, baked in a quick oven. — aux Champignons.—Pig’s palate stewed in brown sauce, with sliced mushrooms. Pieds de Cochon au Champagne.—Pickled pig’s feet, stewed in Champagne sauce. — en Fricass6e.—Fricasseed pig’s feet (white sauce and mushrooms). — au Mad6re.—Stewed pickled pig’s trotters (pig’s feet) with madere sauce. — farcis ^ la P6rigueux.—Pickled, stuffed with finely chopped truffles, braised, and served with truffle2o6 THE MENU BOOK. Pieds de Cochon, sauce Piquante. — Pickled pig’s feet stewed in, and served with, piquant sauce, — a la Sainte-Men6hould.—Pickled, boned, boiled, and stuffed, dipped in frying batter, fried in deep fat ; served with piquant or Robert sauce. Saucisses* de Pore aux truffes.—Fresh German pork sausages (Bratwiirste) fried; served with truffle sauce, — a la Lyonnaise.—Fried pork sausages with braised sliced onions. — a la Pur§e de Pommes de Terre.—Fried pork sausages with mashed potatoes. Tete de Pore d la Poulette.—Boiled pickled pig’s head with parsley sauce. — frite, sauce Remoulade.—Boiled pickled pig’s head, cut in small pieces, egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with remoulade sauce and fried parsley. — a la Mobile.—Braised salted pig’s head, with fried sliced tomatoes ; dished on stewed rice ; demi-glace sauce. Volaille—Poultry, {See also Light Entr^:e and Cold Entree Sections.) Canard—Duck; or Caneton—Duckling, Canard (or Caneton) braise aux Petits Pois.—Braised duck or duckling with green peas. — d I’Americaine.—Duck divided down the middle, rubbed over with a mixture of French mustard, chutney sauce, and seasoning, broiled in butter; served with brown sauce containing white wine, chopped lemon, pickles, and preserved mushrooms. — a la Bigarade.—Braised duck with orange sections and bigarade sauce. — a la Bordelaise.—Boned, stuffed, and braised, served with bordelaise sauce. — en Casserole.—Braised and served in earthenware fire- proof casserole, with demi-glace sauce. — a la Chasseur.—Par-roasted, and stewed in brown sauce with chopped mushrooms and fillets of game. — en Chemise.—Stuffed and braised like “ Rouennaise,” wrapped in pig’s caul, and finished “ en casserole ” ; rouennaise sauce. — ^ la Chipolata.—Braised in casserole, with reduced demi-glace and chipolata garniture. * Saiicisse usually stands for fresh sausage, whilst Saucisson denotes smoked sausage.THE ENTREE COURSE {DUCK). 207 Canard (or Caneton) a la Clamart.—Braised duck, with green peas, dice of ham ; demi-glace sauce, and fleurons as garniture, — a la Duclair.—Stuffed with the hearts and livers, finely chopped shallots, parsley, and seasoning, roasted, and sauced with demi-glace reduced with claret, orange juice, and chopped chives. — brais^ a la Frangaise.—Braised (breast larded), stuffed with chestnuts, chopped onions, and savoury herbs ; served with port-wine sauce. — ^ I’ltalienne.—Par-roasted duck or duckling, cut up, fried in oil, wdth chopped chives, parsley, and herbs, then finished in Italian sauce. — a la Lyonnaise.—Braised duck, liquor reduced to demi-glace, with small glazed button onions and glazed chestnuts. — a la Marcelle.—Braised with onion and liver mirepoix flavoured with claret; when cold masked with port wine flavoured aspic jelly. — a la Moliere.—Boned duck, stuffed with liver farce, and braised ; sauce madere. — aux Navets.—Stewed duck with new turnips; brown or salmi sauce. — ^ la Nivelle.—Boned, and stuffed with chopped ham and beef, braised, cut up, and sauced over with demi-glace. — 4 la Nivernaise.—Braised duck, with glazed turnips and button onions, and demi-glace sauce. — aux Olives.—Stewed duck with olives and brown sauce. — a I’Orange.—Braised duck, with sections of orange, glazed ; orange-flavoured brovm sauce. — a la Palestine.—Braised, with quarters of Jerusalem artichokes and demi-glace sauce. — au ^ Porto.—Par-roasted duck, braised in casserole, with port-wine sauce. — a la Proven?ale.—Broiled, and stewed in brown sauce ; garnished with braised carrots, turnips, and button onions. — ^ la puree de Lentilles.—Par-roasted, cut up, and braised in casserole with ham and lentil puree ; brown sauce. — ^ la Presse.—Roast fillets and wing portions removed, carcase chopped and pressed, and the juice thus obtained is blended with chopped liver and port- wine sauce ; this is strained over the dish. Escalopes or Filets de Canard.—Breast part of duck or duckling, braised and cut into slices, served with suitable sauce.THE MENU BOOK. 208 Canard (or Caneton) a la Routi^re.—Roasted, and served with brown sauce containing finely chopped duck liver, duck juice, and shallots. (Ducklings or ducks can be served in the same manner as a roast by stuffing them with a mixture of breadcrumbs, chopped livers and hearts, herb seasoning, chopped parsley and shallots, egg, and fresh butter.) — a la Rouennaise.—Boned duck, stuffed with liver farce, and braised ; demi-glace sauce, reduced with Burgundy wine. — a la Saint-Mand6.—Braised, and served with madere sauce; garnished with thick slices of cooked cucumber, slightly fried in butter, and fried-bread croutons. — a la Valencienne.—Roasted, garnished with rows of slices of orange, and served with orange sauce. — saute au Pecheur.—Par-fried, and stewed in demi-glace sauce ; garnished with crayfish tails. — a la Reforme.—Par-roasted, and stewed in brown sauce, reduced with black-currant jelly and port wine. Croustade de Canard a la Chartraine.—French raised pie- crust lined with forcemeat and filled alternately with sausage meat and stewed fillets of duck, baked in the oven. Darioles de Canard a la St. Germain.—Dariole shapes made of braised duck, made into souffle and poached or steamed; garnished with paste crusts (tartlet shapes), filled with green pea puree, and glazed tangerine sections ; hot zingara sauce. Dodine de Canard au Chambertin.—Par-roasted, breast braised brown with Burgundy in closed terrine; garniture: ragout of mushroom heads, foie-gras, and truffles. — en Gel6e (Cold).—Braised duck fillets masked and served in port-wine jelly, mushroom heads and truffles. Mousse de Caneton.—A light souffle of duckling, with garniture of oranges, cherries, and vegetable puree ; Rouennaise or bigarade sauce. Quenelles de Canard 4 la Senn (invented by M. Chevriot, chef to the King of Spain).—Mousse of duck shaped into quenelles, with fried bacon strips inserted and poached, and dressed in border of chicken farce; financidre garniture and truffle sauce. Salmi de Canard.—Par-roasted, cut up, stewed in rich brown sauce made with duck giblets. — ^ la Bourgeoise.—Par-roasted and stewed, with button onions slightly fried, and reduced in espagnole sauce with red wine.2og THE ENTREE COURSE {CAPON). Salmi de Canard a la Castillane.—Roasted, and stewed in brown sauce with orange-juice, and rind finely shredded. — a rirlandaise.—Par-roasted and stewed, with slices of fried onions, dice of fried ham, and port-wine sauce. — aux Olives farcies.—Par-roasted, cut up, and stewed in brown sauce with stuffed olives. — a la Verjus.—Par-fried, and stewed in demi-glace sauce containing blanched green grapes and red- currant jelly. Souffld de Canard or Caneton.—Duck or duckling souffle ; usually served with bigarade or rouennaise sauce. Supreme de Canard a la Marquise.—Braised fillets of duck, dressed in farce border, port-wine sauce enriched with cream, slices of truffle, mushroom heads, and asparagus tips as garnish. Zdphires de Canard a la Metropole.—Zephyr moulds filled with duck quenelle, meat, and salpicon ; poached, decorated with thin borders of puff paste, spinach, and cherries ; sauce reforme. Chapon—Capon or Capon Pullet* Note.—Most of these dishes may, if left whole, be served as Remove (Releve) ; but when cut up, sauced over,- and garnished, they become Entrees. Turkeys (Dindes) can be treated in the same way. Chapon (or Poularde) a la d’Aumale.—Fillets, braised white with quenelles, decorated with truffles, gar- nished with tartlet filled with gherkins, and tongue salpicon. — a TArgenteuil (Capon or Capon Pullet).—Braised white, sauced over with supreme, and garnished with asparagus points. — a I’Aurore.—Boned, and farced with veal and meat (godiveau) farce, and braised white ; sauce aurore. Chapon ^ la Banquiere.—Boned, and stuffed with mous- seline farce and dice-shaped slices of foie-gras and truffles; braised “ en casserole,” garnished with tartelettes filled with salpicon of truffle and foie- gras, small chicken quenelles, and larks poached in madere. — blanquette de, aux Champignons.—Boiled and stewed in white sauce with sliced mushrooms. — bouilli it la G6noise.—Boiled, garnished with finely cut nouilles, finished in veloute or allemande sauce, flavoured with parmesan cheese and curry. O210 THE MENU BOOK. Chapon a la Bourgecise.—Braised, finished in a rich brown sauce reduced with tomato sauce and white wine, garnished with groups of glazed carrots and button onions. — a la Cavour.—Stuffed and braised (breast larded and glazed), served with allemande sauce flavoured with meat glaze and lemon juice, garnished with small baked nouille or macaroni timbales. — ^ la Chanceliere.—Braised capon (breast larded), finished and served with a well-spiced white wine sauce (surface of capon glazed). —Chateleine.—Braised in oven, garnished with artichoke bottoms filled with pieces of cooked chestnuts and onion puree, also noisette potatoes ; sauce madere. — a la Ghimay.—Boned, stuffed with mousseline farce mixed with nouilles, and braised slov/ly in oven; garnished with asparagus points and nouilles. — ^ la C16ry .—Broiled in butter and stewed in parsley and onion sauce. — brais6 a la St. Cloud.—Braised (breast larded with strips of truffles and bacon) ; Madeira sauce. — a la Edouard VII.—Stuffed with cooked rice and foie-gras, cut in dice, braised white, and finished in supreme sauce slightly flavoured with curry ; gar- nished with diamonds of Spanish pimientos ; served in casserole. — a TElys^e.—Stuffed with mousseline farce mixed with foie-gras cubes and truffles, and braised white ; garnished with cocks’ combs, quenelles, and cham- pignons ; sauce supreme. — brais6 a I’Estragon.—Braised with tarragon sauce. — saut6 a la Frangaise.—Par-boiled and braised, finished in white wine sauce, with sliced truffles and mushrooms. — brais6 a la Garfield.—Braised (breast larded), served with a brown sauce mixed with cranberry jelly. — (or Poularde) a la Gastronome.—Filled with morilles (a species of mushroom) tossed in butter, braised with Champagne sauce, garnished with glazed chestnuts, truffles, and cocks’ kernels ; sauce demi-glace. — a la Gr6que.—Stuffed with cooked rice, tossed in butter, and braised white. — au gros sel.—Braised (breast larded and covered with strips of lemon rind), served with demi-glace sauce, containing a little coarse freezing salt added just before serving (hence the name, gros sel). — la H^loise.—Braised white, heart part removed and filled with mousseline farce and fresh truffles, then poached in oven ; sauce allemande.2II THE ENTRJSE course (TURKEY). Chapon a la Hollandaise.—Boiled or braised white, with new boiled potatoes and Hollandaise sauce. — ^ la Hongroise.—Braised, with thin paprika sauce, garnished with rice and tomato timbales; sauce Hongroise. — a I’lvoire.—Braised, sauced over with a rich ivory- coloured supreme sauce. — a la Louisiane.—Stuffed with cooked maize and pimientos, and braised, garnished with rice timbales, and baked bananas and maize tartlets. — a la Lucullus.—Stuffed with mousseline farce and truffle puree and braised, garnished with chicken quenelles, glazed truffles, and cocks’ combs ; sauce demi-glace with truffle essence. — a la Perigueux.—Stuffed with forcemeat and chopped truffles, and roasted ; served with perigueux sauce and chicken quenelles. — a la Pi6montaise.—Stuffed with forcemeat and sliced truffles, and roasted ; served with tomato sauce and ravioli paste quenelles stuffed with veal forcemeat and tomato puree. — ^ la R6gence.^Stuffed, and braised with white supreme sauce and sliced truffles. — a la Stanley.—Stuffed with cooked rice, mushrooms (champignons), and truffles cut in julienne strips, and braised in onion and curry mirepoix ; veloute sauce, enriched with cream and curry flavour. — a la Souvaroff.—Breast part filled with mousseline farce, foie-gras, and truffle slice, and braised in veal stock “ en casserole ” (hermetically sealed). — braise aux truSes.—Braised (breast larded with truffles), and served with perigueux sauce. Quenelles de, a la Vatel.—Poached forcemeat quenelles made of capon, chopped truffles, and mushrooms; served with a brown truffle sauce. Chapon, hachis de, a la Victoria.—Minced, re-heated in supreme sauce, with poached eggs, sprinkled over with finely chopped truffles. Dinde—Turicey. Dindon or Dindonneau—Young Turkey* (See also Chapon and Poularde.) Dinde en Brioche.—Fricasseed turkey, dressed in a border of mashed potatoes browned in the oven. Ailerons de, brais6e aux navets.—Braised wings, with mashed turnips. Ballotines.—Boned and stuffed legs, braised; served with spinach, tomatoes, or other suitable garnish.212 THE MENU BOOK. Dinde en Blanquette.—Stewed in white sauce, with sliced preserved mushrooms, — bouillie au C616ri.—Boiled with a white sauce flavoured with celery, and garnished with braised celery. — en daube.—Boned, and stuffed with sausage farce mixed with chopped truffles and cubes of ham, then rolled, and braised brown in oven “ en casserole,” hermetically sealed. — bouillie aux Huitres.—Boiled with oyster sauce. — bouillie, sauce Persil.—Boiled with parsley sauce. — brais6e aux 6pinards.—Braised breasts with spinach. — brals^e a I’lndlenne.—Stuffed legs, braised, finished in curry sauce, and served with boiled rice. — a la Chipolata.—Larded and stuffed with sausage meat or veal forcemeat, and roasted, dished up with a ragout of small sausages, squares of fried bacon, button mushrooms, quenelles, and sliced truffles, heated in madere sauce. — grillee a la Diable.—Cold roast turkey, cut into pieces, spread with devilled butter, and grilled ; served with a sharp sauce flavoured with curry. — euisses de, farcies a la Garibaldi.—Legs boned, stuffed with chicken and veal forcemeat, truffles, chopped ham and tongue, and braised, served with small macaroni and rice timbales ; sauce tomate. Filets de, a la Chicoree.—Braised fillets, with endive or chicory puree. — a la Cardinal.—Breasts, stewed in white sauce, coloured with tomato puree, garnished with stewed crawfish tails and lobster coral. Dinde k I’Etouffade aux concombres.—Stewed in the oven in brown sauce, garnished with braised cucumbers. — ^ la Godard.—Breast larded, stuffed with veal force- meat, sliced sweetbread, mushrooms, and braised ; garnished with sliced truffles, mushroom heads, cocks’ combs, turned olives, and chicken quenelles ; madere sauce. — aux Marrons.—Boned turkey, stuffed with chestnut stuffing, barded and braised brown. — aux Morilles.—Turkey stewed in white sauce with morilles (a species of mushrooms). — ^ la Provengale.—Stuffed with finely chopped boiled onions, breadcrumbs, chopped parsley, egg-yolks, sliced truffles, and seasoning, and roasted ; served with tomato sauce. — ^ la Reyni^re.—Roasted, dished up, garnished with small fried sausages and chestnuts, cooked in chicken stock ; served with brown sauce containing finely chopped and braised liver.213 THE ENTREE course {GOOSE). Dinde a la St. James.—Stuffed with sausage meat, chopped cooked turkey liver and shallot seasoning, and roasted ; served with brown sauce. Small shapes of cranberry jelly are served separately. — frite a la Tomate.—Cold boned turkey, cut into pieces* seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat! served with tomato sauce. — ^ la Toulouse.—Boiled, dished up with a ragout of sliced mushrooms, sliced sweetbreads, sliced truffles, cocks’ combs, and forcemeat quenelles heated in allemande or veloute sauce. — a la Yorkshire.—Boned turkey, stuffed with forcemeat and slices of cooked York ham, braised or boiled ; garnished with groups of vegetable macedoine and served with ham sauce. Dindonneau saut6 aux Champignons.—Young turkey, sauteed, stewed in brown sauce, with sliced mushrooms. — brais6 au Mad^re.—Braised, finished in Madeira sauce- Oie—Goose, {See also Dinde—Turkey.) Note.—In such cases where the bird is cooked whole, the dish may be served as Remove (Releve). Oie a TAllemande.—Braised goose, centre breast bone removed, and filled with gratin farce and apple puree, then barded with bacon; served with sauerkraut (choucroute). — a I’Alsacienne.—Filled with sausage meat stuffing, braised, and served with slices of cooked bacon and sauerkraut (choucroute). — a I’Anglaise.—Roast, stuffed with sage and onion filling, and roasted ; served with apple sauce (separ- ately) and gravy or brown sauce. — saut^e a la Bourgeoise.—Broiled and stewed with green peas, braised carrots, and button onions. — aux Chataignes.—Stuffed with veal forcemeat, mixed with blanched chestnuts (cooked whole) and braised ; served with apple sauce (separately). — Chipolata.—Roast or braised, dished up with chipolata garnishing {see Dinde X la Chipolata) ; served with apple sauce. — en Civet.—A brown goose stew, prepared like jugged hare. — Dauphinoise.—Stuffed with chestnut puree and chopped and braised shallot; served with brown sauce blended with orange juice and shredded orange rind.THE MENU BOOK. 214 Ole a TEtouffade.—Stuffed with boiled chopped onions, sausage meat, breadcrumbs, and seasoning ; braised in oven, dished up with a border of glazed turnips ; brown sauce. — a la Mont Vernon.—Stuffed with boiled chopped onions and mashed potatoes ; dressed in border of halves of apples, baked brown with goose grease in the oven, and served with brown sauce flavoured with red-currant jelly. — a I’Orange.—Par-roasted, stewed or braised ; gar- nished with sliced oranges, and served with orange sauce. — brais^e h la Polonaise.—Braised, garnished with sourcrout (sauerkraut), veal quenelles, and small smoked pork sausages. Foie-gras—Gooseys Liver. (For other Foie-gras Entrees, see Light Entrees and Cold Entries.) Boudins de Foie-gras Parisienne.—Small goose - liver sausages, broiled, dished in the centre of a border of mashed potatoes, served with madere sauce. Quenelles de Foie-gras P6rigueux.—Goose-liver quenelles, poached ; served with truffle sauce. Timbales d’Oie, aux trufies.—Goose-liver timbales, poached in the oven, and served with perigord sauce. Pdt6 de Foie-gras chaud.—Hot goose-liver pie. Fig eon—Figeon, Figeonneaux—Young Figeons, Pigeon farci brais6.—Braised stuffed pigeon; demi-glace sauce. — braisd aux Champignons.—Braised pigeon with mushrooms. — en casserole a la Paysanne.—Braised in fireproof earthenware casserole with slices of bacon, cubes of potatoes, sauteed in butter and gravy. Chartreuse de, a la Rouennaise.—Braised, dressed in a border of carrots, turnips, braised savoy cabbage, and small pieces of boiled pickled pork ; garnished with slices of smoked pork sausages, and served with demi-glace sauce. Pigeon en Compote, a l’Am6ricaine.—Stewed with small pieces of fried bacon and small onions, slightly sugared and fried in butter; served with brown sauce flavoured with cranberry jelly.215 THE ENTRJ^E COURSE {PIGEON). sauce. Pigeon en Comp6te, ^ la Bourgeoise.—Broiled, stewed in brown sauce, flavoured with claret and savoury herbs ; served with young carrots, green peas, and glazed button onions. — en Compote aux Champignons.—Stewed pigeons with mushrooms. — en Compote aux Petits Pois.—Stewed pigeons with green peas. — en Compote ^ la Rentifire.—Braised, stewed in brown sauce, enriched with a liaison of egg-yolks, and fresh butter. Cotelettes de Pigeon, aux pointes d’Asperges.—Boned, cut in halves, seasoned and shaped into cutlets, par- broiled, pressed, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter ; served with a brown sauce flavoured with sherry or port wine, and garnished with stewed asparagus points. Cotelettes de Pigeon, aux Champignons.—As above, served with stewed sliced mushrooms. Cotelettes de Pigeon, aux Petits Pois.—As above, but garnished with green peas. Cotelettes de Pigeon, en Papilottes.—Pigeon cutlets, spread over with mushroom puree or duxelle farce, wrapped in slices of ham and paper papilottes; demi-glace sauce. Cotelettes de Pigeon, a la Provengale.—Boned, excepting legs, cut in halves, and seasoned, broiled in oil, pressed, immersed in oiled butter, crumbed, and fried in butter ; served with proven9ale sauce. Cotelettes de Pigeon, au Supreme.—Boned, cut in halves, seasoned, fried, pressed, covered with chicken salpicon and truffles, shaped into cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with veloute sauce. Pigeon a la Crapaudine.—Split open, put on skewers, egged, crumbed, and broiled ; served with brown sauce, stoned olives, and sliced truffles. — a la Diplomate.—Fillets of pigeon, sauteed in butter and pressed, then coated with villeroi sauce and chopped champignons, crumbed and baked in butter ; garnished with pigeon quenelles and truffles ; served with demi-glace sauce. — a Pltallenne.—Braised pigeons with Italian sauce and chopped ham. — a la Minute.—Jointed, flattened, and tossed in butter, besprinkled with chopped onion, parsley, and sauteed champignons, finished in gravy or sauce. — aux Olives.—Braised or roasted, finished in brown sauce with stoned olives ; usually served in casserole. — aux Petits Pois.—Braised with green peas ; demi-glace2I6 THE MENU BOOK. Pigeon ^ la Polonaise.—Stuffed with gratin farce, braised “ en casserole,” sauced over with brown butter, lemon puree, and brown breadcrumbs. — en Salmis.—Par-roasted and jointed, then stewed in rich brown sauce, with sliced champignons and truffles ; garnished with farce - coated glazed croutons. — au Sauterne.—Braised in brown sauterne, wine sauce ; usually served in casserole. — a la Sevign6.—Boned, stuffed with mushroom and truffle stuffing, and braised; garnished with asparagus points ; sauce madere. — en Supreme.—Pigeon fillets coated with farce and slices of truffle, and cooked in butter, dished on poached farce border ; sauce madere. — a I’Espagnole.—Braised with dice shapes of fried ham, served with espagnole sauce, flavoured with white wine and chilli vinegar. — a la Marigny.—Cut in halves, seasoned, and braisedj dressed on heart-shaped slices of smoked ox-tongue, covered with oiled paper, and baked in the oven ; served with madere sauce. — en Matelote.—Cut into pieces, seasoned, broiled in butter and slices of bacon, stewed in brown sauce, flavoured with white wine, chopped chives, parsley, thyme, and mushrooms; garnished with fried button onions. — a la Nivernaise.—Stewed with braised turnips. — en papillotes (Pigeons in Cases).—Cut in halves, seasoned, covered with a mixture of liver farce, chopped shallots, parsley, and sliced mushrooms; dressed in buttered paper cases, baked slowly in the oven, and glazed before serving. — a la Paysanne.—Braised Bordeaux pigeons, cut in joints, dressed with green peas ; sauce demi-glace. — a la Sainte-Men6hould.—Boiled, in rich white sauce flavoured with parsley and savoury herbs; when cold cut up ; egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with the above sauce drained and poured round the dish. — a la Talleyrand.—Braised, garnished with artichoke bottoms, mushroom heads, braised chicken liver, and ox-tongue, heated in veloute sauce. Karl de Pigeons (Curried Pigeons).—Cut into quarters, fried in butter, and curried ; served in a rice border. Pat6 de Pigeons a la Frangaise (French Pigeon Pie).— Piecrust filled with stewed pigeons and sliced bacon and mushrooms baked ; served hot or cold (poivrade sauce).THE ENTREE COURSE {POULARDE). 217 Pat6 de Pigeons k TAnglaise (English Pigeon Pie).—Par- broiled stuffed pigeons, cut into halves, filled into a pie-dish, with slices of rumpsteak, parsley, season- ing, and hard-boiled slices of eggs and stock, covered with piecrust, and baked ; served hot or cold. Ponding de Pigeon a I’Anglaise (English Pigeon Pudding).— Pigeons cut into neat pieces, seasoned, filled into a pudding basin (lined with suet crust), with thin slices of rumpsteak, hard-boiled eggs, chopped parsley, and stock, covered with suet crust and boiled or steamed. Timbales de Pigeons a I’Espagnole.—A kind of raised pie (hot water crust) filled with braised pigeons, mush- rooms, chicken liver, olives, small chicken quenelles, and dice of bacon and brown sauce ; baked in usual way, served hot. Pintade—Guinea Fowl, (See Pheasant (Faisan) or Poularde for styles of cooking Guinea Fowl; also Poularde and Charon, and Light Entries.) Poularde—Pullet or Purge Surrey Fowl, {See also Poulets and Charon.) Poularde a PAlbufera.—Large Surrey fowl stuffed with cooked rice, foie-gras, and truffles ; cooked white ; served with supreme sauce enriched with foie-gras. — brais6e a la Chicor^e.—Braised with stewed endive or chicory. — Dame Blanche.—Large Surrey fowl boiled or braised white, stuffed with creamed chicken farce ; garnished with small quenelles ; sauce supreme. — ^ la Derby.—Same as “ Poularde Albufera,” but cooked brown, i.e., braised and served with demi-glace sauce. — en petit Deuil.—Braised capon or poularde with whole truffles inserted in bird whilst braising ; cut up and finished in veloute sauce. — a la Doria.—Stuffed with cooked rice mixed with dice shapes of foie-gras and truffles, and braised whole (white), dressed on rice socle ; garnished with arti- choke iDottoms ; sauce supreme. — ^ la Dreux.—Large fowl, breast larded with strips of truffle and tongue, cooked white or blond (poeler) ; garnished with chicken quenelles, cocks’ combs, and cocks’ kernels ; sauce supreme. — a la Grand Due.—Fat pullet or poularde, fried in casserole, and braised thin with a rich brown sauce, flavoured with port wine and old brandy ; garnished with asparagus points, slice of foie-gras, and truffles. — aux Lasagnes.—Braised with stewed nouilles.2I8 THE MENU BOOK. Poularde d la Leo X.—Large fowl, cooked white, breast portion filled with sweetbread ragout, truffles, and cocks’ combs, breast fillets placed on top ; sauced over with supreme ; garnished with small rice timbales. — d la Mascotte.—Large Surrey fowl^ boiled in white stock, breast portion filled with chicken mousse ; fillets, and other part of bird coated with white chaudfroid sauce, and decorated with slices of truffle ; garnished with artichoke bottoms, filled with foie- gras mousse, covered with chaudfroid sauce and suitably decorated. Medallions de poularde Gauloise.—Capon or poularde braised white, fillets shaped into medaillons, coated with farce and supreme chaudfroid, and replaced to form breast part of the bird ; decorated with truffle and small salad, surrounded with gauloise timbales made of green pea puree and mayonnaise aspic. Poularde d la Metropole.—Braised Surrey fowl, jointed and dressed on savoury rice with slices of foie-gras and truffle ; garnished with artichoke bottoms filled with creamed fresh mushrooms, and croutons of calf’s brains and fleurons. — a la Milton.—Galantine of capon or poularde, braised in white stock, served with supreme sauce, and garnished with truffles, mushrooms, and cocks’ combs. — farcie a la P6rigueux.—Stuffed with forcemeat and truffles, and braised ; served with truffle sauce. Timbales de, a la Prineesse.—Timbales of capon force- meat mixed with chopped truffles; poached, and served with supreme sauce. Poularde en Supreme.—Blanched and boiled in rich stock, skin removed when jointed ; finished in supreme sauce, and garnished with slices of truffles, mushrooms, and cocks’ combs. — bouillie d la Turque.—Boiled, cut up, dressed in a rice border with tomato sauce. — a la Troulson.—Same as " Mascotte ” but filling is composed of foie-gras and chicken mousse ; garnished with groups of slices of jellied lobster, caviare, and gherkins. — saut§e a la St. Valentin.—Stewed with finely chopped truffles and mushrooms, garnished with mushroom heads (champignons), hard-boiled yolks of eggs, fleurons (small half-moon shapes of puff paste, baked), and chopped parsley; served with orange sauce, reduced with sherry. — a la Vierge.—Poached in chicken stock and braised white with bechamel enriched with cream; garnished with slices of sweetbread and pieces of calf’s brain ; sauce veloute.THE ENTRl^E COURSE [POULET). 219 Poularde h la Washington.—Stuffed with green corn or maize previously cooked and tossed in butter, and braised white, served with cream sauce, JPoulet, Volaille—Chicken or Fowl, Bouchees de Volaille a la Vatel.—Small bouche-shaped chicken creams, with foie-gras in centre, poached, and set in paste crusts ; sauce supreme. Cocotte de Volaille.—Jointed chicken, and sauteed, placed in earthenware casserole, with truffles, cepes, arti- choke bottoms, and lamb’s bread and its sauce; covered with a light chicken farce, and steamed in the oven. Cotelettes de Volaille a la Chinoise.—Pounded chicken, free from skin and sinews, flavoured with salt, pepper, curry powder, and nutmeg, rubbed through a sieve, and mixed with breadcrumbs and egg white, shaped into cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter ; served with tartare sauce. — a I’Ecarlate.—Small cutlets made of chicken farce, and poached, placed on cutlet-shaped slices of ox-tongues, and served on similarly shaped fried-bread croutons ; garnished with mushroom heads ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Montpensier.—Chicken cutlets ; boned chicken, cut up, or shaped into cutlets, fried, pressed, coated with farce, egged, crumbed, and fried ; tomato sauce. — a la Pojarski.—Finely chopped raw chicken meat mixed with cream, soaked bread, egg, etc., and shaped into cutlets, egged and crumbed and fried in butter, then cut open and filled with caviare ; served with tomato or piquante sauce. Cuisses de Volaille a la Florentine.—Chicken legs, fried in butter, immersed in supreme sauce, egged, crumbed in breadcrumbs and grated parmesan cheese, fried in deep fat; tomato sauce. — d la Wellington.—Chicken legs, fried in oil, drained, and stewed in brown sauce, flavoured with chutney. Filets de Volaille aux pointes d’Asperges.—Braised chicken fillets with asparagus points. — aux Concombres.—Braised fillets with small cucumber cassolettes, stufied. — ^ la Supreme.—Broiled fillets, larded ; garnished with truffles, and served with supreme sauce. M6daillons de Volaille ^ la Marie-Louise.—Chicken fillets shaped round, egged, and crumbed, and fried in butter, dressed on artichoke bottoms, filled with mushroom and onion puree ; brown gravy.THE MENU BOOK. 220 Medallions de Volaille h I’Orly.—Chicken fillets marinaded in oil, lemon juice, and herbs, coated in batter and fried in hot fat ; tomato sauce. — ^ la Reine.—Fillets in medallion shapes, pre-fried, and covered with chicken farce, mixed with lobster spawn, poached, dressed on socle, and sauced over with supreme; decorated with strips of truffles forming the initials M. R. — d la Romini.—Chicken fillets, sauteed in butter, with slices of foie-gras and truffle ; madere sauce. — ^ la Villeroi.—Poached, pressed, coated with Villeroi sauce, breaded, and fried in hot fat ; sauce perigord. Rosettes de Volaille Lamberty.—Chicken fillets poached white, dressed in china souffle cases, filled with white mushroom puree and foie-gras mousse, masked with chicken aspic cream, and decorated with truffles. Roulettes de Volaille a la Duchesse.—Thin rounds of poached choux paste, spread over with chicken farce and spinach puree, rolled up and cooked in butter, dressed in border of chicken souffle ; sauced over with supreme, tinted green with spinach. Poiilet—Chicken, {See also Light Entries and Cold Entries, p. 240.) Poulet de Grain.—Young fatted chicken. — a l’Alg6rienne.—Sauteed in butter, and finished in Italienne sauce, with triangular shaped artichoke bottoms. — ^ I’Arlequin.—Breast and wings skinned, larded with truffles and bacon, broiled in butter, and served with financiere ragout. — d la B6rcy.—Braised whole in shallot-flavoured wine sauce and chopped parsley ; garnished with small pieces of sausage and mushroom heads. — a la Chevriot.—A fricassee of fowl with slight curry flavour, supreme sauce; dressed in rice border, button onions, cocks’ combs, champignon heads, and fleurons as garnish. — d la Demidoff.—Fricassee of chicken, with rich white sauce, garnished with groups of spring vegetables and mushroom heads. — en Cocotte.—Par-fried with dice-cut bacon and finished cooking in cocotte pan ; demi-glace sauce or gravy, Blanquette de Poulet en Demi-Deuil.—Fricasseed, garnished with sliced truffles and mushrooms. Poulet bouilli ^ I’Estragon.—Boiled, served with white sauce, flavoured with tarragon leaves.THE ENTREE COURSE {POULET). 221 Poulet brais6 a I’Estragon.—Larded, stuffed, and braised ; served with a rice brown sauce flavoured with tarragon. — brais6s aux Fines Herbes.—Braised, served with brown sauce, flavoured with chopped chives, tarragon, chervil, parsley, cress, and white wine. — a la Bordelaise.—Sauteed in butter, with chopped shal- lots, finished in claret sauce and sliced mushrooms; garnished with potato croquettes and fleurons. — ^ la Cettoise.—Jointed, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter; served with tomato sauce and garnished witli stuffed olives. — ^ la Cardinal.—Breast bone removed, stuffed with veal forcemeat, and boiled ; garnished with small quen- elles and slices of truffles ; served with cardinal sauce, composed of white sauce, tomato essence, lobster butter, and chilli vinegar. — a la Carbme.—Breast and wings flattened and cut into round shapes, braised and pressed, finished in madere sauce, and dressed on border of potato puree (baked); centre filled with julienne of truffle, mushroom, and tongue; bearnaise sauce on each medallion, and madere sauce round base of dish. — en Casserole.—Browned in butter, with or without mirepoix, stewed or braised in an earthenware fireproof stewpan, in brown sauce; sent to table in same pan. — a la Catalane.—Saute of chicken, ranged in earthen- ware casserole, with layers of rice, bouquet, etc., and finished in oven. — ^ la C6cil.—Breast and wings, larded with strips of tongue and truffles, braised white, dressed in border of potato puree (browned in oven) upon a foie-gras farce ; sauced over with demi-glace. — a la Chanut.—Saute of chicken (tossed in butter with garlic and shallot flavouring), white wine, demi- glace, and sliced tomatoes, dressed on croutons of bread; garnished with sauteed mushrooms, new potatoes (fried), and green peas, liquor reduced and strained over. — a la Chevaliere.—Fricasseed (fillets larded with strips of truffles, braised and glazed), garnished with mushrooms, truffles, cocks’ combs, and small fried chicken croquettes. — a la Chivry. — Braised ; garnished with rings of Spanish onions, filled with onion puree, chives, and chopped tarragon, sauced over with a rich herb sauce. — en Cocotte or en Casserole.—Small fat chicken braised whole in a fire-proof casserole ; garnished with slice of ham, artichoke bottoms, and mushrooms ; demi- glace sauce.THE MENU BOOK. 222 Poulet en Compote. — Stewed in rich brown sauce, with mushrooms, slices of fried bacon, and braised button onions. — a la Delcass6.—Sauteed in butter, and finished in Bordelaise sauce; garnished with cepes, tomato quarters and fleurons. — ^ la Diable.—Spring chickens split open at the back, highly seasoned with cayenne, dipped in oiled butter, and grilled ; spread over with mixed mustard or devilled butter. Cold fowl treated in same manner. — a la Diane.—Sauteed in butter, but kept white, finished in cream sauce ; garnished with mushrooms and chopped truffles. — a TEcarlate.—Braised ; garnished with heart-shaped slices of cooked ox-tongue ; served with demi-glace or veloute sauce. Epigrammes de, ^ la Villeroi.—Fillets, seasoned and slightly broiled, immersed in veloute sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with tomato sauce. — aux truffes.—Boned and skinned, cut into heart shapes or fillets, larded, with truffles, and broiled in butter ; served with truffle sauce. Escalopes de, a I’Anglaise.—Minced (cold roast or boiled), stewed in bechamel sauce, filled into scallop shells, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and small pieces of butter, and baked in a quick oven. Filets de, h I’lmperiale.—Larded breasts and wings, braised, and served with game quenelles and truffles. — a la Jardiniere.—Breasts broiled ; garnished with groups of young spring vegetables ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Marcelle.—Chicken fillets, crumbed, and broiled in butter, dressed round a shape of Anna potatoes ; sauce Godard, flavoured with paprika. Fricassee de, h I’Ancienne.—Cooked in white sauce, with small button onions and mushroom heads ; garnished with puff-paste fleurons. — aux Champignons.—Stewed in white sauce with sliced mushrooms. — a la Havelock.—Blanched and stewed in allemande sauce, enriched with egg-yolks and fresh butter ; garnished with rings of ox-tongue, truffles, mush- rooms, and cocks’ combs. — ^ la Printanifire.—Fricasseed chicken, garnished with young green peas and beans and other spring vegetables. Poulet farci, Reine Olga.—Stuffed with breadcrumbs, butter, and chopped ham, breast studded with ham ; braised in casserole, with bacon and lemon rind ; madere sauce.THE ENTREE COURSE {POULET). 223 Poulet frit a la Dauphine. — Broiled, coated with veloute sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried ; garnished with small potato croquettes ; tomato sauce. — frit a la Duchesse.—Boned, cut into small portions and flattened, steeped in oil and lemon juice, flavoured with savoury herbs and onions, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried; served with veloute sauce, blended with cream and minced ham. — frit a rOrly.—Par-boiled, cut into neat pieces, and marinaded ; dipped in frying batter and fried in clarified butter; garnished with fried parsley ; tomato sauce. — frit a la Tartare.—Boiled ; when cold, cut into joints, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat; served with tartare sauce. — frit h la Tyrolienne.—Jointed, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried slowly in clarified butter; served with tomato sauce. — frit a la Viennoise.—Boned, cut into small portions, and flattened, marinaded, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried ; tomato sauce. — a la General.—Braised ; garnished with groups of green peas and asparagus points; served with madere sauce. — hachis, h I’Ecarlate.—Stewed in demi-glace sauce, and garnished with slices of braised ox-tongue. — a rindienne.—Stewed in curry sauce, with Indian pickles or piccalilli, cut in fine strips ; served with boiled rice. — ^ I’lvoire.—Boiled ; breast covered with slices of lemon, and barded ; served with supreme sauce. — a la Livournaise.—Split open from back, flattened, steeped in lemon juice and sweet oil, flavoured with bay-leaf, parsley, and onions ; drained, breaded, egged, and broiled in butter ; served with mayon- naise sauce flavoured with anchovy essence. — ^ la marine frit.—Boiled and cut into pieces, steeped in lemon juice and oil, drained, dipped in frying batter, and fried. — a la Montmorency.—Stuffed with a salpicon of sweet- breads, truffles, and mushrooms, breast larded and braised ; garnished with sliced sweetbreads and mushroom heads ; served with madere sauce. — h la Montreuil.—Boned, stuffed with sausage force- meat mixed with chopped truffles, and breast larded ; braised, cut up, and served with demi-glace sauce. — a I’Orientale.—Stewed in white sauce, with curry flavour, dressed in border of rice or risotto, timbale garnish.THE MENU BOOK. 224 Poulet a la Paschaline.—Braised, sprinkled with chopped mushrooms, sauced over with a rich veloute sauce, and garnished with halves of hard-boiled eggs stuffe_d with veal forcemeat, and fried. — poel§ aux Groseilles vertes.—Stewed in the oven in earthenware casserole; brown sauce with green gooseberries. — a la Polenta.—Braised white, finished in white wine and tomato sauce, garnished with small timbales of maize or polenta. — a la Pondich6ry.—Sauteed, stewed in brown sauce, mixed with apple puree, the juice and rind of a mandarin orange finely chopped ; served in a border of cooked savoury rice. — a la Proven^ale.—Stewed with braised onions, sliced tomatoes, mushrooms, and madere sauce. — a la Reine.—Fricasseed, dished up in pyramidal form, garnished with chicken quenelles, mushroom heads, sliced truffles, and fried-bread croutons. — a la Richemont.—Cooked in white or brown sauce with finely cut strips of carrots and truffles. — a la Romaine.—Braised, finished in tomato sauce reduced with marsala ; garnished with sliced truffles, braised lettuce, and macaroni timbales. — a la St. Cloud.—Braised white or boiled ; breast larded with truffles and ox-tongue, and barded ; served with supreme sauce mixed with finely chopped truffles. — a la St. Lambert.—Fricasseed, dished up in pyramidal form, surrounded with groups of small braised carrots, green peas, and French beans. — a la Stanley.—A delicate fricassee of chicken with rich supreme sauce ; garnished with fine shreds of truffle and ham or tongue. Supreme de Volaille a TAmbassadrice.—Poached chicken fillets with supreme sauce, lamb’s-bread slices, larded, with truffles and groups of asparagus points. — ^ TAlbuf^ra.—Heart-shaped chicken fillets, coated with mousseline farce, and poached in butter ; garnished with paste crust tartlets filled with small quenelles, truffle, and champignons ; sauce Albufera. — a la Belle-Helene.—Heart-shaped fillets sauteed in butter, dressed on similar shaped croquettes of chicken, garnished with asparagus points and truffle slices ; rich gravy. — a la Chartres.—Heart-shaped fillets poached in cream, coated with tarragon puree, flavoured and sauteed in butter ; rich gravy, with tarragon flavour. Supreme de Volaille ^ la Jeanette.—Braised chicken fillets (white) ; when cold coated with white chaudfroid sauce and aspic; decorated with tarragon leaves.225 THE ENTREE course (POULET). Supreme de Volaille ^ la Mardchale.—Chicken breasts coated with chopped truffle, and crumbed, fried in butter ; garnished with truffles and asparagus points. — dr la Pojarskl.—Chopped chicken breasts shaped into cutlets, egged and crumbed, and fried in butter; garnished with green peas and other vegetables. — d la R6gence.—Heart-shaped chicken fillets, poached white, dressed on lobster farce border, garnished with truffles, cocks’ combs, and kernels; sauce allemande, with truffle flavour. Poulet saut6 d I’Archidue.—Sauteed white and finished in cream sauce with sliced truffles and brandy as flavour. — saut6 d la Bayonnaise.—Fried, with coarsely minced ham, stewed in brown sauce, sherry wine, small peeled and sliced tomatoes, dressed in a border of stewed rice. — d la Bdarnaise.—Sauteed, finished in a veloute sauce, enriched with cream, meat glaze, white wine, chopped parsley, and tarragon leaves. — d la Beaulieu.—Like “ Cocotte,” to which a garniture of marble-shaped fried potatoes and dice shapes of artichoke bottoms is added. — d la Bordelaise.—Sauteed chicken, cooked in brown sauce, enriched with chablis, garnished with quarters of artichoke bottoms. — d ’a Bourgeolse.—Par-fried and stewed in brown sauce with chopped mushrooms and red wine ; garnished with green peas and young carrots. — d la Bretonne.—Sauteed, with haricot beans, celeriac, and mushrooms, cut in fine strips. — d la Chasseur.—Sauteed, and stewed in espagnole and tomato sauce, with white wine, chopped parsley, chopped mushrooms, and lemon juice. — d la Demidoff.—Sauteed, stewed in brown sauce diluted with sherry ; dressed in a border of cooked rice. — d la Duse.—Cut into joints, fried in oil, and stewed in tomato sauce with artichoke bottoms cut in dice dressed in border of risotto (stewed savoury rice), sprinkled over with chopped white Piemont truffle. — sautd a I’Estragon.—Sauteed in butter, and finished in white wine sauce, rich gravy, and bouquet of tarragon. — d la Fermiere.—Sauteed, stewed in demi-glace sauce diluted with cream, lemon juice, sprinkled with chopped parsley, and garnished with groups of small cut spring vegetables. — d la Florentine.—Sauteed and stewed in brown sauce and tomato puree, and flavoured with chopped shallots, green pepper, and white wine. PTHE MENU BOOK. 226 Poulet h la Godard.—Breast, fillets, and wings skinned, larded with truffles and bacon, broiled in butter, and stewed in white sauce with chopped mushrooms ; garnished with whole truffles, mushroom heads, and fleurons. — la Hongroise.—Sauteed and stewed in veloute sauce, flavoured with white wine, chopped parsley, and paprika pepper. — aux Huitres.—Par-fried, and stewed in white sauce, with bearded oysters. — a PIndienne.—Sauteed, and finished in brown curry sauce, dressed in rice border. — d la Inkermann.—Sauteed and stewed in tomato sauce, flavoured with curry and meat glaze ; garnished with fried eggs and small slices of broiled ham. — a ritalienne.—Par-fried, and stewed with brown sauce flavoured with tomato, dished in border of rice; seasoned with tomato puree and parmesan cheese. — a la Lathuile.—Jointed, tossed in butter, mixed with dice shapes of par-fried potatoes and slices of arti- choke bottoms, and finished in demi-glace sauce; garnished with groups of braised button onions and fried parsley. — ^ la Lyonnaise.—Broiled, jointed, and stewed in tomato and espagnole sauce, reduced with white wine, minced onions, and fried in butter. — ^ la Marengo.—Jointed, seasoned, and fried in oil, stewed in rich brown sauce with sliced mushrooms and truffles; garnished with whole fried eggs, bread croutons, and braised button onions. — ^ la Mascotte.—Jointed, tossed in butter, and stewed in madere sauce, with slices of truffles ; garnished with artichoke bottoms and noisette potatoes. — saut6 ^ la Mexicaine.—Sauteed with peeled and crushed tomatoes, chopped mushrooms and pimientos. — ^ la Mousquetaire.—Cut in joints and sauteed in butter and chopped ham, drained, and finished in a tomato sauce, flavoured with claret, meat glaze, and lemon juice ; garniture ; cubes of foie-gras, fleurons, cocks’ combs, cepes, and truffles. — ^ la Parmentier.—Sauteed and cooked in casserole with noisette potatoes ; brown sauce. — ^ la Paysanne.—Par-fried and stewed in brown sauce with olive-shaped carrots, turnips, and celery root. — saut6 ^ la P6rigueux.—Par-fried and stewed chicken with truffle sauce. — saut6 ^ la Printani^re.—Par-fried and stewed in brown sauce; garnished with groups of green peas, small cut carrots, and French beans.THE ENTREE COURSE {POULTRY). 227 Poulet au riz grating.—Par-fried and stewed in brown sauce with dice shapes of bacon and chopped onions, dressed on a bed of rice, covered with rice and tomato puree, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and small pieces of butter, and baked in the oven. — a la Stanley.—Sauteed in butter with chopped or button onions ; finished in Bechamel cream sauce. — a la St. Georges.—Jointed and fried in oil, and stewed in veloute sauce and sliced mushrooms; surface glazed with meat extract. — a la Trianon.—Barded and roasted whole in fireproof casserole, finished with demi-glace sauce reduced with chablis; garnished with artichoke bottoms filled alternately with mushroom heads and green peas. — a la Vert-Pr6.—Boiled ; served with veloute or supreme sauce, containing chopped chervil and tarragon, and spinach greening. — ^ la Vigo. —Braised, and finished in Madeira sauce; garnished with small tomatoes, scalded, and baked whole. — a la Zingara.—Sauteed and cooked in paprika sauce with strips of ham or tongue and truffles; garnished with rice croquettes. Timbales de, k la M6ridionale.—Souffle of chicken, filled in timbale moulds, with concentrated tomato puree in the centre, steamed in the oven, and served with madere sauce. Poussins—Very Young Chickens; Baby or Chic^Chickens. Poussin 4 la Hambourgeoise.—Stuffed with quenelle meat, and braised; garnished with noisette potatoes, truffles, and artichoke bottoms ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Lyonnaise.—Cut into joints, blanched, and mari- naded in oil, vinegar, and herbs, dipped in frying batter, and fried in deep fat; garnished with fried onion rings ; tomato sauce. — & la Marione.—Small chic-chickens, cut in quarters and sauteed with butter, then cooked in demi-glace with julienne of sorrel and chicory, also morilles ; served with beurre noisette, i.e., nut brown butter. — ^ la Parmentier.—Braised brown in casserole with cube-shaped fried potatoes added. — ^ la Portugaise.—Par-fried and stewed in brown sauce flavoured with sherry, with sliced tomatoes and cubes of cucumber. — ^ la Turenne.—Browned in butter and stewed in earthenv/are stewpan in the oven, with brown sauce, noisette potatoes, slices of tomatoes, and truffles.228 THE MENU BOOK. Pilau de Volaille a la Grfique.—A kind of risotto, con- sisting of dice of chicken, rice, gravy, curry, and capsicum, sultanas, and currants. — a I’Orientale.—A finely cut chicken fricassee, mixed with rice and onion puree, and blended with tomatoes. — a la Turque.—Similar to Greque style, only sharper seasoning, with cayenne and saffron. Quenelles de Volaille a I’ltalienne.—Pounded chicken meat mixed with chopped mushrooms, shaped into quenelles, and poached in stock; served with sauce, containing chopped truffles, mushrooms, demi-glace, and ham. — a la Supreme.—Pounded chicken fillets, filled into quenelle moulds, with salpicon in the centre, and steamed in the oven ; served with supreme sauce, and garnished with slices of truffles. Souffl§ de Volaille h la Reine.—Light chicken forcemeat enriched with cream, filled in moulds, and steamed ; served with supreme sauce, and garnished with slices of truffles. {See also Mousses and Souffles.) Alouettes d. la Gastronome.—Larks, boned, stuffed with chicken farce, and braised; served with sauce perigueux. (See also Mauviettes.) QIBIER—GAME. Volaille Sauvage—Wild Poultry. B6casse—B4cassine—Woodcock—Snipe, B6casse ^ la Minute.—Broiled woodcock or snipe, served with mad^re or demi-glace sauce. — brais^e h la fine Champagne.—Par-roasted snipe, jointed, and tossed in butter, with old cognac, fumet- flavoured sauce ; served in turine. — k I’Orange.—Braised woodcock or snipe, served with orange sauce. — ^ la Riche.—Stuffed with game gratin farce, and roasted or braised; mad^re sauce, enriched with foie-gras puree. — en _Salmi.—Par-roasted or par-fried, and stewed in salmi sauce ; garnished with olives, etc. — ^ la Stockholm.—Par-boiled, stuffed with beef and pork forcemeat, chopped shallots, mushrooms, and gherkins, braised in fire-proof casserole ; white wine sauce. Cailles—Quails, Cailles en caisses.—Boned quails, stuffed with foie-gras farce, braised, cut in halves, and dressed in quail cases; served with perigueux sauce.THE ENTREE COURSE {CAILLES). 229 Cailles en casserole.—Braised whole in fireproof earthen- ware stewpan (casserole); garnished at will with braised lettuce, endive, mushrooms, button onions, truffles, financiere, etc. ; sent to table in the casserole. — a TAlbufera.—Braised in cocotte with garniture of artichoke bottoms, celery root, and green peas; Demi-glace sauce. — a la Cavour.—Cooked in cocotte pans, and served with small raviolis and sliced truffles ; Demi-glace sauce. — Cafe de Paris.—Large potatoes hollowed out, with boned quails, stuffed with foie-gras in each; cooked in oven and served with mushroom sauce. — sous la Cendre.—Quails barded, wrapped in oiled paper, cooked in wood embers, the same as baked potatoes ; remove paper when done ; brown sauce reduced with white wine. — en robe de chambre.—Trussed quails, barded, wrapped in plain paste crust, and roasted for thirty minutes ; garnished with cresses, and served with truffle sauce. — en Compote.—Par-roasted, and stewed in brown sauce, with dice of broiled bacon and fried-bread croutons, small mushrooms, and braised button onions. — a la Dauphinoise.—Braised quails, dressed in border of green pea puree, covered with grilled ham slices, and browned in oven. — ^ la Demidoff.—Braised whole in casserole with small shapes of carrots, turnips, sliced truffles ; Demi-glace sauce ; sent to table en casserole. — a la Diane.—Boned, stuffed, and braised in hearts of lettuce en casserole ; financiere garniture. — a la Dickson.—Cooked in cocotte pans and served with stoned olives and sliced truffles; Demi-glace sauce. — farcies aux Nouillettes.—Boned quails, stuffed with foie-gras farce, braised and dressed in a delicately- baked border made of very finely cut nouilles; demi-glace sauce, with port wine flavour. — ^ la Georges Sand.—Boned, stuffed, and par-braised ; when cold, rolled in puff paste and baked in oven. — a la Jardiniere.—Broiled or braised quails with finely cut young vegetables, carrots, turnips, beans, peas, etc. ; Demi-glace sauce. — a la Judic.—Braised, with sliced truffles and cocks’ kernels, garnished with braised lettuce ; Demi-glace sauce (fumet). — a la Julie.—Halved, flattened, and breaded with bread- crumbs and chopped truffles, grilled or broiled in butter ; sauce mad^re. — a la Lucullus.—Boned, stuffed, and braised, with game quenelles and sliced truffles.THE MENU BOOK. 230 Cailles a la M6dicis.—Boned and stuffed, braised, dressed on game farce border, with ragout of foie-gras, macaroni, and truffle in centre of dish. — a la Mirepoix.—Marinaded in white or red wine vinegar, carrots, savoury herbs, and juniper berries, etc. ; then braised ; sauce marinade. — au Nid.—Halves of boned quails, tossed in butter, and cooked “ en casserole ” with sliced truffles and demi-glace sauce; served in nest-like border of shredded artichoke bottoms. — a POrientale.—Braised, served in casserole, with rice, blended with chopped pimientos ; rich gravy. — a la P^rigueux.—Braised ; brown sauce with truffles. — a la Piemontaise.—Braised whole, dressed in cooked rice, mixed with tossed chicken liver, foie-gras, and truffles, in casserole, and finished in oven ; sent to table in same pan as cooked in. — en Pilaff.—Like pilaw, stuffed and braised, cut up, and served with small rice timbales or risotto border; game sauce. — en Polenta.—Stewed in brown sauce, dressed in polenta border. (Polenta is Italian oatmeal.) — aux Raisins.—Cooked in cocotte pans and finished in white wine with green grapes ; gravy. — a la R6gence.—Boned, stuffed with foie-gras farce, and braised ; garnished with financiere ; truffle sauce. — en Surprise.—Ball-shaped galantines of quails ; when cooked and cold masked with aspic and rolled in chopped truffles ; dressed in pyramid form on aspic border. Cdtelettes de, ^ PAumale.—Boned quails, shaped in cutlets and spread with snipe farce poached, julienne cut strips of truffles and champignons as garnish ; Demi-glace sauce. — en caisses.—Stuffed and braised quails, cut in slices, and dressed in cutlet souffle cases, slice of truffle on top ; game flavoured demi-glace. Croffstades de, d, la Champenoise.—Braised halves of quails, stuffed with game forcemeat, chopped mush- rooms and liver, dressed on fried-bread croutons, glazed, and served with demi-glace sauce. Pouding de, ^ PAnglaise.—Quail pudding, mould lined with suet crust, filled with quails, slices of beef, seasoned, and then boiled or steamed. Souffld de cailles a la Mar^chale.—Boned quails, stuffed with veal and liver farce, and braised, cut in slices, and placed in dariole moulds, lined with chicken farce and poached ; dressed round a pyramid of savoury rice ; garnished with asparagus points and broad beans ; sauce madere.THE ENTREE COURSE {GAME). 231 Canard Sauvage—Wild Duck, Canard Sauvage a rAm6ricaine.—Wild duck, stuffed with suet and bread stuffing, and braised ; served with salmi sauce containing chopped shallots, duck liver, and port wine. — a la Bigarade.—Same as salmi of duck, with orange sections and bigarade sauce. — a la Chasseur.—Stuffed with game forcemeat and chopped mushrooms, and braised ; served with a game sauce flavoured with black-currant jelly. — Filets de, aux truffes.—Fried fillets served with salmi sauce, with sliced or chopped truffles. — a la Gourmet.—Spht, flattened, and skewered and grilled, garnished with croutons, orange and lemon sections, and watercress; ham-flavoured brown sauce. — aux Navets.—Par-roasted, and stewed in brown sauce, with braised young turnips. — aux Olives.—Par-fried, and stewed in brown sauce with turned French olives — a la Presse.—Roasted rare—i.e., underdone, with breast portion sliced, dipped in port wine and lemon juice, and replaced ; rich gravy. — en Salmi.—Par-roasted, and stewed or jugged in salmi sauce. — a la Syrienne.—Prepared like salmi, garnished with crescent-shaped croutons coated with liver farce, also stuffed olives ; sauce gibier (game). Coq de Driiy'Cre—Black Grouse. (For styles of cooking Grouse, see and adopt Perdreau—Partridge) . Coq de Bruyere aux quenelles de truffes.—Black grouse or heath-cock, larded and braised ; served with small quenelles of chicken and chopped truffles. — d. la Polonaise.—Grouse, jointed, par-boiled, steeped in game marinade, and braised in the oven ; served with brown game sauce mixed with sour cream. Faisan—Pheasant. Faisan a la Bateliere.—Braised pheasant, cut up (jointed), cooked in brown sauce, with mushrooms, crayfish tails, and onion rings as garnish ; also fried egg-yolks. — a la Bohemienne.—Braised, with sauerkraut (chou- croute) ; brown game sauce. — d la Bonne Femme.—Pheasant, braised whole, with small pieces of ham and slices of Spanish onion ; served with a brown sauce mixed with Indian chutney.232 THE MENU BOOK. Faisan Bruxelloise. — Braised in casserole, with mirepoix and brussels sprouts ; garnished with the latter ; brown sauce. — au Choux.—Braised in casserole with spring cabbagesj fried slices of bacon, small carrots, and sausages. — a la Cavour.—Roast or braised, dressed in casserole^ with nouilles, previously tossed in butter ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Derby.—Stuffed with cooked rice and foie-gras dice and truffles, braised, and served with demi-glace sauce. — en Compete au Madere.—Stewed in brown madere sauce. Cdtelettes de Faisan a la Richelieu.—Pheasant forcemeat shaped into cutlets, and poached ; when cold, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat; served with brown truffle sauce. — a la Flamande.—Braised ; garnished with small stuhed braised cabbages, and fried sausages. — ^ la Jardiniicre.—Braised, dressed in border of pheasant farce; garnished with mixture of spring vegetables. — a la Livournaise.—Braised in casserole with cepes, mushrooms, and slice of lean bacon ; salmi sauce. — ^ la Richemont.—Fillets larded with truffles and bacon, and braised ; supreme sauce. — a la Rossini.—Braised white, sauced over with supreme sauce, and garnished with foie-gras and truffles. — en Robe de Chambre.—Boned, cut flat, spread with veal farce, tongue, and truffles, rolled up and braised ; when cold, wrapped in pufl paste and baked ; served with demi-glace sauce ; also served cold with aspic garnish. — d, la St. Alliance.—Stuffed with game farce and truffles, roasted, and garnished with woodcock farce croutes and orange sections ; thick game gravy. — la St. Georges.—Cold cooked pheasant, boned, and cut into slices, coated with cold sauce, dipped in batter and fried, garnished with stuffed tomatoes ; truffle sauce. Salmi de, aux trufles.—Par-roasted and stewed in salmi sauce, with sliced truffles. — ^ la Boh6mienne.—Broiled, and stewed in madere sauce, chopped ham, and mushrooms ; garnished with fried- bread croutons and whole mushrooms. Faisan Souvarofl.—Braised white, breasts removed and stuffed with chicken farce ; supreme sauce. — d. la Talleyrand.—Larded fillets, braised, dressed in centre of a border made of pheasant forcemeat; garnished with slices of hard-boiled eggs, crumbed, and fried.233 THE ENTREE COURSE {GAME). GMinotte—Hazel Hen, G61inotte, Filets de, au Champagne.—Broiled fillets stewed in champagne sauce. — en Salmi.—Par-roasted and stewed in brown sauce, olives, etc. Orive—Fieldfare or Thrush, Grive h la Bonne Femme.—Tossed in butter with dice ot bacon, mushrooms, and small button onions ; finished in demi-glace sauce. — braisees en caisses.—Braised, served in small paper cases. — brais6es au Lard.—Braised fieldfare, with fried bacon ; Demi-glace sauce. — a la Chasseur.—Barded and roasted; served with mush- room sauce ; garnished with small game quenelles. — a la Genievre.—Braised in casserole with juniper berries and brown sauce. (Note.—For other styles of cooking these birds see Larks, Quails, and Ortolans.) Mauviettes—Larks, Mauviettes a la Bonne Femme.—Broiled with butter, bacon cut in dice, button onions, and mushrooms ; finished in demi-glace sauce, enriched with meat glaze and lemon juice. — aux Cerises.—Boned and stuffed, braised, cut in halves, served with Madere sauce, with glace cherries as garnish. — a la Diplomate.—Boned, and farced with game mousse- hne, placed in farce-coated cylindrical mould and strained ; served with Truffle sauce. — farcies aux truftes.—Boned, stuffed with forcemeat and truffles, and braised ; served with Truffle sauce. — ^ la Lucullus.—Boned, stuffed with foie-gras, and braised, dressed in cases and served with Truffle sauce. — a la Madrid.—Boned, stuffed with pounded veal, ham, and breadcrumbs, braised and glazed, dressed in paper cases or in border of potatoes ; Demi-glace sauce. — a la Marianne.—Roast larks placed on fried-bread croutes spread with apple puree ; served with fried bread- crumbs, and gravy. — ^ la Parmentier.—Boned, stuffed with celery puree, and braised ; when cold, wrapped in puff paste and baked ; dressed in border of finely cut fried straw potatoes; Demi-glace sauceTHE MENU BOOK, 234 Mauviettes a la Paysanne.—Breast portion covered with bay-leaf and bacon ; then roast ; served with brown onion puree and noisette potatoes as garnish. — P^re Philippe.—Par-roasted boned larks, placed in hollowed-out potatoes, then wrapped in oiled paper and cooked in hot embers. — a la Pompadour.—Boned, stuffed with chopped beef, crumb bread, braised, and served with Perigueux (truffle) sauce. — ^ la Turque.—Boned and stuffed with veal or chicken farce, braised and dressed on savoury rice (pillaw). Ortolans—Ortolans, Ortolans h I’ltalienne.—Roast ortolans (a la broche), in front of fire ; dressed on fried-bread croutes lined with grilled ham. — a la Lucullus.—Boned, braised in casserole; garniture : dice of foie-gras, mushrooms, truffles, cocks’ combs, and kernels ; sauce Supreme. — a la Maltaise (Cold).—Boned, roasted, and cut in fillets, dressed in halves of oranges, masked with port-wine flavoured aspic with julienne cut tomato, decorated with jellied glace cherries. — en Surprise.—Boned, stuffed, and par-roasted ; then placed in hollowed-out potatoes with slices of truffle, and baked. — en Cocotte.—Boned, stuffed with foie-gras and calf’s liver farce; par-cooked, i.e., braised in “casserole,” then placed in cocotte pans, lined with farce chopped truffle and bacon ; sauced with Madere and finished in oven. — aux C6rises.—Same as “ Cocotte,” but served in border of farce, with stoned cherries cooked in port-wine flavoured Demi-glace sauce. — a la Delmonico.—Boned, stuffed with ham farce and chopped truffles, braised in earthenware pot (casse- role), covered with paste crust; sent to table in the casserole. — a la Marianne.—Braised in casserole with spinach and Demi-glace sauce. — a la P6rigord.—Braised and served with Truffle sauce. — ^ la Polonaise.—Broiled and stewed ; garnished with sauerkraut, small pease dumplings, and pieces of smoked sausage. — a la Provengale.—Braised ortolans with richly stewed onions ; sauce Robert. JBerdreau—Perdrix—Partridge, Perdreau d. la Bateli^re.—Braised partridge with button onions, mushrooms, fried eggs, and crayfish tails; Demi-glace sauce.THE ENTREE course [GAME). 235 Perdreau a la Beauharnais.—Braised, garnished with asparagus tips, fresh button mushrooms, and artichoke bottoms ; Truffle sauce served separately. — a la Bourguignonne.—Braised in casserole with cham- pignons, button onions ; Burgundy wine sauce. — 6n Casserole.—Braised in earthenware stewpan with dice shapes of bacon, button onions, mushrooms, and bouquet garni; Demi-glace or brown sauce flavoured with lemon juice. — a la Chasseur.—Par-roasted and stewed with chopped mushrooms, claret sauce, and chopped lemon rind ; garnished with fleurons or sippets of bread. Chartreuse de.—Stewed with braised spring cabbages and young carrots, dressed in timbale with alternate layers of vegetables ; Demi-glace or brown sauce. Perdreau k la Chantilly.—Stuffed with foie-gras and braised; garnished with lentil puree in border or timbales ; served with sauce Maddre. — aux Choux.—Braised with bacon and stewed spring cabbages ; jus or gravy. — farcis aux Champignons.—Stuffed and braised ; served with mushroom sauce. — a la petit Due.—Split, flattened, and grilled ; served on bed of Anna potatoes, garnished with grilled mush- rooms ; served with sauce Madere. — ^ la Fermi^re.—Stewed in casserole with brown sauce ; Fermiere garnish. — a la Gitana.—Jointed, sauteed in oil, garlic, and red pepper, pimientos. Tomato sauce, and olives. — a la Lorraine.—Braised, with finely-cut red cabbage and brown sauce, garnished with Parisian potatoes ; Sauce Gibier—game sauce. — a la Marechal.—Braised breasts and wings, with truffles, mushrooms, and fried potato croquettes; served with Madere sauce. Pains de, ^ la Dauphine.—Darioles or timbales of partridge farce mixed with truffles and mushrooms, poached, and garnished with asparagus points, potato croquettes and button mushrooms ; Madere sauce. Perdreau k la Princesse.—Breasts, skinned, larded with bacon and truffles, and braised ; Madere sauce. — a la Pompadour.—Stuffed with liver farce, larded, and braised ; served with goose-liver and truffle stew ; Sauce Perigueux. Salmi de Perdreau, aux trufles.—Par-roasted, and stewed in brown sauce with truffles. — d, la Valencienne.—Braised, with slices of pickled pork and brown sauce, dressed in rice border, garnished with potato croquettes and small sausages.236 THE MENU BOOK. Berdreau hlanc—Ptarmigan* Perdreau blanc aux Olives.—Ptarmigan stewed in brown sauce with olives. — a la Gambetta.—Broiled and stewed in brown sauce ; garnished with small stufted tomatoes and croutons. Pluvier—Plover, Cotelettes de Pluvier, en Caisses.—Boned plover, shaped into cutlets, braised, spread over with farce, egged, crumbed, and fried; served in china or paper cases ; Chasseur sauce. Pluvier a la Duglaire.—Stuffed wdth liver farce, and braised, fillets and wings dressed on croutons spread over with foie-gras, etc. ; sauce Madere, flavoured with cognac. — a la Perigueux.—Braised with truffles. — saut6 au Champagne.—Tossed in butter and stewed in Champagne sauce. Sarcelle—Teal or Widgeon, {See also Cunard Sauvage (Wild Duck), and adopt similar styles for cooking this bird.) Sarcelle bard6e a la Westphalie.—Barded and braised with slices of broiled Westphahan ham and truffles ; Demi-glace or Champagne sauce. — en Salmi.—Teal stewed in brown sauce with ohves, etc. Gihier Quadrup'ede—Four-footed Game, Cerf (Deer)—Filet de Cerf, sauce Poivrade.—Braised fillet of deer with pepper sauce mixed with red-currant jelly. — piqu6 a la Diable.—Larded and braised, served with a sharp pepper sauce or sauce Diable. Ragout de Cerf, marind.—Pickled or marinaded, stewed or jugged. Chevreuil— Venaison—Buck Venison, Chevreuil a la Bourgeoise.—Stewed venison with braised button onions. — brais6 d la St. Hubert.—Braised pickled venison, larded; finished in brown sauce flavoured with claret and cinnamon; garnished with stoned prunes, glazed with meat extract. — Civet de.—Jugged venison, with red-currant jelly, served separately.THE ENTREE COURSE {GAME). 237 Chevreuil h la Conti.—Venison cutlets, fried in butter, dressed with alternate slices of pickled ox-tongue on lentil puree ; sauce Poivrade. Cotelettes de, a la Turque.—Cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried ; fried parsley garnish ; tomato sauce. — ^ la Cumberland.—Braised with marinade sauce, port wine, and orange-juice flavour introduced. — a la Diane.—Heart-shaped venison fillets, dressed on similarly shaped croutes of game farce croquettes ; served with sauce Diane. Escalopes de, h la Chasseur.—Scallops, breaded and fried ; served with chasseur sauce mixed with red-currant jelly. Filets de, h la Basque.—Fillets of venison, broiled sharply in butter, dressed in hot game farce border; garnished with mushroom ragout, stuffed olives, and truffles ; sauce Poivrade. — au Geni^vre.—Larded fillets, braised with mirepoix and juniper berries; Poivrade sauce, with cream and lemon juice. — aux Olives.—Grilled venison steaks dressed with stoned olives and brown sauce. Cuissot de, a la Richemont.—Boned, larded, and braised or roasted leg; served with small fried sweet potatoes and red-currant jelly. Fricot de, a la Pi^montaise.—Jugged neck or breast with small savoury rice timbales ; tomato sauce. Grenadin de, aux truffes.—Small fillets, larded and braised > served with truffle sauce. — a la Hongroise.—Larded fillets or cutlets sauteed in butter ; served with sauce Hongroise. Longe de, ^ la Tomate.—Braised loin with tomato puree. — a la Mar6chale.—Fillets or cutlets spread over with Duxelle puree, egged, and crumbed, and fried; marechale garniture sauce; Demi-glace. — aux Marrons.—Fillets or cutlets dressed in crown- shape, with chestnut puree in centre ; sauce Poivrade. Noix de, k la gelee de groseille.—Braised kernel with brown sauce, flavoured with red-currant jelly. — a la Poivrade.—Jugged venison with pepper sauce. — la Romanoff.—Braised kernels (noisettes) of venison, with cucumber timbales filled with mushroom puree ; sauce Pounrade. Noix de Chevreuil, a la Sultane.—Marinaded neck, loin or fillet, stewed in Salmi sauce containing pickled sultanas ; reduce with port wine. Tournedos de, d. la Milanaise.—Very small fillets or steaks, broiled or grilled ; served with stewed macaroni and tomato sauce.238 THE MENU BOOK. Lapin or Tjapereau—Rahhit. Lapin, Gibelotte de, a la Bourguignonne.—Par-fried and stewed in brown sauce with claret and braised button onions. Croquettes de, a la Maintenon.—Minced cooked rabbit made into salpicon with bechamel sauce, shaped into croquettes, egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with brown sauce reduced with sherry wine. Lapin frit dr la Tartare.—Boned, pickled or marinaded, boiled and pressed, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat; served with Tartare sauce. — d rindienne.—Curried rabbit with boiled rice border. — d la Minute.—Cut up, tossed in butter, and stewed in Mad^re sauce. — d la Poulette.—Cut up, fried in butter, stewed in white sauce, with sliced mushrooms, lemon juice, and chopped parsley. — d la Sully. —Larded fillets, braised, dressed round celery and lentil puree, slices of truffle on each; served with Sauce Poivrade. — d la Vendome.—Round, ring-shaped fillets, larded, with poached game farce in centre, garnished with champignons and truffles, with chestnut puree in centre ; served with Sauce Poivarde. Levraut—Leveret, or Young Hare, Levraut, Cdtelettes de, aux truffes.—Fried leveret cutlets with truffle sauce (Sauce Perigueux). — fare! d TAmericaine.—Boned, stuffed, and braised ; served with demi-glace and tomato sauce blended. — d la Mardngo.—The same as “ Poulet d la Marengo.” — frit d rorly. —Boned, cut into small pieces, breaded or dipped in batter, and fried in deep fat; served with tomato sauce. Gibelotte de.—Cut up in small joints, sauteed in butter, with button onions, and cubes of fried potatoes ; Demi-glace or Madere sauce. Li'evre—Hare. Civet de Li6vre (Jugged Hare) d la Finnoise.—Pickled and jugged in Demi-glace sauce flavoured with sour cream. Cotelettes de, d PAllemande.—Boned leg or loin cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter ; garnished with hard-boiled eggs and pickled gherkins ; served with a white wine sauce. — d la Chasseur.—Sauteed in butter and oil, and stewed in chasseur sauce.239 THE ENTRJ^E COURSE {GAME). Escalopes de, marin^es.—Marinaded or pickled fillets or cutlet shapes, egged, crumbed and fried ; sauce Marinade. Li^vre k la Flamande.—Jugged hare, with onion, fried in butter, garnished with fried-bread croutons coated with red-currant jelly. — fare! a la Fermi^re.—Stuffed with veal and pork farce, and braised; served with a brown onion sauce, mixed with finely chopped ham and parsley, and reduced with white wine. Filets de, a la Sicilienne.—Larded fillets, braised, and finished in reduced gravy ; flavoured with cinnamon and chopped parsley ; dressed in a pyramidal form, and glazed. Florendines de.—Boned legs stuffed with game farce, rolled, and braised in casserole in the oven. Grenadins de.—Small fillets, larded and braised; tomato or Demi-glace sauce. Li^vre en gite.—Alternate layers of potted hare, sausage meat, and hare fillets, dressed in a tureen, moistened with sherry, covered with slices of bacon, and baked in the oven ; served in the tureen (hot or cold). Haricot de.—Cut into joints, seasoned, fried in butter, and stewed in brown sauce, mushrooms, and button onions. Longe de, a la Soubise.—Braised loin with onion puree; brown or Demi-glace sauce. — ^ la Lyonnaise.—Jugged hare with small glazed chestnuts cooked in rich stock. — a la Romaine.—Fillets or cutlets of hare, sauteed in butter, dressed in crown-shape ; sauce Romaine, with pignolis kernels. Pat6 de, ^ TAnglaise (Hare Pie).—Cut into small joints, filled in a pie-dish, with forcemeat, slices of bacon, liver, and stock, covered with puff-paste crust, and baked in the oven. Pat6 de Li§vre, a la Frangaise.—Raised pie crust, filled with pieces of fried hare, pork farce, bacon, mush- rooms, and stock, baked in the oven. Rable de, ^ la St. Denis.—Loin or neck cut into cutlets, braised, and served with truffle sauce. — a la Mode.—Small joints (larded fillets), fried in butter, and stewed in brown sauce, with small pieces of salt or pickled pork ; flavoured with chilli vinegar ; served in casserole. Ours—Bear, Benne—Reindeer. Cuissot d*Ours ^ la Cussy.—Boned leg, marinaded or pickled, braised, and served with salmi sauce, sliced truffles, etc.240 THE MENU BOOK. Fricot d*Ours k la Chasseur.—Jugged, with chasseur sauce. Jambon d’Ours brais6, au vin de Malaga.—Braised bear’s ham, with malaga or port-wine sauce. Cdtelettes de Renne, Sauce Poivrade.—Reindeer cutlets fried, with pepper sauce. {See also Canard Sauvage—Wild Duck.) Sanglier or Marcassin—Wild Boar, Sanglier, Carr6 de, a la Russe.—Braised neck; served with sweet orange sauce containing small sultanas. — en Chevreuil or Venaison.—Larded leg or fillet mari- naded and braised ; sauce venaison, and croutons. — d la Cumberland.—Braised, with salmi or marinade sauce ; port wine and orange-juice flavour introduced. — d. la Grand Veneur.—Marinaded and encrusted in bread dough, and baked or roasted ; served with Reforme sauce. Cdtelettes de, sauce Maddre.—Braised wild boar cutlets with madere sauce. — a la Robert.—Fried wild boar cutlets with Robert sauce. — a la Saint-Marc.—Cutlets or fillets, larded with strips of tongue, and braised, dressed in crown-shape, with croquette balls of chestnut puree in centre, demi- glace mixed with cranberry jam. Cuissot de, aux Cerises.—Braised leg of young wild boar, flavoured with red wine, castor sugar, and cinnamon ; served with brown sauce containing glace cherries cut in halves. Jambon de, aux Petits Pois.—Braised ham of wild boar with green peas. COLD ENTREES—SERVICE FROID. Collection of dishes suitable as Entrees, and for Cold Collations, Luncheon and Supper Buffets, etc. (For Cold Fish Entrees, see Fish Course.) Aspic de Foie-gras.—Goose-liver pate, set in savoury aspic jelly.' — de Homard.—Lobster set in savoury aspic jelly. — aux (Eufs de Pluvier.—Plovers’ eggs set in savoury aspic jelly; mould garnished with macedoine or green peas and truffles. — de Ris de Veau.—Cold braised sweetbread set in savoury aspic jelly. — de Saumon.—Cold salmon set in savoury aspic jelly. — de Filets de Soles.—Fillets of soles set in aspic jelly.COLD ENTRIES. 241 Aspic de Volaille.—Chicken, skinned and boned, set in savoury aspic jelly. Ballotine de Perdreau, d la Souvaroff.—Boned partridge, stuffed with goose-hver farce and truffles, done up like galantine, and braised, pressed, and glazed; served as cold entree or supper dish. Boauf en Daube froid.—Braised beef, cooked in turine and allowed to cool, with aspic, and served in sauce, — ^ la Chevet.—Braised cold fillet of beef, coated with aspic, and garnished with vegetable macedoine; sauce mayonnaise. — a la Mode, froid.—Braised rump of beef, sliced and set in turine, with demi-glace and aspic. — ^ la Russe.—Braised whole fillet of beef, cut up when cold, and masked with aspic jelly, with slice of truffle on each. Caneton h la Lombardie.—Boned duckUng, stuffed with foie-grass and truffle farce, and braised, coated with brown chaudfroid sauce, decorated with truffles, white of hard-boiled egg, and masked with aspic. Canard a la Vendome.—Roast or braised duck ; fillets removed and sliced, coated with chaudfroid sauce and port-wine jelly ; cavity of breast filled with foie-gras mousse. Carre de Veau en Gelee.—Braised neck of veal, cut in cutlets or left whole (as remove), masked with aspic, and garnished with vegetable macedoine. Chartreuse de Callles a TEug^nle (Cold).—Quails, stuffed with chicken farce, truffle, and pistachios, and braised ; when cold cut in slices, and ranged in charlotte mould with layers of vegetables and aspic, as for “ Chartreuse.” — de Falsan.—Charlotte-shaped mould lined with aspic, and decorated with green peas, truffles, etc., coated with fawn chaudfroid sauce, and filled with a mixture of cooked pheasant cut in dice, mushrooms, small chicken quenelles, truffles, cocks’ combs, and hard- boiled egg, moistened with aspic and madere sauce ; turned out when set, and garnished suitably. — de Jambon a la Clamart.—Small timbale moulds lined with heart-shaped slices of cooked ham and a layer of chicken souffle mixture, centre filled with green pea puree, and covered with chicken farce ; steamed and served with tomato sauce. — de L6gumes k la Quirinal (Cold).—Cold vegetable chartreuse, octagon shape, outside decorated with chopped hard-boiled white of egg, egg-yolk, truffles, and parsley, four distinct sections; interior filled with cooked asparagus tips, French beans, artichoke bottoms, kidney potatoes, chopped truffles, etc., all blended with mayonnaise and aspic to set. QTHE MENU BOOK. 242 Chaudfroid (Meat, Fish or Poultry),—Cooked (boiled, broiled, or braised), and, when cold, masked with suitably flavoured and tinted chaudfroid sauce, coated and decorated with aspic or some other special garnish ; often dressed on a bed of seasoned salad. — de B^casses.—Chaudfroid of woodcock or snipe. — de Cailles.—Chaudfroid of quails. — de Coq de Bruyere.—Heathcock or grouse. — de Faisan.—Braised or boiled pheasant fillets and wings, masked with white chaudfroid sauce ; decorated with truffles and aspic. — de Foie-gras en caisse.—Round or oval-shaped slices of foie-gras, masked with white or fawn chaudfroid sauce, set in souffle cases, and decorated with slices of truffle. — de Gelinottes,—Chaudfroid of hazel-hen. — de Poulets.—Cooked chicken fillets, wings and legs skinned, masked with chaudfroid sauce or savoury jelly ; decorated with truffles. — de Perdreaux.—Chaudfroid of partridge. Coq de Bois en Gel6e.—Fillets of cold black grouse set in mould in savoury jelly. — de Chevreuil en GeI6e.—Braised venison cutlets masked with savoury jelly. Cotelettes d’Agneau en chaudfroid.—Chaudfroid of lamb cutlets. — a la Danzig.—Braised or broiled cutlets, pressed, coated with foie-gras farce, and masked with white chaud- froid sauce blended with green pea puree ; orna- mented with truffle and white of egg, dressed on vegetable aspic border. — de Foie-gras d la Reine.—Goose-liver cutlets, coated with white chaudfroid sauce, and set in savoury aspic jelly, — a la Moscovienne.—Neck braised whole, cut into cutlets, set in aspic blended with chopped green mint, dressed on border of tongue, truffles, peas, beans, and egg, set in aspic, macedoine of vegetables seasoned with tartare in centre of dish. — de Mouton.—Mutton cutlets can be prepared and dressed in the same manner as described for lamb cutlets. — de Mouton en Belle Vue.—Broiled or braised mutton cutlets, masked with chaudfroid sauce, dressed cold in savoury jelly, with truffles and fancifully cut vegetables.243 COLD ENTRIES. Cotelettes h la Renaissance.—Broiled cutlets, pressed, and coated with liver farce, mixed with mushrooms and onion puree, masked with tomato aspic, decorated with white of egg and truffle, and dressed round salad pyramids. — a la Rubens.—Braised veal cutlets, masked with aspic, blended with tomato sauce and hop sprigs. — de Sanglier en mayonnaise.—Cooked wild boar cutlets dressed with mayonnaise aspic. — a la Vallorbes.—As above, with celery and truffle salad mixed with tartare sauce in centre of dish, in place of the ordinary salad. — de Veau en Belle Vue.—Veal cutlets truffled, larded, and braised, set in savoury jelly with macedoine of vegetables ; when cold, masked with white chaudfroid sauce and garnished with truffles. — de Volaille a la Russe.—Cold chicken cutlets, truffled and larded, masked with mayonnaise aspic, and dressed on vegetable salad. Creme de Volaille en Tomates.—Scooped-out tomatoes filled with chicken cream, and poached ; when cold, skin removed and coated with aspic ; garnished with chopped aspic and parsley. Cuisses de Volaille, a la Belle Alliance.—Boned, stuffed, and braised legs of chicken, masked with chaudfroid sauce and aspic ; garnished with truffles, and dressed in aspic ; vegetable border. Darioles de Foie-Gras a la Vatel.—Fluted dariole moulds lined with aspic, and decorated with white of egg and truffle shces; filled with layer of foie-gras pate and aspic. — de Volaille a la Chartreuse.—Small dariole shapes of chicken cream, centre filled with mushroom, truffle, and chicken mince. Dodine de, d, la Chambertin.—Breasts of braised duck with foie-gras, etc., set in savoury aspic jelly, flavoured with Burgundy wine. Dominos de Foie-Gras.—Domino-shaped moulds lined with aspic, decorated with white of egg and truffle spots to represent dominoes ; coated with mayon- naise, aspic or white chaudfroid sauce, and filled with foie-gras shces; dipped in madere flavoured sauce ; dished up on a delicate celery salad. Filets de Boeuf en Chaudfroid.—Fillets of beef larded, braised, glazed with brown chaudfroid sauce and aspic; decorated with truffle and white of egg; garnished and dressed according to taste. — de Caneton h la Lorraine.—Roasted duckling fillets, spread over with foie-gras or ham puree, and masked with brown chaudfroid sauce and aspic; decorated with truffle, etc.; dressed on ham mousse border.THE MENU BOOK. 244 Filets d6 Caneton a la Madrid.—Braised whole, cut into fillets, masked with mayonnaise aspic, mixed with grated horseradish and mustard ; garnished with slices of tomatoes, chopped aspic, and cress. — d la Javanaise.—Larded and braised whole, glazed with demi-glace and aspic ; garnished with vegetable macedoine dressed with aspic, etc., grated horseradish, and tomatoes ; suitable as remove or supper dish. — de Volaille la Trianon.—Bomb-shaped mould, lined with aspic and chicken fillets, centre filled with chicken, hard-boiled egg, tongue and Batavia salad, seasoned with lemon mayonnaise; garnished with lettuce hearts, and served with sauce Trianon. Fleurettes de Foie-Gras.—Small square, oblong or oval (flat) moulds, lined with aspic and decorated with chervil leaves, truffle, and chilli skin, masked with aspic cream and filled with foie-gras mixture (pounded); chicken, salmon, and turbot may be prepared in this style. Foie de Veau a la Flamande.—Larded and braised calf's liver, set in terrine with aspic jelly. Galantine de Dinde aux Truffes.—Galantine of turkey with trufiies. — d*Ortolans en Chaudfroid.—Braised, stuffed ortolan, shaped into galantines, masked with chaudfroid sauce; garnished with truffles and macedoine of vegetables and chopped aspic. — de Poulet or de Volaille.—Chicken galantine, garnished with aspic. — de Veau en Aspic.—Veal galantine, garnished with savoury jelly. Jambon en Gelde.—Braised ham, when cold cut in slices or left whole, coated with aspic jelly. — a TAlsacienne.—Mousse or souffle of ham and foie-gras and truffles, set in mould, and cut out in quenelle shapes, then masked with aspic. Langue de Boeuf roul6e k la Gel6e.—Rolled ox-tongue, masked and garnished with savoury jelly. Mauviettes h la Lucullus.—Boned and stuffed larks, braised, cooled, and masked with brown chaudfroid sauce, set in souffle cases, and decorated with truffles, border of green peas, etc. Mayonnaise de Poissons.—Fish mayonnaise. — de Volaille.—Chicken mayonnaise. Medallions de Volaille h ITmperiale.—Round shces of cooked chicken (fillets), masked with white chaud- froid sauce, decorated with truffle slices, and dressed on rounds of tongue; garnished with asparagus salad in centre of dish.245 COLD ENTRJ^ES. Medallions de Volaille dr la Rachel.—Round chicken fillets, sauteed in butter, and spread with cold mousseline farce, then masked with aspic, garnished with asparagus points salad. Mousse de Ganeton a la Tivollier.—Light souffle made of braised duckling, tongue, cream, aspic, supreme, and chutney flavour, shaped in timbales, with centre filling of tomato, pimiento, and pistachios ; garnished with aspic, truffles, and pimiento, also small green salad. — de Chapon, Belle H61ene.—Aspic coated or masked timbales, lined with foie-gras slices, filled with capon moussehne farce and aspic cream, and iced in charged ice cabinet. — de Foie-gras h la Reine.—Mousse or charlotte moulds- lined with aspic, decorated and masked with white chaudfroid sauce, filled with cold mixture of minced foie-gras, ham, truffle, meat glaze, and aspic, centre of same filled with green peas or asparagus points, dressed with mayonnaise. Mousseline de Foie-gras, Charentoise.—Cylindrical-shaped mould masked with champagne aspic, filled with foie-gras mousse, dressed on glass dish surrounded by small slices of truffled chicken galantine. Noisettes d’Agneau a la Pompadour.—Fillets of lamb cut from kernel, centre leg part, tossed in butter, and pressed, spread with liver farce, poached, and coated with aspic when cold ; dressed round tomato and pimiento salad, and garnished with small green pea and aspic darioles, decorated with truffles and cocks’ combs. Noix de Veau d la Su6doise.—Braised kernel of veal, cut in slices, spread over with horseradish butter, and masked with aspic, decorated with mayonnaise aspic, dressed in crown-shape, with lettuce heart in centre ; sauce Russe. — a la Viart.—Larded and braised kernel or cushion of veal, jellied with aspic when cold, and garnished with glazed braised chestnuts, small carrots, and cardoons ; decorated with green herb butter, and served with mayonnaise blended with tomato puree. Pain de Volaille aux Truffes.—Chicken farce mixed with truffles, shaped, and poached ; garnished with truffles and aspic. Pains de Foie-gras k la P§rigord.—Small goose-liver shapes decorated with truffles poached. — Gibier ^ la GeI6e.—Small game farce shapes ; cold game souffles. — de Volaille a I’Argenteuil.—Small timbale shapes of cooked chicken cream, mixed with supreme, centre filled with asparagus puree ; garnished with asparagus points, and truffles.246 THE MENU BOOK. Palmettes de volaille Valeska.—Braised fillets of Surrey fowl, heart-shaped, and coated with white chaudfroid sauce, ranged in kite-shaped flat souffle cases made of thin pastry crust, and hned with small salad ; dished on cold chicken souffle basis or socle ; decora- tion ; tarragon leaves, truffles, and set aspic. Parfait de Foie-gras.—Delicately flavoured potted foie- gras (souffle), dressed in tureen ; when cold, garnished with aspic, etc. — en GeI6e,—Slices of foie-gras set in consomme aspic flavoured with sherry, and placed in cut glass or china bowl; truffle decoration; served with thinly cut and buttered slices of black bread (Pumpernickel). Pdt6 de Becassine aux Truffes.—Cold snipe pie with truffles. — de Cailles Froid.—Cold quail raised pie. — de Pintade.—Cold guinea-fowl raised pie. — de Pigeons Froid.—Cold pigeon pie. — froid de Saumon.—Cold salmon pie. — froid de Veau ^ TAnglaise.—Cold veal and ham pie. Petites Bombes k la Victoria.—Small bomb or bouche shapes, flavoured with tomato aspic, and filled with pounded cooked chicken breasts, mixed with supreme sauce, and chopped truffles, aspic, etc. ; each shape surmounted with a Spanish olive stufied with foie-gras. — Groustades a la Milanaise.—Puff-paste tartlet crusts, flavoured with cheese ; when cold, lined with tomato cream, filled with light ham souffle mixture ; decorated with whipped cream. — Langues k I’Espagnole.—Ox-tongue and chicken or veal farce poached in small tongue moulds, masked with brown chaudfroid sauce and aspic; garnished with macedoine of vegetables, etc. Poularde a la Jeanette.—Capon or large Surrey fowl, cooked in veal stock; when cold breast removed and sauced with white chaudfroid, and cavity filled with foie-gras puree ; then coated with aspic and decorated with tarragon leaves. — a la N6va.—Cold boiled capon filled with foie-gras cubes, truffles, and mousseline farce, masked with white chaudfroid sauce and aspic, dressed on rice socle, and garnished with vegetable macedoine. Ris d’Agneau ^ la Sevign§.—Lamb’s breads, braised, pressed in pastry rings, coated with villeroi sauce and aspic; garnished with green pea puree, and dressed on seasoned salad. — a FAmiral.—Oval slices of braised sweetbread, masked with white chaudfroid sauce, decorated with slices of truffles ; dressed on vegetable aspic border, with suitable salad in centre of dish.247 COLD ENTRIES. Ris de Veau a la Biarritz (or Monte Carlo).—Braised sweetbread, glazed, cut into slices, coated with fawn-coloured chaudfroid sauce, decorated with truffles and chilli skins ; dressed on rice border or carved rice block (socle) with hatelet in centre. — a la Russe or Su6doise.—Braised calf’s sweetbread, cut into oval slices, masked with white chaudfroid or aspic, dressed on border, with vegetable salad in centre, surmounted by lettuce heart; sauce Russe, separately. Roulade Norv6gienne.—Cooked breast of veal, lean beef and bacon, minced up and shaped into roll, boiled or braised, and glazed with brown chaudfroid sauce ; garnished with slices of truffles, etc. Salade de Poulets or Volaille.—Chicken salad. Souffles de Jambon.—Pounded ham mixed with madere sauce, cream, and aspic, set in moulds ; decorated with truffle strips, etc., set on ice, and turned out when required. SuprSme de Veau a TAspic.—Braised, larded cushion piece of veal cut into fillets, and masked with white chaudfroid sauce and aspic, decorated with truffle, etc., and dressed on carved rice block (socle); garnished with chopped aspic. Tartines de Volaille en Surprise.—Sandwich shapes of chicken, tongue, and chicken farce, poached in sandwich moulds, and coated, when cold, with aspic cream; decorated with finely cut strips of tongue and truffle ; served on a bed of green salad. Terrine de Gibier a la Suisse.—Fireproof terrine lined with bacon, veal, and pork farce, and filled with boned and skinned sliced game (either hare, partridge or pheasant), moistened with stock, top covered with bacon and farce, and thus cooked in oven ; when cold, surface masked with aspic, and decorated with slices of hard-boiled egg and truffle. Timbale Toulousienne.—The same as “ Chartreuse de Faisan,” using white sauce to mask the mould, and cooked veal or chicken in place of pheasant. Tomates k PAlg^rienne.—Tomato moulds masked with tomato aspic, filled with cooked chicken cream, mixed with aspic, etc.; turned out when set, and garnished with chopped green aspic. Z^phires de Foie-Gras.—The same as “ Fleurettes,” but using zephyr moulds.248 THE MENU BOOK. PART VIII. RELEVES—REMOVES. (Grosses Pieces.) These are, as a rule, solid joints, such as saddle of lamb or mutton, loins of veal or mutton, legs of mutton or lamb, fricandeau of veal, fillets (whole), sirloin or ribs of beef, venison, deer, wild boar, ham, etc., and are roasted, braised or broiled, as the case may be. Boiled turkey, large fowls, capons, etc., are also at times served under this heading. Some kind of vegetable is usually sent with this course as an accompaniment or garnish. On the Continent, and occasionally in England, these dishes are often served after hors-d’oeuvre or after fish. It is, however, considered more correct to serve the remove after the entree course. Bmuf—Beef, Aloyau de Bceuf ^ TAnglaise.—Roast sirloin of beef with Yorkshire pudding and hot or cold horseradish sauce. — a la Bourgeois.—Boned and braised sirloin, garnished with young carrots, turnips, onions, and potato balls ; braize sauce. — brais6.—Braised sirloin of beef. — ^ TEspagnole.—Braised with button onions. — Flamande.—Braised ; garnished with groups of garden vegetables. — ^ la Frangaise.—Roast sirloin, boned and rolled; garnished with Parisian potatoes and small cress; gravy. — a la Nivernaise.—Braised with young turnips and French carrots, glazed. Beefsteak d*Aloyau.—Porterhouse steak grilled. Boeuf bouilli h TAnglaise.—Boiled salt beef with carrots, turnips, and suet dumplings. — a la Frangaise.—Boiled silverside with carrots, turnips, and cabbage. Boeuf h la Bernoise.—Braised topside or rump with stewed nouilles and baked potatoes. — ^ la C61estine.—Roast sirloin ; garnished with small baked potatoes, and roll of stuffed pancakes, cut into one-inch pieces, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter. — ^ la Glamart.—Larded, boned sirloin or rump, braised, garnished with cassolettes filled with green peas and macaire potatoes.RELEV :^S—REMO VES. 249 Boeuf a la Jardiniere.—Par-boiled and braised ; garnished with small spring vegetables. — a la Lorraine.—Roast sirloin ; garnished with braised button onions, mashed potatoes, and braised spring cabbages. — ^ la Mode.—Braised rump of beef with vegetable garnish. — a la Palermo.—Roast rib or sirloin, boned ; garnished with braised potatoes and small stuffed cucumber or vegetable marrow. — a la Pi^montaise.—Roast boned ribs ; garnished with timbales of cooked rice or macaroni, flavoured with tomato and saffron, and fried potatoes. — a la Russe.—Boiled, served with cucumber salad. Cotes de Boeuf brais6.—Braised boned ribs of beef. — ^ la Normande.—Braised ribs ; garnished with mashed potatoes and young glazed carrots. — a la Saint Hubert.—Roast or braised ; garnished with stuffed braised cabbages, lettuces, and glazed button onions. Culotte de Boeuf brais6.—Braised round of beef. Filet de Boeuf—Fillet of Beef, Filet de Boeuf a PAncienne.—Braised ; garnished with shces of hard-boiled eggs, crumbed and fried, braised haricot beans, and braised lettuces. — ^ PArlesienne.—Larded fillet, braised whole ; garnished with stuffed tomatoes and aubergines ; sauce Demi- glace. — ^ la B^richonne.—Larded fillet, braised whole, garnished with braised small spring cabbage, button onions, and bacon rolls ; Demi-glace sauce. — ^ la Brabanconne.—Fillet of beef trimmed whole, larded, and put in marinade for twenty-four hours, braised slowly, essence of braize used for sauce; garniture: carrots and turnips, round or olive shapes, glazed potato puree, brussels sprouts puree, spinach, and soubise (onion puree), all dressed in groups round the base of the fillet; brown sauce served separately. — en Chevreuil.—Pickled in red wine marinade and braised ; served with piquant sauce. — fi la Clairemont.—Roast (larded); garnished with kidney potatoes and glazed chestnuts. — ^ la Doria.—Braised fillet, garnished with cubes of cucumber and noisette potatoes ; Demi-glace. — a la Dubarry.—Braised (larded) fillet with small flower- ettes of cauliflower, breaded, and browned au gratin.250 THE MENU BOOK. Filet de Bceuf a la Gouf!6.—Braised and barded fillet, dressed on bed of savoury rice, with quenelles, truffles, and mushrooms as garnish ; gravy. — a la Hussard.—Larded and braised fillet, garnished with stuffed tomatoes, grilled mushrooms, and duchess potatoes ; sauce Hussard. — a la Louis XV.—Braised (larded) whole ; garnished with stuffed potatoes fried or baked. — d la Palestine.—Roast (larded) whole ; garnished with braised Jerusalem artichokes, parsnips, and button onions. — a la Parisienne.—Roast (larded); garnished with small marble-shaped fried potatoes. — a la Paysanne.—Braised; garnished with celery, turnips, carrots, and new kidney potatoes ; browned in the oven. — a la Prince Orloff.—Studded with bacon and tongue, and braised, cut up and masked with tomato sauce and soubise, then browned ; garnished with braised lettuce and celery. — a la Renaissance.—Larded and braised ; garnished with braised lettuce, small tomatoes, chateau potatoes, and mushrooms ; gravy. — a la Richelieu.—Larded and braised ; garnished with stuffed tomatoes, truffles, and mushrooms; Demi- glace. — la Strasbourgeoise—Roast; garnished with sauer- kraut (pickled white cabbages), slices of rolled braised ham, smoked sausage, and mashed potatoes ; gravy. — a la Talleyrand.—Studded with truffles and tongue, and braised ; garnished with small macaroni crous- tades or croquettes, truffles, foie-gras filling ; sauce Perigord. — a la Tivoli.—Larded and braised fillet; garnished with artichoke bottoms, filled with vegetable macedoine ; gravy. — a la Toscane.—Roast (larded); garnished with artichoke bottoms, stuffed tomatoes, and small braised brussels sprouts, tossed in butter ; Demi-glace. Langue de Bceuf—Ox-tongiie, Langue de Boeuf a la Flamande.—Braised ox-tongue, garnished with potatoes (cubes), turnips, carrots, braised cabbage, and bacon slices; also slices of smoked sausage ; gravy. — a la Foug^re.—Braised, served with sauteed broad beans as garnish ; sauce Demi-glace.RELE Vl^S—REMO VES. 251 Langue de BcBUf ^ la Gendarme.—Braised, with maddre sauce, garnished with small veal quenelles, mushroom heads, and gherkins. — a ritalienne.—Braised, garnished with artichokes and spaghetti a la Tomato. — a la Napolitaine.—Braised, garnished with macaroni, mixed with tomato and cheese ; Demi-glace sauce. — a la Palermo.—Boiled and cooked in blonde sauce flavoured with white wine ; orange-lemon rind. — a la Polonaise.—Boiled and braised, with brown sauce, garnished with groups of cooked cauliflower sprigs, coated with oiled butter and fried breadcrumbs. — a la Sarde.—Braised, with tomato sauce and garnished with small rice croquettes (saffron flavour), and halves of stuffed tomatoes. — a la Soutere.—Same as “ Sarde,” but finished in maddre sauce and garnished with white onion puree mixed with chopped truffle. — a la Suisse.—Braised with brown sauce, garnished with nouilles. Note.—For other styles of serving Tongue see ” Garnitures.” Agneau et JUouton Behague or Pre-Sale—Bamh or Mutton, Epaule d’Agneau brais^e.—Braised shoulder of lamb. — brais6e aux Truffes.—Boned, rolled, stuffed with truffles and forcemeat, braised ; demi-glace sauce. — roulee aux Petits Pois.—Rolled shoulder of lamb, braised with green peas. Gigot de Mouton—Leg of Mutton. Gigot de Mouton bouilli a I’Anglaise.—Boiled ; garnished with boiled young carrots, turnips, sprigs of cauli- flower, French beans, and brussels sprouts ; caper sauce. — en Chevreuil.—Boned leg of mutton, marinaded for three days in wine vinegar and herbs, etc. (marinade), then roasted, and served with poivrade (pepper) sauce. — d. la Metternich.—Boned, braised, sliced, and dished up, then masked with bechamel sauce, parmesan, and paprika, and browned in oven; garnished with timbales of savoury rice; gravy. — a la Nesselrode.—Roast, served with stewed chestnuts (whole), sliced mushrooms, and truffles. — brais6 a la Soubise.—Braised leg of mutton with onion puree (soubise). — brais6 a la Turque.—Braised ; garnished with stuffed cucumbers.THE MENU BOOK. 252 Musettes d’Agneau a la Fran^aise.—Boned shoulder of ► r<^lamb, stuffed with forcemeat, rolled and braised ^(usual mirepoix and white wine), dressed on a bed of ? mashed potatoes ; garnished with small potato balls, stuffed tomatoes, dice of ham, tossed in butter, and mushrooms ; sauce demi-glace, served separate. Poitrine d*Agneau farcie a la Soubise.—Stuffed breast of lamb, braised, with onion puree. Quartier d’Agneau a la Flamande.—Roast fore or hind quarter of lamb, garnished with braised turnips and small stuffed spring cabbages. Selle d*Agneau a la Bretonne.—Roast saddle of lamb with puree of haricot beans ; demi-glace. Selle de Mouton—Saddle of Mutton, Selle de Mouton h la Castillane.—Roast saddle of mutton ; garnished with stuffed tomatoes, aubergines, pimientos, fried bananas, and duchesse potatoes ; sauce Demi- glace. — a la St. Germain.—Roasted, sauced with bechamel, breaded, and browned in oven; garnished with grilled aubergines, tomatoes, and mushrooms ; gravy. — ^ la Jardiniere.—Garnished with spring vegetables ; gravy. — Milanaise.—With macaroni and tomato puree ; tomato or demi-glace sauce. — ^ la Selle de Pr§-Sal6 Belle Alliance.—Roast saddle of prime mutton ; garnished with potato puree, braised lettuce, and stuffed tomatoes ; served with gravy. — a la Tosca.—Roasted, sliced, and replaced with layers of savoury macaroni under slices, and soubise puree between, coated with bechamel and soubise, breaded, and browned in oven ; demi-glace. Cochon or I*ore—Pork, Carr6 de pore brais6.—Braised neck of pork. Cochon de Lait roti (Roast Sucking Pig).—Sucking pig roasted on spit or in the oven, basted with olive oil or beer (the latter is the custom in Germany and Switzerland); serve with ravigote or other suitable sauce. — brais6.—Braised sucking pig. — a la Broche.—Sucking pig roasted on the spit. — farci.—Stuffed and roasted sucking pig. Gigot de Pore ^ la Hongroise (Braised Leg of Pork, Hun- garian style).—Boned, rolled, and braised, with sauerkraut; garnished with the latter and with small potato croquettes.RELE VES—REMO VES. 253 Gigot de Pore bouilli TAnglaise.—Boiled leg of salt pork with carrots, turnips, parsnips, and pease pudding. — roti.—Roast leg of fresh pork. Longe de Pore farcie.—Braised and stuffed loin of pork; demi-glace. Selle de Pore,—Roast saddle of pork; gravy and apple sauce. tZamhon—Ham, Jamb on ^ PAnglalse.—Braised ham, sliced, and dressed on spinach ; demi-glace or madere sauce. — ^ la Bayonne.—Braised ham, sliced and dressed on savoury rice ; mixed with tomatoes and mushrooms ; garnished with grilled small French pork sausages ; demi-glace. — a la Beaueaire.—Braised ; garnished with small rice croquettes, small heads of braised lettuce and potato fondantes; sauce demi-glace, flavoured with ham essence. — ^ la Christiania.—Braised ham with chestnut puree ; garnished with glaced cherries, heated up in gravy ; ‘ poivrade sauce. — aux Endives.—Braised ham, with braised chicory ; gravy. — aux Feves de Marais.—Braised ham with broad beans ; gravy. — aux Lentilles.—Braised ham, with lentil puree ; gravy. — au Madere.—Boiled ham with Madeira sauce. — aux Pois.—Braised ham with pea puree. — a la Roederer.—Braised ham with champagne sauce. — en Surprise.—Boiled and braised York ham, centre cut out and refilled with ham mousseline or farce, finished in braise or oven ; served hot with brown grape sauce, or cold with salad, as remove or entree. — de Westphalie, braisd.—Braised Westphalian ham. Veau—Veal, Carr§ de Veau garni.—Roast neck of veal, garnished with braised vegetables. Longe de Veau la Fran^aise.—Roast loin of veal, garnished with stuffed tomatoes and potato cro- quettes ; gravy. — ^ la G6nevolse.—Braised with stewed nouilles (flat macaroni), mushrooms, and truffles ; demi-glace. — dr ritalienne.—Braised with rice timbales and tomato sauce. — Montpensier.—Roast with stewed truffles.254 THE MENU BOOK. Noix de Veau piqu^e.—Braised (larded) cushion of veal; demi-glace. — dr PAllemande.—Braised (larded), garnished with new potatoes (baked) and green peas ; demi-glace. — d la Chasseur.—Roast, stuffed with minced game and mushrooms ; demi-glace. — piqu6e d la Chicor^e.—Roast (larded) with puree of endive ; gravy. Poitrine de Veau farcie.—Roast stuffed breast of veal; ^ gravy. — d la Milanaise.—Roast (stuffed) with macaroni and tomato stew ; demi-glace or tomato sauce. Rond de Veau farcl.—Rolled loin of veal stuffed and roasted. Selle de Veau aux tomates farcies.—Roast saddle of veal with stuffed tomatoes ; gravy. — aux Champignons frais.—Roast with stewed fresh mushrooms ; gravy. Tete de Veau farcie aux trufles.—Braised calf’s head stuffed with veal forcemeat and truffles. Venaison—Venison, etc, Cimier de Cerf, sauce Piquante.—Pickled saddle of deer, braised, with piquant sauce. — de Chevreuil aux Tomates.—Braised, pickled (marinaded) saddle of venison with stewed tomatoes ; demi-glace. Cuissot de Sanglier dr la Bourgogne.—Roast leg of wild boar with Burgundy wine sauce. Fricandeau de Chevreuil a la Broche.—Fillet of venison, larded, roasted on spit. Gigot de Chevreuil braise.—Braised leg of venison. — a la Creme aigre.—Roast leg of venison with sour cream sauce. Jambon de Renne.—Smoked leg of reindeer, braised and served with poivrade or demi-glace sauce. Marcassin fare! aux truffes.—Roast young wild boar stuffed with truffles and forcemeat. Reins de Sanglier au Madere.—Roast loin of wild boar with Madeira wine sauce. JPoularde, Capon, Dinde—Turkey, etc, Chapon bouilli d PAnglaise.—Boiled capon and bath chap. — brais6 d la P6rigord.—Braised capon and truffle sauce. — d la Bonne Femme.—Braised whole in casserole, with button onions, potato cubes, and slices of bacon ; gravy.THE VEGETABLE COURSE. 255 Dinde bouillie aux huitres.—Boiled turkey, with stewed oysters. Poularde po§16e d, la Bergere.—Pullet or poulard cooked in onion mirepoix in earthenware vessel in oven ; dressed with soubise—t.e., onion puree, and garnished with tomatoes tossed in butter, and straw potatoes ; sauce demi-glace. — h la Bouquetiiere.—Braised whole with groups of asparagus points, braised lettuce, noisette potatoes, and young carrots as garnish ; gravy. — h la Careme.—Stuffed with salpicon of foie-gras, truffles, mushrooms, and small quenelles, braised white, sauced with veloute or allemande sauce, and garnished with small tartlet crusts of stuffed olives, and slices of sweetbread. — a la Chantilly.—Stuffed with cooked rice, foie-gras, and truffles, braised white ; veloute cream sauce. — a la Edouard VII.—Stuffed as for “ Chantilly,” and braised; garnished with cucumber cubes and asparagus points ; supreme sauce, with curry flavour. — d. la Gourmet.—Stuffed with chestnut puree and truffles, braised or roasted, and garnished with grilled small pork sausages ; gravy. Note.—For other Removes refer to the Entree and the Roast Sections, where a number of dishes are given that can be served under this heading. Small birds or joints that are cut up are not suitable. It is necessary to serve some kind of seasonable vegetable along with this course, unless the dish selected has a prominent vegetable garnish. A selection of dressed vegetables suitable as garniture or as accompaniments will be found in the part devoted to Vegetables. PART IX. THE VEGETABLE COURSE. ENTREMETS DE LEGUMES. (Dressed Vegetables.) Although this course is exceedingly popular on the Continent, and especially in France, dressed vegetables as an Entremet are not much in favour in England ; many dinners are served where only plain vegetables are given, and dressed vegetables as a separate course is but seldom included. This is regrettable, because in point of excel-THE MENU BOOK. 256 lence as well as economy dressed vegetables deserve to be more largely, if not generally, introduced in dinner menus. Of these vegetables. Asparagus, Green or Globe Arti- chokes, Jerusalem Artichokes, Cardoons, Celery, Sodsify, Celeriac, Cauliflower, Seakale, Spinach, Tomatoes, Green Peas, Sprouts, Potatoes, French Beans, Mushrooms, Cucumbers, and Aubergines, are particularly adapted for dressing as an Entremet Course. The dressing varies considerably. Asparagus, artichokes, and cauliflowers are often served plainly boiled, dished on toasted bread, with a good white sauce or oiled butter. Oiled butter must be perfect; fresh and sweet butter only should be used, and a dash of lemon juice incorporated. Many of these vegetables are well suited to be cooked au gratin ; others are tossed in butter, after being boiled and well drained; whilst others, such as tomatoes, potatoes cucumbers, aubergines, mushrooms, and artichoke bottoms, etc., are stuffed. There are about 300 ways of cooking and dressing potatoes, and of these quite 100 render them fit for use as savoury vegetables. Asparagus and artichokes are also served au vinaigrette —i.e., with a plain salad dressing, consisting of oil, vinegar, chopped chives or parsley, chopped gherkins, and seasoning. Bechamel, tomato, hollandaise, piquante, and poivrade sauces are frequently used for dressing vegetables. Many dainty souffles of vegetable puree rank prominently as savouries ; for these, spinach, cucumber, let tuces, toma- toes, artichokes, carrots, etc., are generally used. Lastly, vegetable fritters should be accorded a prominent place under this heading. These are made of salsify, celery or celeriac, beetroot, cardoons, cepes, etc. These are generally first cooked, and when cold cut into slices or small pieces, then dipped in batter, and fried. Artichauts—Avticliohes, Artichauts frais.—Fresh globe artichokes. — a la Bechamel.—Boiled • served with white (bechamel) sauce. — ^ la Bruxelloise.—Globe artichoke, boiled, inside stuffed with a rich mushroom puree, and braised ; served with allemande sauce flavoured with white wine.257 THE VEGETABLE COURSE. Artichauts frais a la Barigoule.—Centre stuffed with duxelle puree, braised, and served with demi-glace sauce. — a la Boulang^re.—Centre stuffed with sausage meat, wrapped in paste, and baked. — a la Cavour.—Boiled, quartered, and ranged in gratin dish with butter, cheese, sliced eggs, and crumbs, then baked ; salad dressing, hot or cold. — farcis.—Stuffed green globe artichokes. — frits.—Fried artichokes (Jerusalem artichokes). — au gratin.—Baked, gratin style. — ^ la Hollandaise.—Boiled, served with Dutch (Hol- landaise) sauce, — ^ I’ltalienne.—Boiled and broiled in butter, with chopped mushrooms and brown sauce. — de Jerusalem.—Jerusalem artichokes, {See Topin- AMBOURS.) — de Jerusalem a la Crdme.—Boiled Jerusalem arti- chokes with bechamel and cream sauce. — d la Lyonnaise.—Cut in quarters, stewed in demi-glace, with fried slices of onions. — a la Reine.—Green artichoke puree and chicken cream mixed with aspic and set in fancy moulds ; served cold. — sautds.—Green artichokes quartered, boiled, dressed, and tossed in butter ; served with or without sauce. — d la Vinaigrette.—Boiled, served with vinaigrette sauce. Beignets d*Artichauts.—Artichoke fritters. Goeurs d’Artichauts.—Small, selected, young artichoke bottoms. Quartier d*Artichauts.—Quarters of artichoke bottoms. Fonds d’Artichauts.*—Artichoke bottoms. — a TAmdricaine.—Artichoke bottoms stuffed with chicken forcemeat, with a garnish of cooked chicken slices, truffle, tongue, etc., in centre; served hot with sauce or cold with aspic. — d 1’Alice.—Boiled, drained, and tossed in butter, dressed on croutons with a small round of cooked beef-marrow in each, and sauced over with demi- glace. — a la Bordelaise.—Tossed in butter, and fried shallots cooked in red wine sauce, and beef marrow-fat as garnish. — d la Clamart.—Boiled and sauteed in butter with bouquet of herbs, and young turned carrots, and green peas ; cream sauce. ♦ Unless otherwise stated, the fonds are turned and boiled in salted water, and then prepared as directed. R258 THE MENU BOOK. Fonds d’Artichauts a la Cussy.—Farced with foie-gras and truffle; coated with rich white sauce, crumbed, and fried ; sauce maddre. — ^ la Demi-glace.—Boiled, and stewed in demi-glace sauce. — h. TEspagnole.—Boiled or braised with espagnole sauce. — a la Florentine.—Braised, filled with asparagus tips and bechamel sauce, sprinkled over with grated cheese and butter, and browned in oven. — d la Gastronome.—Braised brown, with mushrooms and truffles, sauced over with Mornay sauce, breaded, and browned. — a la Maraichere.—Whole or quartered, braised with tomatoes, onions, bacon, garlic flavour, kidney potatoes and sorrel; white wine sauce ; cooked and served in casserole. — ^ la Paysanne.—Cut in quarters and cooked with onion mirepoix, bacon, and potato cubes, cooked and served in casserole. — a la Poivrade.—Stewed in, and served with, pepper sauce. — a la Provengale.—Stuffed with onion puree and served with a rich brown sauce. — a la Stanley.—Cooked in bechamel sauce, and filled with salpicon of ham. Souffld d’Artichauts a la Lyonnaise.—Green artichoke pur6e, mixed with chicken souffle mixture, centre garnished with champignon puree, cooked in artichoke moulds, served hot with supreme sauce. Asperges—Asparagus, Asperges en Branches a PAllemande.—Green asparagus cooked in chicken stock ; served with cream sauce. — a la B^arnaise.—Boiled, dressed with layers of grated gruyere cheese, top covered with finely minced fried onions, cheese, and breadcrumbs ; browned in hot oven. — a la B6chamel.—Boiled with bechamel sauce. — en branches au beurre fondu.—Boiled with oiled butter. — en branches a la Colbert.—Boiled with poached eggs and brown sauce. — d la Chantilly.—Cooked in milk and water, dressed and covered with seasoned whipped cream. — d la Flamande.—Boiled and dished, sauced over with oiled butter, and strewn with chopped hard-boiled egg-yolks. — a la Fribourg.—Boiled, sprinkled with grated gruyere cheese, and sauced with hot oiled butter.259 THE VEGETABLE COURSE. Asperges en Branches au deux Sauces (with two sauces). —Boiled, served usually with melted butter and Hollandaise sauce. — froides.—Boiled asparagus, served cold. — glac6es.—Boiled asparagus, iced. — a la Hollandaise.—Boiled, served with Hollandaise sauce. — a ritalienne.—Boiled; head portion coated au gvatin, same as "a la Mornay,” with white sauce or oiled butter, sprinkled with grated cheese, and browned in sharp oven or under salamander. — ^ la Melba.—Giant asparagus, tied in bundles and cooked in salted water ; served with sauce Melba. — a la Milanaise.—Cooked in salt water, dished up, strewed with grated parmesan cheese, oiled butter, and browned under salmander. — a la Mornay.—Boiled, and dished, sauced with Mornay sauce, and grated cheese ; browned. — a la Nipoise.—Boiled, and served cold, with a sauce made of sweet oil, hard-boiled egg-yolks, passed through a sieve ; vinegar, and seasoning. — en Petits Pois.—Green asparagus points (sprue), cut very small to resemble peas, and boiled. — a la Plemontaise.—Boiled ; dressed with grated par- mesan cheese and nut-brown butter (beurre noisette). — a la Polonaise.—Boiled soft portion; dressed with nut-brown butter and fried breadcrumbs. — a la Princ6sse.—Boiled, and iced when cold ; served with cold mousseline sauce. — ^ la Royale.—Boiled, and served with light hot mousseline sauce. — saut^es au Beurre.—Boiled, and finished in butter. — a la Siberienne.—Cooked in salt water, served cold with sauce Gribiche or iced Remoulade. — au Velout6.—Boiled, and finished in veloute sauce. — a la Vinaigrette.—Boiled ; served with vinaigrette sauce. Pointes d*Asperges.—Asparagus points or tips. — ^ PArgenteuil.—Puree of green asparagus points or sprue, mixed with chicken cream farce (cooked), set in asparagus-shaped mould, so as to resemble a bundle of asparagus (white part, chicken forcemeat); served hot, with supreme sauce ; or cold, with aspic and salad. — a la S6yillienne.—Asparagus puree served inside a shape mounted with cooked cold asparagus, masked with aspic ; served cold and garnished with a salad of artichoke bottoms in the centre. — a la Sylvane.—Boiled ; served cold with herb sauce (Gribiche—see Sauces).26o THE MENU BOOK. AubergEnes—Egg Plants. Aubergines h I’Am^ricaine.—Stuffed with minced mutton and onion, covered with sliced tomatoes, and baked. — a TAndalouse.—Stuhed with chopped tomatoes, red pepper (pimiento), and mushrooms, and baked. — ^ la Chatelaine.—Farced with salpicon of chicken, tongue and truffle, and baked. — ^ I’Egyptienne.—Stuffed with forcemeat, chicken or lamb ; baked, and served with tomato sauce. — farcies au gratin.—Stuffed, top breaded, and baked in oven. — frltes.—Peeled, cut in slices, dipped in batter, and fried. — grill6es.—Cut in halves, longways, dipped in oil, seasoned and grilled. — ^ ritalienne.—Peeled, sliced, and tossed in butter, seasoned and dressed on gratin dish, with slices of tomatoes, finely minced onions or shallots, grated parmesan and butter, then browned in the oven. — ^ la Lyonnaise.—Baked, with fried sliced onions; demi-glace sauce. — a la Napolitaine.—Halved, spread with tomato puree, and cut in pieces, dipped in batter, and fried. — a la Parisienne.—Halved and stuffed with ham and beef-marrow puree, sauteed in oil. — a la Provengale.—Halved, stuffed with duxelle or mushroom puree, flavoured with suspicion of garlic, browned in oven. — a la St. Jean.—Stuffed with chicken puree, coated with rich white sauce and grated cheese ; browned in oven. — sautees.—Peeled, cut in quarters or smaller, and tossed in butter. — ^ la Turque.—Cut in two, lengthways, scooped out and filled with a mixture of cooked savoury rice, finely minced mutton, and grated cheese, sauced over with espagnole, and baked. Betterave—Beetroot. Bettorave h la Bordelaise.—Thickly sliced cooked beetroots, fried in sweet oil, flavoured with chopped onion, and finished in a red wine sauce. — au naturol.—Plain boiled, cut in slices. — sautees au Beurre.—Cube or olive shapes of cooked beetroot, tossed in butter Beignets de Betterave.—Beetroot fritters.THE VEGETABLE COURSE. 261 Cardons—Cardoons, Gardens a la Bourgeoise.—Blanched cardoon, cooked in stock with onions and ham, and finished in lemon- flavoured butter sauce. — a la Cr6me.—Parboiled and stewed in rich stock ; served with cream sauce. — a TEspagnole.—Boiled in stock and stewed in brown sauce (espagnole). — Frits.—Cooked cut in 2-inch lengths, dipped in batter, and fried in hot fat. — au Jus.—Parboiled, cooked in rich gravy, and served with gravy. — a la Moelle.—Parboiled, braised in demi-glace sauce ; garnished with slices of beef-marrow. — a la Nivernaise.—Blanched and braised white, sauced with veloute, and garnished with young carrots. — a la Veloute.—Stewed white ; dressed on croutons of bread, and served with veloute sauce. Caro ties—Carro ts. Garottes k I’Andalouse.—Braised young carrots, finished in rich port-wine sauce. — a la Bdchamel.—Boiled young carrots with white sauce. — k la Bourgeoise.—Parboiled, and stewed in white stock, thickened with flour and butter. — ^ la Grdme.—Turned, parboiled, and cooked in white sauce enriched with cream and butter. — ^ I’Espagnole.—Parboiled, stewed in stock and espag- nole sauce, seasoned with sugar, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and fresh butter. — farcies.—Young carrots hollowed out and stuffed with green pea puree, mixed with egg-yolks, and braised in butter and gravy. — ^ la Flamande.—Turned carrots (small), cooked and tossed in butter, bechamel liaison, chopped parsley. — au jus.—Young carrots cooked in stock and served with rich gravy. — a la Lilloise.—Cut into thick round slices, cooked in a little water with fresh butter and sugar to season, finished in bechamel sauce, egg-yolks, cream, and chopped parsley. — i la Maitre d’Hdtel.—Parboiled (pared and cut in quarters), cooked in white stock, thickened with veloute sauce, fresh butter, a little sugar, and chopped parsley ; garnished with fried-bread croutons — a la Marianne.—Carrots cut into julienne strips, tossed in butter with stock, and maitre d’hotel butter, mixed with strips of cepes.THE MENU BOOK. 262 Garottes a la Paysanne.—Carrots boiled in stock, with chopped onion, blended with sour cream. — a la Poulette.—Boiled and stewed in white sauce, with chopped parsley. — au Saumon fum6.—Young carrots and asparagus points stewed, and garnished with slices of smoked salmon. — la Vichy. —Small, round, young carrots, boiled, tossed in butter, and sprinkled with Vichy salt and finely chopped parsley. Compdte de.—Young carrots scraped and cooked till tender in vanilla-flavoured syrup ; dressed and served with roast meat or game, like fruit compote. Croquettes de.—Carrot puree, thickened with egg, shaped into croquettes ; egged and crumbed, and fried. / / Celeri—Celery, C616rl dr la Bechamel.—Boiled celery, served with white sauce. — d TEspagnole.—Boiled in stock, and stewed in brown sauce. — d la Fermi^re.—Parboiled, stewed in stock, with a layer of lean pork ; served with brown sauce, — frit.—Boiled, cut in four-inch lengths, seasoned, dipped in frying batter, and fried in hot fat. — a la G6nevoise.—Parboiled, stewed in stock with layers of fat bacon ; when done, drained, ranged in a baking dish, sauced over with veloute, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and parmesan cheese, and baked in the oven until brown. — d ritalienne.—Parboiled celery heads stewed in stock, covered with thin slices of bacon ; served with Italian sauce. — au Jus.—Stewed in, and served with, gravy. — d la Moelle.—Braised in gravy, with slices of blanched beef-marrow. — d la Paysanne.—Boiled, cut in five-inch lengths, stewed in brown sauce. — d la Reine.—Boiled in stock, and served with rich veloute or allemande sauce. — d la Tomate.—Braised in stock, and served with tomato sauce. — au Velout6.—Parboiled, stewed in stock, finished with velout6 sauce. — d la Vllleroi.—Boiled, cut in four-inch pieces, drained, dipped in velout6 sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried in hot fat; served plain or with tomato sauce.THE VEGETABLE COURSE. 263 Pur6e de C§16ri aux Croutons.—Mashed or puree of celery, seasoned with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a little sugar, finished with bechamel sauce and fresh butter ; garnished with fried-bread croutons. r r Celeriac—Celery~knohs, C616riac a la Bechamel.—Stewed in, and served with, white sauce. — k TEspagnole.—Parboiled, and stewed in, and served with, brown sauce. — frit.—Sliced, dipped in batter, and fried ; or sliced and fried crisp in deep fat. — au gratin.—Cooked, sliced, and dished with white sauce on baking dish, coated with sauce, crumbs, and cheese, and baked. — a la Joinville.—Boiled, cut into thick slices, immersed in veloute sauce, set to cool, dipped in egg and crumbed, fried in hot fat, garnished with fried parsley. Cepes.—A species of mushroom. — a la Bordelaise.—Broiled in butter, served with gravy, mixed with lemon juice and chopped parsley. — farcies au Jus.—Stuffed, and cooked in gravy. — a la Pi^montaise.—Stuffed with duxelle puree, and cooked with olive oil in oven. — a la Proven^ale.—Stewed in stock, and served with onion puree. — a la Russe.—Sliced, and tossed in butter, with shallots, fried in oil, finished in cream sauce, chopped parsley, and fennel. — a la Toulousaine.—Sliced, tossed in butter, with sliced tomatoes, onions, and ham ; espagnole sauce. Citronille farcie.—Stuffed pumpkin. Champignons—Mushrooms, Champignons au beurre.—Fresh mushrooms, broiled in fresh butter and served on toast. — a la Bordelaise.—Broiled in butter and seasoned ; served with gravy, mixed with chopped shallots previously fried in butter, and chopped parsley. — a la Capucine.—Tossed in oil, parsley, and very little garlic, filled with pigeon salpicon, mixed with white sauce. — d. la Casse-tout.—Grilled or broiled in butter, placed on buttered toast, and baked in the oven. — farcis.—Stuffed mushrooms.264 THE MENU BOOK. Champignons farcis ^ la Napolitaine.—Stuffed with cooked rice, mixed with finely chopped garlic, shallots, and parsley, grated parmesan cheese and breadcrumbs, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and cheese, and sweet oil, and baked in the oven ; served with demi-glace sauce. — aux fines herbes.—Stewed in savoury herb sauce or grilled and served with parsley butter. — ft la Gourmet.—Turned cup mushrooms, hollow parts filled with minced champignons, butter, and truffles, braised in light butter, meat glaze sauce, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. — au gratln.—Stuffed with grated ham, herbs, shallots, etc., placed on buttered chopped parsley gratin dish, sauced with brown sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs, and baked in sharp oven. — grilles.—Grilled, and served with parsley butter. — ft la Livonienne.—Peeled, blanched, and boiled, marinaded in oil, and served with chopped beetroot, gherkins, and capers ; served hot or cold. — ft la Pl^montalse.—Cut in slices, tossed in butter, and finished in white sauce, flavoured with lemon juice and chopped parsley. — ft la Proven?ale.—Sauteed in oil, stewed in rich gravy with chopped shallots, crushed garlic, chopped parsley, and lemon juice, seasoned, and served on croutons. Chicoree—Chicory or Endive. Chicor^e B<elge—Belgian Endive, Ghicorfte ft la Creme.—Stewed, with cream sauce. — a la Demi-glace.—Stewed, with brown sauce. — ft I’Espagnole.—Blanched, minced, and fried in butter ; finished in veal gravy and espagnole. — ft la Flamande.—Blanched, baked in butter and cream. — ft la Paysanne.—Blanched, sauteed in butter and stock, mixed with strips of hard-boiled eggs. — ft la Russe.—Sauteed in butter, with onions and fennel; served with bechamel, mixed with sour cream. Choux—Cabbages, Chou blanc farci.—Braised stuffed white cabbage. — Cantabres.—Braised cabbages, with slices of ham and Basque sausages. — ft I’ltalienne.—Boiled and stewed ; served with braised chestnuts and small fried sausages. Choux broccoli.—Broccoli sprouts. — ft la Lilloise.—Small pieces of boiled cabbage broiled in butter, seasoned with chopped onions and parsley.265 THE VEGETABLE COURSE. Choux frls6s or Chou cr6pu.—Scotch kale. — de Savoie.—Savoy cabbage. Choucroute §tuv6.—Sourcrout pickled or salted cabbage, stewed in the oven. — k TAlsacienne.—Stewed, with boiled bacon and smoked sausages. — au Champagne.—Stewed, flavoured with champagne. — garnie.—Cooked with bacon, and garnished with slices of ham and Frankfort sausages. Chou-navet—Chou-rave.—Turnip cabbage. Chou-printanier.—Spring cabbage. Chou-rouge 6tuv6.—Stewed or braised red cabbage. Chou sauvage.—Curled cabbage. Choux-verts.—Greens. Choux de Bruxelles—Brussels Sprouts* Choux de Bruxelles sautdes.—Boiled, drained, and tossed in fresh butter. — a la Bonne Femme.—Blanched, and cooked with butter in oven. — ^ ITtalienne.—Blanched, cooked in stock, and finished with anchovy butter. — ^ la Maltre d’Hotel.—Boiled, finished with parsley butter or parsley sauce. — ^ la Mode.—Cooked in salted water, finished in alle- mande sauce and chopped parsley. — ^ la Noisette.—As above, finished with nut-brown butter and chopped parsley. Purde de Choux de Bruxelles.—Finely-chopped or mashed Brussels sprouts. Chou de Mer (Chou Marin)—Sedkale* Chou de Mer a PAnglaise.—Boiled seakale ; served with melted butter sauce. — a la Bechamel.—Boiled seakale, with white sauce. — ^ la Hollandaise.—With hollandaise sauce. ChoU‘fleur—Cauliflower, Chou-fleur a I’Anglaise.—Boiled cauliflower ; served with melted butter sauce. — au beurre fondu.—Boiled ; served with oiled butter. — a la Cardinal.—Boiled, sauced with cardinal sauce, and garnished v/ith crayfish or prawns. — a la Dubarry.—Mashed cauliflower, enriched with cream.266 THE MENU BOOK. Chou-fleur h la Florentine.—Parboiled and stewed in white sauce with braised chestnuts and spinach. — a la Fran^aise.—Cut into quarters, boiled, and stewed in white sauce, seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. — au gratin.—Boiled, coated with white sauce, bread- crumbs, grated cheese, oiled butter, and baked in oven. — a la Hollandaise.—Boiled with hollandaise sauce. — a la Milanaise.—Boiled, dressed on gratin dish, sprinkled over with grated parmesan cheese, and browned under salamander. — a la Pi^montaise.—Boiled, sauced over with white sauce mixed with grated parmesan cheese. — ^ la Polonaise.—Boiled, breaded with fried bread- crumbs, nut-brown butter, lemon-juice, and chopped parsley. Chou-crout (Sauerkraut).—Finely shredded white cabbage, preserved in brine, and cooked in various styles. Fritot de, or Beignets.—Sprigs of cooked cauliflower dipped in frying batter, and fried in deep fat. Re jet de chou.—Cabbage sprout. Concombre—Cucumber, Concombre a la cr§me.—Peeled, parboiled, and stewed with cream sauce. — a la Doria.—Small cubes or olive shapes of cucumber, blanched and cooked in rich cream sauce. — d, I’Espagnole.—Peeled, cut in quarters, parboiled, drained, and fried in butter ; served with espagnole sauce. — farcie.—Stuffed and braised. — dr la Fermidre.—Halved, scooped out, and farced with sausage meat and herbs, braised in oven ; brown sauce. — saute aux fines herbes.—Peeled, sliced, and broiled in butter, with finely chopped parsley, etc. — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Peeled, and boiled in white stock ; served with parsley sauce. — a la Napolitaine.—Peeled, halved, stuffed with chopped mushrooms and savoury herbs, and braised, ranged on a dish, sprinkled with parmesan cheese, and sauced over with veloute sauce. — a la Romaine.—Olive shapes, blanched and finished in nut-brown butter, with anchovy fillets. — a la Tartars.—Thinly-peeled cucumber sliced, without detaching, filled with tartare sauce between slices ; seasoned, small salad in centre.THE VEGETABLE COURSE. 267 Concombre k la tomate.—Peeled, and stewed with tomato sauce, — a la Tzarina.—Cube shapes or quarters blanched and cooked in white sauce, with chopped fennel. Pur6e de concombre.—Peeled, boiled, and mashed (passed through a sieve), mixed with b6chamel sauce, and seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little sugar. Gouvgettes—Young Small JEunvpli,ins, Adopt the same styles of cooking as for Cucumber. Crosnes—Stachys, Note.—Stachys or Stakies are usually washed, rubbed in salt, and boiled in salted water. Crosnes a la Creme.—Cooked as above, and finished in cream sauce. — h ritalienne.—As above, but finished in Italian sauce, with chopped parsley. Beignets de Crosnes.—Bottled stachys dipped in batter, and fried in deep fat. Croquettes de Crosnes.—Like “ ^ la Crdme,” with addition of eggs to bind, shaped as croquettes, egged and crumbed, and fried. Puree de Crosnes.—Cooked in stock, rubbed through sieve, and mixed with potato puree. Endives—Endives. Endives a la Ardennaise.—Parboiled endives cut in sections, and sauteed in the oven with slice of bacon ; served in timbale with butter. — d, la crdme.—Parboiled and cooked in cream sauce. — au jus.—Parboiled and cooked in gravy. — a la Mornay.—Boiled, dressed on gratin dish with Mornay sauce, and glazed in oven. Epinards—Spinach, Epinards d, I'Allemande.—Blanched spinach, cooked (whole) in rich stock and gravy, with fried chopped onions, and fried breadcrumbs on top. — d la Bechamel.—Boiled, mashed, and finished with white sauce. — en branches.—Cooked in salted water, and served whole (not mashed); usually tossed in butter. — d la Colbert.—With poached eggs ; demi-glace sauce. — d la Comtesse.—Blanched and stewed in butter and stock; dished and coated with finely-chopped hard-boiled egg-yolks.268 THE MENU BOOK. Epinards farcls.—Large spinach leaves spread with chicken forcemeat, rolled up, braised in consomme stock, and served with brown sauce. — d la Fransalse.—Boiled, and finished with cream and butter, — au gratin.—Same as “ Italienne,” but breaded and baked in oven. — h I’ltallenne.—Spinach puree mixed with bechamel, grated cheese, and butter; garnished with small raviolles poached in stock. — au Jus.—Boiled, mashed, or sieved, with gravy, — en soubrics.—Spinach puree mixed with white sauce and egg-yolks, and shaped as flat croquettes ; egged, crumbed, and fried in butter. Timbales d’Eplnards.—Puree of spinach, in timbale shapes, usually served with gravy. Epinards d la Viroflay,—As “ Soubrics,” but instead of being crumbed, wrapped in spinach leaves ; dished up, coated with white sauce, grated cheese, butter, and crumbs, and browned in oven. Roulades d’Epinards.—Savoury pancakes, rolled and filled with spinach. Feves de mavais—Broad Beans. F6ves de marais d la crdme.—Boiled broad beans with white cream sauce. — aux fines herbes.—Boiled with parsley sauce, — au lard.—Boiled, tossed in butter, with fried dice shapes of bacon. — d la poulette.—Parboiled, and stewed in white sauce, with chopped parsley. — d la Provengale.—Boiled, and stewed in brown sauce, with fried sliced onions. — d la Westphalienne.—Boiled, tossed in butter, with slices of ham, and white wine sauce. Outnbos or Okras. Gumbos d la Crdme.—Cooked in salt water, tossed in butter, and finished in cream sauce. — 6tuv6.—Braised with bacon ; onion slices and gravy. — d la Turque.—Cut in slices and fried in oil, with sliced onion and dice-shaped of cooked mutton. Haricots hlancs—White Haricot Beans, Haricots blancs a la Bechamel.—Parboiled, and stewed in white sauce.269 THE VEGETABLE COURSE. Haricots blancs a la Bretonne.—Boiled, and stewed in brown sauce, with finely chopped fried onions and parsley. — aux fines herbes.—Cooked, blended with brown sauce, and chopped parsley. — ^ la Lyonnaise.—Stewed in stock, with slices of fried onions. Haricots Flageolets a la Poulette.—Green flageolets, French or Jersey beans and young carrots, cooked separately and finished in butter and rich stock, and white sauce and chopped parsley ; served with fleurons. Haricots verts—French Beans, Haricots verts ^ la Frangalse.—Boiled, drained, seasoned, and tossed in butter, with chopped parsley. — aux fines herbes.—Boiled, drained, seasoned, and tossed in butter, with chopped parsley. — a ritalienne.—Cooked, tossed in butter, with liquefied meat glaze, fried shallots, lemon juice and chopped parsley. — a la Lyonnaise.—Boiled, seasoned, tossed in butter, with thinly sliced fried onions. — a la Maltre d’Hotel.—Cooked and blended with parsley butter. — panaches.—Cooked and mixed with flageolets, both tossed in butter. — sautes au beurre—Boiled, drained, seasoned, and tossed in butter. Jets de houblons a la Polonaise.—Stewed young hop sprigs with fried breadcrumbs. Laitues—Lettuces, Laitues braisees.—Braised cabbage lettuce. — farcies, braisees.—Braised stuffed cabbage lettuces. Note.—See also Choux—Cabbage. Lentilles—Lentils, Lentilles en fricass6e.—Boiled lentils In white sauce. — ^ la Mobile.—Blanched and braised in butter and gravy, with slices of beef-marrow. — a la Paysanne.—Blanched, stewed in gravy, with small onions, carrots, and slices of ham. Purbe de lentilles.—Mashed lentils.THE MENU BOOK. 270 Mac6doine de legumes.—Mixed vegetables cut into small fanciful pieces, cubes, stars or other shapes, to be cooked separately in salted water, and mixed when done, — a la Bechamel.—Boiled, tossed in butter, and finished in white sauce, — a la printani^re.—Mixed spring vegetables, boiled> drained, and tossed in butter, Navets—Turnips, Navets braises.—Braised turnips, — a la Bourgeoise.—Stewed turnips in brown parsley sauce, — a la veloute.—Stewed young turnips in white sauce, Pur6e de navets.—Mashed turnips. Oignons—Onions, Oignons a I’Espagnole.—Spanish onions, boiled in milk- water, and with oiled butter. — a la demi-glace.—Boiled Spanish onions stewed in brown sauce. — farcis.—Blanched, scooped out, and filled or farced with duxelle or other stuffing, then braised. — frit.—Slices of onion, dipped in milk and flour, and fried crisp in deep fat. Pur^e d’oignon.—Puree of onion with white or brown sauce. Okras frltes (Fried Okras).—Treated the same as gumbos, egg-plant or aubergines. Oseille—Sorrel.—Treated and cooked the same as spinach. Poireau—Leek.—Treated and cooked the same as celery. Petits pois—Green Peas, Petits pois a PAnglaise.—Cooked in salted water and served plain. — a I’Ancienne.—Cooked green peas, tossed in butter, finished in liaison of cream and egg-yolks. — ^ la Basque.—Green peas served with ham, slightly flavoured with garlic. — au beurre.—Cooked plain, tossed in fresh butter, and seasoned. — Bonne Femme.—Cooked plain, mixed with small braised button onions and shreds of cabbage lettuce, tossed in butter, and seasoned with salt, pepper, and sugar.271 THE VEGETABLE COURSE. Petits pois h la Flamande.—Cooked, blended with dice- shaped potatoes, in butter and flour. — a la Florentine.—Cooked, with ham, button onions, finished in tomato sauce. — 4 la Franpaise.—Boiled, tossed in butter, with minced fried ham and chopped parsley. — au lard fum6.—Boiled, tossed with small pieces of fried bacon. — au jamb on grille.—Green peas with broiled ham. — a la Menthe.—Cooked in salted water, with green mint, and finished with mint-flavoured butter. — Paysanne.—Boiled, drained, and mixed with small button onions and shredded lettuce tossed in butter. — d la St. Germain.—Puree of green peas, with veal gravy. Pommes de terre—Potatoes, Note—In compiling menus, it is not necessary to spell “ pommes de terre ” in full. “ Pommes ” is sufflcient, if the style of preparation follows, i.e., Pommes d, la duchesse, Pommes pailles, Pommes soufflees, Pommes chdteau, Pommes pavisiennes, etc. Pommes de terre naturel Plain boiled potatoes Pommes de terre houilles Boiled potatoes Pommes de terre frites Fried potatoes Pommes de terre nouvelles New potatoes Pommes pur^e Mashed potatoes Pommes soufjUe Potato puffs Pommes roties Baked potatoes Pommes chippes Chipped potatoes Pommes pailles Straw potatoes Pommes de terre au jus Stewed potatoes in gravy Beignets de pommes Potato fritters Pommes de terre d, I’Allemande.—Plain boiled, sauced over with brown sauce mixed with lemon juice, white wine, well reduced and thickened with egg-yolks and butter. — Allumettes.—Long, even-sized strips, like matches, fried crisp in deep fat. — a I’Alsacienne.—Small kidney potatoes or large olive shapes of old potatoes, boiled, sprinkled over with chopped fried onions and parsley. — k TAnglaise.—Plain boiled, seasoned with salt, sauced over with melted butter. — Anna.—Peeled and sliced thinly, ranged in layers, with melted butter and seasoning, in a cylindrical shaped mould ; baked in ovenTHE MENU BOOK. 272 Pommes de terre d I’Ardennaise.—Peeled kidney potatoes baked, scooped out, and stuffed with chicken and ham puree, and browned in oven. — d la bdchamel.—Parboiled, and stewed in white sauce. — Berny.—Croquette mixture, with chopped truffles, egg shaped, crumbed with bread and ground almonds, then fried in deep fat. — Berrichonne.—Marble-shaped potatoes blanched and fried in butter, with chopped fried onions and chopped parsley. — i la Bignon.—Peeled and parboiled, centre scooped out and filled with forcemeat, and baked with butter. — Bonne Femme.—Same as " Paysanne,” with squares of fried bacon added. — Bordelaise.—Peeled, sliced thinly, fried soft in a saute- pan, with oiled butter and finely chopped onions. Bordure de pur6e de pommes de terre.—Border of mashed potatoes. Pommes de terre Boulang^re.—Sliced and mixed with sliced onions, then baked with butter in oven. — a la bourgeoise.—Mashed, dressed on a dish (dome shape), basted with melted butter, sprinkled over with fresh breadcrumbs and cheese, and baked. — a la Brabanponne.—Mashed potatoes, mixed with finely chopped blanched shallots, parsley, cheese, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, dressed and grated on a shallow dish, top sprinkled with breadcrumbs, grated cheese, and bits of butter ; browned in the oven. — Bretonne.—Cold boiled potatoes, peeled, cut into squares, broiled in butter, mixed with finely chopped fried onions, chopped parsley, and a little brown sauce. — Byron.—Baked potatoes filled with sausage meat and fine herbs stuffing, coated with cream and grated cheese, and browned in oven. — Gareme.—Timbale shapes of rich potato puree, coated with cream and grated cheese, and browned under salamander. — Champery.—Same as Anna potatoes, with addition of grated gruy^re cheese. — Chantilly.—Cut out into round shapes, parboiled in salt water, drained, and finished in bechamel sauce ; sprinkled with liquified meat glaze. — Chateau.—Oval or olive shapes of potatoes, blanched, drained, fried a light colour in clarified butter, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. — Chateaubriand.—Peeled, cut into quarters and pared into neat half-moon shapes, parboiled, drained, and fried in butter.THE VEGETABLE COURSE. 273 Pommes de terre Chatonillard.—Oblong shaped souffle or puff potatoes, made from large kidney potatoes. — en chemise.—Potatoes cooked in their skin, and so served. — Chinoise.—Egg-shaped potatoes, centre scooped out and filled with minced beef and herbs ; baked in butter. — d la Colbert.—Cooked potatoes cut into squares, seasoned, stewed in gravy, finished with a little fresh butter and chopped parsley. — Colorette.—Thinly sliced, cut with crinkled potato- slicer, and fried crisp in deep fat. — Comtesse.—Sliced, ranged neatly in buttered timbale mould, with veloute sauce, and baked in a hot oven. — en copeau (Potato Ribbons).—Peeled, cut similarly to sugar loaves; peeled carefully so that the peel (ribbon) remains whole ; fried in very hot fat. Cotelettes de pommes de terre.—Puree as for croquettes, shaped like cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat. Pommes de terre k la crdme.—SHced, and stewed in white sauce enriched with cream. Croquettes de pommes de terre.—Mashed or puree, seasoned, mixed with yolks of eggs, shaped into ball or any other shapes, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat. Pommes de terre cuites au bouillon.—Boiled in beef broth* — cuites sous la cendre.—Baked in hot ashes (in their jackets). — Dauphine.—Same as “ Duchesse ” ; mixed with choux paste, shaped into balls, and fried in deep fat. — Delmonico.—Finely minced raw potatoes, cooked in butter and cream, seasoned and dished ; sprinkled with brown crumbs and baked in oven. — Dieppoise.—Cold boiled potatoes, cut into slices, together with cold sausages, broiled in butter, seasoned, and served with demi-glace sauce. — Dietrich.—Small kidney potatoes, peeled, egg-shaped, centre scooped out and filled with cooked semolina and chopped truffles ; coated with bechamel sauce and grated cheese, and baked in oven. — Duchesse.—Mashed, seasoned, shaped into fingers or other shapes, brushed over with yolk of eggs, and baked in oven. — Espagnole.—Thickly sliced, boiled, drained, and served with espagnole sauce. — 6tuv6es.—Same as “ Chateau ” potatoes, with oiled butter and chopped parsley.THE MENU BOOK. 274 Pommes de terre farcies.—Large kidney potatoes peeled’ hollowed out, and filled with any kind of forcemeat; baked in buttered saute-pan ; when done glazed with meat glaze. — Faubonne.—Thickly sliced, and stewed in brown sauce, flavoured with onion. — Flamande.—Peeled, cut in large dice shapes, tossed in butter, with finely chopped onion and parsley. — Fondantes.—Peeled, cut in quarters, parboiled, and cooked in fire-proof casserole, with butter, in oven. — Frisdes.—Curl or ribbon shapes, fried in clarified butter or other fat. — Garfield.—Peeled, cut into small dice, parboiled, and fried in clarified butter. — au gratin.—Sliced, parboiled, mixed with cream, seasoned, and dressed on buttered gratin dish, covered with breadcrumbs, grated parmesan cheese, and a few pieces of fresh butter ; browned in the oven. — gratinees.—Mashed potatoes mixed with grated cheese and butter, browned in the oven or under the salamander. — Georgette.—Kidney or egg-shaped potatoes, baked, scooped out, and filled with savoury minced chicken ; browned in oven. — Hanovrienne.—Peeled and sliced, stewed in white stock with fresh butter and chopped parsley. — Hollandaise.—Plain boiled kidney potatoes, seasoned, sauced over with oiled butter and a few drops of lemon juice, or dressed with hollandaise sauce. — Hongroise.—Peeled, minced finely, cooked in stock and butter, seasoned with paprika and meat glaze. — Imperatrice.—Walnut shapes, parboiled, drained, mixed with sliced truffles and mushrooms, and broiled in butter. — Italienne.—Sliced, placed in layers in buttered and breaded mould with, alternately, slices of salami sausage, and white sauce mixed with cream, chopped hard-boiled yolks of eggs, grated parmesan cheese, chopped ham, and anchovy fillets; baked in the mould. — julienne.—Peeled, cut into very thin strips like matches, and fried a light brown colour in deep fat. — au lard.—Cold potatoes cut into dice shapes, mixed with dice shapes of bacon, seasoned, and fried in butter. — Lorette.—Potato puree mixed with choux paste, and shaped into small crescents or half-moons, fried in clarified butter.275 THE VEGETABLE COURSE. Pommes de terre Macaire.—Baked in their skins, cut open, interior mixed with butter and fine herbs, re-filled and re-baked. — machees.—Peeled, boiled in beef stock, and mashed, seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and sprinkled over with chopped parsley. — a la Madeleine.—Small, even-sized kidney potatoes, scraped or peeled, tossed in butter, seasoned and baked in the oven. — Maire.—Peeled, chopped coarsely, and stewed in milk and butter ; seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. — Maitre d’hdtel.—Sliced and stewed in white sauce, with chopped parsley. — Marie.—Same as Duchesse ” potato shapes ; coated with grated cheese, and baked. — Marquise.—Rich potato pur6e, blended with tomato pulp, shaped like meringues, and baked. — melang^es.—Coarsely sliced potatoes parboiled, rnixcd with an equal quantity of sliced cooking apples, stewed with a little fresh butter, and seasoned with salt. — Mignonette.—Like straw potatoes, only cut a little coarser ; sprinkled with chopped parsley v/hen done. — Milanaise.—Cut into dice shapes, parboiled, drained, and seasoned, stewed in white sauce with squares of cooked ham and grated parmesan cheese, and mixed with yolks of eggs ; shaped into croquettes, egged, crumbed, and fried in hot fat. — Mont-Dore.—Mashed, mixed with cream, grated cheese, and seasoning ; filled in shells, and baked in ovenr — Mousseline.—Fried potato balls (croquettes), interior filled with whipped seasoned cream ; re-heated before serving. — Nantaise.—Mashed, dished up in dome shape, masked with supreme sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and oiled butter, and browned in the oven. — Navarraise.—Peeled, cut in half-inch squares, and fried in oil, drained, and sprinkled with salt. — Ninette.—Finely cut strips, julienne fashion, with grated cheese, treated the same as Anna potatoes. — Noisette.—Peeled, cut into large dice shapes, parboiled, and fried nut brown in butter. — Normande.—Timbales of potatoes, cooked in milk and stock, with minced onion and leek ; browned in oven or under salamander. — Parisienne.—Small ball or marble shapes, scooped out v/hen peeled, blanched and sauteed or fried in clarified butter.276 THE MENU BOOK. Pommes de terre au parmesan.—Sliced, stewed in stock or white sauce, with grated parmesan cheese. — Parmentier.—Cut in large dice shapes, blanched and cooked in casserole, with butter and chopped parsley. — Paysanne.—Thickly sliced, stewed in beef broth flavoured with lettuce, bacon, and fried onions; demi-glace sauce. — persill^es.—Peeled, cut into marble shapes, parboiled, and broiled in butter; sprinkled with chopped parsley. — de poisson.—Peeled and neatly shaped, boiled in salt water, drained, melted butter poured over ; served with, or as a garnish for, fish. — Pont neuf.—Long cube or finger shapes, fried crisp in deep fat. Pur6e de pommes de terre.—Mashed potatoes. — a la Jackson.—Mashed, mixed and garnished with anchovy fillets. — h, la creme.—Mashed with cream. Quenelles de pommes de terre.—Small potato dumplings poached in salt water, drained, dished up, and sprinkled over with fried breadcrumbs. Pommes de terre d la Reitz.—Peeled, cut into small thin strips, and fried crisp in butter. — rissolees.—Small ball or other shapes, parboiled, drained, and broiled in butter. — en robe de chambre.—Boiled or baked in their jackets. — a la Robert.—Peeled, sliced, and stewed in a sharp brown sauce, with chives and parsley. — Rosette.—Rich potato puree, piped like roses, egged, and baked. — roties au four.—Baked potatoes (done in the oven). — Rouennaise.—Mashed as for croquettes, shaped like olives, dipped in frying batter, and fried in hot fat. — Roxelane.—Tartlet or cassolette crusts filled with rich potato puree, chopped truffle on top, and baked. — San Remo.—Small potato dumplings seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, dipped in melted butter and chopped parsley, then in grated parmesan cheese ; when set, egged and crumbed, and fried in clarified butter. — saut^es.—Cold boiled potatoes cut into slices, seasoned, and tossed in butter. — saut6es a la Lyonnaise.—Same as saute potatoes, mixed with finely chopped fried onions. — Savoyarde.—Peeled, sliced thinly, mixed in layers, with butter and grated cheese, baked in the oven.THE VEGETABLE COURSE. 277 Pommes de terre Saxonne.—Medium-sized balls of potato puree (same as for croquettes), egged and crumbed twice, well fried in hot fat; when done, scooped out and filled with onion pur6e, re-closed, and served quickly. — a la Schneider.—Sliced, cooked in consomme stock, and finished in butter and chopped parsley. — d la Senn.—Lettuce or trellise-work pattern slices of potatoes, cut by means of a special vegetable cutter, fried crisp in deep fat. — Strasbourgeoise.—Sliced, stewed in white sauce, dished up, and baked in the oven. — Su^doise.—Sliced, and stewed with fried onions and gravy. — en Surprise.—Baked in their skins, opened, and the interior mixed with butter, cream, fine herbs, and seasoning, re-filled and re-baked. — Suzette.—Small potatoes, stuffed with chicken, ham, and truffle puree, and browned in oven. — Turque. — Puree as for croquettes, made into small half-moon shapes, filled with anchovy paste, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter. — Tyrolienne.—Medium-sized kidney potatoes, seasoned, stewed with cream, beef broth, and small pieces of butter ; when dished sprinkled with grated cheese. — Varsovienne.—Choux-paste fritters, emptied, and filled with seasoned potato puree. — Vaudoise.—Peeled and sliced, ranged in layers on a buttered baking dish, seasoned with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and grated gruydre cheese, top sprinkled with grated cheese, breadcrumbs, and a few drops of oiled butter ; baked in the oven. — Viennoise.—Cut into dice, stewed in beef broth, flavoured with onions and cloves, and sprinkled with finely chopped parsley when dished up. — Villageoise.—Finely chopped cold potatoes, seasoned, stewed in fresh milk, cream, and butter. — Voisin.—Same as Anna potatoes, with addition of minced onions previously blended in butter and grated cheese. — Worlitz.—Puree prepared as for croquettes, shaped into squares, egged, crumbed in grated parmesan cheese, on one side only, v/ith a small piece of lobster butter on centre of each, and baked in sharp oven. — Yvette.—Thinly sliced, blended in butter, and filled in small bombe or bouche moulds, and baked.THE MENU BOOK. 278 Salsifls—Salsify, Salsifls ^ la bechamel.—Stewed in white sauce, — au beurre fondu.—Boiled, and served with oiled butter . — frits.—Fried salsify. — Hollandaise.—Stewed in stock and served with hollandaise sauce, Beignets de salsifis.—Boiled, drained, seasoned, dipped in batter, and fried in deep fat. Tomates—Tomatoes, Beignets de tomates PvLV&e de tomates Tomates cvues Tomates au naturel Tomates sautees Tomates frites Tomates farcies Tomates grillees Tomato fritters Mashed tomatoes Raw tomatoes Plain boiled tomatoes Tomatoes tossed in butter Fried tomatoes Stuffed tomatoes Grilled tomatoes. Tomates a TAm6ricaine.—Farced with cooked maize or hominy, cream and egg-yolks, and baked. — d la Carmelite.—Filled with fish farce, cooked in butter or steamed ; served with shrimp sauce. —a la Caroline.—Stuffed with cooked rice, seasoned with meat glaze and grated parmesan cheese ; baked. — a la Cracovienne.—Cooked, cut in round slices, and tossed in butter ; dished up and besprinkled with fried breadcrumbs. — a la Cr6ole (Cold).—Ripe, firm tomatoes, scooped out and filled with shredded celery, beetroot, and hard- boiled egg ; finished with tartare sauce and dressed on lettuce leaves. — TEspagnole.—Stuffed with breadcrumbs, chopped ham, moistened with egg-yolk, brown sauce, and seasoned ; baked in the oven ; served with demi- glace sauce. — ^ la Florentine.—Cut in halves, stuffed with a mixture of fried chopped chicken livers, grated parmesan cheese, egg-yolks, fried chopped shallots, and bread- crumbs, moistened with sherry and seasoned, sprinkled with breadcrumbs, grated cheese, and butter ; baked. — frap^es en mayonnaise (Cold).—Peeled raw tomatoes, scooped out in centre and frozen, filled with half- frozen mayonnaise, and served on lettuce leaves. — ^ la Genevoise.—Filled with chicken and fine herb farce, breaded, and baked. — au gratin.—Skinned and sliced, ranged on buttered dish, with shallots and brown sauce, covered with breadcrumbs, etc., and baked in the oven.THE VEGETABLE COURSE. 279 Toraates grill^es.—Cut in halves, and grilled or sliced, dipped in oil, and grilled. — aux fines herbes.—Stewed in gravy and butter, with finely chopped parsley. — a rindienne.—Halves of tomatoes stuffed with curried rice and baked. — a la Polonaise.—Stuffed with bread farce or bread and suet stuffing, with garlic flavour ; cooked in butter in oven. — a la Portugaise.—Cut in slices, and tossed or sauteed in butter or oil, with chopped parsley. — a la Provengale.—Stuffed with onion puree, flavoured with garlic, and braised; served with demi-glace sauce. — a la Sicilienne.—Stuffed whole with a mixture of tomato pulp, chopped ham, parsley, shallots, mush- rooms, and breadcrumbs, moistened with mad^re sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and grated cheese ; baked. — a la Toscane.—Stuffed with chicken farce and braised ; served with perigord sauce. — a la Turque.—Stuffed with cooked rice, blended onion, minced and par-fried, chopped fennel, cooked with oil in oven. Topinamhours—Jerusalem ArtichoTies, Topinambours a la Bechamel.—Stewed in white sauce. — a la creme.—Stewed in white cream sauce. — a I’Espagnole.—Stewed in brown sauce. — a la Georgienne.—Sliced and boiled, seasoned, fried in butter, and sprinkled with fried breadcrumbs. — au gratin.—Parboiled and stewed in white sauce; dished up, covered with breadcrumbs and cheese ; browned in the oven. — a la Hollandaise.—Cooked in salted water and milk, and served with hollandaise sauce, — d, I’Indienne.—Parboiled and stewed in curry sauce ; served with boiled rice. Pur6e de Topinambours.—Boiled and mashed (rubbed through a sieve), seasoned, enriched with stock and cream. Trujf'es—Trtiffles^ Trufles en belle vue.—Peeled fresh truffles, cooked in rich stock, Madeira or champagne, and meat extract ; served in small, thin, pastry crust cup-shapes. — a la Cendre.—Wrapped in thin slices of bacon, and cooked under hot cinders ; served with devilled sauce (sauce diable).THE MENU BOOK. 28o Truffes sous la cendre.—Wrapped in dough or other paste, and cooked under hot cinders. — au champagne.—Sauteed or broiled truffles in butter, and finished in champagne. — a ritalienne.—Sliced, broiled in fresh butter, with finely chopped shallots and parsley, moistened with gravy and lemon juice, seasoned with salt, cayenne, and ground mace. — de P6rigord.—Black perigord truffles. — a la Rothschild.—Peeled fresh truffles, coated entirely with light chicken farce, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat; dressed in pyramid, and garnished with fried parsley. — dr la serviette.—Large fresh truffles, cooked in wine, and served cold on folded napkin. — d la TaHeyrand.—Brioche crust or croustade, filled with sliced truffles sauteed in butter and madere sauce. — d la Victoria.—Sauteed in butter, and cooked in cham- pagne sauce. Buisson de truffes a la Royale.—Large round truffles, stewed in Madeira wine ; served on fried bread-crust, decorated with silver skewer and parsley. Crodtes aux truffes.—Whole or sliced truffles, sauteed in butter, and served on toast or fried-bread croutes. Purde de truffes.—Mashed truffles, tossed in butter, and served with brown sauce. Truffes saut6es d la m^tropole.—Stewed truffles dressed on fried ham crofitons. Macaroni, Spaghetti, Nouilles, etc. Note.—See also other farinaceous preparations, which will be found in the Savoury Section, Part XIV., p. 344. Macaroni au naturel.—Macaroni or spaghetti, cooked in salted water, drained, seasoned, and finished with oiled butter. — au Gruydre—As above, with the addition of grated gruydre cheese. — au Parmesan.—As above, with grated parmesan cheese, in place of, or with, gruyere. — d I’Anglaise.—Cooked in water, filled in pie-dish with layers of white sauce, seasoning, and grated cheese, covered with breadcrumbs and oiled butter, and baked in oven. — a la Tomate.—AsNaturel,” and finished with tomato puree and grated cheese (gruydre or parmesan).281 THE VEGETABLE COURSE. Macaroni a la Cardinal.—Cooked in salted water, drained and seasoned with paprika and parmesan, blended with crayfish tails or prawns and lobster butter. — a la Hussarde.—Same as “ Cardinal,” but truffles instead of crayfish, etc., also fresh butter, and bechamel sauce and beef broth. — a la Montglas.—Plain boiled, sauteed in butter, with grated parmesan added, also veloute, and dice shapes of truffles and mushrooms. — a la Napolitaine.—Pre-cooked macaroni, finished in rich ham flavoured stock enriched with tomato puree and parmesan cheese (grated). — a la Prineesse.—Cheese flavoured macaroni, mixed with chopped or pulped partridge or chicken fillet, finished with rich veal gravy. — a la Reine.—Puree of chicken breast, enriched with meat glaze, mixed with cooked macaroni, finished with grated parmesan cheese and good beef broth, — a la Livournaise.—Pre-cooked macaroni, finished with bechamel sauce, butter and grated parmesan, drained in layers with tomato puree. — a la Sicilienne.—Cooked macaroni, cheese flavoured and finished k la bechamel, filled in halves of baked aubergines (gratinee). — a la Caponi.—Par-cooked macaroni, finished in beef broth, fried onions and dice-cut fried ham or bacon, crushed tomatoes and tomato puree, strewn with parmesan and gratinee.. Riz—Rice, Savoury Rice Dishes, Risotto aux tomates.—Stewed rice with tomato puree. Riz a rSspagnole.—Boiled rice, drained, and fried in olive oil, mixed with tomato stew and slices of ham, seasoned with grated cheese and Spanish sweet pepper ; garnished with rounds of ham and slices of smoked sausages. — ^ la Florentine.—Stewed rice with picked shrimps, crayfish tails or prawns, curry paste, grated parmesan cheese, and finely chopped fried onions. — k I’Indienne.—Curried rice. — Milanaise.—Rice cooked with grated parmesan cheese, mixed with chopped fowl, game, tongue, or ham, seasoned with salt, nutmeg, and pepper. — Pi^montaise.—Stewed rice with mashed potatoes, finely chopped fried shallots, grated parmesan cheese, butter, and cayenne pepper.282 THE MENU BOOK. Riz Polonaise.—Stewed rice with thinly sliced fried onions, chopped ham, cayenne pepper, and grated cheese. — ^ la Reine.—Stewed rice with chopped hard-boiled white of egg, cooked smoked haddock, and grated cheese ; dished up and browned in a quick oven. — i la Turque.—Stewed rice with saffron powder, cayenne pepper, Smyrna raisins, and fresh butter. Rizzoletti.—Savoury rice croquettes, composed of stewed rice, seasoned with a rich savoury sauce; some prepared minced meat (salpicon) is enclosed in the centre of each croquette; they are then egged, crumbed, and fried. PART X. EQQS AND OMELETS. <Eufs—Eggs* CEufs hrouilUs CEufs d la coque CEufs crus CEufs durs CEufs enveloppSs CEufs frais CEufs frits CEufs au gratin CEufs au miroir CEufs mollets CEufs perUs CEufs sur plat CEufs pochis CEufs pocMs au jus Scrambled eggs Soft-boiled eggs Raw eggs .Hard-boiled eggs Eggs in wrappers Fresh eggs Fried eggs Baked eggs (breaded) Eggs fried in butter (open) Soft-boiled eggs Pearled eggs Eggs baked on the plate Poached eggs Poached eggs in gravy CEufs ^ I’Africaine.—Poached eggs with fried ham. — d TAmbassadrice.—Poached eggs, trimmed, coated when cold with mayonnaise aspic, decorated with green tarragon leaves, and dressed in tartlet crusts of baked plain paste. — aux anchois.—Scrambled eggs, with savoury fillets. — frits a I’Am^ricaine.—Fried eggs on halves of grilled tomatoes with slice of grilled ham, beurre Noisette and fried parsley. — frits a TAndalouse.—Fried eggs, dressed in circle on slices of fried ham, centre of dish fried artichoke bottoms and fried parsley ; sauce tomate.SAVOURY EGG DISHES. 283 (Eufs en banquettes.—Little fancy moulds of paste crust, filled with chopped hard-boiled egg, mushrooms, parsley, grated cheese, and white sauce ; browned in sharp oven. — durs k la Belloy.—Hard-boiled eggs, cut in halves, yolks removed, and whites filled with salpicon of truffle and lobster and stiff mayonnaise ; dress eggs on crohtons, and garnish with anchovy butter (creamed). — au beurre nolr.—Poached or fried eggs, with nut- brown butter. — ^ la Bonnefoy.—Cold scrambled eggs blended with goose-liver puree, dressed on brown bread croutons and strewn with chopped truffles. — a la Bolognaise.—Fried eggs dressed on a bed of spinach, cooked in branches ; garnished with shces of Bologna sausages ; sauce madere. — a la bonne Femme.—Hard-boiled eggs cut in halves, stuffed with minced chicken, ham, and beetroot; served cold. — brouille aux pointes d’asperges.—Scrambled eggs with asparagus points ; stir seasoned eggs with butter, cream, and asparagus points over fire till set, dress on toasted bread, and put a teaspoonful of veloute sauce on centre of each. — brouilles aux champignons.—Scrambled eggs, with minced preserved mushrooms. — brouill6s aux fines herbes.—Scrambled eggs, mixed with finely chopped parsley, chervil, and chives ; served with fried-bread crofftons. — brouilles d. rindlenne.—Scrambled eggs, seasoned with curry powder and cayenne pepper. — brouilles ^ ritalienne (Scrambled Eggs, Italian style).— Scrambled eggs placed in centre of risotto border, i.e.^ cooked savoury rice mixed with fried chicken livers ; tomato sauce round base of dish. — brouilles au jambon.—Scrambled eggs, with finely shredded or minced ham. — brouilles Lyonnaise.—Scrambled eggs, with fried onions. — brouilles aux trufies.—Scrambled eggs, with chopped or shredded truffles. — ^ la mode de Caen.—Slices of hard-boiled eggs, cooked in a rich white cream sauce, with slice of Spanish onion. — en caisses.—Eggs baked in paper cases. — a la Cardinal.—Poached eggs on rounds of pimiento placed on artichoke bottom; sauce Tomate.284 THE MENU BOOK. (Eufs ^ la Carmelite.—Halves of hard-boiled efjfgs, stuffed with fried chopped shallots, parsley, sorrel, and yolks of eggs, and baked. — aux champignons.—Eggs stuffed with mushroom puree, and baked. — la Chipolata.—Cassolettes of bread, shaped to take form of eggs, fried, and filled with poached eggs ; garnished with braised button mushrooms, button onions, dice of ham, chestnuts, small fried sausages, and fried Parisian potatoes ; sauce madere. — ^ la Christen.—Elalves of tomatoes scooped out, lined with spinach, with poached egg on top of each; white wine sauce round dish. — la Colbert.—Small china souffle cases, lined with light chicken farce, and raw egg in each, seasoned, and poached in oven ; coated with Colbert sauce. — a la Comtesse.—Poached eggs dressed on croutons of toasted or fried bread, sauced over with hollandaise and chopped truffles on top. — coque h la Cr6me de Volaille.—Egg shells filled with a light chicken cream, and poached in stock ; cut off top of shells, and garnish with a slice of truffle on each. — a la coque en surprise (Cold).—Fresh eggs are care- fully emptied, and refilled with scrambled egg mixture, blended, when cold, with mayonnaise ; dressed on a bed of crisp cresses. — ^ la Cosmopolite.—Poached eggs, trimmed, drained, egged and crumbed, and fried in deep fat; dressed “ crown shape,” with sliced truffles in centre ; demi- glace sauce. — a la cr6me.—Hard-boiled eggs, sliced, and finished in rich bechamel or cream sauce. — a la Cr6ole.—Rounds of toasted and buttered bread spread with chicken cream, shghtly poached eggs placed on each, finished in oven ; pour bechamel sauce round base of dish. — ^ la Diable.—Halves of hard-boiled eggs stuffed with anchovy paste, seasoned with cayenne pepper, and baked. — 4 la Grand.—Poached eggs on croutons with fillets of anchovy round each ; sauced over with hollandaise ; grilled bacon as garnish. — durs au gratin.—Hard-boiled eggs cut in slices, and ranged on buttered gratin dish, with layer of white sauce and grated cheese ; oiled butter on top, and browned in oven. — durs Italienne.—Halves of hard-boiled eggs, stuffed with anchovy paste and grated cheese ; served with bechamel sauce.285 SAVOURY EGG DISHES. (Eufs durs h la St. Germain (Cold).—Hard-boiled eggs, with yolks removed and mixed with mayonnaise and chopped shrimps, refilled, and dressed on a bed of chopped aspic, with a bearded oyster on top of each egg. — a I’Ecarlate.—Poached eggs dressed on rounds of fried bread, spread with tongue paste or slices. — a I’Ecossaise.—Whole hard-boiled eggs wrapped in forcemeat or sausage meat, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat ; served with tomato sauce. — h l*Eug6nie.—Large cup mushrooms, scooped out, filled with mixture of smoked salmon, truffles, and foie-gras sauce, etc. ; place poached egg on top of each ; decorate with lobster coral and truffle. — fareis.—Stuffed eggs. — fareis aux Epinards.—Eggs stuffed with spinach. — a la Florentine.—Poached eggs placed in baked paste croustades lined with spinach puree, sauced over with mornay sauce, and browned in sharp oven. —frits a la Suisse.—Eggs, fried whole, sprinkled with grated gruy^re cheese and seasoning. — frits a la Tomate.^—Fried eggs with tomato sauce. — dr la Garfield.—Whole hard-boiled eggs wrapped in forcemeat, egged, crumbed in crushed vermicelli, and fried in clarified butter ; served with piquant sauce. — a la Gourmet.—Stuffed with crayfish tails, chopped truffles, and smoked salmon, and baked. — a la Grand Due.—Scrambled eggs dressed on small croutons of fried bread, sauced over with rich bechamel and reduced tomato ; garnished with asparagus tips and shredded truffles. — ^ la Granville.—Coarsely shredded hard-boiled eggs, stewed in brown onion sauce, flavoured with lemon rind and mace. — la Gruyere.—Scrambled eggs, with grated gruyere cheese. — d la Hollande.—Poached eggs on croutons, sauced over with hollandaise, and slice of truffle on top. — 4 la Hussard.—Rounds of fried bread, spread with minced ham and mushrooms, with tomato slice on top and poached egg, sauced over with hollandaise ; served hot. — d, rindienne.—Curried eggs with rice. — a la Maire.—Poached eggs, trimmed, and dressed on toast, garnished with finely shredded ox-tongue, ham, and truffles ; sauced over with madere sauce.THE MENU BOOK. 286 CEufs a la Maitre d’hotel.—Sliced hard-boiled eggs, cooked in parsley sauce. — a la Matelot.—Eggs poached in meat stock, dressed on rounds of toast, sauced over with a rich brown fine herb and onion sauce; garnished with fillets of anchovies. — ^ la Meyerbeer.—Poached eggs, dressed on grilled sheep’s kidneys, sauced over with perigueux sauce. — mollets k la Tyrolienne.—Eggs boiled for barely five minutes and carefully shelled, dressed on suitable croutons of bread, and served with tomato sauce, enriched with butter, egg-yolks, and cream. — a la Montpensier.—Poached eggs, dressed on fried- bread crofitons, spread with foie-gras puree, centre of dish green peas ; garnished with truffles. — *i la Neige.—Whisked whites of eggs, seasoned, steamed in moulds, and served with cream sauce. — a la Norfolk.—Halves of hard-boiled eggs, egged, crumbed, fried in butter, and served with piquant sauce. — a la Pache.—Hard-boiled eggs sliced, mixed with mushroom heads, and heated in tomato sauce; dressed in centre of rice border. — sur pain grille.—Poached eggs on toast. — ^ la Pasqual.—Small eggs poached in seasoned milk, trimmed, drained, and masked with chaudfroid sauce ; when cold, dressed in a nest made of baked nouilles, and, if liked, a fish farce foundation. — poches a la Benedictine.—Poached eggs on croutons, with slices of grilled ham ; coating of sauce hol- landaise. — poch6s aux ^Ipinards.—Poached eggs with spinach. — poches a Tlmp^riale (Cold).—Poached eggs, dressed on artichoke bottoms ; garnished with macedoine of vegetables and julienne of tongue and tomatoes; sauced over with remoulade sauce. — a la Poincar6.—Poached eggs, dressed in puff pastry, cases lined with foie-gras and truffle salpicon; sauced over with Mornay sauce. — poch§s a la Portugaise.—Poached eggs, dressed on rounds of toasted bread, with stuffed halves of tomatoes. — ^ la Princesse Alice.—Hard-boiled eggs, cut into two, lengthways, centre filled with pur6e of egg-yolk, , asparagus tips, truffles, and cheese, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat. — a la pur6e de lentilles.—Poached eggs with lentil puree.SAVOURY EGG DISHES. 287 (Eufs a la pur6e de marrons.—Poached eggs with puree of chestnuts. — a la pur6e de Navets.—Poached eggs with mashed turnips. — ^ la pur6e d’Oseilles.—Poached eggs with sorrel puree. — a la Romaine.—Small egg souffles, seasoned with grated cheese and cayenne, baked in patty-pans. — a la Rossini.—Eggs baked “ au gratin,” dressed in a border of saute of chicken liver and truffles, sauced over with perigord sauce. — a la Salamandre.—Hard-boiled white of egg cut in dice, cooked in parsley and egg sauce, dressed in a border of mashed potatoes, and browned with a hot salamander. — au Soleil.—Poached or fried eggs, trimmed, placed between rounds of thinly cut ham, dipped in batter, and fried in deep fat. — a la Soubise.—Hard-boiled eggs, sliced, heated in bechamel, dressed with onion puree in centre. — souffles a la Reine.—Small tartlet moulds lined with chicken souffle mixture, with poached egg in centre of each, covered with chicken farce, and finished in oven ; garnished with truffles. — a la Souveraine.—Soft-boiled eggs, shelled, and placed in crov/n-shaped ham mousses ; served with light Italian sauce. — a la Toupinal.—Poached eggs placed in halves of potatoes, baked or roasted. — Tourangelle.—Moulded eggs in dariole shapes, lined with flageolet puree, coated with hollandaise sauce. — ^ la Tripe.—Hard-boiled whites of eggs, cut in strips, stewed in white sauce. — a la Touraine.—Poached eggs dressed in artichoke bottoms, sauced over with hollandaise. — Turbigo.—Fried eggs (sur plat), garnished with slices of broiled ham, smoked sausage and tomatoes. — Turque.—Same as “ Turbigo,” but garnished with sauteed chicken liver ; tomato sauce. — Vatel.—Cassolettes partly filled with salpicon of sweetbread, tomatoes, and truffles, with small poached egg on top of each ; coated with cream sauce, and glazed in oven. — Verdi.—Poached or moulded eggs, garnished with truffles (sliced or chopped), dressed on toast, and sauced over with truffle sauce. — Vert-pr6.—Scrambled eggs dressed in cases containing lettuce puree, top coated with veloutc sauce, with chopped herbs.288 THE MENU BOOK. (Eufs Victoria. — Fried eggs, with slices of lobster and truffles ; lobster sauce in centre. — Viennoise.—Scrambled eggs, with chopped ham, sour cream, and paprika pepper seasoning. — VoI-au-Vent d’ceufs.—Hard-boiled eggs cut in neat rounds, heated up in bechamel sauce, and filled into vol-au-vent crust (puff-pastry case). — ^ la Waldimir.—Eggs (new) placed in fireproof buttered dish, covered with chopped truffles and asparagus points, seasoned, strewn with grated parmesan cheese, slightly baked in oven, and sent to table with supreme sauce poured round edge of dish. — ^ la Waldorf.—Poached eggs, dressed on croutons with foie - gras layer ; truffle sauce round base of dish. — Walenska.—Similar to “ Viennoise,” but with tomato and lobster sauce added to eggs. — a la Victor Hugo.—Poached eggs on croutons ; sauced over with bearnaise, grated horseradish and truffles as garniture. — York.—Halves of hard-boiled eggs, stuffed with ham and truffle farce, egged and breaded and fried ; madeira or truffle sauce. — ^ rYvette.—Scrambled eggs, with crayfish tails, gar- nished with asparagus tips ; sauce nantua. — a la Zingara.—Poached eggs on toast or croutons, decorated wdth chopped ham ; tomato or madere sauce. — penguine ^ la Carola (Cold).—Hard-boiled penguin eggs, cut up and mixed with plain boiled rice, lobster, bechamel, curry sauce, and mayonnaise; dressed as mayonnaise, with sliced eggs on top ; garnished with pimiento, lobster, and lemon slices. Cotelettes aux ceufs (Egg Cutlets).—Minced hard-boiled eggs, prepared with grated cheese and herb seasoning, moistened with raw yolks and sauce, shaped like cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried. Croquettes d’ceufs, durs.—Chopped hard-boiled eggs, made into salpicon with white sauce, raw egg-yolk, and anchovy essence to flavour, shaped into croquettes, egged and crumbed, and fried in fat. Pyramide d’oeufs h la Reforme.—Stuffed halves of hard- boiled eggs, dished up in a pyramidal form, sprinkled with finely chopped ham and truffles, sauced, and baked in a quick oven. Ragout d’oeufs d, la Franpaise. — Slices of hard-boiled eggs, with truffles and morels, stewed in red wine sauce.PLAIN AND SAVOURY OMELETS. 289 Omelettes—Omelets, An omelet is usually defined as a dish consisting of beaten and seasoned eggs, fried in butter over a quick fire, and shaped like a cushion. There are three varieties of omelets : the plain (simple and compound), the stuffed (puree), and the puffed (souffle omelets). An almost endless variety of omelets can be prepared either plain, compound, savoury or sweet, because the addition of a special ingredient often brings about a new name. As a savoury, the so-called omelettes fines herbes are the most favoured, the fine herbs being mainly represented by chopped parsley. A number of other omelets besides the savoury kinds are introduced in this register, most of which make admirable breakfast or lunch dishes. A little sauce or gravy is frequently served with an omelet, and should be poured round the base of the dish and not over the omelet. Simple and C< Omelette aux anchois Omelette aux bucardes Omelette au caviar Omelette aux champignons Omelette aux dames Omelette aux crevettes Omelette aux Screvisses Omelette aux fines herbes Omelette au fromage Omelette de homard Omelette aux huitres Omelette au jambon Omelette au lard Omelette aux lentilles Omelette aux mottles Omelette au naturel Omelette aux olives Omelette aux pommes de terre Omelette aux rognons Omelette aux tomates Omelette aux trufies 90und Omelets. Anchovy omelet Cockle omelet Omelet filled with caviare Mushroom omelet Clam omelet Shrimp omelet Prawn omelet Savoury omelet Cheese omelet Lobster omelet Oyster omelet Ham omelet Bacon omelet Lentil omelet Mussel omelet Plain omelet Olive omelet Potato omelet Omelet with stewed kidney Tomato omelet Truffle omelet Omelette ^ TAgnes Sorel.—Savoury omelet, filled with chicken puree and sliced mushrooms ; demi-glace sauce. — k l’Alg6rienne.—Plain omelette, filled with artichoke bottoms, stewed in tomato sauce. — Andalouse.—Plain omelet, filled with onion puree, tomato strips, and mushrooms. TTHE MENU BOOK. 290 Omelette ^ TAnglaise.—Plain omelet, garnished with thin rashers of fried bacon. — Allemande.—Rich pancake batter, fried in butter rather thickly, and folded ; usually served with salad. — Am6ricaine.—Savoury omelet, filled with sliced tomatoes, tossed in butter, chopped bacon, and fried shallots. — Argenteuil.—Plain omelet, filled with asparagus tips, previously cooked and tossed in butter. — Arl^quin.—Several small savoury omelets placed on one dish, each of which is filled with either of the following purees: tomato, spinach, onion, and truffles ; sauce tomate. — aux Bananes.—Plain omelet filled with savoury bananas. — Bearnaise.—Plain omelet, mixed with asparagus puree, and filled with mushroom and artichoke bottom ragout; sauced with bearnaise round base. — Bohemienne.—Savoury omelet, mixed with strips of truffles and ham. — Bonne Femme.—Savoury omelet, filled with sorrel puree. — Bouch^re.—Omelet, with blanched beef-marrow ; demi- glace sauce. — Boulognaise.—Omelet filled with small pieces of mackerel fillets, tossed in butter. — Bretonne.—Omelet filled with brown onion puree, sliced mushrooms and leek, tossed in butter. — Brlllat-Savarin.—Omelet filled with fillets of snipe and sliced truffles ; madere or game sauce. — Bruxelloise.—Omelet filled with braised endive, and cream sauce. — Ghamb6ry.—Omelet filled with dice of fried bacon, potatoes tossed in butter, and leek, coated with parmesan, and glazed. — a la Chasseur.—Savoury omelet, filled with minced game ; sauce madere. — Czarina.—Plain omelet, filled with a delicate cucumber stew. — Duchesse.—Very small savoury omelets, mixed with chopped tongue, and dressed on shces of tongue; sauce tomate. — Durand.—Omelet filled with thinly-cut slices of arti- choke bottoms, mushrooms tossed in butter, also sliced truffles ; demi-glace sauce. — Espagnole.—Savoury omelet, containing dice shapes of fried ham, filled with sauteed tomatoes. — fourr6e.—Stuffed or compound omelet (filled with a savoury mixture.)COMPOUND SAVOURY OMELETS. 2gi Omelette Frangaise.—Savoury omelet, containing cream, and filled with eschalot flavour. — aux harengs fum6s.—Omelet, with fillets of kippered herrings. — Hongroise.—Omelet containing paprika, seasoning, etc., stuffed with fried ham, onion, and veloute sauce ; veloute sauce poured round omelet. — Imp^ratrice.—Omelet filled with dehcate ragout of mushrooms, bearded oysters, and chicken fillets; sauce veloute. — Indienne.—Omelet flavoured with curry, filled with cooked rice ; chopped mint, onion or chives ; curry sauce. — Italienne.—Plain omelet, stuffed with chicken liver, ham, and mushrooms tossed in butter ; sauce tomate. — ^ la jardiniere.—Omelet filled with mixed vegetables. — Joinville.—Savoury souffle omelet, filled with ragout of prawn or crayfish and truffles, mixed with bechamel sauce. — a la langue de boeuf (^carlate).—Omelet, mixed with chopped ham. — Lorraine.—Omelet mixed with strips of fried bacon and grated cheese. — Lyonnaise.—Omelet mixed with finely sliced fried onion; when shaped, dredged with grated cheese and glazed. — Maitre d’hotel.—Omelet filled with ragout or salpicon of sweetbread and kidney, tossed in parsley butter ; sauce maitre d’hotel. — Mancelle.—Mixed with artichoke bottoms cut into dice, and filled with fried potato cubes when omelet is shaped ; sauce madere. — Mexicaine.—Mixed with par-fried sliced tomatoes, mushrooms, and pimientos; shaped like ordinary omelet; tomato sauce. — Milanaise.—Omelet filled with thin macaroni stewed in tomato pulp, strips of trufiQe, and cheese ; sauce tomate. — Mireille.—Omelet filled with savoury rice (risotto); tomato sauce. — Mousselet.—Omelet filled with sHces of artichoke bottoms and truffles ; veal gravy. — mousseline.—Savoury souffle omelet, with spinach or cucumber puree in centre. — Nantua.—Omelet filled with chicken and truffle salpicon ; sauce nantua. — Normanie.—Omelet filled with bearded oysters and shrimps or prawns, heated in normande sauce.2Q2 THE MENU BOOK. Omelette aux oignons.—Omelet flavoured with onion, or filled with onion puree. — Parisienne.—Plain souffle omelet, spread with hot duxelle puree (chopped mushrooms, shallots, parsley, etc.), and folded. — Parmentier.—Stuffed with dice-shaped potatoes, blanched, and fried in butter. — Paysanne.—Savoury omelet, containing chopped and blanched sorrel, stuffed with braised lettuce. — P6rigord.—Plain omelet, mixed with chopped truffles, and served with truffle sauce. — aux pointes d*asperges.—Omelet, with asparagus points- — Portugaise.—Savoury omelet, mixed with anchovy fillets ; tomato sauce. — au poisson or h la poissoni^re.—Plain or souffle omelet, stuffed with salpicon of white fish, heated in white sauce. — Princesse.—Mixed with asparagus points or filled after making with asparagus puree. — Reine.—Savoury souffle omelet, filled with chicken puree or salpicon of chicken ; sauce allemande. — d la Reforme.—Omelet filled with shredded truffle, hard-boiled white of egg, gherkins, and mushrooms ; heated in rich brown sauce. — Robert.—Omelet mixed with finely chopped fried onion and bacon ; sauce piquante. — Rossini.—Plain omelet, filled with foie-gras puree and chopped truffles ; sauce madere. — Rouennaise.—Omelet filled with duck liver puree or sauteed duck liver ; veal gravy. — Russe.—Very small omelets, filled with seasoned caviare ; sauce eschalot. — au saumon fum6.—Omelet, mixed with chopped smoked salmon. — Soubise.—Plain omelet, stuffed with white onion puree ; sauce bechamel. — Suisse.—Cheese omelet, surface glazed with cheese. — Turque.—Omelet filled with savoury rice, mixed with chicken liver puree ; curry sauce. — Tzarina.—Omelet filled with braised cucumber (cubes or olives), supreme sauce. — Victoria.—Omelet filled with salpicon of lobster and truffles ; cardinal sauce. — de volaille.—Omelet filled with chicken puree.ROT I—ROAST. 293 PART XI. ROTl—ROAST. The dishes served under this heading form the second service of a dinner, and are known as the Roast, Rote, or Roti course. On the Continent the large joints of butchers’ meat are preferred as relev^ (remove), while in England, especially when that course is omitted, they are prepared as Roast. The essential part about this course is that the meat, poultry or game is roasted (cooked) before the fire on the spit, or else in the oven and is served with a nicely flavoured rich gravy. When a remove (joint) is served, the Roast consists of birds, game or poultry. When game is out of season, capons, poularde, turkey, duckling, duck, pigeon, guinea- fowl, etc., etc., are served instead. Game and poultry should be accompanied with the necessary bread sauce^ brown (fried) breadcrumbs, croutes of bread, garnished with watercress, chipped or other fried potatoes ; and a seasonable salad also forms a usual accompaniment with roast birds. Roast joints are not again mentioned here, because these have already been exhaustively treated in the part headed Releves—Removes. Canard roti Campines vdtis Canetons rotis Chapon roti Dinde rdtie Dindon roti Dindonnean roti Oie rdtie soMce aux pommes Oison roti Pigeons rotis Pigeonneaux rotis Poulet roti sauce au pain Poulette rdtie Poularde rdtie Poussin rdti Poultry, Roast duck. Roast young chickens Roast ducklings Roast capon Roast turkey-hen Roast turkey-cock. Roast young turkey Roast goose and apple sauce Roast gosling Roast pigeons Roast young pigeons Roast chicken and bread sauce Roast pullet (young hen) Roast fat pullet Roast chic-chicken. Gibier—Game Alouettes rdties Bartavelle rdtie (Wild Poultry), Roast larks (wood-larks) (also called mauviettes) Roast partridge (red-legged)294 THE MENU BOOK. Btcasse commune rotie BScasse or bScasseau roti Becassine rdti Bec-figue rotie Caille a la broche Canard sauvage roti Canards sauvages a la broche Coq de bois roti Coq de bois de Norvege rdti Coq de bruyire rdti Faisan rdti d la broche Gelinotte des bois rdtie Grimpereau rdti Grive rdtie bardte Macreuse rdti Mauviette rdti bardee Merle rdti Ortolan rdti Outarde rdti Pdon rdti Jeune pdon rdti Perdreau rdti Perdrix rdti Perdreau blanc rdti Perdreau rouge d la broche Pigeon sauvage rdti Pintade rdti Pluvier rdti Poule de neige rdtie Poule de prairie rdtie Ramier rdti Rouge-gorge rdti Sarcelle rdtie bardie Sarcelle rdti Extras d'Amhique rdti Tourtereau rdti {tourterelle) Roast woodcock (common snipe) Roast young woodcock Roast snipe Roast fig-pecker. Roast quail Roast wild duck Wild ducks roasted on skewers Roast heathcock (black grouse) Roast Norwegian grouse Roast mountain cock (wood grouse) Roast pheasant Roast hazel-hen or grouse Roast woodpecker Roast fieldfare barded (also called thrush) Roast sea-duck Roast lark barded Roast blackbird (water-ousel) Roast ortolan Roast oustard Roast peacock Roast young peacock Roast partridge (young partridge) Roast partridge (red-legged) Roast ptarmigan Roast red-legged grouse Roast wild pigeon Roast guinea-fowl Roast plover Roast white grouse (snow grouse or snow-hen) Roast prairie-hen Roast wood-pigeon Roast robin (red-breasted robin) Roast teal (water fowl) (barded) Roast teal or widgeon Roast American grouse Roast turtle-dove. Four-Footed Game* Broquart rdti Cimier de cerf rdti Cuissot de cerf rdti Filet de cerf rdti Roast brocket Roast saddle of deer Roast haunch of deer Roast fillet of deerSALADES—SALADS. 295 Filet de chamois rdti Gigot de chamois roti Chevrette rdtie Cimier de chevreiiil roti Cuissot de chevreuil roti Epaule de chevreuil roti Gigot de chevreuil roti Longe de chevreuil rdti Quartier de chevreuil roti Rdble de chevreuil roti Gigot de daim rdti Selle de daim rdtie Selle d’dlan rdtie Li^vre rdti Marcassin rdti Gigot de renne rdti Filet de renne rdti Selle de renne rdtie Cuissot de sanglier rdti Gigot de sanglier rdti Reins de sanglier rdiis Roast fillet of chamois (wild goat) Roast leg of chamois Roast fawn (young venison) Roast saddle of venison Roast haunch of venison Roast shoulder of venison Roast leg of venison Roast loin of venison Roast quarter of venison Roast saddle of venison Roast leg of deer (fallow deer) Roast saddle of deer Roast saddle of moor deer Roast hare Roast young wild boar Roast leg of reindeer Roast fillet of reindeer Roast saddle of reindeer Roast haunch of wild boar Roast leg of wild boar Roast loin of wild boar. PART XII. SALADES—SALADS. The variety of salads is almost endless : raw herbs or plants (salad plants) known as acetarious or succulent plants, hot or cold cooked vegetables, cold fish, shell fish, cooked poultry, game, and meat, and even fruits, in- differently mixed or blended together, form salads. It would, therefore, seem that almost everything edible can be converted into a salad. In a typical plain salad cabbage or cos lettuce forms the foundation, whilst the Russian salad, or salade Russe, is regarded as the most recherchd of dressed salads. Green or plain salads are unquestionably the most popular. The secret of these salads is, of course, the dressing, so that salad-making and salad-mixing is an art, and the complete mastery of it is granted to but few. With a little knowledge of how to please the palate, with careful and judicious use of seasoning materials, it is, however, possible for everyone to achieve fair success in this branch of the culinary art296 THE MENU BOOK. In addition to salt and pepper, oil, vinegar, and the fourniture d'herhes, mayonnaise forms the most important ingredient for mixing or dressing salads. The great point in all salads, but especially those served with a roast, is that they be well blended, correctly seasoned, and nicely garnished. 'A salad must look cool, inviting, and dainty, if it is to be a success. There are salads and salads, but unless a cook or maitre d’hotel has what Hamlet calls a feeling for his business, the salad misses its character—that is, its dressing. A correct dressing must be so blended that no one flavour predominates, otherwise the salad is a failure from the epicurean Salade d'anchois Salade d'asperges Salade de hetterave Salade de boeuf Salade de baiif fume Salade de cHeri Salade de champignons Salade de chicoree Salade de choux de Bruxelles Salade de choux-fleurs Salade de civettes Salade de concombres Salade de crabe Salade de cresson Salade de fonds d'ariichauts Salade de gibier Salade de haricots blanc Salade de haricots verts Salade de homard Salade au jambon Salade de laitue Salade de lapin Salade de legumes Salade aux ceufs Salade d'oranges Salade de perdreau Salade de poisson Salade de pommes Salade de pommes de terre Salade de radis Salade A la Romain Salade de salsifis Salade de tomates Salade de trufjes Salade verte Salade de volaille point of view. Anchovy salad Asparagus salad Beetroot salad Cold beef salad Hamburg beef salad Celery salad Mushroom salad Chicory or endive salad Brussels sprouts salad Cauliflower salad Chives salad Cucumber salad Crab salad Watercress salad Salad of artichoke bottoms Game salad Kidney bean salad French bean salad Lobster salad Ham salad Lettuce salad Rabbit salad Vegetable salad Egg salad Orange salad Partridge salad Fish salad Apple salad Potato salad Radish salad Cos lettuce salad Salsify salad Tomato salad Truffle salad Green salad Chicken salad297 SALADES—SALADS. Salade a rAllemande (German).—Sliced new cold potatoes, mixed with sliced beetroot, smoked herring fillets, and gherkins. — Americaine (American).—SUced tomatoes, cold new potatoes, celery heart, and capsicum or chilli pods seasoned with mayonnaise. — de betterave k rAmericaine.—Finely shredded white leaves of cow cabbage, mixed with pickled chilli pods ; seasoned with mayonnaise sauce. — Angelo.—Cooked cold salsify, with sliced cucumber, blended with mayonnaise, with border of sliced tomatoes round it. — de Bananes.—Banana salad, sliced bananas, dressed with salt, pepper, sugar, and white wine. — Barcelona.—Aspic-coated timbale, filled with julienne cut truffles ; bananas, apple, tomatoes, and celery, mixed with mayonnaise and aspic ; garnished with small sections of orange “ a la Vinaigrette.” — Bagration.—Composed of julienne cut celery and arti- choke bottoms, marinaded in vinegar, white wine and olive oil; then mixed with finely cut cooked chicken and cooked macaroni (warm), mixed with mayonnaise ; top garnished with star shape of truffle, egg-yolk, and tongue. — Beaucaire.—Celery or celeriac shredded finely, with strips of ham and mushrooms and cold potatoes, mixed with mayonnaise and fine herbs, with border of sliced beetroot round it — Beige (Belgian).—Consists of Belgian endive mixed with French salad dressing ; garnished with Spanish pimientos. — Brissane.—Cooked French beans, raw tomatoes, and cooked artichoke bottoms, all cut in julienne strips dressed with oil and vinegar. — Carolina.—Composed of sliced bananas, apples, lettuce hearts, celery, and beetroot, dressed with lemon juice, olive oil, tarragon, and hard-boiled yolk of egg. — Cazanova (Cazanova Salad).—Consists of white celery, truffles, and hard-boiled whites of eggs, cut into fine strips; seasoned with mayonnaise, finely chopped salad herbs, and shallots. — Chasseur.—Cooked chicken fillets, cold potatoes, tomatoes, celery, beetroot, and sour apples, all cut in thick julienne ; dressed with tartare sauce. — de chou-rouge.—Salad made with pickled red cabbage ; garnished with hard-boiled white of egg, etc. — Clauzel.—Chicory and celery cut in strips, dressed with mayonnaise containing chopped tarragon and chervil.2q8 the menu book. Salade Comtoise.—Seasoned lettuce salad, with coarsely minced streaky bacon (petit sale), fried crisp in butter, poured hot over the salad, and well mixed. Salt should be omitted in this salad, as the pork is usually salt enough. — a la Convent.—Sliced cold potatoes and cucumber, dressed with vinaigrette ^containing chopped chive and tarragon. — Cressonniere.—Watercress, sliced potatoes, and hard- boiled eggs, dressed with vinaigrette. — Danicheff.—Thinly sliced celeriac, cold potatoes, asparagus tips, artichoke bottoms, and truffles, dressed with mayonnaise. — Danoise (Danish).—Sliced pickled cucumber, beetroot, and celeriac, blended with smoked salmon strips and slices of hard-boiled eggs, seasoned with oil and vinegar dressing, chopped chives, tarragon, and chervil. —Demi-deuil.—Sliced cold potatoes and sliced truffle, blended with cream, and mustard flavour. — Demidofl.—Same as Demi-deuil, which see, with addition of sliced artichoke bottoms. — Doria.—Thick slices of peeled cucumber, centre cut out and blanched, seasoned with tarragon vinegar and mayonnaise, chopped tarragon on top. — Dumas.—Dice shapes of cooked potatoes, beetroots, gherkins, or pickled cucumbers, and sliced tomatoes, dressed with a mixture of hard yolks of eggs rubbed through a sieve, anchovy essence, oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt; garnished with chopped whites of eggs, tarragon, chervil, beetroot, chives, and white lettuce leaves. — d*£t6 (Summer).—Composed of lettuce, cucumber, arti- choke bottoms, all cut into thin slices ; seasoned with salad dressing, and garnished with radishes and pickled beetroot. — Ecossaise (Scotch).—Lettuce salad mixed with slices of smoked salmon and cold potatoes ; seasoned with oil and vinegar dressing. — Elva.—Beetroot salad, garnished with Elva plums stuffed with tartare sauce. — ^ I’Espagnole (Spanish).—Sliced tomatoes, cooked kidney beans, French beans, Spanish peas, picked button onions ; dressed with mayonnaise sauce. — Eugenie.—Composed of Belgian chicory or endive, celery, dandelion, corn salad, cucumber, and fourniture of herbs, dressed with vinaigrette ; garnished with rings of hard-boiled egg, etc.299 SALADES—SALADS. Salade Eva.—Artichoke bottoms cut in dice, cooked asparagus points, sliced mushrooms, and ham cut in strips ; dressed with remoulade sauce. — Flamande (Flemish).—Composed of fillets of Dutch herrings, apples, beetroot, cooked potatoes, Brussels sprouts, seakale, and cauliflower, cut up neatly, seasoned with plain salad dressing. — Florida.—Lettuce salad, with slices of pumpkin, seasoned with oil and vinegar, and savoury herbs. — a la Frangaise (French).—Cabbage lettuce mixed with finely chopped salad herbs, and dressed with a mixture composed of two parts of olive oil, one of French wine, vinegar, salt, pepper, and French mustard ; garnish of slices of beetroot and hard- boiled eggs is optional. — Frangillon.—Olive-shaped cooked potatoes, oysters, and slices of truffles, seasoned with oil,vinegar, salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. — de Fruits.—Fruit salad, dressed with syrup, liqueur or wine. — Gallati.—Blanched mushrooms, diced and tossed in butter, mixed while hot with cooked asparagus tips, French dressing, and a little French mustard. — Galloise (Welsh).—Blanched leeks cut in rounds, with lettuce leaves, and celery, oil and vinegar dressing, and beetroot border round it. — Georgette.—Cucumber, beetroot cut into fine strips, mixed with boiled rice, seasoned with mayonnaise, and filled in heart of artichoke; garnished with truffles. — a la Grimod.—Consists of cabbage lettuce, cooked French beans, beetroot, and slices of cold game ranged on slices of toasted bread, previously dipped in sweet oil; garnished with groups of whites and yolks of eggs, beetroot or chervil; seasoned with plain salad dressing. — Henriette.—Sprigs of cooked cold cauliflower, fine shreds of cooked carrots, turnips, French beans, and truffles, seasoned with French dressing. — d’hiver (Winter).—Endive, celery, beetroot, horse- radish, and boiled potatoes; seasoned with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. ^ a la Humbert.—Composed of sliced peeled tomatoes, slices of pimiento, dressed with olive oil, tarragon vinegar, and usual seasoning ; garnished with border of watercresses. — Italienne (Italian).—Prepared with various kinds of smoked meats or salami sausage (shredded), cooked vegetables, tunny fish, anchovies, olives, and capers; seasoned with tartare sauce.300 THE MENU BOOK. Salade Imp6riale.—Asparagus tips (cooked), endive, and sliced truffles, seasoned with mayonnaise, flavoured with anchovy essence. — Japonnaise (Japanese).—Vegetable macedoine, with anchovy fillets, sliced salami sausage and hard-boiled eggs ; seasoned with vinaigrette. — Jockey Club.—Finely cut strips of celery, cold potatoes, cooked French beans, preserved mushrooms, gherkins, and lettuce hearts, dressed with mayonnaise; gar- nished with anchovy fillets and hard-boiled eggs. — a la Judic.—Slices of cooked carrots, turnips, potatoes, and beetroots, ranged in pyramidal form in salad bowl; garnished with cooked brussels sprouts, French beans, and cauliflower sprigs' dressed with ravigote sauce. — au petit lard.—Green salad dressed in usual way, with streaky bacon cut in dice, fried, and finished in vinegar, poured over the salad. — de legumes a la Lyonnaise.—Vegetable salad (macedoine of vegetables), mixed with thin slices of Lyons sausage cut in strips, anchovy fillets, olives, capers, and beetroots ; dressed with cold ravigote sauce. — Lorette.—Composed of celery heart, lettuce hearts, cooked new potatoes, cooked new carrots and beet- root, and raw lean ham, all cut in fine shreds ; mixed with mayonnaise and aspic ; garnished with rings of hard white of egg, beetroot, and stoned olives. — Mariette.—Piccalilli or mixed pickles, raw cucumber, and not over-ripe pears, cut in fine strips, and dressed with mayonnaise. — a la Marquise.—Finely-shredded lettuce, olive-shaped cucumber, dice-shaped artichoke bottoms, blended with mayonnaise dressing, made with hard-boiled egg-yolks, oil, vinegar, etc., dome shaped, covered with lettuce leaves, and masked with mayonnaise, and decorated to taste. — Medici.—Celery root, tomatoes, and cooked ox-tongue, cut in julienne strips; also cooked asparagus tips grouped in salad bowl with vinaigrette dressing; Tartare Sauce mixed with chopped pimiento. — Merc^dds.—Belgian endive and truffles cut into fine strips, dressed with lemon mayonnaise, thin shapes, and covered with thin sliced tomatoes ; garnished with truffles, etc. — Mikado.—Sprigs of chrysanthemum, sliced cold pota- toes, artichoke bottoms, and shelled prawns, capers and beetroot; seasoned with oil and vinegar dressing. — Miliken.—Salad composed of Spanish pimientos and truffles, cut in dice shapes, and cold boiled rice ; seasoned with mayonnaise ; dressed on lettuce leaves.SA LA DESS A LA DS. 301 Salade Mimosa.—Composed of large pea-shaped rounds of truffle, cooked carrot, celery root and cooked potatoes, seasoned with mayonnaise, with bouquet of green asparagus points in centre. — Monte Cristo.—Sliced lobster meat, cold potatoes, hard-boiled eggs and truffles, mixed with mayonnaise, with border of shredded lettuce round. — Moscovite.—Various kinds of lean cooked meat cut into fine julienne strips, also cepes ; dressed with vinaigrette and garnished with small tartlet crusts filled with cavaire. — Nantoise.—Composed of cabbage lettuce, cooked asparagus tips, hard-boiled egg, smoked salmon, crab meat, parsley and chives, and seasoning. — Napolitaine.—Thin slices of Bologna sausage and sliced hard-boiled eggs, dressed alternately (crown shape) ; centre filled with shredded celery, lettuce, and beet- root ; dressed with tartare sauce, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. — Nigoise.—Cold potatoes in dice shapes, French beans, and tomatoes cut in fillets, capers, olives, and anchovy fillets ; dressed with vinaigrette. — Ninette.—Lettuce and tomato salad, mixed with cooked French beans and potato slices ; seasoned with oil and vinegar dressing, and chopped tarragon. — Norge.—Composed of finely shredded white celery, peeled walnuts, cucumber dressed with mayonnaise and cream, paprika seasoning, garnished with julienne of truffles. — Opera.—Julienne strips of ox-tongue and truffles, made up in border, with asparagus points, centre piled up with lettuce hearts, hard eggs, and beetroot, mayonnaise, and vinaigrette. — Orientale.—Composed of endive and lettuces, fine strips of pineapple and tomatoes, also pimiento, dressed with cream, lemon juice, and usual seasoning. — Panach^e (Mixed Salad).—Usually made with cooked green peas, beans, and flageolets and lettuces, seasoned with vinaigrette. — de pauvre homme.—Potato salad mixed with cooked haricot beans and buds of cooked cauliflower ; seasoned with oil and vinegar, salt, etc,, and chopped parsley. — Paysanne (Farmhouse Salad).—Consists of sliced pickled red cabbage, cold potatoes, and celery root, all cut in thin slices ; seasoned with salad dressing. — Polonaise (Polish).—Lettuce, endive, celery, sliced cold potatoes, apples, smoked salmon, and fillets of anchovies, seasoned with salad dressing, and garnished with minced ham and hard-boiled eggs.302 THE MENU BOOK. Salade Pompadour.—Sprigs of cooked cauliflower, celeriac, and potatoes ; seasoned with vinaigrette. — Portugaise.—Sliced tomatoes, watercress, finely chopped onions and parsley ; vinaigrette dressing, — quatre saisons.—Composed and arranged in four distinct parts; sliced radishes, shreds of lettuce, sliced cucumber, and sliced tomatoes, each served separately with mayonnaise or tartare border. — Rachel.—White celery root cut into fine strips, hard- boiled eggs, truffles, beetroot, and gherkins shredded finely, mixed with mayonnaise, and suitably decorated. — Reine.—White celery stalks, hard-boiled whites of eggs, cut into fine strips; seasoned with tartare sauce, finely chopped truffles and parsley, and garnished with slices of salami or Brunswick sausage and hard-boiled yolks of eggs. — Riviera.—Young carrots, cooked, white celery (heart), black radish, all cut in julienne, dressed with vinaigrette. — Russe (Russian).—Consists of a mixture of cooked carrots, beetroots, and gherkins, cut in small squares or cubes, capers, grated horseradish, lobster meat, ham and tongue cut in small squares, dressed with mayonnaise aspic in cylindrical shaped mould; garnished with border of aspic jelly and caviare. — Sahara.—Consists of dice-shaped cold potatoes, cold cooked celery root or celeriac, truffles, and bananas ; seasoned with oil and vinegar, chopped parsley and chervil. — Sicillienne.—The same as “ Portugaise,” with addition of finely shredded celery and cold potatoes. — Sotteville.—Cos-lettuce salad, seasoned with pepper, salt, vinegar, cream, and chopped parsley. — Su6doise (Swedish).—Filleted smoked herrings, cold beef, boiled potatoes, sour apples (all cut into dice), chopped capers and gherkins, tarragon and chervil, seasoned with plain salad dressing ; garnished with olives, fillets of anchovies, and oysters. — Th6rese.—White celery hearts cut into strips, also russet apples, and potatoes cut similarly, and dressed with mayonnaise. — Tourangelle.—Composed of cooked green asparagus, julienne of celery, tomatoes and gherkins, also French beans. Mayonnaise or Vinaigrette dressing. — Waldorf.—Celery root or celeriac cut into julienne strips, russet apples, and walnuts, blended with mayonnaise sauce. — Windsor.—Shredded white celery, chicken fillets (cooked), tongue, and truffles ; seasoned with mayon- naise, mixed with chopped piccalilli,ENTREMETS. 303 ENTREMETS. Entremets.—Under this heading no less than three distinct varieties of culinary preparations are served. 1. The Dressed Vegetable, if such be desired ; these are known in French as “ Entremets de Legumes.” 2. The Sweets, hot and cold dishes, known as Entremets Sucres. Hot Sweets generally consist of Puddings, Souffles, Croutes of Fruit, Fritters (Beignets), Savarins, Omelettes, Pancakes, etc., etc. ; whilst the Cold Sweets are usually composed of Jellies, Chartreuse of Fruits, Bordures, Tourtes, Fruit Pies, Bavarois, Cream Compotes, Macedoines, Trifles, Charlottes, Fancy Gateaux and Pastry, Frozen Puddings, Iced Creams and Puddings, Souffles, Ices, Plombieres, and various kinds of sweet- meats. Bon-bons, etc. 3. Savouries or Entremets Savoureux. These are commonly known as “ After-Dinner Savouries ” ; the dishes selected may be hot or cold, but they are more often served hot than cold. They must always be dressed in very small portions, and, above all, daintily. The most popular savouries are Cheese Savouries, Egg Savouries, and those made from Smoked Fish. Note.—Olives, Salted Almonds, Grisini (salted bread sticks), etc., are usually partaken and served just before the Sweet Entremets, their special object being to cleanse the palate. PART XIII. THE SWEET COURSE, ENTREMETS SUCRES, Abrico ts—A pricots, AbJicot h la Bardalouse or Bourdalouse (Hot or Cold).— Timbale pastry or cake crust, filled with layers of apricot compote, and confectioners’ custard; decorated with meringue of almonds, and browned. — a la Colbert (Hot).—Compote of apricots (halves), filled with rice cooked in milk, sweetened, and flavoured with vanilla, coated with reduced apricot marmalade, dipped in beaten egg, rolled in pulverised macaroons, and fried in clarified butter ; dished up on rounds of fried bread, sauced over with apricot puree.304 THE MENU BOOK. Abricot a la Cond6.—Timbale or border of cooked rice, flavoured with cream and vanilla, dressed with compote of apricots, and decorated with cherries and angelica ; served hot or cold, with fruit syrup. — dr la Creole (Hot or Cold).—Dome shape of cooked sweet rice enriched with cream, with halves of apricots, decorated with glace cherries and angelica, coated with apricot sauce, kirsch flavour. — a la Dreux.—Brioche paste tartlet crusts, filled with almond custard and halves of apricots, glazed with syrup. — d la Portugaise (Hot).—Rice shape, interior with sal- picon of apricots, steamed or baked, masked with pineapple sauce, decorated with halves of almonds and angelica. — d la Reine (Cold).—Border of genoise cake dressed with apricot compote, garnished with glace fruit, sauced over with apricot marmalade. — au riz.—Stewed apricots, dressed on a border of cooked sweetened rice ; garnished with glace fruit; served hot or cold. — au riz meringu6 (Hot or Cold).—As above, omitting the garnish, and coating the whole with meringue mixture, dredged with sugar, decorated, and baked in oven. — d la Royale (Cold).—Border or basis of genoise, masked with apricot icing, decorated with pistachios, etc. ; centre filled up with halves of apricots, glazed with kirsch jelly. — d la Sultane (Hot or Cold).—Genoise cake basis, with layer of cooked sweet rice, on top halves of apricots ranged in dome shape, coated with meringue, set in oven ; served with apricot sauce. Pains d’abricots au marasquin (Cold).—Stewed apricots flavoured with maraschino and lemon juice, set in small moulds with wine jelly. Ananas—Pineapple. Ananas d la Caroline (Cold).—Genoise cake border, masked with rum-flavoured icing, centre filled with iced bombs of pineapple puree and vanilla custard ; kirsch flavour, chopped pistachios on top. — d la Chinoise.—Whole pineapple, centre scooped out and filled with dice shaped pineapple, mixed with cooked sweetened rice (a la creme), garnished with small cornets of pineapple, each filled with a few stoned or glace cherries. — d la Condo (Cold).—Sliced pineapple, cooked in kirsch marinade, dressed on cold rice basis, coated with apricot sauce, kirsch flavour ; decorated with angelica and glace cherries.305 SWEET ENTREMETS. Ananas h la Cr6oIe (Hot or Cold).—Slices of pineapple dressed on a border of cooked rice ; garnished with angelica and glace cherries ; served with maraschino syrup. — ^ la Curtet (Cold).—Sliced pineapple, ranged on border of kirsch jelly, coated with jellied apricot sauce, and decorated to taste. — a la Cussy (Cold).—Border shape of wine jelly set with pineapple slices, centre filled with whipped cream flavoured with apricot puree, and suitably decorated. — ^ la Georgette (Cold).—Whole peeled pineapple, centre scooped out and filled with pineapple mousse, then iced, and coated with maraschino jelly. — a la Mascotte.—Pineapple shape made up with slices of pineapple and genoise cake, alternately placed, with apricot marmalade and liqueur flavour, coated with meringue mixture, besprinkled with pistachios, and baked ; served hot or cold with pineapple sauce or syrup. — Meringue Astoria.—Small savarins dipped in pineapple syrup, filled with slices of pineapple, coated with apricot marmalade, then masked with meringue mixture, and baked ; decorated with red-currant jelly. — a la d’0rl6ans (Hot or Cold).—Slices of pineapple and cooked sweet rice, ranged in layers and pineapple shape, coated with meringue; decorated with currants and angelica; sauced over with apricot syrup, maraschino flavour. — a la Reine (Cold).—Border of light genoise poached or steamed, with slices of pineapple ranged on top, centre of dish filled with pineapple, glace cherries, and apricots cut in dice and moistened with hot syrup ; liqueur flavour. — en turban.—Savarin border, flavoured with rum syrup, centre of dish filled with compote of pineapple. — ^ la Verdier.—Slices of fresh pineapple, and quarters of sour apples poached in syrup, the latter glazed with apricot marmalade ranged as border, with pine- apple in centre of dish; chopped, baked hazelnuts sprinkled on top. Mousse d’Ananas a la Nesselrode (Cold).—Dome shape composed of vanilla cream, dice of pineapple and chestnut puree as interior (maraschino flavour), set in charged ice cave or cabinet. Parfait d*Ananas, Tostini.—Whole pineapple, scooped out in centre, stewed in maraschino liqueur, filled with confectioners’ custard, placed in genoise border, masked with meringue, and baked ; served hot or cold with fruit syrup. U306 THE MENU BOOK. Baba au Rhum.—Light yeast cakes, containing currants, soaked in rum syrup ; served hot or cold. — au Kirsch.—Same as above, using kirsch flavoured syrup instead of rum. — a la Storer (a Polish Cold Sweet).—Baba (yeast paste) mixed with raisins and glace fruit, baked in suitable mould ; when cold coated with apricot marmalade flavoured with rum and orange juice ; centre of baba filled with orange ice ; garnished with angelica and glace cherries. Bananes—Bananas, Bananes a la Bangalaise.—Halves of peeled ripe bananas poached in vanilla syrup, then placed between cut genoise rolls, coated with almond puree, masked with apricot marmalade and strewn with chopped pistachios. — ^ la Bourdalouse (Hot or Cold).—SHces of bananas poached in vanilla syrup, and filled in flat cake crust, with layer of almond custard, masked with meringue, and browned. — frite sur canapes (Hot).—Slices of bananas, egged, and fried in butter, dressed on small rice shapes of canapes ; served hot as side dish. — a la Cond6.—Rice cooked in sweetened vanilla-flavoured milk, mixed with glace cherries, dressed as border or flat with halves of peeled bananas poached in vanilla syrup, ranged on top ; decorated with glace cherries and angelica; served hot or cold. — dr la Condoli^re.—Boat-shaped banana skins filled with whipped sweetened cream and slices of bananas previously steeped in Kirsch hqueur. — farcies aux fraises (Cold).—Bananas filled with mashed scarlet strawberries and puree of bananas, sweetened with cura^oa and sugar ; tied up with ribbon. — a la Othello.—Peeled and halved bananas poached in vanilla syrup, dressed in glass bowl in layers with macaroon cream (puree form); served with hot chocolate sauce. — souffles d la Russe.—Banana skins filled with souffle mixture (puree of bananas and Kummel) and baked ; served hot. — d la Ni^oise.—Similar to “ d la Russe,” but flavoured with crushed crystallised violets in place of Kummel, and maraschino liqueur. — Norv6gienne.—Large bananas with upper part of skin removed, then scooped out, filled with banana cream ice, masked with Italian meringue, and baked quickly.SWEET ENTREMETS. 307 Bananes h la Vivonne.—Confectioners’ custard, mixed with dice-cut peeled bananas placed on baking sheet, in finger shapes, then egged and crumbed and fried in clarified butter ; served with strawberry sauce. Croquettes de Bananes au Riz.—Dice-cut peeled bananas mixed with sweet cooked rice, shaped into balls, then egged and crumbed, and fried in clarified butter; served with sabayon or fruit syrup. SoufB6s de Bananes.—Large bananas cut in half length- way, flesh scooped out and pulped ; made into truffle mixture with Kirsch flavour, refilled, and baked. Bavaroises—Cremes—Creams, Bavaroise de bananes.—Vanilla cream mixed with banana pulp set in moulds. — a la Colbert (Cold).—Timbale shape of vanilla cream, with chocolate cream in centre, decorated with whipped cream. Bavaroise aux framboises Bavaroise au chocolat Bavaroise au melon Bavaroise au cacao Blancmanger a la vanille Blancmanger d la crime Blancmanger aux pistaches Blancmanger aux avelines Crime au caje Crime au chocolat Crime a la vanille Crime Frangaise au the Crime Frangaise au cafe Crime aux noix de peches Raspberry cream Chocolate cream Melon cream Cocoa cream Vanilla blancmange Cream blancmange Pistachio kernel cream Blancmange flavoured with filbert Coffee cream Chocolate cream Vanilla cream French tea cream French coffee cream Peach kernel cream Creme a la Beau-Rivage.—Border shape of caramel cream, centre filled with whipped cream and layers of strawberry jam (whole fruit), surface piped with cream. — brulee.—Similar to Caramel Cream. — au Caramel (Caramel Cream).—Egg custard cooked in mould, coated with brown sugar. — Chantilly.—Whipped double cream, with vanilla flavour. — de fraises ^ la Chartreuse.—Strawberries set in wine jelly, in fancy mould (bottom and side) and filled with strawberry cream, flavoured with Chartreuse liqueur. — d. la Clermont.—Vanilla custard, with chestnut puree and cream, moulded ; garnished with glac6 chestnuts (marrons glaces).3o8 the menu book. Cr6me a la Cr6oIe.—Vanilla cream, with cooked ground rice ; decorated with slices of pineapple, and masked over with whipped cream (Chantilly). — la Dalmatienne.—Timbale shape of vanilla cream, interlined with layers of finger biscuits soaked in maraschino, and minced fruit compote. — Diplomate.—Rich custard mixed with macaroons and Savoy biscuits, set in a mould lined with jelly, and '' decorated. — a I’EspagnoIe.—Orange-flavoured bavarois cream, timbale shape, interlined with sections of orange, and garnished similarly. — Eug6nie.—Vanilla cream, mixed with small macaroons, steeped in maraschino, masked with noyeau-flavoured custard sauce. — Florentine.—Border shape of caramel cream, with addition of crushed almond-rock, centre filled with Chantilly cream, and chopped pistachios on top. — frapp§e aux milles fruits.—Vanilla cream mixed with stiffly whisked whites of eggs, mixed glace fruit, and liqueur as flavour, set in moulds, and iced. — a la G6noise.—Rich custard mixed with crushed macaroons, orange juice, and glace cherries, flavoured with brandy, set in moulds. — a la Imperatrice.—Vanilla cream mixed with chopped pistachios and glace cherries, set in a border mould previously masked with wine jelly, and suitably decorated. — Jubil6.—A rich fruit cream, set in the centre of a mould of port wine or claret jelly. — marbree.—The same as “ Rubane.” — Monaco.—Vanilla cream and apricot cream, scooped out into spoon shapes, and set in plain mould lined with maraschino jelly, glace cherries, and jelly placed between layers of cream ; garnished with glace finger biscuits. — 0p6ra.—The same as “ Beau-Rivage,” omitting jam, and garnishing the top with crystallised violets. — Plombi^re.—Vanilla cream, with ground almonds. — renvers6e.—Like caramel cream, flavoured with lemon. — Romaine.—Rich cream, flavoured with burnt almonds and orange-flower water. — Ruban^.—Vanilla cream or blancmange, interlined with layers of chocolate, coffee or raspberry cream, to represent ribbons when cut. — cuite a la Suisse.—A kind of bavaroise mixed with glace fruit and cream, set in fancy mould lined with wine jelly, and decorated.309 SWEET ENTREMETS. Cr6me de mirabelles en surprise.—Bomb-shaped mould lined with jelly, then thickly masked with mirabelle puree, centre filled with port-wine jelly. Strawberries and raspberries can be treated the same. — Saxonnaise d la Suchard (Hot).—Light chocolate souffle border, steamed, centre filled with whipped cream, and served with cold chocolate sauce. Blancmanger—Blancmange, Blancmanger.—Almond milk, sweetened, stiffened with gelatine, and moulded. — a I’Anglaise.—Cornflour mould, made wit milk, corn- flour and sugar ; vanilla, lemon or almond flavouring. — a la Delmonico.—As above, mixed with layers of cherry marmalade, and kirsch flavour. — a la Parisienne.—Almond milk, with hazel-nut puree ; flavoured with maraschino. BeignetSf etc,—Fritters, etc. Beignets d'ananas Beignets d’dbyicots Beignets de hananes Beignets Bevlinois Beignets de cerises Beignets de coings Beignets de frangipane Beignets aux /raises Beignets de mandarines Beignets aux marrons Beignets d Vorange Beignets de pommes Beignets de peches Beignets aux prunes Beignets de poires Beignets de reine-Claudes Beignets de riz Beignets de semoule Beignets souffles d la vanille Beignets Viennoise Beignets d la crime Beignets de noix de coco Cannelons aux /raises Cannelons d la Pithiviers Pineapple fritters Apricot fritters Banana fritters Berlin or dough-nut fritters Cherry fritters Quince fritters Macaroon fritters Strawberry fritters Mandarine fritters Chestnut fritters Orange fritters Apple fritters Peach fritters Plum or prune fritters Pear fritters Greengage fritters Rice fritters Semolina fritters Vanilla souffle fritters Vienna fritters Custard fritters Cocoanut fritters Strawberry cannelons Puff-paste rolls filled with almond cream Beignets a la Dauphine.—Choux paste fritters, filled with almond cream or custard. — a I’Espagnole.—Slices of milk bread dipped in cream, coated with batter and fried ; dredged with cinnamon sugar, and served with port-wine syrup.THE MENU BOOK. 310 Beignets ^ la Portugaise.—(Portuguese fritters)—A kind of rice croquette, flavoured with cinnamon, with orange marmalade in centre. — soufQes, favorite.—Slices of pineapple or peaches dipped in kirsch or other liqueur, placed in portions of choux paste, and fried in deep fat. Croquettes de riz a I’ananas.—Rice croquettes, with dice- cut pineapple and served with pineapple sauce. — a la d’Egmont.—Rice croquettes made of rice, chopped pistachio nuts and chopped almonds, fried and served with brandy sauce. — aux fraises.—Rice croquettes with preserved straw- berries in centre. — aux peches.—Rice croquettes with peach preserve. Croquettes de semoule aux fraises.—Semolina croquettes with strawberry jam in centre. — ^ la vanille.—Vanilla rice croquettes. — de vermicelle.—Vermicelli croquettes. Pain frits au vin rouge.—Slices of milk roll dipped in egg and sugar and fried ; served with claret syrup. Bordures or Turbans—Borders. Bordure de Agues (Cold).—Stewed figs pulped and mixed with cream, then set with wine jelly in border mould. — de marrons ^ la Chantilly (Cold).—Border of chestnut puree, etc., centre filled with whipped cream flavoured with vanilla. — Pierre le Grand (Cold).—Rich savarin border, centre filled with whipped cream, then masked with apricot marmalade, and studded with strips of almonds and pistachios. — de prunes (Cold).—Border of rice and stoned stewed prunes, masked with apricot marmalade, and sprinkled with chopped pistachios ; centre filled with whipped cream ; garnished with glace cherries and angelica. — ^ la Japonaise (Cold).—Savarin border, soaked in maraschino syrup and set in jelly. — a la Victoria (Hot or Cold).—Genoise border, with halves of peaches or apricots in centre, masked with apricot sauce, flavoured with maraschino ; decorated with angelica, glace cherries, and pistachios. Turban de p§ches ^ la Pdoderne (Cold).—Genoise border cake set in decorated wine jelly and peach border, enriched with vanilla custard ; centre of dish (border) filled with compote of peaches.311 SWEET ENTREMETS. Cerises—Cherries, Chrises en compote.—Stoned cherries cooked in syrup, flavoured with cinnamon or lemon. — a la Dijonaise.—Stoned cherries, cooked in port-wine syrup, dressed on croutes of sponge or savoy cake, masked with jellied cassis. — a la Jubil6 (Cold).—Large stoned cherries, cooked in syrup, kirsch flavour, dressed in small cassolettes, with kirsch, and served burning. — ^ la Melba.—Vanilla cream ice, in cut glass dish, with large stoneless cherries poached in raspberry syrup on top. — a la Valerie.—Flan paste crust, filled with compote of cherries, masked with red-currant jelly, meringued over, and browned in oven. Flan de C6rises.—Open cherry-tart. Charlottes, Note.—There are two kinds of charlottes, i.e., those served hot and those served cold ; they are made quite differently. For the former, the hot, the interior of plain charlotte moulds are lined with slices of bread dipped or slightly browned in butter ; they are then filled with the respective fruit puree, and baked. For cold charlottes the moulds are lined with slices of genoise cake, finger or Savoy biscuits, and then filled with certain creams or ice mixtures. In the latter case the word glacee (frozen) should be placed after the name on the menu. Charlotte a la Calville (Cold).—Mould lined with finger biscuits, and filled with apple puree and cream. — a la Carmen (Cold).—Mould lined with wafer biscuits, and filled with strawberry or raspberry cream, mixed with chopped preserved ginger. — aux c6rises (Hot or Cold).—Cherry charlotte. — ^ la Chantilly (Cold).—Charlotte mould lined with finger biscuits, and filled with vanilla cream. — a la Colville (Cold).—Like “ Charlotte Russe,” but cream is mixed with pear or apple puree. — ^ la Cornville (Hot).—Mould lined with thin slices of bread dipped in oiled butter, and filled with alternate layers 01 purees of pineapple, and crushed macaroons ; served with pineapple sauce. — Florentine (Iced).—Mould lined with biscuits, filled with orange-water ice mixed with whipped cream, and set to freeze.THE MENU BOOK. 312 Charlotte aux fraises (Cold).—Like Russian charlotte,” but filled with strawberry cream made from fresh fruit. — glac6e de poires a rimp6riale (Cold).—Charlotte shape, lined with ice wafers and filled with frozen pear- flavoured cream, mixed with maraschino jelly ; shape surrounded with small cooked pears, interior filled with cream ice or whipped cream, decorated with angelica, etc. — de groseilles vertes (Cold).—Gooseberry charlotte. — a rimp6riale (Hot).—Charlotte shape made of genoise cake, filled with apricot pulp flavoured with rum, the whole coated with meringue, and baked. — ^ la Javanaise (Cold).—Mould lined with biscuits, iced with chocolate and lemon icing, filled with vanilla cream custard. — aux macarons (Cold).—Macaroon charlotte. — aux marrons (Hot).—Chestnut charlotte. — de melons (Cold).—Melon charlotte. — a la Medicis (Iced charlotte).—Mould lined with finger biscuits, filled with white chocolate ice-cream, and set to freeze ; garnished with glace chestnuts and fruits. — a la Montreuil (Cold).—Same as ” Charlotte Russe,” with slices of ripe peaches mixed with cream. — ^ la Moscovite (Cold).—Mould lined with finger biscuits, filled with vanilla cream custard, mixed with chopped fruit. — a la Normande (Hot).—Mould lined with thin slices of bread, dipped in butter, filled with apple and apricot purees, and baked. — a I’Orientale.—Mould lined with finger biscuits and filled with pistachio cream, mixed with chopped pineapple. — ^ la Parisienne (Cold).—Light genoise cake hollowed out and filled with chocolate and vanilla cream, masked with chocolate icing, and decorated with whipped cream. — aux pistaches (Cold).—Like ” Russian charlotte,” but cream is mixed with chopped pistachios. — Plombiere (Cold).—Charlotte shape lined with finger biscuits, centre filled with vanilla ice, mixed with almonds, whipped cream, crystallised fruits, and kirsch flavour, and set to freeze ; served. — de poires (Hot).—Pear charlotte. — Polonaise (Hot).—An apple charlotte flavoured with apricot marmalade. — de pommes (Hot).—Apple charlotte. {See Note.)SWEET ENTREMETS. 313 Charlotte h la Pompadour (Cold).—Croustade made of almond paste and small wafer cornets filled with whipped cream, centre filled with pineapple cream. — Portugaise (Hot).—Mould lined with slices of genoise cake, filled with crushed macaroons, custard, and apple puree, and baked. — a la Reine (Hot).—Genoise cake hollowed out and filled with vanilla souffle mixture, pineapple, and apricots, masked with meringue, and baked. — a la Renaissance (Cold).—Mould lined with biscuits, iced with lemon, chocolate, and green icing, filled with vanilla cream custard, and fruit salpicon in centre. — ^ la Russe (Cold).—Rich vanilla cream, set in mould lined with finger biscuits. — ^ la Savarin (Hot).—Baked brioche paste-crust filled with puree of pears, with apricot custard, and kirsch flavour ; served with pineapple syrup. — St. Jos6 (Cold).—Charlotte lined with Savoy biscuits, bottom decorated with jelly and glace fruit, and filled with pineapple cream. Coupes—See Chapter on Ices. Compotes de Fruits—Stewed Fruit. Compote d'ahricots Compdte d'ananas Compdte d’aiyelles Compdte de coings Compdte de censes Compdte de dattes Compdte d’epines-vinettes Compdte de figues Compdte de jraises Compdte de framhoises Stewed apricots Stewed pineapples Stewed cranberries Stewed quinces Stewed cherries Stewed dates Stewed barberries Stewed figs Stewed strawberries Stewed raspberries Compdte de gvoseilles blanches Stewed white currants Compdte de gvoseilles rouges Stewed red currants Compdte de gvoseilles vertes Compdte de melon Compdte de mivabelles Compdte de mivtilles Compdte de m'dres Compdte de mavvons Compdte d'oranges Compdte de peches Compdte de poives Compdte de pommes Compdte de prunes Compdte de pruneaux Compdte de reine-Claudes Compdte de rhuharbe Compdte de ronces Stewed gooseberries Stewed melon Stewed mirabelles Stewed bilberries Stewed mulberries Stewed chestnuts Stewed oranges Stewed peaches Stewed pears Stewed apples Stewed prunes Stewed plums Stewed greengages Stewed rhubarb Stewed brambleberries314 THE MENU BOOK. Croutes. Groutes aux fruits.—These are compotes of fruit dressed on fried slices of cake or bread croutons, and are usually garnished with glace fruit, angelica, cherries, raisins, and almonds, sauced over with fruit syrup. Croutes aux ahricots Croutes aux pommes CroHites d, Vorange CroiUes aux cerises CroMes aux peches Cro'^tes aux framhoises Croiites aux /raises Apricot croutes Apple croutes Orange croutes Cherry croutes Peach croutes Raspberry croutes Strawberry croutes Crofites Espagnoles.—Brioche paste croutes coated with apricot jam, covered with glazed chestnuts, sultanas, and pistachio kernels, as garnish. — Lyonnaise.—Similar to “ Espagnole,” but Savoy biscuit croutes in place of brioche. — au Madere.—Any kind of compdte of fruit, dressed on fried bread or cake crusts, and served with hot fruit syrup flavoured with sherry. — a a Mar^chale.—Croutes of Zwieback or toasted cake, coated with marmalade, and covered with compote of apple, slices of pineapple, cherries, and grapes. — a la Normande (Hot).—Pared, cored, and quartered apples, stewed in syrup, flavoured with butter, lemon-juice and sherry, dressed on fried-bread croutons, coated with dissolved peach jam ; served with hot syrup. — Parisienne.—Small timbale cakes (savoy or genoise), hollowed out and filled with salpicon of mixed fruit ; garnished with halves of apricots and glace cherries. JDattes—Dates. Dattes farcies, frites (Hot or Cold).—Stoned dates filled with confectioners’ custard, egged and crumbed in crushed macaroons, and fried in butter ; served with hot or cold vanilla cream sauce. Fraises—Strawberries. Praises k I’Am^ricaine (Strawberry Whips).—Small ripe strawberries, sweetened with castor sugar, placed in stem glasses (half full), then filled with whipped cream, served with handy fingers. — Brillat Savarin (Cold).—Baked savarin border, steeped in cura9oa syrup and glazed with strawberry marma- lade ; then filled with large ripe strawberries, pre- viously flavoured with cura9oa and maraschino and orange wafer. Kept on ice till required.SWEET ENTREMETS. 315 Fraises a la Capucine (Cold).—Border of wine jelly (masked), filled with small jellied strawberries (marine au liqueur); centre filled with whipped cream “ a la Chantilly.” — ^ la Cardinal (Iced).—Crushed sweetened ripe straw- berries, on a bar of vanilla ice, served in glass dish ; decorated with strips of almonds. — a la C6cil (Cold).—Large ripe strawberries, marinaded in orange and lemon-juice, mixed with whipped cream (Chantilly). — au champagne (Cold).—Selected fine ripe strawberries, dished up and masked with champagne jellied syrup. — ^ la Chantilly.—Ripe strawberries, covered with whipped cream, sweetened with vanilla sugar. — a la Chdtelaine (Iced).—Strawberries steeped in brandy and maraschino gourd on top, or with vanilla cream- ice mixed with crushed macaroons (kirsch flavour). — a la Maconnaise (Cold).—Strawberries poached in Bur- gundy wine syrup, served cold. — a la Marguerite (Cold).—Ripe strawberries in kirsch syrup, semi-frozen ; served in paste cassolettes. — a la Melba (Cold).—Ripe strawberries, iced and covered with whipped cream ; sauced over with raspberry syrup. — meringu6es (Hot).—Ripe strawberries, dished up, covered with meringue, and browned slowly in oven. — en oranges (Iced).—Small oranges filled with orange- flavoured whipped cream and strawberries, then iced. — ^ la Princesse Marie (Cold).—Small apples, peeled, hollowed out and cooked in lemon syrup and white wine; when cold filled with small ripe strawberries, sweetened and marinaded in kirsch ; then masked with strawberry meringue, and baked in sharp oven. The interior of the apples must be kept cold. — ^ la Romanoff.—Ripe strawberries, marinaded in port wine and sugar ; served in glasses, with whipped sweet cream on top, surmounted by a large straw- berry. — ^ la Royale (Iced).—Small boat-shaped puff-pastry cases, filled with small strawberries, then masked with strawberry pulp and coated with vanilla-ice. — Sarah Bernhardt (Iced).—Pine-apple cream ice, mixed with pounded praline almonds placed in cut-glass dish, with large ripe strawberries on top, masked over with iced raspberry syrup. — d la Wilhelmine.—Border of orange and kirsch jelly, filled with very large strawberries, hollowed out and filled with whipped cream, flavoured with vanilla sugar.3i6 the menu book. Bombe de fraises, moderne (Cold).—Bomb-shaped mould masked with jelly and decorated with fresh straw- berries and angelica strips, filled with a rich straw- berry cream. Chartreuse de fraises.—Fresh strawberries set with wine jelly in suitable mould (with pipe), centre filled with whipped cream mixed with fresh or glace fruit. Flan de fraises.—Open strawberry tart. Petits pains de fraises (Cold).—Little timbale moulds, coated with maraschino jelly, filled with fresh straw- berry puree, stiffened with gelatine. Tivoli aux fraises (Cold).—Maraschino jelly and strawberry cream, set in alternate layers in fancy jelly mould ; garnished with fresh strawberries. Framhoises—JRaspberries, Adopt similar methods of preparing and serving Raspberries as directed for Strawberries. Gelees—J ellies. GeUe aux amandes Gelee de pommes GeUe aux ahvicots Gelee d'tpines-vinettes Gelee de gvoseilles noires GeUe de gvoseilles vevtes Gelee de praises Gelee de menthe Gelee de pied de veau GeUe au marasquin GeUe au cafe GeUe au tlU vert GeUe au curagoa GeUe aux airelles GeUe d'ananas GeUe au citron GeUe aux raisins GeUe carte blanche GeUe d'orange GeUe de mandarines GeUe au maddre GeUe de hrugnon GeUe de Bordeaux GeUe de framboises GeUe GeUe GeUe GeUe GeUe Almond jelly Apple jelly Apricot jelly Barberry jelly Black-currant jelly Gooseberry jelly Strawberry jelly Mint jelly Calf’s foot jelly Maraschino jelly Coffee jelly Green tea jelly Cura9oa jelly Cranberry jelly Pineapple jelly Lemon jelly Grape jelly Champagne jelly Orange jelly Mandarin jelly Madeira wine jelly Nectarine jelly Claret jelly Raspberry jelly Rhine wine jelly Champagne jelly Medlar jelly Vanilla jelly Rum jelly au vin au Rhin au vin de Champagne de ndfle d la vanille au rhumSWEET ENTREMETS. 317 GeUe au vin d'Oporto GeUe au kirsch GeUe au poires GeUe de coing Kirsch liqueur jelly Port wine jelly Pear jelly Quince jelly Gelee ^ la Dantzig.—Wine jelly flavoured with benedictine liqueur, mixed with gold leaves. — fouettee au jus de fruits.—Whipped fruit juice jelly. — a la macedoine de fruits.—Jelly with mixed fruits. — a la Mosaique.—Mould lined with jelly, and filled with alternate layers of lozenge-shaped slices of various coloured creams (bavarois), and jelly. — Moscovite.—Wine jelly flavoured with kiimmel liqueur, interior filled with whipped jelly (Russe). — Normande.—Inverted mould of wine jelly, with layers of thin slices of apples (cooked), red and white, centre filled with apple puree and cream. — panachee (Mixed Jelly).—Two or three different kinds of jelly, appropriately flavoured, set in alternate layers in the same mould. — a la Russe (Russian Jelly).—Wine jelly whisked to a froth and set in a mould. — a la Voltaire.—Vanilla jelly, flavoured with strong coffee, and kirsch or cognac. Chartreuse de fraise en gel6e.—Wine jelly, with salpicon or puree of strawberries in centre. — a la Chantilly.—Same as above, with vanilla cream in centre and on top. Grape Fruit a la Victoria.—Halves of grape fruit, centre scooped out, and filled with sweet tomato ice, flavoured with grape fruit juice and cura9oa decorated with whipped cream. M61on a la Creole (Cold).—Ripe rock melon, scooped out and filled with ripe strawberries and dice of pine- apple, mixed with syrup, kirsch, and maraschino, then iced. — a la Jeanette (Iced).—Small ripe melon, hollowed out, with flesh made into puree, mixed with cream and sugar, then frozen and refilled ; iced and cut into thick slices ; served with ice wafers. —- Orientale.—Same as k la Creole, omitting the pineapple, and adding some of the melon pulp or puree. — en surprise.—Melon peeled thinly, centre hollowed out and filled with fruit macedoine, flavoured with liqueur and iced, the whole covered with meringue and piped neatly, then browned in oven. M4lon—Melon.THE MENU BOOK. 3i8 CEufs—Eggs, {See also Sweet Omelettes, p, 329.) (Eufs glacis h la Florida (Iced).—Egg shapes made of lemon-water ice, almond and vanilla cream, centre (yolk) made of almond paste and genoise, served in swan-shaped souffle cases placed round coloured water ice column, and garnished with sprays of green fern. — vanillas d la neige (Hot or Cold).—Quenelles of whisked whites of eggs poached, in egg moulds, in milk ; served with vanilla custard. — en surprise (Cold).—Halves of apricots masked with jelly, and set in whisked and set jelly so as to resemble poached eggs ; sauced over with maraschino syrup. Oranges—Oranges. Oranges ^ la Centrale (Cold).—Oranges scooped out care- fully, and filled with wine jelly coloured red and flavoured with orange juice; when cold cut into quarters. — a I’Infante (Cold).—Oranges filled with orange ice or mousse, then masked with meringue, and browned in sharp oven. — au Riz a la Fraise.—Rice cooked in vanilla-flavoured milk, with halves of peaches on top, masked with meringues, and baked ; served with cold strawberry sauce. — souffl6es a la Javannaise (Cold).—Halves of Jaffa oranges, filled with vanilla cream ice, flavoured with ginger and cura^oa, set in cups, coated with meringue mixture, and baked quickly in sharp oven to set surface. — ^ la Maltaise.—Oranges filled with port-wine jelly and vanilla cream, two or three layers, cut into quarters when cold and dressed on rice or vanilla ice. — a la Napolitaine.—Oranges filled with vanilla and raspberry ice ; when frozen cut into quarters. Compote d*oranges.—Orange quarters stewed in syrup. Sabot d’orange au curacao (Hot).—Caramel coated orange sections ranged in mould and filled with custard mixed with slices of cake, orange sections, and apples ; steamed or baked, served hot or cold, with orange and cura9oa flavoured whipped cream. Eeches—Peaches, Peches a 1* Alexandra.—Whole peaches poached in rasp- berry syrup and skinned, dressed on rounds of genoise cake or border, meringued over, and browned in oven ; served hot or cold, with raspberry syrup.SWEET ENTREMETS. 319 P§ches Bardalouse.—Open puff-paste tart (flan) filled with vanilla custard with halves of peaches ranged on top ; masked with apricot marmalade, besprinkled with crushed macaroons and browned in oven. — h la Cardinal.—Halves of peaches, studded with almond strips, and stewed in raspberry syrup, dressed on genoise border ; served hot or cold. — d la Colbert.—See Abricots, and proceed the same. — h I’Enfer or a la Diable.—Cassolettes of nougat, with half peach in each, with kirsch poured over, and served burning. — flamb^es.—The same as “ k I’Enfer ” or " k la Diable,” with addition of jam in centre of peaches. — a la Greque (Cold).—Whole peaches, stoned and filled with fig puree, dressed on genoise, and coated with vanilla flavoured whipped cream. — a la Maintenon.—Genoise cake foundation, coated with almond custard, halves of peaches ranged as border, with fruit macedoine in centre; meringued over and browned ; served hot or cold with kirsch syrup. — a la Mariette.—Halves of large peaches poached in vanilla syrup, then filled with thick custard mixed with whisked eggs, and baked. — a la Melba (Iced).—Halves of peaches cooked in vanilla syrup, filled with vanilla cream ice, and dressed in pyramidal form, sauced over with raspberry puree, and sprinkled with chopped almonds or pistachios. — i la Montreuil.—Halves of peaches stewed in maras- chino syrup, dressed in centre of a semolina border served hot or cold. — 4 la Montrose (Cold).—Halves of fresh peaches poached lightly in kirsch syrup, skimmed and iced, filled with strawberry cream ice, and ranged in genoise croutes ; garnished with whipped cream, glace cherries or strawberries, and angelica. — ^ la Ninette (Cold).—Small brandied peaches, dressed on macaroons soaked in maraschino, sauced over with vanilla custard. — k rOrientale (Iced).—Halves of peaches, stewed in syrup, flavoured with kirsch and maraschino, drained and cooled, filled with raspberry ice, and dressed on shapes of vanilla cream ice. — ^ la Pi6montaise.—Halves of peaches filled with almond paste (marzipan), dressed on croutons of genoise, and then cooked in oven ; served hot with syrup. — ^ la Richelieu (Hot).—Peaches stoned and filled with whipped cream, mixed with crushed almond rock or nougat; coated with meringue and browned ; served on genoise croutes.320 THE MENU BOOK. Peches a la Sultane (Cold.)—Compote of peaches, dressed on pistachio cream ice, coated with strawberry syrup, and spun sugar on top. Timbales de Peches Marie-Louise (Hot).—Small timbale shapes of genoise, hollowed out, and filled with peach puree mixed with whisked egg-white, baked and glazed ; halves of peaches, glazed, placed on top of each, and decorated with glace cherries cooked in kirsch-flavoured syrup. — a la Zeppelin.—Halves of large peaches poached in syrup, placed in tartlet crusts filled with a salpicon of bananas, flavoured with kirsch syrup ; then coated with custard or meringues, and glazed under sala- mander. Poires—Pears, Poires a la Bardalouse (Hot or Cold).—Compote of smal pears, filled in cake timbale crust lined with vanilla- flavoured almond cream, top meringued and browned. — flambees.—Whole pears (peeled and cored), cooked in sherry syrup, coated with apricot marmalade ; ranged on a dish with brandy poured over and lighted as it is served. — a la Dreux (Cold).—Brioche-paste balls, baked, cut in halves, and filled with pear in each, stalk replaced by angelica strip, and masked with sweet vanilla chaudfroid sauce, and chopped burnt almonds; served with apricot sauce. — a la Duchesse (Cold).—Border of maraschino jelly, lined with halves of pears, farced with almond custard, centre filled with vanilla cream. — a la Florentine (Cold).—Compote of pears, dressed on a bed of cooked semolina, flavoured with vanilla, sauced over with apricot marmalade. — ala St. George’s (Hot).—Whole pears (stewed) placed in cassolette pastry cases, lined with apricot marmalade, masked over with meringue, and baked ; served with kirsch syrup. — a I’lmp^ratrice.—Timbale shape of genoise, filled with compote of pears, with layers of almond cream, top layer chestnut puree and rice, meringue (hot or cold). — Lombardie (Cold).—Small pears, stewed in raspberry syrup, and dressed on border of rice, with whipped cream in centre ; maraschino syrup. . — a la Louis Philippe.—Halves of large Duchesse pears, peeled and cored and poached in vanilla syrup; when cold hollowed out and filled with strawberry ice ; dressed on heart-shaped slice of cake or biscuit ; garnished with whipped cream and pistachios.SWEET ENTREMETS. 321 Poires a la Marquise.—Bartlett pears cooked in vanilla syrup, dressed on timbale of rice, flavoured with maraschino, meringued over, and baked ; served hot or cold. — ^ la Paillard (Cold).—Pyramid shape of cooked rice, enriched with cream, etc., surrounded by compote of pears, filled with frangipane custard ; garnished with crystallised violets and angelica ; vanilla sauce. — Parisienne (Cold).—Border of rice, with halves of pears ranged on top, centre filled with crushed macaroons soaked in kirsch sj^rup and mixed with whipped cream ; garnished with small meringues and glace fruit. — a la Princesse (Hot).—Pears cooked in raspberry syrup, placed in almond paste cassolettes, coated over with meringue, mixed with chopped hazel nuts, and browned in oven. — a la Reine (Hot).—Border of genoise cake and custard, poached, dressed with compote of pears, sauced over with raspberry syrup. — a la Sicilienne.—Halves of Bartlett pears, stewed in syrup, drained, filled with almond paste, placed on cake croutons, and glazed in oven ; served hot. — a la Viennoise (Cold).—Quarters of pears cooked in vanilla syrup, and dressed in centre of caramel- cream border. Soubric de poires ^ la Savarin.—Savarin cake basis, built up in pyramid form, with layers of cooked sweet rice and sections of stewed pears, surmounted by a row of glace cherries and small pears (whole) ; served with hot syrup, Pommes—Apples, Pommes a TAngelique (Cold).—Border of rice, flavoured with vanilla, with small halves of apple compote ranged on top, plentifully decorated with angelica strips ; sauced over with kirsch syrup. — ^ la Bardalouse.—See Poires (Pears). — a la Bonne Femme.—Same as “ au beurre.” — au beurre (Hot).—Peeled and cored apples, baked with butter in the oven, and glazed, sauced over with syrup, and flavoured with nutmeg or cinnamon. — d la Cevenole.—The same as “ Chatelaine,” but filled with chestnut puree and whipped cream, and served cold with vanilla syrup. — a la Chatelaine (Hot).—Apples hollowed out and cooked in vanilla syrup, centre filled with minced cherries and apricot puree, coated with confectioners’ custard and crushed macaroons, then browned in oven. XTHE MENU BOOK. 322 Pommes a la Chevreuse (Hot).—Semolina border with fruit macedoine in centre, surmounted by halves of apples (cooked), masked with meringue and chopped baked almonds, browned in oven, served with apricot sauce. — a la Conde.—Apples, pared and cored, cooked in the oven, with sugar, lemon juice, and butter ; dressed on a bed of rice ornamented with angelica, glace cherries, raisins and almonds ; served hot or cold with apple syrup. — a la Dauphine (Cold).—Cooked in vanilla syrup, centre scooped out, and filled with confectioners’ custard, dressed on genoise border, and coated with red-currant syrup. — a la Duchesse.—Peeled apples, scooped out in small rounds, cooked in syrup, dressed in genoise croute, with a layer of apple marmalade ornamented with small sticks of angelica stuck in each round of apple ; served with hot or cold apple syrup. — a la Grimaldi (Hot).—Pastry crust (flan), lined with cooked rice, and filled with sliced apples, masked with almond cream, and browned in oven ; served with lemon syrup. — a la Lexington.—Peeled and cored apples, steamed whole ; when cold, egged and crumbed in crushed macaroons or cake crumbs ; centre filled with pine- apple pulp and red-currant jelly ; served hot with fruit syrup. — meringu^es (Hot).—Apples cooked whole or in halves dressed on rice, masked with meringue mixture, dredged with sugar, decorated, and baked in oven. — ^ la neige (Hot).—Apple puree mixed with whisked whites of eggs, filled in gratin dish with custard, and browned in oven. — ^ la Polonaise (Hot),—Shces of apples, cut crosswise, ranged on a layer of marmalade on a gratin dish, masked with syrup, sprinkled with crushed macaroons, ground cinnamon, and sugar; baked in a moderate oven, and served in the baking dish. — ^ la Portugaise (Cold).—Small cored apples, rubbed over with lemon-juice, stewed in syrup with maras- chino liqueur ; centre of apples filled with red-currant jelly, with a crystallised cherry over top ; served with the syrup. — ^ la Windsor (Hot).—Halves of apples cooked in lemon syrup, dressed on small rice cakes (croquettes), with fruit salpicon in centre ; vanilla sauce.SWEET ENTREMETS. 323 Casserole de Pommes au Riz (Hot).—Stewed apples ranged in a casserole, with layers of cooked rice, mixed with chopped glace cherries and almonds ; baked, and ornamented with glace fruit. Charlotte de Pommes (Hot).—Apple charlotte. Flan de Pommes.—Open apple-tart. Grisette de Pommes (Hot).—Apple puree mixed with crushed macaroons, sugar, sultanas, chopped lemon rind, and whisked whites of eggs ; baked in souffle dish. Poudings—Puddings, Pouding d'abvicots Apricot pudding — aux amandes — d'amandes a Vorange — de hananes — d Vananas — au chocolat — de cabinet — au citron — aux cerises — dla college — a I’enjer — de figues — de gingembre — de groseilles vertes — de groseilles noires — au lait — au macaroni — de macarons — de marrons — de NoH — de nouilles — aux noix de coco — aux oranges — de pommes — de pommes de terre — ala printanUre Almond pudding Almond pudding with orange flavour Banana pudding Pineapple pudding Chocolate pudding Cabinet pudding Lemon pudding Cherry pudding College pudding Plum pudding, burning Fig pudding Ginger pudding Green gooseberry pudding Black currant pudding Milk pudding Macaroni pudding Macaroon pudding Chestnut pudding Christmas pudding Nudel or nouille pudding Cocoanut pudding* Orange pudding Apple pudding Potato pudding Cold strawberry pudding de pain beurre a VAnglaise Bread-and-butter pudding Brown bread pudding Cold apricot pudding Raisin or plum pudding Greengage pudding Cold vanilla pudding Rolled jam pudding Rice pudding Rice and raisin pudding Sago pudding Souffle pudding Tapioca pudding Vanilla pudding Vermicelli pudding — au pain noir —froid d la pomave — de raisins — de reine-Claudes — d la Rocheford — rouU d VAnglaise — au viz — de viz aux raisins — de sagou — souffle — de tapioca — d la vanille — de vevmicelle324 THE MENU BOOK, Pouding Albemarle.—A souffle pudding made with ground almonds, flour, eggs, sugar, and vanilla flavouring; baked in moulds ; vanilla sauce. — a l*Albuf6ra.—Semolina or Florador souffle mixture, with addition of currants and chopped chestnuts, filled in mould, coated with crushed macaroons, and baked ; raspberry sauce. — a I’AHemande.—Made from small pieces of cake chopped almonds, grated lemon rind, eggs, sugar and Madeira wine ; steamed. — a I’Ancienne,—A rich semolina souffle pudding, served with red-currant syrup, flavoured with claret or port. — de c§rises a I’Anglaise.—Cherry pudding with suet- crust lining. — a I’Arlequin.—A rich semolina and almond pudding mixture, made in four varieties—vanilla, raspberry, chocolate, and pistachio ; the mould is filled in three layers, steamed and served with maraschino-flavoured sauce. — a la bachelier (Bachelor’s Pudding).—Made from eggs, finely minced apples, currants, breadcrumbs, lemon rind, grated nutmeg, and sugar ; steamed in mould. — a la Brdsilienne.—Tapioca souffle pudding with carame sauce. — de Cabinet.—Dice shaped biscuits, sponge cake or genoise, mixed with glace fruit cut up small, and filled in mould with custard, and steamed ; served with vanilla or German sauce. — Cambaceres.—Ground almond souffle mixture with chopped beef-marrow, sultanas, and preserved ginger, steamed or baked ; apricot sauce. — Cardinal.—Raspberry souffle, steamed or baked, with jam sauce. — Celestine.—Rolled pancakes, filled with almond custard cut small, and steamed with custard in mould; vanilla sauce. — aux c6rises.—Cherry pudding made with the basis of a souffle mixture. — Chancelier (Chancellor’s pudding).—Steamed custard pudding, with sponge cakes, ratafias, and dried fruit; mould garnished with fruit; served hot with wine sauce. — Chinoise.—Vanilla souffle mixture, mixed with dice of preserved ginger, steamed, and served with apricot sauce, flavoured with ginger. — Clermont (Cold).—Bavarois or vanilla cream, mixed with chestnut puree, and decorated with glace chestnuts ; vanilla syrup.SWEET ENTREMETS. 325 Pouding Coburg.—A kind of thick custard, with brandy flavouring, baked in cups. — Delaware.—Suet pudding, filled with peeled and cored apples, currants, orange peel, etc. ; steamed in cloth. — Diplomate.—A rich cabinet pudding, flavoured with rum or other liqueur. — Figaro (Cold).—Three coloured cream, vanilla, rasp- berry, and chocolate, set in alternate layer in mould; served with red wine sauce. — Frankfort.—Brown bread soufil6 mixture, in addition to ground almonds and sultanas, steamed ; lemon sauce. — Gastronome.—A rich semolina pudding, masked with apricot puree and thin pancakes ; sauce a I’abricot. — G6nevolse.—Ground rice, cooked in milk, with apples filled in mould ; baked in the oven. — George V.—Thinly baked pancakes, spread with vanilla rice custard, cut up in squares and filled in caramel- coated timbale mould with mixed fruit, and custard ; steamed and served hot with maraschino sauce. — Georgette.—Rich rice pudding mixture (souffle type), filled in mould lined with pancakes, with chopped glac6 fruit; baked and served with apricot sauce. — Hanovrienne.—A kind of plum pudding, with addition of crushed macaroons ; served with liqueur-flavoured apricot sauce. — a l’Imp6ratrice.—A rich custard pudding, served hot with spiced sweet sauce. — Indienne.—Ground rice souffle mixture, with chopped preserved ginger ; steamed, and served with ginger syrup or sauce. — Israelite.—Ground almond souffle mixture, flavoured with orange-flower water ; steamed and served with orange sauce. — d ritalienne.—A rich bread pudding, with cream, apples, and dried fruit ; baked in a mould lined with puff paste. — Japonaise.—Vanilla souffle mixture, flavoured with strong China tea infusion and chopped pistachios^ steamed ; vanilla sauce. — Louis Napoleon.—Light cake, savarin or genoise, scooped out and filled with fruit compote, masked over with meringue, and baked ; served with fruit syrup. — lyiarquise.—Vanilla souffle mixture, blended with strawberry pulp, and steamed ; served with straw- berry sauce.326 THE MENU BOOK. Pouding Mascotto.—The same as “ Marquise," with addition of chocolate powder in place of strawberry ; vanilla or chocolate sauce. — a la minute (Hasty Pudding).—Usually made with eggs, milk, flour, and sugar, well mixed, baked in a tin mould ; a little jam or marmalade is also introduced. — Montmorency.—Ground rice souffle mixture, with stoned cherries; steamed and served with cherry sauce. — Mousseline.—A very light vanilla souffle, steamed and served with sweet vanilla-flavoured mousseline sauce. — Nesselrode.—A light cold chestnut pudding, flavoured with maraschino liqueur ; garnished with whipped cream and crystallised cherries. — Normande.—Cooked rice in milk, with apple puree, filled in layers in buttered mould, and steamed ; served with lemon-flavoured apple sauce. — d’Orl^ans (Hot).—Vanilla souffle mixture, flavoured with honey, and mixed with cherries and angelica ; steamed ; sabayon sauce. — a rOrldans.—Cold custard or blancmange, mixed with biscuit or cake crumbs, and chopped candied fruit ; set in fancy moulds. — d. la Pasteur (Curate’s Pudding).—Egg custard mixed with mashed potato, flavoured with sugar and lemon ; baked in cups. — Prince Albert.—Made from eggs, butter, flour, sugar, and lemon rind, mould lined with slices of citron peel, angelica, cherries, etc., to garnish ; steamed. — Prince de Galles (Prince of Wales’s Pudding).—Made from yolks of eggs, sugar, lemon rind, almonds, flour, and butter ; baked in fancy tin moulds. — R6gence.—Ground rice souffle mixture, with peach puree, steamed ; caramel sauce. — d la Reine.—Lemon souffle, with minced fruit and crushed macaroons in centre, flavoured with liqueur. — d. la Renaissance.—Almond souffle mixture, filled in mould, buttered, and thickly sprinkled with pistachios, steamed, and served with pistachio cream sauce. — Royale.—Vanilla souffle, mixed with crushed finger biscuits before steaming ; vanilla sauce. — St. Cloud.—Brown bread pudding, mixed with almonds and glace cherries; steamed, and coated with apricot marmalade. — Saxonne.—Brown bread pudding, mixed with ground almonds and crystallised fruit; baked or steamed. — Sicilienne.—Made from rice cooked in milk, fruits, eggs, cream, and sugar.327 SWEET ENTREMETS. Pouding Singapore.—Vanilla souffle mixture, with pineapple puree, steamed ; pineapple sauce. — Suzanne.—Ground rice pudding, flavoured with candied lemon (citron). — TrautmannsdorfE (Cold).—Border or timbale of cold rice, enriched with cream and glace cherries, masked with raspberry syrup. — Tyrolienne.—A light steamed chocolate pudding, with ground almonds, served with chocolate sauce and whipped cream in centre of pudding. — Victoria.—Prepared with chopped marrow, apples, flour, eggs, milk, sugar, apricot jam, breadcrumbs, and glace fruit; steamed or baked in moulds. — Viennoise.—Milk bread or cake, cut up small, and custard, flavoured with caramel; steamed, and served with sabayon or custard sauce. — Vincent.—Souffle of chestnut puree, with crushed biscuits, minced glace fruit, flavoured with kirsch syrup in centre. — Wellington.—Thin pancakes spread with apricot jam, rolled and placed in buttered mould, as for charlotte ; centre filled with lemon souffle mixture, and steamed or baked ; served with apple cream sauce. Pain de riz aux fraises (Hot).—Timbale of rice, with compote of strawberries in centre, sauced over with strawberry syrup. Timbales de riz aux fraises.—Light rice cream in the form of a timbale, masked with strawberry jelly, and decorated with fresh fruit. Savarins, Savarin a I’Algerien.—Savarin border, steeped in maras- chino syrup, lined with slices of pineapple, filled with cream custard, with chopped pistachios on top and baked “ au bain marie.” — a la Medici.—Baked savarin border dipped in maras- chino syrup, centre filled with firm rich almond cream ; decorated with whipped cream. — aux fruits.—Savarin soaked in syrup, studded with strips of almonds and garnished with fruit. — au kirsch.—Savarin, with kirsch syrup. — au rhum.—Savarin, with rum syrup. — a la Romaine.—Savarin dipped in rum syrup, three parts -filled with confectioners’ custard (creme patissiere) and decorated with Italian meringue (pyramidal form), glazed with apricot jam, strewn with almond chips, and baked.THE MENU BOOK. 328 SPECIAL SWEET ENTREMETS. Buche de Noel en surprise (Cold).—Genoise cake shaped to resemble the trunk of a tree with the help of very small Swiss roll, glazed with chocolate icing, chopped pistachios as moss, etc., centre part hollowed out to receive a light, half-frozen, sweet souffle, flavoured and decorated with crystallised violets; garnished with pulled or spun sugar and angelica leaves. Chdlet Suisse a la Chantilly (Cold).—Sections, sides, and roof of a Swiss chalet made of meringue and baked, then placed together, and built upon a bed composed of genoise cake, glazed, and besprinkled with chopped pistachios ; interior of chalet being filled with a rich vanilla cream ice. Cdtelettes en surprise.—Pufi paste, shaped like cutlets, centre filled with apricot or apple marmalade, egged, crumbed, and fried, or baked in oven, with red-currant jelly in dish to represent gravy. Denises a la jalousie.—Little puff-paste sandwiches, filled with custard, decorated on surface, and made to appear like lattice work. Gateau de pommes a la Bavaroise.—Round vol-au-vent shape of puff pastry with cover, filled with apple puree mixed with cream and jelly, glazed, and decorated with glace cherries and triangular slices of wine jelly. — d, la St. Georges.—Genoise cake hollowed out and filled with chestnut cream, surmounted with glace chestnuts (marrons glaces), and decorated with whipped cream. — Rustique aux fraises (Cold).—Trunk of a tree made out of almond genoise cake, hollowed out in centre, outside covered with chocolate icing and fashioned like the rind or bark, sprinkled here and there with chopped pistachios to resemble moss ; interior filled with vanilla ice and ripe strawberries dipped in maraschino. Gaufres a la Carnivale.—Thinly rolled-out rounds of rich nouille paste, fried in clarified butter, dredged with vanilla sugar, and served with whipped cream, hot or cold. lies flottantes (Floating Islands).—Small quenelle shapes of meringue, poached in moulds, and placed in vanilla custard. Jambon de Careme (Cold).—Imitation ham made from genoise cake, almond paste, and chocolate icing ; garnished with wine jelly.SOUFFLJSES and sweet omelets. 329 Japonais a TOrientale (Cold).—Small almond meringues and sHces of set bavarois, or set vanilla cream, arranged in layers to form a border, centre filled with whipped sweetened cream. Mont Blanc or Vacharin Suisse (Cold).—Small dariole shapes of chestnut puree, flavoured with vanilla sugar and cream; coated over thickly with whipped cream (creme Chantilly). Montecados.—A Spanish sweet, composed of Ught dough dumpUngs sweetened and flavoured with cinnamon, fried in deep fat and served with fruit sauce. Moscovite aux Mandarines (Cold).—Orange jelly, flavoured with cura9oa, timbale shape lined with sections of mandarines or tangerines, interior filled with whipped cream and jelly mixed, shape dressed on genoise cake basis, masked with marmalade and chopped pistachios. Mousseline au Chocolat (Cold).—A very light chocolate souffle mixture, creamed, iced, and served in glasses with whisked white of egg on top. Pain de Semoule a la Eugenie (Cold).—Semolina cream, flavoured with vanilla, filled in mould lined with sweet jelly, and decorated with star shapes of angelica and small ( rounds^ [,of ^ glace [cherries ; [raspberry sauce. Souffle a la Milanaise.—Cold lemon-flavoured souffle with addition of maraschino and crushed macaroons, set in ice cave, hke souffle glace. Suedoise, Bon Chretien (Cold).—Border mould fined with maraschino jelly, and filled with pink pear puree, centre of dish filled with marble shapes of white pears, poached in vanilla liqueur, and decorated with whipped cream. Timbale Egyptienne (Hot).—Mould lined with caramel and a layer of cooked rice, centre filled with rich custard mixed with fruit macedoine, and steamed or baked ; caramel sauce. SOUFFLEES AND SWEET OMELETTES. Note.—The name “ souffle ” in cooking is given to any light preparation, hot or cold ; as a rule, sweet souffles are either steamed or baked. Sweet omelettes are made souffiee by beating the egg whites to a stiff froth, and mixing it with the other ingredients ; these are baked in the oven, whilst ordinary sweet omelettes are fried in the omelette pan over a quick fire. {See also notes on Omelettes).330 THE MENU BOOK. SoufjU aux ahricots Soujfle aux amandes Soujffle au cacao SouffU au cafe Soujfl& au chocolat Souffle au citron Soujfle aux fraises en caisses Soujfle d la minute SoujflS d V orange Soujfle d I’orge Soujfle au pain bis Souffle d la polenta Soujfle au riz Soujfle d la semoule Souffle au tapioca Apricot souffle Almond souffle Cocoa souffle Coffee souffle Chocolate souffle Lemon souffle Strawberry souffle in cases Hasty souffle Orange souffle Barley flour souffle Brown bread souffle Maize flour souffle Rice souffle Semolina souffle French tapioca souffle Souffl6 aux avelines pralin6es.—Souffle flavoured with burnt sugar hazelnuts or filberts. {See also Puddings.) Omelettes Sucr^es—Sweet Omelets. Omelette soufflee a la Charlotte.—Light souffle omelette, filled with apple marmalade. — souffl6e au chocolat.—Souffle omelette, flavoured with chocolate. — soufflee aux confitures.—Souffle omelette with jam in centre. — soufflee au kirsch.—Souffle omelette, flavoured with kirschwasser. — soufflee a I’eau de fieurs d’oranger.—Souffle omelette, flavoured with orange-flower water. — soufflee aux peches.—Souffle omelette, with peaches in centre. — soufflee aux pistaches.—Souffle omelette, flavoured with pistachio kernels. — soufflee en surprise.—Souffle omelette, with ice cream in centre. — soufflee a la vanille.—Souffle omelette, flavoured with vanilla. — aux abricots.—Apricot omelette. — a TAumale.—Three French pancakes, spread over respectively with greengage, red-currant, and apple marmalade, rolled up together, and glazed. — C61estine.—Small sweet omelettes, flavoured with crushed macaroons, each filled with jam, rolled up, sugared, and glazed under salamander. — a la Claremont.—Sweet omelette farced with apple and orange marmalade, and glazed.PANCAKES. 331 Omelette au confiture.—Jam omelette. — a la Cr6ole (Surprise).—Oval flat cake shape, with pineapple ice, coated quickly with meringue mixture, and coloured in sharp oven. — au four.—French pancakes baked in oven. — aux framboises.—Raspberry omelette. — a la Georges Sand.—Sweet omelettes farced with fruit salpicon, surface besprinkled with chestnut powder, and glazed. — aux abricots k la Jamaique.—Same as “ en Surprise,” with rum-flavoured cream ice in centre, meringued over and coloured in sharp oven. — meringu6e (Cold).—Omelette shape made out of meringue mixture, and baked ; when cold, filled with sweet pear or apple puree ; red-currant jelly poured round dish. — a la Noel.—Sweet omelettes farced with chopped hot plum pudding ; surface glazed, rum powder round, and hghted. — au rhum.—Rum omelette. — a la Stephanie.—The same as ” en Surprise,” with peach ice mixed with salpicon of peaches in centre. — sucr6e.—Plain sweet omelette, glaced with sugar. — surprise ^ ITrlandaise.—The same as ” Omelette surprise,” with a cornet of nougat inserted in the centre ; into this a glass of good rum is poured, and lighted the moment the dish is served. — surprise.—A vanilla souffle mixture spread quickly over a brick or oval-shaped vanilla case, and baked quickly in a sharp oven. Pancakes (Crepes or Pannequets). Crepes d TAfricaine.—Thinly fried pancakes, spread over with red-currant jelly, rolled up and glazed. — au Cacao.—Thinly baked pancakes spread over with cocoa or chocolate flavoured custard, and then rolled and glazed. — aux confitures.—Jam pancakes. — aux fraises.—Strawberry pancakes. — aux framboises.—Raspberry pancakes. — 4 la Georgette.—Pancakes spread over with chopped pineapple flavoured with maraschino, and rolled. — k lTmp6riale.—Lightly fried, thin pancakes, spread over with apricot marmalade, flavoured with maraschino, and mixed with chopped pineapple. — ^ la Mancelle.—Thin, fried pancakes, spread over with sweetened chestnut puree flavoured with maraschino, rolled up, dredged with sugar, and glazed.THE MENU BOOK. 332 Cr@pes ^ la Normande.—Pancakes spread over with apple puree mixed with sultanas or currants and rolled and glazed. — d la Parisienne.—Pancake batter mixed with cream and ground biscuits ; then made into thin pancakes. — a la Suzette.—Pancake batter flavoured with orange juice and cura9oa ; when made into pancakes spread over with layers of hazelnut puree ; then rolled and glazed. — ^ la vanille.—Pancakes flavoured with vanilla sugar Patisseries Gateaux—Fancy Cakes and Pastry, The name “ Gateau,” with a few exceptions, applies to a hght dainty looking and tasty French cake, which is usually iced over with butter, fondant or royal icing, and suitably decorated. Gateau aux amandes Gateau d la cannelle Gdteau au citron Gdteau aux dattes Gdteau au gingembre Gdteau g^noise Gdteau au maddre Gdteau au miel Gdteau de noce {mariage) Gdteau de Noel Gdteau d Vorange Gdteau de pdque Gdteau aux pommes Gdteau d la vanille Almond cake Cinnamon cake Lemon cake Date cake Ginger cake Genoise or Genoa cake Madeira cake Honey cake Wedding (bride) cake Christmas cake Orange cake French Easter cake Apple cake Vanilla cake G^lteau au Moka.—Cornflour cake with mocha cream, iced with coffee icing, and suitably decorated. — Mousseline.—Very hght plain cake, covered with chopped almonds, and glazed. — Pithivier.—A kind of puff-paste tart or tartlet with almond filling. — Russe.—Three or four distinctly coloured gdnoise cakes, ranged in layers with apricot marmalade, and rolled in almond paste crust cut into slices. — St. Honors.—Puff paste or short crust foundation, with border of baked choux paste balls dipped in sugar glazing, centre filled with rich custard, and decorated with whipped cream. Baba au rhum Baba or Polish cake with rum syrup Ddmes d'honneur Maids of Honour Darioles d la crdme French cream tartlets333 FANCY CAKES AND PASTRY. Flans are round or oval-shaped tart crusts filled with fruit or cream, as indicated. Flans aux ahricots Flans aux c&rises Flans crime au citron Flans aux /raises Flans aux framboises Flans aux fruits Flans au marasquin Flans creme d Vorange Flans Parisienne Flans aux piches Flans aux poires Flans aux pommes Gateau feuilletS Gaufres hollandaise Gimblettes de ptches Meringues d la crime Meringues glacis Savarin au rhum Tarte aux ahricots Tarte aux cirises Tarte aux /raises Tarte aux framboises Tarte aux groseilles et framboises Tarte aux groseilles noires Tarte aux groseilles vertes Tarte aux pommes Tarte aux prunes Tartes aux fruits Tartes {tourtes) Tourte att chocolat Tourte au citron Tourte aux fruits Tourte aux marrons Tourte de noix Tourte d Vorange Tourte au pain bis Tourte au punch Tourte au rhum Tourte d la sableuse With layers of apricots With stoneless cherries Filled with lemon cream Open strawberry tart Open raspberry tart With fruit With maraschino cream With orange cream Fruit flans meringued With peaches Filled with pears Filled with apple slices French cake composed of puff pastry, etc. Dutch cream wafers Small light cakes filled with peaches Filled with whipped cream Filled with ice cream A light yeast cake with rum syrup Apricot tart Cherry tart Strawberry tart Raspberry tart Currant and raspberry tart Black currant tart Gooseberry tart Apple tart Plum tart Fruit tarts or fruit pies Tarts and pies Chocolate cake Lemon cake Open fruit tart Chestnut cake Walnut cake Orange cake Brown bread cake Punch cake Rum cake A kind of flat sponge cake Tartelettes ^ la Balmoral.—Puff-paste lined tartlets, filled with cornflour and sponge cake, cream mixed with cherries, etc. — aux amandes.—Almond tartlets. — a Tananas.—Pineapple tartlets.THE MENU BOOK. 334 Tartelettes de bergamottes.—Pear tartlets. — de framboises.—Raspberry tartlets. — de fraises.—Strawberry tartlets. — de fruits.—Fruit tartlets. — Granville.—Puff-paste lined tartlets, filled with light custard, mixed with cake crumbs and citron, glazed after baking, and decorated with desiccated cocoanut. — de groseilles rouges.—Gooseberry tartlets. — de pavots.—Poppy tartlets. — Parisienne.—Short-crust lined tartlets, filled with light almond cream, mixed with cake crumbs, cream, and lemon-juice, glazed after baking, and decorated. — de pommes.—Tartlets with apple puree. Denises aux amandes.—Frosted almond sandwiches, with puff-paste foundations. Talmouses d’abricot.—Sweet short-crust pasties, shaped like three-cornered hats, filled with apricot jam, and iced. Biscuit de Savoie.—French Savoy biscuits. — G6noise.—Genoise biscuits. Champignons.—Mushrooms shaped so, with meringues and almond paste. Dartois aux abricots.—Slices of puff pastry, spread with apricot marmalade, decorated with meringue (lattice- work fashion). Genoise au cafe.—Genoise cake, flavoured with coffee j and iced with coffee icing. — au chocolat.—Genoise cake, flavoured with chocolate, and iced with similar icing. Langues de Chat.—Small wafer biscuits shaped like cats’ tongues. Pain d’epice.—French gingerbread cake. Bouch^es des dames.—Genoise baskets filled with whipped cream, garnished with pistachios and angelica. Brioches.—Light milk dough bun or border shapes, baked, sometimes filled with cream. Cornets a la cr^me.—Wafer biscuits rolled up as cornets, and filled with whipped cream. — au nougat.—Sugar and almonds boiled to the cracky shaped into cornets, and filled with cream. Dominos.—Domino-shaped genoise pastry, iced over, and suitably decorated. Eclairs.—Finger shapes of choux paste, baked, filled with cream, and iced with coffee or chocolate icing. Madeleines.—Small cakes of the genoise class, baked in tartlet moulds or patty pans.GLACES—ICES. 335 Nids d’oiseaux (Birds’ Nests).—Egg and almond paste shaped like birds’ nests, baked, and filled with whipped cream, flavoured with apricot marmalade ; small comfits to imitate eggs are put on top. Palmiers or Prussiens.—Thin puff paste dredged with castor sugar and rolled up, cut into round slices, and baked. Petits-fours.—Very small dessert cakes, usually genoise, flavoured with liqueur, glazed and decorated ; served in paper cases. Quillets.—Small tartlets filled with madeleine mixture, centre scooped out when baked, and filled with almond cream, decorated with whipped cream. Smelles (Soles).—Oval shapes of thin puff paste, rolled in castor sugar, and baked. Tranches a la neige.—Slices of rich almond short-crust pastry, fined with jam, spread over thickly with meringue mixture, and baked in slow oven. Tuilles.—Meringue and almond paste, shaped and baked like macaroons, only much thinner, and rolled whilst hot. GLACES—ICES. In French cookery or confectionery language the word glace has a three-fold meaning : anything coated or masked with sauce, aspic, jelly, meat glaze, sugar, or syrup, is called glace ; but the course known as glaces in this instance refers to sweet fruit pulp or juice, creams, or other sweet mixtures, which are by means of artificial freezing rendered nto semi-liquid or solid ice. There are several varieties of ices ; those known as cream and water ices are the most popular; whilst Souffles, Mousses, Parfaits, Sorbets, Bombes, Pouding glacis, and Pouding soufflSs, being somewhat more compli- cated, are termed compound ices or iced preparations. The names of the most popular ordinary ices are as follows :— Glace d la cr^me d’abricot — a la cr^me d'amande — ala crdme d'ananas — de crdme au cacao — au chocolat — crdme de framboises — au marasquin — au moka Apricot cream ice Almond cream ice Pineapple cream ice Cocoa cream ice Chocolate ice Raspberry cream ice Maraschino cream ice Coffee cream iceTHE MENU BOOK. 330 Glace a la cr^me de noyeau — aux fleurs d’orange — dla cv^me de p^ches — crime au the — d la crime de vanille — aux ahricots — d rananas — aux cerises — au citron — d’ Ipines-vinettes — aux /raises — aux framboises — aux groseilles — de melon — mille fruits — aux mirtilles — d Vorange — en verres d I’orange — aux peches — aux poires — aux pommes — dla tutti-frutti Ponch glace Sorbet aux /raises Noyeau cream ice Ice cream flavoured with orange flowers Peach cream ice Vanilla cream ice flavoured with tea Vanilla cream ice Apricot-water ice Pineapple-water ice Cherry-water ice Lemon-water ice Barberry-water ice Strawberry-water ice Raspberry-water ice Red-currant ice Melon-water ice Mixed fruit and cream ice Bilberry-water ice Orange-water ice Orange-water ice, served in glasses Peach-water ice Pear-water ice Apple-water ice Mixed cream and fruit- water ice Iced punch Strawberry ice, served in glasses Bomhes, Mousses, etc. Mousses or souffles are hght ice-cream preparations made from custard, cream, fruit or syrups, whipped whites of eggs, and flavouring according to names given. They are served in souffle cases or souffle dishes, in which they are frozen. Other compositions for mousses and souffles will be found among the compound ices. Mousse au cafl Mousse au citron Mousse aux /raises Mousse aux framboises Mousse au marasquin Mousse d r orange Mousse aux plches Coffee mousse Lemon mousse Strawberry mousse Raspberry mousse Maraschino mousse Orange mousse Peach mousse Mousse de fraises a I’Am^ricaine.—Strawberry pulp, mixed with gelatine, sugar, and cream ; filled in dome-shaped moulds, and thus frozen ; garnished with fresh ripe strawberries and whipped cream.GLACES—ICES. 337 Mousse F6dora.—Souffle of cream and cura^oa flavour, served in cases, decorated with glace cherries and angelica. — Madrid.—Vanilla cream mixed with burnt sugar filberts (noisettes pralines), centre filled with whipped cream, flavoured with maraschino or other white liqueur. — Nansen.—Vanilla cream ice, flavoured with noyeau> decorated with spun sugar. — N61uski.—Pistachio cream ice, flavoured with chocolate, centre filled with caramel cream, decorated with small chocolate macaroons. — printani^re.—Bomb of vanilla or chocolate cream ice, interior filled with whipped cream, mixed with fresh strawberries, etc. Bombe Baronne.—A light cream souffle, flavoured with vanilla and maraschino, and mixed with strawberries and bananas; iced in cabinet; garnished with crushed candied violets. — Lotti.—Pairfait of raspberries in centre of vanilla cream ice, decorated with creamed vanilla butter, and crystallised violets; garnished with small almond tartlets. — Sarah Bernhardt.—Rose-flavoured cream ice (souffle character), centre filled with violet-flavoured mousse containing crystallised violets. — Sultane.—Vanilla cream, mixed with powdered French almond rock, chocolate caramel in centre, decorated with whipped cream. — Tosca.—Coffee cream ice souffles, flavoured v/ith kirsch, and served in cases. — Venitienne or Venetia.—Bomb of pistachio cream ice, centre filled with whipped cream flavoured with orange-flower water, and thus frozen. Punches and Sorbets* Sorbets, Granites, Roman Punch, and similar prepara- tions, are ices in a semi-liquid state ; they are never moulded, but are served in goblet, stem or punch glasses, immediately before the roast, the object being to refresh the palate and to prepare the guest for the more perfect enjoyment of the succeeding dishes, viz., the roast and the entremets. Although served separately, the punch or sorbet should not be given an extra heading on the menu, but be simply placed on a line distinct from the other courses. YTHE MENU BOOK. 338 There are close on a hundred varieties of these pre- parations, the most popular of which are hsted herewith. A number of them, it may be stated, can and are frequently served as cold sweets with gateaux or fancy pastry. Sorbet d’Abricot.—Apricot sorbet. — a rAm^ricaine.—Lemon and orange-water ice, semi- frozen, with champagne flavour. — d’Ananas.—Pineapple-water ice half frozen, flavoured with sherry and maraschino. — a la Cardinal.—Semi-frozen raspberry and lemon- water ice, with champagne flavour. — aUX C6rises (Cherry-water ice).—Cherry sorbet mixed with Itahan meringue, and flavoured with kirsch and noyeau. — an Champagne.—Lemon-water ice, enriched with Italian meringue and champagne ; served in glasses in semi-frozen consistency. — an Citron.—Lemon sorbet. — aux Fraises (Strawberry sorbet).—Strawberry-water ice half frozen, flavoured with sauterne and cura9oa. — a la Gr6que.—Semi-frozen orange-water ice, flavoured with maraschino and preserved ginger. — do Groseilles verts.—A kind of gooseberry fool, flavoured with maraschino. — Imp6riale.—Same as above, but flavoured with kirsch and maraschino, and mixed with beaten egg-white. — de Melon.—Melon sorbet. — an Moka.—Coffee-flavoured lemon-water ice, mixed with cream, semi-frozen, served in stem glasses or sorbet cups. — d’Orange.—Orange sorbet. — aux P§ches.—Peach sorbet. — de Raisin.—Grape sorbet. Granites, Ptinch and Coupes, Granites are similar to sorbets, that is, partially frozen fruit-water ices, flavoured with hqueur and mixed with crushed ice, and at times with dice-cut pieces of fruit. Granite d*Ananas.—Pineapple granite. — au Champagne.—Champagne granite. — de Citron.—Lemon granite. — Imp6riale.—Thin slices of pineapple dipped in rum syrup, placed in glasses filled with strawberry ice. — Nina.—Semi-frozen strawberry and orange ice, with ripe strawberry on top of each.GLACES—ICES. 339 Granite a la Russe.—Semi-frozen green tea and lemon syrup, flavoured with kiimmel. — Voltaire.—Lemon and orange-water ice, mixed with meringue, and flavoured with kirsch ; filled in glasses containing slices of ripe peaches sprinkled with maraschino, with strawberry or glace cherry on top. Punch a la Cardinal.—As “ Romaine,” but flavoured with raspberry pulp, cinnamon, and port wine. — au kirsch.—As “ Romaine,” but flavoured with kirsch- wasser only. — au lait.—Semi-frozen sweetened milk, flavoured with vanilla ; served in small china cups. — Nansen.—Semi-frozen vanilla syrup, mixed with meringue and flavoured with maraschino. — Nigoise.—Like ” Romaine,” flavoured with rum and champagne, and served in frozen imitation goblets. — ^ la Romaine (Roman Punch).—Semi-frozen lemon- water, mixed with Italian meringue, flavoured with rum and kirsch. — d la Royale.—As “ Romaine,” but flavoured with curagoa or maraschino and champagne. Coupe.—Ice, etc., in stem glasses or glass cups. Coupe Archiduc.—Dice-cut pineapple with strawberry cream ice. — Ddme-blanche.—Almond-cream ice, with halves of small peaches poached in vanilla syrup on top, then coated with red-currant jelly. — Eugenie.—Vanilla cream ice, mixed with chopped glace chestnuts, filled in cups with whipped cream on top, also crushed candied violets or rose leaves. — Favorite.—Vanilla cream ice mixed with dice-cut fresh pineapple, maraschino flavoured, with a straw- berry on top of each glass or cup. — Frapp^es a la Capucine.—Vanilla cream or custard flavoured with coffee, maraschino, and curagoa, mixed with cake (cut up small), semi-frozen, and filled in glasses, with roasted almonds on top. — Belle H61^ne.—Vanilla ice, mixed with chopped glace cherries, kirsch flavour, with half glace cherry on top. — St. Jacques.—Layers of vanilla cream ice and red- currant-water ice, filled in goblets, sprinkled over with maraschino and curagoa hqueur. — Jubil6.—Glasses rinsed with kirsch and maraschino, with a layer of brandied cherries, then filled with vanilla ice with top layer of whipped cream, chopped pistachios on top.THE MENU BOOK. 340 Coupe Malmaison.—Apricot cream ice, mixed with skinned seedless grapes, with spun sugar on top of each glass or cup. — St. Martin.—Fresh fruit macedoine, in cups or glasses, with lemon and raspberry ice on top, surmounted with a ripe strawberry dipped in maraschino. — Maritine.—Glasses mixed with kirsch and lemon juice, hned with small cut mixed fruit, then filled with moka cream ice ; shreds of baked almonds on top. — d’orange au champagne.—Orange and lemon-water ice, coloured pink with champagne flavour; served in glasses. — Tutti-Frutti.—Raspberry or strawberry-water ice, mixed with chopped mixed fruit, whipped cream on top. — Victoria.—Glasses filled with vanilla cream and pine- apple ice ; top decorated with glace fruit. Mixed Ices, Ice Puddings, aud Souffles, Note.—A number of iced dishes, frozen or semi-frozen, will also be found under Bombes and Mousses. Biscuits glaces.—The basis for these is, as a rule (i) a genoise mixture worked to a cream-like consistency over hot water ; (2) egg-yolks and syrup, with Italian meringue, worked similarly ; (3) fruit purees or fruit syrups and Italian meringue beaten or whisked over hot water. Cream usually whipped is always added when the mixture is cold ; in other respects biscuits glaces are treated the same as iced souffles, i.e., frozen or iced in charged ice cabinets. Biscuits glac6s a la vanilie.—Vanilla souffle ice, mixed with cream, and lined with wafer biscuits. Abricots glacis a la Parisienne.—Bombe shape of vanilla cream ice, with layers of apricots (sliced or dice), and crushed macaroons ; when served coated with whipped cream, vanilla flavour. Glace Beatrix.—Vanilla cream, mixed with honey, lemon juice, flavoured with cognac. — Benedictine.—Strawberry cream, flavoured with bene- dictine liqueur, and iced. — Carmen.—Vanilla cream, with strawberry flavour , mocha cream in centre. Charlotte glac^e.—Ice-cream pudding, lined with thin finger, genoise or savoy biscuits. Glace Comtesse.—Vanilla cream, with coffee flavour.GLACES—ICES. 341 Glace D&me-blanche.—Almond cream ice, semi-frozen, with slices of ripe peaches, coated with red-currant jelly. — Demi-glace de groseilles vertes.—Gooseberry fool. — Eugenie.—Pineapple-water ice in bomb shapes, centres filled with crystallised violette-fiavoured mousse. — Excelsior.—Vanilla cream, semi-frozen, with glace chestnuts, and whipped cream on top, and crystallised orange flavour. — Favorite.—Vanilla cream, semi-frozen, with slices of ripe pineapple, soaked in maraschino, fresh or pre- served strawberry on top. — Fedora.—Peach cream, with noyeau flavour. — Aida.—Orange and lemon-water ice, mixed with whipped cream and iced in timbale or souffle mould ; served in wafer cups with compote of fresh pineapple ; rich vanilla custard served same time. — Albufera.—Vanilla cream ice, mixed with chestnut puree and maraschino. — Alexandra.—Bomb mould, lined with vanilla cream ice, and filled with peach and strawberry cream ice. — Plombiere d’ananas.—A rich cream ice, made with one quart of cream, six egg-yolks, |-lb. sugar, vanilla flavour and pineapple juice ; pineapple cut in dice is mixed with cream when partially frozen. — Bresilienne.—Vanilla cream mousse with kirsch flavour, mixed with chopped pineapple. — au ca?6 a la Ninette.—Coffee cream ice, shaped like cutlets, with bones made of marzipan or almond paste inserted at small end ; served border style on similarly shaped sand biscuits. — Cardinal.—Bomb mould lined with raspberry or strawberry-water ice, centre filled with vanilla cream flavoured with maraschino. — Chateaubriand.—Vanilla cream ice, mixed with glace or crystallised fruits and whipped cream. — a la C16opatre.—Vanilla cream ice, chopped pistachios, flavoured with cura9oa and rum ; centre whipped sweetened cream. — Comtesse.—Strawberry cream ice, frozen in small cases, with fresh fruit on top, garnished with angelica leaves. — Courcelles.—Bomb of orange-water ice, with centre filling of vanilla cream and glace fruit. — Cr6ole.—Chocolate flavoured ice cream, mixed with pounded burnt sugar almonds.342 THE MENU BOOK. Glace D&me-Jeanne.—Compound ice, consisting of lemon- water flavoured with kirsch, and vanilla cream mixed with whipped cream in centre. — Diplomate.—Mocha cream ice in bomb shape, centre filled with mousse, flavoured with cura^oa cream. — Duchesse.—Orange cream ice flavoured with kirsch. — Florentine.—Bomb mould lined with filbert cream ice, centre filled with strawberry-water ice. — Georgette.—Pineapple cream ice mixed with pounded French almond rock. — Havanne.—Coflee cream ice mixed with burnt sugar almonds (pralines), centre vanilla cream. — du Japon en Surprise.—Baked pufl-pastry tartlets, half filled with banana ice, and the other half with pista- chio ice, then closed together and festooned with a thin strip of pufl paste ; egg and crumb them quickly, and fry promptly in very hot clarified butter. — Creme de macarons.—Macaroon cream ice. — Madeleine.—Vanilla cream ice, centre filled with half- frozen pineapple salad, flavoured with kirsch. — Malmaison.—Vanilla cream, mixed with peeled grapes, semi-frozen, with spun sugar on top. — Maltaise.—Mandarine or tangerine-water ice, flavoured with kirsch and maraschino, centre whipped cream so flavoured. — Marguerite.—Lemon-water ice, flavoured with maras- chino, centre filled with strawberry cream. — Marquise.—Vanilla souffle, frozen, with strawberry cream in centre ; served in cups or cases. — Marquise.—Strawberry cream, with preserved ginger chopped finely. — Mexicaine.—Line bomb mould with vanilla ice, fill centre with grated chocolate and cover with vanilla ice, freeze, and unmould ; garnish with tiny chocolate- coated meringues. — Napolitaine.—Mixed ice, two or three distinct sections ; served in oblong slices. — Nesselrode.—Vanilla ice cream flavoured with chestnut puree. — Orientale.—Bomb-shaped mould, lined with pistachio cream ice, and centre with strawberry ice; dressed on socle of rock sugar. — Plombiere.—Vanilla cream ice, mixed with ground almonds and whipped cream.343 GLACES—ICES. Glace Plombi^re ^ la Richelieu.—Rice cooked in water, sweetened and mixed with baked pistachios (chopped) and dice of pineapple, then blended with vanilla- flavoured macaroon custard and frozen in bombe mould. Plombi^re k la Sicilienne.—Small paste crust timbale shapes, masked with apricot marmalade and chopped pistachios, filled with maraschino ice ; top decorated with glace fruit. — Prince Puckler.—Chocolate ice cream flavoured with chestnut. — au pain noir.—Brown bread cream ice. — panachee.—Mixed ice. — panach6e en surprise.—Moulded cream ice, masked with meringue, and quickly baked. — Petit Due.—Vanilla cream, flavoured with maraschino, semi-frozen, with halves of peaches filled with red- currant jam. — a la Tosca.—Vanilla cream, with maraschino and coffee. — Tutti-frutti.—Fruit macedoine, flavoured with kirsch, covered with water or cream ice. Pouding glac6 (Ice Pudding).—Vanilla cream ice, mixed with crushed or crumbled sponge cakes and fruits ; flavoured with various kinds of liqueurs. Souffles glac6s h la vanille.—Vanilla cream souffles, frozen, and served in paper or china cases. — au noix de coco.—A light cocoanut cream souffle mixture, frozen, and served in souffle cups. — aux fraises.—Strawberry cream souffles, frozen, and served in paper cases. — Japonaise.—Vanilla cream ice, mixed with brown breadcrumbs, almonds, and maraschino liqueur. — au pain noir.—Brown bread cream souffles, frozen, and served in paper or china cases. Spaghetti en surprise.—Flan shape of baked nouille crust, filled with vanilla cream ice flavoured with noyeau, forced through a plain forcing bag, to resemble small macaroni; dredged with powdered cinnamon.THE MENU BOOK. 344 PART XIV. THE SAVOURY COURSE. ENTREMETS SAVOUREUX, Etc. (After-Dinner Savouries, etc.) Note.—Whilst most of the dishes treated in this part are suitable as Savouries, very many of them are suitable alike to be served as Side Dishes, Vegetable, Breakfast, and Supper Dishes. Fish Savouries, A nchois farcis Beignets de filets de hareng Canapes de thon marines Caviar de Russie aux blenis Caviar sur canapes a la Diahle Crevettes a la Diahle Ecrevisses d la Diahle Filets de harengs fum&s au fromage Laitance de cahillaud fume sur croutons Laitance de maquereau d la Diahle Failles au parmesan d la Yarmouth Failles au parmesan d V Anchois Souff&s d la Yarmouth Stuffed anchovies Fritters of kipper fillets Tunny fish on toast Small thin pancakes spread with Russian caviare, and rolled Devilled caviare on toast Devilled shrimps Devilled crayfish Fillets of kippered herrings with cheese Smoked cod’s roe on toast Devilled mackerel’s roe and bones Cheese straws twisted with strips of bloater fillets Cheese straws twisted with anchovy fillets Cheese and bloater paste souffles Allumettes d’anchois (Anchovy Matches).—Short paste crust, spread with anchovy paste, and cut into thin strips. — de Crabes aux pistaches.—Strips of puff pastry, spread with crab farce, and besprinkled with chopped pistachios ; served hot or cold. Anchois frits.—Fried anchovies. Anges k chevale (Angels on Horseback).—Oysters rolled in slices of ham and grilled ; served on toast, Bdtons de Caviar.—Baked puff-paste fingers, split open, and filled with seasoned caviare,FISH SAVOURIES. 345 Beignets d8 poisson.—Fish fritters. — fum6s.—Smoked fish fritters. BIsquits au beurre d’anchois.—Anchovy butter biscuits. Bonnes-bouches aux huitres.—Oyster tit-bits. — h la Riviera.—Small savoury choux paste shapes, baked, and.filled with oyster ragout; breaded with grated cheese, and glazed in oven. Canapes a la cr§me de laitances.—Blanch some cod’s roe (fresh), pound in mortar, and add whipped cream and seasoning ; dress on little canapes of fried bread, finger, oval, or oblong shapes ; sprinkle over with lobster coral and krona pepper, heat in sharp oven, and dish up, — a la Nantua.—Rounds of toasted bread spread with green herb butter, stoned olives stuffed with anchovy placed in centre of each, with a prawn or crayfish tail. — a la Romanoff (Cold).—Cold tunny fish cream, set with aspic, stamped out in rounds or ovals, and dressed on croutes or canapes of fried bread ; decorated with strips of pistachio nuts (lattice pattern). — de sardines.—Sardines on toast. Coquille de homard.—Scalloped lobster, Crabe aux oeufs h la Diable.—Curried crab and egg. — sur canapes ii I’lndlenne.—Curried crab on toast. — a la to mate.—Crab with tomato puree. Croustade de sardines au fromage.—Sardines in pastry crusts with grated cheese. Crofites de merluche fum6.—Smoked haddock, mixed with bechamel sauce, cheese, and egg-yolk, and heated ; spread on buttered toast and baked. Crofitons d’anchois aux fines herbes.—Savoury anchovy paste on toast. — au fromage.—Anchovy fingers, with cheese covering. — ^ PIndienne.—Curried anchovies on toast. Eclairs d’anchois.—Small anchovy pasties. Filets de Hareng a la Nignon (Cold).—Smoked herring fillets, rolled up, and set in tomato aspic border ; garnished with shced hard-boiled egg, pimiento and vegetable macedoine. Homard au gratin.—Baked lobster, gratin style, Huitres d. I’Am^ricaine.—Grilled oysters, with tomatoes. — au beurre.—Broiled oysters in butter. — a la Colbert.—Marinaded oysters, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried in sweet oil; served with sauce Colbert,34<5 THE MENU BOOK. Huitres a I’Horly or Orley.—Marinaded oysters dipped in frying batter and fried in deep fat ; garnished with slices of lemon and parsley ; sauce tomate. — a ritalienne.—Soused or marinaded oysters, drained and dipped in flour, and then in beaten seasoned eggs, fried in an omlette pan with clarified butter ; served with nut-brown butter. — a la Villeroi.—Poached oysters in fish stock ; drained and coated with reduced bechamel sauce, then egged and crumbed, and fried in sweet oil; garnished with lemon quarters and parsley. — en brochettes.—Large oysters, bearded, dipped in oiled and seasoned butter and covered with fresh breadcrumbs, fastened on skewers, and grilled over the fire; dressed with skewers stuck in bread croutons, and garnished with lemon slices and parsley. — en cassolettes.—Bearded oysters ranged in threes or fours in small buttered china cassolette or ramakin cases, seasoned, two or three prawn tails, with piquante demi-glace sauce added to each, and thus cooked in oven ; served in the Cassolette cases. — frites a la Diable.—Fried oysters devilled. — aux fines herbes.—Grilled oysters with savoury herb butter. — ^ la Normande.—Ragout of oysters, crayfish tails, and truffles, mixed with sauce normande, dressed in very small china casseroles, allowing one for each person. — sur pain grille.—Oysters on toast. Les huitres a eheval.—Oysters on horseback (rolled in bacon and grilled.) Petits Nids en surprise (Cold).—Little birds’ nests made of short crust pastry and cheese choux paste ; when baked, brushed with dissolved glaze and besprinkled with chopped pistachios ; small egg shapes of lobster paste or horseradish butter placed in centre of nests. Petits soufflds h la Hongroise.—Baked halves of potatoes, scooped out, and filled with lobster salpicon, and savoury choux paste well seasoned with paprika; baked in sharp oven. Sardines a la Diable.—Devilled sardines. — aux oeufs poch^s.—Sardines with poached eggs. — Provenpale.—Sardines on toast, with egg sauce. Saumon fumd d la Diable.—Smoked salmon devilled — au gratin.—Baked salmon, gratin style. Trongons de Then d, la Tosca.—Shoes of cheese-flavoured puff pastry, spread over with tunny fish paste mixed with chutney, curry, and egg-yolks, with crayfish or prawns, pimiento ring in centre ; served hot.MEAT SAVOURIES. 347 Z6phyrs de Homard ^ la Russe (Cold).—Lobster puree, blended with tomato pulp and aspic ; set in bouche cups, dressed on rice shapes, and garnished with hard white of egg and truffle slices, or strips ; served with thin slices of buttered brown bread. Meat Savouries, Beignets de gibier h la Diable.—Devilled game fritters. — de jambon.—Ham fritters. — a la Pr6sidence.—Savoury pancakes, spread over with puree of beef-marrow, mushrooms, and truffles, rolled and cut in portions, then skewered and coated with batter, and fried. Brochettes de foie de volaille.—Chicken livers and bacon shces tossed in butter, and fastened on little skewers crumbed and broiled ; served with bearnaise sauce. Canapes ^ TArlequin.—Buttered toast, decorated with strips of chopped tongue, smoked salmon, gherkins, truffles, and hard-boiled white of egg, arranged in lattice-work fashion. — ^ la Cocqueri.—A puree of chicken and ham and butter, spread on toasted or fried bread slices, covered with plenty of grated cheese, browned under salamander, and garnished with gherkins, capers, and beetroot. — ^ la Diane.—Chicken Uvers rolled in bacon and grilled ; then served on toast, like “ Angels on Horseback." — ^ la Reforme.—Squares or oblongs of toasted bread, spread with herb butter ; garnished the same as for ‘‘ Arlequin," but arranged in different design. Croutons de langue a la Diable.—Devilled ox-tongue on toast. — de jambon d> la Diable.—Devilled ham on toast. Diables d, chevale (Devils on Horseback).—Prunes stoned and filled with devilled almond chips, rolled in bacon and grilled. Foie de volaille d, la Diable.—Devilled chicken liver. Jambon ^ la Casino.—Slices of cooked ham, spread with chutney and mustard, sandwiched together and thus grilled. — aux tomates.—Grilled slices of raw ham, dressed with alternate slices of tomatoes tossed in butter served with piquant sauce. Langue de veau fum6e a la Diable.—Devilled smoked calf’s tongue. Mobile de bceuf aux fines herbes.—Beef-marrow savoury, with fine herbs dressed on toast.348 THE MENU BOOK. Petits souffles a la H^16nc.—Nouille paste cassolette casesj tilled with a light cheese souffle mixture, mixed with shredded ham and truffle, and baked. Vegetable Savouries, Aubergines au gratin.—Baked aubergines, gratin style. Beignets d’aubergines a la Diable.—Devilled egg-plant fritters. — de betterave.—Beetroot fritters. — de Gardens a la Diable.—Cardoon fritters devilled. — de pommes de terre.—Potato fritters. — de tomates.—Tomato fritters. Bombes aux tomates (Cold).—Small bomb-shaped moulds, filled with sweetened tomato puree and cream, frozen in usual way ; garnished with small tomato shaped cakes, masked with tomato coloured icing. Champignons en caisses a la Diable.—Devilled mushrooms in cases. — sur crodtons.—Grilled mushrooms on toast. — aux fines herbes.—Savoury mushrooms on toast. Chou-fieur au parmesan.—Baked cauhflower with cheese. Concombre farcie au fromage.—Savoury cucumber stuffed with cheese farce, and baked. Coquilles de pommes de terre.—Scalloped potatoes. Cr§pes de pommes de terre au fromage.—Potato pancakes with cheese. Croutes aux champignons.—Cassolettes or timbale-shaped crusts of bread or rice, filled with minced mushrooms, supreme sauce, cream, and chopped parsley, then baked in sharp oven. Epinards au gratin.—Baked spinach, gratin style. Fonds d’artichauts farcis a la Diable.—Stuffed artichoke bottoms devilled and baked. Laitues a la Genoise (Cold).—Lettuce leaves cut out round, and spread with anchovy butter, placed on rounds of toast covered with mayonnaise and chopped hard- boiled egg ; garnished with capers. — d rindienne.—Same as “ Genoise,” but using lobster butter in place of anchovy. Lentilles en fricassee a la Diable.—Devilled lentil fricassee savoury, served in cassolette or souffle cases. Olives sur croutons a la Diable.—Devilled olives on toast. Pommes de terre farcies.—Stuffed potatoes, baked. — farcies aux fines herbes.—Baked potatoes stuffed with savoury herbs, etc. — a rindienne.—Curried potatoes.FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE SAVOURIES. 349 Salsifis frits ^ la Diable.—Salsify fritters devilled. Talmouses a la Princesse.—Triangular shaped puff-paste shapes, filled with ereamed asparagus points. Tomates au fromage.—Tomatoes with cheese. — farcies k la Diable.—Stuffed tomatoes devilled. — sur pain grille.—Tomatoes on toast. — au gratin.—Baked, stuffed or breaded tomatoes. Farinaceous Savouries and Cheese Dishes, Allumettes au fromage.—Cheese matches; thinly cut strips (match shape) of cheese paste, baked. Beignets de macaroni.—Macaroni fritters. Bouch^es a la Caroline.—Small bouche shapes of savoury rice, fried in deep fat, scooped out in centre and filled with scrambled eggs. Charlotte en Camembert.—Timbale mould lined with strips of brown and White bread, and filled with camembert cheese puree mixed with whipped cream, then iced ; served on ice socle, with cheese straws. Copeaux a la Favorite.—Pieces of gorgonzala cheese, wrapped in thin slices of bacon, and then in puff paste, shaped like large cigars, and baked. Croquettes de macaroni.—Macaroni croquettes. Crofistade a la Roquefort.—Small savoury savarin cakes, scooped out and filled with savoury rice, mixed with Roquefort cheese, chopped truffles, pimiento, and foie-gras. Croutes de fromage a I’Anglaise.—Welsh rarebit. — aux oeufs poches.—Buck rarebit; toasted cheese with poached egg on top. Feuillentines or Feuilettes au parmesan.—Puff-paste sticks with parmesan cheese. Fondu au parmesan.—Parmesan cheese souffles. — d, la Brillat Savarin.—A kind of stirred or scrambled egg, mixed with grated cheese, butter, a little white wine, and seasoning ; served in little china casseroles. — a ritalienne.—Cream thickened with flour, and cooked, mixed with parmesan cheese, eggs, and butter ; baked in gratin dish. Fondus a la Yarmouth.—Cheese souffles mixed with bloater-paste. Gnokis or Niokis Suisses.—Cheese-flavoured choux paste quenelles poached in stock, drained, and fried in butter.THE MENU BOOK. 350 Gaufres au Parmesan.—Rough puff paste, with grated parmesan rolled in and folded, then rolled out thinly and stamped into rounds, fried in clarified butter, besprinkled with cheese, and served hot. Macaroni a la Calabraise.—Boiled macaroni, dressed in gratin dish with alternate layers of tomato puree, grated parmesan cheese, and white sauce ; browned in oven or under salamander. — a la creme.—Boiled macaroni with cream sauce. — au gratin.—Prepared macaroni, baked gratin style. — a ritalienne.—Macaroni with tomato and cheese. Note.—For other Macaroni dishes, see end of Vegetable Chapter (page 280). Noisettes au parmesan.—These are small ball shapes of choux paste, mixed with grated parmesan cheese, and fried in deep fat. Nouilles ^ la Palermo.—Stewed noodles (nouilles), with grated cheese. Pailles au parmesan.—Cheese straws. Paillettes au parmesan.—Small cheese straws made from puff paste and grated cheese, fried in deep fat. Perles a la Gruyere.—Cheese choux paste, farced out in pea shapes into hot fat, and fried ; sprinkled with grated gruyere cheese and served hot. Petits Delices aux Gniokis.—Small baked tartlet crusts filled with very small gniokis; sauced over with Mornay and browned under salamander. Sablettes au Gruyere.—Parmesan cheese short crust; rolled out and spread with creamed gruyere cheese ; then cut in slices and baked. Souffles au fromage.—Cheese souffles. Tartelettes de macaroni.—Cooked macaroni tossed in butter and moistened with bechamel sauce, filled in baked tartlet crusts, covered with grated cheese, and baked, — Suisses au fromage.—Swiss cheese tartlets. Timbale de macaroni.—Savoury macaroni timbales. DESSERT. After the “ Bonnes-Bouches,” or Savouries, comes the Dessert, which includes cheese, followed by fruit—fresh fruit and dried fruit, glace or crystalhsed or candied— various Bon-bons, Petits fours, fancy biscuits, and some- times small fancy dessert ices. Nuts and biscuits should always be included as an essential part of the dessert.351 COFFEE—CAFJS NOIR. As regards cheese, “ fromage,” which is served before the fruit, etc., of a dinner or luncheon, this item is fre- quently mentioned on the menu, but it is not considered essential. It is usual to serve at least two kinds or varieties of cheese. Small pats of fresh butter, dry, plain biscuits, and pulled bread should be handed with it. The most popular kinds of cheese are ; Cheddar, Cheshire, Gloucester, Stilton, Gruyere, Gorgonzola, Roquefort, Camembert, Brie, and the various Cream Cheeses. COFFEE—CAFE NOIR. This forms the last item of a menu. There are three blends or styles of coffee, either of which is eminently suitable as Cafe noir : French Cafe, Cafe Turque, and Cafe Russe. Turkish coffee is the strongest of the three. Coffee is served in very small cups. Liqueurs, such as Kirsch, Cognac or liqueur Brandy, as well as one or two of the following: Benedictine, Chartreuse, Kiimmel, Cura9oa, Cherry Brandy, or other sweet liqueur, are usually served with coffee. Bat we hae meat and we can eat Sae let the Lord be thankit.Popular Books on Cookery, etc. By C. HERMAN SENN, G.C.A. The 2oth Century Cookery Book.—5th enlarged Edition. Containing over 5,000 recipes of Dishes and Methods of Cooking, with over 400 illustrations. It forms one of the largest and most complete collections of cooking recipes for recherchi dishes ever produced in this covmtry Price 21 /-; post free, 21 /g. Savoury Breakfast, Dinner, and Supper Dishes.—A collection of over 400 useful and novel Recipes of Dishes suitable for breakfast luncheon, supper dishes, and after-dinner savouries, etc. Price 3 /6 post free, 3/9. A Book of Salads; or, the Art of Salad Dressing;.—By Alfred Suzanne. This little book is unquestionably the best in existence. It contains Recipes for Green Salads, Vegetable Salads, Fish Salads, Poultry and Game Salads, Meat Salads, and Fruit Salads. Salad Dressings and Sauces are also fully treated. Price i /6 ; post free, i /8. Ices and How to Make Them.—A new treatise on Plain and Fancy Ices, Cream and Water Ices, Ice Puddings, Souffl6s, Sorbets, Mousses, Cooling Cups, Iced Drinks, etc. Price 2/-; post free, 2/2. Dictionary of Foods and Culinary Encyclopaedia.—A handy reference Book of technical terms, the names of foods, cooking auxiliaries, con- diments, and beverages. Specially adapted for Chefs, Hotel and Restaurant Managers, Cookery Teachers, etc. Price 2/-; post free, 2/2. Cookery for Invalids and the Convalescent.—A collection of valuable recipes, useful in the preparation of tempting dishes and drinks for invalids and convalescents. Price 1/6 ; post free, 1/8. Chafing=Dish and Casserole Cookery.—A neatly got-up little book dealing with the above subjects, which are coming rapidly back to popularity. This manual is full of excellent recipes and practical advice, to suit everyone’s taste and pocket. Price 1/6; post free, 1/8. Recherche Side Dishes.—Fifth enlarged and Re\ised Edition, now ready. A handy book of recipes for dainty Hors-d’CEuvres, Savouries, Salads, and Sandwiches, containing about 600 reUable recipes. Price 3/6 post free, 3/9. Rechercii6 Luncheon and Dinner Sweets.—The book contains 239 especially selected recipes of hot and cold Puddings, Creams and Jellies, Parfaits and Mousses, hot and cold ; Souffles, Continental Patisserie and Gateaux, all of a recherche character. There are numerous half- tone illustrations. Price 2/6 ; post free, 2/9. [Continued next pagPopular Books on Cookery—continued. Recherche Entrees.—This lately published book of over 250 pages con- tains a collection of the newest Entries, presenting the latest ideas of the Entr6e course dishes, being of the highest type of Continental and English cookery. Price 5-/-, illustrated. Cheap edition, 3/6. By post, 4d. extra. Potato Cookery.—By A. Suzanne and C. Kerman Senn. 300 ways of cooking and serving potatoes for table. Price i /6 ; post free, i /8. Hors d’CEuvres and Sandwiches.—(Part I. of Side Dishes) giving recipes for all the latest dishes. Price i /6 ; post free, i /8. How to Cook Eggs and Omelets in 250 Different Ways.—The recipes in this book cover every possible method of cooking and serving eggs for table, representing many new ideas. Egg dishes, if rightly prepared, are at all times acceptable, and make a delightful change for the every-day menu. Price i /6, by post, i /8. The Art of the Table.—How to wait at table, how to carve, and how to fold table serviettes. An entirely new work, giving explicit directions on the above important subjects. With numerous illustrations. Price 2/-; post free, 2/2. How to Cook Vegetables.—The latest work on the culinary treatment of the products of the Vegetable Kingdom. Over 500 reliable recipes. Price 2 /-; post free, 2 /3. The Practical Cookery Manual—Essentially a family cook-book, com- piled on popular lines with due regard to economy and simplicity Popular edition. Price is.; post free, i /3. Special edition, illustrated 2 /6 ; post free, 2/g. Meatless Fare and Lenten Cookery.—Recipes for some hundreds of fish and egg dishes. Vegetable, Vegetarian and Farinaceous dishes. Price 1/6 ; post free, 1/9. Ideal Breakfast Dishes.—Savouries and Curries. The chief feature of this book is the variety of up-to-date and easily made Breakfast Dishes, while the fish and vegetable curries reveal the art of curry making. Price IS.; post free, i /2. Cooking in Stoneware.—W’ith chapter on Paper Bags. Paper cover Price 6d.; post free, 8d. Cloth, i /-; post free, i /2. Popular Breakfast Dishes and Savouries.—A handy little manual, containing recipes and full directions for the preparation of about 200 Breakfast Dishes and After-Dinner Savouries. Price fid.; post free, 7 Jd. Simple Cookery for the People.—Price id.; post free, ijd. The Food and Cookery Publishing Agency, 329, Vauxhall Bridge Road, Victoria Station, London, S.W. Remittances must in every case accompany orders. zSauces for Meats Boiled mutton and caper sauce, roast mutton and onion sauce, sauces for fricassees, reheated dishes, etc.—- such sauces are never so nice as when thickened with Brotoi a. Poison's 'Patenf CoiTl FlOUT It makes the sauces smoother, and conveys the piquant flavourings so much better than ordinary flour. The superiority of all sauces when Brown & Poison’s ‘‘ Patent ” Corn Flour is used for thickening is so marked that those who know use it always in place of ordinary flour. Begin with Paisley Flour and you end with baking the hghtest of cakes, pastry, and piecrust. Suck fragrant golden- hrown results / As a rule you should mix only i part with 8 of ordinary flour, yet Paisley Flour (Trtuid The SURE raising powder is so perfect that just this quantity ensures hghtness, even raising, and digestibility. jd., 3Jd., and id. packets.BANANAS The Premier Fruit-food. The Fruit of Health. The above iil ustratioas demonstrate how the popularity of Bananas has increased in ten years and the extent to which their nutritive value has been recognised by the discerning public. Delicious Dishes from BANANA RECIPES. Bananas are widely recommended by eminent Doctors as a nourishing and strength-building Fruit.“The Leading Cnlinary Of^an in London." “FOOD & COOKERY” And THE CATERINfi WORLD. 17th YEAR OF ISSUE. PUBLISHED MONTHLY. PRICE 6d. NET. Annual Subscription 5s. post free. Is an Illustrated Magazine Journal designed and produced to appeal to all persons engaged in Cookery and Gastronomy. It is the only Official Organ of the Universal Cookery and Food Association —and of the Reunion des Gastronomes.— . Advice as to When, How, and Where to buy Food. How to prepare and cook Food. What to eat, and numerous ether features are dealt with in each number. In order to extend the usefulness and influence of this Magazine the Publishers will be pleased to send a Specimen Copy of “ Food and Cookery" gratis to anyone on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover postage. Address,—THE MANAGER, 329, Vauxhall Bridge Road, London, S.W.1 t ■ii i