TRANSACTIONS OF SECTION H. 5 butes of the human form from its beginning, there can be little doubt that this power is potential in the human organism at the time of birth, and only requires a further development of the nervous and muscular systems to become a reality, without the aid of any special training. The spinal column in the retiion of the true vertebrre consists of numerous bones jointed together, and with discs of soft fibro-cartilage interposed between and conuectirg the bodies of adjoining vertebrae with each other. It is to their presence thit the spinal column owes its flexibility and elasticity. These discs are larger and thicker in the region of the loins, where the lumbar convexity is situated, than in other parts of the column, and there can be no doubt that the acquisition of this convexity is intimately associated with the presence of these discs It is a matter for observation and consideration to what extent the bodies of the vertebrfe contribute to the production of this curve. A few yeai’S ago Pro'essor Cunningham, of Dublin.* and 1^ undertook much about the same time researches into the form and dimensious of the bodies of these bones. Our observations were made independently of each other and on two ditiei-eut .'•eries of skeletons, and as we arrived at practically the same conclusions, we may, I think, infer that, in their main features at least, the.«e conclusions are correct. The method followed in the investigation was to measure the diameter from above dowuwai'ds of the body of each of the tive lumbar vertebrae, both in front and behind. If the upper and lower surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae were parallel to each other, it is obvious that, so far as they are concerned, the column formed by them wunild be straight, as is the case in a column built of hewn stones possessing similar parallel surfaces. But if the surfaces are not parallel the bod> of the Vertebra is wedge-shaped ; should the front of the collective series of bone.s have a greater vertical diameter than the back, it is equall}' obvious that ttio column would not be straight, but curved, and with the convexity forwards. From the examinaiion of a con.siderable number of spinal columns of Europeans, we found that, although the vertical diameter of the bodies of the two highest vertebrse was greater behind than in front, in the two lowest the anterior vertical diameter so greatly preponderated over the posterior that the anterior vertical diameter of the bodies of the entire series of lumbar vertebrae in each spine was collectively greater than the corresponding diameter of the posterior surface. In twelve European skeletons I observed that the mean dilierence was between 5 and 0 mm. in favour of the anteriiU' surface. If 'we are to regaid the collective vertical diameter anteriorly of the tive bones as equal to 100, the same diameter posteriorly is only equal to 1)6, which may be regarded as the lumbar index in Europeans. Dr. Cunningham obtained a similar inde.x (rom the examination of a much laiger number of European skeletons, and he further showed that in women the lumbar convexity forwards is more pronounced than in men. It follows there lore, from these observations, that when the broad end of the wedge-shaped bodies is in (rout the bones themselves would by their form give a forward convexity to the spine in the lumbar region. But a similar wedge-shaped Ibrm is also possessed by the lower intervertebral discs in this region, and e.speciully by that interposed between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum. Hence it follows that both vertebral bodies and intervertebral discs contribute in the white races to the production of the lumbar convexity. When we pass to the examination of the corresponding region in the spines of those races of men that w^e are accustomed to call lower race.«, we find a reir.arkable and important difference. Let us take as a characteristic e.xample of a lower race the aborigines of Australia. In their .‘•keletons our observations have proved, that the vertical diameter of the bodies of the live lumbar vertebrpe was collectively deeper behind than in front. In niy series of skeletons the mean difference was between 6 and 7 mm. in favour of the posterior surl'ace, so that they possessed the opposite condition to that which prevails in Europeans. Hence if the spine bad ' ‘ The Lumbar Purve in Man and the Apes,’ Cunningham, Memoirs of the Itoyal Irish Academy, Dublin, 18H6. ^ ‘Report on Human Skeletons,’ Challenger Reports, Part XLVll., 1886. '