9 TRANSACTIONS OF SECTION H. front is preatev than the average pull, per unit of length, of the muscles attached behind in the same region. The muscles which lie on the back of the neck and which are attached to the occipital part of the skull, when brought into action, will necessarily affect the position of the head. The new-born infant has no power to raise the head, which is bent forward, so that the chin is appro.Kimated to the chest. As it acquires strength the head becomes raised by the muscles of the back of the necli, and the flexible spine in the cervical region loses its primary curve, concave forwards, and gradually assumes the cervical convexity. The formation of this curve is, I believe, assisted bv the anterior recti muscles, the lower ends of which are attached to the front of the vertebrae, whilst their upper ends are connected to the basi-occipital. In the elevation of the head the opposite ends of the muscles are drawn apart, w'hich would exercise a forward traction upon the cervical vertebrae. The production of the cervical convexity precedes the formation of the lumbar curve, for an infant can raise its head, and take notice of surrounding objects, months before it can stand upon its feet. We shall now look at the bones in the thigh and leg, which possess characte'’s that are distinctively human, and which are associated with the erect posture. These characters can be more clearly r-cognised when the bones are contrasted with the corresponding bones of the large Anthropoid apes. As compared with the ape, the shaft of the human thigh bone is not so broad in relation to its length; when standing erect the shaft is somewhat more oblique, it is more convex forwards and generally more finely modelled, and it has three almost equal surfaces, the anterior of which is convex. But, further, a strong ridge (linea aspera) extends vertically dmvn its posterior surface; so that a section through the shaft is triangular, with the two anterior angles rounded and the posterior prominent. In the Gorifia, Chimpanzee, and Orang, the shaft is flattened from before backwards, and the linea aspera is represented by two faint lines, separated from each other by an intermediate narrow area. A section tbrougb the shaft approximates to an ellipse. In the Gibbon the femur is greatly elongated, and the shaft is smooth and cylindriform. The linea aspera is for the attachment of powerful muscles, which are more closely aggregated in man than in apes, so that the human thigh possesses more graceful contours. In the human femur the shaft is separated from the neck hy a strong anterior intertrochanteric ridge, to which is attached the ilio-femoral ligament of the hip joint, which, hy its strength and tension, plays so important a part in keeping the joint extended when the body is erect. In the Anthropoid apes this ridge is faint in the Gorilla, and scarcely recognisable in the Orang, Gibbon, and Chimpanzee, and the ilio-femoral ligament in them is comparatively feeble. It may safely therefore be inferred that in apes, with their semi-erect, crouching attitude, the ilio-femoral band is not subjected to. or capable of sustaining, the same s'rain as in man. The Iiead of the thigh bone is also distinctive. In the apes the surface covered by cartilage is apfu-oxiinately a sphere, and is coiisiderablv more than a liemi-. sphere. It is sliaiqily difl'erentiated from the neck by a definite boundary, and it has a musbroom-like shape. In man the major part of the liead is also appro.xi-. mately a sphere; but, in addition, there is an extension outwards of the articular area on the anterior surface and upper border of the neck of the bone. Tlie form of this extended area differs from the sjdierical shape cf the bead in general. Tlie curvature of a normal section of its svtrface has a much larger radius than the curvature of a normal section of the bead, near the attachment of the ligamentunu teres. The amount of this extended area varies in different femora, but as a rule it is larger and more strongly marked in Europeans than in the femora of some savages which I have examined. When the joint is in the erect attitude, the area is in contact with the hack of the iliac part of the ilio-femoral ligament. It provides a cartilaginous surface which, during extension of the joint, is not situated in the acetabulum, but, owing to the centre of gravity falling beldnd the axis of movement, is pressed against that ligament, and contributes materially to its tension. It is associiited with the characteristic position of the human hip joint in a d