REPORT—189/. 12 iill the toes a powerful grasping organ is produced, more important even than its hand, in which the thumb is feebly developed. It has sometimes been assumed that tlie human foot is also a prehensile instru- ment as well as an organ of support. In a limited sense objects can undoubtedly be grasped by the human toes when bent towards the sole. In savages, this power is preserved to an extent which is not possible in civilised man, in whom, owing to the cramping, and only too frequently the distorting influence, exercised by badly fitting boots and shoes, the proper development of the functional uses of the toes is impeded and their power of independent movement is often destroyed. Even in savages who have never worn shoes, the power of grasping objects by ihe toes cannot be regarded as approximately equal in functional activity and usefulness to the range of movement possessed by the ape. Tlie four outer toes are so short and comparatively feeble, that they cannot encircle an object of any magnitude. But, what is even more important, the great toe cannot be opposed to the surface of the sole, in the way' that an ape can move its hallux or a man bis thumb. Savage man can no doubt pick up an object from the ground with the great toe. Many of us have doubtless seen, among civilised men, persons who have l\ad the misfortune to be horn without arms, or who have accidentally lost them in early life, who have trained themselves to hold a pen, pencil, brush, or razor with the foot, and to write, draw, paint, or even shave. But in these cases the object is held between tbe hallux and the toe lying next to it, and not grasped between the great toe and the sole of the foot by a movement of opposition. If we compare the anatomical structure of the human foot with that of the foot of the ape, though the bones, joints, and muscles are essentially the same in both, important differences in arrangement may be easily recognised, the value of which will he better appreciated by first glancing at the thumb. Both in man and apes the thumb is not tied to the index digit by an intermediate ligament, which, under the name of ‘ transverse metacarpal,’ binds all the lingers together, and restricts their separation from each other in the transverse plane of the hand. The great toe of the ape, similarly, is not tied to the second toe by a ‘ transverse metatarsal ligament,’ such as connects together and restricts the movements of its four outer toes in the transverse plane of the foot. The hallux of the ape is therefore set free. It can, like the thumb of man and ape, be thrown into the position of opposition and be used as a prehensile digit. Very different is the case in the human foot, in which the hallux is tied to the second toe by a continuation of xhe same transverse metatarsal ligament which ties the smaller toes together. Hence it Is impossible to oppose the great toe to the surface of the sole in the way' in which the thumb can be used, and the movements of the digit in the transverse plane of tbe foot are also greatly restricted. The development of a connecting transverse band, for the restriction of the movements of the great toe in man, is not the only anatomical structure which differentiates it from the hallux of an ape, or the thumb in tbe hand. In the manus both of man and apes the joint between the metacarpal bone of the thumb and the hone of the wrist (trapezium) is concavo-convex, or saddle-shaped, and permits of a considerable range of movement in certain directions, and notably the movement of opposition. A joint of a similar contiguration, permitting similar movements, is found in the pes of the ape between the metatarsal of the hallux and the tarsal bone with which it articulates. In the foot of man, on the other hand, the corresponding joint is not saddle-shaped, hut is almost plane-surfaced, and con- sequently the range of movement is slight, and is little more than the gliding of one articular surface on the other. One of the chief factors in the production of the movement of opposition in the manus of man and apes is a special muscle, the opponens pollicis, which, through its insertion into the shaft of the metacarpal hone of the thumb, draws the entire digit across the surface of the palm. In the foot of the Anthropoid apes there is not complete correspondence in different species in the arrangement of the muscles which move the great toe. In the Orang the abductor halliicis, in addition to the customary insertion into the phalanx, may give rise to two slips, one of which is inserted into the base and proximal part of the first metatarsal bone, and the other