3 TRANSACTIONS OK SECTION II. of reason in man, and he speaks of it as an instrument applicable to everj' art and occasion, as well of peace as of war. It is, he says, the best constructed of all prehensile organs, and he gives a careful description of how both the hand as a whole and the individual digits, more especially the thumb, are brought into use in the act of grasping.^ Galen does not indeed enter into the minute anatomical detaiks which have been emphasised by more recent writers on the subject, but by none cf these has the use of the hand and its association with man’s higher intelligence been more clearly and more eloquently expressed than by the Greek physician and philosopher seventeen centuries ago. By the publication in 1859 of Charles Darwin’s ever-memorable treatise ‘ On the Origin of Species,’ an enormous impulse was given to the study of the anatomy of man in comparison with the low'er animals, more e.specially with the apes. By many anatomists the study was pursued with the view of pointing out the resemblances in structure between men and apes; by a more limited number to show wherein they did not correspond. I well remember a course of lectures on the comparative characters of man delivered thirty-five years ago by my old master. Professor John Goodsir, in which, when speaking of the hand of man and apes, he dwelt upon sundry features of difference between them.'-^ The human hand, he said, is the only one which possesses a thumb capable of a free and complete movement of opposition. It may be hollowed into a cup and it can grasp a sphere. It is an instrument of manipulation co-extensive with human activity. The ape’s hand again is an imperfect hand, with a short and feeble thumb, and with other clearly defined points of difi'erence and inferiority to that of man. It can embrace a cylinder, as the branch of a tree, and is principally subservient to the arboreal habits of the animal. Its fingers grasp the cylinder in a series of spirals. Flere then is an important difference in the manipulative arrangements of the tw’o hands, the advantage being with the hand of man, in regard to the greater variety of movement and adaptability, to co-ordinate it with his reasoning faculties. As showing the acuteness of perception of Galen and his complete recognition of a fundamental feature of the human hand, he also dwells on the hand being able to form a circle around a sphere, so as to grasp it on every side, and to touch it with every part of itself, whilst it can also securely hold objects that possess plane or concave surfaces. So impressed was the old Greek writer with the fitness of the hand to discharge the duties imposed on it by the higher intelli- gence of man that, pagan though he was, he regarded its construction as evidence of design in nature, and as a sincere hymn to the praise and honour of the Deity. It is not my intention to dwell upon the multitudinous details of those features of structure which distinguish man from other vertebrates, for these have been considered and described by numerous writers. The leading structural differentisB constitute the merest commonplaces of the human anatomist, and are already sufficiently imprinted on the popular mind. But it may not be out of place to refer to certain aspects of the subject which are not so generally known, and the siarnificance of which has been brought into greater prominence by recent researches. If we compare the new-born infant with the young of vertebrates generally, we find a striking difference in its capability of immediately assuming the characteristic attitude of the species. A fish takes its natural posture and moves freely in its element as soon as it is hatched. A chicken can stand and walk when it is liberated from the egg, though, from its wings not being developed, it is not at once able to fly. A lamb or calf can assume the quadrupedal position a few minutes after its birth. But, as we all know, the infant is the most helpless of all young vertebrates, and is months before it can stand on two feet and move freely on them. Daring the period of transition, ' See passages translated in Dr Kidd’s Bridgewater Treatise, 18.S3, and Dr. J. Finlayson’s Bssay on Galen, Glasgow, 189.5. ‘ On tlie Dignity of the Human-Body,’ in Anatomical JAoacm', by'John Goodsir, vol. i. p. 238, Edinburgh, 18G8. n 2