6 REPORT—1897. been constructed of vertebrae only, instead of a lumbar convexity, the column would have possessed a forward concavity in that reg-ion. For this character, as shown in the skeleton only, I have suggested the descriptive term ‘ Koilorachic.’ We know, however, that elastic discs are intercalated between the bodies of the osseous vertebras in the black races as well as in Europeans. It is necessary, therefore, to examine their spinal columns, when the intervertebral discs are in position, in order to obtain a proper conception of the character of the curve in the living man. A few years ago Professor Cunningham had the opportunity of studying the spinal column of an aboriginal Australian,^ in which the interverrebral discs had been preserved in their proper position, in relation to the bones, without losing their flexibility, or their natural shape and thickness. He found that, whilst the bodies of the lumbar vertebra; were longer than in Europeans, the proportion of inter- vertebral disc to vertebral body was distinctly less, so that the disc appeared to be reduced in depth, in relation to the greater vertical diameter of the vertebral body. Notwithstanding this difl'erence, as compared with the white man, the Australian spine had a marked lumbar convexity which showed no material difference from that seen in Europeans. As the lumbar curve was not due to the wedge-shaped form of the bodies of the vertebrae, it was therefore produced solely by the strong wedge-shape of the intervertebral discs, and was not, as in Europeans, a product of a combination of both these factors. The spinal column, when complete, is not therefore koilorachic in the lumbar region. The greater vertical diameter of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae behind than in front, as compared with Europeans, is not limited to the Australians, but is participated in by other black races, as the now extinct Tasmanians, the Bushmen, Andaman Islanders, and Negroes, which, if tested solely by the measurements of the skeleton, would also be koilorachic. But in these races intervertebral discs are also present, and there can be no doubt that through the compensating influence of the wedge-shaped discs, with their deeper ends in front, the lumbar curve is in them also convex forwards. It is clear, therefore, that in the black races the intervertebral discs play relatively a more important part in the produc- tion of the lumbar curve than in Europeans. One of the requirements of civilisation is the wearing of clothes, and fashion frequently prescribes that they should be tight-fitting and calculated to restrict motion in and about the spinal column. In savage races, on the other hand, clothing is often reduced to a minimum, and when worn is so loose and easy as in no way to hamper the movements of the body. The spinal column retains there- fore in them much more flexibility, and permits the greater measure of freedom in the movements of the trunk, which is found in savage man, and has often been referred to by travellers. It used to be considered that the possession of a lumbar convexity in the spinal column was the exclusive privilege of man, and was shared in by no other verte- brate. There can be no doubt that it attains a marked development in the human spine, and as such is associated with the erect posture. But the observations of Cunningham on the spinal column of apes, more especially the anthropoid group, made in fresh specimens, in which the intervertebral discs were in place, have proved that in the Chimpanzee the lumbar convexity is probably as strongl}' pro- nounced as in the adult man. In a Chimpanzee, two years old, the development is more advanced that in a child of the same age. The lumbar convexity is established at an earlier age than in the child, for it would seem as if the Chim- panzee attained its matuiity at a younger period of life than the human being. In the Orang the lumbar curve is more feeble than in Man and the Chimpanzee, and in the specimen described by Cunningham re.sembled that of a boy six years old. In a fresh specimen of the Gibbon, examined by the same anatomist, the lumbar curve was intermediate between the Chimpanzee and the Orang. In 1888,1 purchased the bones of an adult male Gorilla, in which the vertebrae ' Proc. Boy. Soc. London, January 24, 1889, vol. xlv.; also see Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. zxiv. 1890.