14 REPORT—1897. tlie fingers. In apes, therefore, as in man, these grooves are not .acquired after birth, but have an hereditary signification. We may now contrast the grooves in the skin of tlie sole of the human foot with those which we liave just described in the palm. For this purpose the foot of an infant must be selected as well as that of an old'^r person in which the toes have not been cramped and distorted by ill-fitting shoes.* The toes are marked off from the sole proper by a deep diagonal depression, which correspond,s with the plane of flexion of the first and .second phalanges. Behind this depression, and on the sole proper, is a diagonal groove, which com- mences at the cleft between the great and second toes, and reaches the outer border of the foot. It is seen in the infant, but disappears as the skin of the foot becomes thickened from use and pressure. This groove marks the plane of flexure of the first phalanges on the metatarsal hones of the four smaller toes Associated with its inner end is a short groove which curves to the inner border of the foot, and marks off'the position of the joint between the first phalanx and the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The groove indicates the movements of the grr-at toe in flexion, and in adduction to, or abduction from, the second toe It has sometimes erroneously been regarded as the corresponding groove in the foot to the deep curved groove in the hand, which defines the muscles of the ball of the thumb and is associated with the movement of opposition. This is not its real character, for the chief joint concerned in opposition is that between the metacarpal bone and the corresponding carpal bone, and not that between the metacarpal bone and the phalan.x. In addition, one, or it may be two faint grooves run from within outwards near the middle of the sole. In the infant’s foot a groove also extends longitudinally in the centre of the foot. The grooves on the integument of the sole are in harmony with the inner anatomy of the foot, and confirm the statement, already made, that the great toe in man cannot he oppo.sed to the sole, as the thumb can to the palm, for the great curved groove expressing the movement of opposition is wanting. In the apes, the condition of the tegumentary grooves in the sole is very different from the human foot. In the Anthropoid group, the ball of the great toe, with its muscles, is marked off by a deep curved groove, which extends from the margin of the cleft between it and the second toe, backwards along tlje middle of the sole almost as far as the heel. Its depth and extent are associated with the powerful opponent, or grasping action of the hallux. Two other groov'es, in front of that just described, pass obliquely acro.ss the sole, from the cleft between the hallux and the second toe, and reach the outer border of the foot. They are associated with the movements of the four smaller toes, and their obliquity shows that, when the foot is lused as a prebemsile organ, the object is grasped not only by the great toe being moved towards the sole, but by the smaller toes being moved towards the hallux. From these arrangements it is obvious that the pes of the ape is, physiologically speaking, a foot-hand, it is pedimanous. Though anatomi- cally a foot, it can be used not only for support and progression, but for prehen- sion, and, for the latter-named office, the hallux is a more potent digit in the foot than is the pollex in the hand. The external rotation of the thigh at the hip joint, and the power of rotating the leg inwards on the thigh at the knee joint, contribute to make the foot of the ape a more important prehensile instrument, and enable the animal to use it more efficiently for this purpose when sitting, than would have been the case if there had been no contributory movements at the hip and knee. The power of assuming the erect attitude, the specialisation of the upper limbs ' These grooves have been described generally by the late Professor Goodsir {Anatomical Memoirs, vol. i. 1868) ; by myself in a lecture on hands and feet, Health Lectures, Edinburgh, 1884; and by Mr. Louis Robii son, the last named of whom has called especial attention lo their arrangement in the feet of infants {Nineteenth Century, vol. xxxi 181*2, p. 795). The integumentary grooves in both hands and feet of men and apes have also been describe 1 and figured in detail by Dr. Hepburn in Journal of A nat. and Phys., vol xxvii. 1893, p. 112.