TKANSACTIONS OF SECTION H. 7 were in position and connected together by the dried interverte.bral discs. This condition is of course not so satisfactory, for the stmty of the spinal curves, as if the specimen had been fresh, and with the discs retaining their natural flexibility and elasticity. But it was quite obvious that the spine possessed an alternating series of convex-concave curves from above downwards. Tho cervical and lumbar convexities, more especially the latter, did not project so far forwards as in man, and the dorsal concavity was not so deep. The most projecting part of the lumbar convexity was at the junction of the bodies of the third and fourth lumbar verte- brae and their intermediate disc. A vertical line drawn downwards from the most prominent part of this convexity fell in front of the coccyx. When prolonged upwards it passed in front of the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae, and intersected the body of the sixth cervical vertebra, so that the bodies of the vertebrae, higher than the sixth, were directed obliquely from below upwards and forwards in front of the vertical line. The dried state of the discs did not enable one to determine precisely the proportion in wh'ch they entered into the formation of the length of the column, but the vertical diameter of the interlumbar and lumbo-sacral discs wa.s obviously not as great as in the human spine. On the other hand, the vertical diameter of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae was greater than in man, so that the length of the lumbar spine, and possibly its degree of convexity, were due more to the bodies of the vertebrae than to the elastic discs interposed between them. The Oorilla corresponds with the Chimpanzee in having longer vertebral bodies and shoiter intervertebral di,«cs than in man. Without going into the question whether a lumbar convexity exists in the tailed monkeys, the determination of which with precision is a matter of some difliculty, it must be obvious that the presence of this convexity can no longer be regarded as the exclusive prerogalive of man. It undoubtedly forms an important factor in the study of the erect attitude; but in order that man should acquire and be able to retain bis distinctive posture, something more is necessary than the possession of a spinal column with a curve in the lumbar region convex forwards. Our attention should now be directed to the lower limbs, more especially to the two segments of the shaft, which we call thigh and leg. If we look at a quadruped we see that the thigh is bent on the trunk at the hip joint, and that the leg is bent on the thigh at the knee joint; whilst the foot forms more or less of an angle with the leg, and the animal walks either on the soles of its leet or on its toes. In the Anthropoid apes there is also distinct flexure both of the hip and knee joints, so that the leg and thigh are set at an angle to each other, and the foot is moditied, through a special development of the great toe, into an organ of prehension as well as of support. When we turn to the human body we find tliat in standing erect the leg and thigli ai’e not set at an angle to each other, but that the leg is in line with and immediately below' the thigh, that both hip and knee joints are fully extended, so that the axis of the shaft of the lower limb is practically continuous with the axis of the spine. The foot is set at right angles to the leg, and the sole is in relation to the ground. The vertical axis of the shaft of the lower limb, the extended condition of the hip and knee joints, and tire rectangular position of the foot to the leg are therefore fundamerrtal to the attainment of the erect at'itrrde of man. In narratives of travel by those who have studied the Penguins iir their native habitats, ynii may read that these birds may be seen standing on the rocks on the coasts which they frequent, in rows, like reginrerrts of soldiers, and the idra has becomo implanted in the minds of many that they can stand erect. Even so accomplished a writer and acute a ciitic as the late Mr. G. II. Lewes thought that the Penguins had the vertical attitude wdren starrding, and that some mammals, as the Jerboa and Kangaroo, very closely approached to it. The attitiule of man was, he con- sidered, merely a question of degree, and did not express a cardinal distinction.’ In arriving at this conclusion, however, only the external appearance of the birds and mammals referred to by him can have been looked at. If the skin and ’ Arislotle, A Chrqdrr -from the Illstnrij of t^cienre, p. ROh, London, 18(U.