17 TRANSACTIONS OF SECTION H. latter; third, that in uncivilised man the proportion of male crania having a capacity equal to the European mean, 1,500 c.c., is extremely small; fourth, that though the capacity of the men’s skulls is greater than that of the women’s, there is not quite the same amount of difference between the sexes in a savage as in a civilised race. It may now he of interest to say a few words on the capacity of the cranium in the large anthropoid apes. I have measured, by the method already referred to, the capacity of the skulls of five adult male Gorillas, and obtained a mean of 494 c.c., the maximum being 590 c.c. and the minimum 410 c.c., the range of variation being 180 c.c. Dr. Delisle found the old male Orang (Maurice),' which died a short time ago in the Jardin des Plantes, to have a capacity of 385 c.c., whilst the younger male (Max) had a capacity of 470 c.c.^ The mean of eleven specimens measured by him was 408 c.c., which is somewhat less than the measurements of males recorded by M. Topinard and Dr, Vogt; but it should be stated that in some of Dr. Delisle’s specimens the sex could not be properly dis- criminated, and possibly some of them may have been females. The cranial capacity of seven male Chimpanzees is stated by M. Topinard to be 421 c.c. The determination of the mass and weight of the brain as expressed in ounces, and of the capacity of the cranial cavity as expressed in cubic centimetres, are only rough methods of comparing brain with brain, either as between different races of men, or as between men atid other mammals. Much finer methods are needed in order to obtain a more exact comparison. The school of Phrenologists represented in the fii'st half of the century by Gall, Spurzheim, and George Combe, whilst recognisins' the importance of the size of the brain as a measure, of intellectual activity, also attached value to what was called its quality. At that time the inner mechanism of the brain was almost unknown, for the methods had not been discovered by which its minute structure could be determined. It is true that a difference was acknowledged, between the cortical grey matter situated on the surface of the hemispheres and the sub- jacent white matter. Spurzheim had also succeeded in determining the presence of fibres in the white matter of the encephalon, and had, to a slight extent, traced their path. The difference between the smooth surface of the hemispheres of the lower mammals and the convoluted surface of the brain of man and the higher mammals, and the influence which the development of the convolutions exercised in increasing the area of the cortical grey matter, were also known. A most important step in advance was made, when, through the investigations of Leuret and Gratiolet, it became clear that the convolutions of the cerebrum, in their mode of arrangement, were not uniform in the orders of mammals which possessed convoluted brains, but that different patterns existed in the orders examined. By his further researches Gratiolet determined that in the anthropoid apes, notwithstanding their much smaller brains, the same general plan of arrange- ment existed a.s in man, though differences occurred in many of the details, and that the key to unlock the complex arrangements in man was to be obtained by the study of the simpler di.sposition in the apes. These researches have enabled anatomists to localise the convolutions and the fissures which separate them from each other, and to apply to them precise descriptive terms. These investijations were necessarily preliminary to the histological study of the convolutions, and to experimental inquiry into their functions. By the employment of the refined histological methods now in use. it has been shown that the grey matter in the cortex of the hemispheres, and in other parts of the brain, is the seat of enormous numbers of nerve-cells, and that those in the cortex, whilst posse.-sing a characteristic pyramidal shape, present many variations in size. Further, that the.se nerve-cells give origin to nerve axial fibres, through which areas in the cortex become connected directly or indirectly, either with other areas in the same hemisphere, with parts of the brain and spinal cord situated below the cerebrum, with the muscular system, or with the skin and other organs of sense. ' Nouvelles ArcMres dn Museum d'IRsMre uatvrelle, 1895. The stature of Maurice was 1 m 40; that of Max 1 m. 28.