10 REPORT—1897. staniJinfr, and may be called appropriately the extensor area. When the femur is abducted it passes within the acetabuliira. Tlie head of the femur in man is not so sharply differentiated from tlie neck as in the Anthropoid apes, especially in the region of the extensor artiiudar area. Both mail and apes possess at tlie lower end of the femur a trochlear or pulley- like sur ace in trout for the patella, and two condyles for the tibia. In the apes the trochlea is shallow, and the concave curve from side to side is a segment of an approximate circle, with a large radius. In man the trochlea is much deeper, and tile inner and outer parts of the curve deviate considerably from a circle, and are not symmetrical; the outer part is wider and extends higher on the front of the bone than the inner part, whilst the direction of the curve changes towards tlie edges of the trochlea. In the apes the articular surface of the inner condyle is very markedly larger than that of tlie outer condyle, both in breadth and in the extent of its backward curve, which winds upwards on the posterior part of the condyle, so that the articular surface is continued on to its upper aspect. The curve of the outer condyle is much sharper, and the condyle does not project so far backwards ; its articular surface is not prolonged so high on the back of the bone. In the apes, therefore, the inner is the more important condyle in the construction of the knee joint, and the marked extension of its articular area backwards and upwards is associated with the position and movements of the knee in flexion. In the ape the thigh is more rotated outwards thau in man, and the inner condyle is direcled to the front of the limb. In man there is not nearly the same disproportion in the size of the two con- dyles as in the apes. I have occasionally seen in man the articular area of the inner broader than that of the outer condyle, but more usually the outer is appre- ciably the wider. The backward curve of the outer condyle is also pr.ilouged Somewhat higher than that of the inner, and thus the condition of the two con- dyles is the reverse of that found in the ape. It should, however, be stated, as has been shown by Dr. Havelock Charles,* that in persons, who habitually rest in the squatting position, an upward extension of the articular area of the inner condyle exists, which is associated with the acute flexion of the knee whilst squatting. In man, the outer c(>ndyle, when seen in profile, i.s, as compared with the inner, more elongated antero-posteriorly than in the Gorilla. The approximate equality ill the size of the two condyles in man is, without doubt, associated with the ex- tenslnn of the knee joint in the erect attitude, and with the more equable distribu- tion of the weight of the body downwards on the head of the tibia. In the ape the intercondylar fossa, in relation to the size of the bones, is wider in front than in man ; but it i.s wider behind in man than in the ape, for in the latter the inner condyle inclines nearer to the outer condyle than in man. In man, when the knee joint is extended, the tibia is slightly rotated outward.s on the femoral condyles, and the joint is fixed, partly by the tension of the lateral and posterior ligaments and tlie anterior crucial ligament, and partlv by the gene- ral tf-nsion of the muscles and fascite around tlie joint. So lung as these structures remain tense, the joint cannot be bent, and no lateral movement, or rotation, is permitted. The fixation of the joint is of fundamental importance in the act of standing. Free rotation of the human knee can only take place when the joint is acutely bent. In apes, the joint cannot be fully extended; its natural position, when the animal is standing, is partial flexion, and in thi.s position a limited rotation is per- mitted, vvhuF can be greatly increased when the joint is more completely bent. In rotating the leg on the thigh the inner condyle is apparently the, pivot. The rotation facilitates the use of the foot as an organ of prehension, and assists the ape to turn the sole, inwards and forwards when holding an object. These move- ments produce results, which approximate to those occa.'-inned by pronation and supination of the radius on the ulna, in the movements of the forearm and hand. In the Anthropoid apes, the head of the tibia slopes very decidedly backwards at the upper end of the shall, so that its axis forms an angle with that of the shalt, ' Jouvnnl of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. xxviii.