2 KEroRT—1897. assumed by fisb, amphibia, and reptiles when at rest or moving', in which verte- brates the body is horizontal and more or less parallel to the surface on which they move. Birds, although far removed from the erect attitude, yet show a closer approximation to it than the lower vertebrates or even the quadrupedal mammals. But of all vertebrates, those which most nearly approximate to man in the position assumed by the body when standing and walking are the higher apes. The various adaptations of structure in the trunlr, limbs, head, and brain wbicli conduce to give man this characteristic attitude are essential parts of his bodily organisation, and constitute the structural test which one employs in answering the question whether a particular organism is or is not human. I’hese adaptations of parts are not mere random arrangements, made at hap- hazard and without a common purpose ; but are correlated and harmonised so as to produce a being capable of taking a distinctive position in the universe, superior to that which any other organism can possibly assume. If we could imagine a fish, a reptile, or a quadruped to be provided with as highly developed a brain as man posse.sses, the horizontal attitude of these animals would effectually impede its full and proper use, so that it would be of but little advantage to them. It is essential, therefore, for the discharge of the higher faculties of man, that the human brain should be conjoined with the erect attitude of the body. The passage of a verte- brate organism from the horizontal position, say of a fish, in which the back, with its contained spinal column, is uppermost, and the head is in front, to the vertical or erect position of a man, in which the back, with its contained spinal column, is behind, and the head is uppermost, may be taken as expressing the full range and limit of evolution, so far as the attitude is concerned, of which such an organism is capable. Any further revolution of the body, as in the backward direction, would throw the back downwards, the head backwards, and would constitute a degrada- tion. It would not be an advance in the adaptation of structure to the duties to be disch-arged, but rather an approach to the relation of parts existing so generally in invertebrate organisms. At an early period in the evolution of the human mind and intelligence an anthropomorphic conception of the Deity arose, to whom were ascribed the posses- sion of the bodily form and attitude of man, and even buman affections and passions. This idea took so firm po.ssession of the imagination that, in the cour.se of time, it obtained objective expression in the statues of ancient Greece and Rome and in the masterpieces of Christian art. In one of the most ancient of all books, in which is embodied the conception entertained by the Jewish writers of the Genesis of the world, and of all creatures that have life, we read that ‘God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him, male and female created he them.’ By the association, therefore, of the human form with the idea of Deity, there was naturally present in the minds of these writers, although not expressed in precise anatomical language, a full recognition of the dignity of the human body, of its superiority to that of all other creatures, and that the human form was the crown and glory of all organic nature. This conception of the dignity of man in nature is not confined to those writings which we are accustomed to call sacred. The immortal Gi'eek philosopher and naturalist, Aristotle, in his treatise ‘On the Parts of Animals,’ composed at least three hundred years b.c., refers more than once to the erect attitude of man, and associates it with his ‘God-like nature and God-like essence.’ In the second century of our present era lived another Greek author, Claudius Galen, whose writings exercised for many centuries a dominating influence in medicine and anatomy, comparable to that wielded by Aristotle in philosophy. Although Galen, as has been shown by Vesalius and other subsequent anatomists, was often incorrect in his descriptions of the internal parts of the human body, doubtless because his opportunities of dissection were so scanty, he bad attained a correct conception of the perfection of its external form, and he thoroughly understood that in its con- struction it was admirably fitted for the sentient and intelligent principle which animated it, and of which it was merely the organ. In his treatise on the use of the various parts of the body be associates the hand with the exercise of the gift