REPORT—1897. flesb be removed, and the arrangement of the constituent parts of the skeleton be studied, it will be seeu that the axis of the spine in them, instead of being vertical, is oblique, and that there is no proper lumbar convexity ; that the hip and knee joints, so far from being extended, are bent; that the thigh is not in the axis of the spine, and that the leg, instead of being in a vertical line with the thigh, is set at an acute angle to it. The so-called vertical attitude therefore in these animals is altogether deceptive. It does not approximate to, and can in no sense be looked upon as equivalent to, the erect attitude in man. We may now consider what agents come into operation in changing the curve of the spine from the concavity forwards, found in the new-born inlant, to the alternating series of curves so characteristic of the adult. The production of the lumbar convexity is, without doubt, due to structures associated with the spine, the pelvis and the lower limbs, whilst the cervical convexity is due to structures acting on the spine and the head. There can, I think, be little doubt that muscular action plays a large part in the production of the cervical and lumbar convexities. The study of the muscles, associated with and connected to the spinal column, shows that large symmetrically arranged muscles, many of which are attached to the neural arches and transverse processes of the vertebrse, extend longitudinally along the back of the spine, and some of them reach the head. On the other hand, those muscles which lie in front of the spine, and are attached to the vertebrae, are few in number, and are practically limited to the cervical and lumbar regions, in which the spine acquires a convexity forwards. It has already been pointed out that the formation of the lumbar convexity is correlated with the power of extending the hip joints and straightening the lower limbs. When these joints are in the position of extension, an important pair of muscles called the ‘psoae,’ which reach from the small trochanter of the femur to the bodies and transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, are in a state of tension. In the act of extending the hip joints so as to raise the body to the erect position, the opposite ends of these muscles are drawn asunder, and the muscles are stretched and elongated, so that they necessarily exercise traction upon the lumbar spine. Owing to its flexibility and elasticity, a forward convexity is in course of time produced in it in this region. By repeated efforts the convexity becomes fixed and assumes its specific character. Along with the changes in the spinal column, a modification also takes place in the inclination of the pelvis during the extension of the hip joints and the straightening of the lower limbs. The muscle called ‘ iliacus’ is conjoined with the psoas at its attachment to the small trochanter, but instead of being connected to the spinal column by its upper end, it is attached to the anterior surface of the ilium. It exercises traction therefore on that bone, draws it forwards and increases the obliquity of the pelvic brim. This in its turn will react on the lumbar spine and assist in fixing its convexity. By some anatomists gi’eat importance has been given to the ‘ ilio-femoral band,’ situated in the anterior part of the capsular ligament of the hip joint, as cau.sing the inclination of the pelvis, and in promoting the lumbar curve. This band is attached by its opposite ends to the femur and the ilium. As the hip joint is being extended, the ends are drawn further apart, the band is made tense, and the ilium might in consequence be drawn upon, so as to affect the inclination of the pelvis. As the lio:ament has no attachment to the spinal column, it cannot draw directly on it, but could only affect it indirectly through its iliac connections. It can therefore, I think, play only a subordinate part in the production of the lumbar curve. Contemporaneous with the straightening of the lower limbs and the extension of the hip joints, the spinal column itself is elevated by muscles of the back, named ‘ erectores spinae,’ which, taking their fixed points below, draw upon the vertebrm and ribs and erect the spine The lumbar convexity is the form of stable equilibrium which the flexible spinal column tends to take under the action of the muscular forces which pull upon it in front and behind. It is probably due to the fact that the average pull, per unit of length, of the psose mu.scles attached in