^ssociufton for tljc i^6ucinccijtcnf of Science. TORONTO, 1897. ADDEESS TO THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL SECTION. BY Professor Sir WILLIAM TURNER, M.B., LL.D. D.C.L. D Sr F.R.SS. L. and E., ’ ’ PRESIDENT OP THE SECTION. Some Distinctive Characters of Human Structure. When the British Association for the Advancement of Science lield its first Canadian meeting- at Montreal in 1884, the subject of Anthropology, or the Science of Man, attained on that occasion for the first time the rank of an iiidependent Section. n p was presided over by the accomplished writer and learned anthropologist Hr. E. B lylor, who selected as the subject-matter of his opening address several prominent questions in Anthropology, with special reference to their American aspects. lor example, the question of the presence of a stone age in America- ■whether the aborigines are the descendants and representatives of man of the nost- glacial period ; the question of the Asiatic origin of the American Indians, and the arguments derived from anatomical structure, language, and social framework bearing upon this theory. Ihe traces of Asiatic indueiice in the picture writings’ of the Aztecs, correspondences in the calendar cycles of Mexico and Cential America with those ot Eastern Asia, and the common use of certain games of chance were als^o referred to. ® It IS not my intention, even had I possessed the requisite knowledge, to enlarge on the topics so ably discussed by my eminent predecessor. As my own studies have been more especially directed to the physical side of Anthropoloo-y, rather than to Its archaeological, historical, philological, moral and social departments I natiiia-lly prefer to call your attention to those aspects of the subject which have from time to tune come within the range of my personal cognizance. I have selected as the subject of my address ‘Some Distinctive Characters of Human Structure ’ ^^llen we look at man and contrast his form and appearance with other vertebrate creatures the first thing probably to strike us is his capability of assuming an attitude, which we distinguish by the discinctive term, the erect attitude. In this position the head is balanced on the summit of the spine the lower liinbs are elongated into t-wo columns of support for standing on two fee’i or lor walking, so that mans body is perpendicular to the surface on which he stands of progression is bipedal. As a consequence of this, two of his limbs, the arms, are liberated from locomotor functions; they acquire great freedom and range of movement at the shoulder-joint, as well as considerable more- ment at the elbow and between the two bones of the forearm; the hands also are inodified to serve as organs of prehension, which minister to the purposes of his hii^her intelligence. The erect position constitutes a striking contrast to the attkude H