4 REPORT—1897. from the stag'e of absolute dependence on others to the acquisition of the power of bipedal progression, important modifications in the structural arrangements both of the spine and lower limbs have to take place. At the time of birth the infant’s spinal column exhibits only two curves; one, corresponding to ihe true vertebrae, extends from the upper end of the neck to the lowest lumbar vertebra, and the concavity of its curve is directed forwards; the other and shorter corresponds to the sacro-coccvgeal region and also has its concavity directed forwards. In the number and character of the curves, the new-born infant differs materially from tlie adult man, in whose spine, instead of one continuous curve from the neck to the sacrum, there are alternating curves, one convex forwards in the region of the neck, succeed“d by one concave forwards in the region of the chest vertebrae, which again is succeeded by a marked convexity forwards in the vertebrae of the loins. The sacro-coccygeal region continues to retain the forward concavity of the new-born child. The formation and preservation of this alternating series of curves is associated with the assumption q^the erect attitude, and the development of the lumbar convexity is correlated with the straightening of the lower limbs when the child begins to walk.‘ When the child is born, the curvature of its spine in the dorso-lumhar region approximates to that of an ordinary quadruped in which there is no lumbar con- vexity, so that the spine in that region presents one continuous curve concave fowvards. For some time after its hirtli the infant retains the quadrupedal character of the spinal curve in the dorso-lumhar region, and, as it acquires nervous and muscular power and capability of independent movement, its mode of pro- gression in the early months by creeping on hands and knees approximates to that of the quadruped. It is only after it has attained the asre of from a year to .sixteen months that it can erect its trunk, completely extend the hip and knee joint.s, and draw the leg into line with the thigh, so as to form a column of support, which enables it to stand or move, about on two feet. Hence there is this great difference between the young of a quadruped and that of a man, that whilst the former is horn with the dorso-lumbar curve proper to its attitude, and which it retains throughout life, the child does not possess, either when born, or for some months alter its birth, the characteristic spinal curves of the man. These curves are there- fore secondary in their production; they are acquired after birth, and are not imprinted on the human spine from the beginning, though the capability of acquiring them at the proper time is a fundamental attribute of the human organism.® It has sometimes been assumed that the acquisition of the erect attitude by the young child is due to the fostering care of the mother or nurse; that it is a matter of training, encouragement and education, without which the child would not raise itself upon its feet. I cannot, however, agree with this opinion. If one could conceive an infant so circumstanced that, though duly provided with food fitted for its nutrition and growth, it should never receive any aid or instruction in its mode of progression, there can, I think, be little doubt that when it had gained sudicient strength it would of itself acquire the erect attitude. The greater growth in length of the lower limbs, as compared with the upper, would render it incon- venient to retain the creeping or the quadrupedal position. We cannot lose sight of the important influence which, altogether independent of education, is exercised by parents on their offspring. The transmifsion of hereditary qualities, through the germ from which each individual organism is derived, is one of the fundamental and most striking properties of the germ plasm. Characters and peculiarities which appertain not only to the family of which the individual is a member, but also to the species to which he belongs, are conveyed through it from one generation to another. Hence, as the capability of assuming the erect attitude and of thus standing and moving on two feet have been attri- ' Professor Cleland, in Reports of British Association, 1863, p. 112. ® In his work on the Origirb and Progress of Language (vol. i. p. 173, Edinburgh, 1773), Lord Monboddo held that the erect position in man is an acquired habit, and, like speech, is acquired with difficulty and as the result of training.