11 TRANSACTIONS OF SECFION H, and tlie head may be described as retroverted. If *^he shaft of the t'bia were held vertically, the articular surface for the inner condyle would also slope downwards and bnckwards, and to a greater degree than that for the outer condyle. But in the natural semiJexed |iosition of the ape’s knee the condylar articular .surfaces of the tibia are essentially in the horizontal plane. In the human tibia the axis of the head is, as a rule, almost in line with that of the shaft, and the backward and downward slope of the inner articular surface is not so great as in the ape. In some human tibiae, however, well-marked retroversion of the he.ad has been seen. In skeletons referred to the Quaternary period of the geologist, this character has been noticed by MM, Collignon, Fraipont, and Testut, and the inference has been drawn that the men of that period could not extend the knee joint and walk as erect as modern man. It has, however, been shown by Prolessor Manouvrier ^ and Dr. Havelock Charles- that this condition of the tibia is not uncommon in some races of men, in whom there can be no question that the attitude is erect when standing. Dr. Chailes has associated the production of retroversion to the habit in these races of resting on the ground in the position of squatting. I have found in the tibi;e of the peo[de of the Bronze Age that retroversion of the head of the tibia is not uncommon. In five specimens the backward slope of the head formed with the vertical axis of the shaft an angle which ranged in the several bones from 20° to 30°. But when the.'e tibiae were put into the erect position alongside of similarly placed modern European bones, the condylar articular surfaces were seen to approximate to the horizontal plane in all the specimens. In order, therefore, that retroversion of the head of the tibia should be associated, with inability to e.xtend the knee joint, it is obvious that the articular surfaces should have a marked slope down- wards and backwards, as is the case in the Anthropoid apes, when the shaft of the tibia is held in a vertical plane. I shall now proceed to the examination of the human foot (pes), and in order to bring out more clearly its primary u.-e as an organ of support and progression, I shall coutiast it with the human hand (manus) and with the miuuis and pes in apes. In man, while standing erect, the arched sole of the foot is directed to the ground, and rests behind on the heel and in front on pads, placed below and in line with the metatarso-pbalangeal joint,s, the most important of which is below the joint a.ssociated with the great toe. It is therefore a plantigrade foot. The great toe (hallux) lies parallel to the other toes, and from its size and restricted move- ments gives stability to the foot. The ape’s foot agrees with that of man in possessing similar bones and almost similar soft parts ; but it differs materially as to the uses to which it can be put. Some apes can undoubtedly place the sole upon the ground, and in this position use the foot both for support and progression ; though the Orang, and to some extent other Anthropoid apes, rest frequently upon the outer edge of the foot. But in addition these animals can use the loot as a prehensile organ like the hand. 'The old anatomist Tyson, in his descrijttion of a young Chimpanzee,® spoke of the pes as ‘liker a hand than a foot’ and introduced the term ' quadrumanous,’ four- handed, to designate this character. 'This term was adopted by Cuvier and applied by him to apes generall}', and has long been in popular use. The eminent French anatomist wnis, however, quite alive to the fact that though the pes was capable of being used as a hand, yet that it was morphologically a loot, so that the term was employed by him to express a physiological character. In the ape, the great toe, instead of being parallel to the otb.er toes as in man, is set at an angle to them, not unlike the relation which the thumb i pollex) bears to the fingers in the human hand. It is able, therefore, to thrown the hallux across the surface of the sole in the prehensile movement of opposition. As it can at the same time bend the other toes towards the sole it also has the power of encircling an object more or less completely with them, By the joint acuion of ' Mfmoiren de la Sorietr d'Antlirojiologie de Pnrig, 1890. '■* Journal of Anatomy and Pliygioloqij, vul. xxviii. * Anatomy of a Pyymic, 1(199, p. 13.