THANSACflONS OF SECTION II. 13 into tiie radial border of its shaft for a limited distance; these slips apparently represent an imperl'ect opponens muscle, which acts along- with the adductor and short dexor muscle of the great toe. In the other Anthropoid apes, the muscle ■seems to be altogether absent, and the power of opposition is exercised solely by the adductor and the dexor brevis hallucis, the inner head of the latter of which is remarkably well developed.‘ In the human foot tliere is no opponens hallucis, and the short dexor of the great toe is, in relation to the size of that digit, comparatively feeble, so that no special provision is made for a movement of opposition. The character and direction of the movements of the digits both in hand and foot are iuipiinted on the integument of palm and sole. In the palm of the humau hand the oblique direction of the movements of the tingers towards the thumb, when bent in grasping an object, is shown by the obliquity of the two great grooves which cross the palm Irom the root of the index to the root of the little dnger. The deep curved groove, extending to the wrist, w'hich marks off the eminence of the ball of the thumb from the rest of the palm, is associated with the opponent action of the thumb, which is so marked iu man that the tip of the thumb can be brought iu contact with a large part of the pialmar surface of the hand and fingers. Faint longitudinal grooves in the palm, situated in a line with the tingers, express slight folds which indicate, where the tingers are appro.ximated to or separated from each other, in adduction and abduction. In some hands a longitudinal groove marks od'the muscles of the ball of the little finger from the rest of the palm, and is associated with a slight opponent action of that digit; by the combination of which, with a partial opposition of the thumb, the palm can be hollowed into a cup—the drinking-cup of Diogenes. Tnese grooves are present iu the infant’s hands at the time of birth, and I have seen them in an embryo, the spine and head of which were not more than 90 mm. (three and a half inches) long. They appear in the palm months before the infant can put its hand to any u.se; though it is possible that the muscles of the thumb and fingers do, even in the embryo, e.xercise some degree of action, especially in the direction of tiexion. These grooves are not therefore acquired after birth. It is a question how f^r the intra-uterine piurposeless movements of the digits are sufficient to produce them ; but even should this be the case, it is clear that they are to be regarded a.s hereditary characters transmitted from one generation of human beings to another. They are correlated with the movements of the digits, which give the functional power and range of movement to the hand of man. In the palm of the hand of the Anthropoid apes grooves are also seen, which difier in various re.spects I'rom those in man, and which are characteristic of the group in which they are found. In these animals the palm is traversed by at least two grooves from the index border to that of the minimus. In the Gibbon they are oblique, but in the Gorilla, Chimpanzee, and Oraiig they are almost transverse, which implies that iir dexion the fingers do not move so obliquely towards the com- paratively feeble thumb as they do in man. The curved groove which limits the ball of the thumb is present, but on account of the less development of that eminence, it is not so extensive as in man. The longitudinal grooves in the palm are deeper than in the human hand, and in the Gorilla and Orang a groove did'erentiates the eminence associated with the muscles of the little finger from the adjoining part of the palm. -The character and direction of these grooves are such as one would associate with the hand of an arboreal animal, in which the long tingers are the chief dis-its employed in grasping an object more or less cylindrical, like the branch of a tree, and in which the thumb is a subordinate digit. I have not had the opportunity of examining the palm of the embryo of an Anthropoid ape, but in that of an embryo Macaque monkey I have seen both the groove for the ball of the thumb which marks its opposition, and the transverse and longitudinal grooves in the palm which are correlated with the movements of ' For a comparative description of the muscles of the hand and foot of the Anthropoid apes consult Dr. Hepburn’s memoir in Jotirnal of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. xxvi.