18 REPORT— 1897. Every nerve-cell, with the nerve axial fibre arising from and belonging to it, is now called a Neurone, and both brain and spinal cord are built up of tens of thousands of such neurones. It may reasonablv be assumed that the larger the brain the more numerous are the neurones which enter into its constitution. The greater the number of the neurones, and the more complete the connections which the several areas have with each other through their axial fibres, the more complex becomes the internal mechanism, and the more perfect the structure of the organ. We may reasonably assume that this perfection of structure finds its highest manifestations in the brain of civilised men. The specialisation in the relations and connections of the axial fibre processes of the neurones, at their termination in particular localities, obviously points to functional difierences in the cortical and other areas, to which these processes extend. It has now been experimentally demonstrated that the cortex of the cerebrum is not, as M. Flourens conceived, of the same physiological value throughout; but that particular functions are localised in definite areas and con- volutions. In speaking of localisation of function in the cerebrum, one must not be understood as adopting the theory of Gall, that the mental faculties were definite in their number, that each had its seat in a particular region of the cortex, and that the locus of this region was marked on the surface of the skull and head by a more or less prominent ‘ bump.’ The foundation of a scientific basis for localisation dates from 1870, when Eritsch and Hitzig announced that definite movements followed the application of electrical stimulation to definite areas of the cortex in dogs. The indication thus given was at once seized upon by David Ferrier, who explored rot only the hemi- spheres of dogs, but those of monkeys and other vertebrates.' By his researches and those of many subsequent inquirers, of whom amongst our own countrymen we may especially name Beevor, Hor.sley, and Schafer, it has now been esta- blished that, when the convolutions bounding, and in close proximity to the fissure of Rolando are stimulated, motor reactions in the limbs, trunk, head and face follow, which have a definite purposive character, corresponding with the volitional movements of the animal. The Rolandic region is therefore regarded as a part of the motor apparatus; it is called the motor area, and the function of exciting volunt.ary movements is localised in its cortical grey matter. By the researches of the same and other inquirers it has been determined that certain other convolutions are related to the different forms of .sensibility, and are sensory or perceptive centres, localised for sight, hearing, taste, smell, and touch. Most important observations on the paths of conduction of sen.sory impressions in the cortex of the convolutions were announced last year by Dr. FJechsig,* of Leipzig, so well known by his researches on the development of the tracts of nerve-tibres in the columns of the spinal cord, published several years ago. He discovered that the nerve-fibres in the cord did not become myelinated, ie. attain their perfect structure, at a uniform period of time, so that some acquired their complete functional importance before others. He has now applied the same method of research to tlie study of the development of the human brain, and has shown that in it also there is a difierence in the time of attaining perfect .structural development of the nerve-tracts. Further, he has discovered that the nerve-tibres in the cerebrum become myelinated, subsequent to the fibres of the other divisions of the cerebro-spinal nervous axis. When a child is born, very few of the fibres of its cerebrum are myelinated, and we have now an anatomical explanation of the reason why an infant has so inactive a brain and is so helpless a creature. It will therefore be of especial interest to determine, whether in those animals which are active as soon as they are horn, and which can at once assume the characteristic attitude of the species, the fibres of the cerebrum are completely developed at the time of birth. Flechsig has also shown that the sensory paths myeli- nate before the motor tracts; that the paths of transmission of touch, and the other impulses conducted by the dorsal roots of the spinal nerves, are ' West Riding Asylum Reports, 1873. ■ Die localisation der Geistiyen Vorydnye, Leipzig, 189(1.