168 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XI. Or:—When thoroughly cleaned, the brains should be taken out, washed, soaked, and blanched, and boiled; then mix well a little chopped sage, previously scalded and warmed in melted butter; serve in a separate dish with the tongue, the brains being placed in the centre; brush the head with yolk of egg, cover with bread-crumbs, and brown before the fire. In doing this, however, the better mode is, also to score the head at distances of ^ an inch, and to put into each incision some of the crumbs and chopped sweet herbs; and serve with tomata or brown caper sauce. If any of the head is left, it may be hashed next day, and a few slices of bacon just warmed and put round. The remains of calf’s head eat well if grilled. Calf s-head hashed.—When half boiled, cut off the meat in slices i inch thick, and 2 or 3 inches long: brown some butter, flour, and sliced onion, and throw in the slices with some good gravy, and morels or mushrooms; give it one boil and skim it well, and set it in a moderate heat to sim- mer till very tender. Season with pepper, salt, and cayenne at first; and 10 minutes before serving throw in some shred parsley, with a very small bit of tarragon and knotted marjoram cut as fine as possible : add the squeeze of a lemon and a glass of white wine. Garnish with forcemeat-balls and bits of bacon rolled round. To fricassee Calf s-head.—Clean and half boil a head; cut the meat into small bits, and put it into a tosser, with a little gravy made of the bones, some of the water it was boiled in, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, and a blade of mace. If you have any young cockerels in the house, use the combs; but first boil them tender and blanch them ; or a sweetbread will do as well, cut in pretty large dice. Season the gravy with a little pepper, nutmeg, and salt, rub down some flour and butter, and give all a boil together; then take out the herbs and onion, and add a little cup of cream, but do not boil it. Serve with small bits of bacon rolled round, and balls. To bake Calf s-head.—Mix pepper, salt, b r e a d - c r u n< 1 chopped sage together; rub the head over with butter and put the seasoning upon it; cut the brains in 4 pieces, and rub them also in the crumbs, and lay the head in a deep dish with the brains; put a piece of butter into each eye, with plenty of the crumbs also, fill the dish nearly full of. water, and let it bake 2 hours in a quick oven.