73 Chap. VII.] MEAT-SOUPS. CLEAR GRAVY SOUP 2. —Is made from solid lean beef in the proportion of 1 pint of water to 1 lb. of meat and 2 oz. of ham, according to the instructions above given; strain it through a napkin, to free it from the shreds of meat and vegetables. Boil the vegetables separately a few hours before dinner, in a portion of the broth, and add them to the soup. We cannot too often repeat, that when soup is sufficiently boiled on the first day, all that it requires on the second is to make it thoroughly hot. Many persons prefer boiling all the vegetables in the soup on the first day, thinking that they improve its flavour. This may be done in common soup that is not to be strained, but should never be done if you wish it to be very bright and clear. It may be seasoned as above, and should be of a clear amber colour, without any artificial browning; but if wanted of a deep colour, a burnt onion will suffice. This soup is, in fact, the foundation of all those made from beef: the great secret of making it being, u not to spare the meat,” and to boil it slowly. MACAR ONI SOUPS. 3. —Take a quart of gravy soup ; break 2 oz. of Naples macaroni into, pieces of little more than an inch long, putting them, by degrees, into a small portion of the boiling soup, to prevent them from sticking together, and let them boil until quite tender, but not soft or pulpy—from 15 to 20 minutes if quite fresh, but nearly + an hour if at all stale. Vermicelli is used in the same maimer. They will improve the consistence of the soup if the quantity above stated be added ; but it is useless and does not look well to see, as at some tallies, only a few strings of it floating in the tureen. The flavour will also be much improved if a small quantity of Parmesan cheese be either melted in it, or grated and served up separately. SAGO SOUP. 4—Take gravy soup, quite clear and brown ; add to it a sufficient quantity of sago to thicken it to the consistence of pea-soup, and season it with soy and ketchup ; to which may be added a small glass of red wine. It may also be made, as a while soup, of beef, by leaving out the soy and ketchup, and using white wine, adding a little cream and mace.