Chap. XXXI.] COOKERY FOR THE SICK. 631 ade, negus, or weak punch, a glass of rum being the proportion for a quart. v Barley Water with Honey.—Add the juice and rind of 1 lemon to 1 tablespoonful of honey and 2 teacupfuls of barley ; put it into a jug, and pour a quart of boiling water upon it. Barley Water with Isinglass.—A tablespoonful of pearl- barley, 6 lumps of loaf sugar, i a lemon, and enough isinglass to clear it. Pour 2 quarts of boiling spring water on these ingredients, and let it stand-until cold. Soda Water.—Dissolve 6 drachms of dried carbonate, of soda in a quart bottle of water, and 4p drachms of tartaric acid in another bottle of the same size ; pour out a wineglassful from each bottle, and throw them at the same time into a tumbler, when it will immediately effervesce; it should be drunk in this state. This is a good soda water, and a dozen glasses thus pre- pared will not cost more than Is. 3cl. or Is. 6cl. If 10 drops of the muviated tincture of iron be previously put into the tum- bler a most excellent and agreeable tonic mineral water is pro- duced, which strengthens the tone of the digestive organs in a very remarkable degree. Lemon Water is also a delightful drink. Put 2 slices of lemon thinly pared into a teapot, a little bit of the peel, and a large spoonful of capillaire ; pour in a pint of boiling water, and stop it close 2 hours. A refreshing Brink for the Sick.—Boil 2 oz. of hartshorn shavings in 1 quart of water ; when quite dissolved set it aside to settle, and before it is cold strain it through a tammy upon 4 a lemon sliced thin, with sugar to taste ; cover it, and let it remain till cold, mixing with it a glass of Moselle or French wine. Apple Water is very delicate. Cut 2 large apples in slices, and pour 1 quart of boiling water on them; or on roasted apples ; strain in 2 or 3 hours, and sweeten lightly. Or :—Peel and quarter 4 large rennet apples, or any other firm acid apple. Put them into 1 quart of water with the peel of 4 a lemon and a handful of washed currants ; let all boil for 1 hour, then strain it; add sugar to taste. Let it stand till cold. A little wine may be added to it when about to be drunk. Orgeat.—Beat 2 oz. of almonds witli a teaspoonful of orange-