434 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIII. for about l of an hour in a couple of glasses of white wine. It may be done while the family are at dinner, and the apples eat better than in a pie. They should be thrown into cold water when sliced, to prevent their becoming dry and dis- coloured. The apples may be also mixed with pears or plums, and will be found excellent. RHUBARB PIE OR TART. 578. —Take the stalks from the leaves, and peel off the thin skin ; cut them into pieces about an inch long, and as you do so sprinkle a little fine sugar into the basin. For a quart basin, heaped, take 1 lb. of common lump-sugar; boil it in nearly i pint of water to a thin syrup; when skimmed, put the rhubarb into it, and as it simmers shake the pan often over the fire. It will turn yellow at first, but keep it very gently doing until it greens, and then take it off. When cold lay it in the tart-dish, with only as much syrup as will make it very moist. Put a light crust over it, and when that is baked the tart will be done enough; quarter the crust, and fill the dish with custard or cream. Many persons think the flavour of the rhubarb injured by taking off the peel. TARTLETS 579. —Are always so called when made of a small size and uncovered with a crust; nor should preserved fruit of any kind be put under crust. The paste is made stiff enough to support the contents, being cut thin, put into pattypans, and crimped at the edges. The fruit is then frequently ornamented with small strips of paste laid over it crosswise, which are made thus:—Mix i lb. of flour, 1 oz. of fresh butter, and a little cold water ; rub it well between the board and your hand till it begins to string; cut it into small pieces, roll it out, and draw it into fine strings ; then lay them in any way you please across your tartlets, and bake immediately. The jam of raspberries, currants, or any other fruits, as well as the marmalade of apricot, quince, and apple, may be made into tartlets; and when baked in a quick oven may be filled up with raw custard or whipped cream. Orange Tartlets.—Squeeze, pulp, and boil tender 2 Seville oranges ; weigh twice their weight of sugar ; beat both together to a paste; then add the juice and pulp of the fruit, and the