531 PICKLES. Chap. XXVI.] cumbers, cover them, and make them boil as quickly as pos- sible for 3 or 4 minutes; put them into a jar with the vinegar, and cover them closely; when cold, put in a sprig of dill, the seed downward. They will be exceedingly crisp and green done in this manner; but if they do not appear to be of a fine colour, boil up the pickle the next day, and pour it boiling on the cucumbers. To pickle Gherkins.—Choose nice young ones, spread them on dishes, salt them, and let them lie a week, with a small bit of alum; then drain them, and, putting them in a jar, pour boiling vinegar over them. Set them near the fire, covered with plenty of vine-leaves ; if they do not become a tolerably good green, pour the vinegar into another jar, set it over the hot hearth, and when it becomes too hot to bear your hand, but still not to boil, pour it over them again, covering with fresh leaves; and thus do till they are of as good a colour as you wish. As an additional reason for preparing them at home, it is indeed well known that the very fine green pickles are made so by the dealers using brass or bell-metal vessels, which, when vinegar is put into them, become highly poisonous. If spices be not mixed among the pickle, put into the kettle in a thin muslin bag allspice, mace, and mustard-seed, to every quart of vinegar in the proportion of rather less than 4 oz. each of the former to 1 oz. of the seed. MUSHROOMS.—E. R. 743.— To pickle Mushrooms White.—Take the very small buttons, clean and nib them with a flannel, then put them into cold distilled vinegar, and allow it to come to a boil very slowly; drain and lay them in a cloth till cold, and then put them into fresh distilled vinegar. If very small they should not be allowed to boil, as so strong a heat might destroy them. It will therefore be sufficient to warm them; and when dried, they may be again put into the vinegar in which they had been originally placed, after it has been cooled. As to spice, a little mace will improve their flavour, but no hot pepper should be used. Those which are red underneath may also be used ; but those which are black are too old, and only fit for broiling or to make ketchup. To pickle Mushrooms Jiroxcn.—Choose them older, but she that they be fresh, and of a nearly pink colour underneath^ 2 m 2