ENGLISH WINES. Chap. XXX.] 609 draw of! the fluid into another vessel, and to every gallon add 1 lb. of sugar, mix it well, and put it into a cask to work for a week or 10 days, and throw off any remaining lees, keep- ing the cask well filled, particularly at the commencement. When the working has ceased, bung it down, and after 6 or 12 months it may be bottled. CLARY WINE. 841. —Boil 15 gallons of water with 45 lbs. of sugar; skim it: when cool, put a little to h pint of yeast, and so by degrees add a little more. In an hour pour the small quantity to the large, pour the liquor on clary-flowers, picked in the dry : the quantity for the above is 12 quarts. Those who gather from their own garden may not have sufficient to put in at once, and may add as they can get them, keeping account of each quart. When it ceases to hiss, and the flowers are all in, stop it for 4 months. Hack it off, empty the barrel of the dregs, and, adding a gallon of the best brandy, stop it up, and let it stand 6 or 8 weeks, then bottle it. COWSLIP WINE. 842. —To every gallon of water weigh 3 lbs. of lump-sugar, boil the quantity \ an hour, taking off the scum as it rises. When cool enough, put to it a crust of toasted bread dipped in thick yeast, let the liquor ferment in a tub 36 hours; then into the cask put for every gallon the peel of 2 and rind of 1 lemon, and both of 1 Seville orange, and 1 gallon of cowslip- pips ; then pour on them the liquor. It must be carefully stirred every day for a week ; then to every 5 gallons put in a bottle of bn^.^y. Let the cask be close stopped, and stand only 6 weejtg jfffore you bottle it off. Use the best corks. GINGER WINE.—E. R. 843. —Boil 9 quarts of water with 6 lbs. of lump-sugar, the rinds of 2 or 3 lemons very thinly pared, with 2 oz. of bruised white ginger, i an hour. Skim. Put f lb. of raisins into the cask: when the liquor is lukewarm, tun it with the juice of 2 lemons strained, and 14 spoonful of yeast. Stir it daily, then put in 4 pint of brandy and \ oz. of isinglass-shavings : stop it up, and bottle it in 6 or 7 weeks. Do not put the lemon-peel into the barrel. 2 k