MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIII. 460 COLLEGE PUDDINGS. 618.—Take l lb. of grated biscuit, the same quantity of currants, the same of suet finely chopped, a spoonful of sugar, and a little nutmeg; mix them together. Take the yolks of 3 eggs, and make up the puddings into balls. Fry them a light colour in fresh butter, and serve with white-wine sauce. Or:—Boil -j a pint of cream ; stir in l lb. of butter ; beat 4 eggs, leaving out 2 whites, and mix them with 2 oz. of flour well dried and 1 oz. of sifted sugar. When the cream is a little cool, stir it into the flour and eggs. Let it stand for i of an hour before the fire, and then bake in a quick oven for about 25 minutes. New College.—Take a penny roll grated, or, if desired to have the puddings particularly nice, an equal quantity of Naples biscuit pounded, i lb. of suet finely minced, and i lb. of cur- rants washed and picked, adding nutmeg, sugar, and a little salt. Beat up these ingredients with 3 eggs, and as much cream as will make them of a proper thickness for frying. Let the butter they are fried in be very hot; drop in the pud- dings by spoonfuls. When dished up, put a piece of green sweetmeat on the top of each. Or:—Take i lb. each of grated bread, suet, and currants, with 4 oz. of sugar, and an egg well beaten up in a glass of brandy, seasoned with nutmeg ; put into a mould, and boil for 3 hours. Trin. Coll.—Take 1 lb. of bread-crumbs sifted very clean, i lb. each of stoned raisins and currants, with 4 lb. of minced and salted tongue, beef-suet, and the same quantity of marrow, or the fat of a veal kidney, all mixed together. To this add a tablespoonful of flour, beaten up with the yolks of 6 or 8 eo-o's, according to their size, and the whites of 2, together vfith 1 a pint of brandy; the whole seasoned with i lb. of citron, 4- oz. each of ground cloves, mace, ginger, and salt, besides T lb. of moist sugar. Boil it in a shape for nearly 5 hours. Some cooks leave out the tongue, in which case it is a light plum-pudding. Brascnose*— 1 lb. of suet, 1 lb. of raisins, i lb. of fine bread, 4 figs chopped fine, oz. of allspice, 2 tablespoontu s “ Translated from a receipt in Herodotus, b. ii. c. 40.