537 PICKLES. Chap. XXVI.] The greater number of times boiling vinegar is poured over either sort, the sooner it will be ready. MIXED PICKLE.—E. R. 756. —To 1 gallon of vinegar put 4 oz. of ginger bruised, 2 oz. of white pepper, 2 of allspice, 2 of chilis, 4 ol turmeric, 1 lb. of mustard-seed, i lb. of shalots, 1 oz. of garlic, and i lb. of bay-salt. Boil all together except the mustard-seed, which must be added afterwards. Then mix i very smoothly i lb. of made mustard with some of the vinegar, when cold, in a basin, and add it to the remainder with the seed. Take brocoli, radish-pods, French beans, or any other vegetables or small fruit; blanch the vegetables, l lay them on a sieve, and sprinkle a little salt over them to draw out the water. Let them stand in the sun till very dry, then pour the vinegar boiling over them, slicing in some horseradish if approved. Pickle of this kind can be rendered hot at pleasure, by additions of chilis, green and red capsicums—which, when gathered young, add exquisite flavour—and all sorts of foreign peppers. As the spring advances, a portion of every small root produced in a garden, if collected and thrown into cold vinegar, till it can be conveniently made into a regular pickle, will be found most excellent, at no greater expense than the cost of the spice and vinegar, and the trouble of mixing it. INDIA PICKLE—E. R. 757. —Is made in nearly the same manner. Put 200 gherkins, 3 pints of small onions, 1 quart of nasturtiums, 1 ditto of radish- pods, 1 quartern of French beans, 6 cauliflowers, and 2 hard white cabbages sliced, into a pan, and sprinkle them with salt, the onions having been previously peeled and laid in salt and water for a week to take off their strength. Then, after a day or two, take them out of the pan and dry them thoroughly in a warm place in the shade : they must be spread out sepa- rately. To 2 gallons of vinegar put H oz. of allspice, the same of long pepper and of white, and 2 of ginger, tied up in muslin bags. When cold, mix with the vinegar 1J lb. of flour of mustard, and 2 tablespoonfuls of cayenne pepper. Boil it well together, and pour it on the pickle: the vege- tables mentioned, not being all procurable at the same time,