Chap. XXV.] PRESERVED FRUITS. 525 • excellent puddings; and even if the fruit be purchased in London, the cost will not exceed 8c?. per lb. Barberry. — Take the barberries without stones, pick them from the stalks, take their weight in loaf-sugar, put them into a jar, and place it in a kettle of water until the sugar is dissolved and the barberries quite soft. The next day put them into a preserving-pan, and boil them for 1 of an hour. Put them into jars, and keep them in a dry place. TO PRESERVE BARBERRIES IN BUNCHES. 731. -—Take the stoneless barberries, reserve the largest bunches ; then pick the rest from the stalks, put them into as much water as will make a syrup for the bunches, boil them until quite soft; then strain them through a sieve, and to every pint of juice put It lb. of loaf-sugar: boil and skim it well. To every pint of this syrup put ^ lb. of barberries in bunches, boil them until they look quite clear, and put them into pots or glasses. Tie brandy-paper over them. They are only used as a garnish for other sweet dishes. COMPOSITION SWEETMEA T.~E. R. 732. —Take 2 pottles of ripe red gooseberries, 2 of red raspberries, 2 of strawberries (the pines are best), and 3 pints of ripe red currants; bruise and mix them together in a deep dish, and to every pint of the fruit put f lb. of sugar, pounded ‘pretty fine ; then boil it for % an hour, stirring it all the time it is on the fire. Cherries may also be added, first taking out the stones ; measure them with the other fruit for the weight of sugar. C URRANT JELL Y. 733. —Take of red and white currants equal quantities, tie them down close in a jar, put them into a kettle of water over a slow fire to boil for 2 hours; strain the liquor through a fine sieve, but do not squeeze the currants hard; then to every pint of juice put ^ lb. of loaf-sugar pounded ; set it over a very slow fire until the sugar is dissolved. Do not stir it until the scum rises thick enough to be taken oft' at once ; then let it boil up quickly for 20 minutes, or until it jellies. Currant. Jelly without boiling.—Press the juice from the currants, and make it quite hot, but it must not be allowed to boil. To each pint of juice add a full lb. of loaf-sugar