466 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIII; Prince Albert's Pudding.—Put 1 lb. of butter into a saucepan with £ lb. of loaf-sugar finely powdered ; mix them well together ; then add the yolks of 6 eggs well beaten, and as much fresh candied orange as will add colour and fiavour, being first beaten to a fine paste. Line the dish with paste for turning out; and when filled with the above, lay a crust over, as if it were a pie, and bake it in a slow oven. It is as good cold as hot. .Royal Nursery Pudding.—Pour scalding milk upon white bread sliced ; let it stand till well soaked; then beat it well with 4 eggs, a little sugar and grated nutmeg. Bake in small teacups, which must be only half filled. Or:—Steep the crumb of a penny loaf, grated, in about a pint of warm milk ; when soaked, beat 4 eggs, and mix with the bread; add 2 oz. of moist sugar, orange-flower water, a spoonful of wine, a little nutmeg, and a teacupful of cream. Beat all well, and bake in teacups buttered. Or:—Add 4 eggs, the whites and yolks, 2 oz. of white pounded sugar, and 2 tablespoonfuls of flour; beat the whole up slowly, fill 6 small cups, and bake them for exactly 20 minutes. Serve with wine sauce. The absence of butter will render these puddings very agreeable to delicate stomachs. Creme d' Orge.—Boil in new milk 4 oz. of French or Scotch barley till perfectly tender, the superfluous part of which throw off; and having added to the barley a pint of cream, 2 eggs beaten, 4 oz. of sugar, the same of butter a little warm, 1 spoonful of rose-water, and a little nutmeg, cover it over for 1 hour, and stir it often. Bake in a buttered dish £ an hour. QUEEN DOWAGER'S PUDDING. 631. —Beat £ lb. of fresh butter, witli the same quantity of loaf-sugar, till it is like cream; then add 6 eggs well beaten, £ lb. of flour, £ lb. of currants, 2 oz. of candied orange or lemon peel cut into very thin slices, and 20 drops of essence of lemon. After the ingredients are all mixed, beat the whole for 10 minutes, then put it into a well-buttered mould, and boil it for 2£ hours. PUDDING FOR THE MAIDS-OF-HONOUR.—E. R- 632. —Boil 1 quart of cream, with a blade of mace, 3 cloves,