643 Chap. XXXII.] DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. gilding-brush wash over your glasses and frames with the liquid, and the flies will not go near the articles so washed. This may be used without apprehension, as it will not do the least injury to the frames. To clean Paint.—Never use a cloth, but take off the dust with a little long-haired brush, after blowing off the loose parts with the bellows. With care, paint will look well for a length of time if guarded from the influence of the sun. When soiled, dip a sponge or a bit of flannel into soda and water, wash it off quickly, and dry immediately, or the strength of the soda will eat off the colour ; it is, therefore, generally better to use only strong soap and water. When wainscot requires scouring, it should be done from the top downwards, and the water be prevented from running on the unclean part as much as possible, or marks will be made which will appear after the whole is finished. One person should dry with old linen, as fast as the other has scoured off the dirt and washed the soap off. To clean Paper-hangings.—First blow off the dust with the bellows. Divide a white loaf of 8 days old into 8 parts. Take the crust into your hand, and, beginning at the top of the paper, wipe it downwards in the lightest manner with the crumb. Do not cross, nor go upwards. The dirt of the paper and the crumbs will fall together. Observe, you must not wipe above 4 a yard at a stroke, and, after doing all the upper part, go round again, beginning a little above where you left off. If you do not do it extremely lightly, you will make the dirt adhere to the paper. It will look like new if pi'operly done. To give a gloss to Oak-wainscot.—If greasy, it must be washed with warm beer ; then boil 2 quarts of strong beer, a bit of bees’-wax as large as a walnut, and a lai’ge spoonful of sugar; wet it All over with a large brush, and when dry rub it till bright. To give a fine Colour to Mahogany.—Let the tables be washed perfectly clean with vinegar, having first taken out any ink-stains there may be witli spirit of salt; but it must be used with the greatest care, and only touch the part affected, and be instantly washed off. Use the following liquid :—Into a pint of cold-drawn linseed-oil put 4 pennyworth of alkanet- root and 2 pennyworth of rose-pink in an earthen vessel; let 2 t 2