Chap. XXXII.] DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. 647 Or:—2 oz. of soft soap and f lb. of rotten stone, beaten to a paste with boiling water. Fine Blacking for Shoes.—Take 4 oz. of ivory-black, 3 oz. of the coarsest sugar, a tablespoonful of sweet oil, and a pint of small beer; mix them gradually, cold. The best method of cleaning Knives.—Have the board properly prepared with leather, and clean the knives with equal quantities of rotten stone and iron filings. The machine for cleaning knives, invented by Kent, is one of the best household improvements that has been produced for a very long period. It appears rather expensive in the first instance, but the saving of time in cleaning the knives, the absence of dirt, and the certainty of always having a brilliant polished blade, are advantages that cannot pass unnoticed in any establishment. It is particularly adapted to large families. They are to be procured at most of the ironmongers’, and at Kent’s shop in the Strand. To take Stains out of Marble.—Mix unslaked lime in finest powder with the stronger soap-ley, pretty thick, and instantly with a painter’s brush lay it on the whole of the marble. In 2 months’ time wash it off perfectly clean ; then have ready a fine thick lather of soft soap, boiled in soft water; dip a brush in it, and scour the marble. This will, with very good rub- bing, give a beautiful polish. To take Iron-stains out of Marble.—An equal quantity of fresh spirit of vitriol and lemon-juice being mixed in a bottle, shake it well; wet the spots, and in a few minutes rub with soft linen till they disappear. To clean Marble.-—Mix i lb. of soft soap with the same of pounded whiting, l oz. of soda, and a piece of stone-blue the size of a walnut; boil these together for i of an hour ; whilst hot rub it over the marble with a piece of flannel, and leave it on for 24 hours ; then wash it off with clean water, and polish the marble with a piece of coarse flannel, or, what is better, a piece of an old hat. To expel Rats.—Catch one in a trap; muzzle it, with the assistance of a fellow-servant, and slightly singe some of the hair; then smear the part with turpentine, and set the animal loose; if again caught, leave it still at liberty, as the other rats will shun the place which it inhabits. It is said to