324 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XYIII. little pepper and salt. Let all stew slowly for an hour or more without any water, the stewpan being merely greased, or a bit of butter put in if the cucumber should not yield sufficient juice: when nearly done, add a teaspoonful of essence of ham: keep the pot closely covered while stewing. With Mint.—Take the hearts of 4 cabbage lettuces, cut them small, put them into a stewpan with 3 pints of young green peas and a little green mint chopped; add pepper and salt; then take a lump of butter the size of an egg, and mix it well with the vegetables, taking care not to bruise the peas; then add 2 tablespoonfuls of pump-water, a bit of ham, and a whole onion. Put them on the fire to stew until tender; 20 minutes will suffice, shaking the pan con- stantly to prevent its burning: when tender, take out the ham and onion, and add a piece more butter rolled in flour and t pint of cream; boil all together for 5 minutes, and add a tea- spoonful of loaf-sugar pounded. When old.—Steep them in water all night, if not fine boil- ers ; otherwise only i an hour: put them into water enough just to cover them, with a good bit of butter, or a piece of beef or pork. Stew them very gently till the peas are soft and the meat is tender: if it is not salt meat, add salt and a little pepper. Serve them round the meat. TO PRESERVE PEAS FOR WINTER USE.* 390.—Shell, scald, and dry them as above: put them on tins or earthen dishes, in a cool oven, once or twice, to harden. Keep them in paper bags hung up in the kitchen. When they are to be used, let them lie an hour in water; then set them on with cold water and a bit of butter, and boil them till ready. Put a sprig of dried mint to boil with them. Mr. Apperis method. —Have the peas gathered when ripe, for if too young they will be watery and not fit to keep. The peas, when shelled, should be put into strong jars or open- mouthed bottles, and shaken, so as to make them sit closely together. This done, the jars must be very tightly corked and tied down. The jars are then placed upright in a bain- marie, or any ii’on pot large enough to contain them, with hay placed between each, to prevent collision and breakage; t e pot is filled with cold water up to the neck of the jars, plac “ As practised in the kitchen of the Emperor of Russia.