MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIII. 464 Beat the yolks of 8 and the whites of 2 eggs, and mix with 8 oz. of butter warmed, but not oiled, and 8 oz. of white sugar. Pour the mixture over the sweetmeats, and bake 1 hour in a moderate oven. 110 L Y-P OLY PUDDING. 625—Make a rich pudding-paste with flour and butter, without suet, but as light as possible. Roll it out thin, and cut it to the breadth of 8 or 10 inches, making it at the same time as long as you please ; but ^ lb. of flour and 5 oz. of butter, wetted with water, will probably be sufficient when rolled out quite smooth; then spread upon it a thick layer of raspberry, currant, or any other sort of jam, but leave about an inch of all the edges bare. That done, roll it round ; the roll of paste will secure the fruit, and the ends must be twisted together for the same purpose. Wrap it in a nicely floured cloth, and boil it for 2 to 3 hours according to size. Take it up quite hot, and when served cut it crosswise. It may appear homely, but it is an excellent and much-admired pudding. CABINET PUDDING.-E. R. 626. —Take 10 penny sponge-cakes or biscuits, 6 oz. of dried cherries or sultana raisins, yolks of 6 eggs with the whites of 4 ; beat ufr the eggs with a little nutmeg and sugar and a pint of milk; butter the mould very completely, and lay the cherries or raisins in a pattern round the bottom and sides; break each cake into 4 pieces, and lay them close to the fruit to keep it from falling; then fill up the mould with the cus- tard. Lay a piece of paper over the top, put it into a stew- pan with 2 inches depth of boiling water, and be careful that the lid of the stewpan fits quite close to keep in the steam : i of an hour will boil it. THE CONSERVATIVE PUDDING. 627. —i lb. of ratafia and macaroon cakes mixed, 4 sponge biscuits, the yolks of 8 eggs, t pint of cream, and a glass of brandy, well beaten together, the cakes being soaked in the cream and brandy. Butter a quart mould, place dried cherries or stoned raisins in a pattern over it, pour in the mixture, and place the mould in a stewpan surrounded by water, and let it simmer H hour over charcoal.