Chap. XVIII.] VEGETABLES AND SALADS. 339 POTATOES A LA MAITRE E'HOTEL.—E. R. 417. —Boil and peel the potatoes ; let them grow nearly cold ; then cut them into slices tolerably thick, and warm them up in white sauce, or melted butter, with parsley chopped ; put into it a little white pepper and salt, and the juice of i a lemon. Or :■—Boil the potatoes, and let them become cold, then cut them into rather thick slices. Put a lump of fresh butter into a stewpan, add a little flour, about a teaspoonful for a mode- rate-sized dish; when the flour has boiled a short time in the butter add a cupful of water and a little cream ; boil all toge- ther, then put in the potatoes covered with chopped parsley, pepper, and salt; stew them for a few minutes, and then take them from the fire: add a little lemon-juice, and send to table. PUREE OF PO TA TOES. 418. —Mash the potatoes, and mix them while quite hot with some fine white gravy drawn from veal, together with butter and cream. The puree should be rather thin, and seasoned with salt, a very little pepper, and an atom of nutmeg. POTATO OMELETTE 419. —May be made with a mashed potato or 2 oz. of potato- flour and 4 eggs, and seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg. It should be made thick, and, being rather sub- stantial, a squeeze of lemon will improve it. Fry a light brown. POMMES EE TERRE FARCIES. ■ 420.—Bake the potatoes; and, when nearly done, cut off a circular piece from the upper part, and scoop out a portion of the pulp, leaving about an inch of thickness under the peel. Then have ready any well-minced fricassee or forcemeat you please, butter the inside of the potato, and fill up the cavity with the mince heaped to a round, touch it over with raw yolk of egg, and put the potatoes again in the Dutch oven, or brown them with a salamander. I he skins should be rubbed with butter to render them crisp, or they will probably have become too hard to be peeled without breaking the potatoes, but if not a portion of it should be cut off. z 2