Chap. XXIII.] PROVINCIAL PUDDINGS. 479 •water; make the dough into balls the size of a middling- apple, throw them in, and boil 20 minutes. If you doubt when done enough, stick a clean fork into one, and if it come out clear it is done. The way to eat them is, to tear them apart on the top with 2 forks, for they become heavy by their own steam. Eat immediately with meat, or sugar and butter, or salt ; or with melted butter, sweetened, and add a tablespoonful of lemon- juice. Norfolk Dumplings.—With a pint of milk, two well-beaten eerg-s, and a little salt, mix as much flour as will make a thick DU ' ' batter. Drop a spoonful at a time into a stewpan of boiling- water ; a few minutes will do them. Take them up in a sieve to drain, and serve quickly with cold butter ; the water must not cease boiling while they are doing. Dumplings quickly made.—Beat 4 eggs and strain them ; mix 4 oz. of flour very smoothly with a pint of milk; add to it the eggs, strain it again, and flavour the batter with sugar and nutmeg; butter some teacups, fill them three parts full, and put them into an oven: they will take i of an hour, and, if well mixed, will be equal to custard. Or :■—If boiled for ^ an hour in a cloth, the ingredients will make an excellent batter pudding. Another mode.—Shred suet, and mix with grated bread, a few currants, the yolks of 4 eggs and the whites of 2, some grated lemon-peel and ginger: make this into little balls about the size and shape of an egg, with a little flour. Have ready a skillet of boiling water, and throw them in. 20 minutes will boil them; but they will rise to the top when done. Serve with pudding-sauce.R Currant Dumplings.—Take 4 lb. each of flour, bread- crumbs, suet (chopped fine), and currants: mix all together . with a pinch of salt, a tablespoonful of moist sugar, a little grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, with 4 eggs, and sufficient milk to make it a tolerably stiff batter ; wet a cloth and tie the mixture in dumplings about the size of a teacup; boil for an hour, and serve with melted butter sweetened with moist sugar. “ If the currants, lemon-peel, and ginger be omitted, the above is the mode of making suet dumplings to be put into soup.