642 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXXII. While the furniture remains up, it should be preserved from the sun and air as much as possible, which injure delicate colours; and the dust may be blown off with bellows. By the above mode curtains may be kept clean, even to use with the linings newly dipped. To clean Plate.—Boil an ounce of prepared hartshorn- powder in a quart of water; while on the fire, put into it as much plate as the vessel will hold ; let it boil a little, then take it out, drain it over the saucepan, and dry it before the fire. Put in more, and serve the same, till you have done. Then put into the water some clean linen rags till all be soaked up. When dry, they will serve to clean the plate, and are the very best things to clean the brass locks and finger- plates of doors. When the plate is quite dry, it must be rubbed bright with leather. This is a very nice mode. In many plate-powders there is a mixture of quicksilver, which is very injurious ; but the common sort—whiting wetted with gin, or, if the plate be much stained, a little nitric acid, and wiped dry with chamois-leather—will be nearly, if not quite, as effectual. To clean Looking-glasses.—Remove the fly-stains and other soil with a damp rag; then polish with woollen cloth and powder-blue, taking care to handle them gently. To preserve Gilding and clean it.—It is not possible to prevent flies from staining the gilding without covering it; before which blow off the light dust, and pass a feather or clean brush over it, but never touch it with water ; then with strips of paper, or rather gauze, cover the frames of your glasses, and do not remove till the flies are gone. Linen takes off the gilding, and deadens its brightness; it should therefore never be used for wiping it. As means to destroy the flies, which injure furniture of every kind:— Bottles hung about with sugar and vinegar, or beer, will attract them; or fly-water put into little shells placed about the room, but out of the reach of children. Or, what is much safer, is a paper now sold at the chemist’s covered with an adhesive substance, which may be laid on the glass or near it. A good preventive is to hang gauze blinds before all open windows. Or:—Boil 3 or 4 leeks in a pint of water, then with a