Chap. XXVII.] CAKES. 553 together; beat 10 eggs, yolks and whites separately; then melt li lb. of butter and 1 pint of cream; when lukewarm, put to it i pint of ale-yeast, nearly i pint of sweet wine, and the eggs ; then strain the liquid to the dry ingredients, beat them well, and add of cloves, mace, cinnamon, and nutmeg, all together 1 oz.; butter the pan, and put it into a quick oven ; 3 hours will bake it, if the oven be of baker’s heat, but it will be better if baked somewhat longer at a more moderate temperature. An excellent Plum-cake.—Beat 1 lb. of fresh butter with a strong wooden fork until it resembles cream ; add 1 lb. of sifted sugar, and mix them very completely ; have ready the whites of 10 eggs beaten, and pour them into the butter and sugar; then add the yolks of 18 eggs, also well beaten, and beat them all up for 10 minutes. Take 1 lb. of flour, 2 oz. of pounded and sifted spices (viz. cloves, mace, cinnamon, nut- meg, and allspice), and mix them by degrees with the other ingredients;, then beat the whole 10 minutes longer, and when the oven is ready add 1 lb. of currants, 4 oz. of sliced almonds, i lb. of raisins stoned and chopped, and a large glass of brandy. Bake the cake in a hot oven. When sufficiently baked, let the oven cool, and afterwards put in the cake, and allow it to remain for several hours to dry. Very good common Plum-cakes.—Mix 5 oz. of butter in 3 lbs. of dry flour and 5 oz. of fine Lisbon sugar; add 6 oz. of currants washed and dried, and some pimento finely powdered. Put 3 spoonfuls of yeast into a pint of new milk warmed, and mix into a light dough with the above. Make it into 12 cakes, and bake on a floured tin i an hour. Plum-cakes require less butter and eggs for having yeast, and eat equally light and rich. If the leaven be only of flour, milk and water, and yeast, it becomes more tough, and is less easily divided, than if the butter be first put with those ingre- dients, and the dough afterwards set to rise by the fire. Little Plum-cakes to keep long.—Dry 1 lb. of flour, and mix Avith 6 oz. of finely-pounded sugar; beat 6 oz. of butter to a cream, and add to 3 eggs, well beaten, 4 lb. of currants washed and nicely dried, and the flour and sugar; beat all for some time, then dredge flour on tin plates, and drop the batter on them the size of a walnut. If properly mixed, it will be a stiff paste. Bake in a brisk oven.