Chap. XXVI.] FAMILY SAUCES. 545 i 1 oz. of mace in powder. Slice them into a well-tinned sauce- pan, mixing the seasoning with them as they are cut up ; boil, ■ keeping them well stirred; when thoroughly soft, drain off i the water, and rub through a hair sieve. Boil it again until it is as thick as apple-sauce. Put it into bottles, and cork : close. Put the bottles into a stewpan, fill it with cold water, > let it boil for 20 minutes. Keep in a cool place. Examine ! ing it well stirred from the bottom that it may not adhere, i and put it into the bottles again. When required for use, i warm what is wanted with a little gravy. It is as nice as I when fresh done, and will be found excellent with calfs head j or brains, veal, beef, mutton, pork, or goose. An onion or a I shalot, boiled in the gravy with which it is mixed, will be an ; improvement. CAMP KETCHUP. 765.—Take 2 quarts of old strong beer and 1 of white wine, I add i lb. of anchovies, 3 oz. of shalots peeled, ^ oz. of mace, the same of nutmeg, 3 large races of ginger cut in slices ; put ! all together over a moderate fire till one third is wasted. The next day bottle it with the spice and the shalots. It will keep for many years. Or :—A pint of claret, the same quantity of ketchup, 4 oz. I of anchovies, 1 oz. of fresh lemon-peel pared thin, 2 cloves of I garlic minced fine, i oz. of allspice, the same of black and of red pepper, 1 drachm of celery-seed bruised, and i pint of pickle-liquor. Put these ingredients into a wide-mouthed bottle; stop it close, shake it every day for a fortnight, and then strain it off. SEVEN-YEARS KETCHUP. 766.—Take 2 quarts of the oldest strong- beer, put to it 1 i quart of red wine, 1 lb. of anchovies, 3 oz. of shalots peeled, i oz. of mace, the same of nutmegs, i oz. of cloves, 3 large races of ginger cut in slices, and boil all together over a mo- i derate fire till one-third is wasted. When quite cold put it into a large jar, covered up, and leave it there for a week or two until the sediment is wasted, and the clear liquor is per- fectly transparent; then strain it through a fine hair sieve, taste it, and add to it a little of any essence of spice, oil, or vinegar, which you think may improve it, and, if the liquid be 2 N