MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. I. 6 market-price: nominally it may be so, but in the end it will be found exceedingly dear. A large portion of bone will necessarily exist; and if soups be not wanted, the bones will be made no use of, although they not only weigh heavy, but are paid for at the same price as the prime parts of the meat.” Those who cannot afford to give the high prices demanded for the best joints are recommended to purchase what are termed “ the inferior joints,” provided they be of the best qua- lity : thus, a shoulder of good mutton or veal is far preferable to the leg or fillet of an ill-conditioned sheep or calf. Inferior meat will never do credit to the cook, but inferior joints may be improved by cookery, and rendered equal to the best. It is the same with fish: a good fresh brill being infinitely pre- ferable to stale turbot; while one fresh egg will go as far as three which have lost their richness by long keeping. In short, be assured that the purchase of “cheap things” will generally be found false economy. Though it is very disagreeable to suspect any one’s honesty, it is yet prudent to weigh meat, sugar, &c., when brought in, and to compare the weight with the charge. It would be as well if brewers and bakers were to have tallies with the cook, on which every barrel of beer or loaf of bread may be marked, as they will serve to prevent overcharges. The butcher should be ordered to send a ticket with the meat; and the cook, after weighing the meat, should file these checks, to be examined when the weekly bill shall be delivered. Scales should be placed in the kitchen, near the door used by the tradespeople. The knowledge of such things as weights and scales being in use, will o’perate as a check to any petty fraud which might otherwise be contemplated. Respecting servants, there are a few things which cannot be too strongly urged: one is, never to retain a cook who is not fond of her occupation ; for unless she take pleasure in her art, she cannot be depended upon for accuracy in the prepa- ration of dishes with which she is well acquainted, and will not easily be induced to acquire anything new. She also must possess a natural regard for cleanliness, or all the pains