311 Chap. XVII.] GRAVY, SAUCES, AND CURRY. Smelts, Sprats, Roach, Gudgeon, and Dace are always either fried or broiled ; and the best sauce for either, if not used merely as a garnish, is the juice of a lemon with a little cay- enne pepper, merely pulling off the heads of the smaller fish, and dipping the body in the juice. The juice of a lemon is also sufficient for whitebait; but in all sour sauces the flavour of the Seville orange is preferable to the acidity of the lemon. SA UCE FOR EELS. 363. —If the *eels be spitchcocked in their skins, then some piquant sauce, as sauce a la tartare, is the best for correcting their richness; but if stripped of their skins and covered with bread-crumbs, then plain melted butter, seasoned from the cruets, or any of the milder sauces in these receipts, are more appropriate. Boiled eels are frequently served with capers and sometimes with sorrel sauce or parsley and butter; and stewed eels have always the sauce in which they have been dressed. JELLY TO COVER COLD FISH. 364. —Clean a skate, and put it into 3 quarts of water, with a calfs-foot or cow-heel, a stick of horseradish, an onion, 3 blades of mace, some white pepper, a piece of lemon-peel, and a good slice of lean gammon. Stew until it will jelly; strain it off: when cold, remove every bit of fat; take it up from the sediment, and boil it with a glass of sherry, the whites of 4 or 5 eggs, and a piece of lemon. Boil without stirring; and after a few minutes set it by to stand 4 an hour, and strain it through a bag or sieve, with a cloth in it. Cover the fish with it when cold, lightly roughed. CURRIES. 365.—Curry, which was formerly a dish almost exclusively for the table of those who had made a long residence in India, is now so completely naturalized, that few dinners are thought complete unless there is one on the table ; it therefore becomes necessary to give a few hints, which will be applicable to every variety. It is of the first importance to procure good “ curry-powderthere are a great many receipts for making