454 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIII. Brown Bread Pudding may be made with 4 lb. of stale brown bread coarsely grated,. 4 lb. of Valencia raisins cut in halves, the same of chopped suet; sugar and nutmeg. Mix with 4 eggs, 2 spoonfuls of brandy, and 2 of cream ; boil it for 3 or 4 hours in a cloth or basin that exactly holds it Serve with sweet-sauce. Prunes, or French plums, instead of raisins, make a fine pudding, either with suet or bread. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 607. —Make a custard of 1 egg and 4 a pint of milk, by boiling the milk with a little lemon-peel and sugar, and beat- ing up the egg in it, putting it on the fire to thicken ; butter slices of bread or French roll, and-soak them for an hour or twro in this mixture ; then lay them in a dish, sprinkling cur- rants between each layer, with a little pounded sugar; and, if meant to be very nice, put some sweetmeats on the top; but both the fruit and the sweetmeats may be omitted if thought proper. Pour over it another t pint of milk beaten up with 2 eggs. BISCUIT PUDDING. 608. —Slice 4 common biscuits thin, boil them in 3 gills of new milk, with a piece of lemon-peel chopped as fine as pos- sible. Break it to a mash; to which put 3 oz. of warmed butter, 2 oz. of sugar, and 4 eggs well beaten; add a large spoonful of brandy. Bake or boil. Another.—On 3 grated stale Naples biscuits pour a pint of boiling cream ; when cold, add a teaspoonful of cinnamon in finest powder, the yolks of 4 and whites of 2 eggs, a spoonful of orange-flower water or ratafia, 2 oz. of loaf-sugar, and 4 a spoonful of flour, or almond flour, rubbed smooth. PUDDINGS OF ITALIAN PASTE. 609. —Baked Vermicelli.—Simmer 4 oz. of vermicelli in a pint of new milk 10 minutes; then put to it 4 a pint of cream, a teaspoonful of pounded cinnamon, 4 oz. of butter warmed, the same of white sugar, and the yolks of 4 eggs, well beaten : a little oil of almonds or a couple of spoonfuls of ratafia will much improve the flavour. Bake in a dish without a lining ; but observe that, of the 2 sorts of vermicelli, the Genoese will require and the Neapolitan only 4 an hour of baking.