MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XV. 2.54 cover it over with butter, and bake it in a slow oven for 2 or 3 hours; when well clone, drain it from the gravy, and take out the peppercorns, put it into the pots pressed closely down to keep it from the air, and, when cold, cover it with clarified butter. In this manner any firm fish may be potted; and if the coral of a lobster, with a little of the fish, or some bruised shrimps, be added, they will much improve its flavour and appearance. To collar Salmon.—Split such a part of the fish as may be sufficient to make a handsome roll, wash and wipe it, and having mixed salt, white pepper, pounded mace, cloves, and Jamaica pepper, in quantity to season it very high, rub it well both inside and out. Then roll it tight and bandage it; put as much water and vinegar as will cover it, and stew it with bay-leaves. Cover close and simmer till done enough; take off the scum, and again boil the liquor, but keep it when cold, as the collar may be preserved in it, and wiped dry when wanted. As an occasional dish for a slice at breakfast or luncheon, when eaten with lemon-juice or any acid sauce, it is very good, but not in such request as collared eel. To pickle Salmon.— The Newcastle method is—Put any quantity of salmon into an earthen jar, cover it with equal parts of good vinegar and water, add cayenne pepper and salt in proportion to the fish, and bake it in a moderate oven. This pickle will keep a long time, with the addition of a little fresh vinegar; and if mace or cloves be added, with a few bay-leaves laid in the mouth of the jar, it will be found an improve- ment. Trout may be preserved the same way. Fish, thus pickled, must not be washed previously, but rubbed with a dry cloth. Though in London always eaten cold, yet in Newcastle it is not unfrequently wanned up in its pickle-liquor. TROUT 264.—Are by many people thought to be a small kind of salmon, but, though much resembling it in outward appearance and delicacy of taste, they are of a distinct species, only inha- biting rivulets of running water, and never bred, as the salmon is, in the sea. They are very small, seldom exceeding 2 to 3 lbs., and more frequently not reaching more than f lb. in weight.