568 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXVII. pounded sugar, 1 oz. of butter, 1 egg, a few carraways, and as much milk and water as to make a paste; roll it thin, and cut it with the top of a canister or wineglass. Bake 15 minutes on tin plates. Wine Biscuits.—Rub into 1 lb. of dry flour 4 oz. of but- ter, 4 oz. of white powdered sugar, 1 egg, and a spoonful or two of thin cream to make it into a paste. When mixed, put currants into one half, and carraways into the rest. Cut them as before, and bake on tins. Another.—Rub f lb. of fresh butter in 14 lb. of sifted flour, and make it into a dough with a little cold water. Roll it out into a sheet 4 inch thick, and cut it into round cakes with the edge of a tumbler. Prick them with a fork ; lay them in a shallow iron pan sprinkled with flour, and bake them in a moderate oven till they are brown. Send them to table warm. The introduction into England of the American soda-bis- cuits or crackers having caused several inquiries to be made for other American biscuits or cakes, we subjoin the follow- ing approved receipts:— Cookies.—One lb. of butter, 4 lb. of sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls (or 3 drachms) of saleratus, 3 lbs. of flour, and about a pint of buttermilk, or milk that is slightly sour may be used instead ; flavour the whole with ground coriander-seed ac- cording to taste. Cinnamon, ginger, or nutmeg, may be sub- stituted for the coriander if desired. Warm the buttermilk, and dissolve the saleratus in it by stirring. The sugar may be boiled in 4 pint of water, and allowed to cool before using, when less buttermilk must be used, and the butter must be rubbed small with the flour; or beat the butter and sugar to- gether in a pan to a nice cream; add the other ingredients, and make into a paste. Make into rolls 4 inch thick, and cut into what shape you please; or roll out the paste to the same thickness, and cut it into any desired form. Bake from 20 minutes to 4 an hour in a moderately cool oven. The same preparation, with only half the quantity of butter and sugar, and 4 pint more milk or water, makes a most excellent cake (superior to soda) for tea, or for children, to which carraway- seeds or currants may be added. Waffles are likewise in very general use among the Ame- ricans, and are made thus :— Put 2 pints of rich milk into separate pans; cut up and melt