Chap. XV.] 259 FRESH-WATER FISH. them. The odour will not exist long after the breaking up of winter; but if then not quite free from it, the best way is to insert a large piece of bread into the belly of the fish while being dressed, and removing it when quite done. The head of the fish is looked upon as the best part, and next to that is the back ; but the merits of the carp must ever depend more on the goodness of the sauce than the richness of its flesh. The Crucian Carp is a diminutive species, which is some- times passed off as being of the genuine sort, though utterly worthless. To boil Carp or Tench.—Clean and scale your fish, and take out the gills, as they are always muddy ; raise the back-bone, and rub in some salt; then let it lie in some strong salted spring water for a couple of hours, after which wash it out in clear spring water, then put it into boiling water with a good handful of salt; and, if it be of a moderate size, let it boil from 15 to 20 minutes with the milt or roe. Garnish with parsley and slices of lemon, and serve up melted butter with fish- sauces for table. Carp boiled “ an bleu—Draw the carp and clean it well, but do not scale it. Split it in half; then cut it in pieces large enough for serving up ; lay them on a dish with the scales undermost, and the milt at top, and pour over each some scalding vinegar ; add only water enough to just cover the fish, and put into it 2 or 3 onions with cloves, some scraped horse- radish, whole pepper, allspice, and a good handfull of salt. "When the water boils, lay the pieces in it, and let it boil for G an hour, taking care to skim it well whilst boiling. To stew Carp.—Clean the fish thoroughly, and dry it well on a cloth, dredge it with flour, and fry it of a light colour ; then put it into a stewpan, with equal parts of wine and water, a tablespoonful of lemon-pickle, the same of walnut-ketchup, a teaspoonful of mushroom-powder, and a little cayenne pepper ; add a large onion stuck with clo-ves, and a stick of horse radish. Cover the pan closely to keep in the steam, and let the contents stew over a stove very gently until the gravy is reduced to a quantity sufficient only to cover the fish; then take it up, strain the gravy, thicken it, and add it to the fish. In cleansing your carp, wash out the blood with a little vinegar, which save; then split and cut the fish into pieces, s 2