MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XVIII. 328 pour a little vinegar over it; then put it into a stewpan, and cover it with gravy; stew gently for an hour, and before serving thicken the gravy with a little cream. The sauce should be of a fine red colour; and perhaps it would be advisable to pound one or two slices in a mortar, to extract the juice. CABBAGES 397. —Are of various sorts and differently dressed, but the most common mode is plainly boiled. If the cabbage be large and old, or strong-flavoured, it will take an hour to boil. It should be boiled in 2 waters, removing the first when the cab- bage is half done, and replacing it with an equal quantity boiling hot. The water should also be frequently skimmed. All green vegetables are best boiled uncovered. Sprouts, or Greens, will be done in 15 to 20 minutes, but do not require skimming. Brussels Sprouts are a small species of cabbage, not larger than a walnut, and growing upon a tall single stalk. They are boiled in a few minutes, and may be served up either plain or covered with white sauce. Buttered Cabbage.—Boil the cabbage with a quantity of onions, then chop them together, season with pepper and salt, and fry them in butter. It is a rather homely but savoury dish, and frequently used either with fried sausages laid over it or as an accompaniment to roast beef, and forms part of bubble and squeak. For Red Cabbage, see Pickles. To stew.—Boil a large cabbage, press it dry in a cloth, then cut it very finely, adding pepper and salt, and a few chives or green onions, also boiled separately and well chopped; put a lump of butter into a stewpan, let it melt, add the cab- bage, and warm it together, stirring all the time; add a spoonful of gravy, and 1 of lemon-pickle, or the juice of £ a lemon ; let it stew for a few minutes, and then serve it. OF LETTUCE 398. —There are 2 sorts, the cabbage and the coss, both used in salads. Farcie a la Franyaise.—Having cleaned the lettuces, tie them separately with a string, and boil them. Leave them to drain and cool; then open the leaves and lay in farce or