88 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. VII THICK HARE SOUP. 31. —Cut the hare into pieces, and lay them at the bottom of a large jar, with a slice or two of lean ham, an onion, a stick of celery, and a bundle of sweet herbs, with about 3 quarts of boiling water. Put the jar into an oven, and let it remain until the hare is stewed to rags; it will take 3 hours baking, and the same time simmering by the fire. Strain off the liquor, take the meat from the bones and pound it in a mortar, mixing it with the soup until it is quite thick. Let it boil up once, with a spoonful of Harvey’s sauce, a glass of port wine, and a little cayenne pepper. Send it to table with forcemeat balls in the tureen, made with the chopped liver, and fried. The better way, however, is to make the "force- meat balls with the brains, and to grate or pound the liver, when thoroughly boiled, for the purpose of thickening the soup, which should always be made of a good consistence. A more frugal Hare Soup may, however, be made if there be only 3 or 4 in family. It is a very excellent and economical plan to cut off the head and shoulders of the hare, and roast only the hind quarters. Then, on the following day, stew down the bones, along with the head and shoulders, and make the whole into soup ; using the brains and liver as above, and seasoning it to your palate. A pound or two of shin of beef will increase the quantity ; and a few minced roots with a mush- room, or a little of the powder, will improve the flavour. ARTIFICIAL HARE SOUP. 32. —Procure a bullock’s heart as soon as possible after the animal is killed, cut away from it the fat, pipes, and outer skin, split and clean it from the blood, then slice it into an earthen jar, with a cover that fits close; add 2 or 3 good-sized onions, one of them to be stuck with cloves, a blade of mace, pepper, and salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a good slice of bread ; also a piece of butter rubbed in flour; put all down into a pot with water sufficient to cover the ingredients, put the cover on, and a coarse paste over it, that the steam may not escape. Place it in a pan of boiling water, letting the water come nearly to the top of the jar, stewing it for several hours, and keep filling up the pan with boiling water as it wastes away. When the meat is tender enough, pound it in a marble mortar with the bread till quite fine ; and while