CAXDIED FRUITS. Chap. XXV.] 507 be got at most of the large ironmongers’: it is of iron, coated with earthenware. Omelette-pans should be of the same ma- terial. Sieves and horn spoons should be kept for sweet things only. TO CANDY.—E. R. 699.—Almonds.—Blanch any quantity of almonds, then fry them in butter till they are of a light-brown colour; wipe them nicely with a napkin, and put them into a pan. Make a syrup of white sugar, and boil it to a thread—that is, until on your taking a drop of the sugar between the finger and thumb it will produce a thread ; care must be taken to boil it to the exact candying-point; pour it boiling hot upon the almonds, and stir them till they are quite cold. This is an excellent method of preparing almonds for dessert, and much approved of in London by the guests of his highness the Nawaub of Oude, from whose cook it has been obtained. Bon-bons.—Clear oft’ the sugar from fresh candied citron or orange rind, cut it into squares 1 inch thick, stick them singly on a bit of thin wire, and dip them into liquid barley-sugar; rub a dish with a few drops of pure salad oil, and lay the fruit upon this to cool. They should be kept in tin canisters in a very dry place. Toffie.—Melt in a stewpan 3 oz. of fresh butter, add 1 lb. of good moist sugar, stir it well over a gentle fire, and let it Jjoil about i of an hour, or till it cracks short between the teeth like barley-sugar; then pour it upon buttered dishes, and when nearly^cold mark it across in squares that it may easily divide, or roll it into sticks. When half-boiled, the grated rind of a lemon or a teaspoonful of ground ginger may be added. A few sliced almonds may be added after it is poured upon the dishes. To candy any sort of Fruit.—When finished in the syrup, put a layer into a new sieve, and dip it suddenly into hot water, to take off the syrup that hangs about it; put it on a napkin before the fire to drain, and then do some more in the sieve. Have ready sifted double-refined sugar, which sift over the fruit on all sides till quite white; set it on the shallow end of sieves in a lightly warm oven, and turn it 2 or 3 times It must not be cold till dry. Watch it carefully, and it will be beautiful.