MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. IX, 148 them. Before serving, add a little butter rolled in flour, and a spoonful or two of mushroom-catsup. Or:—Cut some slices from an underdone leg of mutton, and put them into a saucepan to simmer with pint of good gravy, a teaspoonful of white sugar pounded, a small quantity of onion minced, a teacupful of port wine, some pepper and salt, and 2 or 3 cloves. This dish should not be allowed to simmer more than 5 or 6 minutes. AN IRISH STEW. 128. —Cut rather thick chops from the loin; when the square ends of the bones are cut off, half a dozen wall probably weigh a couple of pounds; lay them in an iron pot, and put double the quantity of sliced potatoes, placed in layers, with the chops, and half a dozen small onions, with about a quart of water; cover the pan closely, and let them stew on a mode- rate fire for 2 hours, or until the potatoes have become nearly a mash, and absorbed all the water and gravy of the meat; the chops will then be found very tender, and the potatoes rich with the fat. The stew should be eaten hot, but without any kind of sauce. TO HASH MUTTON. 129. —Cut very thin slices from any joint of mutton that has been roasted. Take some onions, slice them, and put them with a piece of butter into a stewpan; fry them; then add 2 large spoonfuls of good gravy, ancl let them stew for about 10 minutes; then put the meat into the sauce, with a spoonful of walnut-ketchup, a little browning, and lemon-pickle. Let it boil for 3 or 4 minutes; shake it over the fire, season it with salt and cayenne pepper, and serve it quite hot, without thickening the sauce. Garnish with red cabbage. If the meat has been boiled, cut the slices rather thick, and use broth sufficient to make rather more sauce than for the roast; take mushroom instead of walnut ketchup; season with salt, white pepper, mace, and chopped parsley; add a few capers or a minced gherkin, and serve with sippets of bread fried in butter. A glass of wine may be employed, very cautiously, so as only to impart a slight flavour: port for the roast, and white wine for the boiled.