322 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XVIII. with a spoon into a handsome shape, and warm it in an oven or upon a stove. OLD POTATOES TO LOOK LIKE YOUNG ONES. 384. —Wash some large potatoes, and, with a small scoop made for the purpose, form as many diminutive ones as will fill a dish; boil them in 2 or 3 waters about 3 minutes each time, the water being put to them cold ; then let them steam till tender; pour a white sauce over them, and serve with the second course. Old potatoes prepared thus have been mis- taken for young ones at the best tables. POTATO-LOAVES 385. —Are very nice when eaten with roast beef or mut- ton, and are made of any portion of the mashed roots, pre- pared without milk, by mixing with them a good quantity of very finely minced raw shalot, powdered with pepper and salt; then beating up the whole with a little butter to bind it, and dividing it into small loaves of a conical form, and placing them under the meat to brown, that is, when it is so nearly done as to impart some of the gravy along with the fat. TO BR 01VN PO TA TOES. 386. —While the meat is roasting, and an hour before it is served, boil the potatoes and take off the skins; flour them: well, and put them under the meat, taking care to dry them from the dripping before they are sent to table. The kidney po- tatoes are best dressed in this way. The flouring is very essential. Potatoes, when boiled, if either waxy, or to be eaten with cold meat, should be peeled and put whole upon the gridiron until nicely browned. Potatoes should always be boiled a little before being put into stews, &c., as the first water in which they are cooked is of a poisonous quality. Fried Potatoes should always be cut from raw potatoes, and pared round and round like an apple ; cut them in slices i inch thick ; fry quickly, in plenty of hot fat, and with as little colour as possible; dry them well from the grease, and sprinkle with salt. When nicely done, and piled up properly, fried potatoes make a beautiful side dish, which is always eaten with great relish.