343 Chap. XVIII.] VEGETABLES AND SALADS. It is extensively used throughout the northern parts of Europe, as a pleasant vegetable, particularly with salted meats and sausages; and is considered so excellent an antiscorbutic that it is largely employed in our navy. It requires nothing but care in the making ; and, when properly prepared, may be served at any gentleman’s table. Boil it for 2 hours, and skim the water; or change the water for gravy, and stew it. CHICOREE, OR ENDIVE, au Veloute.—E. R. 427. —Take off the exterior of the endive, leaving nothing but the white ; let it lie in water to soak ; have it thoroughly washed ; then throw a handful of salt into a kettle of boiling water, keeping the endive under the water to prevent its turn- ing black ; when it will mix jvith the wrater it is blanched ; try with the finger if it be tender, and, if so, drain it on a sieve, and put it in cold spring water; when perfectly cold, strain it again, and squeeze it quite dry. Chop it, put a good piece of butter in a stewpan with the endive, a little salt and pepper; put in some veloule, that is, rich white sauce, or veal stock that will jelly; let it reduce till it becomes thick; send it up with croutons, i.e. fried paste, round. SORREL 428. —Forms an excellent accompaniment for young meat, or for anything the flavour of which is improved by its acidity, and is used very commonly in France, both as sauce and as a separate dish, prepared with cream in the same manner as spinach. Or:—Take any quantity of the leaves, washed clean, boil them tender in water, and pass them through a tamis; put them into a stewpan with a slice of fresh butter and a few spoonfuls of veloute; add salt and a little sugar. There are two sorts of the plant, the French and English ; the former bearing a small round leaf, and the latter much . longer, as well as duller in colour: the French is much the best. VEGETABLE RAGOUT.—E. R. 429. —Cut cold potatoes, carrots, turnips, cabbage, onions, and any other vegetables at hand into slices; put them into a stewpan, with pepper and salt, a little broth, and a piece of butter, and stir them together with a spoon until they are quite