Chap. VI.] 63 MARKETING. To know if a hare be young, see if the nut of the first joint of the fore-paw is tender; or turn the claws sideways, and if they crack the hare is young. If the ears are tender and pliable, and if the claws are smooth and sharp, the same con- clusion may be drawn. In every sort of fish, stiffness, redness of the gills, and brightness of the eyes, are invariable signs of freshness: thick- ness of the flesh generally marks the good condition of all fish, and its firmness is an essential requisite. Fish, when quite fresh, curl round, but are particularly elastic, rising immedi- ately upon the pressure of the fingers; and their staleness or freshness may be measured by the possibility of making an im- pression. “ If stale, the impression will remain; but, if fresh, it will rise again on removal of the pressure.” Generally speaking, the largest are not always the best, but neither should the smaller sorts be chosen, particularly in cod and haddock, which, when overlarge, are frequently woolly, while small salmon, or salmon peel, are always wanting in richness; but a moderately-sized turbot, if it be firm, often tastes better than some of the very largest. Turbot should be thick, and the belly of a yellowish white: if of a bluish cast, or thin, they are bad ; the best proof of con- dition being in the firmness as well as thickness of the fish, and a light cream-colour on the pale side. The best fish average from 12 to 20 lbs., though those of less than half that weight have a very fine flavour. A fish one day old will dress much better than a live one. Brill very much resembles turbot, but is narrower and thinner: it requires scaling on both sides, and is without those thorny spines which are found on the dark side of the turbot. It should be dressed as soon as possible after it is caught. Soles would appear to be in season all the year round, as they are always in the market in greater plenty than any of our flat-fish, but are in the highest perfection about midsummer. If good, they should be thick, firm to the touch, and the belly of a cream-colour; but if this be of a bluish cast, and the body flabby, or the eyes sunken, they are not fresh ; and when brought to table, if the spinal bone be in the least degree tinged with red, it is a sure sign that the fish is stale. They are of all sizes, from a few ounces to a couple of pounds weight; but if much larger, they will be coarse, while the very small kinds are all skin and bone.