Chap. VIII.] BEEF. 139 the outsides being removed, 2 oz. of fat bacon, the same of butter, the thin rind of half a lemon, and, the white peel being removed, the remainder sliced, a bay-leaf or two, 1 clove, 1 onion, and a carrot sliced thin, with as much water as will just cover them; keep the pan closely stopped, and simmer till the gravy be much reduced, stirring it often ; add some good broth, salt, and white pepper ; skim it, and dress the palates therein. Just before serving mix in the yolk of a new-laid egg over the fire, but the sauce must not boil. A la Mariette.—Boil 3 palates in water for an hour, peel them and cut them in two, lengthways; jmt a slice of pickled pork between each, tie them together, put them into a stewpan with broth or milk and water, and a piece of butter rolled in flour, salt, whole pepper, a faggot of sweet herbs, and a clove ; stew them for some time, then skim and strain the sauce, thicken it, and serve it up very white. BEEF KIDNEY.—E. R. 114.—After taking olf the skin and fat, cut the kidney into slices, season and brown it in the frying-pan; then put it into water boiled in the pan, which must be floured, and let it stew gently for some time. It will be very rich and tender, but cannot be considered a delicacy, and should be well peppered, as well as eaten with mustard and garlic, or shalot vinegar. . To mince a rate Beef Kidney.—Chop some parsley and a little shalot, mix it with the meat, seasoning it with pepper and salt, dredge a little flour over it, and put it into a stewpan with some butter; let it steAv until tender, then add a tea- cupful of rich gravy and a glass of wine. Or, after it has been dressed, Avith a small quantity of bacon or other fat, chop a little thyme with a bunch of parsley, pepper, and salt; mix it all together, with a little thin melted butter; lay it upon toast, stew bread-crumbs over the top, and brown them in a Dutch oven. To make Rissoles of Kidney.—Cut the cold kidney into small dice, with a third part of bacon, and 1 or 2 hard-boiled eggs, according to the quantity, also cut into dice ; season it well, bind it together with yolk of egg beaten up in a little melted butter, dip them in butter, or roll them in bread-crumbs, and fry them.