MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIII. 4o8 with i a pint of milk till thick; tlien put a lump of butter the size of an egg, and nearly 4 a pint of thick cream, and give it one boil. When cold, mix 4 yolks and 2 whites of eggs well beaten, sugar and nutmeg to taste, and add grated lemon and a little cinnamon. Bake f of an hour in a slowish oven, and when the pudding is ready strew over it a little powdered lump- sugar and cinnamon powder. Currants may be added to the pudding. Or:—Boil ^ a pint of rice in new milk until perfectly ten- der and not too dry; tlien add 6 eggs beaten, a spoonful of ratafia, sugar, and some grated fresh lemon ; mix well, and bake in a mould D} hour. Turn it on a hot dish, and stick it thick with almonds slit in 6. Serve with a rich custard round. It is equally good cold. A boiled Rice Pudding.—Soak 4 oz. of rice in water 4 an hour, then tie it up in a cloth (leaving room for it to swell) with 8 oz. of raisins. Boil it 2 hours, and then turn it out. Pour over it melted butter, with a little sugar and nutmeg. Rice Pudding with Fruit.—Swell the rice with a very little milk over the fire ; then mix fruit of any kind with it, currants, gooseberries scalded, pared and quartered apples, raisins, or black currants, and still better red currant jelly, with 1 egg to bind the rice; boil it well, and serve with powdered cinnamon and sugar. Ground Rice Pudding.—Mix 3 oz. of the powder with a gill of cream; when beaten into a paste, put it into a pint of warm milk and keep it simmering for 10 minutes; then add to it a piece of fresh butter, the yolks of 4 eggs with the white of 1, whip all together, and flavour it with pounded almonds and a glass of brandy, together with the usual ingre- dients of spice. Some persons colour and flavour it with saffron. Bake it in a shape, and let it remain for an hour in a moderately heated oven. SAFFRON PUDDING. GIG.—Mix f lb. of kidney suet, cut very small and free from skin, with 1 lb. of the finest flour, or ^ each of flour and French roll crumbled; take 3 eggs and beat them up in a pint of cream, with a glass of cognac and a tablespoonful of real saffron boiled up until the flavour is extracted; season it also