Chap. XVII.] GRAVY, SAUCES, AND CURRY. 305 colour, put in It dozen of chilis chopped fine; stir it well together for 4 minutes, then put in a small quantity of dried salt fish, not exceeding 2 square inches, chopped very fine ; keep stirring, and, as the butter dries, add a large cupful of the pulp of fresh tomatas, a teaspoonful of salt, the juice of a lemon, and a little water; mix the whole very well together, and let it be of the consistence of a paste, though not too dry. It is eaten with cold meat, but will not keep. CHE TNEY AND Q UIHI SA UCE. 351. —Take 8 oz. of sharp apples pared and cored, 8 oz. of tomatas, 8 oz. of salt, 8 oz. of brown sugar, 8 oz. of raisins, 4 oz. of red chilis, 4 oz. of ginger powdered, 2 oz. of garlic, and 2 oz. of shalots. Pound all these ingredients separately in a mortar, using cayenne pepper if chilis are not to be had. Mix the whole together, and add 3 quarts of vinegar and 1 quart of lemon-juice. Place the jar containing this composition on a stove, or by the side of a fire in a heat not less than 130° Fahrenheit, and stir it twice a-day for a month; then strain, but do not squeeze it dry. Bottle the liquor, which is an excellent sauce for any kind of fish or meat, hot or cold. A teaspoonful will impart a fine flavour to any ragout, or be sufficient for a pint of broth. The residue, which is the chet- n'ey, should be put into pots or jars. It may also be used in sauces and gravies, or eaten like mustard, with cold meat, or spread upon grills, being an excellent ingredient for devils, wet or dry. This admirable sauce is the invention of Colonel Tapp, and in India goes by his name. It may be made very good with vinegar only, omitting the lemon-juice. KHICHAREE SAUCE. 352. —Boil a pint of rice in broth, and, having steeped a teacupful of dried peas in water, boil them till they are soft. Then slice 2 or 3 onions, and fry them in butter, with a dozen or two of cardamom-seeds, a little white pepper, 6 cloves, and salt; take out the onions when browned, and the spice, and add a cup of curds or milk to the butter; stew it a little ; distribute the onions, spice, and peas equally through the rice, and pour the butter, &c., over it. Or put the whole into an earthen jar; secure the aperture with a paste, and put into an oven, or over a charcoal fire, for 25 minutes, adding x