78 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. VII. Or:—Put 7 lbs. of the upper end of a leg of beef, and an old fowl, in a pot, with water enough to cover it, the white parts of 2 or 3 dozen of leeks half-boiled and sliced, and 1 lb. of prunes. Stew till the meat be tender, skimming it well, and, if you choose, the fowl may be disjointed and sent up in the soup. The leeks should be blanched, and as many used as to thicken the soup ; but no other seasoning is usually employed than salt and allspice, with a small quantity of mace. MUTTON-BR O TIL 10. —The best part of the mutton from which to make good broth is the chump end of the loin, but it may be excellently made from the scrag end of the neck only, which should be stewed gently for a long time—full 3 hours, or longer if it be large—until it becomes tender ; but not boiled to rags, as it usually is. A few grains of whole pepper, with a couple of fried onions and some turnips, should be put along with the meat an hour or two before sending up the broth, which should be strained from the vegetables, and chopped parsley and thyme be mixed in it. The turnips should be mashed, and served in a separate dish, to be eaten with the mutton, with parsley and butter, or caper-sauce. If meant for persons in health, it ought to be strong, or it will be insipid. The cooks usually skim it frequently ; but if given as a remedy for a severe cold, it is much better not to remove the fat, as it is very healing to the chest. Another way, for an Invalid.—Boil 3 lbs. of the scrag end of a neck of mutton, cut into pieces, in 3 quarts of water, with 2 turnips and a table-spoonful of pearl barley or rice. Let it boil gently for 3 hours, keeping it cleanly skimmed. Serve with bits of toasted bread. SHEEP’S-HEAD SOUP. 11. —Have the head carefully cleaned, put it into a stewpan with a little water, and when it is heated through till up the pot. When it is sufficiently tender, take it up, remove the meat from the bones, and return the bones into the broth, adding onion, sweet-herbs, Ac., as before directed. r! he head and trotters may also be put with some vegetables into an earthen jug, containing £ gallon of water; cover it close up,