405 Chap. XXI.] PANCAKES AND FRITTERS. FRITTERS, 532.—Although a species of pancakes, are yet not so wholly composed of eggs, and may be made of almost any substance fried in butter." Make them of any of the batters directed for pancakes, by dropping a small quantity into the pan ; or beat 6 eggs very lightly and quickly in a quart of milk, adding gra- dually -f lb. of potato-flour. Have ready a large quantity of lard, and when boiling hot put in the batter, allowing for each fritter £ a large teacupful. They do not require turning, and will be done in a few minutes, but must be sent to table imme- diately, or they will become heavy: lj lb. of lard will be required for the above quantity of fritters ; they may be eaten plainly powdered with loaf sugar or sugar and cinnamon, and should be served on a folded napkin in the dish. Any sort of sweetmeat or ripe fruit may be made into fritters. For plain Fritters.—Grate the crumb of a penny loaf, put it into a pint of milk over the fire, and beat it very smooth ; when cold, add the yolks of 5 eggs, 3 oz. of sifted sugar, and 4 a nutmeg. Fry them in hog’s lard, and serve pudding-sauce in a boat. Apple Fritters.-—Take the yolks of 6 eggs, and the whites of 3 ; beat them well, and strain them; then add a pint of milk, a little salt, 4 a nutmeg grated, and a glass of brandy. Make it into thick batter with fine flour; slice the apples in rounds, cut out the core, dust them with fine sugar, and let them so remain for 2 hours; then dip each slice in batter, and fry them in plenty of boiling lard over a quick fire. They require lard sufficient to swim in. Glaze with sugar. Or :—Make a batter as thick as paste, of 1 tablespoonful of olive-oil, a little salt, the yolks of 4 eggs, a spoonful of orange-flower water, with as much flour as will thicken it; beat the whites of 2 eggs to snow, and slice it lightly in. This batter ought to be made an hour or two before it is used, that it may become lighter by fermentation. Put the fruit, well covered with this batter, into hot lard or butter, and fry. If the fritters are required to be unusually good, let the fruit marinate in brandy and sugar some hours before frying. Take the fritters out when of a fine light yellow, let them drain on a coarse cloth, sprinkle them with sugar, and serve quite hot. Creme Frite aux Amandes.—Boil 1 pint of milk with 2 bay-leaves, a little green lemon-peel, and a small piece of cin-