133 Chap. VIII.] BEEF. of the beef which will stew well; trim it nicely, and cut off all the fat. Chop all sorts of sweet herbs together very finely, with a little shalot and a great deal of spice, and put them into a saucer that has been rubbed with garlic, and cover them with vinegar. Cut fat bacon into long slips, dip it into the herbs and vinegar, and let the herbs be very thick upon the bacon ; lard the beef regularly on both sides, if necessary, in order that it should be thoroughly flavoured. Rub the beef over with the remainder of the herbs and spice. Flour the meat, add a piece of butter, the size of a walnut, rolled in flour, and a pint of water. Bake the beef in an oven, strain the gravy, which will scarcely require either thickening or browning, and serve it up with pickles on the top. It is most excellent when cold, but should be served up hot at first. The gravy may be boiled to a glaze if necessary. It will require a good deal of spice, a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, one of white pepper, a salt- spoonful of allspice, half the quantity of pounded cloves, and a blade of mace pounded. FILLETS OF BEEF. 101. —Cut the inside of a sirloin or rump in slices i an inch thick; trim them neatly; melt a little butter in a saute or frying-pan ; season the fillets; fry them lightly; serve with tomata-sauce, sorrel, anchovy butter, or gherkin-sauce. FILLET OF BEEF BRAISED. m 102. —Take the inside of a sirloin of beef, stuffed or plain, but rolled together so as to bring the fat into the centre. Then strew the bottom of the stewpan with a few slices of ham, in which a small quantity of gravy has been put, just to prevent the bottom of the pan from burning; and on' this place the meat, covering it with chopped carrots, celery, button onions, and a pickled chili, together with a sliced gherkin, sweet herbs, salt, mace, and a little allspice, and simmer until tender, then brown it before the fire or with a salamander, skim and sea- son the sauce, and send the meat, sauce, and vegetables up in the same dish. BEEFSTEAK A LA FRANCATSE 103. —Must be cut either from the sirloin or some other prime part of the beef, as rump steaks are not known in France.