493 CREAMS, &c. Chap. XXIV.] Brown Bread Ice.—Grate as fine as possible stale brown bread, soak a small proportion in cream 2 or 3 hours, sweeten, and ice it; but keep stirring, that the bread may not sink. Vanilla Cream, if iced, is made with a decoction or essence of that spice mixed with the cream. Iced Custard is also very good. Almond Cream Ice.—Take 6 oz. of bitter almonds (sweet ones will not do), blanch them, and pound them in a mortar, adding by degrees a little rose-water. Boil them gently in a pint of cream till you find that it is highly flavoured with them. Then pour the cream into a bowl, stir in 4 lb. of pow- dered loaf-sugar, cover it, and set it away to cool gradually. When it is cold, strain it, and then stir it gradually and hard into 3 pints of cream. Put it into the freezer, and proceed as directed. Freeze it twice. It will be found very fine. Send round always with ice-cream sponge-cake : afterwards wine and cordials, or liqueurs, as they are now generally called. WATER ICES 679. —Are made with the juice of lemon, currant, or rasp- berry, or any other sort of fruit, being gained by squeezing, sweetened, and mixed with water. Bub some fine sugar on lemon or orange, to give the colour and flavour, then squeeze the juice of either on its respective peel ; add water and sugar to make a fine sherbet, and strain it before it be put into the icepot. If orange, the greater proportion should be of the China juice, and only a little of Seville, and a small bit of the peel grated by the sugar. To make Ice Punch, as used in Italy.—Mix a rich sherbet, and grate a piece of sugar on a lemon or citron for flavour; then beat the whites of 5 or 6 eggs to a froth, and by degrees stir it into the sherbet: add rum, ice it, and serve in glasses. TRIFLE.—E. R. 680. —Place at the bottom of the trifle-dish a layer of maca- roons and ratafia-cakes, and pour over them as much sweet wine or brandy as they will absorb. Squeeze the juice of a lemon, and add it to a quart of cream not too thick; sweeten the cream with sugar rubbed upon the rind ; add a little brandy and the white of an egg beaten to a froth. Whisk the mixture, and as the froth rises lay it on a sieve to drain •