MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. YII. 100 an hour or two until soft enough to be either pulped through a sieve and thickened with cream, or eaten in the manner of a stew. A little cayenne may be added, but without any addi- tion of either potherbs or pungent sauces. A R TICHOKE SO UP. 52. —Clean the bottoms from the leaves and chokes, and put them to soak for y an hour in a small quantity of milk ; then stew them gently with a piece of butter kneaded in flour. When sufficiently tender, take them out and mash them ; rub them through a hair sieve, and let them afterwards simmer over a gentle fire ; add a bunch of young onions, some thyme, and a little parsley. When nearly done, pound in a mortar 2 oz. of blanched sweet almonds, the yolks of 4 eggs, and a spoonful of white sugar ; put them to a couple of quarts of veal broth, and season it to your taste with salt and cayenne pepper: set it on the fire for a few minutes before serving. Or, into a rich stock, made of knuckle of veal, beef-bones, &c., with a little carrot and celery, pepper or chilis, cut several artichokes, and put them in a saucepan with a little of the stock ; letting them boil very gently until quite tender. Then put them through a sieve, mix them by degrees in as much cream as will thicken the soup, add the stock, and warm all together without boiling it. ASPARAGUS SOUP. 53. —Take 2 quarts of good beef or veal broth: put to it 4 onions, 2 or 3 turnips, and some sweet herbs, with the white parts of a hundred of young asparagus ; but, if old, or very large in the stem, half that quantity will do, and let them all simmer till sufficiently tender to be rubbed through a tamis, which is not an easy matter if they be not very young. Tlien strain and season it; have ready the boiled tops which have been cut from the stems, and add them to the soup. Or:—Poach half a dozen eggs rather hard, have ready a hundred of asparagus heads boiled tender; boil 3 quarts of clear gravy soup ; put into it for a minute or two a fowl just roasted ; then add a few tarragon leaves ; season with a little salt; put the eggs and asparagus heads quite hot into the tureen, and pour the soup over them without breaking them. The fowl will be just as good as before for made dishes.