MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIII. 218 S WAR TZAIN—E. R. 233. Is a Dutch dish made thus:—Take the blood of a fowl or duck, stir it with a little vinegar and salt until it is quite cold ; then cut up the duck, or small cutlets of tender mutton, season it well, and stew it in a small quantity of water. When partly stewed add the blood, mix it well toge- ther, and keep stirring while it stews. By those persons who do not object to the ingredients, this dish will be found excellent. PL 0 VERS. 234. —Roast the golden plover in the same way as wood- cocks and quails, without drawing; and serve on a toast. Grey Plovers.—Draw them: they may be either roasted or stewed with gravy, herbs, and spice. Plover's Eggs.-—Boil them 10 minutes, and serve either hot or cold ; the former qp a napkin, the latter on moss. Send to table with the second course. HARES, If properly taken care of, will keep a considerable time, and even when the cook fancies them past eating may be in the highest perfection, which they cannot be if eaten when fresh killed. As they are usually paunched in the field, the cook cannot prevent this; but the hare keeps longer, and eats much better, if not opened for 4 or f> days, or according to the weather. If paunched, as soon as a hare comes in, it should be wiped quite dry, the heart and liver taken out, and the liver scalded to keep for the stuffing. Repeat this wiping every day; mix pepper and ginger, and rub on the inside; and put a large piece of charcoal into it, to prevent the musty taste occasioned by damp. Hares should never be hung by the hind legs; for, as the animal is commonly kept for a week or 10 days, if so hung, drops of moisture will in a couple of days be seen to issue from the mouth, thus draining the carcase of its natural juice. It should, therefore, be always suspended by the fore legs. An old hare should be kept as long as possible, if to be roasted. It must also be well soaked ; and while roasting it must be constantly basted with butter, or the skin will become hardened and the flesh rendered sapless.