POULTRY AND GAME. Chap. XIII.] 217 otherwise they become dry. Serve with fried bread-crumbs and bread-sauce; in trussing, the head should be twisted under the wing. OR TO LA NS. 231.—Pick and singe, but do not draw them: tie on a bird-spit and roast them. Some persons like bacon in slices tied between them, but the taste of it spoils the flavour ol the I ortolan. Cover them with crumbs of bread. Melted butter, with a little grated nutmeg, for sauce. WILD D UCKS—E. R. j 232.—Must be roasted at a very brisk fire; they take from 12 to 20 minutes, according to taste. Some people are of 1 opinion that they should only fly through the kitchen : by epi- cures they are considered to be in true perfection when they come up dry and brown, and, when cut, flood the dish with a gravy. The means of ensuring success consists in a very ardent fire, rapid motion of the spit, and constant basting. The carver should score the breast of the duck, put a piece of butter on it, and cut a lemon in half, putting on one half a spoonful of salt, and on the other a cayenne-spoonful of cayenne; put the two together, and squeeze vigorously over the duck ; but, those who desire to taste duck par excellence should substitute shickaree-sauce for the lemon. To stctv Wild Duck.—Shred thyme, winter savory, and sage, very small, and put them into some strong broth, with a little pepper, salt, and 2 spoonfuls of wine; stew them together for i of an hour; nearly roast the ducks, add the gravy that falls from them, but not the fat; then place a deep dish under them, and pour this sauce through and over them into it. Remove the ducks, cut them up, and put them with the sauce into a stewpan over a stove, and let them stew till they are done enough. Wild Ducks, Teal, Widgeons, and Dun-birds should be taken up with the gravy in. Baste them with butter, and sprinkle a little salt before they are taken up, put a good gravy I upon them, and serve with shalot-sauce in a boat. Landrail, Ruffs, and Rees are skewered as quails ; put thin slices of bacon over them, and roast them about 10 minutes. Serve with a good gravy in the dish.