VEAL. 175 Chap. XI.] little cream. Put all these ingredients into a stewpan until they are hot, and are well mixed together ; then add 1 or 2 eggs according to the quantity, butter a mould, put in the whole, and bake it in an oven until it is brown; turn out of the mould, and serve with fresh gravy. A GALANTINE.—E. R. 171. —Take out the long bones from a breast of veal, and beat the veal for 4 minutes with the flat part of a hand-chopper, in order that it may roll easily. Spread it on the table, and brush it over thickly with the yolk of an egg, and then sprinkle it with chopped herbs; season with pepper, salt, and pounded mace: make 2 omelettes, one of the yolk and one of the white of egg; cut them in strips; lay them upon the veal, with layers of pounded ham or farce between; cut some pickled cucumbers or mushrooms into small pieces, with some sweet herbs well seasoned; strew them over the surface, then roll up the veal very tightly, tie it in a cloth, and let it stew gently for 6 hours ; then put a heavy weight upon it, and let it stand 2 days before it is cut. Serve it in slices, with savoury jelly : any kind of boned game or fowl may be added. It requires to be highly seasoned. VEAL OLIVES. 172. —Cut long thin slices, beat them, lay them on thin slices of fat bacon, and over these a layer of forcemeat, seasoned I high with some shred shalot and cayenne. Roll them tight, about the size of 2 fingers, but not more than 2 or 3 inches Jong; fasten them round with a small skewer, rub egg over them, and fry them of a light brown. Serve with brown gravy, in which boil some mushrooms, pickled or fresh. Garnish with balls fried. HARICOT OF VEAL. 173.—Take the best end of a small neck ; cut the bones short, but leave it whole ; then put it into a stewpan just covered with brown gravy; and when it is nearly done, have ready a pint of boiled peas, 4 cucumbers pared and sliced, 2 cabbage-lettuces cut into quarters, and t pint of carrots and turnips cut in shapes, all stewed in a little good broth ; put them to the veal, and let them simmer 10 minutes. When the veal is in the dish, pour the sauce and vegetables over it, and lay the lettuce with forcemeat-balls round it.