61 MARKETING. Chap. VI.] “measly pork” is very unwholesome, and may be known by the fat being full of kernels. Pork fed at still-houses does not answer for curing- in any way, the fat being spongy. Dairy- pork is the best. Porkers from 3 to 4 months old are the most delicate, and 6 months is the latest age at which they should be killed as such. Bacon.—If the rind be thin, the fat firm and of a reddish tinge, the lean tender, of a good colour, and adhering to the bone, you may conclude it is good and not old. If there are yellow streaks in it, it is rusty. For hams, stick a sharp knife under the bone, and also up to the knuckle. If it comes out with a pleasant smell, the ham is good; but do not buy it if the knife has a bad scent. Hams short in the hock are best; nor should long-legged pigs be chosen for any purpose. Brawn.—The horny part of the young brawn will feel moderately tender, and the flavour will be better than the old, the rind of which will be hard. Venison.—The fat should be clear, bright, and thick ; and if the cleft of the haunch be smooth and close, it is young ; but if the cleft is close and tough, it is old. To judge of its sweetness, run a very sharp narrow knife into the shoulder or haunch, and you will know by the scent. Few people like it when it has much of the haut-gout; but it bears keeping better than any sort of meat, and if eaten fresh killed it is not so good as mutton. Observe the neck of a fore-quarter : if the vein be bluish, it is fresh ; if it have a green or yellow cast, it is stale. In the hind-quarter, if there is a faint smell under the kidney, and the knuckle is limp, the meat is stale. If the eyes be sunk, the head is not fresh. When you can learn where it has been reared, choose forest-venison, as that is the best; for some of the dealers stall-feed the deer, and fatten them with oil-cake. It shoiild be full 5 years old. The hack comes into season in May, and the meat continues in prime order until September when doc-venison is brought into use, and continues to Christ- mas. In every sort of provisions the best of the kind goes furthest cuts up to greatest advantage, and affords most nourishment! Round of beef, fillet of veal, and leg of mutton, are joints that bear a higher price; but as they have more solid meat,