Chap. XVIII.] VEGETABLES AND SALADS. 325 upon the fire, and allowed to boil for H hour if in cool moist weather, but for 2 hours if it be hot and dry. The jars should not be taken out of the pot until the water becomes cold. French beans and asparagus may be preserved in the same manner; they maintain their colour, but lose much of their flavour, and require a little sugar to improve it. BROAD OR WINDSOR BEANS. 391. — To boil.—Shell them, boil them until tender, with a good handful of parsley, then strain them ; put a large piece of butter in the middle. Toss the beans by shaking the pan upwards, so as to mix the whole well together. Serve with parsley and butter in a boat. Broad beans may be dressed when young with their skins on ; but, if old, they should be blanched, which is done by the cook’s removing the skin without breaking the beans, and then putting them, with a bit of butter, for a few minutes into the stewpan to warm. To stezv.—Take them when too old to dress any other way, boil them, and remove the tough outer skin by peeling it off after the beans are boiled; thicken some white broth with a little cream or flour and butter, add the beans to it, and stew them all together over the fire for a few minutes. Add pep- per and salt to palate. SPLIT-PEAS PUDDING. 392. —Take any quantity, say 1 pint, of yellow split peas ;a allow them to remain in water the whole night before you wish to use them ; after which take them out and put them into a cloth so loose as to allow the peas to swell; boil them for 4 hours, or until they are quite tender, then rub them through a colander, so as to render them perfectly smooth; add to the pulp a lump of butter and some salt. After being well mixed put the peas again into a cloth, tie tightly, and boil for about i an hour. Pour over it melted butter. A richer pudding may be made if 2 well-beaten eggs are added along with the butter. It is served with boiled pork. CARROTS AND PARSNIPS. 393. —When young, wipe off the skin after they are boiled * The meal made of peas and sold by all dealers saves much of the trouble of soaking and rendering the peas smooth.