MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. YITI. 126 BEEF HEAR T. 92. —If the ox be not young, the heart will be strong in flavour, and should be soaked the night before in vinegar and water. Though looked upon as a coarse and rather vulgar dish, it is yet very economical for a large family, and may be dressed in various ways, so as to render it very palatable. To roast.—Soak it overnight, and then wash and clean it very well; take out all the white thick skin, and fill it with stuffing of a savoury description, having a larger proportion of marjoram than usual; make a strong gravy, and serve it up witli currant-jelly sauce. It should not be spitted, but hung from an upright jack; but the better way is to bake it for 4 or 5 hours in a slow oven, and either lard it profusely or baste it frequently with butter. It is a good plan to dress beef-heart in this way a day before roasting or baking a hare, as, when cold and both hashed to- gether, they can scarcely be distinguished from each other. When there is no hare, hash the heart the same way by cutting it in slices, warming it in gravy with a glass of port wine and melted currant-jelly. Its appearance and flavour may be much improved by dividing it in half, covering it with slices of fat bacon, laying the forcemeat over it, rolling it round, and dressing it in either way as above. The other half will make excellent beef a-la-mode. To stew.-—Either take one-half or the whole of the heart, stuffed as above, and put it into the stewpan, not more than covered with beef-gravy and a pint of-red wine, with spice and sugar; or put only beer, spiced and sugared in the same manner, keeping the pan all the time closely covered. OX-CIIEEK. 93. —soalc half a head for 3 hours if it be young and tender ; or, if not, soak it the day before it is to be eaten ; wash it very thoroughly; then put it into a stewpan, or into an earthen pan to bake, with 2 quarts of water, and let it simmer for 8 hours, with an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, a bundle of sweet-herbs, and some whole pepper ; and to this you may, in 2 hours, add plenty of carrots, leeks, and, lastly, two or three turnips. When ready, take out the head, remove the meat from the bones, and cut it neatly; strain the gravy, remove all the fat, make some nice forcemeat-balls, and warm