362 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XX. boiled gently, or baked in a deep dish covered with coarse paste. This, it may however be observed, is rather a superior mode; as the common way is merely to use bay-salt, with occasionally a little saltpetre to give a tinge of redness to the meat, which is seldom smoked except for very large joints. Many persons, indeed, think the meat best when stewed; in which case, put no more water in the pot than will barely cover the meat, and keep it gently simmering for 4, 5, or 6 hours, ac- cording to the size of the joint. To salt Beef red.—Choose a piece of beef with as little bone as you can (the flank is the best), sprinkle it, and let it drain a day; then rub it with common salt, a small proportion of saltpetre, bay-salt, and a little coarse sugar; you may add a few grains of cochineal, all in fine powder. Rub the pickle every day into the meat for a week, then only turn it. It will be excellent in 8 days. In 16, drain it from the pickle; and let it be smoked at the oven’s mouth when heated with wood, or send it to the baker’s. A few days will smoke it. It is extremely good eaten fresh from the pickle, boiled tender with greens or carrots. If to be grated, then cut a lean bit, boil it till extremely tender, and while hot put it under a press. When cold, fold it in a sheet of paper, and it will keep in a dry place 2 or 3 months, ready for serving on bread and butter. THE DUTCH WAY TO SALT BEEF. 460. —Take a lean piece of beef, rub it well with treacle or brown sugar, and turn it often. In 3 days wipe it, and salt it with common salt and saltpetre beaten fine; rub these well in, and turn it every day for a fortnight. Roll it tight in a coarse cloth, and press it under a heavy weight; hang to dry in wood- smoke, but turn it upside down every day. Boil it in pump- water, and press it: it will grate or cut into shivers, and makes a good breakfast dish. To 12 lbs. of beef the proportion of common salt is 1 lb. HAMBURG BEEF.—E. R. 461. —Take a piece of ribs of beef of about 15 lbs. weight, and rub it well with common salt; let it lie for a day or two. Take 2 oz. of sal-prunella, 4 oz. of bay-salt, 4 oz. of coarse