38 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. III. reason why improvement or advantageous change should not be made. The combinations and changes in cookery by means of the same materials are endless, therefore always think. 5. Cooks must please the palate; but it is necessary they should likewise suit the stomach ; want of skill ultimately brings upon them reproach instead of praise. 6. A judicious use of salt will do wonders for the credit of a cook. The flavours which result from it cannot be traced to a cause ; the cook has therefore the whole of the credit—the condiment none. The same applies to the use of condiments and flavours in general; whenever a particular taste predominates, the merit is attributed to the ingredient, and not to the cook. 7. The cook who attends to the niceties of the art is a superior servant; but if ignorant or neglectful, is worthless. There are three arts very essential in good cooking ; these are honing, larding, and braising. They are not difficult to acquire, so that there is little or no excuse for their neglect in the kitchens of private families ; but we may truly assert that not one cook in a hundred knows anything of boning, and very few of even the simple operation of larding; if, therefore, the family resides in town, the better way is always to have these matters performed by the poulterer ; for if a joint of meat— as, for instance, a shoulder of mutton—is to be boned, the butcher cannot do it so well. Boning, besides its other advantages, is particularly recom- mended, on account of its economy: the bones of turkeys, fowls, hares, &c., assisting to make gravy, while they are nearly useless when left in the bodies of the animals: a boned fowl also, rendered solid by stuffing, will go much further than when dressed in the common way. Hares should always be boned, for the sake of the improvement in their appearance, and being so much more easily carved. In the hiring of a cook by persons resident in the country, it is therefore essential to ascertain whether she is mistress of that art; for as to teaching her by printed directions, it would be time thrown away, and she can only acquire it by practice; but it may be learned by a few lessons from the poulterer. Larding should be neatly done to be ornamental; but the same effect, with respect to flavour, may be produced by raising the skin and laying a slice of fat bacon beneath it; and