546 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXYI. not lucidly clear, give it 1 smart boil: let it rest till cool, and bottle it in very small bottles to prevent its frequent exposure to the air. It will improve by age, and may be carried on a voyage round the world. As may also Sauce a la Militaire, made thus :—Put into an earthen pot 6 shalots sliced, a clove of garlic split, 2 laurel-leaves, a handful of thyme, basil, and tarragon-leaves, £ oz. of mustard-seed bruised, 1 teaspoonful of grated Seville orange-peel, I oz. of cloves, the same quantity of mace, 4 oz. of long pepper, 2 oz. of salt, the juice of a lemon, 6 spoonfuls of the strongest vinegar, and pint of white wine. Stop the pot very closely, and put it into an oven, or upon hot ashes, for 24 hours, to allow the whole to infuse properly. Then allow it to settle, and strain it until it is quite clear: bottle it, and close the bottles tightly: a very small quantity will be sufficient, and it may be used with all sorts of meat, game, or fish. ARTIFICIAL SAUCES FOR FISH. 767.—Those most commonly used in England are soy and anchovy, merely mixed from the cruets into melted butter by each individual of the company; the butter, when brought to table in a prepared state, should be made as follows:— For Anchovy Sauce, the foundation should be some of the fish stock or gravy which has been already made and kept in the house for future use. Take 2 or 3 anchovies, scrape, but do not wash them, and boil them along with a minced shalot in some of the gravy, until they are soft enough to be pounded to a paste. Then strain the gravy and thicken it with the body of the fish, after having removed the heads, tails, and bones. When that is done, put it, for about i of an hour, in the stewpan along with a glass of red wine, a squeeze of lemon, and the necessary quantity of butter. The common mode is, to chop 3 anchovies, melt i lb. of butter in a teacupful of the water in which the fish is boiled, add a spoonful of vinegar, and a little flour. Stir it well over the fire until it is quite thick. Or:—Not unfrequently 2 or 3 spoonfuls of the prepared essence of anchovy are put into the melted butter, seasoned with a little cayenne pepper. The savoury store sauces for fish, as prepared and sold in the shops, are all to a certain degree agreeable to some palates,