MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIII. 478 yolks of 4 eggs, the whites of 2, both being previously well beaten; stir it over the fire till it is the thickness of cream; then pour it into an open tart-paste and bake it in a moderate oven. Yorkshire Pudding.—Put 1 pint of boiling milk to the crumb of a penny loaf, 4 eggs, a little salt and flour; put it in a tin and bake it under roast beef or mutton. A Welsh Pudding.—Let 4 lb. of fine butter melt gently, beat with it the yolks of 8 and whites of 4 eggs, mix in 6 oz. of loaf-sugar, and the rind of a lemon grated. Put a paste into a dish for turning out, and pour the above in, and nicely bake it. Gloucester Puddings.—Weigh 3 eggs in the shell; take their weight in flour and butter; take 12 bitter almonds and 5 oz. of pounded sugar; beat all together for 4 an hour, and put the mixture in pudding-cups, filling the cups only half full. Bake them 4 an hour. D UMPLINGS. 657.— Oxford Dumplings.—Of grated bread 2 oz., cur- rants and shred suet 4 oz. each, 2 large spoonfuls of flour, a great deal of grated lemon-peel, a bit of sugar, and a little pimento in fine powder. Mix with 2 eggs and a little milk into 5 dumplings, and fry of a fine yellow brown. Made with flour instead of bread, but half the quantity, they are excellent. Serve with sweet-sauce. Apple Dumplings should be made of 1 large apple quar- tered and cored, then put together, covered with a thin paste, and boiled till the fruit shall be done enough. Or:—The apple is best not cut, but the core scooped out, and the centre filled up witli a piece of butter and sugar, ac- cording to the tartness of the apple. The paste should not be rolled out, but a lump of the proper quantity taken, the apple placed upon it, and the paste carefully pressed round it: bringing it to a point which is easily closed, so as to keep in the juice and butter. They have a pretty effect if boiled in nets instead of cloths. Yeast or Suffolk Dumplings.—Make a very light dough with yeast, as for bread, but with milk instead of water, and put salt. Let it rise an hour before the fire. 20 minutes be- fore you are to serve, have ready a large stewpan of boiling