Chap. XXXII.] DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. 641 sufficient to cover the things to be dyed, and put some starch to it to give a slight stiffness. Dry a bit, to see whether the colour is deep enough; set the linen, &c., into it, and wash it: then dry the articles singly, and mangle or calender them. The dyer will, however, do it better, and perhaps cheaper. To make Old Silk look as ivell as New.—Unpick the dress, put it into a tub and cover it with cold water; let it remain an hour; dip it up and down, but do not wring it; hang it up to drain. Iron it very damp, and it will look beautiful. Or :—Having unpicked the dress, grate 2 large potatoes into a quart of water ; let it stand to settle ; strain it without dis- turbing the sediment, and sponge the silk with it. Iron it on the wrong side. TO DYE GLOVES. 880. To look like York-Tan.—Put some saffron into 1 pint of soft water boiling hot, and let it infuse all night; next morning wet the leather over with a brush. The tops should be sewn close to prevent the colour from getting in. * To dye white Gloves a beautiful Purple.—Boil 4 oz. of log- wood and 2 oz. of roche-alum in 3 pints of soft water till half wasted. Let it stand to be cold after straining. Let the gloves be nicely mended ; then do them over with a brush, and when dry repeat it. Twice is sufficient, unless the colour is to be very dark. When dry, rub off’ the loose dye with a coarse cloth. Beat up the white of an egg, and with a sponge rub it over the leather. The dye will stain the hands, but wetting them with vinegar before they are washed will take it off. DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. 881. To clean Calico Furniture.—-Shake off the loose dust then lightly brush with a small long-haired furniture-brush; ' after which wipe it closely with clean flannels, and rub it with dry bread. If properly done, the curtains will look nearly as well as at first; and, if the colour be not light, they will not require washing for years. Fold in large parcels, and put^arefully by. 2 T