246 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIY. terial as regards the cookery; they should be served quite hot, with plain melted butter, and are usually eaten with mustard. To fry.—Scale and prepare the herrings as above, but take out the soft roes and fry them separately, of a light brown, to form a garnish, and the whole well drained from the fat in which they have been dressed. Notwithstanding the prejudice against the union of two such strongly flaVoured viands, onions are frequently fried along with fresh herrings, the onions being shred finely and put under the fish, or, when peeled, the layers are separately unrolled, and placed over and around them. An excellent and very economical dish is also made by frying them with sliced, or baking them with whole-boiled potatoes. To hake.—Wash and drain without wiping them; season with allspice in fine powder, salt, and a few whole cloves; lay them in a pan with plenty of black pepper, an onion, and a few bay-leaves. Add vinegar and small-beer in equal quan- tities, enough to cover them. Put paper over the pan, and bake for a couple of hours in a slow oven. If you like, throw saltpetre over them the night before, to make them look red. Gut, but do not open them. Herrings are very seldom boiled, but when that is done they should be served with something more savoury than melted butter. In France, capers are commonly added, and tomata sauce is not unusual. To smoke.—Clean, and lay them in salt with a little salt- petre 1 night; then hang them on sticks through the eyes, in a row. Have ready an old cask, in which put some sawdust, and in the midst of it a heater red-hot; fix the sticks over the smoke, and let them remain 24 hours. Or, if you have a kitchen in which wood is burnt, hang the herrings in strings across the chimney. To pot.—Take some of the above, or a dozen of recently cured bloaters ; soak them for a short time in scalding water, and strip off the skins; cut off the heads and tails, take out the bones, cut the fish into pieces, and put them into a stewpan with a good lump of fresh butter, a little mace and either cayenne or white pepper. Set this on a slow fire to sim- I mer until quite tender, or for some hours in a moderately heated oven ; then pound the whole in a mortar, make it into I