MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIII. 440 press it down into a stone jar, and keep it well covered ; when the pies are filled, lay sliced candied peel on the top of the meat. The following we particularly recommend for its being com- municated by a celebrated tavern-keeper, from whom we have received much valuable information :—1 lb. each of currants, Valentia raisins, Ripston pippins, calf’s-foot, and pickled ox- tongue boiled and chopped ; £ lb. of suet, £ lb. of sugar, £ lb. of candied peel, 1£ pint of wine and brandy, the juice of 2 lemons, with a small teaspoonful of mixed spice. Any of these receipts being now prepared, mix the ingre- dients well together with the hands, and put it into a jar or jars for use. The flavour of the mince-meat will be much improved by lying together a few days before it is used. It will keep good for many weeks, or even months. To make the pies, have some pans of any required size, or a small dish or plate. Cover them first with a sheet of short paste, made with £ lb. of butter rubbed in with 1 lb. of flour, and made into rather a stiff paste with water; then fill them well with the mince-meat, making it high in the centre, leaving a little space from the edge ; sprinkle or moisten these edges with water, and put on a moderately thick covering of very light puff-paste ; trim the paste off to the edge of the pan, and bake in a moderately-heated oven. When the crust is done, so are the pies. LENT PIES. 584. —Boil a dozen eggs quite hard, and chop the yolks very fine ; chop also a dozen of moderate-sized juicy apples, peeled and cored, together with 2 lbs. of stoned raisins ; add 2 lbs. of currants, 1 lb. of sugar, and a tablespoonful each of powdered cinnamon, nutmeg, and beaten mace; take also the juice and grated peel of 3 ripe lemons, with £ lb. of citron cut into slips ; mix all these thoroughly, and moisten the whole with a pint each of white wine and brandy. If at hand, a little rose-water may be added, and ratafia may be used instead of brandy. S WEE T FA TTIES. 585. —Chop the meat of a boiled calf s-foot, of which you use the liquor for jelly, with 2 apples, 1 oz. of orange and lemon peel candied, and some fresh peel and juice ; mix with them £ a nutmeg grated, the yolk of an egg, a spoonful of