Chap. BEEF. 119 and lay it on the top of the meat, thicken the gravy with vegetables, and serve it up. Or:—Take about 9 lbs. of the beef, tie it tightly with a tape, and put it into a stewpan with just sufficient water to cover it: add onions, celery, a little parsley, and spice: allow it to boil gently, and, when about half done, add a large an- chovy. Cut a small quantity of carrots, greens, and capers very fine, mix them with a part of the soup ; let them stew till | tender, and then serve them with the beef, laying part on the top and the rest round; or, served up separately, and smo- thered in onion sauce. The tops of the long ribs make good bouilli, simmered in a small quantity of water, and served on a bed of red cabbage, stewed separately, and flavoured with a glass of vinegar. It also eats excellently, if, when simply boiled, it is served up smothered with onion sauce. Ribs of beef though rarely dressed en bouilli, are yet most excellent when so prepared. Take the middle of the flat ribs of beef, stew it until the meat is tender and the bones will come out, employing as small a quantity of water as will cover the meat, and a bundle of sweet herbs. Let it stand until it is cold, remove the fat, add to the gravy, carrots, turnips, and celery, cut in dice, and a dozen or two of small silver onions; warm up the beef in it, and send it to table. * BCEUF TREMBLANT.—E. R. 84.—Cut a handsome piece of beef from the rump, either a fillet or square; hang it up for 4 days, then put it all night to soak in a pickle of salt and vinegar; put it into a stewpan, and let it be covered with water; add a seasoning of whole pepper and salt, a bundle of sweet herbs, and an onion. Let it simmer very slowly as long as it will hang together, taking care to skim it well. Strain the gravy, and add to it carrots previously boiled, and cut into pieces an inch long; add also a few capers and a mushroom, with a glass of wine and the juice of a lemon. When the beef has been sufficiently stewed take it up, and set it for a short time in a Dutch oven, and glaze it, or brown it with a salamander. A small rump of beef may be dressed in the same manner. In France, besides tiie pot-au-fcu already described, it is teiy usual to stew about <3 lbs. of beef with a small piece of