Chap. XXIV.] CREAMS. 487 Or:—Blanch and pound 14 oz. of sweet almonds with 1 oz. each of candied citron and lemon peel; rub 2 tablespoonfuls of flour into a quart of new milk ; add the yolks of 5 eggs well beaten; sweeten to taste with pounded loaf-sugar. Add to these the almonds and peel; mix them well, then rub the whole through a sieve 2 or 3 times, and let it almost boil ; pour it into the dish in which it is to be served; glaze it with whites of eggs and sugar, put it into the oven to dry the glazing. It may be eaten either hot or cold. VELVET CREAM. 667.—Dissolve 1 oz. of isinglass in a breakfast-cupful of wine ; add the juice of a large lemon, rub some lumps of sugar over the lemon-peel, and thus sweeten it to the taste. Then add a pint of cream, strain the isinglass and wine, stir the whole well together, and put it into the moulds. It re- quires no boiling after the cream is added, the isinglass, wine, and sugar having been previously boiled together. Be careful not to mix the wine and cream together until quite cold. Half the above materials ought to fill a mould. Chocolate Cream.—Scrape into 1 quart of thick cream 1 oz. of the best chocolate and i lb. of sugar; boil and mill it; when quite smooth take it off, and leave it to be cold ; then add the whites of 9 eggs. Whisk, and take up the froth on sieves, and serve the froth in glasses, to rise above the cream. Spinach Cream.—Beat the yolks of 8 eggs with a wooden spoon or a whisk ; sweeten them a good deal, and put to them a stick of cinnamon, a pint of rich cream, -J pint of new milk ; stir it well; then add 1 pint of spinach-juice : set it over a gentle stove, and stir it one way constantly till it is as thick as a hasty-pudding. Put into a custard-dish some Naples biscuits, or preserved orange, in long slices, and pour the mix- ture over them. It is to be eaten cold, and is a dish either for supper or for a second course. Pistachio Cream.—Blanch 4 oz. of pistachio-nuts; beat them fine with a little rose-water, and add the paste to a pint of cream ; sweeten, let it just boil, and put it into glasses. Imperial Cream.—Boil a quart of cream with the thin rind of a lemon, then stir till nearly cold ; have ready, in a dish or bowl that you are to serve in, the juice of 3 lemons, strained, with as much sugar as will sweeten the cream;