MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. I. v classes of society who can afford to teep professed cooks, their wages being’ too high, and their methods too extravagant. In such cases a plain cook is alone attainable, who knows little beyond the commonest operations of the kitchen. The mistress ought therefore to make herself so far acquainted with cookery as to be competent to give proper directions for dressing a dinner, and having it properly served up. Perhaps there are few occasions on which the respectability of a man is.more immediately felt, than the style of dinner to which' he ipay accidentally bring home a visitor. Every one ought to live according to his circumstances, and the meal of the tradesman ought not to emulate .he entertainments of the higher classes; but if merely two or three dishes be well served, with the proper accompaniments, the table-linen clean, Tka small sideboard neatly laid, and all that is necessary be at l and, the expectation of both the husband and friend will be gratified, because no interruption of the domestic arrangements will disturb their social intercourse. Hence the direction of a table is no inconsiderable branch of a lady’s concern, as it involves judgment in expenditure, •respectability of appearance, and the comfort of her husband as well as of those who partake of their hospitality. Inatten- tion to it is always inexcusable, and should be avoided for the lady’s own sake, as it occasions a disagreeable degree of bustle and evident annoyance to herself, which is never observable in a well-regulated establishment. In doing the honours of her table, the mode of carving is also of importance, and will be , ated of in a future chapter. The mode of covering the table differs in taste. It is not: the multiplicity of things,-but the choice, the dressing, and the neat pleasing look of the whole, which give respectability to her who presides. The table should be furnished with more than the necessary quantity of plate, or plated ware, and glass,. to afford a certain appearance of elegance; and if accompanied by a clean cloth and a neatly-dressed attendant, it will show' that the habits of the family are those of gentility. Fora small party, or a tete-a-tete, a dumb waiter is a convenient