Chap. XXIX.] 597 CHOCOLATE. that. If the party is large this process must be repeated. By this means all the tea will be of equal strength, and you get the fine aromatic flavour without the injurious matter. We have for some time made tea in this way, and very much approve it. It certainly approaches nearer to the method adopted amongst the Chinese, who have water poured upon the tea in the teacup, and in some parts of India the tea is enclosed in a perforated silver egg, which is put into the pot, and taken out when the infusion is sufficiently strong. CHOCOLATE, 822.—If made thin, is not worth drinking ; and that which is now commonly sold by the grocers is a compound of flour, or some farinaceous substance, and coarse sugar or treacle, together with a very moderate quantity of real cocoa, and that of the most inferior quality, coloured with Venetian red and brown ochre. 1 f you mean to have really good chocolate, you must, therefore, pay a far higher price than is paid for the trash to which we have alluded. That made in Florence has long been celebrated, and there has been for many years a large manufactory established near Paris by one Menier, which has a very high reputation there; having tried it, we can also recommend it, and it can be had in London, either of Messrs. Dakin and Co., St. Paul’s Churchyard; or Hedges and Butler, 155, Regent Street. It forms the common breakfast throughout Spain, and, when manufactured, is there made by merely chipping a portion of the cake into which it is formed from the cocoa, leaving the chips in water for a whole night to soften. It may then be slowly warmed, along with either water or milk, working it all the time with the mill, which is a small moveable pole passed through the lid of a chocolate-pot, and furnished with a headpiece in order to mix the chocolate equally by turning the mill rapidly between the hands and without intermission, thus to prevent it from becoming clotty ; care, however, should be taken not to let it boil; for, in that case, the vegetable oil which is contained in the nut will be extracted from it and appear on the surface. The flavour is better retained by making it in water than milk.