MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XVIII. 332 have ready a pint of cream, the yolks of 6 eggs well beaten, a little salt and nutmeg. Stir this mixture over a slow fire until it thickens. Boil a hundred of small asparagus; save tops enough to stick the tops of the rolls with, cut the remainder of the green part of the grass small: put it into the cream, and fill the rolls with it hot. Before the rolls are fried, make a few holes in the pieces of crust cut off, and stick the tops in. This is for a side-dish in a second course. In France asparagus is often eaten cold, as salad, with oil and vinegar. In the hop districts of England, the buds, and so much of the stalk or bine of the plant as Kwill break off short, are boiled and served up precisely as asparagus. In buying asparagus, the length of the green heads should be more looked to than their thickness. ARTICHOKES. 405.—Cut the stalk even, trim off a few of the outside leaves and the points of the others. If young,.^ an hour will boil them. Serve them with melted butter in as many small cups as there are artichokes, to help with each. Or:—Cut the artichokes in 4, remove the choke, trim the pieces neatly, boil them quickly in salt water, dish them, lay- ing the leaves outwards, and pour melted butter or white sauce over the bottoms. Stewed.—Strip off the leaves, remove the choke, and soak them in warm water for 2 or 3 hours, changing the water every hour; then put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter rolled in cayenne pepper and flour; a teacupful of gravy, and a spoonful or two of ketchup or other sauce ; add a spoon- ful of vinegar, or one of lemon-juice, before serving; let all stew till the artichokes are quite tender, and, if necessary, thicken the sauce with a little more butter. Artichoke bottoms, if dried, must be soaked, then stewed in weak gravy, or baked and served with or without forcemeat in each. Or they may be boiled in milk, and served with cream-sauce; or added to ragouts, French pies, &c. They may also be dipped in batter and fried, then served with a sauce made of fine herbs, a spoonful of oil, and the juice of lemon. A la Poivrade.—Take very small artichokes, cut them in