Chap. XXIII.] MEAT PUDDINGS. 447 soned with pepper and salt and a minced shalot. Boil it from 24 to 3 hours. When done have ready some strong- beef- o-ravy, made savoury with a little mushroom ketchup; make a hole in the paste and pour it into the pudding. If for a. family pudding the oysters and the kidneys may be omitted: let the steak be prepared as above, adding, it you choose, some layers of sliced onions. MUTTON AND KIDNEY PUDDING. 592. —Cut slices from an underdone leg of mutton, with kidneys, sufficient to form alternate layers, mixed with some minced onions. It may be made either in a shape or solely in paste, but in either case it should not be very highly seasoned: it should, however, have some good gravy, to be poured into it when boiled, for which walnut-ketchup will be found more appropriate than mushroom. RABBIT PUDDING. 593. —Clean the rabbit well, take off the head, and cut the carcase into pieces, as for a fricassee, leaving out the rib- bones ; then parboil the liver, mince it and mix it with the brains: that done, season the fricassee with pepper and salt, a little mushroom powder, and a clove of powdered mace ; lay the fricassee either in a shape or in the paste, mingling with it the mince, and interlaying it with a few thin slices of pickled pork: it will take nearly 2 hours boiling. The gravy may be made of the head, lights, and bones, with a bit of ham or bacon. CHICKEN P UDDING. 594. -—Fricassee 2 young chickens, season them slightly with a little mushroom powder, mace, nutmeg, and salt, but no pepper. Previously take the giblets and stew them down with a bit of meat to make gravy ; put 2 tablespoonfuls into the paste, and keep the rest to fill up or put under the pudding. 2 hours will boil it. GAME PUDDINGS. 595. —Game of any description maybe made into puddings, and when partly boned, well spiced, with minced truffle or mushroom, mace, and a clove of garlic, and boiled within a light paste, they are very rich, and the paste particularly fine,