206 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIIT. be entirely covered with the batter; then bake it. 2 lbs. of beef, or any kind of meat, may be dressed in the same manner, and seasoned to the palate. GOOSE. 221. —Scald 4 or 6 sage-leaves, according as they are fresh or dry, the fresh ones being the strongest; chop them fine; take 1 large or 2 small onions, chop them, and then pour boiling water over them to make them eat mild ; mix the sage and onion with rather more than an equal quantity of fine bread-crumbs ; season well with pepper and salt; put this in- side the body of the goose; roast before a quick fire an hour or more, according to the size of the bird ; serve with gravy in the dish, and apple-sauce in a boat. In Ireland geese are sometimes stuffed with potatoes, the whole body being filled with them either whole or mashed; but it absorbs so much of the gravy as to injure the richness of the bird. Apple-sauce and gravy are sent up with geese in separate tureens. Green Geese are roasted without any stuffing, being merely peppered on the inside. A lemon squeezed over a duck or a goose is a great improvement. TO STEW GIBLETS. 222. — Stew them until the gizzards are perfectly tender: season them -with salt and pepper, a minced shalot, and a very small piece of mace. Before serving, give them one boil and a cup of cream, with a piece of butter rubbed in a tea- spoonful of flour. Each gizzard and liver divided into 4, the neck into 3, and the wings into 2. BUCKS. 223. —Roast in the same manner as goose. Stewed tcitli Green Peas.—Truss the duck as you would a fowl to boil, that is, with the legs inwards. Melt a piece of butter in a stewpan ; cut up in dice £ inch square about j lb. of streaked bacon ; put the duck and the bacon into the butter. When the duck is browned take it out, put in a tablespoonful of flour, add broth or water sufficient to half cover the duck ; throw in 1 ^ pint of peas, with an onion, and a faggot of parsley, thyme, and a bay-leaf. When the duck is done, strain off some of the gravy, thicken the peas with flour and butter, add a lump