Chap. XXX.] 607 ENGLISH WINES. order that the fermentation may be properly effected, stirring it very frequently : then pass it through a flannel bag into the cask, and to every 10 gallons of the liquor put 1 oz. of isin- glass, 1 bottle of Madeira wine, and 1 bottle of rum ; the 2 latter added after the cask has remained open for a month. A cask which has held brandy is to be preferred. Put in the bung after the expiration of the month; lay a piece of coarse cloth over it, and cover the whole with a thick coat of resin. Let it stand 12 months, and then bottle it.a Pink Champagne.—Boil 9 lbs. of lump-sugar in 3 gallons of water for £ an hour, skim it well, and pour the liquor boil- ing hot over a gallon of red and white currants picked, but not bruised. When nearly cold, put in a small teacupful of yeast. Keep it working for 2 days, then strain it through a horse-hair sieve, put it into a small cask with -5- oz. of isinglass. Have rather more liquor than will fill the cask to fill it up as it works over. In about a fortnight bung it up. Let it stand till April ; put into each bottle a lump of double-refined sugar. Let the bottles remain 1 day uncorked. Cork and wire them. They must stand upright in the cellar; when wanted, put a few on their sides for about a week. Grape Champagne to equal foreign.—Gather the grapes when they are just turning, or about half ripe. Pound them in a tub, and to every quart of fruit put 2 quarts of water. Let it stand in a mash-tub for 14 days, then draw it off, and to every gallon of liquor add 3 lbs. of lump-sugar. When the sugar is dissolved, cask it, and, after it has done working, bung it down, In about 6 months it will be fit to drink, when it should be bottled, and the corks tied down, or wired if it is to be kept more than a year. LEMON WINE. 837.—To every gallon of water take 3 lbs. of sugar ; boil it ^ an hour ; pour it on the peel of 4 lemons ; make the juice into a syrup by boiling it with i lb. of the sugar ; mix all well together; when cool lay on it a toast covered with * A sample of this wine was sent to the Horticultural Society of Edin- burgh, and exhibited amongst 70 different sorts, and, being pronounced the best, the honour of the gold medal was awarded to it; but on its being un- derstood that the fruit was of English growth, it was considered as a foreign wine, and therefore not entitled to the prize. Honourable mention of it was, however, made in the Report of the Transactions of the Society.