132 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. VIII. pounded mace; put it into a mould and turn it out when cold. It is eaten with vinegar and mustard. MA RROW-RO NES. 99.—If too long to serve undivided, saw them in two; cover the open end with a lump of paste and a cloth floured and tied close; the paste must be removed before sent to table. Boil 1^- or 2 hours according to the size; put a ruffle of paper round each, and serve in a napkin, with very hot toast. The marrow is spread upon the toast, and seasoned with pepper and salt. BCEUF A-LA-MODE.—E. R. 100.—The name of this dish is rather against it, suggesting ideas connected with London eating-houses; but it would be very erroneous to suppose that the old family receipts now given bear any resemblance to the degenerate successors of those cooks who formerly established a reputation for this savoury compound. Cut out the bone from the beef; then stuff the orifice with rich force-meat, made with veal and oysters, and the crumb of a roll steeped in milk. Half roast it, and before it is put into the stewpan insert in the top dried and pickled mushrooms, adding mushroom-powder in the orifices ; then put in 2 quarts of gravy made from the bones and trimmings, a large onion stuck with cloves, and 2 carrots cut in slices. When the beef has stewed till it is quite tender, strain and thicken the sauce; add to it a glass of wine, mushrooms and oysters, and sippets of fried paste; either the mushrooms or oysters may be omitted, if the pure flavour should be more de- sirable : warm a few pickles with the garnish and send it up very hot. Another.—Take a part of the rump of beef, or 2 of the ribs, boned and rolled, stick it with some whole allspice, whole pep- per and cloves, and cover it well with vinegar. Let it remain in pickle for 10 days, and then put the whole into a stewpan with 2 or 3 bay-leaves; stew the beef for several hours until it is tender; then strain the gravy, and add that of 2 calves’- feet or ox-tail boiled down to a jelly, and nicely seasoned. This receipt will oidy suit persons who are fond of acid flavour : it is best eaten cold. The Bath Receipt.—Take 3 lbs. of the rump, or any part