529 PICKLES. Chap. XXVI.] Rules to be observed with Pickles.—Avoid as much as pos- sible the use of metal vessels in preparing them. Acids dis- solve the lead that is in the tinning of saucepans, and corrode copper and brass ; consequently, if kept in such for any length of time, they become highly poisonous. When it is necessary to boil vinegar, do it in a stone jar on a stove. Use also wooden spoons and forks. See that the pickles are always completely covered with vinegar; and if any symptoms appear of their becoming mouldy, boil the vinegar again, adding a little more spice. It is a good rule to have two-thirds of the jar filled with pickles and one-third with vinegar; keep them also close stopped, as exposure to the air makes the pickle soft. In greening pickles, keep them closely covered, so that none of the steam of the vinegar in which they are boiled be allowed to evaporate ; and boil them only for a few minutes, or it will take away their strength. A very small quantity of alum will make them firm and crisp, but too much will spoil them. TO PICKLE ONIONS 740.—Silver Sort.—Choose small button onions, as near of a size as possible; throw them into warm water, which will prevent their affecting the eyes so much while peeling them.a As they are peeled, throw them into a strong brine of salt and water, with a small bit of alum ; let them remain in this till the next day, then put them on the fire, and boil them in it for a minute. Or, as they are peeled, throw them into milk and water ; drain them from this when they are all done, put them into a jar, and pour the brine on them boiling hot; cover them close, and set them aside till the next day ; drain’ and dry them in a cloth; put them iuto cold distilled vinegar’ with a few blades of bruised ginger, some whole pepper, and, if approved, a little mace and sliced horseradish ; keep them always well covered with vinegar; cork the jar close, and put it in a cool dry place. Full-grown Sort..—Peel and slice large onions, and sprinkle them with salt. To every gallon take about a dozen cap- sicums, either dry or green, slicing only a part; add a A sjmP}e way to prevent this is by putting a crust of bread on the point ot your knife and occasionally smelling at it. 2 M