CONTENTS. Xll CHAPTER XX. Coring Meat, Potting, and Collaring. Curing: Observations—Beef, to corn—To salt red—Dutch mode of salting Hamburg Beef—Spiced — Spiced Flank—Leicestershire Spiced—Welsh — Hunters’—Hung — To cure Tongues—Sheep's Tongues—Hams; Fitzsimon family receipt—Westphalia Hams — Mutton Hams—Goose Hams—Bacon ; Malines Bacon ; Black Pool receipt; Wiltshire; for larding and braising—Hogs’ Cheeks—Brawn; mock; to keep—To pickle Pork—Pickle that will keep for years. Potting and Collaring: Remarks—To clarify Butter—To pot Lamprey — Shell-fish — Poultry and Game; Partridges and Pheasants; Hare; Rabbit; Ham and Veal; Neat’s Tongue—Beef; in imitation of venison—Ham Cake—To pot Mushrooms—Collared Eel—To “ caveach ” Fish—To collar Beef—Calf’s Head—Breast of Veal—Breast of Mutton—Pig—Pig’s Head—Marinade for collared meats Page 361 CHAPTER XXL Italian Pastes, Rice, Eggs, Omelettes, Cheese, Pancakes, and Fritters. Italian Pastes: Observations—Macaroni; to brown; Neapolitan; cold; au vin; a l’ltalienne; timbale; aux trufies ; a la Pontife; pate— Vermicelli — Semolina—Polenta. Rice : To boil; for savoury dishes; for sweet dishes; a la Portugaise—Fritters—Pancake—Balls — Croquettes—Casserole aux CEufs—Caudle—Flummery—Paste ; if for relishing things. Eggs : Remarks—To keep for winter— Boiled—Poached—Omelette ; au naturel; aux fines herbes; aux confitures; aux amandes; d’huitres; a la Tartare ; souffle; souffle Franchise—GSufs brouilles—A pretty dish of Eggs—Eggs aux fines herbes—Burnt buttered—a la Duchesse—Fricassee, white; brown —Egg Alb ; a la Carmelite; a la Gruyere—CEufs farcis; en pures ; sur le plat—Eggs and Vegetables: Spinach; onions, or a la tripe; a la Franchise; asparagus; artichokes. Cheese: Eggs and Cheese—Fondeau;a l’ltalienne; en caisses ; small—Ramequins; a la Parisienne; fried; Dutch; with wine or ale—Stewed Cheese; with ale ; paste—Welsh Rabbit—Toast and Cheese—Cheese Pudding. Pancakes and Fritters: Pancakes, various; apple ; New England; Dutch; French; a la Polonaise—Taliani—Fritters: plain; apple; creme aux amandes; Spanish; French; Italian; potato; buckwheat; curd; orange and sweetmeat; coloured—Fish and Meat: Kidney- oyster—Bciguct . . . . • . • • .381