29 Chap. III.] FOOD AND COOKERY. if dressed in different ways, still retaining a certain degree of simplicity, will be more pleasant to the palate, more healthful, and quite as economical, if brought to the table as two or three dishes instead of one. In French cookery, those substances which are not intended to be broiled or roasted, are usually stewed for several hours at a temperature below the boiling-point; by which means the most refractory articles, whether of animal or vegetable origin, are more or less reduced to a state of pulp, and admirably adapted for the further action of the stomach. In the common cookery of this country, on the contrary, articles are usually put at once into a large quantity of water, and sub- mitted, without care or attention, to the boiling temperature: the consequence of which is, that most animal substances, when taken out, are harder and more indigestible than in the natural state. DIET AND DIGESTION. From Dr. Beaumont’s Tables it appears that the following articles are converted into chyle, i. e. digested, in the times indicated : — H. M. Rice, boiled soft ....10 Apples, sweet and ripe . . 1 30 Sago, boiled <£ . . . . 1 45 Tapioca, Barley, stale Bread, Cabbage with Vinegar, raw, boiled Milk and Bread and Milk, cold 2 0 Potatoes, roasted, and Parsnips, boiled 2 30 Baked Custard . . . . 2 45 Apple Dumpling ....30 Bread Corn, baked, and Car- rots, boiled 3 15 Potatoes and Turnips, boiled; Butter and Cheese . . . 3 30 H. M. Tripe and Pigs’ Feet . . .1 0 Venison 1 35 Oysters, undressed, and Eggs, raw 2 3 Turkey and Goose . . . 2 30 Eggs, soft boiled ; Beef and Mutton, roasted or boiled . 3 0 Boiled Pork, stewed Oysters, Eggs, hard-boiled or fried . 3 30 Domestic Fowls ....40 Wild Fowls ; Pork, salted and boiled; Suet . . . . 4 30 Veal, roasted ; Pork, and salted Beef 5 30 When the powers of the stomach are weak, a hard and crude English diet is sure to produce discomfort by promoting acidity ; while the very same articles when divided, and well cooked upon French principles, or rather the principles of common sense, can be taken with impunity, and easily digested. There are only a few persons—with the exception perhaps of those who take violent exercise, or work hard in the open air—who can dine heartily upon solid food without sufferimr