419 MEAT PIES. Chap. XXII.] lay them in a mould or dish, with 8 hard-boiled eggs cut in half, a few mushrooms, a little pickled lemon cut in thin rings. Pour over the chickens a gravy made as follows :—Fry an onion in a little butter, add a tablespoonful of curry-powder, 1 of vinegar, 1 of mushroom-ketchup, a little salt, and a little more than a pint of good veal broth; if the broth does not jelly, isinglass must be put into it to make it do so. When cold turn it out on a dish. It is a great improvement to bone the chickens, the bones helping to make the gravy. FRENCH PIE.—E. R. 552. —Make a raised crust upon a buttered tin, and brush it with yolk of egg; cover the bottom with forcemeat, then fill up the pie with sweetbread cut into small pieces, oysters, hard eggs, limbs of chicken, turkey, or rabbit, boned; arti- choke-bottoms in small pieces, asparagus-tops, forcemeat-balls, and mushrooms, taking care to lay them regularly, and to season the whole lightly and evenly: bake it in a moderate oven. When it is done pour in some strong gravy and cream thickened with flour and butter. Sausage-meat may be mixed with the forcemeat, and in winter truffles substituted for the vegetables; the seasoning should be of mace, cloves, and cayenne pepper. VEGETABLE PIE. 553. —Scald and blanch some broad beans ; cut young car- rots, turnips, artichoke-bottoms, mushrooms, onions, lettuces, parsley, celery, and add peas ; or use any of them you may have. Make them into a nice stew, with a little good veal gTavy ; season with pepper and salt; bake a crust over a dish, with a little lining round the edge. When baked, pour the stew into the dish, and lay the crust over it. Winter vege- tables may be used in the same way, and a cup of cream is a great improvement. COLD PIES. 545.—When meat pies are prepared to be eaten cold, suet should not be put into the forcemeat that is used with them. If the pie is made of meat that will take more dressing, to make it extremely tender, than the baking of the crust will allow, prepare it in the following way :—Take 3 lbs. of the veiny piece of beef that has fat and lean ; wash it, and season 2 e 2