138 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. VIII. To broil Palates.—Peel them and soak them for some time in sauce made thus: put a piece of butter rolled in flour into a stewpan, with salt, pepper, 2 shalots, a clove, parsley, thyme, and a fennel-leaf, with as much milk as will be necessary to simmer the palates until tender; take them out, dip them in yolk of egg and bread-crumbs, and broil them slowly. Serve them with acid sauce. But if served up with any white sauce, they will be found very delicate when merely seasoned with a little mace and grating of nutmeg. The best way is to boil them in veal-broth. Polled Palates.—Boil 6 palates very gently until they will peel, then trim them ; cut the trimmings into small shreds, and put them, with a little of the water in which they were boiled, a piece of butter rolled in flour, a good seasoning, and a glass of white wine, into a small stewpan, and let them stew gently till the sauce is very good. Brush the outside of the palates with yolk of egg, lay a forcemeat well seasoned over, roll up the palates very tightly, and tie them with a string; put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter and a cup of milk or cream, and let them braise gently for 2 hours. When ready, lay the ragout of trimmings upon a dish, squeeze lemon-juice over it, lay the rolled palates on the top, and garnish with pickles, and eg'g, and forcemeat-balls. To fry Palates.—Parboil them, split them in two, spread upon them some good forcemeat made of pounded meat, and roll them up like an olive ; then dip them in batter made of the yolks of eggs, flour, a spoonful of oil, and a glass of white wine, which must be added a very little at a time: the batter should be a little thicker than very thick cream : fry them of a good colour. Or, cut the palates the size of a crown-piece; after they have beea dressed soak them for an hour in lemon-juice or vinegar pickle ; dip them in the batter, and fry them. Another, and a very good way, is to skewer them at a little distance from each other after having dipped them in yolk of egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them before the fire in the small toasting machine for grillades. Palais dc JBoeuf, en Sauce blanche.—Clean and stew the palates till they can be skinned; then, while hot, throw them into cold water for an hour; having prepared the following sauce, simmer them very slowly in it till perfectly tender. Put into a stewpan 4 oz. of lean veal, the same ol lean bacon,