438 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIII. sugar over each. A small piece of any candied fruit may be dropped into each spoonful of batter. Irish Puffs.—Pound i lb. of sweet and 1 oz. of bitter almonds, but not too finely; take i lb. of loaf-sugar pounded and sifted, the whites of 2 eggs beaten to a thick froth ; mix all together, and put the puffs into pattypans covered with paste; then sift powdered sugar over them thickly, and bake them a light brown. The flavour may be improved by pound- ing the almonds with orange-flower water or a little essence of lemon. Lady Abbess's Puffs.—Take 3 oz. of Jordan almonds and i oz. of butter, with 2 oz. of loaf-sugar; pound them with a little rose-water till they become a thick paste; spread the paste on buttered tins, and bake them in a slow oven. When cold, put a spoonful of jam in each, and cover it with whipped cream. ^ GA UFFRES. 582.—Take 4 or 5 oz. of flour, 3 oz. of pounded sugar, i pint of whipped cream, 4 or 5 eggs, a small stick of pounded vanilla, a grating of nutmeg, and a little salt, with a glass of cure90a or ratafia. Place the flour, sugar, and salt in a basin, then add the yolk of eggs, the vanilla, and the spirit, mixing them well together, and gradually adding the whipped cream. Just before using the batter, add the whites of eggs, whipped to a froth, and mix them in lightly, so as to thoroughly incorporate them with it. Bak^ these gauffres in tongs made for the pui’pose, observing, however, that the iron be very carefully heated, and the super- fluous heat allowed to go off previously to filling them with batter; rub the tongs with fresh butter; fill the bottom part with batter, and fasten on the top, then turn it, and, when a fine brown on both sides, shake some pounded spice and sugar over them, and send them to table. They may be spread with any kind of preserve or jelly. Gauffres a la Flamande.—Take 6 eggs well beaten, mix into them ^ lb. of flour to a smooth paste; dissolve a piece of German yeast, about thef size of a nutmeg, in a wineglassful of warm water, with a gill of warm milk, a little salt, 2 table- spoonfuls of orange-flower water, and 6 oz. of butter; mix them with the flour till all is well worked, using a wooden spoon; set it in a warm place for nearly 2 hours, when it will