MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIII. 208 it well with flour, and put it into cold water; let it boil for 20 minutes, and then send it to table smothered with onion- sauce. Canard farci.—Have a duck boned ; make a farce of veal and bacon-fat in equal proportions, chopped only; season it with seasoning spice (which see) ; fill the duck; tie it up in a cloth ; stew it in good gravy very gently for an hour; take it up, glaze it, and serve it either with stewed peas, turnips, or sauce piquante. Ducks devilled.—Split the duck, prick it all over with a fork, cover it either with mustard and cayenne pepper, diavoli paste, or Chetney, and broil it. Serve with a glass of lemon- pickle, 1 of wine, and 1 of ketchup, warmed with 3 table- spoonfuls of gravy. If Chetney be used the sauce will not require sugar, otherwise add a dessertspoonful of powdered white sugar. PIGEONS. 224.— To roast Pigeons.—Scald some parsley, chop it with the livers, mix them with a piece of fresh butter, season with pepper and salt; put a portion inside each pigeon; cover the breast with a slice of bacon-fat; roast them ; serve with parsley and butter in the dish. Or:—Stuff the whole of the body of the pigeon with veal stuffing: some persons merely chop a little parsley and put it inside ; but the other is the better way. A fine farce, made of pounded veal and bacon, and bread steeped in milk, is an excellent stuffing for pigeons. Another way.—Boil, pare, and pound chestnuts in a mortar, with equal parts of fat bacon finely rasped ; fill the pigeons with this stuffing, cover them with slices of fat bacon, and wrap them in young vine-leaves; roast the whole together, and send them up with bacon and vine-leaves, which impart a fine flavour to the pigeons. Partridges may be dressed the same way, and truffles substituted for chestnuts. To broil Pigeons.—Cut the pigeon down the back, flatten and truss it as a fowl for broiling. Egg it on both sides; season with pepper and salt; dip it in chopped sweet herbs and bread-crumbs ; warm a little butter, sprinkle it over, and then dip the pigeon again in the crumbs. Broil it a light