247 Chap. XIV.] SALT-WATER FISH. a puree of a good consistence ; put it into pots, over which run some clarified butter, and cover them with bladder. RED HERRINGS. Red herrings are dried when salted, but those cured in Ireland, Scotland, and Holland are packed and left in the pickle for exportation. Dutch herrings have acquired the highest reputation in consequence of their superior delicacy. They are brought to London in small casks, containing only a dozen each, and in Holland are always eaten raw, though English prejudice spoils them by broiling. They are so highly cured as to make the fish quite transparent; are generally steeped for an hour or two in cold milk, scored across, and form an excellent relish. 258.—Choose those that are large and moist; cut them open and pour some boiling small-beer over them to soak t an hour ; drain them dry, and make them just hot through before the fire; then rub some cold butter over them, and serve. Instead of butter, a little salad oil will add to the richness; but it must be dropped on while before the fire, and in the smallest quantity. A very usual mode is, however, to split them open without any soaking, and hang them separately on the hooks of a cheese-toaster, by which means the soft roe will be browned. Some of them will have hard roes, in which case the belly should be carefully opened, and a little butter inserted between the lobes, but again close up the belly to more readily melt the butter. The “ Yarmouth bloaters,” . whether arising from any improvement in their quality during their passage to London, or from the mode of curing them, are considered the best. PILCHARDS, 259.—Though more oily than herrings, yet resemble them both in ta-ste and appearance: they also come into season about the same time, and may be dressed, smoked, and potted in the same manner; but, if not speedily consumed, they become rancid, and are, therefore, when fresh, seldom brought to London. They are caught on the coasts of Devon and Cornwall in large quantities, and, when salted, are chiefly ex- ported to the Mediterranean.