560 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXYII. these with the flour, &c.; then pour into it as much butter melted as will make it a good thickness to roll out. Mould it well, roll thin, and cut it into such shapes as you like. Marlborough.—Beat 8 eggs and 1 lb. of pounded sugar f of an hour; then by degrees mix in 12 oz. of fine flour well dried; add 2 oz. of carraway-seeds, and bake in soup-plates or tin pans in a brisk oven. Tunbridge.—Mix i lb. of flour with 2 oz. of butter and i lb. of sugar, to which add 1 or 2 oz. of carraway-seeds, and make it into a stiff paste with a little water ; cut it into round cakes, prick them with a fork, and bake them upon floured tins. Banbury—Are made without seeds, and chiefly composed of mincemeat baked for about -i an hour in a rich paste, then cut into square or oblong pieces, and generally eaten cold. Yorkshire.—To 1 quart of lukewarm milk add f pint of good ale yeast, and mix them well together with enough flour to make a thick batter; let it stand in a warm place till it rises as high as it can; then rub 7 lb. of butter into some flour, and mix with it 4 eggs; beat all well together, add sufficient flour to make it into dough, and let it stand for i an hour; then work it lightly up and make into buns, put them on tins in a slow oven, cover them with a light cloth, and toast them with butter. BUTTER CAKES.—E. R. 782. —To i lb. of butter add the same quantity of brown sugar, 3 eggs, the rind of 2 lemons, i oz. of pounded cinna- mon, and i the quantity of powdered ginger ; work into it as much flour as will make it a paste; cut it into shapes or leave it whole, and strew over the top some pounded almonds and candied orange-peel. Bake in a slow oven. MACAROONS. 783. —Blanch 4 oz. of almonds, and pound with 4 spoonfuls of orange-flower water ; whisk the whites of 4 eggs to a froth, then mix it, and 1 lb. of sugar sifted, with the almonds to a paste ; and, laying a sheet of wafer-paper on a tin, put it on in different little cakes, the shape of macaroons. Or .-—Beat the whites of 4 eggs into a strong froth, add to it the juice of 2 limes or lemons, and f 11). of pounded sugar, mix them up well together, then add 2 more whites of eggs