Chap. XXV.] PRESERVED FRUITS. 527 and interior skin, then put the peel into strong , salt and water for 6 days ; then boil them in spring water until they are soft, and place them in a sieve to drain ; make a thin syrup with a lb. of sugar-candy to a quart of water, boil them in it for 4 an hour, or till they look clear; make a thick syrup with sugar and as much water as will melt it, put in the peel, and boil them over a slow fire until the syrup candies in the pan ; then take them out, powder pounded sugar over them, and diy them before the fire in a cool oven. GINGER SYRUP. 737. —Take a lb. of the best white ginger, break it into small pieces, and let it boil in a good quantity of water until the water tastes very strongly of the ginger. Then boil any sort of solid fruit in the ginger and water until they are nearly as tender as would be required for the table; take them up, and lay them in a jar with the ginger and wrater for 4 or 5 days, stirring them constantly. IS ext make a syrup ; to every lb. of loaf-sugar put i pint of brandy, the peel of a lemon, and the juice of t a lemon, with a little of the gingered water. When the syrup has been well boiled and the scum removed, put the fruit into it, and let it boil for 10 minutes; then take it off the fire, and allow it to remain for a week ; after which drain off the syrup, and boil it with additional sugar to make it sufficiently rich; place the fruit in it, and boil 10 or 15 minutes longer. Place them in pots covered with brandy-paper, and they will be fit for use in a month. COLO URING, to stain Jellies, Ices, £j~c. 738. —For a beautiful red, boil 15 grains of cochineal in the finest powder, with It dram of cream of tartar, in i pint of water, very slowly for 4 an hour. Add in boiling a bit of alum the size of a pea. Or use beet-root sliced, and some liquor poured over. For white, use almonds finely pounded, with a little drop of water; or use cream. For yellow, yolks of eggs or a bit of saffron steeped in the liquor, and squeezed. Likewise the flower of the crocus, which has no teste. / For green, pound spinach-leaves or beet-leaves, express the juice, and boil in a teacup in a saucepan of water to take off the rawness.