524 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXV. a slow fire for 10 minutes; when cold add a tablespoonful of orange-flower water; serve in a deep dish, and grate sugar over the top. To be handed round at dessert. JAMS. 730.—Raspberry.—Take equal weights of fruit and moist sugar ; put them on the fire together ; keep stirring and break- ing the fruit till the sugar melts, then boil till it will jelly on a plate. Though simple, this will be found a very good receipt. Or :—Take equal weight of fruit and roughly-pounded loaf- sugar ; bruise the fruit with the back of a spoon, and boil them together for i an hour; if a little more juice is wanted, add the juice of currants drawn as for jelly. Grape.—The grapes ought not to be very ripe. They should be carefully picked, and all that are at all injured should be rejected. To 1 lb. of grapes add i lb. of sugar; no water but what hangs about them after they have been washed. Put the grapes into a cooking-pan, then a layer of sugar, then a layer of grapes. Boil on a moderate fire, stir- ring it all the time, to prevent its burning. Cherry.—Stone 4 lbs. of cherries, and put them in a pre- serving-pan with 2 lbs. of fine white sugar and a pint of red-currant juice. Boil the whole together rather fast, until it stitfens, and then put it into pots for use. Gooseberry.—Stalk and crop 6 lbs. of the small, red, rough gooseberry, put them into a preserving-pan, and, as they warm, stir and bruise them to bring out the juice. Let them boil for 10 minutes, then add 4 lbs. of sugar, and place it on , the fire again ; let it boil, and continue boiling for 2 hours longer, stirring it all the time to prevent its burning. "W hen it thickens, and will jelly upon a plate, it is done enough. Put it into pots, and allow it to remain a day before it is covered. Blackberry.—In families where there are many children there is no preparation of fruit so wholesome, so cheap, and so much admired, as this homely conserve. The fruit should be clean picked in dry weather, and to every lb. of berries put 7 lb. of coarse brown sugar ; boil the whole together for f of an hour or 1 hour, stirring it well the whole time. Put it in pots like any other preserve, and it will be found most useful in families, as it may be given to children instead of medicine; makes