MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXVIII. 588 spread it over the toast, and hold it before the fire until it is warm through. Sausage Toast.—Make a toast, fry 2 or 3 sausages ; when quite hot, strip off the skins and spread the meat upon the toast, which should not only be made, if possible, of brown bread, but also buttered with salt butter; season it with a little pepper and mustard. It will be improved by a grating of Gray ere, Parmesan, or old Cheshire cheese. Kidney Toast.—Take a cold veal kidney, with a part of the fat, cut it into very small pieces ; pound the fat in a mortar with a little salt, white pepper, and an onion previously boiled. Bind all together with the beaten whites of eggs. Heap it upon toast, cover the whole with the yolks beaten, dredge with bread-crumbs, and bake in the oven. Ham Toast.—Grate or pound the cold ham; toast and butter a slice of bread; mix the ham with the yolk of an egg and a little cream, until it is thick and rich ; warm it over the fire, and serve it very hot upon the toast. Tongue may be em- ployed in the same way. Scotch Woodcock.—Toast and butter 3 or 4 slices of bread on both sides; take 9 or 10 anchovies, washed, scraped, and chopped fine, and put them between the slices of bread. Beat the yolks of 4 eggs in 4 pint of cream, and set it on the fire to thicken, hut not to boil. Then pour it over the toast, and send it to table as hot as possible. This may, however, be diminished at pleasure ; as one slice of bread of a moderate sized loaf, 1 egg, and 2 or 3 anchovies, may be sufficient. SHEEP'S RUMPS AND KIDNEYS. 815.—Boil the rumps in gravy, and lard the kidneys with bacon ; set them, along with the rumps, before the fire in a^ small tin oven, rubbing them at the same time with yolk of egg and a little cayenne and nutmeg. When of a light brown, dish them up, either dry or with any pungent sauce, and garnish them with green parsley. Or :—Stew them until tender, then put them for a few minutes into a pan with 2 or 3 oz. of boiled rice seasoned ith ketchup or mushroom powder, and give a light boil, with - large spoonfuls of good cream or milk thickened with Hour and butter. Lay the rumps in the centre of the rice, putting