335 Chap. XVIII.] VEGETABLES AND SALADS. TO BOIL CAULIFLOWERS. 410. —Choose those that are close and white, cut off the green leaves, and look carefully that there are no caterpillars about the stalk; soak an hour in cold water, with a handful of salt in it; then boil them in milk and water, and take care to skim the saucepan, that not the least foulness may fall on the flower. It must be served very white, and rather crimp. In White Sauce.—Take off the whole of the leaves of a cauliflower, and half boil it; then cut it into handsome pieces, and lay them in a stewpan with a little broth, a bit of mace, a little salt, and a dust of white pepper; simmer £ an hour, but let the stalk be put down £ of an hour before the flower; then put a little cream, butter, and flour; shake, and simmer a few minutes, and serve. With Parmesan.—Boil a cauliflower; drain it on a sieve, and cut it into convenient sized pieces; arrange these pieces in a pudding basin so as to make them resemble a cauliflower when turned on the dish: season it as you proceed; turn it on the, dish, then cover it with a sauce made of grated parme- san cheese, butter, and the yolks of a couple of eggs, seasoned with lemon-juice, pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; and put parmesan grated over it. Bake for 20 minutes and brown it. Or:—Boil sprigs of cauliflower in butter and water to make them white, until they are tender; then grate £ lb. of parmesan cheese; put nearly £ into a stewpan with £ lb. of butter, a little white pepper, and 2 spoonfuls of milk; toss it until the cheese is well mixed, then warm the cauliflower in it, and serve it up with the remainder of the cheese strewed over the top. BROCOLI 411. —Is dressed in nearly the same manner ; cut the heads with short stalks, and pare the tougli skin off them; tie the small shoots into bunches, and boil them a shorter time than the heads. Some salt must be put into the water. Serve with or without toast. Poached eggs eat well with brocoli. BROCOLI AND BUTTERED EGGS. 412. —Keep a handsome bunch for the middle, and have 8 pieces to go round ; toast a piece of bread to fit the inner part