oo4 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXVIT. BRIDE-CAKE. 772.—Wash lbs. of fresh butter in plain water first, and then in rose-water; beat the butter to a cream; beat 20 eggs, yolks and whites separately, ^ an hour each. Have ready 2^ lbs. of the finest flour, well dried and kept hot, likewise 1^ lb. of sugar pounded and sifted, 1 oz. of spice in fine powder, 3 lbs. of currants nicely cleaned and dry, £ lb. of almonds blanched, and f lb. of sweetmeats cut, not too thin. Let all be kept by the fire, mix all the dry ingredients, pour the eggs strained to the butter, but beat the whites of the eggs to a strong froth; mix pint of sweet wine with the same quantity of brandy, pour it to the butter and eggs, mix well, then have all the dry things put in by degrees; beat them very thoroughly — you can hardly do it too much. Having 4 lb. of stoned jar-raisins chopped as fine as possible, mix them carefully, so that there should be no lump, and add a teacupful of orange-flower water; beat the ingredients to- gether a full hour at least. Have a hoop well buttered; take a white paper, doubled and buttered, and put in the pan round the edge; do not fill it more than three parts with batter, as space should be allowed for rising. Bake in a quick oven. It will require full 3 hours. In making cakes of a larger size, put at the rate of 8 eggs to every pound of flour, and other in- gredients in the same proportion. The cake must be covered with an icing. QUEEN-CAKE. ' 773.-—Mix 1 lb. of dried flour, the same of sifted sugar and of washed currants. Wash l lb. of butter in rose-water, beat it well, then mix with it 8 eggs, yolks and whites beaten sepa- rately, and put in the dry ingredients by degrees; beat the whole an hour; butter little tins, teacups, or saucers, filling them only half full. Sift a little fine sugar over just as you put them into the oven. Or .-—Beat 8 oz. of butter, and mix with 2 well-beaten eggs strained; mix 8 oz. of dried flour, and the same of lump- sugar, and the grated rind of a lemon; then add the whole together, and beat full i an hour with a silver spoon. Butter small pattypans, half fill, and bake 20 minutes in a quick oven. The same materials made into a paste, then^rolled out into small round cakes, and baked, make very nice tea-cakes.