MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIII. 444 PUDDINGS. 589.—There are two different sorts of paste for puddings, one for meat and the other for fruit. For Meat Pudding.—To 1 lb. of flour add 8 oz. of finely chopped beef-suet cut from the kidney. Mix it with water, but do not wet it too much : after mixing it well together with a wooden spoon, roll out the paste and put in the meat; then close it; boil it in a cloth which has been floured, tie it up, but leave sufficient room to permit the swelling of the paste. Veal-suet may also be used, but that of beef is better; or a mixture of both is not bad. If puddings be boiled in shapes, the crust is not near so light. For Fruit Puddings the paste should be made as for a pie —using butter instead of suet; but, unless for the sake of appearance, they should never be boiled in shapes. A very little salt added to all paste much improves it. Sweet Pudding.—Very good puddings may be made ivithout eggs; but they should have very little liquid added to them, and must boil longer than puddings with eggs. A spoonful of yeast will serve instead of 2 eggs, and a pinch of soda will make it still lighter. 2 large spoonfuls of snow will supply the place of 1 egg, and make a pudding equally good. This is a useful piece of information, as snow generally falls in the season when eggs are dear. The sooner it is used after it falls the better; but it may be taken up from a clean spot, and kept in a cool place some hours, without losing its good qualities. Bottled malt-liquors are also a good substitute for eggs ; the sooner used after the cork is drawn the better. Eggs should always be broken separately into a cup before they are thrown together, as a single bad one might occasion the loss of a great many Avithout this precaution : the yolks and Avhites, beaten long and separately, make the article they are put into much lighter. They must always be strained after beating. To avoid repetition, let it be observed that, Avhen pudding- sauce is ordered, wine, sugar, and very thick melted butter, boiled up together, is the sauce intended. If the pudding be partly of bread, the cloth should be tied so as to allow for swelling; if of flour, rather more tight.