MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIII. 476 is used. For fruit the batter should be rather thicker than when plain, to prevent the fruit sinking to the bottom of the dish or basin, as it is equally good baked or boiled. It must be brought to a proper consistency by adding milk. Baked Gooseberry Pudding.—Stew gooseberries in a jar over a hot hearth, or in a saucepan of water, till they will pulp. Take a pint of the juice pressed through a coarse sieve, and beat it with 3 yolks and whites of eggs beaten and strained, with 15 oz. of butter; sweeten it well, and put a crust round the dish. A few crumbs of roll, or 4 oz. of Naples biscuit, should be mixed with the above to give a little consistence. Raspberries and currants may be used instead of goose- berries, and are equally good. Damsons.—Take a few spoonfuls from a quart of milk, and mix into it by degrees 4 spoonfuls of flour, 2 spoonfuls of sifted ginger, a little salt; then add the remainder of the milk and 1 lb. of damsons. Tie it up in a cloth, wetted and well floured, or put it in a basin that will exactly hold it. Boil it 1£ hour, and pour over it melted butter and sugar. TO PREPARE FR ZJIT FOR CHILDREN. 653. —Afar more wholesome way than in Pies or Puddings —is to put apples sliced, or plums, currants, gooseberries, &c., into a stone jar; and sprinkle among them as much Lisbon sugar as necessary. Set the jar in an oven or on a hearth, with a teacupful of water to prevent the fruit' from burning; or put the jar into a saucepan of water till its contents be per- fectly done. Slices of bread or some rice may be put into the jar, to eat with the fruit. CARROT PUDDING. 654. —Boil a large carrot till tender, bruise and mix it with a spoonful of bread-crumbs, 4 yolks and 2 whites of eggs, a pint of cream, a ratafia, a large spoonful of orange- flower water, ^ & nutmeg, 2 oz. of loaf-sugar. Make in a shal- low dish lined with paste, and when it is turned out strew sugar over it. Or :—4 oz.( oForead-crumbs, 4 oz. of suet, 4 oz. of grated / raw carrot, 1 tablespoonful of brandy, beaten up with an egg, and flavoured with cinnamon and nutmeg. Boil 3 hours. An excellent plain Potato Pudding.— lake 8 oz. of boiled