FRESH-WATER FISH. 253 Chap. XV.] salmon in pieces about an inch thick, squeeze lemon-juice over them, or pour vinegar upon the chopped fennel and parsley, in which they must be rolled very thickly, so as to appear quite green. Thicken the gravy with a little clarified butter, and stew the salmon gently until done. Serve up with green pickles. A la Genevoise.—Put into the fish-kettle as much broth and wine as will slowly stew a thick piece covered with chopped mushrooms, shalots or chives, parsley, and savoury herbs, all seasoned well, but moderately; when the stew is done, thicken with flour and butter, and add an anchovy. If made with veal or mutton broth, use white wine; but if of beef gravy, take port or claret. Or:—Carefully take off the skin, as its oiliness will give the fish a strong and disagreeable taste when cooked. Cut from the tail-piece slices about i inch thick, rub them with salt, and broil them over a clear fire of bright coals. Butter them, sprinkle them with cayenne pepper, and send them to table hot, garnished with sliced lemon, as lemon-juice is fre- quently squeezed over them when eaten. To dry Salmon.—Cut the fish down, take out the inside and roe, rub the whole with common salt after scaling it; let it hang 24 hours to drain. Pound 3 or 4 oz. of saltpetre, ac- cording to the size of the fish, 2 oz. of bay salt, and 2 oz. of coarse sugar; rub these, when mixed well, into the salmon, and lay it in a large dish or tray 2 days; then rub it well with common salt, and in 24 hours more it will be fit to dry; wipe it well after draining. Hang it either in a wood chimney or in a dry place, keeping it open with 2 small sticks. Dried salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and only just warmed through, egg-sauce and mashed potatoes with it; or it may be boiled, especially the bit next the head. To pot dressed or undressed Salmon.—If dressed, take the remains of that which is cold, pound and season it in the same manner as for an omelet, but leaving out the eggs, and making it into a paste with thick melted butter. If undressed, take a large piece, scale and wipe, but do not wash it; salt very well; let it lie till the salt is melted and drained from it, then season it with beaten mace, cloves, and whole pepper: lay in a few bay-leaves, put it close into a pan,