MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XX. 370 purposes, since the saltpetre usually employed will turn veal or poultry red, when braised with any portion of the lean. HOG'S CHEEKS. 474. —Cut out the snout, remove the brains, and split the head, taking off the upper bone, to make the chowl a good shape; rub it well with salt; next day take away the brine, and salt it again the following day with a quart of bay-salt, 2 quarts of common salt, and 11 lb. of brown sugar, put into 11 gallon of spring water; stir it until the whole is dis- solved. This quantity will be sufficient for 3 pairs of chaps: be careful to turn them in the brine at least every other day, and to keep them well covered. Dry them in wood-ashes. BRA WN. 475. —Split and nicely clean a hog’s head, take out the brains, cut off the ears, and rub a good deal of salt into the head ; let it drain 24 hours; then lay upon it 2 oz. of salt- petre, and the same of common salt, for 3 days; lay the head and salt into a pan, with just water to cover it, for 2 days more. Wash it well, and boil until the bones will come out; re- move them, and chop the meat as quickly as possible in pieces of 1 inch long; but first take the skin carefully off the head and the tongue, the latter also cut in bits. Season with pepper and salt. Put the skin of one side of the head into a small long pan, press the chopped head and tongue into it, and lay the skin of the other side of the head over, and press it down. When cold it will turn out. The head may probably be too fat, in which case prepare a few bits of lean pork with the head. Boil 2 oz. of salt, a pint of vinegar, and a quart of the liquor, and, when cold, pour it over the head. The ears are to be boiled longer than the head, cut in thin strips, and divided about it, the hair being nicely removed. Reboil the pickle often. Another mock Brawn.—Boil a pair of neat’s feet very tender; take the meat off, and have ready the belly-piece of pork, salted with common salt and saltpetre for a week. Boil this till nearly done; take out the bones, and roll the feet and the pork together. Then roll it very tight with a strong cloth and coarse tape. Boil it till very tender, then hang it up in the cloth till cold ; after which keep it in a sousing liquor. To keep Brawn, the Cambridge way.—To 2 gallons of