462 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIII. to the taste. Butter the basin ; stick plums or split raisins in rows upon it. Stir the ingredients of the pudding well toge- ther, and pour it into the basin, and boil it If hour. Mother Eve’s Pudding.—Grate i lb. of bread ; mix it with the same quantity of chopped suet, the same of apples and also of currants; mix with these the whole of 4 eggs, and the rind of 4 a lemon shred line. Put it into a shape ; boil 3 hours, and serve with pudding-sauce, the juice of 4 a lemon, and a little nutmeg. ERECHTHEUM PUDDING. 619. —Take 6 fresh eggs; let them be well beaten for 2 or 3 minutes in a basin ; then add 2 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, a small pinch of salt, and 1 pint of milk. Flavour this mixture with 6 drops of essence of kernels; butter a mould which will hold the pudding; put it into a stewpan with water sufficient to come half way up the mould; place it by the side of the fire for about 4 an hour. It must not boil, but keep as near that heat as possible. As soon as the mixture has set, the pudding is done. When about to serve it, break 2 fresh eggs into a stewpan that will hold a pint, 2 teaspoon- fuls of powdered sugar, 2 drops of the essence of kernels;. place it over a very slow fire for 4 of a minute, merely to warm the stewpan. Whisk it with an iron whisk for 2 minutes, which will produce a very strong froth, and pour it over the pudding. Be very careful not to let the pudding boil, and not to make the eggs too warm before beating them for the sauce. QUAKING PUDDING. 620. —Scald a quart of cream ; when almost cold put to it 4 eggs well beaten, 14 spoonful of flour, some nutmeg and sugar ; tie it close in a buttered cloth, boil it an hour, and turn it out with care, lest it should crack. Serve with wine sauce. BRAND Y P UDDING. 621. —Line a mould with jar-raisins stoned, or dried cher- ries, then with thin slices of French roll, next to which put ratafias, or macaroons; then again fruit, rolls, and cakes in succession until the mould be full, sprinkling in, at times, 2 wineglassfuls of brandy. Beat up 4 eggs, yolks and whites;