243 SALT-WATER FISH. Chap. XIV.] same manner, and is often passed off as such by the fishmongers. It is in season at the same time as the mullet, and is plentiful on the same coasts, but is far from being so good. Chads are a smaller species of sea-bream, and may be dressed in precisely the same way. MACKEREL 256.—Are so well known, and in such general use as an es- teemed fish, that any description is unnecessary. Their season is the months of May, June, and July, after which time they spawn and lose condition ; but some have an after season, about October, when they recover their flesh and flavour. They are so tender that they keep worse than any other kind of fish, for which reason they are allowed to be hawked on the Sunday ; for if not dressed within 48 hours after being caught they be- come putrid. Their freshness may be ascertained not only by the signs common to all fish, of fulness in the eye and glossi- ness of the skin, but also by the appearance of the bars on the back, which should be distinctly marked black, those of the male being nearly straight, whilst those of the female are waving; an observation worth attending to, as the flesh of the male is better than that of the female. Their condition should also be looked to, for, if the body be not full and deep from the shoulder downwards, it is a proof that the fish has been diseased, or lost its roe as “ shotten mackerel,” which is always ill- tasted. They are delicate, though not rich in flavour. They may be dressed in various ways, but plainly boiled is the most usual, and considered by many good judges as the best mode of preserving their flavour. To boil Mackerel.—They should be carefully cleaned both inside and out; then washed in vinegar and water, and left to hang a little to dry before being put into the fish-kettle. A handful of salt should be put into the water, which should be at first cold, and only allowed to boil gently from 15 to 20 minutes, though some prefer having the water boiling hot. The fish should be watched about that time, as u when the eye starts and the tail splits they are done, and should be imme- diately taken up; if left in the water they will break.” The most customary sauce is that of fennel, which has partly superseded the gooseberry, but parsley and butter is still in use. Or :—Mackerel may be- boiled in a marinade made as follows:—Take, with some weak broth, 2 tablespoonfuls of xi 2