469 Chap. XXIII.] SWEET PUDDINGS. Switzerland, it is customary to put layers of crumbs of bread and sliced apples, with sugar between, till the dish be as full as it will hold. Let the crumbs be the uppermost layer; then pour melted butter over it, and bake. BERLIN PUDDING. 639.—Mix 6 oz. of flour in 1 pint of milk, with 2 oz. of sugar and 1 oz. of butter; simmer till it begins to thicken ; beat 5 oz. of butter to a cream ; add a pinch of salt and the peel of a lemon pounded, 6 eggs, the yolks and whites beaten sepa- rately till in a solid froth ; mix all with the thickened milk the instant before it is put into the basin. This pudding may be J boiled, but is better baked. To be eaten with cherry or plum J sauce. POUDING A LA NESSELRODE. (From an eminent Tavern-keeper.) J 640.—For a 2-quart mould boil a sufficient quantity of ches- nuts to produce a quart of meala after being pounded and rubbed through a tammy. Boil f lb. of sugar in 1 pint of water, with a stick of vanilla, until it is reduced one-third. Boil 1 pint of cream, add it to the chesnut-flour, then add the syrup and 12 yolks of eggs beat up ; set it over the fire, stir it until it nearly boils. When cold, put the composition into a freezing- pot ; when it is frozen, add 4 a pint of whipped cream, 3 whites of eggs whipped up strong, a handful of raisins stoned, chopped, and soaked for a day in maraschino, as many currants, 14 cap of chopped candied lemon-peel, and a glass of maras- chino ; stir these ingredients all well together, freeze it again, and put it into the mould. PUDDING OF PRUNES OR FRENCH PLUMS. 641.—Scald 1 lb. of prunes, cover them, and let them swell in hot water till they are soft, then drain them and extract the stones; spread the fruit on a large dish, and dredge them with flour. Take 2 wineglassfuls of good unskimmed milk, and stir it gradually into a smooth batter with a teacupful of fine flour. Beat up 6 eggs very lightly, and stir them by degrees into rather less than 1 quart of milk, alternately with the batter you have just mixed; then add the plums by degrees, and stir the “ The meal should be pressed into the measure. I