Chap. XXI.] PANCAKES AND FRITTERS. 403 pounded sweet spice, or not, according to fancy; fry as usual, and serve each separately on a plate. The common sort are composed of a light batter, made of eggs, flour, and milk, fried in hot dripping or lard, only half the whites of the eggs being generally used; but salt, or nutmeg, and ginger, may be added, and sugar and lemon should l*e served to eat with them. Or, when eggs are scarce, make the batter with flour and small beer, ginger, &c.; or clean snow, with flour, and a very little milk, will serve as well as eggs. If the family be large, beat 8 yolks and 4 whites of eggs, strain them into a pint of cream, put a grated nutmeg, and sugar to your taste: set 3 oz. of fresh butter on the fire, stir it, and as it warms pour it to the cream, which should be warm when the eggs are put to it; then mix smooth almost 4 lb. of flour. Fry the pancakes very thin; the first with a bit of butter, but not the others. Serve several on one another, but at two or three different times, “ hot and hot.” A better sort may be made with 8 eggs to a pint of milk and 3 oz. of butter melted, and poured in with either a large glass of wine or brandy ; garnish with lemons. A still finer kind are fried without butter or lard, as thus :— Beat 6 fresh eggs extremely well; mix, when strained, with a pint of cream, 4 oz. of sugar, a glass of good French brandy, ^ nutmeg grated, the grated rind of a whole lemon, and as much flour as will make it almost as thick as ordinary pancake- batter, but not quite. ITeat the frying-pan tolerably hot, wipe it with a clean cloth; then pour in the batter to make thin pancakes. APPLE PANCAKES. 529. —Mix 2 large spoonfuls of flour in a cup of milk or wine ; when smooth add 8 eggs, some pounded cinnamon, grated lemon-peel, a handful of currants, and 6 or 8 apples peeled and chopped: mix it all well together; melt some butter in a frying-pan; when hot pour the whole mass in, and fry it on both sides: serve it strewed with pounded cinnamon and sugar very hot. NEW ENGLAND PANCAKES. 530. —Mix a pint of cream, 5 spoonfuls of fine flour, 7 yolks and 4 whites of eggs, and a very little salt; fry them very thin in fresh butter, and between each strew sugar and cinnamon. Send up 6 or 8 at once. 2 i> 2