522 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXV. Preserved in Brandy.—Reserve a fourth portion of the cherries, clip the stalks of the remainder; lay them carefully in jars, and fill up the jars with brandy, putting- no sugar, as that would wrinkle them. Then stone the remaining portion, boil them with double their weight of sugar, and put them aside. When the brandy-cherries are taken out for dessert, mix a portion of this preserve with the liquor, and they will taste very rich ; or the cherries may be strained and the liquor ohly used, in addition to the brandy from the other cherries. Another method.—Weigh the finest morellas, having cut oft' half the stalk; prick them with a new needle, and drop them into a jar or wide-mouthed bottle. Pound f the weight of sugar or white candy ; strew over ; fill up with brandy, and tie a bladder over. Rolled Cherries, which taste as if done in Brandy.—To every 3 lbs. of morella cherries put 1 lb. of double-refined sugar, sifted in layers, in a large stone jar or small keg. Stop it perfectly close, and roll the jar to and fro for a short time every day for 6 weeks. Keep them in a cool place. When intended for Tarts and Puddings.—Take 15 lbs. of Kentish cherries; boil, and break them as they boil, and when the juice has all boiled away, and the bottom of the pan is visible, put in 3 lbs. of lump sugar finely powdered. Stir the cherries well, and let them have 2 or 3 boils ; then add a pint of currant-juice, skim the pot, and take out the stones, which mil rise to the top. This jam will keep until late in the spring without the addition of any more sugar, and will make good tarts and puddings. ALMACK’S PRESERVE.—E. R. 726.—Take different kinds of fruit, stone the plums and slice the apples and pears, put them in alternate layers in a jar; set them in the oven until they are quite soft ; then pass the pulp through a coarse sieve, and to every lb. of fruit put a lb. of moist sugar, set it over a slow fire and stir it till very thick, then put it into a wide shallow pot and cut it in slices for use. Windfalls may be employed for this sort of sweet- meat. Another.—Put into a pan 4 dozen split plums, 2 dozen apples, and 2 dozen pears, pared thin and cored. Boil them without water. When well blended together, and the stones taken out, stir in 3 lbs. of sugar, and boil them an hour. Put