40 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. III. with a brush kept for the purpose do over the meat, and, if that has been larded, put it into the oven for a few minutes. This is called “glazing,” and is much in use for made-dishes. The Glazing Brush. o,aZe should be a clear ye]low brown. Many persons have been deterred from attempting this excellent method of cooking numerous articles on account of the expensive way usually prescribed. Should there be nothing else at hand, the meat or fowl to be braised may be put into a stewpan, with about an ounce of fresh butter, or a larger quantity according to the size, and a teacupful of water. Stir these together for a short time, and shake the pan occasionally until the juices of the meat or poultry afford sufficient gravy ; put in an onion and a bunch of sweet herbs, with a little pepper or other seasoning, and a small quantity of salt. The meat must be turned several times during the period of braising the veal, as the English apparatus does not often admit of fire being placed on the top of the stewpan. When about to be brought to table, the gravy of braised meat should be cooled by placing the vessel containing it in cold water; the fat removed; the gravy then strained, thickened, heated, and sent up with forcemeat-balls, egg-balls, fried paste, or all three; and mushrooms, or any other vegetables, cut into ornamental shapes: or the gravy may be boiled down to a glaze, and poured over the meat: send to table on a puree of vegetables. To glaze, without braising.—Fowls or meat may be dressed in any way chosen, without bacon, and a gravy, boiled to a glaze, brushed over, as above. When several dishes are to be glazed, a sufficient quantity should be prepared, and the glazing- pot kept hot by putting it into hot water. Hams, tongues, and stewed beef, to eat cold, are thus done. To force Fowls, Sfc., is to stuff them with forcemeat, either between the skin and the flesh ; or, the breast- Glazing Pot. bone being raised, the cavity is filled up; or, the breast-bone being taken out, the body is filled.