MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIII. 204 as not to be perceptible. Chestnuts may be substituted for pistachio-nuts. CHICKENS.—E. R. 218.— To boil, chickens should be plump, and very nicely boiled ; if wanted to be particularly good, they must be boiled in a blanc. It is the fashion to send them up with tufts of cauliflower or white brocoli, divested of stem and leaves, and white sauce. Many people, however, prefer the stem to the flower, and have it sent up separately, sliced, and covered with white sauce. A la Carmelite.—Put a piece of butter the size of a walnut into a stewpan; as it melts dredge in flour, and when the whole is well mixed add a teacupful of milk. Cut up the chickens and put them in, adding peppercorns, an onion, and a blade of mace. Stew them until tender, adding milk and water if too dry. Take out the chickens ; have some parsley ready boiled and chopped; mix it with lemon-juice and a little white pepper; lay it upon the chickens, strain and thicken the sauce, add a glass of white wine, and send it to table garnished with chopped parsley and lemon or pickles. To pull Chickens.—Cut off the legs and the whole back of a dressed chicken; if underdone the better. Pull all the white . part into little flakes free from skin, toss it up with a little cream thickened with a piece of butter mixed with flour, 4 a blade of mace in powder, white pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon. Cut off the neck end of the chicken, and broil the back and side bones in one piece, and the two legs seasoned. Put the hash in the middle, with the back on it, and the two legs at the end. Another way.—Take off the skin, and pull the flesh off the bone of a cold fowl in as large pieces as you can; dredge it with flour, and fry it to a nice brown in butter. Drain the butter from it, and then simmer the flesh in a good gravy, well seasoned, and thickened with a little flour and butter. Add the juice of half a lemon. To fricassee Chickens.—After the chickens or fowls have been well cleaned, cut them up very nicely, and put them into cold water. Then put the chickens into a stewpan with a piece of butter, the legs first, as they require more time than the other joints; dredge them very lightly with flour as they stew, and moisten with a little broth ; add whole white pepper,