Chap. XIX.] SAUSAGES AND FORCEMEAT. 351 as you would hams, but first wrap it in a fold or two of old muslin. It must be high-dried. Some eat it without boiling, but others like it boiled first. The skin should be tied in dif- ferent places, so as to make each link about 8 or 9 inches long. OXFORD SA USA GES.—E. R. 441. —Take 2 lbs. of lean pork, the same quantity of lean veal, 1 lb. of suet chopped very fine and beaten in a mortar, with a French roll just wetted through with milk, ^ oz. of pepper, a little salt; mix all these ingredients well together, and pot it. When wanted beat up 4 eggs, mix the sausage- meat up in it, roll it into egg-shapes, and fry in a dry hot pan over a very quick fire. The eggs must only be added the day the sausage-meat is used. Another Oxford Receipt is to take 1 lb. of young pork, fat and lean, without skin or gristle, 1 lb. of lean veal, and 1 lb. of beef suet. Chop all fine together; add 4 lb. of grated bread, 4 the peel of a lemon shred fine, a small nutmeg grated, 6 sage-leaves washed and chopped very fine, a tea- spoonful of pepper and 2 of salt, savory, and marjoram shred fine. OYSTER SAUSAGES.—E. R. 442. -—Take 1 lb. of veal and a score of oysters bearded, then pound the veal very finely in a mortar with a little suet, season with a little pepper, soak a piece of bread in the oyster- liquor, pound, and add it with the oysters cut in pieces to the veal; beat up an egg to bind them together, and roll them into little lengths, like sausages ; fry them in butter a delicate brown. Or:—Take i lb. of lean mutton or beef, with f lb. of beef suet, and two score of oysters bearded. Mince the whole and add bread-crumbs, with 2 yolks of eggs to bind the materials together. Season with salt, white pepper, a little mace, and mushroom powder. Put it either in skins, or fry the sausage-meat of a light brown in small pieces. VEAL AND POULTRY SAUSAGES. 443. —Sausages may also be made of the remains of veal, turkey, or forvl, which have been dressed. Of either of these put equal quantities of meat and bread-crumbs, with half that of ham, seasoned with parsley, lemon-thyme, and chives.