MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XX V. 518 marmalade is completed, breaking the lumps of fruit with the preserving-ladle. This fruit is so hard that if it be not done as above it requires a great deal of time. Stewing quinces in a jar, and then squeezing them through a cheese-cloth, is the best method of obtaining the juice to add as above: dip the cloth in boiling water first and wring it. A very fine Orange Marmalade.—Take 50 Seville oranges and 12 lemons; have their weight in loaf-sugar; grate the oranges slightly all over to take away the bitterest part of the peel, cut the rind all round, and with a spoon separate it from the fruit without breaking the edge; boil the peel in 2 sepa- rate waters 20 minutes each time ; the first water should be cold, the second boiling. The peel should be shred in extremely thin slices; separate the seeds and every bit of skin from the pulp ; then mash it in a marble mortar; boil the sugar till it is a clear syrup ; having dipped the lumps into cold water, add the pulp and juice; let it boil i of an hour; then add the shred peel; let it boil till tender. The peel only of the lemons is used; the lemons will do for lemon-pickle. Or:—Weigh the oranges ; to 6 lbs. of fruit allow 9 lbs. of raw or 6 lbs. of good refined sugar ; boil the oranges whole till you can pierce them with a straw. Then cut them in quar- ters, take the seeds out of the pulp, and scrape the white under skin from the peel. Slice or mince the oranges, put the sugar with a little water into a pan; and when dissolved put the whole together, and let it boil on a slow fire until it becomes of a proper consistence. Orange Marmalade for Puddings. — Take 12 Seville oranges, boil them till quite tender, changing the water 2 or 3 times, take out the seeds, pulp, and inner skin of the rind ; beat the outer rind in a marble mortar very fine ; add to it the pulp and juice ; to every lb. of this add 2 lbs. of fine moist sugar ; mix it all well together ; put it into a larger jar than will hold it, as it ferments a little at first. It will keep for years, and no boiling is necessary. If made for breakfast it looks prettier when made with loaf-sugar. Transparent.—Cut the palest Seville oranges in quarters; fake the pulp out arid put it in a basin; pick out the seeds and skins. Let the outsides soak in water with a little salt all night, then boil them in a good quantity of spring water till tender;