GINGERBREAD. Chap. XXVII.] 573 Thick Gingerbread.—The same ingredients are used as for the nuts, but the proportions are different. Use only sufficient treacle to knead the 2 lbs. of dour into a stiff dough : 2 oz. of butter and the same quantity of sugar are sufficient. The whole of the ammonia evaporates during the process of baking. Another.—Rub ilb. of butter into 2 lbs. of dour ; add 4 lb. of brown sugar, 2 oz. of powdered ginger, i oz. of ground car- raway-seeds, and the same of carbonate of soda ; mix them well, then work them with 2 lbs. of treacle, and 3 eggs well beaten ; pour the mixture into shallow tins, filling1 them about half full. Bake 1^ hour in a moderate oven. GINGERBREAD-NUTS. 803.— The Yorkshire Receipt.—Mix + lb. of dour, the same quantity of butter and of brown sugar, with 3 oz. of ginger, a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda rubbed into the dour, with as much treacle as will make it into a paste. Roll it out thin, and bake it for about 20 minutes in a slow oven. The Suffolk Receipt.—Put I lb. of brown sugar and 1 lb. of honey, with 4 the rind of a lemon grated, into a saucepan, and simmer them well together; then add 4 oz. of good fresh butter and 1 oz. of ginger ; mix the whole with 2 lbs. of dour. These two receipts have been strongly recommended. With Carr away Seeds.—Take 14 lb. of dne dour well dried, add 1 oz. of pounded ginger, 4 oz. of carraway-seeds, and 4 lb. of coarse sugar. Put 4 lb. of treacle and i lb. of fresh butter in a pan, and when it boils mix it with the other ingredients into a stiff' paste, and set it before the dre to lighten ; then bake in any form that may be desirable. Take 2 lbs. of dour, 2 lbs. of treacle, 4 lb. of butter, £ lb. of sugar, p lb. of candied peel, 1 oz. of ground ginger, 1 oz. of coriander and 1 oz. of carraway seeds, dnely pounded: mix all well together. Just before it is put into the oven (which must be a moderate one) stir in 4 oz. of carbonate of ammonia, dnely powdered; if required lighter, 4 oz. may be used. Some persons use 1 oz. of pearlashes instead of the ammonia, but the latter is preferred. Or :—4 lb. of dour, 4 lb. of treacle, 1 teaspoonful of cay- enne pepper, 2 eggs, a little volatile salts, and 1 tablespoon - ful of coriander and carraway seeds. Make the treacle hot, and mix in the other ingredients; then make them into nuts as above.