MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY.. [Chap. XX. 376 Venison may itself be potted in the same manner; but if it be stale, rub it previously with pyroligneous acid. HAM CAKE.—E. R. 483. —Take the remains of a ham that may be getting diy, pound it in a mortar very finely, with all the fat; season it with pepper and mixed spice ; add to it clarified butter sufficient to make it moist; put it into a mould, and place it in an oven for about an hour; it should be prepared the day before it is wanted: put the mould for a few minutes in warm water in order that it may turn out properly. This may be made with equal quantities of cold beef pounded separately, and placed in layers in the mould, or put together in lumps to look like marble. Tongue may also be substituted for the ham, but it must be mixed with a larger quantity of butter in the pound- ing. If not wanted at the time, it may be potted with veal, and covered with clarified butter. It will keep well in winter if properly seasoned. TO POT MUSHR 0 OMS. 484. —Choose large buttons, or those in which the inside is not yet the least brown ; peel and wipe out the fur of the larger ones; and to every 2 quarts put i dr. of pounded mace, 2 drs. of white pepper, and 6 or 8 cloves in powder: set them over the fire, shake, and let the liquor dry up into them. Then put to them 2 oz. of butter, and stew them in it till they are fit for eating; pour the butter from them, and let them become cold. Pack them close into a pot, making the surface as even as pos- sible ; add some butter lukewarm, and then lay a bit of white paper over them, and pour clarified suet upon it to exclude the air. The collaring of Meat and Fish is an excellent method of preparing it to be eaten cold, having the advantage of keeping for a long time, and being at all times ready for breakfast or luncheon. COLLARED EEL.—E. R. 485. —Cut off the head, then split and take out the bone, but do not skin the fish ; season them with mixed spices, some pars- ley and sweet marjoram shred very fine, and a few chopped sage-leaves; sprinkle a little dry isinglass over them; roll them tightly up in a cloth, bind it well with strong tape.