Chap. XXIII.] 473 SWEET PUDDINGS. ber required must depend upon the size of the dish, but there should be sufficient to give the necessary shape. They may be stirred 2 or 3 sets in the same syrup, which should have ■f lb. of sugar to 1 pint of water. Apples a la Dauphine likewise form a very nice corner dish as thus :—Pare some of the large sort, make a hole at the end and scoop out the greater part of the pulp ; have a rich custard, with which fill up the hollow ; cover the apples with thin paste, ornamenting the tops with strips of it, and bake them in pans. A CHARTREUSE OF APPLES AND RICE. 647. —Boil 6 oz. of rice with a stick of cinnamon in milk until it is thick, stirring in a spoonful of rose-water or orange- flower water. Pare 10 or 12 apples—golden pippins are the best—scoop out the core, and fill up the orifice with rasp- berry-jam. Border a deep dish with paste ; put in the apples, leaving a space between, and fill it up with the rice. Brush the whole over with the yolk of an egg, and sift sugar thickly over it; form a pattern on the top with sweetmeats, and bake it for 1 hour in a quick oven. MIROTON OF APPLES. 648. —Scald the apples, reduce them to a pulp, and pile them high upon the dish in which they are to be served ; boil 1 teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel and 6 or 8 lumps of sugar in a teacupful of water; then add the yolks of 3 eggs and the white of 1, i oz. of butter, 1 spoonful of flour, and 1 of brandy ; nd.x the whole together over the fire, and stir it quite smooth. Pour it upon the apples, then whisk the whites of the other 2 eggs to a froth ; put them over the miroton just as it is going into the oven, and sift some sugar over it. The oven must be slow : it will take 10 or 15 minutes to bake. P03IMES AU BEURRE, OIi BUTTERED APPLES. 649. —Peel the apples and remove the core without cutting them through, taking care not to break them. Cut slices of bread the circumference of the apples, butter a dish, put on the bread, and place an apple on each slice. Fill the hole made by the removal of the core with white sugar, place a piece of butter the size of a walnut on each hole ; put them