Chap. VII.] 75 MEAT-SOUPS. the side of the fire, in a covered pot, until the meat is tender; when done, take out the bones, and pour the soup and meat into a pan. When to be used, take off the fat, and, having warmed the soup, cut the meat into pieces not larger than a mouthful; make the brains into forcemeat balls; and as the soup, though excellent in its kind, is not of a very delicate nature, it should be highly seasoned with walnut-ketchup, and cayenne, or chili vinegar, coupled with a clove of garlic, and a good sized glass of madeira or port wine, or a large table- spoonful of brandy. A little celery, carrot, and turnip, if minced small and boiled in a basin of it a short time, will improve the flavour. Either ox-cheek, ox-tail, or shin of beef will severally make strong jelly, if stewed down until reduced to a pulp, and the bones broken up ; a process which will be more effectually performed in the digester than in any other vessel. To make Family Soup.—Take a shin or leg of beef that has been newly killed ; the fore-leg is best, as there is the most meat on it. Have it cut into 3 pieces, and wash it well. To each pound allow somewhat less than a quart of water ; to 10 lbs. of the leg, 2 gallons of water. Put it into a large pot, and add ~ a tablespoonful of salt. Hang it over a good fire, full 8 hours before you dine. When it has come to a hard boil, and the scum lias risen (which it will do as soon as it has boiled), skim it well; then set it on hot coals in the corner, and keep it simmering steadily, so as to continue a regular heat. About 3 hours afterwards, put in a couple of heads of celery, 4 carrots cut small, and as many onions sliced and fried, with either a very small head of cabbage cut into little pieces, or a large one whole, if to be eaten with the meat, or, if you have any objection to cabbage, substitute a larger pro- portion of the other vegetables, or else tomatas instead. Put also in a bunch of herbs, tied up in a thin muslin rag to pre- vent its floating on the surface. It will require at least 8 hours’ cooking; remembering to put in the vegetables 3 hours after the meat, and the turnips only £ an hour before it is done. If you wish to send any portion of the meat to table, take the best part of it out of the sou]) about 2 hours before dinner; let the remainder be left in the pot till you send up the soup, as by that time it will be boiled to rags, and