MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. YU. 66 quite sufficient soup for a small family; or, if not rich enough, it can be easily thickened. Arrow-root, or the mere farina or flour of the potato, is far better for the thickening of soups than wheaten flour. The trimmings of large joints of butcher’s meat, the shanks of legs and shoulders of mutton, the remains of all sorts of poultry and game, the bones of roast meat, or, if boiled, then broken and broiled, should all be stewed down to a jelly— nor should the bones and remains of fish, for the same purpose, be neglected—and when strained and well seasoned, kept as stock for the foundation of soups, which may thus be prepared on sudden occasions in a much shorter time than if made from raw meat. In Scotland, sheep’s heads and trotters are much used in soup ; and English private families would do well to make more use of them, as they afford very strong jelly, and the proper flavour may be given by the judicious addition of beef, game, ham, and anchovy. A clear jelly of cowheels is like- wise very useful to keep in the house, being a great improve- ment to soups and gravies, as well as particularly nourishing for weakly persons. Soft water should alivays be used for making soup, unless it. be of green peas, in which case hard water better preserves its colour; and it is a good general rule to apportion a quart of water to a pound of meat, that is to say, flesh, without bone ; but rich soups may have a smaller quantity of water. Meat for soup should never be drowned at first in water, but put into the kettle with a very small quantity and a piece of butter, merely to keep the meat from burning until the juices are extracted ; by which means of stewing the gravy will be drawn from it before the remainder of the water is added. A single pound will thus afford better and richer soup than treble the quantity saturated with cold water ; but it will take 6 or 8 hours to extract the essence from a few pounds of raw beef. Bouilli beef is rendered very rich and palatable, though a considerable quantity of soup may be made from it, by being stewed at first in a little butter and some of its own gravy. Soil]), if meant to be good, should be made of meat that lias not been previously cooked ; for although family soup of fair quality may be made in the manner above stated, yet, if cold meat be used, it will ever be found to have a vapid taste which