MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XVIII. 336 of the dish or plate; boil the brocoli. In the mean time have ready 6 (or more) eggs beaten ; put, for 6, i lb. of fine butter into a saucepan,- with a little salt; stir it over the fire, and, as it becomes warm, add the eggs, and shake the saucepan till the mixture is thick enough. Pour it on the hot toast, and lay the brocoli in the dish. FRENCH BEANS. 413. —Cut off the ends and stalks ; divide in half, or shred them, according to fancy; lay them in salt and water, and, when the saucepan boils, put them in with some salt. As soon as they are done, serve them immediately, to preserve the ■ green colour. Or :—When half done, drain the water off, put them into 2 spoonfuls of broth strained, and add a little cream, butter, and flour, to finish doing them. Scarlet Runners, though less delicate, are by many pre- ferred to French beans. They are boiled in the same man- ner for i of an hour or 20 minutes; and when tender, a good homely way of preparing them for the table is to place them for some short time in the dripping-pan under any meat that is roasting ; add pepper and salt; or, when boiled, mince and stew them in beef gravy. To boil, or rather simmer, as gently as possible, the seed of the dwarf scarlet runner.—Boil in soft water, for, should the water be hard, they will take 4 hours; and unless they are stewed gently, they will break and be spoiled. Put an onion shred fine into a stewpan, with a piece of butter rolled in flour; let it stew until tender, then add the beans to it, with a little hot water; stir it until it simmers together for a few minutes; then add a little salt, a tea or dessert spoonful of vinegar, a few chives or a shalot minced fine, and a sufficient quantity of parsley to give it a green colour. Serve up the beans very hot, either in a covered dish or under roast mutton. MUSHROOMS. 414. —Cooks should be perfectly acquainted with the dif- ferent sorts of things called by this name by ignorant people, as the death of many persons has been occasioned by care- lessly using the poisonous kinds. The eatable mushrooms at first appear very small and of a round form, on a little stalk. They grow very fast, and the