MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XYIT. 312 it, some of which we shall give, but the one most to be relied upon is prepared at Apothecaries5 Hall, and called “ Colonel Lys’s curry-powder.”—The rice also forms a very important part of a curry, and great care is required in boiling it. The “Patna” is the best for this purpose. In India this dish is varied by the addition of green fruits and vegetables, which give a delicious acid and piquancy to it; we are apt to rely too much upon turmeric and cayenne pepper for the flavour. The cocoa-nut is also a favourite ingredient in the Oriental curry. At those seasons when the cocoa-nut is fresh imported into England, a couple of ounces of a good sound nut, grated and stewed for an hour, would greatly improve a curry made of white meat. Cucumbers, vegetable marrow, spinach, to- mata, celery, acid apple, peas, and almost any kind of green vegetables or fruit, might be added with advantage to different kinds of curry. The receipts here given have been selected as best suited to the English taste. Several others will be found under the several heads of the meats or material which distin- guish them. To prepare a Curry.—The meat should be fresh and free from bone. Cut it into pieces which can be easily served. To each pound of meat add a tablespoonful of curry powder and about half the quantity of flour, and a little salt; mix these together, and rub a portion of it upon the meat before it is fried, the remainder afterwards. Fry the meat in a little butter. Fry onions a light brown, with a clove of garlic if approved ; drain the fat from both the meat and onions; put them into a stewpan, and cover with boiling water; stew for 20 minutes, then rub the remainder of the powder smooth Avith a little cold water, add it, and let it steAV for an hour, or according to the time necessary for the meat to be Avell done. If no other acid is used, stir in a little lemon-juice just before serving: place it in the centre of the dish, and put carefully boiled rice round it. CURRY POWDERS. 366.—1 oz. of ginger, the same of coriander-seed, i oz. of cayenne pepper, and 2 oz. of fine pale turmeric ;a these ingre- dients to be pounded separately to a fine powder, and then warmed by the fire, and mixed together. Put the powder into “ Those who dislike the flavour of turmeric may substitute saflron.