Chap. XVII.] GRAVY, SAUCES, AND CURRY. 307 over a fire, thicken it with a little batter, and finish with a spoonful of lemon-pickle or lemon-juice. Vinegar may be substituted, in which case it must be mixed with the horse- radish, and boiled with it; while the lemon, or lemon-pickle, being of a more delicate flavour, should only be warmed. Or:—Scrape the horseradish thin and chop it small, or grate it, which is better; warm it in melted butter, adding a spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and one of walnut, or the vinegar from walnut-pickle. For freshwater Fish.—Take 2 large anchovies, 4 an onion finely chopped, 1 spoonful of vinegar, and 4 of sherry or ginger wine: boil it together, thicken it with flour, and add 4 spoonfuls of cream or melted butter, in which latter case the flour may be omitted. s For all sorts of Fish.—Take a spoonful of vinegar, 1 of Indian soy, the same of mushroom ketchup and Harvey’s sauce, with a little cayenne. Add 3 large spoonfuls of melted butter ; stir all well, and heat it over the fire. Or:—Put equal quantities of water and vinegar into a saucepan, and thicken it with the yolk of an egg to every 4 spoonfuls of the water and vinegar. Make it quite hot, but do not boil it; stir it or shake the pan all the time ; season it to your liking, and add a spoonful of the liquid to every 3 of melted butter. White Sauce.—4 a pint of cream, 2 tablespoonfuls of mush- room ketchup', 1 of essence of anchovy, with a little cayenne pepper, and an ounce or two of butter rolled in flour; boil all together for 5 minutes. JBroivn Sauce.—Fry an dnion in butter and flour until it becomes brown ; then simmer it in a glass of port wine, with a .tablespoonful of soy and walnut ketchup, seasoned with salt and cayenne; strain it, and thicken it with the necessary quantity of melted butter. Fish Sauce without butter.—Simmer very gently \ pint of vinegar and 4 pint of water (which must not be hard), with an onion, 4 a handful of scraped horseradish, and the following spices lightly bruised—4 cloves, 2 blades of mace, and 4 a teaspoonful of black pepper. When the onion is quite tender, chop it small with 2 anchovies, and set the whole on the fire to boil for a few minutes, with a spoonful of ketchup. In the mean time have ready and well beaten the x 2