FISH. Chap. XVI.] 281 FISH-CUTLETS.—E. It. 295. —Chop a considerable quantity of herbs with a small piece of shalot, season it with pepper and salt, and put it into a stewpan with 2 oz. of butter; as the butter is melting add a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies. Do not allow the butter to more than melt, and mix the whole well together ; then cut any kind of white fish, dressed or raw, into handsome cutlets, and, when the herb seasoning is nearly cold, spread it on the fish thickly with a knife; dredge the fish with bread-crumbs, and cook them on butter-pans in an oven, or before the fire. Stew a few silver button-onions, or a chopped onion, with any green vegetables in season, cut it into dice in a little broth, i add nasturtiums and a little of the pickle; keep them in the middle of a dish, and lay the cutlets round. Or:—Take any fish previously dressed, pull it in pieces, and mix it with a little good stock, and any fish sauce which may have been left from table ; spread it on a flat dish, brush it with egg and sprinkle thick with bread-crumbs, cut it out ! in cutlets, and fry brown. KEDGEREE FOR BREAKFAST. 296. —Boil 2 tablespoonfuls of rice, add any fish previously cooked (salmon or turbot is preferable), and nicely picked ; beat up an egg well, and stir it in just before serving. The I egg must not boil. FRICANDELLES OF FISH. 297. —Fake any quantity that may be convenient of either dressed or undressed fish of firm quality; skin and bone it; mince it of the size of dice, with a few anchovies, say 2 to each pound, seasoned with mace, cayenne, and a grating of nutmeg; soak the crumb of a French roll, 1 to each pound, in milk, and beat it up with the yolks of 2 eggs to each roll, so as to make it into a puree, and put the fish into it; warm the whole gently, and add to it a moderate quantity of cream. Put the fish thus prepared into a buttered mould, cover it thickly with bread-crumbs, and either bake it in a Dutch oven, or warm it before the fire, and brown it with the i salamander. A few oysters are an excellent addition; and if wine be