530 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXVI few cloves, some pepper and allspice, all whole. Put the onions into jars, distribute the spices pretty equally among them, fill up the jars with vinegar, and set them in a pan of cold water over the fire, taking care that they are closely tied down with a bladder: keep a wet cloth over them to prevent the bladder from bursting. In about 1$ hour the onions will be soft enough. Onions and Cucumbers.—To every dozen of cucumbers put 3 large onions; cut both in thick slices, and sprinkle salt over them. Next day drain them for 5 or 6 hours, then put them into a stone jar, pour boiling vinegar over them, and keep them in a warm place. Repeat the boiling vinegar, and stop them up again instantly, and so on till green; "the last time put pepper and ginger ; keep in stone jars. The vinegar is very good for winter salads. GARLIC PICKLE.—E. R. 741. —Steep i lb. of ginger in strong salt and water for 5 days, then cut it into slices and dry it in the sun; put it into a large stone jar with a gallon of the best white-wine vinegar. Peel 1 lb. of garlic, salt it well, and let it stand in the salt 3 days; wipe it, and dry it in the sun, then put it into the pickle ; add also i lb. of long pepper steeped in salt and water and well dried, 1 lb. of mustard-seed bruised, and i lb. of tur- meric. Shake these ingredients well in the jar, and add any- thing that it is desirable to pickle as it comes into season, salt- ing and drying them previously in the sun. When completed, the pickle should be kept a year or two before it is used. Shalots may be pickled in the same way; or if put, as we have already stated, in a bottle of cold vinegar, their flavour will be imparted to it in the course of a month. CUCUMBERS. 742. —If full-grown, the small long sort are the best for pick- ling. Let them be fresh-gathered ; pull off the blossoms, but do not rub them ; pour over them a strong brine of salt and water boiling hot, cover them close, and let them stand all night. The next day stir them gently to take off the sand, drain them on a sieve, and dry them on a cloth ; make a pickle with the best white-wine vinegar, ginger, pepper (long and round), and a little garlic. When the pickle boils throw in the cu-