635 Chap. XXXII.] VARIOUS RECEIPTS. Or :—Take equal quantities of marrow, melted and strained, lard, and castor-oil; warm all together; add any scent you please ; stir until cold and put into pots. Pomade Divine.—Clear TV lb. of beef-marrow from the strings and bone, put it into an earthen pan or vessel of water fresh from the spring, and change the water night and morning for 10 days; then steep it in rose-water 24 hours, and drain it in a cloth till quite dry. Take an oz. of each of the following articles, namely, storax, gum-benjamin, and odoriferous cypress powder, i oz. of cinnamon. 2 drachms of cloves, and 2 drachms of nutmeg, all finely powdered; mix them with the marrow above prepared; then put all the ingredients into a pewter pot that holds 3 pints; make a paste of white of egg and flour, and lay it upon a piece of rag. Over that must be another piece of linen to cover the top of the pot very close, that none of the steam may evaporate. Put the pot into a large copper pot with water, observing to keep it steady, that it may not reach to the covering of the pot that holds the marrow. As the water shrinks, add more, boiling hot; for it must boil 4 hours without ceasing a moment. Strain the ointment througli a linen cloth into small pots, and, when cold, cover them. Do not touch it with anything but silver. It will keep many years. A fine pomatum may be made by putting 1 lb. of fresh marrow, prepared as above, and 2 oz. of hog’s lard, on the ingredients, and then observing the same process as before. Pot-pourri.—Put into a large china jar the following in- gredients in layers, with bay-salt strewed between the layers :— 2 pecks of damask-roses, part in buds and part blown ; violets, orange-flowers, and jasmine, a handful of each ; orris-root sliced, benjamin, and storax, 2 oz. of each ; i oz. of musk ; \ lb. of angelica-root sliced; a quart of the red parts of clove-gilly- flowers ; 2 handfuls of lavender-flowers ; £ a handful of rose- mary-flowers ; bay and laurel leaves, i a handful of each; 3 Seville oranges, stuck as full of cloves as possible, dried in a cool oven, and pounded ; i a handful of knotted marjoram ; and 2 handfuls of balm of Gilead dried. Cover all quite close. When the pot is uncovered the perfume is very fine. A quicker sort of Sweet Pot-pourri.—Take 3 handfuls of orange-flowers, 3 of clove-gillyflowers, 3 of damask-roses, 1 of knotted marjoram, 1 of lemon-thyme, 6 bay-leaves, a handful