446 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIII. is put on, and the pudding should stand in the mould 5 minutes after being lifted from the water. Many persons prefer their puddings steamed, but when this is not done they should be put into plenty of boiling water, and kept well covered. Half an hour should be allowed for boiling a bread-pudding in a half-pint basin, and so on in proportion ; but puddings made up with 4 lb. of suet, and any other ingredients, will require 2 hours. SUET PUDDINGS. 590. —Finely chop 1 lb. of beef suet; mix with it 14 lb. of flour, 2 eggs well beaten, a little salt, and as little milk as will mix it. Boil 4 hours. It eats well next day cut in slices and fried, and may be eaten either with salt or sugar. Or:—Take 8 oz. of grated bread, 3 oz. of finely chopped suet, and 4 oz. of pounded loaf-sugar, the juice and grated peel of 2 lemons, and 1 egg well beaten; mix all together; put it into a buttered basin and boil 1 hour; or make it into dumplings, and boil 20 minutes. Serve with wine sauce. Of veal-suet, cut the crumb of a threepenny loaf into slices; boil and sweeten 2 quarts of new milk, and pour over it. When soaked, pour out a little of the milk, and mix with 6 eggs well beaten and half a nutmeg. Lay the slices of bread into a dish, with layers of currants and finely chopped veal-suet, 1 lb. of each. Butter the dish well, and bake; or you may boil it in a basin if you prefer it. Balls of suet pudding, not larger than the size of an egg, are put into gravy soup. They will take from 20 minutes to 4 an hour boiling; in that time they will be done through, and so light as to swim to the top. They may be also served separately, and are an excellent accompaniment to corned beef. BEEF-STEAK PUDDING. 591. —Of all savoury puddings perhaps those made with beef are the best. The following is the mode of making them in all the clubs :— Take from 1 lb. to 14 lb. of the inside of a sirloin of beef, or the same quantity of rump-steak, cutting off part of the fat: beat it until tender, cut it thin and divide into small slices along with 2 mutton kidneys or 1 veal kidney; to these add a dozen of native oysters, bearded. The whole is then sea-