494 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIY. when enough has been drained for the purpose, make a cus- tard with the remaining cream and that which has drained from the froth ; put it on a very slow fire with two laurel- leaves, and when nearly boiling take it off, and add the yolks of 4 eggs and the whites of 2—the number necessary for a pint of custard. Put it again on the fire, stirring slowly one way till it thickens, but taking care not to allow it to come to a boil. Cover the macaroons with raspberry or other jam, then pour on the custard ; and when the custard is quite cold put on the froth, sprinkling harlequin comfits on the top, and garnishing with different-coloured sweetmeats. In some of the good old-fashioned receipts for trifle, a layer of calf’s-foot jelly is added to the others. Modern trifles are often trifles indeed, merely consisting of a few cakes and a little froth. TIPSY CAKE. 681. —-Take a savoy cake ; stick almonds, cut in fillets, regularly in it; pour equal quantities of wine and brandy over, as much as it will imbibe ; smother it with a rich thick custard; lay preserves at the bottom of the dish. FLOATING ISLAND. 682. —Mix 3 half-pints of thin cream with f pint of raisin wine, a little lemon-juice, orange-flower water, and sugar; put into a dish for the middle of the table, and put on the cream a froth, which may be made of raspberry or currant jelly. Another way.—Scald a codling before it be ripe, or any sharp apple ; pulp it through a sieve. Beat the whites of 2 eggs with sugar and a spoonful of orange-flower water; mix in by degrees the pulp, and beat together until you have a large quantity of froth; serve it on raspberry cream or put it on a custard. BLANCMANGE.—E. R. g83. Boil 1 oz. of isinglass, 3 oz. of sweet and 6 bitter almonds, well pounded in a quart of milk ; let it boil until the isinglass is dissolved ; then sweeten it, stir it until nearly cold, and put it into the mould. j Or :—To a pint of new milk and as much cream, add 1* oz. of the best isinglass, a large handful of sweet and bitter almonds