Chap. XIV.] SALT-WATER FISH. 241 the public, the whole species are known under the name of “ Gurnets." Their flesh is white, exceedingly firm, and shells out into snowy flakes of a remarkably agreeable flavour; they may also be kept, without salt, for several days in very hot weather: yet they are little known in the London market. From 3 to 4 lbs. is a good average weight, but the head is nearly as large as the rest of the body, which tapers from the shoulder very slenderly to the tail. Their freshness may be tested in the same manner as cod. To boil.—Plain boil in salt and water over a gentle fire ; serve with plain butter or crab-sauce. To fry.—Skin the fish, cut off the head, tail, and fins, and fry the fillets in hot boiling oil or lard : drain upon a colan- der, or a folded napkin. They may be eaten with plain butter, seasoned to the palate, but crab-sauce is considered the best. To bake.—Clean, scale, and take out their insides ; then cut off their heads; rub a deep dish with butter, take some parsley, chives, and sweet herbs, mince them fine, season with pepper and salt; put a layer of the mixture at the bottom of the dish, then put in the fish, and cover them with the same seasoning ; put some small pieces of butter on the fish, and let it melt be- fore the fire: lastly, cover them with bread-crumbs grated very fine, and put them in the oven. The sauce to be made as follows—Take mushrooms, truffles, chives, and parsley; shred them fine, season with pepper and salt; moisten it with some fresh broth, and let it simmer over a gentle fire till the herbs are sufficiently done ; thicken it with a piece of butter kneaded in flour, and when the fish is baked of a fine brown pour the sauce into a dish and lay the gurnet round it. MULLET. 254.—There are 2 sorts of mullet, the red and the grey; the former bred in the sea, and the latter in fresh water; both of small size, and coming into season during the heat of summer. The red mullet is, however, preferred, both for the delicacy of its flesh and the peculiar flavour of its liver, in consequence of which it is never gutted; from which similarity in point of dressing and estimation of the trail, it has got the name of “sea-woodcock.” Being only found on our southern coasts, and in hot weather, as well as requiring to be eaten quite I fresh, they are scarce and dear in the London market. The u