Chap. XXV.] 509 PRESERVED FRUITS. wide-mouthed bottles, and fill up the bottles with the syrup ; proceed as before stated ; boil for 20 minutes. Ripe Apricots.—Cut them in halves, pack them closely in bottles, which you can easily do with the assistance of 2 skewers; shake them down well; crack the stones, peel the kernels, put a few into each bottle, fill the bottle with weak syrup, cork them well, tie tightly down, put on in cold water, and boil for 15 minutes. Green Gages—Take them before they are thoroughly ripe, prick them all over, put in bottles, fill with syrup, cork and tie them down, put them into cold water, let them heat very gradually; when they are turned brown take them off the fire, and the next day let them boil for 10 minutes. Cherries.—Fill the bottles and shake them down close, put on the top 2 oz. of powdered lump-sugar, cork and tie them down, put them on to boil, and when the juice covers the fruit they are done. TO KEEP GRAPES (as in Switzerland). 702. —Fasten packthread lines near the ceiling of a cool but not damp room. Pick the grapes before they are very ripe ; cut out every one that is decayed, but do not let their juice touch those that remain ; seal the extremity of the stalk to keep it from drying, and hang the bunches on the pack- thread. * Or in Brandy.—Take some close bunches, black or white, not over-ripe, and lay them in a jar. Put a good quantity of pounded white sugar-candy upon them, and fill up the jar with brandy ; tie them close down with a bladder, and keep in a dry place. Each grape should be pricked thrice. They make a beautiful middle dish in a winter dessert. TO PRESERVE FRUIT FOR TARTS. 703. —Cherries, plums of all sorts, and American apples, gather when ripe, and lay them in small jars that will hold a pound ; strew over each jar 6 oz. of good loaf-sugar pounded ; cover with 2 bladders each, separately tied down; then set the jars in a large stewpan of water up to the neck, and let it boil 3 hours gently. Keep these and all other sorts of fruit free from damp.