36 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. III. Old meats do not require so much dressing as young; not that they are sooner done, but they can be eaten with the gravy more in. Hashes and Minces should never boil, as their doing so makes the meat hard. The gravy should be thoroughly made before the meat is put in. Dripping, or clarified suet, will baste everything as well as butter, except fowls and game; and for kitchen pies nothing else should be used. Mutton-dripping cannot, however, be used in cookery, as it communicates to everything a taste of tallow. A piece of writing-paper should be twisted round the bone at the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of lamb, mutton, or veni- son, when roasted, before it is served. Seasoning.—The art of seasoning properly is a difficult one, which can only be acquired by experience. The cook tastes her preparations instead of employing the scales ; and, where the quantities are indefinite, it is impossible to adjust the exact proportions of spice or other condiments which it will be neces- sary to add in order to give the proper flavour: the great art being so to blend the ingredients that one shall not predominate over the other. In the following, and indeed all other receipts, though the quantities of each ingredient may be as accurately directed as possible, yet much must be left to the discretion of the person who uses them. The different tastes of people require more or less of the flavour of spices, salt, garlic, butter, &c., which can never be ordered by general rules. A servant anxious to please will take all possible pains to ascertain the tastes of those she serves, and will be guided by that in the preparation of her dishes, though it may be opposed to her previous prac- tice. The proper articles should be at hand, and she must proportion them until the true zest be obtained, and a variety of flavour be given to the different dishes. A very general error among English cooks is the too profuse use of salt and pepper, by which ragouts and soups are very frequently spoiled ; for although some portion of both must be put in at first, to counteract the rawness which would otherwise prevail, as most spices require to be submitted to the action of fire in order to bring out their true flavour, yet either can be easily added by those partakers of the dish who prefer more of one