LIQUEURS. Chap. XXX.] 613 George the Fourth's Punch.— 1 bottle of champagne ; 1 pint of white brandy ; 2 tablespoonfuls of rum ; 2 ditto of arrack ; 1 large glass of maraschino ; t pint of pine-apple syrup ; pint of clarified sugar ; 1 pint of green tea ; the peel of 2 Seville oranges and of 1 lemon : squeeze the juice, mix it with the other ingredients, and strain it through a lawn sieve. Tea Punch, a la Chevret.—4 pint of rum, the same quan- tity of brandy, the juice of a lemon, and sugar at discretion, added to a quart of strong tea. Set fire to it, and when it has burned out drink it while quite hot. Colonel Hatcher's Cold Punch.—A wineglass nearly full of the best refined sugar pounded ; 12 ditto of cold spring water; half a wineglassful of lemon-juice; 2 wineglasses brimfull of old Jamaica rum. Let the sugar be well melted and the lemon-juice thoroughly amalgamated with it and the water before adding the rum. Verder, or Milk Punch.—Pare 6 oranges and 6 lemons as thin as you can, grate them with sugar to get the flavour. Steep the peels in a bottle of rum or brandy stopped close 24 hours. Squeeze the fruit on 2 lbs. of sugar, add to it 4 quarts of water, and 1 of new milk boiling-hot; stir the rum into the above, and run it through a jelly-bag till perfectly clear. Bottle, and cork close immediately. Or:—Take the rinds of 30 lemons pared very thin, steep them for 3 days in 2 quarts of rum; then pour them into a vessel, adding 3 quarts more of rum, 3 quarts of water, 1 of lemon-juice, 4 lbs. of loaf-sugar, and 2 nutmegs grated. Dis- solve the sugar in the water ; mix all together, and then pour upon the ingredients 2 quarts of milk boiling hot. Stir it well together, and let it stand 2 hours ; then strain it through a jelly-bag till perfectly clear, much depending upon clearing it well. Norfolk Punch.—In 20 quarts of French brandy put the peels of 30 lemons and 30 oranges, pared so thin that not the least of the white is left. Infuse 12 hours. Have ready 30 quarts of cold water that has boiled ; put to it 15 lbs. of • double-refined sugar; and, when well mixed, pour it upon the brandy and peels, adding the juice of the oranges and of 24 lemons; mix well; then strain through a very fine hair sieve into a very clean barrel that has held spirits, and put