Chap. IX.] 147 MUTTON. little balls of turnip with a round scoop, and as many pieces of carrot and the same number of small onions, with a little parsley and a couple of bay-leaves. Put £ oz. of pounded sugar into a stewpan; when melted, add 2 oz. of butter and the vegetables, which keep tossing over the fire till covered with a kind of glaze; put them into the stewpan with the cut- lets ; let them simmer till the vegetables are done, skim well, place the cutlets in a crown on the dish, put the vegetables in the centre, and pour the gravy over them. A SCOTCH HAGGIS.—E. R. 126. —Take the stomach of a sheep ; wash it with cold water until perfectly clean ; then turn it inside out, scald it, scrape it with a knife quickly, and then put it into cold salt and water till wanted. Take the liver, lights, and heart, and par- boil them; grate the liver, and mince the other parts quite fine; mince also £ lb. of suet, 3 or 4 onions, toast £ lb. of round oatmeal-cakes before the fire, and pound them into powder, which is to be thickly sprinkled over the mince; mix all well together; season with pepper and salt; then fill the bag, and before sewing it up put in a large teacupful of any kind of strong broth or gravy. Put the bag, neatly sewed up, in a pan with enough of boiling water to cover it, and a small plate under it; prick over with a needle to prevent it bursting, and let it boil 4 or 5 hours, keeping the haggis constantly | covered with boiling water. The English mode is-—To mince the heart, the tongue, the kidneys, and a part of the liver of the sheep, with a third of its weight in fat bacon, 2 anchovies chopped small, and the crumb of a penny-roll grated, a saltspoonful of grated lemon- peel, pepper, salt, 2 eggs beaten, and a glass of wine; mix all well together; butter a mould ; put in the mixture, and let it boil for 2 hours: or it may be boiled in a veal caul. TO STEW MUTTON. 127. —Cut some slices rather thick out of any part of mut- ton ; put them into a stewpan with some pepper and salt, an onion or two, a sliced carrot, and a little eschalot; cover the steaks with broth, and let them stew from 20 minutes to £ an 8< hour, but not longer, or they will become hard; cover the I stewpan close, and When the steaks are about half-done turn L 2