ENGLISH WINES. Chap. XXX.] 601 any soluble matter which may remain. Put into a tub or cooler 30 lbs. of loaf-sugar ; pour the fluid upon it, first mea- suring it; make up with water to the total bulk of 104 gal- lons ; mix this until the sugar is dissolved. This is called the must, and is equivalent to the juice of the grape. Cover up the vessel with a board, over which throw a blanket, and let it stand in a moderate temperature for 24 hours or more, ac- cording as it may appear to begin to ferment. Put it into the cask, which should be kept full to the bung-hole, and a little inclined to one side to let the scum work off': you have 4 gal- lon of must for this purpose. There should be a hole near the bung which should be stopped with a wooden peg, and when the bung is closed up the peg should in a day or two be loosened, that the fixed air may have vent: this should be repeated at intervals till the excessive expansion has ceased, when the peg may be driven tight. The best way to keep the bung air-tight is to paste a double piece of brown paper over it. Let the wine remain in a cool cellar till a clear warm day in January, then rack it off, and let it stand to the end of March before bottling. It will keep for many years. We have some in our cellar made 22 years ago, which is very fine indeed, and perfectly sound. If it is a brisk or champagne wine, it will be very good the following summer. When racked and clarified, the isinglass should be dissolved in a little of the wine, and well mixed in the barrel. Green Gooseberry Wine may be made in exactly the same way. ORANGE WINE. 826.—For 10 gallons take 100 Seville oranges ; peel them very thin ; press out the juice, and put it, with 30 lbs. of loaf- sugar, into a cask ; put the peel into a deep pan, large enough to allow a gallon of cold water to be poured over it; let this stand till the next day, then pour the water over the sugar and juice already in the cask ; cover the peel again with water, adding it to the cask the next day, and continue to do so until the cask is full. Stir it well every day for 2 or 3 weeks, by which time it will be in full fermentation, which will continue for nearly a couple of months; after which draw it off, and after taking out the lees, and cleaning out the cask with a dry cloth, dissolve 4 oz. of isinglass in a little of the wine, stir it well in, and bung it up close till the autumn, March beiim 7 O