103 Chap. VII.] FISH SOUPS. it into the stewpan, with a good lump of butter and some flour to thicken it; add a couple of large glasses of white wine, and a large spoonful of garlic vinegar. The gravy from potted herrings, anchovies, or a little Oude sauce, will also improve the flavour. This stock, if once reboiled, will, in cold weather, keep well for a month ; or, if served as soup, the quantity may of course be reduced according to the number of the party intended to partake of it, and it will be found excellent. Indeed, any species of fish may be made into soup in the same manner. If meant to be browned, the onions should be fried, and a good spoonful of mushroom ketchup or India soy be added ; and red wine will be better than either sherry or Madeira. But if left white, cream should be substituted for ketchup and soy; a glassful of ginger-wine will answer the purpose of red wine. Stock for Fish Soupe-Maigre.—Take 1 lb. of skate, 4 or 5 flounders, and 2 lbs. of eels. Clean them well, and cut them into pieces ; cover them with water, and season them with mace, pepper, salt, an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, 2 parsley-roots sliced, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Simmer IV hour, closely covered, and then strain it off for use. If for brown soup, first fry the fish brown in butter, and then do as above. It will not keep more than 2 or 3 days. In making this stock it should also be observed, that the bones of the fish are what constitute its best part; for if stewed down in a digester, they will become a jelly of a very rich nature, which may be applied to many sorts of soups and sauces. The bones of large fish—salmon, cod, soles, and turbot—are never taken from the dish on which they are served ; and therefore should always be returned to the stock- pot ; or any remains and trimmings of the fish may be used. Add to this a carrot and an onion or two, and let the whole stew until dissolved. To thicken or enrich white or fish soups, it is a good way to pour them, boiling hot, on the beaten yolks of 2 or 3 fresh eggs. FISH SOUPE-MAIGRE. 59.—For a party of a dozen, clean and nicely wash 1 lb. each of dace, roach, or any common fish ; stew them with as many large carrots, half the number of lettuces, a handful of leeks, 4 onions, and a handful of sorrel, in as much water as