MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXY. 514 remaining from old sweetmeats; or, if you have none, boil a small quantity of syrup of common loaf-sugar and water, and put over them ; in a week boil them gently in it till they look clear. TO PRESERVE WHOLE OR HALF QUINCES. 712. —Into 2 quarts of boiling water put a quantity of the fairest golden pippins, in slices not very thin, and not pared, but wiped clean. Boil them very quickly, close covered, till the water becomes a thick jelly; then scald the quinces. To every pint of pippin-jelly put 1 lb. of the finest sugar; boil it, aud skim it clear. Put those quinces that are to be done whole into the syrup at once, and let it boil very fast; and those that are to be in halves by themselves; skim it, and when the fruit is clear put some of the syrup into a glass to try whe- ther it jellies before taking off the fire. The quantity of quinces is to be 1 lb. to 1 lb. of sugar, and 1 lb. of jelly already boiled with the sugar. TO PRESERVE PEARS. 713. —Pare them very thin, and simmer in a thin syrup; let them lie a day or two. Make the syrup richer, and simmer again, and repeat this till they are clear; then drain and dry them in the sun or a cool oven a very little time. They may be kept in syrup, and dried as wanted, which makes them more ' moist and rich. Jargonelles are the best for this purpose. To bake Pears. — These need not be of a fine sort; but some taste better than others, and often those that are least fit to eat raw. Wipe, but do not pare, and lay them on tin plates, and bake them in a slow oven. When soft enough to bear it, flatten them with a silver spoon. When done through, put them on a dish. They should be baked 3 or 4 times, and very gently. To stew Pears.—Pare and halve or quarter large pears, according to their size ; throw them into water, as the skin is taken off, before they are divided, to prevent their turning black. Pack them round a block-tin stewpan, and sprinkle as much sugar over as will make them pretty sweet, and add lemon-peel, a clove or two, and some allspice cracked ; just cover them with water, and add a little red wine. Cover them close and stew 3 or 4 hours; when tender, take them out, and strain the liquor over them.