Chap. XX.] CUEING MEAT. 369 must be rubbed with the following mixture:—i lb. of saltpetre, 2 oz. of sal-prunella, and 1 lb. of coarse sugar ; after remaining 4 weeks it may be hung up in a chimney where wood is burned ; shavings, with sawdust and a small quantity of turf, may b e added to the fire at times. The Black Pool receipt for curing Bacon.—Toy a mid- \ dling-sized hog take 12 lbs. of the best common salt, and 1 lb. 1 of saltpetre pounded very finely ; rub it in well, and cover the I meat about an inch thick, hams, chaps, and all, placing it 1 with the rind downwards. Let it remain for a week; then i take off the salt, turn the whole with the rind upwards, then 1 lay the salt on again for another week. Then remove the 3 salt, and turn it a second time; lay on the salt and let it remain 4 days longer. It will then be properly salted. Wipe it clean, rub it all over with dry salt, and hang it, where it will hav e a little air of the fire, until it is dry. Then sew it :j up in whity-brown paper, and hang it in a dry place where no heat can come to it; and if these precautions are taken, it will > not get rusty. The meat must be salted on a board that is well perforated ; j with holes to let the brine run from it, and it must be covered j up closely with a coarse cloth to keep out the air; and while salting take care to lay the pieces as close as possible one upon the other. WILTSHIRE BACON. 473.—Sprinkle each flitch with salt, and let the blood drain off for 24 hours. Then mix 14 lb. of coarse sugar, the same quan- tity of bay-salt, 6 oz. of saltpetre, and 4 lbs. of coarse salt; rub this well on the bacon, turning and wetting it in every part, daily, for a month ; then hang it to dry, and afterwards smoke it 10 days. The above quantity of salt is sufficient for a whole hog of >a about 7 or 8 score. To cure Bacon for larding and braising.—Take the fattest | part of the pork, and to every 10 lbs. use 1 lb. of pounded j salt; rub it very well over, put the pieces one upon another | upon boards, and lay boards with a heavy weight upon the i top ; leave it in a dry cool place for about a month, then hang ] it up to dry without smoking. The hardest is the best for , larding; and bacon cured in this way is preferable for culinary 2 B