Chap. XXIV.] CUSTARDS. 483 liqueurs cannot be got, then simmer lemon or Seville orange peel, cinnamon, with a little nutmeg, brandy, or ratafia, if it can be had. These custards are very delicious, but may be improved by the addition of a few drops of noyeau. Orange Custard.—Boil very tender the rind of i a Seville orange; beat it in a mortar to a paste; put to it a spoonful of the best brandy, the juice of a Seville orange, 4 oz. of lump* sugar, and the yolks of 4 eggs. Beat all together 10 minutes, and pour in by degrees a pint of boiling cream. Keep beating until the mixture is cold ; then put into custard- cups, and set them in a soup-dish of boiling water; let them stand until thick, then put preserved orange-peel, in slices, upon the custard. Serve either hot or cold. Or:—Take the juice of 12 oranges, strain it and sweeten it well with pounded loaf-sugar, stir it ever a slow fire till the sugar is dissolved, taking off the scum as it rises : when nearly cold add the yolks of 12 eggs well beaten, and a pint of cream ; stir it again over the fire till it thickens. Serve it in a glass dish or in custard-cups. Lemon Custard may be made in the same manner, or as follows :—Strain 3 wineglassfuls of lemon-juice through a sieve; beat 9 eggs, yolks and whites, strain them also, and add them to the lemon-juice, with t lb. of powdered loaf-sugar, a glass of white wine, and i a wineglass of water, with a little gTated lemon-peel. Mix all together, and put the ingredients into a saucepan on the fire, stirring it until it becomes thick and of a proper consistence. Or:—Boil the rind of 2 lemons grated and the juice of 1 in a pint of water; add the yolks of 14 eggs beaten to a cream and sweetened ; stir it one way till it thickens. When taken off the fire add 2 spoonfuls of brandy. CREAMS. In the common acceptation of the word, cream only means the skimmings of raw milk, or, when warmed, is called “ cloutedbut the term is here applied to dishes in which cream is the chief ingredient, and which are usually called by the name of the flavouring materials. 2 i 2