MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. VIII. some mushroom or walnut ketchup. Thicken the gravy with a little flour, and brown it, if necessary, with a spoonful of sugar burnt soft ; which, besides im- parting its colour, adds an agreeable flavour. Such is the most simple mode; but the sauce may be much improved by a glass or two of port wine and a spoonful of curry powder: if the odour of garlic be not ob- jected to, a clove boiled in the stew will be found to give it a fine flavour. Garnish with vegetables. A small piece of beef—say of 4 lbs.—will take the time mentioned ; but the large joints will require full double that time; and should be put to stew overnight, adding the vege- tables in the morning. Stewed Beef. Rump of Beef Steiu.—Half-roast it; then put it into a pot with 3 pints of water, a pound of sliced bacon, a bunch of sweet herbs, 2 wine-glasses of vinegar, and a bottle of cider or small wine; stick cloves into a couple of large onions, add a few sage-leaves, and cover the beef closely, adding more water should there not be sufficient gravy from the meat. Let it simmer for 3 hours; then strain the gravy. Boil or bake some button onions, and lay them round the beef; cover it also with forcemeat balls, fried ornaments of paste, and mush- rooms, if in season; add to the gravy a glass of port wine, a spoonful of soy and Oude sauce; boil down a part to a glaze, and put it on the beef: thicken the remainder if necessary, and pour it round, garnishing the dish with pickles. Or :—Season it high with cayenne, salt, allspice, cloves, and a blade of mace, all in fine powder. Bind it up tight, and lay it into a pot that will just hold it; resting it on 2 or 3 twigs, to prevent the meat from sticking. Fry 3 large onions sliced, and put them to it, with 'carrots, turnips, a shalot, a blade of mace, and some celery. Cover the meat with good beef-broth, and simmer it as gently as possible for several hours until quite tender. Clear off the fat; and add to the gravy 4 pint of port wine, a small glass of chili vinegar, and a large spoon- ful of ketchup; simmer £ an hour, and serve in a deep dish.