Chap. Till.] 123 BEEF. tape; put it into a large pot, well covered with cold water, and hang it over a moderate fire, to let it boil slowly, that it may heat gradually all through; take off the scum as it rises, and, when no more appears, keep the pot closely covered. Turn the meat twice while it is boiling; and, about 2 hours before it is done, put in some carrots, cut into large pieces; if you have parsnips, let them be mashed ; but if you use greens or cabbage, boil them separately; and, with boiled salt beef, never use turnips. A round of this size will take full 6 hours to boil it pro- perly ; that is to say, neither too much over nor under done ; and, if only of 12 to 15 lbs., will require nearly 4 to 5 hours. To boil a Rump of Beef mix some common salt, a little saltpetre, some parsley, thyme, marjoram, green onions, pepper, and salt, and rub all well into your meat, and let it lie 3 or 4 days ; then put it into a pot, and fill it with water; add some celery, with 2 or 3 sliced carrots, and small whole onions ; let it do gently for 3 or 4 hours, according to the size, and serve with the vegetables neatly placed in the dish. The other joints that are usually salted and boiled are the aitchbone and the brisket. B UBBLE-AND-S Q UEAK.—E. R. 8!).—Cut slices from a cold boiled round or rump of beef; let them be fried quickly until brown, and put them into a dish to be kept hot. Clean the pan from the fat; put into it greens and carrots previously boiled and chopped small, or, in- stead of these, large onions sliced thin and fried, though both the latter are sometimes omitted. Add a little butter, pepper, and salt; make them very hot, and put them round the beef with a little gravy. Cold pork boiled is thought by some to be a better material for bubble-and-squeak than beef, which Ls sometimes hard. In either case the slices should be very thin, and lightly fried. BAKED BEEF. 90.—A Rump of 20 to 25 lbs. weight.-—Take 2 ounces each of pepper and allspice, 1 ounce of pounded cloves, and the same quantity of mace; rub this all over the joint, which should be hung up for a fortnight or three weeks, according to the weather—taking care to keep it dry, and to occasionally