10 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. I. in readiness for use. Lemon-peel, thyme, parsley, and all sorts of sweet herbs, should be dried and grated for use in seasons of plenty; the tops of tongues saved, and dried for grating into omelettes, &c. ; and care taken that nothing be wasted that can be turned to good account. Bread is so heavy an article of expense, that all waste should be guarded against, and having it cut in the room will tend much to prevent it; but, for company, small rolls, placed in or on the napkin of each guest, are the most convenient, as well as the most elegant. Bread should be kept in earthen pans with covers. Sugar being also an article of considerable expense in all families, the purchase demands particular attention. The cheapest does not go so far as that more refined, and there is a difference even in the degree of sweetness. The close, heavy, and shining white, or loaf-sugar, should be chosen. The best sort of brown has a bright, crystalline appearance, as if mixed with salt, and, if feeling coarse when rubbed between the fingers, is better than when more powdery. East India sugars are finer for the price, but not so strong, consequently unfit for wines and sweetmeats, but do well for common purposes. To pound white sugar, rolling it with a bottle, and sifting, wastes it less than a mortar. Both soap and tallow candles are improved by keeping, and are best when made in cool weather; at which time it will be prudent to lay in a stock of both. They are, indeed, better for being kept eight or ten months, nor will they injure for two years if kept in a cool place ; and there are few articles that better deserve care in buying, and allowing a regulated quantity of, according to the size of the family. As to the sort of moulds, “ short sixes ” are the best for common domes- tic purposes, as, after dinner, workers or readers are better accommodated with light from candles of that size and height than from those called “ long sixes,” which look poor and thin ; but “fours” are preferable to either. Of kitchen candles, those of ten to the pound will be found more serviceable than either eight or twelve.