606 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXX. Or:—Bruise 28 lbs. of currants, and pour upon them 2 gallons of water; let them remain 24 hours, then strain off the liquor, adding 14 lbs. of pure moist or loaf sugar; put the whole into a clean cask. In the following spring rack the liquor, and run the grounds through a jelly-bag; then put it into a clean cask, and add a bottle of brandy. The above proportions will make 5 gallons of wine. GOOSEBERRY WINE. 835.—To every 3 lbs. of gooseberries put a pint of spring water unboiled, having first bruised the fruit with the hands in a tub; stir them very well; let them stand a whole day, then strain them off, and to every 3 lbs. of gooseberries add a pint of water and 1 lb. of sugar dissolved ; let it stand 24 hours longer, then skim the head clean off, and put the liquor into a vessel, and the scum into a flannel bag, adding the liquor that drains from it to that in the vessel; let it work 2 or 3 days before stopping it up close, and allow it to stand 4 months before it is bottled. When it is drawn out of the cask it should not be tapped too low. Green Gooseberry Wine.—Take 32 quarts of unripe goose- berries of the green kind, bruise them well, add 32 quarts of cold water ; let them stand for 24 hours; drain the gooseberries well from the liquor through a sieve; put 3i lbs. of lump- sugar to every gallon of liquor ; put it into a cask with a bottle of the best gin ; let it stand 6 months, and then bottle it. This is a receipt from a nobleman’s butler, who used to boast that he never opened more than one bottle of Cham- pagne at his master’s table at one dinner, all that followed being: of his own manufacture. Q CHAMPA GNE.—E. R. 83G.—Bruise well the amber hairy Champagne gooseberries, when they are just turning, in an equal quantity of cold spring water. Let the mixture stand for 2 or 3 days to ferment, and stir it frequently with a wooden spoon, taking care to place the vessel in a warm situation. Then pass the liquor through .a hair sieve, squeezing the pulp until it is quite dry. lor every gallon of the liquor put 31 lbs. of the coarsest East India sugar, which must be placed in another vessel, and the acid liquor poured upon it. Allow it to stand 2 or 3 days, in