107 Chap. VII.] FISH SOUPS. mace, some whole pepper, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover them close, and stew till the fish breaks from the bones; then strain it off; pound it to a paste, and pass it through a sieve. Toast some bread, cut it into dice, and pour the soup on it boiling. Add the scollops of eel, and serve. The soup will be as rich as if made of meat, i pint of cream, or milk, with a teaspoonful of flour rubbed smooth in it, is a great improvement. To every pound of eels add a quart of water, and let the whole boil till one-half of the liquor is wasted. The soup of conger eels is also said to be good, but the fish has not the richness of the fresh-water eel, and can only be recommended by its cheapness. LAKE AND POND FISH SOUP. 66. —For every person take a pound each of pike, perch, roach, dace, gudgeon, carp and tench, eels, or any fresh-water fish that can be obtained; wash them in salt and water, and stew them with a tomata, carrots, leeks, fried onions, and sweet herbs, in as much water as will cover them ; and let them stew until the whole is reduced to a pulp; then strain the liquor, and boil it for another hour until it becomes quite smooth. Then have ready some roots of any sort that may be in season, which have been chopped small, and boiled either in milk or •water: add them to the soup, and let it simmer for ^ of an hour; season it, if milk has been used, with mace and celery, with a little cayenne; but if made solely with water, then use chili vinegar, soy, mushroom ketchup, or any of the savoury sauces. FISH SOUP AND STEW.—E. 11. 67. —Make the stock of any sort of fish, then take cntlets of sole, brill, gurnet, or any other fish, and stew them in the following manner:—Chop all kinds of sweet herbs, a small bit of garlic, or rub the board on which the herbs are chopped with garlic; an onion or two, 3 carrots, and 2 or 3 turnips; stew these for a few minutes in butter, then add one part wine to two of water, according to the quantity of fish, and the juice of y a lemon. Stew the marinade together for ^ of an hour, strain it, and, when cold, put in the fish cutlets, and simmer them very gently until the liquor is reduced; then add it to tile first stock, thicken the soup with i pint of cream, and