BEEF. 117 Chap. VIII.] The herbs to be used should be burnet, tarragon, parsley, thyme, basil, marjoram, and all or any of the most savoury sort. Or:—Prepare the beef as directed in the foregoing receipts, and glaze it twice; stew some white haricot beans in good brown gravy, with an onion sliced, a carrot, some parsley, and a bunch of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, and a slice of lean ham ; let all simmer gently together till the beans are sufficiently tender; then separate them from the other vegetables, and put them in a sieve to drain ; pass the sauce and vegetables through a tammy, add a tablespoonful of vinegar, and, if not thick enough, a bit of butter rolled in Hour; put in the haricot beans, make all boiling hot, and pour the sauce into the dish round the beef. Brisket of Beef Stewed.—Stew it in sufficient water to cover the meat; when quite tender, take out the bones, and skim off the fat; add to the gravy, when strained, a glass of wine and a little spice tied up in a muslin bag. Ilave ready either mushrooms, truffles, or vegetables boiled, and cut into shapes. Lay them on and round the beef; reduce part of the gravy to a glaze, lay it on the top, and pour the remainder into the dish. It is a good piece to be stewed, as it may be cut from the bone, and of any size. • Leg of Beef Stewed.—Salt 6 lbs. of the half-leg, or stiff marrow-bone of beef, for 3 or 4 days. Make holes in it about 1? inch deep, and press in, very hard, forcemeat made in the following manner: 14 lb. of suet sliced very fine, pepper, salt, and a few cloves, some winter savory, and sweet marjoram, mixed well together. The beef must be baked in a deep pan, with water reaching about three-quarters of the way up, and forcemeat spread over the top, which, when the meat is baked, is taken off, cut into shapes, and laid round the dish. BOUILLON 82.—Is the common soup of France, and is in use in almost every French family. Put into an earthen stock-pot in the proportion of 1 lb. of beef to 1 quart of cold water. Place it on the side of the fire, and let it become slowly hot. By so doing the fibre of the meat is enlarged, the gelatine is dis-