Chap. XVII.] GEAVY, SAUCES, AND CURRY. 297 SAUCES FOR GEESE. 331. —For a Green Goose.—Take i pint of sorrel-juice, 2 glasses of white wine, a nutmeg quartered, a cupful of fried crumbs, and 2 lumps of sugar ; let all boil together, then beat it smooth, adding a piece of fresh butter, and serve it very hot in a tureen, or in the dish with the goose. It should not be made too thick with the bread-crumbs; and if much acid should not be approved, the wine must be equal in quantity to the sorrel-juice. Gooseberry Sauce.—Wash some sorrel, put it into a cloth and press out the juice; melt a piece of butter with flour, using this juice instead of water ; let it be very thick. Scald green gooseberries until very tender, and add them to the sauce. This is a fine acid sauce if not spoiled with sugar. If not sweetened, add a little cayenne pepper. For a Stubble Goose.—Mix a teaspoonful of made mustard, i a teaspoonful of salt, with a very little cayenne pepper, in a large wineglassful of port wine, a tablespoonful of mush- room ketchup, i pint of gravy, 2 teaspoonfuls of lemon-juice, and a bit of butter rolled in flour; stir and mix all thoroughly over the fire, and serve very hot in a sauceboat. Apple Sauce.—Pare, core, and slice some apples ; and put them in a stone jar, into a saucepan of water, or on a hot hearth. If on a hearth, let a spoonful or two of water be put in to hinder them from burning. When they are done, bruise them to a mash, and put to them a piece of butter the size of a nutmeg, and a little brown sugar if required ; but it destroys the slight acid flavour of the apples, and its corrective to goose and pork. Savoury Apple Sauce.—Pulp the apples, and, if wanted of a good colour, add to them a little juice of beet-root or cochi- neal : season with cayenne pepper, and a glass of vinegar or lemon-pickle, taking care not to make it too acid. This will prove a substitute for tomata or sorrel sauce, when neither can be obtained; if for the latter, a little spinach-juice will give it a colour. SAUCE FOR DUCKLINGS. 332. —Take young green onions or chives ; chop them very small, then put them into some thick melted butter, with pepper, salt, and a spoonful of lemon-pickle; stir it well