MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. III. 34 weight—should, in winter, be properly roasted in from 3 to 34 hours. The common rule is, 4 of an hour to each lb.; but a thick joint—such, for instance, as a sirloin of beef or leg of mutton—will require rather more time than the ribs or shoulder ; and meat that has been hung for some days requires less roasting than that which has been newly killed ; mutton, somewhat less than beef; but veal, pork, and all sorts of white meat, should be so thoroughly roasted as not to show any appearance of red gravy. Some cooks recommend a method of roasting joints of meat in a slow manner, before a large fire, and placing them at a much greater distance from the fire than in the common way ; on the principle, as they say, “ that it renders the meat more tender, and better retains the gravy.” This, however, we deny ; for it does not retain more of the gravy, and it makes the flesh soft and insipid or flabby, instead of imparting to it that degree of crispness which is caused by the ordinary mode. It also has the further disadvantage of occasioning double the expenditure of coals, and requiring twice the usual time. But we admit, that, if the joint be very large, this method should be adopted when it is first put to the fire, putting it nearer by degrees. To boil.—All meat for boiling should be entirely covered with cold water, and placed on a moderate fire, the scum being carefully taken off as it rises, winch will be in general a few minutes before it boils. This should be done with great care, as, if neglected, the scum will sink and adhere to the joint, giving it a very disagreeable appearance. The kettle ■ should be kept covered. It cannot be too strongly urged upon a cook, the great advantage of gentle simmering over the usual fast boiling of meat, by which the outside is hardened and deprived of its juices before the inside is half done. Pickled or salted meat requires longer boiling than that which is fresh. A fish-plate, or some wooden skewers, should be put under a large joint to prevent its sticking to the bottom i of the boiler. To broil.—A cinder-fire, or one partly made of coke and charcoal, clear of all appearance of smoke, is indispensable;: and chops, steaks, or cutlets of all kinds—if intended to be eaten in their plain state—should be dressed after every other: dish is ready, and sent up to table last, so as to secure their