262 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XY. fish is ready take a large cup of rich broth, with a dessert- spoonful of essence of anchovy, the same of soy, and a squeeze of lemon, some butter rolled in flour, and, boiling it up, pour it into the dish. Or:—Having salted it for a day or two, boil it for 25 or 30 minutes, and serve it with a sauce made of good bouillon, fried onions, parsley and allspice, thickened with mustard, or with egg-sauce and parsnips. If stewed, the above materials may be put into good gravy with a glass or two of wine. Small jack also eats well cut into fillets and fried, or cut in pieces and stewed as eels. To bake.—Take a large fish, stuff it with forcemeat, skewer it round, flour, and lay it on an earthen dish, with pieces of butter on the top, and a sprinkling of salt; send it to the oven. A large pie will take an hour in baking. When removed from the oven, the dish will be found full of gravy. Put to a sufficient portion for the sauce 2 anchovies finely chopped, a little grated lemon-peel, a glass of wine, Reading sauce, or lemon-pickle, and make it as thick as cream with flour and butter, adding capers if desirable. A pike of 4 lbs., cut in slices, and crimped like codfish, and then fried, is as good eating as any fresh-water fish that comes to table. PERCH 270. —Are in season from the latter end of May till the be- ginning of February, during which time their condition may be ascertained not only by the rosy freshness of their gills, but also by the glowing appearance of the golden tinge upon their back and silvery white upon the belly. They are seldom found in our markets of more than 1 lb. in weight. They may be dressed in the various ways employed for trout, having first cut off the powerful spines with which the back is armed, and carefully scraping off the scales. The most usual, however, is the Dutch mode of stewing them, called— WATER ZOUTCHEE, 271. —Which maybe made of carp, tench, perch, and floun- ders ; but the 2 latter are much the most usual. In Holland they are almost invariably boiled simply in a small quantity of water, along with a large handful of parsley, and served up in a tureen filled with (lie water in which the fish has been boiled.