Chap. XX.] POTTING AND COLLARING. 375 Ham and veal may be potted in the same manner. Neat's Tongue.—Rub it with 1 oz. of saltpetre and 4 oz. of brown sugar; let it lie 2 days, then boil it until it is quite tender ; take off the skin and all the fibrous part of the root, cut it in thin pieces, and pound it with 1 lb. of clarified butter, and seasoning to your taste.a TO POT BEEF. 482.—Take 4 lbs. of the brisket, round, or rump of beef, free from skin or sinews of any kind. Rub it over with rather more than 4 oz. of sugar, common salt, and saltpetre, and leave it in that state for a couple of days, turning it over 3 or 4 times ; then put it into a stewpan placed in an oven, with a little chopped suet and about 4 pint of water. When suffi- ciently stewed, drain the fat and gravy from the meat, cut it up, and pound it in a mortar till it becomes perfectly smooth, adding to it some cayenne, white pepper, salt, and a little pounded mace, with about 4 lb. of clarified butter, to be gra- dually mixed with the meat while pounding. When reduced to this consistence, put it into pots, bake it, and cover it in the same manner as in other receipts. Or:—Put the same quantity of beef, prepared in like manner, into an earthen pot with a few blades of bruised mace, a marrow-bone, and a pint of water. Let the pot remain for the space of 34 hours in a hot oven, after which the beef and marrow should be pounded and reduced to a pulp, along with 4 lb. of anchovies which have been scaled and boned. Season as before, and pot in the same manner; the marrow a nd anchovy not only adding to the flavour of the meat, but tending to keep it longer in a moist state.b To pot Beef in imitation of Venison.—Put 8 or 10 lbs. of lean beef into a deep dish; pour over it a pint of red wine, and let it lie in it for 2 days, seasoning it well with mace, pepper, salt, and a clove of garlic ; then put it into a closely covered pot along with the wine, and another glassful if it be not sufficient, and bake it for 3 hours in a quick oven ; when cold, pound it to a paste, and pot it as above. a Mrs. liaffald’s ‘Experienced English Housekeeper,’ p. 296. b Hunter ‘On Modern Cookery,’ p. 94.