402 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXI. Put it into a saucepan with about 1 oz. of butter and a very little ale ; stir it over the fire until the cheese is quite dissolved; then take it off, add an egg well beaten, dish it, and brown it before the fire. Rasp some toasting cheese with a bit of butter into a cheese- toaster, and, when the cheese dissolves before the fire, put it upon thin slices of buttered toast, of which the crust has been cut off. Serve it very hot, or the cheese will become tough; and eat it with pepper, salt, and mustard. Toast and Cheese.—You may also take some old Cheshire, with a lump of butter and the yolk of a hard-boiled egg; beat them into a paste, which spread upon slices of buttered toast, and hold a salamander over them until the paste is browned and melted. The paste may also be spread between thin slices of bread and butter, and eaten cold, as a sandwich. A Cheese Pudding.—Grate 3 oz. of cheese and 5 of bread; and having warmed 1 oz. of butter in £ pint of new milk, mix it with the above; add 2 well-beaten eggs and a little salt. Bake it i an hour. This is a nice way of finishing up a cheese when little but the rind is left. PANCAKES AND FRITTERS. 528.—Although egg forms the chief foundation of all pan- cakes, they are yet made in various ways according to different tastes and countries. Take 1 lb. of flour; mix it with 6 eggs, a tablespoonful of brandy, a good pinch of salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of orange-flower water, and the same quantity of milk and water, or as much as will give the batter a proper consistency ; melt a piece of butter or lard in a frying-pan, pour in as much batter as will cover the pan ; when brown on one side, with a knife loosen the edges of the pancake all round, and turn and brown it on the other side ; roll each pancake up, and send them to table very hot, powdered with sugar. Hand round sugar, either raw or pounded, together with lemon and Seville orange. Or, 1 lb. of flour, 1 quart of milk, 6 eggs, ^ oz. of salt, 4 oz. of pounded sugar, and peel of 1 lemon grated, with