MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXVIII. 578 then cover it with a cloth or board, and leave it to rise in a warm place : the sponge will rise enough in the course of 2 hours. When it has risen so high as to crack the flour on the top, put 4 lb. of salt into a quart of water a little warmer than new milk; let the salt be thoroughly melted, or it is liable to settle in lumps, which would spoil the bread: pour this water into the batter, and mix it well before taking in any of the flour, as this ensures the bread being uniformly light; then prepare another jug of water to use if wanted. That done, knead the dough well, turning it over, pressing it, folding it, and working it thoroughly with your clenched hands, for at least 4 an hour, or until it becomes light as well as stiff, and until all the flour is worked up. When done, the dough should be of such a consistency as not to stick to the hand. Remember that the goodness of the bread will greatly depend on the kneading, which requires both strength and practice. If baked in an iron oven, the dough should at once be rolled up and put into the tins, leaving it to rise in a warm place till nearly at the top of the tins, which should then at once be placed in the oven. A loaf of 4 lbs. will take about 2 hours to bake it. If the oven is well set it will be sufficiently heated during the time the bread is being made: dredge a little flour in ; if it changes colour it is hot enough. The loaves may be made of any form and size you please: for a small family, the 4 quartern, or 2 lb. loaf, is the most convenient, but the full quartern is the most common, and, in large establishments, where household bread is used, peck loaves are not unusual. The bread, if unexposed to the air, and kept in earthen, closely-covered pans, in a cool spot, will remain sufficiently fresh for a week, and any appearance of staleness may be removed by slightly damping the outside of the loaf, and putting it for a short time into the oven. If the oven be of brick, it should be heated by faggots, and will be sufficiently hot in about 4 hours; when the dough is ready, clear out the ashes, and sweep the floor clean for its reception. If necessary to lessen the heat, take an old broom, dip it in water, and hold it in the oven, twirling it round un- til it becomes dry. Try the heat of the bottom by throwing in some flour ; and if it scorches or turns black, do not ven- ture to put in the bread till the oven has had time to become cooler. When the loaves are put in the oven close up the door,