MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXII. 414 of fine flour; mix it into a stiffish paste, with as little water as possible ; beat it well and roll it thin. Bake them all in a moderate oven. CROQUANT PASTE FOR COVERING PRESERVES. 541. —Dissolve a drachm of sugar in as much cold water as will make 4 oz. of flour into a paste : knead and beat it as smooth as possible. Roll it to the size of the croquant form, and about i inch thick. Rub the form with beef-suet, and lay it on the paste, and press it so closely as to cut the pattern completely through. Then lay it on a tin to bake. With a bunch of white feathers do over the paste with the white of an egg beaten, and sift fine sugar on it. Bake it in a slow oven, and gently remove the paste from the tin while yet warm, and lay it over the fruit it is to cover. The same cover will serve many times if kept in a dry place. v BRIOCHE PASTE.—E. R. 542. —This paste is essential in many of the finer kinds of cookery, and, though rather troublesome to make, will repay the pains bestowed, since, with a small addition of sauce, it will afford an excellent side-dish in itself, and it will enter into the composition of, and improve, all the more elaborate entries. Take 7 fresh eggs, 2 lbs. of flour dried and warmed at the fire, and 1 lb. of fresh butter. Take \ lb. of this flour, aud pour into the middle of it a dessertspoonful of yeast, which has been prepared by pouring water over it, stirring it, and allowing it to stand to settle, and then draining the water off. It is the sediment which must be employed. Pour a little warm water over the yeast, and mix the paste up with it, which forms the leaven ; flour the pan, lay the leaven in it before the fire to rise, and slit it on the top. As soon as the paste has risen proceed thus:—Make a hole in the middle of the remaining flour, put into it a little salt, about a saltspoonful, the same quantity of powdered sugar to take off any bitter taste in the yeast, and a little water to melt it; the butter broken into small pieces, and the eggs: work it all well together, and knead it thoroughly, spreading it out and work- ing it well: then spread it out entirely, and lay the yeast or leavened paste all over it, taking the greatest care in kneading and shifting the paste about to mix both well together. It will take some time, and must be thoroughly accomplished.