Chap. I.] DIRECTION OF A TABLE. 3 contrivance, as it partly saves the attendance of servants. The cruets should be looked to and filled every day an hour before dinner; and much trouble and irregularity are saved when there is company, if servants are accustomed to prepare the table and sideboard in similar order daily. Too many or too few dishes are extremes not uncommon: the former encum- bering the dinner with a superfluity which partakes of vul- garity, whilst the latter has the appearance of poverty or penuriousness. In all situations of life the entertainment should be no less suited to the station than to the fortune of the entertainer, and to the number and rank of those invited. Without any of those attempts, so constantly witnessed, to imitate, with limited means, the costly and magnificent banquets of the great, still, if the arrangements of the table be properly studied, a degree of elegance is attainable under all circumstances, however eco- nomical ; and the plainest fare, if dressed with care, may be made to furnish dishes which everybody will eat with relish. Should there be only a joint and a pudding, they should always be served up separately; and the dishes, however small the party, should always form two courses. Thus, in the old- fashioned style of “ fish, soup, and a roast,” the soup and fish are placed at the top and bottom of the table, removed by the joint with vegetables and pastry; or, should the company con- sist of eight or ten, a couple or more of side dishes in the first ‘ course, with game and a pudding in the second, accompanied by confectionary, is quite sufficient. In most of the books which treat of cookery, various bills of fare are given, which are never exactly followed. The mistress should give a moderate number of those dishes ^Jiich are most in season. The cuts which are inserted in some of those lists put the soup in the middle of the table, where it. should never be placed. For a small party a single lamp in the centre is Sufficient,; but for a larger number the room should be _ lighted with lamps hung over the table, ancj the centre occupied by a plateau of glass or plate, ornamented with flowers or figures. b 2