MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. X. 158 double thickness over the thin end. When the quarter is roasted whole, the shoulder should be raised either at table or when dished ; a slice of fresh butter laid upon the meat, a little cayenne pepper, and the juice of a lemon. {See Carving.) The hind quarter is sometimes roasted, and served with mint-sauce. It may also be larded, covered with oiled paper, and when more than half done the paper to be withdrawn, the meat basted with oil or yolk of egg, and slightly covered with crumbs of bread; then put closer to the fire to give it a fine brown ; when served, it is sprinkled with the juice of a lemon. If roasted whole, the quarter, of 8 to 10 lbs. weight, will take 2\ to 2^ hours in dressing, as it ought to be always well done. The fore quarter will require from ^ to 1 hour less. TO BONE A QUARTER OF LAMB. 144.-—Take the fore quarter, remove the shoulder and take out the bone ; stuff it with fine forcemeat, and skewer it in a hand- some shape. Braise it with 2 oz. of butter, add a teacupful of water, stirring the braise until the gravy is drawn. Then cut the brisket into pieces, and stew them in white gravy ; thicken it with cream and eggs so that it shall be very white ; cut the long bones into chops and fry them; thicken the gravy of the braise, add to it haricots, minced truffles, or anything else of vegetable in season. Place the shoulder hi the centre of a dish with its own sauce, lay the brisket covered with white sauce round it, and place the fried chops at the edge. Lamb a V Espagnole.—An entire lamb is frequently roasted in the Peninsula, without any other preparation than merely skinning it, taking out the fry, and cutting off the feet. It is then, however, extremely young—not more than perhaps 6 weeks or 2 months old ; the bones eat like gristle, and the meat is singularly delicate. It is sometimes, but only rarely, stuffed with bread and sweet herbs, and served with bread-sauce; but more frequently eaten with lemon-juice. Au Pascal.—May be a little older, and is also roasted whole, but boned from the neck up to the shoulders, and the legs fixed into the body, which is then covered with slices of bacon, kept on with small skewers, or tied with twine ; all, however, being removed when the meat is nearly done. Both should be placed in a cradle-spit, and will take about 2 hours in roasting.