406 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXI. namon. When the flavour is extracted, strain it; add 2 table- spoonfuls of arrowroot, and sugar to palate ; stir it well over the fire, and add the yolks of 4 eggs, 2 oz. of chopped almonds, and a wineglass of cream. Cook the whole over the fire for about 4 minutes, stirring it all the time; then pour it on a tin which has been well buttered, spread it about £ inch thick, put it into the oven for 10 minutes, let it get thoroughly cool, cut out with a round cutter, dip into fine bread-crumbs, then into egg beat up very thin, and again into crumbs; fry in hot lard; dust over with sugar, and send to table. Spanish Fritters.—Cut the crumb of a French roll into lengths, as thick as your finger, in what shape you will. Soak in some cream, nutmeg, sugar, pounded cinnamon, and an egg. When well soaked, fry of a nice brown, and serve with butter, wine, and sugar-sauce. French Fritters.—Mix 2 eggs, well beaten and strained, with as much new milk and flour as shall make 1 thick pan- cake, which fry as pale as you can. Pound it in a mortar quite smooth, and add the yolks of 4 and whites of 2 eggs, 1 large spoonful of orange-flower water or cinnamon-water, 1 oz. of blanched almonds beaten to a paste, 2 oz. of white sugar, and 1 of a small nutmeg. Pound it all till it become smooth batter. Have ready a large stewpan half full of fine lard quite hot, and drop the batter into it, the size of large nuts, until the surface be filled: as they brown, turn them: they will be very large: when done, remove them on clean paper, in a dish before the fire, and do the remainder. Serve as quickly as possibly. They are excellent. Italian Fritters.—Throughout Italy fritters are almost daily served at all good tables, and made of livers of fowls, sweet- bread, brains, and various articles, there called “frutti di mare” collected on the sea-shores from the tribes of small fish, muscles, crabs, and shell-fish, which there abound, and mixed together in different ways, fish, fowl, and fruit, all fried in oil or batter. Potato Fritters.—Boil 2 large potatoes, scrape them fine; beat 4 yolks and 3 whites of eggs, and add 1 large spoonful of cream, another of sweet wine, a squeeze of lemon, and a little nutmeg. Beat this batter % an hour at least. It will be ex- tremely light. Put a good quantity of fine lard in a stewpan, and drop a spoonful of the batter at a time into it. Fry them,