Chap. VII.] SOUPS OF TEAL, POULTRY, AND GAME. 91 small, to provide soup enough for a moderate party, as it will till a tureen of 2 quarts; but it must be fresh and unstripped of the skin, which is the most gelatinous part. Take out the brains; clean the head carefully in hot water, by squeezing it with the hand to press out the blood, and leave it afterwards for an hour in cold water. Then put it into 5 or 6 quarts of warm water along with 2 lbs. of veal, 2 lbs. of delicate pickled pork, chiefly fat, a roasted onion or two stuck full of cloves, and the thinly pared rind of a lemon, together with a large bundle of savoury pot-herbs, 2 sliced carrots, and a head of celery. Let this boil for 2 hours: then take up the head and the pork. The head must be stripped of its skin, and the brain, tongue, and eye taken out; let the bones of the head be broken and returned to the soup, and boil 2 hours longer — the brains being made into forcemeat balls, the tongue skinned and sliced ; the black part of the eye should also be taken out, and the remainder minced ; the skin being cut into pieces of little more than an inch square. While the stock is boiling, put into a saucepan a small quantity of fresh butter, with some onions sliced thin, a little basil, marjoram, and parsley, a very small quantity of thyme, 3 bay-leaves, 2 blades of mace, a few allspice; sweat all these well over the fire ; when done, add sufficient flour to thicken the soup. Stir in the boiling stock by degrees to avoid its being lumpy ; let, it .boil gently for an hour, then rub it through a tammy, set it over the fire ; when it boils add the meat. About 10 minutes before you serve, season the soup to your taste with salt, a small quantity of cayenne pepper, a couple of spoonfuls of soy, a good squeeze of lemon-juice, together with nearly a pint of either Madeira or sherry. Serve with 2 lemons upon a plate, cut in half, as some people like the soup to be somewhat acid. Mushrooms are sometimes added. The soup will take at least 7 or 8 hours in preparation. A calf’s head requires half its own weight of meat to make the broth of proper quality. IMITATION OF MOCK-TURTLE. 36.—Put into a pan a knuckle of veal, 2 fine cow-heels or 2 calf’s feet, 2 onions, a few cloves, peppers, berries of all- spice, mace, and sweet herbs; cover them with water, then tie a thick paper over the pan, and set it in an oven for 3 hours. When cold, take off the fat very nicely ; cut the meat and feet