JELLIES. 499 Chap. XXIV.] of the flavour of the essential oil is lost, and the white part elves a disagreeable flavour. The stock should be measured when set to get cold, as the exact quantity cannot be measured when it is set. Jelly is equally good made of cow-heels nicely cleaned ; and they bear a less price than those of calves, and make a stronger jelly. CALF'S-FOOT JELLY. 692.—Boil 2 feet in 2 quarts and a pint of water till the feet are broken and the water half wasted ; strain it, and the following day take off the fat, and remove the jelly from the sediment; then put it into a saucepan, with a laurel-leaf, 20 coriander-seeds, the peel of 2 lemons, sugar to palate, 4 pint of sherry, and a wineglass of brandy. When the flavour is rich, put to it the whites of 5 eggs well beaten, and their shells broken. The whole of the ingredients should be cold when mixed together, to ensure the jelly being clear. Set the saucepan on the fire, but do not stir the jelly after it gets hot. Let it boil 20 minutes after it rises to a head ; then pour it through a flannel jelly-bag, first dipping the bag in hot water to prevent waste, and squeezing it quite dry. Run the jelly through and through until clear; then put it into glasses or moulds. After all the jelly has run through the bag, pour boiling water into the bag from 1 to 3 half-pints, according to the quantity of the jelly that has been made. This will niake an exceedingly pleasant beverage, particularly in hot weather. , The following mode will greatly facilitate the clearing of jelly:—When the mixture has boiled 20 minutes, throw in a teacupful of cold water ; let it boil 5 minutes longer ; then take the saucepan off the fire, covered close, and let it stand 4 an hour ; after which it will be so clear as to need only once running through the bag, and much waste will be saved. Or:—Boil 4 quarts of water, with 3 calf’s-feet, or 2 cow- heels, that have been only scalded, till half wasted : take the jelly from the fat and sediment ; mix with it the juice of a Seville orange and 12 lemons, the peels of 3 ditto, the whites and shells of 12 eggs, white sugar to taste, a pint of wine, 1 oz. of coriander-seeds, 2 bay-leaves, a bit of cinnamon, and 6 cloves, all bruised, after having previously mixed them cold. The jelly should boil 15 minutes without stirring; then clear it through a flannel bag. While running, take a little jelly, 2 k 2