313 Chap. XVII.] GRAVY, SAUCES, AND CURRY. a wide-mouthed bottle, cork it well down, and put it into a dry place. Or:—1 tablespoonful of coriander-seed, 1 teaspoonful of cumin-seed, the same of turmeric and of cayenne pepper, and 1 tablespoonful of common flour. When to be used, mix all these ingredients in their several proportions, with 2 table- spoonfuls of lemon-pickle and 4 of cream, adding this mixture to the fried onions and butter, &c. Or :—14 oz. of mustard-seed scorched and finely powdered, 4 oz. of coriander-seed pounded, 44 oz. of turmeric, 3 oz. of black pepper, 14 oz. of cayenne pepper, 1 oz. of the lesser cardamoms, 4 oz. of ginger, and 1 of cumin-seed, all finely powdered. The flavour may be varied by the addition of all or any of the following ingredients: cinnamon, in powder, 1 oz.; cloves, ditto, 4 oz.; mace, ditto, 4 oz. Delhi Curry-powder.—20 teaspoonfuls of turmeric, 8 of pounded chilis or cayenne pepper, and 12 each of cumin, coriander-seed, and dried cassia-leaves. Madras Curry-powder.—f lb. of turmeric, 2 oz. of cumin- seed, 2 oz. of coriander-seed, 1 oz. of carraway-seed, the same of cardamom-seed, 4 oz. of black pepper, 4 oz. of cayenne ditto, 4 oz. of fenugreek-seed, 4 oz. of cloves, 4 oz. of cinna- mon, 4 oz. of mace, all of the best quality, pounded separately to a fine powder, and kept very dry. Bengal Curry-powder.—4 oz. of coriander-seed, 2 oz. cayenne pepper, 2 oz. of turmeric, 1 oz. of cumin-seed, 1 oz. of fennel-seed, 1 oz. of black pepper. To be well dried, pounded, and sifted. Lime or lemon juice should be added to this curry-powder when used. Sir II. Pottingers Curry -powder. — Take of turmeric- powder 2 oz., ginger-powder 14 oz., white pepper 1 oz., car- damom-seed 4 oz., coriander-seed 14 oz., cumin 1 oz., fenugreek 2 drachms, and cayenne pepper 4 oz. Mix these ingredients together, and keep the powder in a dry place. MODES OF BOILING RICE.-E.R. The great art in boiling rice is to keep every grain separate; i the pot should, therefore, be kept on a strong fire, so as to I keep the water in a constant boil, as this motion will prevent 4 the grains from sticking together. The pot should be left >1 uncovered, and close attention is necessary on the part of the