237 Chap. XIV.] SALT-WATER FISH. To steio Codfish.—Cut the cod into slices, season them with pepper and salt, put them into a stewpan with t pint of water, some good gravy, i pint of wine, the juice of i a lemon, a dozen or two of oysters with their liquor, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and 2 or 3 blades of mace. When the fish is sufficiently stewed, which will be in i of an hour, serve it up with the sauce. Any kind of fish-sauce may be substituted for the wine, and a variety given by employing anchovies instead of oysters. A la Provencale.—Having soaked the fish until it is tender, mince it up with a small quantity of garlic, scraped horse- radish, and parsley; then put it into a stewpan, with white wine and oil of equal amount to cover it, put it over a mode- rate fire, and keep constantly shaking it until the ingredients are thoroughly mingled to the thickness of cream. In England, where garlic and oil are so generally disliked, the former may be omitted, and white sauce or cream may be substituted for oil; but if wine be used, it must be carefully mixed to avoid the curdling of the cream. Cod Sounds may be dressed in various ways, and form a good maigre dish Soak them in warm water a few hours, then scrape and clean; boil them in milk and water till tender; serve them in a napkin with egg-sauce. Dress cod-tongues in the same way. En ragout.—Prepare as above; then stew them in white gravy seasoned ; cream, butter, and a small quantity of flour added before you serve, gently boiling it up. A bit of lemon- peel, nutmeg, and the least pounded mace, should give the flavour. Or:—Wash 3 large sounds nicely, and boil in milk and water, but not too tender: when cold, put a forcemeat of chop- ped oysters, crumbs of bread, a bit of butter, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and the yolks of 2 eggs; spread it thin over the sounds, and roll up each, skewering it; dust a little flour over, and roast them in a tin oven slowly. When done enough, pour over them a fine oyster-sauce. Serve for side or corner dish at the first course. SALT FISH, 250. If very dry, should be soaked for several hours in soft water then soaked again, and afterwards brushed with