299 Chap. XV3L] GEAYY, SAUCES, AND CUEEY. the parties be averse to so much pepper, a tea or saltspoonful; add to it a glass of claret or port wine, a glass of ketchup, or a dessertspoonful of essence of anchovies, and the juice of 4 a large lemon. Warm it over the fire, and either serve it up in a butter-boat, or, having scored the breast of the duck, and laid a slice of butter upon it, pour the sauce over. Col. Hawker’s Sauce.—Port wine or claret 1 glass, sauce a la Russe a 1 tablespoonful, ketchup 1 tablespoonful, lemon- juice 1 tablespoonful, lemon-peel 1 slice, shalot (large) 1 sliced, cayenne (the darkest) 4 grains, mace 1 or 2 blades: to be scalded, strained, and added to the gravy which comes from the fowl in roasting. The addition of a small spoonful of sugar would render this equal to shikaree. LIVER SAUCE FOR HARE OR ROAST RABBIT. 335. —Stew the liver in some good gravy—of beef for hare, and of veal for rabbit—when quite tender chop it fine, with a clove of eschalot and some fine potherbs, along with a teaspoonful of chili-vinegar, a wineglass of port wine, and 4 a teacupful of currant-jelly, if for hare, or white wine only for rabbit. Or:—Pound the whole of the solid ingredients, and mix them in the gravy to thicken it, adding afterwards the vinegar and wine. Or:—Take the crumb of a penny roll and steep it in port wine, put it on the fire with a piece of butter; beat it smooth, add pepper, salt, and jelly, with 4 a glass of vinegar ; let it boil, and serve it up very hot. SAUCE FOR WINGED GAME. 336. —Put a glass of white wine, 4 a lemon sliced, or a des- sertspoonful of the juice, with a few strips of the peel of a Seville orange, and a spoonful of sweet oil, to a teacupful of the gravy which runs from the birds, seasoned with a clove of garlic, salt, and a few peppercorns. Boil it for 4 of an hour, skim it, strain it through a sieve, and serve it. If for grouse or black-cock, port should be substituted for white wine. BREAD SA UCE. 337. —Boil a large onion, cut into 4, with some whole black “ Sold Morel in Piccadilly, and by all dealers in foreign store sauces.