MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. VII. 86 Season it highly. The gizzards should be cut into quarters, or they Avill not become so tender as the other parts; divide the liver, feet, neck, and pinions in moderate-sized pieces; take off the bill and cut the head in two. In some marshy situations, where geese are reared more for the profit derived from their feathers than their flesh, and thus not properly fattened, the whole bird is sometimes made into soup, ready trussed for the table, the giblets being dressed as above, along with the carcase, which is served up separately, smothered in onions. It must be stewed very slowly, and will take from 3 to 4 hours, according- to its size, before it can be brought to table; but the soup will be of first-rate quality. Duck Giblets make a very good soup, but, being much smaller than those of a goose, a larger quantity will be neces- sary ; and those of other fowls, turkeys, and game, may also be used with nearly the same effect. HUNTER'S SOUP, AND GAME STOCK. 27. —When sportsmen bivouac upon the moors, the produce of the game-bag must be put into the soup-kettle with any odds and ends of other meat, and a bottle or two of any wine or beer that can be spared ; then—filling it with water—com- mence the brew, which may be intrusted to any servant; he being only required to begin early in the morning, and let the game stew long enough to extx-act from it the entire of its juices. When the party returns in the evening from shooting, they will thus find the essential requisite of a good soup ; and gentlemen who have preserves, or any superabundance of game for present use, or from its being too old, should order their cook to stew it down to a strong consomme; which, when well seasoned, will form excellent stock. GAME SOUP 28. —May be made of any sort of feathered game—whether partridge, grouse, or pheasant, and whether raw and whole, or only the remains of the carcase after being roasted; the latter is, however, the most usual mode ; for unless the birds are very old, few persons have so many as to spare them