MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XY. 260 ■which fry with the roe in the stewpan, until nicely brown; then add the vinegar and blood, 2 or 3 large onions stuck with cloves, some whole pepper, cinnamon, allspice, salt, lemon- peel, and a slice or two of lemon ; close the lid, and let the con- tents stew gradually, taking care to skim it well. When done, take out some of the liquor, and season with eschalot and chili vinegar, soy, anchovies,' and ketchup thickened with a little Hour; add h pint of port wine, and serve it up for table; garnish with sippets. Or :—Cut off the head, tail, and fins ; season the carp with salt, pepper, and powdered mace, botli inside and out; rub the seasoning on very well, and let the pieces lie in it an hour; then put them into a stewpan with a little parsley chopped fine, a whole onion, a little sweet marjoram, a teacupful of thick cream or very rich milk, and a lump of butter rolled in flour. Pour in sufficient water to cover the carp, and let it stew i an hour. If to the above be added f pint of white wine in which the yolks of a couple of eggs have been beaten up with a lump of sugar of the size of about a walnut, and a grating of nut- meg, it will greatly improve the sauce. To stew Tench.—Scale and clean ; take care of the roe, &c.; lay the fish in a stewpan with a rich beef-gravy, an onion stuck with cloves, some mace and allspice, with a dessertspoonful of Jamaica pepper; simmer, closely covered ; when nearly done, add 2 anchovies chopped fine, a dessertspoonful of made mus- tard, some walnut-ketchup, and as much curry-powder as will add a high flavour to the fish; thicken the sauce with flour, if that be not sufficiently done with the curry-powder, and reduce it with a couple of glasses of good port wine. Let the gravy boil a few minutes, then add a spoonful of soy. Serve with sippets of fried bread, the roe fried, and a good deal of horse- radish and lemon. To fry Carp and Tench.—You may safely employ precisely the same methods as those used for dressing trout; or cut fillets from them, which wrap in buttered paper with all sorts of pot-herbs, minced shalot., chives, and mushroom, and put these envelopes upon the gridiron. The papers may either be taken off, and the contents made into one, and served with caper-sauce, or left on; and if made small enough for a single person, each may be helped separately, and the fillet eaten with