Chap. XI.] 167 VEAL. little flour and butter in a stewpan till brown ; stir some of the liquor in, and boil it up ; skim it nicely, and squeeze orange or lemon juice into it, and serve with the meat. The bacon should be browned with a salamander and glazed. It may also be served with spinach or sorrel. KNUCKLE OF VEAL. 160. —As few people like boiled veal, it may be well to leave the knuckle small, by taking off some cutlets, or collops, before it be dressed ; and as the knuckle will keep longer than the fillet, it is best not to cut off the slices till wanted. Soak it 2 hours in cold water, and boil it in a cloth. Serve with plain parsley and butter, or oyster sauce and stewed celery. Or :—Break the bones, to make it take less room ; wash it well, and put it into a saucepan with 3 onions, a blade or two of mace, and a few peppercorns; cover it with water, and simmer it till quite tender. In the mean time either some macaroni should be boiled with it, or idee, or a little rice-flour, to give the gravy a small degree of thickness, but do not put too much. Before it is served, add £ pint of milk and cream. The meat may be served in the soup, or on a separate dish. If the latter, it may be covered with onion sauce. Bacon and greens are usually eaten with boiled veal. Put chopped parsley for garnish. Or:—Fry the knuckle with sliced onions and butter to a good brown; put to it either gravy or water; stew it till the meat is tender; have ready peas, lettuce, onion, and a cucumber or two, stewed; add these to the veal; simmer for ‘i of an hour. Season with pepper and salt, and serve all together. CALF’S HEAD. 161. —Observe: the skin should always be left on calves’ heads, otherwise they are scarcely worth the pains bestowed in dressing them. Clean the head very nicely, and soak it in water, that it may look very white; take out the tongue to salt or stew, and the brains to make a little separate dish. Boil the head ex- tremely tender; then strew it over with crumbs and chopped parsley, and brown it, leaving one half plain. Bacon and greens are usually eaten with it. Serve with parsley and butter. J