430 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXII. AN INCOMPARABLE LING PIE. 570. —Wash and soak the salt out of a piece of the thin part; boil it slowly; remove the skin, and put layers of the fish and hard egg sliced; add chopped parsley, with 2 oz. of butter in bits among it, till the dish is nearly full. Put in a seasoning made of a large teacupful of gravy, with pounded mace and white pepper. Lay over it a good puff-paste ; and when that is sufficiently baked, put in a cup of hot cream. EEL PIE. 571. —Cut the eels in lengths of 2 or 3 inches, after skinning them ; season with pepper and salt, and place in the dish, with some bits of butter and a little water; and cover it with paste. Middle-sized eels do best. They should be slightly seasoned, and the bottom of the pie-dish covered with a rump-steak, divided into small pieces, but not put in layers along with the fish, as many persons prefer eating the eels alone. The steak will produce abundance of gravy, to which oidy a little soy or ketchup should be added. A remarkably fine Fish Pie.—Boil 2 lbs. of small eels; having cut the fins quite close, pick the flesh off, and throw the bones into the liquor with a little mace, pepper, salt, and slice of onion ; boil till quite rich, and strain it. Make force- meat of the flesh, an anchovy, parsley, lemon-peel, salt, pepper, and crumbs, and 4 oz. of butter warmed, and lay it at the bottom of the dish. Take the flesh of soles, small cod, or dressed turbot, and lay them on the forcemeat, having rubbed it with salt and pepper; pour the gravy over, and bake. SOLE PIE. 572. —Split some soles from the bone, and cut the fins close; season with a mixture of salt, pepper, a little nutmeg, and pounded mace, and put them in layers with oysters; they eat excellently. A pair of middling-sized ones will do, and 2 to 3 dozen of oysters. Put in the dish the oyster-liquor, 2 or 3 spoonfuls of broth, and some butter; or, omit the broth, and make a strong fish gravy. When the pie comes home, pour in a cupful of thick cream, or milk boiled up with a tea- spoonful of flour; if there be sauce enough in the pie, leave out the cream. Pike, perch, and carp may be each made into savoury pies,