445 PUDDINGS. Chap. XXIII.] Basins or forms are much better in appearance than cloths for boiling' puddings, but it makes them far less light. The water should boil quickly when the pudding is put in, and care taken that it continues to do so, or the pudding will be heavy ; and it should be moved about for a minute or two, that the ingredients may not separate. All dishes in which puddings are baked should be lined with paste an inch or two below the edge, as well as on it; the dish must be first rubbed with butter. If a pudding is to be turned out from a mould, it must be entirely lined with paste. The ingredients of puddings should not be put into the basin or dish till the minute they go into the water or oven. Sago, and all sorts of seeds, should lie in water an hour before they are made into puddings, and be well washed ; the want of this caution causes an earthy taste. If the butter be strong that is used in puddings, they will not taste well, whatever good things are added. A small pinch of salt improves the flavour of all mixtures, even when the other ingredients are sweet. Well-made raisin or Cape wine will serve, in most cases, when wine is ordered for puddings. As the goodness of boiled puddings greatly depends upon keeping the ingredients closely but not too compactly together, the cook should take care to have moulds and basins in readi- ness that will exactly hold the quantity directed. Puddings of bread or flour are much better if all the ingre- dients be mixed (except the eggs) 3 hours before boiling or baking; and they should be M'ell stirred just before they are put into the oven or saucepan. Plum-puddings are best boiled in a stout cloth well floured ; care should be taken that it does not burn to the bottom of the kettle ; to prevent this put a plate at the bottom. When the pudding is of a large size it is best to mix all but the liquid ingredients the day before it is boiled. When butter is ordered to be put warm into puddings, the addition of a little milk or wine will prevent its oiling. Custard Puddings to look well should simmer only, but without stopping. If boiled in a quick or careless manner the surface will not be smooth, but have little holes like honey- comb all over it. A sheet of writing-paper, thickly buttered, should be put on the top of the mould before the lid or cloth