MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XYIII. 320 riably brought to table “ with their jackets on.” Count Rom- ford also recommends their being boiled in their skins; the cuisinier Bourgeois likewise thinks that “ lespommes de terre sont meilleures en robe de chambre.” The principles on which such opposite opinions are supported are these :—The retention of the skin is upheld upon the sup- position that, if it be taken off, the potato will imbibe the water and become waxy; while, on the other hand, it is insisted that the potato, if peeled, not only does not imbibe the water in which it is boiled, but actually exudes the juice which it con- tains, and which is thought to be poisonous. On both these points we have made repeated experiments to discover any perceptible difference in the appearance of the root, which is always equally floury or waxy ; but we think that it retains a little more flavour when the skin is not taken off before boiling: that is, however, so trifling, that in our own practice we always peel them first, as being more cleanly, and avoiding the trouble of doing it when dinner is to be served, besides exposing the potatoes to become cold. TO KEEP POTATOES. 378. —Buy them as dug from the ground, without taking off the earth which adheres to them, and never wash them until wanted to be dressed. Place them in a dry cellar, upon straw, and cover them in winter with straw or mats, to guard them from the frost. NEW POTATOES 379. —Should be dressed as soon as possible after being taken from the ground, and are always best when grown in frames. When washed, they should be rubbed with a coarse cloth and a little salt, to take off the thin outer skin, but they should not be peeled. Put them into boiling water, they will require but a few minutes to do them; send them to table in a hot napkin, unless covered with white sauce, which should be seasoned with a little salt and a slight grating of nutmeg. When quite young they should never be sliced nor fried. POTATO-FLOUR. 380. —Rasp the potatoes into a tub of cold water, and change it repeatedly until the raspings fall to the bottom like a paste; then dry it in the air, pound it in a mortar,