120 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. VIII. liver and a veal bone, or the remains of a fowl, with its head and elaws, in 2 quarts of water put into an earthen vessel and placed beside a wood-fire early in the morning, so as to be ready by dinner-time. When the meat has boiled once, it is skimmed, and salted; carrots, turnips, with a fried onion and any vegetables in season, are minced and allowed to simmer gently in it until the whole contents are stewed tender ; but the meat is served separately, and thin .slices of bread are put into the broth to thicken it, unless rice or vermicelli be employed for that pur- pose. It makes an ample meal for 8 to 10 hearty persons, as soup is not, in that country, usually made very strong of the meat. In Germany nearly the same practice is followed throughout the greater part of the country; only that small sausages and chopped cabbage are more used than either rice or vermicelli, and that sour cream is substituted for paste as thickening. The quantity of meat is also smaller, and the vegetables, which form the chief part of the stew, are all fried in dripping; the whole mess is also brought to table. Cold meat is seldom brought to table, being generally pounded and made up into moulds, covered with bread-crumbs and browned ; but in no instance is cayenne or any sort of pepper largely used, and often entirely omitted. A FAMILY STEW OF BEEF.—E. R. 85. —Take any piece of beef good for stewing, cut it into small pieces, slice 2 or 3 large onions, and put them into the stewpan with 2 ounces of butter or good beef-dripping. When melted, dredge in some flour, add the meat also dredged with flour, and enough water to keep it from burning. When the gravy has drawn, fill up with boiling water, let it come to a boil gently, skim the pot well, then add a spoonful of mixed spices, and a bay-leaf or two ; set the pan by the side of the fire to stew slowly for a couple of hours. 11 lbs. of meat will take 4 hours. This dish may be thickened like Irish stew, with potatoes, or it may be served with the addition of chopped vegetables of all kinds, previously fried. STEWEJ) BEEFSTEAKS.—E. R. 86. —Put the steak into a stewpan with a lump of butter over a slow fire, and turn it until the butter has become a fine