Chap. XIII.] 219 POULTRY AND GAME Hare requires to be kept at a distance from the fire. Send it to table with currant-jelly and gravy. It is now the fashion to bone hares, which greatly improves their appearance, lessens the difficulty of carving, and assists in making the gravy. Break the bones, and stew them in water, and any small quan- tity of meat parings ; boil the liver, which is to be chopped and put into the stuffing, in this gravy, and add a little brown- ing to give it a colour. 235.— To roast Hare.—After it is skinned, let it be ex- tremely well wipe® ; and, if old, lard it, which will make it tender, as will also letting it lie in vinegar. If, however, it is put into vinegar, it should be exceedingly well washed in water afterwards. Put a large well-seasoned stuffing into the belly, and then sew it up. Baste it well with milk till half done, and afterwards with butter. The hare should be kept at a distance from the fire at first. Serve with a fine froth, rich gravy, and currant-jelly sauce ; little gravy in the dish. For stuffing use the liver pounded, an anchovy, some fat bacon, a little suet, herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, crumbs of bread, and an egg to bind it all. The ears must be nicely cleaned, singed, and made crisp, being reckoned a dainty. With Cream-sauce.—Boil the liver, and chop it very fine; mix a small portion with the stuffing, and reserve the remain- der for the sauce. Put a bunch of sweet herbs into the drip- ) ping-pan, and pour a quart of good milk over it. Baste the hare continually with the milk, and when it is rather more than half roasted take the sauce out of the dripping-pan, and put another quart of new milk to the herbs. Take the hare, and slit the neck in order that the gravy may run from it into the milk that has been added ; then skewer the head down again ; baste continually as before, until within 20 minutes of its being served ; then remove the milk, and baste with butter, dredging it gently with flour twice during that time: add the two quan- tities of milk together, stir in a lump of butter and flour; put in the chopped liver, warm it over the fire, stirring all the time, being careful not to let. it boil, as that would curdle it. The hare must be well wiped with a dry cloth previous to spitting, but on no account be washed, as that would spoil it. To cook a ITare Derrynane fashion.—Take 3 or 4 eggs, a pint, of new milk, a couple of handfuls of Hour; make them into a batter, and, when the hare is roasting, baste it well,