Chap. VII.] SOUPS—GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 69 known to be excellent cooks, and they are equally applicable to any kind of soups-—whether meat, fish, or vegetable—and excellent in quality. See Force-meat. Ketchups and sauces, such as soy, anchovy, &c., should either only be put into weak soups which require to have some flavour imparted to them, or used with great delicacy. There is, however, an agreeable acidity as well as a delicacy of savour in Harvey’s, the Brighton, Reading, Lopresti’s, and other lately invented sauces, and more particularly that just brought forward as Wardpoy’s, which has a singular, delicate, though very pungent, flavour. Soups also—like that made from calf’s-head, cow-heel, and ox-tail—which are rich, but flavourless, will bear the addition of sauces when other relish- ing articles are not at hand; but, generally speaking, common English cooks are too much addicted to the indiscriminate use of ketchups and pickles. A bunch of Herbs, when spoken of for soups, gravies, &c., consists of parsley, thyme, and green onions ; when called Seasoning, it is these with about 3 bay-leaves, 6 cloves, a blade or two of mace, common pepper, and salt. There is sometimes a great prejudice against the use of par- ticular sorts of seasoning and spices. Garlic is amongst these ; and many a dish is deprived of its finest flavour for i want of a moderate use of it. The pungency might easily be reduced by boiling it repeatedly in different waters. The use of tomatas, which are only rarely employed in England, would also be found a great improvement in many kinds of soup ; and the seeds of celery may be used to give flavour when the root is out of season. SUMMARY OP THE FOREGOING DIRECTIONS RESPECTING SOUPS AND GRAVIES. Freshly killed meat is the best for soup ; and the leaner the better. When there is any fear of gravy-meat being spoiled before it is wanted, season well, and fry it lightly, which will preserve it 2 days longer; but the gravy is best when the juices are fresh. When soups or gravies arc to be kept, they must be boiled up and put into fresh-scalded dry pans. Do not use the sedi- ments of gravies that have stood to be cold, nor any drippings but those of beef. Whatever has vegetables boiled in it is apt to turn sour sooner than the juices of meat.