Chap. XXII.] 427 PATTIES. also some bits of ham, or some forcemeat balls. Cover the ingredients with i lb. of batter, and put on the top crust, which, of course, must be also of an oval form to correspond with the bottom. The lid must be placed not quite on the top edge of the wall, but H inch below it; close it very well, and ornament the sides and top with festoons and leaves cut out of paste; notch the edges handsomely, and put a paste flower in the centre; glaze the whole with beaten yolk of egg, and bind the pie all round with a double fold of white paper; bake it 4 hours. If the weather is cold, and the pie kept carefully covered up from the air, it will be good for 2 or 3 weeks, the standing crust assisting to preserve it. PIGEON PIE. 566. —Have a nice rump-steak, cut it in thin slices, cover the bottom of the dish with it, then put a little seasoning, parsley, and shalot over it; boil 2 eggs hard, chop the livers fine together with a little shalot and parsley; add a few bread- crumbs, pepper, salt, and a small lump of butter; work all up together, and fill the pigeons with it; put in the pigeons, then a little more seasoning, fill up the dish with steak, seasoning it as before; put in some water or gravy, cover with pufl- paste, cut some leaves and lay over, egg it, and bake it. PA TTIES. 567. —Roll out puff paste -j inch thick, and, with a 2-inch round cutter, cut as many pieces as are required for the dish. Take an inch cutter, dip it in hot water, and press it in the •middle of the paste about half through. Brush the pieces over with yolk of egg, bake in a quick oven, take out the piece marked with the inch cutter, remove the soft parts from the inside, fill them with a mince of any kind, dish them on a napkin, garnish with fried parsley. To make the tops, roll out the trimmings thin, cut some pieces with the inch cutter, egg them over, and bake them. Of Beef—Shred underdone dressed beef with a little fat, season with pepper, salt, and a little shalot or onion. Add gravy, i a glass of Madeira, and a few bread-crumbs. When hot, fill the patty-cases. Of Veal.—Mince some veal that is not quite done, put to it a little parsley, lemon-peel, nutmeg, and salt; a little cream