Chap. XIX.] SAUSAGES AND FORCEMEAT. 353 lean alternately, occasionally adding some of the wine. Tie up in links, and hang them in a room where they will not get damp or become too dry, and they will keep 12 months. They are sometimes fried, and eaten either alone or as a relish with poultry, but more frequently put into stews ; and, in Spain, always boiled along with the olla, under the name of “ Chorisos.” BLACK PUDDINGS. 446.—The blood must be stirred with salt till cold. Put a quart of it, or rather more, to a quart of whole grits, to soak one night; and soak the crumb of a quartern loaf in rather more than 2 quarts of new milk made hot. In the mean time prepare the guts by washing, turning, and scraping, with salt and water, and changing the water several times. Chop fine a little winter-savory and thyme, a good quantity of penny- royal, pepper, and salt, a few cloves, some allspice, ginger, and nutmeg; mix these with 3 lbs. of beef-suet, and 6 eggs well-beaten and strained ; and then beat the bread, grits, &c., all up with the seasoning : when well mixed, have ready some hog’s fat cut into dice, and, as you fill the skins, put it in I at proper distances. Tie in links only half filled, and boil in a large kettle, pricking them as they swell, or they mil burst. When boiled, lay them between clean cloths, or upon straw, il till cold, and hang them up in the kitchen. When to be used, >j scald them a few minutes in water, wipe, and put them into a 1 Dutch oven. If there are not skins enough, put the stuffing into basins, and boil it covered with floured cloths; and slice and fry it when used. Or:—Soak all night a quart of bruised grits in as much boiling hot milk as will swell them and leave i pint of liquid. Chop a good quantity of pennyroyal, some leaves of sage, savory, and thyme, with salt, pepper, and allspice finely powdered. Mix the above with a quart of the blood, prepared as before directed; then half fill the skins, after they have been cleaned thoroughly, and put as much of the flare (that is, the inward fat) of the pig as will make it pretty rich. Boil as before directed. A small quantity of leeks, finely shred and well mixed, is a great a improvement.