MbDERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXVII. 562 PASSOVER CAKES. 786. '—Make a stiff paste with biscuit-powder, milk, and water; add a little butter, the yolk of an egg, and a little white sugar. Cut into pieces, mould with the hand, and bake in a brisk oven : they should not be too thin. Without butter.—Warm i pint of water, flavoured with a little salt; mix 4 beaten eggs with i lb. of Hebrew or “ matso-flour,” and a couple of lumps of white sugar with a teacupful of milk; mix all together, and bake in a tin. SCOTCH RECEIPT FOR SHORT-BREAD.—E. R. 787. —To 4 lbs. of flour take 2 of butter, quite fresh and without salt, i lb. of moist sugar, i lb. of citron, and the same of almonds, the latter blanched, and all cut small. Mix the sugar and fruit well with the flour, then work it up with the butter, cold, till it is smooth and compact, but it will take a long time ; ( divide into 4 or more pieces, and roll out each piece into an oblong cake, having previously floured the table well. Prick the top with a steel fork, strew some orange and citron cut thin, and some large carraway-comfits, press them in with the roller, then pinch round the edges, put the cakes in floured tins ; bake for 20 minutes. If the cake rise after the pressing of the finger, it is sufficiently done. Or :—One lb. each of butter and sifted sugar, 2 lbs. of flour, 8 oz. of sweet and 4 oz. of bitter almonds, a small piece of cin- namon, all pounded, and a glass of brandy. Soften the butter before the fire, then rub in the flour, and make it into a paste ; roll it out i inch thick, and bake it on a tin in a slow oven, as it should be of a pale colour. A GOOD POUND-CAKE. 788. —Beat 1 lb. of butter to a cream, and mix with it the whites and yolks of 8 eggs beaten apart. Have ready, warm by the fire, 1 lb. of flour, and the same of sifted sugar ; mix them and a few cloves, a little nutmeg and cinnamon, in fine powder together ; then by degrees work the dry ingredients into the butter and eggs. When well beaten, add a glass of wine and some carraways. It must be beaten a full hour. Butter a pan, and bake it an hour in a quick oven. The above proportions, leaving out 4 oz. of the butter, and the same of sugar, make a less luscious cake, and to most tastes a more pleasant one.