MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XT. 166 the gravy, thicken it if necessary with brown roux, and serve it up with forcemeat-balls and slices of lemon. Or:—Cut the veal into handsome pieces, put them into a jar with 1 or 2 dozen oysters, and their liquor strained, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; put the jar into a kettle of water, and let it stew until tender. If the veal has been cooked, merely warm it up with the oysters in white sauce. SHOULDER OF VEAL. 158. —Cut off the knuckle for a stew or gravy. Roast the other part with a stuffing; you may lard it. Serve with melted butter. The blade-bone, with a good deal of meat left on, eats ex- tremely well, when grilled, with mushroom or oyster sauce, or mushroom ketchup in butter. Being a large joint of what is considered rather coarse meat, it is rarely served to any but plain family parties; but, if braised, it makes an excellent dish. NECK OF VEAL. 159. —Take the best end of a neck of veal, cut off the ends of the bones, and turn the flap over: saw off the chine-bone, or joint it thoroughly; paper it, and baste it well all the time it is roasting. Larding the fillet or thick part is a great improvement. Or, stew it with rice, small onions, and pepper- corns. Or:—Take the best end of a small neck; cut the bones short, but leave it whole ; then put it into a stewpan just covered with brown gravy; and when it is nearly done, have ready a pint of boiled peas, 3 or 4 cucumbers, and 2 cabbage- lettuces cut into quarters, all stewed in a little good broth; put them to the veal, and let them simmer for 10 minutes. When the veal is in the dish, pour the sauce and vegetables over it, and lay the lettuce round it. This is an excellent summer stew. Neck of Veal a la Braise.—Cut off the ends of the long bones, and saw off the chine-bones; raise the skin of the fillet; lard it very close, and tie it up neatly. Put the scrag end, a little lean bacon or ham, an onion, 2 carrots, 2 heads of celery, and about a glass of Madeira wine into a stewpan. Lay on them the neck, add a little water, and stew it 2 hours, or till it is tender, but not too much. Strain off the liquor; mix a