Chap. XXI.] 383 ITALIAN PASTES. I — grated cheese on the top. It is not to be browned, and will be found delicious. Or ;—"When boiled put a layer at the bottom of the dish, seasoned with black pepper and salt, then a layer of Parmesan cheese. Make 2 or 3 layers, finish with the cheese on the top, then pour round a rich brown gravy. Or:—Boil the macaroni in weak veal-broth until it is soft, adding salt for seasoning. When tender drain it, and put it on a. dish, placing small bits of butter and grated cheese upon every layer. Put a larger quantity of grated cheese and butter on the top, and place the dish in a Dutch oven for i hour, but do not allow the cheese to become hard. COLD MACARONI, 496. —If already dressed, may be warmed in any kind of broth, letting it simmer gently upon a slow fire with the yolks C of 2 eggs to thicken; after which it should be put into the 0 oven in a mould covered with crumbs of bread : or, if un- dressed, it may be made by leaving it overnight in broth, and 1 then proceeding with it as above. MACARONI AU VIN. 497. —Take a French roll hot out of the oven, rasp it, pour .1 a pint of wine upon it, and cover it close up for ^ an hour, to let it imbibe the wine ; then have ready an ounce of macaroni, boiled until it is soft, and lay it upon a sieve to drain : after which put into it about the size of a walnut of butter, and as much thick cream as it will take. That done, scrape in as much Parmesan tossed into a pan with the macaroni until it becomes like a fine custard, and pour it hot upon the loaf; brown it with the salamander, and serve it up. MACARONI A L'lTALIENNE. 498. —Take \ lb. of macaroni, boil it in water till tender ; thicken ^ pint of milk with Hour and a small bit of butter ; add 2 table-poonfuls of cream, ? teaspoonful of mustard, a little white pepper, salt, and cayenne. Stir into this i lb. of grated cheese; boil all together a few minutes; add the macaroni; make all quite hot, and serve. This is the mode adopted at the best tables in Florence.