MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXYII. 564 the butter by degrees. Let it stand for 1 hour to rise: then take 4 lb. of sifted sugar, and mix it well in with the dough ; butter the cups or pans, put in the dough, and ornament the top with candied orange or lemon peel. Les Brioches are, in France, more used as a breakfast- bread than as cakes, but in England they are only to be had, when ordered, in the shops of some foreign pastry-cooks; which is to be regretted, as they are considered a great deli- cacy when made in the form of twists or other fancy shapes, and eaten either hot or cold. Take any quantity of the brioche paste (as at No. 542); knead it over-night, and cover it in a warm place, to allow it to rise; then, at a convenient hour for breakfast, knead it again, and if not sufficiently risen, add an egg and a little more yeast, make it into shapes, and bake them for f to 1 hour, according to their size. Frangipane is a French paste, made with 2 or 3 eggs put into a saucepan with 1 tablespoonful of flour, moistened with a little milk, and placed on the fire for about 10 minutes; taking care to stir the materials continually, to prevent them from sticking to the pan. The substance may either be used as a paste for tartlets, or eaten as cakes, if made with sugar and macaroons. La Galette is in great favour among the Parisians, who usually eat it with sweetmeats, but vary it in point of richness by the greater or less quantity of cream and butter employed in making it up. It is thus made:— Take 1 lb. each of butter and flour, a little salt, and 2 eggs; knead the whole together into a paste, roll it to not more than an inch in thickness, and make it the size of a dessert- plate. Then put it into the oven for } of an hour ; take it out; beat up 2 eggs with a little cream and some salt, pour it over the cake, and return it to the oven to bake for another £ of an hour; or, if you please, ornament the back with candied citron. SPANISH CAKES. 792. Put 12 eggs (cleared of the “trails”) into a large chocolate-pot, and mill them to a froth. Mix by degrees 1 lb- of double-refined sugar, 1 lb. of flour dried, and 4 lb. of almonds beaten t.6 a paste with orange-flower water: _ to which add 4 spoonfuls of rose-water, a glass of mountain wine, and 4 oz. of