605 ENGLISH WINES. Chap. XXX.] CURRANT WINE—E. R. 833. —To each gallon of juice put 2 of water and 35- lbs. of moist sugar. When it has been in the cask about a fortnight, put a bottle of brandy to every 4 gallons of wine, and, when it has quite done hissing, bung it down close. Or:—To every 3 pints of fruit, carefully cleared from any that is mouldy or bad, put 1 quart of water; bruise the former. In 24 hours strain the liquor, and put to every quart 1 lb. of sugar, of good middling quality of Lisbon. If for white currants use lump-sugar. It is best to put the fruit, &e., in a large pan ; and when in 3 or 4 days the scum rises, take that otf before the liquor is put into the barrel. Those who make from their own gardens may not have sufficient to fill the barrel at once: the wine will not be hurt if made in the pan in the above proportions, and added as the fruit ripens, and can be gathered in dry weather. Keep an account of what is put in each time. Another way.—Put 5 quarts of currants and a pint of rasp- berries to every 2 gallons of water; let them soak a night; then squeeze and break them well. Next day rub them well on a fine wire sieve till all the juice is obtained, washing the skins again with some of the water; then to every gallon put 4 lbs. of very good Lisbon sugar, but not white, which is often adulterated ; tun it immediately, and lay the bung lightly on ; do not use anything to work it. In 2 or 3 days put a bottle of brandy to every 4 gallons; bung it close, but leave the peg out at top a few days; keep it 3 or 4 years, and it will be a very fine agreeable wine. BLACK CURRANT WINE (veryfine). 834. —To every 3 quarts of juice put the same of water un- boiled, and to every 3 quarts of the liquor add 3 lbs. of very pure moist sugar; put it into a cask, reserving a little for filling up ; put the cask in a warm dry room, and the liquor will ferment of itself; skim off the refuse when the fermenta- tion shall be over, and fill up with the reserved liquor; when it has ceased working, pour 3 quarts of brandy to 40 quarts of wine ; bung it close for 9 months, then bottle it, and drain the thick part through a jelly-bag until it be clear, and bottle that; keep it 10 or 12 months. This recipe is most excellent. The wine will keep for 6 years.