450 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIII. it in a flame upon each slice of pudding. It will be found a great improvement. Shelford Pudding.—Mix f lb. of currants or raisins, 1 lb. of suet, 1 lb. of flour, 6 eggs, a little good milk, some lemon- peel, a little salt. Boil it in a melon-shape 6 hours. Plum Puddings may also be made of different qualities, as follows:— The same proportions of flour and suet, and half the quantity of fruit, with spice, lemon, a glass of wine, or not, and 1 egg, and milk, will make an excellent pudding, if long boiled. A mealy potato, grated while hot, and beaten well Avith a spoonful of milk, will add greatly to the lightness of plum puddings, whether boiled or baked. Or:—A very light plum pudding may be made of grated bread, suet, and stoned raisins, 4 oz. each, mixed Avith 2 well- beaten eggs, 3 or 4 spoonfuls of milk, and a little salt. Boil 4 hours. A spoonful of brandy, sugar, and nutmeg, in melted butter, may be served as sauce. Or:—The French mode—Mix 6 oz. of suet, 7 oz. of grated bread, 2 oz. of sugar, 4 lb. of French plums, 3 Avell-beaten eggs, a small teacupful of milk, and a dessertspoonful of ratafia. Let it stand 2 hours, and boil it the same length of time. Observe to stir it well the last thing. These latter puddings may also be baked. HUNTER'S PUDDING. 599. —Mix 1 lb. each of suet, flour, currants, and raisins, the latter stoned and a little cut; the rind of ? a lemon shred as fine as possible, 6 Jamaica peppers in fine powder, 4 eggs, a i glass of brandy, a little salt, and as little milk as will make it i of a proper consistence; boil it in a floured cloth or a melon- mould 8 or 9 hours. Serve Avith sAveet-sauce. Add a spoon- j ful of peach-Avater for change of flavour. This pudding will keep, after it is boiled, 6 months, if kept tied up in the same cloth, and hung up, folded in a sheet of cap-paper to preserve it from dust, being first cold. When j 'to be used, it must boil a full hour. MONTAGU PUDDING.—E. R. 600. —£ lb. of suet chopped, but not finely, 4 tablespoon- fuls of flour, and 4 eggs, mixed into a batter with 4 spoonfuls |