Chap. XVIII.] VEGETABLES AND SALADS. 331 It may be thus used alone, or with sippets, frequently with fricandeaux. A very pretty mode of serving it is to place it in the centre of a small dish, with fried lamb chops around it, standing on end with the long bones meeting together. GOURDS AND POMP IONS. 402. —The tops of all the edible species, boiled as greens or spinach, are a more delicate vegetable than the fruit. SEA-KALE 403. —Is the earliest of our spring vegetables, coming into season a month or two before asparagus. It is extremely delicate, either plainly boiled as an accompaniment to house- lamb and white poultry, or served alone with white sauce, though a frequent mode is to bring it to table on toast, in the same way as asparagus: it takes the same time to boil—about 20 minutes. Trim the ends like celery, brush out the dust, tie up in bundles, boil for 20 or 25 minutes, lay the tops upon toast, and pour melted butter over it. ASPARAGUS. 404. —Scrape the buds, and cut the white stalk off about 6 inches from the head ; throw them into cold water, and after soaking tie them in small bundles, and boil them rather quickly. If overdone, the heads will be broken. Toast a slice of bread very brown on both sides; and when the asparagus is done, take it very carefully up, dip the toast quickly in the water, and lay the heads upon it, leaving the white ends outwards each way, and pour melted butter over the toast and green parts. To Fricassee.—Scrape the asparagus clean, and, having steeped it in cold water, cut off the eatable portion. To 50 heads add 1 head of endive, a young lettuce, and a few chives, all 3 chopped ; put them into a stewpan with 2 oz. of butter; shake the pan while the butter is melting, and then dredge in a little flour, and season wilh pepper and salt; continue to shake the pan, and pour in a cupful of gravy ; stew the whole until the sauce is very rich and thick, and then serve it up. Farcis.—Cut a piece out of the top of 3 French rolls, take out all the crumb, do not enlarge the opening, or the crust will not exactly fit again. Fry the rolls brown, in fresh butter;