646 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXXII. lead with a pint of small-beer and a bit of soap the size of a walnut. When that is melted, dip a painter’s brush, and wet the grate, having first brushed oft' all the soot and dust; then take a hard brush and rub it till of a beautiful brightness. Another way to clean cast-iron and black Hearths.—Mix black lead and whites of eggs well beaten together; dip a painter’s brush, and wet all over; then rub it bright with a hard brush. To preserve Irons from Bust.—Melt fresh mutton-suet, smear over the iron with it while hot; then dust it well with unslaked lime pounded and tied up in a muslin. Irons so prepared will keep many months. Use no oil for them at any time, except salad-oil, there being water in all other. I ire-irons should be kept wrapped in baize, in a dry place, when not used. Another way— Beat into 3 lbs. of unsalted hog’s-lard 2 drachms of camphor, sliced thin, till it is dissolved ; then take as much black lead as will make it of the colour of broken steel. Dip a rag into it, and rub it thick on the stove, &c., and the steel will never rust, even if wet. When it is to be used, the grease must be washed off with hot water, and the steel be dried before polishing. To take Bust out of Steel.—Cover the steel with sweet oil well rubbed on it, and in 48 hours use unslaked lime finely powdered, to rub until all the rust disappears. To take the black off' the bright Bars of polished Stoves in a few minutes.—Rub them well with some of the following mixture on a bit of broad-cloth: when the dirt is removed, wipe them clean, and polish with glass (not sand) paper. For Mixture.—Boil slowly 1 lb. of soft soap in 2 quarts of water to 1. Of this jelly take 3 or 4 spoonfuls, and mix to a consistence with emery. To clean Tin Covers.—Get the finest whiting, which is only sold in large cakes, the small being mixed with sand; mix a little of it powdered with the least drop of sweet oil, and rub well, and wipe clean ; then dust over them some dry whiting in a muslin bag, and rub bright with dry leather. The last is to prevent rust, which the cook must be careful to guard against by wiping them dry, and putting them by the fire when they come from the parlour; for if but once hung up without, the steam will rust the inside.