BEEF. Chap. VIII.] 135 BEEF OLIVES.—E. B. 106.—Cut some handsome steaks, flatten them well with a roller, dredge them well with a small quantity of white pepper and salt, have some forcemeat made with the fat and lean of veal mixed together, a small bit of lean ham or bacon, parsley, and sweet herbs, with a few bread-crumbs, all beaten in a mortar, and mixed with an egg; lay a little over each steak, and roll them up tightly, fastening with a skewer; dip them in the yolk of an egg, then in crumbs of bread, and fry them of a pale brown ; rolling up each separate steak, and binding it together with thread ; dish them with brown sauce, in which put a glass of white wine, with some strong gravy, seasoned with cayenne. A FRICANDEAU OF BEEF. 107. —Take a nice piece of lean beef; lard it with bacon very closely; put it into a stewpan with a pint of broth, a glass of white wine, a bundle of parsley, all sorts of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, a shalot or two, 4 cloves, pepper and salt. When the meat is become tender, cover it close; skim the sauce well, and strain it; set it on the fire, and let it boil till it is reduced to a glaze. Glaze the larded side with this, and serve the meat on sorrel-sauce. BEEF RAGOUT.—E. K. 108. —Fry 2 lbs. of the leg-of-mutton piece until quite brown. Put it into a stewpan with 6 large onions, and pepper it well from a spicebox of mixed spice: boil water in a frying-pan, add it to the meat, and let it stew for 4 hours: serve it up with pickled walnuts, gherkins, and capers, just warmed in the gravy. FRICASSEE OF COLD ROAST BEEF. 109. —Cut very thin slices of underdone beef; chop a hand- ful of parsley very small, put it with an onion into a stewpan, with a piece of butter and a spoonful of flour; let it fry ; then add some strong broth season with salt and pepper, and sim- mer very gently £• of an hour; then mix into it the yolk of 2 eggs, a glass of port wine, and a spoonful of vinegar ; stir it quickly over the fire a minute or two ; put in the beef; rub the dish with shalot, and turn the fricassee into it.