9 Chap. I.] HINTS ON DOMESTIC ECONOMY. is to fold and lay them under the feather-beds that are in use, and shake them occasionally ; when soiled, they should be washed, not scoured. The most durable sort of linen for sheeting is the Russia, German, or Irish fabrics, a good stock of which, as well as of table-linen, should be laid in to avoid the necessity of frequent or irregular washing. A proper quantity of household articles should always be allowed for daily use. Each should also be kept hi its proper place, and applied to its proper use. Let all repairs be done as soon as wanted, remembering the old adage of “a stitch in time,” and never, if possible, defer any necessary household concern a moment beyond the time when it ought to be attended to. In the purchase of glass and crockery-ware, either the most customary patterns should be chosen, in order to secure their being easily matched when broken; or, if a scarce design be adopted, an extra quantity should be bought, to guard against the annoyance of the set being spoiled by breakage, which in the course of time must be expected to happen. There should likewise be plenty of common dishes, that the table-set may not be used for putting away cold meat, &c. The cook should be encouraged to be careful of coals and cinders: for the latter there is a new contrivance for sifting-, without dispersing the dust, by means of a covered tin bucket. Small coal wetted makes the strongest fire for the back of the grate, but must remain untouched till it cakes. Cinders lightly wetted give a great degree of heat, and are better than coal for furnaces, ironing-stoves, and ovens. A Store-room is essential for the custody of articles in con- stant use, as well as for others which are only occasionally called for. These should be at hand when wanted, each in separate drawers, or on shelves and pegs, all under the lock and key of the mistress, and never given out to the servants but under her inspection. Pickles and preserves, prepared and purchased sauces, and all sorts of groceries, should lie there stored ; the spices pounded and corked up in small bottles, sugar broken, and everything