MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XY. 250 height of the season: that caught in the Severn is next in goodness, and is even preferred by some; but the Christchurch salmon is by many thought to be the best. The chief supply to the London market is from Scotland. The Dutch salmon is the largest that comes to market, and in the early season fetches a great price on account of its size, some of the fish weighing 40 lbs. each. It requires dressing the day it is re- ceived from Holland, as it otherwise becomes very oily and soft. Those with small heads and thick in the neck are best, and the larger the fish the richer they are. The season in which salmon is the finest and most plentiful is from the middle of May to the close of September; but, even in the same waters, there is often several months’ differ- ence in their relative conditions; depending chiefly on the time of their leaving the salt water, and how far they are ad- vanced towards their spawning-time: when the rudiments of the spawn first appear, the fish is in the best condition, and deteriorates considerably in goodness as it advances. When out. of condition it loses its silvery cast on the sides, which then acquire a copper-coloured tinge, and the upper part a dirty grey; whilst in the male, or “ kipper,” the cheeks become marked with orange-coloured stripes, and the lower jaw grows out to a considerable size, forming in part a groove to the upper. When thus thoroughly out of season, the fish is no longer in a fit state to be eaten. 263.— To boil Salmon.—Salmon is dressed in various ways, but chiefly boiled in large pieces of a few pounds’ weight. The middle piece is considered, if not the richest, yet the most sightly; then that adjoining the jowl; the tail part, though nearly as"good, being usually kept for steaks. It requires great attention, and the boiling must be checked more than once: a piece of 4 to 5 lbs. will take nearly an hour, but if double that weight will not require more than 20 minutes beyond that time, and if crimped, still less will be sufficient: let it, how- ever, boil slowly, in the hardest water, on a strainer placed in a large fish-kettle, and be thoroughly done, for nothing is more disgusting than fish that is under-cooked; skim it well, or the colour will be bad ; the moment it is ready, lift up the strainer and rest it across the kettle, that the fish may drain; cover it with a thick cloth. Such is the English mode of boiling salmon; but in Scot- land two other methods are adopted which merit notice: