489 Chap. XXIV.] CREAMS. oranges into it; let them boil till they look preserved ; put them into a dish and pour the syrup over them. Then take the yolks of 6 eggs \Vell beaten, some Naples biscuits or grated bread, a little lemon-peel, a gill of cream, and a glass of sweet wine, with i lb. of butter; sweeten to taste ; thicken them over the fire; fill the oranges, put the bit on the top, and set them in the oven. To be eaten hot. Lemon Cream.—Take a pint of cream, add the zest of a lemon rubbed on sugar ; whip it well ; add sugar and lemon- juice to palate. Have i oz. of isinglass dissolved and cool; when the cream is thick, which it will be when the lemon- juice is added, pour in the isinglass, and immediately mould it. A smaller quantity of isinglass may suffice, but that de- pends on the thickness of the cream. Other flavours maybe used, as orange, almond, maraschino. Or:—Take a pint of thick cream, and put to it the yolks of 2 eggs well beaten, 4 oz. of fine sugar, and the thin rind of a lemon ; boil it up, then stir it till almost cold; put the juice of a lemon in a dish or bowl, and pour the cream upon it, stirring it till quite cold. Honeycomb Cream.—Take the juice of 1 fine lemon and of 2 Seville oranges ; make it very sweet; put it into a glass dish and set it upon the ground; boil a pint of cream and put it into a teapot made very hot. Pour the cream upon the juice, holding the pot as high as possible: let it remain quite still till cold. A little orange or rose water might be added to tne juice. Raspberry Cream.—Boil 1 oz. of isinglass in 3 pints of cream and new milk mixed, for 15 minutes, or until the former be melted; strain it through a hair sieve into a basin; when cool, put about ^ pint of raspberry-juice, or syrup, to the milk and cream ; stir it till well incorporated ; sweeten, and add a glass of brandy ; whisk it about till three parts cold ; then put it into a mould till quite cold. In sum- mer use the fresh juice. Mash the fruit gently, and let it drain ; then sprinkle a little sugar over, and that will produce more juice. Or : Boil | oz. of isinglass in a little water ; strain, and put it into J- pint of raspberry-juice sweetened ; whip J- pint of thick cream ; add a little lemon or currant juice: when thick add the raspberry-juice and isinglass, and mould immediately.