227 Chap. XIY.] SALT-WATER FISH. little horseradish, should be also put into the water in which fish is boiled ; and it is rendered firmer by the addition of 2 or 3 spoonfuls of vinegar. In France they add to this a quantity of spice, thyme, laurel-leaves, and garlic ; and, as wine is there cheap, they sometimes use vin ordinaire instead of water. This, however, is not thrown away, for it is equally good when reboiled. Cod, haddock, and whiting eat firmer if a little salt be put into their gills, and they be hung up a few hours before dressing. Care must be taken to preserve the roe, milt, and liver whole; to let them be sufficiently dressed ; and to place them conspicuously when served. The sound adhering to the bone must be left there, but veiy carefully cleaned. When the fish is dished up, it should be placed at once upon the table. To judge if a large fish be sufficiently boiled, draw up the fish- plate, and with a thin knife try if the fish easily divides from the bone in the thick parts, which it will when done enough. Keep it hot, not by letting it sodden in the water, but by laying the fish-plate crossways on the kettle, and covering with a thick cloth wetted with hot water; for if left in the water after it is ready, it loses its firmness, and becomes woolly. Always serve boiled fish on a double napkin, and put the white side of flat fish upwards. On this subject, although aware of the more fashionable mode being to lay the fish on a silver drainer, we still hold to the antiquated folded napkin, the neat white- ness of which equals silver in appearance, while its texture better drains the moisture from the fish. The dish certabily looks more complete if fried fish be served round the boiled ; . but this should be confined to the small fry of smelts or gudgeons, alternately placed with the roe or milt, merely as a garnish. Great care is necessary to drain the water from the boiled fish, that their dryness and colour may not be lessened. In the frying offish, one great point is to prepare it pro- perly. Take, for instance, a sole, lay it on a cloth, wipe it thoroughly diy on both sides, then dredge it with flour, beat up an egg, and lay it on with a brush, shewing on it finely- grated bread or biscuit crumbs; have the fat so boiling hot that all the hissing and bubbling must have subsided before the fish is put in, and let the quantity not be stinted, or the fish, when taken out, will be greasy. The fryingpan must be put upon a clear cinder fire, and not left for a moment until Q 2