Chap. XX.] CURING MEAT. 367 Another way, that gives a higher flavour.—When the weather will permit, hang the ham 3 days ; mix 1 oz. of salt- petre with i lb. of bay-salt, the same quantity of common salt, and also of coarse sugar, and a quart of strong beer; boil them together, and pour them immediately upon the ham; turn it twice a-day in the pickle for 3 weeks. 1 oz. of black pepper, and the same quantity of allspice, in fine powder, added to the above, will give still more flavour. Or;—Sprinkle the ham with salt, after it has hung 2 or 3 days ; let it drain ; make a pickle of a quart of strong beer, a lb. of treacle, 1 oz. of coriander-seeds, 2 oz. of juniper- berries, 1 oz. of pepper, the same quantity of allspice, 1 oz. of saltpetre, i oz. of sal-prunella, a handful of common salt, and a head of shalot, all pounded or cut fine. Boil these all toge- ther a few minutes, and pour them over the ham : this quantity is for one of 10 lbs. FITZSIMON FAMILY RECEIP T FOR CURING HAMS.—E. R. 468. —Mix 1 oz. of saltpetre, 1 lb. of common salt, and 1 lb. of coarse brown sugar all together, and rub the ham well. Let it lie for a month in this pickle, turning and basting it every day ; then hang it in wood-smoke in a dry place, where no heat can come to it, and, if to be kept long, hang it for a month or two in a damp place, and it will eat firm and short. Observe, hams thus made need not be soaked ; put them into cold water, and let them be 3 or 4 hours before they boil, skimming the pot well and often until it boils. These hams have been made with a less quantity of salt and an additional quantity of saltpetre, and it has been found to answer well, the hams being in that case soaked before boiling. WESTPHALIA HAMS.—E. R. 469. —Prepare the hams in the usual manner by rubbing them with common salt and draining them ; take 1 oz. of salt- petre, i lb. of coarse sugar, and the same quantity of salt; rub it wrell into the ham, and in 3 days pour a pint of vinegar over it. A fine foreign flavour may also be given to hams by pouring old strong beer over them, and burning juniper-wood while they are drying : molasses, juniper-berries," and highly- flavoured herbs, such as basil, sage, bay-leaves, and thyme, mingled together, and the hams well rubbed with it, using