MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIII. 452 them, and stir them into the milk with 2 oz. of moist sugar, 2 or 3 spoonfuls of wine, and a little grated nutmeg. Bake it i an hour, or until it is firm and brown. MARROW PUDDING.—E. R. 603. —Four oz. of marrow, 4 oz. of biscuits, 3 oz. of jar rai- sins stoned, candied orange-peel, sugar, and nutmeg to the taste. Place these articles in layers in a dish surrounded by paste ; then beat up 4 eggs, leaving out the whites of 2, in 4 pint of cream or good milk, and pour it over the other ingre- dients ; it will take l£ hour to bake. Or :—Six oz. of marrow picked clean of fibre, and not too finely minced, to which add 4 oz. each of pounded macaroons and crumbs of bread, with 1 or 2 oz. of sweet-almond powder; mix these together, seasoning them as above with candied citron, sugar, and nutmeg, but omitting the raisins. Then beat up the materials in a full pint of rich cream, and the yolks of 6 eggs, flavoured with a glass of ratafia. Bake it in a shape, but only until it is well browned. CURB PUDDING.—E. R. 604. —Turn 2 quarts of milk, and drain off the curd. Beat it in a mortar with 2 oz. of butter, until the butter and curd are well united. Then beat the yolks of 6 eggs and the whites of 3 ; add them to the curd ; add a little grated bread or biscuit, a teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel, some nutmeg, and a few pounded peach kernels; mix them well together; butter a dish, and bake it with a crust round the edges. Currants may be added. For boiled Curd Pudding.—Rub the curd of 2 quarts of milk well drained through a sieve. Mix it with 6 eggs, a little cream, 2 spoonfuls of orange-flower water, 4 a nutmeg, flour and crumbs of bread each 3 spoonfuls, currants and raisins ilb. of each. Boil an hour in-a thick well-floured cloth. A very delicate species of curd can be made by mixing a pint of very sour butter-milk with 2 quarts of new milk. In ___ Ireland it is the constant mode of making “ two-milk-whey. TRANSPARENT PUDDING. 605. —Beat 8 eggs very well; put them into a stewpan, with ^ lb. of sugar pounded fine, the same quantity of butter,