MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Cuap. XXI. 382 MACARONI. 494. —Cooks are, in this country, very fond of boiling it in milk, and even of laying it in milk for an hour or two to swell and become tender, but boiling water is better. } lb. will be sufficient for half a dozen people, and will not require more than 20 to 25 minutes to become tender, if boiled in water, but a few minutes longer if boiled in broth. Half the quantity of Parmesan cheese should be finely grated and sprinkled over it in layers, to mix it thoroughly; a small plateful of grated macaroni is also put on the table for each person to add it at their pleasure. It should be served quite hot, as the least chill soddens it. In England it is usually eaten with mustard, and, if wished to be made very savoury, beef gravy may be used with a truffle stewed in it. As to using any other cheese with it than Parmesan, or perhaps Gruyere, or both, it is decidedly objectionable; we have tried it repeatedly with Cheshire and other English and Dutch sorts, but nothing but Parmesan will give it the true flavour. To brown Macaroni is the common practice of our English cooks; though, in fact, the browning, while giving a pretty appearance to the macaroni, not only hardens the top of the cheese into a crust, but gives a taste of rancidity, and we strongly recommend the old way of merely stewing, and put- ting it on the table just as it comes from the stewpan. If, however, appearance be preferred to flavour, it can be done with crumbs of bread, thus :— Wash the macaroni, then simmer it in a little broth, with a little pounded mace and salt. When quite tender, take it out of the liquor, lay it in a dish, grate-a good deal of cheese over, then cover that with bread grated fine. Warm some butter without oiling, and pour it from a boat through a little earthen colander all over the crumbs, then put the dish in a Dutch oven to brown the bread of a fine colour. NEAP OLITA N MA CAR ONI. 495. —Boil it quickly in water with some salt; when tender strain it off, drain it thoroughly, and put it into a stewpan with a few bits of butter, and grated Parmesan cheese, pepper, and salt. Toss it until the cheese is well mixed, and then put it into a dish, with the remainder, the larger portion, of the