FAMILY SAUCES. 541 Chap. XXVI.] put to every 3 quarts 1 quart of bruised gooseberries in a large tub. Let them remain 60 hours, stirring often ; then strain through a hair bag, and to each gallon of liquor add 1 lb. of the coarsest sugar. Put it into a barrel, and a toast and yeast; cover the bung-hole with a bit of slate. Set the barrel in the sun, observing that the cask be well painted, and the iron hoops all firm. The greater the quantity of sugar and fruit the stronger the vinegar ; and as this is particularly use- ful for pickles, it might be well to make it of double the strength for that purpose. Chili Vinegar.—Fill a bottle with the chilis or capsi- cums—each of which will impart the proper warmth of flavour—and cover them with vinegar; cork it up closely, let it stand for 3 weeks or a month, then pour off the vinegar, and fill up the bottle again : chilis are the most commonly used, but good capsicums will flavour several additions of vinegar. If capsicums are not procurable, put 1 oz. of cayenne pepper to a quart of vinegar, and let it stand some time, shaking it occasionally. Then strain it off, and fill the bottle up again. LEMON FLA VO URING FOR P UD DINGS. 759. —Peel 6 lemons very thin indeed ; put the peel into a glass bottle, and add a tablespoonful of bitter almonds, blanched, or the same quantity of peach or apricot kernels. Cover the whole with brandy ; shake it frequently, and in a month strain it, and if kept closely corked it will keep for years. MUSHROOM KETCHUP.—E. R. 760. —Take the full-grown flaps of freshly-gathered mush- rooms, crush them with the hands, throw a handful of salt into every peck, and let them stand a night or two ; then put them into pans, and set them in a quick oven for 12 hours; strain them through a hair sieve, and press out all the juice. To every gallon of liquor put of cloves, Jamaica and black pepper, and ginger, 1 oz. each, and i lb. of common salt. Set it on a slow fire, and let it boil until half the liquor is wasted ; then put it into another vessel, and, when cold, strain and bottle it; at the same time corking it up closely, and covering the cork with oiled paper. Or .-—'Fake the largest broad mushrooms, break them into