EGGS. Chap. XXI.] 393 of an omelet. Any sort of pot-herbs is admissible; and many sorts of minced fowl and fish are prepared in that manner throughout the Continent. There are hundreds of receipts for omelets, but the principle is the same in all, the difference being- only in the flavouring. OMELETTE AU NA TUREL. 515.—Take 4 eggs, beat the yolks and whites together with a tablespoonful of milk, a little salt and pepper; put 2 oz. of butter into a frying-pan to boil, and let it remain until it begins to brown; pour the batter into it, and let it remain quiet for a minute; turn up the edges of the omelet gently from the bottom of the pan with a fork; shake it, to keep it from burning at the bottom, and fry it till of a bright brown. It will not take more than 5 minutes frying. Aux fines Herbes.—Beat up 4 eggs with a little cream, salt, pepper, chives, and parsley, minced very small. Put a piece of butter half the size of an egg into the frying-pan; let it begin to brown; pour in the omelet, and allow it to set a little; then raise it round the edge, to allow more of the mixture to become brown. When that is done, turn it over to double it; but as in browning the loiver side the upper will sometimes appear too soft, in that case make a slight use of the salamander, to give it firmness; put the dish on the frying-pan, and turn it over. Let the fire be clear, but not too hot. Or:—Take 4 eggs and 4 tablespoonfuls of milk, well beaten together; add one tablespoonful of parsley chopped very fine, a little lemon-thyme, marjoram, or tarragon, a teaspoonful of grated onion, a little essence of anchovies or Reading sauce, and a few grains of cayenne pepper; fry quickly, and fold it in three; put a little clear gravy in the dish. This is an excellent receipt. Aux Confitures.—Beat up 8 eggs with a tablespoonful of powdered sugar, a little nutmeg, a pinch of salt, some finely-chopped lemon-peel, and a wineglass of cream, or about i oz. of butter. Make an omelet-pan hot, put in a small piece of butter, and, when the eggs are thoroughly mixed, pour them into the pan; stir it about, and, when set, arrange the omelet neatly in the pan ; lay on 2 spoonfuls of jam, roll it up, and glaze it with sugar and the salamander. Any of