Chap. XXXI.] COOKERY FOR THE SICK. 623 good, or reduced to H pint. Add salt, and strain it off. It is very nutritious. A clear Broth that will keep long.—Put the mouse-round of beef, a knuckle-bone of veal, and a few shanks of mutton, into a deep pan, and cover close with a dish or coarse crust; bake till the beef is done enough for eating, with only as much water as will cover it. When the broth is cold, cover it close, and keep it in a cool place. When it is to be used, give what flavour may be best liked. For a quick-made Broth.—Take a bone or two of a neck or loin of mutton, take off the fat and skin, set it on the fire in a small tin saucepan that has a cover, with -J of a pint of water, the meat being first beaten and cut in thin bits ; put a bit of thyme and parsley, and, if approved, a slice of onion. Let it boil very quickly ; skim it; take off the cover if likely to be too weak, else cover it. Half an hour is sufficient for the whole process. A broth very supporting against any kind of weakness may be made of 2 lbs. of loin of mutton, with a very large handful of chervil in 2 quarts of water. Take off part of the fat. Any other herbs or roots may be added. Give 4 a pint 3 or 4 times a-day. Or:—Put the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of veal with very little meat to it, an old fowl, 4 shank-bones of mutton extremely well soaked and bruised, 3 blades of mace, 10 pep- percorns, an onion, a large bit of bread, and 3 quarts of water, into a stewpot that covers close; simmer in the slowest manner after it has boiled up and been skimmed ; or bake it; strain, and take off the fat. Salt as wanted. It will require 4 hours. On the subject of shimming off the fat which rises on the broth, an eminent physician has stated that, “ in cases of coughs and colds which affect the chest, the fat should not be re- moved: more particularly that of mutton broth, which is eminently useful in calming the irritation of the lungs.” An excellent Soup for the weakly is made by putting 2 cow-heels and a breast of mutton into a large pan with 4 oz. of rice, 1 onion, 20 Jamaica peppers and 20 black, a turnipj a carrot, and 4 gallons of water; cover with brown paper, and bake 6 hours. Or;—Put a teacupful of sago into a quart of water, and a