MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XVIII. 338 Having thus disposed of the heads, then take the stems for buttered mushrooms, or champignons au benrre. Rub them with a little salt to clean them, and rinse them in salt water; after which, dry them with a cloth, and have ready about 2 oz. of fresh butter to every pint of stems. Put the butter into a stewpan over a cinder fire, until it begins to brown; then throw in the stems, and keep the pan on the fire for a few minutes until they become tender, continuing to shake them all the time, to prevent them from burning, and the butter from becoming oiled. Pile them in a small dish, and serve them in their own gravy, than which nothing can be finer. Some cooks flavour it with mace, and others, still more in- judiciously, with cayenne, either of which utterly spoils it. TRUFFLES, 415. —Although enumerated among vegetables, are yet not known to be capable of cultivation, but are found under ground by pigs and dogs trained for the purpose. When sold in the shops they are of different qualities—the white, the red, and the black—and are, therefore, generally thought to be of dif- ferent species; but the difference arises from the period of their ripeness, as they are always dug up the moment they are found, and the black, being the most mature, always bear the highest price. Their chief use is, along with morels, to add a high flavour to sauces, farces, and pies, as ^ oz. simmered in a pint of gravy will greatly improve them. They are also frequently employed to stuff poultry. Stewed.—Wash and brush clean the truffles, put them in a stewpan with a little wine, a slice or two of fat bacon, and a little good broth; let them boil gently until quite tender; then serve them in a napkin dry, as you would roasted chest- nuts. FRIED HERBS (as m Staffordshire). 416. —Clean and dry a good quantity of spinach-leaves, 2 large handfuls of parsley, and a handful of green onions. Chop the parsley and onions, and sprinkle them among the spinach. Set them all on to stew, with some salt, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut: shake the pan when it begins to grow warm, and let it be closely covered over a close stove till done enough. It is served with slices of broiled calf’s liver, small rashers of bacon, and eggs fried; the latter on the herbs, the other in a separate dish.