Chap. XXVII.] BISCUITS. 567 Or:—Put the same quantities of flour, sugar, and butter ; but, instead of milk, moisten them with brandy. You may cut the dough into shapes with the edge of a wineglass, and prick them over before going to the oven. Ginger Biscuit.—Work well If lb. of butter with the same weight of moist sugar; add 8 eggs well beaten ; stir in 2^ lbs. of flour, 1 oz. of volatile salts, and i oz. of ground ginger; mix these well, roll out the paste, cut it in fancy shapes, and bake crisp. Or:— Beat 1 lb. of butter to a froth, 1| lb. of moist sugar, 2 oz. of ground ginger, and a grated nutmeg; mix it up with as much flour as will make it into a stiff paste ; roll it out thin, and cut it into small cakes; bake in a quick oven. Tea Biscuits are made with the finest flour, fresh butter sea- soned with a little salt, and melted in warm milk: for a mo- derate quantity, 1 lb. of flour, 2 oz. of butter, and 1 pint of milk will be sufficient. Make it into a stiff paste, adding to it a large tablespoonful of strong brewers’ yeast, and leave it covered near the fire during time enough to make it rise. When quite light knead it well, roll it out an inch thick, and form it into round cakes of the size of a muffin. Bake them in buttered pans until they are of a light brown; split and butter them and send them to table hot. If intended to be kept and eaten cold, the paste must be rolled out very thin, and cut of a smaller size. Swiss Biscuits.—Mix 4 oz. of fine flour, 2 oz. of sifted sugar, the grated peel of a lemon, and ^ lb. of butter, to a paste, with the white of an egg, and a sufficient quantity of milk. Roll it thin, cut into biscuits, and brush them over with the yolk of an egg, over which sift fine sugar: bake them on tins. Biscuits to keep a long time.—Mix 2 lbs. of flour, 1 lb. of sugar, and 1 oz. of carraways, with 4 or 5 eggs and a few spoonfuls of water, to make a stiff paste: roll it thin, and cut it into any shape. Bake on tins lightly floured. While baking, boil 1 lb. of sugar, in a pint of water, to a thin syrup : while both are hot, dip each cake into it, and put them on tins into the oven to dry for a short time; when the oven is cooler still, return them there again, and let them stay 4 or 5 hours. If kept dry they will be good for months. White Cakes.—Dry ^ lb. of flour, rub into it a very little