94 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. VII. 40.—Take a pint of white wine, and pint of water, sweeten it to the taste with white sugar, fry one large table- spoonful of flour with a piece of butter until it is very brown, then pour the wine and water upon it, and boil it a few minutes with lemon-peel and cinnamon. Then take the yolks of 6 eggs, beat them well and add the boiling soup very slowly, stirring it well all the time that it may not curdle ; put a little toasted bread, cut very fine, into the soup, and serve it up hot. VEGETABLE SOUPS. Although many of the following soups are made purely of vegetables, yet some—and those generally the best—are made on a foundation of some sort of meat-broth in which the roots are stewed. The broth is therefore the real, stock on which these soups are made, though each bears the name of the vegetable which gives it flavour; but when made solely from herbs, roots, and vegetables, and used as a basis for the forma- tion of soupes-maigres, the stock is then composed of every sort in season which can, by long stewing, be reduced to a pulp, in which every species of savoury herb—such as chervil, tarragon, and marjoram—are mixed, together with a few chilis, shalots, and a head of garlic, seasoned with mace, whole pep- pers, salt, and mushroom ketchup ; to which may be added a little curry-powder. The pulp is then strained; and, being thus rather highly seasoned, may be kept for a few days, and used in aid of any other soup. It must be left to simmer during several hours; and should it need browning, some sliced onions, fried in butter, will be all that is necessary. It should be observed that all soups, whether of fish or vege- tables, which are made without any intermixture of meat-broth., are strictly maigre, and will be treated of under that head. FRIED OR SPLIT-PEA SOUP.—E.R. 41.—The liquor in which a leg of mutton or -r a calf’s head has been boiled will make an excellent stock for this soup ; but if that of pork be used, and it be much salted, part of the liquor should be thrown away and the remainder mixed with fresh water. Put on the stock to boil, slice into it a head of celery, a carrot and turnip, with 2 onions ; boil a sufficient quantity of peas in fresh water, putting them in dry and when the water boils quickly; when they will mash throw