465 Chap. XXIII.] SWEET PUDDINGS. THE REFORM PUDDING. 628. —Take 3 eggs, weigh them in the shell; take an equal weight of sugar and of butter, and -f of the weight of flour. Half melt the butter and beat it to a cream ; beat the eggs also, and mix them with the butter and sugar, beating the whole to a froth ; then add the flour, and the rind of a lemon grated ; beat all together, and pour it into a mould : an hour will boil it. This pudding may also be baked, substituting cream for the butter, which would render it more delicate than butter subjected to the dry heat of an oven. THE PROTECTIONIST PUDDING. 629. —Break 7 eggs into a deep pan, leaving out 3 of the whites. Put 10 oz. of loaf-sugar in a pint of water; set it over the fire until the scum rises ; pour it over the eggs ; add a teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel and the juice of a lemon. Whisk them for 20 minutes; shake in 4 lb. of flour; pour it into a tin, and put it into the oven immediately. WINDSOR PALACE PUDDINGS. 630. —Boil 1 oz. of rice in milk until it will beat into a pap; pare, core, and scald 6 apples, and beat them also with the rice, 1 oz. of finely-sifted sugar, a salt spoonful of grated lemon-peel, and a little lemon-juice, or a few drops of essence of lemon; then beat the whites of 4 eggs until they make a sfrong froth ; add the other ingredients, whisking them well together, so as to be very light. Dip a basin or mould into boiling water; pour in this souffle while the mould is quite hot, and put the mould into a pan of boiling water, boiling until the white of the eggs is set and firm. Have a custard made with the yolks of the eggs, and pour it round the pud- ding in a dish. Snow-balls may be made the same way, with pounded almonds substituted for apples. The elegance and lightness of this pudding are great recommendations. Her Majesty's Pudding.—Butter a mould, and cover it in a pattern with sweetmeats of various colours, and fruit; ciit 3 sponge-cakes in slices, and soak them in white wine; place them round the mould ; make a fine custard with 4 eggs, a pint of cream, and 2 oz. of pounded almonds; pour it in, and boil it for an hour. 2 H