342 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XYIII. To stew.—Slice the tomatas into a well-tinned stewpan, seasoning them with pepper and salt; place bits of butter over the top. Put on the lid close, and stew gently for about 20 minutes. After this stir them frequently, letting them stew until they are well done. A spoonful or two of vinegar will be considered an improvement by many. Excellent with roast beef or mutton. Or:—Put in only sufficient tomatas to cover the bottom of the saucepan, add gravy or broth to nearly cover them, let them stew very gently until well done; then strain off the gravy, thicken it with butter mixed with flour, put the tomatas on a dish, and pour the gravy over. To bake.—Slice them into a baking-dish; season, put butter over in bits, and strew bread-crumbs on the top. Bake them for about 1 of an hour in a moderate oven. To stuff.—Cut them in halves and hollow out the centre; take whatever cold meat may be at hand, either chicken, par- tridge, or hare, with ham, &c., onions, tine herbs, crumbs of bread, and form a forcemeat ball, with beaten eggs ; fill up the centres of the tomatas, and let them stew gently in any gravy; before serving up, pass them over with a salamander or hot iron. A favourite mode of dressing them in Portugal, where they are largely grown, is, to stew them along with rice and onions in strong brown gravy; the rice forming the greater portion of the dish. There are also various other ways employed throughout the Continent, but garlic should never be added, as it destroys the delicacy of the tomata. SA UER ERA UT, 426.—Or Sour-crout, as it is called in this country, is a Ger- man preparation of cabbage, fermented in layers, between which salt is laid, and the whole pressed closely down with weights for a few days, at the end of which it becomes acid, and tire greater part of the juice is drawn oft'.a “ In preparing it, the outward leaves and the stalk are removed, the latter being sliced, and the whole cabbage cut into small pieces, which are pressed heavily down, and placed in barrels in a warm cellar until the fermentation is over : when that is complete, put the kraut into a cool place, and it will remain good for years. Some people think it improved by a mixture among the layers of carraway, whole pepper, and juniper-berries, or the barrels smoked with the latter.