MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. V. 52 attended to, and which, although known in this country for preparing potted meats and fish, is seldom employed by com- mon English cooks in anything but pea-soup. It consists in either pounding the meat or fish in a mortar until it becomes a paste, or in stewing roots or pulse in boiling water until they are softened into a thick pulp, when they are passed, first through a colander, or through a puree presser, and afterwards through a wire or hair sieve, or “ tammy,” and, being thinned with broth, may be formed into soups of various sorts. Quenelles and Godiveaux are different sorts of forcemeat, composed of meat or fish, with bread and yolk of egg, and fat of some kind ; seasoned in various ways, and either spread upon rolled meat, or formed into balls and fried as garnish to entrees, or served separately as entrees. To form Quenelles.—When the forcemeat is made, take 2 tablespoons, fill 1 with the meat, dip a knife in hot water, with which smooth it over ; then dip the other spoon into boiling water, and 'with it remove the meat from the first spoon, and slip it into a buttered stewpan ; so on until you have the number you want; then cover them with stock, and boil them about 10 minutes, or until firm, and they are fit for use. For small quenelles use teaspoons. Rissole.—A mince of meat or fish, enclosed in paste, or made up into shapes or balls in the manner of minced collops, and used either as side-dishes, or as a garnish for stews or hashes, now more elegantly termed fricassees and ragouts. Roux.—A thickening for white soups or gravy, made of flour and butter. Salmis.—A hash made of game, which is cut up when only half roasted; whereas a hash is made from dressed game. Saute.—Fried, and in some instances used nsfryingpan. Tamis, or u tammy,” a strainer of thin woollen canvas, used for straining soups and sauces, sold at all the Italian ware- houses. Tourte.—A kind of tart baked in a shallow tin. Veloute, of which the French make so much use to heighten the tastes of soups and made-dishes, may be well substituted by