467 Chav. XXIII.] SWEET PUDDINGS. and -j- a nutmeg grated, and let it stand to cool. Beat 8 eggs,^ but only 3 whites; strain, and mix them with 1 spoonful of the finest flour, ilb. of almonds blanched and beaten fine, with 1 spoonful of orange-flower or rose water. Mix these by de- grees in the cream, and stir all well together. Take a thick cloth, wet and flour it well; pour in the mixture, tie it close, and plunge it into boiling water. Keep it boiling ± an hour very fast. When done, turn it carefully on a dish, strew fine sugar upon it, and serve pudding-sauce round. THE CAMBRIDGE PUDDING. 633. —Beat up 4 eggs with 1 tablespoonful of sug-ar and 1 of flour very smoothly; then add 1 lb. of raisins and 1 lb. of the fat of a cold loin of veal, or of suet, evenly chopped ; butter a mould, put in the pudding, tie it tightly in a cloth, and let it boil 5 hours. THE PRINCE OF PR USSIA'S P UDDING. 634. —Take the yolks of 6 eggs, with 6 oz. of sugar, and the grated rind of a lemon, and beat them to a solid froth. The whites of the eggs to be beaten separately and till quite a snow froth ; add the juice of the lemon, and mix all together. Put it immediately into a deep tin pudding-dish, and bake it 10 or 15 minutes. It rises very high, and should be served directly it is done. Pour round it the following sauce:—Beat up well 4 eggs, 2 oz. of sugar, the juice and grated peel of a lemon; add 2 wineglassfuls of white wine and a little arrack; stir it over the fire till it begins to rise, then pour it round the pudding quite hot. DUTCH PUDDING.—E. R. 635. —Melt 4 lb. of butter in l pint of milk, let it stand till it is lukewarm, then strain it into 1 lb. of flour, add 4 eggs well beaten, and 2 large spoonfuls of yeast; beat the whole very well together, and let it stand for an hour before the fire to rise. Then beat into it 2 spoonfuls of moist sugar and tr lb. of currants ; put it into a dish or tin well buttered, and when baked turn it out before sending to table. This partakes of the character of brioche, and may be varied in many ways.