FISH PIES. 429 Chap. XXII.] Vol-au-vent of Croquettes—Moke croquettes of the size of a pigeon’s egg, of veal and ham and of calves’ brains, an equal quantity of each, fry them of the palest gold colour, make a rich white-sauce, and put into it the very smallest mushrooms or minced truffles; give it an acid flavour with lemon or lemon-pickle, and put it into the vol-au-vent when it is to be sent to table. Vol-au-vent of Veal.—Cut veal into thin pieces the size of half-a-crown, beat them, and fry them a pale brown ; make some forcemeat and egg-balls, fry the former, put the whole into a rich brown gravy, fill the vol-au-vent, and serve it up hot. Vol-au-vent of Pigeons and Sweetbreads.-—Cut otf the pinions, legs, and backs of 3 or 4 pigeons, and bone the breast, making it as large as possible: cut 3 or 4 pieces of blanched sweetbread the same size, put them together, securing them with tape, and put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, the trimmings, an onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, a slice of fat bacon, and a small teacupful of water. Let them stew till quite tender ; remove the tape, strain and thicken the gravy, and put them into the paste when it comes from the oven. FISH PIES. CODFISH PIE. 569.—Take dressed codfish and cold oyster-sauce; put a little of the sauce at the bottom of a pie-dish, then a layer of _ flakes of codfish, with a little of the liver cut in small pieces, season with black pepper and salt, and a very little nutmeg; repeat the layers until the dish is full, cover it with bread- crumbs and bits of fresh butter; bake for f of an hour, and let the top be quite brown. A couple of sounds well soaked, boiled tender, and cut in small pieces, are a great improvement. Or:—Take a piece of the middle of a small codfish, and salt it well one night; next day wash it, cut it in slices, season with pepper, salt, and a very little nutmeg, mixed ; place it in a dish, and put some butter on it, with a little good broth of any kind. Cover it with a crust; and when done, raise it, add a dozen of oysters, l pint of cream, a little flour and butter, a grate of lemon and nutmeg, and give it 1 boil. Bake it a full hour.