MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXX. 600 if the wine is properly fermented, and it keeps sound much better without it. Yeast, also, should never be used in wine made of fresh fruit, as, if the proportions are properly ad- justed, the fluid will ferment of itself. The four following receipts we have used and approved for many years, the first of which may be taken as a guide in almost all sorts of domestic wine made of fresh fruit—the quantities of course varying with the quality of the fruit. If due attention be paid, it may almost be said “ never to fail.” The fermen- tation requires the greatest care, as on it so much depends. If checked too soon the wine is imperfect, and not so whole- some. If carried on too far, the acetous stage commences. It is therefore necessary to watch it with great attention. The process commences within 24 hours of the mixture being made, which is perceived by a slight hissing noise and little bubbles rising on the surface. This will increase when put into the cask, when it will be so loud that it may be heard at some distance, and will continue some weeks. Unless the wine is intended to be sweet, it should not be closed up till the hissing has very much subsided. If it is intended to be dry, and represent foreign wine, it should be drawn off into a barrel which has been sulphured. To have it sparkling, the scum which rises in fermenting should be allowed to sink in- stead of running out, and the barrel bunged up whilst the wine still retains a slight tendency to ferment. All wine is improved by being racked off, and a little isinglass added— about ^ oz. to 10 gallons. This should be done 2 or 3 months before bottling, and not in very hot or very cold weather. WINE FROM UNRIPE GRAPES. 825.—As the stems and husks of grapes give no bad flavour to the fruit, it may be used in any stage of ripening, or dif- ferent degrees may be mixed together. The fruit is in the best state when just beginning to ripen. For every gallon take 5 lbs. of fruit; have a tub which will hold 15 or 20 gallons ; bruise the grapes into this so thoroughly that if pos- sible every berry shall be mashed ; when the whole are in, stalks and all, add 4 gallons of cold spring-water; mix all well with the hand till the juice and pulp are separated from the more solid matter ; cover the tub, and let it stand 24 hours; strain it through a coarse bag, and squeeze the fruit quite dry ; pour a gallon of water over the solid mass, to get