385 Ciiap. XXI.] ITALIAN PASTES. PATE BE MACARONI.—E. R. 500. —-Stew some macaroni in butter and water) or broth, strain it, cut it into pieces, and lay it at the bottom of the dish, adding ham balls, made of ham pounded in a mortar, and blended with butter ; then have ready any kind of game, boned and filleted, cock’s-combs or ox-palates, previously blanched and stewed, sweetbread cut into dice, and mush- rooms, all stewed in good rich sauce ; place a layer upon the macaroni, then another layer of meat, and, until the pie is filled, add to it equal quantities of cream and gravy, cover it with a paste, and bake it, or omit the paste, and stew it before the fire in a Dutch oven. The macaroni may be mixed with grated Parmesan cheese. Another mode.—Swell 4 oz. of pipe macaroni in milk, with a large onion. Put a layer at the bottom of a pie-dish, -with some bits of butter and scraped Parmesan cheese sprinkled lightly over. Cover the whole with a well-seasoned beef- steak cut small and thin, then some more macaroni, and then another layer of beefsteak ; cover the whole with macaroni, pieces of butter, and grated cheese, instead of crust. Bake in a slow oven. VERMICELLI 501. —Is of the same substance as macaroni, but made much smaller, and frequently put into meat soups as giving them addi- tional richness; but in English kitchens it is too sparingly used. To be well made the soup should be thickened with it, and for that purpose it is preferable to macaroni. Semolina is of the same material, but made into small grains, which more easily thicken the soup into which it is mixed: it can also be made into an excellent pudding with eggs and milk, using it instead of flour, for which, and pud- dings of macaroni and vermicelli, see Chapter on Puddings. It should be observed, as a general rule, that in using any of the Italian pastes—unless they should be sweetened—Par- mesan cheese should always form part of the dish, in the pro- portion of one-half the quantity to that of the paste. POLENTA 502. —Is, in Ttaly, made from the flour of Indian corn, but in this country is generally made of semolina, thus:— 2 c