MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XX. Another mode is, to take either the flank or brisket, and prepare it, as above, for boiling; but stew it with a very little water, and, when done, cover the meat with a coating of chop- ped parsley, thyme, chives, or shalot, seasoned with a little cayenne; then put it under a board, and lay weights upon it for an hour or two, to press it close together; but before it becomes quite cold, remove the weights, and roll the piece up in the manner already directed. An economical ivay.—Take the best part of a shin of beef of which soup has been made (for it must be stewed until very tender), and an ox-tail, also well stewed ; cut them into small pieces, season them well, add a glass of wine and a glass of ketchup, and put it into a stewpan covered with a part of the liquor in which the ox-tail has been boiled ; stew it for about 20 minutes, and then put it into a mould. It must be very cold before it is turned out. This is a good way of employing the beef and heel when soup or jelly is made ; a few chopped sweet herbs may be added, and hard eggs cut into slices, or pickles, such as sliced cucumbers, intermingled. The flavour may be varied in many ways. TO COLLAR CALF’S HEAD. 488. —Scald the skin of a fine head, clean it nicely, and take out the brains. Boil it tender enough to remove the bones; then have ready a good quantity of chopped parsley, mace, ground nutmeg, salt, and white pepper, mixed well: season it high with these; lay the parsley in a thick layer, then a quan- tity of thick slices of fine ham, or a beautifully coloured tongue skinned, and then the yolks of 6 nice eggs stuck here and there about. Roll the head quite close, and tie it up as tight as you can. Boil it till the tape slackens, and then lay a weight upon it (without removing the bandage) till quite cold. Keep it in a pickle of the liquor, vinegar, and salt. A cloth must be put under the tape, as for other collars. Ox-cheek may be collared in the same way. BREAST OF VEAL. 489. —Bone it, take oft’ the thick skin and gristle, and beat the meat with a rolling-pin. Season it with herbs chopped very fine, mixed with salt, pepper, and mace; or, if you have it, seasoning made according to No. 544. Lay some thick slices of fine ham ; or roll into it 2 or 3 calves’ tongues of a fine red,