Chap. XI.] YEAL. 179 little pepper and salt; put a small piece of butter well mixed with flour in the bottom of a stewpan, put in the liver, and allow it to stew gently in its own juices until it is done enough. To dress Liver and Lights.-—Half boil an equal quantity of each; then cut them into a middling-size mince; put to it a spoonful or two of the water they were boiled in, a bit of butter, flour, salt, and pepper; simmer 10 minutes, and serve hot. To dress Calf’s Heart.—Stuff and roast the same as beef heart; or, being sliced and seasoned, make it into a pudding as directed for steak or kidney pudding. It may be either roasted or baked, but in either way should be well basted, stuffed with forcemeat as for veal, but made rather more savoury, and served up in the same manner as beef heart. When the kidney is cut from the loin and dressed separately, chop the kidney, with some of the fat; likewise a little leek or onion, pepper, and salt. Veal forcemeat may also be used, but it rather weakens the pungency of the seasoning. Roll it up with an egg into balls, and fry them. SWEETBREADS. 179.—For every mode of dressing, sweetbreads should be prepared by blanching, or rather parboiling them. They may be larded and braised ; and, being of themselves rather insipid, they will be improved by a relishing sauce, and by a large quantity of herbs in the braise. Slices of lemon put upon the sweetbreads while braising will heighten the flavour and keep them white, which is very desirable when sent to table with white sauce. Stuffed with oysters, they make a very good vol au vent. Sweetbreads a la Daube.—Blanch 2 or 3 of the largest sweet- breads ; lard them; put them into a stewpan, with some good veal gravy, a little browning, and the juice of i a lemon ; stew them till quite tender, and just before serving thicken with flour and butter; glaze them; serve with their gravy, with bunches of boiled celery round the dish. Sweetbreads stewed.—After blanching, stuff them with a forcemeat of fowl, fat and lean bacon, an anchovy, nutmeg, lemon-peel, parsley, and a very little cayenne and thyme; when well mixed, add the yolks of 2 eggs, and fill the sweet- breads. Fasten them together with splinter-skewers, and lay n 2