MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXX. 614 2 quarts of new milk. Stir, and then bung- it close ; let it stand 6 weeks in a warm cellar : bottle the liquor for use, observing great care that the bottles are perfectly clean and dry, and the corks of the best quality and well put in. This liquor will keep many years, and is improved by age. Or:—Pare 6 lemons and 3 Seville oranges very thin, squeeze the juice into a large jar, and put to it 2 quarts of brandy, 1 of white wine, 1 of milk, and H lb. of sugar. Let it be mixed, and then covered for 24 hours : strain through a jelly-bag till clear, then bottle it. Orange Punch.—Dissolve nearly i lb. of sugar in a little water, add the juice of 2 lemons, and pour 2 quarts of boiling water upon it for the sherbet; then add a glass of calf’s-foot jelly. Mix together a bottle of brandy, a bottle of rum, and 1 of orange-wine, add it to the sherbet, and drink it either hot or cold. If bottled, and placed in a cold cellar, it will keep for any time. The orange wine imparts a very fine flavour, which may be heightened by the addition of a bottle of liqueur, cura^oa, or maraschino. Regent's Punch.—Make the sherbet with green tea, capil- laire, and lemon-juice ; to 5 pints of this mixture add 1 pint of rum, 1 of brandy, 1 of arrack, and a bottle of cura(;oa, together with a small jar or shape of Guava jelly. Pour in a bottle of champagne, and send up the punch in a bowl or jug, with a pine-apple sliced into it. An excellent liqueur.—Stick 6 cloves into a fine ripe China orange, put it into a glass jar, adding 4 lb. of the finest moist sugar. Pour over it a quart of good brandy, tie a bladder over the jar, and over that a pasted paper. Set it in the sun, or in a warm place, for 3 or 4 weeks, shaking it gently every day till the sugar is thoroughly dissolved ; strain it off and bottle it. This is a very fine stomachic. SHH UB.—E. R. 849 —Of Rum.—Take equal proportions of Seville orange- juice, the best Jamaica rum, and sugar, with about a pint of the orange-seeds bruised, first removing the outer husk. No water must be added to these materials. Of Brandy.—Put 2 quarts of brandy in a large bottle with the juice of 5 lemons and the peels of 2 ; stop it up, and let it stand 3 days, then add 3 pints of white wine, It lb. of loaf-