323 Chap. XVIII.] VEGETABLES AND SALADS. Or: Cut a potato in pieces lengthways the size and shape of the divisions of an orange, trim them neatly and fry them ; they are an excellent garnish for fried fillet of beef. Or:— Cold Potatoes may be cut in slices somewhat less than ^ inch thick, and fried in like manner. Some persons also fry them with bnions, as an accompaniment to pork chops, sliced cod, red herring, or with a rasher of bacon. ROASTED POTATOES 387. —May be either done in a Dutch oven or put into the ashes of a wood fire. They should not be peeled, and require a long time: if large, and the fire not very strong, a couple of hours will not be too much. They are usually eaten with cold butter at supper. Potato-balls.—Bake the potatoes, mash them very nicely, make them into balls, rub them over with the yolk of an egg, and put them into the oven or before the fire to brown. These balls may be varied by the introduction of a third por- i tion of grated ham or tongue. GREEN PEAS.—E. R. 388. —Boil them very fast in plenty of water with the lid off the stewpan; the water should be moderately salted. They are unfit for eating when they become hard and yel- lowish, but when growing rather old a very small quantity of : carbonate of ammonia put into the water, with 2 or 3 lumps 1 of loaf-sugar, will greatly improve them. The old English I method of putting a sprig of mint, or a little parsley, is still a good practice, and ought to be continued unless specially for- i bidden, or the mint may be chopped and put round the dish. A few bits of raw butter should also be put into the peas when ! boiled, and a dust of pepper and salt thrown over them if they be completely ripe ; but if quite young, neither butter, salt, nor I' pepper should be added to them, but a teaspoonful of pounded li white sugar. When growing to maturity the pods are of dif- p ferent ages, and young and old peas should not be boiled toge- b ther; sift them, therefore, from each other, and put the old -.] ones into the water some minutes sooner than the young: they J.«() require from 15 to 20 minutes boiling. TO STE1F GREEN PEAS. 389. —Cut a cucumber in slices and brown it in fried bntter l» with 2 onions cut very small, to which put 1 quart of peas, a Y 2