71 MEAT-SOUPS. Chap. VII.] The following are the most usual modes of making it; the more succulent the meat, the better being the stock. Boiling water should be used when the meat is fried, but otherwise cold water is best. Brown Stock.—Put 10 lbs. of shin of beef, 6 lbs. of knuckle of veal, and some sheep’s-trotters or a cow-heel, in a closely covered stewpan, to draw out the gravy very gently, and allow it nearly to dry in until it becomes brown. Then pour in sufficient boiling water to entirely cover the meat, and let it boil up, skimming it frequently; seasoning it with whole peppers and salt, roots, herbs, and vegetables of any kind. That being done, let it boil gently 5 or 6 hours, pour the broth from off the meat, and let it stand during the night to cool. The following morning take off the scum and fat, and put it away in a stone jar for further use. Or :—Put into a stewpan a piece of beef, a piece of veal, an old fowl, some slices of ham or bacon, and all the trimmings of meat that can be obtained; add to these materials, where such things are abundant, partridge, grouse, or other game, which may not be sufficiently young and tender for the spit. Put a little water to it, just enough to cover half the meat, and stew very gently over a slow fire or steam apparatus. When the top piece is done through, cover the meat with boiling water .or broth; season with spices and vegetables; stew all together for 8 or 10 hours in an uncovered stewpan; skim off the fat, and strain the liquor through a fine sieve, or woollen (amis, known by cooks as a “ tammy.” Brown stock may be made from an ox-cheek, ox-tail, brisket, flank, or shin of beef; which will, either together or sepa- rately, make a strong jelly if stewed down with a piece of ham or lean bacon, in the proportion of lb. to every 7 lbs. of meat; but the shin of beef alone will afford a stronger and better flavour. This stock may also be reduced to a glaze by boiling the skimmed liquor as fast as possible in a newly-tinned stewpan, until it becomes of the desired consistence and of a good brown colour ; taking care at the same time to prevent it from burning.® For a cheap and good Brown Gravy.—Slice and fry 3 onions in butter a nice brown ; toast a large slice of bread a' Glaze may be hail at most of the oil-shops in London.