Chap. VII.] SOUPS OF VEAL, POULTRY, AND GAME. 93 thoroughly amalgamated put it into a stewpan, stir in boiling stock sufficient for the quantity of soup required; let it boil for ^ an hour; rub it through a tammy-sieve ; add joints of chicken or rabbit, with lemon-juice and salt to palate. Serve with rice. Or:—Boil, in a gallon of water, 4 lbs. of the shank-end of a knuckle of veal, along with the bones of a fowl, the flesh of which has been stripped off and skinned. When half or nearly done, cut off as much of the meat as may be wanted for making the broth, putting aside the glutinous parts of the shank, and letting the remainder stew until the whole of its gravy has been extracted. When that is done, skim and strain it; fry, in butter, 4 onions sliced and floured; mince the flesh of the fowl and knuckle—not too small; add 2 dessert-spoonfuls of curry-powder, with salt and a little cayenne; let the whole simmer together for another hour, and when ready for table season the soup with lemon-juice or a wine-glass of Madeira, and serve it with boiled rice. MUTTON MULL A GA TA WNEE. 39.—Take 4 lbs. of the scrag end of a neck of mutton ; cut off the lean meat in small pieces, boil the remainder and the bones well in 3 quarts of water, with a bunch of sweet herbs, parsley, mace, and 2 onions ; strain it and carefully take off the .fat; put the pieces of lean mutton into a stewpan with 2 table- spoonfuls of curry-powder, pepper, salt, and a little butter; let it simmer gently till the gravy is drawn, then add to it the soup from the bones; boil them together till the meat is ten- der, thicken the soup with a little ground rice till a little thicker than cream ; if not seasoned enough add a little more curry-powder to the thickening; boil it a an hour more, and it is ready to serve. Send with it a dish of boiled rice. The rice is sometimes pulped through a sieve to thicken it, but is most usually sent up separately, and in its whole state, for each person to use it or not, as they think proper. Green peas are also occasionally used for the same purpose as a substitute for the dhal, with which, in India, this soup is fre- quently thickened. Throughout Germany, soups made of wine and beer are very common, as they can be made at a moment in the follow- ing manner:—