YEAL. Chap. XI.] 169 Calf s-head Ragout.—Parboil the head, and cut off the meat into thin broad pieces, return the bones to the water in which it was boiled, with a beef-bone or a piece of gravy beef, and ham or bacon bones; add herbs, and, making 2 quarts of good gravy, strain it, and put in the meat. When it has stewed f of an hour, add an anchovy, a little beaten mace, cayenne pepper, 2 spoonfuls of lemon-pickle, + oz. of truffles and morels, a slice or two of lemon, and a glass of wine: thicken the gravy with butter and flour, adding forcemeat-balls fried, paste fried, and brain-cakes as a garnish. Rolled Calf ’s-head.—Boil the head gently until the bone will leave the meat easily; take some fine forcemeat, made with ham, egg-balls, and small pieces of very nice pickled pork previously boiled ; lay them evenly over the inside of one half of the head, and roll it up; tie it lightly in a cloth; put it into a stewpan to braise; cut the other portion of the head into small pieces; thicken and flavour the stock in which it was boiled, and warm it up in it, adding forcemeat and egg- balls, brain-cakes, and fried paste. Place the rolled head in the centre of the dish, with the hash round, and the brain- cakes, fried paste, and slices of lemon, as garnish. Truffles may be added with advantage to any dish composed of calfs- head. 162. —Hashed Veal.—If to be hashed, from any joint not overdone cut thin slices, remove the skin and gristle, put some sliced onions and a shalot over the fire with a piece of butter and some flour; fry and shake them. Put in some veal gravy and a bunch of sweet herbs ; simmer 10 minutes ; strain off the gravy, and put it to the veal, with some parsley chopped small, and a little grated lemon-peel and nutmeg; let it simmer 1 minute. If to be stewed, then add the yolks of 2 eggs, beaten up with 2 spoonfuls of cream and a very little pepper, and stir over the fire one way until it becomes thick and sqiooth ; squeeze a httlsjlenion-juice in, and serve. SCOTCH COLL OPS.—E. 11. 163. —If brown, cut the collops thin, beat them a little, fry them in butter for about 2 minutes, after having seasoned them with a little beaten mace ; place them in a deep dish as they are fried, and cover them with gravy. Put some butter into