Chap. VII.] 77 MEAT-SOUPS. toes, which should be then passed through a colander: season only with pepper and salt: keep the vessel closely covered. It will make 5 pints of excellent soup at the cost of about Is. 8rf. Or:—To any quantity or kind of broth, add whatever vege- tables may be in season, and stew them gently till quite tender. Then strain the soup; thicken it with flour and water, to be mixed gradually while simmering; and, when that is done, and seasoned to your taste, return the vegetables to the soup, and let it boil well for V an hour. SCOTS KAIL 8. —Is chiefly made of mutton, either fresh or salted; beef is only used when mutton cannot conveniently be had. 3 or 4 lbs. of meat should be put to a gallon of cold water, along with a moderate quantity of pearl-barley, with leeks or onions, and allowed to stew until tender ; if salted, put the meat into water over night, changing it once before boiling. Then have ready the hearts of 2 cabbages cut small, or greens, if cabbages are not in season; put them into the broth, which must be allowed to boil up uncovered until reduced to 2 quarts. It should only be seasoned with pepper and salt; but will be much improved by the addition of a couple of onions fried in butter; indeed, both carrots and turnips are also some- times used, but their addition deprives the soup of the title of “Kail,” which is derived from the greens which are usually employed. The meat is served with the soup, and, in like manner as the olla of the Spaniards, or the pot uu feu of the French, is the standing household dish among the middle classes of Scot- land. C 0 CK-A-LEEKIE— 9. —Or as in Scotland called “ cocky-leeky ”—is there also a very ancient dish, and is recorded to have been a special favourite of James I. It is made thus :— Stew a large fowl, a marrow-bone, and 2 or 3 lbs. of beef, with 2 or 3 Scotch pints (4 to 6 quarts) of water, and the white ends of 2 or 3 dozen of leeks, cut in pieces. Just before serving, add £ lb. of prunes, which dish with the soup and the fowl; but not the meat or marrow-bone, which, when put to boil, must be divided, and left uncovered.