MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIII, 472 the round pieces of bread into it, and then place them in a plain mould in any way you please. Make a little crust with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, worked up stiff with flour and water; roll it out exceedingly thin, and then lay it inside the bread (this is merely to keep the apple from burst- ing the bread). Boil sufficient apples to fill the mould, with a bit of cinnamon and green lemon-peel, add sugar to taste, a little nutmeg, and a small piece of fresh butter; when the apple is rather stiff fill the mould, cover with a piece of bread ; bake for 1 hour. If the bread is cut in long thin strips, and these made to lap one over the other, the lining of paste may be dispensed with. APPLES A LA CREMONE 646.—Form also a beautiful dish. Choose such apples as will look clear when dressed; pare and cut into pieces the form of a brick a sufficient quantity to weigh It lb.; strew over them It lb. of good Lisbon sugar and several long strips of lemon-peel, and cover them close in a bowl. Next day put the apples, piece by piece, into a small preserving-pan, with the sugar, &c., and 2 large spoonfuls of strong cider. Simmer gently ; and as the pieces of apple become clear, take them out. When cold, build a wall with them on a small oval dish, and place the lemon-peel on the top; pour the syrup into the middle. Serve cream to eat with it. The peel of China orange, cut very thin, does as well as lemon; but the rind of Seville orange always gives a higher flavour. Apples a la Suedoise.—Let the apples be pared and cored, but not cut apart, and simmer gently in a thin syrup of sugar and water till tender; drain them, and fill the middles with any rich preserve : place them on a dish in layers raised the shape of a hedge-hog. Have ready a compote of apples made by boiling 3 or 4 lbs., as for marmalade, sweetened and flavoured with lemon, pour this over the apples so as to fill up the space between each ; and to cover them spread over an icing made by the whites of 3 eggs beaten to a froth, with 2 large tablespoonfuls of pounded sugar; make the surface quite even, then sift over it some fine sugar. Blanch and slice lengthwise sufficient almonds to thickly stick over the whole; when done, put the dish into the oven, letting the apples be warmed through and the almond slightly browned. Ihenuin-