SWEET PUDDINGS. 47 L Chap. XXIII.] of butter. Line a dish with puff-paste, pour in the mixture, and bake lightly. For sauce :•—Melted butter, sugar, a little lemon-juice, and i spoonful of brandy. LEMON PUDDING. 644.—Melt 6 oz. of butter, and pour it over the same quan- tity of powdered loaf-sugar, stirring it well till cold. Then grate the rind of a large lemon, and add it witli 8 eggs well beaten, and the juice of 2 lemons ; stir the whole till it is com- pletely mixed together, and bake the pudding with a paste round the dish. Or:—Take 14 lb. of bread-crumbs, 4 lb. of finely-chopped suet, the rind of 2 lemons grated and the juice of 1, 2 eggs well beaten; mix the whole with 4 lb. of sugar sifted, and boil it 1 of an hour. Or:—Pare 6 lemons finely, and boil the peel till it is ten- der ; then pound it in a mortar, add the juice of 3 lemons, and 4 lb. of butter melted into a little cream, 3 sponge or ratafia cakes, the yolks of 6 eggs and the whites of 3 ; mix all up well together, with sugar to the taste, adding a little nutmeg and brandy. AN APPLE CHARLOTTE.—E. R. 645.—Pare and slice a quantity of apples; cut off the crust of a loaf, and cut slices of bread and butter. Butter the inside of a pie-dish, and place bread and butter all round ; then put in a layer of apples sprinkled with lemon-peel chopped very fine, and a considerable quantity of good brown sugar. Then put on a layer of bread and butter, and another of apples, lemon-peel, and sugar, until the dish is full, squeezing over the juice of lemons, so that every part shall be equally flavoured. Cover up the dish with the crusts of the bread and the peels of the apples, to prevent it from browning or burn- ing: bake it 14 hour; then take off the peels and the crust, and turn it out of the dish. The affove is the most usual mode of making it, but the an- nexed receipt is an improvement, furnished by a cook of high reputation. ’ Charlotte de Pommes.—Take 4 a quartern loaf, cut the crumb in slices 4 inch thick, cut out of it as many pieces with an inch-round cutter as are required. Oil some butter, dip