TEA. 595 Chap. XXIX.] Milk Coffee is an excellent breakfast, and, as its name im- plies, is generally composed of ~ milk and f coffee: the coffee is made in the same manner as for after dinner; the boiling milk may, however, be afterwards added according to fancy. If the yolk of a raw egg be well mixed up with i a pint of the milk, it will materially add to the richness of the coffee; but soft sugar should then be used ; whereas the best refined lump or powdered sugar-candy should be taken in that which is to be drunk pure. Even for milk-coffee, always make the coffee itself as strong as in the French mode; and weaken it as you please with milk. Should the plan be adopted of each person mixing the milk and coffee according to their taste, an excellent utensil would be that of a small tea-urn, divided in the centre of its interior, to separate the liquids, but equally communicating the warmth of the heater: it must have the addition of a cock on each side. As to the liquid essence of coffee, the best sort is not a bad substitute, in a hurry, for that made in a proper way ; but it is not nearly so good. Mocha coffee can only be found at the shops of grocers of eminence, though every petty dealer puts off what he calls “ Turkey coffee,” as being the same. If you cannot roast the berries, at least grind them yourself, to prevent the imposition of a mixture. If induced by its cheapness to buy low-priced coffee, the coarseness of its flavour may be improved by the addition of a small quantity of chicory powder, at the rate of a couple of ounces to the pound. T E A. 821.—Tastes differ regarding the flavour of various sorts of tea: some preferring all black ; others, all green ; and many, a mixture of both in different quantities; though most persons —when not fearful of their nerves—agree that fine Hyson is the best. A good mixture, in point of flavour, we know to be—\ black, ■§• green, and i gunpowder: all being, of course, of superior quality. Presuming all ladies to be intimately acquainted with the mode of making tea, yet, to some, a few hints on the subject may not perhaps be found objectionable. 2 Q 2