POULTRY AND GAME. Chap. XIII.] 221 than usual; egg the rabbit and cover with bread-crumbs. Chop up the liver fine; throw it into some good gravy for sauce. It should be served nicely frothed. Boiled with Onions.—Boil slowly, and send to table covered, or “ smothered,” with onion sauce. Boiled with Jerusalem Artichokes.—Cut the rabbits in joints, put them on to boil, with water barely covering them. When about half done, put to them some Jerusalem artichokes sliced, a sufficient quantity to make the sauce thick; and when they are done, mash them as you would turnips ; add a little of the liquor they were boiled in, pepper, salt, and a little cream; pour over the rabbits, and serve. Fried.—Cut them in joints, parboil them, egg them, and cover with chopped herbs and crumbs; fry them. Serve with liver sauce made a little sharp with lemon-juice. Or :—Cut the rabbit in joints, parboil it; put it in a pan with a little oil, tarragon vinegar, pepper, salt, a slice or two of onion; soak it for 3 hours; then dry it, dip in batter, fry I crisply. Serve with tornata sauce. To make a Rabbit taste much like Hare.-—Choose one that is young, but full-grown ; hang it in the skin 3 or 4 days ; then skin it; and lay it, without washing, in a seasoning of black cl pepper and allspice in a very fine powder, a glass of port wine, and the same quantity of vinegar. Baste it occasionally for 40 hours ; then stuff it, and roast it as a hare, and with the same sauce. Do not wash oft' the liquor that it was a soaked in. * A la Frangaise.—Should be cut in pieces ; reserve the liver, put a piece of bacon cut in pieces into a stewpan, and brown it well, and then lay it aside ; put a piece of butter and the rabbit in the pan; turn and toss it well until it is quite white. When it is getting brown, dredge a tablespoonful of flour over it, turning all the while, and when the flour is dry put the rabbit in a plate. Then add a piece more butter to the remaining sauce, and stir it well together, and when brown add a cupful of water; continue stirring, and put in the rabbit with plenty of very small onions, the bacon, some mushrooms, a bunch of parsley and thyme and a bay-leaf tied witli a thread, .and some salt and pepper; let it stew very gently over a slow fire for 4 hours. Add the liver and a glass of port