MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. YIII. 136 BEEF A LA VINAIGRETTE. 110. —Cut a slice of underdone beef three inches thick, and a little fat; stew it in £ pint, of water, a glass' of white (not siveet) wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, and a bay-leaf; season it with 3 cloves pounded and a little pepper; let it stew till the liquor is nearly wasted away, turning it once. When cold, serve it. Strain off the gravy, and mix it with a little vinegar for sauce. TO MINCE BEEF. 111. —Shred the underdone part fine, with some of the fat; put into a small stewpan some onion or shalot (a very little will do), a little water, pepper, and salt; boil it till the onion is quite soft; then put some of the gravy of the meat to it, and the mince. A few minutes will dress it, but do not let it boil. Have a small hot dish with sippets of bread ready, and pour the mince into it, but first mix a large spoonful of vinegar with it. If shalot-vinegar is used, there will be no need of the onion nor the raw shalot. “ Sanders.'’’’—Mince beef or mutton small, with onion, pep- per, and salt; add a little gravy, put it into scallop-shells or saucers, making them three parts full, and fill them up with potatoes mashed with a little cream ; put a bit of butter on the top, and brown them in an oven, or before the fire, or with a salamander. “ Cecils—Mince any kind of meat, crumbs of bread, a good deal of onion, some anchovies, lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, chopped parsley, pepper, and a bit of butter warm, and mix them over a fire for a few minutes; when cool enough, make them up into balls of the size and shape of a turkey’s egg; dip them in egg, and sprinkle with fine crumbs, then fry them of a yellow brown ; and serve witli gravy as before directed for Beef Olives. Minced Beef with Cucumbers.—Take a fine rump-steak undressed, and with a sharp knife shred it very fine. Put it into a stewpan with a little clarified butter and some salt; stir it over a quick fire for a few minutes, then add ^ pint of good beef gravy ; let it boil gently till it becomes of a proper thickness. Cut 2 fine cucumbers in slices the thickness of a crown-piece, and put them with an onion sliced in a stewpan with some clarified butter, a little vinegar, a lump of sugar, and fry them of a fine brown colour; put them into a stewpan with