Chaf. XXV.] 517 PRESERVED FRUITS. thick, then pour it over the fruit. When cold cover close with pasted paper. MARMALADES. 719.—Apricot.—Gather the fruit before it is too ripe, stone and blanch the kernels. To every lb. of fruit take # lb. of fine loaf-sugar; break the sugar into lumps, dip the lumps in water, allow them to dissolve, put it over a clear fire, and let it boil to a candy; then pound and sift it; pare the fruit, cut it into thin slices, put them with the sugar over a slow fire, let it simmer till clear, but do not boil it; acid the kernels, and then put the marmalade into jars. Or:—Boil ripe apricots in syrup until they will mash ; beat them in a mortar ; take A their weight in loaf-sugar, and suffi- cient water to dissolve it; boil all together, and skim until it is clear, and the syrup thick like fine jelly. Apple.—Pare and core some green pippins, and boil in water till quite soft; break them gently with the back of a spoon; strain the water through a jelly-bag till quite clear; then to every pint put 1 lb. of double-refined sugar, the peel and juice of a lemon, and boil to a strong syrup. Drain off' the syrup from the fruit, and pour the apple-jelly over it, and sim- mer the whole until it becomes thick. Cover with paper. Common moist sugar is sometimes employed for family use. . Quince.—Pare and quarter the fruit, put it in layers in a stone jar with sugar sprinkled between each; add a teacupful of water, and bake it in a cool oven. Have a quantity of sugar equal in weight to the fruit; allow 1 quart of water to every 4 lbs.; boil the sugar and water together, skimming it well. When the quinces are soft add them, with a quart of the juice which will be found in the jar: boil them in the syrup, beating it with a spoon until the marmalade is quite smooth. Another way.—Pare and quarter quinces, weigh an equal quantity of sugar ; to 4 lbs. of the latter put 1 quart of water, boil and skim, and have it ready whilst 4 lbs. of quinces are made tolerably tender by the following mode:—Lay them in a stone jar with a teacupful of water at the bottom, and pack them with a little sugar strewed between ; cover the jar close, and set it on a stove or cool oven, and let them soften till the colour become red ; then pour the fruit-syrup and 1 quart of quince-juice hito a preserving-pan, and boil all together till the