MODERN" DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. VI. 60 bull-calf is firmest and most juicy, but not so white. The fillet of the cow-calf is generally preferred for the udder. If the bloody vein in the shoulder looks blue, or of a bright red, it is newly killed ; but any other colour shows it to be stale. The other parts should be dry and white; if clammy or spotted, the meat is stale and bad. The kidney turns first, and the suet will not then be firm. If allowed to live longer than eight or ten weeks old, the flesh becomes coarse. You will of course get it somewhat cheaper, and it may, to some palates, be found equally good in flavour, but not so delicate in either the colour or the texture of the flesh. Mutton.—Wether mutton is the only sort for a connoisseur’s table, and may be known by a knob of fat on the upper part of the leg, where, in ewe mutton, is the udder. The meat should be of a dark colour, and well covered with fat; and in the loin the lean should appear mottled. The flesh of the ewe is paler, and the texture finer, but neither the meat nor gravy so well flavoured as that of the wether, though a “ maiden ewe,” when it can be got, is considered particularly fine. If you wish to have a good haunch, choose one of small size and moderately fat, looking at the same time to the closeness of the grain and the whiteness of the fat; but more particularly see that the flesh is dark-coloured, that being a proof of age, and the older the better. In boiled mutton this is not of so much importance as in roasted. Lamb.—There are two sorts: “ house-lamb,” which is reared under cover upon ewe’s milk, and comes into season, as a great delicacy, at Christmas; and “grass-lamb” at Easter, conti- nuing in season during the whole of the summer, but losing much of its nicety of flavour after it reaches 4 months old. It ought therefore to be small and white in appearance, and well covered with fat: the younger the more delicate. In the Peninsula it is frequently killed at 6 weeks old, then roasted whole, and is extremely delicate. Pork.—The rind should be thin, the fat very firm, and the lean white: the principal point to be observed is the firmness of the fat. If the rind is tough, thick, and cannot easily be im- pressed by the finger, it is old. Pigs that are short in the legs and bodies, and have thick necks, and not long heads and ears, are always to be preferred. When fresh, the flesh will be smooth and dry ; if clammy, it is tainted. What is called