CHEESECAKES. Chap. XXIII.] 443 and a few bitter, with a spoonful of water ; then add 4 oz. of sugar pounded, a spoonful of cream, and the whites of 2 eggs well beaten ; mix all as quick as possible ; put into very small pattypans, and bake in a rather warm oven under 20 minutes. Another.—Press the whey from as much curd as will fill 2 dozen small pattypans; then put it on the back of a sieve, and with i oz. of butter rub it through with the back of a spoon ; put to it 6 yolks and 3 whites of eggs, and a few almonds of both sorts pounded, with as much sugar as will make the curd properly sweet; mix with these a wineglassful of sherry or Madeira, in which boil the rind of a Seville orange, if you can get one, or, if not, a large ripe one of the common kind, with all its juice. Beat all gradually together, and when thoroughly blended fill the pattypans; the baking will take from 4 of an hour to 20 minutes. Potato Cheesecake.—4 oz. of butter, the same of pounded sugar, 6 oz. of potatoes boiled and floured through a sieve, the rind of 1 lemon, and half the juice, unless acid is desirable ; mix these ingredients well together, with 2 eggs, and fill the tart-pan and bake it. CHEESECAKE-STOCK, that will keep for several years.—E. R. 587. —To i lb. of butter put 1 lb. of loaf-sugar broken into small pieces, 6 eggs, leaving out 2 whites, the rind of 3 lemons grated, and the juice of 3 ; put them all into a pan, and let them simmer over the fire until the sugar is dissolved, and it begins to thicken like honey. When cold put it into sweet- meat-pots for use. When made into cheesecakes, add grated sweet biscuits. Line the small tartlet-pans used for these small cakes with good, but not too light, puff-paste : make them of a deep yellow colour, and put on each a strip of candied citron. ICING FOR FRUIT PIES AND TARTS. 588. —The common mode is to take the white of an egg, whisked to a froth, mixed thickly with pounded sugar, and laid on with a quill feather. For larger tarts it should, how- ever, be laid on more thickly, and comfits or lemon-peel may be stuck into it.