MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXY. 516 with water, and set them on a slow fire to scald. When suffi- ciently done take them out and lay them in a bowl or deep dish, pound the sugar, and put it on them; the following day pour the syrup off, and boil it, and put it on the plums; this do every day for 4 or 5 days; then take the plums out of the syrup, sift sugar over them, lay them upon tins, and dry them in a cool oven or before the fire. A common Preserve of Plums.—Put the plums into a jar large enough to hold 1 lb. of fruit, add 7 oz. of good moist sugar ; tie the jar over with 2 bladders tied separately ; place the jar in a kettle of cold water up to the bladders; do not cover the kettle, and let them boil in the water for 3 hours. TO PRESER VE GREENGA GES.—E. R. 717. —Pick and prick all the plums ; put them into a pre- serving-pan with cold water enough to cover them. Let them remain on the fire until the water simmers well; then take off, and allow them to stand until half cold, putting the plums to drain. To every lb. of plums allow 1 lb. of sugar, which must be boiled in the water from which the plums have been taken; let it boil very fast until the syrup drops short from the spoon, skimming carefully all the time. When the sugar is sufficiently boiled put in the plums, and allow them to boil until the sugar covers the pan with large bubbles. Then pour the whole into a pan, and let them remain until the following day. Drain the syrup from the plums as dry as possible, boil it up quickly, and pour it over the plums; then set them by; do this a third and a fourth time. On the fifth day, when the syrup is boiled, put the plums into it, and let them boil for a few minutes ; then put them into jars. Should the greengages be over ripe, it will be better to make jam of them, using f lb. of sugar to 1 lb. of fruit Warm the jars before putting the sweetmeats in, and be careful not to boil the sugar to a candy. TO PRESERVE GOOSEBERRIES. 718. —Take the rough-skinned fruit when quite dry, with rather more than their weight of sugar pounded fine; lay a layer of fruit and a layer of sugar till all are in the pan ; add a teacupful of water, and boil the fruit quickly till it is clear ; take it out and put it.into jars; boil up the syrbp till it is