363 CURING MEAT. Chap. XX.] brown sugar, J oz. of white pepper, and j oz. of cloves and mace; mix and pound these all well together, and rub them well into the beef; let it lie for a fortnight, taking care to turn it daily. When taken out of the pickle it should be smoked, either by lighted oak sawdust or in the chimney of a kitchen where wood is burned. Or:—To 16 lbs. of beef put 1 lb. of common salt, 1 lb. of treacle, 2 oz. of bay-salt, and 1 oz. of saltpetre; rub the salt thoroughly over the beef, and pour the treacle upon it. Let it be turned every day, and well rubbed in the pickle. At the end of 3 weeks put it to dry in wood-smoke. The under bed is the best part for this purpose, but the ribs may also be used. SPICED BEEF.—E. R. 462.—Make a brine with i lb. of salt, i oz. of saltpetre, i lb. of sugar, 30 cloves, as many allspice and black pepper- corns, 6 bay-leaves ; crack the spice, put it on to boil for a few minutes in a pint of water; when cold, pour it over a piece of beef about 10 lbs. Turn it every day for a fortnight. When required for use, put the beef into a deep pan with the brine, a little water, and about 1 lb. of suet. Bake it until tender; let it get cold in the brine. Spiced Flank of Beef.—Take 8 or 10 lbs. of the thin flank, remove any skin, gristle, or bones; rub it over with y oz. of saltpetre and 4 oz. of bay-salt; then rub it well in with a mix- ture of spices, the following proportions being used:—1 oz. of black pepper, 1 oz. of allspice, ^ oz. of ground ginger, i oz. of cloves, and half the quantity of mace. Use only as much as will suffice to rub the beef all over ; then add 3 oz. of com- . mon salt and i lb. of coarse sugar ; let the beef remain a fort- night in this pickle, turning it and rubbing it every day : then take it out, cover it with the spices and chopped sweet herbs, roll it very tight, tie it with tape, put it into a pan with ^ pint of water and i lb. of suet, and bake it or boil it gently for 4 hours ; put a heavy weight upon it, and when cold take off the tape. There will be a fine jelly at the bottom of the pan, which should be cleared from fat, and mixed with an equal portion of jelly from an ox-foot, as it will be too salt to eat alone, or it may be used in soups. Leicestershire Spiced Beef—Take a round of beef, rub in i lb. of saltpetre finely pounded ; let it stand a day, then season