POULTRY AND GAME Chap. XIII.] 207 of sugar, and pepper and salt if required. The peas should hang together and all the fat be removed. Or : Put a few sage-leaves and some pepper inside the duck, half roast it, then dredge, and put it in a stewpan, with a little piece of butter, as much water as will cover it, an onion, a bunch of parsley and mint, pepper, and salt. Let it stew till nearly done, then strain the sauee ; add a pint of young shelled peas, and stew all together, until the whole is sufficiently cooked. With Turnips.—Cut h a dozen turnips, and scorch or fry them with a duck in butter in a stewpan ; then take out the turnips, add a little stock, an onion, pepper and salt, a bay- leaf, a few sage-leaves, and a sprig of thyme, and allow the duck to stew gently until quite tender : then strain and thicken the gravy, add the turnips to itf and serve it- up. Stewed with Cabbage.—Boil a cabbage, and allow it to drain ; half roast a duck, and put it with the cabbage sliced thin into gravy, seasoned with sweet marjoram, thyme, onions, pepper, and salt. Stew the duck until it is done enough, then strain and thicken the gravy; put the cabbage in a cloth, and squeeze it quite dry; dish the duck upon it, and pour the sauce round. These dishes may be made with cold roast ducks that have appeared at table ; but in that case the gravy must be enriched. Steived in Claret.—Make a gravy of the giblets ; rub the duck inside and outside with pepper and a little salt; peel and mince 2 or 3 onions, and, having half roasted the duck, put it into a stewpan with the gravy and onions. Let it stew very gently for f of an hour, adding towards the end a glass of claret; squeeze the juice of a lemon over the duck, and serve it up with fined bread or paste. The duck may be stuffed with forcemeat, in which a little sage should be chopped. To hash.—Cut a cold duck into joints ; and warm it, with- out boiling, in gravy, a glass of port-wine, a teaspoonful of made mustard, and a little butter and flour. To boil.—Put the bird for a few minutes into warm water; then take it out, and lay it in an earthen pan, pour a pint of boiling milk over it, and allow it to soak for 3 hours; dredge