MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXXII. G40 To take the Stains out of Black Cloth.—Boil a large hand- ful of fig-leaves in 2 quarts of water until reduced to°a pint; squeeze the leaves quite dry, and put the liquor into a bottle for use. The article should be rubbed with a sponge dipped m the liquor. The word poison should be written on the bottle to prevent any accident. To make Flannels not shrink.—The first time of washing put them into a pail of boiling water, and let them lie till cold. To preserve Furs and Woollens from Moths.—Let the former be occasionally combed while in use, and the latter be brushed and shaken. When not wanted, dry them first, let them be cool, then mix among them bitter apples from the apothecary’s in small muslin bags, sew the articles in several folds of linen, carefully turned in at the edges, and keep them from damp. Or :—Lay amongst them the cuttings of Russia leather. TO DYE THE LININGS OF FURNITURE, ETC. 879.—Tinf or Salmon Colour, according to the depth of the hue.—Rub down on a pewter plate 2 pennyworth of Spa- nish arnatto, and then boil it in a pail of water £ of an hour. Put into it 2 oz. of potash, stir it round, and instantly put in the lining; stir it about all the time it is boiling,'- which must be 5 or 6 minutes ; then put it into cold pump w , and hang the articles up singly without pinging. When almost dry, fold and mangle them. - Pink.—The calico must be watgjfed extremely clean and be dry. Then boil it in 2 gallons of soft water and 4 oz. of alum; take it out, and dry in the air. In the mean time boil in the alum-water 2 handfuls of wheat-bran till quite slippery, and then strain it. Take 2 scruples of cochineal and 2 oz. of argali finely powdered and sifted ; mix with it the liquor by little at a time. Then put the calico into the liquor, and boil it till it is almost wasted, moving it about. Take out the calico, and ■wash it in chamber-ley first, and in cold water after; then rinse it in water-starch strained, and dry it quickly without hanging it in folds. Mangle it very highly, unless you have it calendered, which is best. Blue.—Let the calico be washed clean and dried ; then mix some of Scott’s liquid blue in as much water as will be