PRESERVED FRUITS. Chap. XXV.] 523 it into shallow pans or soup-plates, and dry in the sun or a cool oven. MAGNUM BONUM PLUMS. 727. —Prick them with a needle to prevent bursting, simmer them very gently in thin syrup, put them in a china bowl, and when cold pour it over. Let them lie 3 days ; then make a syrup of 3 lbs. of sugar to 5 of fruit, with no more water than hangs to large lumps of the sugar dipped quickly and instantly brought out. Boil the plums in this fresh syrup after drain- ing the first from them. Do them very gently till they are clear and the syrup adheres to them. Put them one by one into small pots, and pour the liquor over. If any are to be dried, keep a little of the syrup in the pan, and boil it quickly : then give the fruit one warm more, drain, and put them to dry on plates in a cool oven. These plums are apt to ferment if not boiled in two syrups ; the first syrup will sweeten pies, but will have too much acid to keep. You may reserve part of it, and add a little sugar, to do those that are to dry; for they will not reqnire to be so sweet as if kept wet. Do not break them. One parcel may be done after another, and save much sugar. DAMSON CHEESE.—E. R. 728. —Stone the damsons, take out the kernels and blanch • them; put the whole into a stone jar and bake it. Pour off' a part of the juice, put the fruit into a preserving-pan, boil it quickly until it looks rather dry. To every 2 lbs. of the original quantity of fruit take + lb. of loaf-sugar; now stir the sugar well in, and let it simmer slowly for 2 hours. Then boil it again quickly until it begins to candy at the sides of the pan. Pour the jam into shallow pots not more than an inch deep ; cover with brandy-paper, and tie down close. Or:—Gather the damsons on a dry day ; bake or boil them till the pulp will pass through a coarse hair sieve, then add their weight of moist sugar ; boil it hour, stirring it con- tinually to keep it from burning. AN EXCELLENT WAY OF DRESSING CHESTNUTS. 729. —Let them be well roasted and the husks taken off': dissolve i lb. of loaf-sugar in a wineglassful of water and the juice ol a lemon; put this with the chestnuts in a saucepan over