MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XII. 186 that no flavour of the resin may remain. Take off the feet at the first joint; make a slit down the belly and take out the entrails: put the liver, heart, and lights to the feet. Wash the pig well in cold water, dry it thoroughly, and fold it in a wet cloth to keep it from the air. To roast a Sucking-pig.—Put some sage, a large piece of white bread, salt, pepper, and an onion, into the belly; then sew it up. Observe to skewer the legs back, or the under part will not crisp. Lay it to a brisk fire till thoroughly dry; then have ready some butter in a dry cloth, and rub the pig with it in every part. Dredge as much flour over it as will possibly lie, and do not touch it again till ready to serve; then scrape off the flour very carefully with a blunt knife or coarse towel, rub the pig well with a buttered cloth, and take oft’ the head while at the fire; take out the brains, and mix them with the gravy that comes from the pig, or make them up into balls with crumbs of bread and egg. Then take it up, and, with- out withdrawing the spit, cut it down the back and belly, lay it into the dish, and throw out the onion : chop the sage and bread quickly as fine as you can, and mix them with a large quantity of fine melted butter with a very little flour. Take off the upper part of the head dowrn to the snout. Put the sauce into the dish after the pig has been split down the back, and garnished with the ears and the 2 jaws. In Devonshire it is served whole, if very small; the head only being cut off to garnish, as above. It will require from 1 hour to H to roast, and an iron “ pig- plate ” should be hung on a bar of the grate to prevent the middle of the pig being done before the other parts are ready. Sucking-pig should never be more than about 3 weeks old ; but sometimes young porkers just weaned from the dam are roasted whole in the following manner :— TO ROAST A PORKER.-E. R. 188.—When prepared for the spit, roll a small lump of butter in flour and chopped sage-leaves, and put it in the in- side ; but put enough, as the body of a young pig should be quite filled with stuffing. When warm at the fire, take the whites of 1 or 2 eggs, beat them well, and, with a small brush or a bunch of feathers, spread it all over the pig. When nearly roasted, catch the gravy that falls; and, when taken