MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXVI. 544 Take the liquor and boil it up, with l lb. of anchovies to every dozen of cucumbers, 1 pint of white wine, a nutmeg, £ oz. of mace, and i oz. of whole pepper; strain it, and when cold bottle it; tie it down with bladder. It will keep for 2 years. The Suffolk Receipt.—Take a dozen well-grown cucum- bers and 4 large onions, slice them into an earthen pan with a good handful of salt; let them stand till the liquor begins to run, break them into small pieces, and let the whole stand an- other day and night: then strain it off; to every quart put the same quantity of white, but not sweet wine, ilb. of anchovies, and a large stick of horseradish ; boil them together for i an hour, then strain it again, and to every quart put ± oz. of white pepper, £ the quantity of mace and nutmeg, all pounded, and boil it well again. When cold, bottle it with the spice, and put a piece of ginger into each bottle. A tablespoonful in a sauce- boatful of cream or melted butter makes delicious white sauce for fowls or made dishes of veal. TOM AT A KETCHUP.—E. R. 763. —Take 2 dozen of ripe tomatas and a handful of salt; slice the tomatas, and put a layer into a jar, sprinkle salt over it, then another layer of tomatas and salt, until the jar is full. Stir the contents now and then for 3 or 4 days, keeping the jar in a warm place by the fire; at the expiration of which time press the juice from the tomatas by rubbing them with a wooden spoon through a sieve, and boil it with mace, pepper, allspice, ginger, and cloves, in the proportion of about 2 oz. in all to 1 quart of juice, a few blades of mace, 12 cloves, a spoonful of pounded ginger, and the remainder pepper and all- spice. In 3 months boil it again with fresh spice. Or:—Take 6 lbs. of tomatas, sprinkle them with salt; let them remain for a day or two, then boil them until the skins will separate easily ; pour them into a colander, or coarse sieve, and press them through, leaving the skins behind; put into the liquor 1 handful of shalots, 1 pint of chili vinegar, i pint of wine, pepper, cloves, ginger, and allspice; boil them toge- ther until a third part has wasted ; then bottle it, closing the bottle very securely. It must be shaken before it is used. TOMA TA SA UCE FOR WINTER USE. 764. —1 peck of tomatas, 6 onions sliced, 2 heads of celery, a dozen shalots, 1 oz. of cayenne pepper, i oz. of black pepper,