373 Chap. XX.] POTTING AND COLLARING. (■MMMHMUMUHUUi as the oil works up take it clear off. They will thus, in the storepot, keep till the spring. Put into pots for serving as wanted ; observing to take off the old butter, and, having warmed the fish in the oven, cover with fresh butter only. TO POT SHELL-FISH. 480. —Boil lobsters, crayfish, and shrimps in salt and water, pick the meat out of the tails and claws, put them into a stew- pan with a little butter, some chopped mushrooms or truffles, and simmer a short time over a gentle fire. When nearly done, beat the yolks of 2 or 3 eggs with a teacupful of cream and a little chopped parsley; let all stew together for a few minutes, until rendered as consistent as paste, and set it as above stated. Or:—When boiled, take them out of their shells, and season them with salt, white pepper, and a very little mace and nutmeg; but use the spice very sparingly, only just suffi- cient to preserve the fish for a few days in a fresh state, as they will not keep good much longer. Press them into a pot, lay a little butter over them, and bake in a slow oven for 10 minutes. When cold, cover with clarified butter. Shrhnps may also be potted whole, by putting them for a few minutes in clarified butter, seasoned as above, and gently heated; then put into pots, and cover with more butter, to totally prevent the admission of air. Cover the pots also with oil-skin. TO POT POULTRY AND GAME. 481. — Chickens.—Take as much lean of boiled ham as you may think proper, and £ the quantity of fat, each cut as thin as possible; beat it very fine in a mortar with a little clarified butter, pounded mace, pepper, and salt—if the ham be not sufficiently impregnated. To this add the white part of the fowl, also pounded, but without seasoning, as it is only intended to qualify the savouriness of the ham. Then either mix the whole together, or put a layer of ham and chicken alternately ; press it hard in the pots, bake in a cool oven for i an hour, pour over it clarified butter to the thickness of a crown-piece, and paste over it a piece of paper, which may be oiled when the paste is dry. Let them be quite fresh, clean them carefully, and season them with salt and pepper; lay them close in a small deep pan ; for, the smaller the surface, and the closer thev are I