Chap. XXIII.] SWEET PUDDINGS. 453 and some nutmeg grated. Set it on the fire, and keep stirring it till it thickens. Then set it in a basin to cool: put a rich puff-paste round the edge of the dish; pour in the pudding, and bake it in a moderate oven. It will cut light and clear. You may add candied orange and citron, if you like. BREAD PUDDING.—E. R. 606.—Take a pint of bread-crumbs and cover them with milk ; add some cinnamon, lemon-peel, and grated nutmeg; put them on a gentle fire until the crumbs are well soaked. Take out the cinnamon and lemon-peel, beat the crumbs and milk well together, add 4 eggs well beaten, 1 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of sugar, i lb. of currants, and boil it an hour. An excellent Bread Padding.—Pour a pint of boiling milk over the crumb of 4 French rolls; when nearly cold add 6 eggs, i lb. of currants, and 1 oz. of candied citron cut into dice; mix well together; pour it into a plain round mould, round the edges of which place a band of buttered paper; place it in a stewpan with about 2 inches of boiling water at the bottom ; cover a sheet of paper over the pudding, and let it simmer gently over the fire, keeping the stewpan covered down close until the pudding becomes quite firm ; take off the paper, and turn it upon a dish; pour over it the following sauce -•— Put <j a pint of melted butter into a stewpan; stir into it the yolks of 2 eggs, a glass of brandy, the juice of a lemon with sugar sufficient to sweeten it; stir it over the fire till it begins to thicken ; then strain it, and serve. Or :—Take either stale or fresh bread, of a light sort; put it into a pan, boil the milk, and when it boils pour it over the bread; then allow it to cool, and in the mean time beat up 3 or 4 eggs with a tablespoonful of fine wheaten flour; beat the egg and flour into the bread and milk until the whole is as light as possible. See that the water boils when you put in the pudding, and keep it boiling for It hour. Baked, Bread Pudding.—Prepare the milk and bread as before; then stir in \ lb. of butter and the same quantity of sugar, with a tablespoonful of cinnamon-powder and grated nutmeg; stir the whole well together, and let it cool; beat 6 eggs and stir them gradually into the mixture after it is cold. Bake it in a deep dish for 1 hour. A little chopped marrow mingled with it will be found an improvement.