MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXYII. 5.56 derecl loaf-sugar, mix it well with the eggs, and gradually 7 oz. of flour and a few carraway-seeds; stir the whole well together, and put it into a pan or dish for baking. If the oven is hot, £ an hour will bake it. The moment it is taken out of the oven turn it out of the mould, and let it lie upside down until quite cold. Great care should be taken in the baking. Plain Cake.—4 lbs. of flour, 2 lbs. of currants, and 4 lb. of butter, with clove, carraway, and coriander seeds to the taste, together with lemon-peel grated; wet it with milk and i pint of yeast. Or :—Beat 1 lb. of butter to a cream with the hand, and add 1 lb. of brown sugar, which beat in for 10 minutes longer; then add 8 eggs, 2 at a time, beating them as they are put in until the whole is very smooth; then stir in 1J lb. of flour, a little at a time, till it is well mixed; season with a little nut- meg, and add 1 lb. of currants the last thing, together with citron and orange peel cut into pieces. Put the ingredients into a shape, and bake it for 2 hours. An excellent Cake.—Rub 2 lbs. of dry fine flour with 1 lb. of butter washed in plain, and afterwards in rose-water; mix it with 3 spoonfuls of yeast in a little warm milk and water. Set it to rise li hour before the fire; then beat into it 2 lbs. of currants, 1 lb. of sugar sifted, 4 oz. of almonds, 6 oz. of stoned raisins chopped fine, k a nutmeg, cinnamon, allspice, and a few cloves, the peel of a lemon chopped as fine as pos- sible, a glass of wine, the same of brandy, 12 yolks and whites of eggs beaten separately; add orange, citron, and lemon. Beat the whole for ^ an hour. Bake in a quick oven. Scotch Seed-cake.—Take 1^ dozen of eggs, keep out the whites of 6 for glazing; take 1 i lb. of fine sugar, beat the sugar and eggs until they are thick and white; take It lb. of sweet butter, and beat it well to cream ; take \ oz. of cinna- mon, the same of nutmeg and cloves, t oz. of carraway-seed, 14 lb. of citron, 1 lb. of orange-peel, 1 lb. of almonds blanched; cut them small. Put 2 lbs. of flour among the eggs, add the beaten butter and a. gill of brandy; mix all well together ; put it into the frame, and bake it. FAMILY BREAD-CAKE. 776.—Take the quantity of a quartern loaf from the dough