580 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXVIII. by him, to be in the Paris bread 17-fV per cent. : “ the waste varies somewhat, according to the degree to which the fer- mentation has been excited, and its duration in which the Doctor is right; for the waste, or loss of weight, will be in proportion to the duration of the fermentation, which must be sufficiently excited and continued to produce a well-made loaf; beyond this there is no necessity for extending the fer- mentation, and if checked at this stage the bread will be sweet and well tasted, indeed more so than that produced by the chemical means. Bakers, in order to please the eye of the public, carry the fermentation of their bread to the greatest possible extent, almost approaching the acetous state, so as to have a very white, large, and well-piled loaf of bread, with which alone the public will be satisfied. In the Rev. Mr. Haggett’s Economical Bread, only the coarse flake bran is to be removed from the flour : of this bran take 5 lbs., and boil it in rather more than 4 gallons of water, so that when perfectly smooth you may have 3 gallons and 3 quarts of bran-water clear. With this knead 56 lbs. of the flour, adding salt and yeast in the same way and proportions as for other bread. When ready to bake, divide it into loaves and bake them 2i hours. We do not, however, uphold this mode so much on the principle of economy, as on that of the quality of the bread made with water in which bran has been boiled, as we know from long experience that wheaten bread made in this manner always has a sweeter taste of corn than when made from pure water. Maize Bread.—Take an equal quantity of the meal of maize and wheaten flour. Set a sponge first with three parts of the wheaten flour, the requisite quantity of yeast, warm water, and salt. Whilst this is rising, mix the maize-meal up with water, and boil it over the fire, keeping it well stirred till it comes to the consistence of paste, and let it cool. When the sponge has risen to its greatest height, and begins to drop or sink down again, then add the meal paste; mix and knead them both well together, using the rest of the wheaten flour left from the sponge in the kneading with a sufficient quantity of water to make the whole of a proper consistence. Put the dough into a pan, cover it with a thick cloth or flannel, and let it remain in a warm place or before the fire to prove for