Chap. X.] 161 LAMB. the gravy back into the pan, and stir it till of a fine thickness without boiling. Garnish with lemon. To fricassee Lamb-stones without any addition.—Skin, wash, and parboil, and then cut them in half, dry and flour them ; fry of a beautiful brown in hog’s lard. Serve with the following sauce : thicken some veal gravy with a bit of flour and butter, and then add to it a slice of lemon, a large spoon- ful of mushroom-ketchup, a teaspoonful of lemon-pickle, a grate of nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg beaten well in 2 large spoonfuls of thick cream. Put this over the fire, and stir it well till it is hot and looks white: do not let it boil, or it will curdle. Then put in the fry, and shake it about for a minute or two. Serve in a very hot dish. LAMB-CHOPS.—E. B. 149. —Take a loin of lamb, cut chops from it i an inch thick, retaining the kidney in its place ; dip them into egg and bread-crumbs, fry and serve with fried parsley. When chops are made from a breast of lamb, the red bone at the edge of the breast should be cut off, and the breast par- boiled in water or broth, with a sliced carrot and 2 or 3 onions, before it is divided into cutlets, which is done by cutting be- tween every second or third bone, and preparing them, in every respect, as the last. If house-lamb steaks are to be done white—stew them in milk and water till very tender, with a bit of lemon-peel, a little salt, some pepper and mace. Have ready some veal-gravy, and put the steaks into it; mix some mushroom-powder, a cup of cream, and the least bit of flour; shake the steaks in this liquor, stir it, and let it get quite hot, but not boil. Just before you take it up, put in a few white mushrooms. If brown—season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, and chopped parsley ; but dip them first into eg<>': fry them quickly. Thicken some gravy with a bit of flour and butter, and add to it a spoonful of port wine. BLANQUETTE D’A ONE A U. 150. — White Fricassee of Land).—Cut the best part of the breast of small lamb into square pieces of 2 inches each: wash dry, and flour them. Having boiled 4 oz. of butter, 1 of flit, bacon, and some parsley, 10 minutes, put the meat to it: add the juice of i a lemon, an onion cut small, pepper and salt. M