Chap. XVIII.] VEGETABLES AND SALADS. 321 and pass it through a hair sieve. It is nearly as nutritive, and much lighter, than wheaten flour; it is, therefore, prefer- able for making puddings and pastry for infants and invalids; a portion of it also improves the appearance of household bread, and dealers constantly pass it off as arrowroot. If kept dry, it will remain good for years. POTATO-JELLY 381. —Is made from the flour, only boiling water must be poured upon it, but care must be taken that it be absolutely boiling, or the complete change into jelly will not take place. It does not take many minutes to thus change a raw potato into this substance, which is not only highly nutritive, but extremely agreeable to the palate when flavoured with a little sugar, nutmeg, and white wine. POTATO-WALL, 382. —Or edging, to serve round fricassees, forms also a pretty addition to a corner dish.—Mash in a mortar as many boiled potatoes as you may want, with a good piece of butter; then, with the bowls of two silver spoons, raise a wall of it 23- inches high within the rim of the dish to be used. Let the upper part be a little thinner than the lower; smooth it; and, after brushing it all over with egg, put it into the oven to become hot and a little coloured. Before egging it, the outside may be ornamented with bits of paste cut into shapes. TO MASH P 0 TA TOES. 383. —Let them be thoroughly boiled, peel them, and take out all the specks and little hard lumps which are some- times found. Beat them till quite fine in a wooden bowl or mortar, or break them thoroughly with a 3-pronged fork; sprinkle a little salt, and mix them up smoothly with butter or boiling milk. Take care that the potatoes shall not be too wet, or they will become heavy and watery; great smoothness, lightness, and a rich taste are required in mashed potatoes: if required to be very fine, rub them through a colander or sieve before adding the boiling milk and butter. Or :—As in India: Mash some potatoes, and, having boiled I 1 or 2 onions, chop them small, together with a few capsicums, v Mix the whole well together; put it into a mould, or form it Y