MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIY. 484 CHAMPAGNE CREAM 659. —Is made by beating up the yolks of 6 eggs with as much powdered sugar as will make it quite stiff—so much so as nearly to make the spoon stand in it. Then pour on it very gradually—stirring it all the time—a bottle of sparkling cham- pagne : grate on it a little nutmeg, and serve it to the ladies, who seldom refuse a second glass. A bottle of good cider or perry will be a tolerable substi- tute. Leclie Crema.—Beat up 3 eggs, leaving out 2 of the whites, and add to them gradually 1 4 pint of milk; then mix very carefully 4 tablespoonfuls of fine wheat-flour and 2 oz. of finely powdered loaf-sugar, with grated lemon-peel to give a flavour. Boil these ingredients over a slow fire, stirring constantly to prevent burning, until the flour is quite dissolved. Prepare a shallow dish witli some ratafia cakes at the bottom, and when the “ crema ” is sufficiently boiled, pour it through a sieve upon the cakes.a A VERY FINE ITALIAN CREAM. 660. —Whip together for nearly an hour a quart of very thick scalded cream, a quart of raw cream, the grated rind of 4 lemons and the strained juice, with 10 oz. of white powdered sugar; then add i pint of sweet wine, and continue to whisk it until it becomes quite solid. Lay a piece of muslin in a sieve, and lade the cream upon it with a spoon. In 20 hours turn it carefully out, but mind that it does not break. Garnish it with fruit-jelly or with flowers. Another.-—Whip up 1 pint of very ricli cream to a strong froth, with some finely scraped lemon-peel, a squeeze of the juice, I a glass of sweet wine, and sugar to make it pleasant, but not too sweet; lay it on a sieve or in a form, and next day put it on a dish, and ornament it with very light puff-paste biscuits, made in tin shapes the length of a finger, and about 2 thick, over which sugar may be strewed, or a little glazed with isinglass. Or you may use macaroons to line the edges of the dish. a Some finely powdered cinnamon should be dusted pretty thickly over it. This delicious dish is always served up cold. The receipt was obtained from the nuns of Santa Clara convent at Palmas, in the island of Grand Canary.