318 ' MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XYIII. POTATOES 377.—Require no attention for the preservation of their colour, but their flavour will be spoiled if their dressing be not attended to, winch, although of the most simple nature, is frequently ill performed. The best mode of doing it is to sort the potatoes, and choose them of an equal size; wash them with a scrubbing-brush, and put them into cold water sufficient to cover them, and no more. About 10 minutes after the water has come to a boil, take out the half of it, and replace with cold water, to check it; the reason assigned for which is, “ that the cold water sends the heat from the surface to the heart, and makes the potatoes mealy.” Then throw in a large handful of salt, leave the pot uncovered, and let it remain upon the fire to simmer until the potatoes are done ; this is the moment to be watched, for, if overboiled, they will become waxy. The cook should, therefore, occasionally try them, by piercing them to the heart with a fork, and, when they are tender, the pot should be instantly taken olf the fire, and the potatoes passed through a colander to drain; which being done, and the water thrown out, they should then be replaced upon a folded flannel, in the same pot, which should be left by the side of the fire to keep hot and to cause the evaporation of the steam. When served, they should be wrapped in a warmed cotton napkin. If of moderate size they will take about ^ an hour boiling, to which 15 minutes must be added for evapo- ration ere they can be sent to table. An iron pot is the best vessel for boiling potatoes in, since, after the water has been poured off, it retains sufficient heat to dry them thoroughly. We here present a new invention for boiling potatoes by steam, which appears to possess merit, but we have not tried it. The machine may be found at all tin-shops, and goes under the name of “ Palmer’s a shows the interior, and b the entire machine. The potatoes being placed over the boiler, the steam from the water passes rapidly through the upper ves- sel, and, as it condenses in the cone-shaped cover, passes off through an internal tube. By this ingenious and simple apparatus potatoes are cooked by steam only, thereby extracting and not adding (as is the case with all other steamers) to the main cause of the present