582 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXVIII. however, remain until it has cracked on the top, and then make it into a dough with more milk and water. Knead it well for 10 minutes, cover it, and set it again to rise for 20 minutes longer. Then form the dough into small rolls, bake them, and send them to table hot. Or:—To 2 lbs. of flour well dried, and 1 pint of water milk-warm, put 3 spoonfuls of yeast: then knead in 2 oz. of fresh butter and a little salt, and work all well together. The oven must be very quick, and £ of an hour will bake them; the dough should make 12 rolls. Or :■—H lb. of flour, a pint of milk, 1 egg, and 2 spoonfuls of yeast, well mixed and set before the fire to rise, will make still nicer rolls, and 20 minutes will bake them. They should be served hot, cut in 3, buttered, put together again, and covered when brought to table. HOCKS. 810. —Take a loaf that is half-baked, pull it apart, and with 2 forks tear the crumb into bits about the size of a walnut; lay them on a tin and return them to the oven, and bake of a light brown. A loaf made for the purpose with milk and a little butter makes them nicer. A sweet cake pulled in this way is very good. BREAKFAS T-CAKES. 811. -—Muffins.—Take 2 eggs, 2 spoonfuls of new yeast, and a little salt. Mix a little warm new milk and water into a quart of flour. Beat all well together, and let it stand to rise. Bake them for about 20 minutes, until of a light brown, either on a hot iron, or in shallow tin pans in a Dutch oven. When to be brought to table, toast them slightly on both sides, but not in the middle: then notch them round the centre, and pull them open with your fingers, without using a knife, and butter them. Crumpets.—Beat 2 eggs very well, put to them a quart of warm milk and water, and a large spoonful of yeast; beat in as much fine flour as will make them rather thicker than a common batter pudding ; then make the stove hot, or the iron cover of a bain-marie veiy hot, and rub it with a little butter wrapped in a clean linen cloth ; pour a large spoonful of the