621 Chap. XXXI.] COOKERY FOR THE SICK. washed, peeled, and grated ; throw the pulp, thus procured, into a jug of water, and stir it well. Pass the mixture of pulp and water over a sieve, and collect the water which drains through into a basin. Let this stand for a few minutes, and a sufficient quantity of starch will have fallen for the purpose required. Pour off the water, and then keep stirring up the starch at the bottom of the basin, while boiling water is being poured upon it, and it will soon and suddenly pass to the state of a jelly. The only nicety required is to be careful that the water is absolutely boiling, otherwise the change will not take place. It does not require more than 8 minutes to change a raw potato into a basinful of most excellent jelly, which has only to be seasoned with a little sugar, nutmeg, and white wine, to please the most fastidious taste.” a Tapioca.—Choose the largest sort, pour cold water on to wash it 2 or 3 times; then soak it in fresh water 5 or 6 hours, and simmer it in the same until it becomes quite clear ; then put lemon-juice, wine, and sugar. The peel should have been boiled in it. It thickens very much. Bread.—Take a penny roll, pare off the crust, and cut the crumb into thin slices ; toast them on both sides of a light pale brown. Put them into a quart of spring water, let it simmer gently over the fire until the liquid becomes a jelly, strain it through a thin cloth, and flavour it with a little lemon-juice and sugar, added when hot. If wine be permit- ted, it is an improvement. This jelly is of so strengthening a nature, that 1 teaspoonful affords more nourishment than a teacupful of any other. It may be prepared without the lemon- juice and sugar, and a teaspoonful put into every liquid the patient takes, such as tea, coffee, broth, or beef tea. Gloucester Jelly is made with rice, sago, pearl-barley, harts- horn-shavings, and eringo-root, each 1 oz.; simmer with 3 pints of water to 1, and strain it. When cold it will be a jelly. It may be taken dissolved in wine, milk, or broth, as a variety, with other nourishment. BROTHS. 861.— Of Beef Mutton, and VeaL^-Vut 2 lbs. of lean beef, 1 lb. of scrag of veal, 1 lb. of scrag of mutton, sweet herbs, and 10 peppercorns, into a nice tin saucepan, with 5 8 G. R. 1 Family Herald.’