31 FOOD AND COOKERY. Chap. III.] not placed before guests until practice has rendered it perfect. By this means the chances of failure are in a great measure avoided; and, by not undertaking more than can be accom- plished, success may be contemplated with some degree of confidence. Indeed, if any of the present receipts are put into the hands of an intelligent woman, she will find no difficulty in carrying them completely into effect. The foundation of all good cookery consists in preparing the. meat so as to render it tender in substance, without ex- tracting from it those juices which constitute its true flavour, in doing which, the main point in the art of making those soups, sauces, and made dishes of every sort, which now form so large a portion of every well-ordered dinner, as well, also, as in cooking many of the plain family joints—is boiling, or rather stewing, which ought always to be performed over a slow fire. There is, in fact, no error so common among all English cooks as that of boiling meat over a strong fire, which renders large joints hard and partly tasteless; while, if sim- mered during nearly double the time, with less than half the quantity of fuel and water, and never allowed to “ boil up,” the meat, without being too much done, will be found both pliant to the tooth and savoury to the palate. For instance. The most common and almost universal dish throughout France, is a large piece of plainly-boiled fresh beef, from which the soup—or “potcige,” as it is there called— has been partly made, and which is separately served up as “ bouilli,” accompanied by strong gravy, and minced vege- tables, or stewed cabbage. Now this, as constantly dressed in the French mode, is ever delicate both in fibre and flavour; while, in the English manner of boiling it, it is almost always hard and insipid. The reason of which, as explained by that celebrated cook, Careme, who superintended the kitchen of His Majesty George IV., is this:—“ The meat, instead of being put down to boil, as in our method, is there put in the pot with the usual quantity of cold water, and placed at the corner of the fireplace, where, slowly becoming hot, the heat gradually swells the muscular fibres of the beef, dissolving the gelatinous substances therein contained, and disengaging that portion which chemists term ‘ osmazome,’ and which imparts savour to the flesh—thus botli rendering the meat tender and palatable, and the broth relishing and nutritive; whilst, on the contrary, if the pot be inconsiderately put upon