Chap. XVI.] 269 SHELL-FISH. and the meat may be made into salad, or mixed in such manner as each person pleases, and many persons add a teaspoonful of white powdered sugar, thinking that it gives a mellowness to the whole. It is scarcely necessary to mention that the head of a lobster, and what are called the “lady-fingers,” are not to be eaten. To stew Lobsters.—Take the meat out of the shells of 1 or 2 boiled lobsters. Put the shells into a pint of water with some whole pepper, salt, and a little mace. Let it boil till all the goodness is extracted from the shells ; then strain it. Mix with a little cream, or thin melted butter, the rich portion of the lobster, and the coral: add a small quantity of lemon-juice and 2 tablespoonfuls of wine, mix it with the gravy, and warm the lobster in it; a few minutes will suffice. Or:—Cut the meat of a boiled lobster into pieces, and put them into a covered metal dish with a bit of butter, 2 large spoonfuls of any sort of gravy, 1 of soy or walnut-ketchup, a little salt and cayenne, with a glass of port wine, and warm it. If there be a lamp under the dish, you may do it at your own table within a few minutes. Another mode of stewing lobsters is :—Take the meat of 2 lobsters, mince it small, and put it into a pint of beef-soup. Let it stew a little; thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour ; add a glass of white nine, with a little pepper ; add salt and nutmeg, a spoonful of ketchup, 1 of anchovy, and 1 of lemon-juice. Let the whole stew together, and serve up, gar- nishing the dish with the small claws. To fricassee Lobster.—Parboil it, extract the meat from the •shell, and cut it into small pieces ; season it with white pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and put it into the stewpan, with as much cream or richly-made white sauce as will cover it. Keep the lid close, set the pan on hot coals, and stew it slowly for about as long a time as it was previously boiled. Croquettes of Lobster.—Take the meat from the shell, chop it finely, mix it with a little salt, pepper, and pounded mace; take i part of fine bread-crumbs, make it up into balls with melted butter, brush the balls with yolk of e^-g and dredge them with bread-crumbs, and fry them, serving with or without gravy: if dry, they must be sent up with crisped parsley. Lobster Fritters.—Pick out the meat, chop it, and warm