MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XX. 364 it with i lb. of bay-salt, 1 oz. of black pepper, the same of all- spice, both pounded. Let it lie in the pickle a month, turning it every day, and adding about three times a-week a small quantity of common salt. Then wash off the salt and spice; cut some fat bacon into pieces about i inch square, and long enough to penetrate the beef; roll them in spices, $ oz. of mace, 3 large nutmegs, a teaspoonful of cayenne, and the same of black pep- per, pounded; lard the beef with the bacon, and a green stuff- ing made of chopped herbs. Put the beef into a pan deep enough to hold it; lay a great quantity of beef-suet at the bottom of the pan, and also on the top of the beef. Tie the beef round with tape, to preserve its shape, before it is put into the pan ; cover the pan first with brown paper, then with paste made of barley-flour, and another paper on the top. Put it into a quick oven, and bake it 7 or 8 hours. Pour off the fat and gravy, and let it be cold before it is cut. WELSH BEEF.—E. R. 463. —Rub 2 oz. of saltpetre into a round of beef, let it re- main an hour, then season it with pepper, salt, and a fourth portion of allspice ; allow the beef to stand in the brine for 15 days, turning it frequently. Work it well with pickle ; put it into an earthen vessel, with a quantity of beef-suet over and under it, cover it with a coarse paste and bake it, allowing it to remain in the oven for 6 or 8 hours. Pour off the gravy, and let the beef stand till cold. It will keep for 2 months in winter, and will be found useful amid the Christmas fare in "the country. HUNTERS’ BEEF.—E. R. 464. —To a round of beef weighing 24 lbs. take 3 oz. of saltpetre, 3 oz. of the coarsest sugar, 1 oz. of cloves and nut- meg, t oz. of allspice, and 3 handfuls of common salt, all in the finest powder. Allow the beef to hang 2 or 3 days, remove the bones, then rub the spices well into it, continuing to do so every day for 2 or 3 weeks. When to be dressed, dip it in cold water to take off the loose spice. Bind it up tightly with tape, and put it into a pan with a teacupful of water at the bottom; cover the top of the meat with shred suet; cover the pan with a coarse crust, and brown paper over it. Let it bake 5 hours, and when cold take off the paste and the tape.