98 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. VII. CARROT SOUP. 47 —Take 6 or 8 full-grown carrots, of the red sort, scrape them clean, and rasp only the outer rind, or soft red part, and if you have a single ripe tomata, add it, sliced, to the raspings, but use no other vegetable except onions. AVhile this is doing, the broth of any kind of fresh meat which has been got ready should be heated and seasoned with a couple of onions fried in butter, but without pepper, or any other kind of seasoning, ex- cept a small quantity of mace and a little salt. When all is ready, put the raspings into 2 quarts of the skimmed broth, cover the stewpan close, and let it simmer by the side of the fire for 2 or 3 hours, by which time the raspings will have become soft enough to be pulped through a fine sieve: after which the soup should be boiled until it is as smooth as jelly, for any curdly appearance will spoil it. Thus all the roots and most of such vegetables as can be easily made into purees, and combined with any sort of broth, will, in this manner, make excellent soup of different denomi- nations, though all founded upon the same meat-stock. The gravy of beef is always preferred for savoury soups, and that of veal or fowls for the more delicate white soups: to which from -L a pint to a pint of cream, or, if that cannot be had, the same quantity of milk and the yolks of a couple of raw eggs, should be added for every 2 quarts of soup; remembering, however, that the latter will not impart the richness of cream. Parsnip Soup is made in the same way as that of car- rots ; only that the whole of the root is used, and it requires either another tomato or a spoonful of chili vinegar to check its rather mawkish sweetness. Vegetable Marroiv.—Sometimes thickened with arrowroot and cream, flavoured with almond-powder; and occasionally coloured with a small quantity of saffron, which, to some palates, adds an agreeable flavour. The soup must not be allowed to boil after the cream is put into it, or it would be likely to make it curdle. PALES TINE S O UP. 48.—Take 2 or 3 dozen of Jerusalem artichokes according to their size, pare and slice them into a pan of water ; then drain, and put them into a 3-quart stewpan with a little butter, a good piece of ham, a blade of mace, 3 onions sliced thin, and