VEAL. 183 Chap. XI.] shaking it well; pour in by degrees some broth made of white meat, add a bunch of parsley, an onion, salt, mace, and white pepper. Stew it well i of an hour before it is dished; take out the parsley and onion, and add some raw parsley chop- ped, and the yolk of an egg and cream beaten together. You must never cease shaking the pan until the blanquette is put over the dish. Veal a la Chartreuse.-—Line a copper mould with fat bacon, lay sliced carrots and turnips round the edges, then cover with a forcemeat, and put in a fricassee of veal or fowl. Cover the top of the mould with a paste, steam it an hour, and serve it turned out upon a dish. To marble Veal.—Boil tender, skin, and cut a dried neat’s tongue in thin slices, and beat it as fine as possible, with 4 lb. of butter and some mace pounded. Have ready some roasted fillet of veal, beaten with butter, and seasoned with white pepper and salt; of this put a thick layer in a large potting-pot, then put in the tongue, in rough irregular lumps, not to touch each other; fill up the pot with veal, and press it down quite close. Pour clarified butter thick over; keep in a dry cool place, and serve in thin slices, taking off the butter. Garnish with parsley. SCALLOPS OF COLD VEAL. 184. -—Mince the meat extremely small, and set it over the fire, with a scrape of nutmeg, a little pepper and salt, and a little cream, for a few minutes ; then put it into the scallop- shells, and fill them with crumbs of bread, over which put some bits of butter, and brown them before the fire. Either veal or chicken looks and eats well prepared in this way, and lightly covered with crumbs of bread fried ; or these may be put on in little heaps. TO MINCE VEAL. 185. —Cut cold veal as^ne as possible, but do not chop it; put to it a very little lenfon-peel shred, 2 grates of nutmeg, some salt, and 4 or 5 spoonfuls of either broth, milk, or water ; simmer these gently with the meat, but take care not to let it boil, and add a bit of butter rubbed in flour. Put sippets of thin toasted bread, cut into a three-cornered shape, round the dish. Fried crumbs of bread lightly strewed over, or served