620 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXXI. Ivory Jelly.—Put i lb. of ivory powder into 3 pints of cold water, let it simmer until reduced to H pint; when cold take the jelly carefully from the sediment; add to it the juice of a lemon, i the peel, 2 or 3 cloves, and sugar to taste; warm it till quite dissolved, then strain it. Calf s Feet.—Bake 2 calf’s feet in 2 pints of water and the same quantity of new milk, in a jar, close covered, 3? hours. When cold, remove the fat. Give a large teacupful the first and last thing. Whichever flavour is approved, give it by baking in it lemon-peel, cinna- mon, or mace. Add sugar afterwards. Sheep's Trotters.—Simmer 6 sheep’s trotters, 2 blades of mace, a little cinnamon, lemon-peel, a few hartshorn shavings, and a little isinglass, in 2 quarts of water, to 1 ; when cold, take off the fat, and give nearly 4 a pint twice a-day, warming with it a little new milk. Isinglass.—Boil l oz. of isinglass shavings, 40 Jamaica peppers, and a bit of brown crust of bread, in a quart of water, to a pint, and strain it. This makes a pleasant jelly to keep in the house; of which a large spoonful may be taken in wine and water, milk, tea, soup, or any way most agreeable. Arrowroot.-—It is very necessary to be careful not to get the counterfeit sort; if genuine, it is very nourishing, espe- cially for persons with weak bowels. Put into a saucepan 4 a pint of water, a glass of sherry or a spoonful of brandy, grated nutmeg, and fine sugar; boil up once, then mix it by degrees into a dessertspoonful of arrowroot, previously rubbed smooth with 2 spoonfuls of cold water. Or:—Mix a dessertspoonful of arrowroot with a little cold water, have ready boiling water in a kettle, pour it upon the arrowroot until it becomes quite clear, keeping it stirred all the time ; add a little sugar. Where milk may be taken, it is very delicious made in the same way with milk instead of water, a dessertspoonful of arrowroot, and i a pint of milk; add a small bit of lemon-peel. Potato.—We learn Irom the £ Gardener’s Chronicle’ that potato-starch is sold at from 1a. to 3a. the lb., though it might be prepared at home witli no other means than a little trouble, with a grater and a sieve. “ To obtain Potato Jelly in perfection, let a potato be