Chap. XXXI.] COOKERY FOR THE SICK. 629 better, in a medical point of view, yet they do not afford the nutriment obtained from the original milk, especially in con- sumptive complaints. DR. BOERHAAVE'S SWEET BUTTERMILK. 870. —Take the milk from the cow into a small chnrn ; in about 10 minutes begin churning, and continue till the flakes of butter swim about pretty thick, and the milk is discharged of all the greasy particles, and appears thin and blue. Strain it through a sieve, and drink it frequently. It should form the whole of the patient’s drink, and the food should be biscuits and rusks in every way and sort, ripe and dried fruits of various kinds, when a decline is appre- hended. Baked and dried fruits—raisins in particular-—make excel- lent suppers for invalids, with biscuits or common cake. Buttermilk, although thus recommended and generally thought most agreeable when made from sweet cream, is, however, by some preferred when sour, and is considered as more wholesome when in that state, as being lighter on the stomach. WHEY.—E. R. 871. —Put 1 pint of warm milk into a vessel before the fire, and add to it i a tablespoonful of rennet. When the curd forms, cut it into squares to allow the whey to escape. Then put it on a sieve, and drain it carefrdly. The milk may also be turned with lemon-juice; and the curds may be eaten with sugar and nutmeg, but not by a sick person. In Ireland rennet is never used for this purpose ; the mode there being to turn the sweet milk with a mixture of sour but- termilk. It is then called “ two-milk whey,” and is far pre- ferable to the English plan, having a slight but most pleasant acidity, and a greenish hue of perfect transparency. White Wine Whey.—Put I pint of new milk on the fire ; the moment it boils up pour in as much sound raisin wine as will completely turn it, and make it look clear ; let it boil up, then set the saucepan aside till the curd subsides, and do not stir it. Pour the whey off, and add to it £ pint of boiling water and a bit of white sugar. Thus you will have a whey perfectly cleared of milky particles, and as weak as you choose to make it.