MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXYITI. 584 over the fire and let it get quite hot before you begin. Grease it well with a piece of butter tied in a rag. Then dip out a large ladleful of the batter and bake it on the griddle, turning it with a broad wooden paddle. Let the cakes be of large size, and even at the edges. Butter them as you take them off the griddle; put several on a plate, and cut them across in 6 pieces. Grease the griddle anew between baking each cake. “ If your batter has been mixed over night, and is found to be sour in the morning, melt in warm water a piece of pearl- ash the size of a grain of corn, or a little larger; stir it into the batter, let it set for i an hour, and then bake it. The pearlash will remove the sour taste, and increase the lightness of the cakes.” In Shreivsbury they are made thus:—Take a quart or 3 pints of lukewarm water; put it into an earthen jar; add a small portion of salt and a common teacupful of yeast. Then stir in the buckwheat flour until it becomes a thick batter, cover it, and set it to rise. When light, and in a state of fermentation, take a frying-pan, the inside rubbed with butter or good lard; then place in the frying-pan 3 or 4 table- spoonfuls of the batter in each cake, until there are as many as the pan will contain. A few minutes over a quick fire will suffice to cook them in the same manner as the common pan- cake ; and when sufficiently cooked, butter them while quite hot, and serve them for breakfast. Buckwheat dressed in this manner will be found excellent and very wholesome, but it does not answer in any other way. The batter takes 3 or 4 hours to rise. Johnny Cakes.—Sift a quart of wheaten flour, or corn meal, into a pan ; make a hole in the middle, and pour in a pint of warm water. Mix the meal and water gradually into a batter, adding a teaspoonful of salt; beat it very quickly, and for a long time, till it becomes quite light; then spread it thick and even on a stout piece of smooth board ; place it upright on the hearth before a clear fire, with something to support the board behind, and bake it well; cut it into squares, and split and butter them hot. They may also be made with a quart of milk, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, and 1 teacupful of wheaten flour; add Indian corn meal sufficient to make a batter like