612 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXX. much more as the juice of the lemons may be supposed to require ; for no certain weight can be mentioned, as the acidity of a lemon cannot be known till tried, and therefore this must be determined by the taste. Then squeeze the lemon-juice upon the sugar, and with a bruiser press the sugar and the juice particularly well together, for a great deal of the rich- ness and fine flavour of the punch depends on this rubbing and mixing process being thoroughly performed. Then mix this up very well with boiling water (soft water is best), till the whole is rather cool. When this mixture (which is called the sherbet) is to your taste, take brandy and rum in equal quantities, and put them to it, mixing the whole well together again. The quantity of liquor must be according to your taste : 2 good lemons are generally enough to make 4 quarts of punch, including a quart of liquor, with 4 lb. of sugar : but this depends much on taste and on the strength of the spirit. As the pulp is disagreeable to some persons, the sherbet may be strained before the spirit is put in. Some strain the lemon before they put it to the sugar, which is improper; as when the pulp and sugar are well mixed together it adds much to the richness of the punch. When only rum is used, about 4 a pint of porter will soften the punch : and even when both rum and brandy are used, the porter gives a richness, and to some a very pleasant flavour. This receipt has never been in print before, but is greatly admired. It is impossible to take too much pains in all the processes of mixing, and in minding to do them extremely well, that all the different articles may be most thoroughly in- corporated together. Another:—Divide the intended quantity of liquid into 4 portions ; 3 of water, and 1 of spirits. Take enough of syrup or pounded white sugar and lemon-juice, according to taste, and add as much thinly-pared Seville orange-peel as will give it flavour. Mix them up with three parts of old Jamaica rum, and one of real French brandy : then boil the water with a small quantity of green tea, so as to make a weak infusion, and pour it boiling hot, through a muslin strainer, upon the mixture. Let it be made in a deep jug, with a cover to keep it hot, and if you have a little arrack it will make the punch better in flavour; while a small quantity of confectioners calfs-foot jelly will improve its richness.