30 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. III. from its effects. When people sit down to table with a good appetite, it is difficult to persuade them to eat only half the quantity for which they feel disposed; but it is very certain that, in order to escape the horrors of indigestion, plain roast or boiled meat should be very sparingly consumed. Partly upon the erroneous supposition that it is the most wholesome species of food, and partly to avoid the trouble of providing anything else, a whole family, however various their consti- tutions may be, are seated at table before a single joint, to take their chance of suffering from the repletion which even a small portion may occasion to a delicate person, who could have partaken of three or four judiciously-dressed dishes with- out sustaining the slightest inconvenience. The stomach, in fact, never performs its duties so effectually as when it acts upon food composed of much variety. Indeed the united testimony of high medical authority proves that a variety of well-dressed food is more easy of digestion, and conse- quently more salutary, than when the meal is confined to one sort of solid meat. Foreigners are so well aware of this, that thev never dine on a single dish. They always commence the meal with soup, or rather weak potage, followed by some small dishes of meat and vegetables, thoroughly done and eaten separately; and although they usually eat full as much as the English, yet their dinner sits light upon the stomach, without any com- plaint of that drowsy sense of indigestion of which we hear so much in England, that our newspapers are filled with adver- tisements for its cure. In England, cookery in small respectable families, where it is necessary to study economy, has also to contend with a prejudice concerning the vulgarity of certain viands ; many portions of an animal, which in France are in great esteem, being rejected in this country upon very insufficient grounds. The very coarsest joints may be so refined in the culinary process as to retain nothing offensive either to the eye or the palate, while the vulgarity must consist in the manner in which the viands are served, and not in the viands themselves. It is the- province of the cook to render unsightly objects pleasing; and thus many things maybe brought to table in disguise, which would not be admissible in their original forms. A good housekeeper will never offer the first essay of her cook to her company : the dish should be tried by the family party, and