257 FRESH-WATER FISH. Chap. XV.] minutes before dinner-time upon the gridiron to broil, serving them without any other sauce than a squeeze of lemon, and placing them head and tail together. STURGEON 266.—Is, in the north of Europe, and in some of the States of North America, almost as common as salmon is in many of our English rivers, and grows to a much larger size. Here it is only so occasionally found as to be held a royal fish, and when taken in the Thames is always presented by the Lord Mayor to her Majesty. We should not therefore have thought it necessary to mention the modes of dressing, were it not that we shall probably soon have it in a fresh state through the I intervention of our steamboats. In Russia, and some parts of Germany, where sturgeon is common, the usual mode of dressing is to stew it in wine ; for it is a coarse sort of fish, somewhat resembling dark-coloured veal, and requiring strong high-flavoured sauce. Sturgeon a la Husse.—When the sturgeon is cleaned, lay it for several hours in salt and water; take it out an hour before it is wanted, rub "it well with vinegar, and pour a little ) over it; then put it into a fish-kettle, cover it with boiling- water, 1 oz. of bay-salt, 2 large onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Stew it in common wine, or strong ale, until the bones will separate easily; then take it up, remove the skin, flour it, and place it to brown before the fire, basting the fish well with butter. Serve up with a rich sauce made of beef-jffavy and red wine, highly seasoned with spice, and a garnish of pickles. In England they are usually cut into slices an inch thick, and fried ; then pour otf the fat, flour the pan, and pour boil- ing water into it ; put the fish into a stewpan with this gravy, an onion and sweet herbs, pepper and salt; let it stew until quite tender; strain the sauce, squeeze the juice of a lemon into it, and serve it up. Sturgeon may be baked or boiled, but the above way of dressing is one of the best; and the collops are better than those of either ling or halibut. Caviar is the roe of the sturgeon. When eaten fresh it much resembles the flavour of oysters ; and when accompanied with lemon-juice and pepper, without any kind of dressing, is usually served as a whet to the appetite previous to the soup. What s