496 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIV. well beaten, a pint of cream, a little nutmeg' and cinna- mon, and sweeten to your taste. Set the whole over a slow tire, and stir it till it becomes as thick as good melted butter, but it must not be boiled ; then pour it into a dish for eatin°" cold. ° For Applefiool.—Stew apples as directed for gooseberries, and then peel and pulp them. Prepare the milk, &c., and mix as before. NORMANDY PIPPINS. 666.—These form a very convenient second-course dish when there is custard at table, it being particularly suited to the flavour. They are to be obtained at all the grocers’, and should be soaked in cold water for about 12 hours. To every lb. of apples put a quart of water and i lb. of moist sugar, with about a dozen cloves; let them simmer till quite tender; when cold lay them in a dish, and lay thin strips of lemon-peel over the tops, and pour over them as much of the syrup as the dish will hold. SYLLABUBS.—E. R. 687.—Solid Syllabub.— Grate off the peel of a lemon with lump-sugar, and dissolve the sugar in f pint of wine: add the juice of ■§• a lemon and i pint of cream ; whisk the whole together until of a proper thickness, and then put it into glasses. London Syllabub.—Put 1^ pint of port or white wine into a bowl, nutmeg grated, and a good deal of sugar, then pour into it near 2 quarts of hot milk, frothed up. If the wine be not rather sharp, it will require more for this quantity of milk. Staffordshire Syllabub.—Put a pint of cider, and a glass of brandy, sugar, and nutmeg, into a bowl, and milk into it; or pour warm milk from a large teapot some height into it. A very fine Somersetshire and Devonshire Syllabub.—In a large china bowl put a pint of port, and a pint of sherry or other white wine; sugar to taste. Milk the bowl full. In 20 minutes’ time cover it pretty high with clouted cream; grate over it nutmeg, put pounded cinnamon and nonpareil comfits. Everlasting Syllabubs.—Mix a quart of thick raw cream, 1 lb. of refined sugar, 1£ pint of fine raisin wine, in a deep