BEEF. Chap. VIII.] 129 claws, heads, or trimmings of fowl, an onion stuck with cloves, a bundle of sweet-herbs, some pepper and salt, at first a small quantity of water, and then as much as will be required to form stock for a whole dinner. It must be cooked the day before it is wanted, and will be found an elegant and economical dish, as it will furnish the basis necessary for all the sauces at a dinner-party. Any parings of meat or poultry, ham or bacon bones, may be put with it. Reduce some of the sauce to a glaze; put the tongue into the oven to make it hot, glaze it, put it on a dish, and place a wreath of flowers cut in turnips and carrots at each end. Langue de Bcevf pique.—Having removed the root and gullet of a small neat’s tongue, rub it well with salt; next day hang it to drain, and wipe it. Let it lie in salt 1 day, boil it an hour, blanch and remove the skin; then, having rolled some fresh-cured fat bacon in a seasoning of pepper, salt, cloves, mace, cinnamon, and nutmeg, with parsley, knotted marjoram, chives or chibols, and a little morsel of garlic minced small, lard the tongue all over, except a little space up the middle, where it is to be divided from the root to the tip ; braize and glaze as usual, having, after it is dressed, cut it in two, except at the two extremities, and thus lay it on the dish in the form of a heart. Larded a la Prusse.—Boil the tongue gently for 3 hours, then peel and lard it with bacon; take some of the liquor it was boiled in ; fry a dozen or two of silver onions ; add a glass of wine, a little flour, a lump of sugar, and the juice of half a lemon ; stew the whole together for another hour. OX-TAILS. 96.—Cut the tails in pieces; lay them in a stewpan, with butter and a large onion ; set them over a smart fire to make them brown ; peel and boil a couple of dozen of button onions in about 3 pints of water, for 15 or 20 minutes ; set them by, and pour the liquor, they were boiled in upon the tails, adding sufficient boiling water to cover them; put in 6 ounces of caiTots, and 8 of turnips, cut into slices, or balls the size of nutmegs; put in the carrots 20 minutes before the turnips. Be careful that they are not stewed too fast or too much. When they are tender, pass the gravy through a sieve; skim off the fat, and pay great attention in doing so, as the fat rises K