50 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chai>. Y. and then formed in ornamental devices for decorating gateaux- baskets, &c. It is also used for colouring gravies when re- duced almost to the burning-point, and then dissolved in water. Its use is not much to the credit of the cook. Casserole.—A rice-crust moulded in the form of a pie ; when baked, filled with a mince or puree of game, or with a blan- quette of white meat. Also a stewpan. Compote.—Stewed fruits served with syrup. There are also compotes of pigeons and other small birds. Consomme is a strong clear gravy, drawn from the long stewing of any kind of meat, to be either used as broth, or made into soups and sauces. Coulis, or cullis, is a rich brown gravy commonly used for the purpose of colouring as well as thickening and flavouring many sorts of soups and sauces. It is made in various ways, chiefly upon a foundation of ham and veal, slices of which are put into a closely covered stewpan, with only a small quantity of water, and boiled over a brisk fire until the whole becomes brown and thick. See Sauces. Croquettes.—A mince of either fish, meat, or poultry, made very savoury, with a small quantity of sauce, formed into shapes of any kind, rolled in egg and bread-crumbs, and fried crisp. Croustades, or Dresden patties, made of paste in small moulds, and filled with mince of any kind. Crouton.—A sippet of bread fried and used for garnish. u E%papillate.”—To oil or butter a piece of paper, which is fastened round the cutlet, &c., by twisting it along the edge. Entree.—A corner dish for the first course. In large din- ners the side dishes are called jlancs. Entremet.—A side or corner dish for the second course. Farce.—Forcemeat. Faggot.—A small bunch of parsley and thyme and a bay- leaf tied up. Erica,ndeaux may be made of any boned piece of veal, in pieces of not more than 2 or 3 lbs. weight, chiefly cut from that portion of the fillet which we have described as the thick part. It is a frequent dish as an entree at good tables, and requires great care to serve in perfection.