Chap. VII.] SOUPS OF YEAL, POULTRY, AND GAME. 85 into pieces, and put it into the broth, which should be made hot, and seasoned only with salt and parsley. Let it simmer for nearly another hour; beat the whites and yolks of 3 or 4 eggs thoroughly, and mix them effectually with the soup, just before serving; taking care to stir them all one way. Rab- bits may be substituted for fowls. POT AGE A LA REINE 25.—Is so called from its having been said to be a favourite soup at the table of her Majesty. Stew 2 or 3 young fowls for about an hour in good fresh- made veal broth : then take them out, skin them, and pound the breast, or only the white meat, in a mortar until it becomes quite smooth. That done, mash the yolks of 3 or 4 hard- boiled eggs with the crumb of a French-roll soaked either in the broth or in milk, and mix this with the pounded meat to form a paste, which must be afterwards passed through a sieve. During this operation the bones and skin have been left stew- ing in the broth, which must then be strained, and the paste put gradually into it: then, let it boil briskly for a short time, stirring it all the while to ensure its thorough mixture. When that is done take it from the fire ; warm a pint or more of cream, and pour it gently into the soup. . This being a delicate white soup, the broth should only be seasoned with salt and mace, nor should there be any other vegetable used than celery ; but the cream may be flavoured with almonds. GIBLET SOUP.—E. R. 2G.—-Scald and clean a set, or more, of giblets; stew them by themselves in a little gravy, with 2 onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, 2 glasses of white wine, pepper, and salt. Stew until the gizzards are quite tender; then take out the giblets and strain the broth. Make a stock with 2 lbs. of gravy-beef, 3 onions, and 5 pints of water. Skin some onions, slice them thin, and fry them in butter, with a small quantity of basil, marjoram, and parsley; add flour sufficient to thicken the soup, and let it be slightly browned. Then stir in the boiling stock ; let it boil an hour, pass it through a tammy, put it again on the fire, and skim it carefully ; add the giblets, 2 glasses of sherry or Madeira wine, and a little lemon-juice.