EGGS. Chap. XXI.] 397 them stand; place them in a dish, and pour white sauce over them. Or:—Boil the eggs hard, taking off the shells carefully; then cut them in halves lengthwise; take out the yolks; soak some bread-crumbs in milk, press it rather dry, add salt, pepper, and nutmeg, a little chopped parsley, and the yolks of the eggs rubbed into a lump of butter; mix these well together, and moisten with cream; fill the whites to make up the shape of an egg, strew them with bread-crumbs, and fry in butter to a light brown. Serve up quite hot. Or :—Boil eggs hard ; when cold cut the whites in halves, put the yolk entire into one half, cover it with forcemeat, lay the white upon its back and fry it; or pound the yolk and fotcemeat together until they form a paste, and fill up the cavity of the white; serve with either brown or white sauce. A la Carmelite.—Boil 6 eggs hard, cut them in halves the long way, take out the yolks and chop them very fine with parsley, sorrel, and boiled onions; season with pepper and salt; mix them up with a little melted butter, and fill the whites; heat them until thoroughly hot in white sauce made thus:—Take t pint of cream, seasoned with a blade of mace ; melt in it 2 oz. of butter; stir it very well, adding sufficient flour to keep the butter from oiling, and just before dishing squeeze in a little lemon-juice. A la Gruy'ere.—Put { lb. of Gruyere cheese into a stew- pan with a small piece of butter, some chives and parsley chopped fine, a very little grated nutmeg, some salt, and I- a teacupful of veal-stock; set it over a gentle fire, and stir it till the cheese is melted. Beat up 4 eggs, and set it over the fire again ; stir it till sufficiently done, then take it off, and garnish with sippets of toasted bread. CEUFS FAUCIS. 521.—Boil 6 eggs hard, remove the shells, but leave the eggs whole; cover them with a rich forcemeat made with scraped ham, pounded anchovy, pounded veal, and bacon fat, well pounded together and highly seasoned; brush them with the yolk of egg, and dredge them with bread-crumbs or vermicelli; fry them a pale gold colour, or put them for i of an hour in an oven, and serve them up with gravy in the dish.