MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXYI. 536 half that quantity of cloves and allspice, a few chilis, and a very little turmeric; boil in vinegar, and pour it upon the lemons when cold. It was originally prepared by the cook of the first Earl of Orford. Some people, however, add to it either shalot or garlic. It can hardly be ready in less than 6 months, but will keep for many years. For limes, or very small lemons, the same method must be pursued, only they will not require above half the time. LEMON PICKLE. 754. —Peel 6 large lemons; cut them in quarters, lay them on a dish, and strew over them 7 lb. of salt, turning them every day for a week. Then put them into a stone jar; add 6 large cloves of garlic, 2 oz. of horseradish shred very thin ; of cloves, mace, nutmeg, and cayenne each x oz.; 2 oz. of mustard-seeds, bruised and tied up in a bit of thin muslin, and 2 quarts of the best vinegar. Cover the jar and set it in a pan of boiling water; let it boil 10 minutes, then set it in the oven, or anywhere that it may simmer gently, for 2 hours. Keep the jar closely covered, stirring it every day for 6 weeks, and when settled strain it and bottle for use. Another quart of vinegar may be added to the ingredients, and boiled up, which will make a very good pickle for common purposes, or the lemons may be added to any mixed pickles. MANGOES, 755. —Although any melon may be used before it is quite ripe, yet there is a particular sort for this purpose, which the gardeners know, and should be mangoed soon after they are gathered. Cut a small piece out of one end, through that take out the seeds, and mix with them mustard-seed and shred garlic ; stuff the melon as full as the space will allow, and replace the cut piece. Bind it up with packthread. I o allow for wasting, boil a good quantity of vinegar, with pepper, salt, ginger, and any of the sweet spices ; then pour it boiling-hot over the mangoes during 4 successive days ; and on the last, put flour of mustard and scraped horseradish into the vinegar, just as it boils up. Stop close. Observe that there be plenty of vinegar, as pickles are spoiled it not well covered. Large cucumbers, called “ green turley,” prepared in the same way, are excellent, and are sooner fit to be eaten.