Chap. III.] FOOD AND COOKERY. 37 or the other ; and perhaps the only dishes that should be highly seasoned are meat-pies and curries. As a general rule, it may be said that no mixture should be made without a small por- tion of salt ; thus, in the flour for pastry, a certain quantity, not exceeding a saltspoonful, will be necessary, and all sweet things require a little ; but the cook must be careful not to exceed the just limit. If sprinkled upon meat which is to be fried or broiled, it renders it hard. Cayenne is in general so unsparingly thrown into soups of almost every description, that persons of a delicate appetite can seldom eat them. Chili vinegar imparts both the heat of cayenne and the flavour of acid, and, if used with moderation, forms a good condiment; but no species of sauce, or artificial zest, should supersede that of the meat. Nor should they, if liquid, be used until after the meat has been stewed: even wine, if put into soup, should not be added until nearly the last thing, when a wineglassful will go as far in flavouring as a pint if put in at the commencement: if the cook has not a nice palate, a cupful of the soup should be presented to her mistress to decide upon the necessary additional ingredients. But all condiments of a solid nature—such as whole peppers, ginger, mace, and cinnamon, or savoury herbs, truffles, and mushrooms—require the action of fh’e to draw out their flavour: the cook, therefore, should know from experience the ‘ quantity of each which may be necessary. She should never forget that the zest imparted to both soups and sauces mainly arises from a judicious mixture of the articles with which they are seasoned : a well-regulated palate in their choice, and a delicate hand in their distribution, are therefore essential in a good cook. The following maxims for cooks may be found useful:— 1. Look clean; be careful and nice in work, so that those who have to eat might look on. 2. Never forget, while preparing a dish, that what you pro- duce has presently to be eaten, relished, or condemned, to your honour or to your discredit. 3. Whatever can be tasted during the process of preparation must be flavoured by the judgment of the palate. Whatever may not be tasted before serving must be done strictly and invariably by rule. 4. Though a rule has been long established, there is no