MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. TChap. XXX. 604 will work itself pure ; lay the bung on it until it has done hissing. RAISIN WINE.—E. R. 832.—To every 6 gallons of water put 2 oz. of hops and the largest stalks of the Malaga raisins, and boil it for j of an hour; strain it, and when nearly cold pour it on the fruit, allowing 64 lbs., of which one-fifth should be Smyrna raisins, to every gallon of water; let it stand for 6 weeks, stirring it every day ; press the fruit, and then put the liquor into the cask; rack it in 6 weeks, or as soon as it is fine, and to every 6 gallons add a bottle of the best French brandy. Excellent Raisin Wine.—To every gallon of spring water put 8 lbs. of fresh Smyrnas in a large tub ; stir it thoroughly every day for a month; then press the raisins in a horse-hair bag as dry as possible ; put the liquor into a cask, and, when it has done hissing, pour in a bottle of the best brandy; stop it close for 12 months; then rack it off, but without the dregs; filter them through a bag of flannel of 3 or 4 folds; add the clear to the quantity, and pour 1 or 2 quarts of brandy, according to the size of the vessel. Stop it up, and at the end of 3 years you may either bottle it or drink it from the cask. Raisin wine would be extremely good if made rich of the fruit, and kept long, which improves the flavour greatly. Raisin Wine with Cider.—Put 2 cwt. of Malaga raisins into a cask, and pour upon them a hogshead of good sound cider that is not rough ; stir it well 2 or 3 days; stop it, and let it stand 6 months ; then rack into a cask that it will fill, and put in a gallon of the best brandy. If raisin wine be much used, it would answer well to keep a cask always for it, and bottle off 1 year’s wine just in time to make the rest, which, allowing the 6 months of infusion, would make the wine to be 18 months old. In cider counties this way is very economical; and, even if not thought strong enough, the addition of another i cwt. of raisins would be suf- ficient, and the wine would still be very cheap. When the raisins are pressed through a horsehair bag, they will either produce a good spirit by distillation (for which purpose they must be very little pressed) ; or they will make excellent vinegar. The stalks, being very acid, should be picked out, and may be thrown into any cask of vinegar that is being made.