345 Chap. XVIII.] VEGETABLES AND SALADS. SALADS. 433.—In this country salads are almost always eaten as an accompaniment to meat, and, being composed of green vege- tables, are seldom brought to table in winter; but on the Continent other preparations are introduced under that deno- mination. Coss-lettuce and blanched endive make the best salad, the green leaves being stripped oft, and leaving nothing but the close, white hearts, which, after being washed and placed for an hour or two in cold water, should be wiped quite dry. To this should be added a head or two of celery, a couple of an- chovies (which are far preferable to the essence), and several chives, or young onions, all cut small, while the lettuces should be divided lengthwise into quarters, and cut into rather large pieces. The mixture or dressing.—For 4 persons bruise only the yolk of 1 hard-boiled egg (leaving out altogether the white), with some salt, and make it into a paste with 2 large tea- spoonfuls of moutarde de muille; or, if obliged to use common mustard, add to it a drop or two of asafoetida, which will im- part to it a slight flavour of garlic. Then add oil and vinegar in the following proportions, without using so much as to make the sauce thin, and taking care to have the finest Provence or Lucca oil, and the very strongest species of real French vine- gar : namely, to every one spoonful of vinegar add two of oil; 1 spoonful of the vinegar being impregnated with chilis, which will add warmth to the salad, much more agreeably than cayenne. A little of tarragon may be an improvement, and a spoonful of Quihi or walnut ketchup is not objectionable ; but .mushroom ketchup will destroy the pungency of flavour, and both may be left out without inconvenience. When this is done, mix the sauce well, but lightly, with the salad, to which a few slices of boiled beet-root, and the white of the egg sliced, will be a pretty addition. Kitchener's Salad Mixture, which is sold in the oil-shops in bottles ready prepared for use, is also very good, though not equal to that freshly made as above. Some people, particularly the French, eat lettuces without any other sauce than oil and vinegar, and, when eaten in that simple way, a little sugar is certainly an improvement. But