Chap. XXIII.] TARTLETS. 435 size of a walnut of fresh butter, and beat all together. Choose a very shallow dish or small pattypans, line it with a light puff crust, and lay the paste of orange in it. You may ice it. Lemon Tartlets.-—Pare, rather thick, the rinds of 4 lemons, which boil tender in 2 waters, and beat fine ; add to it 4 oz. of blanched almonds cut thin, 4 oz. of lump-sugar, the juice of the lemons, and a little grated peel; simmer to a syrup ; when cold, turn it into a shallow tin tart-dish lined with a rich thin puff-paste, and lay bars of paste over; as soon as the paste is baked, take it out. Or:—Take the juice of 2 lemons and the rinds grated; clean the grater with bread, only using sufficient crumbs to take off all the lemon-peel; beat all together with 2 eggs, 4 lb. of loaf-sugar, and i lb. of butter. This is sufficient to make 12 tartlets, and will be found very excellent. Green Apricot Tartlets.—When the wall-fruit trees are thinned, take the thinnings before the stone is formed; stew them gently in sugar and water. When tender, reduce and thicken the syrup, and put it with the fruit into pattypans; or, if covered with a paste, it is then called a pie. This also applies to grapes. Prune Tart.—Give prunes a scald, take out the stones and break them; put the kernels into a little cranberry-juice, with the prunes and sugar: simmer, and when cold make a tart of the sweetmeat. It must be almost needless to say that tartlets of damsons, plums, and most sorts of stone-fruit, may be made in the same manner. Tartlets a la Paganini.—Beat up the whites of 3 eggs to a froth, and then add 5 oz. of pounded sugar; beat it well up, and have your pattypans ready covered with paste, upon which put any quantity you please of jam or marmalade; bake them for about i an hour, and when done fill them with the whip. This quantity will fill 16 pattypans of a small size. TO PREPARE CRANBERRIES FOR TARTS. 580.—Simmer them in moist sugar, without breaking, 20 minutes ; and let them become cold before being used. A pint will require nearly 3 oz. of sugar. The Russian and American sorts are larger and better flavoured than those of this country. 2 f 2