497 CREAMS, &c. Chap. XXiY.] pan; put to it the grated peel and the juice of 3 lemons. Beat or whisk it one way 4 an hour; keep taking off' the top with a spoon. Put it in glasses, sprinkle a few harlequin sugarplums on the top. It will keep good, in a cool place, a fortnight. DEVONSHIRE JUNKET. 688.—Put warm milk into a bowl; turn it with rennet ; then put some scalded cream, sugar, and cinnamon on the top, without breaking the curd; which put into a close net* and hang it up, both to allow the milk to drain from it, and to make it into a pretty shape. Or:—Put some new milk into a china or other basin, or else warm some cold milk to the same heat as new, add to it a little calf’s rennet, and, if approved, a little brandy or rum may also be added ; stir it with a spoon so as to mix the whole perfectly. Place it near the fire or on a warm stove or hearth until turned, but it must not be kept too hot, or it will not turn properly. When turned, put sugar, grated nutmeg, or nutmeg and ground cinnamon on the top, and scalded or clouted cream, without breaking the curd, and serve. ITALIAN CHEESE.—E. R. 689. —14 pint of cream, 2 lemons and the rind, a pint of sweet wine, a few pounded almonds, and sugar enough to sweeten it. Mill for about 10 minutes; put all into a deep i sieve with a muslin under it to drain. Or:—The juice of 1 lemon and the grated rind of 2 to a quart of cream; add sugar, keep stirring it one way until it is quite thick. FLUMMERY. 690. —Put 3 large handfuls of very small white oatmeal to steep a day and night in cold water; then pour it off clear, and add as much more water, and let it stand the same time. Strain it through a fine hair sieve, and boil it till it be as thick as hasty pudding, stirring it well all the time. When first strained, put to it 1 large spoonful of white sugar and 2 of orange-flower water. Pour it into shallow dishes, and serve to eat with wine, cider, milk, or cream and sugar. It is very good. French Flummery.—Boil slowly 2 oz. of isinglass shavings in a quart of cream 15 minutes. Stir all the time, and sweeten 2 K