SHELL-FISH. Chap. XVI.] 271 eaten cold at the breakfast-table, and when dressed hot the latter are celebrated for the flavour of their curry, as the former is in general use for the making of sauce, dhey also, as well as lobsters, made excellent fritters and rissoles. To stew.—Pick the meat out of the shells, put it into a stew- pan with i pint of good gravy and a glass of claret; add an onion minced fine, some sweet herbs, and a little pepper and salt. Let them stew gently until quite tender; then add a large spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 of essence of anchovy, ant? a piece of butter rolled in flour. Serve up hot, and garnish with bread-sippets. If brought to table cold, as a supper dish, they will be found a very delicate and elegant entree, if served in a shape and covered with clear jelly. CRAB, 280.—Though not so well known as the lobster, is looked upon by many as being a better-flavoured fish, and perhaps rather more digestible. The female is considered inferior to the male, and may be known by the claws being smaller, and the tail much wider. The heaviest are usually thought to be the best, but those of a middling size are the sweetest. If light, they are watery; when in perfection, the joints of the legs are stiff; the shell, whether alive or dead, should be of a bright red ; and the body has a very agreeable smell. The eyes look dead and loose when stale, or when the fish have died a natural death. They are boiled in the same manner as lobster, but re- quire rather longer time, and are most usually eaten cold 'with oil and vinegar, as thus:—Pick out all the fish from the shell, divide it into small pieces, mixing the rich part well with the rest; moisten it with salad dressing, and return it to the shell with an edge all round of sliced lemon. If hot, pick the fish out as above ; then put the meat, with a little nutmeg, salt, pepper, bits of butter, crumbs of bread, and 3 spoonfuls of vinegar, into the shell again, and set it before the fire. You may brown it with a salamander, but it should be always served in the shell. Dry toast should be served to eat with it. Observe to remove “ the lady,” as it is called. To stew Crabs.—Pick the meat carefully out of a large