MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXVI. 532 clean, and sprinkle them with salt, put them in layers, and let them stand for a couple of days; then add some Avhole pepper, cover them very close, and put them into an oven when bread is baking. That done, take them out, strain off the liquor, into which put cloves, mace, and allspice, and let the whole boil for a little while. While that is doing, put the mushrooms into the stewpan for a short time, then take the whole off the fire, and when perfectly cold pot them, with the addition of a little vinegar. An excellent way to preserve the flavour of mushrooms when being pickled, is to rub them with a bit of flannel and salt, and from the larger take out the red inside: when they are black they will not do, being too old. Throw a little salt over, and put them into a stewpan with some mace; as the liquor comes out, shake them well, and keep them over a gentle fire till all of it be dried into them again ; then put as much vinegar into the pan as will cover them, give it one warm, and turn all into a glass or stone jar. They will keep 2 years, and are delicious. MUSHR OOM PO WDER. 744. —Wash peck of large mushrooms while quite fresh, and free them from dirt and grit with flannel; scrape out the black part clean, and do not use any that are wormeaten; put them into a stewpan over the fire without water, with 2 large onions, some cloves, i oz. of mace, and 2 spoonfuls of white pepper, all in powder; simmer and shake them till all the liquor be dried up, but be careful they do not burn. Lay them on tins or sieves, in a slow oven, till they are dry enough to beat to powder ; then put the powder in small bottles corked and tied closely, and keep in a dry place. A teaspoonful will give a very fine flavour to any soup or gravy, or any sauce. It is to be added just before serving, and 1 boil given to it after it is put in. . TO PICKLE WALNUTS. 745. —Gather the walnuts about the middle of July, and put them in salt and water; prick each with a needle seve- ral times; let them stand 2 or 3 days, changing the water every day. Make a brine of salt and water strong enough to bear an egg; it must be quite cold before being used, and be well skimmed while boiling. To every 100 walnuts