180 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XI. them in a pan, with slices of veal over, and bacon under them; season with pepper and salt, mace, cloves, herbs, and sliced onion ; cover close over the fire 10 minutes, then add a quart of broth, and stew gently 2 hours; take out the sweetbreads, strain and skim the broth, and boil it to i pint; warm the sweetbreads in it, and serve with lemon round. Fried.—Cut them in slices about £ inch thick, dry and flour, egg them, and dip them in fine bread-crumbs; fry them of a light brown; serve on spinach, endive, or sorrel; or cut some toasted bread, dish them on it, and serve them with a sauce piquante. For an invalid, boil them well, cover them with bread- crumbs, a little pepper and salt, with a small bit of butter; brown them lightly with a salamander. Roasted.—Blanch, dry, egg and bread-crumb them; pass a small skewer through each; tie on a spit; roast gently; baste with fresh butter; serve nicely frothed, and a mushroom- sauce under them. Sweetbreads fricasseed white.—Blanch and slice them ; thicken some veal gravy with flour and butter mixed, a little cream, a little mushroom-powder, and add white pepper, nut- meg, and grated lemon-peel; stew these ingredients together a little, then simmer the sweetbreads 20 minutes. When taken off the fire, add a little salt and lemon-peel; stir well, and serve. If fricasseed brown, cut them about the size of a walnut, flour, and fry them of a fine brown; pour to them a good beef gravy, seasoned with salt, pepper, cayenne, and allspice; simmer till tender; thicken with flour and butter. Morels, truffles, and mushrooms may be added, and mushroom- ketchup. Croquettes.—Take 2 sweetbreads or i lb. of roast veal, 1 onion chopped fine, mixed with a small piece of butter, 1 egg, and a little cream; season with white pepper, cayenne, and salt. This will make 8 or 9 croquettes. Roll them in egg and then in bread-crumbs; fry them in lard a nice brown colour; strew them in a circle round the dish, and serve fried parsley in the centre. Cold veal chopped, and stewed in a little gravy, and when cold made up as above, makes excellent rissoles.