152 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. IX. leg, and some of the fat; put 2 onions, a lettuce, a pint of green peas, a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, 4 spoonfuls of water, and 2 or 3 oz. of clarified butter, into a stewpan closely covered; simmer 2 hours, and serve in the middle of a dish of boiled dry rice. If cayenne is approved, add a little. This cannot be done too slowly. MINCED MUTTON.—E. R. 135. —Mince dressed meat very finely, season it, make a very good gravy, warm the meat up in it, and serve with fried bread round the dish, or with poached eggs. Or:—Mince cold leg of mutton freed from the skin and fat, warm it with stewed cucumbers, taking care that it does not burn after the meat is put in. Au Gratin, or as Scallops.—Mince dressed mutton with a very little fat, season lightly with pepper and salt, and put into scallop-shells about half full. Then put potatoes mashed with a little milk, and a very small bit of butter; smooth with a spoon, and brown in a Dutch oven. As Rissoles.—Enclose the minced meat in a paste or brown- ing of egg and crumbs of bread, but season it as if for force- meat. MUTTON CUTLETS.—E. R. 136. —Cut the best end of a neck of mutton into cutlets an inch thick, and chop each bone short; flatten and trim them, scraping the end of the bone quite clean; brush them with egg,' and cover them with crumbs, herbs, and seasoning; and serve them either with sauce tomate or any other piquant sauce. If in the Hindostanee fashion, cut the chops from the neck, pare away all the fat, and scrape the bone; then have some very fine mashed potatoes ; wrap the cutlets in it; brush them over with yolk of egg, and fry them. They may also be fried in the same manner, dipped in batter. With Potato Puree.—The cutlets should be dipped in cla- rified butter, then in crumbs, afterwards in yolk of egg, and again in crumbs; flatten them with a knife, and fry hi hot fat as you would fish. The potatoes are to be boiled, rubbed through a hair-sieve, and worked up fine and light with a little butter and boiling cream; season with pepper, salt, and an