POULTRY AND GAME. 199 Chap. XIII.] and with bread-sauce. The head should be turned under the wing, as a turkey. Boiled with Oysters.—Take a young fowl, fill the inside with oysters, put it into a jar, and plunge the jar in a kettle or saucepan of water. Boil it for 1L hour. There will be a quantity of gravy from the juices of the fowl and oysters in the jar; make it into a white sauce, with the addition of egg, cream, or a little flour and butter; add oysters to it, or serve it up plain with the fowl. The gravy that comes from a fowl dressed in this manner will be a stiff jelly the next day ; the fowl will be very white and tender, and of an exceedingly fine flavour—advantages not attainable in ordinary boiling—while the dish loses nothing of its delicacy and simplicity. To braise.—Bone the breast, and fill it with forcemeat. Lay the bones, and any other poultry trimmings, into a stew- pan, and the fowl on them. Put to them a few onions, a faggot of herbs, 3 blades of mace, a pint of stock, and a glass or two of sherry. Cover the fowl with slices of bacon, and then with white paper ; cover the whole close, and put it on a slow stove for 1 hour. Then take it up, strain the braise, and skim off the fat carefully ; set it on to boil very quickly to a glaze, and put it over the fowl with a brush. Serve with a brown fricassee of mushrooms. Before glazing, put the fowl into an oven for a few minutes, to give a little colour. With Rice.—The fowl should be stewed very slowly in some clear veal or mutton broth, well skimmed, and seasoned with pepper, salt, mace, and an onion. About an hour before it. is ready add i pint of rice, well washed and soaked ; simmer until tender, then strain the rice from the broth and lay it on a sieve before the fire to swell; then dish the fowl with the rice round it. White sauce is the most fashionable accompaniment, the old method of dishing with parsley and butter being on the decline: but as parsley still maintains its ground with many people, it is advisable to boil a sufficient quantity; press and chop' it, garnishing the dish with small mounds thus prepared, which may be mixed at table with the white sauce by the guests who like the flavour of parsley. Liver-sauce is sometimes served with boiled fowls, but celery or oyster sauce, either made separate or together, is preferable. > Bowl uux Onions.—Boil 12 small onions in several