626 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXXI. * of an inch thick, and soak them in boiled milk until they have imbibed as much as they will take; then drain them, cover them with a coating of egg-batter, and fry them in a cheese- toaster. When served, powder them simply with white sugar with or without a slight grating of nutmeg. CA UDLE 866.—Is made in various ways. Make a fine smooth gruel of half-grits; strain it when boiled well; stir it at different times till cold. When to be used, add sugar, wine, and lemon- peeL, with nutmeg. Some like a spoonful of brandy besides the wine ; others like lemon-juice. Or .-—Boil up 4 a pint of fine gruel, with a bit of butter the size of a large nutmeg, a large spoonful of brandy, the same of white wine, 1 of capillaire, a bit of lemon-peel, and nutmeg. Another.—Into a pint of fine gruel, not thick, put, while it is boiling-hot, the yolk of an egg beaten with sugar, and mixed with a large spoonful of cold water, a glass of wine, and nut- meg. Mix by degrees. It is very agreeable and nourishing. Some like gruel, with a glass of table-beer, sugar, &c., with or without a teaspoonful of brandy. Posset.—Boil the grated crumb of a penny loaf in a pint of water, with the grated peel of a Seville orange, till the mix- ture be clear and thick: then add 3 oz. of sweet and 1 oz. of bitter almonds, i the juice of an orange or any other kind of fruit, 4 oz. of sugar, and 1 pint of mountain wine. Cold Caudle.—Boil a pint of spring-water; when cold, add the yolk of an egg, the juice of a small lemon, 6 spoonfuls of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and syrup of lemons 1 oz. Flour Caudle.—Into 5 large spoonfuls of water rub smooth 1 dessertspoonful of fine flour. Set over the fire 5 spoon- fuls of new milk, and put 2 bits of sugar into it; the moment it boils pour into it the flour and water, and stir it over a slow fire 20 minutes. It is a nourishing and gently astringent food. This is an excellent food for babies who have weak bowels. Rice Caudle.—When the water boils, pour into it some ground rice mixed with a little cold water; when of a proper consistence, add sugar, lemon-peel, and cinnamon, and a glass of brandy to a quart. Boil all smooth.