475 FRUIT PUDDINGS. Chap. XXIII.] them ginger, cinnamon, and as much sugar as will make them very sweet. To 1 pint of cream put the yolks of 3 or 4 eggs, and stir into as much of the pulp as will make it of a pro- per thickness. Line a dish, and bake. TV lute pears, plums, apricots, or other fruit, may be done in the same way. An excellent Apricot Pudding.—Have 12 large apricots, give them a scald till they are soft; meantime pour on the grated crumbs of a penny loaf 1 pint of boiling cream ; when half cold, add 4 oz. of sugar, the yolks of 4 beaten eggs, and 1 glass of white wine. Break the apricot-stones, take some or all of the kernels, pound them in a mortar, and mix them with the fruit and other ingredients; put a paste round a dish, and bake the pudding ^ an hour. Baked Apple Pudding.—Pare and quarter 4 large apples ; boil them tender with the rind of a lemon, in so little water that, when done, none may remain ; beat them quite firm in a mortar; add the crumb of a small roll, 4 oz. of butter melted, the yolks of 5 and whites of 3 eggs, juice of £ a lemon, and sugar to taste; beat all together, and lay it in a dish with paste to turn out. Or:—Put the pulp of the apples in the centre of a baking- dish, surround it with custard, and bake it until brown. Or:—Take 4r lb. of the pulp of the sharpest apples you can get; add 6 oz. of pounded loaf-sugar, the same of butter (melted), the grated rind of 1 lemon and the juice, a glass of white wine, a little nutmeg, the yolks of 8 eg'gs and the whites of 4, well beaten. Mix these well together, and bake in a dish lined with paste. Fruit sliced into Batter makes an excellent and economical pudding, and is considered much more digestible than when put into paste. A little of the batter should be put into the dish, and if apples are used they should be pared and carefully cored, then cut into slices, and a little sugar and grated lemon- peel strewed between them, the dish filled three parts full with the remainder of the batter. To make Batter for Fruit Puddings.—Put $ lb. of flour and a saltspoonful of salt into a pan, add very gently 4 pint of milk ; if mixed carelessly the flour will remain in lumps ; beat up the whites of 4 eggs, strain them to the batter, and beat it well with a wooden spoon. The whites should be beaten sepa- rately to a solid froth, and not added till just before the batter