552 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXVII. not pretty quick, the batter will not rise. Should you fear its catching by being too quick, put some paper over the cake to prevent its being burnt. To know when it is soaked, take a broad-bladed knife that is very bright, and plunge it into the very centre; draw it instantly out, and if the least stickiness adheres, put the cake immediately in again, and shut up the oven. If the heat should be sufficient to raise, but not to soak it, let fresh fuel be quickly put in, and the cakes kept hot until the oven is fit to finish the soaking; but those who are em- ployed ought to be particularly careful that no mistake occurs from negligence when large cakes are to be baked. Bread and cakes wetted with milk eat best when new, but become stale sooner than others. Cakes kept in drawers or wooden boxes have a disagreeable taste. Earthen pans and covers, or tin boxes, preserve them best; but in making large cakes of any kind, which are to be baked in hoops, use those of wood. Cakes made with yeast should always be eaten fresh. PLUM-CAKES. 771.—Mix thoroughly t peck of fine flour, well dried, with 1 lb. of dry and sifted loaf-sugar, 3 lbs. of currants washed and very dry, <j lb. of raisins stoned and chopped, } oz. each of mace, cloves, and cinnamon, a grated nutmeg, the peel of a lemon cut as fine as possible, and £ lb. of almonds blanched and beaten with orange-flower water. Melt 2 lbs. of butter in li pint of cream, but not hot; put to it 1 pint of sweet wine, a glass of brandy, and another of rose-water, with the whites and yolks of 12 eggs beaten apart, and pint of good yeast. Strain this liquor by degrees into the dry ingredients, beating them together a full hour; then butter the hoop or pan, and bake it in a moderate oven for at least 4 hours. As you put in the batter, throw in plenty of citron, lemon, and orange candy. If you ice the cake, when it is nearly cold pour the icing over, and return it to the oven, where it should be left all night, or until it becomes cold ; but if the oven be warm, keep it near the mouth, and the door open, lest the colour be spoiled ; or the icing may be left until the next morning. Or:—Take 2 lbs. of dried flour, the same of currants, 1 lb. of pounded sugar, lemon and citron peel sliced ; mix these well