439 G-AUFFRES, &c. Chap. XXIII.] have risen 2 or 3 inches; work it round a little to subdue the fermentation; let it stand i an hour, and it will be fit for use. Put the gauffre-irons upon a slow fire, letting both sides be hot; wipe them, and rub the inside slightly with a bit of fat bacon ; put in 2 spoonfuls of the paste, close the irons, and bake them for a few minutes. The colour should be a light gold colour, and very crisp. The irons can be nalf-opened to see if it is done. When of the proper colour, turn it out, and proceed with the remainder in the same way. Take 1 lb. of loaf-sugar, and i oz. of cinnamon, pounded and passed through a sieve; dip the gauffres into it on both sides, and serve hot upon a napkin. Place them in the form of a pyramid. MINCE-PIES. 583.—In making these, the first thing to be done is to pre- pare the mince-meat. The following are selected from a variety of receipts, all excellent for the purpose :— Take 2 lbs. of raisins stoned, 2 lbs. of currants, 1 lb. of sultana raisins, 2 lbs. of apples, f lb. of sugar, 2 lbs. of suet, the juice of 2 lemons, and the rind of 1 chopped very fine ; 4 lb. of mixed spice,a 2 glasses of brandy, 2 oz. of citron, and 2 of candied lemon-peel. Or:—2 lbs. of the inside of a sirloin of beef, boiled, and picked from skin, and 44 lbs. of suet, all chopped very fine. Take 8 large apples chopped, 6 lbs. of currants clean washed and dried, a twopenny loaf grated, 1 oz. of nutmegs, i oz. of cloves, a little pepper and salt, 14 lb. of sugar; grate the peel of an orange and a lemon, add the juice of 6 oranges and 2 lemons: mix all these ingredients well together, pour over the whole a pint of port wine and one of brandy. Add sweetmeats in making the pies. Or:—Take f lb. of lean beef, boiled well and chopped fine, 2 lbs. of suet also chopped fine, 1 lb. of moist sugar, 1 lb. of carefully washed and picked currants, 1 lb. of raisins (when stoned, to be chopped), 9 good sound winter apples, peeled, cored, and chopped, and the grated rind of a lemon; season 'with mixed spice and a teaspoonful of salt; thoroughly mix the whole; add a wineglassful of port wine and 2 Qf brandy; 2 oz. cinnamon, 2 oz. allspice, 2 oz. cloves, ^ oz. nutmeg, 4 oz. ginger, 2 oz. coriander, all finely powdered and mixed, make a very good mixed spice, and should be bottled and kept well corked.