Chap. XIII.] POULTRY AND GAME. 203 Souffle de Puree de Volaille.—Make the puree as above directed, only much thicker, adding 2 oz. of butter; stir it well over the fire, and when warm add the yolks and the whites of 4 or 6 eggs, according to the quantity of meat, well beaten, separately: mix the whole lightly together, then put it into a dish, and let it remain in the oven until it is firm. If put warm into the oven it ■null be ready hour sooner. These dishes may be made of cold fillet of veal. CURRY OF CHICKEN. 216. —Cut up a raw chicken ; put into a stewpan, with 2 oz. of butter, 4 a large onion sliced thin, a few sprigs of parsley and thyme, and 2 oz. of lean ham ; let the whole sweat over the fire for a few minutes; add a heaped tablespoonful of curry-powder, and a small one of flour; shake the whole together for 5 minutes over the fire; put to it a pint of either gravy or water; let the whole go gently until the chicken is done; take out the chicken, rub the sauce through a sieve, boil it up, skim, put in the chicken, season with salt and lemon-juice to palate. Plain boiled rice to be served in a separate dish. I) UMP OKUTI—E. R. 217. —Clean and truss a fowl, or rabbit, as for roasting; then stuff it with sultana raisins, pistachio-nuts, and boiled rice in equal parts. Rub fine 1 oz. of coriander-seed, freed from the husks, 4 onions, a dozen peppercorns, 6 cloves, and a teaspoonful of pounded ginger. Set 12 oz. of butter in a stew- pan over the fire, rub the pounded ingredients over the fowl or rabbit, and let it fiy until perfectly well browned and tender. Have boiled in a quart of white broth 12 oz. of rice, 2 oz. of sultana raisins, 2 oz. of pistachio nuts, and 2 of almonds, the two latter blanched, and cut into thin slices. When the rice is nearly tender, strain off the broth, and add the rice to the fried fowl ; stir the whole well, that the butter may completely saturate the rice, and keep it near the fire to swell till wanted. In serving surround the fowl with the rice. Observe that, in pounding the onions, the juice only is used with the spices, or they must be rubbed and pounded so finely a The dish mentioned in the Arabian Nights as the kid studied with 1 pistachio-nuts.