330 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XVIII. either of the strength of its odour, or more probably of the coarseness with which our cooks employ it. LEEKS 400. —Are generally looked upon as a species of onion, and, as such, commonly employed in the same manner, though rather milder in flavour. If boiled in separate waters, changing it 3 or 4 times, until stewed quite tender, then served in white sauce, or quartered and placed upon toast like aspara- gus, they will eat nearly, if not quite, as delicate. SPINACH. 401. —Wash it well in different waters, pick off the decayed leaves, and boil it quickly in a large quantity of water and salt for i of an hour ; when done, squeeze it very dry, chop it, put in the dish, and pour melted butter over it; season it with pepper and salt. Or :—Boil it in as small a quantity of water as will prevent its burning to the pan; then strain and press it well; put it into a saucepan with a tablespoonful of gravy, a little pepper and salt, and a few drops of chili vinegar; stew it for 5 minutes, chopping it all the time. The spinach may be boiled the day before, and is better for being so. Steiced with Cream.—Boil the spinach as before directed, chop it very fine, and beat it well with a spoon, taking care to have picked out all the fibres ; put it into a stewpan with a piece of butter, some pepper and salt, a little nutmeg, and a very small quantity of pounded sugar ; stir it well as it stews, adding by degrees as much cream as -will make it the proper thickness. Garnish with fried paste. A la Franfalse.—Wash the spinach, and pick it very care- fully, then put it into boiling water, and when sufficiently tender to bear squeezing strain it in a colander; then throw it into cold water to preserve the colour. When it is quite cold, squeeze it in a towel, not in any large quantity at a time. Take out the stems, chop the spinach very fine, and then put it into a stew- pan with a piece of butter and some very rich gravy; add pepper, salt, and a little mace or nutmeg, and boil it rather fast, stirring it all the time ; the thickness will depend upon the quantity of the sauce. It is also very generally dressed with cream and a little white sugar, as an entremet of great delicacy.