12 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. I. salt; candles, cold, but not damp; dried meats, bams, bacon, and tongues, the same. All sorts of seed for puddings, such as rice, &c., should be close covered, to preserve them from insects : but if kept long that will not be sufficient, unless they be occasionally sifted. Apples and pears should be laid upon very clean and dry straw, to prevent a musty taste; nor should they be exposed to either light or air, and the floor of a dark garret is a good place in which to deposit them; or, what is still better, shelves made by strips of wood, of about 2 inches wide, placed an inch and a half apart, and the apples laid be- tween them. They should be ranged singly in rows, without touching each other, and should be often inspected, both to wipe them, if damp, and to reject those which may appear to be getting rotten; but the larger sort of pears should be tied up by the stalk. Apples may also be preserved hi excel- lent condition for a long period by being packed in large bar- rels with dry sand, but require to be used immediately they are taken out. Coarse nets suspended in the store-room are very useful in preserving the finer kinds of fruit, lemons, &c., which are spoiled if allowed to touch. When lemons and oranges are cheap, a proper quantity should be bought and prepared, both for preserving the juice, and keeping the peel for sweetmeats and grating, especially by those who live in the country, where they cannot always be had; and they are perpetually wanted in cookery. The best way of scalding fruits, or boiling vinegar, is in a stone jar, on a hot iron hearth, or by putting the vessel into a saucepan of boiling water, called a water-bath, after its having been closely corked, but not quite filled, as the heat may occasion the fruits to swell; but if they diminish after this is done, the vessel must then be filled. Onions, shallots, and garlic should be hung up, for winter use, in ropes from the ceiling; as should dried parsley, basil, savory, and hnotted-marjoram, or London-tliyme, and tarra- gon, to be used when herbs are ordered, but with discretion, as they are very pungent.