MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXII. 420 it with salt, pepper, mace, and allspice, in fine powder, rubbing them well in. Set it by the side of a slow fire, in a stewpot that will just hold it; put to it a piece of butter of about the weight of 2 oz., and cover it quite close ; let it just simmer in its own steam till it begins to shrink. When it is cold, add more seasoning, forcemeat, and eggs: if it is made in a dish, put some gravy to it before baking ; but if it is only in crust, do not put the gravy till after it is cold and in jelly. Force- meat may be put both under and over the meat, if preferred to balls. VEAL PIES.—E. JR. 555.—The best part of veal for this purpose is the breast; cut it into pieces and put it into a stewpan, with an onion, a head of celery, a bundle of sweet herbs, and a small quantity of water ; when warmed through add more water, and stew it gently until it is done. By this means 2 lbs. of veal will yield a quart of fine white stock, which will jelly: let it remain until cold, and then take off all the fat; take out the long bones, and all the skin, season it well, and pile it lightly in the pie-dish, having lined the sides with paste. Boil 4 or 6 eggs hard, and put them in : pound some ham or gammon of bacon in a mortar—bacon or ham in slices always being hard—make them up into small balls with a little butter, and add them ; add also some forcemeat balls; fill up the pie with the stock, which should be flavoured with a small quantity of ketchup, Chetney, or other sauce. Reserve a portion of the stock thus prepared, and pour it hot into the pie, when it comes from the oven, to supply the waste. This will be most excellent cold, as it will be per- fectly free from all greasy particles, and the meat tender, which will not be the case unless previously stewed. For Cold Veal Pie.—Take some of the fleshy part of a knuckle of veal, with an equal quantity of minced ham ; season it with salt, pepper, spices, and aromatic herbs chopped, and a small clove of garlic dr shalot; pound them in a mortar, adding eggs and an equal quantity of gravy. Cover the bottom of a pan with thin slices of bacon ; lay a little of this forcemeat upon it; lay some cutlets of veal over the force- meat, seasoning them with pepper and minced mushrooms: in this manner fill to the top, covering the whole with forcemeat. After baking for an hour, let it cool. Have paste prepared