BEEF. 137 Chap. VIII.] some plain sauce; let it simmer gently till sufficiently done ; then lay the mince in the dish, and pour the cucumbers over it; thicken the sauce with a little flour and butter : add the squeeze of a lemon just before serving. BEEF COLLOPS.—E. R. 112. —Cut the inside of a sirloin, or any other convenient piece, into circular shapes, the size and thickness of a half- crown, flour and fry them ; sprinkle with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and shalot; make a little gravy in the pan: send to table with gherkin or tomata sauce. Or :—Cut thin slices of beef from the rump, or any other tender part, and divide them into pieces 3 inches long; beat them with the blade of a knife, and flour them. Fry the col- lops quick in butter 2 minutes ; then lay them into a small stew- pan, and cover them with a pint of gravy ; add a bit of butter rubbed in flour. Or:—Take 1 lb. of juicy beef, i lb. of suet, and an onion; remove every bit of skin or gristle from the meat, and mince it with the onion very finely ; add a little pepper and salt, flour the collops, melt a piece of butter in a stewpan, stir in the col- lops, adding a little gravy and a spoonful of ketchup or oyster- sauce : 10 minutes will be sufficient to dress a pound. Or:—Take some lean beef, mince it very small, season it with pepper and salt, adding a very small quantity of vinegar ; press it down in an earthen vessel: it will keep some days. hen wanted, take out the necessary quantity, put it into a stewpan, with a chopped onion, a spoonful of any sauce, some beef gravy, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Keep stir- ring it round until quite hot; make an edge of chopped vege- tables or mashed potatoes, and put the beef in the middle, and then send it to table. This is the Scotch mode. BEEF PALA TES. 113. —Simmer them in water several hours, till they will peel; then cut the palates into slices, or leave them whole, as you choose, and stew them in a rich gravy till quite tender. Before you serve, season them with cayenne, salt, and ketchup. If the gravy was drawn clear, give it a boil with some butter and flour. If to be served white, boil them in milk, and stew them in fricassee-sauce; adding cream, butter, flour, and mushroom- powder, and a little pounded mace. t