MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XYII. 290 ONION SAUCE. 313. — White.—Peel the onions, and put them on the fire in cold water; when it boils, pour the water off, and fill up the saucepan from a kettle of boiling water to take out the strength of the onions. If this be done two or three times, they will become perfectly mild ; or if they be Spanish onions, boil them only once in milk ; then chop them, not too small, but so as to divide the pieces into flakes ; add to them butter that has been melted, rich, smooth, and thick. It is used to smother boiled rabbits, ducks, and tripe, or as sauce for a roast shoulder of mutton. Or beat the onions to a pulp, and pass them through a sieve to thicken the sauce, and make it appear like cream ; although this would appear more delicate, yet many people prefer the fonner mode. Brown.—Peel and slice some large onions, and put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter. Stir them over the fire until they are of a fine light brown ; dust them with flour; then put in a pint of good beef-gravy, with a little cayenne pepper and sauce ; when thus reduced by stewing to the proper thick- ness, rub them through the colander; and just before serving up, squeeze in the juice of i a lemon, or serve without rubbing- through the colander. This is preferable for roast meats. SHALOT SAUCE. 314. —Put a few chopped shalots into a little gravy, boiled clear, and nearly half as much vinegar ; season with pepper and salt; boil ir an hour. 4 SAUCE FOR RUMP-STEAK. 315. —Take equal parts of ale, red wine, and ketchup, a piece of butter, and a little pepper, with a teaspoonful of garlic-vinegar; stir these over the fire in a small saucepan, and pour it very hot upon the steak. It will form a pleasant addition to the gravy of any roast meat, and can be made in a few minutes. SAUCE ROBERT. 316. —Put a piece of butter, the size of an egg, into a sauce- pan ; set it over the fire, and when browning throw in a handful of onions cut in small dice ; fry them brown, but do not let them burn; add i a spoonful of flour, shake the onions in it, and give it another fry ; then put 4 spoonfuls of gravy, and some pepper and salt, and boil it gently 1.0 minutes;