602 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXX. the proper month to make this wine in. It will be found very coiwenient to have a second cask to rack wine into, which is at once put under the tap, and avoids all splashing and waste. Where the custom is to use casks of the same size, one or two extra ones only are required. PARSNIP WINE. 827. —To every gallon of water take 3 lbs. of fine clear parsnips and the same weight of loaf-sugar; slice the parsnips into the watery and let them boil to a pulp; strain them through a hair sieve, return the liquor into the boiler, and add the sugar; let it boil 4 an hour; when tepid, lay a toast covered with yeast in it, and cover it, keeping the cooler in a warm place; when it begins to ferment, put it into the cask, taking out the toast. It should not be racked till the autumn, and not bottled in less than a year. Parsnips are best in the winter. All warm fluids to be fermented should be regulated by a thermometer. Tepid is from 85 to 95 degrees. The cold of the weather should regulate the heat between this range. GINGER WINE. 828. —To every gallon of water take 2 lbs. of loaf-sugar and 2 oz. of bruised ginger; boil them together for an hour; put the liquor into a vessel to cool; when tepid, add the juice and peel of 6 lemons, and a toast covered with yeast; cover it over, and when it begins to ferment put it into the cask; let it ferment 2 or 3 weeks. Before putting in the bung, put to it t lb. of raisins to every gallon ; they need not be stoned, but are best just slit open. This wine may be racked in another month, and isinglass put to clarify it. Bottle it in 3 or 4 weeks, and it is soon fit to drink, though, if properly fermented, it will keep a year or two and improve. Amongst the following receipts are many which have long been family favourites; but as they generally" recommend the old-fashioned plan of adding spirits to the wine, in the place of trusting to the process of fermentation for its strength, we cannot ourselves quite approve them; nevertheless there are some from which most excellent wine has been made. A RICH AND PLEASANT WINE. 829. —Take new cider from the press, mix it with as much