341 Chap. XVIII.] VEGETABLES AXD SALADS. a piece of butter in a pan; flour, fry them brown, and serve in a rich brown sauce. Or :—Boil in salt and water, dry, then dip them into batter, and fry them. Serve with melted butter. Or :—Parboil, and then stew in brown or white gravy ; add cayenne, lemon-juice, and salt. Thicken with a bit of butter and flour, have a marrow-bone boiled, cut the marrow in slices, and strew over the top of the chardons. SALSIFIS, SKIRRETS, AND SCORZANERA, 424. —Are not much known in England, though all good, and deserving of more general cultivation. The salsifis are white, and not unlike small parsnips, and ripen the first year, whilst scorzanera is black, and requires 2 years in coming to perfection ; but it is preferable of the two. In flavour they somewhat resemble Jerusalem artichokes. They are much cultivated in France, and appear in the markets as a very late winter or early spring vegetable. Scrape them and throw them into water with a little lemon-juice squeezed into it to keep them white; boil in milk-and-water; serve with melted butter or white sauce; or stew them in rich brown gravy ; or, when boiled tender, dip in batter and fiy quite crisp. TOMA TA, 425. —Or “ love-apple,” is now coming very generally, and deservedly, into use, either pickled, made into ketchup, or served alone. There are two species of tomatas at present cultivated in this country, the red and the yellow. The time of their ripening is from the middle of August to October, or until the frost sets in, which mostly destroys them. The large red are much esteemed for stewing or eating, though for pickling and preserving the smaller varieties are by some considered preferable. They make an excellent puree, and may be either stewed, or roasted in a Dutch oven for i of an hour, and form a good accompaniment to any roast meat, as they contain a very deli- cate flavour of acidity. A few tomatas, when simply stewed in a little gravy, sea- soned only with salt, or mixed with a little celery, form a very pleasant vegetable dish; and if not very small, 3 or 4 will be sufficient for a moderate party.