Chap. I.] HINTS ON DOMESTIC ECONOMY. II Wax, spermaceti, and composite candles ought to be always purchased in quantities of not less than a dozen pounds, on which an allowance is usually made by the chandler. Gas is not much used in private houses, except in offices and passages. Oil-lamps have the advantage of affording a bril- liant light and being of elegant appearance, but they are very troublesome in management, as well as expensive. Every year there is a variety in lamps, but there has not yet been any- thing offered to the public which equals for domestic use the Palmer candle-lamp. Soap should be cut in pieces that will make a long square, when first brought in, and kept out of the air two or three weeks; for, if it dries quickly, it will crack, and, when wet, break. Put it on a shelf, leaving a space between each piece, and let it grow hard gradually : thus it will save a full third in the consumption ; but, for coarse washing, soft soap will go further than the hard. Soda, by softening the water, saves a great deal of soap. It should be melted in a large jug of water, some of which pour into the tubs and boiler; and when the latter becomes weak add more. The new improvement in soft soap is, if pro- perly used, a saving of nearly half in quantity, and, though somewhat dearer than the hard, reduces the price of washing considerably. Many good laundresses advise soaping linen in warm water the night previous to washing, as facilitating the operation with less friction. The price of starch depends upon that of flour ; the best will keep good in a dry warm room for some years. Everything should be kept in the place best suited to it, as much waste may thereby be avoided. Great care should be taken of jelly-bags, tapes for collared things, &c., which, if not perfectly scalded and kept dry, give an unpleasant flavour when next used. Vegetables will keep best on a stone floor, if the air be excluded ; meat, in a cold dry place, where the air is freely admitted; sugar and sweetmeats require a dry place, so does