548 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXYI. 2 teaspoonfuls of made mustard: boil it all gently, till the rawness goes off; then put it into small bottles for use. Cork them very close, and seal the top. 5. Chop 24 anchovies, not washed, and 10 shalots, and scrape 3 spoonfuls of horseradish; which, with 10 blades of mace, 12 cloves, 2 sliced lemons, 4 pint of anchovy liquor, a quart of hock or Rhenish wine, and a pint of water, boil to a quart; then strain off; and when cold, add 3 large spoonfuls of walnut ketchup. All or any of these will be found excellent for family use; as, when added to any common sauce for fish, or even to plain melted butter, a moderate quantity will impart to it a very fine flavour, and in many cases they may be used also for meat, if eaten cold. Pontac Ketchup is for this purpose both very simple and very good. Put ripe elderberries, picked from the stalk, into a stone jar, with as much strong vinegar as will cover them. Bake with the bread ; and, while hot, strain. Boil the liquor with a sufficient quantity of cloves, mace, peppercorns, and shalots, to give it a fine flavour. When that is obtained, put in 4 lb. of the finest anchovies to every quart of liquor ; stir, and boil only until dissolved. When cold, put it into pint bottles, and tie double bladders over each cork. The same method should be observed for preserving all ketchups. An excellent and not common Pickle, called “ Salade,” may be made thus :—Fill a pint stone jar with equal quantities of onions, cucumbers, and sour apples, all cut into very thin slices, shaking in, as you go on, 1 teaspoonful of salt and three parts of a teaspoonful of cayenne. Pour in a wineglass of soy, the same of white wine, and fill up the jar with vinegar. It will be fit for use the same day. Quin's Sauce is also excellent. 4 pint of common mush- room-ketchup, 4 pint of walnut-liquor, 8 anchovies, 8 cloves of garlic, 4 bruised and 4 whole, 3 teaspoonfuls of cayenne pepper, 3 of mushroom-powder, all boiled together for 5 minutes, and bottled when cold. UNIVERSAL SAUCES. 769.—Any of the following will be found good :—1. £ oz. each of black pepper and pounded allspice, 1 oz. of salt, 4 oz. of minced shalot, 1 pint of mushroom-ketchup, a tablespoonful