416 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. NXII. SEASONING FOR RAISED PIES. 544. —3 lbs. of salt dried and pounded, 3 oz. of white pepper, $ oz- of cayenne pepper, 2 oz. of cloves, 2 oz. of allspice, 1 oz. of basil, 1 oz. of marjoram, 1 oz. of thyme, 1 oz. of bay-leaf, 1 oz. of nutmeg, H oz. of mace. Pound the spices and herbs by themselves, and sift through a fine sieve ; then mix with the salt, and put away in a stop- pered bottle : 1 oz. is sufficient for 1 lb. of farce, and i oz. for 1 lb. of boned game. JELLY FOR MEAT OR RAISED PIES. 545. —Take a quart of veal gravy, dissolve 2 oz. of isinglass in a little of it; add the remainder with f pint of tarragon vinegar; boil all together for x of an hour. Clarify it with the whites of 6 eggs, then pass it through a bag. PA TE DE GIBIER A UX TR UFFES. 546. —Make a farce of 2 lbs. of lean meat, either rabbit, veal, or pork; 1 lb. of liver, either calf’s or game; i lb. of lean ham ; 3 lbs. of bacon fat; 4 oz. of seasoning spice. Cut up the above ingredients; put them in a stewpan with a shalot and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley ; let it heat gently on the fire, stirring occasionally; when the meat is tolerably done, turn the whole into a mortar, and pound it thoroughly; take it out, and mix with it li lb. of truffles chopped. Bone a hare and 4 partridges; season them in the propor- tion of i oz. of seasoning spice to each pound of meat; put a little of the farce in the partridges, together with a large French truffle (French are preferred to the English on account of their colour and flavour—the English answer the purpose, and are not more than -J-th the expense). Line a French pie-mould, as directed at “ Pastry,” being careful to make the join in the paste perfect; put a layer of thin bacon fat at the bottom, then a layer of the farce, and on that one of the hare; then the partridges, two breast upwards and the other two reversed ; fill up the pie with the remainder of the farce and hare ; shape the top nicely, put a slice of bacon fat over and two bay-leaves; cover with paste, and bake for 4 hours ; when nearly cold, fill in with the gravy drawn from the bones, and set with a little isinglass.