539 PICKLES. Chap. XXVI.] perly, boiling the pickle, and pouring it over them hot, will plump them. Hoots, such as carrots, salsifs, scorzonera, and beetroot may be pickled by being sliced, or cut into small pieces, and slightly boiled in vinegar without destroying their crispness, and adding the common spices; with beetroot put button onions, or cut some Spanish onions in slices, lay them alter- nately in a jar; boil 1 quart of vinegar with 1 oz. of mixed pepper, ^ oz. of ginger, and some salt, and pour it cold over the beetroot and onions. VINEGARS. 758.— Vinegar for Lidia Pickle.—Prepare a gallon of vine- | gar, more or less, according to the quantity of pickles to be done, in the following manner :—Mix gradually i lb. of the best flour of mustard, and 2 oz. of powdered turmeric, with some of the cold vinegar at first, to ensure its being properly mixed ; then add the rest, with i lb. of white mustard-seed. Bruise i lb. of ginger, 2 oz. of white pepper, and 1 oz. of chilis, and tie them in a muslin bag. Boil the whole gently for 20 minutes or k an hour, and pour it whilst boiling on the pickles, having previously drained off the vinegar they were first put in. In 10 or 12 days repeat the boiling, pour it over the pickles whilst boiling hot, and they will be ready for use Avhen cold. , Walnut Vinegar.—Put green walnut-shells into a brine of salt and water strong enough to float an egg; let them lie covered in this 10 or 12 days; take them out, and lay them in the sun for a week ; put them into a jar, and pour boiling vinegar on them ; in about a week or 10 days pour off the vinegar, make it boiling hot, and pour over them again. In a month it will be fit for use, and will be found excellent to eat with cold meat, and particularly useful in making sauces. Cucumber Vinegar.—Pare and slice 15 large cucumbers, and put them in a stone jar, with 3 pints of vinegar, 4 large onions sliced, 2 or 3 shalots, a little garlic, 2 large spoonfuls of salt, 3 teaspoonfuls of pepper, and £ a teaspoonful of cay- enne. After standing 4 days,* give the whole a boil: when cold, strain, and filter the liquor ^through paper. Camp Vinegar.—Slice a large head of garlic, and put it into a wide-mouthed bottle, with £ oz.- of cayenne, 2 tea-