Chap. XX.] POTTING AND COLLAEING. 379 boiled first an Lour or two, and skinned. Bind it up tight in a cloth, and tape it. Set it over a slow fire to simmer in a small quantity of water, till it is quite tender: this will take some hours. Lay it on the dresser, with a board and weight on it, till quite cold. Pigs’and calves’ feet boiled, and taken from the bones, may be put in or round it. The different colours laid in layers look well when cut; and you may put in yolks of eggs boiled, beet- root, grated ham, and chopped parsley, in different parts. When it is cold, take off the tape, and pour over it the liquor, which must be boiled up twice a-week, or it will not keep. BREAST OF MUTTON, 490. —Collared in this mode, will also be found very nice. Bone the meat, and rub it over with yolk of egg, over which grate some lemon-peel and nutmeg, with a little pepper and salt; then mince a large spoonful of capers with a couple of anchovies, shred a handful of parsley and a few sweet herbs, mixed with crumb of a French roll ; strew it over the mutton, and roll it up tight; boil it gently for 2 hours, and, when taken up, put it in the same kind of pickle as that for calf’s head. TO COLLAR A PIG.—E. R. 491. —Take a fine fat pig of a month or 5 weeks old, pre- pared for the table ; cut off the head and split the pig down the back, and bone it; chop a handful of sage very small, mix it with 2 nutmegs and 3 or 4 blades of mace beaten fine ; add to it a large handful of salt, and season the pig all over ; roll it hard, tie it with tape, sew it in a clean linen cloth, and boil it in water with a little oatmeal and a good seasoning of salt; boil till very tender, which will take several hours. Keep it in the cloth in which it was boiled until quite cold. Then take the cloth from the pig, and let it lie for 8 days in a marinade. s Eat it with mustard, sugar, and vinegar. To collar Pig's Head.—Scour the head and ears nicely; take off the hair and snout, and take out the eyes and the brains; lay it in water 1 night: then drain, salt it extremely well with common salt and saltpetre, and let it lie 5 days. Boil it enough to take out the bones; then lay it on a dresser, turn- ing the thick end of one side of the head towards the thin end of the other, to make the roll of equal size ; sprinkle it well with salt and white pepper, and roll it with the ears; and, if