MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIII. 468 MADEIRA PUDDING.—E. R. 636. —Have a tin cake-mould, of which the bottom will come out ; butter it, and lay upon it a piece of paste the size of the mould; cover it with preserve of apricots; then lay another piece of paste, and cover this with red preserves, and so on in different layers, with paste between, until the mould is filled. Boil, and serve with brandy-sauce. This is a rich pudding, for which the island of Madeira is very famous. Great care will be necessary in taking it out of the mould; and it will take a long time to boil properly. A GERMAN PUDDING. 637. —Boil until very tender a handful of whole rice in a small quantity of milk, with a large piece of lemon-peel. Let it drain ; then mix with it a dozen of good-sized apples boiled to a pulp as dry as possible: add a glass of white wine, the yolks of 5 eggs, 2 oz. of orange and citron cut thin; make it pretty sweet. Line a mould or basin with a very good paste; beat the 5 whites of the eggs to a very strong froth, and mix with the other ingredients; fill the mould, and bake it of a fine brown colour. A very fine German Pudding.-—Pour \ a pint of boiling milk upon 1 lb. of bread-crumbs ; beat up l lb. of fresh but- ter to a cream; add to it the yolks of 10 eggs well beaten; drain the milk from the bread, and add the bread with | lb. of pounded sugar and the grated peel of a lemon ; whip the whites of the 10 eggs into a solid froth, and add them the last thing: butter a cloth, and put the pudding in, tying it loose, as it will swell out a good deal; plunge it into boiling water; boil 1 hour. Some persons add £ lb. of jar raisins slit and stoned. When turned out stick the surface with sliced almonds, and serve with the following sauce:— Take 1 pint of cream, 1 pint of sweet raisin wine, 4 oz. of sugar rubbed on the peel of a lemon, and let them boil; add the yolks of 6 eggs well beaten and the juice of the lemon ; mix them well; make the sauce quite hot, but do not let it boil again; pour some over the pudding, serving the re- mainder in a sauce-boat. A S TPISS P UDDING. 638. —In many parts of the Continent, as well as throughout