571 Chap. XXVII.] GINGERBREAD. Make a hole in the flour, break in nearly H lb. of butter, pour warm water on the butter to soften it a little; then work the flour and butter together, spread the paste, and pour in i pint of good yeast; work it up very well until the paste is light and smooth. Cut off about a third part of the paste for the sheets, spread out the rest of the paste on the table, put the fruit on it, pour about a gill of yeast over the fruit and paste, and work the fruit and paste very well together. Then make it up round ; roll out the sheet which was reserved in a circular form, lay the bun on the middle, and gather the sheet round it; roll it out to the desired thickness, run a fork through in different parts down to the bottom, and pinch it on the top. Flour double grey paper and put the bun upon it, give it a cut round the side, put a binder of double paper round it to keep it from running too thin in the oven. Bake in a moderate oven. Or:—For the plainer sort, to 2 lbs. of flour add 1 lb. of butter, melt the butter, and make the flour into dough with it And about a gill of good yeast. Make it into cakes £ inch in thickness, adding ilb. of lump-sugar beaten, and l^oz. ofcar- raway-seeds on the top. Let the dough lie on the table after it is cut out until it becomes stiff, which will not take long, and then put it into the oven. GINGERBREAD. 802.—This is amongst the most ancient species of cake known throughout England and the north of Europe. In this country it is rarely eaten, except by children, but in Holland it is the common accompaniment of the “ schnaps and in Ghent there are shops as famous for it as our “ Leman ” for biscuits. The following are selected from amongst the numerous ways of making it:— Take 1 lb. of treacle, 1 lb. of butter, 2 lbs. of flour, 1 oz. of ground ginger, sliced candied orange, and a glass of brandy. If not intended to be rich, omit i the butter, the brandy, and lemon, and make it of rye flour, household flour, or oatmeal. At Leeds it is made with equal quantities of oatmeal and treacle, mixed with an eighth part of melted butter and brown sugar, and 1 oz. of powdered ginger, witli ^ that quan- tity of other spice, to 4 lbs. of meal. This is called in that neigh-