144 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. IX. LEG OF MUTTON BOILED. 121.—Let the joint be kept until it is tender, but not so long as for roasting, as mutton for boiling will not look of a good colour if it has hung long. To prepare a leg of mutton for boiling, trim it as for roasting ; soak it for a couple of hours in cold water; then put only water enough to cover it, and let it boil gently for 3 hours if of the largest size, and, if smaller, according to its weight. Some cooks boil it in a cloth; but if the water be afterwards wanted for soup, that should not be done, as it would be no longer fit for that purpose: some salt and an onion put into it is far better. When nearly ready, take it from the fire, and, keeping the pot well covered, let it remain in the steam for 10 or 15 minutes. The English taste being in favour of meat in which the gravy has been retained, this joint is esteemed to be in perfec- tion when a little underdone. It is sent to table with caper- sauce and mashed turnips. To stuff a Leg of Mutton.—Take a leg of mutton, cut off all the fat, take the bone carefully out and preserve the skin whole; take out the meat and mince it fine, and mix and mince with it about 1 lb. of fat bacon and some parsley; season the whole well with pepper and salt, and a small quantity of eschalot or chives chopped fine; then put the meat into the skin and sew it up neatly on the under side; tie it up in a cloth and put it into a stewpan with 2 or 3 slices of veal, some sliced carrots and onions, a bunch of parsley, and a few slices of fat bacon ; let it stew for 3 or 4 hours, and drain the liquor through a fine sieve; when reduced to a glaze, glaze the mutton with it and serve in stewed French beans. To dress a Leg of Mutton with Ogsters.—Parboil some fine well-fed oysters, take off the beards and horny parts; put to them some parsley, minced onion, and sweet herbs, boiled and chbpped fine, and the yolks of 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs. Mix all together, and cut 5 or 6 holes in the fleshy part of a leg of mutton, and put in the mixture; and dress it in either of the following ways :—Tie it up in a cloth and let it boil gently 24 or 3 hours, according to the size. Or:—Bruise it, and serve with a pungent brown sauce.