BEEF. Chap. YIII.] 125 round, and rub it well with the following ingredients:—Mix equal proportions of mace, allspice, black pepper, salt, sugar, and saltpetre. Rub this well into your meat; let it lie 5 or 6 days, turning it daily, and repeatedly rubbing in the mix- ture ; then roll it and tie it firmly round with wide tape ; put it into a jar which will just hold it, with the spice, and a little beef-suet over and under it; tie it down close, and bake it gently until tender. It is eaten cold, and should be cut in thin slices and garnished with parsley. Another way to dress Scarlet Beef.—Take a brisket or thin flank of beef, and rub it well all over with equal quantities of common and bay salt, and an ounce of saltpetre; let it remain for 4 or 5 days in an earthen pan, when it will become red; it should be turned once every day. Boil it gently for 4 hours, and serve it hot, with savoys or any kind of greens; or leave it to get cold, and press it with'a heavy weight. If served up hot, add a wineglassful of port wine, a table- spoonful of mushroom catsup, a teaspoonful of shalot-vinegar, and some butter rolled in flour. Place the meat neatly in the dish, and pour the sauce over it. TO HASH BEEF. 91.—If raw, hang the beef till it is quite tender; then cut some thin slices, and put them in a stewpan with just water •enough to cover them, a bunch of sweet-herbs, an onion, and a little pepper and salt; cover the stewpan close, and let them stew till tender; then put in a glass of port wine, and a table- spoonful of eschalot-vinegar. When it is warm, pour the sauce through a hair sieve to clear it from the herbs and vegetables ; then put it back into the saucepan with the hash, and thicken it with butter kneaded in flour, with a little brown sugar. This is an excellent dish, and may be made from the trimmings of large joints of meat. If cold, mince a shalot and an onion ; fry in a little butter ; then add a spoonful of flour, a little gravy, and a spoonful of walnut-liquor or ketchup. When it boils, put in the slices of beef cut thin ; let them get hot through, but not boiled. Sliced potatoes and onions may be added if approved. Observe that it is owing to boiling hashes or minces that they get hard. All sorts of stews, or meat dressed a second time, should be only simmered.