251 Chap. XV.] FRESH-WATER FISH. 1st. The Benvich receipt.—“ The tail of the salmon is cut off below the last fin, the fish is then cut up the back, keeping the bone on one side, and divided into pieces of h lb. each, the blood being well washed out in cold water, but the scales not to be removed. A pickle is then made of salt and water strong enough to bear an egg, and when boiling the fish to be put in and boiled very quickly for 15 minutes.” 2nd. The Aberdeen Fisherman’s receipt.—“ When the water is hot put salt into it and stir it well; taste it; when strong enough to force you to cast it from your mouth, it will do ; when the water boils, put in the fish ; when it boils again, give 20 minutes for a salmon, and 16 for a grilse. When cut in slices an inch thick, let them boil 10 minutes. Serve in a tureen of the liquor the fish was boiled in.” The salmon which is only left to boil 20 minutes can, how- ever, be only salmon-peel; which is a small species that never reaches to more than a few pounds in weight. It is, there- fore, commonly boiled whole, and dressed in the form of the letter S, which is done by passing a large needle through the eyes of the fish, and tying the string under the jaw, to bend back the jowl; then running the needle through the thick part of the body, and tying it tight to the end of the tail: the eyes being sometimes taken out, and the cavities filled up with black truffles. The usual sauce is that of lobster or shrimp; and when those cannot be had, anchovy. The custom of sending up rich sauces is unknown in salmon countries; a little lemon- •pickle or white-wine vinegar being thought quite sufficient, added to melted butter. When in season, thinly sliced cucum- bers, with oil and vinegar, are also a customary accompani- ment, as well as scraped horseradish and parsley; but t.h(?y should be put on a separate plate, and not served, as common cooks constantly do, as a garnish round the dish: nor should any species of vegetable be ever served except with salt-fish. To preserve the remains of cold salmon, save a part of the water in which the salmon lias been boiled, mix it with half the quantity of vinegar, boil it up with whole pepper, and when cold pour it over the fish ; but do not keep it longer than 2 or 3 days. To broil.—Cut slices an inch thick ; put them into buttered paper and place them upon the gridiron; or the paper may be