MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIII. 198 FO WLS.—E. R. 211.—Fowlsfor boiling, when trussed and singed, should soak an hour or two in skimmed milk. Flour them well, tie them in a cloth; put them in cold water, and set them over a slow fire ; cover the saucepan close, and let them simmer ; as soon as the scum rises remove it carefully, cover them close up again, and boil them gently 20 minutes; take them off the fire, and the steam, if kept in, will sufficiently finish them. It will much improve the appearance of boiled fowls if they are dressed with a thin piece of puff-paste tied over the breast. Poularde a la Royale.—Bone the fowl, and stuff it with sweetbread, liver, and mushrooms well seasoned and made into a ragout. Sew up the fowl; cover it with thin slices of lard or bacon, and either tie paper over it and roast it, or put it to braise: if roasted, take off the lard and paper before serving, to brown it. Send it up on a puree of chestnuts. A turkey- poult may be dressed the same way. Or:—Hang young fowls a night; take the livers, hearts, and tenderest parts of the gizzards—the last ’ being previously boiled—shred very small, with half a handful of young clary, an anchovy to each fowl, an onion, and the yolks of 4' eggs boiled hard, with pepper, salt, and mace to your taste. Stuff the fowls with this, and sew up the vents and necks quite close, that the water may not get in. Boil them in salt and water till almost done; then drain them, and put them into a stew- pan with butter enough to brown them. Serve with a good deal of melted butter, with either soy or ketchup in it. To roast.—Having cleaned the fowl, put into the inside a piece of butter the size of a hazel-nut or walnut, according as the fowl is large or small; make the butter black with pepper, and sprinkle a little salt upon it. This will greatly improve the taste of the fowl, rendering the whole more juicy, and particularly the back and side bones, which are so apt to be dry. Or:—When nicely clean, and free from every feather and plug, singe the fowl. Bone and draw inwards the leg and pinion of the wing. Stuff with sausage-meat, and tie the neck and vent. Roast, and serve with gravy in the dish, and bread-sauce in a tureen. A large barn-door fowl, well hung, should be stuffed in the crop with sausage-meat; and served with gravy in the dish,