MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIV. 486 a sieve. Add 6 oz. of pounded sugar and the juice of a lemon; dissolve 1? oz. of isinglass in ^ pint of water, or calf’s-feet, jelly sufficient to answer the same purpose; mix all well together, and set the vessel upon ice, still stirring it until it begins to set. Whip nearly a pint of cream to a light froth, and stir it into the strawberries; fill the mould, and let it remain upon the ice until wanted to serve, when plunge it into warm water for an instant, wipe it dry, and turn out the cream on the dish. CREME AU CARAMEL. 664. —Melt J lb. of pounded sugar over a slow fire till it begins to tint, stirring it all the time; boil an oz. of isinglass in a pint of milk, pour it upon the caramel, stirring it until it is quite dissolved. Beat up the yolks of 5 eggs, put them into a stewpan, pour the caramel and isinglass upon them ; stir over the fire till it thickens ; pass through a tammy ; pour it into a mould, and set it on ice till wanted. BURNT CREAM. 665. —Boil a pint of cream with a stick of cinnamon and some lemon-peel ; take it off’ the fire, and pour it very slowly into the yolks of 4 eggs, stirring till half cold ; sweeten and take out the spice, &c. ; pour it into the dish; when cold, strew white pounded sugar over, and brown it with a salamander. Or:—Make a rich custard without sugar, boiling lemon- peel in it. When cold, sift a good deal of sugar over the whole, and brown the top with a salamander. Snow Cream.—Put to a quart of cream the whites of 3 eggs well beaten, 4 spoonfuls of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and a bit of lemon-peel; whip it to a froth, remove the peel, and serve it in a dish. ALMOND CREAM. 666. —Pound 4 oz. of sweet almonds, and a few bitter, both having been blanched with a teaspoonful of water to prevent oiling. Put the paste to a quart of cream, and add the juice of 3 lemons sweetened: beat it up with a whisk to a froth, which take off on the shallow part of a sieve; fill glasses with some of the liquor and the froth.