Chap. XYII.] GRAVY, SAUCES, AND CURRY. 289 Parsley and Butter.—Scald a large handful of parsley in boiling water that has some salt in it; when tender chop it-fine, and stir it into some rather thick melted butter. There should be sufficient parsley to make the sauce green, and the parsley should not be put to the melted butter until about to be served, otherwise it will turn brown. Fennel Sauce.—Proceed as for parsley and butter. The first is used for the various purposes of fish, poultry, and fresh boiled meats; fennel mostly for mackerel. Caper Sauce, white.—Put whole capers into melted butter, adding a little of the vinegar they are pickled in, a pint of salt, and sufficient cream to make it white. This is used principally for boiled mutton. Caper Sauce, brown.—Take some thick brown sauce, add- ing the vinegar the capers are pickled in ; season it highly with cayenne and salt. Put capers to the sauce just before serving ; and they must be used liberally. Nasturtium buds or seeds are sometimes used as a substitute. EGG SAUCE. 311. —Boil the eggs hard, cut them in small dice, and put the pieces into melted butter. The yolk may however be crushed to a powder, and used to thicken the butter. Or, if a more savoury sauce is required, boil 2 eggs hard, mince them very fine, add a third portion of grated ham or tongue, a very little white pepper, and the juice of a lemon ; warm it up in melted butter. It is chiefly used for roast fowl and salt codfish ; and if the butter be sound, the salted will be found quite as good for all these purposes as the fresh. GARLIC SAUCE.—E. R. t 312. —Peel the garlic, divide it into cloves, boil it for 5 minutes in water, then pour it off; add boiling water, and boil it 5 minutes longer; repeat the process a third and fourth time, then strain the garlic, and send it to table in white sauce. The strength of the flavour may be either increased or diminished according to the length of time in boiling. In Languedoc, and many other parts of France, it is made by pounding the cloves in a mortar, and adding sweet oil until it is thus made into a paste of the appearance of cream, and is eaten with all sorts of meat, both roast and boiled. If not, used as sauce, the cloves will be found very delicate if served as a vegetable. If properly done, it will taste like almonds. u