Chap. IX.] MUTTON. 151 jar, and serve it very hot. Green peas or any other vegetables may be added. Au d’Almoyse is Turkish. Take 1 lb. of the tender part of a loin of mutton, chop the lean and the fat together very small. Boil 2 oz. of rice very tender, mix it with the meat while warm, then season the whole with the juice of half an onion, a small quantity of pepper and salt, and the yolk and 1 white of an egg; make the mixture into balls. Take sufficient quantity of vine-leaves, boil them till they are quite tender, and wrap up the balls in them. Put the balls into a small quantity of mutton-broth, stew them IT hour over a slow fire, then take them out of the stewpan, and thicken the gravy with j the yolk of an egg and a little cream; season with pepper and salt, squeeze the juice of a lemon over the balls, and serve them up with the sauce over them, which will be white. For a Mutton Pilau.—Take T lb. of the neck of mutton ; boil it well; boil also 2 cups of rice, the same as for curry. Cut the boiled mutton into small pieces, and fry it in butter; then add it and the rice with the butter, a few cloves, a little cinnamon, and some cardamoms ; let the whole simmer for T an hour. In dishing it, put a little rice at the bottom of the dish, the meat in the centre; cover it over with the remainder of the rice, and scatter the spice on the top. A CAMP DISH. 133. —1Take any joint of mutton, put it into a pot with a good many onions cut small, and as many vegetables as can be obtained to add to it; 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 5 of port wine; season it with black and red pepper; add a spoon- ful of flour, and, if at hand, 4 dessertspoonfuls of Harvey’s sauce and essence of anchovies. Cover the meat with water, and let it stew 1^ hour ; it should be stirred frequently to pre- vent it from burning, as there should be only water sufficient to cook it. Should there be a steam-apparatus do not add the water. This is an excellent dish in camp, and it also suits a family where there are many persons to be fed from one joint. A fowl may be added to or substituted for the mutton. CHINA CHIIOE. 134. —Mince a pint basin of undressed neck of mutton, or