Chap. VII.] SOUPS OF VEAL, POULTRY, AND GAME. 87 entire for the stock-pot, and the unconsumed parts are most commonly stewed down along with gravy-beef. The better mode is, however, to take the breasts, or any portion of the white meat which has been left, and pound it in a mortar ; putting the backs and legs in a stewpan with a quart of veal gravy and a slice of lean ham, 2 or 3 green onions, and a little pep- per and salt, and letting them stew till the goodness is com- pletely extracted ; then take out the backs and legs, and put in a pint of strong gravy; take the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs and pound them with the meat that is in the mortar; rub it through the tamis; add it to the liquor in which the legs were stewed: this must be done last, as, if it stands long, it will spoil. Mix all together, and heat and stir it over the fire until it be of the desired consistency. If too thick, add some pure veal gravy ; but season it very moderately, as it ought to possess sufficient of the high game flavour. PARTRIDGE AND PHEASANT SOUP. 29. —Skin a leash of old birds, and cut them into pieces, with 3 or 4 slices of ham, 3 lbs. of gravy beef, a stick of celery, and 3 large onions cut into slices. Fry them all in butter till brown, but take care not to burn them. Then put them into a stewpan, with 5 pints of boiling water, a few pep- percorns, and a little salt. Stew it gently 2 hours; then strain it through a sieve, and put it again into a stewpan, with some stewed celery and fried bread; when it is near boiling, skim it, pour it into a tureen, and serve it up hot. CLEAR HARE SOUP.—E. R. 30. —Cut a large hare into pieces, and put it, together with a scrag or knuckle of veal, and a cow-heel, into a kettle, with 5 or 6 quarts of water, herbs, onion, &c., and a little mace ; stew it over a slow fire for 2 hours, or until the gravy is good ; then take out the back and legs, cut the meat off, returning the bones, and stewing the whole until the meat is nearly dis- solved. Then strain off the gravy, put a glass of wine to every quart of the soup, and send it to table with the meat cut into small pieces, and warmed with the wine, which will take about 10 minutes or f of an hour. Soup may be made in much the same way of either leveret or fawn, only not stewing them so long.