MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XYI. 280 then have a sufficient quantity of good gravy, into which the liquor of 2 or 3 dozen of oysters has been strained ; thicken it with cream or butter: put it into a stewpan with the fish already named, a lobster cut in pieces, a spoonful of essence of anchovies, and a glass of Madeira. Warm the whole together, and send it to table with a lemon garnish. The sauce to this dish must be very rich, and of a fine dark colour. FISH PA TE. 293. —This is a pretty mode of enclosing a fricassee of fish with a potato wall without a crust of pastry. Mash in a mortar as many potatoes as you may want, with a good piece of butter; then, with the bowls of 2 silver spoons, raise a wall of it inches high within the rim of the dish to be used. Let the upper part be a little thinner than the lower; smooth it; and, after brushing it all over with egg, put it into the oven to become hot, and a little coloured. Before egging it, the outside may be ornamented with flowers, leaves, &c., by the small tin shapes used to cut paste. Beat the whole of a crab picked clean from the shell in a marble mortar, with white pepper and salt, nutmeg, and a very few crumbs of bread; warm it with a little gravy thickened with cream or butter and a spoonful of wine, and, when thoroughly warmed, add a little lemon-juice. Pour it into potato walls previously baked, but not covered like a pie, and serve it up hot, either browning it with the salamander, or covering the top with fancifully arranged small claws. FISH CAKE. 294. —Cut the meat from the bones, put them, the head and fins, over the fire to stew for gravy, with a pint of water, an onion, herbs, pepper, and salt. Mince the meat, put to it | part of crumbs of bread, a little minced onion, parsley, pepper, salt, and a very small bit of mace: mix well, and make it into a cake with white of egg and a little melted butter; cover it with raspings, and fry it a pale brown, keeping a plate on the top while doing. Then lay it in a stewpan, with the fish gravy, and stew it gently i of an hour; turn it twice, but with great care not to break it: cover it closely while stewing. Cake of dressed meat, done in the same way, is remarkably good.