MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XX. 374 packed, the less butter will be wanted. Cover them with butter, then with very thick paper, tie down and bake them. When cold, put them dry into pots that will hold 2 or 3 in each ; and pour butter over them, using' that which was baked as part. Observe that the butter should be pretty thick over them if they are to be kept. If pigeons were boned and then put in an oval form into the pot, they would lie closer and require less butter. They may be stuffed with a fine force- meat made with veal, bacon, &c. If a high flavour is ap- proved of, add mace, allspice, and a little cayenne, before baking. Partridges and Pheasants.—Clean them nicely, and sea- son with mace, allspice, white pepper, and salt, in fine pow- der, or seasoning spice. Rub every part well; then lay the breast downwards in a pan, and pack the birds as close as you possibly can. Put a good deal of butter on them ; then cover the pan with a coarse flour paste, and a paper over, tie it close, and bake. When cold, put the birds into pots, and cover them with butter. Or :—When baked and grown cold, cut them into proper pieces for helping; pack them close into a large potting-pan, and (if possible) leave no spaces to receive the butter. Cover them with butter, and. -i- part less will be wanted than when the birds are done whole. Hare.—Hang up a hare 4 or 5 days with the skin on; then case it, and cut it up as for eating ; put it in a pot, and season it with mace, pepper, and salt; put 1 lb. of butter upon it, tie it down, and bake it in a bread-oven till tender. When it comes out, pick it from the bones, and pound to a smooth consistence with the fat from the butter, and pot it in the usual way.3 Rabbits.—Cut up 2 or 3 young but full-grown ones, and take the leg-bones off at the thigh; pack them as closely as possible in a small pan, after seasoning them with pepper, mace, cayenne, salt, allspice, all in very fine powder. Make the top as smooth as you can. Keep out the liver and the carcases, but take off the meat above the neck. Rut a good deal of butter, and bake the whole gently. Keep it 2 days in the pan ; then shift it into small pots, adding butter. The livers also should be added, as they eat well. “ Mrs. Raffald’s ‘ Experienced English Housekeeper,’ p. 297.