308 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XVII. yolks of 3 fresh eggs ; strain them, mix the liquor by degrees with them, and, when well mixed, set the saucepan over a gentle fire, keeping the basin in one hand, into which toss the sauce to and fro, and shake the saucepan over the fire, that the eggs may not curdle. Do not boil them, only let the sauce be hot enough to give it the thickness of melted butter. Dutch Fish-sauce.—Put 2 blades of mace into 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar, boil it till reduced to 1 ; add the yolk of an egg, mix it well together. Put to it l lb. of butter kneaded with flour, stir it over the fire, but do not let it boil. If it should curdle a little cold water will smoothen it aaain. OYSTER SAUCE. 357.—Scald the oysters in their own liquor, beard them, strain the liquor, let it settle; melt a piece of fresh butter, add flour sufficient to thicken the quantity of sauce, let it fry a little; pour in the liquor of the oysters and sufficient cream to make it the required thickness; add salt, cayenne, and the oysters. Or:—This is almost universally served with boiled cod. Beard the oysters, and put the beards with the liquor to stew for about i of an hour, together with a blade of mace ; then strain the liquor, put the oysters into it, and let them just boil up, adding some butter which has been rubbed in flour and a little cream or milk ; but do not let them quite boil, or they Avill become hard. Or :—To every dozen of oysters put 1 ounce of butter melted very thick, and diluted with the oyster-liquor, t a glass of white wine, and veal broth, seasoned only with salt and a very little cayenne pepper. Should the oysters be of the large sort-, they may be cut in half, which will afford the opportunity of removing the hard part contained in the centre. Brown Oyster-sauce is frequently served up with rump-steaks. As the butter destroys the savouriness of the meat, the oysters, instead of being stewed in white sauce, should be dressed in strong beef-gravy, along with a good portion of ketchup, either stewed for a few minutes very gently, or put into an uncovered dish along with the gravy, and placed before the j fire in a Dutch oven to brown. 2 dozen will fill a pint tureen ; this sauce will also be found excellent as an accompanim ent to I roast turkey.