576 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXVIII. YEAS T. 805.—As to Yeast or Yest, or as some people call it “barm,” there can be no doubt that the best is that taken from good brewers’ ale, which not only causes the dough to rise with more certainty than any other composition, but also imparts to the bread a slight aromatic bitter of a very agree- able flavour. This, however, cannot always be got, and although yeast of a good quality may generally be found at most country oil-shops, we here add a few receipts for those who prefer having it made at home: premising that, as these are not so strong as the brewers’ yeast, a larger quantity must be used. To 4 oz. of malt and 2 oz. of hops put a quart of boiling water, and let it remain boiling for 20 minutes, then strain the liquor to 8 oz. of flour; cover it until it ferments, and use it when it rises. Patent Yeast.—The following is copied from the original specification in the patent-office, from which was introduced the system, still in use amongst bakers, of making a ferment with potatoes for raising dough, instead of what was termed “ quarter-sponges — “ To make a yeast-gallon of this composition, such yeast- gallon containing 8 beer-quarts, boil in common water 8 lbs. of potatoes, as for eating : bruise them perfectly smooth, and mix with them, while warm, 2 oz. of fine honey, and 1 beer- quart of common yeast. For making bread, mix 3 beer-pints of the above composition with a bushel of flour, using warm water in making the bread : the water to be warmer in winter than in summer, and the composition to be used in a few hours after it is made; and so soon as the sponge, or the mixture of the composition with the flour, begins to fall the first time, the bread should be made and put into the oven.” Persons who are in the habit of making their own bread can easily manufacture their own yeast, by attending to the following directions:— Boil 1 lb. of good flour, i lb. of brown sugar, and 4 oz. of salt, in 2 gallons of water for an hour; when nearly cold, bottle it, and cork it close, and it will be fit for use in 24 hours. 1 pint will make 18 lbs. of bread.