Chap. XXXII.] DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. f 646 hardened, a very little use will injure them ; and, as they arc very expensive articles, care in preserving them is necessary. It answers to keep them some time before they are used, either hung up in a dry barn where they will have air, or laid down in a spare room. When taken up for the winter, they should be rolled round a carpet-roller, and observe not to crack the paint by turning the edges in too suddenly. Old carpets answer extremely well, painted and seasoned some months before laid down. If for passages, the width must be directed when they are sent to the manufactory, as they are cut before painting. To clean Floor-cloths.—Sweep, then wipe them with a flannel; and when all dust and spots are removed, rub with a waxed flannel, and then with a dry plain one; but use little wax, and rub only enough with the latter to give a little smoothness, or it may endanger falling. Washing now and then with milk, after the above sweeping and dry-rubbing them, gives as beautiful a look, and they are less slippery. To dust Carpets and Floors.—Sprinkle tea-leaves on them, then sweep carefully. The former should not be swept frequently with a whisk- brush, as it wears them fast; only once a-week, and at other times with the leaves and a hair-brush. Fine carpets should be gently done with a hair hand-brush, such as is used for clothes, on the knees. To clean Carpets.—Take up the carpet, let it be well beaten, then laid down, and brush on both sides with a hand- brush ; turn it the right side upwards, and scour it with ox- gall and soap and water very clean, and dry it with linen cloths. Then lay it on grass, or hang it up to dry. To blacken the fronts of stone Chimney-pieces.—Mix oil-^- varnish with lamp-black, and a little spirit of turpentine to thin it to the consistence of paint. Wash the stone with soap and water very clean ; then sponge it with clear water; and when perfectly dry brush it over twice with this^colour, letting it dry between the times. It looks extremely well. The lamp-black must be sifted first. To clean the back of the Grate, the inner Hearth, and the fronts of cast-iron Stoves.—Boil about i lb. of the best black o