160 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. Chap. X. / Or :■—Skin the head and split it; then wash and clean tho- roughly both it and the entrails—which consist of the “ hinge ” and “ fry,”—and lay the whole in boiling water for a an hour; then take out the heart, liver, and lights; mince them very small; and toss them up with a quart of either veal or mutton broth, a little ketchup, and a spoonful of cream, sea- soned with pepper and salt. When the head is sufficiently boiled, rub it over with yolk of egg, and powder it with crumbs of bread; baste it well with butter, and brown it before the fire. Keep the mince hot; and when all is ready, dish the mince with the head over it, and the brains made into savoury balls as a garnish. A little minced bacon is not a bad addition, and parsley, thyme, and finely-chopped herbs may be used at pleasure: the head may have a squeeze of lemon, and the mince a grating of nutmeg. LAMB'S FRY. 147. —Parboil it; dip it in eggs, then in bread-crumbs, fry it crisp, and serve it dry, with fried parsley, without any sauce. LAMB'S SWEETBREADS. 148. —Blanch them, and put them into cold water. Then put them into a stewpan, with a ladleful of broth, some pepper and salt, a small bunch of button onions, and a blade of mace: stir in a bit of butter and flour, and stew ^ an hour. Have r^ady the yolks of 2 or 3 eggs well beaten in cream, with a little minced parsley and a few grates of nutmeg. Put in some boiled asparagus-tops to the other things. Do not let it boil after the cream is in; but make it hot, and stir it well all the time. Take great care it does not curdle. French beans or peas may be added, but they should be very young. To fricassee Lamb-stones and, Sweetbreads.—Have ready some iamb-stones blanched, parboiled, and sliced. Flour 2 or 3 sweetbreads : if very thick, cut them in two. Fry all toge- ther, with a few large oysters, of a fine yellow brown. Pour the butter off, and add a pint of good gravy, some asparagus- tops about an inch long, a little nutmeg, pepper and salt, 2 shalots or some chives shred fine, and a glass of white wine. Simmer 10 minutes ; then put a little of the gravy to the yolks of 3 eggs well beaten, and by deg'rees mix the whole. I urn