301 Chap. XVII.] GRAVY, SAUCES, AND CURRY1 oil if cold. This is very relishing with either hot or cold game, and can be made in a few minutes. ACHA.—E. R. 341. —a a large Spanish onion, 4 capsicums, as much salt and lemon-juice as may be agreeable to the palate, all pounded together in a mortar. Fish Acha.—Boil a piece of salt fish, cut an onion and some capsicums in pieces, pound them well together, add a little vinegar, and make them into a puree. Indian-pickle Sauce.—Take some gravy, thicken with flour and butter; cut in small dice some Indian pickle, add a little of the vinegar, let it boil up, throw in the dice, and serve hot. This is for salmon cutlets ; it is also good for broiled mackerel or for grilled chicken. SAUCES PIQUANTES—E. R. 342. —Put into a stewpan the muscles of a knuckle of veal, some slices of ham or bacon, a cupful of gravy, a spoonful or two of'strong vinegar, a bayleaf, a clove of garlic, a little thyme, 1 clove, and a little salt; skim it, and, when it has stewed i of an hour, pass it through a sieve : then add sorrel, parsley, and mushrooms, all chopped fine, and whole capers; heat it again, and serve it in the dish. Or:—Put 1 or 2 oz. of butter, with 2 shred onions, a carrot, a parsnip, a little thyme, laurel, basil, 2 cloves, 2 shalots, a clove of garlic, and some parsley, into a stewpan ; turn the whole over the fire till it becomes brown, then shake in some flour, and moisten it with some broth and a spoonful of vinegar. Let it boil over a slow fire ; skim and strain it; then add pepper and salt; and serve with any dish of which you would wish to have the flavour heightened. A V Espagnole.—Besides a few slices of ham and veal, put into a stewpan any remains which you may have of poultry and game, and let them boil for 1 hour in water more than sufficient to cover them ; after which skim off the fat from the gravy, add fried onions,. sweet herbs, a bay-leaf, spice, mace, and mushrooms, with minced carrots, celery, shalots, and a small clove of garlic, and leave the whole to stew until quite mashed : it will take full 2 hours. Then strain it, and if the gravy be not strong enough add sufficient coulis or glaze to