535 Chap. XXVI.] PICKLES. TO PICKLE CAULIFLOWERS. 751. —Cut them before, they are too much blown, and upon a dry day; strip off the leaves, and quarter the stalk; scald them in salt and water, but do not allow them to boil; then lay them to cool, covering them that they may not lose their colour; sprinkle them with salt and water; put them on a colander for 24 hours to drain. When dry, cut out the thick stalk, or, if it be large, divide it, give it a boil, and split the flower into 8 or 10 pieces; then put them carefully into jars, and cover them with cold vinegar which has been previously boiled with spices; or the cauliflowers may have 1 boil in salt and vinegar, and be taken out immediately, and put into cold vinegar previously boiled with spices—2 oz. each of coriander- seed and turmeric, 1 oz. each of mustard-seed and ginger, with i oz. each of mace and nutmeg, or cinnamon, to every 3 quarts of vinegar; the spices may, however, be varied. Brocoli and the tops of asparagus may be pickled in the same manner. TO PICKLE TOM AT AS. 752. —For this purpose the small round ones are the best, and each should be pricked with a fork, to allow some of the juice to exude, but keep it for the pickle. Put them into a deep earthen vessel, sprinkle salt between every layer, and leave them there for 3 days covered ; then wash off the salt, and cover them with a pickle of cold vinegar, to which add the juice, mixed with a large handful of mustard-seed and 1 oz. each of cloves and white pepper, as being generally sufficient for 1 peck of fruit. It makes an excellent sauce for roast meat, and will be ready in about a fortnight. In America it is sometimes mixed up with layers of thinly- sliced onions; and chopped celery is a good addition, either with or without onions. TO PICKLE LEMONS. 753. —Take the finest with the thickest rind you can get, cut them deeply from end to end in more than one place, but not quite through, and fill the incisions with salt; put each on end, and lay them in a dish near the fire, or in the sun if the weather be hot, to dissolve the salt, and repeat this during 3 weeks; then put them into a jar, with a handful of white mustard-seed if it be large, i to £ lb. of bruised ginger,