392 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXI. machine is made large enough to contain as many as 4 eggs. It is fixed upon trivets, and not deeper than a dripping-pan ; but each small machine being furnished with a handle, a single egg can be removed, and put on whatever the cook chooses. Poached eggs are commonly placed upon buttered toast, broiled ham, or boiled spinach; but in France they are not uncommonly served in a consomme of beef. Indeed, we have there seen them brought up singly, in tablespoons filled with the gravy, and each swallowed up at a mouthful! OMELETTE. 514,—In France, and indeed throughout the Continent, this is the most usual mode of dressing eggs, after that of boiling them in the shell, as being in small families a sure resource to fall back upon in cases of emergency. It is, however, extra- ordinary that, in England, scarcely any of the common cooks succeed in bringing them to table nicely dressed, though nothing can be more simple. In the ordinary way the eggs are made into a batter ; but if time be allowed, this should be done some hours before the omelet is wanted, and the batter again whisked up just before it is to be dressed. Four eggs will make a very pretty-sized omelet, but the number of eggs must of course depend on the size required. If sweet herbs be put in, a good deal of parsley should form part; tarragon gives a high flavour, and chives or shalots are not unfrequently used, but care should be taken that the flavour should not supersede that of the other ingredients. Omelets are judiciously varied by mixing grated ham or tongue with minced anchovies, when served at supper or as a side-dish at dinner ; but when intended for the breakfast-table, it is more delicate to make them of eggs alone. Although a common frying-pan may be used, yet one made on purpose, not larger than the size of a dessert-plate, should be employed, so as not to allow the omelet too much spread- ing, for it should always be kept of a certain degree of thick- ness to secure the softness of the inside. It is therefore only to be fried on one side, and when the under is browned and the upper brought to a moderate state of consistence, the fried side is to be folded over the other in three. Butter is better than either lard or dripping for the frying