200 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIII. waters, until the strength is out and they are tender; cut a piece of boiled pickled pork into dice; take a tablespoonful of hot vinegar, some sweet herbs chopped, and the yolk of an egg beaten ; make this quite thick with herbs, mix it with the pork and onions, and then stuff the inside of the fowl with it; braise the fowl in a little broth and butter, and serve with white sauce. Aux Poix.—Put some butter into a stewpan, add flour until it is rather stiff, then put in some small pieces of bacon ; let it brown a little, then cut up the fowl and put it in : moisten the gravy, mix it well, and season with parsley, sorrel, young onions, i a bay-leaf, and a clove, and let it boil. Put in the peas over a quick fire, skim, and when done enough pour the sauce over the fowl. Poulet Blanc.—Choose a good, tender, fat fowl; melt ^ lb. butter in a stewpan, turn the fowl in for a minute or two, mix 2 tablespoonfuls of flour into the butter very smoothly, taking care it does not fry. Put in the fowl, and nearly cover it with a weak veal broth; add small onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a few sprigs of parsley, with some fresh mushrooms and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Let it simmer IT hour, or, if the fowl is large, 2 hours. Before serving take out the fowl, and keep it hot whilst the gravy is prepared. Strain it, and mix with it the yolk of an egg wrell beaten, stirring it all the time till it thickens, but do not let it boil; pour it over the fowl, and garnish with slices of lemon. Fried.—Cut up a fowl, and put it into an earthen dish with slices of onions, parsley, sorrel, salt, and pepper, and the juice of 2 or 3 lemons; leave it an hour or two to absorb the juice. Put in the legs first, then the breast, wings, &c.; dip the joints in batter, fry them of a fine colour: serve them up with fried eggs, and a sauce piquante. The batter is to be made with eggs and a spoonful of oil. Or:—The remains of a cold fowl may be well employed for this purpose: it will of course not take so much time to dress. Place it round a dish, and fill up the centre with tomata, sorrel, or other sauce, made very hot and very acid. Or, cn Cotelettes.—Cut up a fowl and bone it, make the legs, wings, breast, and merrythought into 6 fine cutlets by flattening them and giving them a good shape; then take the