62 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. VI. they deserve the preference. It is worth notice, however, that those joints which are inferior may be dressed as palatably, and, being cheaper, they ought to be bought in turn. In loins of meat, the long pipe that runs by the bone should be taken out, as it is apt to taint; as also the kernels of beef. Rumps and aitchbones of beef are often bruised by the blows the drovers give the beasts, and the part that has been struck always taints : therefore do not purchase these joints if bruised. All meat should be carefully examined, and wiped with a dry cloth as soon as it comes in; and if flies have blown upon it, the pax-t must be cut off. This should be daily observed until it is dressed, as it not only tends to preserve the meat long in perfection, but prevents that musty flavour too often perceived in the outer slice when brought to table. In the country, where meat is often carried a great distance, it should be well covered up with a cloth, over which fresh cabbage-leaves would keep it cool. These cautions are more ■ needful, as in some families great loss is sustained by the ■ spoiling of meat. The fly may in soiue measure be prevented! by dusting, upon the parts most likely to be attacked, pepper • and ginger mixed, after wiping, which should never be omitted; but a more easy and effectual mode is to exclude1 the fly by using a wire meat-safe, or to cover the joints withi a long loose gauze or thin cloth, and hang them up from the ceiling of an airy chamber. In summer meat should be wiped every day, or sprinkled with pepper to keep off the flies; and should it wear any appear- ance of becoming tainted, it should be brushed over with i pyroligneous acid ; or even if already slightly infected, either the acid or roughly-pounded charcoal, if well rubbed into the meat, will restore it. The meat should also be brought; in eai’ly in the morning, as, if much exposed to the sun, the heat will render it flabby. In frosty weather, meat is some- times in a congealed state, and should be thawed by soaking it in cold water before putting it to the fire. Meats become more tender, and consequently more digest- ible, as well as better flavoured, by hanging; but veal and lamb will not bear it so long as the flesh of older animals. In summer, 2 days is enough for lamb and veal, and from 3 to > 4 for beef and mutton ; in cold weather, these latter may be kept for more than double that time without risk of being, tainted.