Chap. XVII.] GRAVY, SAUCES, AND CURRY. 293 are done, then stir in sufficient flour to thicken the sauce ; stir it over the fire well, then mix in gradually the liquor the celery was boiled in, and as much new milk boiling as may be required for the dish. Let it boil 20 minutes ; strain through a fine sieve; put in the celery; add salt and a little fine white sugar; serve boiling hot, and rather thick. Til UFFLE SA UCE. 321. —Take a pound of truffles ; brush and wash them care- fully ; put them in a stewpan with some good gravy, two wine- glasses of white wine, a small onion, a faggot of parsley and thyme, and an ounce of bacon fat. Let them stew gently until quite tender; take them out, strain and skim the gravy, thicken it with roux or a lump of flour and butter ; peel the truffles, cut them in slices as thick as a penny-piece, warm them in the sauce, and serve. CHES TNUT SA UCE. 322. —Scald a score of chestnuts in hot water for 10 minutes ; skim them ; let them stew gently for about i an hour in some good gravy seasoned with a glass of white wine, a little white pepper, salt, and mace or nutmeg; and when quite soft, serve them in the dish. Or :—Pulp them through a colander to thicken the gravy, making it either brown or white, by using in the former beef- (jrcLvy, and in the latter veal-broth, with pounded almonds, and without pepper. Either of these is equally fit for sauce to guinea-bird or turkey, as well as for stuffing the body of the bird. SAUCES FOR WHITE POULTRY BOILED—E. R. 323. —Liver-sauce.—Take the livers of as many fowls as may be required for the intended quantity of sauce, or, that of a rabbit being much larger, take 1 liver, boil it with some sprigs of thyme and parsley ; dissolve in the water, after taking it out, 2 anchovies boned; boil 2 eggs hard, leave out 1 white, and shred the rest with the liver, herbs, and anchovies; pound them together in a mortar, adding a saltspoonful of grated lemon-peel and a little pepper and salt. Put it into the saucepan, squeeze upon it. the juice of ^ a lemon, thicken the liquor with butter and a little flour, add to it the pounded ingredients, and stir it until finished. 1 (JravH be used instead of water, and butter be A %. . MB'1'