Chap. XXV.] PRESERVED FRUITS. 511 they are fully ripe, scald them in a jar plunged into boiling water, then pare them and take out the stones; put them into a syrup of half their weight of sugar, in proportion of 1 pint of water to 4 lbs. of sugar; let them scald awhile, and then boil until they are clear. Let them stand for 2 days in the syrup, and then put them into a thin candy, and scald, but not boil, them in it. Keep them 2 days longer in the candy, heating them each day, and then lay them on glasses to dry. APPLE-JUICE TO USE FOR JELLY. 705. — Pour into a stewpan a quart of cold water; throw into it, as quickly as they can be peeled, cored, and weighed, 4 lbs. of' good boiling apples of fine flavour—codlings are the best; stew them till the fruit is well broken ; strain through a jelly- bag ; to every quart of this juice allow It lb. of sugar. This makes a beautiful jelly to preserve other fruits in. TO PRISER VE RIPE PEA CHES.—E. R. 706. —October is the best month, as they are then harder and larger. Put them into a preserving-pan full of cold water, with a slice or two of lemon ; set them on a slow fire ; have ready a sieve and a napkin ; bq careful not to do them too much : some will be ready sooner than others. When they begin to be soft they are done enough: drain them on the sieve, and let them stand until cold ; then put them into glasses: pound sugarcandy very fine in a mortar, dissolve it in brandy, and fill up the glasses with it. Or:—Wipe, weigh, and pick the fruit, and have ready a quarter of the weight of fine sugar in fine powder. Put the fruit into an icepot that shuts very close; throw the sugar over it, and then cover the fruit with brandy. Between the top and cover of the pot put a piece of double cap-paper. Set the pot in a saucepan of water till the brandy be as hot as you can possibly bear to put your finger in, but it must not boil. Put the fruit into a jar, and pour the brandy on it. When cold put a bladder over it, and tie it down tight. TO PRESERVE NECTARINES—E. R. 707. —Split the fruit, take out the stones, and put the nec- tarines into clarified sugar till they take it well. Skim the liquor, cover the nectarines with paper, and set them by until the next day. Add sugar to the syrup, boiling it until