MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. VIE 104 will cover them, until the whole are done to a mash ; strain it through a coarse cloth, and boil the liquor, closely covered, 1 hour. Have ready some of the above-mentioned vegetables, cut small; flour, and boil them in butter, and simmer them in the soup an hour with pepper, salt, and a few cloves. Soften a rasped French roll in good broth, and, having mixed the yolks of 6 fresh eggs with a few crumbs, stir them into the soup, and pour the whole over the roll. Or;—Have ready the pulp of old or fresh peas ; and add them, and as much of the water that boiled them, with 4 oz. of butter, pepper, and salt, as will make the soup of a proper consistence. Stir often, and boil till ready to serve. RAY OR SKATE SOUP. 60. —This fish contains a number of small bones, surround- ing the pectoral fins, which are so delicate as to be easily con- verted into a jelly, and therefore well adapted for the making of soup. Make it of the stock directed for fish soup, with 1 oz. of vermicelli boiled in it a little before it is served. Then add 4 pint of cream, beaten with the yolks of 2 eggs. Stir it near, but not on, the fire. Serve it with a small French roll made hot in a Dutch oven, and then soaked in the soup an hour. Soup may, in like manner, be made of Thames flounders, plaice, or any of the flat fish. CODLING AND HADDOCK SOUP. 61. —Take the meat from a codling, pound it in a mortar with 4 pint of shrimps shelled; shred some parsley, and pound the whole with the crumb of a roll previously soaked in milk ; make the mixture up into balls with an egg ; season with mace and pepper; and stew down 2 or 3 codlings or haddocks into good broth ; strain it, take out the meat, pulp it through a sieve, boil it with parsley-roots, thicken the soup, and send it up with the forcemeat-balls. A CoiVs-head also forms an admirable soup ; but in London and other great towns they are too expensive to be thus used. Halibut is, however, cheap, and good soup may be made from it; as also from hake and ling, which both bear an inferior price in our markets.