MEAT PIES. Chap. XXII.] 415 When completed, flour a towel, wrap the paste up in it, and put it into a pan; if in cold weather in a warm situation, and if in hot weather in a cold one. It is best made a day before it is wanted. Very minute pieces, shaped in any way, add greatly to the excellence of soup, to be boiled with it, or stewed in the gravy of a vol-au-vent, and strewed over the top. It is cut into shapes also, and fried as the accompaniment of braised dishes of every kind. It is an exquisite case for lobster and other patties, or, brushed over with egg, may be fried in shapes for a side-dish : or it may be boiled in cups, 6 in a dish, and served up with asparagus cut small and heaped upon the top, and a white sauce round. In fact, a clever cook, by em- ploying different flavouring ingredients, either sweet or savoury, may make endless dishes of brioche. It should not, however, predominate ; and, therefore, it is best to make only a small quantity at a time, where the consumption of the family is not great. It will not keep long. The proper length of time for baking can only be learned by practice and attention on the part of the cook; much depending on the state of the oven, as well as the size of the article to be cooked : its appearance will, however, be generally found a pretty safe guide. MEAT PIES, PATTIES, &c. 543.—There are few articles of cookery more generally liked than relishing pies, if properly made; and they may be formed of a great variety of things. . Raised Pies may be made of any kind of flesh, fish, fruit, or poultry, if baked in a wall of paste instead of a baking-dish ; but they are generally eaten cold, and made so large and savoury as to remain a long time before being consumed, for which reason they also bear the name of “ standing pies.” In making them the cook should always take care to have a good stock that will jelly, made from the bones and trimmings, to fill up the pie when it comes from the oven, and also that when cold there may be enough jelly. For want of this precaution pies become dry before they can be eaten. The materials are of course frequently varied, but the mode of preparation is so nearly the same as not. to require the recital of more than a few prominent receipts.