Chap. XXVII.] BUNS. 569 in one of them i lb. of butter, warming it slightly; then, when it is melted, set it away to cool; beat 8 eggs very light, and mix them gradually into the other pan of milk alternately with i lb. of flour; then mix in by degrees the milk that has the butter in. Lastly, stir in a large tablespoonful of strong fresh yeast, cover the pan, and set it near the fire to rise. When the batter is quite light, heat your waffle-iron, by putting it among the coals of a clear bright fire; grease the inside with butter tied in a rag, and then put in some batter. Shut the iron closely, and, when the waffle is done on one side, turn the iron on the other. Take the cake out by slipping a knife un- derneath, and then heat and grease the iron for another waffle. Send them to table quite hot, 4 or 6 on a plate, having but- tered them and strewed over each a mixture of powdered cin- namon and white sugar. Or you may send the sugar and cin- namon in a little glass bowl.a ICING FOR CAKES. 800.—Beat the whites of 4 eggs to a solid froth, add gra- dually 1 lb. of refined sugar pounded and sifted; mix in the juice of ^ a lemon ; beat it till very light and white. The cake should be cold. Place it before the fire, pour over it the icing, and smooth over the top and sides with a knife. It might be set to dry at the mouth of a cool oven. BUNS. 801.— To make a good plain Bun.—Rub 4 oz. of butter into 2 lbs. of flour, 4 oz. of sugar, a nutmeg, or not, as you like, a few Jamaica peppers, a dessertspoonful of carraways ; put a spoonful or two of cream into a cup of yeast, and as much good milk as will make the above into a light paste. Set it to rise by a fire till the oven be ready. They will quickly bake on tins. For richer Buns.—Mix H lb. of dried flour with i lb. of sugar, melt 1 lb. and 2 oz. of butter in a little warm water, add 6 spoonfuls of rose-water, and knead the above into alight “ The common sort of waffle-irons, which bake but two at once arc much the best; they may be got of any of the Jewish ironmongers. ’