401 CHEESE. Chap. XXL] them 3 parts full, and bake them in a very slow oven 18 minutes. Fried Ramequins.—Grate i lb. of cheese, and melt 2 oz. of butter; when the latter is getting cool, mix it with the cheese and the whites of 8 eggs well beaten. Lay buttered papers on a frying-pan, put slices of bread upon it, and lay the cheese on the top; set it on the fire for about 5 minutes, then take it off, and brown it with a salamander. Dutch Ramequin.—Scrape some old Cheshire cheese, pound it, with a lump of butter and the yolk of an egg boiled hard, in a marble mortar. When very well mixed, and quite smooth, spread it on slices of toasted bread and butter ; hold a salaman- der over them, and serve them quite hot. With Wine or Ale.—Scrape \ lb. of Cheshire and the same of Gloucester cheese; melt, without oiling, t lb. of butter; then beat all in a mortar with the yolks of 4 eggs, the inside of a French roll boiled in milk, and a wineglass of wine or ale. When thoroughly mixed, add the whites of the eggs, previ- I ously beaten to a froth. Put the composition into paper cases, I rather long than square, and bake them in a Dutch oven. STEWED CHEESE.—E. R. 526. —Grate 2 oz. of cheese; put it into a basin; mix with it a small teacupful of cream and an egg beaten and strained. ij Put into a small saucepan 1 oz. or 4 oz. of butter, according I to. the richness of the cheese ; let it melt, then stir in the other i ingredients, and let it boil until well mixed. Serve it hot 1 either browned or plain. The brown looks prettier, but the hi plain eats better. With Ale.—Cut the cheese into slices, pare off the rind, a and put it into a dish over a lain]) ; then pour on as much ale r] as will cover it, and let it stew until the cheese is dissolved, ij This is a Welsh method, and a very good one. The cheese ■ may be spread with mustard. A very delicious sort of paste may also be made of any of the q rich cheeses, Neufchutel, fromage de Brie, or Stilton, stewed If with cream and yolk of egg, either seasoned savourily or sweet- [*j ened ; and eaten hot or cold. WELSH RABBIT 527. —Should be made of the most mellow Gloucester cheese. 2 D