561 Chap. XXVII.] CAKES. beaten, another l lb. of sugar, 1 lb. of almonds sliced, and i lb. of flour, which last must be just sprinkled over the other in- gredients after they have been well mixed together, which will take nearly an hour. Take up a sufficient quantity of the mixture in a spoon, drop it on paper sprinkled with flour, and bake on tins in a slow oven for 2 hours. Or :—To 1 lb. of blanched sweet almonds add 2 oz. of bitter almonds, witlx the juice of 1 lemon and a glass of ratafia. ALMOND-CAKES.—E. R. 784. —Beat 1 lb. of almonds very fine with rose-water, mix in i lb. of sifted sugar, make them into shapes, put them be- fore the fire to dry on one side, then turn them. When dry on both sides, take some sifted sugar and as much white of egg as will just wet it; beat it with a spoon ; as it grows white put in a little more egg, till it is thin enough to ice the cakes ; then ice one side, dry it before the fire, and be sure it is quite dry lxefore icing the other side. The flavour of the almond is often given to pastry by bay-leaves and the essence of fruit-kernels, but pounded bitter almonds are safer and better for the purpose. Ratafia Cakes are made in the same manner, but substitute ratafia-brandy for rose-water, and use i lb. of bitter instead of the same quantity of sweet almonds; make them rather smaller. * JUMBLES. 785. —To li lb. of butter, well creamed, put 1 lb. of sugar and 3 eggs beaten well together, 14 lb. of sifted flour, and 2 spoonfuls of rose-water; mix these well together, and with a fork drop them on a tin, and bake in a quick oven. Or :—Take 4 lb. of flour, the same weight of loaf-sugar grated, 2 oz. of butter rubbed into the flour, 1 egg, and a dessertspoonfxd of ratafia-brandy or oi'ange-flower water; make it up into a paste ; if more moisture is required, add a spoon- ful of cream ; drop it on tins with a fork. Rout Drops.—Mix 2 lbs. of flour, 1 lb. of butter, 1 lb. of sugar, 1 lb. of currants clean and dry; then wet into a stiff paste, with 2 eggs, a large spoonful of orange-flower water, the same each of rose-water, sweet wine, and brandy; drop on a tin plate floured. A very short time bakes them. 2 o