MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. VII. 82 in eg, sliced onions, and heads of celery, with a little salt and an equal quantity of loaf-sugar. Break the bones, and stew all gently with 1 gallon to 6 quarts of water—according to the weight of the meat—until it is done to rags and the soup becomes sufficiently strong: skim it, and strain it through a hair sieve ; or, if allowed to stand during the night, pour it into an earthen vessel, and next morning take oh' the fat. When preparing it for table, add to the liquor from i to I lb. of sweet almonds, blanched and finely pounded; boil a short time and strain again ; then put in h pint to a pint of good thick cream, and the yolk of an egg; but when the cream and egg are put in, be careful not to let the soup boil, or it will curdle. The safest way to avoid this is to mix the cream and egg in the tureen and pour the soup upon it. This in French cookery is called “ Liaison.” Or :—Thicken it as follows :—• Blanch ~ lb. of sweet almonds, and beat them to a paste in a marble mortar, with a little water to prevent their oiling; mince a large slice of dressed veal or chicken, and beat it with a piece of stale white bread : add all this to a pint of thick cream, a bit of fresh lemon-peel, and a blade of mace, in the finest powder. Boil it a few minutes ; add to it a pint of soup, and strain and pulp it through a coarse sieve: this thickening is then fit for putting to the rest, which should boil for r> an hour afterwards. If cream cannot be had, use new milk with the yolks of f a dozen hard-boiled eggs grated and mixed with the almonds as a thickening, or beaten up with 2 spoonfuls of ground rice, arrowroot, or common flour, until it becomes quite smooth and of the thickness of cream ; and a scrag of veal will answer all the purpose of the knuckle. An excellent white Soup may be made of the knuckle of veal, after cutting off’ as much meat as will make collops; or of any kind of white poultry and rabbits ; adding 2 or 3 shank- bones of mutton nicely cleaned, and £ lb. of very fine un- dressed lean gammon of bacon, with a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of fresh lemon-peel, 2 or 3 onions, 3 blades of mace, and a dessert-spoonful of white pepper: boil all in 3 quarts of water, till the meat falls quite to pieces. White Soup may also be varied with rice : wash 2 or 3 oz. of the best kind, blanch it hi boiling water, and drain it, add