583 BREAKFAST-CAKES. Chap. XXVIII. ] batter upon the iron, and let it run within a ring to the size of a teasaucer ; turn them with the elastic blade of an old table-knife ; and when you want to use them, toast them very quickly, but not too crisply, and butter them. A Sally-Lunn, when eaten hot and well buttered, is a very favourite accompaniment of the breakfast or tea table, and may be made in either of these ways :— Into 1 pint of flour rub a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a little salt, and a little yeast. Let it rise ^ an hour before the fire. Then mix it with 2 eggs, and if not enough add a little milk; knead the dough well, and let it stand some minutes before the fire; after which, make this quan- tity into 5 cakes and have them slack-baked, as they must be well warmed in a Dutch oven before being toasted for table. Or:—Put 1 oz. of butter into almost a pint of new milk, and make it blood-warm. Beat up 3 eggs well, add to them 3 spoonfuls of good barm, and put in a little salt. Have 3 lbs. of fine flour well dried, pour in the above ingredients, and beat it up to the consistency of French bread. Lay it to sponge for 2 hours. Then pour it into a cake-pan. An hour will bake it. A very good breakfast cake may also be made with £ lb. of flour, 1 oz. of butter, and an egg, made into a paste with a spoonful of milk and a very little salt: let it rise before the fire, and bake it quickly. Cut it in half, while quite hot, and butter it. It is commonly called “ Yorkshire cake,” but when strongly impregnated with saffron, mixed with a small quantity of sugar, it is very commonly used in Bath and in Dublin as “ Saffron cake.” In America buckwheat-cakes are in great vogue as a break- fast delicacy, and, according to Miss Leslie’s receipt, are made thus:— “ Take a quart of buckwheat meal, mix with it a teaspoonful of salt, and add—if you have it—a handful of Indian meal; pour a large tablespoonful of the best brewers’ yeast into the centre of the meal ; then mix it gradually with cold water till it becomes a batter. Cover it, put it in a warm place, and set it to rise: it will take about 3 hours. When it is quite light, and covered with bubbles, it is fit to bake. Put your griddle