102 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. VII.- Iightly made, and not larger than an egg, are boiled either in broth or water, and put into the tureen just before serving, and are by most persons thought an improvement, but are more usually put into plain gravy-soup than any other, and should be made light enough to swim in it. Such are the chief soups made of vegetables on a foundation of meat; both those made solely of vegetables, without any intermixture of meat broth, may be made into very palatable soups by using the vegetable stock, as already stated. Soupe a la Julienne, and all those French soups of which we have given receipts, may also be made maigre by substi- tuting vegetable stock for meat broth ; or even making them of merely boiling water, but thickening them with butter, flour, and milk, or the yolks of eggs, and seasoning them rather highly, as they require more excitement on the palate than when made with meat; as well as those which we have named as purees. FISH SOURS. Notwithstanding the quantity of excellent fish suited to the purpose with which English markets are supplied, this nutritious, elegant, and economical viand is not often intro- duced at table in the form of soup. Nothing could be more easy than to multiply receipts for an almost endless variety: those that follow will, however, show how much may be done with many kinds of fish which are not in very high esti- mation. When not wanted as soupe-maigre, the foundation, or stock, though called “fish-soup,” is always better if made of meat, and veal is generally preferred. We, therefore, here add a receipt for its composition, as it may be applied to any kind of fish ; though, in those which we shall hereafter specify, it is not mentioned, as they are all intended to be maigre. STOCK FOR FISH SOUP. 58.—Take a dozen of flounders, or any small flat fish, and the same number of perch ; gut and clean them carefully; put them into a stewpan with 2 quarts of strong veal-broth; add a few slices of lean ham, 2 or 3 carrots, celery, and onions cut in slices, some sweet herbs and salt, with a little cayenne; stew till the fish will pass through a coarse sieve; then return