Chap. XXVII.] CAKES. 557 when making white bread, and knead well into it 2 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of Lisbon sugar, and 8 oz. of currants. Warm the butter in a teacupful of good milk. By the addition of 1 oz. of butter or sugar, or an egg or two, you may make the cake richer. A teacupful of raw cream improves it much. Bake it in a pan ; it will remain good for several days; and if carraways be substituted for currants, it may be eaten at tea with butter. SAVOY CAKE. 777.—Break 10 very fresh eggs into a pan (a round-bot- tomed biscuit pan is best for the purpose) with I lb. of sifted loaf-sugar ; set the pan in warm water and whisk very briskly for i of an hour, or until the batter is quite thick and warm ; take it out of the water and whisk until cold ; stir in as lightly as possible to thoroughly mix it, 1 lb. of flour ; flavour with essence of lemon, or the rind of a lemon rubbed on sugar ; pour into the mould and bake. Prepare the mould as follows :—Melt a little fresh butter, take off the scum, and pour it off' the dregs ; let it cool, and with a brush (a painter’s small brush is very good for the purpose) rub it well, so that it looks creamy, into all the points of the mould, and dust it with sugar and flour, mixed in equal quantities, sufficient to adhere to the batter. The same preparation is used for Sponge Cakes, baking them of course in proper moulds. Or .-—Take 8 eggs, i the whites, f lb. of lump-sugar, a lb. of flour, i pint of water, the peel of a lemon ; mix as follows :— Over night pare a good-sized lemon thin, and put the peel into the water; when about to make the cake, put the sugar into a saucepan, pour the water and lemon-peel to it, and let it stand by the fire to get hot. Break the eggs into a deep earthen \essel that has been made quite hot ^ whisk the eg^s for a few minutes with a whisk that has been well soaked in water; make the sugar and water boil up, and pour it boiling hot over the eggs ; continue to whisk them briskly for about i of an hour, or till they become quite thick and white, which is a proof of their lightness. Have the flour well dried, and quite warm from the fire ; just stir it lightly in, put the ^ake into moulds, and bake them immediately in a moderately hot oven. J