538 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXYI. may be added separately, at different periods, but they must all undergo the salting and drying process. In choosing those vegetables some discrimination may also be used: when in season, few things add a higher flavour to the pickle than the buds and flowers of the elder. India Pickle may also be made thus:—Peel, slice, and salt 1 lb. of garlic ; then put it during 3 days in the sun to dry. Salt and dry long pepper in the same way. Lay 1 lb. of white ginger in water 1 night; then scrape, slice, and lay it in salt in a pan till the other ingredients shall be ready. Prepare various vegetables thus:— Quarter small white cabbages, salt 3 days, squeeze, and set them in the sun to dry. Cut cauliflowers in their branches; take off the green from radishes ; cut celery in 3-inch lengths ; ditto young French beans whole, after being stringed ; like- wise shoots of elder, which look like bamboo. Apples and cucumbers, choose of the least seedy sort; cut them in slices, or quarters if not too large. All must be salted, drained, and dried in the sun, except the latter, over which you must pour boiling vinegar, and in 12 hours drain them, but no salt must be used. Put the spice, garlic, i lb. of mustard-seed, and as much vinegar as you think enough for the quantity you are to pickle, into a large stone jar, and 1 oz. of turmeric to be ready against the vegetables shall be dried. When they are ready, put some of them into a 2-quart stone jar. and pour over them 1 quart of boiling vinegar. Next day take out those vegeta- bles ; and, when drained, put them into a large stock-jar, and, boiling the vinegar, pour it over some more of the vegetables: let them lie a night, and do as above. Thus proceed till you have cleansed each set from the dust which must inevitably fall on them by being so long in doing; then, to every gallon of vinegar put 2 oz. of flour of mustard, mixing, by degrees, with a little of it boiling-hot. The whole of the vinegar should have been previously scalded, but set to be cool before it was put to the spice. Stop the jar tight. This pickle will not be ready for a year ; but you may make a small jar to be ready in a fortnight, by giving the cauliflower one scald in water, after salting and drying as above, but without the preparative vinegar; then pour the, vinegar, that has the spice and garlic, boiling-hot over. It at any time it be found that the vegetables have not swelled pro-