Chap. XV.] 261 FRESH-WATER EISH. a squeeze of lemon. The tench is better in this way than the carp, as being of a richer nature. To dress the Roe of Carp.—It should be a little salted, and boiled in vinegar; then cut into small pieces, seasoned with spice, and made up into cakes with bread-crumbs and minced lemon-peel. They may be either put into scallop-shells and heated before the fire, or baked in a Dutch oven. A la Cliambord.—Let a whole carp be stewed in the usual way along with the roe of the carp: when done, skin the fish, and lard it with bits of bacon, putting the fish before the fire, or in the oven, to brown ; but take out the roe, and make it into balls, to be fried with forcemeat. Then make any sauce you choose, either white or brown, and seasoned to your pleasure, and serve it under the carp. THE FRESH- WA TER BREAM 268.—Is often found in the same waters as the carp, and commonly attains the size of 2 to 3 lbs. weight. Their highest I condition is from Midsummer to Michaelmas, and they may be dressed in the same manner as carp, but are not so good. PIKE, 269.—Or Jack, as country people call it, is a ravenous fish which preys upon the smaller species which inhabit our streams, and lives to a great age, acquiring so large a size as to be sometimes found of the weight of 40 to 50 lbs. They are, however, more esteemed when not more than about 8 or 10. They spawn in March or April, and are in the best condition from Michaelmas to February. Pike, although a dry fish, and therefore much indebted to stuffing and sauce, is yet better flavoured than carp, and is much improved by rubbing a little salt down the back-bone the day before using. In cleaning it, the roe should be care- fully extracted, as it is a strong purgative ; and the fish should be left for an hour or two in vinegar before being dressed. To boil Pike.—Scale it, and stuff it through the gills ; or open as near the throat as you can, and, after well cleaning, stuff it with the following:—Grated bread, herbs, anchovies, oysters, suet, salt, pepper, mace, £ pint of cream, 4 yolks of eggs; mix all over the fire till it thickens, then put it (as a pudding) into the fish, and sew it up. Boil it, and when the