MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIY. 234 HALIBUT; OR HOLIBUT, 24S.—Partakes somewhat of the flavour of the turbot, and grows to an enormous size, being sometimes caught weighing more than a cwt.; the best size is. however, from 20 to 40 lbs., as, if much larger, it is coarse. The most esteemed parts are the flakes over the fins, and the pickings about the head; but on account of its great bulk it is commonly cut up and sold in collops, or in pieces of a few lbs. weight, at very reasonable rates. A small one cut in thin slices and crimped is very good eating. To collop Halibut.—Cut the fish into nice cutlets, of about an inch thick, and fry them ; then put them into a broth made of the bones, 4 onions, a stick of celery, and a bundle of sweet herbs, boiled together for 4 an hour. Strain this broth, thicken it, and stew the fish for 4 an hour, adding salt, pepper, a grating of nutmeg, and pounded mace, a spoonful of soy or fish-sauce, and half that quantity of lemon-juice, with a little shred lemon-peel. Or :—The collops may be fried in batter, or with beaten eggs and crumbs of bread; or if made into cutlets, cut quite thin, and fried in sweet oil, -without egg and bread-crumbs, are very good if eaten with sauce a la Tartare. To stew the Head, of Halibut.—Put a pint of beer, or any kind of wine, a few anchovies, an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and some pepper, into a stewpan; fill it nearly with water, though ale, without water, is used by many good cooks, and stew it for an hour: then strain it, and put in the head of a halibut, stew it till tender ; when done enough, thicken the gravy with butter and flour, add a little fish-sauce, and serve it up with forcemeat-balls made of a part of the fish, pounded, and rolled up with crumbs of bread, thyme, marjoram, and nutmeg, bound together with the yolk of an egg. If the fish has been stewed in plain water, a glass of wine should then be added to the sauce. CODFISH, HAKE, AND LING. 249.—There are various species of these fish caught upon our coasts, and salted, but the cod most commonly brought fresh to the London market is chiefly found on the Dogger-bank. Hake and ling, though both good fish, are seldom used by