Chap. VIII.] 115 BEEF. a little mushroom ketchup, and a tablespoonful of eschalot vinegar, with a wine-glass of port, and just before serving put in a small piece of butter rolled in flour. Serve hot in a covered dish. This part is called the “ Fillet,” and, when raw, may be either stewed whole or in the above manner. FILLET OF BEEF. 79.— To dress the inside of a Sirloin of Beef to taste like Hare.—Take the inside of a large sirloin that has hung until tender; soak it 24 hours in a few glasses of port wine and vinegar. Have ready a good stuffing as for hare; do not spread, but put it into the middle of the beef, and roll it up tight. Roast, it on a hanging spit, and baste it with a glass of the wine and vinegar, mixed with a teaspoonful of Jamaica pepper, and a clove or two, in the finest powder, until it is all dried up ; then baste with butter. Serve with a rich gravy in the dish, and currant-jelly sauce in a tureen. B UMP OF BEEF. SO.—If of a well-fed ox, and hung till tender, this is one of the most juicy and best flavoured of all the joints of beef, but is more frequently stewed than roasted. It is generally sold in the country undivided from the aitch-bone ; or cut across, and not lengthwise, as in London, which makes it too large for one dressing, and neither fit for boiling: nor roasting1. At family dinners, a Yorkshire pudding is a usual accompa- niment, but now seldom served at genteel tables. TO S TE W BEEF. 81.—It should be put down in a pot with just sufficient cold water to cover the meat, and closely covered. After boiling 3 or 4 hours, according to the size of the piece, cut in small pieces, not larger than dice, 2 or 3 carrots and heads of celery, with a little sweet herbs, and put them into the pot along with peppercorns, mace, and a couple of large onions stuck full of cloves, and let it then simmer by the side of the fire for 2 to 3 hours, taking care to skim off any grease that may appear on the top. I>y this time the meat will probably be tender enough ; when take out the whole onions, mince them, and fry them in butter, to be mixed in the gravy made by the meat, which season with salt and cayenne, or chili-vinegar, to which add