MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. IX. 142 according to its size. It will require longer than usual to roast, and will be quite black, but the flavour will be delicious. When nearly done, remove the paper. Strain a little of the liquor for sauce, adding some gravy and currant jelly to it. SHOULDER OF MUTTON—E. R. 118. —May be dressed in various ways, but the most usual is to roast it nicely, and send it up with onion sauce. It is an unsightly joint, and therefore rarely brought to genteel tables ; but the appearance may be improved by cutting otf the knuckle, when it may be called a shield; and, as to flavour, it has more different sorts of meat in the various cuts than the leg. The bone may also be taken out, and the mutton stuffed; but in that case the grill of the blade-bone will be sacrificed, which, when broiled, is an admirable adjunct to the breakfast- table. A small shoulder cut into a good shape, boned and stuffed, is very good baked. It is frequently served upon a Yorkshire pudding. Salted and boiled.—Bone it; if large take 4 oz. of common salt, the same quantity of coarse sugar, mixed with a dessert- spoonful of pounded cloves, half that quantity of pepper, a little pounded mace and ginger; rub them well into the mutton, turning it every day for a week; then roll it up tight, and boil it gently for 3 or 4 hours in a quart of water, with a carrot, turnip, onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Serve it with some of its own gravy, thickened and highly flavoured, or with any piquant sauce ; or served up smothered with onions. This is very convenient to families who kill their own mutton. Members of the Yacht Club, or captains of ships are recom- mended, when they have fresh mutton, to tow it overboard for some hours, and then lay it up in the shrouds. It will then be coated with briny particles, which will effectually keep in all the juices. BREAST OF MUTTON. 119. —The brisket changes first in the breast: and if it is to be kept, it is best to rub it with a little salt, should the weather be hot. Cut off the superfluous fat, joint it well, and roast, and serve it with stewed cucumbers ; or to eat cold sprinkle it well with chopped parsley while roasting.