Chap. VII.] 79 MEAT-SOUPS. and bake it; either cut the meat from the bones, when suffi- ciently tender, and put it in small pieces into the soup, or serve up the head and trotters separately, either whole or with the meat cut off and made into a stew. In Scotland, the head is usually singed with a red-hot iron to remove the wool, but without burning or otherwise injuring the skin. The head is then soaked during the night, washed, scraped, and split; the brains taken out, and either fried or made into forcemeat balls, and the head stewed in the broth till tender. BARLEY BROTH. 12.—Take a breakfast-cupful of pearl-barley, boil it in a gallon of water gently for A an hour, then take 3 lbs. of meat—• lamb or mutton chops, with the fat cut off', or lean beef—put them into a separate stewpan, dress them with a small quantity of water, add to them any kind of vegetables—carrots and turnips, with small onions, celery, and green peas if in season —salt, pepper, and, with the water and the barley, let the whole boil gently for 2 hours or longer, and serve it up all to- gether. Or:—Take 3 quarts of good broth, cut into a stewpan 2 carrots, 3 or 4 turnips, 2 heads of celery, a lettuce, a little parsley, and some small onions, and a little butter and gravy. , Stew until the vegetables become quite tender; add to this a few spoonfuls of rice, boiled separately; put the whole to- gether, and boil for \ of an hour. SCOTCH BROTH. 13.—Set on the fire 4 ounces of pearl-barley, with 3 Scotch pints (or G quarts) of salt water: when it boils, skim it, and add what quantity of salt beef or fresh brisket you choose, and a marrow-bone or a fowl, with a couple of pounds of either lean beef or mutton, and a good quantity of leeks, cabbages, or savoys; or you may use turnips, onions, and grated carrots. Keep it boiling for at least 4 or 5 hours ; but if a fowl be used, let it not be put in till just time enough to bring it to table when well done, for it must be served up separately. Or:—Take the chops from a neck of mutton ; cut the re- mainder up in small pieces, and let it stew the whole day. Take also a breakfast-cup of Scotch barley, and boil it in water till it gets dry; then chop fine 2 large onions and turnips,