MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXYI. 542 an earthen pan, strew salt over, and stir them now and then for several days, till there is a thick scum over: strain, and boil the liquor with Jamaica and black peppers, mace, ginger, a clove or two, and some mustard-seed. Cayenne pepper is too hot, but a very little chili vinegar is an improvement. When cold, bottle it, and secure the corks as above, leaving the spice in. At the end of 3 months strain the liquor and boil with fresh spice, which put into the bottles; and in a cool place it will keep 2 or 3 years. Or:—Take a stewpan full of the large flap mushrooms that are not wormeaten, and the skins and fringe of those you have pickled: throw a handful of salt among them, and set them for a few days in a warm room, stirring them occasion- ally. They will produce a great deal of liquor, to which you must put 4 oz. of shalots, 2 cloves of garlic, a good deal of pepper, ginger, mace, cloves, and a few bay-leaves, with a stick of horseradish; boil slowly, and skim very well. When cold, put the whole in a cask without straining, but bung it close up. In 2 months boil it up again with a little fresh spice ; then strain it through a flannel bag, but boil what re- mains in it with a small quantity of strong beer; when strained, either add this to the former, or bottle it separately. It should be kept for some months before being used, but re- mains good for a long time, which mushroom-ketchup rarely does, if not boiled a second time. To all these receipts we strongly recommend the addition ol a moderate quantity of port wine—from 4 pint to not quite a pint to every 4 quarts—both as greatly improving the flavour of the ketchup and ensuring its better preservation. With regard to the spice, care should be taken not to allow it to overpower the natural flavour of the vegetable. WALNUT KETCHUP.—E. R. 761.—Take 200 walnuts at the season for pickling, beat them very small on a marble mortar, add about 6 handfuls ol salt; put them into a clean earthen pan, and stir them 2 or 3 times a day for 10 days or a fortnight. Then strain them through a cloth, pressing them very dry. Then boil up the liquor with mace, cloves, sliefed nutmeg, and whole pepper. When nearly done, add 6 cloves of shalot; bottle and cork it closely. The bottle should be shaken when the ketchup is used.