Chap. XIX.] SAUSAGES ANT) FORCEMEAT. 359 1 Or :—Beat the flesh and soft parts of a middling-sized lob- ster, half an anchovy, a large piece of boiled celery, the yolk of a hard egg, a little cayenne, mace, salt, and white pepper, with 2 tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, 1 ditto of oyster- liquor, 2 oz. of butter warmed, and 2 eggs long beaten : make into balls, and fry of a fine brown in butter. Or:—Take a few shrimps, stripped of their shells, an an- chovy, and the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, with bread-crumbs and seasoning as above, but adding some finely-minced sweet herbs, and omitting the oyster-liquor : make all this into a paste with a little butter and a raw egg, made up in balls and fried as before. Or:—Instead of making the balls of fish and frying them, it is a more simple way to make them merely of bread-crumbs, hard-boiled egg, and sweet herbs seasoned with raw egg: drop the balls, one by one, into the boiling soup a few minutes before serving. 2 eggs and j lb. of bread should make 12 or 15 balls. Or:—Pound in a mortar, into a smooth substance, an an- chovy, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, a head of boiled celery, and some sweet herbs, with a couple of tablespoonfuls of bread- crumbs, seasoned with mace, a grating of nutmeg, cayenne, and salt; then add 2 oz. of butter melted, and work it into a paste with a little flour and the yolk of a raw egg; make it into balls the size of marbles, and fry them quite brown. FORCEMEA T FOR TUR TLE (as at the Bush, Bristol). 456.—1 lb. of fine fresh suet, 1 lb. of ready-dressed veal or chicken chopped fine, crumbs of bread, a little shalot or onion, salt, white pepper, nutmeg, mace, pennyroyal, parsley, and lemon-thyme finely shred ; beat as many fresh eggs, yolks and whites separately, as will make the above ingredients into a moist paste ; roll into small balls, aifll boil them in fresh lard, putting them in just as it boils up. When of a light brown, take them out, and drain them before the fire. If the suet be moist or stale, a great many more eggs will be necessary. Balls made this way are remarkably light; but being greasy, some people prefer them with less suet and eggs. They may therefore be made thus:—Chop up the materials with a little white pepper and salt, a sage-leaf or two scalded and finely chopped, and the yolk of an egg; make them into small cakes or fritters, and fry them. i