Chap. XXII.] FISH PIES. 431 if cut into fillets, seasoned, and baked in puff-paste; but will be much improved by the addition of an eel to increase the richness of the dish, and even by a few gudgeons, mingled with the fillets. Sauce may be made of the bones, if meat be not allowed ; but if veal broth be used, then cream should be added. PILCHARD AND LEEK PIE. 573. —Clean and skin the white part of some large leeks; scald in milk and water, and put them in layers into a dish, and between the layers 2 or 3 salted pilchards which have been soaked for some hours the day before; cover the whole with a good plain crust. When the pie is taken out of the oven, lift up the side-crust with a knife, and empty out all the liquor ; then pour in 4 pint of scalded cream. This is a Devonshire dish; and may be made, in the same way, of herrings, or any sort of fish, with or without cream. LOBSTER PIE. 574. —Boil 2 lobsters, or 3 if small; take out the tails, cut them in 2, take out the gut, cut each in 4 pieces, and lay in a small dish; then put in the meat of the claws, and that you have picked out of the body; pick out the furry parts from the latter, and take out the lady; beat the spawn in a mortar, set the shells on to stew with some water, 2 or 3 spoonfuls of vinegar, pepper, salt, and some pounded mace; a large piece of butter, rolled in flour, must be added, when the goodness of the shells is obtained; give a boil or two, and pour into the dish strained; strew some crumbs, and put a paste over all; take slowly, but only till the paste be done. OYSTER PIE. 575. —As you open the oysters separate them from the liquor, which strain ; parboil them after taking ofl' the beards. Par- boil sweetbreads, and, cutting them in slices, lay them and the oysters in layers; season very lightly with salt, pepper, and mace; then put i a teacupful of liquor, and the same of veal gravy. Bake in a slow oven ; and before you serve, put a tea- cupful of cream, a little more oyster-liquor, and a cup of white gravy, all warmed, but not boiled.