Chap. VII.] SOUPS OF VEAL, POULTRY, AND GAME. 83' the rice to the soup, and let it stew until it swells ; or thicken it with ground rice, bruised sago, tapioca, and arrowroot. If macaroni is used, it should be added soon enough to get per- fectly tender, after soaking in cold water. Vermicelli may be added after the thickening, as it requires less time to do. If the stock has been made with fowl, take out the white por- tion when well stewed, pound the meat in a mortar, and add it to the soup; which is a great improvement. It is the fashion now to send up grated Parmesan cheese with white soup; but not unless made with vermicelli or some sorts of gravy soup, as it partly destroys that delicacy which ought to be the distinctive property of all white soups. Two or three pints of a plainer tvhile Soup may likewise be made of a small knuckle of veal, with seasoning, as directed in the last article ; and both served together, with the addition of. i pint of good milk. Two spoonfuls of cream and a little ground lice will give it a proper thickness. Another white Soup.—Take 2 quarts of the stock, and boil the crumb of a roll in a gill of milk ; beat the yolks of 6 hard- boiled eggs with 3 oz. of sweet almonds very well in a mortar, witli a little cayenne pepper, and add the whole to the soup : it may be poured over slices of French roll sent up in the tureen. * White Potato-Soup.—Take large mealy potatoes peeled raw and sliced with half the number of onions, seasoned with white pepper, mace, and salt, and stewed with 2 lbs. of the scrag of mutton or veal in 3 quarts of water during 4 hours ; then skimmed and strained. Then add 3 pints of new milk and oz. of bitter almonds pounded. Rub the potatoes through a tammy. Let it boil before being served up, but keep stirring it to prevent the almonds from oiling. ALMOND SOUP. 20.—Make your stock of veal, or an old fowl; then put into I a mortar 1 lb. of sweet almonds, with a few of the bitter sort the yolks of 6 hard-boiled eggs, and a little white pepper : pound this very fine, put it into the stock, and let it simmer gently, putting in a little cold broth as it boils away. Strain it off'; thicken it with butter kneaded in flour ; and, just before serving, add a teacupful of good cream.