Chap. XXIII.] SWEET PUDDINGS. 451 of milk ; add i lb. of raisins stoned, and a little sugar, and boil the whole 4 hours in a basin. BATTER PUDDING—E. R. 601. —To 6 oz. of flour add a little salt and a gill of milk ; mix them quite smooth, beat up 4 eggs and strain them, then add them to the batter, with more milk, until the mixture is as thick as good cream. Strain the batter, and put it into a basin rubbed with butter ; tie a cloth over it, and boil it 1 hour. The excellence of a batter pudding mainly depends upon its being strained twice, that is, the eggs first, and then the whole; if this point be observed, it will be as rich and as good as a custard pudding, without the danger of breaking. If it is wanted to be particularly fine, 1 or 2 eggs more may be added. Serve with melted butter, sugar, lemon-juice, and a glass of wine. Or:—Rub 3 spoonfuls of fine flour extremely smooth by degrees into a pint of milk, with a saltspoonful of salt; simmer till it thickens; stir in 2 oz. of butter; set it to cool; then add the yolks of 3 eggs; flour a cloth that has been wetted or butter a basin, and put the batter into it; tie it tight, and, plunge it into boiling water, the bottom upwards. Boil it hour, and serve with plain butter. A little ginger, nutmeg, and lemon-peel may be added; or currant jelly may be laid on the top. CUSTARD PUDDING. 602. —Flavour a pint of milk with the peel of 1 lemon, an inch of cinnamon, and a bay-leaf; when boiled sufficiently, strain it, and sweeten to palate: break 4 eggs, beat them up, pour the milk to them ; put it into a mould and boil for ^ an hour. Serve with wine-sauce. Or :—Mix 1 tablespoonful of flour into a pint of milk ; add 4 eggs well beaten, a tablespoonful of pounded loaf-sugar, and a little orange-flower water; put into a buttered basin, laying a paper over it before putting on the cloth ; let it stand 4 minutes before turning it out. It should boil i an hour. Baked.—A plain but good custard pudding may be made by boiling a quart of milk until it is reduced to a pint; take from it a few spoonfuls, and let it cool, mixing with it very perfectly one spoonful of flour, which add to the boiling milk, and stir it until quite cool. Beat 4 yolks and 2 whites of eggs, strain 2 u 2