MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XI. 174 Tendons a la Villeroy.—Cut the tendons in slices; lay them in a marinade of oil, vinegar, lemon, onions, &c., for 3 hours; dry them, dip in batter, fry: serve with tomata-sauce. FRICANDEAU OF VEAL.—E. R. In France the fricandeau is not unfrequently larded in the interior as well as the outside, by having pieces of the size of a little finger cut off the meat with an instrument something like a cheese-taster, and then refilled with pledgets of bacon, or “ lardons.” The meat is also very generally served upon spi- nach, dressed with cream or sorrel. The meat, being cut into a handsome shape, should be larded, and put into a stewpan of small size, with just sufficient water, or veal broth, to cover it, and there allowed to simmer gently over a slow fire for about 3 hours ; or until it has be- come so tender as to be cut with a fish-slice. The gravy is then seasoned at pleasure, but most generally made into white sauce. 168. —Cut a handsome piece from the fillet, lard it all over as thickly as possible ; put it into a stewpan with a few slices of fat bacon, some trimmings of veal, a carrot, turnip, and a head of celery, a few allspice, 2 blades of mace, and 4 bay-leaves; let it stew very gently until thoroughly done, boil the gravy down to a glaze, cover the veal with it, and serve it upon a puree of -sorrel. Grenadines of veal are cooked in the same way, only made of smaller pieces, 4 for a dish. FRICANDELS. 169. —Take 3 lbs. of the best end of a loin of veal, chop the fat and lean together very fine; then soak a French roll in some milk ; beat 3 eggs ; add pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace. Make the mixture up about the size, and somewhat in the shape, of a chicken ; rub it over with egg and bread-crumbs, fry until it is brown, pour off the fat, boil water in the pan, and stew the fricandels in this gravy : two will make a handsome dish. Thicken the gravy before it is sent to table. MIR O TON OF VEAL. 170. —Chop very fine some cold dressed veal and ham or bacon ; mix it with a slice of crumb of bread soaked in milk, 2 onions chopped and browned, a little salt, pepper, and a