95 VEGETABLE SOUPS. Chap. VII.] them into the broth with a crust of bread the size of a roll; let them boil for P an hour, then rub through a sieve, season to taste. Some dried mint should be sent to table in a castor. Or —Make a puree of peas boiled in a little broth, adding a large onion ; pass it through a sieve ; reduce it to a proper thickness with cold milk, add a dessertspoonful of moist sugar, with pepper and salt to taste. It should be passed through the sieve 2 or 3 times to make it quite smooth. On shipboard, and in many country-houses, it is not unusual to cut some of the boiled pork into very small bits, and serve them up either separately or mixed in the soup. Fried onions will add much to its flavour if added to the broth of which the soup is made. GREEN-PEA SOUP.—E.R. 42.—Boil in salt water, over a slow fire, a quart of freshly- gathered large green peas, with a handful of parsley, sorrel, and a few chives, until they become thoroughly stewed ; drain and pound them in the mortar until made into a puree, which mix gradually into veal or beef broth : if that of beef, seasoned only with pepper and salt; but if of veal, with mace and a very little refined sugar. Have ready some leeks and lettuce that have been boiled, but not to a pulp, and fry them in but- ter along with some nicely-fried' slices of bread cut into dice, putting them into the soup just before sending it up, and adding a few heads of boiled asparagus when in season; or if not, hop- tops are a tolerable substitute. Chopped mint is also served along with pea-soup. The sorrel will give a very delicate flavour of acidity to the soup ; but care should be taken never to acquire this flavour by adding vinegar to any kind of pea, lentil, or farinaceous pulse soup, as it will occasion it to curdle. Or:—Take 3 cabbage lettuces, 3 onions, a pint of young peas, £ lb. of butter, a faggot of mint, pepper and salt to taste ; cut these into small pieces, and stew them till tender. Take 3 pints of old peas to 5 pints of water, boil them till quite soft; rub them through a sieve ; add this to the above ingredients ; let it boil up, and then serve. Or:—Take a peck of green peas, and, in shelling them, separate the old from the young; boil the former portion until they are quite tender, and, if not sufficiently sweet, add a small quantity of powdered lump-sugar; then rub them through a sieve, return them to the stock, and let them stew gently toge-