235 Chap. XIV.] SALT-WATER FISH. any but the lower orders. They are, however, all of the same species, weight, and time of coming into season. They may also be dressed in the same manner as halibut. Codfish reaches to a very large size—30 lbs. being not an unusual weight, though 15 to 20 lbs. is a more general average, and the nearer the fish is to that weight, the better will it be found ; those much smaller being frequently of a flabby, watery nature, as “ codlings,” which are seldom worth eating. They are in season from the beginning of October till the middle of March, but are in the highest perfection about Christmas, at which time the females are full of roe, which they spawn some time in February, soon after which they begin to decline and become emaciated. Some people boil the whole fish at once ; but a large head and shoulders contain all the fish that is proper to be helped ; the thinner part being overdone and tasteless before the thick is ready. Cod's Head and Shoulders.—The fish will eat much finer by having a little salt rubbed down the bone and along the thick part, even if it be eaten the same day. Tie it up with several folds of broad tape to bind the head and prevent the cheeks from breaking, then lay the fish on the fish-plate, put it on the fire in cold water to completely cover it: throw in a handful of salt with a glass of vinegar and some horse- radish. Let the water be kept only just on the boil till the fish is done, which, if of a good average size, will take about i an hour, and may be known by lifting the fish-plate, and trying with a fish-slice whether the meat can be easily separated from the backbone. It the cod be crimped it will take less time than if dressed in its solid state, but it should then be put into hot water. The spawn and liver will take more time in boiling than the fish. When ready for the table, garnish with a large quantity of double parsley, lemon, horse- radish, and the milt, roe, and liver : if with smelts, be careful that no steam from the boiled fish hangs about the fish, or the beauty of the smelts will be taken off', as well as their flavour. Serve with plenty of oyster-sauce, or, if that be not attainable, muscle or cockle flavoured with a glass of wine ; or else anchovy. Cod’s Head roasted.—Boil the fish little more than half the time; then carefully strip off the skin, dredge it well with