MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. IX. 154 Cotelettes aux Haricots verts.—Having dressed French beans as usual, drain the water from them, and simmer them with pepper and salt in a good piece of butter. A few minutes before serving add the beaten yolk of an egg, and shake the pan over the fire ; but they must not boil. In the mean time have ready 3 mutton-cutlets, neatly trimmed, seasoned with pepper, salt, and a few crumbs, and nicely fried; and serve them on the French beans. Scrags of Mutton a la Sainte Menehould.—Order the nar- row part of a neck of small mutton to be cut off before the sheep be divided; which leaves the two scrags united. Soak in warm water, then hang it 2 days; lay it in a stewpot, with slices of fat bacon over and under, 2 lbs. of scrag of veal, 3 large carrots, 3 onions, a large bunch of sweet herbs, 2 bay- leaves, and a tablespoonful of whole white pepper; cover the whole with beef-broth, and simmer 4 hours. Drain the gravy from the meat, which cover on all sides with crumbs of bread mixed with pepper and salt, and brown it with a salamander. In the mean time boil the gravy, uncovered, very quickly, having strained it first, and serve in the dish: add salt. Serve in the dish endive, tomata-sauce, or stewed spinach. MUTTON KIDNEYS.—E. R. 137.—Split, pepper, and broil them, broiling the cut side first, which will make a cup for the gravy when the outer part is turned to the fire. Chop some parsley very fine, mix it well with a little fresh butter, the juice of a lemon, pepper and salt, and put a little on each. A sheep’s heart may be split open, and broiled in the same way. With a very sharp knife cut mutton kidneys in the thinnest possible slices ; flour, and fry quickly till they are quite crisp. While frying, add pepper and salt. Serve them in a good gravy, to which a bit of garlic has given a very slight flavour. Hognons, au Vin de Champagne.—Slice or mince them, and fry them with a little chopped parsley and eschalot until they become of a light brown, seasoning them with pepper and salt; then dust them with flour, moisten them with a little strong gravy and a glass of Champagne, and let them stew for a few moments.