MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. IX. 156 forcemeat-balls and brain-cakes for garnish; or roll up the pieces seasoned in the inside with a thick covering of chopped herbs well seasoned; brush the outside with yolk of egg ; dredge it with bread-crumbs ; fry it; and send to table with a rich gravy made of the bones ancl pickles warmed up in it. Take a sheep's heart and stuff it throughout, using a consi- derable quantity of chopped bacon in the stuffing; half boil it, and when cooled a little rub it over with pepper and salt, and wrap it in paste in the shape of a cone. Rub the paste over with the yolk of an egg, and strew vermicelli loosely over it. Set it with the broad end downwards and bake it in the oven. When baked, send it to table with gravy sauce. Sheep's Tails and Tongues.—Take 3 tails and 3 tongues, cut the tails in half and split the tongues. Stew them gently for 3 hours in as much water as will cover them, adding 3 spoonfuls of vinegar, 3 onions, a teaspoonful of mixed spices, and 1 of salt: these ingredients to be put in after the pot has been skimmed. When the tails, &c., are very tender, take them out, score them, dip them in drawn butter, roll them in grated bread-crumbs, and let them lie for a few minutes, then put on more butter with a knife, and additional bread-crumbs, which latter should be slightly seasoned; brown them before the fire. Strain the gravy, enrich it with butter, squeeze lemon- juice over the tongues and tails, and serve them in the gravy. SHEEP’S TROTTERS.—E. R. 141.—Boil the trotters, or rather stew them gently, for several hours, until the bones will come out. The liquor they are boiled in will make excellent stock or jelly. Take out the bones without injury to the skin, stuff them with a fine force- meat ; stew them for an hour in some of the stock, which must be well flavoured with onion, seasoning, and Eft-little sauce; take out the trotters, strain the sauce, reduce it to a glaze, and brush it over the feet. Serve with any stewed vegetable. Or:—Prepare them in the same way, and dip them in a batter and fry them. The paste, or batter, for frying, is best made thus: mix 4 spoonfuls of flour with 1 of olive-oil, and a sufficient quantity of beer to make it of the proper thickness; then add the whites of 2 eggs well beaten and a little salt. Serve with tomata-sauce. Or:—Simply boil them, and eat them cold with oil and vinegar.