Chap. XXIII.] PEOVINCIAL PUDDINGS. 477 potatoes, 2 oz. of butter, the yolks and whites of 2 eggs, i pint of cream, 1 spoonful of white wine, a morsel of salt, the juice and rind of a lemon; beat all to froth ; sugar to taste. A crust or not, as you like. Bake it. If wanted richer, put 3 oz. more butter, sweetmeats and almonds, and another egg; or if plainer, omit the wine. An economical Pudding may be made of 4 lb. of flour, 4 lb. of currants, £lb. of suet well chopped, and 4 oz. of treacle, with milk sufficient to mix it well together into a stiff paste or batter, the stiffness of boiled rice. Butter a basin, and let it boil 5 hpurs. When cold it may be sliced and browned. HAS TY P UDDING. 655. —Boil 1 pint of milk, stir 2 oz. of flour in it till it be thick and stiff; put it into a basin and add 4 oz. of butter with a little nutmeg, and sugar enough to sweeten it. When cold i mix in 3 well-beaten eggs ; line a dish with thin paste, and in the bottom of it put a layer of marmalade, or any other pre- ! serve, and bake the pudding in a moderate oven for 4 an j hour. It is good without paste, and may be baked in a 1 Dutch oven. Or :—Boil 1 pint of milk, stir into it as much flour as will thicken it, letting it boil all the time; pour it into plates, and i eat it hot, with cold butter and sugar, or, if butter is objected ' to, a little cold milk and a little nutmeg. PROVINCIAL PUDDINGS. 656. — Wiltshire Pudding.—Three well-beaten eggs, 1 pint of milk, sufficient flour to make a thick batter, a little salt; beat it some minutes, stir in gently a large teacupful of picked i currants and half that quantity of red raspberries ; boil in a ; cloth for 2 hours, turn it out on the dish, and cut in thin slices, t but do not separate them ; put between each butter and brown J sugar. Bath Pudding.—Half a pint of cream, 1 lb. of butter j boiled together, the crumbs of a twopenny loaf, lump sugar j and brandy to your taste, 4 eggs. Bake them in small cups in | of an hour. Chichester Pudding.—To the grated crumbs of a French roll, mixed with the grated rind of i a lemon, add 4 oz. of sifted sugar, the same of butter, the juice of i a lemon, the