MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XX1Y. 502 hours before they are served. It will not be necessary to give more than a few receipts, as the process is the same in all. ISINGLASS JELLIES. 694.—Strawberry Jelly.—If the fruit is not very abundant, boil i lb. of loaf-sugar in a pint of water for 20 minutes ; jjour this boiling hot over a quart of picked scarlet strawberries : let them stand all night. Clarify 24 oz. of isinglass in a pint of water; drain the syrup from the strawberries, adding a tea- cupful of red-currant juice and the juice of a lemon. When the isinglass is nearly cold, mix all together; add more sugar if wanted, then put it into moulds. The juice extracted from the fruit by laying sugar upon it gives the jelly a finer flavour than pouring boiling water upon it. Put the moulds into an earthen pan, and cover them with ice broken small. Strawberry and raspberry jelly, when no currants are added, should have the flavour heightened by a little lemon-juice. Orange Jelly.—Boil 14 oz. of isinglass in a pint of water with the peel of 4 a lemon; squeeze the juice of 8 China and 4 Seville oranges through a sieve ; add to it the isinglass strained, and 6 oz. of pounded sugar. Set it on the fire, stir it well till it almost boils ; when nearly cold, put it into earthen- ware moulds which have lain in cold water for 2 or 3 hours. Lemon Jelly.—Clarify 14 oz. of isinglass in a pint of water; add 4 lb. of loaf-sugar, and the rind of 2 lemons cut very thin. Squeeze the juice of 4 lemons; strain it through blotting or filtering paper, then stir it into the cool sugar and isinglass: take out the peel, and pour it into cups or forms, and place them in ice. Currant and Raspberry Jelly.—Take 3 lbs. of ripe cur- rants, of which let one-third be white, and a few red raspberries to give it flavour ; break them with a silver fork ; put them into a jar, which put into a saucepan of boiling water, so as to draw the juice : boil 2 oz. of isinglass in % pint of water, to which add 1 lb. of loaf-sugar ; when cool, strain the fruit, and add an equal quantity of the juice; mix well together, and put it into a mould, and place it in ice to freeze. Italian Jelly is made by half filling the mould, and, when the jelly is set, laying round upon it a wreath of stilt blanc- mange, cut of equal size with a small round cutter: then hi up the mould with jelly nearly cold. Hartshorn Jelly.—Simmer 8 oz. of hartshorn shavings with 2 quarts of water to 1 ; strain it and boil it with the rinds o