109 SOUPES MAIGEE. Chap. VII.] 4 quarts of boiling water. Toast a crust of bread as brown and hard as possible, but do not burn it; put it with some celery, sweet herbs, white pepper, and salt to the above; stew it all gently 4 hours, then strain it through a coarse cloth : have ready sliced carrot, celery, and a little turnip, and stew them tender in the soup. If approved, add an anchovy and a spoon- ful of ketchup, with toasted bread, or the crumb of a French roll, cut in slices, at the bottom of the tureen. Or:—One gallon of water, a very large soup-plate of car- rots, turnips, and onions, with celery cut small, and all fried in either butter or dripping (though, if not a fast day, dripping is best), sufficient to brown it, but doing it slowly, and stirring it frequently to prevent its burning. Add 1 tablespoonful of flour to thicken it, and another of ketchup to flavour it; anti if you can get a tomata and a green capsicum, put them in also, with pepper and salt to season it. Let it stew for full 8 hours, or until the quantity has been reduced to one half, when it will be quite sufficient for 6 or 8 people, at the cost of little more, if so much, as Is. PEASE-PORRIDGE.—E. R. 70. —Fry a couple of onions and a stick of celery, and put them, with a bundle of sweet herbs, a couple of anchovies, or -L a red herring, into 3 quarts of water, with a crust of bread, floured, pepper and salt; boil all together very gently until the flavour is extracted from the herbs; then skim the liquor, and strain it. Add a pound of raw potatoes grated, and a pint of split peas ; when the peas are soft, beat them through a sieve with the soup, and if the porridge should not be thick enough, add a little flour and butter. Cut half a dozen leeks into pieces, and, after the peas have been beaten, boil them in the soup, and send them to table. SPLIT PEA-SOUP MAIGRE.—E. R. 71. —To a quart of whole or split peas put 3 quarts of water; boil gently until the peas are dissolved, then pulp them through a sieve, and add 3 anchovies or a red herring, carrots, turnips, leeks, thyme, and sweet marjoram, and stew them together. Before serving, add some ketchup and salt, thicken the soup with butter, and send it up with fried bread. Frying the bread will make the soup richer. The addition of mush- room-ketchup will partly give it the flavour of meat.