MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XITI. 216 of any roasted game you may have left; cover it with another dish, or tin cover, and set it over a pan of boiling water to keep warm. Then pound the small bones of the carcase, with the inside, in a mortar, and put them into a saucepan with a little gravy thickened with a little flour rolled in butter, a wine-glass of port wine, a spoonful of ketchup, a very small piece of shalot chopped fine, cayenne pepper, and salt. When it has been boiled for £ of an hour, strain it through a sieve, to form it into a perfect puree, and pour it over the game in your dish; garnish with forcemeat-balls, and slices of lemon cut thin. Broiled Partridge.—Cut the bird down the back; break the merrythought, which will allow it to be made quite fat; cut off the feet at the joint, and skewer it as a fowl to broil; dry, flour, egg, and sprinkle it with chopped herbs and bread- crumbs, well seasoned ; broil and serve with a little good gravy, with a mushroom or two chopped up small. Or:—Omit the egg and crumbs, broil it quite plain, rub it over with butter, season with pepper and salt, and serve without gravy, squeezing half a lemon over it as it leaves the kitchen. Guinea and Pea fowl taste much like pheasant if properly hung: dress and serve the same way. Their eggs are delicate, and must boil 1£ minute. WOODCOCKS, SNIPES, AND QUAILS, 229. —Keep good several days. Roast them without draw- ing, and serve on toast: the trail of the former is the most esteemed part of the bird ; but the thigh and back are the best parts. In helping, the carver must be careful to remove first a small bitter bag from the trail. Or, take out the trail, chop it well, spread it on a buttered toast, season with pepper and salt, sprinkle a few crumbs over, and brown it in front of the fire under the woodcocks. Quail.—Cut a thin piece of fat bacon the size of the breast; lay a vine-leaf over the breast, and then the bacon ; fasten with string, and roast them. GROUSE AND MOORCOCK.—E. R. 230. —Mix a small lump of butter with a few bread-crumbs, and put it in the inside of the birds—not in the crop—it keeps them moist. They require to be nicely roasted and well basted,