118 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. VIII. solved, and the savorous parts of the meat are diffused through the broth. When the object is simply to make a good, pure- flavoured beef broth, part of the shin or leg will answer the purpose, adding some vegetables, and letting it stew 4 or 5 hours; but if the meat is to be eaten, the rump or leg-of- mutton piece should be used. BOUILLI. 83.—The rump of beef is best for this purpose, as the meat is to be served up in a separate dish, and will make a finely-flavoured sort of soup. Take as much of it as may be thought necessary; but for a small party, say from 4 to 6 lbs., along with 2 or 3 large roasted onions, in one of which some cloves may be stuck, and a moderate quantity of whole pepper, with a bunch of sweet herbs; to which an anchovy may be added : put it in a stewpan, covered with rather more than a pint of cold water to every pound of meat; and let it simmer by the side of the fire for 4 or 5 hours, or until it has become quite tender; then take out the herbs and onions, and add carrots, turnips, and celery, either cut into small squares or sliced, and let the whole boil until sufficiently stewed, and ready for the table. The soup should then be strained off, and served separately, leaving only so much as may be necessary for making sauce for the vegetables. The sauce should be a little thickened, and seasoned to the palate; if a clove of garlic, or a tea- spoonful of garlic and chili vinegar, be added, it will improve the flavour. In Ireland it is not uncommon to send up the bouilli smothered in onion-sauce, the other vegetables being either not used, or brought up in the soup ; in France it is very usual to dress cabbage and sausages as an accompaniment to the bouilli; but, in England, it is more customary to serve it up with the vegetable-sauce as above stated. Cucumbers cut into dice and stewed, with a spoonful of chili vinegar added, are served at most of the German hotels. The meat, if gently stewed until quite tender, without being boiled to rags, will be found excellent, and the whole an admirable dish. Take a handsome piece of brisket of 10 lbs. weight; put it over the fire with a small quantity of water until the gravy is out; add a very large bunch of parsley, pepper, salt, and an onion. When the gravy is drawn, add 2 gallons of boiling water, and let it stew until perfectly tender; chop the parsley,