f 238 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIY. r / a hard brush. Under this treatment the most stubborn fish will swell considerably if boiled gently : two separate soakings are better than one, however continuous, since the alternate expansion and contraction loosens the fibres of the fish, and occasions it to come off in finer flakes. Boiled.—Cut a nice square piece of codfish, after soaking put it on in soft water and boil it very gently; lay a napkin over the dish, place the fish in the centre, garnish with parsnips cut in moderate pieces, eggs cut in quarters, and parsley; fold the 4 corners of the napkin over the fish and send to table; egg-sauce in a boat. A salted sound, soaked for 24 hours and boiled in milk and water, is an admirable addition. Or:—Lay the piece you mean to dress all night in water with a glass of vinegar; boil it enough, then break it into flakes on the dish; warm it up with cream and a large piece of butter rubbed with a bit of flour, and serve it as above with egg-sauce. Fricasseed.—Salt fish that has been boiled and left until cold is an excellent dish when warmed ; break it into flakes, and put it into a pan with sauce thus made: beat boiled parsnips in a mortar, then add to it a cup of cream, a good piece of butter rolled in flour, a little white pepper, and 4 a teaspoonful of mustard, all simmered together; keep the fish no longer on the fire than to become hot, but not boil. Or :—Shred the fish into very small pieces, break up potatoes which have been already boiled, and put them along with the fish under the rolling-pin, so as to reduce the whole nearly to a paste. Then mix with it some hard-boiled eggs, minced fine; put the whole into a stewpan to warm with a good piece of butter, and send it up with egg-sauce. Should you prefer not to mix them, build a wall of mashed potatoes, put the fish in the centre, and heat in a Dutch oven; if you have a parsnip, mash it, and add it to the mass. In Spain, baccalcio, or dried fish, is generally minced, and fried in oil with eggs, and although a homely, is an excellent dish. HADDOCK. 251.—-They are in season from June till January, and their condition may be tested in the same manner as cod; but they should be immediately gutted, much below the vent, and care-