Chap. I.] SERVANTS. 7 in the world will never render her cleanly: where dirty habits are manifested, dismissal should follow, for in almost every instance they will be found incurable. Another point of main importance is her temper; for if that be not good, she will be disinclined to receive instructions, and, if found fault with, may, out of pique, spoil a dinner; whereas a good- humoured, intelligent servant, when made acquainted with the habits of the house, and equal to her common duties, will hardly fail of success when called upon by her mistress to try any of those receipts which she has not already used. It behoves every person to be extremely careful whom they take into their service; to be very minute in investigating the character they receive, and equally cautious and scrupulously just in giving one to others. Were this more generally at- tended to, many evils would be avoided which now result from worthless servants being put in places of trust. It may be fairly asserted that the unfaithfulness of a servant, which is but a milder epithet i'or robbery or waste, will be laid to the charge of that master or mistress who, knowing or having- well-founded suspicions of such faults in a servant, is prevailed upon, by false pity or entreaty, to slide her into another place ; but, on the other hand, it would be unpardonably unjust to refuse to give a fair and candid representation of merits and demerits, on any plea whatever. As to wages, it is better to err on the liberal than on the niggardly side; for the trifling difference in wages between a good and a bad cook will soon be made up by the former, not only in the comfort but the economy of the table. Ser- vants’ wages should be paid regularly. Perquisites of all kinds should be strictly forbidden, as not unfrequently leading to pilfering and the corruption of common honesty. Do not allow servants to pay your tradesmen’s bills, but let the tradesmen call for them. Nor should small temptations be laid in the way of young servants, particularly females who have the care of ladies’ dresses and jewellery, as many an honest girl has been led to become a thief through the incaution of her mistress.