SALT-WATER FISH. 233 Chap. XIV.] Baked.—Cut the sole in pieces as for cutlets; butter a pan, lay in the sole, dry, flour, and season it well; add an onion in slices, 2 bay-leaves, 12 corns of allspice, parsley, thyme, and 2 wine-glasses of white wine; bake the sole, thicken the sauce with flour and butter, and add a table- spoonful of capers whole. In the Portuguese ivay.-—Take out the bone, and put the fish into a pan with a few spoonfuls of oil and some lemon- juice ; fry it a few minutes, then lay the fish on a dish, spread a forcemeat over each piece, and roll it round, fastening the rolls with a few small skewers, and either frying them in batter, or with crumbs of bread in buttered papers. Lay the rolls in a small earthen pan, beat an egg and wet them, then strew crumbs over, and put the remainder of the egg, with a little meat gravy, a spoonful of caper-liquor, an anchovy chopped fine, and some parsley chopped into the bottom of the pan ; cover it close, and bake in a slow oven till the fish is done enough. Garnish with fried or dried parsley. To make meat stuffing for the above.—Pound cold beef, mutton, or veal, a little; then add some fat bacon that has been slightly fried, 2 small or button onions, a little garlic or shalot, parsley, anchovy, pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; pound all fine with a few crumbs, and bind it with 2 or 3 yolks of eggs. SKATE, THORNBACK, AND RAY, OR MAIDS, 247.—Grow to a large size, and are in the highest perfection during the autumn and winter. Ihey may be either broiled, or fried with egg and bread- crumbs ; or, if of a tolerable size, the parts usually eaten may be boiled, and the fins fried. The wings are previously skinned, cut into strips about 2 inches wide, and kept for 2 or 3 days in salt and water ; as being the best mode of extracting a raw kind of rankness that is often found in them when dressed too fresh. If kept until cold and eaten with oil and vinegar, or dressed in a marinade and served with crab-sauce, they have a good flavour. Crimped Skate, and Maids, should be hung 1 day at least before they are dressed ; and may be served either boiled or fried in crumbs, being first dipped in ego-.