533 Chap. XXVI.] PICKLES. allow 1 gallon of water. Let the walnuts soak 6 days, then change the brine, and let them stand 6 more; then drain them, and expose them to the sun that they may turn black; pour over them, in a jar, a pickle of the best white-wine vinegar, with a good quantity of pepper, pimento, ginger, mace, cloves, mustard-seed, and horseradish, all boiled to- gether, but cold. To every 100 walnuts allow 6 spoonfuls of mustard-seed, with 1 oz. of whole black pepper, and 2 or 3 heads of garlic or shalot, but the latter is least strong; let them be quite covered with vinegar. This done, they will be good for several years, if closely .covered. The air will soften them. They will not, however, be fit to eat under 6 months. TO PICKLE RADISH-PODS.—E. R. 746. —Gather the radish-pods when they are quite young, and put them into salt and water all night ; then boil the salt and water, and pour it over the pods in jars, and cover them closely to keep in the steam. When the brine is cold boil it, and pour it hot upon the pods again, repeating the .process until they are green; then put them in a sieve to drain, and make a pickle for them of white-wine vinegar, mace, ginger, long pepper, and horseradish ; pour it boiling hot upon the pods, and when nearly cold boil it again, and pour it over them. When cold, tie down the jars. * TO PICKLE FRENCH BEANS. 747. —Gather them before they become stringy, and, with- out taking off the ends, put them into a very strong brine until they become yellow; drain the liquor from them, and wipe them dry with a cloth. Put them into a stone jar by the fire, put in a little bit of alum, and pour boiling vinegar upon them every 24 hours, preventing the escape-of the steam. In 4 or 5 days they will become green. Boil a little mace, whole pepper, and ginger in the vinegar. Do samphire the same way. BARBER RIJESy pickled in Brine.—E. R. 748. —Gather the barberries before they are too ripe, pick out the leaves and dead stalks, put them into jars, with a large quantity of strong salt and water, and fie them down with bladders; when any scum arises put the barberries in :