519 PRESERVED FRUITS. Chap. XXV.] drain, and cut them in very thin slices, and put them to the pulp ; add to every lb. It lb. of double-refined sugar beaten fine; boil them together 20 minutes, but be careful not to break the slices. If not quite clear, simmer 5 or 6 minutes longer. It must be stirred all the time very gently. When cold, put it into glasses. Mixed.—Split and stone 4 dozen plums, blanch the kernels, and pound them in a mortar with a little rose-water; pare and core 2 dozen pears and the same number of apples ; put them into a jar with a little sugar, but no water. Bake them in a cool oven. Beat them well in a preserving-pan, stir in 3 lbs. of sugar, and boil them 1 hour; put the marmalade into small deep dishes, and dry it gently in a cool oven. Scotch.—Take 6 or 8 lbs. of Seville oranges, pare off1 the skins thinly, so that there shall be as little as possible of the white portion ; cut the parings into strips or chips, and cut them across again into very small pieces. Put them into a pan with as much water as will cover them, boil them for 1 hour, then strain them through a sieve, and lay them aside. Next quar- ter the oranges, and scrape out the pulp and juice into a dish, throwing away the white skins, films, and seeds; put the whole into a pan, together with 7 or 8 lbs. of sugar, according to the original weight of the oranges; let the whole boil for t an hour; skim it, and pour it into pans for use. It may be observed that, although this marmalade should be made entirely of Seville oranges, yet a few, if mixed with the common sorts, are sufficient to give the necessary flavour, and in that manner is made all that is sold in the shops as 11 Scotch marmalade COMPOTES. 720.— Orange.—Lay the oranges in water for 4 hours, then boil them till tender, cut them in halves, and take out all the insides; to every lb. of peel well pounded add 1 lb. of sugar; then take all the skins and seeds out of the pulp, add its weight of sugar, and beat it well; then mix it with the peel, and beat it again in a mortar, and pot it for use. Two dozen sweet Lisbon oranges will make a large jar of paste : it will keep good for several years in pots covered with paper. Apple.—Take a dozen fine rennets, peel and core them, but do not divide them ; put them into a wide-necked jar, strew