650 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXXIII. Stewed Celery . . Sea-Kale . . Fruit Tarts and Preserves of various sorts with the list of sweet dishes, of which abundance are given in the foregoing receipts; such as Creams, Jellies, and all the finer sorts of Puddings, Mince Pies . . Macaroni, Omelette, &c. Any of the following things may be served as a relish, with the cheese, after dinner:—Baked or pickled Fish, done high . . Dutch pickled Herring . . Sardines, which eat like An- chovy, but are larger . . Anchovies . . Potted Char . . Potted Lampreys . . Potted Birds seasoned highly. . Caviare and Sip- pets of Toast . . Salad . . Radishes . . Cold Butter . . Potted Cheese . . Anchovy Toast, and Dutch Herring pickled; but these are not usual at elegant tables, though at friendly and family dinners some of them may be introduced. In some houses, if soup be served, it is customary, in small family parties, to send it up alone. In others, a course of Soups and Fish: then Meats and Boiled Fowls, Turkey, &c.: Made Dishes and Game follow ; and lastly, Sweet Dishes : but these removes are only employed at large dinners. Vege- tables, if plainly dressed, are put on the side-table at large dinners, as likewise sauces, and servants bring them round; but some inconveniences attend this plan, and, when there are not many to wait, delay is occasioned. If the table is of a due size, the articles alluded to will not fill it too much. It is worthy of observation here, that cooks do not always think of sending up such articles as are in the house unless ordered ; though by so doing, the addition of anything col- lared or pickled, some fritters, fried patties, or quickly-made dumplings, would be useful when there happen to be acci- dental visitors: and at all times it is right to better the ap- pearance of the table rather than let things spoil below, by which the expense of a family is more increased than can be easily imagined. Hot suppers are not much in use where people dine very late; and when required, nothing boiled should ever be introduced. If fish be served, only the smaller sorts, fried, should be brought to table ; with the sole exception of shell-fish, which may be dressed hot in any way. When required, the top and bottom, or either, may be Game . . Fowls . . Rabbit. . Oysters stewed or scalloped . . French Beans . . Cauliflower, or Jeru-