596 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIX. ■First, never make it in any other than a highly-polished teapot, for it is a chemical fact that metal retains the heat longer than earthenware; and the better it is polished, the more completely will the liquid be kept hot, and the essence of the tea be extracted. A silver teapot is decidedly the best; for you will be sure that the metal is not mixed up with zinc or other materials of a pernicious nature. Secondly, see that the water be really boiling, not simmer- ing, as is too commonly the case when taken from an urn, but kept either on the fire until boiled, or in one of those metal teakettles warmed by a spirit-lamp, as formerly used by our grandmothers, and now—thanks to good taste in tea-drinking —again coming into fashion. Having well scalded the teapot, then put in the tea, and pour over it about 4 of the water the pot will contain; taking care to keep it as hot as possible for not less than 10 minutes; then fill up the pot, allow it to remain from 6 to 8 minutes longer—though all green would require 5 minutes more—for we know, from long experience, that it requires that time to thoroughly draw it; it may then be poured out; but you should always be careful not to drain the pot to the very last cup. For 4 persons, each taking 2 large breakfast-cups, you will require nearly an ounce of good mixed tea; the finer the quality of the tea, the less quantity need be employed. Never add fresh tea to that which has already been made, by way of strengthening it; for it will not have that effect; but in case of its being too weak, then put the tea into a large teacup, fill it up with boiling water, and leave it there, closely covered, for a few minutes, after which throw the contents into the teapot. The foregoing instructions are in accordance with our mothers and grandmothers’ notions of “ making tea wellbut latterly it has been asserted that a very pernicious quality in tea is extracted from the water standing long upon it. A physician asserts that “ tea-drinkers, in following this plan, put more fees into the physician’s pocket than by any other he knows.” He recommends that 2 teapots should always be used, each of sufficient size to hold the quantity required; that the whole of the water shall be poured on the tea at once, and not allowed to stand upon it more than three or 4 minutes, when it should be poured into the other teapot., and served from