MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XY. 252 omitted, and the slices broiled upon the gridiron without any further preparation or other care than slightly rubbing the slices with a bit of fresh butter wrapped in gauze: sprinkle freely with salt; they will be done in a few minutes, and should be served as hot as possible. Salmon cutlets should be cut from a piece of a split salmon ; cut them without bone about i inch thick, and rub them over with egg well beaten; season with pepper and salt, dip them in chopped herbs and bread-crumbs, fry them as you would a veal cutlet; serve with Indian-pickle sauce. Or:—Cut pieces t inch thick ; season them, put them in paper, and broil until hot through: serve with lemon only. This is usually eaten at breakfast. Or :—As in the Hebrew fashion, slice the salmon, and cover it with salt for 2 hours; then dry it, and brush it over with yolk of eggs. Fry it in oil, and serve it cold with salad. Any small pieces of salmon may be dressed with salad, or with salad-sauce. To bake.—Scale it, and take out the bone from the part to be dressed, but fill up the cavity with forcemeat, and bind the piece with tape. Then flour it, rub it with yolk of egg, and put it into a deep baking-dish, covering it very thickly with crumbs of bread, chopped parsley, and sweet herbs, together with shrimps, if they can be got, and put into the covering a few small bits of fresh butter ; place it in a Dutch oven, or, if already boiled and thus re-dressed, heat it only before the fire until browned. In the west of England salmon are often roasted whole in a cradle-spit, and thus dressed are very delicious. A Dutch oven is better adapted to a small bit. The piece roasted should be cut from the middle or tail, the jowl being, on account of the bones and mucilage, more fitted for boiling. Flour the fish well, and baste it with butter, serving it up with a garnish of lemon. It is most excellent when cold, and eaten with pepper and vinegar, being much richer than when boiled. It may be skinned, rubbed over with yolk of egg and bread-crumbs; and this is a good way of dressing small pieces. A la maitre d'hbtcl.—Make a good fish gravy, so strong that it will jelly ; add to it 2 large spoonfuls of lemon-pickle, and let it be well seasoned before it is strained; then slice the