128 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. YIII. An excellent ivay of preparing Tongues to eat cold.—Season with common salt and saltpetre, brown sugar, a little bay- salt, pepper, cloves, mace, and allspice, in fine powder, for a fortnight; then take away the pickle, put the tongue into a small pan, and lay some butter on it; cover it with brown crust, and bake it slowly till so tender that a straw will go through it; put it into a tin mould, and press it well, laying in as much fat as possible. The thin part of tongues, if hung up to dry, grates like hung beef, and also makes a fine addition to the flavour of omelets. To roast a Beef Tongue.—Take a fine large fresh tongue, scald it, and take off the skin ; cut it off at the root and trim it neatly; stick a few cloves here and there in it, and put it in a cradle-spit; sprinkle it with salt, and baste it well with butter. Serve it with a good sauce in a sauceboat, made as follows :—Put into a stewpan rV pint of port wine, with about half the quantity of well-seasoned gravy; reduce it to one- half ; then stir in a good piece of butter and a tablespoonful of flour; add a squeeze of lemon ; when the butter is melted and the sauce done, place the tongue in a dish, and serve hot with the sauce poured round. In Spain, the sauce is strongly impregnated with saffron. FRESH BEEF TONG UE.—E. R. 95.—Take a green tongue, stick it with cloves, and boil it gently for 3 hours; then brush it over with the yolk of an egg, dredge it well with bread-crumbs, and roast it, basting it well with butter. "When dished, serve it with a little brown gravy flavoured with a glass of wine, and lay slices of currant- jelly round it. A pickled tongue, well washed, may be dressed in the same way, and beef-udders also. A fresh neat’s tongue and udder may be roasted together in the manner thus described ; but when ready to be dished, instead of curraiit-jelly, put \ pint of gravy into a saucepan, with the juice of a'(Seville orange, two lumps of sugar, a glass of claret,' and a piece of butter: toss the whole over the fire, and serve it up with \the tongue and udder, garnishing the dish with slices of lemon. The udder should be stuck with cloves, and both should be continually basted. A la Parisienne.—i-Put it into a large stewpan with the