MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. VIII. 130 while the tails are stewing. Keep the meat and vegetables hot. Thicken the gravy by putting an ounce of butter into a stew- pan ; when melted, stir in as much flour as will stiffen it. Pour the gravy in by degrees, stirring it till it boils; strain it through a sieve into a stewpan, and let it simmer gently till the meat and vegetables are dished. Lay the tails round the dish, and the vegetables in the middle ; pour the gravy over; minced gherkins or capers may be added. Pour boiling water over the onions to warm them, and put them round the dish the last thing. Or :—Divide them at the joints, blanch, and parboil them ; put them into a stewpan with just water, or weak broth, enough to cover them ; let them simmer over a gentle fire, and remove the scum carefully as it rises; then put in an onion, a blade of mace, and a little pepper and salt; put them on again to simmer, and when sufficiently done add a spoonful of essence of anchovy and some flour rolled in butter. This is an excellent and nourishing dish. TRIPE. 97.—Tripe may be dressed in several ways, but, whatever mode may be employed, it will always be found an improve- ment to soak it for a whole night in milk. Indeed, if left in the milk until that gets sour, the acidity thus imparted to it will render it still better. To boil Tripe.—Put it into hot milk and water, an equal quantity of each ; milk may be entirely omitted, or that used in which it may have been soaked; let it boil until quite tender. Boil several large onions in 2 waters, so as to dimi- nish their flavour ; or if Spanish onions can be got, they should be preferred. When quite tender, slice the onions into small flakes, but leave them in that state, and do not mash them into smooth sauce; put the onions into a casserole with milk and butter, so as to make a delicate white sauce, and season it only with a little salt, or a slight grating of nutmeg; then put the tripe, hot from the pot, into a deep dish, and smother it entirely with the sauce. It is usually eaten with pepper and mustard, at the discretion of the guests. Oyster-sauce is some- times used, and much approved. To roast Tripe.—Cut the tripe in square pieces; make a rich forcemeat, spread it over the pieces of tripe, and roll