MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXII. 426 from the oven ; ornament the top, and let it be moveable, so that the pie may have a good appearance to the last, as the crust is not to be eaten. A calf’s-foot, boned and cut small, may be added, especially if used for the jelly. Green Goose Pie.—Bone 2 young green geese, of a good size; but first take away every plug, and singe them nicely. Wash them clean; and season them high with salt, pepper, mace, and allspice. Put one inside the other, and press them as close as you can, drawing the legs inwards. Put a good deal of butter over them, and bake them either with or without crust; if the latter, a cover to the dish must fit close to keep ih the steam. It will keep long. Gravy-jelly may be added when the pie is to be served. G1BLET PIE. 564. —After very nicely cleaning goose or duck giblets, steiv them with a small quantity of water or well-seasoned gravy, onion, black pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs, till nearly done. Let them grow cold ; and if not enough to fill the dish, lay a steak of beef or veal, or 2 or 3 mutton steaks, at the bottom; it requires 2 sets of giblets to make a mode- rate sized pie. Add the gravy. A CHRISTMAS PIE. 565. —Bone a large goose and a fowl. Parboil a smoked tongue; peel it and cut off the root. Mix together a pow- dered nutmeg, i oz. of powdered mace, a teaspoonful of pepper, the same quantity of salt, and season the fowl and goose. Roll out the paste near an inch thick, and divide it into 3 pieces; cut out 2 of them in an oval form for the top and bottom ; and the other into a long straight piece for the sides or walls of the pie. Brush the paste all over with beaten white of egg, and set on the bottom the piece that is to form the wall, pinching the edges together, and cementing them with white of egg. The bottom piece must be large enough to turn up a little round the lower edge of the wall piece, to which it must be firmly joined all round. When you have the crust properly fixed, so as to be baked standing alone without a dish, put in first the goose, then the fowl, then the tongue. Fill up what space is left with pieces of the flesh of pigeons, or of partridges, quails, or any game that is conve- nient. There must be no bones in the pie. You may add