SALT-WATER FISH. 229 Chap. XIV.] have no home-made wine of their own may use cider instead, but it will not afford the flavour of wine of even an inferior description. Indeed, those who look closely to economy, and who are satisfied with a more homely style of cookery, fre- quently substitute a quart of ale instead of the wine or cider, together with a small quantity of chili vinegar, a glass of soy or essence of anchovy, to which fennel, chives, thyme, and bay-leaves may be added according to fancy ; and an excellent sauce may thus be prepared, if mixed with the judgment of a good palate. MARINADE 240.—Is commonly used in France for the purpose of boiling fish, which imbibes from it a more pleasant flavour than it naturally possesses, and has been so generally adopted by English professed cooks that we here insert the receipt:—Cut up 2 carrots, 3 onions, half a dozen shalots, a single clove of garlic, and put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, a bunch of parsley, and a bundle of sweet herbs; fry the whole for a few minutes, then add, very gradually, 2 bottles of any light wine or of cider. Put in a handful of salt, two dozen of peppercorns, the same quantity of allspice, and a couple of cloves. Simmer the whole together for It hour, strain the liquor, and put it by for use. This marinade, if carefully strained after the fish has been taken out, will serve several times for the same purpose, adding a little water each time. Fish dressed in it should simmer very gently, or rather stew than boil, as it affords to mackerel, fresh herrings, perch, roach, and any of the small river fish, the ad- vantage of dissolving, or so thoroughly softening their bones as to render them more agreeable in eating. For large fish, they should be cut into steaks before being marinaded. Instead 01 the wine or cider, a quart of table-beer, a glass of soy, 1 of essence of anchovies, and 1 of ketchup, may be used ; or a pint of vinegar and these sauces, fennel, chives, thyme, and bay-leaves, may be added with the wine, cider, &c. Or, choose a kettle that will suit the size of the fish, into which put 2 parts water, 1 of light (not sweet) white wine, a good piece of butter, some stewed onions and carrots, pepper, salt, 2 or 3 cloves, and a good bunch of sweet herbs; simmer £ of an hour, let it become cold, then boil the fish therein. Serve with anchovy-sauce and a squeeze of lemon.