131 BEEF. Chap. Yin.] them up tightly ; fasten them upon a spit, flour and baste them well, and serve them up with melted butter and slices of Seville orange or lemon. To fry.—Dip it into batter of flour and eggs, and fry it of a good brown. Serve with onions fried. To steiv.—Simmer it in beef or veal gravy ; thicken it with butter rolled in a very little flour, and add a spoonful of mushroom-ketchup. Or boil it tender in milk, and serve with white sauce. Tripe and Tornata-Sauce.—Select some double tripe ; boil it until tender; let it cool; cut in small pieces; dip them in egg and bread-crumbs; fry them a light brown; serve with tomata-sauce. CO W-HEELS. 98.— Ox-feet, or Cow-heels, are not highly esteemed, but they contain much nutriment, and may be dressed in the various ways already stated for tripe, with which they are com- monly boiled. They are frequently eaten cold, with mustard 1 and vinegar. Soak them well; boil, and serve in a napkin, with thick melted butter, a large spoonful of vinegar, and a little mustard and salt. Or boil, and then stew them in a brown gravy. Or cut the heel in four parts, dip each in egg, flour, and fry them in butter. Or fry, and serve with onions fried and put romid them : sauce as above. The water in which they are boiled will make equally good jellies, either relishing or sweet, with that of calves’ feet, if duly prepared; and at a far less expense. This jelly gives great additional richness likewise to soups and gravies. To fry Ox-feet, or Cow-heel.—After preparing them as « above, cut them into small pieces; have ready some bread finely crumbled, dip the pieces into the yolk of an egg beaten up, and roll them in the bread-crumbs mixed with chopped parsley, pepper, and salt; fry them in butter or fresh lard, of jj a fine brown colour. To pot Ox-feet, or Cow-heel.—Boil them in fresh water till the bones can be easily removed ; cut them into small pieces, add a little of the liquor, just enough to moisten it, and mix with it a spoonful of vinegar, some pepper and salt, and a little k 2