LIQUEURS. Chap. XXX.] 615 sugar, and 4 a nutmeg: strain it through a flannel bag, and it will be found excellent. Of White Currant.—Strip the fruit, and prepare it in a jar as for jelly ; strain the juice, of which put 2 quarts to 1 gallon of rum, and 2 lbs. of lump-sugar ; strain through a jelly-bag. Or:—To a gallon of rum put 2 quarts of white currant- juice strained, and 14 lb. of lump-sugar ; stir them well toge- ther, and let them stand in a pan closely covered all night. Stir it well in the morning, strain it through a sieve of coarse cloth, and then through a jelly-bag. Should it not be clear, put it through the jelly-bag a second time, then bottle it for use. NO YEA IT.—E. R. 850. —The real liqueur under this name is made in the island of Martinique, upon a foundation of French brandy, with a species of berry grown in the island, and sweetened with syrup. It requires age to give it the flavour of the berry, and even in the West Indies is far from being cheap. The following receipts, however, are good imitations. Blanch 3 oz. of bitter and the same quantity of sweet almonds, and bruise them in a mortar; add them, with the Tind of 2 lemons, to 1 quart of English gin, which must be kept in a moderate heat for 3 days and nights. Shake the bottle 3 or 4 times a-day, then add 14 oz. of loaf-sugar dis- solved in 4 a pint of boiling water, and let it stand 1 day and night longer, shaking the bottle frequently ; then strain it, and filter it afterwards in blotting-paper such as the chemists use: bottle it, and it will be fit to drink in 6 months, but will improve by keeping for a year. Or :—To 1 quart of English gin, or what is better of good French brandy, put 3 oz. of bitter almonds, blanched and cut into pieces, and the rind of 3 lemons. Let it stand 3 days before the fire, shaking the bottle 2 or 3 times a-day; then add 1 lb. of good loaf-sugar, or 4 a pint of syrup ; let it dis- solve, shaking it frequently during the day or two which it will take; then filter it through blotting-paper. CHERRY BRAND Y.~E. R. 851. —To every pound of cherries put 4 lb. of lump-sugar, i oz. of bitter almonds, and 4 peach-leaves; pick the cherries from the stalks, and put them with the sugar, &c., in bottles,,