Chap. XXV.] PRESERVED FRUITS. 513 fruit, and let it remain until the next day; then put the re- mainder of the sugar and a pint of currant-juice to every lb. of strawberries into a preserving-pan, and boil to a syrup; then add the strawberries, and simmer very gently till the fruit is soft, being careful not to break it; then take out the strawberries, and boil the syrup until it appears to be rich. Wait until it is cold, and then put it upon the fruit. A rich way of preserving Strawberries.—In picking the strawberries reserve the largest kinds ; then boil the smaller ones, allowing f lb. of fine sugar to 1 lb. of fruit ; stir it while boiling, and make it into jam. Make a fine syrup of sugar, and boil the larger strawberries in it, taking great care that they be kept separate, and do not break. Take them out, and put them into small preserving-pots ; then boil the syrup and the jam together until it is very rich, or make it into a jelly by straining it, and pour it on the strawberries when nearly cold. Choose the largest scarlets, or others, when not dead ripe. In either of the above ways they eat well served in thin cream in glasses. To preserve Strawberries in Wine.—Put a quantity of the finest large strawberries into a gooseberry-bottle, and strew in it 3 large spoonfuls of fine sugar; fill up with Madeira wine or fine sherry. TO PRESERVE ORANGES OR LEMONS IN JELLY. 710. —Cut a hole at the stalk the size of a shilling, and with a small blunt knife scrape out the pulp quite clear, with- out cutting the rind, and lay them in spring water 2 days, changing it twice a-day ; in the last, boil them tender on a slow fire, keeping them covered to the last. To every lb. of fruit take 2 lbs. of double-refined sugar and 1 pint of water; boil the two latter together with the juice of the orange to a syrup, and clarify it; skim well, and let it stand to be cold ; then boil the fruit in the syrup a an hour; if not clear, do this daily till they are done. TO KEEP ORANGES OR LEMONS FOR PASTRY. 711. —When you have squeezed the juice, throw the peels into salt and water ; let them remain a fortnight; clean out the pulp ; boil them till tender, strain them, and when they are tolerably dry throw them into any syrup you may have 2 L