534 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXYI. fresh salt and water ; they will not require vinegar, their own acid being sufficient. Or, if imported from, abroad, and consequently old, pick out all the loose barberries, and lay aside the bunches. Make a brine of salt and water strong enough to bear an egg. To 2 quarts of brine put in 1 pint of white-wine vinegar and £ lb. of brown sugar ; boil all together with the loose bar- berries, and let it stand till it is cold. They must not boil long. Strain this liquor, pour it upon the bunches of bar- berries, and tie them up closely in the jars. NASTURTIUMS 749.—So much resemble capers, both in flavour and the mode of pickling, as to be frequently used in the same man- ner ; the seeds should be allowed to get ripe after the buds and flowers have gone off. Gather them upon a dry day, and keep them for .a few days after they have been gathered ; put them into a jar, and pour boiling vinegar well spiced upon them ; when cold, cover the jar. They will not be fit for use for some months, but will be finely flavoured after keeping, and are sometimes preferred to capers, for which they are an excellent substitute, being useful also in serving up all dishes in which pickles are warmed with the gravy. Young red capsicums and elder-flowers before they open may be done in the same way. TO PICKLE RED CABBA GE. 750.—Take those of a deep red or purple colour, strip off the outer leaves and cut out the stalk; quarter the cabbage lengthwise and cut it crosswise, but not in very thin slices; put it into a sieve and sprinkle it with salt and saltpetre ; let it drain for 24 hours, then squeeze it until it is very dry; make a pickle with sufficient vinegar to cover the cabbages well, and made with equal quantities of cloves and allspice, with a little mace—to be put in whole, to which if a very small quantity of cochineal be added, it will greatly improve the colour; boil the vinegar and spices together for full 5 minutes, and strain it; then, having put the cabbage into a stone jar, pour the vinegar over it boiling hot. This is opposed to the practice of some persons, who object to boiling the vinegar, and pour it cold upon the cabbage.