MODERN" DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIV. 488 pour the cream into the dish from a large teapot, holding it high, and moving it about to mix with the juice. It should stand at least 6 hours before it is served, and will be still better if kept a day. Rhenish Cream.—Dissolve 1 oz. of isinglass in a pint of hot water, let it stand until cold; take the yolks of 5 eggs, the peels of 2 and the juice of 3 lemons, t pint of white wine, and h lb. of lump-sugar ; stir them all together ; let them boil gently till thick enough to put into moulds. FRUIT CREAMS. 668.—Take + oz. of isinglass, dissolved in a little water, then put 1 pint of good cream, sweetened to the taste; boil it; when nearly cold lay some apricot or raspberry jam on the bottom of a glass dish, and pour it over. This is most excellent. Codling Cream.—Pare and core a score of codlings; beat them in a mortar with a pint of cream; strain it into a dish, and put sugar, bread-crumbs, and a glass of wine to it. Stir it well. Gooseberry Cream.—Boil 2 lbs. of green gooseberries in It pint of water; when thoroughly mashed strain them; to every lb. of juice add 1 lb. of loaf-sugar, let them boil for 20 minutes. Dissolve 1 oz. of isinglass in t pint of cream, taking care it does not boil ; stir it till nearly cold ; add it to the gooseberry syrup, which should be nearly cold ; add also the juice of a lemon ; put it into a mould and set it upon ice. It should be made the day before wanted. Excellent Orange Cream.—Boil the rind of a Seville orange very tender; beat it fine in a mortar; put to it a spoonful of the best brandy, the juice of a Seville orange, 4 oz. of loaf- sugar, and the yolks of 4 eggs; beat all together for 10 minutes; then, by gentle degrees, pour in a pint of boiling cream ; beat till cold ; put into custard-cups set into a deep dish of boiling- water, and let them stand till cold again. Put at the top small strips of orange-paring cut thin, or preserved chips. Or:—Take 5 Seville oranges, cut apiece off the top, grate the rind gently, then boil them in several waters till the bitter is quite out, but they must not be so soft as to break ; take out the seeds and pulp. Boil up a thick syrup, and put the