423 MEAT PIES. Chap. XXII.] and forcemeat balls, made very savoury with oysters, an anchovy, and the fat of bacon, as this pie should be eaten cold. Put the juice of 4 a lemon, or a spoonful of Harvey sauce, into the gravy. Sweetbread may be employed instead of kidney. BEEF-STEAK PIE. 558. —Take rump-steaks that have been well hung: beat them gently with a rolling-pin: season with pepper, salt, and a little shalot minced very fine; put the slices in layers with a good piece of fat and a sliced mutton kidney; fill the dish ; put some crust on the edge, and about an inch below it, and a cup of water or broth in the dish. Cover with rather a thick crust, and set in a moderate oven. Beef-steak and Oyster Pie.—Prepare the steaks as above, and put layers of them and of oysters. Stew the liquor and beards of the latter with a bit of lemon-peel, mace, and a tablespoonful of walnut ketchup. When the pie is baked, boil with the above 3 spoonfuls of cream and 1 oz. of butter rubbed in flour; to which, however, many people object as injuring the savouriness of the pie; in which case, should any addition be required, a few spoonfuls of beef gravy and port wine will answer the purpose. Strain it, and pour it into the dish : for a small pie a dozen of Milton oysters will be suffi- cient, and the pie may be baked in a couple of hours. MUTTON PIE.—E. R. 559. —Cut the mutton into small slices, without bone; season it very well, and stew it with the fat also cut in pieces, .putting in no water. When tender allow it to remain until cold; remove all the grease and fat very carefully; have some gravy made from the bones, add to it the strained gravy from the mutton, and a glass of port wine, but the wine may be omitted if the gravy be strong and highly seasoned. A minced shalot and button onions are good additions, and if the latter be pickled their acidity will be an improvement. Put it into a dish or into small pattypans, and bake it; if in pattypans use puff paste. Mutton pies are better hot than cold. The underdone part of a leg of mutton may be thus dressed ; but the loin and kidneys are better suited for the purpose. Lamb Pie.—Make it of the loin, neck, or breast; the