MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XT. 170 the frying-pan, and allow it just to change colour. Then strain the collops through a colander from the gravy, and fry them quickly ; pour the burnt butter from the pan, and put in the gravy, adding a little lemon-juice. The gravy may be made of the trimmings of the veal: serve it up with forcemeat-balls. If white, cut the collops the size of a crown-piece, and not much thicker; butter the bottom of the stewpan and lay the meat piece by piece upon it, having shaken a little flour upon the butter; add 2 blades of mace and a little nutmeg. Set the stewpan on the fire, and toss it together until the meat is very white; then add i pint of strong veal broth and i pint of cream; toss the whole, and, when simmered enough, let them just boil; add a little lemon-juice, some forcemeat-balls, and either oysters or mushrooms, which must both be very white; if necessary, thicken the sauce with the yolk of eggs, but do not let it boil afterwards. To dress Collops quickly.—Cut them as thin as paper with a very sharp knife, and in small bits. Throw the skin, and any odd bits of the veal, into a little water, with a dust of pepper and salt; set them on the fire while you beat the collops; and dip them into a seasoning of herbs, bread, pepper, salt, and a scrape of nutmeg, but first wet them in egg. Then put a bit of butter into a frying-pan, and give the collops a very quick fry; for as they are so thin, 2 minutes will do them on both sides: put them into a hot dish before the fire ; then strain and thicken the gravy. Or:—Cut the collops thin; flatten them with a beater; have a large dish, dredge it with flour, and sprinkle a little black pepper over it: as the collops are flattened, lay them in the dish ; put a piece of butter in a frying-pan, and, when it is melted and hot, lay in the collops; do them quickly ; when lightly browned, dish them up, and serve with a mushroom sauce. VEAL CUTLETS.—E. It. 164.— Cutlets should be cut from the fillet, but chops are taken from the loin. Some persons have deprecated the prac- tice of beating meat, but it is essentially necessary in veal cutlets, which otherwise, especially if merely fried, are very indigestible. They should be cut about I or, at the most, i an inch in thickness, and well beaten; they will then, when