MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXXII. 636 of rosemary, 1 of myrtle, £ of mint, 1 of lavender, the rind of a lemon, and £ oz. of cloves. Chop all, and put them in layers, with pounded bay-salt between, up to the top of the jar. If all the ingredients cannot be got at once, put them in as you get them ; always throwing in salt with every new article. To make Wash-balls.—Shave thin 2 lbs. of new white soap into about a teacupful of rose-water, then pour as much boiling water on as will soften it. Put into a brass pan a pint of sweet oil, 4 pennyworth of oil of almonds, 4 lb. of spermaceti, and set all over the fire till dissolved ; then add the soap and £ oz. of camphor that has first been reduced to powder by rubbing it in a mortar, with a few drops of spirits of wine, or lavender- water, or any other scent. Boil 10 minutes, then pour it into a basin, and stir it till it is quite thick enough to roll up into hard balls, which must then be done as soon as possible. If essence is used, stir it in quickly after it is taken off the fire, that the flavour may not fly off. Paste for Chapped Hands.—Mix £ 11). of unsalted hog’s lard, which has been washed in soft water, and then rose-water, with the yolks of 2 new-laid eggs, and a large spoonful of honey. Add as much fine oatmeal or almond-paste as will work into a paste. Or :—Blanch 1 lb. of bitter almonds, pound them smooth in a marble mortar; add 4 oz. of camphor, 1 oz. of honey, £ lb. of spermaceti, all pounded, and mixed with the almonds, till it becomes a smooth paste. Put it into jars or china boxes, and tie it down till wanted. For Chapped Lips.—Put £ oz. of benjamin, storax, and spermaceti, two-penny worth of alkanet-root, a large juicy apple chopped, a bunch of black grapes bruised, £ lb. of unsalted butter, and 2 oz. of bees’ wax, into a new tin saucepan. Sim- mer gently till the wax, &c., are dissolved, and then strain it through linen. When cold, melt it again, and pour it into small pots or boxes; or, if to make cakes, use the bottoms of teacups. Or :—Put 4 oz. of olive-oil into a bottle with 1 oz. of alka- net-root ; stop it up, and set it for some days in the sun, shak- ing it often until it becomes perfectly bright. Then strain the oil from the alkanet, put it into a pipkin, and add to it 1 oz. of white wax and l£ oz. of clarified mutton suet; set the mix-