398 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXI. Ea Pures.—Boil 6 eggs hard; when cold take out the yolks and beat them in a mortar, with butter, salt, nutmeg, pepper, and minced parsley, adding 3 raw yolks; chop the whites very small, and put them into a stewpan with some good gravy ; do not let them boil, but shake them until they have a consistence; then place them round the dish they are to be served in. Take the yolks out of the mortar, and pass them through a colander into the same dish; garnish with bread dipped in yolks of eggs. Place the dish in an oven, and when lightly browned it will be done. (Eufs sur le plat is a German mode of frying an egg by means of a small cheese-plate, which, being thoroughly warmed, is greased in the indented part with a bit of butter or a very little sweet-oil, and into this part the egg is broken ffom the shell, thus retaining the exact rotundity of the plate, which is then placed upon the gridiron over a good fire. It may be slightly browned, if thought fit, with a salamander, but does not need it; and though quite as delicate, yet renders the egg rather more savoury than by poaching. EGGS AND VEGETABLES. 522.—Eggs and Spinach.—Poach half a dozen eggs, trim them nicely, and serve them upon stewed spinach. Eggs and Oniojis, or a la Tripe.—Skin 6 or 8 onions, mince them, put some butter into a stewpan and melt it, add about 2 spoonfuls of flour, mix both Avell together, then add the onions, and wet them with milk, cream, or water; let them stew, taking care that the onions and butter do not become brown; season with a little salt and white pepper; cut some hard eggs into slices, and when the sauce is ready put them in; make the whole very hot, and serve it up. Or:—Slice some onions very finely, pepper them well with cayenne pepper, and fry them in butter; take them out of the pan, drain them before the fire from the flit, put them on a dish, and squeeze lemon-juice over them sufficient to satu- rate and render them very acid. Fry or poach 6 eggs, trim them nicely, lay them upon the onions, and serve them very hot. (Eufs a la Frangaise.—A very common way of dressing eggs in France is to put a piece of butter in a stewpan with some green onions chopped fine, and a little minced parsley;