205 Chap. XIII.] POULTRY AND GAME. a faggot of parsley and thyme, and an onion. Let them stew in this way for about 4 an hour; take off the butter and scum ; reduce the sauce made from the bones, and thicken it with cream and the yolk of an egg, and send it to table; a little lemon-juice will be necessary, and a few mushrooms are a great improvement. Another side-dish may be made of the legs boned and filleted, and fried in batter. In filleting take out the bone, skin, sinews, &c.; make a nice forcemeat; stuff and roll the fillets round. The 4 legs will thus make 8 pieces, which will be sufficient for a small dish, and these may be augmented by small pieces of fried paste cut into crescents, cockscombs, or other shapes. They must be served round a puree of some kind in the centre. To stew Chickens in haste,—Take fresh-killed chickens, clean, cut them in pieces, and scald them in hot water, with- out giving them time to cool: fry them in butter with sweet herbs chopped, white pepper, and salt, then add some boiling water and flour; stew them until the sauce is reduced : strain, and add to the sauce a tablespoonful of cream, the yolk of an egg beaten, squeeze a little lemon-juice over the chickens, and serve them up. This dish will be useful when it is requisite to add to the dinner at a short notice; and if the chickens do not grow cool, they will be tender. BLANC TO BOIL CHICKENS IN. 219. —Cut a lb. of veal and the same quantity of fat bacon into small pieces, and lay them in a stewpan with 4 lb. of butter; do not allow them to brown, but while the meat is white pour on boiling water, adding at the same time a clove, i a bay-leaf, a bundle of sweet herbs, and a little •shalot. When sufficiently stewed strain it through a hair-sieve over the fowl, which must simmer in it for f of an hour. The veal and bacon that have been employed in this blanc may be put into a mortar and pounded together for some kind of stuffing. It is the fashion to lard the breasts of boiled fowls with tongue. TO AD-IN-A-HOLE 220. —May be thought a very humble dish, but if well dressed is far from bad. Make a common batter of eggs, flour, and milk, but rather thicker than usual, and put in the centre of it a fowl boned and stuffed with forcemeat, and let it