MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. YII. 80 which put with the barley and chops into a close stewpan, strain the stock into it, let it boil II- hour, and skim it well, seasoning- it only with salt and black pepper. This will make a large tureen of broth, besides preserving the chops for table. HOTCH-POTCH. 14. —Take any quantity of lamb-chops, pare off the skin and greater part of the fat, trim the bones, cut the smaller end of the chops into pieces, and lay them along with the chops put in whole in a stewpan in this manner:—A layer of chops at the bottom, covered with every kind of vegetable cut in small pieces, onions, celery, lettuce, carrots, turnips, and green peas; then put on a layer of chops, and so on with the vegetables until the whole are added ; cover the ingredients with water, and let it stew several hours very gently, until both the meat and vegetables become tender, and the soup thick. Scotch Hotch-potch is made in the same manner, only that both beef and mutton are indiscriminately used, and minced instead of being left in chops. PEPPER-P O T HO TCH P O TOIL 15. —To 3 quarts of water put vegetables according to the season. In summer, peas, French beans, cauliflowers, lettuce, and spinach; in winter, beet-root and endive,a carrots, turnips, celery, and onions in both, all cut small; and stew with 2 lbs. of neck of mutton, or a fowl and 1 lb. of pickled pork, in 3 quarts of water, till quite tender. On first boiling, skim. Half an hour before serving, add a lobster or crab, cleared from the bones. Season with salt and cayenne. A small quantity of rice should be put in with the meat. Some people choose very small suet dumplings boiled with it. Should any fat rise, skim nicely, and put 4 a cup of water with a little flour. It may be made of various things, using a due proportion of fish, flesh, fowl, vegetables, and pulse. In the West Indies it is the universal dish of the coloured people; but seasoned so highly with green capsicums and peppers, that it is there called u peppei’-pot.” n If endive be used, it should, however, be boiled in two or three waters to take off its bitterness.