418 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIT. off the fat, whip up 2 whites of eggs, give it a boil, and then run it through a fine lawn sieve. Or:—Lay a fowl, or a few bones of the scrag of veal, seasoned, into a dish ; scald a large handful of picked parsley in milk, season it, and add it to the fowl or meat, with a tea- cupful of any sort of good broth or weak gravy. When it is baked, raise the crust and pour into the dish f pint of cream scalded, with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and a bit of flour; stirring it round to mix with the gravy already in. It is very excellent when made with alternate layers of salt pork, or slices of pig’s-cheek. RABBIT PIE, 549. —Rabbits, if young and in flesh, are quite as deli- cate as chickens: their legs should be cut short, and the ribs must not be put in, but will help to make the gravy. Cut 2 rabbits and 1 lb. of pickled pork into small bits; lay them, when seasoned with pepper and salt, into a dish. Par- boil the livers, and beat them in a mortar, with their weight of fat bacon, some pepper, salt, mace, and sweet herbs, chopped fine. Make this into small balls, and distribute in the dish. Grate i a small nutmeg over, and add a pint of gravy. Cover with a tolerably thick crust, and bake it an hour in a quick but not violently heated oven. All pies made of white meats or fowls are improved by a layer of fine sausage-meat, made of pork, flavoured according to taste and the savouriness of the pie. HARE PIE. 550. —Season the hare after it is cut up, in the same manner as if to be jugged ; and bake it, with eggs, and forcemeat partly made of the liver, in a raised crust or dish. When it is to be served, raise the lid, and, if in a crust, cover it with jelly, but, if made in a dish, with warm gravy, mixed with a large glass- ful of port wine. TIPPERARY CURRY (an excellent Picnic Dish). 551. —Boil 4 chickens, and stuff 2 of them when cold with a forcemeat made of crumbs of bread, a few slices of ham or tongue, sweet herbs, and a shalot well pounded and mixed with the yolk of an egg. Stuff the other 2 with boiled rice,