74 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. YII. OX-TAIL SOUP. 5.—Two ox-tails, if properly stewed, with a couple of pounds of gravy beef and a bone of ham, will make an excellent soup. Cut the tails into joints, and boil very gently for several hours in a sufficient quantity of water, with the beef and ham, carrots, turnips, and celery, 2 or 3 onions, a piece of crust of bread, a bunch 'of swe^t_ herbs, a clove or two, and some peppercorns. Take Out the tail's when tender, and let the beef, &c., boil 4 hours longer, then strain the liquor and remove the fat in the same manner as for clear gravy soup. If made without ham- bones, or other flavouring ingredients, it will require the addi- tion of a little ketchup, or some of the prepared sauces, and a glass of wine, with a moderate quantity of cayenne. Add the tails and some pieces of carrot and turnip cut into fancy shapes. When thickened ox-tail soup is preferred, proceed in the same manner as above, and thicken the broth with brown roux. Another.—Cut up 2 ox-tails, separating them at the joints, fry them with a little butter, a carrot, turnip, 3 onions, a leek, a head of celery, and a bunch of sweet herbs, adding a bay- leaf. Add a pint of water and a teaspoonful of peppercorns ; set it over the fire, stirring it frequently until the pan is covered with a glaze; stir in j lb. of flour and a tablespoonful of salt. Fill up the stewpan with 3 quarts of water, stirring it occa- sionally. When it boils, set it on the stove, and let it simmer until the tails are quite tender, when put them into the tureen and strain the soup over them, blanch and slice a head of celery, add it and serve. OX- CHEEK S 0 UP. 6.—Clean and soak well half an ox-head, which should be broken up by the butcher; take the meat from the bones, and put it into an earthen pan with 3 onions sliced, and fried brown in butter and flour, without becoming burnt; a bunch of sweet herbs; allspice, pepper, and salt, a large spoonful of each. Lay the bones close on the meat, and pour on 3 or 4 quarts of water, or a quart of water to every pound of the cut meat. Cover the pan with a coai’se brown paper ; tie closely, and let it stand in the oven 3 or 4 hours; or put it by