MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XVII. 298 together, and, when very hot, put it into the dish with the ducks upon it. Should the flavour of the onions be thought too strong, they may be scalded previously. Or:—Mix i pint of sorrel-juice, a glass of white wine, some scalded gooseberries, some white sugar, and a bit of butter. Boil them up and serve in a boat. SAUCE FOR SUCKING-PIG. 333. —Take the inside of a French roll and boil it to a pulp, along with an onion and a little salt; chop the brains and put them into a teacupful of the gravy that runs from the pig ; then take as much butter as will be sufficient for the sauce, and put into it a good squeeze of lemon, with i a glass of white wine. Some cooks make a stuffing for the pig in nearly the same manner, only making it with less butter and more bread, besides sometimes seasoning it with sage. Currant Sauce.—Clean an ounce of currants, and boil them in if pint of water for a few minutes, pour the whole over a teacupful of bread-crumbs ; let it soak, and then add a piece of butter rolled in flour, 4 or 6 cloves, and a glass of port wine ; beat it a little, and stir it over the fire until it is quite smooth. SA UCES FOR WILD-FO WL. 334. —A teaspoonful of made mustard, the same of essence of anchovies and red pepper; a tablespoonful of ketchup, and a glass of claret. This receipt is from the Palace, and comes highly recommended. Or:—Simmer a teacupful of port wine, the same quantity of good meat gravy, a little shalot, a little pepper, salt, a grate of nutmeg, and a bit of mace, for 10 minutes: put in a bit of butter and flour, give it all one boil, and pour it through the birds. In general they are not stuffed, but may be done so if liked. Or:—Mince some shalots very fine, put them into a small saucepan with some peppercorns, 2 tablespoonfuls of strong clear gravy, and the same quantity of vinegar; when suf- ficiently boiled add a little salt, and strain it through a sieve. It may.be served either hot or cold. Shikaree Sauce.—Mix together a dessertspoonful of pounded white sugar, with the same quantity of cayenne pepper, or, if