CAKES. 565 Chap. XXVII.] pounded cinnamon. When all the ingredients are in the pot, mill them | of an hour. Butter a pan, and bake in a slow oven. Or:—Mix 1 lb. of fine dried flour with the same of sifted loaf-sugar; rub into it 1 lb. of fresh butter till it resembles crumbled bread : then add 2 spoonfuls of rose-water, 2 of white wine, and 10 eggs ; whisk it well, and add 8 oz. of currants. Butter small tin pans and half fill. IRISH CAKE. 793.—Take 1 lb. of butter beaten to a cream, t lb. of sugar sifted and dried, 9 eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, i lb. of almonds blanched and sliced, 1 f lb. of cun-ants picked and dried, the same weight of flour also dried. When the but- ter has been worked with the hand to a cream, sift hi the sugar, which should be quite hot; when mixed pour in the yolks of eggs, then add the whites; work it 4 an hour, then add the flour by degrees; when thoroughly mixed, add a very small teac.upful of brandy. The currants and almonds, with i lb. of lemon or citron peel, should be added just before the cakes are placed in the oven, which should be hot. The cake should be beaten an hour; the hand should be kept moving the same way, and not taken out. ISLE OF WIGHT CRACKNELS. *794.—Mix with a quart of flour 4- a nutmeg grated, the yolks of 4 eggs beaten, with 4 spoonfuls of rose-water, into a stiff paste, with cold water ; then roll in 1 lb. of butter, and make them into a cracknel shape; put them into a kettle of boiling water, and boil them till they swim; ’then take them out and put them into cold water; when hardened, lay them out to dry, and bake them on tin plates. KRINGLES. 795. —Beat well the yolks of 8 and whites of 2 eggs, and mix with 4 oz. of butter just warmed, and with this knead 1 lb. of flour and 4 oz. of sugar to a paste. Roll into thick bis- cuits ; prick them, and bake on tin plates. R USKS. 796. —Beat 7 eggs well, and mix with £ pint of new milk, in which have been melted 4 oz. of butter; add to it i pint of yeast and 3 oz. of sugar, and put them, by degrees, into as