MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XI. 164 easily divided into 3 parts and each dressed separately; that piece known in a u round of beef” as the “ silver side” being roasted, and the remaining two stewed in different ways. In Paris, a longe de veau is cut somewhat in the shape of a haunch of mutton, with the fillet and part of the loin joined together. FILLET OF VEAL BOILED. 154. —Choose a small delicate fillet for this purpose; prepare as for roasting, or stuff it with an oyster forcemeat; bind it round with a tape; after having washed it thoroughly, cover it with milk and water in equal quantities, and let it boil very gently 34 or 4 hours, keeping it carefully skimmed. Send it to table with a rich white sauce, or, if stuffed with oysters, a tureen of oyster-sauce ; garnish with stewed celery and slices of bacon. A boiled tongue should be served with it. LOIN OF VEAL ROASTED. 155. —Take a loin of veal; run a lark-spit along the chine- bones ; then tie the ends of the lark-spit on the usual spit, drawing down the flap over the kidney. Cover it well with buttered paper, and tie it up carefully; let it roast gently for 3 hours. When about to serve, remove the paper, sprinkle well with salt, dredge it with flour, and finish basting with a small piece of fresh butter. This joint is frequently divided; the kidney end and the chump. The kidney end sent up with a toast under the fat; the chump end should be stuffed like the fillet, or sent up with balls of stuffing in the dish ; pour melted butter over the joint, and gravy round. It also forms an excellent stew if served up in winter with rice, and in summer .with green peas. BREAST OF VEAL. 156. —Cover it with the caul, and, if you retain the sweet- bread, skewer it to the back, but take off the caul when the meat is nearly done: it will take 24 to 3 hours roasting. Or:—Remove the tendons, and insert in their place a stuffing ; then roast as before. Or:—Raise the skin, and force in as much stuffing as pos- sible ; skewer it up ; this will give a very good flavour to the joint. To stew.—Cut a breast, or a portion, in pieces; fry them