MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XVII. 302 make it so. If it wants flavour, add soy, and, if mushrooms had not been one of the ingredients, put in ketchup : if not thick enough, a little arrowroot,jar common flour, with a piece of butter, will have the effect; but if the gravy be truly rich, it will not require the addition. Such is the foundation of the sauce; but in most cases white wine is added, for the purpose .of stewing game : it is needless to say that Madeira and sherry are best, but Cape or ginger wine will be found good substitutes. A la Provengale.—Put into a casserole 2 spoonfuls of sweet-oil, a shalot, a clove of garlic, and some mushrooms, all minced, and placed upon the fire in any sort of good strong broth, seasoned with pepper and salt, together with pot-herbs; leave it there for i an hour; then skim it so far as to remove much of the appearance of the oil; strain it, and add some white wine to suit the taste. Or, as Sauce Maigre:—Fry a large quantity of onions and put them along with the above into the casserole, with white wine, until well browned; then strain it; add a tablespoonful of salad-oil with a little flour, and mix it gently, but continually, for a few minutes, until completely mingled. A V Hollandaise—for meat, fowl, or fish. Put 6 spoonfuls of water and 2 of tarragon vinegar, with 1 oz. of butter, into a stewpan; warm and thicken it with the yolks of 2 eggs. Make it quite hot, but do not boil it; stir it all the time; squeeze in the juice of i a lemon, and strain it through a sieve. Season with salt and cayenne. It should be quite thick. TOM AT A SAUCE. 343.—Take i a dozen ripe tomatas; slice them; squeeze out the seeds and water, and put them, with salt, cayenne pepper, pounded mace, and allspice, into a stewpan, without any wrater, and let them simmer slowly in their own liquor till quite dissolved ; when completely done, pass them through a fine hair sieve, beat them up witli a bit of butter, and serve them, if necessary, with lemon-juice. A VItalienne.—Slice a couple of Spanish onions and i a dozen of tomatas into a stewpan, which, with a sprig of thyme, 2 bay-leaves, 6 pods of pimento, 2 teaspoonfuls of curry- powder, salt, and a cup of rich gravy, simmer very gently until