MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XX. 372 POTTING AND COLLARING. 478. —To pot and collar are only different modes of pre- serving fish and meat for a longer time than they could be kept fresh; chiefly, in the instance of potting, by pounding the materials with seasoning, when dressed, and then putting small portions in closely covered jars or pots ; while collaring is done by slicing portions of the meat or fish, and, when well seasoned, rolling it in round pieces, to be eaten cold as savoury dishes at breakfast and luncheon. In potting, take care to wait until the meat is cold ; press the meat firmly into the pots ; but, before putting it there, drain the gravy thoroughly from the meat, or the gravy will turn it sour; then cover well with clarified butter, and tie over it oil-skin, or oiled paper, to exclude the air. To clarify Blitter.—Put your boat into a saucepan of cold water, and set it over a slow fire until it melts; then take it off the fire, take off the scum, and again warm it gently. After being used it will still serve for basting or for meat-pie paste, and is also excellent for fish sauce. In collaring, be careful to roll the meat tightly and bind it firmly. Let it also be thoroughly done, left in a cool place, sometimes rubbed with pickle, but always wiped perfectly dry. TO POT LAMPREY. 479. —Lamprey is a species of eel only found in a few parts of England; and, being considered as a rarity, is almost invariably potted for the convenience of being for- warded to places at a distance. The mode adopted at Worcester, which is celebrated for its superior excellence, is as follows :—Leave the skin on, but remove the cartilage and a string on each side of it down the back. Wash and clean the fish very nicely in several waters, and wipe them. To a dozen of tolerable size use 2 oz. of white pepper, salt in proportion, 6 blades of mace, a dozen of cloves, all in fine powder, but do not season until the fish shall have drained all night. Lay them in a stone pot one by one, and curled round, the spices and salt being sprinkled in and about them. Clarify 2 lbs. of butter and £ lb. of the finest beef-suet, pour it on the fish, and lay thick paper over to keep in the steam. Bake 3 hours in a moderate oven. Look often at them, and