Chap. XXI.] PANCAKES AND FRITTERS. 407 and serve, asasauce, a glass of white wine, the juice ofalemon, 1 desertspoonful of peach-leaf or almond water, and some white snsrar, warmed together. Not to be served in the dish. Or :—Slice potatoes thin, dip them in a fine batter, and fry. Serve with white sugar sifted over them. Lemon-peel and a spoonful of orange-flower water should be added to the batter. Or:—Boil 1 lb. of floury potatoes, bruise them in a mortar, and add to them 2 oz. of butter, with the yolks of a couple of eggs seasoned with a little pepper and salt. Mix all well together; roll it into balls the size of an egg, and fry them brown. Some persons like the addition of a finely minced shalot. Buckwheat Fritters, or “ Bookings.”—Mix 3 oz. of buck- wheat flour with a teacupful of warm milk and a spoonful of yeast; let it rise before the fire about an hour; then mix 4 eggs, well beaten, and as much milk as will make the batter the usual thickness for pancakes, and fry them in the same way. Curd Fritters.—Rub down in a mortar a quart of dried curd, with the yolks of 8 and whites of 4 well-beaten eggs, 2 oz. of sifted sugar, i a nutmeg, and 4 a spoonful of flour. Drop the batter into a frying-pan, with a little butter or fine lard. Orange and Sweetmeat Fritters.—Take off the rind of 2 oranges, removing all the white skin; then cut the oranges in slices across, and take out all the pips; dip the slices of orange in batter, as for apple fritters, and fry them. Serve with pow- dered sugar upon each fritter. Coloured Fritters.—Boil a large beet-root until it is tender ; beat it fine in a marble mortar. Add the yolks of 4 eggs, 2 spoonfuls of flour and 3 of cream, the juice and peel of ^ a lemon, i a nutmeg, and a glass of brandy. Mix all well together, and fry the fritters in butter. Garnish them with green sweetmeats, preserved apricots, or sprigs of myrtle. FISH AND MEAT FRITTERS.—E. R. 533.—Kidney Fritters.—Beat 4 eggs well; add a teacupful of cream, some pepper and salt, with a little pounded mace, parsley, and chives, shred fine, and chopped mushroom. To this batter add also some of the kidney with the fat of a loin of veal minced; mix all thoroughly together; rub the pan well with butter, and pour in the ingredients. Keep stirring