Chap. XXV.] 505 CLARIFIED SUGAR. into large lumps, and put it into a preserving-pan. If for syrup, add a pint of cold water to each pound ; if for candy- ing, a couple of wineglassfuls to the pound will be sufficient. Beat the white of an egg, add it to the water, mix it well, and pour it over the sugar; 1 egg is enough for 12 lbs. of sugar if it is fine, or 2 if it is coarse. When the sugar is nearly melted, stir it well, and put it over a gentle fire; do not stir it after the scum begins to rise; let it boil 5 minutes, then take it off the fire, let it stand a minute or two, then take the scum carefully off; put the pan again on the fire, and when the syrup begins to boil throw in a little cold water, which should be kept back for the purpose; boil till the scum rises, draw it off the fire, and skim it as before; repeat this till quite clear; it is then fit for use. It is by long boiling that the different degrees are acquired which the confectioner requires. When it is fit for candying, it may be drawn out into threads by taking a little between the thumb and finger; but for barley-sugar or caramel, the way to prove it is by dropping a little into cold water ; if it snap between the teeth without sticking to them, it should then be instantly taken off the fire. If for barley-sugar, a few drops of essence of lemon should be added, then pour it upon a broad dish, and when the edges begin to harden roll it up into sticks. If for caramel, or spun sugar, oil a mould and draw out the sugar in threads over it, let it cool, then place it over the fruit or tart it is in- tended to cover. The various degrees in sugar-boiling, if re- quired to a nicety, may best be ascertained by means of a very simple saccharometer, to be had at any instrument-maker’s, consisting of a tin tube, into which, when nearly filled with the syrup, a small graduated rod, having a weight at the lower end to hold it in a perpendicular position, is inserted ; and according to the degree it marks on the surface of the syrup, the stage is denominated as in the following table Petit lisse, at. . . .29 degrees. Grand lissd .... 32 Petit perle . . . .33 Grand perle .... 34 ,, Petit plume or souffle .37 ,, Grand plume . . .38 ,, Petit boulet .... 40 Grand boulet. Petit casse' (crack), which makes a noise when dropped into water. Grand casse'. Caramel blond. Caramel noir. I he instrument does not mark beyond 40 decrees else it would give caramel noir at 48 degrees.