VEAL. Chap. XL] 177 ready a pint of weak broth, with a bunch of sweet herbs, chibols, 2 bay-leaves, i pint of mushrooms, pepper and salt, boiled up and skimmed, wipe the sides of the casserole, put the tails in, and simmer very slowly until they are quite tender; keep them hot while the gravy is strained, and boiled to a glaze, to cover them. If you have no mushrooms, mix a little of the powder into the gravy just before serving; have ready small onions, and peel to one size to send up in the dish. CALVES' EARS STUFFED. 176. —The hair being scalded off' the ears, after they have ] been cut quite close to the head, scald and clean them as well 1 as possible ; boil them quite tender, and blanch them in cold | water. Observe that the gristle next the head be cut so smooth as to allow the ears to stand upright; they may be 1 boiled in white gravy instead of water, which will make them richer. When become cold, fill up the cavity with a fine stuffing of calf’s liver, fat bacon, grated ham, bread soaked in cream or gravy, herbs, an unbeaten egg, a little salt, and a small piece of mace; rub egg over the ears and stuffing, dip in bread-crumbs, and fry of a beautiful light brown. Serve in brown or white gravy, or tomata-sauce. If the ear be large, i one will be sufficient for a corner dish. Or:—When prepared as above, boil them quite tender in 4 gravy, and serve them in chervil-sauce; or else boil chervil to a mash, put to it melted butter, pass it through a sieve, I and add to it white sauce, or use the latter solely, in which 3j case put a little mushroom-powder into it; the same force- s meat may be used, or the ears may be served without, i! They likewise eat well, served in white or brown gravy, cut ij into slices. In the latter case, fry them before stewed in 'B gravy. CALVES' BRAINS.—E. R. 177. —Remove all the large fibres and skin; soak them in n warm water for 4 hours; blanch them for 10 minutes in boil- 7 ing water, with a little salt and vinegar in it; then soak them i 3 hours in lemon-juice in which a bit of chervil has been * steeped; dry them well, dip them in batter, and fry them, i*; Make hot a ladleful of glaze, some extremely small onions ri browned in butter, artichoke bottoms divided in half, and some N