MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIX. 358 Fish Forcemeat.—Chop, and afterwards pound in a mortar, any kind of fish, adding an anchovy or two, or a teaspoonful of the essence of anchovies, but do not allow the taste to pre- vail, and the yolk of a hard-boiled egg. If for maigre, pound butter with it; but otherwise, the fat of bacon pounded sepa- rately, and then mixed. Add a third portion of bread, pre- pared by soaking and pounding previously, and mix the whole up with raw eggs. For mackerel, pike, haddock, and soles, take the veal forcemeat, add a little anchovy essence, and use rather less herbs. Oyster Forcemeat.—Take a dozen natives, strain them from the liquor, mince them, and add \ lb. of finely-grated bread- crumbs, H oz. of butter broken very small, a dessertspoonful of parsley, the grated rind of i a lemon ; season with a little mace, cayenne, and salt; mix well; then bind together with the yolk of an egg unbeaten, and a little of the oyster liquor. Care must be taken that the oyster flavour predominates. FORCEMEAT BALLS FOR SOUP MAIGRE. 455.—Forcemeat balls for meagre soups of any description should be always used to compensate for the savour of which they are deprived by the want of meat-broth ; and may be made of fish and sweet herbs, or only of herbs and crumbs of bread, in the following manner:— Pound in a mortar the soft parts of a crawfish, or a few shrimps, with an anchovy, and the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, beaten up with crumbs of stale bread, pounded mace, cayenne pepper, salt, and a very little finely minced garlic. Then work it up into a paste with a raw egg to bind it into dough; roll it out, cut it into small balls of the size of marbles, and fry them of a fine brown. Or:—Leave out the fish, and make them entirely of bread and savoury chopped herbs—chervil, tarragon, marjoram, and thyme, with a little garlic and a shalot—and bind them up as above, with egg, butter, and crumbs of bread. Or:—Chop, and afterwards pound in a mortar, any kind of fish, adding an anchovy or two, or a teaspoonful of the essence of anchovies, but do not allow the taste to prevail, and the yolk of a hard-boiled egg : pound butter with it; add a third portion of bread, prepared by soaking and pounding previously, and mix the whole up with raw eggs.