MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. VII. 92 into bits IV inch square ; remove the bones and coarse parts ; and then put the rest on to warm, with a large spoonful of walnut and one of mushroom ketchup, half a pint of sherry or Madeira wine, a little mushroom-powder, and the jelly of the meat. TV hen hot, if it wants any more seasoning, add some ; and serve with hard eggs, forcemeat balls, a squeeze of lemon, and a spoonful of soy. This is a very easy way, and the dish is excellent. NEAT’S FEET SOUP. 37. —Take 2 neat’s feet, cut them as you do a calf’s head : take 5 pints of any sort of broth, the juice and rind of 1 lemon, some parsley and herbs chopped fine ; send these to the oven ; when it comes from the oven, put in a pint of strong gravy and a cup of white wine, some hard eggs and forcemeat balls; season with cayenne pepper and salt. To these an excellent addition will be found in 1 lb. of the belly part of very delicate pickled pork; for it will improve the flavour of the soup, and, if cut neatly into bits, will taste nearly as rich, and quite as savoury, as the fat of the head, or the gelatinous parts of the feet. Any of these receipts for mock-turtle may be also made from pig’s face and pettitoes; and in most country-houses, as well as at sea—where pigs are generally kept for fresh meat —the head is commonly made into soup in imitation of turtle. It has become unfashionable among first-rate cooks to put those egg-balls, formerly so common, into mock-turtle; but as they are still used by those of the old school, we here add their mode of preparation :— Take out the yolks of some hard-boiled eggs, and beat them in a mortar with a very little salt and cayenne, and make them into a paste with the white of a raw egg. Roll the paste into balls not larger than marbles, put them into the soup, and boil for 10 minutes. MULL A GA TA WNEE. 38. —Slice some onions and a few shalots, put them in a mortar with V lb. of fresh butter, beat them well, add 3 or 4 dessert-spoonfuls of curry-powder, a little cayenne pepper and salt; cut up some India pickle, which pound well with the other ingredients, add Hour sufficient to thicken the soup, and a little cold stock to work the whole into a stiff paste. VV hen