Chap. XXXI.] COOKERY FOR THE SICK. 625 An egg divided, and the yolk and white beaten separately, with a little wine put to each, will afford 2 very wholesome draughts, and prove lighter than when taken together. Eggs very little boiled, or poached, taken in small quantity, convey much nourishment: the yolk only, when dressed, should be eaten by invalids. PANADA is merely a preparation of bread made up in various ways. 864. —To make it in five minutes.—Set a little water on the fire with a glass of white wine, some sugar, and a scrape of nut- meg and lemon-peel: meanwhile grate some crumbs of bread. The moment the mixture boils up, keeping it still on the fire, put the crumbs in, and let it boil as fast as it can. When of a proper thickness just to drink, take it off. Another hj.—Make as above, but, instead of a glass of wine, put in a teaspoonful of rum and a bit of butter; sugar as above. This is a most pleasant mess, but will most pro- bably be objected to by the physician. Or :—Put to the water a bit of lemon-peel, mix the crumbs in, and, when nearly boiled enough, put some lemon or orange syrup. Observe to boil all the ingredients, for, if any be added after, the panada will break and not jelly. Chicken Panada.—Boil a chicken till about three parts ready in a quart of rvater; take off the skin, cut the white meat off when cold, and put into a marble mortar : pound it to a paste with a little of the water it was boiled it, season with salt, a grate of nutmeg, and the least bit of lemon-peel. Boil gently for a few minutes to the consistency you like; it should be such as you can drink, though tolerably thick. This conveys great nourishment in a small compass. SIPPETS, when the stomach will not receive meat, are very nutritious, and prepared in this simple manner:— 865. —On an extremely hot plate put 2 or 3 sippets of bread, and pour over them some gravy from beef, mutton, or veal, with which no butter has been mixed. Sprinkle a little salt over. Or :—Take a French roll; cut it crosswise in slices of about 2 s