MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXY. 520 amongst them some thinly shred lemon-peel, and put 1 lb. of fine moist sugar upon them. When the apples are very ripe add a little lemon-juice ; put in i pint of water ; cover the jar close, and bake slowly. They may be served hot, with the juice poured over them ; or, when cold, for dessert, or for a corner dish, with a custard poured round them. Med Currant.—Boil ^ lb. of sugar in ^ pint of water for 15 minutes; simmer a quart of picked currants in it for 10 minutes. Raspberries, cherries, gooseberries, rhubarb, or almost any sort of fruit, may be prepared in the same proportions, only varying the quantity of sugar according to the acidity of the fruit. These compotes will be found excellent served with batter, bread, ground rice, or any other puddings, or with a little custard or cream. TO DRY CURRANTS FOR DESSERT.—E. R. 721. —Have a basin of water and dissolve in it a sufficient quantity of gum-Arabic to make it rather thick ; have also a plateful of the best loaf-sugar, pounded and sifted. Dip bunches of ripe red currants into the gum-Arabic solution, and then roll them well in the sugar: lay them separately on a dish to dry in the sun. They are very pretty for dessert, to be eaten immediately ; if kept, care must be taken that the bunches do not touch, and the process should be repeated by rolling them in sugar for several days successively. BARBERRY CAKES.—E. R. 722. —Pick the barberries and weigh them ; to every lb. of fruit add 1 lb. of sugar pounded and sifted. Bruise the bar- berries in a mortar, boil them gently till nearly all the juice is consumed, then take therp off the fire and stir in the sugar by degrees ; drop the fruit on earthen dishes to dry : it must not go over the fire after the sugar is put in, nor must there be any water used. Do not pound the barberries too small, as the cakes will not look so well. Currant cakes may be made in the same way. FRUIT WAFERS FOR DESSERT.—E. R. 723. —Take currants, cherries, apricots, or any other fruit; put them into an earthen jar in a kettle of water, and when scalded strain them through a sieve. To every pint of juice