455 SWEET PUDDINGS. Chap. XXIII.] Boiled Vermicelli.—Stir very gently 4 oz. of vermicelli into a pint of new milk over the stove, until it be scalding hot, but not more; then pour it into a basin, and add to it while hot 1 oz. of butter and 2 of sugar. When the above is nearly cold, mix in it, very gently, 2 well-beaten eggs, and imme- diately put it into a basin that will exactly hold it. Cover carefully with a floured cloth ; and turning the basin the nar- row end upwards, move it round for 10 minutes, and boil an hour. Serve with pudding-sauce. Macaroni.—Simmer 1 or 2 oz. of the pipe sort in a pint of milk, and a bit of lemon and cinnamon, till tender ; put it into a dish, with milk, 2 or 3 yolks of eggs, but only 1 white, sugar, nutmeg, 1 spoonful of peach-water, and 4 a glass of raisin wine. Bake with a paste round the edges. A layer of orange marmalade or raspberry jam in a maca- roni pudding, for change, is a great improvement; in which case omit the almond-water or ratafia, which you would other- wise flavour it with. Semolina is a similar paste to that of the two former; but, being made of a smaller form, it mixes better into a pudding, and may be either baked or boiled. In case of not having either ratafia or almond at hand, a glass of French brandy should be added. ARROWROOT P TJDDING. 610.—Simmer a pint of milk with a few whole allspice, coriander-seed, and half a stick of cinnamon, for 10 or 15 minutes; then sweeten it with sugar, and strain it through a hair sieve into a basin to l^oz. of arrowroot (about 1^-table- spoonful), previously mixed with a little cold water, stirring it all the time. When cold, or as soon as the scalding heat is gone, add 3 large or 4 small eggs, well beaten, and stir until the whole is perfectly blended. It may then be boiled in a well-buttered mould or basin, or baked in a dish, with a puff- jiaste crust round the edge, and grated nutmeg on the top. From £ to I of an hour will be sufficient to boil or bake it. TV hen boiled, serve it with wine-sauce. The flavour of the pudding may be occasionally varied, by using a few sweet and bitter almonds bla.nched and finely-pounded or chopped- about 1 oz. of sweet and i oz. of bitter—or with brandy or rum, orange-flower water or vanilla. J Or .-—Mix a dessertspoonful of the powder in 2 of cold milk ;