329 Chap. XVIII.] VEGETABLES AND SALADS. forcemeat between each leaf; tie thenr up carefully, and stew them gently in a braise made of thin slices of bacon, a carrot, an onion, a small bunch of sweet herbs, and a little good gravy. Skim the gravy, strain it, add a glass of white wine, reduce it, and let it be served quite hot. Or: — Take lettuces prepared as above, drain them tho- roughly, dip them in beaten egg and bread-crumbs, or make a batter the same as for thick pancakes, adding a glass of brandy ; allow it to remain 4 hours before it is wanted, then dip in the lettuces and fry them in lard. ONIONS, 399.—Though all of the same species, are yet widely different in flavour, the Spanish being very mild and the English very pungent; but their taste may be much diminished by boiling them in 2 or 3 separate waters. In buying the former, always choose the larger sort, as having been probably grown in the south of Spain or Portugal, where the finest sort are produced. To stew.—Peel, flour, and fry them gently of a fine brown, but do not blacken them ; then put them into a small stew- pan, with a little gravy, pepper, and salt; cover and stew gently for 2 hours. Roast Onions should be done with all the skins on, and par- boiled before being put before the fire. They eat well alone, with only salt and cold butter, or with roast potatoes, and are better large than small. Though called “roast,” the best way is to put them in a Dutch oven and turn them occasionally, so as to brown them equally. The half-grown, or smaller sort, are frequently dressed in this way, and served with roast mut- ton ; and in France they are very commonly put round a dish of roast fowl. Young Onions are generally eaten raw; but chives, scal- lions, and shalot are mostly used for salads, or various modes of seasoning and pickles. Of all these condiments, garlic has the highest flavour, and if delicately used imparts a fine savour to various sorts of soups and sauces; or if a clove of it be put into the shank of a leg or shoulder of mutton to be roasted, it will much im- prove its flavour. It is an excellent tonic, and is exten- sively used by the best cooks throughout the south of Europe ; but in England a prejudice prevails against it, in consequence