Chap. XVIII.] VEGETABLES AND SALADS. 337 upper part and stalk are white. As the size increases, the under part gradually opens, and shows a fringed fur of a very fine salmon colour, which continues more, or less till the mush- room has gained some size, and then turns to a dark brown. These marks should be attended to, and likewise whether the skin can be easily parted from the edges and middle. Those that have a white or yellow fur should be carefully avoided, though many of them have the same smell, but not so strong, as the right sort. To stew.—The large buttons are best for this purpose, and the small flaps while the fur is still red. Rub the buttons with salt and a bit of flannel; cut out the fur, and take off the skin from the others; put them into a stewpan with a little lemon-juice, pepper, salt, and a small piece of fresh but- ter, and let the whole simmer slowly till done; then put a small bit of butter and flour, with 2 spoonfuls of cream ; give them one boil, and serve with sippets of bread. To fricassee.—Peel the mushrooms, which should be large, and broil them on a gridiron. When the outside is brown, put them into a stewpan with a little milk ; when they have stewed 10 minutes, add a spoonful of white wine and the same of browning; thicken it with butter and flour, and serve it up garnished with sippets. To broil.—The largest are the best. Have a clear cinder fire; make the gridiron hot, and rub the bars with suet to prevent the mushi-ooms from sticking ; place them also on the gridiron with their stalks upwards ; sprinkle them slightly with salt and a good shake of pepper, and serve them on a hot dish, with a little cold butter under and over them. When they begin to steam they are sufficiently done. To make a Puree of Mushrooms.—Cut off the stems, but retain the heads and cleanse them. Put a little water into a stewpan, and squeeze into it the juice of a lemon ; put in the heads and drain them ; mince them as fine as possible ; put a piece of butter into a stewpan ; squeeze the juice of a lemon, and add to it the minced mushrooms. Keep it on the fire until the butter is melted ; then add 6 spoonfuls of strong gravy, and the same of thick white sauce; reduce it until the puree is sufficiently thick ; add a little pepper, and serve it up; or keep it for flavouring sauces, which it will greatly improve. z