PORK. 187 Chap. XII.] from the spit, remove the sage-leaves from the inside ; cut off the head, split it, and take out the brains, cut the pig down the back and into quarters, cut off the ears, and lay them with the head round the dish. Mix with the gravy already caught the brains and the sage-leaves, chopped small, together with a little cream or melted butter heated in a saucepan, and pour it I into the dish. The pig may be sent up with various sauces,—viz. currant- sauce, egg-sauce, gravy, and plumped prunes or raisins. This is an old-fashioned recipe for roasting-pig, but, as it obtained when the dish was a favourite, it has been inserted here. The common method now is, to bake a pig, and send it to the oven rubbed with butter, basting it occasionally with butter while cooking, and having gravy, bread, egg, cranberries, or currant- jelly as an accompaniment. It will take more than 2 hours in roasting; or it may be equally well baked. To roast a Porker s Head.—Choose a fine head, not too s close to the neck; clean it well, remove the eyes and snout, and put bread and sage as for pig; sew it up tight, and on a string, or hanging-jack, roast it as a pig, and serve with the 1 same sauce. LEG OF PORK.-E. R. 189.— To bake.—Rub it well over with salt and saltpetre mixed ; let it lie 5 or 6 days in the brine; then hang it up to [| smoke for 5 or 6 days. Take off the skin, put it into an earthen dish, and pour a little red wine over it; stick a few cloves in it, or beat them to powder, and rub them over it. \Vhen it has been in the oven a short time, take some hard biscuit, pounded with sugar, and spread it all over. Serve it 4 up with gravy, and port-wine sauce. To roast.—Choose a small leg of fine young pork: cut a slit in the knuckle with a sharp knife; and fill the space with sage and onion chopped, and a little pepper and salt. Score the skin in slices, but do not cut deeper than the outer rind. Put it at first a good distance from the fire, but baste it frequently to prevent its scorching: then, when about three parts done, rub the skin rather firmly with raw butter, after which flour it lightly and put close to the fire to crispen the crackling. Apple-sauce should be served with it. To boil.—Salt it 8 or 10 days, turning it daily, but do not