616 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXX. filling- the bottles with brandy. Put bladder on them, and cover that with paper. When Morelia cherries are used, after 3 months the liquor may be poured off, and more brandy added. RA TAFIA. 852. —Blanch 2 oz. of peach and apricot kernels, bruise and put them into a bottle, and fill nearly up with brandy. Dis- solve i lb. of white sugar-candy in a cup of cold water, and add to the brandy after it has stood a month on the kernels, and they are strained off; then filter through paper, and bottle for use. The distilled leaves of peaches and nectarines, when the trees are cut in the spring, are an excellent substitute for ratafia in puddings. Ratafie des Quatre Fruits.—Take 30 lbs. of cherries, 15 of gooseberries, 8 of raspberries, and 6 of black currants; stone the cherries, and press the juice out of all the fruit: to each pint of juice put 6 oz. of pounded sugar. When it has stood long enough to clear, bottle it off. BLA CK C URRANT LIQ UE UR. 853. —Put black currants into a stone pan, with as much leaves as fruit; cover them all over with spirits of wine for 6 weeks, or longer if you please ; then squeeze the mass through linen ; clarify the juice, and add syrup made with lump-sugar and water, according to taste ; it must be thrown in very hot. This may be made with whatever spirit you like, providing it is tasteless. CREMES.—E. R. 854. —De Portugal.—Take 8 good lemons, rough skinned, but without spots ; pare the rind very thinly, and cut it into small slips; put it into a bottle with a pint of spirits of wine, and a dozen bitter almonds blanched and bruised. Let it stand 6 days; make a syrup with a pound of treble-refined sugar ; add it when cool: shake the whole well together. Let it stand 6 days, and then filter it through blotting-paper. This liqueur should be kept 6 months. De Cacao.—Take 1 lb. of good Caraccas cocoa, roast it as if to be used for chocolate, being careful to take out the bad grains, of which there are sometimes several, and they would spoil the liqueur: pound it well, and infuse it in 6 pints of