CHEESECAKES. Chap. XXIII.] 441 brandy, and 4 oz. of currants, washed and dried ; bake in small pattypans. Croustade or Dresden Patties.—Slice some stale bread about i inch thick ; cut from it, with a round paste-cutter, as many croustades as will be required : mark the centres with a smaller cutter, scoop out the insides as in paste patties, then fry them a light brown, drain them well, and fill them with any hot compote of fruit or hot preserve. The croustade may be filled with any sort of minced meat or fowl, and served as an entree in the first course. They are very nice made with the rounds of a French roll; it should be pared very thin, then cut in rounds of such thickness as to allow the centres to be taken out; dip them in milk, and let them drain ; do not let them break; brush them with egg, and sift the rasping of the roll over them; fry them a pale brown, and fill with oysters, stewed mushrooms, &c., or, as above, with fruit or preserve. Patties resembling Mince Pies.—Chop the kidney and fat of cold veal, apple, orange, and lemon-peel candied, fresh currants, a little wine, 2 or 3 cloves, a little brandy, and a bit of sugar. Bake as before. Patties with Curds.—Take some very rich milk, put into it some lemon-juice or vinegar, place it on the fire that it may curdle, drain off the whey through a sieve ; add to the curds the yolk of an egg beaten up in 2 spoonfuls of milk, a few currants, and a little pounded cinnamon. Make the paste and prepare the patties in the same way as in the preceding receipt. CHEESECAKES. 586.—Strain the whey from the curd of 2 quarts of milk ; when rather dry crumble it through a coarse sieve, and mix with 6 oz. of fresh butter, 1 oz. of pounded blanched almonds, a little orange-flower water, 1 a glass of raisin wine, a grated biscuit, 4 oz. of currants, some nutmeg and cinnamon in fine powder, and beat all the above with 3 eggs and pint of cream till quite light: then line the pattypans with a thin puff paste, and fill them three parts full. A plainer sort.—Turn 3 quarts of milk to curd, break it, and drain the whey: when dry, break it in a pan, with 2 oz. of butter, till perfectly smooth; put to it Hpint of thin cream or good milk, and add sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg, and 3 oz. of currants.