Chap. XVII.] GRAVY, SAUCES, AND CURRY. 309 MUSCLE AND COCKLE SAUCES. 358. —Proceed in the same manner as either of the above receipts, taking care to deprive the muscle of a dark spot in the body, which some people consider poisonous, and to well wash the cockles from sand. They may be equally used with codfish, codling, and haddock; but the latter is most usually served with parsley and butter. LOBSTER SAUCE. 359. —Pick the meat from a lobster and cut it into small pieces. Break the shell, and stew it with the legs, &c., in Iij pint of water, until reduced to the quantity required ; then strain ; add flour and water to thicken it. Pound some of the live spawn from the tail, adding a little water to it; when well pounded pour it by degrees into the sauce; let it boil up ; add fresh butter to it in the proportion of f lb. of butter to a quart of sauce ; throw in the lobster : season with a little anchovy, cayenne, salt, and a small quantity of lemon-juice. It should be thick rather than thin. Or:—Take a cold boiled hen lobster ; split the tail, and pound the coral, which is found in the tail and in the body, in a mortar, adding a little sweet oil. Then chop the meat of the body into very small pieces, and rub it, along with the soft parts and coral, through a sieve. That done, cut up the flesh of the claws and tail into dice, and stir the entire mixture gradually into the proper quantity of melted butter, without suffering it to boil; as, if too much heated, the flavour and colour of the sauce will be injured. The seasoning should only be a moderate quantity of mace and cayenne, with L a glass of white wine, or a cup of cream, to a pint tureen of sauce. Crab Sauce is made in the same manner; but crabs, being without coral, and the flesh less firm than that of lobster, form a rather inferior sauce. SHRIMP SA UCE. 360. —Pick the heads and skins from some fresh shrimps, i and stew these offals for £ an hour in a small quantity of boiling water to extract their flavour; then strain the liquor !' and make use of it in melting the butter in which the shelled ji shrimps are to be dressed; these are then to be put into the