310 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XVII. butter and liquor to simmer gently for about 20 minutes, in which time they will be sufficiently done, and their flavour is so delicate that neither anchovy sauce, mace, cayenne pepper, nor any other condiment than salt, should be put to them ; add a little cream. A pint of unshelled shrimps will make a tureen of sauce large enough for 4 or 5 persons. Fresh-water Crayfish Sauce is commonly made by either simply picking out the fish and mincing it in the same manner as lobster; or, pounding the shells and legs in a mortar, and after stewing them down to something like a pulp, then passing it through a sieve, and mixing the whole together. SAUCE FOR STURGEON. 361.—As this fish is generally stewed, the sauce is that in which it has been dressed; or, if either broiled or fried in steaks, any of the piquant store sauces may be used along with wine and lemon-juice thickened with cream and melted butter. SAUCES FOR CARP, PIKE, AND TENCH. 362.—Rub i lb. of butter with a teaspoonful of flour, put to it a little water, melt it, and add near i pint of thick cream, and i an anchovy chopped fine, not washed; set it over the fire, and as it boils up add a large spoonful of real India soy. If that does not give it a fine colour, put a little more. Turn it into the sauce-tureen, and put some salt and 4 a lemon: stir it well, to prevent its curdling. Sauce for Fried or Broiled Carp.—A gill of white wine, a couple of anchovies boned and minced, with an onion orlwo, and a little Seville orange or lemon peel, boiled in a teacupful of the gravy of either meat or fish, and then put into i lb. of butter, to which, when melted, the yolk of a raw egg may be added, and when it boils up squeeze into it the greater part of the lemon or orange juice. Or:—Anchovies, mushrooms, capers, and a shalot, all finely minced and stewed as above, witli a little pepper and the juice of a lemon. Baked Pike and Tench may also be served with the sauces for broiled and fried carp; or sometimes with only caper- sauce.