644 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXXII. it remain all night; then stirring well, rub some of it all over the tables with a linen rag; when it has lain some time, rub it bright with linen cloths; nothing, however, will be found equal to “ elbow-grease.” To take Ink out of Mahogany.—Dilute i a teaspoonful of oil of vitriol with a large spoonful of water, and touch the part with a feather; watch it, for if it stays too long it will leave a white mark. It is therefore better to rub it quickly, and repeat if not quite removed. To give to Boards a beautiful appearance.—After washing them very nicely with soda and warm water and a brush, wash them with a very large sponge and clean water. Both times observe to leave no spot untouched; and clean straight up and down, not crossing from board to board; then dry with clean cloths, rubbed hard up and down in the same way. The floors should not be often-wetted, but very thoroughly when done ; and once a-week dry-rubbed with hot sand and a heavy brush the right way of the boards. The sides of stairs or passages on which are carpets or floor- cloth should be washed with sponge instead of linen or flannel, and the edges will not be soiled. Different sponges should be kept for the above two uses ; and those and the brushes should be well washed when done with, and kept in dry places. To extract Oil from Boards or Stone.—Make a strong ley of pearlashes and soft water, and add as much unslaked lime as it will take up; stir it together, and then let it settle a few minutes; bottle it, and stop close ; have ready some water to lower it as used, and scour the part with it. If the liquor should lie long on the boards, it will draw out the colour of them; therefore do it with care and expedition. To clean stone Stairs and Halls.—Boil 1 lb. of pipe-clay with a quart of water, a quart of small-beer, and put in a bit of stone-blue. Wash with this mixture, and, when dry, rub the stones with flannel and a brush. Floor-cloths should be chosen that are painted on a fine cloth, which is well covered with the colour, and the pat- terns on which do not rise much above the ground, as they wear out first, The durability of the cloth will depend much on these particulars, but more especially on the time it has been painted and the goodness of the colours. If they have not been allowed sufficient time for becoming thoroughly