Chap. XXIII.] SWEET PUDDINGS. 457 and the whites of 4 eggs well beaten ; strain and pour it into a plain mould buttered and papered; steam it for t an hour; let it settle for 10 minutes, and serve with the fol- lowing sauce:—Boil -L a stick of vanilla in a pint of milk till it is reduced one half; strain it, sweeten witli loaf-sugar, and thicken with arrowroot. SPONGE PUDDING. 613. —Butter a mould thickly, and fill it three parts full with small sponge-cakes, soaked through with wine ; fill up the mould with a rich cold custard. Butter a paper, and put on the mould; then tie a floured cloth over it quite close, and boil it an hour. Turn out the pudding carefully, and pour some cold custard over it. Or:—Bake it; and serve with wine-sauce instead of custard. COCOA-NUT PUDDING. 614. —Break the shell of a middle-sized cocoa-nut so as to leave the nut as whole as you can ; grate it with a grater after having taken off the brown skin ; mix with it 3 oz. of white sugar powdered, and about 4 of the peel of a lemon ; mix well together with the milk, and put it into a tin lined with paste, and bake it not too brown. RICE P UDDINGS. 615. —Baked Bice Pudding for a family.—Put into a very deep pan ^ lb. of rice washed and picked, 2 oz. of butter, 4oz. of sugar, and 2 quarts of milk, with a little cinnamon powder. Eggs are not necessary, but a little veal suet or marrow, chopped small, is a great improvement. Bake in a slow oven. A rich Rice Pudding.—Boil lb. of rice in water with a little bit of salt, till quite tender; drain it dry ; mix it with the yolks and whites of 4 eggs, £ pint of cream with 2 oz. of fresh butter melted in it, 4 oz. of marrow, or veal kidney suet, finely chopped, 4 lb. of currants, 2 spoonfuls of brandy or ratafia, nutmeg, and grated lemon-peel. When well mixed, put a paste round the edge, and fill the dish. Slices of candied orange, lemon, and citron may be added if approved. Bake it for 1 hour in a moderate oven. Another.—Wash 2 large spoonfuls of rice, and simmer it