MEAT PIES. Chap. XXII.] 417 PARTRIDGE PIE A LA FRANCHISE. 547. —“ Take 6 partridges, trussed as for boiled chickens, and season them well with the above seasoning. Take also 2 lbs. of veal and 1 lb. of fat bacon ; cut these into small bits, and put them into a stewpan with 4 lb. of butter, together with some shalots, parsley, and thyme, stewing them until quite tender. Strain and pound the meat in a mortar till made perfectly smooth. “ The pie-crust being raised, put in the partridges with the above-mentioned forcemeat over them, and over that lay some thin slices of bacon. Cover the pie with a thick lid, and be sure to close it well, to prevent any portion of the gravy from oozing out. “ This sized pie will require 3 hours’ baking, but care must be taken not to put it into the oven till the fierce heat be gone off.”a For Partridge-pie in the ordinary way lay a veal cutlet in the bottom of the dish; line the inside of the birds with fat bacon, season them well and place them with the breast down- wards ; fill the dish with good gravy, and add forcemeat-balls, with a few button mushrooms freshly gathered. Pies of this sort may be made nearly in the same manner of every species of game; but the mixture of the brown and white meats is not desirable, as the former have a peculiar flavour which ought to be maintained, and is weakened by the admixture of the latter: also hare and venison, though each forming admirable pasties separately, yet spoil each other when put together. CHICKEN PIE. 548. —Cut up 2 young fowls, season with white pepper, salt, a little mace, and nutmeg, all in the finest powder. Put the chicken, thin slices of ham or fresh gammon of bacon, force- meat, and hard eggs, by turns in layers. By the time it returns from the oven, have ready a gravy of knuckle of veal, or a bit of the scrag, with some shank-bones of mutton, or a calfs-foot, seasoned with herbs, onion, mace, and white pep- per ; and if it be made in a dish, put as much gravy as will fill it, but in a raised crust the gravy must be nicely strained, and then put in cold as jelly. To make the jelly clear, take * Dr. Hunter’s ‘Medical Commentary on Modern Cookery,’ p. 160. 2 E