MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. III. 28 CHAPTER III. FOOD AND COOKERY. “ Plain living” not tlie most wholesome — The Science of Cooking — Diet and Digestion — Advantage of Variety in Food — Hints on Stewing — On Roasting — On Boiling — On Broiling — On Frying — Suet — The Art of Seasoning — Maxims for Cooks — Boning, Larding, and Braising — Glazing — Forcing — Blanching — Hot Closet. The commonly received idea, that what goes under the deno- mination of “ good plain living”—that is, joints of meat, roast or boiled—is best suited to all constitutions, has been proved to be a fallacy. Many persons can bear testimony to the truth of Dr. Kitchener’s remark, that elaborate culinary pro- cesses are frequently necessary in order to prepare food for the digestive organs, which are but too frequently taxed beyond their power. Indeed, it may be truly said that many persons actually lose their lives by over indulgence in food rendered indigestible by being badly cooked. Until a comparatively late period the art of cookery was almost in a state of infancy, for our ancestors were, with few , exceptions, content with the most simple, or rather, imperfect, preparation of their food, and “ made dishes” were very little known. Of late years, however, it has gradually risen to a branch of science, founded on practical experience, combined with a knowledge of chemistry; and the numerous works published on its improvement, both in this country and on the Continent, have brought it to a degree of perfection which its early professors never expected to attain. This remark applies, however, rather more to the cookery of animal than of vege- table food, for, in England, vegetables are chiefly used as an accompaniment to meat, while—as will be hereafter shown— many delicacies of the kitchen-garden may, if properly dressed, be rendered very palatable dishes to be eaten alone. It is our intention to endeavour to correct the prejudice in favour of a family joint—by showing, that it is not only very often improperly cooked, but that the same quantity of meat,