MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. VIII. 134 Pour over it 2 large spoonfuls of the best Lucca oil, and let it remain all night ; then put it and the oil into a frying-pan, with some finely-chopped parsley, pepper, and salt; fry it until the gravy dries up and it becomes rather brown. Pour the contents of the pan over the steak as sauce. The steaks are usually garnished with slices of fried potatoes. As butter is not known in the southern states of Europe, oil is there con- stantly used in lieu of it, and this Parisian practice is borrowed from those countries. BEEF IN A MARINADE. 104. —Cut the inside of a sirloin in slices, put them into a marinade made as follows :—Take equal quantities of vinegar and water, slice some carrots and onions, add some salt and a few pepper-corns with a clove of garlic.. Let all stew together till the goodness be extracted from the vegetables, then strain it, and let it stand till cold. Let the meat lie in this pickle for 24 hours before it is dressed ; then let it stew gently in a little good gravy till quite tender. Add a wineglassful of port wine, a tablespoonful of mushroom-catsup, a teaspoonful of shalot- vinegar, and some butter rolled in flour; place the meat neatly in the dish, and pour the sauce over it. BEEF A LA POLONAISE. 105. —Take a few lbs. of the best beef, without bones, and, after having beaten it for some time with a rolling-pin, make in it deep incisions, but without cutting the meat asunder. Mince some onions, mix them with bread-crumbs, butter, pep- per, and salt; fill the incisions with this forcemeat, and skewer up the meat. Put it with some butter into a stewpan, and stew it upon a moderate fire. It should be served with brown sauce made from the gravy which is drawn from the meat. A la Houssard.—Take any piece of fresh beef, prepared as near as possible in the same manner; but instead of forcemeat, fill the incisions with pledgets of fat ham or bacon : season with pepper, salt, and onion ; lay it in an iron stewpan that has a cover to fit quite close, and set it by the side of the fire with- out water. Take care it does not burn, but it must have a strong heat,; in 2 or 3 hours it will be quite tender, and then serve with its own gravy.