244 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIV. vinegar, a bundle of sweet herbs, a few small onions, or a large one stuck with a clove, pepper, and salt; boil it together for an hour ; then boil the fish in this gravy : take them out when ready, strain the liquor, and thicken it; make it green with chopped parsley and fennel; add a teaspoonful of any kind of fish-sauce, and send it to table. To souse.—If kept until cold, to be eaten on the following day, they should be soused in equal proportions of vinegar and water sufficient to cover them, and containing some whole black pepper, mace, and a few bay-leaves. Or:—Clean, bone, and cut the fish into fillets, and season them well. To 6 large mackerel put an ounce of ground pepper in equal parts of white and red, 4 cloves, a saltspoonful of allspice, 3 or 4 blades of mace pounded, and a tablespoonful of salt. Hub the mixture well in, scoring the fish in order that it may be thoroughly spread. Fry them in oil till they are brown; when cold, put them into a stone jar, and covey them with vinegar. To broil.—Split them down the back, rub the inside with a little vinegar sprinkled with pepper and salt, flour them, broil on a quick fire, and serve them up with melted butter, parsley, fennel, or lemon-sauce. Or, if intended for breakfast, send up the fish plabily broiled without condiments or sauce, and merely rubbed, when done, with a bit of butter. To fry.—They should be cut open, and prepared for dress- ing and serving up in the same manner as for broiling; but it is as well to have the back-bone taken out, and the fish pow- dered with biscuit-dust and finely-minced herbs, as if intended for fillets ; then put into the frying-pan, with plenty of boiling oil, lard, or beef dripping. For baking, the spinal or back-bone may be taken out, and the fish stuffed with forcemeat, or in the same manner as gur- net, but without taking off the head. Pepper the inside well, lay butter between, flour and butter the outside, roast in a Dutch oven, and serve them up with lemon-juice squeezed over them, and a thick sauce of chopped fennel, parsley, and butter. To stew.—Split, bone, and cut the fish in quarters, and broil them until they are nearly half done: then put them aside; take a pint of good gravy, with a little chopped fennel, pars- ley, and slialot, a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, a glass ot ketchup, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; stir this over