CUSTARDS. 481 Chap. XXIV.] but removing it the moment it begins to boil, or it will curdle. The addition of a glass of brandy beaten up with it materially improves its flavour. Or:—Boil a quart of milk with 6 laurel-leaves and 2 oz. of loaf-sugar : have ready the yolks of 7 eggs and the whites of 3, well beaten ; pour them into a jug, and pour on them the boiling milk, having taken out the leaves ; put the jug into a pan of boiling water, and keep stirring till of sufficient thickness, which will be in a few minutes. A cheap and excellent sort is made by boiling 3 pints of ,j new milk with a bit of lemon-peel, a bit of cinnamon, 2 or 3 bay-leaves, and sweetening it. Meanwhile, rub down smooth a large spoonful of rice-flour into a cup of cold milk, and mix with it 4 yolks of eggs well beaten. Take a basin of the boiling milk, mix it with the cold, and pour that to the boil- ing, stirring it one way till it begins to thicken, and is just going to boil up; then pour it into a pan, stir it some time, add a large spoonful of peach-water, 2 teaspoonfuls of brandy, or a little ratafia.9 Custard Cream of Chocolate is made by grating any quantity of spiced chocolate, moistened by degrees with warm milk, and put into a stewpan, with yolks of eggs, to 1 thicken. Or:—Scrape i lb. of the best chocolate; pour on it a tea- cupful of boiling water, and let it stand by the fire till it has dissolved. Beat 8 eggs very light, omitting the whites of 2. Stir them by degrees into a quart of cream or rich milk, alternately with the melted chocolate and 3 tablespoonfuls of powdered white sugar. Put the mixture into cups and bake ; it 10 minutes. Send them to table cold, with whipped white : of egg heaped on the top of each custard. Coffee Custard.—Boil a pint of milk, and when boiling pour it upon 2 tablespoonfuls of ichole coffee, that you have r just warmed before the fire. Let it stand for an hour, then sweeten it, add 4 yolks of eggs, thicken over the fire, and ' when thick enough strain and fill the glasses. Almond. Custard.—Boil in a pint of milk, or cream, 2 or 1 3 bitter almonds, a stick of cinnamon, and a piece of lemon- ; peel pared thin, with 8 or 10 lumps of sugar; let it simmer * Marbles, boilod in custard, or anything likely to burn, will, if shaken K in the saucepan, prevent it from catching. 2 i «