Chap. XXL] EGGS. 391 egg is to be boiled, it should be completely covered with water ; that if put into the water while boiling, the shell is subject to being cracked ; and if boiled too suddenly, the white becomes hard, while the yolk remains comparatively soft. The cook should therefore be provided with minute glasses of various sizes—from 1 minute to 5—to mark the time; for they are more accurate than the hand of a kitchen clock, and do not require so much watching. TO POACH EGGS 513.—Is to boil them without their shells, and requires still greater care. The water must be perfectly pure, or it will stain the white of the egg, and the yolk must be only just so much done as to fix itself firmly in the centre of the white; the egg, though required to be quite fresh, yet should not be poached on the same day on which it has been laid, as, when in that milky state, the white and yolk will not com- bine with the necessary degree of firmness; they should be a couple of days old. Put a moderate quantity of water into a broad flat stewpan. French cooks add to it, when boiling, a spoonful of vinegar and a little salt. Take the pan off the fire whilst putting in the eggs; break the egg into a teacup or small ladle, and turn it gently into the water, so as to prevent the yolk from being mixed with the white; let them stand till beginning to set; then let the eggs boil gently until you perceive that they are done, by the white being set, and the yolk appearing through it in a comparatively soft state; then take each from the water with an egg-slice, and pare off any ragged edges which may appear around it, before sending to table. This latter operation, however, if not quickly done, cools the egg, which ought to be served quite hot, to avoid which incon- venience, a little machine for poaching has been invented in France. A tin cup large enough to contain the egg when poached is perforated with several holes; and being placed in the boiling water, the egg is broken into it, but, when taken up, retains its roundness without cutting. It has, however, the imperfection of not allowing the egg to slide from the cup to any substance on which it is to be placed. This, however, may be easily rectified by turning the egg over upon the toast, which, if carefully done, answers quite as well. The larger