Chap. VII.] SOUPS OF VEAL, POULTRY, AND GAME. 81 HARRICO SOUP. 16.—Cut some mutton cutlets from the neck ; trim and fry them of a light brown ; stew in brown gravy soup till tender. Have ready some carrots, turnips, celery, and onions; fry them in butter for some time, and clear the soup from the fat; then add the vegetables, colour it, and thicken it with butter and flour; season, and add to it a little port wine and ketchup. If the gravy be ready, the soup will require no more time to prepare than may be necessary to render the chops and vege- tables tender, and is an excellent family dish. If wished to be made more highly flavoured, put in a little curry-powder. SOUPS OF VEAL, POULTRY, AND GAME. 17. — White Stock.—Take scrag or knuckle of veal, ox-heel, or calf’s-head, together with an old fowl and the trimmings of any white poultry or game which can be had, and lean ham in the proportion of 1 lb. to every 14 lbs. of meat. Cut it all into pieces (add 3 or 4 large wraroasted onions and heads of celery, with a few blades of mace ; but neither carrots, pepper, nor spice of any kind but mace) ; put into the stock-pot with •just water enough to cover it: let it boil, and add 3 onions and a few blades of mace; let it boil for 5 hours, and it is then fit for use. 18. — Veal Gravy.-—When all the meat has been taken from a knuckle of veal, divide the bones, and lay them in a stewpot, with a pound of the scrag of a neck, an ounce of lean bacon, a bunch of parsley, a little thyme, a bit of lemon-peel, and a dessert-spoonful of pepper: add as much water as will cover them. Boil and skim it; stop the pot down close, and let it simmer as slowly as possible 3 hours. Strain off, and let it stand till cold ; then skim it, and take the jelly from the sedi- ment. Pound some mace fine, and boil it with 2 spoonfuls of water, and add to the gravy. If cream is to be put to it, do not add the salt until the gravy comes off the fire. WITITE SOUPS. 19. —Take a large scrag or a knuckle of veal, and % lb. of lean ham ; some blades of mace and a piece of ungrated nut- G