350 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIX. add 2 lbs. of fat from the fore loin, chop both very^finT^ then add 2 nutmegs grated, 20 cloves, a teaspoonful of pounded or grated lemon-peel, 2 or 3 blades of mace pounded, 1 oz. of the best salt, and t oz. of black pepper; mix all together and stuff it into the skins, which should be well cleansed and salted the night before. This sausage- meat would be much improved for immediate use by pounding the meat and mixing it with a third portion of white bread soaked in milk and also pounded, blending the whole together with a beaten egg. BEEF SAUSAGES, 437. —Though not nearly so good as those of pork, yet, if made at home, may be found a pleasant and economical mode of using the scraps of raw meat. Proceed as for pork sausages. MUTTON SA USA GES.—E. R. 438. —Take a pound of undressed mutton, or that which has been underdone, chop it very small, and season it with pepper, salt, and beaten mace. Chop also i lb. of beef suet, 2 anchovies, a pint of oysters, i lb. of grated bread, and a boiled onion ; mix the whole with the oyster liquor, and the whites and yolks of 2 eggs well beaten ; pound the whole in a mortar. Roll into lengths, corks, or balls, and fry them. THE CAMBRIDGE SAUSAGE. 439. —Cut into small pieces 1 lb. of pork, the same quantity of beef suet, 1 lb. of beef and veal in equal parts, ^ lb. of bacon fat, and h lb. of the gammon. Chop very finely a handful of sage-leaves, and add to them a fourth part of sweet herbs. Season the whole with mixed spice, adding a spoonful of cayenne pepper, and a due quantity of salt. Let the skin be well cleaned; fill it, and tie it tightly. Put it into a saucepan of boiling water, pricking it first to prevent its burst- ing, and allow it to boil 1 hour. AN EXCELLENT SAUSAGE TO EAT COLD. 440. —Season fat and lean pork -with some salt, saltpetre, black pepper, and allspice, all in fine powder, and rub into the meat; the sixth day cut it small, and mix with it some shred shalot or garlic, as fine as possible. Have ready an ox- gut that has been scoured, salted, and soaked well, and fill it with the above stuffing ; tie up the ends, and hang it to smoke