POULTRY AND GAME. Chap. XIII.] 211 the neck with some thread, and the legs bent as if the pigeon sat upon them. Wood-pigeons.—Let them hang to be tender; roast and serve with a rich gravy. They must not be roasted so much as the common pigeons. Pigeons, woodcock fashion.—Clean and truss the pigeons, cut a slice of bread, toast and butter it, then chop equal quantities of mushrooms and anchovies very finely together, pepper it, spread it on the toast rather thickly, and put it under the pigeons while they are roasting. The anchovies should, however, be used sparingly, or their flavour will over- power that of the bird. LARKS.—E. R. 225.—Larks may be roasted encased in fat bacon, and covered with vine-leaves. Rub the larks over with egg, and dip them in fresh bread-crumbs, sprinkling a little salt over them; roast before a quick fire, basting with fresh butter, the spit turning rapidly. Sparrows, when young and plump, are excellent eating, if cooked in the same way, skewered toge- ther, and the skewers tied on a spit. Woodcocks, snipes, quails, green plovers, and ortolans are not to be drawn: lay a toast under them while roasting, to catch the trail; serve them up with good gravy and bread-sauce. To stew Larks.—Put a number of fat and well-cleaned larks into a stewpan, having put a delicate bit of bacon into the inside of each, with a sufficient quantity of good stock gravy: place sage-leaves over the breasts of each, and over that a thin wrapper of bacon; stew them gently, and serve hot. A VItalienne.—Scald sour grapes, and then stone them ; beat up 2 yolks of eggs with a spoonful of lemon-juice, a very little flour, a bit of butter, and chopped parsley ; season it highly with cayenne pepper ; add a spoonful or two of gravy. Boil this a moment, then put in the grapes, and stir them with a spoon on the fire to warm, without boiling. Roast the larks with bread-crumbs, and serve them up with the sauce. Observe, the sauce should be very sharp and highly seasoned. A la Macedoine.—Have a dozen larks boned ; make a farce with their livers and a little veal (game livers or rabbit' meat r 2