215 POULTRY AND GAME. Chap. XIII.] Partridges, being less dry than pheasants, do not require stuffing, although they are improved by it, made either of chestnuts or truffles and bacon. They are sometimes roasted, wrapped in bacon and vine-leaves: bread-crumbs are essential. In some parts of Kent partridges are sent up with forcemeat- balls in the dish. To steio Partridges.—Truss them with the wings over the back, and the legs drawn in ; cut a piece of pork or bacon in long strips, and put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Fry the bacon brown, and when quite done put in the partridges, and keep turning them until they are very brown, taking care that the bacon shall be j as much on the breast as possible ; then add about a teacupful of gravy and some trimmings of meat and vegetables. Have j ready a large cabbage boiled ; when well drained, slice it with butter, pepper, and salt, put it while warm with the gravy to the partridges, and let them stew gently for an hour, turning the birds frequently. Serve up with the bacon underneath, and the cabbage round them, squeezed dry, and the sauce wel 1 skimmed. Or :—Take 4 young partridges nicely cleaned, and put them into a deep cooking-pot, with a piece of butter and a little water; put them on a brisk fire; keep the cover of the pot on, and move it about constantly, to prevent the birds burning or browning on the bottom. The partridges are suffi- ciently cooked the instant the red gravy is seen to drip from the bird, and mix with the melted butter. Serve them up hot, with a small quantity of cayenne pepper. . Salmi of Partridge.—Half roast the partridges, cut them up neatly, take off the skin; put the trimmings in a stewpan, with a bit of butter and a tablespoonful of flour ; stir the whole over the fire ; then add a glass of white wine and a little gravy or stock, some shalots, chopped parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, pepper, salt; let it boil fast for 4 an hour; strain, skim, add the juice of a lemon, and make the joints of the partridge hot in the sauce. Or:—Roast the partridges, leaving them underdone. When cold, cut them into pieces, taking oft' the skin. Put 3 spoon- fuls of oil into a saucepan, a glass of claret, salt, pepper, a shalot, and the juice of a lemon. Toss the partridges in this sauce until they are sufficiently done to send to table. Or, Cut up and place on a dish the breasts, wings, and legs I