Chap. I.] ACCOUNTS — PRICES OF PROVISIONS. balanced every week or month, the income and outgoings will be ascertained with facility, and their proportions to each other be duly observed. Some people fix on stated sums to be ap- propriated to each different article, as house, clothes, pocket, education of children, &c. Whatever may be the amount of household expenditure, a certain mode should be adopted, and strictly adhered to. Besides the regular account-book, in which the receipt of money and every payment should be regularly entered, a commonplace-book should be always at hand for the entry of observations regarding agreements with servants, tradesmen, and various other subjects, so as to enable the lady at once to ascertain the exact state of the affairs under her immediate management. Want of arrangement leads to loss of time, and time, if lost, can never be regained. Early hours, order, punctuality, and method, are its great economists, and cannot be too rigidly enforced. If orders be given soon in the morning, there will be more time to execute them; and servants, by doing their work without hurry and bustle, will be more likely to do it well, and fewer might be necessary. To give unvarying rules cannot be attempted, as people ought to act differently under different circumstances: the minutiae of management must therefore be regulated by every one’s fortune and rank, but there are many general rules which will be found equally ad- vantageous to all. It is very necessary for the mistress of a family to be in- formed of the prices and goodness of all articles in common use, and of the best times, as well as places, for purchasing them. She should also be acquainted with the comparative prices of provisions, in order that she may be able to sub- stitute those that are most reasonable, when they will answer as well, for others of the same kind, but which are more costly. On this, however, it has been properly remarked, in that very useful publication ‘ The Magazine of Domestic Economy,’ that “ small families should never encumber themselves with huge and perhaps awkward pieces of even excellent meat, under the idea that it is cheap, because offered below the