295 Chap. XVII.] GRAVY, SAUCES, AND CURRY. Or:—If wanted in a hurry, cut a few slices of calf’s liver, or any kind of brown meat; fry them with a little lean bacon and an onion, and, when browned, pour upon them boiling water to what strength you please, and strain it. WHITE SA UCE. 325. —It is seldom necessary to buy meat for this favourite sauce, as the proportion of that flavour is but small. I he water that has boiled fowls, veal, or rabbit, or a little broth that may be in the house, or the feet and necks ol chickens, or raw or dressed veal, will suffice. Stew any of these with a little water, a bit of lemon-peel, some sliced onion, a few white peppercorns, a little pounded mace or nutmeg, and a bunch of sweet herbs, until the flavour be good ; then strain it, add a little good cream, a piece of butter, and a little flour: salt to your taste. A squeeze of lemon may be added after the sauce is taken off' the fire, shaking it well. Yolk of egg is often used in fricassee ; but if you have any cream it is better, as the former is apt to curdle. Or :■—Boil a stick of celery and a bunch of parsley in a pint of milk, adding white pepper and a little salt; then put 2 oz. of butter into a saucepan, let it melt, add to it an onion sliced thin, dredge in flour until it is a paste, but do not allow it to become brown. Strain the milk, and add it by degrees to the butter and flour, stirring it very well; then boil the whole together, stirring all the time, and boiling it until it is quite thick and smooth ; pass it through a fine sieve or tammy. If wanted to be very rich, let it cool a little, and then add an egg previously beaten, and mix very gradually ; warm it over the fire, stirring it well, but do not let it boil, or it will curdle. Or:—Mix a teaspoonful of flour with i lb. of butter, a little salt, and ground white pepper ; let them be well blended to- gether with a wooden spoon, then add a spoonful of vinegar, and 1 or 2 of water; mix the whole together, stirring it one way over the fire. CULLIS. 326. —Lay over the bottom of a stewpan as much lean, veal as will cover it an inch thick : cover the veal with thin, slices of undressed gammon, 2 or 3 onions, 2 or 3 bay-leaves,, some sweet herbs, 2 blades of mace, and a few cloves. Cover