MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. I. 4 The mistress of a family should never forget that the welfare and good management of the house depend on the eye of the superior; and, consequently, that nothing is too trifling for her notice, whereby waste may be avoided or order maintained. If she has never been accustomed, while single, to think of family management, let her not upon that account fear that she cannot attain it: she may consult others who are more experienced, and acquaint herself with the necessaiy quanti- ties, quality, and prices of the several articles of family ex- penditure, in proportion to the number it consists of. The chief duties of life are within the reach of humble abilities, and she whose aim is to fulfil them will rarely ever fail to acquit her- self well. United with, and perhaps crowning all, the virtues of the female character, is that well-directed ductility of mind which occasionally bends its attention to the smaller objects of life, knowing them to be often scarcely less essential than the greater. A minute account of the annual income and the times of payment should be taken in writing; likewise an estimate of the supposed amount of each article of expense; and those who are early accustomed to calculations on domestic articles will acquire so accurate a knowledge of what their establish- ment requires, as mil enable them to keep the happy medium between prodigality and parsimony. In apportioning the items of expenditure of a family, some- thing should always be assigned for the use of the poor, which enables any pressing case of distress to be at once attended to, without a question “ whether it can be spared.” Much might be done for the poor if care were taken to keep a pan into which every bone and morsel of spare meat, vegetables, &c., were put: these might be stewed, the bones taken out, and a few peas added, making a meal, two or three times a-week, for any poor deserving family, without increasing the family ex- penditure beyond a few pence. Perhaps few branches of female education are more useful than great readiness in figures. Accounts should be regularly kept, and not the smallest article omitted to be entered. If