146 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. IK. the latter as being more delicate ; chops or Cotelets cle Mouton are, in Paris, always taken from the neck. To stew a Loin of Mutton.—Bone a loin of well-hung mutton ; take oft' the skin, and remove the fat from the inside ; put it into a stewpan, with broth enough to cover it, and let it stew gently till it becomes of a good brown colour; add a glass of port wine, a large spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and some vegetables cut in shapes, or stewed haricot beans. MUTTON-CHOPS 124. —Should be taken from the loin, from 4 to f inch thick. They should not be put on the gridiron until everything else is ready to be served ; have a clear cinder fire to broil them; if the fat falling from them should cause a blaze, remove the gridiron for a moment, and strew a handful of salt over the fire ; they should be kept continually turned ; the greater part of the chine-bones should be chopped off; cut off a good deal of the fat, but do not pepper or flour the chops; and serve them immediately they are done, one at a time. HARICO T OF MUTTON.—E. R. 125. —Cut a neck or loin of mutton into thin chops; flour and fry them brown in a small quantity of butter; drain them on a sieve, then put them into a stewpan, and cover them with gravy ; add a carrot, 2 leeks, a faggot of parsley and thyme, 2 or 3 blades of mace, some allspice, a whole onion, and 2 tur- nips ; stew them until the meat is tender; then take out the chops, strain the gravy, and skim off all the fat; put a little butter mixed with flour into the stewpan ; stir it until melted and made quite smooth, adding the gravy by degrees, stirring all the time; then put in the chops, with some carrots and turnips ready blanched and cut into pretty shapes, with a dozen silver onions whole, and also half boiled; season slightly with pepper and salt, a very little soy, and a teaspoonful of Tarragon vinegar; stew the whole gently for 1 of an hour, and serve them while quite hot. Another.—Cut from the neck 8 or 10 cutlets, leaving the bones short, and taking off some of the fat; fry them in 2 oz. of butter till of a light brown; add a tablespoonful of flour, mix it well, and put in a quart of water; cut 2 dozen