MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. VII. 106 OYSTER SOUR. 64. —Take 50 oysters, blanch them, but do not let them boil; strain them through a sieve, and save the liquor. Put t lb. of butter into a stewpan; when it is melted, add 6 oz. of flour; stir it over the fire for a few minutes; add the liquor from the oysters, 2 quarts of veal stock, 1 quart of new milk; season with salt, peppercorns, a little cayenne pepper, a blade of mace, Harvey sauce and essence of anchovies, a tablespoonful each ; strain it through a tammy; let it boil 10 minutes; put the oysters into the tureen with a gill of cream, and pour the boiling soup upon them. Or:—Take 2 quarts of fish-stock. Have ready a quart of oysters; remove the beards and tough parts of the centre, and stew them in the stock ; beat the oysters in a mortar with the yolks of 6 hard-boiled eggs; put this into the liquor taken from the stewed beards, let it simmer for an hour, adding a large spoonful of essence of anchovy ; a little before serving put in pint of cream; after which the soup must not be suffered to boil. A more common plan is to take 2 large onions, and stick them with cloves, a very small bunch of sweet herbs, some whole black pepper, a blade of mace, and a hard crust of bread toasted a pale brown. Put all these into 3 quarts of water, and let it boil until reduced to 2; then strain it off. When tender, put all into your soup with 2 or 3 anchovies. Then take a couple of score of large oysters, or a half-hundred of Miltons, bearded, and let them be fried a pale brown ; put them and their liquor into the soup, and let them all boil together ^ of an hour. It will keep some days, and is better the second day than the first. Good soupe-maigre may also be made from clams, whilks, cockles, and even from that contemptible little shell-fish the periwinkle; but if muscles be used, care should be taken to beard them, and take out the small crabs of which they form part, as they are thought to be poisonous. EEL SOUP. 65. —Take 3 lbs. of small eels, and skin them; bone 1 or 2 ; cut them in very small pieces ; fry them very lightly in a stewpan with a bit of butter and a sprig of parsley. Put to the remainder 3 quarts of water, a crust of bread, 3 blades of