263 FRESH-WATER FISH. Chap. XV.] It is always eaten with bread and butter, the bread being made of rye, and not, as in London “ brown bread,” of wlieaten bran. Water Suehe.—Take a few parsley-roots, cut them in strips as for soup Julienne, about an inch long and about a sixteenth square ; put these to boil in a little salt and water; when done throw in a handful of small sprigs of parsley ; when that boils put in the fish ; when done serve in a deep dish, putting suffi- cient liquor, and the roots and the parsley. The mode employed at the Cape of Good Hope is to make a fine onion-sauce; add to it a bunch of parsley cut in pieces, and the same of sorrel, with pepper and salt; put in the fish, and boil the whole together. SHAD AND BARBEL 272. —Are both common to the Thames, but are so indif- ferent in quality that they seldom appear at any good table; for although, if well stewed, they may be made good dishes, yet that can only be done by the excellence of the sauce, and the fish is not worth the expense of making it. The latter, indeed, though fished for by anglers for the sake of amuse- ment, is very generally thrown away when caught, and its roe is considered to be poisonous. The former may, however, be broiled, after being well basted in oil, peppered and salted, and eaten either with oil and vinegar or with sorrel-sauce. EELS. 273. —There is a greater difference in the goodness of eels * than of any other fresh-water fish. The true silver eel is caught in the Thames; and those caught in the Colne, the Wandle, or any of the running streams having a gravelly bottom, are always good. The Dutch eels sold at Billingsgate are very bad ; and those in ponds have usually a strong muddy flavour. They are in season the whole year round, excepting the months of April and May, and when in high condition have a bright, glossy appearance on the back, and a brilliant white on the belly, from which they have acquired the name of “ sil- ver eels;” though another sort, called the “grig,” is nearly as good. The silver cels grow to a large size, and the larger they are the better they are thought to be, but a fish of 2 to 3 lbs. weight must be considered very fine. Unless fully £ lb.