Chap. XVI.] 273 SHELL-FISH. Crayfish Butter.—Take the shells of 24 crayfish, clean them well from skin and fibre, put them into an oven to dry, without burning or browning, until they can be beaten to a fine powder ; mix the powder very well with 3 ounces of fresh butter, then put it into a stewpan with a spoonful of hot water, mixing it well together; then squeeze the whole through a tamis over a stewpan of boiling water; skim the butter off into a basin of cold water, that it may set; when cold press it in a napkin. It forms a beautiful colouring addition to many kinds of dishes, fish especially, and, when mixed with the meat pounded after being taken from the shells, makes fine sauce. OYSTERS 282.—Depend very much for goodness upon the beds from which they have been taken. There are several kinds: the “ Pvfieet,” “ Colchester,” and “ Milford,” are excellent, and the “ native Milton ” are very fine, being white and fat; but others may be made to possess both these qualities in some | degree by proper feeding. The rock oyster is largest, but i usually has a coarse flavour if eaten raw. They all come into season, according to law, on the 4th of I August, and go out at the close of April; or, according to j an old saying, “ so long as there is an R in the month.” They i are, however, not perfectly good until the beginning of Octo- ber, and should go out at the end of March. Although salt and water will alone preserve the flavour of | the oysters in their greatest perfection if they be of good I quality, yet, if thin, or appearing out of order, a sprinkling ' of oatmeal will, in the course of 2 days, tend to greatly im- i prove and fatten them. When the fish is alive and strong, 1 the shell closes on the knife. They should be eaten as opened, 4 the flavour becoming poor if long exposed to the air. To scallop Oysters.—Take 12 of the smaller sort, beard 4 them, cut out the hard part which adheres to their shells, and j leave them in their liquor; have ready a quantity of crumbs lj of fresh bread, not too finely grated, and mixed with a little | pepper and salt; then grease a scallop-shell, strew upon it * some of the crumbs with bits of butter, and lay upon them a ] layer ol the oysters; then crumbs, bits of butter, and oysters, i layer upon layer, until the shell is filled up ; cover it with a T