Chap. XXVI.] FAMILY SAUCES. o4/ but anchovy and soy seem the prevailing sort for fish. The former, if purchased from the maker, cannot be counterfeited ; but soy is so often adulterated by the dealers, that the only sure way of getting it genuine is to procure it from the steward of some East India trader when she arrives in the docks. If well corked, it will keep good for years ; and the older, perhaps, the better. There is certainly far less trouble, and probably more eco- nomy, in buying any of these sauces, than in making them at home; but for those ladies who choose to amuse themselves by having such preparations made “ under their own eye,” we add a few receipts that may be found useful. STORE SAUCES. 768.—1. Take 2 wineglasses of port, 2 of walnut and 4 of mushroom ketchup, 4 anchovies pounded, with 2 shalots, a tablespoonful of soy, and a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper. Boil all well together; when cold, put it into bottles well corked; it will keep good for more than a twelvemonth. 2. Take i oz. of mace, 1 oz. each of cloves, ginger, and allspice, 1 lb. of anchovies, a bottle of either white or red wine, i pint of vinegar, a couple of shalots and a clove of garlic chopped, and a stick of scraped horseradish, together with a bundle of pot-herbs. Let all simmer over a slow fire till the anchovies are dissolved; then strain the liquor, bottle it when cold, and when wanted for use add a tablespoonful of tjie sauce to 1 lb. of melted butter. 3. Thicken i lb. of butter with flour, and brown it; then put to it 1 lb. of the best anchovies cut small, 6 blades of pounded mace, 10 cloves, 40 berries of black pepper and allspice, a few small onions, a faggot of sweet herbs (namely, savory, thyme, basil, and knotted marjoram), and a little parsley and sliced horseradish; on these pour £ pint of the best sherry and l£ pint of strong gravy. Simmer all gently for 20 minutes; then strain it through a sieve, and bottle it for use. The way of using it is, to boil some of it in the butter while melting. 4. Put into a saucepan a pint of fine port wine, a gill of mountain, £ pint of fine walnut ketchup, 12 anchovies and the liquor that belongs to them, a gill of walnut pickle, the rind and juice of a large lemon, 4 or 5 shalots, some cayenne to taste, 3 oz. of scraped horseradish, 3 blades of mace, and 2 n 2