Chap. XXXI.] COOKER? FOR THE SICK. 627 Or;—Soak some Carolina rice in water an hour, strain it, and put 2 spoonfuls of the rice into li pint of milk ; simmer till it will pulp through a sieve; then put the pulp and milk into the saucepan, with a bruised clove and a bit of white sugar. Simmer 10 minutes; if too thick, add a spoonful or two of milk ; and serve with thin toast. VARIO US PREPARA TIONS. 867.—Saloop.—Boil a little water, wine, lemon-peel, and sugar together ; then mix with a small quantity of the powder, previously rubbed smooth with a little cold water; stir it all together, and boil it a few minutes. Milk Porridge.—Make a fine gruel of half-grits, long boiled ; strain off; either add cold milk, or warm with milk, as may be approved. French Milk Porridge.—Stir some oatmeal and water toge- ther ; let it stand to be clear, and pour off the latter; pour fresh water upon it, stir it well, let it stand till next day ; strain through a fine sieve, and boil the water, adding milk. The proportion of water must be small. Abroad this is much ordered, with toast, for the breakfast of weak persons. Sago.—To prevent the earthy taste soak' it in cold water 1 hour, pour that off, and wash it well; then add more, and sim- mer gently till the seeds are clear, with lemon-peel and spice, if approved. Add wine and sugar, and boil all up together. Sago Milk.—Cleanse as above, and boil it slowly, and wholly with new milk. It swells so much, that a small quan- tity will be sufficient for a quart, and when done it will be diminished to about a pint. It requires no sugar or flavouring. Ground Rice Milk.—Boil 1 spoonful of ground rice, rubbed down smooth, with l£ pint of milk, a bit of cinnamon, lemon- peel, and nutmeg. Sweeten when nearly done. Water Gruel.—Put a large spoonful of oatmeal by degrees into a pint of water, and when smooth boil it. Or:—Hub smooth 1 large spoonful of oatmeal with 2 of water, and pour it into a pint of water boiling on the lire; stir it well and boil it quickly, but take care it does not boil over. In ^ of an hour strain it off; when eaten add salt and a bit of butter. Stir until the butter be incorporated. 2 s 2