MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XVIII. 334 manner as turnips; and if made rather thinner, with a little cream or fine white sauce, formed into a puree, to thicken soup. These purees, it must be remarked, should not, when made of the marrow or any other vegetable, be served up alone, but put into the middle of a dish, with chops or fried j)oultry of some kind, as they properly come under the denomination of sauce. To boil.—The smallest are considered the best, but when they are about 5 or 6 inches long the fruit is more mature, better flavoured, and the flesh whiter. Put them into hot water with a little salt; boil them gently till quite tender, and serve them, either whole or pared and halved, on a slice of bread toasted, with plain melted butter in a boat; or when cold they may be pared and sliced, then dipped in a batter made with an egg, a teacupful of water or milk beaten together, a little salt, and abcn.it £ lb. of flour, or sufficient to make the batter thick enough to adhere to the slices; or they may be brushed over with egg, and covered with fine bread-crumbs, and then fried. Arrange them neatly on a dish, and serve with melted butter. Stewed.-—Pare off the outer skin ; cut the gourd into slices and then into dice, taking out the seeds. Scrape a little fat bacon, which put into a stewpan with a small onion or two, and a little parsley chopped fine. Cover the stewpan close, and fry gently from 5 to 10 minutes ; then thicken with a spoonful of flour, and add a little veal broth to make the sauce the consistence of rich cream. Season with pepper and salt, re- place the cover, and stew gently until quite tender. A mush- room chopped small may be added. TO STEW CELERY. 409.—Wash the heads, and strip off their outer leaves; either halve or leave them whole, according to their size, and cut them into lengths of 4 inches. Put them into a stewpan with a cup of broth or weak white gravy; stew till tender; then add 2 spoonfuls of cream, a little flour and butter, seasoned with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a little pounded white sugar; and simmer all together. Or:—Parboil it, cut it into quarters, fry it, and serve it on a napkin, or with beef gravy. Celery is a great improvement to all soups and gravies, and much used as a white sauce, either alone or with oysters.