Chap. IX.] 143 MUTTON. Or:—Bone it, take off a good deal of the fat, and cover it with bread, herbs, and seasoning ; then roll and boil till tender : serve with tomata-sauce or sorrel. Or:—Stew it with all the usual kinds of vegetables and a little curry powder; or bone and roll it. Or:—Cut off the fat, and half boil it; take out the bones, and beat the breast flat: season it with pepper and salt; brush it over with the yolk of an egg, and strew over it minced parsley and green onions, mixed with crumbs ol bread; baste it well with fresh butter, and broil it in a Dutch oven. Serve with stewed cucumber or sauce Robert. LEG OF MUTTON ROASTED.—E. R. 120.—A leg of mutton intended for roasting should be kept longer than for boiling; it should be carefully attended to during the time it is hung up, constantly wiped to prevent any mustiness gathering on the top and below the flap, and in hot weather lightly dusted with flour or pepper to keep oil' the flies. The kernel in the fat on the thick part of the leg should be taken out by the butcher, for it taints first there; and the bloody part of the neck should also be cut off when first brought in. If the weather should be cold, hang the mutton for 3 weeks. Should the weather not admit of its hanging so long, put it into a pan, and cover it with coarse brown sugar, turning it every day ; and when to be roasted, remove the skin, and wrap it up in oiled paper. This process will cause it to be veiy tender and juicy. Remove the thick skin very carefully ; trim off the piece of flank that adheres to the fat, and flatten the fat with a cutlet-beater or chopper; cut off the knuckle, and nick the cramp-bone, to allow it to become more plump, as in the haunch. Put a little salt and water into the dripping-pan to baste the meat at first; but then use only its own gravy. Serve with jelly. A leg of mutton is usually roasted whole, but can be divided advantageously for a small family. Cut the knuckle into a good-sized joint, and boil it until tender; but put a coarse paste over the lower part of the thick end to keep in the gravy, and roast it: or if the skin be raised gently from the outside of the leg, to about 6 or 7 inches wide, 2 or 3 good slices may be cut off' for steaks, and the skin then fastened down with skewers.