149 Chap. IX.] MUTTON. TO STEW AND ROAST MUTTON IN DIFFERENT WA YS. 130.—For the Loin.—Keep it till it is tender, bone it, and lay upon it a seasoning of pepper, mace, and a clove pounded. Beat the meat, cover it with a stuffing as for hare, and tie it >| round with string. It will take 21 hours to roast, if it be large. Make gravy of the bones and a little ham or bacon, and clear it well from the fat; add a little port wine, and serve np the mutton with currant-jelly. Or:—Skin, bone, and roll it; put to it a pint of water, a piece of butter, 3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, an onion, and a bunch of sweet-herbs; let it stew gently for 3 hours, strain the gravy, and add to it a glass of port wine; serve it up with I venison-sauce. For Breast of Mutton.-—Bone it; take bread-crumbs and parsley chopped fine, grated lemon-peel, ground mace, cloves, nutmeg, and salt; mix them together, egg the mutton, then shake the crumbs over it, and roll it up very tight and bind it witl\twine. Baste it with butter until it is wasted, and put a rich brown sauce under it in the dish ; serve it with wine-sauce. Shoulder of Mutton may be rolled and treated in the same j manner, taking care not to injure the skin. It may also be either stewed, roasted, or baked. To steiv Shoulder of Mutton.—Cut off the joint of the knuckle, take out the blade-bone, and trim the shoulder into a hand- some form; break the bone, and stew it for some time in water with the knuckle and trimmings; stuff the shoulder with good forcemeat, draw it into a round shape by severing the under part, put a little butter into a stewpan, melt it, and brown the mutton by turning it in the frying butter ; then dredge it with flour, put some of the broth made with the bones into the stewpan, with an onion, and let it stew- until the meat is quite tender. Serve it up with pickles warmed in the sauce. Or with Oysters.-—Hang it some days, then salt it well for 2 days; bone it, and sprinkle it with pepper and a bit of mace pounded ; lay some oysters over it, and roll the meat up tight and tie it; stew it in a small quantity of water, with an onion and a few peppercorns, till quite tender. Have ready a little good gravy, and some oysters stewed