352 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIX. Mix the materials with a little pepper, salt, and pounded mace, the yolk of an egg, and a teaspoonful of flour ; make it up as sausages or small rolls to garnish fricassees or minced meat, or as a nice supper dish, piled round a sweetbread. Or .-—Chop equal quantities of lean veal and fat bacon, a handful of sage, a little salt and pepper, and a few anchovies, beat all in a mortar; and when used, roll and fry it, and serve it with fried sippets, or on stewed vegetables, or on white collops. FO WL OR RABBIT SA USA GES.-E. R. 444. —Take the remains of a fowl, rabbit, or hare; when boiled or roasted, free it from the bones, and cut it small. Boil some onions in strong gravy ; when the onions are quite soft pound them, season with salt, pepper, parsley, 2 cloves, and a blade of mace ; pound the meat also, cut some bacon into small pieces, and add it. Mix up these ingredients with the yolk of an egg, add a little lemon-juice or lemon-pickle, or chop a little sorrel with the herbs, fill the skins, and broil them. Such are the sausages usually made in this country, and most commonly eaten fresh; but, on the Continent, many sorts are made of a rather large size, seasoned in different modes, and smoked, with the intention of keeping them good for a long time, as the Brunsioick, Bayonne, and Bologna, which may always be found in the foreign oil-shops in Eng- land. There is, however, another kind, which we do not recollect to have ever seen in London, though constantly used throughout the Peninsula. SPANISH AND PORTUGUESE SAUSAGES 445. —Are made from the fat and lean of the back and loins of a well-fed two-year-old hog, cut into small pieces of less than ^ inch square, and then either finely minced or pounded together, and strongly seasoned with cloves of garlic and green or red capsicums or chilis; but as these cannot always be conveniently procured in this country, cayenne-pepper may be substituted. The whole should then be covered with any sort of strong, dry wine, until absorbed by the ingre- dients, which will occupy perhaps a few days, according to the quantity. Fill the largest skins you can get with the meat, fat and