MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXII. 428 and gravy just to moisten the meat; if you have any ham, it will be an improvement. Do not warm it till the patties are baked. Of Turkey.—Mince some of the white part; and with grated lemon, nutmeg, salt, a very little white pepper, cream, and a very little bit of butter warmed, fill the patties. A good Mince for Patties.—2 oz. of ham, 4 of chicken or veal, 1 egg boiled hard, 3 cloves, a blade of mace, pepper and salt, in fine powder. Just before you serve, warm the above with 4 spoonfuls of rich gravy, the same of cream, and 1 oz. of butter. Fill as usual. Of Oyster.—Take off the beards of the oysters, cut the other parts in small bits, put them in a small tosser with a grate of nutmeg, a little white pepper and salt, a morsel of lemon-peel cut very small, a little cream, and a small quantity of the oyster liquor. Simmer a few minutes before you fill. Or:—-Beard and chop the oysters, boil a little cream, with an onion and a small quantity of mace; chop fine the crust of a French roll, mix it with the oysters, add the cream; let it boil. Season with nutmeg, cayenne, and salt. Of Lobster.—Mince the fish in the same manner, mingling with it a little of the coral, and make with the same seasoning, a little cream, and the smallest bit of butter. Of Shrimps.—Pick a quart of shrimps; if they are very salt, season them with only mace and a clove or two. Mince 2 or 3 anchovies ; mix these with the spice, and then season the shrimps. Put a glass of sharp white wine. They do not take long baking. VOL-AU-VENT.—E. R. 568.'—Take puff paste, roll it about f inch thick, cut it round or oval according to the shape of the dish ; make the knife hot in water, so as not to drag the paste in cutting it; mark the cover an inch from the edge, brush it over with yolk of egg; bake it in a quick oven ; when done take off the top, clean out the soft paste, return it to the oven for a few minutes to dry; dish it on a napkin. Care must be taken in taking out the soft part not to break the outside. It may be filled with ragout of sweetbread, fricassee of chicken, quenelles, lobster, or oysters, but is never made of a large size.