MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXV. 506 OBSERVATIONS ON PRESERVING. 698.—Attention, with practice, will enable a person to make any of the following sorts of preserves, &c., and they are as much as is wanted in a private family. The higher articles of preserved fruits may be bought at less expense than they can be made. Preserves should be kept carefully from the air, and in a very dry place. Unless they have a very small proportion of sugar, a warm one does not hurt; but when not properly boiled (that is, long enough, but not quickly), heat makes them ferment, and damp causes them to grow mouldy. They should be looked at 2 or 3 times in the first 2 months, that they may be gently boiled again if not likely to keep. Paste the edge of the outer paper, as it keeps out the air better than a string; put plain writing-paper over the fruit; brandy will give them a tendency to ferment. Dried sweetmeats, cakes, &c., should be kept in tin boxes, between layers of white paper, in a very dry but not hot room. When any sweetmeats are directed to be dried in the sun or in a stove, it will be best, in private families, where there is not a regular stove for the purpose, to put them in the sun on flag-stones, which reflect the heat, and place a garden glass over them to keep insects off; or if put into an oven, take care not to let it be too warm, and watch that they do properly and slowly. All fruits for preserving should be gathered in dry weather; but as this is not always practicable, much inconvenience may be obviated by boiling the fruit for jellies and jams long- before the sugar is added. By so doing, the watery particles will evaporate, and the preserve will be better flavoured, by the sugar not being too long on the fire. The common sort of preserves are cheaper, if not better, when made in the house than when purchased from the con- fectioner ; with this observation, that if there be children in the family, the plan will then probably be found anything but economical. Pans of copper or bell-metal are the proper utensils for pre- serving fruit: when used, they must be scoured bright with sand. Tinned pans turn and destroy the colour of the fruit that is put into them. There is now a new sort of stewpan to