MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XVIII. 346 although these proportions of oil and vinegar are stated, as above, to suit the English palate, it must yet be observed that in Trance the quantity of oil used in salads is invariably much more than double that of vinegar. The excellence of a salad consists in the vegetables being young and fresh, and they should be prepared only a short time before they are wanted ; the salad mixture being either poured into the bottom of the bowl or sent up in a sauce- tureen, and not stirred up with the vegetables until they are served. In summer salads the mixture must not be poured upon the lettuce or vegetables used in the salad, but be left at the bottom, to be stirred up when wanted, as thus preserving the crispness of the lettuce. In winter salads, however, the reverse of this proceeding must be adopted, as thus: the salad of endive, celery, beet, and other roots being cut ready for dressing, then pour the mixture upon the ingredients, and stir them well up, so that every portion may receive its benefit. In doing this, it should likewise be recollected that the spoon and fork should always be of wood, and of sufficient size to stir up the vegetables in large quantities.a CHICKEN SALAD. 434.—Pull the meat off the bones, put it into a small pan with a shalot cut in thin slices, a few sprigs of parsley, and a tablespoonful each of oil and tarragon vinegar; season the chicken well with pepper and salt; let it soak for about 3 hours. Boil 3 eggs hard, cut them in 4 pieces lengthways ; chop 2 anchovies, 6 olives, and a dessertspoonful of capers; take 3 lettuces, reserve the small hearts to garnish with, cutting them in 4, siired fine the other leaves that are white, and cut roughly some small salad ; put a layer of salad on the dish, then the chicken, sprinkle the chopped anchovy, &c., then more salad and chicken until you have used up the whole of your materials ; then mask it with a thick magnonnaise sauce: garnish it round the bottom with the lettuce-hearts and eggs alternately. This salad is much improved if the dish can be placed on pounded ice whilst it is being prepared. " As a substitute for egg in salad, rub down a dessertspoonful of a mashed potato with mustard and salt, and some cream or thick melted butter, which answers for oil when that is not at hand; then add the vinegar.