68 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. YII. bottom of a stewpan with 2 or 3 oz. of butter, and left on the stove until the gravy is entirely drawn out, and nearly di’ied up again, will have the effect of browning ; or even a piece of bread toasted as brown as possible — but not blackened—and put into the soup to simmer for a short time before its going to be served, will generally be found suffi- cient : if not, an ounce or two of moist sugar—the coarser the better—put into a small saucepan, with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, melt them together ; add a glass of ketchup, and stir it well. A very small quantity may be made in an iron spoon. Burnt onions will materially assist in giving a fine brown colour to soup, and also improve the flavour with- out either butter or ketchup ;a or, if meant to be kept for future use— Put 4 oz. of lump sugar, a gill of water, and 4 oz. of the finest butter, into a small tosser, and set it over a gentle fire. Stir it with a wooden spoon, till of a bright brown. Then add a pint of water ; boil, skim, and when cold bottle and cork it close. Add to soup or gravy as much of this as will give a proper colour. The colour of white soups may likewise be improved by the use of white roux, which, in France, is universally added to white soups and sauces, as it is more delicate than butter and flour mixed in the common way. To Clarify Soup.-—Put the whites of 1 or 2 eggs into it while being warmed up, and as it begins to melt: then boil the whole gently together, and run the liquor through a jelly- bag. Or break the white of an egg into a basin along with the broken shell, carefully avoiding the smallest particle of the yolk ; beat the white to a stiff froth, and mix it gradually but thoroughly with the soup, which should be set over the fire and stirred till it boils up : then take it off, cover it close, and let it stand for J of an hour, then strain it through a napkin. The process of clarifying destroys somewhat of the savour of the soup, which ought, therefore, to be more highly seasoned. It is also very usual to put force-meat balls, of various sorts, into many different soups, for the purpose of improving their flavour and appearance. Some of these are called “ Pass- over hullsf as being much in use among the Jews, who are a They are prepared in France, and are to he purchased at all the Italian warehouses in London.