MUTTON. 141 Chap. IX.] leaves. Pour upon the meat a pint of good vinegar and 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of olive-oil. Cover the upper surface of the meat with slices of raw onion, and turn the mutton every day, always taking care to put the slices of onion on the top surface. At the expiration of 4 days, take the meat out, wipe it with a napkin, and hang it up in a cool place till the next day, when it is fit for roasting. A more simple method is to rub it every day, and let it hang until it is tender. A clove or two of garlic in the knuckle will, however, give it a much higher flavour, if put into the knuckle when the haunch is hung up. SADDLE OF MUTTON—E. li. 116.—Is formed of the 2 loins, and is also called “ the chine.” This joint should be well hung and well roasted ; but requires rather less time hanging than the haunch. Rub the part close round the tail with salt, after first cutting out the kernel Wipe it, as well as all other meats, daily, but do not take them into a warm kitchen to do it. Take out the fat from the inside, and also the kidneys: some cooks split the tail, and skewer the pieces back in a ring on either side; but it'is an unnecessary and rather vulgar practice. Sprinkle the mutton with salt, dredge it with flour, and send it up finely frothed. Stewed lentils oi haiicot beans are frequently served round this joint. If the joint be frequently sponged, or well wetted a few times .with port wine, and then hung up in the air to dry it will be found an admirable improvement, as well as to the haunch • both should, however, be kept until quite tender The saddle should be well basted while roasting • it will take 2 or 2$ hours, according to the size. SADDLE OF MUTTON A LA POR TUGAISE. „ 11117—An excellent way to use up port-wine bottoms is the following: Take 2 quarts of port-wine bottoms or lees a pint of vinegar, and a pint of stock; shred 6 or 8 shalots, 3 onions 2 carrots, and 6 turnips, a spoonful of allspice, a dozen cloves' and as many bay-leaves. Make this boiling hot, and pour it oyer a saddle of mutton, having first cut off the tail close trimmed off the superfluous fat from the top, and also the flaps’ Turn it every morning and evening for 4 or 5 days Spit it and cover it with a buttered paper, and roast for 2 or 3 hours