Chap. XIV.] SALT-WATER, FISH. V *— fullv cleaned, to prevent the rancidity which would otherwise be occasioned to their flavour by the oiliness of the liver, if it be allowed to remain in the body. The gills and eyes should also be taken out, and a very little salt put into the body, which should be hung up for a short time to dry. Their aver- age weight rarely exceeds 4 to 5 lbs., but the larger they are the better they will generally be found, their firmness being the greatest merit in their quality, and depending much upon their size. The fish is very delicate in flavour, and is most usually left unskinned : plainly boiled, very fast, for about £ of an hour, or 20 minutes if it be large. It may be served with parsley and butter, or oyster-sauce. To fry.—If of a very small size, they may be turned round with their tails run through their jaws; but this cannot be done when they are large; they are in that case either cut in slices or filleted, and fried with crumbs of bread and egg. To broil.—The fish is either scored or skinned, and split up, brushed over with a feather dipped in oil, peppered and salted, and laid whole upon the gridiron, without either crumbs of bread or egg, and eaten, if it he fresh, with only a squeeze of lemon, or some anchovy-sauce; if dried and salted, as the Findhorn, or, as they are commonly called “ Finnan had- dock,” they are merely used as a breakfast relish, without any sauce or condiment but a spoonful of mustard. To bake.—The scales should be scraped off, but the tail and head must not be removed, though the spinal bone should be taken out and the body stuffed with any approved forcemeat. The Scottish mode of baking is :—Take 2 good-sized had- docks, clean, and wipe them well in a cloth, but do not wash them ; keep the breasts as whole as possible. Strew salt over them, and lay them on a board for several hours; then wipe the salt from them, cut off the heads and fins, cut the skin through down the back, and take it off neatly, being careful to keep the fish whole. Beat up the yolks of 3 eggs, dip each in the egg, have ready some bread-crumbs, mixed with pep- per, salt, and chopped parsley ; roll the fish in the crumbs, and stuff the heads and breasts with oysters chopped, but not too small, and bread-crumbs blended with an egg. Butter a dish lay the fish upon it, stick pieces of butter upon each, and bake them. For sauce, take a pint of veal gravy, the same quantity of cream, mix 2 tablespoonfuls of flour in a little of the cream,