MUTTON. Chap. IX.] 145 NECK OF MUTTON 122.—Is particularly useful, as many dishes may be made of it. The best end of the neck may be boiled for 1]- hour, and served with turnips; or roasted; dressed in steaks; in pies; a-la- Turc ; or en haricot. The scrag may be stewed into broth; or with a small quan- tity of water, some small onions, a few peppercorns, and a little rice, and served together. When a neck is to be boiled to look particularly nice, saw down the chine-bone, strip the ribs half-way down, chop otf the ends of the bones about 4 inches, and turn the flap under. The skin should not be taken off' till boiled, and then tire fat will remain white. The neck is very commonly divided, tire “ scrag” being boiled for broth, and the remaining part either roasted or cut into chops; but, if boiled together, the scrag will require rather more stewing than the other part to make it tender. If only slightly salted, for 2 or 3 days, the fat will be so much improved as to become firm and appear clarified; and the mode which we recommend for dressing the I joint is thus :— Boil the neck very gently until it is nearly done enough; then, }■ an hour or 20 minutes before serving, cover it thickly I with bread-crumbs and sweet herbs chopped, with a little j drawn butter or the yolk of an egg, and put it into a Dutch i oven before the fire. By this process the meat will taste much 1 better than if merely roasted or boiled; the dryness attendant < upon roasting will be removed, and the disagreeable greasiness I] which boiled meat—mutton especially—exhibits, will utterly | disappear. Too much cannot be said in favour of this method ;i of dressing the neck and breast of mutton, for the liquor they N have been boiled in, if stewed with peas, will make a very H good soup. LOIN OF MUTTON ROASTED. 123.—-Take off the skin and some of the fat; joint it, and B skewer it from the flap into the fillet; then put the spit through h the chump, and the skewer at the thin end will secure the joint i hi its place ; roast for 1 { hour. For a small family the loin should be divided, and the chump end, if boiled, will make fine broth ; and the ribs may / be either plainly roasted, or dressed precisely as above. The h flesh is, however, richer than that of the neck, and many prefer L