265 Chap. XV.] FRESH-WATER FISH. squeeze of a lemon, is well worth the trial. The eels should be thoroughly done; and if of a large size should be parboiled previous to being either fried or broiled. To stew Eels.—Cut the eel in pieces; put it into a stew- pan with i pint of port wine, and i pint of gravy, 1 large onion cut in slices, 2 blades of mace, 3 bay-leaves, a few corns of allspice, 2 cloves, 2 slices of lemon, a little parsley and thyme, pepper and salt, and let it simmer gently over the fire until the eels are done; then strain the sauce, thicken with flour and butter, and add anchovy-sauce and ketchup. Or:—Cut the eels in pieces, fry them a little until they are a fine brown; let them remain until cold ; take an onion, a little parsley, a leaf of sage chopped very finely ; put them in some gravy, with a clove, a blade of mace, pepper and salt, a glass of port wine, and a little lemon-juice ; strain the sauce and thicken it with butter and flour, adding a little anchovy essence and ketchup ; stew the eels until they are tender. Or:—Take a pint each of port wine and beef-gravy or gravy-soup, with a few fried onions sliced and 4 lb. of butter, and let the eels stew in it for 4 an hour, carefully stirring, and having previously seasoned it with spice, soy, and ketchup. Eels stewed in the French ivay.—Skin the eels, and skewer them round; put them into an earthen pan with all sorts of roots cut small, a few peppercorns, cloves, and a little salt, about a pint of vinegar and ketchup, with as much broth : bake them 1 hour in the oven uncovered with pie-crust, and in the mean while thicken the stock with some good cream flavoured with a grate of nutmeg. The other modes are more in the dif- ference of sauce than the methods of dressing, though put under various names. Eels spitchcocked.—Split the eels down the back, but do not skin them; wash, dry, and flour them; spread on the inside a little butter, then egg them, and strew rather thickly parsley, thyme, marjoram, and lemon-peel, all finely chopped; season witli pepper, salt, a little cayenne, and a very little nutmeg; dip them in bread-crumbs, cut them in pieces, and broil them of a light brown ; serve with melted butter. The proportions should be marjoram 1 part, lemon-peel 2, thyme 3, and parsley 4 parts. To roast an Eel.—The mode directed by old Izaak Walton, as mentioned in his Life, is so quaint and characteristic, that we