Chap. XI.] 181 YEAL. RIS BE VEAU EN CAISSES. 180. -—Blanch 3 sweetbreads, and simmer in a strong, well- flavoured gravy till quite done. Have ready 3 round pieces of white paper oiled, and lay them thereon ; having left them lightly wetted with gravy, sprinkle over them the finest crumbs or raspings of bread, pepper, salt, and a very little nutmeg; do them slowly on a gridiron, and serve in the cases. Any of the vegetable sauces may be served with them. GARNITURE EN RAGOUT. 181. —Having prepared and blanched sweetbreads of veal or lamb (house-lamb is the best), liver of lamb and rabbits, truf- fles and mushrooms, simmer gently 4 an hour in rich veal broth; then divide the several articles into fit bits for help- ing, and stew the whole till very tender. If, when finished, the gravy wants consistence, boil up in it a good piece of butter rolled in flour. Season it 15 minutes before serving, with white pepper, salt, and nutmeg only. Have ready and Ihot, forcemeat-balls, in which finely-scraped ham, beef-suet, the breast of a fowl, or cold veal, are the principal ingredients. It may be served in a tureen as soup, or in an ornamented crust previously baked. If to be white, beat as many yolks of eggs as the quantity may require, and simmer in the ra- gout 2 minutes: it must not boil. Sometimes 1 or 2 whole pigeons, nicely prepared, form a part of this much-admired dish, which in one way or other is rarely omitted on well- covered tables. VEAL CAKE.—E. R. 182.—Bone a breast of veal, and cut it in slices; cut also slices of ham or lean bacon, and boil 6 eggs hard; butter a deep pan, and place the whole in layers one over the other, cutting the eggs in slices, and seasoning with chopped herbs | and cayenne pepper, and wetting the herbs with anchovy or other highly-flavoured sauce. Cover up the whole, let it bake i for 4 hours, and, when taken from the oven, lay a weight upon it to press it well together. When cold, turn it out. Another.—Boil 6 or 8 eggs hard ; cut the yolks in 2, and lay some of the pieces in the bottom of the pan ; shake in a 1 little chopped parsley, some slices of veal and ham, and then eggs again, shaking in after each some chopped parsley, with