MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXV. 526 pounded very fine, and made quite hot in the oven, and then stirred gradually into the hot juice until it is melted. APPLE JELLY. 734. —Quarter a peck of codlings, put them into a pre- serving-pan with the peel of a lemon, a small piece of cinnamon, and 6 cloves; add as much spring water as will just cover them. Boil the whole to a pulp, then run them through a flannel bag, and to every pint of juice put i lb. of good loaf-sugar ; boil it fast until it jellies; then pour it into pots or moulds. August is the best time to make this jelly, when the codlings are full-grown, but not ripe. Crabs greatly improve this jelly, and in their absence a little lemon-juice. Imitations of citron, ginger, and guava jelly, are sometimes made in this country, but are always inferior to the original, and yet cost quite as much as if purchased at the shops ; we therefore look upon such receipts as worthless. Jelly may be made of any kind of fruit by putting the fruit into a preserving-pan with its own weight of sugar, boiling and skimming it until it will jelly ; then pour the whole through a new sieve, but do not press it; take what remains in the sieve, and boil it J of an hour for jam, and put the juice into another stewpan and boil the same time. This method saves the trouble of pressing, and prevents waste. ORANGE SYRUP.—E. R. 735. —Take the largest, deepest coloured, and roughest oranges that can be obtained, grate off the rind very nicely, and throw the oranges into water : let them remain 12 hours, changing the water once during that time, to take out the bitter. This, however, although a common practice, is injudicious, as the “ bitter ” of the peel, particularly of Seville orange, adds the finest flavour to the syrup. Put them into a cloth, and boil them; when tender cut them in quarters, and, after taking out the pulp, throw them into cold water; make a thin syrup, clear them in it, after which enrich the syrup, adding the pulp ; make it very thick, and pour it over the oranges in jars. The white Wedgewood ware are much better than the common earthen jars. CANDIED ORANGE OR LEMON PEEL.—E. R. 736. —Take the fruit, cut it lengthwise, remove all the pulp