MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. VII. 84 RICE SOUP. 21. —Take white stock, season it, and either whole rice boiled till very tender, or the flour of rice may be used ; i lb. will be sufficient for 2 quarts of broth. VEAL POTTAGE. 22. —Take off a knuckle of veal all the meat that can be made into cutlets, &c., and set the remainder on to stew, with an onion, a bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, some whole pep- per, and 5 pints of water: cover it close; and let it do on a slow fire, 4 or 5 hours at least. Strain it, and set it by till next day ; then take the fat and sediment from the jelly, and sim- mer it with either turnips, celery, sea-kale, and Jerusalem artichokes, or some of each, cut into small dice, till tender, seasoning it with salt and peppef. Before serving, rub down half a spoonful of flour with half a pint of good cream and butter the size of a walnut, and boil a few minutes. Let a small roll simmer in the soup, and serve this with it. It should be as thick as middling cream, and, if thus made of the vegetables above mentioned, will make a very delicate white pottage. The pottage may also be thickened with rice and pearl-barley ; or the veal may be minced, and served up in the tureen. VEAL BROTH.—E. R. 23. '—Stew a knuckle of veal of 4 or 5 lbs. in 3 quarts of water, with 2 blades of mace, an onion, a head of celery, and a little parsley, pepper, and salt; let the whole simmer very gently until the liquor is reduced to 2 quarts; then take out the meat, when the mucilaginous parts are done, and serve it up with parsley and butter. Add to the broth either 2 oz. of rice separately boiled, or of vermicelli, put. in only long enough to bo stewed tender. Dish the knuckle separately, and serve it with, parsley and butter. FRIAR'S CHICKEN. 24. —Take 3 quarts of water, and put into it 3 or 4 lbs. of knuckle of veal: stew gently till all the goodness is out of the meat; skim the fat off, and strain the broth through a sieve. Then take a chicken, or a full-grown young fowl, dissect it