MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XVI. 274 thick coating of the crumbs well buttered, and brown it in a Dutch oven. A dozen oysters, with a proper quantity of crumbs, will fill up the largest scallop-shell, and take an hour to be thoroughly done. Some cooks scald the oysters for 5 minutes in their own liquor, and mix with them minced shalot, or chives, and pot- herbs ; but these, although they may please an epicurean palate, will destroy the natural flavour of the oyster. Or .-—Keep the oysters in their liquor, put a bit of butter in a stewpan, with minced parsley, shalot, and a little pepper; brown them with a fried onion ; then add the oyster-liquor, strained, and a little good gravy, work them until they are of the consistence of sauce, but do not add flour to thicken it, as it spoils the taste of the oyster-liquor, and gives them a soddened appearance; then toss and put in the oysters, add lemon-juice, and fill the scallop-shells, which may be put before the fire to be kept hot, but without bread-crumbs or artificial browning of any sort: they are an admirable addition to a rump-steak. To broil Oysters.—Take them from the shells, beard them, and put them with their liquor into tin shapes made to imitate scallops, 6 in a shell (not more),, with a little pepper and butter. Put the shells upon a gridiron over a good fire, and serve them when plump and quite hot. They are delicious this way; but to be eaten in perfection should be cooked in the room where they are eaten. Squeeze a little lemon-juice over them when they come from the fire. Or :—They may be put singly in their under shells along with their own liquor, a little minced parsley and spice,, and a bit of butter, and thus put upon the gridiron, to be taken off when thoroughly heated. With White Sauce.—Beard the oysters, wash them in their own liquor, then strain it, thicken it with melted butter, or white sauce made of cream, not milk and flour ; season it with a blade of mace and a few whole peppercorns tied in a muslin bag. Simmer the oysters very gently, and serve up witli sippets of bread : they will require only a few minutes, and if allowed to boil will become hard. With Brown Sauce.—Wash the oysters in their liquor, and then strain it, add a glass of wine, 2 spoonfuls of beef-gravy, ■some whole pepper, a little salt, a piece of butter, and a