Chap. XXIV.] JELLIES. 501 Fruit in Jelly.—Prepare a calf’s-foot jelly ; before putting it into the mould pick, wash, and drain on a cloth some fine pine strawberries, some large white raspberries, and bunches of red and white currants. Lay at the bottom of the mould a large bunch of white currants surrounded with pine strawber- ries ; on these a layer of white raspberries and red currants. Cover them entirely with jelly ; when quite firm arrange another layer of fruit, and so on till the mould is filled. Just before wanted dip the mould into warm water for a moment, wipe it, and turn the jelly out. The fruits may be varied according to the season. Preserved fruits may be used, but the colour will not be so fine as fresh fruit. TO CLARIFY ISINGLASS. 693.—Take 2 oz. of isinglass, pour on it a pint of spring water which has been mixed with a teaspoonful of beaten white of egg and a tablespoonful of lemon-juice. Stir them thoroughly together, and let them heat slowly, taking care the isinglass does not stick to the bottom of the pan; simmer a few minutes, clear off the scum till no more appears; strain it through muslin, and set it by for use : it will be trans- parent, and may be warmed and mixed with the clear juice of any kind of fruit already sweetened, or with syrup in jellies flavoured with liqueur. As a portion of the isinglass is taken up by the white of egg, f to each oz. should be allowed for this. The finest sort of isinglass, which should be white and without any smell, does not require to be clarified, excepting for clear jellies; for all other purposes it is enough to dis- solve and skim it, and to pass it through a strainer. A great variety of excellent jellies may be made with clarified isinglass and the juice or syrup of almost any kind of fresh fruit, the colour of which is best preserved by mashing it lightly and strewing pounded sugar over it, letting it stand 3 or 4 hours for the juice to drain off; pour a little water over, and use the juice without boiling. This can only be done when fruit is plentiful, as it requires double the quantity. It is also a great improvement to these jellies to put the moulds into ice 3 or 4