POULTRY AND GAME. Chap. XIII.] 209 brown, serve with sauce as follows:—chop line a few shalots, boil them in a tablespoonful of vinegar, then add gravy, thicken with flour and butter, scald the liver, mince it, throw it into the sauce; add pepper, salt, and a little ketchup, and 2 or 3 mushrooms chopped. A la Franc.aisc.—When the pigeons are prepared for dress- ing, lay them in a dish, and pour over them 2 or 3 glasses of port wine ; let them remain for some hours. Prepare a force- meat of chopped sage, a little bit of onion, some fat and lean I bacon, and pepper; moisten it with egg or rich gravy ; stuff the crops of the pigeons, and put them into the stew with the I wine, 30 corns of pepper for 6 pigeons, a blade of mace, an ] onion, and a little broth. Stew them till' tender, then take them out, beat up the yolk of an egg wit h some oiled butter, i brush the pigeons thickly, cover them well with bread-crumbs ; n let them cool a little, then repeat the process. Put them into the oven just to brown, strain and thicken the gravy, and send them up. A Ragout of Pigeons.—Stew the gizzards in a little water, with the trimmings; chop them veiy small, and chop the liver also; make them into a forcemeat with grated ham, bread-crumbs, herbs, &c., and fill the pigeons with this force- meat rolled round the yolk of a hard-boiled egg. Put the j pigeons into a stewpan, with a little butter to brown them; I add the gravy from the gizzards, a little flour, and an onion ; let them stew very gently, and then skim the gravy; add to it I a glass of wine or sauce, and, having boiled up the gravy and ij thickened it, serve it with the pigeons. To dress Pigeons icith Peas.—Put the pigeons into a stew- I pan, with a little butter just to stiffen them ; then take them ■ out, put some small slices of bacon into the pan, give them a I fine colour, then draw them, and add a spoonful of flour to i the butter ; then put in the pigeons and bacon, turn them, | moisten them by degrees with gravy, and bring it to the con- H sistence of sauce; boil it; season with parsley, young onions H a bay-leaf, and let it simmer. When half done, put in a quart |] of peas; shake them often; when sufficiently done, take out p the bay-leaf, thicken the peas with flour and butter, and dish a the pigeons. There should be no gravy left. A Pupton of Pigeons may be much diversified in the ma- p