.508 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXV. TO GREEN FRUITS FOR PRESERVING OR PICKLING. 700. —Take pippins, apricots, pears, plums, peaches, while green, for the first, or radish-pods, French beans for the latter, and cucumbers for both processes, and put them, with vine- leaves under and over, into a preserving-pan with spring water to cover them, and close the pan to exclude all air. Set it on the side of a fire, and when they begin to simmer take them off; take them out carefully with a slice; the next day put them again on the fire. They are to be peeled, and then done according to the receipts for the several modes. BOTTLED FRUIT.—E. R. 701. —The best way of preserving all fruit for tarts is by bottling ; and if the following directions be exactly observed, it will be found to answer admirably:—Gather any kind of fruit on a dry day—currants, gooseberries, plums, &c.; put it into wide-mouthed bottles ; it should not be fully ripe. Mix currants and raspberries in the same bottle, and put 2 oz. of sugar into each; then have bladders cut so large, that when they are tied over the bottles they will hang an inch all round below the string. Let the bladders be wet, and tied tightly; then put the bottles up to their necks into a copper of cold water, with some straw between.* Light a fire under the copper, and, when the fruit has sunk into the juice, let the fire go out, and leave the bottles in the water until it is cold; turn the bottles upside down, and keep them in a cool place. If they leak they must be used at once. Fruit thus preserved will keep for any number of years, retaining all its original freshness. They will require more sugar when put into tarts or puddings. The contents of a bottle when opened must be used at once, for the air getting in will spoil them. Green Apricots for Tarts.—When the apricots are the size of a large hazel-nut, thin the trees, gather them on a dry day, wipe them clean, prick them, throw them into a weak syrup, boil them up, let them remain 24 hours, then boil them again ; they will now be quite green. When cold, put them into a On this, however, we may remark, that, although bladders may answer the purpose, yet good corks are the only means by which any certainty can be obtained ; and for facilitating the sure corking, a small machine, made by Cooper, St. John-street, cannot be too highly recommended.