MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIII. 196 “ Turkey roast is turkey lost; Turkey boiled is turkey spoiled ; But turkey braised is turkey praised.” To roast.—Make a veal stuffing ; fill the breast where the crop is taken from to make the bird look handsome; paper the breast, and roast at a distance from a quick fire. Where truffles are to be had, take about 2 lbs., peel them, select the small ones, and, after chopping, pound them in a mortar with an equal quantity of the fat of bacon rasped; make the stuffing with this, mixed with some of the larger truffles whole, put them into the body of the turkey, and let it hang for several days; then roast it with a piece of fat bacon laid over the breast and a paper over that. Truffles of a good quality are, however, so very expensive, that turkeys fattened in France and stuffed with them have been sold in London at Christmas for 5 guineas each ! Mushrooms are therefore more commonly used, and even chestnuts may be substituted for truffles, pounded and mixed with bacon in the same manner; the chestnuts should be boiled to take off the husk, peeled nicely, and pounded. Chestnuts, put whole into the body of a turkey and hung for some days, improve the flavour; but a turkey thus stuffed will require long and careful roasting, and must be put at first at a distance from the fire. A stuffing of sausage or other meat may be put into the crop besides. Fowls may be dressed in the same way. Turkey with Sausage-meat.—At the messes of European regiments in India, it is no uncommon thing to bone a turkey and a fowl, and put one inside the other, filling the interstices with sausage-meat, a small pig being killed for the purpose. A turkey thus prepared will take a long time roasting, and must be placed at a great distance from the fire at first. When carved the slices should be cut quite through ; and epicures aver that it is one of the finest dishes that come to table. Boiled Turkey.—Fill the body with oysters, and let it boil by steam without any water. When sufficiently done, take it up, strain the gravy that will be found in the pan, and which, when cold, will be a fine jelly ; thicken it with a little Hour and butter, add the liquor of the oysters intended for sauce, also stewed, and warm the oysters up in it; whiten it with a little boiled cream, and pour it over the turkey.