176 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XI. CALVES' FEET. E. R. 174. —Stewed.—When properly cleaned, rub the feet over with pepper, a very little salt, a little ground ginger, and mace; cut the feet into moderately-sized pieces, and put them into a stewpan with a little shalot, and a beefsteak, also cut into pieces. Cover all with cold water, and let them simmer together for 3 hours. When quite tender, take them off the fire; strain the gravy through a sieve. The next day, when cold, take off all the fat; boil a small quantity of saffron in cream, and a little cayenne pepper; mix it with the gravy, and warm the whole without boiling: 1 foot and 1 lb. of steak will make a dish. Fricasseed.—Boil the feet in water until the bones will come out, with an onion and a bunch of sweet herbs ; take the bones out, and when the meat is cold stuff it nicely with a very fine farce, or forcemeat; make the pieces up into hand- some shapes of an equal size ; then take some of the stock in which the feet were boiled, removing the fat, and straining it when melted; make this into thick white sauce with cream and roux; warm up the calves’ feet in it, and send it to table either plain or with a quantity of asparagus tops, previously boiled, and cut into small pieces. Or:—Boil tender 2 feet in a shallow pan, observing not to break them ; throw them into cold water for an hour; divide, and lay them in a little weak veal broth, and simmer them an hour, with a blade of mace and a bit of lemon-peel, which take out when you add i a teacupful of cream, and a bit of flour and butter. Fried.-—Take calves’ feet which have been boiled until very tender, remove the bones, let them get cold, cut them into well-shaped pieces, season them with white pepper and salt, dip them into batter, fry them, and serve them up with a sharp sauce or garnish of pickles. Calves’ feet may also be plainly boiled, and served with parsley and butter, or eaten cold with oil and vinegar. QUEUES I)E VEAU. 175. —Having nicely cleaned and soaked 4 calves’ tails, cut off the small ends, and blanch them; dry, flour, and fry them a fine brown in butter; drain the fat from them, and having