282 MODERN- DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XVI. employed instead of milk, the dish may be dressed in the same manner, but rather more highly seasoned. A MA TEL 0 TE OF FISH. 298. —Take carp or tench, or both, together with an eel and any small fish; cut them into pieces, and put them along with a quantity of button-onions into a stewpan containing just wine or gravy enough of any sort to cover them, and let them stew very gently until nearly done; then have ready a couple of minced truffles and a good handful of shrimps to mix into the sauce, which may be made of either white or red wine: the red may be made the more savoury, but the white wine will be found the most delicate: it should be thickened with yolk of egg, and the dish garnished with sippets of fried bread. RAGOUT OF FISH. 299. —Take carp, tench, perch, pike, and eels; clean and scale them well, and cut them into pieces for serving; put in your stewpan a good-sized piece of butter, let it fry to a pale brown, fry some flour in it, and add a quart or two of good bouillon with a glass or two of red wine, and a few cloves and onions. When boiling, put your ragout into it, let it well boil, and add some lemon-juice before serving it up. A VOL-AU-VENT 300. —Of fish, of any sort, is an elegant side-dish when pre- pared either with meat gravy or made up maigre. Muscles also make an excellent vol-au-vent. STEWED FISH, HEBREW FASHION.—E. R. 301. —Take 3 or 4 parsley-roots, cut them into long tliin slices, and 2 or 3 onions also sliced, boil them together in a quart of water until quite tender; then flavour it with ground white pepper, nutmeg, mace, and a little saffron, the juice of 2 lemons, and a spoonful of vinegar. Put in the fish, and let it stew for 20 or 30 minutes; then take it out, strain the gravy, thicken it with a little flour and butter, have balls made of chopped fish, bread-crumbs, spices, and the yolk of 1 or 2 eggs mixed up together, and drop them into the liquor. Let them boil, then put in the fish, and serve it up with the balls and parsley-roots.