178 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XT. mushroom-buttons, and serve round the brains; or, after pre- paring as above, serve in a rich white acidulated sauce, with lemon-juice or tomata-sauce. Or:—Blanch the brains, and beat them up with an egg, pepper, and salt, a small quantity of chopped parsley, and a piece 6f butter. Make them into small cakes, put them into a small frying-pan, and fry them. Or:—Prepare them as above ; wet with egg, and sprinkle crumbs, salt, pepper, and chopped parsley, and finish dressing in a Dutch oven. Serve with melted butter, with or without a little mushroom-ketchup. Croquettes of Brains.—Take calf’s brains, blanch, and beat them up with 1 or 2 chopped sage-leaves, a little pepper and salt, a few bread-crumbs soaked in milk, and an egg beaten; roll them into balls, and fry them. Cervelles de Veau au Marinade.—Cut a carrot, a turnip, and an onion into pieces; let them stew in a little butter; then add a bundle of sweet herbs, and pour over them a pint of vinegar and water in equal parts; then strain the liquor, and pour it over calves’ brains cleaned and blanched; let them stew in it till they are firm, then fry them in butter, and serve up with crisped parsley. Cervelles de Veau Fricassees.—Having cleared and blanched the brains, render them white and firm by squeezing lemon- juice over them; then put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter; stew slowly, that they may not brown; dredge hi a small quantity of flour; add a bunch of parsley, and 1 of chives ; moisten with clear veal broth ; let the brains stew until they are firm; then send them up in the sauce, thickened with a little cream and flour and butter. FRIED LIVER AND BACON, ETC.—E. R. 178.—Cut the liver rather thin, say about ^ inch thick, but first soak it in warm water about 1 hour; chop a quantity of pars- ley, season it with pepper, and lay it thick upon the liver; cut slices of bacon, and fry both together, but put the bacon first into the pan; add a little lemon-pickle to the gravy made by pouring the fat out of the pan, flouring, and adding boiling water. Or :—Cut the liver in handsome pieces, lard them very nicely, and chop some parsley and spread it over the surface with a