Chap. XVII.] GRAVY, SAUCES, AND CURRY. 281 also made in nearly the same manner—the mea t being stripped from the bone, and put into a saucepan with the bone broken in small pieces, then stewed in a small quantity of water for several hours until the liquor becomes thick ; alter which it is strained, and again stewed with about the same quantity of very strong and well-spiced veal-gravy. If caretully bottled and corked it will remain good for a long time, and a spoonful or two will be frequently found a useful addition. For White Meat.—Peel a lemon close to the juice, cut it into slices, and then into square bits; blanch the liver of a fowl, and chop it small; mix the lemon and liver in a boat; pour hot melted butter over the mixture, and stir it together, but do not let it boil, or it will become oily. Or:—Put the peel of a small lemon, cut very thin, into a pint of sweet rich cream, with a sprig of lemon-thyme and 10 white peppercorns; simmer gently till it tastes well of the lemon, then strain it, and thicken it with t lb. of butter, and a dessertspoonful of flour rubbed in it; boil it up, then pour the juice of the lemon strained into it, stirring it well. A RICH GRAVY. 309.—Cut beef into thin slices, according to the quantity wanted ; slice onions thin, and flour both ; fry them of a light pale brown, but do not on any account suffer them to get black : put them into a stewpan, pour boiling water on the browning in the frying-pan, boil it up, and pour on the meat. Put to it a bunch of parsley, thyme, and savory, a small bit of knotted marjoram, the same of tarragon, some mace, berries of all- spice, whole black peppers, a clove or two, and a bit of ham, or gammon of bacon. Simmer till you have extracted all the juices of the meat, and be sure to skim the moment it boils, and often after. If for a hare, or stewed fish, anchovy should be added. SAUCES. MELTED BUTTER. 310.— Although it may be presumed that every cook who understands her business knows how to melt butter, it is yet constantly brought to table either too thick or too thin, and not unfrequently filled witli lumps of flour or in a state of oil,