356 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIX. FORCEMEAT. 451. —Take equal quantities of cold chicken, veal, and beef, shred very small, and mixed together; season, at the same time, with a moderate quantity of pepper, salt, sweet herbs, and grated nutmeg—that is to say, if intended for white meat, or for anything delicately flavoured; but if meant for a savoury dish, add a little minced ham, and an atom of garlic or a shalot. Put the whole in a stone mortar, and pound it until quite fine, then make it into a paste with a raw egg, some butter, marrow, or fat of some kind. When used, it may either be rolled into round balls and fried for any made dish, or put into any joint of meat or poultry as stuffing; and if kept in a cool place, and well seasoned, it will keep good for several days. Indeed, by mixing with any potted meat or game an equal proportion of panada, which will always be lighter than bread- crumbs, the cook will have at once a very fine species of farce, to be employed in stuffing olives, fillets of fowl, &c. The “farce” is sometimes a delicious preparation of .sau- sage-meat, and is served up alone; but it enters into the com- position of numerous other dishes. Another Forcemeat.—Take 1 £ lb. of lean veal, pound it, * and pass it through a sieve; 1 lb. of chopped beef suet, and 6 oz. of panada, pounded well together; add the veal, season with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg; mix well; then add the yolks of 6 eggs and the whites of 3; when these are thoroughly mixed, whisk the other 3 whites of eggs to a very stiff froth, and add it to the forcemeat; when all is well mixed together, it is fit for use. FARCE CUITE.—E. R. 452. —Cut in small pieces some undressed fowl; put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, a little salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg ; shake them over the fire for 10 minutes, drain, and let them cool. Put an equal portion of crumbs of bread in the same stewpan with some broth, and a little parsley chopped fine; stir it with a wooden spoon till it becomes quite soft. Let it get cold, then pound the fowl until it will pass through a tamis; pound the bread also, and put it through the sieve ; then put equal parts of the meat, butter, and bread together, and pound them with yolks of eggs sufficient to make it into a proper consistence, and keep it in a jar for use.