Chap. XI.] VEAL. 165 with a little butter, an onion, and a cabbage-lettuce shred small; when browned, add a little flour, shake it well together ; then add a small quantity of broth or water; let it stew gently; when nearly done, throw in green peas sufficient for the dish ; when the peas are done, add a little pounded sugar, pepper, and salt. It may require a little more thickening, in which case knead a little flour and butter together. Or:—If any be left, cut the pieces into handsome sizes, put them into a stewpan, and pour some broth or water over them: add a bunch of herbs, a blade or two of mace, some pepper, an onion, and an anchovy; stew till the meat is tender, thicken with butter and flour, and add a little ketchup. The whole breast may be stewed, after cutting off the two ends, or dividing it into pieces, which should be first slightly browned. Serve the sweetbread whole upon it, which may either be stewed or parboiled, and then covered with crumbs, herbs, pepper, and salt, and browned in a Dutch oven; or, if you have a few mushrooms, truffles, and morels, stew them with it, and serve. Boiled breast of veal, smothered with onion sauce, is an ex- cellent dish, if not old nor too fat. BREAST OF VEAL STEWED.—E. R. 157.—Cut a handsome piece, put it into a stewpan with a piece of butter, a pint of water, an onion, a stick of celery, and some white pepper and salt; let it draw gently for some time, then cover it with hot water, and allow it to stew until perfectly ten- der. Remove any skin that may be about it, and thicken a part of the stock with cream, flour, and butter; cover it with the sauce, and serve it up. Mushrooms pickled white may be added to the sauce, or stewed celery. Or:—When the veal is three parts done, take a quart of peas, put them in water, and handle them with a little butter, so that they adhere together; take away nearly all the gravy from the veal, and put in the peas. When both are done add pepper, salt, and a little pounded sugar; thicken the peas with flour and butter, dish up the veal, and pour the peas over. There should be very little sauce with the peas. Or:—Cut the veal into pieces, and half fry it with an onion sliced ; then put it into a stewpan, cover it with water, and add a bunch of sweet herbs. Stew until perfectly tender, strain