292 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XYIT. serve their green colour; put it into a boat; add sufficient vinegar to make it liquid, and powdered sugar to take off the acidity of the vinegar. MUSHROOM SA UCE. 319. — White.—Put the mushrooms into a stewpan with 1 oz. of butter, some pepper and salt, and squeeze over them the juice of ir a lemon ; set them over the fire ; when they have given out their liquor, thicken it with flour and butter, and add suf- ficient cream to whiten the sauce. This is a very excellent sauce for fowls, rabbits, and all sorts of white fricassees. Or:—Wash and pick a pint of young mushrooms, and rub them with salt, to take off the tender skin; put them into a saucepan with a little salt, some nutmeg, a blade of mace, a pint of cream, and a good piece of butter rubbed in flour. Boil them up, and stir them till done; then pour it round the chickens, &c. Garnish with lemon. If you cannot get fresh mushrooms, use pickled ones, done white, with a little mushroom-powder with the cream. Brown.—It may also be made brown by either putting the buttons into a pipkin, and frying them with a little butter until they become of a delicate brown, and then stewing them in strong gravy of either beef or veal; or by making it of old mushrooms chopped small, fried and stewed in the same manner, and then seasoned according to taste. It is much used for cutlets and many sorts of ragouts. CELERY SAUCE. 320. —Strip the outer parts of the stem, and, after carefully washing the remaining portion, cut it into small pieces; put to it a blade of mace, without any other spice, and stew it in good veal broth until very tender; it will take a good deal of time, more particularly the thick hard end of the root. After this thicken it with melted butter, and flavour it with a small quantity of white wine; or it may be thickened with boiled cream without wine. It is usually served with boiled turkey, but is very delicate with any kind of white poultry or veal. Or:—Take the white part of 3 heads of celery, cut them in pieces 2 inches long ; boil them in a very little good white broth ; slice an onion thin ; put it in a stewpan with a little parsley and thyme, and a scrap of lean ham, or the ham may be omitted. Sweat the whole in a little butter until the onions