MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIV. 242 Jersey mullet is the best, often growing to the weight of 2 to 3 lbs. To broil.—The red mullet is never boiled, and, although some- times baked and fried, the best and most usual mode of dressing them is to broil them a la Maintenon; take out the gills and wipe them with a dry cloth from the head to the tail; flour them; take a half-sheet of letter-paper, butter it well, season it with pepper and salt, rub a little butter over the mullet and season it; envelop it in the paper, fasten the ends securely; broil for 20 minutes; serve in the paper. They are served without any other sauce than plain melted butter, to preserve the haut-gout of the liver, although that cannot be easily done without also retaining the other parts of the gut. To fry Mullet.—’Vn excellent plan is that of drawing the whole gut, and boiling the liver separately in such a small quantity of water as would be required for the making of the melted butter, “ so that, should the livers boil to pieces in the process of dressing, you still retain all their valuable qualities.” Mullets may in this manner be dressed with sweet herbs, bread- crumbs, and egg, and fried. To bake.—Only cut out the gills, without meddling with the liver and trail; bake them for about J an hour in a mode- rately heated oven; season them well, and cover them with chopped mushrooms, shalots, chives, or truffles, together with parsley and sweet herbs of any sort; put them into a dish of brown gravy, with a glass or two of either white or red wine, basting them frequently, and, when done, serving them with a squeeze of lemon. In this way they are peculiarly fine. To stew.—Put the mullet (say 3) into a shallow stewpan, with a large wineglass of sherry and as much broth, with an onion, carrot, and turnip sliced, 2 bay-leaves, a blade of mace, a little parsley and thyme, 2 slices of lemon, and a little^ sea- soning ; let them stew gently for 20 minutes; dish them up; strain the sauce; thicken it with* flour and butter; pour it over the fish quite hot. SEA-BREAM 255.—Are generally thought to be bred both in the sea and in fresh water, although they are of different species. The sea- bream, although somewhat larger than the red mullet, yet so much resembles it in appearance that it may be dressed in the