PUFFS. Chap. XXIII.] 437 of bread-crumbs, and 2 oz. of butter; pound these well in a mortar, beat up an egg, and mix it up into the paste, making the whole up into balls about the size of a golden pippin ; make a thin batter with flour, milk, and 1 egg; dip the balls into this, and fry them a light brown. Excellent Light Puffs.—Mix 2 spoonfuls of flour, a little grated lemon-peel, some nutmeg, 4 spoonful of brandy, a little loaf-sugar, and 1 egg; then fry it enough, but not brown ; beat it in a mortar with 5 eggs, whites and yolks ; put a quan- tity of lard in a frying-pan, and when quite hot drop a dessert- spoonful of batter at a time ; turn as they brown. Serve them immediately with sweet sauce. Spanish Puffs.—Put 1 oz. of fresh butter into a quart stew- pan ; when hot, put in 4 spoonfuls of flour; stir it over the fire for 5 minutes; have ready boiling a gill of milk, which stir in by degrees so as to avoid making it lumpy ; when it is thoroughly boiled, take it off the fire, stir in 6 eggs, a pinch of salt, a little nutmeg, chopped lemon-peel, and a handful of currants, with sugar to palate, and sufficient orange-flower water to flavour it; let it get cold ; when wanted for use have some lard boiling, make the batter into balls the size of a small walnut, fry them until they burst; drain ; dust them over with powdered sugar; serve with wine-sauce. German Puffs.—Put 4 lb. of butter into a breakfast-cupful of milk, place the pan upon the fire, and when it boils add a cupful of flour; beat all well together, and, when cold, mix in 6 eggs, leaving out 2 of the whites; beat up some sugar and grated lemon-peel with the eggs, and bake the puffs in a moderately-heated oven. Austrian Puffs.—2 oz. of pounded almonds, the same of clarified butter and sifted sugar, 2 spoonfuls of flour, the yolks of 2 eggs, 4 pint of cream, and a little orange-flower water ; beat all together, butter the pans, fill them only half full, and bake for 4 an hour in a slow oven. French Puffs.—Take a pint of new milk, boil half, and mix the other half very smoothly with 4 heaped spoonfuls of fine flour; then add it to the boiling milk, and boil it until it is a stiff paste. When cold, take the yolks of 5 eggs, the whites of 2, a tablespoonful of sifted sugar, and beat the whole into a light batter in a marble mortar ; then drop it from a spoon into boiling lard, fry of a light brown, and serve it up with sifted