634 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXXII. vinegar 6 tablespoonfuls each, add 40 drops of laudanum; mix it well and put it into a bottle. A teaspoonful to be taken occasionally when the cough is troublesome. A Remedy for a Burn or Scald.—Apply immediately a thick covering of wool to the burnt part, and bind it on tight; in the course of 4 an hour very little pain will be felt, and scarcely any blister will remain. As this remedy is so simple, no housekeeper should be without loose wool at hand in case of an accident. This remedy was discovered by the child of a woolcomber having been dreadfully scalded : its mother laid it in a basket of newly carded wool whilst she ran for a doctor; when she returned she found the child fast asleep amongst the wool, and when it awoke the excessive pain had subsided. We have frequently tried it, and invariably with success. To destroy Warts.—Dissolve as much common washing soda as the water will take up ; wash the warts with this for a minute or two, and let them dry without wiping. Keep the water in a bottle and repeat the washing often, and it will take away the largest warts. Before applying a blister rub the part over with a few drops of olive-oil; this will make the blister act quicker and with less irritation. FOR THE DRESSING-TABLE. 874.— To make soft Pomatum.—Beat 4 lb. of unsalted fresh lard in common water ; then soak and beat it in 2 rose-waters, drain it, and beat it with 2 spoonfuls of brandy ; let it drain from this; add to it some essence of lemon, and keep it in small pots. Or:—Soak 4 lb. of clear beef-marrow, and 1 lb. of un- salted fresh lard, in Avater, 2 or 3 days, changing and beating it every day. Put it into a sieve, and, when dry, into a jar, and the jar into a saucepan of water. When melted, pour it into a basin, and beat it with 2 spoonfuls of brandy; drain oft the brandy, and then add essence of lemon, bergamot, or any other scent that is liked. Hard Pomatum. — Prepare equal quantities of beef- marrow and mutton-suet as before, using the brandy to pre- serve it, and adding the scent; then pour it into moulds, or, if you have none, into phials of the size you choose the rolls to be. When cold, break the bottles, clear away the glass carefully, and put paper round the rolls.