MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXVII. 572 bourhood “ Parkin,” and is made in almost every cottage on the 5th of November, and pieces sent about as presents. The treacle should be perfectly,sweet, for, if in the least degree sour or too thick, the bread ’frill be indifferent in flavour and appearance. Ginger, too, should be fresh ground, as it loses much of its strength by keeping. When baked, the tin must be well buttered to make the cake come out; aud when done, a fork, if thrust into it, will come out clean. « Another sort.—To £ lb. of treacle beat 1 egg strained ; mix 4 oz. of brown sugar, $ oz. of ginger sifted ; of cloves, mace, allspice, nutmeg, i oz. together, beaten as fine as possible; coriander and carraway seeds, each \ oz.; melt 1 lb. of butter, and mix with the above; and add as much Hour as will knead into a pretty stiff paste; then roll it out, and cut into cakes. Bake on tin plates in a quick oven. A little time will bake them. A good plain sort.—Mix 3 lbs. of flour with A lb. of butter, 4 oz. of brown sugar, £ oz. of pounded ginger ; then make into a paste with l£ lb. of treacle warm. A good sort, without butter.—Mix 2 lbs. of treacle; of orange, lemon, citron, and candied ginger, each 4 oz., all thinly sliced ; 1 oz. of coriander-seeds, 1 oz. of carraways, and 1 oz. of beaten ginger, in as much hour as will make a soft paste ; lay it in cakes on tin plates, and bake it in a quick oven. Keep it dry, and it will be good for some months. Imperial Gingerbread.—Rub 6 oz. of butter into ■£ lb. of flour, then mix 6 oz. of treacle with a pint of cream carefully, lest it should turn the cream ; mix in * lb. of double-refined sugar, A oz. of powdered ginger, and 1 oz. of carraway-seeds; stir the whole well together into a paste, cut it into shapes, and stick cut candied orange or lemon peel on the top. Lemon Gingerbread.—Grate the rinds of 2 or 3 lemons, and add the juice to a glass of brandy : then mix the grated lemon in 1 lb.' of flour, make a hole in the flour, pour in A lb. of treacle, i lb. of butter melted, the lemon-juice and brandy, and mix all up together with A oz. of ground ginger and i oz. of cayenne pepper. Sugar Gingerbread.—1 lb. of sugar, 1 lb. of flour, an<| 4 eggs ; beat the sugar and eggs till they are white, then add a little ginger and rose-water and the flour.