275 SHELL-FISH. Chap. XYL] spoonful of lemon-juice; boil the whole, stirring it until it is smooth, then put in the oysters, and warm or plump them up without boiling. Oyster Rolls.—Take about a quart of the largest and finest oysters you can procure, stew them in their own liquor with some pepper, a very little mace, and some green onion chopped fine, thicken them with a little butter and a dust of flour when nearly done enough. Take 2 French rolls of the square sort baked in tins, cut a piece otf the top, and scoop out the greater part of the crumb, fill your roll with the oysters and the liquor, and set them near the fire on a chafing-dish filled with hot coals ; as the liquor soaks in, fill them with more, or if you have not any left, add a little good g-ravy boiling hot. Or:—Let them first soak, then fasten in the top, cover the entire of the roll in batter, and bake it in the Dutch oven till well browned. Or :—Mince the oysters, season them only with mace and nutmeg, and fill the rolls up with cream or rich white sauce, and bake them as above : even one large roll will make a nice little dish, and is better than the smaller sort. Oyster Sausages may also be made of the larger kind, bearded and minced small, together with a moderate quantity of beef suet and bread-crumbs, to which should be added a forcemeat of pounded pork or veal, seasoned with spice and put into the usual skins. If well seasoned, they will keep good for a full week : 1 lb. of beef suet shred fine, and the same quantity of forcemeat, with bread-crumbs, should be put •to each pint of oysters. Or:—Take i lb. of lean beef or mutton, i lb. of beef suet, 2 score of oysters bearded and scalded in their own liquor, then dried and all chopped together, adding bread- crumbs and yolks of eggs to bind the materials. Season well with salt, white pepper, mace, and a grate of nutmeg; or if you wish to make it very savoury, leave out the mace and nut- meg, but add a little cayenne, with a minced shalot and a spoonful of garlic-vinegar. They may be either made as sausages, or fried into shapes in the usual way. MUSCLES—E. R. 283.—Are more frequently eaten on the Continent than at English tables, but, though in little use, they are very deli— T 2