CAKES. 555 Chap. XXVII.] DIET BREAD. 774. —To 4 lb. of sifted sugar put 4 eggs; beat them to- gether for an hour; then add i lb. of flour dried and sifted, with the juice of 4 a lemon and the grated rind of a whole one. Bake in a slow oven. Or :—Boil 1 lb. of loaf-sugar in 4 pint of water ; whisk it with 8 eggs until cold; then stir in 1 lb. of fine flour, and keep beating until it is put into the oven, which, if it be quick, will bake it in an hour. Or :—Beat up separately the yolks and whites of 4 eggs for i of an hour; then sift into both 4 lb. of grated sugar; beat it well up with the eggs, and stir the whole gradually but effectually into as much flour as will make it of a proper thickness; season it slightly with cinnamon, and bake it in a quick oven. SEED-CAKES. 775. —Beat 1 lb. of butter to a cream, adding, gradually, x lb. of sifted sugar, beating both together. Have ready the yolks of 18 eggs, and the whites of 10, beaten separately; mix in the whites first and then the yolks, and beat the whole for 10 minutes; add 2 grated nutmegs, 14 lb. of flour, and mix them very gradually with the other ingredients. When the oven is ready, beat in 3 oz. of picked carraway-seed. A cheap Seed-cake.—Mix 4 peck of flour with 4 lb. of sugar, i oz. of allspice, and a little ginger; melt 1 lb. of butter with 4 pint of milk ; when just warm, put to it 4 pint of yeast, and work up to a good dough. Let it stand before the fire a few minutes before it goes to the oven ; add seeds or currants; bake 14 hour. Seed-cake without Butter.—Dry and warm 13 oz. of flour and 1 lb. of loaf-sugar pounded finely, 4 spoonfuls of warm water, 4 of brandy, 1 of orange-flower water, and 2 oz. of carraway-seed; mix all together, then beat up 12 eggs with 4 the whites, add them to the cake, beat the whole well, and bake it 2 hours. Another.—Mix 14 lb. of flour and 1 lb. of common lump- sugar, 8 eggs beaten separately, 1 oz. of seeds, 2 spoonfuls of yeast, and the same of milk and water. A light Seed-cake.—Take the yolks of 6 eggs and the whites of 3, beat them well for 4 an hour; then put in 6 oz. of pow-