MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XVI. 276 cious in many sauces. They are also boiled or stewed in the following manner: open them, put them into a pan with their own liquor, to which add a large onion and some pars- ley, with 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar; roll a piece of butter in flour, beat an egg, and add it to the gravy, warming the whole up very gradually. In France muscles are skewered upon a small skewer and roasted, or dipped into a thick batter and fried. In preparing muscles for table, care should be taken to destroy the beards, as well also as a small species of crab which is sometimes found in their shells. They are not in season during the summer. COCKLES AND PERIWINKLES, 284. —Despicable as they may appear, make excellent sauces and even soups, the receipts for which may be found under their several heads in Chap. IV. To boil.—It is only necessary to put them in a stewpan with as much water as will prevent the bottom from burning, as the liquor oozing from them will be sufficient for the pur- pose : when the shells open wide enough to extract the fish, they will be sufficiently done. To stew.—Clean them and wash them from the sand in 3 or 4 waters, boil them and pick them out of the shells. To a pint of the fish put 4 pint of fish-stock, 2 ounces of butter, and some pepper and salt; add a spoonful of flour, stirred in gradually, and simmer over a slow fire, until it is of a proper thickness ; add a large spoonful of essence of anchovy and one of mushroom ketchup. SCALLOPS. 285. — To stew.—Boil them very well in salt and water, then take them out and stew them in a little of their liquor, a glass of white wine, and a little vinegar ; add some grated bread-crumbs, and the yolks of 2 or 3 hard eggs minced small. Stew all together till they are sufficiently done, then add a large spoonful of essence of anchovy and a good piece of butter rolled in flour: or stew very gradually in a rich white sauce, with thick cream, until quite hot, but without being allowed to boil, and serve with sippets. Crayfish, prawns, and shrimps may all be done in the same manner.