MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIII. 456 pour upon it a pint of boiling milk, in which have been dis- solved 4 oz. of butter and 2 of sugar, stirring all the time. Add a little nutmeg and 5 eggs. Bake i an hour in a dish lined with paste. Turn it out. Preserved fruits of any kind, laid at the bottom, eat well. If to look clear, substitute water for milk. Polenta Pudding.—Mix i lb. of polenta (or maize flour) with H pint of milk ; let it boil till it thickens ; put into it 1 oz. of butter, a little salt, and cayenne pepper ; bake it gently for H hour. Turn it out of the dish when served. This pudding is very good with meat. Sweet Polenta Pudding.—Mix the polenta as in the fore- going receipt: when it boils, add 1 oz. of butter, i lb. of moist sugar, the same of sultana raisins, the grated rind of a lemon, and 1 oz. of candied orange-peel sliced very finely; mix the whole well together, and bake it Hhour. The great recommendation of this pudding is the absence of eggs, which are not required with polenta. A cheap pudding may be made by adding 2 tablespoonfuls of treacle to the polenta instead of the raisins, sugar, and candied peel. Sago Pudding.—Boil li pint of new milk, with 4 spoon- fuls of sago nicely washed and picked, to which add lemon- peel, cinnamon, and nutmeg; sweeten to taste; then mix 4 eggs, put a paste round the dish, and bake slowly. Millet may be used in the same way. MUFFIN AND CRUMPET PUDDING. 611. —A very delicate pudding may be made in a short time from a couple of muffins and 3 crumpets, placed alternately in layers, and either boiled or baked in batter. If boiled, they should be placed in an earthen jar, buttered on the inside, filled with the batter, and covered on the top. The muffins should be split open, and currant-jelly, slices of apple, or any sort of fruit may be inserted. Or:—Half a dozen crumpets may be boiled without any fruit, after being dipped and covered in batter; seasoned only with sugar and a little nutmeg. CIIOCOLA TE P UDDING. 612. —Boil a pint of new milk; dissolve in it 1 oz. of chocolate ; sweeten it with loaf-sugar; add the yolks of 8