Chap. III.] 39 FOOD AND COOKERY. indeed, although it does not improve the appearance, yet if the flesh be dry—as that of a hare—it has a better effect upon the meat. Larding is not only commonly employed on poultry and game, but so frequently on many other dishes also that every cook ought to be acquainted with the mode of performing it. It is done by cutting the firmest part of the bacon-fat into small strips, proportioned in length and thickness to the size of the article to be larded; and these u lardoons,” as they are called, are inserted, in rows, into punctures made in the surface of the flesh, by a larding-pin, in one end of which the bacon is held. It is, in fact, very simple, requiring only prac- tice and perseverance to become an adept. To lard Meat, Fowls, Sweetbreads, §c.—Have ready lard- ing-pins of different sizes, according to the article to be done; cut slices of bacon into bits of a proper length, quite smooth, and put into a larding-needle to suit it, with which pierce the skin and a very little of the meat, leaving the bacon in, and the two ends of equal length out- wards. Lard in rows the size you think fit. The Larding Needle. with Lardoon inserted. To braise.—Put the meat you would braise into a stewpan, and cover it with thick slices of fat bacon ; then lay round it six or eight onions, a faggot of sweet herbs, some celery, and, if to be brown, some thick slices of carrots, and trimmings of any fresh meat-bones you have, with a pint and a half of water, or the same quantity of stock (which you will find directed under the head of Soups and Gravies), according to what the meat is, and add seasoning. Cover the pan close, and set it over a slow stove ; it will require two or three hours, as its size and quality may direct. Then strain the gravy; keep the meat quite hot; take the fat off by plunging the basin into cold water, which will cause the fat to coagulate; and boil it as quickly as yon can till it thickens. If, however, you wish the gravy to Braising Pot. adhere to the meat, it must be still further thickened; then