590 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXVIII. Or : Mix equal parts of fine salt, cayenne pepper, and curry-powder, with double the quantity of powder of truffles. Dissect a woodcock or any bird in season, rather under roasted, and powder the whole with the mixture; crush the trail and biains along with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, the grated peel of a lemon, ^ a spoonful of Chetney sauce, and a little soy; then add a tablespoonful of ketchup, a wineglass of Madeira, and the juice of a Seville orange. Throw this sauce, along with the bird, into a silver stewdish, to be heated with spirits of wine; cover close up, light the lamp, and keep gently sim- mering until the flesh is completely saturated ; then pour in a small quantity of salad-oil, and serve it round instantly, as it may be prepared at the table, and should be eaten hot.“ MUSTARD. 818. —No savoury things are ever brought to table without this indispensable accompaniment, the best of which—Durham —may be had in a pure state at Apothecaries’ Hall. In making it, pure water is most generally used, with a pinch of salt and sugar, though both are frequently omitted ; but a much better mode for preserving it, as well as adding to it a good flavour, is to make it of water in which horseradish has been boiled. This costs no trouble ; for if the horseradish be scraped and put in a teacup with boiling water poured upon it and covered, the infusion will be strong enough in little more than 4 an hour. The Parisian mustard, known as moutarde de maille, is however much in vogue among gastronomists, as possessing a finer pungency of flavour, and may be imitated by mixing up the flour and a little fine salt with salad oil, so as to form a thick paste, then diluting it to a certain degree with equal quantities of the vinegars of horseradish, tarragon, chili, and garlic; or sufficient of each to please the palate. Cayenne should never be used, and even chili vinegar but sparingly. SAND WICHES 819. —Require more care than is usually bestowed on them, for this reason, that every one believes he can cut sandwiches. AY here any quantity is required the bread should be made on purpose, and the baker should be desired to bake it in tins, a Essays on Good Living.