MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIY. 492 thick. Take it off the fii'e; add the Whites of 3 egg’s well beaten; stir it again over the fire for 2 or 3 minutes, then put it into cups that have lain in cold water ; do not wipe them. When cold, turn them oiit, and put them into the dish in which they are to be served; pour round them a custard made of the yolks of the eggs and little more than 7 pint of milk. Put on the top a little red currant jelly or raspberry jam. A pretty supper dish. ICE CREAMS\ 677. —To 1 lb. of preserved fruit of any kind add a quart of cream, the juice of 2 lemons to heighten the flavour, and sugar to your taste. Rub the whole through a fine hair sieve ; and to raspberry, or any other red fruit, add a little cochineal colouring, to give a better tint. TO PREPARE ICE FOR ICING. 678. —Get a few pounds of ice; a pailful is necessary to freeze a quart of cream; break it almost to powder, throw 3 or 4 large handfuls of rock-salt among it. You must pre- pare it in a part of the house where as little of the warm air comes as you can possibly contrive. The ice and salt being in a bucket, put your cream into an icepot, and cover it; immerse it in the ice till quite cold, then twist the pot rapidly round. In a few minutes put a spoon in and stir it well, re- moving the parts that ice round the edges to the centre. If the ice cream or water be in a form, shut the bottom close, and move the whole in the ice, as you cannot use a spoon to that without danger of waste. There should be 1 in the bucket, to let off the water as the ice thaws. Freezing powders for generating ice are now also much in use, and can be procured of the patentees, King and Keith, Princes-street, Leicester-square." Ratafia Cream Ice.—Blanch l oz. of bitter almonds, and beat them with a teaspoonful of water in a marble mortar; then rub with the paste 2 oz. of lump-sugar, and simmer 10 minutes with a teacupful of cream, which add to a quart more of cream, and, having strained, ice it. a When any fluid tends towards cold, moving it quickly accelerates the cold; and likewise, when any fluid is tending to htat, stirring it will facilitate its boiling.