SWEET PUDDINGS Chap. XXIII.] 463 put to a pint of milk or cream, lightly sweetened, i a nutmeg and the rind of i a lemon finely grated. Let the liquid sink into the solid part; then flour a cloth, tie it tight over, and boil 1 hour. Keep the mould the right side up. Serve with pudding-sauce. THE BAKE WELL PUDDING. 622. —Beat the yolks of 4 eggs and the whites of 2 with + lb. of powdered loaf-sugar and i lb. of clarified butter; when well mixed, place it over the fire, and keep it constantly stirred till it thickens. Line a dish with puff-paste, and put in a layer of candied peel about an inch thick ; then pour the mixture over it and bake it in a slow oven. On this, however, it has been remarked by an intelligent cook, that “ it will be found too sweet for most palates. I have frequently had occasion to make this pudding for both large and small parties, and have found that the addition of ? a pint of milk, or milk and cream, to the eggs and sugar, with a little ratafia, or noyeau and brandy, to flavour it, has been considered a great improvement. I add the milk to the eggs and sugar when it is near boiling, without placing the mixture on the fire at all. Instead of using all candied peel, I prefer adding a portion of preserved fruits, such as dried cherries, greengages, and melon or pine-apple cut small; and, when baked, occasionally spread over the top or ornament it with some apricot or raspberry jam, or some of each, to vary the colour. When made in this way, it has been universally admired.” A BLACK-CAP PUDDING.—E. R. 623. —Rub 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, smooth, by degrees into a pint of milk, strain it, and simmer it over the fire until it thickens; stir in 2 oz. of butter; when cool add the yolks of 4 eggs beaten and strained, and t- lb. of currants washed and picked, laid at the bottom of the basin or mould previously well buttered. Put the batter into the mould, cover it tight, and plunge it into boiling water ; the currants downwards, that they may stick to the bottom and thus form the black cap. A S WEETMEA T PUDDING. 624. — Cover a dish with thin puff-paste, and lay in it freshly candied orange, lemon, and citron, 1 oz. each, sliced thin.