MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XT. 182 pepper and salt, till the pan is full. Then put in water enough to cover it, and lay on it about an ounce of butter; tie it down with a double paper, and bake it about an hour. Then press it close together with a spoon, and let it stand till cold. It may be put into a small mould, and then it will turn out beautifully for a supper or side dish. Another.—Chop very finely cold dressed veal and ham or bacon; mix it with a slice of bread-crumb soaked in milk, 2 onions chopped and browned, a little salt, pepper, and an egg beaten. Put all these ingredients into a stewpan until they are hot and are well mixed; then oil or butter a mould, put in the whole, and bake it in an oven until it is brown; then take it out, and send it to table with fresh gravy. Veal rolls are cut from any cold joint, or prepared in the same manner from the raw meat. Cut thin slices, and spread on them a fine seasoning of a very few crumbs, a little chopped or scraped bacon, parsley and shalot, some fresh mushrooms stewed and minced, pepper, salt, and a small piece of pounded mace. This stuffing may either fill up the roll like a sausage, or be rolled with the meat. In either case, tie it up very tight, and stew very slowly in a gravy and a glass of sherry. Serve it when tender, after skimming it nicely. BLANQUETTES. 183.—Melt a piece of butter the size of a walnut in a stewpan; then put in a little thyme, parsley, or any herbs you like the flavour of, and a little onion, all chopped fine, with a pinch of flour. Brown the herbs; add pepper and salt, with a clove or two. Then put in cold or undressed veal, cut in thin slices the size of half-a-crown; add gravy or broth T pint, or according to the quantity of meat you want to dress. It should not be too large a dish. Let it stew very gently over a stove; if of dressed meat, 1 hour will be sufficient: add i a teacupful of cream, and stir it well together for a few minutes; then take it up, and before you turn it out have 2 yolks of eggs well beaten, and add to your dish. Give it a few shakes over the fire. It must not boil, or it will curdle. Or, Cut rabbits, fowl, veal, or lobster in pieces, steep them (except the veal and fish) in water for i an hour, changing the water. Put some butter in a stewpan to melt, but do not let it fry; put in the meat with a very little flour, and keep