SALT-WATER FISH. 231 Chap. XIV.] to be not unfrequently passed off for it, and, if firm, it may deceive many who are not good judges ; but it is more fre- quently of a woolly nature, and far inferior in value. It is narrower and thinner than turbot, seldom weighing more than 10 lbs. ; it requires scaling on both sides, and is without those thorny spines which are found on the dark side ol the turbot. It is in season at the same time, and may be dressed in the same manner ; it is sometimes served without the accompani- ment of lobster-sauce; sauce made of crabs is preferred by many persons. JOHN DORY 243. —Is in season from summer until the close of autumn, at which period it is in the greatest perfection ; it is a scarce fish, bearing as high a price in London as the turbot. The skin bears a slime which should be scraped otf, or it will impart a disagreeable odour to the dory when brought to table. It is very firm, eating much like the claw of lobster, and is usually plain boiled, but may be dressed in either of the modes above described: if boiled, it should be served with Dutch sauce, though anchovy, shrimp, or caper sauce will be found very delicate. A dory of 5 to 6 lbs. will take about 20 minutes from the time of putting into cold water until done. Baked.—Proceed as for turbot baked, sprinkling some chopped parsley over the fish, and serve with Dutch sauce round. Broiled.—Dry, flour, butter, and season some small dories, cut some papers to fit them, screw up the edges tight, and ‘ broil; serve with cold butter, or melted butter in a boat. PLAICE 244. —Comes into season about May, and lasts throughout the remainder of the year; it is the largest of the flounder tribes and grows to the size of 6 to 8 lbs., though half that weight is more common. If in good condition, the appear- ance of the pale side should have a slight reddish tinge, the body should be tolerably thick and firm, and the eyes bright. It is, however, in very little estimation, and of so watery a nature, that it is usual to cut them in two, and wrap them in a towel with a heavy weight upon it to extract the fluid; the fish is then sprinkled with a little salt and hung up for some hours to dry, and never skinned. When plain boiled, it is