638 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXXII. between 2 pieces of paper; then put them into a tumbler of cold water to stand all night, when the water will have become glutinous and fit for use: drop into it a small quantity of spi- rits of wine, and a few drops of essence of rose, jasmine, or any other perfume. BLACK PAPER FOR DRAWING PATTERNS. 875. —Mix and smooth lamp-black and sweet oil ; with a bit of flannel cover a sheet or two of large writing-paper with this mixture; then dab the paper dry with a bit of fine linen, and keep it by for using in the following manner:—Put the black side on another sheet of paper, and fasten the corners together with small pins. Lay on the back of the black paper the pattern to be drawn, and go over it with the point of a steel pencil; the black paoer will then leave the impression of the pattern on the under sheet, on which you must draw it with ink. If you draw patterns on cloth or muslin, do it with a pen dipped in a bit of stone blue, a bit of sugar, and a little water, mixed smooth in a teacup, in which it will be always ready for use, if fresh ; wet to a due consistence as wanted. BLACK INK. 876. —Take 1 gallon of rain or soft water, and f lb. of blue galls bruised ; infuse them 3 weeks, stirring daily. Then add 4 oz. of green copperas, 4 oz. of logwood chips, 6 oz. of gum arabic, and a wineglassful of brandy. Walkden’s ink-powder is one of the best preparations for this useful article. Directions are given with it how to mix it; in addition to which 1 large cup of sweetwort to 2 papers of the powder gives it the brightness of the japan ink. If a packet of 6 papers is bought together, it costs only Is. 6d., and that quantity will last a long time. TO CEMENT BROKEN CHINA. 877. —Beat lime into the most impalpable powder, sift it through fine muslin ; then tie some into a thin muslin : put on the edges of the broken china some white of egg, then dust some lime quickly on the same, and unite them exactly. Or .—Dissolve 1 oz. of isinglass in 2 wineglassfuls of spirits of wine. It will form a transparent glue, which will unite glass so that the fracture will be almost imperceptible. The greatest