MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXX. 610 Or :—Boil 24 oz. of ginger for an hour in sufficient water to cover it; take 36 good lemons, pare them very thin, and pour the boiling ginger upon the peel. Let it stand a day or two, then squeeze the lemons; strain the juice, and put it into the cask, adding 40 lbs. of fine raw sugar and 14 lbs. of Malaga raisins chopped ; slice the ginger and put it into the cask witli the liquor it was boiled in. Fill up the cask with cold spring water, stir it frequently, and in 1 month put in 2 bottles of brandy, and stop it down. These proportions are for 20 gallons of wine. GINGER BEER.—E. R. 844. —Slice 4 lemons and crush 2 oz. of ginger, add to them 14 lb. of lump-sugar and 2 oz. of cream of tartar, or the same amount of lemon-juice. Pour on it 2 gallons of boiling water, and when nearly cold add a tablespoonful of barm. Bottle it the next morning, and tie down the corks. It will be fit to drink in 2 days. Another.—Pour a gallon of boiling water upon 1 lb. of loaf-sugar, 1 oz. each of ground ginger and cream of tartar, and the peel of 1 lemon ; when cool add the juice of the lemon and a tablespoonful of yeast; cover it and let it stand till the next day ; strain it, taking care not to stir up the sediment; bottle it in stone bottles, tie down the corks, and it will be fit to drink in 2 days. EGG WINE. 845. —Beat an egg, and mix with it a spoonful of cold water ; set on the fire a glass of -white wine, 4 a glass of water, a little sugar, and nutmeg. When it boils, pour it to the egg by degrees, stirring it well: then return the whole into the saucepan, put it on a gentle fire, stir it one way for not more than a minute ; for if it boil, or the egg be stale, it will curdle. Serve with dry toast. Egg wine may be made as above, without warming the egg, and it is then lighter on the stomach, though not so pleasant to the taste. Or :—It may be done Avithout any other preparation than merely breaking the yolk of a raw egg or tAvo into a tumbler of hot negus or spirit and Avater, mixing it all the while: if the Avhites be added, they Avill occasion froth, but not improve the flavour.