Chap. XXX.] 603 ENGLISH WINES honey as will support an egg, boil gently 15 minutes, but not in an iron, brass, or copper pot; skim it well; when cool, let it be tunned, but do not quite fill the cask. In March follow- ing bottle it, and it will be fit to drink in 6 weeks, but will be less sweet if kept longer in the cask. You will have a rich and strong wine, and it keeps well. This will serve for any culinary purposes which sack or sweet wine is directed for. Honey is a fine ingredient to assist, and render palatable, new crabbed austere cider; but this should be made from apples that are perfectly sound and of good quality. ENGLISH MALMSEY OR MALT WINE.—E. R. 830.—Take 30 gallons of sweet-wort, and to every gallon put H lb. of lump-sugar ; boil the liquor for 7 an hour, and when still warm tun it into a barrel, putting 2 lbs. of Malaga raisins coarsely chopped, 2 oz. of dissolved isinglass, and 1 spoonful of yeast to each gallon, adding also 3 oz. of hops for the 30 gallons ; stir the liquor with a wooden staff’ every day for a fortnight or longer; keep the bung lightly in until the fermentation ceases, then add 2 gallons of brandy; let the wine stand 12 months, when it may be racked off and bottled. It will be the better for long keeping, and will answer well for all culinary purposes. Or;—Take 87 gallons of new ale from the vat whilst fer- menting, 0.7 gallons of cold spring water ; to every gallon add 3 lbs. of sugar; mix all well together till the sugar is dis- solved ; put it at once into the cask, and set it in a warm place to ferment, which it ought to do for 6 or 7 weeks ; chop 2 lbs. of Malaga raisins and 7 lb. of bitter almonds together; put them into a wide-mouthed bottle, and add a pint of brandy; cork it up till the wine has done fermenting, then put it into the cask, and bung it down close; let it stand 6 or 7 months, clear it off into another cask, adding 7 oz. of isinglass dis- solved in a little of the wine; let it stand another month, then bottle it. This has been proved to be an excellent receipt. GRAPE WINE.—E. R. 831—Take 20 lbs. of grapes very ripe and picked clean, pour upon them 6 quarts of boiling water, cover them close, and before they are cold break the grapes with the hand; let them stand 3 days, then strain them as dry as possible, and stir into the liquor 10 lbs. of sugar; tun it the next day, and it