MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXI. 390 inserted, yet 'sufficient receipts will, we trust, be found to gratify the palate of most of our readers. There are of course several sorts of eggs, according to the species of poultry which produce them. The turkey egg is the largest and the most delicate, after which, in point of flavour, is the guinea-hen’s, and, in that of size, those of the goose and duck. Although all these are employed in cookery, yet the eggs of the common “ barn-door fowl” are those most generally used when served up separately and boiled in the shell, in which case the main point is their entire freshness. This can partly be judged of by putting them between you and the light, and seeing that the white is clear and the yolk un- clouded ; for although nothing can be more delicately nutri- tive when newly laid, few things can be more nauseous when they are stale. TO KEEP EGGS FOR WINTER USE. 511. —Pour a full gallon of boiling water on 2 quarts of quicklime and t lb. of salt; when cold, mix into it an ounce of cream of tartar. The day following put in the eggs. After the lime has been stirred well into the boiling water, a large part of it will settle at the bottom of the vessel, on which the eggs will remain. Keep them covered with the liquor, and they will keep for two years. TO ROIL EGGS. 512. —To effect the simple process of boiling demands con- stant attention, as 4 a minute more or less may spoil the egg for a fastidious palate. There are various modes employed by different cooks ; some putting them into cold water, and, when it boils, allowing the eggs to remain in it for a minute longer; others taking them out immediately; while other's, again, prefer putting them into boiling water, and there leaving them until done. That time is most commonly 3 minutes, and seldom less; but many persons object to their being left so soft, and 4 or 5 minutes are not unusual if the eggs are not “ new- laid.” Ten minutes are required for making the yolks hard enough for salad, after which the eggs should be put for some time into cold water to harden, or the yolks will not readily incorporate with the condiments. It should however be understood that, in whatever way the