Chap. XXXII.] VARIOUS RECEIPTS. 639 care must be taken that the spirits of wine shall not boil over into the fire. TO TAKE STAINS OUT OF LINEN, §-c. 878.—Stains caused by Acids.—Wet the part, and lay on it some salt of wormwood ; then rub it, without diluting it with more water. Or:—Let the cloth imbibe a little water without dipping, and hold the part over a lighted match at a due distance. The spots will be removed by the sulphureous gas. Or:—Tie up in the stained part some pearlash ; then scrape some soap into cold soft water to make a lather, and boil the linen till the stain disappears. Stcihis of Wine, Fruit, fyc., after they have been long in the Linen.—Rub the part on each side with yellow soap ; then lay on a mixture of starch in cold water very thick ; rub it well in, and expose the linen to the sun and air till the stain comes out. If not removed in 3 or 4 days, rub that off and renew the pro- cess. When dry it may be sprinkled with a little water. Many other Stains may be taken out by dipping the linen in sour buttermilk, and drying it in a hot sun. Then wash it in cold water, and dry it, 2 or 3 times a-day. Ironmoulds should be wetted, then laid on a hot water- plate, and a little essential salt of lemons put on the part. If the linen becomes dry, wet it, and renew the process, observing that the plate is kept boiling hot. Much of the powder sold under the name of salt of lemons is a spurious preparation ; and therefore it is necessary to dip the linen in a good deal of water, and wash it as soon as the stain is removed, to prevent the part from being worn into holes by the acid. To take out Mildew.—Mix soft soap with starch powdered, half as much salt, and the juice of a lemon ; lay it on the part on both sides with a painter’s brush. Let it lie on the grass day and night till the stain comes out. To take Grease out of Silks or Stuffs.—Take a lump of magnesia, and rub it wet over the spot; let it dry ; then brush the powder off, and the spot will disappear. Or .-—Take a visiting or other card; separate it, and rub the spot with the soft internal part, and it will disappear with- out taking the gloss off the silk.