355 Chap. XIX.] SAUSAGES AND FORCEMEAT. PANADA. 448.—Put into a small stewpan 1 oz. of fresh butter, a table- spoonful of chopped mushrooms, a little chopped thyme and parsley, t a blade of mace, pepper and salt; stew the whole over the fire for a few minutes, then add to it a spoon- ful of white broth, the crumb of two French rolls previously soaked in milk and squeezed thoroughly dry; stir over the fire until it no longer adheres to the stewpan ; take it off, add the yolks of two eggs, turn it out and leave it to cool; it is then ready for use. UDDER. 449 _Boil a calf’s udder in broth or water ; when cold trim off the outside ; pound and rub through a sieve. QUENELLE. 450.—This is one of the most delicate preparations of force- meat that we have, and requires practice, care, and attention to make it in perfection. It is called according to the meat of which it is composed : quenelles of rabbit, chicken, fish, or game. Take the meat of two rabbits, pound it and rub it through a sieve; take the same quantity of panada and also of udder or very sweet fresh butter, pound these ingredients for a quarter of an hour, add a tablespoonful of white sauce, two eggs, and two yolks; take a small piece, roll it in a ball, and throw it in boiling water; when done it should cut firm and consistent, yet light and delicate; if more seasoning is required it should be added before it is taken out of the mortar. To mould them: have two tablespoons, fill one with the farce, shape with a knife, dipping it in boiling water to make it perfectly smooth ; dip the other spoon in hot water, with which take out the quenelle and lay it in a buttered stewpan; they should be egg-shaped, and perfectly smooth, and boiled for i of an hour. Panada for Fish Quenelle, or Forcemeat.—Put two-thirds of £ pint of water into a stewpan holding a quart, with nearly 1 oz. of butter ; when boiling, stir in £ lb. of flour; keep it moving over the fire until it forms a smooth and tough paste. Take it off the fire, add the yolks of 3 eggs. When cold, use it where directed. 2 a 2