256 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XV, Or .-—Take off the paper, leave out the bacon, and serve in a thick white fricassee-sauce, made of good veal broth and white wine, with capers. Trout is also good in scdacl-sauce, as thus:—Fry 2 or 3 middling-sized trout, lay them in a paper to remove the fat, and, when cold, serve in salad-sauce, with minced chervil and chives. THE PARR, CHARR, AND GRA YLING. 265.—The Parr is a still smaller species of trout, and yet more delicious in flavour. It is in high season during the months of July and August, and its freshness may be tested in the same manner as trout. They are very seldom boiled, but, when fried in the same method as trout, they form an ex- tremely nice side-dish, which may be served without any im- propriety as an entremet in the second course. The Charr, though generally looked upon as a sort of trout, is yet of a distinct species ; and though known in other parts of Europe, is in this country confined to a few of our lakes in Cumberland and the neighbouring counties. It is much larger than the parr, being commonly from 9 to 12 inches in length, while the parr is of little more than half that size. Not- withstanding some peculiarity of taste, it is however equally delicate, and is now brought to London in a fresh state. The best way of dressing it is baking, but it is chiefly brought to table in a potted state, and is sold at a high price, the dealers imitating it with every kind of small trout. The best season for tfrdm is from July to October, but they continue in good order until their time of spawning, in the months of November and December. The Grayling, like charr, is only to be found in a few coun- ties, which is to be regretted, as, being a fine fish, it forms a good-sized dish for the head of the table, often arriving to the weight of 3 to 5 lbs., though 2 to 3 lbs. is more common. It has also this advantage for those who have an abundant supply of all these sorts of fish, that it comes into season when the trout is going out. All the above fish may be dressed in the same manner, and their freshness tested in the same way, as trout. Perhaps, when very small, as nice a way as any is to split them at the back, and oil them over without any further trouble than seasoning them with a little pepper and salt, and putting them a few