622 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXXI. quarts of water; simmer to 3 quarts, and clear off the fat when cold. Add 1 onion, if approved. Soup or broth made of different meats is more supporting as well as better flavoured. To remove the fat, take it off when cold as clean as pos- sible ; and if there be still any remaining, lay a bit of clean blotting-paper on the broth when in the basin, and it will take up every particle. Or, if the broth is wanted before there is time to let it get cold, put a piece of cork up the narrow end of a funnel, pour the broth into it, let it stand for a few minutes, and the fat will rise to the top ; remove the cork, and draw off in a basin as much of the broth as is wanted, which will be perfectly free from fat. Caf’s-feet Broth.—Boil 2 feet in 3 quarts of water till reduced to k ; strain and set it by ; when to be used, take off the fat, put a large teacupful of the jelly into a saucepan, with i a glass of sweet wine, a little sugar and nutmeg, and beat it up till it is quite hot; then take a little of it and add by degrees to the yolk of an egg, well beaten with a bit of butter the size of a nutmeg; stir it all together, but do not let it boil. Grate a piece of fresh lemon-peel into it. Or:—Boil 2 calf’s-feet, 2 oz. of veal, and 2 of beef, the bottom of a penny loaf, 2 or 3 blades of mace, i a nutmeg sliced, and a little salt, in 3 quarts of water, to 3 pints ; strain, and take off the fat. Chicken Broth may be made of any young fowl which is afterwards to be brought to table; but the best sort is to be procured from an old cock or hen, which is to be stewed down to rags, with a couple of onions, seasoned with salt and a little whole pepper; skim and strain it. A lueaker kind.—After taking oft1 the skin and rump, put the body and legs of a fowl, from the white meat of which chicken panada has been made, into the water it was boiled in, with 1 blade of mace, 1 slice of onion, and 10 white pepper- corns. Simmer till the broth be of a pleasant flavour. If not water enough, add a little. Beat \ oz. of sweet almonds with a teaspoinful of wafer, boil it in the broth, strain, and when cold remove the fat. Eel Broth.—Clean i lb. of small eels, and set them on with 3 pints of water, some parsley, 1 slice of onion, a few pepper- corns ; let them simmer till the eels are broken, and the broth