171 VEAL. Chap. XI.] fried, taste like sweetbread, be quite as tender, and nearly as rich. Egg them over, dip in bread-crumbs and savoury herbs, fry, and serve with mushroom sauce and fried bacon. Or:—Prepare as above, and fry them; lay them in a dish, and keep them hot: dredge a little dour, and put a bit of butter into the pan ; brown it, then pour a little boiling water into it, and boil quickly ; season with pepper, salt, and ketchup, and pour it over them. Cutlets and Rice.—Boil a cupful of rice in milk until quite soft, then pound it in a mortar with a little salt and some white pepper; pound also separately equal parts of cold veal or chicken ; mix them together with yolk of egg, form them into cutlets, brush over with yolk of egg, and fry them: send them up with a very piquant sauce, made of good stock, thickened, and davoured with lemon-juice, lemon-pickle, or Harvey’s sauce. The cutlets may be sent to table covered with the small pickled mushrooms. Cutlets and Celery.—The cutlets may be cut from the best part of the neck, taking care in removing the meat from the bones to cut it in a good shape; make gravy of the bones, stewing them with 3 or 4 heads of celery cut and scalded, a a little salt, pepper, and stewed onion; strain the gravy, re- turning the celery into it; thicken it with butter and dour, and pour it boiling hot upon the cutlets. Stew them till they are quite tender, and garnish with lemon and small forcemeat- balls fried. A V Italienne.—Chop a quantity of sweet herbs, parsley being the predominant; melt a little butter on the dre and then warm the herbs in it; cut the cutlets into handsome shapes, brash them with the yolk of an egg, then lay on the butter and herbs with a knife, and cover them well with bread-crumbs; this process should be repeated ; fry them of a dne brown : if glazed, they must be put between papers to press all the grease out, then brush them over with the glaze, and send them to table. Serve with Italian sauce. A la Ilollandaise.-—Cut some large cutlets from a dllet of veal, beat them with a rolling-pin, then dip them into batter made very rich with egg. Make a dne forcemeat with pounded ham, chopped oysters, &c., lay it upon the cutlets, roll them up, dip them again in egg-batter, roll them in bread-crumbs, and tie them up; roast them upon skewers or in a Dutch oven ;