347 Chap. XVIII.] VEGETABLES AND SALADS. The remains of veal and white poultry, when minced and left cold, instead of being fricasseed, will thus be found an excellent addition to the dinner of a summer’s day, with added slices of cucumber. LOBSTER SALAD. 435.—Take out the meat of the claws and body, cutting it into small pieces, and mixing it with the lettuce or endive; but previously separate the soft part of the fish adhering to the shell, with the red spawn of the hen-lobster, and blend them with the materials prepared for the dressing. It will perhaps require a little more pungency of flavour, which can be im- parted by a small additional quantity of chili or tarragon vinegar. Crab, or shrimps, may be used in the same manner; and a great improvement in either will be found by throwing in a portion of savoury calf’s-foot jelly, divided into pieces. Although shell-Jish are very decidedly the best mixture to be put into this salad, yet any sort of firm flat-fish, as turbot, brill, John-dory, or soles, which have been dressed, and partly left cold, may also be prepared in a similar way. French Salad.—Chop 3 anchovies, a shalot, and some parsley small, put them into a bowl with 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 1 of oil, a little mustard, and salt. When well mixed, add by degrees some cold roast or boiled meat in very thin slices ; put in a few at a time, not exceeding 2 or 3 inches long. Shake them in the seasoning, and then put more ; cover the bowl close, and let the salad be prepared 3 hours before it is to be eaten. Italian Salad is made by picking the white portion of a cold fowl from the bones in small flakes, piling it in the centre of a dish, and pouring a salad mixture over, enriched with cream; make a wall around with salad of any kind, laying the whites of the eggs, cut into rings, on the top in a chain. Spanish Salad.—Take whatever salad can be got, wash it in many waters, rinse it in a small net, or in napkins, till nearly dry, chop up onions and tarragon, take a bowl, put in equal quantities of vinegar and water, a teaspoonful of pepper and salt, and 4 times as much oil as vinegar and water; mix the same well together; take care never to put the lettuce into