MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIII. 470 whole together. Tie the pudding in a cloth that has been dipped in boiling water and then dredged with flour; leave room for it to swell, but secure it firmly so that no water can get in. Put it into boiling water, and boil it continually for 2 hours: do not take it out of the pot till the moment before it is wanted ; serve with pudding-sauce. P UMPKIN P UDDING. 642. —Take 1 pint of pumpkin that lias been stewed soft and pressed through a colander; melt in 4 pint of warm milk 4 lb. of butter and the same quantity of sugar, stirring them well together: 1 pint of rich cream will be better than milk and butter. Beat 8 eggs very light, and add them gradually to the other ingredients alternately with the pumpkin; then stir in a wineglass of rose-water and 2 glasses of wine mixed to- gether, a large teaspoonful of powdered mace and cinnamon mixed, and a grated nutmeg. Having stirred the whole very hard, put it into a buttered dish, and bake it f of an hour. ORANGE PUDDING 643. —May be made with 6 ripe oranges, 3 of Seville and 3 of Lisbon, all peeled; the rinds to be beaten in a mortar with 4 lb. each of fresh butter and moist sugar, to which add the yolks of 6 or 8 eggs, and make the whole into a batter with the juice of only the Lisbon oranges: the number of eggs to be regulated by the size of the fruit. Put the materials into a mould, with a paste around but not over it, and bake it for 4 an hour. An exceedingly nice Soiled Orange Pudding.—On 4 lb. of crumbs of bread pour 1 pint of milk; let it boil up ; stir in 2 oz. of butter and 1 oz. of marrow, keeping the pan over the fire until all is incorporated. Let it become cold ; then mix in 2 eggs, 2 oz. of sugar, 2 oz. of orange-marmalade, and 1 spoonful of orange-flower water. Choose a basin that will exactly hold it, and tie it over with a floured cloth very closely. Boil it 14 hour. Or:—Take the rind of 2 oranges, pared very thin or grated ; beat the yolks of 10 eggs; put the orange-peel and 4 lb. of pounded loaf-sugar into the eggs. If there is time let it stand all night, if not, at least 2 or 3 hours ; then add 4 lb.