266 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XY. give it here:—“ First wash him in water and salt; then pull off his skin below his vent or navel; having done that, take out his guts as clean as you can, but wash him not; then give him 3 or 4 scotches with a knife, and then put into his belly, and into those scotches, sweet herbs, an anchovy, and a little nutmeg grated, or cut very small, and mixed with good butter and salt. Having done this, then pull Ms skin over him, all but his head, which you are to cut off, to the end you may tie his skin to the part where his head grew, and it must be so tied as to keep all his moisture within his skin; and having done this, tie him with tape or packthread to a spit, and roast him leisurely, and baste him with salt and water till his skin breaks, and then with butter; and having roasted him enough, let what was put into his belly and what he drips be his sauce.” To which we would add— Chop as small as possible 2 large spoonfuls of capers and 2 unwashed anchovies: put them into a saucepan with } lb. of butter, 2 spoonfuls of water boiling hot, and 1 of caper-vine- gar : shake the pan over the fire until all be completely mixed, and serve it separately as sauce. LAMPREY, 274. —Though but little known in London, are rather plenti- ful in the neighbourhood of Worcester, and thence frequently sent, as presents, to various parts of the kingdom. To stew Lamprey.—After cleaning the fish carefully, remove the cartilage which runs down the back, and season with a small quantity of cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and allspice ; put it into a small stewpot, with as much strong beef-gravy, and madeira or sherry, in equal quantities, as will cover it. Cover close: stew till tender, then take out the lamprey and keep it hot, while you boil up the liquor with 2 or 3 anchovies chopped, and some flour and butter; strain the gravy through a sieve, and add lemon-juice and some made mustard, berve with sippets of bread and horse-radish. When there is spawn it must be fried and put round. It will take twice as much stewing as an eel of the same size ; and if to be either fried or broiled, it ought to be first partially boiled. SMEL TS, 275. —Though not strictly 11 fresh-water fish, ” are caught in large quantities in the estuaries and rivers that discharge them-