113 BEEF. Chap. VIII.] and also the strong sinew or leather; fasten the “bark,” or outside fat, with a few skewers ; spit it through the thick part and the point of the ribs. When one or two ribs are purchased by a small family, it is a good plan to have the bones taken out, and the meat rolled round in the shape of a fillet; a con- siderable saving is effected by this plan, as, when not so pre- pared, the thin part at the extremity of the bone is frequently wasted. The bone cut out when the meat is raw will assist in making soup, and is much preferable to a cold beef-bone. They are sometimes cut off short, and salted or stewed, but rolling is the better plan ; and in this manner a single rib can be skewered into a handsome fillet; the fat and lean being marbled, and the appearance of the whole improved. TO COLLAR RIBS OF BEEF. 77. —Take 2 or 3 ribs of beef; cut it from the bones ; rub it well with salt, brown sugar, and saltpetre; let it remain a fortnight, turning it every day ; then season it with pepper, I mace, cloves, allspice, and a clove of garlic chopped very fine; cover it well with parsley, thyme, and sw'eet marjoram; roll it up very tight, and bind it round with tape; put it into a pot with some water, cover it close up, and send it to the oven to be baked very slowly 3 or 4 hours; then take it out, and I press it between 2 boards with weights. This is an excellent I dish for luncheon or breakfast. A Marinade to baste Roust Meats.—Chop up some fat bacon with a clove of garlic and a sprig of parsley ; add salt, pepper, a spoonful of vinegar, and 4 spoonfuls of oil ; beat it 1 up well, and baste the meat with it. STRLOTN OF BEEF ROASTED. 78. —Break the upper part of the chine-bones, cut them out, and cut through the strong gristle on the top about an inch apart, and skewer it in its place, which will prevent its drawing up or looking unsightly. Run the spit just under the bark at the thin end, and bring it out between the joints. By spitting it thus you avoid showing where the spit has gone through. Cover the fat with a sheet of buttered paper, and roast, gently for 3 or 4 hours, according to the size of the | joint. The under part is sometimes stuffed with forcemeat, in the following manner:—•