288 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XVII. and requires more care in the management than is generally thought necessary. The excellence of melted butter greatly depends upon the pains taken to blend it with the flour before it is put upon the fire, the best plan of doing which is to rub them together with a knife on a wooden trencher. When well mixed, add 2 tablespoonfuls of hot water, or the same quantity of milk; put it into a small pipkin, shaking it one way until it boils, and not leaving it an instant; it must boil a minute to take off the rawness, and if made of fresh butter add a little salt. Remember that if you set it on the hot coals, or over the fire, it will be oily; if the butter and flour be not well mixed, it will be lumpy; and if you put too much water, it will be thin and poor. By attending to these directions, and only using sufficient flour to prevent the butter from oiling, it will be rich and smooth. Or :—Mix together by degrees 2 spoonfuls of flour in cold water; make it smooth and thin ; then put on a pint of water, let it boil, stir in the flour and water to make it the required thickness, cut i lb. of fresh butter in small pieces, put it into the flour and water, let it boil well; it is then fit for use; a pinch of salt may be required. When thin melted butter is required to pour over puddings, roast veal, &c., make it the same way, adding a larger pro- portion of water or milk, the latter rendering it rather whiter than the water; and if meant to be more rich than common, use cream instead of milk. Indeed the French frequently en- rich melted butter by adding the yolk of a raw egg. Maitre d'Hotel Butter.—Put } lb. of fresh butter upon a plate, the juice of 2 lemons, and 2 large tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley, t a teaspoonful of salt, and h that quantity of white pepper; mix all well together, and keep in a cool place for use. To brown Melted Butter.—Put a lump of butter into a fryingpan, and toss it round over the fire until it becomes brown ; then dredge some flour over it, which has been also browned by putting it either in the oven or before the fire, and stir it round with a spoon until the butter boils. By adding some of the flavoured vinegars and compound sauces to melted butter thus prepared, most of the fish-sauces can be made, and many of those in common use are com- posed in this simple manner.