MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. VII. no GREEN PEA-SOUP MAIGRE.—E. R. 72. —Take 5 or 6 cucumbers, pared and sliced, the white part of as many cos-lettuces, a sprig or two of mint, 2 or 3 onions, some pepper and salt, a full pint of young peas, a little parsley, and ± lb. of butter. Put them all together in a sauce- pan to stew in their own liquor for an hour and a half, or until they are quite tender; then boil as many old peas, pulp them through a colander, and mix in a quart of the liquor or more, according to the thickness which may be desirable: when the herbs are stewed put them in, and serve up. This soup will be found excellent. Or:—As used in Italy.-—Boil a quart of full-grown peas in gallon of water until tender enough to pulp through a coarse sieve; then put the pulp, a cos-lettuce, 2 good-sized cucumbers sliced, and a pint of young peas, into the liquor. Stew gently, until the vegetables become extremely tender; then add pepper and salt to your taste, chopped mint, and 2 oz. of butter rubbed in a spoonful of flour, and boil 10 minutes. A more elaborate method.—Slice a French roll, and boil it in 6 quarts of water until it is perfectly dissolved; take all the old peas found in a peck and a half, keeping the young ones separate ; boil the old peas with the bread and water, and when tender strain them; reserve the Avater, and pulp the peas through a sieve, putting them by for the present; boil the young peas, Avith a sprig of mint, a little mace and pepper, in the strained soup, and Avhile they are simmering put ^ lb. of butter into a frying-pan, and Avlien it boils cut in 2 lettuces, 2 handfuls of young spinach, a little parsley chopped, a dozen of small silver onions, and 2 cucumbers cut in slices. After steAv- ing for some time, add a large tablespoonful of flour, the pulped peas, and then that Avhicli has the young peas in it, simmering the Avhole together for 10 minutes. POTATO SOUP MAIGRE. 73. —Take some large mealy potatoes; peel and cut them into small slices, Avith an onion ; boil them in 3 pints of water till tender, and then pulp them through a colander; add a small piece of butter, a little cayenne pepper and salt, and, just before the soup is served, 2 spoonfuls of good cream. The soup must not be alloAved to boil after the cream has been put into it.