189 Chap. XII.] PORK. it all over with yolks of eggs, and cover it thickly with crumbs of bread, sweet herbs and chives chopped fine for stuffing-, and seasoned with pepper and salt. It will get a good brown in about i an hour. Either of them may also be rolled.—Bone it; put a force- meat of chopped sage, a very few crumbs of bread, salt, pep- per, and 2 or 3 berries of allspice, over the inside: then roll the meat as tight as you can, and roast it slowly, and at a good distance at first from the fire. To parboil it before the herbs are put on will be an im- provement. LOIN OF PORK A LA PORTUGAISE. 194. —In Portugal, where the pork is perhaps the finest in Europe, porkers are never killed, but the fat of bacon-hogs is cut off for curing; and the loin, eaten fresh, is there pre- pared by being left for some days to soak in red wine and *j garlic, it being occasionally hung up to dry, then returned to the -wine, afterwards roasted, and served with tomata-sauce. It is a highly-flavoured delicacy, and we offer it as a hint which is worthy of attention. A /’Espagnole—is prepared and dressed in the same manner; but when ready for dressing, sprinkle the meat with sweet herbs chopped, wrap it in bay-leaves, add the juice of two Seville oranges to the wine, which must be strained, and bake it in an oven. PIG'S-FEET A LA ST. MENEHOULD.—E. R. 195. —Clean the feet perfectly, cut them down in two, then bind them with a tape to prevent their shrinking or opening, and boil them gently until they are rather soft, with carrots, onions, parsley, thyme, allspice, and bay-leaf; let them cool in the liquor. When required for use, take off the tape, dip them i in yolks of eggs and butter about three parts melted; season them, then cover them with crumbs of bread and finely-minced j parsley, with the smallest quantity of shalot. Broil them until I highly browned, and serve dry, or with sauce Robert. Pettitoes.-—Boil them, with the liver and the heart, in a small ! quantity of water very gently; then cut the meat fine, and ! simmer it with a little of the water and the feet split, till the i feet are quite tender; thicken with a bit of butter, a little