MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XVI. 270 it with some melted butter, adding shrimps or prawns if the quantity be small. Cut pieces of paste into pretty shapes, fry them, and serve up the lobster heaped upon them, which is sometimes more convenient than making into patties. If, however, the pieces be put into the paste, which is then rolled around them, they make nice fritters. Or, if put into a shape and warmed before the fire, and browned with the salamander, they will make a very pretty side-dish. Miroton of Lobster.—Take the meat of a good-sized lobster, and put it into a mortar, with the crumb of a French roll soaked in cream; pound them well together; then add the yolks of 3 eggs, and some fat of ham also pounded; season it with pepper, salt, and a little mace. Add the whole of an egg beaten up to a strong froth, and take care that the spawn of the lobster should have been pounded with the rest. Line a mould with slices of fat bacon, put in the ingredients, and boil it for lj hour. Serve up in a dish with lobster-sauce round it. Scolloped Lobster.—Take out the meat from 2 middling- sized lobsters, put it into a mortar, pound it with a little salt and some cayenne pepper, then mix it with fine white sauce; have the shells ready, that is, the tails split, and the 2 bodies, making in all 6 pieces, which are enough for a dish. Put the lobster into the shells, and the shells either into an oven or upon a gridiron. Serve it very hot. Or:—Pound the fish in the above manner, adding only a very little salt with nutmeg instead of cayenne, and beat it up with thick cream ; it may then be either put into puff-paste for patties, or served up as a fricassee. These are all excellent dishes, and will form an elegant remove for a second course. PR A WNS AND SHRIMPS, 279.—Which appear like diminutive species of lobster, are yet of separate tribes, the former being the larger of the two, though the shrimp is very generally thought to possess the highest flavour. They are in season at the same time as lob- sters, are boiled in the same manner, only for about half the time, and, when fresh, their colour is bright and the body firm. Both shrimps and prawns form a very common relish when