213 POULTRY AND GAME. Chap. XIII.] for it should be put into a boat, and not into the dish. Use water-plates, or have your plates set over heaters. Currant jelly should be brought up cold. 227.— To roast a Haunch of Venison.—Cut off the knuckle, trim the flap and remove the thick skin on the flank; nick the joint at the cramp-bone, which will make the cushion fuller when roasted. Spit' it, rub it over with butter, sprinkle well with salt, cover it with a sheet of very thin paper, then with a paste of flour and water, and again with paper; tie it up well with stout string laced across it; baste it all the time it is roasting, which will be from 4 to 5 hours. } of an hour before sending it to table remove the paste, throw a good handful of salt on it, dredge with flour, and baste with a little fresh butter. Venison Steaks.-—Cut them from the neck; season them with pepper and salt. When the gridiron has been well heated over a bed of bright coals, grease the bars, and lay the steaks upon it. Broil them well, turning them once, and taking care to save as much of the gravy as possible. Serve them up with some currant-jelly laid on each steak. To hash cold T enison.—Cut the meat in nice small slices, and put the trimmings and bones into a saucepan, with barely water enough to cover them. Let them stew for 2 hours ; then strain the liquid into a stewpan; add to it some bits of butter j rolled in flour, and whatever gravy was left of the venison. Stir in some currant-jelly, and boil it 4 an hour: then put in the meat, and keep it over the fire just long enough to warm it through, but do not allow it to boil. GAME Ought not to be thrown away even when it has been kept I a very long time; for when it seems to be spoiled, it may often be made fit for eating by nicely cleaning it, and washing with vinegar and water. If there is danger of birds not keeping, | draw, crop, and pick them; then wash in 2 or 3 waters, and I rub them with salt. Have ready a large saucepan of boiling water, and plunge them into it one by one, drawing them up j and down by the legs, that the water may pass through them. | Let them stay 5 or 6 minutes in ; then hang them up in a cold I place. When drained, pepper and salt the inside well. By