MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XVII. 314 cook to watch the rice; take the pot off the fire the moment it is done, strain and dry it immediately. 367. —AVash the rice well, and boil it in a large quantity of water: when a very little of the centre of the grain remains hard, take it off the fire, strain off t or more of the hot water, fill the saucepan with cold water, and shake the rice; then strain all the water off, and the grain will separate; place the pan of rice near the fire to swell, and the centre part of the grains will become tender.*1 Or:—Take 1 lb. of rice, soak it for 4 minutes, then put it into 4 times its weight of boiling water, and, when sufficiently done, drain off the water thoroughly, and replace the saucepan on the fire until the grains separate. Or :—Wash i lb. of rice in salt and water, then put it into 2 quarts of boiling water, and let it boil briskly for about 20 minutes ; but, though until the grains become tender, yet not long enough to let them become soft. Then strain it through a sieve, put the rice into a dish, and place it, uncovered, for a short time before the fire to dry it; when that is done, send it up quite hot, either in a separate dish, or around the curry. THE KING OF OUDE'S CURRY. 368. —Take i lb. of fresh butter, 2 large onions, a gill of good gravy (veal is the best), 1 large pressed tablespoonful of curry-powder; add to these ingredients any kind of meat cut into pieces. Put the whole into a stewpan, cover it close, and gently simmer for 2 hours. When ready to serve up, squeeze as much lemon-juice as will give it an acid flavour. BENGAL CURRY. 369. —Take a drachm of red pepper, 6 onions, and 1 oz. of coriander-seed free from the husks • rub the seeds per- fectly smooth in a mortar; then add and pound the pepper and onions, mixing all well together. That done, set £ lb. of butter in a stewpan on the fire, slice an onion into it, and, when the latter is brown, take it out, and put in 2 drachms of turmeric. Let it fry until the raw flavour goes off; then mix £ pint of curds with the pounded ingredients, and put the whole into the pan with the meat cut in pieces, 2 oz. of grated 11 This is a most excellent method of boiling rice, never failing to produce it in perfection.