172 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XI. chop and pound the trimmings of the veal, add them to the oysters and ham forcemeat with 2 raw eggs, make it into balls and fry them; have some stock ready and stew it with an anchovy, a shalot, some white pepper and salt; strain, and thicken it with butter, add the juice of ^ a lemon and a glass of white wine; give it one boil and pour it into the dish, with the rolled cutlets in the centre and the balls round them. A la Hollandaise, with White Sauce.—Cut thin slices of undressed veal, hack them with the back of a knife each way, dip them in eggs and bread-crumbs, with a little chopped parsley; fry them in butter, lay them on a sieve as they are done, and serve them with white sauce as for fricassee. FARCIES OF VEAL. 165. —Chop off the thick bone of a small neck of veal to the end of the fifth rib; divide the cutlets, and with a broad knife beat the meat of each fiat, and cover it with forcemeat of lean veal, beef suet, parsley, a small bit of garlic, a little salt, mace, and pepper. Then roll the meat round the bone, the end of which leave out at one extremity, put over a thin slice of fat bacon, and, having stuffed in the remainder of the forcemeat at the ends of the roll, bind up with twine. At the bottom of a small stewpan lay slices of turnip, onion, 3 inches of celery, and 2 large carrots cut lengthways, and the steaks over ; add as much water, or beef broth, as shall half cover them ; set the pan on a moderate stove, and some wood embers on the lid ; simmer slowly 2 hours, then remove the twine, and placing the bones upwards, leaning on each other, strain the gravy over them. Or:—Take cutlets from the chump end of a loin of veal; beat them well; cover them with slices of bacon, then with a fine forcemeat; roll them round; tie them into shape; then dip them in the yolks of eggs and the raspings of bread ; roast them, basting well with butter; then put them into a sauce thickened with mushrooms; squeeze lemon-juice over them; let them stew till very tender, and serve them up. ROLLED VEAL.—E.R. 166. —The breast is the best for this purpose. Bone a piece of the breast, and lay a forcemeat over it of herbs, bread, an anchovy, a spoonful or two of scraped ham, a very little mace,