210 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIII. terials, but is generally thought excellent. Lay a forcemeat, made vei-y savoury, in a small dish, like a paste lining; then put in layers very thin slices of fat bacon, squab pigeons, sliced sweetbreads blanched, asparagus-tops, mushrooms, cocks’ combs, a palate or two boiled quite tender and cut in slices, and the yolks of 4 eggs boiled hard. Lay more force- meat over the dish as a pie-crust, bake it, and turn it out to serve, with rich gravy in the dish ; or make it into a vol au vent. Pigeons in Jelly are a beautiful dish, as thus :—Save some of the liquor in which a knuckle of veal has been boiled, or boil a calf’s or a neat’s foot; put the broth into a pan with a blade of mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, some white pepper, lemon-peel, a slice of lean bacon, and the pigeons. The heads and feet must be left on, but the nails must be clipped close; bake them, and let them stand to be cold; season them as you like, before baking. When done, take them out of the liquor, cover them close to preserve the colour, and clear the jelly by boiling with the whites of 2 eggs; then strain it through a thick cloth dipped in boiling water, and put into a sieve. The fat must be perfectly removed before it be cleared. Put the jelly over and round them rough. They must be trussed, and the neck propped up with skewers, to appear in a natural state, before they are baked. Another way.—Pick 2 very nice pigeons, and make them look as well as possible by singeing, washing, and cleaning the heads well; leave the heads and the feet on, but the nails must be clipped close to the claws; roast them of a very nice brown ; and wdien done, put a little sprig of myrtle into the bill of each. Have ready a savoury jelly, as before, and with it half fill a bowl of such a size as shall be proper to turn down on the dish you mean it to be served in. When the jelly is cool and the birds are cold, see that no gravy hangs to the birds, and then lay them upside down in the jelly. Before the rest of it begins to set, pour it over the birds so as to be 3 inches above the feet. This should be done full 24 hours be- fore serving. This dish has a very handsome appearance in the middle range of a second course ; or, when served with the jelly roughed large, it makes a side or corner dish, its size being then less. The head should be kept up as if alive, by tying