FRESH-WATER FISH. Chap. XV.] 255 They come into season about the same time as the salmon, and when in high condition, during the height of summer, they present, besides the usual appearance of freshness in the eyes and gills, a silvery hue in the skin, while the flesh, when dressed, cuts into flakes of a tinge approaching to pink, and is justly esteemed a great delicacy. To bake.—Where there is an oven it is decidedly the best mode of dressing all the larger sort of fresh-water fish, and also the simplest. Dry the fish, lay them in a baking-dish, season with pepper and salt, and put a little butter on them ; bake them according to the size; add the juice that comes from the fish to some rather thick melted butter. To boil.—They should be wiped dry with a coarse towel, rubbed from head to tail, and boiled whole, putting them into cold water mixed with a small quantity of vinegar, into which should be also put some scraped horseradish; let them boil gradually for about 20 to 30 minutes, according to size, and take care not to break the skin; serve with plain melted butter. In White Sauce.—Boil the fish gently in as much water and light white wine, in equal quantities, as will only cover them. When done, keep them hot while you boil the liquor -with a bit of butter and a little flour. Meantime have ready beaten 2 eggs, with a spoonful of cold water, and pour them and the sauce to and fro at a little distance above the stove till of due thickness, and serve the fish in it, adding a little salt. | In Green Sauce.—Beat in a mortar I an anchovy, a table- spoonful of capers, 1 each of chives and parsley, previously minced, a good lump of butter, and a dessertspoonful of flour. When the trout is ready, keep it hot while this mixture is > I boiled with the liquor, in which serve it. To fry Trout.—Scale, gut, and clean them; take out the gills ; egg and crumb them ; then fry in lard or oil until of a light brown. Serve with anchovy-sauce and sliced lemon. In the Foreiyn Mode.—Cover the bottom of a small oval paper form with a few very thin slices of fat bacon ; cut down the back some nicely-washed small trout, and, having removed the bones, lay the fish open, flat upon the bacon; sprinkle with chopped parsley, pepper, salt, a little mace, and 2 cloves finely pounded. Bake i an hour in a quick oven, and serve in paper.