MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIY. 236 flour and set it before a brisk fire, baste it all the time with butter until it froths ; then, when the froth begins to rise, throw over it some very fine white bread-crumbs ; and when of a fine brown, dish it up with a garnish of lemon cut in slices, scraped horseradish, and barberries, with the roe and liver cut in slices, and a few small fried fish or fried oysters laid round it. Stuffed.—Cut the head with a part of the shoulders, and take as much of the tail as will fill the head, then tie up both at the mouth and shoulders with packthread ; make a brown sauce with beef-soup and a little strong ale, season it with a spoonful of ketchup, some salt, and cayenne pepper; then put in the head and stew it over a slow fire. When ready, add a glass of wine and a little lemon-juice. Tail of Codfish.—The lower parts near the tail are generally cut from the head and separately dressed, in which case the best mode is either to fry it of a fine brown, with sliced onions, and stew it with a good white gravy, a little curry-powder, a bit of butter and flour, and 3 or 4 spoonfuls of rich cream ; or cut it into cutlets and plainly broil them upon the gridiron, with oysters to surround them, and without any other sauce than melted butter; they are still better when done as veal cutlets, either with or without oysters. To bake Codfish.—Butter a pan, lay the fish in it with a bundle of sweet herbs, an onion stuck with 6 cloves, a spoonful of black and white pepper, salt, and a quart of water: flour the fish, stick it over with pieces of butter, and add to it rasp- ings of bread. When sufficiently baked, take out the fish carefully, strain the gravy, thicken it, and add to it a pint of shrimps, 4 pint of oysters, a spoonful of essence of anchovies, and a glass of Harvey or Reading sauce ; warm all together, and pour it round the fish ; garnish witli lemon, crisped parsley, and fried bread, or paste. Codlings are very good dressed in this manner. Codfish au gratin.—This is the best mode of using the remains of a dressed codfish. Put some cold oyster-sauce at the bottom of a pie-dish, then a layer of the codfish (seasoned with pepper, salt, and an atom of nutmeg), with any of the liver and sound that remains ; then repeat the layers of sauce and fish until the dish is full; cover it with bread-crumbs, sprinkle a little butter over, and bake for about 4 an hour.