MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXII. 422 the meat well, and cover it with the sage and onions chopped together, with pepper and salt; fill up the pie with a little gravy, and bake it. EXCELLENT PORK PIES TO EAT COLD. 556. —Raise the crust according to the directions already given, into either a round or oval form, as you choose; have ready the trimmings and small bits of pork cut off when a hog is killed; and if these are not enough, take the meat off a blade-bone. Beat it well with a rolling-pin, c.ut it into dice, season with pepper and salt, and keep the fat and lean separate. Put it in layers, quite close up to the top; lay on the lid; cut the edge smooth round, and pinch it; bake in a slow soaking oven, as the meat is very solid. The pork may be put into a common dish, with a very plain crust, and be quite as good. Observe to put no bone or water into pork pie: the outside of the pieces will be hard, unless they are cut small and pressed close. Both these and veal and chicken pies are generally eaten cold, and, as they are always seasoned highly, will keep good for several days in the hottest weather. In the west of England it is not uncommon to take off the cover and fill the pie up, when cold, with clouted cream, which is a very deli- cious addition. CALF’S-HEAD OR CALF’S-FOOT PIE.—E. R. 557. —Either must be well stewed before being put into the pie. They must be cut into nice pieces, free from bone, and well seasoned, or otherwise they will be tasteless. If to be eaten hot, sausage-meat or fresh mushrooms or oysters will be an improvement, in addition to the ham, eggs, and force- meat balls; and if cold, the small pickled mushrooms should be added, or a little mushroom-powder in the gravy. The excellence of the pte will chiefly depend upon the seasoning and flavour, and the quantity of fine savoury jelly..wliich it will contain ; and therefore the meat should not be closely packed, in order to leave room for the jelly. Calf s-foot and Kidney Pie.—Take from a cold roasted loin of veal slices of the kidney fat, cover them witli pounded ham, and put them into a dish with the kidney cut into pieces, and the meat from a calf’s foot; put in a few hard-boiled eggs