32 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. III. too quick a fire, the boiling is precipitated, the fibre coagu- lates and hardens, the osmazome is hindered from disengaging itself, and thus nothing is obtained but a piece of tough meat, and a broth without taste or succulence.” To stew.—This wholesome and economical mode of cookery is not so well understood nor profited by in England as on the Continent. So very small a quantity of fuel is wanted to sus- tain the gentle heat which it requires, that this alone should recommend it to the careful housekeeper ; but if properly at- tended to, meat stewed gently in close-shutting or luted vessels is in every respect equal, if not superior, to that which is roasted, but it must be simmered only, and in the gentlest manner. On the subject of stewing meat the following hint may be advantageously adopted:—“ Take a piece of boiling-beef, with some fat to it and a little seasoning, but without water, gravy, or liquid of any sort. Put it in an earthen jug closely covered, and place that within a large iron or tin pot filled with cold water, and lay it so near the fire as to keep a gentle simmer, without letting it boil. It will require several hours, accord- ing to the weight of the meat, which should be stewed until quite tender. It loses nothing, and will yield a large quantity of the richest gravy, as retaining the whole of its juice, and is decidedly the best mode of dressing that universal French dish, bceuf-bouilli.” a To roast in perfection is not only a most difficult but a most essential branch of cookery, and can only be acquired by practice, though it consists in simply dressing the joint thoroughly, without drying up any portion of its juices. If this, however, be not strictly attended to, the meat will be spoiled, and the error cannot be rectified. A brisk, but not too strong, fire, should be made up in good time, and care taken that it is sufficiently wide to take in the joint, leaving two or three inches to spare at each end, and of 'equal strength throughout. The fat should be protected by covering it with oiled paper, tied on with twine. I he meat should not be put very near the fire at first, or the outside will become scorched, dry, and hard, while the inside will be underdone ; but it should be put gradually nearer to the fire when about warmed through, or it will become soddened, and the screen should be placed before it from the commencement. a Transactions of the Iioyal Society of Agriculture, vol. iii. p. 88.