MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXXI. 630 Vinegar and Lemon Whey.—Pour into boiling milk as much vinegar or lemon-juice as will make a small quantity quite clear, dilute with hot water to an agreeable acid, add a bit or two of sugar. This is less heating than if made of wine, and, if only to excite perspiration, answers as well. DRINKS. 872.—A soft and fine draught for those who are weak and have a cough may be made thusBeat a fresh-laid egg, and mix it with pint of new milk warmed, a large spoonful of capillaire, the same of rose-water, and a little nutmeg scraped. Do not warm it after the egg is put in. Take it the first and last thing. A very agreeable draught is made by putting into a tumbler of fresh cold water a tablespoonful of capillaire and the same of good vinegar. Tamarinds, currants, fresh or in jelly, or scalded currants or cranberries, make excellent drinks, with a little sugar or not as may be agreeable. A refreshing Drink in a Fever.—Put a little tea-sage, 2 sprigs of balm, and a little wood-sorrel, into a stone jug, having first washed and dried them ; peel thin a small lemon, and clear from the white; slice it, and put a bit of the peel in; then pour in 3 pints of boiling water, sweeten and cover it close. Perhaps no drink, however, is more refreshing in such a case than weak green tea, into which lemon-juice is infused in- stead of milk. It may be drunk either-cold or hot, but the latter is the best mode. Toast and Water.—Toast slowly a thin piece of bread till extremely brown and hard, but not the least black; then plunge it into a jug of cold water, and cover it over an hour before used. This is of particular use in weak bowels. It should be of a fine brown colour. Barley- Water.—1 oz. of pearl barley, k oz. of white sugar, and the rind of a lemon, put into a jug. Pour upon it 1 quart of boiling water, and let it stand for 8 or 10 hours; then strain off the liquor, adding a slice of lemon, if desirable. This infusion makes a most delicious and nutritious beverage, and will be grateful to persons who cannot drink the horrid decoction usually given. It is an admirable basis for lemon-