MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIII. 432 CHAPTER XXIII. FRUIT PIES, PUFFS, PUDDINGS, &c. 576.—All pies made either with summer fruit or with winter preserves will be improved by a mixture of apples, pared and sliced. Apples will this way eke out the remains of a pot of jam with advantage. They are especially good with fresh cherries, cui’rants, &c., and will be found an agreeable addi- tion to cranberries. Equal portions also of cranberries and any very sweet jam will improve both. When apples are mixed with jam, they should be sliced thin ; and if syrup be wanted, a few slices boiled with a little of the jam in sugar and water. In making pies of green gooseberries, apples, or rhubarb, the sugar should be clarified—that is, boiled in a little water, but no water poured into the pie, as it destroys the flavour of the fruit. For fresh fruits short crust is very suitable. Fresh Fruit Pies, of all descriptions, whether cherry, green gooseberry, damson, currant, or raspberry, may be all made in nearly the same manner, taking care that the fruit be fresh- gathered and cleanly picked ; also observing that, if the goose- berries be very sour, they should be put for | of an hour in boiling water, i lb. of sugar is usually allowed to every lb. of fruit.a When pies have been kept until cold the crust becomes a In making pies of a very juicy fruit, it is a common practice to put a teacup into the dish to collect the liquor, and thus prevent it from over- flowing the edges. This not only has a vulgar appearance, but is actuated by a false principle, as when the cup is first put into the dish it is ftill of cold air, and when the pie is placed in the oven, the heat will cause the air to expand and fill the cup, and will drive out all the juice and a portion of the present air it contains, in which state it will remain till removed from the oven, when the air in the cup will condense and occupy a very small space, leaving the remainder to be filled with juice, but this does not take place till the danger of the juice boiling over is past.