PEESEEVED FEUITS. 515 Chap. XXV.] TO PRESERVE SIBERIAN CRABS.—E. R. 714. —Rub the fruit with a dry flannel, taking care not to break the skin. Prick each with a needle all over to prevent its bursting. Boil 1 lb. of sugar in a pint of water, then put in the fruit and boil it until the skin begins to crack slightly; then take up the crabs, drain them separately upon a dish; boil the syrup again, and if not strong enough add more sugar; when cold pour it over the fruit, which must be put into jars, tied down closely, and kept in a cool dry place. Another way.—Boil a pint of water and 1 ^ lb. of refined sugar to a fine clear syrup ; skim it, and let it become cold. Pare the crabs; and to this quantity of syrup put 1 lb. of fruit, and simmer slowly till tender. Carefully remove each apple separately, and pour the syrup over when a little cooled, and add orange and lemon peel boiled tender. BIFFINS. The Red Biffin, or the Minshul Crab, are the best sorts for drying. 715. —Take the Red Biffin apple, and put them into a cool oven 6 or 7 times, flattening them gently by degrees, when they are soft enough to bear it. If the oven should be hot they will waste ; and they ought to be put at first into a very •cool one. They are prepared in the same manner in France, and when stewed either in milk or wine are very good. TO PRESERVE MAGNUM BONUM PLUMS.—E. R. 716. —Set them over a slow fire in spring water until they will peel, keeping them under the water; peel and put them into a jar with a thin syrup, which must cover them, or other- wise they will be discoloured. The next day boil the syrup, then put in the plums, and give them a gentle boil. Let them stand until cold; then repeat the process; turn them in the syrup until nearly cold. Take out the plums, strain the sy- rup, add more sugar, and skim it well; put in the plums, boil them till they are clear, then cover with paper. To Dry.—Take the weight of the plums in sugar, wrap each plum in a vine-leaf, put them into a stewpan covered 2 l 2