474 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIII. into a gentle oven, and renew the sugar and butter several times. They will take 20 or 30 minutes. Be very careful not to let the bread burn, or the apples lose their shape. GATEAU BE POMMES. 650. —Boil sufficient apples (flavoured with cinnamon, cloves, and green lemon-peel) to nearly fill a 14-pint pudding- mould. Pass them through a sieve, add sugar to taste, and 2 tablespoonfuls heaped of potato-flour; stir it over the fire, and, when rather stiff, add 5 or 6 eggs; boil in a mould for 1 hour. Serve with a cream-sauce thickened with potato-flour and flavoured with noyeau. POMME MANGE. 651. —Peel and core 1 lb. of apples, and put them with 4 lb. of sugar and 4 pint of water into a stewpan; add the peel of a lemon. Allow it to boil until it becomes quite stiff, and .then put it into a mould. It will be found excellent. FRUIT PUDDINGS. 652. — Cranberry Pudding.—Boil 14 pint of cranberries, cleared of the stalks, in 4 oz. of sugar and water, until they are broken and form a kind of jam. Make up a large ball of it; cover it well with rice washed clean and dry; then round each fold a floured piece of cloth, which tie as for dumplings. Boil them 1 hour; sift sugar over when served, and butter in a boat. Rhubarb Pudding.—Cut small sufficient stalks of rhubarb to weigh about 1 lb. or 14 lb., which put into a clean saucepan with 8 or lOoz. of sugar, the rind of 1 lemon grated, the juice, and 4 a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon. Place the whole on the fire and stir it occasionally at first, but constantly at last, until reduced to a sort of marmalade; take it from the fire, and, if appearance is to be regarded, pass it through a hair sieve into a basin; mix with it about an ounce or two of good sweet butter, or a little good cream. Line rather a flat dish with puff-paste, thin at the bottom but thick on the edge. When the preparation is cold fill the dish as far as the edge, and bake it in a moderate oven until the paste is done. Quince Pudding.—Scald some quinces till they are very tender; pare them, and scrape off all the pulp. Strew over