421 Chap. XXII.] MEAT PIES. about an inch in thickness; make it round upon buttered paper, sprinkling a little flour on the paste ; then take the meat from the pan, which should be plunged in hot water to detach it easily; place it in the paste, covering it at the top with a crust £ inch thick, and leaving a hole in the middle. Glaze, and put it into a very hot oven; let it bake 3 or 4 hours ; when sufficiently done, a wooden skewer will enter easily. Put in some clear gravy; fasten the hole at the top, and turn it upside down. This pie may be made of fowl, rabbit, or game, boned or put in whole, the birds being filled with forcemeat, mushrooms, either fresh or buttons pickled, or black truffles. Veal and Sweetbread Pie.—Cut the veal from the chump end of the loin ; season it well; clean and blanch a sweet- bread, cut it into pieces, and season it; lay both in the dish with the yolks of 6 hard-boiled eggs and a pint of oysters. Strain the oyster liquor, add to it a pint of good gravy; line the sides of the dish with a puff paste i inch thick, and cover it with a lid of the same. Bake it in a quick oven for li hour ; and when it is sent to table cut the lid into 8 or 10 pieces, and stick them round the sides, covering the meat with slices of lemon. Veal and Sausage Pie.—Cover a shallow dish with paste, lay a well-beaten veal-cutlet at the bottom, slightly seasoned; cover it with a Bologna sausage freed from the skin and cut into slices; then add another cutlet and a layer of the Bo- logna sausage ; cover the whole with paste, and put no water to it: the veal will give out sufficient gravy, while it will be ren- dered very savoury by the sausage. It is excellent eaten cold. Veal and Oyster Pie.—Make a seasoning of pepper, salt, and a small quantity of grated lemon-peel. Cut some veal- cutlets, and beat them until they are tender: spread over them a layer of pounded ham, and roll them round ; then cover them with oysters, and put another layer of the veal fillets, and oysters on the top. Make a gravy of the bones and trimmings, or with a lump of butter, onion, a little flour and water; stew the oyster liquor, and put to it, and fill up the dish, reserving a portion to put into the pie when it comes from the oven. Veal and Pork Pie.—Take equal quantities of veal and pork, boil 1 or 2 onions, and scald some leaves of sage; beat