VEGETABLE SOUPS. Chap. VII.] 97 and the most usual on fashionable tables : neither pepper nor ketchup should be used. Although this may be made at any time of the year, yet, being- chiefly composed of vegetables, it is more distinctively a spring soup ; but if made in winter, the vegetables should be only stewed ; for, if fried, the flavour of the soup would be unpleasantly strong. It is a universal Parisian dish, and has lately come into very general use, as a species of soupe scinte, at fashionable English tables. SOUPE A LA FLAMANDE. 45.—Take of carrots, turnips, and onions of a large size, 2 of each ; a small quantity of lettuce, leeks, chervil, and en- dive. Shred them in pieces, and put them in a stewpan with a small piece of butter and a teacupful of gravy ; set them over a slow fire, and let them be frequently shaken in the pan while stewing, until they become tender ; then add a quart of any sort of broth, and let it all stew gently for an hour, seasoning it with I* salt, a small quantity of mace, a little sugar, and only a pinch of cayenne. Mix thoroughly the yolks of 3 eggs with ± pint of cream, and add them to the soup the last thing before you I serve it up. Keep stirring it after the eggs are in, until it almost boils, but not quite. Or:—Wash, peel, and slice 12 potatoes and 6 onions, cut 6 or 8 heads of celery into small pieces ; put these into a stew- pan with I lb. of butter and about a pint of water; let them simmer 1 hour ; fill up the pan with a good stock ; let it boil till the potatoes are dissolved; rub it through a sieve; add a I pint of cream. SOUPE A LA CRECI.— E. R. 46.—Grate 4 carrots, the red part only, slice 4 onions, a turnip, and a piece of lean ham, a parsnip, 2 lettuces, a leek, a stick of celery, and a root of parsley, with a blade of mace, a few allspice, and a few sprigs of parsley and thyme ; put them all into a stewpan, with a piece of butter. Let it simmer for £ an hour, stirring occasionally ; then fill it up with stock, allowing it to boil gently 2 hours; then put in the crumbs of 2 French rolls ; when well soaked, rub the whole through a tcunis. Let it boil up; skim it well ; add salt if required, and a small lump of sugar. Have a little rice ready boiled, and serve it up in the tureen. ii