585 Chap. XXVIII.] BREAKFAST-CAKES. that of pancakes, and either bake it in buttered pans, or upon a griddle, and eat them with butter.a Paste Cake.—In Ireland breakfast-cakes are baked on a griddle, or flat iron, placed on trivets over a cinder or turf fire, and the cake under the above title is there composed of flour and butter, just in the same manner as for a pie-crust, and therefore made as rich or as plain as you like. The paste is made a full inch thick, usually to the circumference of a dinner-plate. It is then placed upon the griddle, twice turned until done, when it is served hot, then divided and buttered, as each person may please. It is a very delicious but indi- gestible appendage to breakfast. Slim-cake is made simply of flour and milk, without butter, and baked in the same manner as the above, but always eaten cold, with butter. TOAST AND BUTTER. In the making of dry and buttered toast there should be this difference :—Dry toast should be cut very thin, and held at a distance from the fire to render it crisp ; while buttered toast should not only be cut rather thick and placed near to the fire, to keep soft, but, for that purpose, held for a minute or two over a bowl of boiling water to imbibe the steam before being buttered. The toast should always be buttered on both sides, and the crusts cut off. If fresh butter be used, it must be accompanied with a muffineer, to salt it, but most people prefer the flavour of really good salt butter. 812.—Take 2 lbs. of fine flour, after being gently warmed before the fire, and rub into it k pint of warm mealy potatoes. When well mixed, add a proper quantity of yeast and salt with warm milk and water -sufficient to make into dough, which must be allowed '2i hours to rise before being formed into a loaf: which put into a tin to preserve its shape, and when placed in the oven take care that it be not over- browned .b On this, Dr. Hunter, from whom we copy the above, ob- serves, “ that the lovers of toast and butter will be much “ Matthews ‘ On Bread-Making.’ h ‘ Medical Commentary on Receipts in Modern Cookery,’ by A. Hunter M.D., E.R.S., L. & E. ’