366 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XX. tablespoonful of saltpetre, a good handful of salt, and the same quantity of coarse brown sugar ; allow the tongue to remain in the pickle for 3 weeks, and rub it over every day. Then take it out and put it into the meat-screen before the fire for 2 or 3 days, till the pickle has entirely drained from it. Then sprinkle it over with bran, and hang it up in any part of the kitchen with the root-end uppermost; sew salt tongues up in coarse linen. To cure Sheep's Tongues.—Let the tongues be well washed and cleaned, and lay them in spring water for 4 an hour. Take 1 lb. of salt, i lb. of treacle, and 4 oz. of saltpetre ; rub the tongues well with it, and put them into the pickle: a week or 10 days will be sufficient to cure them. FOR CURING HAMS. 467.—Choose the leg of a hog that is fat and well fed, as well as of a certain age; for, if poor, it is not worth curing, and if not 1 year old it will never acquire the fine flavour of a mellow ham. Sprinkle it with a little salt, and let it drain for a day; then put to it 1 lb. each of bay-salt and the coarsest sugar, with a large handful of common salt and 4 oz. of saltpetre; rub it thoroughly with this; lay the rind downwards, and cover the fleshy parts with the salt, with which baste it frequently, and turn it every second day. Keep it in this for 4 weeks, then drain it and throw bran over it; hang it up in a cool place to dry, then sew it up in a coarse linen wrapper rubbed with lime, and do not dress it until full 3 months old. The better way is, however, to smoke it, for which there are in London and most large towns regular smoke-houses. In country places this is not uncommonly done by hanging it in a kitchen chimney where wood is burnt, or in any spare chimney where a smothering fire can be kept up, made of wet straw and horse-litter, with sawdust or shavings; but be par- ticular to have them of oak, for, if of pine, it will give the ham a bad flavour. It will take 3 weeks’ smoking. Or:—Hang the ham, and sprinkle it with salt as above; then rub it every day with the following, in fine powder: 41b. of common salt, the same quantity of bay-salt, 2 oz. of salt- petre, and 2 oz. of black pepper, mixed with 14 lb. of treacle.