300 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XYII. pepper, in milk, till the onion is quite a pap. Pour the milk strained on grated white stale bread, and cover it. In an hour put it into a saucepan, with a good piece of fresh butter ; boil the whole up together, and serve ; add a little salt. Or :—Take a large onion, slice it down very thin, put it into some broth or water, let it boil until tender; add a sufficient quantity of bread-crumbs to thicken it, 2 ounces of butter, pepper, and salt, and a little good cream ; boil it until it is thick and very smooth, but do not allow it to be too thick to pour into the sauce-tureen. Or Grate a teaspoonful of fresh onion and put it to the bread-crumbs before the boiling milk is poured over it. Season it, and add a few grains of cayenne pepper. SAUCE FOR COLD FOWL OR PARTRIDGE. 338. —Rub down in a mortar the yolks of 2 eggs boiled hard, an anchovy, 2 dessertspoonfuls of oil, 3 of vinegar, a shalot, cayenne if approved, and a teaspoonful of mustard. All should be pounded before the oil is added. Then strain it. Shalot-vinegar, instead of shalot, eats well; but then omit 1 spoonful of the common vinegar. Salt to your taste. A most excellent accompaniment to cold roast fowls, or white game of any sort, is to bring it up covered with either common or clouted cream; this is veiy customary throughout Devon and Cornwall. SA UCE A LA TAR TARE. 339. —Take the yolk of an egg, and drop into it very slowly a tablespoonful of sweet oilj beating it up by degrees until perfectly mixed; add a tablespoonful of vinegar, a little chopped parsley, a tablespoonful of French mustard, pepper, and salt; beat up the whole together: make and keep the sauce in a cold place; put it into a dish, and lay the boiled fowl upon it. This sauce should be beaten till it resembles cream. POIVRADE SAUCE. 340. —Chop 2 shalots, and bruise the yolk of a hard-boiled egg with a little salt and cayenne pepper; beat all up in a spoonful of mushroom or walnut ketchup, season with chili vinegar or the juice of lemon: to be made into proper con- sistence with melted butter if to be eaten hot, or with salad-