FOOD AND COOKERY. 35 Chap. III.] being hot: thus it may be observed that in “ steak-dinners ” the second course is always the best—as being dressed while the first is being eaten. The gridiron should be kept so clean as to be nearly polished, and should be always warmed before the meat is put upon it, as well as greased to prevent the steak from being burned. A fork should never be used in turning them, but a pair of steak-tongs. To fry.—The principle of this art is “to scorch something solid in oil or fat.” To do this it is necessary that the fat be in such condition as to scorch whatever is put into it; for if the substance fried does not burn, it must soak and become greasy. After the substance is immersed in the fat the pan may be removed a little off the fire, as otherwise the outside will become black before the inside is done. When you wish fried things to look as well as possible, do them twice over with egg and crumbs. Bread that is not stale enough to grate quite fine will not look well. The fat you fry in must always be boiling-hot the moment the meat is put in, and kept so till finished ; a small quantity never fries well. Suet.—When sirloins of beef, or loins of veal or mutton, are brought in, part of the suet may be cut off for puddings, or to clarify. Chopped fine and mixed with flour, if tied down in ajar, it will keep 10 days or a fortnight. If there be more suet than will be used while fresh, throw it into pickle, made in the proportion of i lb. of salt to a quart of cold water, and it will be as good afterwards for any use, when soaked a little. If the weather permit, meat eats much better for hanging a day before it is salted. Boiling in a well-floured cloth will make meat white. Cloths for this purpose should be carefully washed, and boiled in clean water between eacli using, and not suffered to hang in a damp place, which would give a bad flavour to the meat. The same applies to tapes and pudding-cloths. All kitchen utensils should be kept in the nicest order, and in a conspi- cuous part of the offices. The more soups or broth are skimmed, the better and clearer they will be. In these, as well as in boiling meat, particular care must be taken that this is done the moment before it boils, otherwise the foulness will be dispersed over the meat. Vegetables should never be dressed with meat, except car- rots or parsnips with boiled beef. d 2