404 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXL Dutch Pancakes. Mux 1 lb. of flour with 4 lb. of sugar and a tablespoonful of cinnamon in powder; make it into a paste with 10 eggs and 2 glasses of white wine, or 1 each of wine and brandy; when well mixed, roll it out and fry like other pancakes. French Pancakes.—Three small spoonfuls of flour mixed with i pint of cream, the yolks of 6 eggs, and 1 oz. of butter broken into vei-y small pieces; the whites of the eggs to be whipped to a strong froth, well mixed with the other ingre- dients when ready to be fried. Very little butter is required to fry these pancakes; nor are they to be fried like the other sorts; but they must be turned one upon the other from the pan, sifting sugar over each as it is turned. They require but little time in doing, but must not be left for an instant till they are sent to table. A la Polonaise.—Mix up 8 eggs with pint of cream or flour and milk, and 2 oz. of melted fresh butter, seasoned with grated nutmeg, raspings of lemon-peel, and sugar, a little salt, and 10 oz. of flour. Put into the frying-pan a little butter or hog’s lard, as for the French pancakes ; and, when the batter is thrown in, sprinkle it with currants, and powder it with sugar when going to table; or you may spread them with jelly, marmalade, or sweetmeats, and serve them up in that fashion ; or rolled up, and put into the Dutch oven until nicely browned, in the manner of fritters.*1 TALIANI.—E. It. 531.—Take 3 eggs, a little salt, and as much flour as will make a stiff' paste; then break it into 2 pieces, and roll it out as thin as possible. Lay a clean cloth on the table, and with the hand spread out the paste as thin as a leaf. Let it remain on the cloth for 2 hours, then fold up the sheets and cut it into narrow strips. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, put a little salt into it, then put in the taliani, and let it boil for 10 minutes, stirring the water about as it boils with a fork. Strain the water through a colander, and when the taliani is drained dry, put it into a dish with a sauce made of a little brown gravy and a lump of butter. From ‘ La Cuisiniere de la Campagne,’ Paris edit. 1845, p. 463.