433 FRUIT PIES. Chap. XXIII.] heavy and indigestible; when next used they should there- fore be put before the fire to warm the crust and lighten it. Strew pounded loaf-sugar over the crust, or ice it with the white of an egg whipped up to a froth and laid over it. APPLE PIE. 577.—Pare, core, and quarter the apples; boil the cores and parings in sugar and water ; strain off the liquor, adding more sugar; grate the rind of a lemon over the apples, and squeeze the juice into the syrup ; mix half a dozen cloves with the fruit, put in a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and add or omit a glass of wine ; cover with puff-paste. Codling Tart.—Scald the fruit; when ready, take off the thin skin, and lay them whole in a dish ; put a little of the water that the apples were boiled in at bottom, strew them over with powdered lump sugar; when cold, put a paste round the edges and over. When the tart is baked, smear the crust with white of egg, and sift over it some powdered sugar. Serve with custard. Or;—Line the bottom of a shallow dish with paste; lay the apples in it, sweeten, and lay little twists of paste over in bars. Pippin Tarts.—Pare thin 2 Seville or China oranges, boil the peel tender, and shred it fine; pare and core a dozen of good-sized apples, and put them in a stewpan, with as little water as possible; when half done, add i lb. of sugar, the orange-peel, and juice ; boil till pretty thick. When cold, put it into a shallow dish, or pattypans lined with paste, to turn out, and be eaten cold. . The mode of making the New-fashioned Apple-pie is to pare and quarter the apples, scald them, beat them with a spoon with some of the liquor, add grated lemon-peel, the juice of a lemon or Seville orange, or a part of a quince, when they are to be got, cloves, white sugar finely pounded, and a piece of butter; put a paste round the dish, and cover it with bars or flowers of paste—the excellence of the pie consisting of the sort of apple and the goodness of the paste; the fruit should be raised in the middle, as it shrinks in the bakina:. Stewed Apples.—Slice 2 or 3 good-sized peeled apples in thick slices, then put them into a small stewpan, with a few cloves and some parings of lemon or orange, and let it stew 2 F