222 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIII. wine 1 hour before serving, and, should there not be sufficient sauce, a little gravy from time to time put in hot. Stewed with Onio?is.—Cut up the rabbits, reserving the livers. Put a piece of butter rolled in flour into a stevvpan, add boiling water, stirring till well mixed, a little pepper and salt, and then the rabbits slightly dredged with flour. Let them stew till tender, boil a bunch of parsley, put the livers into the stew, and when they are done enough chop them with the parsley, a little pepper and salt, and enough cream to make them into sauce ; warm it up in a small saucepan, and spread it equally over the rabbit; have ready 6 large onions, boiled and pulped through a sieve, and mixed up with cream. Put the onions into the centre of a dish, the rabbits round, and the gravy the last. Stewed with Mushrooms.—Boil 2 anchovies or a table- spoonful of the essence in milk and water, pepper and salt, and an onion. Cut up the rabbit, and stew it gently until done enough ; then strain the gravy, add a little butter rolled in flour, a glass of wine, and mushrooms. Toss the whole toge- ther, squeeze a little lemon-juice over the rabbit, or pour lemon-pickle upon it, and send it to table with the sauce, and the liver made into forcemeat-balls. Quenelles de Lapereau.—Scrape the meat from a rabbit, which pound perfectly. Boil a calf’s udder, and when cold pound it as fine as butter. Make a panada thus: take a spoonful of chopped mushrooms, as much green lemon-peel as will lay on a shilling, a very little chopped shalot and thyme, and a good pinch of chopped parsley, pepper and salt, and a piece of butter; sweat the whole over the fire; take two French rolls, soak the crumb in milk, squeeze it dry, add it and a spoonful of white sauce to the herbs, dry it over the fire ; when quite stiff, take it off and add the yolk of an egg. Put it in a cool place; when cold take equal quantities of meat, udder, and panada, pound for 20 minutes, add 1 whole egg, try it and see if it requires more seasoning ; rub it through a fine sieve. Make the quenelles in tablespoons, poach them in boiling water for about 10 minutes: serve with white sauce, or white mushroom sauce. The Kloes of Berlin are a sort of Quenelles made of flour, or the soft part of bread steeped in milk ; also of rice or semo- lina, boiled in broth, as they may be either made savoury or