108 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. VII. send up the cutlets in a separate dish, covered either with a bat- ter made of flour, egg’s, and milk; or with a sauce made with a few spoonfuls of flour, with a little salt, olive-oil, and wine of any sort, heated in a pan, and seasoned. This will answer in a small party for both fish and soup. TURTLE SOUP MAIGRE. 68.—Having thus enumerated most of the cheap fish which may be made into soup, with the addition of vegetable and fish stock, we here add the present receipt, as being likely to form a superior kind of soupe-maigre; for although always looked upon as a meat-soup, in consequence of its being made upon a foundation of veal-broth (which must be admitted to be in all cases the best stock as a basis for fish-soup), yet the turtle, though amphibious, and laying its numerous eggs upon the land, where they are buried in the sand, and engendered by the heat of the sun, has ever been ranked among the race of fish, as living chiefly in the sea; and as arrangements have, it seems, been made for killing the animals in the West Indies, and bringing over, in jars, the flesh, which comes here in a state of jelly, this only needs to be stewed up in a broth of vegetable or fish stock, instead of meat, and in such quantity as to make the jelly suffi- ciently limpid for soup: seasoning it in the same manner as the other receipt; but adding a rather larger proportion of curry-powder and a few truffles to correct the vapidity of the fish and vegetable broth; but the process of preparing the turtle must be altered, as it is at present prepared with an acid which no boiling will remove. SOUPES MAIGRE. 69.—Pare and slice 5 or 6 cucumbers; and add to these the inside of as many cos-lettuces, a sprig or two of mint, 2 or 3 onions, some pepper and salt, a pint and a hall of young peas, and a little parsley. Put these, with lb- °f fresh butter, into a saucepan, to stew in their own liquor, near a gentle fire, an hour; then pour 2 quarts of boiling water to the vegetables, and stew them 2 hours ; rub down a little flour into a teacupful of water, boil it with the rest 15 or 20 minutes, and serve it. Or:—Peel and slice G large onions, 6 potatoes, 6 carrots, and 4 turnips; fry them in lb. of butter, and pour on them