POULTRY AND GAME. Chap. XIII.] 201 meat from the remainder of the fowl, pound it in a mortal with pepper, salt, and a spoonful of gravy, brush the cutlets with an egg, lay on the forcemeat, dredge fried crumbs on the tops, and fry them a light brown: serve them up with gravy in the dish, or dry, with a lemon squeezed over them. TO BROIL A FOWL.—E. R. 212. —Split the fowl down the back ; season it very well with pepper, and put it on the gridiron with the inner part next the fire, which must be very clear. Hold the gridiron at a con- siderable distance from the fire, and allow the fowl to remain until it is nearly half done; then turn it, taking great care that it does not burn. Broil it of a fine brown, and serve it up with stewed mushrooms or a sauce with pickled mushrooms. A duck may be broiled in the same way. If the fowl is very | large, half-roast it, then cut it into 4 quarters and finish it on the gridiron. FRICASSEE OF FOWL.—E. R. 213. —Put the fowl into a jar, with sliced onion, parsley, salt, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; let it remain in a kettle of water on the fire until three parts done, then skim a and strain the liquor, and after draining w ipe the fowl dry. Put it into a stewpan with a piece of butter and a slice or two of ham, throw in a little flour, and shake it until it is of a good colour. Moisten with the liquor taken out of the jar, adding parsley, young onions, a bay-leaf, a clove, sorrel, and mush- rooms cut into pieces: skim it, and let it stew until done, then take out the herbs, and thicken the sauce with a little cream, but do not let it boil: finish with a little lemon-juice, and pour I the sauce over all. Or:—Rather more than lialf-boil in a small quantity of water: let the fowl cool; then cut up; and put to simmer in a little gravy made of the liquor it is boiled in, and a bit of veal or mutton, onion, mace, and lemon-peel, some white pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs. When quite tender, keep it hot while you thicken the sauce in the following manner: strain it off, and put it back into the saucepan with a little salt, a scrape of nutmeg, and a bit of flour and butter; give it one boil; and when you are going to serve, beat up the yolk of an egg and t pint of cream, and stir them over the