33 Chap. III.] FOOD AND COOKERY. The more the meat is basted the better it will be when dressed, and the cook should not be sparing of her trouble in this re- spect. She should remove the paper a short time before sending the joint to table, sprinkling it with salt, and dredging it lightly with flour, in order to give it a savoury brown appear- ance ; but do not put salt to it before it is nearly dressed, as it would tend to draw out the gravy. Meat which has been fresh killed will take a longer time to roast than that which has been kept any time; and in warm weather twenty minutes less time should be allowed for the roasting of a good-sized joint than when the weather is cold. Time, distance, basting often, and a clear fire of a proper size for what is required, are the first points of a good cook’s attention in roasting. In preparing meat for roasting by smoke-jack, the cook must be careful that the spit be wiped before it is used, and also when withdrawn from the meat, or its mark will appear in a black stain. She must avoid running the spit through the prime parts.® In some joints, as necks, it may enter two bones from the end, run up the back until it comes to nearly the other end, and the prime of the meat will not be pierced. Leaden skewers of different weights should be in readiness, for want of which unskilful servants are often at a loss at the time of spitting. Cradle-spits answer best; they may be bought of different sizes. The joints of all necks and loins should be nicked before they are dressed. After the cook has taken up the roast meat, she should pour the fat from the dripping-pan into a basin previously wetted with cold water. 1 he next day, when cold, she should scrape off the fine meat-jelly which will be found adhering to the under part, and put it in a suitable vessel for present use, as an assistant to gravies. The dripping then should be melted and strained. If required to be kept long, it should be strained into cold water, and taken off when cold in cakes, and these cakes laid between sheets of writing-paper in a dry place. So much depends upon the taste of parties in the mode of over or under dressing, that it is difficult to say how long a joint of meat of a certain size should be roasted; but, pre- suming that a good fire is kept up, and that the meat is intended to be well done, a piece of beef—say of 12 to 15 lbs. * Tliese ru,es ai'e equally applicable to the hook used in the bottle-jack. I»