MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIII. 214 this method the most delicate birds may be preserved. Before roasting, wash them well. But, as a rule, no game should be washed, for one-half the game that is sent to table is spoiled by being saturated in water. In dressing Game be careful to keep a clear fire. Let it be done of a bright brown, but not much roasted, or the fine flavour will be destroyed. It requires to be continually basted, and to be sent up beautifully frothed. Wild-fowl take a much shorter time than domestic poultry. The following will give, pretty nearly, the time required for roasting the several birds:—Wild-ducks £ of an hour, widgeons the same, pheasants 4 an hour, grouse J of an hour, quails 10 minutes, woodcocks 20 minutes, partridges from 20 to 25 minutes. A hare will take an hour; the hind part re- quires most heat, and that should be attended to, as it com- monly happens that the thick part of the thigh is underdone, as well as the shoulders. The blood stagnated round the neck and shoulders is not easily removed : to do this, put those parts into a pan of lukewarm water, and prick them with a skewer; before dressing, rub and squeeze it out. To take off the fishy taste which wild-fowl sometimes have, put an onion, salt, and hot water into the dripping-pan, and baste them for the first 10 minutes with this; then take away the pan, and baste constantly with butter. PHEASANTS AND PARTRIDGES. 228.-—Roast them, and serve with a fine gravy and bread- sauce in separate tureens. The cock-pheasant keeps longer than the hen. When cold, they may be made into excellent patties, but their flavour should not be overpowered by any admixture. It is not usual to stuff pheasants; though they are some- times larded; but the following forcemeat will be found a great improvement. Cut a piece of lean veal into small dice, with about a third of bacon also minced, season it with a little pepper, and put it into the body of the pheasant, which must be tied, to prevent the escape of the stuffing, or roasted with the head downwards. The gravy from the veal will dif- fuse itself through the pheasant, and' render it more juicy and tender, while the bacon is always to be preferred when put. in- side a bird, though the outer larding may be more ornamental. Beef is sometimes substituted for veal.