MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. VIII. 122 a hot dish, and send them instantly to table, for, if not eaten hot, the steak will become soddened. Should it not have hung long enough to be tender, beat it with a rolling-pin; put no salt on, or it will harden the steak. The grand secret is a cjuick clear fire, frequent turning, and quick cooking; for if the meat be long upon the fire it will be hard. Respecting frequent or only once turning, that must depend on whether the steak is to be done in the usual way,—that the gravy may not be drawn out on either side ; or whether it is to be done “ rare”—that is to say, very much underdone. If in the former case, the steak should be cut only ^ inch—but, if rare, f inch—thick, turning it only once, and the fire should be more brisk than in the former case; by which means the meat will be sufficiently scorched on both sides, without being burned. It is not in perfection if served with anything else ; if approved, a little minced shalot and a tablespoonful of ketchup may be put into the dish, and it may be garnished with horseradish : to pepper it is to spoil it. Such is the mode of dressing it at Bellamy’s of the House of Commons, at the Blue Posts in Cork Street, and at all the chop-houses around the Royal Exchange. The steak, if large enough, should be cut in two ; one part being sent up first, and the remainder afterwards, this second course being always the best. Ten minutes will be sufficient to cook a large steak if it be rare ; but if well done, from that to j hour. Respecting the dressing of steaks, we have heard it asserted that not one cook in ten knows how to prepare a beefsteak; they neglect the grand rule, which is to separate the fat from the lean; to put it on the gridiron first, and take it off’ last, so as to broil it half as long again as the lean. That makes it pulpy, like marrow. FOR BOILING BEEF. 88.— To boil a Round of Beef—Supposing it to be from 20 to 30 lbs. weight, and very salt,a soak it in 2 waters; wash it well, and take out the bone ; the cavity made by its removal may be plugged up with fat; then skewer the meat up with the flap round it, and bind it firmly with several folds of strong “ 1 oz. of saltpetre, 1 lb. of common salt, and 2 oz. of brown sugar, will be sufficient for 1G lbs. of beef.