267 Chap. XV.] FRESH-WATER FISH. selves into the British Channel; but those found in the Thames and Medway are the best. , They are in season from the 1st of November until the end of May, after which time they are protected by law. They are a small fish ; if good, are of a fine silvery hue, are very firm, have a refreshing smell, like cucumbers newly cut, and are much used as a garnish to turbot and boiled cod ; but they are also excellent when eaten alone and simply fried in lard or oil, without any other sauce than a squeeze of lemon, as any other addition destroys the delicacy of their flavour. They should be perfectly fresh, and this can be readily ascertained by the redness of their gills and the fulness of the eyes, which, if sunk, show that they are stale. They are always dressed whole; and in gutting them they should be as little handled as possible, nor should they be washed, but merely wiped gently with a towel and dusted with flour, then egged and crumbed. WHITE BAIT. 276. —Have an iron frying-pan about 4 inches deep; put into it lard sufficient to cover it about 14- inch. Lay a cloth on the dresser, spread over it a quart of flour; take the white bait out of the water, and sprinkle it thinly on the flour; put the whole into a sieve, sift the flour from the white bait, whip them into the boiling lard ; when crisp take them out; sprinkle a little salt over them; serve with brown bread and butter, cayenne, and lemon. . ROACH, DACE, AND GUDGEON, 277. —Are chosen by the same rules as other fish ; are taken in running streams; come in about midsummer, and are to be had for 5 or 6 months. The roach is the largest, and is some- times baked for hours in a slow oven, with vinegar and water seasoned with mace and allspice, and covered with bay-leaves ; or stewed in layers with sliced onions, to improve its insipidity. Gudgeons, though very small, are nicely flavoured, but are seldom used in any other manner than fried as a garnish to boiled fish. All these small fry may be dressed in the same manner as smelts.