Chap. VII.] SOUPS—GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 67 seasoning cannot disguise, nor impose upon the palate of any person who is accustomed to broths made from raw meat: but we admit, that if only partially employed, the remains of roast beef, or the bones broiled, and a shank of ham, will commonly improve the flavour of soups made in the usual manner. The sediments of gravies that have stood to be cold should likewise be avoided, as they occasion the soup to become cloudy. Raw vegetables, with the exception of onions, should not be put down to stew at the same time as the meat, as their flavour will be exhausted by too long boiling, and the different sorts should be put down at different times. Onions, either whole or sliced and fried, at once ; pot-herbs, carrots, and celery 3 hours afterwards; and turnips, vegetable marrow, asparagus- tops, and those of any delicate kind, only shortly before the soup is ready. A common camp-kettle will be found an excellent utensil for making soup, as the lid is heavy and will keep in the steam. An earthen pipkin or jar of this form, if of a long and narrow make, widening a little in the centre, is perhaps one of the best vessels for soups, and universally used by foreign cooks, who insist “ that it renders the gravy more clear and limpid, and extracts more savour from the meat, than when made in tin or copper.” It is generally thought desirable to prepare soup the day before it is wanted, as the fat can be more easily taken off when cold than hot, and every particle of it should be skimmed from the surface, or it will render the broth unpalatable. When put away to cool it should be poured into a freshly scalded, and thoroughly dried, earthen pan—which is prefer- able to any metal—and, when to be kept for some days, occa- sionally simmered for a few minutes over the fire, to prevent its becoming “ mothery,” or mouldy. A common mistake in the making of soup is that of allowing it to boil too fast, and for too short a time ; for long and slovv boiling is necessary to extract the strength from the meat, which, if boiled fast over a large fire, becomes hard, and will not give out its juices. If colouring be wanted, a few slices of meat laid at the f 2