MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXVII. 570 •lough with £ pint of yeast; then mix in 5 oz. of carraway comfits, and put some on them. Gross Buns.— lake 4 lbs. of flour, rub in 4 lb. of butter, warm a quart of milk, and mix with 4 pint of good light yeast; pour this into the middle of the flour, and mix it into a thin batter; cover it over, and let it stand to rise; then add 10 oz. of moist sugar and a teaspoonful of ground allspice; work the dough with more warm milk if required, and put the buns on buttered tins; set them in a warm place to prove; when about half proved, cross them and brush them over with milk; bake them in a quick oven, and when done wash them over again with milk. Madeira Buns.—Beat 8 oz. of butter to a cream, to which add 2 eggs long beaten. Have ready 14 oz. of flour, 6 oz. of lump-sugar sifted, 4 a nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of sifted ginger, and a large spoonful of carraway-seeds, and, after mixing, work them well into tiie butter ; beat it 4 an hour; then add a large wineglass of sherry. Bake in tin pattypans in a mo- derately quick oven. Spanish Buns.—Take 1 lb. of fine flour, rub into it 4 lb. of butter; add 4 lb. of sugar, the same of currants, a little nutmeg, mace, and cinnamon ; mix it with 5 eggs well beaten ; make this up into small buns, and bake them on tins 20 minutes ; when half done brush them over with a little hot milk. Bath Buns.—The following is the original receipt:— To 4 lb. of fine flour put 4 yolks and 3 whites of eggs, with 4 spoonfuls of solid yeast (care must be taken that it is not bitter). Beat it well in a bovd, and set it before the fire to rise. Then rub into 1 lb. of flour 10 oz. of good butter, put in 4 lb. of sugar, and carraway comfits; when the eggs and yeast are pretty light, mix by degrees all well together, throw a cloth over it, and set it before the fire again to rise. Then make your buns, and when you have put them on the tins, brush them over with the yolk of egg and milk ; strew them with carraway-comfits, and bake them in a quick oven. A rich Scotch Bun.—4 lbs. of flour {half a peck of Scotch), 2 lbs. of raisins stoned and cut, and 2 lbs. of currants. Take 6 oz. of orange-peel, the same of citron, and of almonds blanched and cut; mix all these together. Take 1 drachm of cloves, a large nutmeg, 4oz. of allspice, and the same of ginger; pound them, strew the spice on the fruit, and mix them very well.