Chap. XVIII.] VEGETABLES AND SALADS. 327 used in stews, they are, however, afterwards cut into small pieces of the size of dice, or made into shapes with a little in- strument to be found at all cutlery shops. They may be mashed in the same manner as parsnips; but some persons add the yolk of a raw egg or two. They are also frequently made into a puree to thicken mutton broth. When quite young they should be served up whole, and most generally covered with white sauce ; but in France they are very commonly fried, and made an accompaniment to roast ducks, around which they are placed in thfe dish ; and, if not young, the old ones are cut into that shape. \ TURNIP-TOPS, 395. —When cut fresh, are frequently used as greens, and preferred by many, as they contain a pleasant degree of bitter. They should be nicely trimmed, carefully washed, and boiled in hot water, but not too much. BEET-ROOTS 396. —Make a very pleasant addition to winter salad, of which they may agreeably form a full half, instead of being only used to ornament it. They are indeed excellent when used quite alone, being left until cold, after having been boiled ; then slicing them, and eating them with oil and vine- gar, though if celery be added it will be found an improve- ment. Great care must be taken in boiling beet-root that no part of the skin is broken, as, if it is, the colour will all be extracted. A wineglassful of vinegar and a little salt should be added to the water. It takes about the same time to boil as a carrot of the same size. Stewed.—Boil the beet slowly, with the skin on, until tender. They will take at least an hour’s boiling, but must not be tried by the fork, as the juice should not be allowed to run out. Take the skin off, then cut in slices i inch thick, put them into a stewpan with a little broth and a spoonful of vinegar, and simmer till the gravy is tinged with the colour; then put it into a small dish, and make a round of the button-onions, first boiled till tender. The flavour is richer and the colour finer when baked than when boiled. Or:—Bake it in an oven until it is quite tender, and, when cold, scrape off the outside coat, cut it in slices, and