286 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XYII. onions, 3 roots of parsley sliced, a small sprig of thyme, 3 cloves, 3 bay-leaves, 2 lbs. of roach, bream, or dace, cut small, with salt, pepper, and i a bottle of white (but not sweet) wine, and nearly as much broth. Cover close, and simmer until the whole be mashed: strain it through a fine sieve. In another casserole stew a pint of mushrooms, a little parsley and chibols, in £ pint of water, till the flavour of all be obtained: strain both liquors, and heat them together. A GRAVY WITHOUT MEAT. 305. —Put a glass of small beer, a glass of water, some pepper, salt, lemon-peel grated, a bruised clove or two, and a tablespoonful of walnut-pickle, into a basin; slice an onion, flour, and fry it in a piece of butter till it is brown; turn all the above into a small tosser with the onion; cover it, and let it simmer 20 minutes; strain it, and when cold take off the fat. GRA VY FOR A HA UNCH OF VENISON. 306. —Cut off the fat from 2 or 3 lbs. of a loin of old mutton, and set it in steaks on a gridiron for a few minutes, just to brown one side; put them into a saucepan with a quart of water, cover quite close for an hour, and simmer it gently; then uncover it, and stew till the gravy is reduced to a pint; season with salt only. GRAVY TO MAKE MUTTON EAT LIKE VENISON. 307. —Pick a very stale woodcock or snipe, cut it in pieces (but first take out the bag from the entrails), and simmer with as much unseasoned meat-gravy as you will want. Strain it, and serve in the dish; but if the mutton be not long kept, it will not acquire the venison flavour. VELOUTE. 308. —Take 1 lb. of veal, with the remains of a fowl and a dozen of full-grown mushrooms, or a smaller number of green truffles; heat these in melted butter, or beef fat, without browning ; season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, or mixed spices, to which may be added a couple of carrots and onions, with a tablespoonful or two of flour. When boiled, skim off the fat, and let it simmer for 1£ hour, after which strain it, and keep it closely stopped for further use. Essence of Ham, for improving the flavour of sauces, is