CONTENTS. XVII CHAPTER XXX. On English Wines and Liqueurs. English Wines : Observations—Wine from unripe Grapes or green Gooseberries—Orange—Parsnip—Ginger—Rich and pleasant Wine —English Malmsey or Malt Wine—Grape—Raisin ; excellent; with cider—Currant—Black Currant—Gooseberry ; green—Champagne; pink; Grape, to equal foreign—Lemon—Erontiniac—Elder; Elder- flower—Blackberry—Clary—Cowslip—Ginger—Ginger Beer—Egg Wine — To mull Wine—Negus; French receipt. Liqueurs: Punch, an excellent method; George the Fourth’s; Tea, a la Chevret; Colonel Hawker’s cold; Verder, or Milk; Norfolk; Orange ; Regent’s — An excellent Liqueur—Shrub : of Rum ; of Brandy; of white Currants—Noyau—Cherry Brandy—Ratafia; des quatre Fruits—Black Currant Liqueur—Cremes: de Portugal; de Cacao — Curaijoa — Syrup for Liqueurs — Nectar—Mead—-Ginger Cordial—Essence of Ginger ...... Page 599 CHAPTER XXXI. Cookery for the Sick. t • Jellies: A good Jelly; Dr. Ratcliffe’s Pork Jelly; Ivory; Calf’s-feet; Sheep’s tr< rs; Isinglass; Arrowroot; Potato; Tapioca; Bread; Gloucester — Broths: of Beef, Mutton, and Veal; Calf’s-feet; Chicken; Eel; clear, to keep long; quick-made; a Broth very supporting agaillst any kind of weakness—Excellent Soup for the weakly—Caudle for the«sick and lying-in—Beef-tea ; cold—Eggs—- Panada: to make inflffve minutes ; Chicken Panada—Sippets— Caudle; Posset; Cold Caudle; Flour; Rice—Saloop—Milk Por- ridge—French Milk Porridge—Sago—Sago Milk—Ground Rice Milk—Water-gruel—Barley-gruel—The Etna—•JAsses’ Milk ; arti- ficial—Dr. Boerhaave’s sweet Buttermilk—Whey ; white Wine ; Vinegar and Lemon—Drinks; a refreshing Drink in a Fever— Toast and Water—Barley-water; with honey ; with isinglass— Soda-water—Lemon-water—Refreshing Drink for the Sick—Apple- water—Orgeat—Orangeade or Lemonade—Tamarinds—Cranberry- juice ........... 619 CHAPTER XXXII. Various Receipts and Directions to Servants. ! Various Receipts : Indian Cure for Rheumatism—Remedy for Hoop- ing Cough; Chilblains; Cough; Burn or Scald—To destroy Warts b