608 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXX. yeast; let it stand 2 days, when the fermentation will have commenced; put it into the barrel, keep it filled up to the top till the fermentation subsides; bung' it down close and bottle it in 3 months. FRONTINIAC.—E. R. 838. —Boil 18 lbs. of white sugar in 6 gallons of water with 2 whites of eggs well beaten. Skim it and put in £ peck of elder-flowers: • do not keep them on the fire : when nearly cold, stir if, and add 6 spoonfuls of lemon-juice and 4 or 5 of yeast; beat the whole well into the liquor. Stir it every day, put 6 lbs. of the best raisins, stoned, into the cask, and tun the wine. Stop it close, and bottle it at the end of 6 months. This wine requires keeping. ELDER WINE.—E. R. 839. —Pour 4 quarts of water upon 8 quarts of berries, and let it stand a day or two; then boil it for about an hour, strain it, and put 3 lbs. of moist sugar to every gallon of wine; then add 1 oz. of cloves and cinnamon, with 2 oz. of ginger; boil it again, and work it with a toast dipped in yeast. Elder-flower Wine.—Take 12 lbs. of loaf-sugar and 6 lbs. of the best raisins, cut small, and boil them in 6 gallons of water for 1 hour. Then take £ a peck of elder-flowers, when ready to shake; put them into the liquor when it is nearly cold, with 4 tablespoonfuls of fresh yeast and 6 of lemon- juice. Let it work 2 days in the tub, then strain it, put it into the barrel, bung it up closely for 2 months, and then bottle it. These are excellent domestic wines, generally taken mulled, witli dry toast; and the flavour will be iuq ved if, while warming, a grating of nutmeg be added. BLACKBERRY WINE.-E. R. 840. —Let the berries bo gathered when fully ripe, and on a dry day. Put them into a tub or cask, with the head out. and with a tap fitted near the bottom ; pour on them as much boiling water as will cover them, or to 6 measures of black- berries 1 of water may be used. As soon as the heat will permit, mash the berries with your hands until they are well broken, and let them stand covered (ill the pulp rises to the top and forms a crust, which it will do in 3 or 4 days. Then