220 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIII. repeating the operation until the batter thickens and forms a coating all over the hare: this should be allowed to brown but not to burn. Old hares should be jugged. Leicestershire Jugged Hare.—Skin the hare, and cut it in pieces, but do not wash it; strew it over with pepper and salt, fry it brown. Make a seasoning of 2 anchovies, a sprig of thyme, a little parsley, a nutmeg grated, a little mace, a few cloves pounded, and a teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel. Strew this over the hare, after having carefully taken it out of the pan clear of fat: slice 4 lb. of fat bacon very thin, put it into a jug or jar, a layer of hare and one of bacon upon it, until the whole is put in, then add rather less than 4 pint of ale; cover the jug very closely, so as perfectly to keep in the steam; put it into a kettle of cold water, lay a tile on the top of the jug, and let it boil 3 hours if the hare be young, or 4 or 5 if an old one. Take the jug out of the kettle, pick out all the bacon which has not melted, and shake the hare up in a stew- pan, with a little mushroom-ketchup, a glass of port wine, a little mushroom-powder if at hand, and a little butter and flour, well mixed together to thicken the gravy. A tea- spoonful of lemon-pickle, and 1 of browning, will heighten the flavour. LEVERET, OR RABBIT\ WITH IIERBS.-E. R. 236. —Cut either of the two into pieces, put it into a stewpan with butter, salt, pepper, parsley, sorrel, and young onions chopped. When sufficiently done, add the juice of a lemon. The legs may be broiled and laid on the top. RABBITS.—E, R. 237. —Rabbits, being rather dry meat, are much improved by larding. Should the - process be deemed too troublesome upon common occasions, a good effect may be produced by lining the inside of the rabbit with slices of fat bacon pre- viously to putting in the stuffing. This is a very easy method of improvement, and ought never to be neglected. A boned rabbit, larded, stuffed, and braised, affords a cheap and elegant side-dish for a-dinner party. Reacted.—Have the rabbit trussed like a hare. Fill it with veal stuffing made with rather a larger proportion of marjoram