MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXV. 512 it will flow; put in the nectarines, give them a good boil, skim, cover them, and lay them on a stove. The next dav take them out of the sugar, drain them, place them sepa- rately, dusting sugar over them; the next day put them on the stove or into a cool oven to dry. TO PRESERVE A MELON.-E. R. 708. —Scrape off the thin outside skin, make a hole in the top, take out the seeds; then throw the melon into water, and after it has remained 12 hours take it out and put it into a preserving-pan, with a large piece of loaf-sugar and as much water as will cover it; then cover the pan closely, and let it remain for an hour on a very slow fire. Repeat this process 3 times, on 3 successive days, taking care not to allow it to boil ; make a thin syrup, drain the melon carefully out of the liquor, and put it into the syrup, set it over a slow fire closely covered for k an hour every day for 3 ensuing days, on the last day boiling the syrup until it is veiy rich, with the rind of one, and the juice of 2 lemons To improve the flavour of a melon, take it when nearly ripe, cut out so much of the large end as to permit the scooping out of the seeds ; then fill up the hollow with water and sugar, or white wine; close the top, put the melon in a net exposed to the sun for as many days as it remains good. A water melon will thus acquire a fine flavour; but a musk melon requires no improvement. Or:—Take a melon, cut it into pieces as for eating, trim off the outer rind, freely dust it over with fine sugar, and 12 hours after put it in a preserving-pan with sufficient syrup to cover it; boil it gently until tender, repeat the boiling for 3 succes- sive days, when the syrup should be thick. TO PRESERVE STRAWBERRIES.—E. R. 709. —Obtain the juice of currants by boiling , them in a jar plunged in water; to every pint of the currant-liquor add 1 lb. of strawberries and the weight of both in sugar. Break the sugar in lumps, dip them in water to dissolve, then boil it with the currant-juice, skim it well, then put in the strawberries; let them boil about \ of an hour, and, while yet warn*, put them with the syrup in pots. \To preserve Strawberries whole.—To 1 lb. of picked fruit add lb. of pounded lump-sugar. Lay part of it upon the