MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XYIII. 326 by drawing them through a cloth dipped in hot water; when old, scrape them first, and boil them with the salt meat. They require to be well done. They area constant accompaniment to corned beef, and are excellent 'when botli are eaten together cold. They frequently also form part of stews and hashes, and make admirable soup when boiled down to a puree, in making which it should be observed that only the outer or scarlet rind is to be used : the inner part should not, however, be lost, as it may be cut into small pieces and stewed. To stew Carrots.—Half boil, then nicely scrape, and slice them into a stewpan. Put to them i a teacupfnl of any weak broth, some pepper and salt, i a cupful of cream, and a saltspoonful of powdered sugar: simmer them till they are very tender, but not broken. Before serving, rub a very little flour with a bit of butter, and warm up with them. If approved, chopped parsley may be added 10 minutes before serving. Carrots a la maitre d’hotel.—Boil the carrots tender. Put a lump of butter into the bottom of a stewpan with a little flour; when it is browned, add a little gravy: then put in the carrots, and let them stew gently till served. Carottes au Sucre may be also made as an entremet thus:—Slice them small, and put them into a stewpan, in only water enough to cover them, with the peel of a lemon and about half their own weight of sugar. Let this stew until the syrup is reduced to thickness; then add the juice of the lemon, with a tablespoonful or two of white wine, and serve. To mash Parsnips.—Boil them tender; scrape, then mash them into a stewpan with a little cream, a good piece of butter, pepper and salt. To fricassee Parsnips.—Boil in milk till they are soft; then cut them lengthwise into bits 2 or 3 inches long, and simmer in a white sauce, made of 2 spoonfuls of broth, a bit of mace, h a cupful of cream, a bit of butter, and some flour, pepper, and salt. TURNIPS 394.—Should always be boiled whole, and put in much after either carrots or parsnips, as they require less boiling. M hen