SWEET PUDDINGS. 459 Chap. XXIII.] with a little pounded ginger. Put it into a floured cloth, tied tightly over it, but with room to let it swell, and boil it, without any intermission, for nearly 3 hours. A few flrops of the essential oil of saffron will give the necessary flavour. ALMOND PUDDING. 617.—Take i lb. of shelled sweet almonds, and 3 oz. of shelled bitter almonds or peach kernels ; scald and peel them ; then pound them in a mortar to a fine smooth paste, free from the smallest lumps. It is best to prepare them the day before you make your pudding. Stir to a cream 4 lb. of fresh butter and 4 lb. of powdered white sugar; and by degrees pour into it a glass each of mixed wine and brandy. Beat to a stiff froth the whites only of 12 eggs (you can preserve the yolks for other purposes), and stir alternately into the butter and sugar the pounded almonds and the beaten white of egg. When the whole is well mixed, put it into a buttered dish, and lay puff-paste round the edge. Bake it i an hour, and when done grate sugar over it. Another.—Blanch 1 lb. of sweet and 3 oz. of bitter almonds, and beat them to a fine paste, mixing them well, and adding by degrees a teacupful or more of rose-water. Boil in a pint of rich milk a few sticks of cinnamon broken up, and a few blades of mace. When the milk has come to a boil, take it off the fire; strain it into a pan, and soak in it 5 stale rusks cut into slices. They must soak till quite dissolved. Stir to a cream i lb. of fresh butter mixed with the same quantity of powdered loaf-sugar. Beat 10 eggs very light, yolks and whites, and then stir alternately into the butter and sugar the rusk, eggs, and almonds. Set it on a stove, and stir the whole, together till very smooth and thick. Put it into a buttered dish, and bake it % of an hour. Half the quantity of materials will be sufficient for an elegant table. Or:—Take 24 oz. of white bread-crumbs, and steep them in a pint of cream ; then pound h a pint of blanched almonds to a paste with some water. Beat the yolks of 6 eggs and the whites of 3 ; mix all together, and add 3 oz. of sugar and 1 oz. of beaten butter; put all over the fire ; stir it until it thickensj and then bake it in a puff-paste.