BEEF. 121 Chap. VIII.] white gravy, then pour it into a basin, and put more butter to the steak. When the steak is nicely done, take it out, return all the gravy into the stewpan, and fry the steak ; then add it to the gravy in the stewpan, with a tablespoonful of wine, and a shalot finely sliced; stew it for 10 minutes, and serve it up. Or, fry the steak merely at first, then put it into k pint of water, an onion sliced, a spoonful of walnut ketchup, pepper and salt, cover it close, thicken it with Hour and butter, and serve it up very hot. With Vegetables.—Cut the steak about 2^ inches thick ; dredge it with flour, and fry it in butter, of a fine brown. Lay it in a stewpan, and pour water into the frying-pan ; let it boil, and add it to the steak, which is rendered richer by this pro- cess ; slice in turnips, carrots, celery, and onions, adding I pepper, salt, and a little mace. It should be highly seasoned, and sent to table with the surface ornamented with forcemeat balls, carrots and turnips cut into shapes, and sometimes with I onion fritters, the vegetables to be put round it. With Ogsters.—Cut the steak rather thick ; brown it in a I frying-pan with butter. Add J pint of water, an onion sliced, pepper and salt, cover the pan close, and let it stew very slowly for 1 hour; then add a glass of port wine, a little flour, 1 and a dozen or two of oysters, their liquor having been previ- I ously strained and put into the stewpan. • With Cucumbers, it may be dressed the same way, only using white wine instead of port; the cucumbers to be stewed separately in a little gravy or broth, and added to the beef 5 minutes before serving; fry the cucumbers, and stew them in the water poured into the pan after the fat is poured off; if I stewed with the steak they will make it hard. A distinction should be always made between Hump-steak and Beef-steak, as the latter is very inferior ; but a slice cut from the sirloin is most excellent. See Section II. Bit OI LED B UMP-S TEA K.—E. It. 87.—Cut the steaks about £ inch thick, from a rump of beef that has hung until quite tender ; let the gridiron be hot, well rubbed with beef suet, and the fire clear. Lay on the steaks one by one, turning them frequently with steak-longs—a fork should never be used ; when brown on both sides, lay them on