LAMB. 159 Chap. X.] TO STEW LAMB. 145. —A Quarter of Lamb may be stewed a la Perigord, by putting it into a casserole with a little oil, parsley, chives, and mushrooms, or half a dozen black truffles, either whole or sliced, together with some trenches of bacon. Let it stew gently in any kind of broth, and when thoroughly done take ft out, strain the gravy, and serve the joint along with the truffles or mushrooms only. To be well done it will require 4 hours in stewing. For a Breast of Lamb.—Cut off the thin ends, half boil, then strew with crumbs of bread, pepper, and salt; and serve in a dish of stewed mushrooms. Cut a Loin of Lamb into steaks, pare off the skin and part of the fat, fry it in butter a pale brown, pour away the fat, and put in boiling water enough to cover the meat, a little pepper and salt, a little nutmeg, ± pint of green peas, and a coss-let- tuce cut lengthways; cover it down, and let it stew gently for 4- an hour. Shoulder of Lamb.—Bone the shoulder, trim off some of the lean meat, which chop fine with an equal quantity of bacon fat, season with spice ; fill up the shoulder and roll it; braise it 2 hours over a slow stove; take it up, glaze it. Serve with sorrel or tomata sauce. LAMB’S HEAD.—E. R. 146. —Parboil the head, rub it over with yolk of eggs, cover it thickly with chopped herbs, crumbs of bread, and clarified butter, and put it into a Dutch oven before the fire. Mince the heart and the liver very finely, and stew them in a little good gravy, adding a spoonful of lemon-pickle; make some forcemeat-balls and brain-cakes, and fry them; place the mince in the dish with the head upon it, and garnish with the balls, brain-cakes, and lemon sliced, or pickles. Lamb's Head and Hinge.—This part is best from a house- lamb ; but any will be white if soaked in cold water and boiled in a napkin. Boil the head separately till very tender. Have ready the liver and lights three parts boiled, and cut small; stew them in a little of the water in which they were boiled, season and thicken with flour and butter, and serve the mince round the head.