MUTTON. Chap. IX.] 155 SHEEP’S TAILS AND KIDNEYS.—E. R. 138. —Cut the tails, boil them for 15 minutes, then put them into a stewpan with -i- pint of gravy, an onion stuck with cloves, a little salt, and cayenne pepper. Stew till tender, strain the gravy, thicken it with flour and butter, and add the juice of -5- a lemon. Boil until the whole is very smooth, broil half a dozen kidneys, and place them in the middle of a dish with the tails and sauce round. These are the most tasty modes, but kidneys, when meant for breakfast, are usually broiled upon the gridiron, without parsley or lemon ; being only split open, well peppered, and a bit of butter put upon them when broiled. They must not be much done, and may be brought to the table in less than 10 minutes. If not quite hot, they are not worth eating. MUTTON RUMPS AND KIDNEYS. 139. —Stew 6 rumps in some good mutton-gravy \ an hour; then take them up, and let them stand to cool. Clear the gravy from the fat; and put into it 4 oz. of boiled rice, an onion stuck with cloves, and a blade of mace ; boil them till the rice is thick. Wash the rumps with yolks of eggs well beaten ; and strew over them crumbs of bread, a little pepper and salt, chopped parsley and thyme, and grated lemon-peel. Fiy in butter of a fine brown. While the rumps are stewing lard the kidneys, and put them to roast in a Dutch oven. hen the rumps are fried, the grease must be drained before they are put on the dish, and, the pan being cleared likewise irom the fat, warm the rice in it. Lay the latter on the dish ; the rumps put round on the rice, the narrow ends towards the middle, and the kidneys between. Garnish with hard eggs cut in half, the white being left on; or with different coloured pickles. SHEEP’S HEADS, HEARTS, TAILS, AND TONGUES.-E. R. 140. —A great variety of excellent dishes may be made from a sheep's head, which in India, where veal is not so easily procurable, answers all the purposes for mock turtle, rolled head, rich hash, or ragout: the bones make excellent jelly, either savoury or sweet, Parboil the head ; cut the meat from the bone; stew the former in a little of the liquor until quite tender; send it to table with a glass of wine in the sauce