624 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXXI. bit of lemon-peel; when thickened grate some ginger, and add | a pint of raisin wine, brown sugar, and 2 spoonfuls of geneva ; boil all up together. This is a most supporting soup for those whom disease has left very feeble. Caudle for the sick and lying-in.—Set 3 quarts of water on the fire; mix smooth as much oatmeal as will thicken the whole with a pint of cold water ; when boiling, pour the latter in, and 20 Jamaica peppers in fine powder; boil to a good middling thickness; then add sugar, 4 a pint of well- fermented table-beer, and a glass of gin : boil all together. This mess sent to any poor woman twice, and broth once or twice, will be of incalculable service. There is not a better occasion for charitable commiseration than when a person is sick. A bit of meat or pudding sent unexpectedly has often been the means of recalling long-lost appetite. A really good cook for the sick is rarely met with ; and many who possess all the goods of fortune have attributed the first return of health to an appetite excited by what is called good kitchen physic. BEEF TEA.—E. 11. 862. —Cut 1 lb. of fleshy beef in thin slices ; simmer with a quart of water hour after it has once boiled and been skimmed. Season, if approved ; but it wants generally only salt. To drink cold.—Take 1 lb. of lean beef, clear it from every particle of skin, fat, or sinew, rasp or divide it into very small pieces; then put it into a jar, and pour a quart of boiling water upon it; plunge the jar into a kettle of boiling water, let it stand by the side of the fire, but not near enough to simmer, and allow it to grow cold. Then strain the beef- tea through a muslin sieve, and, if the patient be very delicate, filter it through blotting-paper. This tea is to be taken when cold, and will remain upon the stomach when other nourishment fails; it may be given to infants. EGGS. 863. —An egg broken into a cup of tea, or beaten and mixed with a basin of milk, makes a breakfast more supporting than tea alone.