202 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIII. fire, but do not let them boil. The sauce will be quite as good without the egg. Or •' Take off the skin, and pull the flesh off the bone of a cold fowl, in as large pieces as you can: dredge it with flour, and fry it of a nice brown in butter. Drain the butter from it; and then simmer the flesh in a good gravy, well-seasoned, and thickened with a little flour and butter. Add the juice of -3- a lemon. The gravy may be made (without any other meat) of the necks, feet, small wing-bones, gizzards, and livers; which are called the trimmings of the fowls. RISSOLES. 214. —Pick from the bones and skin any kind of cold poultry ; weigh it, and add one-third of grated bread-crumbs, a little cold melted butter, a small onion, previously boiled and finely minced, pepper, salt, and the yolks of 2 eggs to bind it toge- ther. Roll out, thin, some trimmings of puff-paste ; cut it in 2-inch square pieces; put in the middle of each a teaspoonful of the mince, fold the paste over it, and shape it with a cutter. Egg the shapes, dip them in bread-crumbs, and fry them in lard: serve dry, garnish with fried parsley, and take care that the edges be perfectly closed. Or, Pound any kind of cold meat, thicken a little good gravy with cream or butter, season the meat, and mix it -with the sauce, until it is well moistened; then roll out some paste into oval pieces, lay a large tablespoonful of the meat on one end, double it over, press the edges together, and scallop them; brush the paste over with yolk of egg, sprinkle vermicelli upon it, and fry them. P UREE BE VOLAILLE.—E. R. 215. —Mince the white part of a cold fowl or turkey very finely, then pound it in a mortar; put in 2 or 3 spoonfuls of white sauce, and pass it through a sieve, adding a little salt and white pepper, and warm the whole. It may be served up with the legs grilled. It should not be too thin, but can be made the proper consistence by a greater or smaller quantity of white sauce or cream. Garnish with fried bread, or paste cut in shapes. It may also be served up in a casserolle, or wall of rice and mashed potatoes, or with poached eggs.