377 Chap. XX.] POTTING AND COLLARING. Boil them in good gravy with a little vinegar, according to^ the quantity of eels collared, a few pepper-corns, a sprig of sweet marjoram, 2 or 3 onions, 4 bay-leaves, a blade or two of mace, and a dozen allspice. Boil until tender; take them up and retie them without taking out of the cloth, let them stand until cold, then glaze them. They may be sent whole to table, or cut in slices, and garnislied with jelly and bar- As a standing dish, and only eaten cold as a relish, it ought always to be highly seasoned. TO “ CAVEACH” FISH. 486.—Bone the tail of a cod, and cut it into slices, season them with white pepper and salt, then fry them, and when cold put them into a pickle made of vinegar boiled with pepper- corns, a few cloves, mace, and bay-leaves; add when cold a teacupful of sweet oil; lay the fish in a jar with slices of onion between each, and cover the whole with vinegar. Sal- mon may be pickled in the same manner. When served up at table put a sufficient number of pieces in the centre of a dish, ■ and raise round it a wall of salad. 487.—Make a pickle with 6 oz. of brown sugar, 4 oz. of common salt, and 1 oz. of saltpetre. Then take a flank of beef, s and leave it in the pickle for 10 days or a fortnight, turning it every day. When taken out, remove the bone and gristle, but leave on the outer skin ; lay it upon the table, with the skin downwards, and beat the inside well with a rolling-pin or wooden mallet until quite tender ; that done, score the flesh in rows, down and across, about the breadth of 2 fingers ; but in doing so take care not to cut the outside skin. Then fill the scores alternately with slices of the fat of bacon and corned pork, and sweet herbs of all sorts, chopped, and seasoned with spice, till you have filled them all; after which, roll the flank up very tightly, and bind it round with coarse broad tape, wrap it in a cloth, and boil it gently, but steadily, for 4 or 5 hours, according to the size of the joint. When quite cold, take it out of the cloth, unbind the tape, and fasten the roll with small skewers. If you wish to improve its appearance, you may also either glaze it, or rub it with yolk of egg, and brown it with a salamander. berries. TO COLLAR BEEF.