Chat*. XIV.] 245 SALT-WATER FISH. 3 j the fire until it is of a proper thickness ; season it with cayenne pepper and salt, then put in the fish; stew all very gently until it is done, and add a tablespoonful of thickening and a glass of port wine the last thing. Fillets of Mackerel.—Bone one or more mackerel; take the fish off in fillets lengthwise, turning them round. Chop fennel and parsley, and put it in a stewpan with well-seasoned veal gravy, or some fish-broth if on maigre day; lay in the fish, and let it stew 10 minutes. Then take up the fillets, dish them, and thicken the sauce, adding to it the juice of a lemon ; pour it round the fish, and serve up with a garnish of pickles. Mackerel a la mditre d’hotel.—Split 3 mackerel, cut off the heads and tails, and take out the bone. Broil them nicely a fine brown. Boil a dozen small silver onions ; scald a young cucumber, a bunch of parsley, and a bunch of fennel; chop the 2 latter, and cut the cucumber into dice. Season the whole, and put them into a small saucepan with a piece of butter; when the butter is melted, lay the vegetables on the fish, and squeeze the juice of 2 lemons over them. The soft roes are sometimes parboiled in a little vinegar and water and salt, being afterwards replaced in the boiled fish, as it requires less boiling than the roe; but this is very seldom done, and then only for the purpose of frying them as a gar- nish for the boiled fish; but they form a very nice dish, if there be a sufficient number, when dressed, cut into dice, thrown into a little white sauce, and patties filled with them. HERRINGS.—E. R. 257.—This fish is in season from some time in May to the end of October. If good, their gills are of a fine red, and the eyes bright, as is likewise the whole fish, which must be stiff and firm: their firmness, however, may be preserved, and the oiliness prevented, by sprinkling salt upon them, if required to be kept more than a day. Fresh herrings are usually broiled over a good, but not a fierce cinder fire, and will be improved in delicacy if steeped in milk for a couple of hours before being dressed, they being properly gutted, wiped dry, floured, and put upon a hot grid- iron ; they must, however, be narrowly watched by the cook ; they will be done enough in a few minutes. The heads and tails are sometimes cut off as a point of neatness, but imma-