371 CURING MEAT. Chap. XX.] water put 1 lb. of wheat-bran and 1 lb. of salt; boil 1 hour ; when cold, strain it, and keep the brawn in it. In 10 or 12 days fresh pickle will be required. If, by length of carriage or neglect, the brawn be kept too long out of pickle, make as above, and when rubbed well with salt, and washed with some of the pickle, it will be quite restored to its former goodness. TO FICKLE PORK.—E. R. 476. —Take i bushel of common salt, 1 lb. of bay-salt, i lb. of saltpetre, and 6 lbs. of coarse brown sugar; make hams of the legs. Take the sides of the pork and rub them well with common salt, lay a thin bed of salt in the tray, and place one of the sides in it; sprinkle with salt to cover it: lay the other side on the top, and sprinkle it also. Let them lie 2 or 3 days, rubbing the salt well in; then cover the whole with the other ingredients, and, as soon as the salt begins to give, rub them well in ; turn the sides frequently, and let them be covered with brine: it will be fit for use in 6 or 8 weeks. These quantities are for a pig of 15 or 16 score. A PICKLE 477. — That will keep for years, for hams, tongues, or beef, if boiled and skimmed between each parcel of them.—To 2 gallons of spring water put 2 lbs. of coarse sugar, 2 lbs. of bay and lbs. of common salt, and ^ lb. of saltpetre, in a deep earthen glazed pan that will hold 4 gallons, and with a cover that will fit close. Keep the beef or hams as long as they will bear before you put them into the pickle; and sprinkle them with coarse sugar in a pan, from which they must drain. Rub the hams, &c., well with the pickle, and pack them in tlose, putting as much as the pan will hold, so that the pickle may cover them. The pickle is not to be boiled at first. A small ham may lie 14 days, a large one 3 weeks ; a tongue 12 days, and beef in proportion to its size. They will eat well out of the pickle without drying. When they are to be dried, let each piece be drained over the pan; and when it will drop no longer, take a clean sponge and dry it thoroughly. 6 or 8 hours will smoke them, and there should be only a little sawdust and wet straw burnt to do this; but if put into a baker’s chimney, sew them in a coarse cloth, and hang them a week. Add 2 lbs. of common salt and 2 pints of water every time you boil the liquor. 2 c 2