PORK. Chap. XII.] 193 meat and vegetables are not approved, 2 lbs. of fresh beef- dripping will answer nearly as well. To boil.—If long hung, soak it for 24 hours in luke-warm water, changing it frequently. Wash and brush it well; trim off any rusty parts ; put it into a boiler of water, and let it simmer from 3? hours to 5 hours, according to its size. It is best to allow time enough, as it is easy to take up the ham when done, and keep it hot over boiling water, covered closely. Take off the skin as whole as you can, as it keeps the cold ham moist when skewered on again after dinner. There can be no doubt that the foregoing is an excellent j mode of boiling a liam, but many people prefer to have it | bahed, in which case send it to the oven in a deep pan with i lb. of suet over it to baste it occasionally; or skin it, cover it with a crust of coarse paste, and, when taken from I the bakehouse, strip off the crust, rub it with yolk of egg, on which put finely powdered crumbs of bread strewed with a dredging-box, in the same manner as when the ham is boiled. In Spain and Portugal, where the hams are generally fine, the method of dressing them is to put the ham in cold water with a large handful of brown sugar, to which some persons 1 add a quantity of the common country wine, and let it simmer j on the fire until parboiled, keeping the pot well skimmed; when taken out, the skin is stripped off, and the ham covered with brown sugar to the thickness of an inch, after which it is sent to the oven and baked until thoroughly done. A ham of 15 lbs. should be allowed nearly 2 hours before the water begins to boil, and as much more for simmering until half done; then from 3 to 4 hours’ baking, according to the heat of the oven, which however should never be allowed f| to be too hot. When cold, twist some neatly fringed letter-paper round I the shank-bone. To roast.—Take a very fine ham (a Westphalia, if you I can procure it), soak it in luke-warm water for a day or two, 8 changing the water frequently. The day before you intend j to cook it, take tin? ham out of the water, and, having re- 41 moved the skin, trim it nicely, and pour over it a bottle of 1 an inferior white wine; let it steep till next morning, fre- quently during the day washing the wine over it; put it in a I cradle-spit in time to allow at least 6 hours for slowly roasting o