90 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. YII. Cut the callipash and callipee into pieces about 6 inches square, which put into a stock-pot with some light veal stock. Let it boil until the meat is tender, and then take it out into cold water ; free the meat from the bones, and cut it into pieces an inch square. Return the bones into the stock and let it boil gently for 2 hours, strain it off, and it is then fit for use. Cut the fins across into pieces about an inch wide, boil them in stock with an onion, 2 or 3 cloves, a faggot of parsley and thyme, a sprig of sweet basil and marjoram. When tender take them out and add this stock to the other. Take the lean meat, put into a stewpan with a pint of Madeira, 4 tablespoonfuls of chopped green shalot, 2 lemons sliced, a bunch of thyme, marjoram, and savory (about 2 tablespoonfuls each when chopped), 1 4 tablespoonfuls of sweet basil (chopped), and 4 tablespoonfuls of parsley. Pound together a nutmeg, 1 dozen allspice, 1 blade of mace, 5 or 6 cloves, 1 tablespoonful of pepper and of salt. Mix the whole together with as much curry-powder as will lie on a shilling. Put about two-thirds of this to the lean meat, with 4 lb. of fresh butter and 1 quart stock. Let the whole be gently sweated until the meat is done. Take a large knuckle of ham, cut it into very small dice, put into a stewpan with 4 large onions sliced, 6 bay-leaves, 3 blades of mace, 1 dozen allspice, f lb. of butter; let it sweat until the onions are melted. Shred a small bunch of basil, a larger one of thyme, savory, and marjoram; throw these into the onions, and keep them as green as possible: when sweated sufficiently, add flour according to your judg- ment sufficient to thicken the soup. Add by degrees the stock in which the callipash and callipee were boiled, and the seasoning stock from the lean meat. Boil for an hour; rub through a tammy, and add salt, cayenne, and lemon-juice to palate. Then put in the meat; let it all boil gently about 4 an hour ; and if more wine be required, it must be boiled before being added to the soup. This is for a turtle of from 40 to 50 lbs. It should, however, be recollected that the animal is of various weight—from a chicken-turtle of 40 lbs. to somecwts. —and the condiments must be apportioned accordingly. It should invariably be made the day before it is wanted. MOCK-TURTLE. 35.—Half a calf’s head will be quite sufficient, even if it be