Chap. XXI.] EGGS. 395 coloured; add by degrees a wineglass of boiling cream, and four times that quantity of boiling milk ; work it quite smooth, take it off the fire, add 4 yolks of eggs, sugar to palate, a grain of salt, and a tablespoonful of orange-flower water; whip up strongly the whites of 8 eggs, mix them lightly in the batter, put the whole into a souffle-dish, and bake for an hour. The flavour of this souffle may be varied according to fancy, omitting the orange-flower water, and substituting either va- nilla, curacoa, noyeau, maraschino, chocolate, coffee, &c. CEUFS BIIOUTLLES. 517.—Break 4 or 6 eggs; beat them and put them into a saucepan with a piece of butter, a little salt, and a spoonful of sauce or gravy, which makes the eggs softer ; stir them over the fire until sufficiently thick; serve on a plate garnished with toasted bread. To eggs dressed this way, truffles, ham, mushrooms, &c., minced, may be added. The difference be- tween this and an omelet is, that an omelet is compact and turns out smooth, whereas ceufs brouilles are less done, and are therefore broken. In Ireland, where it is in general use, it is usually served upon hot buttered toast, and is there called “ buttered eggs.” It is also very common in France, where it is usually served for breakfast. Or:—Butter a dish well, sprinkle it with salt, then break the eggs very carefully so as not to disturb the yolk ; add a little more salt and some white pepper ; melt a small quantity of butter, pour it gently over, with 1 or 2 spoonfuls of cream. Put the dish over a slow fire, and finish the eggs by covering Ihem with a red-hot shovel. A very pretty dish of Eggs is made thus:—Break some eggs into a small tart-dish, without injuring the yolks, or laying one over the other. Drop on them some warm butter, and lightly strew crumbs of bread. Put it in the oven until the ■whites be set, and serve with a wreath of parsley round the edge. Eggs aux fines Herbcs.—Poach 4 eggs carefully, put them upon the dish, and pour over them the following sauce:—a glass of white wine, with some chopped parsley, chives, salt and pepper, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Let all boil