Chap. VII.] 105 FISH SOUPS. LOBSTER SOUP.—E. R. 62.—If prepared fish-stock be not used, the stock of this soup may be made of small codlings, eels, plaice, flounders, or any fish not of sufficient consequence to be dressed in any other way. Clean and cut them in pieces, take the meat out of 1 or 2 lobsters, cut it into small but handsome pieces, and lay it aside ; break the shell and add it to the fish for the stock, which should be boiled gently for several hours ; take the coral of the lobster, pound it in a mortar, with a small piece of the stock, partly pounded, and make it up into forcemeat- balls, with a little chopped parsley, bread-crumbs, and an egg. When the stock is sufficiently done, strain it, thicken it with butter and flour, or cream; warm the lobster in it, and send it up, cut small, with the forcemeat-balls. Season it also deli- cately, but yet sufficiently to give it flavour, which can be imparted by any of the compound sauces so commonly adver- tised. If made of large lobsters, and sufficient for a party, it is, however, rather expensive, and can be made of the following, which is equally good for the purpose, and much cheaper, as being without the large claws of the lobster. CRA YFISH SO UP. . 63.—Take 50 crayfish; pull out the gut which is attached to the centre fin of the tail, as it gives great bitterness to the soup ; boil them in salt and water until they are red ; pick the meat from the tails ; pound the bodies with f lb. of butter ; put this into a stewpan with 2 French rolls and some fish or meat stock; boil for 1 hour ; rub through a tammy ; do not let it boil; add the tails, and then serve. This fish, it should be observed, is the small fresh-water crayfish , but good soup can be made of large or small crabs, I prawns, and shrimps; the latter of which have much the best flavour. They may, all or either, be made into soup alone; or if mixed whole, or pounded into the puree of any other fish- soup, they will prove an excellent addition. Their shells and small claws may, indeed, be made into a paste by pounding them in a mortar with a lump of fresh butter, and putting the paste to stew until quite hot, when it must be strained and put into cold water, after which it may be potted and used for various purposes.