MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXI. 386 Put a little salt and 4 oz. of semolina into a quart of milk when it is beginning to boil, and let it continue to sim- mer for about 10 minutes, stirring it occasionally to guard it from burning. When well thickened, pour it into a dish to cool, and when quite cold it will be very solid: then cut it into slices of less than an inch thick, upon which put a large grating of good Parmesan cheese, for no other kind will answer the purpose ; nor should any spices be used, except a little mace; nor even that, unless it be made (as sometimes done) with veal broth. Clarify a few ounces of fresh butter— though in Italy oil is always used—put a layer of the paste, powdered with the Parmesan, mixed with a little of the butter; bake it for h an hour in a moderately heated oven, and serve it up quite hot, with a separate plate of the grated cheese. RICE. 503.—There are but two sorts of rice in common use through- out the north of Europe, the Carolina and the Patna; the one imported from America, and the other from the East Indies. The former is the whitest, the largest in grain, and the highest in price; but in point of nutriment little better than the Patna. For curry or soup the Patna rice is the best. The boiling of rice requires 2 quarts of boiling water for each 1 lb. ; the rice should first be washed in salt and water, and must be allowed to simmer for 20 minutes, but not be touched with hand or spoon, though it may be occasionally stirred with a large wooden fork to keep every grain separate; it should then be drained through a colander and spread thinly to dry upon a napkin before the fire; or put on a dish and set in the oven for a fSw minutes. For savoury dishes rice should be stewed in good gravy, seasoned with mace, cayenne, and salt, with the addition of fried onions, shalot, garlic, and pot-herbs, strained and used at pleasure. • For sweet dishes.—Boil it with lemon-peel, cinnamon, or bay-leaves, and, when done to a proper consistency, add powdered sugar and cold butter, stirring it all the time till melted; then pour in a little cream, and use it either as a covering: for stewed fruits, or, if made thick enough, it may