MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIV. 500 and mix with a teacupful of water in which a bit of beet-root lias been boiled, and run it through the bag when all the rest is run out; this is to garnish the other jelly, being cooled on a plate : but this is matter of choice. This jelly has a very fine high colour and flavour. Another.—Boil a cow-heel in 2 quarts of water for 7 or 8 hours : take every particle of fat and sediment from the jelly ; when cold put to it a pint of raisin wine, the juice* of 3 lemons and the rind of 2 pared very thin, about 6 oz. of sugar, the whites and shells of 3 eggs well beaten, and \ oz. of isinglass. Boil it 20 minutes, then add a teacupful of cold water; let it boil 5 minutes longer, then cover it up close and let it stand off' the fire x an hour; pour it through a jelly-bag until clear, put it into a mould, and set it on ice. Orange Jelly.—To a pint of calf’s-foot stock put a pint of strained China orange-juice mixed with that of 1 or 2 lemons; add 6 oz. of sugar, the rinds of 3 oranges and 1 lemon pared very thin, the whites and shells of 3 eggs; mix these well together. When it boils, let it simmer x an hour; take it off the fire, cover up close, and let it stand 20 minutes, then pour it through a bag till clear. In all jellies it is to be under- stood the process of clearing should be the same as for calf’s- foot, already given. Lemon Jelly.—Take a quart of calf’s-foot stock, add f pint of lemon-juice, f lb. of loaf-sugar, the rind of 2 lemons pared very thin, the whites and shells of 5 eggs; boil and clarify as already stated. The colour should be bright. For variety, any rich white liqueur might be added, taking away an equal quantity of lemon-juice. It should be borne in mind that lemon-peel cut thick does not impart nearly so much flavour as the same quantity cut very thin. Apple Jelly.—Pour a quart of prepared apple-juice on 1 lb. of fresh apples pared and cored; simmer them until they are well broken ; strain the juice, and let it stand until cold. Put lx pint into a stewpan with a quart of calf’s-foot stock, 9 oz. of sugar broken small, the rind and juice of 2 lemons, with the whites and shells of 8 eggs. Let it boil for about f of an hour; strain it through a jelly-bag, and when cool put it into moulds. Good baking apples should be used, and the quantity of the sugar must vary according to the tart- ness of the fruit.