150 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. IX. in it; thicken this with flour and butter, and pour over the mutton when the tape is taken off. The stewpan should be kept closely covered. LEG OF MUTTON BRAISED.—E. R. 131. —Take a very small leg of mutton, cut off1 the knuckle, and trim it nicely; half roast it; then put it into a stewpan with the knuckle-bone broken, the trimmings, a few slices of fat bacon or 2 oz. of butter, an onion stuck with cloves, and a bundle of sweet herbs. Shake the stewpan over the fire until there is gravy enough from the meat and the trimmings to stew the mutton, and take care to turn it in the braise. When very tender, take it up, remove the fat from the gravy, strain it, and boil it quickly until it is reduced to a glaze; pour it over the mutton, and serve it up with a puree of vegetables beneath. MUTTON KEBOBBED. 132. —Take all the fat out of a loin of mutton, and that on the outside also if very fat, and remove the skin ; cut it into steaks ; mix a small nutmeg grated with a little salt and pepper, crumbs, and herbs; dip the steaks into the yolks of 3 eggs, and sprinkle the above mixture all over them; then place the steaks together as they were before they were cut asunder, tie them, and fasten them on a small spit; roast them at a quick fire; set a dish under, and baste them with a good piece of butter and the liquor that comes from the meat, but throw some more of the above seasoning over. When done enough, take it up, and lay it in a dish; have ^ pint of good gravy ready besides that in the dish, and put into it 2 spoonfuls of ketchup, and rub down a teaspoonful of flour with it; give this a boil, and pour it over the mutton, but first skim off the fat. Mind, to keep the meat hot, till the gravy is quite ready. En hochepot.—Cut a neck or loin of mutton into chops, and pare off the fat; put them into a jar with a lettuce cut into quarters, 2 or 3 turnips and carrots, 2 cucumbers quartered, 4 or 5 onions, and pepper and salt; cover the jar closely, and plunge it into a kettle of boiling water; allow it to boil 4 hours, keeping the kettle well supplied, taking care that the water does not come over the top of the jar; take it out of the