96 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. VII. ther. The great object in making these soups is to render them perfectly smooth ; for should the least grittiness appear, it will entirely destroy their goodness. Put in the young peAs just time enough before the soup is served to allow them to be properly cooked; artichoke bottoms or cucumbers may be added with advantage: pare a couple of cucumbers, cut them in pieces, take Out the seeds, dry them in a cloth, flour, and fry them of a light brown, and serve them up with the soup as it goes to table. The soup may be made of any sort of broth. A small quantity of carbonate of soda, or a little spinach boiled soft and pulped with the peas, will keep the soup green ; but the soda should be sparingly used. It is customary to serve up with all kinds of pea-soup, and frequently with those purees made of vegetables, some slices of bread cut into very small square bits, and not merely toasted, but fried in butter until browned, but served separately, and seldom put into the soup. LENTIL-SOUP. 43. —The lentils are made into a puree, and seasoned in the same manner as in white or dried pea-soup, but should always be made of veal-broth, and the pulse boiled long enough to ex- tract the scarlet colour, which gives it a good appearance; for its flavour is much the same as that of soup made of peas. SOUPE A LA JULIENNE. 44. —Cut various kinds of vegetables in pieces, either sliced or of the size of dice, 1 head of celery, carrots, turnips, leeks, and the hearts of lettuce, 2 each, with a dozen of small button onions pared very carefulto preserve their shape; then, having put 2 oz. of butter* in the bottom ot a stewpan, put the vegetables on the top,.jpf the butter, togethei with any others that may be in season’; more particularly heads of aspa- ragus, and likewise a little sorrel to impart a slight fla\ our of acidity, together with a lump of sugar to prevent any bitter- ness of taste. Stew or fry them over a slow fire, keeping them stirred, and adding a little gravy occasionally; soak small pieces of crust of bread about the size ot sliillings in the remain- der of the broth or stock, and, when the vegetables are nearly stewed, add them, and warm the whole up together in the ne- cessary quantity of beef or veal broth; beet being the most savoury, but veal being, in summer, thought the lightest