Chap. XVII.] GRAVY, SAUCES, AND CURRY. 291 skim it. When ready to serve, add a teaspoonful of made mustard, a spoonful of vinegar, and the juice of i a lemon, , and pour it round the steaks or chops. They should be of a fine yellow brown, and garnished with fried parsley and lemon. The sauce must not boil after the mustard is put in, otherwise it will curdle. SAUCES FOR ROAST BEEF OR MUTTON. 317.—Grate horseradish on a bread-grater into a basin, then add 2 tablespoonfuls of cream with a little mustard and salt ; mix them well together; then add 4 tablespoonfuls of the best vinegar, and mix the whole thoroughly. The vinegar and cream are both to be cold. This is a very fine sauce; it may be served in a small tureen. Or :—Scrape the horseradish thin and chop it small, or grate it, which is better; warm it in melted butter, adding a spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and one of walnut, or the vinegar from walnut pickle. Or :—Scrape very fine or grate the horseradish ; add a little made mustard, and 2 spoonfuls of pounded white sugar to 4 of vinegar: mix the whole well together, and place it under the meat, when nearly done, to catch the gravy which drops from it while roasting. This sauce should be very thick. Queen Mary’s Sauce.—Take a shoulder of mutton that has hung till it is tender. When three parts roasted, put a soup-plate under it, with 3 spoonfuls of hot water, the same of port wine, a shalot, an anchovy chopped fine, and a little pepper; baste the meat with this and the gravy that drops from it. When the mutton is taken up, turn the inside up- wards, score it various ways, pour the gravy over, and cover it with a quantity of fried crumbs of bread. Mandram is a sauce commonly used in the West Indies with roast beef and mutton. It is made with a sliced cucum- ber, a chopped shalot, and a minced green capsicum, mixed up in a couple of tablespoonfuls of Madeira wine and vinegar ; and as capsicums can be had green during great part of the autumn, it can be also made in England, but neither chilis nor capsicums, if dried, will impart the same flavour. MINT SAUCE, FOR ROAST LAMB. 31S.—Pick the leaves off the stalks ; wash and dry them carefully; chop them with a sharp knife very quickly, to pre-