577 Chap. XXVIII.] YEAST AND OVEN. THE OVEN. 806.—For the baking of bread there can be no doubt the fire-proof brick oven is the best. It should be round, not long ; the roof from 20 to 24 inches high, the mouth small, and the door of iron to shut close. This construction will save firing and time, and bake better than long and high-roofed ovens. Brick ovens are also the best for baking all kinds of large cakes and pies; the reason of which is chiefly owing to their being generally capable of retaining the heat a much longer time than one built of iron ; unless, indeed, when the latter happens to be very substantially made of wrought iron. When this is the case, they serve all the purposes for a private family. We have had one in constant use for the last 30 years; it is set separately from the kitchen fire, and occupies no more space than a small boiler would. Four tins, being made to fit in without touching the sides, will hold each a loaf of 4 lbs. A fire-proof tile should be placed under the tins to prevent the bread burning at the bottom, and, when half done, the loaves should be changed, the front ones to the back, as there will be the greatest heat: the fii'e is under the oven, and, after having been once lighted, should be supplied only by cinders, wetted, and a small quantity of small coal mixed with them. For the baking of pastry, light bread, rolls, and breakfast- cakes, the iron ovens fixed in the usual kitchen ranges have the advantage of requiring but little fire, and enabling the cook to regulate its temperature, so as to increase or diminish its power; but a still better may be found in the French move- able oven, for which see No. 770. 07.—Put the necessary quantity of good flour—say 4 bushel—into a kneading-trough, or broad earthen pan, and make a large hole in the middle of the heap. Have ready a quart of warm water and stir it into a pint of brewers’ yeast, or, if home-made, a larger quantity ; then pour it through a sieve into the hole, and, with a large wooden spoon, work it round so as to bring it to a batter of moderate toughness, and, when that is done, sprinkle over it a large handful of flour, so as to commence what is called “ setting the sponge MAKING BREAD. 2 P