Chap. XVI.] 279 FISH. minced, pepper, salt, and tlie yolks of 2 eggs to bind it together. Roll out thin some trimmings of puff-paste, cut it in 2-inch square pieces, put in the middle of each a teaspoon- ful of the mince; wet, and fold the paste over them, having cut them out with a cutter. Egg them, and dip them in bread-crumbs, fry in lard, and serve dry, garnished with fried parsley. See that the edges of the paste be perfectly closed. CASSEROLE OFFISH 291.—Is a title given, among others, by French cooks, to “poisson recliaujfe,” or fish which has been left after being dressed, and is meant to be re-heated. There are almost as many modes of doing this, as of originally dressing the various sorts ; but we here only retain a few of the most simple :— Take any kind of cold fish, and divide it into large flakes ; boil 2 or 3 eggs hard, and cut them into slices ; have also some mashed potatoes; butter a mould, and put in the fish, eggs, and potatoes, with a little delicate seasoning of white pepper; moisten the whole with cream, or thin melted butter, and a spoonful of essence of anchovies; boil the mould and turn it out. Or:—Take some fish which has been dressed, and rub it through a sieve; to ? lb. of fish allow t lb. of bread-crumbs, 2 eggs well beaten, 1 tablespoonful of essence of anchovies, 1 of Harvey sauce, and a little salt and cayenne pepper; mix all well together, and put it into a mould ; let it boil i an hour, and serve it with a good fish-sauce in the dish. Or :—Take pint of good gravy , with a couple of glasses of wine, 2 tablespoonfuls of anchovy liquor, and 2 of vinegar, seasoned high with cayenne, mustard, salt, and shalot; mince the fish, but do not put it in the mortar, and either warm it as a fricassee, and bring it up in a dish with sippets; or, put it into a form, piled up high in the centre, cover it with bread- crumbs and bits of butter, and brown it with a salamander. FISH TUR TLE.—E. R. 292—For this imitation,. sturgeon is the best material, but, if not in season, cut some ling into handsome pieces, and fry it; then boil an equal quantity of skate, also cut in pieces; and having cleaned and soaked 2 oi' 3 cod-sounds, stew them until green with a little spinach, and cut them into pieces \