MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIII. 448 as it absorbs so much of the gravy; but the boiling deprives the game of much of its high flavour, and a woodcock or a snipe should never be so dressed, as they lose all the savour of the trail. Or:—Make a batter with flour, milk, eggs, pepper, and salt; pour a little into the bottom of a pudding-dish; then put seasoned poultry or game of any kind into it, and a little shred onion ; pour the remainder of the batter over, and bake in a slow oven. A single chicken, partridge, or pigeon may be thus made into a dumpling :—Stuff' it with chopped oysters, lay it on its back in the paste, and put a bit of butter rolled in flour on the breast; close the paste in the form of a dumpling, put into hot wrater, and let it boil for 2 hours. FISH PUDDINGS. 596. —Take 2 haddocks raw; bone them, beat them fine in a marble mortar, rub through a sieve ; then put the fish into the mortar with 2 eggs, 1 onion, a little parsley, pepper and salt, a slice of bread rubbed into crumbs, i lb. of veal suet chopped. Beat all together, put it into a shape, boil it an hour, turn it out and send it to table with a rich brown sauce. A little gravy-soup should be mixed with it whilst passing through the sieve. An excellent fish pudding may be made of eels, either alone or with kidney and oysters, as in eel-pie; some very rich beef-sauce should be made and put under the pudding if boiled in paste, or in a sauce-boat if it be made in a shape. HERB PUDDINGS. 597. —Pick 2 handfuls of parsley-leaves from the stems, half the quantity of spinach, 2 hearts of lettuces, a large hand- ful of mustard and cress, a few leaves of white beet, and a small handful of chives : wash, and boil all together 3 minutes; drain the water from them, and mash very fine; mix well, and add salt and pepper. Have ready a batter, made of 1 oz. of flour, a pint of thin cream, and 2 eggs; stir it into the herbs, and cover the dish with a good crust. This pudding has much the flavour of omelet; and in Lent, when the salads are all coming into season, it may be very aptly brought to table on fast-days. Tansy-pudding.—Pound a handful of green tansy in a mortar; add the juice to a pint of batter and bake it.