540 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXVI. spoonfuls of real soy, 2 of walnut-ketchup, 4 anchovies chopped, 1 pint of vinegar, and enough cochineal to give it the colour of lavender-drops. Let it stand 6 weeks; then strain off quite clear, and keep in small bottles sealed up. Another.—Infuse in a quart of the best white-wine vine- gar x pint of walnut-ketchup, the same quantity of mush- room-ketchup, and also the same quantity of soy, h oz. of cayenne, 4 heads of garlic, 10 shalots, 2 oz. of black and 2 oz. of white pepper, the same quantity of pimento and ginger, 1 oz. of nutmeg, 3 blades of mace, and 10 cloves, in a wide-mouthed 2-quart bottle ; and cover very closely with cork, leather, and bladder. Let it remain near the fire a month, shaking it frequently. When any is taken out, put in as much fresh vinegar. This is not only a very fine sauce, but a great preservative against infectious diseases, if taken freely. Nasturtium Vinegar.—Pick full- blown nasturtium Howers ; fill a wide-mouthed bottle with them ; add £ a clove of garlic and a moderate-sized shalot chopped ; pour as much vinegar as the bottle will take; in 2 months’ time rub the whole through a fine sieve; add a little cayenne pepper and salt. Tarragon and Elder-flower Vinegar.—Take either the young leaves of tarragon when the plant is going into bloom, or the buds of elder-flowers, and to every i peck put 1 gallon of vinegar, leaving it for a fortnight in a jug to ferment. Then drain it through a flannel bag, put into it a small bit of dissolved isinglass, and bottle it. The flavour of the herbs may also be extracted by boiling the buds or leaves in vinegar, without fermentation : a mix- ture of both is very agreeable. Raspberry Vinegar.—To 1 quart of common vinegar put 2 quarts of fresh raspberries, let them stand 24 hours; then drain them off, but do not squeeze them. Put in 2 quarts more, let them stand as before, and this must be repeated a third time. After which, put the vinegar into a jar, measure it, and to every pint put 1 lb. of lump-sugar. >Set the jar up to the neck in boiling water, and let the vinegar boil for 10 minutes, stirring it frequently. I here should on no account be fewer raspberries than the proportion mentioned, and t ic vinegar will not be fit for use until the following summer. Gooseberry Vinegar.—Boil spring water; and when cold,