Chap. XXI.] EICE. 387 be placed round the sides of a dish, leaving the middle hollow for the sweets. The same plan may be adopted for all sorts of meat, poultry, fish, fruit, and sweetmeats. The sugar should not be added until the rice is done, as it has a tendency to harden the grains. Rice a la Portugaise.—In Portugal a very common mode of dressing rice is to stew it either in fowl broth or beef gravy, and boil it with tomatas, which give it a very pleasant acid. If in broth, only tomatas are used ; but if in gravy, onions are added well seasoned with salt and pepper, some- | times with a clove of garlic. RICE FRITTERS. 504. —Pare very thin the rind of a lemon, and boil it in .1 milk, with sugar enough to sweeten it, and a cup of rice. When the rice is quite soft, take out the lemon-peel; beat up I the rice with a glass of brandy, shape it into fritters, brush (j them with yolks of eggs, cover them with bread-crumbs, fry them in lard, dust them with fine sugar, and glaze with a salamander. Or :—Let the rice cool; spread it out 4 inch thick, cut it in rounds with a 14-inch cutter, make an opening and insert a piece of red-currant jelly, apple jelly, or a fine jam of any kind; then egg and crumb, carefully closing the aper- ture that admitted the jam; fry in hot lard and glaze with fine 1 sugar. Pancake.—Boil 4 lb. of rice to a jelly, in a small quantity of water : when cold, mix it with a pint of cream, 8 eggs, a bit of salt, and nutmeg ; stir in 8 oz. of butter just warmed, and add as much flour as will make the batter thick enough. Fry in as little lard or dripping as possible. Or:—Mix the yolks of 2 well-beaten eggs with a pint of cream, 2 oz. of sifted sugar, a little nutmeg, cinnamon, and mace, or a few drops of oil of almonds. Rub the pan with a bit of butter, and fry the pancakes thin. RICE BALLS. 505. —Pour upon 4 lb. of rice 3 pints of boiling milk, and boil it with a little cinnamon and lemon-peel until it is quite tender, then sweeten it; allow it to remain until it is cold, 2 c 2