BREAD. 579 Chap. XXVIII.] and do not open it more than once or twice, for a moment, just to see how the process is going on. The loaves will take from 21 to 3 hours baking, or more if their size be large; and, as a portion of the dough is frequently made up into rolls or twists, they must, of course, be removed earlier. Cottage-bread, if meant for the breakfast-table, is better baked in tins; and if made with a portion of milk, will be more delicate; but milk used in household-bread will be apt in a few days to turn it sour. In the making of either sort, if a tenth or a twelfth part of potato-flour be employed, it will improve their lightness and colour; and if, in the mixing of the dough, bran be boiled in the water used in making it, it will be found to impart a fine flavour of corn to the bread. Not only will this be the fact, but it has been calculated that if 5 lbs. of bran be boiled in water, then strained off, and the water used in kneading 56 lbs. of flour with the usual quantity of salt and yeast, the dough will weigh about 94 lbs. 13 oz.; or 8 lbs. 10 oz. more than if kneaded with pure water. Family Bread.—A sack of good flour weighing 280 lbs. ought to produce on an average rather more than 360 lbs. of excellent white bread, if well kneaded and properly baked, and that without any other addition ; though a little soda, or a very small quantity of magnesia, will assist in enabling the dough to rise, and thus increase the lightness of the bread; but alum, though it improves the colour, will occasion it to dry up sooner; bakers who make the best bread, indeed, rarely use it, and then only in case of some discoloration in the flour, which, if good and well dressed, produces bread suffi- ciently white without any foreign admixture whatever. FERMENTED AND UNFERMENTED BREAD. 808.—The attention of the public, and economists in par- ticular, has, within the last few years, been directed towards the method of making unfermented bread ; and its supposed superiority over fermented bread has been much extolled in a pamphlet lately published by “A Physician,”11 who estimates the loss in weight by this decomposition to be, in the London bread, 13 per cent.; and, according to M. Dumas, as quoted a See also a small pamphlet ‘ On the Philosophy of Bread-making,’ pub- lished by E. II. Matthews, at one penny.