MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XII. 192 done, pepper and salt it. Put to it a piece of butter and a teaspoonful of mustard; and serve it quickly. This is a Somersetshire dish. FIG’S HARSLET. 205. —Wash and dry some liver, sweetbreads, and fat and lean bits of pork, beating the latter with a rolling-pin to make it tender; season with pepper, salt, sage, and a little onion shred fine; when mixed, put all into a caul, and fasten it up tight with a needle and thread. Roast it on a hanging-jack, or by a string. Or :—Serve in slices, with parsley for a fry ; with a sauce of port wine and water, and mustard, just boiled up, and put into the dish. HOG’S LARD 206. —Should be carefully melted in a jar put into a kettle of water and boiled: run it into bladders that have been ex- tremely well cleaned. The smaller they are the better the lard keeps, as, after the air reaches it, it becomes rank. Put in a sprig of rosemary when melting. This being a most useful article for frying fish, it should be prepared with care. Mixed with butter, it makes fine crust for tarts. HAMS. 207. —Skimmed milk, or milk and water, will be found pre- ferable to plain water for soaking hams ; and they may also be boiled in milk and water. Where vegetables are plentiful, it is desirable to boil ham with 3 heads of celery, a couple of turnips, half a dozen small onions, and a large bunch of sweet marjoram, thyme, &c., put in after the pot has been skimmed. “ These will extract the salt and soften the meat. A piece of coarse fresh beef, or any kind of meat, in addition, will materially improve the ham, as, in this manner of boiling it, the juices of the meat and vege- tables insinuate themselves between the fibres of the ham, after having dislodged the salt, by which means the meat is en- riched and rendered tender. At first sight this will appear an extravagant way of boiling a ham, but it should be considered that the broth will serve the purposes of the family.” a If the " 1 Medical Commentary on Modern Cookery,’ by A. Hunter, M.D. F.R.S. L. and E.