MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXI. 400 most convenient; immediately before it is wanted beat the whites of the 4 eggs into a solid froth and add them ; pour the whole into the paper forms, and bake them to your taste. A VItalienne.—Mix pint of cream writh a little Hour and a little salt; keep stirring it over the fire until it is as thick as melted butter; then add about 4 lb. of Parmesan cheese finely grated. Mix it all well together until it is half cold ; then take 4 eggs, separate the yolks from the whites, put the former to the cheese, and beat it well together. Then beat the whites to a solid froth, and add them to the rest; pour the mixture into an ornamented mould or a deep dish lined with paper, cut in a fringe at the top, and only half filled, as it will rise very high. The oven must be very hot, in order to cause the rising, and the dish must be served immediately, or it will fall; to prevent which, let the cover be of metal, strongly heated: 20 minutes ought to bake it. ' Eu caisses.—Take t lb. of Swiss cheese, 2 oz. of Parme- san, and a piece of cream-cheese ; pound the whole in a mortar with a little pepper and salt, then mix in 4 or 5 eggs, one at a time ; fill 12 small paper cases, and put them for a short time in the oven to give a fine colour. Ten minutes will bake them in a Dutch oven placed before a good fire. Fondeaux of a small size may be made in either of the above modes, and put into little paper moulds of any fancied form, but only half filled. RAMEQUINS.—E. R. ■525.—Take 2 eggs, 2 spoonfuls of flour, 2 oz. of melted butter, and 2 of grated cheese; mix all well together, and bake it in moulds or tart-pans for £ of an hour. Id Parisienne.—Toil pint of milk and half the quan- tity of cream ; melt 1 oz. of butter and a little salt; mix in a spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire for 5 minutes ; pour in the milk and cream by degrees, and work it smooth, taking care that it is thoroughly cooked. Then take it off, and add i lb. of grated cheese, some coarse ground pepper, and an atom of nutmeg, with a very little powdered sugar, the yolks of 8 eggs, and the whites of 2, well beaten; when perfectly mixed, add the whites of 6 eggs beaten to a froth. I lie batter should be as thick as cream. Make little paper trays, fill