368 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XX. only a sufficient quantity of salt to assist in the cure, will afford an agreeable variety. MUTTON HAM.—E. R. 470. —Cut a hind quarter of mutton in the shape of a ham, and allow it to hang for 2 or 3 days. Mix 4 lb. of bay-salt, 2 oz. of saltpetre, £ lb. of common salt, and ^ lb. of coarse sugar, all well pounded together, and make them quite hot before the fire. Then rub it well into the meat, turning it in the liquor every day; after 4 days add 2 oz. more of common salt. Let it remain 12 days in the brine, then take it out, dry it, and hang it up in woocl-smoke for a week. Another pickle for mutton-ham may be made with 1 oz. of saltpetre to I lb. of coarse sugar and 1 lb. of salt; the ham to be kept in this pickle for a fortnight, then rolled in sawdust, and hung in wood-smoke for 14 days. GOOSE HAMS 471. —Are made by splitting the goose down the back, rubbing it with £ oz. of saltpetre, and then salting it well with common salt and coarse brown sugar; let it lie in pickle for 10 days in summer and 14 in winter, rub and turn it every day, roll it in sawdust and smoke it. In Pomerania, on the shores of the Baltic, where vast numbers are cured, the breasts are prepared separately as hams; and being much dried in smoking, are always eaten without further dressing. In the fens of Lincolnshire the geese, when their feathers have been plucked, are also salted. BACON. 472. — The method of curing Malines Bacon, so much admired for its fine flavour.—Cut off the hams and head of a pig, if a large one; take out the chine and leave in the spare- rib, as they will keep in the gravy and prevent the bacon from rusting. Salt it first with common salt, and let it lie for a day on a table that the blood may run from it; then make a brine with a pint of bay-salt, i peck of common salt, about i lb. of juniper-berries, and some bay-leaves, with as much water as will, when the brine is made, cover the bacon ; when the salt is dissolved, and when quite cold, if a new-laid egg will swim in it, the brine may be put on the bacon, which after a week