Chap. VII.] VEGETABLE SOUPS. 101 SPRING SOUPS. 54/.—Take any or all sorts of green vegetables, sea-kale, asparagus tops, green peas, spinach, lettuce, and sorrel, with mustard and cress, chives, and young onions, to which gher- kins, cucumbers, and green capsicums may be added as the season advances. Stew them in any kind of good broth, either until they can be made into a puree, which is by far the most approved mode for company ; or for family fare they may be chopped small, and left in the soup, but not boiled quite so much as when meant to be pulped. THICK SPRING SOUP. 55. —Have ready washed and picked a bunch of spring onions, some carrots, lettuces, chervil, spinach, parsley, thyme, sorrel, mint, and asparagus; put them in a stewpan, with a slice of butter; let it sweat for r an hour on a brisk tire, stir- ring it occasionally ; have ready some French rolls that have been previously soaked in water and squeezed dry, sufficient to thicken the soup; throw in also a few mushroom trimmings, fill it up with good broth made of any kind of meat; bring it up to the boil, skim, and pass it through a tammy ; season with a little salt and sugar; garnish with asparagus points or crou- tons : it should be very green. Or, if it be a jour maii/rc, the broth must be omitted, and butter, with flour and curry-powder, be added. VEGETABLE SOUP. 56. —Take 2 cucumbers, 12 or 14 onions, 3 potatoes, 1 let- tuce, 1 head of white cabbage; fry these together in butter, stew them 3 or 4 hours in 3 pints of stock; add a little green mint, parsley, and a pint of green peas ; let it stew for 2 hours more; press it through a sieve, and thicken it with flour and butter. WINTER VEGETABLE SOUPS. 57. —Take carrots, turnips, and the heart of a head of celery, cut into dice, with a dozen button onions ; half boil them in salt and water, with a little sugar in it; then throw them into the broth; and, when tender, serve up the soup : or use rice, dried peas and lentils, and pulp them into the soup to thicken it. With many of these soups, small suet dumplings, very