190 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XII. flour, a spoonful of cream, and a little salt and pepper. Give it a boil up, pour it over a few sippets of bread, and put the feet on the mince. TO FORCE HOG’S EARS. 196.—Parboil 2 pair of ears, or take some that have been soused ; make a foi’cemeat of an anchovy, a little finely-minced veal, some sage, parsley, f lb. of suet chopped, bread-crumbs, pepper, and only a little salt. Mix all these with the yolks of 2 eggs, raise the skin of the upper side of the ears, and stuff them with the above. Fry the ears in fresh butter, of a fine colour; then pour away the fat, and dram them; make ready pint of rich gravy, with a glass of fine sherry, 3 teaspoon- fuls of made mustard, a little bit of flour and butter, a small onion whole, and a little pepper or cayenne. Put these, with the ears, into a stewpan, and cover it close; stew it gently for 1 an hour, shaking the pan often. When done enough, take out the onion, place the ears carefully in a dish, and pour the sauce over them. If a larger dish be wanted, the meat from 2 feet may be taken from the bones, and added to the above. PIGS’ FEET AND EARS. 197.—•Soused.—Clean carefully and soak them some hours, then boil them fender ; having prepared a pickle of some of the liquor that they were boiled in, and a quarter part of vinegar —and salt, boiled, pour it over them cold. When they are to be dressed, dry them, cut the feet in two, slice the ears, and fry them. Serve with butter, mustard, and vinegar, in a boat. They may be dipped in batter, or only floured. Fricasseed.—Take feet and ears that have been boiled, but not kept in pickle wherein was vinegar; boil them tender in milk, cut the feet into neat bits, and the ears into strips of h inch wide: wipe them, and simmer in veal broth, with a bit of onion, mace, and lemon-peel. Before you serve, add a little cream, flour, and butter. Jelly of Pigs' Feet and Ears.'—Clean and prepare, then boil them in a very small quantity of water till every bone can be taken out; throw in half a handful of chopped sage, the same of parsley, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, and mace in fine powder ; simmer till the herbs are scalded, then pour the whole into a melon-form. Serve when cold.