99 Chap. VII.] VEGETABLE SOUPS. the white part of 2 heads of celery. Let them stew for an hour; then fill up the stewpan with white veal broth, and add the crumb of 2 French rolls. Let it stew till soft enough to be passed through the tamis. Return it into the stewpan, boil it up, skim well, add salt and sugar to palate, and put a. pint of hot cream in the tureen when sent to table: add croutons of fried bread. Turnip Soup.—Proceed as for Palestine soup ; either veal or mutton broth may be employed. LEEK OR ONION SOUP. 49. —The liquor in which a leg of mutton has been boiled will do very well for this broth. Mix a spoonful or two of oatmeal, according to the quantity of broth, in cold water, very smooth, the same as if for gruel, add a little of the broth, by degrees, until the whole is incorporated; then boil the liquor with any quantity of leeks or onions—both or either—until it becomes of the consistence of cream. Or, omit the oatmeal, and sub- stitute flour, stirring the soup very hard for 5 minutes; and when you are about taking it from the fire, stir in the yolks of 2 raw eggs beat up with a little more broth, and serve it I immediately. Onions, peeled, pared, and cut into pieces, then shred into a pan and fried in either oil or butter, without any broth, but Simply having boiling water poured over them, and some I toasted bread, seasoned merely with pepper and salt, are con- sidered very refreshing when thus made into a soup, and much used by ladies throughout the Continent after the fatigues of a I ball. TOM AT A SOUP. 50. —Cut up 2 onions and fry them in butter; when the onions are brown, add to them a dozen tomatas, from which you have squeezed the water, and then proceed as for Creci soup. A moderate quantity of tomata pulped or shredded, mixed up with any of the vegetable soups, will be generally found an improvement, as it imparts a delicacy of colour and a pleasing acidity of flavour. CELERY SOUP. 5L—Blanch the heads in warm water, and put them into a stewpan with veal broth and a lump of sugar; boil them for n 2