PASTE. 413 Chap. XXII.] t lb. of fine flour into a very stiff paste : roll it very thin, then lay the third part of i lb. of butter upon it in little bits; dredge it with some flour left out at first, and roll it up tight. Roll it out again, and put the same proportion of butter; and so proceed till all be worked up. For Orange Cheesecakes or Sweetmeats.—Dry 1 lb. of the finest flour, mix with it 3 oz. of refined sugar ; then work 4 lb. of butter with your hand till it comes to a froth ; put the flour into it by degrees, and work into it, well beaten and strained, the yolks of 3 and whites of 2 eggs. If too soft put some flour and sugar, to make it fit to roll. Line your pattypans, and fill. A little above 15 minutes will bake them. Against they come out, have ready some refined sugar beaten up with the white of an egg as thick as you can ; ice them all over, set them in the oven to harden, and serve cold. Use fresh butter. TRANSPARENT CRUST FOR TARTS. 539. —Beat an egg till it be quite thin ; have ready 12 oz. of the purest well-washed butter, without salt, melted without being oiled; and when cool mix the egg with it, and stir it into 1 lb. of fine flour well dried. Make the paste very thin ; line the pattypans as quickly as you can, and, when putting the tarts into the oven, brush them over with water, and sift sugar on them. If they are baked in a lightly heated oven, they will look beautiful. SHORT CRUST. 540. —Mix 2 oz. of white powdered sugar with 1 lb. of flour, and rub into it 3 oz. of butter so completely as not to allow any separate bits to be seen ; beat the yolks of 2 eggs into some cream, and make the whole into a smooth paste; roll it thin. Or:—Mix 2 oz. of powdered sugar with 1 lb. of flour ; add * lb. of butter rubbed into it very fine ; make it into a paste with cold water; roll it out and use it. Or .-—Mix with 1 lb. of fine flour dried, 1 oz. of sugar pounded and sifted ; then rub 3 oz. of butter in it, tilf it looks all like flour, and, with a gill of boiling cream, work it up to a fine paste. Another, not siveet hut rich.—Rub 6 oz. of butter in 8 oz.