MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXV. 510 L TO PRESERVE APRICOTS. 704.— Green Apricots.—Prick the apricots, cover tiie bot- tom of a preserving-pan with vine-leaves, fill the pan with apricots and cold spring water, laying more vine-leaves on the top. Put them over a slow fire until they turn yellow ; then take them off, and wipe them well with a flannel and a little salt, and put them over the fire in the same water to green them. Have ready a thin syrup; boil the apricots up in it once, and repeat the process on the 2 following days. Drain them from the syrup, and, rendering it strong with sugar, boil them again in the thick syrup, and put them by for use. Peaches, nectarines, &c., may be preserved the same way. Ripe Apricots.—Having pared the apricots, thrust oufthe stones with a skewer, and take the same weight of loaf-sugar as of fruit; strew a part of the sugar over the apricots, and let them stand till next day ; then boil them up gently 3 or 4 different times, adding the kernels to the syrup. Let them cool between each boiling, then take them out of the syrup carefully one by one; boil the syrup with all the sugar, skim it carefully, then pour it over the apricots, and tie them down close with a paper and bladder. A beautiful Preserve of Apricots .—When ripe, choose the finest apricots; pare them as thin as possible, and weigh them; lay them in halves on dishes, with the hollow part upwards; have ready an equal weight of good loaf-sugar, finely pounded, and strew it over them; in the mean time break the stones and blanch the kernels. When the fruit has lain 12 hours, put it, with the sugar and juice, and also the kernels, into a preserving-pan ; let it simmer very gently till clear, then take out the pieces of apricot singly, put them into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels over them. The scum must be taken off as it rises. Cover with paper. Apricots in Jelly.—Pare the fruit very thin, and stone it; weigh an equal quantity of sugar in fine powder, and strew over it, Next day boil very gently till they are clear, move them into a bowl, and pour the liquor over. The following day pour the liquor to a quart of codling-liquor; let it boil quickly till it will jelly ; put the fruit into it, and give 1 boil; skim well, and put into small pots. To dry Apricots whole or in halves.—Take them before