Chap. XXII.] PASTE. 411 the dish; and let the cover be pretty thick, to bear the long continuance in the oven. For rich Pie-crust.—Weight an equal quantity of butter with as much fine flour as you judge necessary: mix, with a silver spoon, a little of the former with the latter, and wet it with as little water as will make it into a stiff paste. Roll it out, and put all the butter over it in slices, turn in the ends, and roll it thin ; do this twice, and handle it as little as pos- sible. The butter may be added at twice; and for those who are not accustomed to make paste it may be better to do so. It requires a quicker oven than for short crust. Lay a paper over to keep it from scorching. A less rich Paste.—Weigh 1 lb. of flour and l lb. of butter, rub them together, and mix into a paste with a little water and an egg well-beaten. Roll and fold it 3 or 4 times; or, omit the egg, and put 6 oz. of butter and a spoonful of white sugar ; work up the whole into a stiff paste with as little hot water as possible. PUFF PASTE. 537.'—To obtain this in perfection much will depend on the quality of the butter used, and on its being rolled out or turned a sufficient number of times, so that the butter may be mixed with the paste in minute layers. Salt butter will make as good, if not better paste than fresh. When salt butter is used, it should be broken into small pieces, and put into a pan or pail of clean cold water ; well work or squeeze it between the hands in the water, which will deprive it of the greatest portion of the salt it contains ; take it from the water and put it on a » cloth, and mould or work it well, in the same manner as you would a piece of paste ; when the water is all worked out, and the butter appears dry and firm, make it in a roll and put it in a cold place for use. Fresh butter should be moulded in the same manner as directed for salt, but it does not require being first put into water. In summer a few pieces of ice may be put into the water with the butter, in order to harden it. But in winter or severe frosty weather the butter should be well moulded, in order to make it mellow. Weigh 1 lb. of butter and 1 lb. of sifted flour. Take 2 oz. of the butter and rub in with the flour ; make a hole in the middle, in which put a teaspoonful of salt, and pour in suffi- cient cold water to make it into a paste of nearly the same