CREAMS. Chap. XXIV.] 485 CREME A LA VANILLE. 661. —Boil 1 oz. of isinglass in a pint of milk for 10 minutes, taking care it does not stick to the bottom of the stewpan. Put into it ^ a stick of vanilla ; cover it down, and let it stand till nearly cold. Beat up the yolks of 5 eggs, mix into them 6 oz. of pounded sugar, put these into a stewpan ; take the vanilla out of the milk, which add to the eggs, mix them well, and stir the custard over the fire till it thickens, but do not let it boil. Strain it into a bowl ; when nearly cold add a glass of noyeau or maraschino ; keep stir- ring it, and when on the point of setting add t pint of cream well whipped ; mix it well, and pour it into a mould; set it upon ice till wanted, when dip it for a moment into warm water, wipe it dry, and turn over upon a dish. This is a Very fine cream for a Charlotte Russe ; but there should be a little more isinglass added, and a glass of brandy instead of the noyeau. Or :—Boil ^ a stick of vanilla in i pint of new milk until it has a very high flavour ; have ready a jelly of 1 oz. of isinglass to \ pint of water, which mix with the milk, and 1] pint of fine cream ; sweeten with fine sugar, and whip until quite thick ; then pour into the mould and set it in a cool place. Or :—Pound thoroughly Avitli loaf-sugar i stick of vanilla, sift it, taking care that the vanilla is passed through the sieve : whip a pint of cream ; add the vanilla, sugar, and £ oz. of dissolved isinglass; pour into a mould. CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 662. —Line the bottom of a plain round mould with Savoy biscuits, placing them close together in a star or some device ; line the sides, placing the biscuits edgeways, to make them form a compact wall; put the mould upon ice ; have ready a Creme au Marasquin, adding a glass of brandy. Fill the mould as it stands on the ice, and leave it till the time of serving, when turn it over upon the dish and take off the mould. Creme au Marasquin.—Prepare a cream as the Creme a la Vanille, adding' f oz. more isinglass, and substituting maraschino for vanilla. BOHEMIAN CREAM. 663. —Rub a pint of fresh-gathered strawberries through