528 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXYI. CHAPTER XXYI. PICKLES AND FAMILY SAUCES. 739. — Although meat, when cured and dried, is called “ pickled,” yet in that operation salt alone is employed as brine, while in the pickling of vegetables, of which we are about to treat, the means chiefly used is vinegar. In the making of all sorts of pickles, salads, and sauces in which vinegar is employed, it is of much importance to have it of the strongest quality, as well as of the best flavour, of which that only which is made from white wine, and usually imported from France, can be called really good. Even when brought from thence, uidess purchased from a very respectable oilman, it will probably be adulterated: the fact is, that nothing but the commonest English vinegar, made from molasses and stale small beer, is ever to be found in the shops of the petty dealers. If, therefore, you like a well- dressed salad, never buy any other than real Provence or Italian oil, and the best Orleans vinegar. They are certainly dearest in price, but are much the best in quality. If the flavour of chilis, capsicums, tarragon, eschalots, garlic, or any root, is wished to be imparted to the vinegar, it is only necessary to put a portion of either (say 1 oz.) into a bottleful of the liquid ; cork it closely, and in a very few weeks it will be found thoroughly impregnated with the peculiar taste ; then strain it otf, and fill the bottle up again, as it will answer for more than once. The flavour of any herb will also be com- municated by boiling it for a short time in the acid ; as well as a few fruits, the flavour of which is very delicious when im- parted to vinegar. Pickles should be made at home, as both cheaper and better than if bought at oil-shops, where they are invariably made up with pyroligneous acid—a species of vinegar which, though very strong, has a disagreeable flavour. The pickles should be kept either in bottles, or in stone or unglazed jars, as the vinegar, or even soured vegetables, will corrode the glazing of the jars, which, being made from lead, is poisonous.