240 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIV. cold, and boil all together until it is smooth ; serve with a blade of mace, a little nutmeg, salt, and a whole onion. When about to dish, take out the onion, and add a glass of wine, with the yolk of an egg well beaten : lay the heads of the fish at each end ; pour the sauce over, and garnish with lemon. To stew, on a maigre day.—Trim the haddock, by cutting off the head, tail, and fins, and taking out the bones. Put these trimmings in a quart of water, with a few peppercorns and an onion, and let them stew very slowly for i an hour. Then strain off the gravy, flour the fish well and fry it; after which, return it to the stock, adding cayenne pepper, some acid sauce, and ketchup, or essence of anchovy; and serve it up in a deep dish. It is thus an economical dish ■ and, if the gravy be made rich, it will be found very good. The Scotch dish called “ Cropped Heads.”—Parboil the roe; mix it with double its quantity of pounded hard biscuit, salt, pepper, and a beaten egg; stuff haddocks’ heads with this mixture, and fry them in beef dripping. Prepare a sauce of beef gravy, fried onions and flour, a teacupful of ketchup, the same of pickled muscles, and add it to the heads; simmer 15 minutes. If a large dish be wanting, serve 2 boiled haddocks in the middle. WHITING. 252. Their highest season is during the first 3 months of the year, when they spawn, but soon recover, and remain in good order throughout the remainder of the twelvemonth. To fry.—Clean, skin, and dry them in a cloth ; fasten their tails in their mouths; brush them over with egg, and cover, them with fine bread-crumbs mixed with a little flour; fry them a light-brown, and serve them with good melted butter. For invalids they are sometimes plainly boiled with parsley and butter. Or:—Fillet 5 whitings, cut each fillet in half, Hour them, egg and crumb them very carefully ; fry them with a little fresh butter, dish them up, and put a good oyster-sauce in the centre of them. This is a most artistic mode of serving whiting. GURNARDS, OR GURNETS, 253. —Consist of 4 or 5 different kinds, of which the Piper is that distinguished by fishmongers as the best, though, to