498 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIV. it with loaf-sugar, not pounded, lest any dust should be in it; add a spoonful of rose-water and the same of orange-flower water. Strain it into a basin or form, and serve with baked pears round it. Rice Flummery.—Boil with a pint of new milk a bit of lemon-peel and cinnamon; mix with a little cold milk as much rice-flour as will make the whole of a good consistence ; sweeten, and add a spoonful of peach-water or a bitter almond beaten ; boil it, taking care it does not burn; pour it into a shape or pint basin, taking out the spice. When cold, turn the flummery into a dish, and serve with cream, milk, or custard, round. An excellent Flummery.—Take 1 pair of calf’s feet, boil them in 3 quarts of water till reduced to 1 pint; when cold take off’ the fat very carefully; boil it with a laurel-leaf, add £ pint of cream with a tablespoonful of orange-flower water. Beat it up till it is as thick as cream ; pour it into cups pre- viously laid in cold water, or into a mould. As to the chemical compounds so generally advertised for the making of jellies, custards, and blancmange, they are worthless in comparison with the animal substance of meat, eggs, and milk, of which such delicacies ought to be formed; they are not cheaper nor so nutritive, neither do we know of what they are composed. • JELLIES, 691.—It is a complaint amongst even experienced house- keepers that they cannot feel a certainty of having jelly clear; but by strictly attending to the following method for making calf’s-foot jelly, they can scarcely fail to have it beautifully bright. Feet for all jellies are boil0(1 so long by the people who sell them that they are less nutritious: they should be pro- cured from the butcher and only scalded to take off the hair. The liquor will require greater care in removing the fat; but the jelly will be far stronger. A little isinglass, t oz. to a quart of stock, may be used to secure the firmness, particularly in summer. In peeling lemons, care should be taken not to cut below the colour, as by so doing a great deal