Chap. XXVIII.] SAVOURY DISHES FOR BREAKFAST. 589 4 a kidney between each rump. A pretty garnish is either red cabbage or barberries. DEVILS.—E. R. 816. — Of Biscuits.—Butter thin “captain’s biscuits” on both sides, or oil them with a feather ; sprinkle cayenne pepper on the top, and send them to be grilled. This may be varied by the addition of chopped anchovies, or the essence, diavolo paste, or Chetney. Or:—Make a slice of cheese into a paste with made mus- tard, and lay it upon one side. A dry Devil.—Take the liver, gizzard, drumstick, and side- bones of a fowl or turkey ; score them ; lay on made mustard very thickly, and add a quantity of cayenne pepper and salt, and broil them. A icet Devil.—Take any part of a turkey, goose, or fowl, cover it with mustard, Chetney, diavolo paste, or any other piquant condiment; put a dessertspoonful of cayenne pepper, one of pounded white sugar, the juice of a lemon, a glass of wine, and a glass of ketchup, to a teacupful of gravy ; heat them together, pour over the devilled fowl, and send up very hot. A little cold fresh butter will cool the mouth, should the grill prove too powerful. DEVILLED GA3TE. 817. —Split a woodcock, a snipe, a wild duck, or any other game that is underdone. To a teaspoonful of salt add a dessertspoonful of cayenne pepper with a tablespoonful of curry-powder, and wet the whole with French mustard. Cover the birds both inside and out with this mixture. Take out the brains when the head is split, and, if a woodcock, add the trail; make them into a paste with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, i a blade of pounded mace, a saltspoonful of grated lemon- peel, and season it with essence of anchovies, ketchup, or other sauce ; then add a glass of wine, a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, a dessertspoonful of pounded white sugar, and the juice of a lemon or of a Seville orange. Boll a bit of butter, the size of a walnut, in flour; put the birds and the sauce into a metal dish over a lamp, cover it close, shake it about occa- sionally, and when it has stewed until the greater part of the sauce has been imbibed, serve it round. The legs of fowls, geese, and turkeys, may be devilled the same way.