SWEET PUDDINGS. Chap. XXIII.] 449 SWEET PUDDINGS. Under this head the plum-pudding stands foremost as a truly national dish. The following receipt, communicated to a periodical publication by a man-cook of much experience, we can vouch for as an excellent way of making a RICH PLUM PUDDING. 598.—Stone carefully 1 lb. of the best raisins, wash and pick 1 lb, of currants,a chop very small 1 lb. of fresh beef suet, blanch and chop small or pound 2 oz. of sweet almonds and 1 oz. of bitter ones; mix the whole well together, with 1 lb. of sifted flour, and the same weight of crumb of bread soaked in milk, then squeezed dry and stirred with a spoon until reduced to a mash, before it is mixed with the flour. Cut in small pieces 2 oz. each of preserved citron, orange, and lemon peel, and add £ oz. of mixed spice : } lb. of moist sugar should be put into a basin, with 8 eggs, and well beaten together with a 3-pronged fork; stir this with the pudding, and make it of a proper consistence with milk. Re- member that it must not be made too thin, or the fruit will sink to the bottom, but be made to the consistence of good thick batter. Two wineglassfuls of brandy should be poured over the fruit and spice, mixed together in a basin, and allowed to stand 3 or 4 hours before the pudding is made, stirring them occasionally. It must be tied in a cloth, and will take 5 hours of constant boiling. When done, turn it out on a dish, sift loaf-sugar over the top, and serve it with wine-sauce in a boat, and some poured round the pudding. The pudding will be of considerable size, but half the quantity of materials, used in the same proportion, will be y equally good. In addition to the wine-sauce, have a metal sauce-boat filled with brandy ; set it alight on the table, and pour a portion of * The best method of cleansing currants is to put them into a common co- lander, over a pan with sufficient water to cover them, rub them well between the hands in the water to separate the knobs, and stir them about. The small sand and gravel will then fall through the holes and sink to the bottom of the pan. After being washed clean, and the water drained from them, the large stones can then be easily picked out by sorting them over on a large I! dish.—Family Herald. 2 G