436 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIII. The juice, when expressed from the baked fruit, and sweet- ened, makes a fine drink in fevers. Stewed with sugar, they eat excellently with bread. The observation concerning “fever-drink” applies equally to the expressed juice of unripe grapes, from which, when used instead of lemons, is made the celebrated Gaspacho of the Spaniards, far superior to lemonade. P UFFS. 581.—Regent’s Pastry.—Take lb. of almonds ground into flour, a little powdered sugar, and a few drops of some con- crete essence ; make it into a paste with the white of an egg; then make another paste with sugar, flour, and butter, worked up with the whites of eggs ; roll it out; then lay it upon the almond-paste, and cut both together into shapes, brush them over with egg, then sprinkle chopped almonds over them, and bake upon buttered paper in a tart-pan; ornament the pastry with jam when it comes from the oven. Apple Puffs.—Pare and core the fruit, and either stew them in a stone jar on a hot hearth, or bake them. When cold, mix the pulp of the apple with sugar and lemon-peel shred fine, taking as little of the apple-juice as you can. Bake them in thin paste, in a quick oven : i of an hour will do them if small. Orange or quince marmalade is a great improvement. Cinnamon pounded or orange-flower water as a variety. Lemon Puffs.—Pound and sift 4 lb. of loaf-sugar, grate the rind of 1 large lemon or 2 small ones; then whip up the white of an egg to a froth, and mix all together to the consistency of good paste; cut it into shapes, and bake upon writing-paper, being careful not to handle the paste: the oven must be very slow for this purpose. Cheese Ptffs.—Strain cheese-curd from the whey, and beat 4 pint of it fine in a mortar, with 14 spoonful of flour, 3 eggs, but only 1 white, a spoonful of orange-flower water, 4 of a nutmeg, and sugar to make it pretty sweet; lay a little of this paste, in very small round cakes, on a tin plate. If the oven is hot, 1 of an hour will bake them. Serve with pudding- sauce. To those who make cheese, these puffs are not bad ; but they are hardly worth the trouble of preparing the curd. Parmesan Puffs.—Take 4 lb. of cheese, the same quantity