394 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXI. the preserved fruits, when prepared as jam, will answer the purpose. Une Omelette aux Amandes is also looked upon as a deli- cacy, and made by substituting almond-flour, or pounded sweet almonds, for jam. Une Omelette d’Huilres may be made with 4 raw eggs, a little cream, beaten up either with or without sweet herbs and grated ham, but seasoned with a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg, together with a dozen of oysters bearded, dried, minced very small, and fried in butter. Omelette a la Tartare.—Steam 2 handfuls of sorrel, and, having picked and chopped it, stew it in gravy with a little butter and cayenne pepper; put it into a plain omelet, and cover the whole with grated bread, grated Parmesan cheese, and a little melted butter; make an edging all round with fried bread, and brown the top with a salamander. OMELETTE SOUFFLEE. 516.—Take 6 eggs, separate the whites from the yolks, add to the yolks a tablespoonful of arrowroot or potato-flour, 6 oz. of pounded loaf-sugar, some grated lemon-peel, and a small quantity of lemon-zest, or chopped peel, or orange-flower water. Beat the whole together for several minutes, until they are made into a batter, and then whip the whites until they become a froth; stir in lightly the batter. Have ready an omelet-pan of the proper size heated upon the stove; put into it f lb. of butter, and when it begins to boil put the whole into the pan, and stir it with a spoon carefully until it becomes partially firm. That done, turn it out upon a small circular dish, of silver or metal, as the omelet ought to acquire the form of a dome, and the dish be placed in a very moderately heated oven for at least 10 minutes or f of an hour, according to the care and nicety with which it has been made; after which it will have risen into a puff of considerable height, similar to the fashionable supper dish, “ trifle.” It should then be sprinkled with a little poAvdered sugar, the salamander held over it, and be served immediately, or it will soon be- come flat in flavour and appearance. Souffle Francaise.—Put into a stewpan 1 oz. of butter; when melted, add 2 tablespoonfuls of flour; stir them well over the fire, so that the flour be thoroughly cooked, but not