442 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XKIII. Another way.—Mix the curd of 3 quarts of milk, 1 lb. of currants, 12 oz. of Lisbon sugar, 4 oz. of cinnamon and nutmeg, the peel of 1 lemon beaten in a mortar, the yolks of 8 and whites of 6 eggs, a pint of scalding cream, and a glass of brandy. Put a light thin puff-paste in the pattypans, and three parts fill them. Miss Bratty s Cheesecakes.-—The yolks of 8 eggs, 8 oz. of .sugar finely-powdered and sifted, 8 oz. of sweet almonds powdered, beat all together till very white. Line the pans with a thin paste; immediately before you put them into the oven, mix the size of a walnut of butter melted into them over a fire. If the oven be too hot they will fall when taken out. Or:—10 eggs, leave out half the whites, 1 lb. of sugar finely powdered and sifted, 4 lb. of flour, 3 oz. of butter, 3 oz. of sweet almonds, with a glass of brandy put into them while they are pounding. Beat them all together, and butter the pans very will. Without Butter.—Beat the yolks of 10 eggs and the whites of 5 separately, beat them extremely well, 1 lb. of sugar powdered and sifted, put to your eggs by spoonfuls ; beat both till very white ; add 14 oz. of flour, 2 or 3 spoonfuls of brandy, and some carraway seeds. Lemon Cheesecakes.—Mix 4 oz. of sifted lump sugar and 4 oz. of butter, and gently melt it; then add the yolks of 2 and the white of 1 egg, the rind of 3 lemons shred fine, and the juice of 14, 1 Savoy biscuit, some blanched almonds pounded, 3 spoonfuls of brandy. Or:—Boil 2 large lemons, or 3 small ones, and after squeezing pound them well together in a mortar, taking out the inner skin; add 4 oz. of loaf sugar, the yolks of 6 eggs, and 8 oz. of fresh butter. Fill the pattypans half full. Orange Cheesecakes.—When you have blanched 4 lb. of almonds, beat them very fine, with orange-flower water, 4 lb. of fine sugar beaten and sifted, and 1 lb. of butter that has been melted carefully without oiling, and which must be nearly cold before you use it; then beat the yolks of 10 and whites of 4 eggs; pound 2 candied oranges, and a fresh one with the bitterness boiled out, till as tender as marmalade, without any lumps ; beat the whole together, and put into pattypans. Almond Cheesecakes.—Blanch and pound 4 oz. of almonds,