226 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIV. and never left in the water a moment after it is washed. In washing it, the best way is to hold the fish firmly by the head with your left hand, and scrape off the scales or slime; wash it once in clean cold water, and either dry it with a towel or hang it up and leave it to drain. Some kinds of fish will bear keeping better than others, but few are improved by it; some kinds are said to lose much of their delicacy and peculiar flavour every hour after the tide in which they were caught is lost. Turbot is stated to improve by keeping for a day or two ;a but the acknowledged superiority of the Dublin Bay turbot is said to arise from its being dressed immediately upon being caught, “ as it then tastes as if it had been boiled in cream.” Salmon, in losing a tide, loses a por- tion of the fine white curd which intervenes between each flake, and subsequently becomes more rich, but changes its character, the large flakes disappearing with the curd with which they are amalgamated. u Much also depends upon knowing in what way each particular fish may be cooked so as to make its appearance to the greatest advantage. Many there are that are unpalatable when dressed in one particular way, but very good if another mode of cooking be adopted. A stewed carp affords a really splendid dish, a boiled carp one of the worst that can be brought to table. The merits of a sur-mullet broiled, baked, or fried, enveloped in white paper, with its liver for sauce, are too well known to require any comment; and yet, when simply boiled and gutted as you would a whiting, it is a sad woolly and insipid affair.” b The crimping of fish causes it to eat crisp, and so improves the firmness if it be woolly; but it is unnecessary to perform the opera- tion while the animal is alive, though it should be done soon afterwards. Fish that is to be boiled must be put on the fire in cold hard water ; when it boils, skim with the greatest care; throw in a little cup of cold water to check the extreme of heat, then keep it simmering* only, lest the outside break before the thick and inner part be* done; but “ crimped fish” should be put into boiling water, and simmered a few minutes. A large handful of coarse salt, with a small piece of saltpetre, and a a Ude—who ought to be a good judge—states, in his ‘Cookery,’ from his many years’ observation, “that a turbot kept two or three days is much better eating than a fresh one.”—p. 238. b Piscator on Fish, p. 8.