MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. VIII. 124 renew the seasoning. When ready for baking, wash off the spice with port wine, and lard the rump throughout—not in the common mode used by poulterers, but by inserting large lardoons in different parts of the meat. Then put a large quantity of suet, shred fine, both under and over it, and cover it with coarse flour and water paste, between which and the suet you may put a few bay-leaves or some sweet-herbs. If eaten hot, the dough, bay-leaves, and suet must all be taken off; the joint basted, sprinkled with a little salt and flour, over which a salamander should be passed ; and served up with strong gravy or brown sauce. If cold, leave on the dough till wanted. It should be baked in a moderately-heated oven, and will take, according to the size, from 6 to 8 hours’ baking. A Round of Beef may be dressed in the same manner; but the bone should in that case be taken out, and the bole filled up with forcemeat. The flap should be filled in like manner, skewered, and tightly bound round with linen or strong tape, in which case the dough and the larding may be omitted, though the latter will be found an improvement. It should be always left until cold. Brisket.—Take all the bones out of 8 lbs. of brisket of beef; make holes in it about an inch asunder, and fill one with fat bacon, a second with parsley, a third with oysters, and so on, each being chopped and seasoned with pepper, salt, nut- meg, and cloves. When completely stuffed, lay it in a pan, di’edge it well with flour, pour upon it 4 pint of port, and the same of broth. Bake it 3 hours, and then skim off the fat; put the meat into a dish, strain the gravy over, and garnish with pickles. Any piece of fresh beef, even of the coarsest pieces, may be dressed in this manner, or baked before the fire in a Dutch oven with button onions, the meat being previously rubbed over with oil. It is a common mode in Portugal and Spain. There, however, the forcemeat and spice are omitted; but the beef is always larded with pledgets of bacon of the size of a woman’s little finger, inserted into several punctures throughout the inside of the meat, to which are added some cloves of garlic, and tlie piece covered with thick brown sauce when brought to table. Scarlet Beef.—Take 3 lbs. of tender lean beef from the