MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXIV. 482 to extract the flavour, then strain it and stir it till cold. Beat the yolks of 6 eggs, mix it with the milk, and stir the whole over a slow fire until of a proper thickness, adding 1 oz. of sweet almonds, beaten fine in rose-water. Or :—Blanch and beat 4 oz. of almonds with a spoonful of water; beat a pint of cream with 2 spoonfuls of rose-water, and put them to the yolks of 4 eggs, Avith as much sugar as will make it pretty sweet; then add the almonds: stir it all over a sIoav fire till it is of a proper thickness, but do not boil. Pour it into cups or glasses. Or:—Blanch 2 oz. of sweet and 2 oz. of bitter almonds ; beat them very fine in a mortar, using 2 spoonfuls of orange- flower water or a little milk in the pounding, to prevent their oiling. Whisk up 4 eggs well (8 or 10 yolks may be used instead) with 6 or 8 oz. of powdered loaf-sugar, to which add a pint of milk, or part milk and cream, and the pounded almonds : put the whole into a saucepan on the fire, and stir it constantly from the bottom Avith a whisk until it becomes thick; but remember it must not boil, or it Avill curdle and be spoiled. Take it from the fire, keep stirring it for a few minutes, pour it into a basin, and stir it occasionally with a spoon to prevent a skin forming on the top; then pour it into cups, and grate nutmeg over the tops. For rich Custard.—Boil a pint of milk Avith lemon-peel and cinnamon; mix a pint of cream and the yolks of 8 eggs well beaten ; when the milk tastes of the seasoning, strain it and sweeten it enough for the Avhole; pour it into the cream, stirring it well; then give the custard a simmer till of a proper thickness. Do not let it boil; stir the Avhole time one way. Or :—Boil a pint of cream Avith some mace, cinnamon, and a little lemon-peel: strain it, and when cold add to it the yolks of 4 and whites of 2 eggs, a little orange-flower water, and sugar to your taste. A little nutmeg and 2 spoonfuls of sweet wine may be added, if approved. Mix well, and bake in cups. A still richer sort is made by using cream without any por-_ tion of milk, or other flavouring than a glass or two of any of the highly flavoured liqueurs—either curagao, noyeau, or maraschino, beaten up Avith the yolks only of strictly fresh eggs, from which the “ tread” has been picked out. If the