Chap. XXIII.] 461 SWEET PUDDINGS. of sugar, 2 glasses of sherry (or brandy), 4 eggs, the peel of \ a lemon chopped fine ; to boil 7 hours. The Merton Almond Pudding—is made with 6 oz. of almonds ground to flour, 6 oz. of sifted white sugar, a tea- spoonful of lemon-peel grated, a few drops of essence of lemon, and 8 eggs, leaving out 2 of the whites; beat up the eggs, and mix in the other ingredients, beating the whole for an hour one way. Let the oven be ready; oil the dish, and bake the pudding the instant it is completed. It should be beaten for a full hour, and baked immediately. The Vice- Chancellor s Pudding.—Boil a pint of milk and cream, and pour it on a slice of bread sufficient to thicken it. Beat up 4 eggs with a couple of the whites in a glass of brandy, adding sugar and spice according to taste. Put it into a buttered shape, and set it in a pan of boiling water. Half an hour will boil it. The Hector’s Pudding. — h lb. each of marrow and suet, with an equal quantity of bread-crumbs, and 2 oz. of almond powder, made into a thick batter with new milk and cream. Then take the yolks of 5 eggs with the white of 1, and beat them up in brandy. Mix all the ingredients together, sea- soning it with a very little salt and sugar to taste. Either boil it for 2 to 3 hours in a floured cloth, or put it into a mould and bake it in a slow oven until thoroughly done. When taken out, stick it over with blanched almonds. The Curate’s Pudding. — To 1 lb. of mashed potatoes, While hot, add 4 oz. of suet and 2 oz. of fltmr, a little salt, and as much milk as will give it the consistence of common suet pudding. Put it into a dish, or roll it into dumplings, and bake of a fine brown. Dame Jones’s. — 1 pint of cream, 8 yolks and 5 whites of eggs; melt i lb. of butter in a little of the cream ; then mix in f lb. of sugar ; when cool put in | lb. of fine flour and the eggs. This quantity will make 8 puddings, baked in small basins, at the bottom of which put a tablespoonf'ul of currants well washed. Bake i an hour, and pour over them brandy or wine sauce. Aunt Martha’s.—Boil i a pint of milk with a laurel-leaf and a bit of cinnamon ; pour it upon a cupful of grated bread; add 3 eggs well beaten, a little grated nutmeg and lemon-peel, and a teaspoonful of orange-flower water. Sweeten