i Chap. XXVII. 563 CAKES. LEMON-CAKE. 789. —-Beat 6 eggs, the yolks and whites separately, till in a ' solid froth ; add to the yolks the grated rind of a fine lemon i and 6 oz. of sugar dried and sifted ; beat this 1 of an hour ; ; shake in with the left hand 6 oz. of dried flour; then add the I whites of the eggs and the juice of the lemon ; when these are t well beaten in, put it immediately into tins, and bake it about an hour in a moderately hot oven. SODA-CAKE.—E. R. 790. —1 lb. of flour, 1 drachm of soda, lb. of sugar, !| ^ lb. of currants, and i lb. of butter. Mix the soda with the ■ flour, then rub in the butter, after which add the sugar and the : currants, and then a pint of milk. Put it into the oven irame- | diately. A variety may be given by substituting f lb. of lemon, i orange, and citron, candied, and 1 oz. of pounded sweet almonds, I for the currants; but in that case the cake will require rather I more soda. Or :—A good plain one can be made with 2 lbs. of flour, 8 * oz. of butter or dripping, 8 oz. of sugar, 1 pint of milk, with ) 3 or 4 eggs, and a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Carbonate I of soda should be very sparingly used in light cakes, and then I it .ought to be combined with a little sour milk, or acid, to I produce carbonic gas, in order to make them porous. Mix the i carbonate of soda intimately with the flour or sugar, then mix them with the other ingredients, and make the whole into a 5 dough with the milk, or milk and eggs well beaten ; put it into ! a well-buttered tin or hoop, and bake it in a cool oven about I 3 hours. If currants are added, it will take fully that time. ! A good plan to ensure the sides and bottom from being burnt | is to tie a piece of paper folded in 3 or 4 folds round the sides, j and put the tin or hoop on a flat baking tin, with a little saw- I dust or fine ashes between. FRENCH CAKES. 791. —Bolus d’ Amor.—li lb. of flour, 1 small teacupful of j yeast, £ pint of milk warmed, 1 lb. of butter, and 4 eo-o-s. I Make a hole in the flour, and pour into it the milk, eggs, and yeast; mix them all well together; beat the dough, adding O ” ‘{j