Chaf.YII.] SOUPS OF VEAL, POULTRY, AND GAME. 89 beating moisten it occasionally with broth made from fresh beef free from fat; when fine enough pass it through a sieve, add to it the gravy that the heart was stewed in, and as much of the beef broth as will make the quantity of soup required. Boil it up, and add more seasoning of cayenne and salt. If not thick enough, add flour and butter, until it becomes of the consistency of good cream. A spoonful of sugar and a little port wine are improvements. VENISON SOUP. 33. —Take 4 lbs. of freshly killed venison cut off from the bones, and 1 lb. of ham in small slices. Add an onion minced, and black pepper to your taste. Put only as much water as will cover it, and stew it gently for an hour, keeping the pot closely covered. Then skim it well, and pour in a quart of boiling water. Add a head of celery cut into small pieces, and 3 blades of mace. Boil it gently 24 hours; then put hi j lb. of butter, divided into small pieces, and rolled in flour, and add 4 pint of port or Madeira wine. Let it boil i of an hour longer, and send it to table with the meat in it. Or:—Take a breast of venison, cut it in small pieces, and stew it gently in brown gravy soup. Serve it with roots cut in dice and French beans in diamonds, adding 2 glasses of port wine when first put on. ■ The head of the deer chopped in pieces, and the flesh stewed to a jelly, is also an excellent addition to the soup. TURTLE SOUP.'1 34. —Hang up the turtle by the hind fins, cut off the head, and allow it to drain. Cut off the fore fins ; separate the callipash (upper shell) from the callipee (under shell), beginning at the hind fins. Cutoff' the fat which will be found adhering to the callipash and to the lean meat of the callipee. Then cut off the hind fins. Take off the lean meat from the callipee and from the fins, and cut it into pieces 2 inches square and put into a stewpan. The callipash, callipee, and fins, must be held in scalding (not boiling) water for a few minutes, which will cause the shell to quit easily. “ This receipt is a most excellent one, and is in constant use by the party who favoured us with it; and we may add, that some thousands of pounds weight oi turtle pass through his hands every year.