593 COFFEE. Chap. XXIX.] long time—even years—without using it; only roasting it at the time it is wanted; and that operation should be performed by Orpwood’s roasting machine, which is fixed on the bars of a grate, and roasts i lb. of coffee without trouble, and with great regularity, in less than ^ of an hour : it is far superior to the coffee-roaster which is heated by a lamp. The roasted berries should then be put into a bag of flannel to cool and prevent the escape of the aroma ; after which grind them. If not used soon after it is ground, the powder should be wrapped up and put before the fire or in the oven to get hot. When the berry has been roasted at the grocer’s, it should be warmed before it is ground. The French mode of making.—As much of the powder should be used as one to every 3 cups of the liquid to be made, and placed in the upper part of the common French machine, called a grecque, which may be got for a mere trifle at any of the tin-shops. It is merely a coffee-pot with an upper receptacle made to fit close into it, the bottom of which is perforated with holes, and containing in its interior 2 moveable metal strainers, over the second of which the coffee is to be placed, and immediately under the third ; upon the upper strainer pom- boilmg water, until it bubbles up through the strainer; then shut the cover close down, place it near the fire, or upon the hob of a parlour-grate; and so soon as the water is drained through the coffee, repeat the operation mi til the whole intended quantity is passed. The top of the machine may then be removed, and the coffee may be served in the pot in which it has been made, or in any other, only taking care that it shall first be warmed with hot water, and that the coffee itself be brought up strictly hot. This is the true Parisian method, and it requires neither isinglass nor clearings of any description, as it will come to ■ table quite transparent. A patent has, however, lately been taken out under the title of “ Platow’s Automaton Coffee Urn,” which perfectly clarifies the coffee, and can be made an elegant appendage to the table I (see cut No. 1). If the upper vessel is made of glass, it is then an interesting process to make the coffee in the drawing-room, instead of having it made in the kitchen, which, for some reason or other, very seldom sends out a good cup of coffee. It, is •■I heated by a spirit lamp. The coffee-pot shown in cut No. 2 is 2 q