304 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XYII. Put into a round-bottomed basin the yolk of an egg and a pinch of salt; stir in very quickly, drop by drop,°2 table- spoonfuls of sweet oil, working the spooai very rapidly round, to work in the oil; when it is thick add a few drops of tar- ragon vinegar, then more oil, until there is sufficient sauce; thin it with a little more vinegar. It should be quite thick, and rather acid. CARA CHI.—E. R. 348. —Take 1 head of garlic and cut each clove into 2 pieces, 2 teaspoonfuls of cayenne pepper, 3 tablespoonfuls of soy, 3 of mushroom ketchup, 3 of walnut pickle, 6 anchovies dis- solved, 2 or 3 spoonfuls of mangoe or Indian pickle liquor, and a pint of the best vinegar, with sufficient cochineal to colour. Both the above are thus sauces maigres, but when not in- tended for fast-days may be much improved by being made into a puree with an admixture of melted calfs-foot jelly. SAUCE ROY ALE 349. —Is made by cutting a slice of white bread, and stewing it in white broth until it is quite thick ; then take it off the fire ; pound in a mortar the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, and 4 a dozen almonds reduced to paste, with the breast of a cold roast fowl; mix this with the eggs and bread, and pound them all together with a little pepper and salt; add a sufficient quantity of cream to make it of a proper consistence, and simmer the whole over the fire, stirring it all the time without letting it boil. Sauce a la Heine is nearly the same.—Bruise the breast of a chicken to a paste, and moisten it with a consomme of veal or fowl broth; let it stew gently over a slow fire, and then pass it through the tamis and mix with it some bechamel sauce. Then have ready the yolks of 2 eggs beaten up with a large spoonful of thick cream, ^pd stir the mixture into the sauce a minute or two before serving it up. Both the above are served at the most fashionable tables, and may be used with turkey-poults and guinea-birds. THE ORIGINAL O UDE SA UCE 350. —Is made with 2 oz. of butter put into a stewpan ; when melted add 6 onions shred; as soon as they begin to take