384 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXI. TIMBALE BE MACAB.ONI.~E. B. 499.—Soften the macaroni by boiling it fast until it will cut easily without breaking, but do not let it be too soft; then cut it into pieces 4 inch long, and with great exactness, that all should be of the same size; butter a mould, stick the macaroni quite close together all over it, so as to look like a honeycomb ; then spread a thin layer of quenelle farce over the macaroni; fill up the mould with a mince of stewed ox palates cut into small pieces, and small button mushrooms, either pickled or fresh, moistened well with white sauce : close the mould, and boil it for f of an hour ; turn it out very carefully, and serve it with thick white sauce and mush- rooms. Aux Truffes.—Have 6 small moulds the shape of coffee-cups, and not much larger ; butter them, place at the small end a truffle; then encircle the truffle with macaroni, prepared and cut as in the foregoing receipt, sticking each piece regularly round till the whole of the mould is covered; fill it up with minced sweetbread and thick white sauce. These are very beautiful and excellent dishes, but require great care and attention : they are not, however, expensive ; and as any kind of fowl, game, or cold fricassee may be employed, cooks are recommended to practise the method of placing the macaroni round the interior of the mould, in order to obtain the neces- sary proficiency when the dish appears before company. It is equally good when not quite exact, but not so pleasing to the eye. A la Pontife.—-Boil lb. of the longest and straightest tape macaroni in boiling water, with a little salt and butter; when nearly done, strain and dry it; then butter a mould, and lay the macaroni quite evenly over it; if oval, the pieces at their full length ; if another shape, take care that the pieces shall meet and join; cover the macaroni with fine farce, then fill up the interior with larks boned, fillets of game, fowl, and small pieces of fat bacon, cut round, the size of a sixpence, small eggs made of the yolk pounded as for mock-turtle, and mushrooms or truffles ; moisten it with a rich sauce, cover it, and let it simmer, without boiling, for an hour.