Chap. XX.] CURING MEAT. ' 365 Some persons stuff the orifice from which the bone was taken with parsley finely chopped, putting sweet herbs also all round between the skin and the meat. HUNG BEEF (the Herrynane Receipt).—E. R. 465. —Rub the beef well with salt and saltpetre, in the pro- portion of 2 oz. of saltpetre and 7 lbs. of salt to 50 lbs. of beef. Put the beef into a cask or tub, place a board over it, and weights upon that; leave it so for about a fortnight, then take it out and hang it in the kitchen to dry, which will generally take about 3 weeks. Some persons leave it for a longer time in the tub, which they merely cover without the weight; but the above is the better way. TO CURE TONGUES. 466. —Neats’ tongues cured with the whole root on look much larger, but have not any other advantage, being too hard to cut pleasantly when salted. If the root is to be re- moved, cut it off near the gullet, but without taking away the fat that is under the tongue. The root must be soaked in salt and water a night, and extremely well cleaned before it be dressed, when it is very good stewed with gravy ; or may be salted 2 days, and used for pea-soup. Having left the fat and a little of the kernel under the tongue, sprinkle it with salt and let it drain until next day. Then for each tongue mix a large spoonful of common salt, the same quantity of coarse sugar, half as much saltpetre, a teaspoonful of ground pepper, and 2 cloves of garlic or shalot chopped very fine; rub it well in, and do so every day for a week; then add . another large spoonful of salt. If rubbed daily, a tongue will be ready in 10 days ; but if only turned in the pickle, it will not be too salt in 4 or 5 weeks, but should not be kept longer. When to be dried, write the date of the day on parchment, and tie it on. Smoke 3 days, or hang them in a dry place without smoking. When to be dressed, boil the tongue ex- tremely tender; allow 5 hours, and if done sooner it is easily kept hot. The longer it is kept after smoking, the higher will be the flavour; but in the estimation of many persons they are best dressed out of the pickle; if hard, it may require soaking 4 or 5 hours. Or :—Put the tongue into an earthen pan, rub into it a