MARKETING. 59 Chap. VI.] market, by means of artificial fatting, instead of the more natural mode of grass-feeding, that they are now killed at such early periods as to deprive the meat of much of its flavour. This is more especially the case with regard to mutton, which, when in perfection, ought not to be seen at table until the sheep are from 3 to 5 years old, whereas now they are gene- rally killed at less than half that age; and not unfrequently at 20 months old !—the consequence of which is, that they are neither lamb nor mutton. There is also great difference in the quality of the flesh of large and small animals of both kinds, of which the smaller will generally be found to be the best, as being reared upon short mountain pasture; while the Leicesters and other large breeds, which are fed upon rich land, become at an early age covered with fat. The beef of a small Highland ox, also, always fetches the highest price in Smithfield. Ox-beef should have a fine smooth open grain, be of a good red, and feel tender. The fat should look white rather than yellow, for, when that is of a deep colour, the meat is seldom good: beef fed on oil-cake is generally so, and the flesh is flabby. The best is that which is rather more than moderately fat, as being a proof that the animal was well fed; but never buy lean beef, as it will always prove tough, and so inferior as ■ to be dear at any price. The grain of cow-beef is closer, and the fat whiter, than that of ox-beef; but the lean is not of so bright a red. The grain of bull-beef is coarser and closer still, the fat hard and skiimy, the lean of a deep red, and it has a stronger scent. Ox-beef is the richest and largest; but in small families, and to some tastes, heifer-beef is preferred, if finely fed. In old meat, a streak of horn runs between the fat and lean of the sirloin and ribs; the harder this is, the older, and the flesh is not finely flavoured; that is to say, the horn has become so firm as to appear like bone: but oxen are always the better if kept until 5 or 6 years old. Ox-tongue.—To choose a neat’s tongue, it should be of a moderate size, plump, firm, and smooth to the touch ; for if the skin appears rough and shrivelled, it will be found hard and flavourless. Veal.—A great point to be observed in choosing veal is the size of the calf and the colour of the meat. It should be small, white, and the kidney well covered with fat. The flesh of a