CAKES. 559 Chap. XXVII.] oven, add the peel of a whole lemon grated, then put in 4 the juice, and send it to the oven ; 40 minutes will bake it. Or:—1 lb. of ground rice, 1 lb. of lump-sugar sifted, 8 eggs, yolks and whites, well beaten all together, the rind of a lemon grated, and the juice of one. When all the ingredients are mixed, beat them 4 an hour longer, then put it into a well-buttered tin ; 14 hour will bake it. Or:—Mix 10 oz. of ground rice, 3 oz. of flour, 8 oz. ol pounded sugar; then sift by degrees into 8 yolks and 6 whites of eggs, and the peel of a lemon shred so fine that it is quite mashed ; mix the whole well in a tin stewpan over a very slow fire with a whisk, then put it immediately into the oven in the same, and bake 40 minutes. Or:—Take 4 lb. of clarified butter, 8 eggs well beaten, leaving out the whites of 2, f lb. of pounded sugar, and the grated peel of a lemon; mix these well together; then add ground rice and dried flour, 4 lb. of each; currants and can- died peel may be added when approved. WAFERS.—E. R. 780. —Take fine flour, dried and sifted, make it into a smooth thin batter with very good milk, or a little cream and water; add about as much white wine as will make it thick enough for pancakes, sweeten it with a little loaf-sugar, and flavour with beaten cinnamon. When thus prepared, have the wafer- irons made ready by being heated over a charcoal fire; rub the irons with a piece of linen cloth dipped in butter, then pour a spoonful of the batter upon them, and close them almost immediately; turn them upon the fire, pare the edges with a knife, as some of the batter will ooze out. A short time will bake them when the irons are properly heated. The wafers must be curled round whilst warm. Sugar-wafers, which are much in use throughout France and Spain for eau-sucree, are made by whisking white sugar into a froth with the white of eggs and isinglass, and then baking it as above. PROVINCIAL CAKES. 781. —Shrewsbury.—Sift 1 lb. of sugar, some pounded cin- namon, and a nutmeg grated, into 3 lbs. of flour, the finest, sort; add a little rose-water to 3 eggs well beaten, and mix